

'
i<‘ . liVjwv. M
P«s
wuutu
r
y\
%
pa
N
PDS
.
'^SnWb
5 uv a
. :
- i.
sSSi
>-;■
s
■
1928
V»\V
Yvs'
IM
i
M
V'.-
•#
Ask for them byname —
" FOR THEY ARE JOLLY GOOD FELLOWS
.Midnight onNew’Vear s Eve!
You stopped for a space and
gtwondered what the coming
* year would bring.
For this year give a kindly-
thought for your friends-
wishthem health and „
prosperity- and toast
them with
AUSTRALIA'S
BEST
RESCH’S
iSi
"tfie Genuine Zaqer
da
Dinner Ale
The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2499.
See page 6.
Thursday, January 5, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for the 1927 New Library Cata-
logue. which is now *ready and will be
sent post free with full terms and particulars
on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
L-YSAGHT"
io
B
R
AUSTRALIA
DFGSF
PECKS
c Tlnchovette 6 ggs
Shell and cut in halves as many hard boiled eggs
as required. Remove the yolks and beat them
up with Anchovette, butter, pepper and salt Fill the eggs
and serve. You will find this a delightful dish for lighr
supper*.
ANCHOVETTE
c 5? delicious tfish 9?aste
55S3EHfoSP5S
9m. £
-— ■</
A
A AM
iCd
nu*
Hii
1
iiii v
35
KRUSRv
FLUID m
my xbusfsw
FLUID JfAuNBU
gwsrjggfc
4 C*u(M»w~* «•£
!&.r^t,Xsr
rrfrr;
»*«« :iw,
C, »fwpc.,
'•iTbH I( 3«ifes:
SDF
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA
. Made bg Felton, Crimwade & Co. Pty. ltd., Melbourne
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age,
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - - 3d.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
"MUSTDIE” Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
ttte powder is distributed
[MUSTDIEI
sdfsdfsdf
■V
m
more effectively, and wt
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. p
The Red Page
"The Bulletin” Novel Competition
Since last the Competition was referred
i here, a few questions have been asked
bout it; and everybody is entitled to know
the replies.
A correspondent asks whether all novels
submitted will be read. This correspondent
had sent an offering to a journal which pub-
lishes serials, and it had been returned obvi-
ously unread. Every novel submitted in
this Competition will be read right through.
There are, the judges well know, stones
which start badly and end triumphantly.
Incidentally, the people who sent back the
story unread perhaps did not want serials
just then. They may have been over-
stocked. Things like that do happen even
in newspaper and magazine offices. In our
case we are looking for stories. We want
them badly; and as some that may not be
given the prizes may be well worth serial
publication, they will all be read care-
fully, even if only with that in mind. Let
us say then: (1) In the competition closing
June 30 next, a first prize of £5OO will cer-
tainly be awarded, along with two others
of £2OO between them; (2) every novel sub-
mitted will be read right through; (3)
stories that don’t win a prize may be re-
garded as worth serial publication, and
offers for the rights may be made accord-
ingly.
Another correspondent' asks whether serial
stories that have been declined by the
Woman’s Mirror are eligible. Certainly
they are. A story may be an excellent one
and yet be unsuitable for serial publication
in the Mirror.
A third correspondent asks whether stories
that don’t get a prize in the first competition,
though submitted, will be eligible for the
subsequent competitions. The only condi-
tion is that they shall not have been pub-
lished previously.
A fourth correspondent asks whether the
setting must be Australian. That is not
necessary. Writers are not limited as to
either subject or treatment.
The Bertrand Russells
Bertrand Russell has written a book on
education which is far from the doctrinaire
treatise, for it grew out of his observation
and experience of his own children. Dora
Russell’s book, “The Right to Be Happy,”
though less practicable, shows her a keen
colleague of her husband. But Bertrand
Russell has gone further than his book.
With the courage of his convictions and
the collaboration of his wife,' he has
founded a school in which' to practise his
principles. I wish it were possible to
put my boy on the waiting-list.
“Yes,” said an English correspondent
in a letter lately received, “Russell’s book
may sound all right, but we cannot forget
that he has made a mess of his own life
and been divorced. So he is not infallible,
though decidedly interesting.” I hope that
not many people will share this confusion
of thought. For it is not easy to see how
Russell’s divorce necessarily interferes
with his competence to write on the hand-
ling and happiness of children. It may
even be the case, in fact, that his compe-
tence is enhanced by the causes and
■ accompaniments of that episode.
Russell’s book is concerned more with
emotional than scholastic education. He
lays great weight on the importance of
beginning early. It is now coming to be
understood that the years of early infancy
are the really critical years in the emo-
tional history of the child. The plastic age
is a trite term. But it well describes that
period which lies before the age of six. I
don’t think this is commonly recognised
by parents. Many of them think that the
important training time is after children
have reached the age at which appeal can
be made to their reason. But the re-
searches of modern psychology make it
more and more clear that it is the emo-
tional, and not the rational, equipment of
human beings that makes them happy or
unhappy as adults. And those investiga-
tions show convincingly that the quality
of that emotional equipment is determined
chiefly by the way children are handled be-
fore the age of six. Russell rightly asserts
that the training of the child should begin
at birth. “Our aim in modern education
is to reduce external discipline to a mini-
mum; but this requires an internal self-
discipline which is much more easily
acquired in the first year of life than at
any other time.”
As to physical punishment, the author is
emphatic: “Physical punishment I believe
to be never right.” But though many en-
lightened people believe “belting” to be
tbe worst of all shortcuts to moral excel-
lence, there are at least two others even
more dangerous. One is constant nagging
—constant setting right of children—con-
stant overlooking and supervision. This
they never outlive. This it is which
achieves in them, -when they are adult,
that sense of inferiority which robs them
of the full capacity to stand up for them-
selves and take their place in the world
They go through life with a diffidence in
their own powers whiich may have not the
slightest foundation ifa reality. Only under
an exhausting strain: can they keep their
end up at all. Sometimes they collapse,
and frankly suffer a. nervous breakdown.
But the most dangerous weapon of all
used by parents upon children to make
them good is to trade upon their fear of
displeasing their parents. Children have
a natural aversion from arousing dis-
pleasure in their parents, which can be
enormously reinforced by judicious play-
ing upon from the parental level. It is
part of a child’s instinctive desire to be
thought well of. This is easily exploited.
And parents do exploit it shamelessly by
representing to their children that the evil
in wrongdoing is that it causes pain to
those who brought them into the world
and have lovingly cared for them ever
since, etc.
Regarding the whole question of affec-
tionate attachment between parents and
children, Bertrand Russell justly declares
that it is dangerous for parents to attempt
deliberately to create filial affection. “Love
for parents is a thing to be liberated, not
created.” (This, in my view, is almost the
most impressive statement in the whole
book.) “The right sort of love should be
the natural fruit resulting from the proper
treatment of the growing child, rather than
something consciously aimed at.” Again:
In former days parents ruined their relations with
their children by preaching love as a duty. Hus-
band and wife still too often ruin their relations
by the same mistake. Love cannot be a duty because
it is not subject to the will. Parents who wish to
be loved must behave so as to elicit love. Not
only must children not be commanded to love their
parents, but nothing must be done which has this
result as its object. It is not of the essence of
parental love to seek a response.
Considering the benighted outlook of
many parents on these matters, it is a
pity that Bertrand Russell and his wife
are not taking children at their school
under the age of seven. The harm may
be done by then.
The work of Sanderson of Oundle seems
unhappily to have died with him. It is
cheering to hear that the Russells have
struck out on a line which in many essen-
tials does not deviate noticeably from the
track so fruitfully explored and so per-
suasively commended by that great school-
master.
HECTOR DINNING.
The “Dramatic” Critic
In parallel columns of a recent Red
Page, one learned gentleman advanced the
thesis that the critic is a poltroon and a
knave for not trying to elevate the stage,
while another learned gentleman remarked,
very vivaciously, that it would be illogical
to do so.
First of all, let me thank these two
writers for the compliment implied in call-
ing us “dramatic critics.” According to the
dictionary, a drama is “a composition
designed to be acted on the stage, repre-
senting various phases of human life.” I
can remember witnessing only one new
stage performance in the past three years
which quite answered to this definition,
although I have surveyed upwards of 100
plays a year. The rest of the procession
comprised revues, jazz comedies, “mystery”
plays, farces and suchlike theatrical hocus-
pocus, which in no sehse could be accused
of having any relation to life at all. The
exception mentioned was “They Knew What
They Wanted,” which, despite my valiant
efforts, flopped dismally wherever it was
shown. There certainly were some tolerable
revivals of Shakspeare, but that is another
matter.
The repertory movement is a further
considerable source of wear-and-tear on the
dramatic critic’s wardrobe. Having been
told so frequently by the essayists that he
is expected to be an Intellectual Force, the
critic usually bestows a great deal of atten-
tion on repertory. In Australia this is too
much in the hands of ex-actors who earn
a living by teaching vain young men and
women without a sense of humor how not
to act. That the young men and women
have no sense of humor is shown by the
fact that, season after season, they set them-
selves up as artists, courtiers, poets, etc.,
and stand about mouthing metaphysical
nonsense by Scandinavian playwrights which
they obviously don’t understand, while a
roomful of the intelligentsia makes a vast
pretence of enjoying it. Of course, there are
exceptions. One or two excellent amateur
performances under expert professional
direction have leavened the critic’s loaf.
The only department yet untouched is
the native drama.. It is almost unneces-
sary to state that there practically isn’t
any. Even when a promising play is writ-
ten by an Australian, it has to be entrusted
to amateurs and is therefore stillborn. The
cheapness of the American film and the
Australian producer’s acquired habit of only
embarking his money on a venture that
has proved itself a moneyspinner abroad
make it almost impossible for an indigene
to get a hearing.
The dramatic critic in Australia, there-
fore, is a person who is paid to wear out
his dinner suit five times as fast as the rest
of the public while watching mediocre plays.
The depression caused by the knowledge
that his clothes may be getting shiny at
the seat and elbows may partially account
for the mediocrity of his subsequent re-
marks in print, complained about by Mr.
Dearden. But in addition he cannot see
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns -
Distinctive Furniture
Artistically designed and executed by craftsmen
“Wembley” Suite
The “Wembley” Three - piece
Suite, nicely sprung all through.
Comfortable sprung edges, and
soft cushions. Upholstered in
Genoa Velvet.
Each '
£42/10 1-
Oak Wardrobe
Oak Combination Wardrobe and
Dressing Table, with two short
drawers and one long. A very
useful piece of
furniture
£l3/15|-
i
THI TABUCCASC
Motorists’ Tablecase
The Tablecase. A boon to
Motorists. When folded 24 x
1 6 x 3£ inches. This article opens
out to form a table, size 32 x 42
inches. Legs are of pressed steel
and top is covered in imitation
leather. Four stools, exception-
ally strong. Tin Sandwich con-
tainer.
Complete for
£3/15/-
Open every Friday
until 9 o’clock
m
»
mm
II M II 16
v-
The “Hudson” Bedroom Suite.
The “Hudson” Bedroom Suite, comprising sft. Wardrobe,
two-thirds hanging space, with hat shelf, brass rod under-
neath; one-third possesses sliding trays; shaped bevelled
mirror; neat inlay design on wood doors. 3ft. 6m. Dress-
ing Table has very wide mirror and narrow frame, 3 long
drawers. Pedestal Cupboard has patent lift-up
top, fitted with enamel basin. In Figured Oak
In Maple, £32/10/-
£3l
in
SR?
The '‘Hill Seventy” Dining Suite.
The “Hill Seventy” Elizabethan Dining Suite, comprising
sft. Sideboard, with low-shaped mirror back, 2 cupboards
with nicely carved doors and 3 drawers. sft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in.
Table to match. 6 Small and 2 Carver Chairs, with drop-in
seats, backs upholstered and carved in corners. Made
of best oak, finished antique color. Suite
complete
£6O
Purchase Your Furniture requirements
on the
DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM
(You Pay No Interest)
Anthony Hordern
Postal Address;
Box 2712 c GJP.O
and Sons, Limited,
CL'V r r\Ml7'V
D I I/IML I
*■Phone Number:
M 2401 {4O lines).


sag
m
m.
:
*
S?T
%
i2i*
* - V*.
I
<**=
P
■
site
r.»«
:■
HI
MU
ar*i
1U
san
r$
SK
A : ;-> :
.. ,i r " ■ , - ,’ -
&4&gSEE2SSS#
Weary of Watching the“Clouds' Sail By
T ime after time someone grows weary of watching
the “Clouds” sail by him in traffic, on the broad
highways, on the stiffest grades—so he buys a Reo
Flying Cloud for himself.
Daily the demand for this pleasure car of unfor-
gettable brilliance of performance, of unescapable
beauty, grows. And if you, too, are weary of
watching the Flying Clouds sail by, come in and
try one out. Learn from it that motoring can be a
pleasure, as its “skipper” gets the enjoyment of
“sailing” by in a Flying Cloud,
REO
FLYING CLOUD
SEDAN VICTORIA
BROUGHAM
SPORTCOUPE
ROADSTER
REO DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W
(Country)
(City)
VICTORIA
S. AUSTRALIA
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney.
R. F. OLIVER & OLIVER, LTD.,
147 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne.
REO MOTOR SALES, LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND.
W. AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY
(Q’LAND), LTD.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
DENNY BROS., LTD.
Murray Street, Perth.
A. B. DONALD, LTD., Auckland.
FRANCIS & TAYLOR, LTD., Dunedin.
NO OTHER AMERICAN CAR LASTS AS LONG AS RE O NOT ONE


A HOLIDAY IN CEYLON
CEYLON is at its best during the Australian
Summer. In the compass of an after-
noon’s motor drive one passes from the
warmth of Colombo to the crisp, sunny days
and cool nights at Nuwara Eliya. The buried
city of Anuradhapura and the Buddhist Temple
of the Tooth will interest the traveller. The
scenery is as varied as it is beautiful, and the
trees and flowers are a delight to the eye.
There are golf, tennis, fishing and shooting in
abundance. Roads and hotels are good and
cars are easily obtainable.
The Orient Line Excursion Fare to Colombo
from Brisbane is only £67 return, from Sydney
£65, Melbourne £63, Adelaide £6l, and
Fremantle £59.
ORIENT LINE
sdf
2, 4, 6 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand.
Saturday night approach with the same feel-
ings as Dr. Ellery and Mr. Dearden, who
doubtless don their dinner suits at infre-
quent intervals in joyful anticipation of
escaping for an evening from the drab
realities of life. He does not escape from
reality by going to the theatre, but rushes
into it. The trouble is not that he doesn t
know enough about his job, but that he
knows too much.
The field for an intelligent writer who
devotes himself to the stage in this coun-
try is painfully narrow. He cannot acquire
a reputation for superior astuteness by dis-
covering genuises ahead of the general
public, as Archer “discovered” Ibsen, and
Nathan O’Neill. If he affects a lofty
standard and measures all the rubbish he
sees up to it, he only makes a tedious ass
of himself, as Dr. Ellery observes. He can
no more make his name as a real professor
of dramatic art than Mr. Dearden, if he
were a medico, could make his name as a
surgeon by setting children’s collar-bones.
Altogether, the Australian dramatic
critic is deserving more of pity than of
blame. And he ought to have a dress
allowance, too.
M. G. SKIPPER.
The Needs of the Poet
We have been hearing a great deal lately
about the relative merits of different poets
and different kinds of poetry. Unfortu-
nately even a poet does not always write
poetry. Wordsworth is, of course, the out-
standing example of a great poet who in his
ebb moments lapsed into the most appal-
ling and trite verse. Even a genius has
these moments, so that it is essential for a
poet to cultivate a critical faculty.
What we need in Australia is not more
poets but more critics and more critical
poets. To be a critic of poetry it is not
necessary to be a poet, but it is quite neces-
sary to be poetic, and to have a line judg-
ment, a keen and well-developed sense of
rhythm and a profound mind. It is much
more difficult to be a critic than to be a
poet, because a poet may abandon himself
to an idea or a mood or a new theme,
whereas a critic, while following the poet
into his idea, mood or theme, must retain
his critical faculty and his sense of critical
proportion. And first and last he must
know what is poetry.
There is as much difference between verse
and poetry as there is between ragtime and
classical music; or between a revue and
drama. You may get bad poetry and good
verse, just as you may get bad drama and
good revue; but to be a critic you must
not confuse the two. You must be able to
distinguish between poetry, good or bad,
and verse, good or bad; and you must be
able to criticise each in its own class.
And what is the difference?
Poetry is born of the senses inspired by
the spirit, and verse is fathered by senti-
ment and inspired by laziness. Verse jog-
trots amicably along, a cheery companion
for the road; but its chatter is as nothing
the moment the wings of poetry sweep by,
and a golden (though maybe imperfect)
song pours down from the heavens.
A pitfall of versifiers is that they think
adherence to form spells poetry. There is
no greater mistake. Adherence to form is
merely an exercise for the ear, just as bal-
ancing is a form of poise exercise for a
dancer. There is no royal road to the per-
fection of word and thought. Certainly
two things are essential, unremitting work
and absolute sincerity. There must be a
song in the poet’s heart when he is born,
just as there is a song in the heart of a
bird. After that it is simply a matter of
practising his song and attaining a finer
poise of A r oice and mind, of technique and
idea. This very practice and deAmlopment
of a critical faculty may constitute the
difference between a versifier and a poet.
Without criticism the \mrsifier will remain
the versifier, and because of the lack of
this critical faculty Australia has too many
versifiers and too few poets.
All poetry must have a lyric quality
There must be a beat, of wings in the
theme or in the metre. For pure lyric
poetry there must be a beat of wings in
both. Milton says a lyric should be simple,
sensuous and passionate. Boiled down, that
means winged and balanced. There must
be passion—spiritual energy—to raise it
from the ground, and there must be an
earth wire—sensuous appeal—to link it to
the earth. Between them they sustain the
tension that is balance. As to the simpli-
city, all great things are simple, in the sense
that they are single-purposed, undivided,
elemental.
Wordsworth’s immortal lines,
He measured it from side to side.
’Twas four feet long and three feet wide!
are an exaggerated example of the horrors
of verse. Australia simply reeks of it. This
kind of thing:
The little creek went winding
Upon its singing way,
The grey thrush in the gum-trees
Poured out its silver lay!
That, as a beginning to a song that is to
rise up and grow stronger and stronger verse
by \ r erse might be permissible; but too
much of our music remains at that, level.
The creek meanders ad infinitum without
anv purpose or any distinction.
Compare it with the stveep of Avings:
....AVe have taught the world to die.
So for their sakes I loved, ere I go hence.
And the high cause of Love’s magnificence.
And to keep loyalties young, I’ll write these names-
Golden fpr ever; eagles crying flames;
And set them as a banner, that men mav know
To dare the generations, burn, and blow'
Out on the wind of Time, shining and streaming.
Taken from its context (“The Great Lover,
by Rupert Brooke), it has little intelligible
meaning, yet in those eight random lines
we are swept far into the blue realms of
imagination and vision.
Thus do men become as gods. Australia
wants, not tinpot troubadours, but great
singers.
LLWELYN LUCAS.
Time and Place
Aloysius Horn (Cape; Dymock’s) travels
far back in time in his story of the Ivory
Coast “in the Earlies.” Galsworthy, in a
sort of sponsoring foreword, says: “This is
a gorgeous book, more full ol sheer stingo
than any you are likely to come across in
a day’s march among the bookshops of
wherever you maj' p be.” That “stingo
exactly describes the contents of the book.
Old Horn, 73, a pedlar of bent-wire grid-
irons and toasting-forks, a lodger in a
Jo’burg dosshouse, a worn-out old fellow
shuffling resignedly towards Finis, can
take only part of the credit for this
pungent kick which lifts the straggling story
into life in every chapter. The old man’s
memories of himself as a boy trader in
ivory in the ’seventies are first-class matter,
of course; but 73, with bent wire and a
dosshouse as environment, is a bad age to
begin the learning of some manner for the
presentment of the matter. Unless you
have a Mrs. Ethelreda Lewis behind you
it is a certainty that you will make a mess
of it. Old Horn appeared on Mrs. Lewis’s
stoep one morning and sold her a gridiron
so artistically that she put aside her notes
for Chapter 14 of her novel and talked and
listened to him. The result is this book,
written by a simple, garrulous old man,
sloshed shapelessly on to his paper in the
dosshouse, the good points crowded out and
the bad points labored, even the narrative
all to pot in dates and continuity. It is
all there—the personal record of a man who
crossed the still-warm tracks of Livingstone
and Du Chaillu, a man who shot his ivory
in impenetrably Darkest Africa, among
cannibals and slavetraders 50 years ago, and
did it in a very exciting and dramatic man-
ner; but we know that for us the doing
is only half the battle. Mrs. Lewis edited
the situation ; and therein came the stingo.
She lets Horn’s MS. stand as he wrote it,
errors of spelling, punctuation and diction
notwithstanding; and at the end of each
chapter she adds a “Conversation” from
which her own luminous questions are
elided and in which the old man walks in
the very spirit of timeless memory. We
receive thus not only this volume of the
life and works of Alfred Aloysius Horn, but
also a most sensitively-vivid character-
study of that interesting man himself.
Touched-up with a bland foreword by John
Galsworthy the whole box of tricks be-
comes a work of art. That it becomes more
than a mere work of art is due entirely to
Mrs. Lewis. Without once obtruding the
editor, she shows us in these brilliantly-
edited “Conversations” this undefeated
derelict packed with his wonderful memo-
ries and the contemptuous wisdom the 50-
years’ descent has taught him—catches him
on the turn of the tide, as it were, before
the waters of oblivion flood him and his
wisdom and memories for ever. The Life,
etc., of A. A. Horn could conceivably leave
us cold; but this pulsating study of himself
is literature.
The pre-occupation of Gordon Mac-
Creagh in White Waters and Black (Cape;
Dymock’s) is place and place only; his
theme is equally singleminded, being solely
the entertainment of the reader. He tells
the story of a bug-hunting and generally
scientific expedition undertaken by eight
white men. From La Paz they go over the
farther heights of the Andes to bury them-
selves in the jungles of the Amazon for a
year or so in the interests of science. The
route covers thousands of miles, dodges
back and forth in Chile, Bolivia, Brazil,
Colombia and Ecuador, only at rare inter-
vals touching anything but unknown terri-
tory; and the expedition is made up of
American professors, a director, a couple of
secretaries and Gordon MacGreagh as
organiser and motion-picture photographer.
Bryce, Franck, Harry Foster, Hudson-
one remembers several people who have
recorded somewhat similar treks. But,
scientists or artistic guide-book writers or
literary persons, they persisted in being
either informative or interesting. These are
values beneath MacCreagh’s notice; if he
can manage to be entertaining he is con-
tent.
And he is nobly and piquantly entertaining.
He treats his expedition as a group of per-
sonalities. Their heroisms, ill-tempers, fail-
ures, triumphs, all come in as passing family
incidents in the foreground of the gigantic
job. MacCreagh laughs at both, and makes
us laugh too, vastly entertained by his
spirited whimsies in these terrific places.
Hence he gives us a new kind of travel
book, full of inadvertent information and
yet so glowing with life and merry vitality,
so persuasive and vivid that we can hardly
believe that it has vanished at the turning
of the last page.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Some Recollections of a Western Ranch-
man, by William French (Methuen).
Roughly torn-out chapters from a book of
crude experiences in New Mexico.
The Little Brown House, by Mary Con-
way Ormler (Cornstalk Co.). A Christmas
booklet by the author of “The Butterfly
Man”—a simple, human little story with a
Yuletide note in it. A second sketch, “The
Youngest Officer,” is within the same cover.
In the Days of Prince Hal, by H. El ring-
ton, and The White Standard, by Eliza F.
Pollard (Blackie). Two historical stories
for boys and girls which make a wholesome
appeal.
Alfred Deakin, by Walter Murdoch (Con-
stable; Robertson and Mullens). A cheap
reprint of the book which Mrs. Deakin
commissioned and which was based on the
statesman’s private papers.
A Long Week-end, by Margaret Kennedy
(Heinemann). A humorous story of the
thwarted adventure of a young couple who
found it less easy to slip oft' the chains of
convention than they had anticipated.
Evening News Year Book, 1928. This
popular little Sydney reference book, now in
its fifth year, increases in usefulness; it
covers a wide field embracing government,
commercial, sporting and church activities.
The Dearly Beloved of Benjamin Cobh, by
Clemence Dane (Benn). The author of “A
Bill of Divorcement” knows how to handle
dramatic elements, and here she shows her
skill in developing the complex character
of Eileen Cobb, the dearly beloved of Ben-
jamin. A fine study of two personalities in
dramatic contrast.
Bonny Bairns (Blackie) and Queer
Beasts at the Zoo (Allen and Unwin). Child-
ren’s books. ‘‘When I was in the wilds of
Australia,” remarked the Great Kangaroo,
“I could leap from 10 to 15 feet at a bound,
and clear a bush nine feet high” ; from which
it will be learned that the ’roo does not dis-
parage his native land before a youthful-
English audience.
Lectures on Dead Authors and other
Essays, by E. H. Eacon Watson (Benn).
Reviewers, he says, have lost the art of sus-
tained invective; and in a spirit of rebellion,
he approaches the work of such differenti-
ated writers as Samuel Butler, Marie
Corelli and Joseph Conrad. He writes with a
sharp pen dipped often in vinegar and occa-
sionally in honey; and his book comes to us
as a good tonic.
Katawampus and. the First Book of Krab,
by Edward Abbott Parry (Heinemann).
The diversions of Judges, for the author is
a member of the English County Court
Bench, are not always confined to golf and
reading the lessons in church. They, too,
can unbend and play with the children, as
this amusing and fantastic book cheerfully
demonstrates. The present reprint is artis-
tically illustrated by Archie Macgregor and
colored by Cynthia Moon.
The Ship Under Steam, by G. Gibbard
Jackson (Fisher Unwin). A century before
young Watt sat before the hissing kettle and
pondered the potential power of steam a
Frenchman named Papin, who had settled in
England, had an engine with a piston and
cylinder at work; and Cawley, Newcomen
and Savery so developed this original idea
that they devised a machine which was
actually employed in pumping water from
deep mines. After Watt’s improvements in
1769 progress was constant, and the evolu-
tion of the locomotive kept pace with the
advance of the steam-engine on boats and
ships. It is with the latter that this volume
is concerned, and the author traces the
development of the steamship from the small
river craft forced ahead by the discharge ot
a jet of steam below the water to the modern
liner and battleship.
The Higher the Fewer, by Arthur Vivian
(Cayme Press). A novel with an atrocious
wrapper for a parcel of literary goods that
deserve a better covering. The author sets
out to demonstrate that “a finer love, a finer
health, a finer sanity and a finer beauty can
bring lasting happiness into the lives and
marriages even of clever, subtle and highly-
organised people.” There is much moralis-
ing to reach in the end what all good
grannies impress upon young folk about to
be married: “if you want to be happy, my
dears, there must be give and take.
The Seven Strings of the Lyre, by Eliza-
beth W. Sehermerhorn (Heinemann). The
immense vibration of George Sand’s voice
upon the ear of Europe will not soon die
away,” commented Matthew Arnold on the
occasion of her death. Of that vibration
but a whispered echo remains to-day, and
if the writer of this life of George Sand,
drawn from her memoirs, her letters, novels
and prefaces, does no more than revive
interest in a vivid personality in whom the
elements of common clay and genius were
commingled, she serves a worthy purpose. .
Seven Years in Southern . Abyssinia, by
Arnold Wienholt Hudson (Fisher Unwin).
The author, who has many Australian con-
nections. was British Consul for Southern
“Ethiopia,” the official designation ot
Abyssinia, from 1914 until the present year.
Abyssinia is the sole remaining instance in
Africa of a purely indigenous independent
State, and as it exists to-day is almost
entirely the work of the emperors Theodore
and Menelik. Until the rise of the former
the country was ruled by petty local chiefs
with but a shadowy allegiance to the negus
or king. Theodore was a militant Christian
and a sincere reformer. Aided by the
Englishmen Plowden and Bell lie did much
to organise liis nation on modern lines.
Aftei* their death his rule was beset by plots
and rebellions, but the final tragedy did not
come till Napiers expedition, despatched to
obtain the release of Europeans imprisoned
by the Emperor, stormed Magdala and dis-
covered Theodore within the gates dead by
his own hand.” An interesting record of
a little-known country.
* ■
The widow of George Essex Evans has
two collections of her late husband’s good
work in view—first, his poems; afterwards,
his short stories. His poems certainly
ought to be got together; and Queensland
alone should be a market _ big enough to
make the venture worth while.
“M.G.S.”: Where was “Robbery Under
Arms” written? The latest claimant I have
met is the station, now owned by Mr. Haze,
on Lake Boga, which rubs sides with the
Murray near Swan Hill. No spot more aloof
from the violence of the book, could be
imagined than the shores of this pelican-
haunted sheet of placid water with the town
of Boga misty in the distance. And when
Boldrewood Browne owned the place, round
about 1869, it must have been even more
placid, solitary and aloof.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
feervice Department.
• • , Tl ! e service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate seai’cli it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Practical man, highest refs., wants mob
sheep on shares (small percentage net pro-
fits). Will shear, crutch, supervise gener-
ally. 2863
t>" ‘ , ,
, !in<, a 1 r Va first-class all-round legal
, ( ' experience; experienced pros-
pectus writer, wants position or piece work.
“ auo ‘ ...
Queenslander wants position in N.S.W. as
book-keeper with sheep-shearing contractor,
and would brand bales; good refs.- experi-
ence( j os7i ’ y
„ , .
South Australian farmer seeks advice and
information from experienced N.S.W. farmers
as to local share-tarming methods and farm
management. -325.
Whereabouts of Tom Andrews; last heard
of in Newcastle. Daughter Audrey is ill>
(Reply direct to Mrs. U. Andrews, 17
Lingard-street, Merewether, N.S.W.)
Offer for several theological works, com-
mentaries, etc.; suit student; list on applica-
tion.—2B6l.
To buy, small cabin trunk, good order. —
2570.
Copies of Aussie, especially Christmas
numbers, 1920 to 1923. Offer 9d. esch for
clean copies. (O. W. Wadliam, Denton’s
Private Bag, Gisborne, N.Z.)
Address of publishers of simple station-
book-keeping sets specially designed for
novices. Firm is located in N.5.W.—2845.
rr , . . ~ i., „ . ...,
Trained nurse would like care of invalid or
companion to lady. Country preferred. Re-
duced tee. _BoO.
To buy, used Australian, N.Z., Papua and
Islands stamps, also Canberra issue. G. J.
T. Ashton, Claypans, River Murray, S.A.
To buy second-hand copies of “Australian
Roads” (Coane), “Practical Sanitary En-
gineering” (Woods), “Structural Engineer-
ing” (Brightmore), “Municipal Engineering”
(Cardew).—2BBs.
Sell or exchange block, about acre of unim-
proved town allotments, main road frontage,
about half-way between Parramatta and
Windsor (N.5.W.)—2885.
w 1 j, 3 j. . . .
Well-equipped farm, Gilgandra district
(N.S.W.), 600 cultivation, 200 grass pad-
docks, will lease or let share-farming, whole
or half.—2BB4.
To let, 2000 feet, second floor, Hickey’s
Buildingls, Queen-street, off Regent-street,
Sydney. Cart dock, power hoist, good light,
elec, power, light, gas, water.—2Bs3.
Words and music of song “When It’s
Moonlight on the Silvery Rio Grande.” Will
pay. (Mrs. Coleman, 205 Kent-street, Syd-
ney.)
To sell books on China, including Gray’s
History.—2B9s.
Information Soncrbt
miormanon oougm.
tt , , , it a ormr
How to destroy woodlice. 2<20.
Wood l ice, slaters or sowbugs are always
f h “• coadltloa f aad de f y ;
tog' at n„mbe?s ; Stains' »S cSultag
or rubbish removed and soil surface kept as
dry as possible by frequent cultivation. An
effective control is to dust their haunts with
sodium fluoride (poison). A useful method
is to trap with flat boards in damp situa-
tions, dusting beneath them with sodium
fluoride, which must be kept from leaves of
plants. Baits of sliced lightly-boiled pota-
toes sprinkled with Paris green, calcium
arsenate or arsenate of lead powder are re-
commmended. When slaters are visible in
large numbers, spray with kerosene emulsion,
for which a formula is given in reply to
No. 2873 this issue.
(1) What is the award rate for perma-
nent or chard-workers in N.S.W.? (2) Can a
worker who is mentally or physically unable
to properly perform ordinary duties' be paid
less than the ruling rates? (3) Where can
a copy of the award be obtained and at what
cost?— 2B7s.
(1) Permanent employees working in
N.S.W. orchards or vineyards must be paid
£4 4s. per week of 48 hours, irrespective of
their capacity. A deduction of £1 6s. 6d.
is allowed where the employee is provided
with board and lodging. (2) No deduction
can be made from wages for mental or
physical incapacity without a permit, from
the Industrial Registrar, Dept, of Labor and
Industry, to whom the employee must make
application for permission to work for less
than award wages. The rate paid such an
employee is determined by the Registrar,
(3) Orchard and Vineyard Employees
(State) Award No. 594 ; 4d.; Government
Printer, Bent and Phiffi-p streets, Sydney.
I have been buying corn in half-ton lots
but am charged at so much per bushel. How
can I check this to get a square deal? The
last account averaged just over three
bushels to the bag, and at a produce store a
bag weighed for me went under 2-J. How
much should a cornsack h01d? —2694.
All Australian-grown maize is packed in
Chapman sacks, which would weigh when
full of maize of good quality approximately
lcwt. 2qrs. (1681 b.), which equals three
bushels. If the maize is of poor quality a
full bag would average a few pounds less,
Tlie bag weighed at the produce store as an
example was either a very slack bag. i.e., not
filled properly or, as probably was the case,
a bag of cracked maize, the average weight
which , is about lcwt 1 1 r ” or bu ? hels ;
11 you hav ’ a , a set of seales or a P ai l' °, f
ordinary steelyards it is quite easy to check
the weights charged. A bushel of maize
weighs 561 b. African maize is packed in
larger bags, and would average about lcwt.
3q r . (1961 b.) to the bag, but as very little
has b ' een imported this year it is probable
that either N.S.W.- or Queensland-grown
maize has been supplied,
r n , ,-, T a w % ,
JJ l ° U a CroWn l f US f- iN f W A 0,1 A+i ,
goldminers are prospecting. Are they entitled
to graze their horses on the land, or can
/ charge agistment?— 2693.
Your Crown lease is Crown land within
the meaning of the Mining Act, and is
subject to the operations of miners’ rights
and business licenses. The holder of a miner’s
right may, while following the occupation of
a miner or prospector, graze upon the Crown
lease such horses or other animals as may
be necessary for his subsistence and for
the carrying on of prospecting or mining
(Sub-section 1, “h,” Section 15, Mining Act,
1906).
How can I get the Valuer-General’s valu-
ation °f a N.S.W. dairy property?— 2B23.
, A P extract from the valuation list may
b( ; had from the Valuer-Generals Dept.,
Phillip House, 119 Phillip-street, Sydney,
Jf e 2s ’„ 6d ’ ,, This extract will contain par-
t culars of the property to which it lefeis
and ™ 1 show the valuations as they appear
on the valuation roll, but such information
ean only be supplied in respec t of lands to
wb i cb t be operations of Parts V and VI of
the Valuation of Land Act 1916 have been
extended. A list showing districts which have
been so valued has been posted.
How can j test amber?— 2B32.
The color should be yellow to reddish-
brown and white. Hardness: 2 to 2.5,
slightly harder than gypsum and softer than
calcite. Its specific gravity is from 1.05 to
1.096. It cannot be scratched by the finger-
aaib bl w * b , eu . t eas jly an d deeply with a
knife; is very brittle, burns readily at a low
temperature and almost floats m sea-water.
\ vh ® n . briskly rubbed on cloth it becomes
electrical and will attract small pieces of
nnn „
1
I s rejuvenation, gland treatment, practised
in Australia? If so, by whom? —2B37.
. We know of no one who regularly prac-
tises rejuvenation in this country; it has not
P rove( l a medical success. It is understood
that a certain amount of work has been
doae lf by a doc v tor Ti la Melb< ? arne ’ but tbe
iesa * bas nat beea ™ ade public,
.(v How long should one wait before sub-
mittmg a story elsewhere when MS. is not
returned, stamps being enclosed? (2) What
Australian papers accept Australian serials?
(3) Is there a fair governing price? —26l2.
(1) About two months, but advisable to
draw editor > s attent i on t 0 the fact that MS.
has not been returned and notify him of
your intention to submit it elsewhere if it
has been rejec ted. (2) The Australian and
N.Z. Writers and Artists’ Year Book (2s.
to SK
ns
se , y be ° ms P ria t serials,
. ™ l thin an hour of being cleaned with an
' iro Jf wire, a boiler gauge-glass bursts,’ what
ac^ on J :S se t up? Gopper or brass wire does
not affect tube.—2 66l. _
i. b< isi e 1S no unemical action. Iron wire
P r °bably scratches the glass, and pressure
bnds tbe weak s P ot 5 brass and copper wire
are s °fter.
Nas a qualified linesman ( Maoriland ) any
chance of joining Commonwealth telephone
service? —27B6.
To qualify for permanent staff in the
P.M.G.’s Department (’phone branch), per-
®ona must pass an examination, particulars
which are regularly advertised in the
Commonwealth Gazette. The Dept, ac-
? ord9 Preference for temporary employment
to , ex-members of the A.I.F. and many
Australian soldiers are awaiting
their turn.
A formula for kerosene emulsion? —2B73.
Hard soap kerosene 2 gall., boiling
water 1 gall. Dissolve the soap in the boil-
inS water; while still boiling stir in kerosene,
an d immediately pump the whole from one.
vessel into another. The outlet from the
short delivery hose (or iron pipe—for rubber
perishes) should be small enough to main-
ta.in a S° od pressure whilst pumping; better
dx a coarse spray nozzle on end of
putlet hose or pipe. If any trouble is found
emulsifying, add a greater quantity of
the boiling soap solution, and put through
the pump again. Treat this as stock solution,
? nd dilut e to make up to 22 gallons with boil-
water. Soft water only should be used.
this spray warm. Kerosene is very
se Y e r. e rubber hoses; pump warm soda
solution through after use to clear thoroughly
°r 01 h
What are the symptoms, cause and cure
of Hodgkin’s disease? —2673.
Enlargement of lymphatic glands, anaemia,
emaciation, remittent fever and any symp-
toms caused by pressure of enlarged glands
on different structures of the body. Cause,
unknown. Treatment, unsatisfactory; early
operative interference, X-rays and injec-
tions of neosalvarsan combined with medi-
cally-directed doses of arsenic, have had more
or less effect.
How to destroy winter grass and pas-
palumf—2737.
The only effective way to destroy paspalum
is to dig it out before it seeds. There are
a number of grasses known as “winter
grass,” but if the small-growing plant com-
mon to lawns during winter months is meant,
it, being an annual, can be controlled by close
cutting with the mower so as to prevent
seed from forming.
Queensland Govt, sanatoriums treating
phthisis? Are residents from another Staie
admitted? —2874.
The Dalby and Westwood sanatoriums are
Government institutions for treatment of
phthisis, but applicants for admission must
have resided for 12 months in Q. before
their admission is approved; condition is
waived only in very special circumstances.
Dept, of Health, Brisbane, will supply list
of registered private sanatoriums and give
detailed information.
Is assignment of an estate bankruptcy,
and how long after insolvency can a man
own anything in his own name? —2B36.
A debtor commits an act of bankruptcy if
he makes a conveyance or 'assignment of
his property to a trustee for the benefit of
his creditors. He may then apply to the
Court for a certificate of discharge, which
may be granted in the form of an absolute
discharge or subject to conditions. On re-
ceipt of such certificate he may, subject to
the conditions, if any, conduct business or
hold property in the same way as any other
citizen.
Is it practicable to attach trailer to a
25 -cwt. International motor-truck so as to
carry 2-ton load altogether? —269B.
Yes, an engine in the model truck specified
would draw a load of two tons on six-
wheeler outfit. The wheels would have
sufficient weight on them to produce neces-
sary traction.
(1) What conditions govern the appoint-
ment of cadets to the New Guinea Public
Service — age, salary, qualifications, etc.? (2)
Are there any openings at present? —2662.
(1) Applicants must be between 20 and
24; must have passed a L.C. Exam, and
medical examination as to fitness for em-
ployment in the tropics, and produce satis-
factory testimonials. Commencing salary
£3OO p.a. from day of departure from
Australia. Appointees are on probation for
two years, and if satisfactory then become
eligible for permanency. Course of in-
struction in the various departments at
Babaul is given before appointees are
drafted to district officer for work in the
field. (2) No vacancies at present; when
they occur applications invited by advt.
Where {in Q.) can a set of caponising
instnlments be purchased, and at what price?
—2843.
Hayes Veterinary Co., Albert-square, Bris-
bane, 21s. 6d. posted.
Is a sufferer from filaria a menace to his
neighbors? —2B6s.
The mosquito which transmits filariasis
abounds throughout Queensland. While the
infection can be conveyed from one person
to another it would not be correct to de-
scribe a sufferer as a “menace”; but the
Federal Department of Health watches all
such patients.
Was Capt. Cook, the so-called discoverer
of Australia, married? If so, are there any
direct descendants ?— 2883.
Capt. Cook married a Miss Batts, of Bark-
ing (Essex, Eng.), on Dec. 21, 1762. Of the
six children three died in infancy, the others
before the end of the century, the family
soon becoming extinct in the direct line.
Mrs. Cook lived to be 93, and died in 1835.
(1) Wish to buy d.-b. b.-l. hammerless gun,
30 in. 8.5. A., but am advised to get one with
cross-bolt action. Is this necessary? (2)
Which is better, 30in. or 28 in. bcvn'el? (3)
Everything else being equal, is British make
prefer a b le ? —2BOl.
(1) Cross-bolt action is not essential to
safety or efficiency. (2) With most modern
smokeless shotgun powders a normal charge
is fully consumed, and its entire propulsive
power developed in about 25 inches; any
extra length of barrel is thus superfluous,
but the longer sighting plane of the 30in.
barrel is of undoubted merit where the great-
est precision of aim is required. (3) An
English-made gun by a reputable maker is
a better proposition than one of little-known
Continental manufacture. The gun you
specify is excellent in every way.
(1) How can I copyright an unpublished
original literary work or a book in New
Zealand? (2) Where can I obtain a copy
of the Copyright Act? What is the price? —
2887.
(1) By submitting a copy of the MS. or
book with the necessary application-forms
for registration to Registrar of Copyright,
Wellington, N.Z. Fee, 2s. 6d. for each
separate application. (2) Registrar of Copy-
right, Wellington, price 3s.
(1) Can you recommend an exceptionally
good book of synonyms? (2) Are there any
reliable and really helpful works on short-
story writing on the market? —2746.
(i) ’“English Synonyms, Antonyms and
Prepositions,” J. C. Fernald (9s. 6d.), Angus
and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, Syd-
ney. (2) Dymock’s, Sydney, stock many
works on the subject ; textbooks can only
indicate style and construction.
Information Supplied.
2592.—T0 rid a house of silver-fish fumi-
gate with sulphur or dust black pepper freely
in drawers and cupboards and under car-
pets. , Turpentine painted along joins of
boards in walls and shelves, etc., is effica-
cious.—“ Homo.”
2526. —Lord Frederick Hamilton, in
“Here, There and Everywhere,” tells this
story of the Indian rope trick. A chief of
police in Calcutta, accompanied by a friend
and a camera, witnessed a performance of
this trick. The juggler threw a rope into
the air, and the chief photographed it. The
rope apparently went up until they could see
it no longer, and a boy was photographed
climbing up it. He disappeared, and the
juggler went up the rope in pursuit. He was
also photographed, and came down wiping a
blood-stained knife. The rope was pulled
down and the boy reappeared. Developed,
the photographs showed nothing but the
details of the courtyard. Everything that
seemed to happen was, apparently, the result
of suggestion.—“R.B.D.”
2723. —To lay red concrete path, excavate
and level. site to a depth of about three
inches below what the surface of path is to
be; enclose with 3in. battens, making one
side higher than the other for drainage.
Make a six-to-one mixture of ashes or gravel
and cement, wetting it until it is sloppy;
now mix two of metal screenings or sharp
sand to one of cement, also sloppy. Mix
together dry in a bucket two to one
of cement and red oxide. Moisten site and
pour in ash mixture, levelling down by sliding
a straight batten across it until this rests
squarely on the side battens. Spread screen-
ing mixture about half-inch thick on top of
the ash and level as before. Now take an old
axe and a hammer, chop the path into equal
squares, placing pegs at. the end of each line,
and scatter dry mixture thickly on the wet
surface. When thoroughly moist, go over
it with a metal float and smooth it; wait
until it dries a bit, then go over it with the
float and finish off, ruling the surface lines
witli the edge of the float if a liner is not
procurable. The dryer the surface is before
finishing off, the smoother the surface.
When path is finished, keep covered with wet
bags for a few days—the longer they are
on the harder it will set. By placing the
mixtures one on top of the other while they
are all wet, they will bind together in a solid
mass.—“Yufu.”
2779. —To keep 281 b. block of ice for week
(presuming chilling-room unavailable), line
packing-case with blankets and on this form
a thick layer of sawdust. Place block on this
material and add sawdust till ice is packed
in it, covering with blanket. Store in cool
place. Some water will drain away, but
loss should not be great.—“Skyrider.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to restore a shabby, six-months-old
leather coat? Boot polish failed. —2833.
An economical and serviceable covering for
wooden floor of bathroom? —2856.
Brief Answers.
G.W.P.: Don’t know anything about it.
It is apparently a case in which you back the
management absolutely. Do you know enough of
them for that?... .C.8.W.: Any of the following
vegetable oils: Cotton-seed, Soya-bean, rape-seed or
olive... .A.J.W.: Recipe for tanning kangaroo skins
in Service Page (B. 6/10/’27) will do for snake
skins. Halve quantity of bark and water, but time
would be the same... .C.K.S.: (1) “The Drover’s
Guide,” by R. P. M. Short (Watson, Ferguson,
Brisbane) ; also apply Stock and Brands Branch
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, Sydney. (2)
Department of Lands, Bridge-street, Sydney. (3)
“Workers’ Compensation Act and Regulations” (2s.
6d.), “Brief Review” of same (6d.), “Rural Workers’
Act and Regulations” (Is. 3d.), “Epitome” of same
(6d.), Government Printing Office, Sydney. Also,
Treatt and Rainbow’s “Law Relating to Compensa-
tion for Injuries to Workers” ( £2 10s.), Law Book
Co., 151 Phillip-street, Sydney. (4) “Family En-
dowment Act and Regulations” (2s. 3d.), Govern-
ment Printer; “Employers’ Endowment Tax,” by
N. B. Rydge (£1), Law Book Co J.C.L.:
Alluvial Tin (Malaya), Ltd., 26 Jamieson-street;
Malaysian Tin Lands, Ltd., 107 Pitt-street; Ratrut
Basin Tin Dredging Co., N.L., B.N.Z. Chambers,
George and Wynyard streets; Kampong Kamunting
Tin Dredging, Ltd., Challis House, Martin-place. All
of Sydney. See also “Guide to Eastern Tin Stocks,”
Philip Pring and Docker, Q. N. Bank Chambers, Pitt
and Hunter streets, Sydney. (2) Placer Development
Co., c/o A. W. Freeman, Challis House, Martin-place,
Sydney... .8.M.W.: Exhibitors of Dorkings at last
Sydney Royal Agricultural Society Show were: J.
Brown, c/o J. A. Brown, Bolton-street, Newcastle;
W. D. Ponton, Victoria Farm, Tuggerah, N.S.W. ;
G. E. O. Croft, Liberty Stud Duck and Poultry
Yards, Ingleburn, N.S.W.; W. F. Moore, Broughton-
street, Camden, N.S.W. Any one of these could
advise... .8.M.H.: Samuel Walker Griffith married
Julia Janet, daughter of James Thompson, Commis-
sioner of Crown Lands, East Maitland, in 1870.
R.J.: Yampi Sound is on the n.-w. West Australian
coast, between King Sound and Collier 8ay....
R.T.H.: When Roman spectators desired to show
mercy to a wounded gladiator they turned up their
thumbs... .M.M.: Electrolysis by an expert operator
is the only acknowledged safe method of permanently
removing superfluous hairs.... J.A.F.: (1) Leaflets
posted. (2) Griffith and Hassel, 77 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .T.R.B. Impossible to give definite formula,
since obviously quantities vary with nature of metal
and temperature. Most booksellers stock works on
oxy-acetylene welding. .. .N.D.M.L.: Dr. H. P. Pick-
erill, 143 Macquarie-street; Dr. Chisholm Ross,
225 Macquarie-street; Dr. Ralph Noble, 143
Macquarie-street—all Sydney... .K.M.C.K.: Len-
drum, Ltd., Winchcombe House, Bridge-street,
Sydney... .F.C.8.: The length of time a London
literary agent would take to give a verdict upon a
novel would depend entirely upon the quality of the
work. If it was sold to the first publisher approached,
you should hear from him within six months, but
many novels have been scanned by several publishers
before being accepted.... J.L.: All the violinists consul-
ted agreed that it was difficult to give precise direc-
tions. There is no special “trick.” It is purely a mat-
ter of technique. .. .R.M.: Sydney records disclose only
16 vessels; particulars posted. Seeking information
on the other questions... .5.8. C.: Leave it where it
is. It will not be easy to get money in the early
part of next year—and it may be harder still to
get it later in the year, though that can’t be said
for certain yet... .Alexis: The society is quite sound.
... .L.M.S.: N 0... .P.A.: Rhubarb is usually regarded
as very wholesome. The Botanic Garden laboratory
(Syd.) has no record of the amount of oxalic acid
it contains, but certainly the leaves should not be
used. A small quantity of bicarbonate of soda boiled
with rhubarb will neutralise any acidity; cooking in
aluminium saucepans does not afiect it... .N.W.H.:
“Society of Writers to H.M.’s Signet,” 15 York-
place, Edinburgh. There are several legal societies
in Edinburgh, but probably this is the appropriate
one. Ask, however, that if your letter is not addressed
to the body that deals with such matters, it should
be forwarded to the correct address... .W.M.Q.:
(1) Scott, Henderson and Co., 9-13 Young-street,
Sydney, agents for the Compania General de Tobaeos
de Filipinas, Manila. (2) George Wollaston, 177
George-street, Sydney Shack I.: See Reply to
2779 “Information Supplied” this week... .T.H.H.:
(1) Don’t advise selling at present; will probably
recover more or less. (4) Prospects not good. Others
are a good lot, though No. 5 should be carefully
watched. —their future is uncertain. Look at a copy
of the “Wild Cat” Monthly and see if that paper
would help you at a 11.... (Many others mailed.)


#
Extra strength is built into every
Dunlop cover and tube to ensure its
standing up to the rough road con-
ditions of Australia. Imported tyres,
made for oversea first-class concrete
and bitumen roads, cannot be ex-
pected to give as good results and
they don’t! That’s why Australian
DUNLOP
TYRES
excel in mileage and economy and
are the most popular with Australian
motorists. With all the advantages
Dunlops confer they cost you less
to purchase. Fit Dunlop and you’ll
he satisfied. Garages stock them.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
M
/A
4
)Q
o
0
A.
A


Cuticura Soap
Refreshes And Beautifies
The skin and hair. Regular use
of Cuticura Soap, assisted by Cuti-
cura Ointment when required, in-
vigorates and preserves the skin
and keeps the scalp in a healthy,
hair-growing condition. Nothing
better for keeping the skin fresh and
clear and the hair live and glossy.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
19®?— Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
' SCHUTE,
BELL&C
o.
Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
sf
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kiftds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
™GOUROCK=LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
mm
A modified
“brogue”
Supple, brown calf uppers
soles and Keels of the hardest-wear-
ing crepe rubber, combine to make
these Abbey Golf Shoes springy
and soft underfoot.
Designed in a simplified
“brogue” style, they have the easy-
fitting, low-cut sides and arched
lacing common to all Abbey Shoes.
And, to preserve their shape, the
rubber sole is sewn to a leather
foundation.
Typically “free and easy” shoes
for the roughest kind of wear.
Order by post
Ask, as well, for a supply of the
correct Abbey Polish at 6d. per tin.
The shoes are available in full sizes.
Brown Calf - - 35-
Apply for a Copy of the New iO-page
Catalogue in Color.
ABBEY
*•Established ox/er 80 years ’
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St
SYDNEY.
L 53.
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
‘Durabestos
BUILD WITH
Make your Home safe against fire, vermin and
white ants, by lining the Walls with Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-cement) Sheets. Unlike
timber, these Sheets are imperishable They
are inexpensive, and can be fixed with ease.
Durabestos Sheets are
stocked by suppliers
of building materials.
Write for book D. 4.
WUNDERLICH LTD,
Baptist Street. Redfern
Sydney
i of bui
ik Wrne
Ilk wur
■lie
M
P
x ;
vw
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Finis.
The tale is told and the tears are shed,
And the price is paid, well paid.
I have laid the ghost of a faith that is dead,
The wraith of a trust betrayed,
And I mount the years with a stalwart tread,
Untrammelled and unafraid.
Oh, I lean to the peace of the years to be,
I, who have paid the toll,
By the salt, salt tears that have shriven me,
Body and heart and soul,
By the faith of the faith that set me free,
And the prayers that made me whole !
N.S.W.
D. GLASSON.
The North.
You are not mine,
O towering palms,
Not mine!
Though I drink in your subtle-scented
wine
And hymn you psalms,
Though I applaud your lissom loveliness,
And love your restlessness,
You are not mine!
There are much older voices in my
blood—
Fir. larch, and ash,
And sycamore
That bends a sweet lake o’er,
And plane and birch
Rising like virgin spires
To some age-lichened church.
.. . .Ah, church among the hills,
And purple llyns,
And heathered meadows —
Hush! they tell their sins!
Or fierce amid stern glades
Gleam the still sterner blades
Of stoics and of braves,
Of rebels, aye, and knaves,
Wild as the snow-bent pine....
And these,
All these, are mine!
Yet, older still,
And younger,
There’s a plain
Heart-breaking, haunting land,
Unkempt and yet most sane.
You know her, towering palms!
You know the great, wide arms
That stretch out east and west
Wooing a swift unrest.
But you have not her heart,
You wanton, wayward host,
Laughing along the coast!
(0 box, and ash, and gum,
In silver cohorts come,
And wattle-trees aflame,
Ah, sweetheart trees! come, bless
My northern loneliness!)
They come—
The spotted gum,
Dogwood and mountain-ash,
And, waving overhead,
The bloodwoods, swart and red;
Acacias, brushing sweet,
And bracken at my feet,
And pealing through the bush
The grey and lovely thrush.
The palms crowd fearfully
Together. Tree to tree
Of giant fig is joined
Defencefully.
And aerial roots entwine
Monkey and lawyer-vine.
To make the jungle wall
That will defy us all.
Strangers, with drawn swords and
Peace offering in the hand,
Of newer days, and joys ;
The perfumed cunjevois;
Gay birds, and incenses
To steal our consciences;
The skyey hare’s-foot ferns;
The “bleeding heart” that burns
A single crimson leaf
To some small, heathen Pan,
Envenomed against man ;
Elk-horn, and lovely stag;
Orchid, and currawong,
With his enchanting song;
And lilting, lazy fronds
Of palms above still ponds.
Though I drink in your subtle-scented
wine
And hymn you psalms,
And love your restlessness,
O languid, luring palms!
O fretting, fickle palms!
You cannot steal my heart,
You are not mine,
Not mine!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Out of the Silence.
Out of the silence leapt a song,
The last rags of a gypsy tune.
Who called me from the laughing crowd
To make her eyes my summertime ;
Who drew me when the night took wings
To her by silken girdle-strings;
Whose hair was powdered with my dreams,
Whose hands were fumbling at my heart;
Who played a little pensive game
And vanished when the stars depart—
She left me restless, and aflame
To call all beauty by her name.
MAOBILAND.
BETTIE RIDDELL.
The Outcast.
Hark to the woeful wail, rising and dying
(Cross yourself quickly lest evil be near) !
Is it a damned soul moaning and crying,
Or but the wind’s wild lament that we
hear?
“Wandering spirit I, tarrying never,
Outcast from Heaven, and disowned by
Hell,
Lost in the blackness of darkness for ever,
Seeking a refuge wherein I may dwell!
“Life’s pain and passion a hopeless heart
driving,
Eagerly welcomed was Death’s bitter kiss ;
Soon should the stricken soul rest from its
striving,
Whether in torment or whether in bliss !
“Humbly at Heaven’s gate craving admis-
sion,
Stern was the Voice that bade me depart:
‘Sorrow and suffering wrought no con-
trition—
None enters here but the penitent heart!’
“Hell’s bars I beat with insistence untimely.
Ghastly the shriek through the gloom and
despair;
‘Sinned ye in sacrifice, loving sublimely—
Hell hath no place for the selfless to
share!’
“Anguished and dreary, I wander for ever,
Outcast from Heaven, and disowned by
Hell,
Doomed in the blackness of darkness to
never
Find any refuge wherein I may dwell!”
Hark to the hopeless wail rising and dying
(Cross yourself quickly lest evil befall) !
List to the woeful wind moaning and crying
(Christ God, have pity on poor sinners
all) !
N.S.W.
C. A. T.
Old Sailors.
Come, take up your tankards, grey messmates
of mine;
We’ll drink to the gallant, glad ships of the
line,
Whose white sails went racin’ and rollin’
away
For wool to Australia and jute to Bombay.
Come, tip up your tankards! Hurrah for the
green
Glossy hills and white spars of old Aberdeen !
Then sweet Sal was the gal that us sailor-
men knew
All around the gay ports from Penang to
Peru ;
From the Horn to the Cape, the Line to the
Pole,
Oh ’twas Sal was the light o’ the sailorman’s
soul.
Her hair it was yaller, her eyes they were
blue ;
She captured the captain, the mates and the
crew.
Her hair might be raven, her eyes might be
grey,
Her name could be Sally or Nancy or May,
Or Betty or Polly—now wot’s in a name?—
The goods in the package was always the
same;
When money was easy she’d give us an eye,
When pockets was empty she’d kiss us
good-bye.
But still in some packet I’d love to be found
A-cliewin’ me hard tack again homeward
bound.
I’d love to be feelin’ her decks under-heel
An’ takiu’, come, dog watch, me trick at the
wheel.
I’d love to be coming once more from the
sea,
With Sal on the pier-head a-waitin’ for me.
So take up yer tankards and drink to the
bold
Mates, bos’ns and masters and messmates
of old;
And here’s to Sweet Sally, her eyes and her
lips,
The boardin’-house runners, the crimps an’
the ships.
The seas—which is seven —the ports and the
lights
That glamored us shellbacks on shore-goin’
nights !
Come, till up, ine bullies, an’ drink to the
days
Of double-reefed tops’ls and handymen’s
ways ;
The tierce roarin’ forties, the doldrums
forlorn,
The calms o’ the Tropics, the gales o’ the
Horn ;
With grog in the locker and gals on the
quay—
Oh those were the times as will never more
be!
But fill ’em up, bullies, our chanties we’ll
call,
Of bold Sally Rackett, cracked voices an’
all;
i To Hell with the steamers, from Nore to
Capetown!
We’ll rise “Reuben Ranzo” an’ “Blow tjie
Man Down.”
Come, tip up your tankards and drink, lads,
with me,
The ended and splendid old days of the sea!
VICTOEIA.
E. J. BRADY.


want
ton -
miles /
><
You are invited to visit any of the
showrooms listed below, where, on
presentation of this announcement,
you will find a representative happy
to demonstrate just how Republic can
assist YOU in your haulage problem.
If inconvenient to call, write or ring
to-day.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co. Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. Elizabeth and Therry Streets,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co. Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land.) Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh St.
Sydney.
G.R3.
You expect a truck to earn its keep— and more •
You expect it to pay a dividend. Republic Trucks
are working for concerns which are PARTICU-
LARLY exacting in this respect—firms which will
not tolerate non-productive activity in any branch
of their business.
Republic Trucks have an extraordinary stamina
which spells a very long and active life. The engine
is a power unit which has won praise from men who
know engines. Transmission, gearing, and control
have been specially designed to meet the demands
of heavy haulage.
It will pay you to inspect the Republic range, and
to find out what others think about it. We have
some plain-spoken but very interesting literature
about these trucks. Shall we send it along to you?
Considering that the Republic will definitely make
money for you , you are bound to be interested.
I
sf


sfsďfsdfsdf
tfwalVmmi
,r !
• '•v
:
W* ■!
:
Hi
¥
■
\ "
■ a
}
'■' a , ,
i
mmi
-
111
1
3’
i a
. ■... ■
E
r!
i
in *
S 3 :3
1 p '
I •I- V
»
Mi
' ' ' ' /
33:.:;
:
■ ..-
■mmmmmmSm m
v • - ■ ; •■<
S 3
. ■■
■
I-
m
m
H
mm
m
wm
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
sd


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2499.
January 5, 1928.
A NEW BREW, GENTLEMEN!
The City Commission took charge of Sydney’s civic affairs on January 3.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for THE
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
London Office: No. 1 Wardour Street (near Picca-
dilly Circus), W.l.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas :12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2 521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short- Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is fqrwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin’s” representative in ILondon is
h. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour Street
(near Piccadilly Circus), W.l. Copies of
“The Bulletin” can be obtained from him or
the bookstall in the Main Hall at Australia
House. Also from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-
7!) Farringdon Street, London, E.C.).; and W. Daw-
son and Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings,
London, E.C.4.; E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Ser-
vice, 46 Fleet Street, London, E.C.; “The British
Australian and New Zealander,” 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Grace-
church Street, London, E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada.. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., ISt East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, stli Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 4%nd Street, New York City; Hoteling's
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5414 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Padder Street,
Hong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai. China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
Lonuon. — L. St. C. Grondona, No. 1 Wardour
Street (near Piccadilly Circus), W. 1.; Gordon and
Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon Street, London, E.C. 4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) ; — Comm.onwealth, New Zealand and Fiji :
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: 4oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 5, 1928.
ILLUSIONS.
“In the last year covered by the Australian Pro-
duction Statistics, the Commonwealth earned abroad,
by its trade in agricultural and dairy produce, just
about sufficient to pay the bill for interest and
sundries abroad. There was left nothing with which
to pay for imports.” —Text of the Discourse.
The resignation of Hugh Denison, Aus-
tralia’s official representative in the United
States, is set down on dubious authority to
disappointment at not being shifted from
New York to Washington and made an
ambassador instead of a commissioner. It
really doesn’t matter what the reason was,
but whatever it was there remains the hope
that no successor will be appointed. Aus-
tralia has no need for a diplomatic repre-
sentative at Washington, for it has no
diplomacy to do. Any suggestions to
Uncle Sam that he might be more
civil about passports and a few other
matters can be made by letter, or
through the British embassy. And if
it wanted a commercial agent Washing-
ton would be no place for him; and, so far
as Australia is concerned, New York, judg-
ing by experience, is no place either. Uncle
Samuel is willing to sell this country far
more than it can use without depriving its
own people of employment, or can pay for
without incurring fresh loads of external
debt; but he buys very little and has no
intention of buying more, nor does any
trade commissioner seem able to improve
the situation.
* * * *
Apart from its wool, Australia has very
little to sell that the United States wants
to buy from anybody abroad. Of gold, the
ever saleable article which is so badly re-
quired to pay interest on external debt or to
avoid incurring external debt, the supply is
about one-eighth what it was, having fallen
from a maximum of over 16? millions in a
year to about two millions, which is more
depressing than a slum on a wet Sunday.
This should have suggested an intense
necessity to look hard for other productive
employment, as distinguished from public
works, built with loan money and charged
up to posterity. But Australia didn’t look
hard enough; so this remarkable situation
appeared in the latest annual figures
(1925-26): —
Net exports (surplus of exports over
imports) of all kinds of agricultural
and dairy produce .. .. .. £32,806,753
Bill payabie abroad for interest and
services—mainly interest—about .. 32,000,000
The gross exports were worth £43,851,669,
and the difference between that and the net
figure shows the extent to which Australia
doesn’t supply itself with food. The ex-
ported items were:—
Wheat and flour . . £24,026,749
Butter . . . . 7,006,830
Sugar .. .. 5,313,135
£36,346,714
Wheat and flour are carried on the railways
at under cost; and this concession helps to
make the railway deficits which the tax-
payer struggles with. Butter represents to
an unfortunate extent a cheap-labor
(woman- and child-labor) occupation. And
sugar is the surplus which is sold at less
than the cost of production.
* * * *
Taking all these things into account, the
Commonwealth doesn’t want a trade com-
missioner to make a hollow pretence of
selling wheat and butter and sugar to the
Yankees; and of other agricultural produc-
tion there is nothing to sell. The urgent
demand really is for a commissioner who
will prevent the Yankees and others selling
too many things to us. Then Australia
may capture the market for manufactured
goods that is waiting in the next street, and
make some real money which won’t be all
swallowed up by new interest bills.
THE LAND OF LOST DISCONTENT.
Westralia, politically considered, is a study
in contrasts. Four of its five members in
the House of Reps, were elected on the
anti-Labor ticket. Three of the four are
Freetraders of the most dismal description.
These Cobdenite Jeremiahs never miss an
opportunity of informing the Hansard
reporters, who can’t escape to the refresh-
ment-room as other members do, that their
part of the Commonwealth is in a wretched
way because of “Federal oppression,” and
that the principal cause of its misery is
the tariff. On the other hand, the State
has a Labor Government which is as cheer-
ful as the three Freetrade Representatives
are melancholy. The Labor Premier issues
monthly reports on his country’s economic
progress and prospects. They are invari-
ably to the effect that the present is satis-
factory and the future full of promise.
'S»
In the latest of these documents it is
mentioned that the October estimate of a
wheat yield of 33,871,346 bushels has been
altered to 34,580,906 bushels. This is pretty
good going for a tariff-ruined country con-
sidering that 12,248,080 bushels was the out-
put in 1920-21, the year of the Greene
tariff. And the yield per acre that year
w r as above the average for 10 years. The
report goes on to say that “if the area
under crop is increased each year to the
same extent as in recent years, there will
be 4,000,000 acres under wheat in 1929,” and
that “a 50,000,000 or 60,000,000 bushel crop
would be a very good way of celebrating
the centenary year 1929,” as it certainly
would. There are also references to the
large exhibit at the wool sales from the
great new pastoral region north of Kal-
goorlie, to the value of timber exports
(£175,600 in one month), to the extent of
building operations in the metropolitan
area (£820,000 in four months), and to the
revival of goldmining in the Wiluna dis-
trict, where it has been demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the “highest departmental
authorities” there is “a property worth
many millions of pounds.” The Wiluna Co.,
it seems, is increasing its capital from
£BOO,OOO to £1,000,000, and believes it can
pay good dividends on the larger amount,
the tariff on mining requisites and
machir°ry notwithstanding.
* *■ * &
All this makes pleasant reading, and the
story is amplified by the statisticians. The
Commonwealth’s man records that the
average number of employees in Westralian
factories increased from 17,034 in 1920-21
to 22,142 in 1925-26, and the State’s man
notes that there was a further increase of
1800 in 1926-27. The output in 1920-21
was valued at £11,443,000; for the 18 months
ended June 30, 1926 (that is how the statis-
ticians lump the figures), it was valued at
£21,449,000. Salaries and wages paid
amounted to £2,647,000 in 1920-21 and
£3,817,000 in 1924-25. More results of the
“disastrous tariff”! Then the Labor Govern-
ment reported a credit balance last year, the
State incom'e-tax has been substantially
reduced (certainly the special Common-
wealth grants were drawn on for both opera-
tions) and the State railway system showed
a profit—and no other State railway system
did. Facts like these make the wailings of
the Freetrade misrepresentatives ridiculous.
And there are signs that the people are
realising that they have suffered the
calamity-howlers too long. The Perth Mirror
points out, with some asperity, that if the
Foreign-traders had their way there would
be no big cement works at Burswood. no
important fertiliser works at Bassendean
and Rocky Bay and no magnificent Valley
of the Vines in the Upper Swan —the Ger-
mans, Levantines and Asiatics would con-
trol these particular markets again. It
denies that the West stands for Freetrade,
and reminds Mann, M.11.R. for Perth, that
he went into Parliament as a supporter of
a Protectionist Government and “hardly
mentioned the subject of Freetrade at the
last election.” This suggests that a cold
time is coming for Mann and his dejected
associates. Certainly State and Common-
wealth need representatives of the Real
Westralia in the National Parliament in-
stead of gloomy politicians whose heads are
full of the fallacies of an exploded fiscal
system.
IS SYDNEY HARBOR SAFE?
The recent ferry disaster in Port Jackson
has led to the outbreak, usual on such occa-
sions, of semi-hysterical suggestions for the
prevention of such occurrences. Amongst
these are (1) that ocean-going traffic be
suspended both inwards and outwards dur-
ing the times of heavy ferry traffic in the
morning and evening; (2) that ferry routes
be laid down more strictly by means of
buoys and leading-marks; (3) that the
harbor traffic regulations be revised and
amended.
(1) No suggestion seems possible that
any concentration of traffic contributed to
the catastrophe. The two craft concerned
had ample sea-room, though one or both
failed to make use of it, but arbitrarily and
in an unseamanlike manner restricted the
available area and permitted the ships to
get so close together that a slight hitch of
some sort, either mechanical or mental,
rendered the result inevitable. The public
cannot realise what the word “seamanlike”
means to a mariner. To state of a seaman
that he acted in an “unseamanlike” manner
is the greatest slur that can be cast on his
professional ability. Where the magnificent
Regulations for Preventing Collisions at
Sea come into operation, the underlying
motive in every good seaman’s mind is
consideration for the other vessel. The
Regulations are really a code of manners
endowed with the force of International
Law. If it is the duty of one vessel to
“give way,” that vessel must let the other
know unmistakably that its duty is realised
and will be, or is being, carried out in plenty
of time. Conversely the ship with the right-
of-way, the “holding-on” vessel, must do
nothing which will hamper or prejudice the
movements of the other. This applies par-
ticularly where sea-room is restricted, such
as in sight of land, in the vicinity of shoals,
on entering or leaving a harbor.
(2) The second suggestion, that more
definite routes be laid down, will do no-
thing to help the problem. In fact, it will
make it worse, because pilots will presum-
ably have to know all the ferry routes and
superimpose them on the ordinary rule of
the road. Such routes must of necessity be
longer than the straight course, and will
add expense to the maintenance of the
ferry services without giving any addi-
tional safeguards.
(3) The third suggestion also visualises
superimposing additional regulations on the
International Rules, which, being perfect
when interpreted by seamen, need no elabo-
ration.
The whole trouble lies in the concentra-
tion of craft at Circular Quay. The curse
of centralisation was never better illus-
trated, especially when it is borne in mind
that this concentration is also largely re-
sponsible for a similar convergence of land
traffic at the head of Sydney Cove, a factor
that contributes largely to the delays and
inefficiency of the Sydney tram service.
Why, for example, a resident of Vaucluse
who wishes to visit Manly should be com-
pelled to take two trams or a ferry to
Circular Quay and then double back on
his tracks, passes comprehension. The
same applies as between any other two
points on the north and south shores re-
spectively. Manj r other harbor cities have
at least as much traffic as Sydney—Ports-
mouth, Plymouth and Sheerness, for
example, and all of these places have the
very frequent and uncertain movements of
men-of-war’s boats to compete with in
addition. But they do not run all their
traffic to a point, and accidents are negli-
gible. If one wishes to cross the Hudson
from New York to New Jersey one finds
a ferrjr going straight across approximately
where one wants to land, this arrangement
doing away with ferry trips up and down
the river and meaning that in the majority
of cases the “overtaking” element which
was present in the Greycliffe disaster is
eliminated.
Although seemingly the least dangerous
set of circumstances are those which exist
when one. vessel is. overtaking another, to
a seaman they are actually the most try-
ing. In the case of vessels crossing each
other’s course, no doubt can arise as to
whether one has been seen by the other
craft; and the necessary action by one or
the other is clearly laid down. An over-
taking vessel, however, is one “which is
approaching another from a direction more
than two points (22t degrees) abaft the
beam of the leading vessel.” Two con-
ditions have to be fulfilled: (1) The ves-
sels must be drawing nearer to one an-
other, which it is not always easy to tell;
and (2) the rear ship must be “behind” a
certain line drawn through the standard
compass of the leading ship. Obviously
when the rear ship is near that line only
the leading vessel can tell with certainty
whether or not she is ahead or astern of
it. The rear ship can make a fairly good
guess and act accordingly, but circum-
stances can arise when accurate knowledge
is essential before it can be decided which
vessel should give way. The doubtful
position did not arise in the Greycliffe case,
and I am merely suggesting that in regu-
lating any harbor traffic everything pos-
sible should be done to eliminate “over-
taking,” with its inevitable attendant doubt
and dangers, and the frequent difficulty in
sheeting home responsibility for accidents.
As a seaman I can state without hesita-
tion that Sydney harbor traffic is in a most
dangerous condition. The risks that mas-
ters of all sorts of craft are compelled to
take eliminate much of the benefit to be
derived from and most of the safeguards
imposed by a good training in seamanship.
Any attempt to add further regulations or
restrictions will probably only make mat-
ters worse, driving one to the conclusion
that the perils must continue till nine-
tenths of the ferry traffic has been removed
from Circular Quay and has been made to
take its shortest route straight across the
harbor.
X.N.O.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Arbitration Labyrinth.
Lord Dundreary would have been able to
make extensive additions to his collection
of things that no fellah can understand
had he been privileged to watch the work-
ing of labor arbitration laws in Australia.
As matters stand—and there is no guaran-
tee that Attorney-General Latham's bill
will do much to remedy things—any series
of kindred labor unions in various States
can band themselves into a Common-
wealth Federation, thereby gaining the
right to bite the sympathetic ear of the
Federal Arbitration Court. But this does
not stop a union, if it thinks it has a better
’ole to go to, from also seeking an award
from a State tribunal. When the Queens-
land wharfies disobeyed a Federal execu-
tive that told them to be good boys and
observe those parts of the Federal award
that Judge Beeby said he would like to
have observed, the shipowners were in-
formed that, as the Bananaland lumpers
had a State award, they could flout Beeby
to their hearts’ content.
As interpreted by the most class-con-
scious unions, the theory seems to be that
if you have two awards you can disregard
both. Employers are not so happily situ-
ated. At any minute now, if the Federal
Arbitration Court has any power whatever
to enforce its decrees, a punitive expedition
may be sent by the Bruce-Pages against
the State of South Australia, the Govern-
ment of which is contumeliously and con-
tumaciously refusing to pay the wages and
observe the conditions of labor prescribed
by Quick, J., for S.A. railway men. The
S.A. Premier says that if the award has to
be obeyed—an idea at which A.R.U.
officials would be convulsed with laughter
—he’ll have to sack a lot more men (2000
have been put off already) and reduce the
services considerably. The position
approaches the degree of intense absur-
dity where something will have to snap.
The most obvious first thing to do, if
arbitration is not going to be definitely
labelled a nuisance by intelligent people, is
to make it a principle that Federal awards
automatically nullify State awards and
preclude application to State tribunals dur-
ing currency. The second thing to do is to
secure an agreement between the Com-
monwealth and the States limiting the
Federal Court’s power of intervention to
those occupations in which sectional awards
are impracticable or inequitable—such
occupations to be defined. The third thing
to do is for the Commonwealth and the
States to assert in a loud, clear, ringing
chorus that arbitration tribunals must be
obeyed, and that those who don’t obey
them will catch it hot and strong. Indus-
try can’t be efficiently controlled on any
other basis.
0
Australia and the Solomons.
“Mataram” (Gizo, Solomon Is.): The arrival
of H.M.A.S. Adelaide gave a sense of
security that served to soothe jangled nerves
at Tulagi, the capital of this group, and
thus enabled authority to think of the step
that should have been obvious as soon as
the two British officials were reported mur-
dered. Volunteers were called for to pro-
vide stiffening for the force of armed native
constabulary to form a punitive expedition,


and, as was to be expected, the white
settlers responded willingly.
The native inhabitants of the various
islands in the group differ from one another
in type, language and customs, and there is
not and never was the remotest likelihood
of the people of any two islands combining
in a common cause. Even on Malaita itself
the population is divided by language and
customs, and any trouble arising there is
almost certain to be confined to one tribe
and a limited area. This general truth has
been amply borne out by recent events;
not only was the small tribe implicated in
the murders isolated, but the arrests were
effected without the natives once putting
up a fight.
That discontent prevails throughout the
Solomons is undeniable. In the case of the
natives it results to a large extent from
the extortion of a head tax for which no
adequate return is given, and from unsym-
pathetic administration of native affairs.
In the administration of justice the native
is placed at a disadvantage perhaps unpar-
alleled in any other part of the British-
Empire. A prisoner, even when arraigned
on the capital charge, is not provided with
any assistance in the preparation or con-
duct of his defence. Nervous and awed by
unfamiliar surroundings, he takes his chance
of understanding the questions put to him,
and of having his answers correctly inter-
preted.
The white settlers view the adminis-
trative machine as a grandiose, cumbrous
affair that functions at a cost out of all
proportion to the simple requirements of
the group and beyond the present or poten-
tial resources of the Protectorate to bear
with economic safety. A former high
official once declared that he could admin-
ister the Solomons with the aid of three
men and a dog. Subsequent commercial
expansion, the result of long years of wait-
ing for plantations to grow up, may have
justified the appointment of more men—
and possibly more dogs—but assuredly does
not warrant a Commissioner flying his flag
on a one-time millionaire’s yacht that costs
£lO,OOO a year to maintain.
The people who contribute the revenue
have to put up with extravagances such as
that; they have no voice in the disposal
of the revenue, nor have they any elective
representation. As a consequence there exists
deep dissatisfaction from one end of the
group to the other, and a growing tendency
to regard British administration as a costly
and humiliating failure.
In this state of mind the settlers have
noted with great interest the opinion ex-
pressed by the Minister for Home and
Territories in the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, that Australia should control the
Solomons. This has much in its favor.
Most, of the capital invested is Australian;
practically all the trade is with Australia.
The Commonwealth subsidises the mail
service, and, as recent events appear to
indicate, has the duty of maintaining law
and order. As for external defence, the
responsibility undoubtedly devolves upon
Australia.
A few years ago the people were averse
to the idea of Australian control, but a
definite change has taken place in the
views held on the subject, and indications
now point to the Solomons being near to
the parting of the ways.
*
Why Not the Trolley ’Bus?
“Triferric”: Melbourne is debating furi-
ously the proposition to run electric trams
in Collins-street (B. 29/12/’27); but, though
the rival merits of ’bus and tram have been
canvassed over acres of print, so far as the
writer is aware the electric trolley ’bus
has not been even considered. Yet this
system has been in use by the Leeds Cor-
poration for a number of years and has
proved very successful. It has many im-
portant advantages over the tram and
motor-’bus, as follows;
(a) No rails are required, thus reducing
capital outlay and annual charges on track.
15) Trolley ’buses are practically noiseless
and do not pollute the atmosphere with ex-
haust gases.
(c) They afford greater flexibility from the
point of view of traffic control, not being
tied to any definite track as trams are.
(d) There is less encumbrance of the
street by overhead wires because the conduc-
tors may be suspended from arms mounted
on standards erected at the edges of the foot-
paths, thus avoiding the necessity of span-
ning the street with cross wires.
(e) There is less danger and greater con-
venience to persons mounting and dismount-
ing, since the trolley ’bus draws in to the
footpath, whereas with trams it is neces-
sary to cross to the centre of the road.
(/) Owing to the centre of the road being
free, motor traffic may be permitted to travel
at a much greater speed.
(fir) The handling of the trolley ’bus in
the depots is easier than is the case with
trams, and the construction of depots is less
costly.
( h ) In case of necessity the trolley ’bus
may be run over the outer suburbs’ electric
tram systems, and this would effect certain
economies during slack hours.
4
The Agile Pedestrian.
There are, of course, two sides to every
quarrel. The case of those who use Shanks’s
pony against the motorist has been ex-
pounded completely and with passionate
eloquence so many times that even motor-
ists are familiar with it. It has been left
to a Melbournite, Harry James, to carry
the war into the enemy’s camp and convict
the pedestrian of being too confoundedly
agile. With all the judicial impartiality of
a Judge sentencing a wife-beater, Mr. James
delivers his dictum: “The ■ present genera-
tion must be taught that they are born with
a natural mobility so great as to make them
totally unsafe in modem traffic.” This ex-
cessive mobility, Mr. James thinks, ought to
be “controlled and confined within vehicu-
lar limitations” as soon as a person on foot
steps off the side-walk on to the roadway.
It is to be feared the plea will fall on deaf
ears. It is like asking the crab to shed his
armor, or the porcupine his spines. His
agility is the pedestrian’s only protection.
Were he not able to stop, swerve, run, leap
and reverse whenever he heard an impera-
tive honk and saw a ton of automobile
charging at him at 50 miles an hour, under-
taking would become the most important
business in every civilised country. Motor-
ists trade on that mobility which Mr. James
thinks so reprehensible. They honk, and if
the pedestrian doesn’t get out of the way
with all the mobility at his command he
goes to hospital or the morgue, and the
motorist swears it was entirely the victim’s
fault for not being spry enough.
The theory that if the pedestrian moved
like a motor-car and eschewed side-steps,
full-stops and bounds he would be immune
can be tested by Mr. James any fine day.
Let him walk with deliberate intentness and
fearlessness across George-street, Sydney, or
Collins-street in his own city, at any hour
between 7 a.m. and midnight, and he will
realise—if he ever recovers —that it is better
to be quick than dead.
*
Surveyors’ Pegs and Cabbages.
It would be interesting to know how much
the mania for land-subdivision around the
big cities of Australia costs the citizens in
dearer food. One of the methods of the
speculator is to buy estates, cut them up
into the smallest possible fragments and
offer the fragments to simple but acquisi-
tive city dwellers. It is almost impossible
to escape the evidences of such operations
anywhere in the environs of Melbourne.
The major part of Heidelberg, eight miles
from the G.P.0., for instance, was sub-
divided over 10 years ago. One estate,
which Burley Griffin laid out and of
which the most glowing prospectuses were
issued showing marble balustrades and
what not flanking the Yarra, has one house
on it, though another is under way. Before
subdivision this estate carried a fine
orchard, a splendid vineyard and a dairy-
farm ; but boxthorn, wild-rose and kan-
garoo-acacia soon swallowed the gardens
and the pasture. Even 15 miles away you
come on surveyors’ pegs marking the boun-
daries of ridiculous little “suburban” lots
in the middle of 100-acre paddocks; and
signposts bearing the legends “Eliza-street’'
and “Pansy-street” stick up in the wilder-
ness like tombstones marking the graves of
blasted hopes.
One of the discoveries of the people who
try to plan cities instead of leaving them
to the slender mercies of the speculating
gentry is that it is cheaper to feed cities
from handy pastures than to drag the nutri-
ment from far afield. With the lush Yarra
valley and the gentle hills around it, Mel-
bourne once had a magnificent agricultural
belt; but the activities of the land-specu-
lator have put most of it out of commis-
sion. Now the story is that the price of
milk is to be once more raised, and a vege-
table famine is predicted.
What can be done about it? Nothing
apparently until a law is passed requiring
an owner to get authority from the Gov-
ernment before any further area of arable
or pasture land is cut up and sowed with
surveyors’ pegs.
♦
The Shrinking Coal Trade.
Newcastle’s coal-export trade has con-
sistently declined during recent years, and
the Mines Department now forecasts that
the 1927 figures for the Northern district
will show a further reduction of about
400,000 tons.
South Africa has captured a large amount
of this trade. Low-paid colored labor is an
advantage S. African colliery owners enjoy,
and they have been assisted by the Govern-
ment, which several years ago inaugurated
substantial freight rebates in respect of
coal sold for export. But, those advantages
apart, S. Africa has of recent years been
making commendable efforts to bring her
coal trade into line with modern require-
ments—for instance, by grading her coals,
and by erecting large-capacity bins at ship-
ping terminals.
Since the State Government, through the
Railway Commissioners, controls the ship-
ping of coal at Newcastle, and as very
considerable revenue is derived from rail
freights on coal in addition to the shipping
charges, the department’s engineers must
be put on to the job—assisted by outside
engineering experts, if necessary—to pre-
pare designs for bins at Newcastle. Back
in 1919 the Commissioners were talking of
40-ton trucks, the only means, they stated,
by which coal could be handled economi-
cally. Bins would be necessary in con-
junction with such trucks, and they were
spoken of also. During the intervening
years nothing has been done.
Development of Victoria’s brown-coal
deposits will in the course of a few years
mean the almost entire disappearance of
Newcastle’s best Australian customer, and
this makes it all the more necessary to
devise means to recapture lost foreign trade.
A concomitant of the scheme of modernis-
ing equipment at the shipping end must, of
course, be the taking of steps to minimise,
if not altogether eliminate, sectional strikes.
J. Bull, Uncle Sam and R. Bedford.
Randolph Bedford writes: —
I have just read a “Plain English” in The
Bulletin (“Uncle Sam Builds a Navy”) and a
Morning Post review of an anti-American book by
an American, P. W. Peabody, and an Englishman,
F. E. Coe. The book of the Morning Post review
is as wrong-headed as the Morning Post usually is,
and the Plain English as wrong-headed as The
Bulletin usually isn’t.
Mr. Peabody, who is a New England lawyer, is
said by the Morning Post to be “the leader of
this growing movement in America for the com-
plete cancellation of the loans made by the United
States to the Allies.” He is apparently one of
the numerous class that “praises in enthusiastic
tone every period but the present and every coun-
try but his own.” His book imagines the reversal
of positions of Prance and the U.S.A. ; and it’s
all Broken. Hill to a bullet that if such reversal
existed Prance would expect to be paid its war
debts as the U.S.A. expects that payment. America
has treated Britain, which pays 3 and 3J p.c. inter-
est on the consolidated war debt, much better than
Britain treats Australia, which pays Britain 5 p.c.
on its war debt. Australia was dunned by Britain
until it made arrangements to pay; America per-
mitted Britain to take its own time and said
nothing while Britain was not paying interest on
due dates.
iMr. feabody suggests that America should cancel
a debt incurred by Europe in a war with which
America had nothing to do, and so leave Europe
free to go to war again and pile up another debt,
again to be forgiven if the Peabodys of the world
are the judges. Europe at this moment has stand-
ing armies greater than before 1914, and the pro-
posal to cancel the debt so as to free Europe for
another war is just what would occur to a man
named Peabody.
The Bulletin article speaks of America’s new
navy, and goes on: “There is no need to fear that
the U.S. contemplates making war on anyone yet.
The U.S.A. temperament is such that it hates to see
money idle.” (What sensible temperament does not?)
“So, having a surplus of cash largely accumulated by
keeping out of the late war, America hopes to spend
some of it in acquiring the one thing it has not at
present got—international prestige.” (Of what does
this “international prestige” consist? Has Britain
got it, and if so what are its outward and visible
signs ?) “There need be no fear that America con-
templates war against anyone, least of all our-
selves.” (If “ourselves” means Australia, the reply
is that America will be our only ally worth any-
thing in a war with Japan, if such ever happens.
And if “ourselves” means Britain, Australia would
be the two ends and middle of an ass if it were
not at least neutral.) “Democracies with power-
ful weapons in their hands are notoriously hard
to control until they have got accustomed to using
weapons in the right way.” (Democracies, repub-
lican democracies especially, are the last to enter
on wars of aggression. Witness Prance after 1870;
witness the U.S.A. with Spain; witness the U.S.A.’s
unwillingness to take over Cuba and the Philippines ;
witness the U.S.A.’s regeneration of both colonies
and the handing over of both of them to local
governments as soon as possible. And, per contra,
witness the German Empire’s aggressiveness from
1860 onward; witness Germany’s crime of 1914.)
Of course the only “right way” for America to
use weapons is to wait till Britain muddles into
another war, and then come running with ships
and men and money to get her out of. it, and then
forgive her the new war-debts so that she can be
free to muddle herself into another one.
The worst that America does to Australia is to
have an annual trade advantage of £36,000,000
over Australia, and that is only Australia’s fault.
But America doesn’t get an Australian preferential
tariff for American manufacturers and then send to
Australia the manufactures of Germany, Japan,
Czeeho-Slovakia and other foreign parts, now quali-
fying for the preference by being packed in London
or having a coat of paint put on the end in Hull.
America may build a great navy, but America
will not begin any war of aggression. The next
war will probably be the work of Mussolini —
direct or indirect—who must, if he lasts long
enough, find a war to unite a disunited Italy, or at
least to unite sufficiently to make it forget Musso-
lini.
And, after all, Mr. Bedford forgot to say
what his friend wants the £200,000,000 navy
for.
♦
Ships and Rumors of Ships.
It is stated that the terms on which the
Commonwealth’s seven ships are to be
offered for sale include their retention for
ten years on the British or Australian
register, and the maintenance for ten'years
of a service between Britain and Australia
equal to that which the blessed seven pro-
vide. This fits in with previous reports,
and, if correct, it represents a foolishness
which calls for respect. Completeness
always calls for respect.
Past (and vast) losses show that the pay-
ment of Australian rates in competition with
cheap-labor ships is a business for insane
billionaires and no others. Yet to take
the squadron off the Australian register is
to buy an almost certain quarrel, or at the
least a reliable grudge. If a buyer is
found in one of the big lines already trad-
ing here, it may keep up a service equal to
that which the Commonwealth vessels
supply simply by keeping up its existing
service; bu:, then, its offer will probably be
low lest it should be furnishing material for
a grievance against the existing service. In
such a case the clause won’t prevent the
aggregate overseas fleet in these waters be-
ing reduced by seven. If the purchaser is
a line which is not represented in Australian
waters, then the aggregate service won’t
necessarily be reduced, but the chance of
investing in a durable shindy remains. The
person who takes over the Commonwealth
fleet, and puts it on an economical basis,
and doesn’t remove it and his interests gen-
erally out of the Walsii-Johanson juris-
diction, may find himself in the position of
an outsider who interferes in a razor-gang
dispute and then goes on living in Fitzroy
or Surry Hills.
Leaving everything else out of considera-
tion. it is an accepted fact that when a horse
is offered for sale with the condition that
it or a similar horse must travel one road
and no other for a term of years, whether
business be good or bad, it doesn’t fetch
the price of an untrammelled horse. Should
the population along the route be suspected
of hostility to the animal, that aggravates
the case. A rich mine of possibilities might
be opened if the line was acquired by a
daring speculator who had no other -shipping
assets and who put his all on the venture.
Supposing he went bankrupt in the effort,
the depreciatory proviso might be success-
fully contested by his creditors; and if he
added insult to injury by dying, his heirs
might join in. Most probably they would
succeed, especially if the vessels had dis-
appeared from Australian waters, and had
to be chased in foreign courts. Sale to a
nominally Turkish company and the pursuit
of justice in Turkish courts are among the
possibilities.
But in any kind of court a counter claim
might be made on a plea concerning the
dismal failure of Australian law to protect
the “tied” ships from systematic persecu-
tion, and then the position would be intensi-
fied. The fact of the fleet being fastened to
Australian waters within reach of Walsh,
Johanson and Co. implies the duty of giv-
ing effectual protection against them, just
as the keeping of a dog on the chain car-
ries the obligation to give it sustenance.
But it is quite on the cards that anybody
who buys the vessels will be able to legally
knock out any condition about keeping up
an Anglo-Australian service. The legal
knock-out is a w T onderful and unexpected
institution. For instance, a beginning might
be made with the argument that the Com-
monwealth was never legally in possession
of the fleet, it having no constitutional
power to shipown.
4
The Beam.
“Retired Volt” : Australia is more practi-.
cally interested in the controversy between
Beam wireless and the cables than almost
any other country. Long ago I pointed out
in The Bulletin that if the Beam suc-
ceeded by its cheapness before the problem
of secrecy was solved, a serious problem
would arise. It seems to have arisen
already.
The Beam is undercutting the cables and
the vast majority of cable-users, to whom
secrecy doesn’t matter, are naturally using
the cheaper way. The private cable com-
panies aren’t in the business for their health,
nor is the Australian taxpayer subsidising
the Pacific cable for fun. If the cables
don’t get enough traffic to pay their way
they may decline and fall into desuetude-
The cos. may even scrap their cables and
take to wireless. There are indications, in
fact that a big cable concern is already buy-
ing radio shares for all it is worth, and all of
the cable companies have been careful to
obtain the right of setting up wireless
stations.
Now, what are the facts about the Beam?
At present they are that, while it is almost
incredibly fast, it is subject to fading and
various other sorts of interruption. Further,
its path from Australia lies across
Europe and Asia, including Moscow,
and it can be tapped. An inexpensive
Beam station in a foreign land could
direct a ray at Ballan (Vic.) which
would render that busy centre speechless
for the duration of a war. The question
therefore arises whether the Beam, unless
it solves the problems enumerated above,
may not prove less of a blessing than a
curse.
*
When the new German budget came be-
fore the Reichstag a few days ago, the
representatives of Prussia demanded the
cutting of the defence estimates, and actu-
ally succeeded in having six millions
knocked off. This spectacle of Satan
reproving sin has its interesting aspects,
and the rest of the astonished world, in-
cluding Prussia’s sister States of the Ger-
man Republic, are wondering what lies
behind it all. Ever since the Treaty of
Versailles Prussia has been leading the
movement to prepare for Germany’s day
of revenge, and most of the semi-disguised
military organisations which have been
formed and are being maintained to that
end are Prussian in origin and largely in
membership. It is from Prussia that the
periodical outbursts of Imperialism come,
and the reason for the successful opposi-
tion to the army and navy estimates is not
easy to guess. The only thing that seems
sure is that the move cannot be taken at
its face value.
4
Australian newspapers give so much space
to the astute publicity of Uncle Sam that
they have little left for the exploits of our
own airmen. Consequently Flight-Lieuten-
ant Wackett’s return to Melbourne from
his survey and reconnaissance flight to
Papua and the Mandated Territory got bare
mention. Yet -what he did was at least as
difficult as, and certainly more valuable
than, the insane performances of the Yankee
millionaires and jaded society women who
keep falling into the Atlantic. Wackett
left Laverton aerodrome on September 27
with Corporal G. Simpson and Aircraftsman
Iv. Irving in a Seagull amphibian. The seas
and islands he flew over were as savage
and unknown as the route across the
Atlantic is peaceful and beaconed. Nor is
the meteorology of the upper air in those
parts as well known as it might be. Yet
he flew 10.000 miles without serious mishap
and brought back valuable information for
the Home and Territories Department to
be used in its search for oil, the stuff Aus-
tralia will need so badly in the future.


f sf
sƒsfsdf
For a Prosperous
New Year
run your machinery with
"Mangrovite” Leather
or Rawhide Belting.
Ideal for all conditions, exposed or under cover. Better results assured on
small drives or large. Closer power-grip and longer service, plus unfailing
dependability through years of service.
Save Time, Save Labor, Save Money - - Order Mangrovite Belting for 1928!
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
The Federal Mutual
C3QD'O’QD£\[T
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation Act 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROI.L, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
POLITICAL
POINTS
An episode which may make Prime
Minister Bruce a little extra-tired of ship-
owning was the refusal of the stewards of
the Moreton Bay, then in Sydney Harbor,
to serve lunch to the Governor-General and
his friends, though 160 passengers were
supplied as usual. By leaving the refusal
to the last moment the position w r as made
as difficult as possible. The move was attri-
buted to the influence of “a Bolshevik
element among the passengers, who distri-
buted pamphlets among the crew.” This
missionary enterprise attracts attention to
the biddable character of the maritime
unionist when the wrong person tells him to
do the wrong thing. Another reflection is
that Australia is a haven for badly-selected
persons, and is very futile about getting rid
of them.
The Queensland Government is moving to
extricate itself from the sugar-mill industry.
At June, 1926, the State had £1,432,231 of
loan money invested in the mills, and of
this £184,690 had been spent during 1925-26,
so they were still eating up capital. The
cane-farmers are expected to take the con-
cerns over. As they must needs economise,
not being able to charge up losses to the
Treasury, and as unionism of the “advanced”
sort forbids economy, there may be a little
insurrection over each mill, as there was over
the transfer of South Johnstone. It is easy,
with plenty of loan expenditure, to get into
a socialistic policy, but to get out of it is
a devil of a job. And even then the debt
remains.
S. Aus. got just on £70,000 last year
flom a tax on amusements which escape the
Commonwealth impost—Hollywood pictures,
for the most part —and, in pursuit of its de-
termination to balance the accounts, the
Butler Government has made the rate a
penny, instead of a halfpenny, in the six-
pence. The Westralian Labor Government
also taps this source of revenue with satis-
factory results, and the N.S.W. Bavinshaws
can’t afford to neglect it in view of their
child-endowment and sinking-fund require-
ments. An amusements tax can be collected
inexpensively without long waiting or much
evasion. And, unlike the income-tax, it is
no burden on industry.
In the dying hours of the Victorian ses-
sion the Hogan Government provided time
for Comrade Hjorth (Grant) to move that
a Judge be commissioned to inquire into and
report upon “what sum might be reasonably
regarded as an adequate annual salary for
members of the Leg. Assembly.” _ The thing
went through by 31 to 12. Irvine, C.J., is
opposed to Judges being requisitioned for
political inquiries, but as Parliament lias
passed a resolution presumably some puisne
justice will be selected. It may be Cussen,
who has had experience as an arbitrator
and was once chairman of a wages board.
Some supporters of Hjorth’s motion want
£l5 a week, instead of the present £9 10s. 6d.
Voices from Moscow declare that real war
will arise because of recent doings at Canton.
Possibly the voices are only talking through
their respective hats; still the situation is
interesting. The great loot that was looted
by the Bolsheviks in 1917-1 S has been spent,
and little remains of the military stores that
were looted at the same time. The Soviet
army lias made no great reputation even
against a foe the size of Poland, and it
hasn’t been tried at all lately. Trotsky, hailed
as the Carnot of the Revolution, has been de-
posed. The condition of affairs in China
may be wild and nondescript, but the Chow
lias at least been getting up his muscle on
the battlefield. And Japan will probably
object as much to Soviet Russia raising a
BLACKMAILING SISTER SUSIE’S YOUNG MAN.
“Though nominally supporting a Protectionist Government, Messrs. Prowse and Gregory, Westralian
members of the Country party, remain implacable Freetraders, and are continually demanding con-
cessions in the shape of reduced duties.”
SISTER SUSIE PAGE: “Oh, give them another penny, Stan, and keep them quiet.”
dust in its close vicinity as it did to
Imperial Russia doing the same thing.
The exhibition of Australian manufactures
at the Sydney Showground has been a plea-
sant surprise to thousands of visitors; the
range of Australian products is an eye-
opener to many. But probably nine experi-
enced visitors out of ten grieved over two
things: (1) the poor salesmanship on show;
(2) the poor finish of many of the goods.
The Australian is too casual. He thinks
things will sell themselves, and they won’t;
and while he puts splendid work and material
into an article, he reckons that’s “good
enough,” and the little bit of care in final
get-up, which counts for so much, goes by
the board.
The last scene but one in the dingy history
of the Labor regime at Sydney Town Haul
was the chucking out of a reporter at the
instance of the Lud Mayor. Then His Lud-
ship was himself chucked out, in a manner
of speaking, and everyone was as happy as
everyone could be expected to be.
Because Lemmon, the Vic. Minister for
Labor, had put a lot of work the
Apprenticeship Bill, members of both State
Houses were glad that he was able to save
his pet measure from annihilation by the
Upper-cut Chamber. The select committee of
that House recommended domparatively
minor changes, and the Assembly having
accepted them the bill is now law. Lem-
mon is to select the chairman of the con-
trolling commission; two of the other mem-
bers will be nominated by the Vic. Chamber
of Manufactures and two by the Trades
Hall.
The Vic. ex-police who downed batons at
Cup time, 1923, are not to be reinstated dur-
ing the Parliamentary recess. Premier Hogan
gave the Assembly this assurance while the
finances were under discussion, and it helped
him in getting the estimates passed. As a
fact, there are not more than three members
of the Cabinet who favor re-employing the
strikers as policemen. But some of them are
back in the State service as warders, rail-
waymen and the like.
Among the good works which the Bavin-
shaws have in view are the placing of the
N.S.W. Upper House on an elective basis
and other items of electoral cleaning and
dusting. It is much to be hoped that they
will include a proviso that conviction for
certain offences will carry with it, _as a
matter of course, lengthy disqualification as
a State and municipal elector. It is both a
blunder and a disgrace that the decent mem-
bers of the community should be ruled even
to a small extent by the burglar, the brutal-
assault man, the swindler, the wife-beater
and the members of the razor gang. And it
would help to prevent Bill Sikes’s member
striving for his release if Bill hadn’t a mem-
ber and wasn’t going to have one for 20
years after he came out.
Digger Morley, M.L.A. for Barwon, was
disappointed at the defeat of the Tote Bill
in the Victorian House that Represents No-
body. Five years ago he saw a bill legalising
the machine introduced by himself into the
Assembly thrown out by nearly three to one.
Then the thing seemed to be dead for a de-
cade. Hogan’s was the first Government to
sponsor a measure, and Morley was opti-
mistic regarding the Council when the Assem-
bly carried it. Undaunted by the setback,
the Digger will continue his campaign. It
should not be so difficult to win five addi-
tional friends in the House, especially if
the machine is made an issue at the poll
in June —and The Bulletin will see to
that.
Industrial returns for the first half of 1927
have crawled in. The wages lost through
“disputes,” all (or nearly all) illegal, are set
down at £1,113,152. Of this financial sacri-
fice £874,664 was N.S.W.’s loss and £207,776
was fooled away in Queensland-—both States
in which arbitration is “compulsory.”
One of Ramsay Macdonald’s Ministers
earned a gleam of fame by presenting to
Prime Minister Baldwin a document signed
by 12,870 men and women, who attested
that they wouldn’t render military service
and called on him to disarm. Probably they
were to a great extent shaky and up in
years, but they took themselves ’seriously.
Baldwin’s reply was, in effect, that Britain
had reduced its armaments to the limit of
safety, and that it would neither disband the
army, the navy nor the police, nor take
the lock off the front door in the search
for a crown of martyrdom, which might
prove a misfit. Considering a multitude of
messy happenings at Canton and elsewhere
the view was reasonable.
In Australia there is no provision for pay-
ment of income-tax by instalments, and the
N.S.W. Government nearly always demands
its pound of flesh when the family man has
to buy expensive outfits of winter clothing.
Britain, more considerate of the family man,
accepts half-yearly payments where the in-
come is personally earned. It also allows
abatements not granted in Australia £ldo
for a wife, £25 for a widowed mother, the
same for a' daughter if the taxpayer depends
on her services, and £6O for a housekeeper
where the taxpayer is a widower or a single
man supporting his widowed mother. In
all these respects Australia could usefully
follow the Old Man’s example.
Queensland acquired its first State land-
tax simultaneously with the arrival of the
Ryan-Tlieodore Government. A super-tax
was added when the Government got into
difficulties. Getting into further trouble, the
Government increased pastoral rents con-
trary to the terms of the leases, added new
frills to the income-tax, one being that the
baby cow or bull was regarded as income,
and ran stations with its own inexpert hand
at a heavy loss, though it insisted on re-
garding bullock-culture as a mine of wealth
to the private bullocker. The great fall in
stock prices came along with the great rise
in expenses. Then the great drought arrived.
The drought has now broken, but after 12
years of socialistic endeavor it is not an
unknown thing for an ex-squatter to be care-
taking for £8 a week and rations on what
used to be his station.
Harried Premiers
begin to show signs
of impatience with the
godlike persons who
hand out State and
Federal awards, acting
on the principle that
if an industry can’t
pay what they order it
had better close up and
pay nothing. Victoria’s
Hogan spoke with un-
obtrusive frankness
about Federal Arbitra-
tion-Judge Quick, who
had granted increases
to State railway ser-
vants already in receipt
of £5OO a year and
over. His Honor had
said that he would per-
mit no interference
with his award, and
Hogan retorted that
his Honor had no
authority over that
class of official, and
that the Court
shouldn’t talk “such
absolute bosh and non-
sense.” Butler, of S.
Australia, was reques-
ted by his Railway
Commissioner to pro-
vide the money (not a
very large sum) to
meet another little
award which had
drifted in. He replied
that he had no money
—not the ghost of a
bean —and that if the Commish could do no
better he must sack Peter in sufficient quan-
tity to pay Paul.
When Clapp and co. suggested putting off
510 railwaymen the Hogan Government
(Vic.) rejected the proposal with horror.
But just before Christmas Minister Tunne-
cliffe told the railway unionists that a begin-
ning would have to be made with reducing
the staff, and that it was proposed to dis-
pense with 70 men and make half-timers of
others. One way and another the Vic. Gov-
ernment employs about 50,000 men. The
railways alone find room for 27,000 per-
manents and casuals.
Tough romancers who preach Freetrade
make a specialty of cajoling the farmer with
a tale about how, “on all the most important
implements in daily use on his farm, he is
forced to pay from 30 per cent, to 45 per
cent, duties.” In 1925-26 Australia manu-
factured £3,228,502 worth of agricultural
machinery on which it didn’t pay any duty,
and it imported £727,029 worth under the
headings of “agricultural, horticultural, etc.,”
on which it did. So the lie about “all the
most important implements in daily use on
the farm” is particularly silly. Australia
employs 5691 taxpayers in its 148 agricul-
tural-implement works, and it would be burn-
ing the candle in three places to turn them
into unemployed, to borrow money and with
it find them precarious jobs making some-
thing which won’t pay, and to send away
three or four millions annually, which would
probably be borrowed also, for the purchase
of implements from people who pay their
taxes to somebody else.
THE PESSIMISTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is the duiness and irritation of mechanical
labor that drive men to alcohol, gambling and
Bolshevism.” —Dean Inge.
When wild in woods our ancestors cavorted,
Attired engagingly in skins and woad,
To schools for "heading ’em” they ne’er
resorted
Or into pubs for pots and nobblers strode;
Far different the ways in which they sported
Who hadn’t taken up the ghastly load
Imposed by steam and electricity
And other things that sadden Inge—and me.
What kick can we extract from picking
winners
Compared with their pulsating, gladd’ning
thrill
Of. legging it after potential dinners
(In fur or feathers) over dale and hill?
They gulped their oxygen, those hairy
sinners,
Ad lib., nor ever needed beer to swill
Like we who have our being ’mid machines
That drive us tid-wards, journalists and
deans.
The “dull demnition grind” that Mantalini
Denounced a century at least ago,
Now tenfold worse —they dodged it, the Iceni
And Celts and Gauls and Jutes. They did,
you know.
Living on Nature’s lap in gold-and-greeny
Content they never felt the urge and glow
For wild excitement —tots and sweeps and
things—
That’s liable to grip my soul and Inge’s.
The typewriter next door —the trams down
under—
The whirring presses—which of them are
worst
Among machine calamities, I wonder,
When prose must needs be prosed and
verse be versed?
They all combine to tear a man asunder
And only make him sensible of thirst
And Socialistic views and hares of tin,
And other modern avenues of sin.
Ah! take me back to Arcady or Arden
Where there were none to give a chap a
knock
Save with a club —no dull routine to harden,
No need to fill a pen or punch a clock—
Where ev’rything was lovely in the garden,
Nor any room for such a one as Jock.
Fed up with this mechanical routine
I fling my cap for Nature —and the Dean.
N.S.AV.
T. THE R.


The best cigarettes
for years
at
IOhM
STftTE (XPRESS
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Chevroford”: What pace do they go at?
A motor-mechanic was charged in Melbourne
WHERE HE GOT OFF.
“When a man who bores me asks me where I live, I always
say ‘ln the suburbs.’”
“Aha! That shuts him up, don’t it? But, I say, where do you
live?”
“In the suburbs.”
with driving at a speed dangerous to the
public. According to the constable, the delin-
quent, when first chased, was doing 57. He
crossed a railway line at 62 and an intersec-
tion at 68. The patrol caught him at last
by going flat out at 71. His defence was
that he thought “a coupler sports” were
“giving him a go.” And a woman, well
known for her speeding proclivities, was
charged with 65 in St. Kilda-road recently.
As she got down from the box she murmured
disgustedly: “Sixty-five be damned—it was
70 or nothing!”
* * * *
“Sam U. TJ.”: It made a brave show in a
shop near Bronte (Sydney)—one of those
Christmas stockings that stand about 4ft.
high and are to be obtained by guessing the
number of beans in a bottle. A customer
stopped to admire it a few days before
Christmas, and finally cut out his change
with a guess at the beans. “I’ve got no
kids of my own,” he said, “so put down
704 to the Children’s Hospital at Camper-
down.” It proved to be the only correct
guess. A taxi delivered the stocking at
its destination on Christmas Eve.
* * * *
“Gay Gordon”: The fiction that a V.C.
holder is entitled to “turn out” guards (B.
22/12/’27) was exploded long ago. In the
’nineties, when I was soldiering with the
Gordon Highlanders, the guard-turn-out
legend was already scoffed at, and if a V.C.
man asked for trouble, he would get it, full
pack up and all, as surely as the newest-
joined recruit. The story had its origin
back in .1856, when the decoration was
instituted, the wearer then being honored
by a “present” from the sentry on quarter
guard only, and once by day only. The
compliment w r as soon abolished. Another
army legend which dies hard is that a
soldier in uniform may wear his deceased
father’s medals on the right breast.
“R.C.”: “R.C.C.” is quite correct in his
contention that possession of the Victoria
Cross doesn’t entitle the holder to turn out
even a sanitary picket (B. 22/12/’27). I
know a man who presented himself, half
stung, at the main entrance of Buckingham
Palace, and demanded that the sentry should
turn out the guard. The sentry heard him
as respectfully as only a Guardsman can,
and than placed him under arrest, presently
handing him over to the Anzac Jacks. I
admit that he was only a bogus V.C., but
I suspect the same thing would have hap-
pened had he been a real one.
s}c % :■: %
“Mulgo”: Saw a woman the other day
crossing a street behind a stationary tram ;
she would most certainly have stepped in
front of one going in the opposite direction
had not an observant male person clutched
her by the arm and
jerked her back.
Maybe he was a
bit rough, but the
lady didn’t stop to
consider that his
roughness had pro-
bably saved her
life. Her false
teeth had been
slightly dislodged,
also her hat, and,
turning on him
truculently, she
swung an arm like
a Christmas ham
and sent him reel-
ing. “The hide of
you, jerkin’ me
nearly off me feet!”
she snorted. The
chivalrous one
pulled himself to-
gether and obviously
reconsidered the
situation. Then he
spoke, with a cer-
ta i n deliberation
but straight to the
point. “I apologise,
Madam,” he said,
“to your husband
and the community
generally for not
allowing you to be
exterminated!”
* *
“Bumpkin”: A
memorial to a dead
British shipbuilder
sailed up Port Phil-
lip Bay the other
day, her gleaming
canvas making a
picture that glad-
dened the heart of
many an old salt.
She was the Archi-
bald Russell, a four-
masted barque
launched on the
Clyde in 1906. The
builder had always
stubbornly refused
to have one of his
ships called after himself; when he died his
sons had the Archibald Russell built with
special care as his living monument. But
sailing-ships are expensive memorials to
keep up in these days, and during the war
she slipped into Finnish hands,
* T * , , . * . /T>
“Bouragi” : I don t admit I overdid it (B.
29/12/’27) when I pointed out that it was
quite possible for the Wolf to have slipped
through Torres Strait without being seen from
Thursday Island or Papua. I have crossed
the 100-mile-wide strait a dozen times under
sail and steam, and on some of these occa-
sions a battleship would have been invisible
half a mile off. “Anaf” says that he saw a
distance of 50 miles from the fort at Thirsty.
Even if that fort were 300 feet above sea-
level —and I don’t think it is more than 150
—the observer’s eye would meet the horizon
at 19.9 miles distance. The Wolf would
have been invisible at 25 miles. Incidentally,
she was not a cruiser, but a converted
merchantman, and her “high towering sides”
mostly exist in imagination. As for the
gunner officer at Thirsty, who could see the
THE ONLY THING HE COULD THINK OF.
DAD ( self-made): “Look at me. I didn’t have a bean to start with, but I made up
my mind to get on , and what is there I’ll want for by the time I'm through ?"
SONNY: “Dunno, dad, I’m sure. Unless it’s a refrigerator."
N.G. coast on a clear day with a telescope,
I should like to see the instrument which
will look over a curved _ surface and spot
anything on the farther side.
* * * *
“J.G.”: He women V Some years ago a
young man called at a cocky’s a few miles
north of Bendigo and got a job as general
farm-hand. He held it for some weeks;
the night before leaving he was at the store,
and, having become friendly with the store-
keeper’s son, was invited to stay the night
and share a bed with his pal. When the
family and their guest were at breakfast
next morning a mounted constable rode into
the yard and simultaneously the farm-hand
bolted through the front door. The cop ex-
plained that he was after an absconding
young woman and had traced her to the
store ; he added that she was an accomplished
male impersonator. I never heard that the
bird was caught; the most horrified person
over the incident was the storekeeper, a
wowser of some tonnage.
* * =1 *
“Sike”: “X2X’’ points out that both of
the patients who have died under an ana?s-
thetic from causes due to an enlarged thy-
mus-gland have been very young children
(B. 22/12/’27). What else was to be
expected? The thymus-gland is the gland
of childhood; during infancy it should pour
its secretion into the blood, but before the
individual grows up it should cease to func-
tion. If it decides to work overtime, there is
produced an individual who, psychologically
speaking, never grows up. The Peter Pan
who results is not a pleasant type at all;
homosexuality is listed among his unpleasant
characteristics. A tliymus-gland which went
on working has been suggested as an. explana-
tion of much that is difficult to comprehend
in Oscar Wilde.
“Boomi”: Some weeks ago Alexander
Stein, sometime flying officer of the German
raider Wolf, boastfully told the Sydney
German Club how he had flown over Sydney
in 1917 in a ’plane loaded with bombs, and
had been restrained from using them by con-
sideration for his many friends residing in
these parts. The story was promptly contra-
dieted by several persons, including two
British mercantile marine officers who were
prisoners aboard the Wolf. Nevertheless, the
lie persists; there are even two or three
Bulletin paragraphists who refuse to be
convinced that Sydney was not in peril.
Actually the raider’s log, to which the British
Admiralty had access after the signing ot the
Armistice, leaves it beyond doubt that the
vessel steered a direct course from the Ker-
madec Group to the North Cape, thence to
Farewell Spit, and from Farewell Spit to
Gabo; from Gabo she turned south-east for
about 300 miles, thence getting out to the
open Pacific on a northerly course. She drew
into Gabo in the darkness, and was off the
coast only a few hours during the night.
She was never within hundreds of miles of
Sydney. Nor did she ever steam through
Torres Strait. The chart conclusively shows
that after the capture of the Burns-Philp
steamer Matunga near Rabaul, the Wolf and
her prize made for the northern coast of
Dutch New Guinea, and so entered the Java
Sea. Stein’s plane was really used very
little during the Wolf’s 15 months’ cruise.
The last time it flew was off the Carcados
reefs in the Indian Ocean. After that it was
dismantled and seen no more till it was
brought up on deck as an exhibit just before
the Wolf steamed up Kiel Bay through a
lane of cruisers some months later.
NO FIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was waitin’ for ’im to say it; I was ’opin’
’e’d ’ave the pluck;
I was doin’ me best to kid ’im to ’op in an’
try ’is luck.
There was only one word I wanted, but the
blighter wouldn’t speak,
Cos ’e knew as soon as ’e said it I’d be
into ’im like a streak.
Did you get the look on ’is dial when I says,
“What about it now?”
Did you notice ’ow ’e crawfished, the big,
cold-footed cow?
Did you see the way I was standin’, ready
to swing me right?
The flamer knew if ’e said it that it ’ud ’a’
been “Good night.”
’E didn’t try none of ’is rough stuff like the
day that ’e belted Jim,
’E knew for all ’is skitin’ that I ’ad the
strong of 'im.
’E seen that I was a jerry to ’is dirty ’olds
and grips.
Oh ’e knew ’e was gone a million if ’e much
as opened ’is lips.
I was waitin’ for ’im to say it, I was wishin’
the perisher would ;
’E only needed to say it an’ then I’d ’a’ ’ad
’im good.
It was only one word I wanted, but
lumme, it never came.
I was ’opin’ that ’e would say it—but the
blankard ’e wasn’t game.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.
TO COLLEEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yours is a name bestowed in love, and I
remember how
I loved another Colleen once, but —she is
married now.
Sometimes I see her in the town and find
it bitter sweet
To see the past flash vivid in her face
across the street:
Without a sign she looks at me, for she has
quite forgotten;
Behind her eyes she's thinking “I must buy
that reel of cotton.”
And with you, too, I’ve counted stars and
watched the new moon rise,
And clung to you and kissed and told all
lovers’ honeyed lies,
And marvelled that your features from the
moon were lent such grace.
But memories like this you’d say to-day were
“out of place”;
For now you hate where once you loved
and I am left to ponder
Why God Almighty has so many a lovely
name to squander!
N.S.W.
MERVYN O'HARA.


"NOVs/ MB O>fWIN YOULI. ADMIT
NOTHING, CAN SE DONE with
<A t= &,C.E AND C 'GURS L"<s YOURS .*
** We INSIST ON ft, FEW
REDEEMING FEATURES
SUCH AS THESE . u
"OR THIS ?**
OP NVOuuO VQVJ OREP&R THIS ? "
4> OR 50N\5TH(NGj YOU UK.E ?
THE CARTOONISTS ADOPT JOB CONTROL.
“Mr. Bavin, after spending a few days on the Upper Murray, will go to Maoriland for a month."


Made for men as well as
women, J. H. Sharwood
shoes are available in many
shades and many shapes,
while half-sizes ensure exact
fitting.
In making them, only the
choicest materials are used,
and workmanship is
thorough. That accounts for
remarkable strength and
durability. Even after
months of wear these shoes
do not lose their original
shape.
Decline substitutes.
sf
JFor people of Class
Those finer souls who instinctively choose
the better things of life find sure satisfac-
tion in this make of footwear.
The name is on every pair—look for it.
Jfaultlraa JWitocar,
“Kwinana”: The Koombana was an
unlucky boat (B. 15/12/’27). She and the
Bullara, of the Adelaide S. S. Co., were at
Port Hedland when the glass began to drop
and the pearling fleets to enter port. After
a consultation, the skippers decided to pur
to sea. The Koombana was never heard of
again, and the Bullara was badly damaged.
Two stokers from the Koombana were left
in the Port Hedland lock-up, and a com-
mercial traveller cut it too fine, arriving
on the jetty just as the steamer cast off her
lines. Those three had all the luck that was
going.
* * * *
“P.X.”: One old inter-State arrangement
has been carried to the dust-heap by
the new Sydney-Broken Hill railway.
Thirty-odd years ago South Aus. agreed to
look after N.S.W.’s West Darling and
Broken Hill patients certified insane ; before
that there had been some wild doings on the
coaches that crawled across to Bourke and
Hay. Nowadays the patients are sent
through to Orange; and that is all to the
good, because under the old arrangement
there was always a tendency to go on keeping
WHAT SOME POOR MOTHERS HAVE TO SUFFER.
“My dear Doctor, Fve had a most awjul night. I heard Nurse
get up to baby almost every hour.”
the unfortunate suspect under observation
in the local lock-up on the offchance that
he would recover. Queer things have hap-
pened in that lock-up—or its predecessors.
Once in its very early days the town went
gay over the visit of “Ginger” Clarke and
Francis Abigail, two Ministers of the Crown.
A couple of men in the lock-up couldn’t
endure the sounds of revelry any longer; so
they worked off a sheet of iron, and joined
the merry throng. Those were the days,
by the way, when Steele, just retired from
the office of Controller off Prisons in N. S.
Wales, was one of Broken Hill’s three or
four constables.
!|i « * *
“Phil P.” : For undiluted horror the death
of a lone-hand rail-splitter in the Tas. bush
tops all the ghastly accidents I have ever
read about. He was found dead with his
fingers caught in a split log. The incident,
reconstructed, showed that the toiler was
prying the halves apart with a bush-made
handspike; he had evidently been reaching
for a wedge when the lever slipped, the
“gluts” jumped and the opening closed like
a trap on his hand. In attempts to secure
his axe, just out of reach of his foot, he
had scored deep furrows in the earth, torn
the leather off his toes and scraped the
flesh to the bone.
* * * *
“Tariff”: S.A. Railways Commissioner
W. A. Webb is having his huge mountain
engines all tinkered up with names, following
the British :and Ameri-
can practice. The first
to be so fitted, No.
509, flashes "Sir
Henry Barwell” in
bold, bad brass on
both sides. Other local
celebrities who are to
be similarly honored
include Chief Justice
and Miss Murray and
ex - Premier Johnnie
Gunn. Barwell was
doubtless picked first
because he gave Webb
his job. It is expected
that “Sir Henry’s” drivers will obtain some
silent satisfaction from bumping his snout
on to the rakes of trucks.
* * * *
“Tarwin”: Travelling along the Cann
River (East Gippsland) I was pulled up by
a chap wearing a returned-soldier’s badge.
He asked if I was going to Melbourne,
and, learning that I was, asked me if I
would post an important letter for him at
the G.P.O. in time to catch the English
mail. I put the letter in my pocket and
never thought of looking at it till I was
mailing it next day. It was addressed to
the Prince of Wales, c/o the King, London,
and presumably contained the compliments
of the season.
* * *
“X.D.” : One of the most ponderous thefts
on record was
charged against a
man in a Melbourne
court the other day.
According to the
evidence a house-
holder had sent
£BOO worth of fur-
niture in two van-
loads to be stored
at a carrier’s pre-
mises. Then the
carrier got a ’phone
i-ing, purporting to
come from the
owner of the sticks,
instructing him to
reconvey them to
an empty house in
another suburb. The
two vanloads were
duly deposited there,
a note on the door
of the house stat-
ing that the owner
had gone to meet a
train. At this point
another carrier re-
ceived a ring direct-
ing him to take the
furniture from the
house to an auction-
room in still an-
other suburb. There
it was sold and the
proceeds less an
eighth of the origi-
nal value—handed
to the man who
called himself the
owner. A paltry
enough fraud, per-
haps, but think of
the amount of pant-
ing and cursing,
lugging up and
downstairs and
squeezing through
doorways that it
involved.
“Merris”: I submit with humility to the
chastening utterances of “Henry Horse-
collar” (B. 22/12/’27) ; but I think I am
entitled to point out that when I stated
that his remarks about the Dead Sea (B.
17/11/!27) were not quite accurate, I re-
ferred to the last sentence, wherein he set
forth that, after the destruction of the Tur-
kish “arks of war” by the Arabs of Law-
rence, “the Dead Institution relapsed into its
habitual calm.” To refute this I quoted Pres-
ton’s “Desert Mounted Corps,” wherein it is
HIS STRONG POINT.
GROCER: “You are the dullest boy ever we’ve had. Aren’t you quick at anything?”
BOY: “Yes, sir! I get tired quicker ’n anybody I know.”
recorded that the Germans had several motor-
boats on the Dead Sea, engaged in trans-
porting barges of grain from the land of
Moab to its northern end, whence it was
taken by road and rail to the Turkish armies.
The book contains a captured enemy photo-
graph of one of these boats, mounted on a
carriage, in the streets of Jerusalem on its
way to the Dead Sea. In January, 1918 —
according to Preston —these motor-boats
were captured by Allenby’s cavalry, when ne
extended his line to the Jordan and the
Dead Sea, and they were handed over to the
Royal Navy and formed into the British
Dead Sea Flotilla.
*s* *l* s|?
“Jasby”: As I approached the counter of
the telegraph office at the Adelaide G.P.O.
I heard the clerk remark to a lady as he
handed back her telegram, “Just write your
name and address on the back and stick the
stamp on.” Presently, pen in hand, she
looked up and said, “There’s not much room.”
She had been making a gallant effort to sign
her name on the back of the stamp.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Prevention of maladies
by sunlight is still an offence in the eyes
of Melbourne’s seaside councillors, but curing
by sunlight will shortly be an established
process when the £54,500 branch of the
Children’s Hospital is erected at Frankston.
The design, by Stephenson and Meldrum,
includes wards for 100 children with 10 feet
in each open to the sky so that helio-therapy
can be applied. When the sun doesn’t shine
—and it shines much more frequently in
Melbourne than is commonly supposed—the
treatment can be continued by artificial sun-
lamps. Another innovation will be the teach-
ing of trades, so that when the youngsters
recover they will have an equal chance with
the next kid in the struggle for existence.
* * * *
“Akram”: Queer accidents? We were
staying at an uncle’s place on the North
Coast (N.S.W.) when he was taken suddenly
ill one night. My brother volunteered to go
for a doctor on his motor-bike. The medico
arrived in due course, but the messenger,
Avho had followed him, failed to re-appear.
Early in the morning we started to search
for the missing one, and came on him two
miles from home. His cycle had run into
a hedge, and he was lying 10 yards off the
road. He had a deep gash in his cheek, and
near by was a dead owl with which he had
collided in the dark. He told us afterwards
that he thought a tree had fallen on him.
* * * *
“Caffeine”: Great-aunt Tabitha’s recipe-
book intrigues me, though the pages are
yellow with age and much of the writing
indistinct. There is no ordered arrange-
ment, no index; “Indian Chutney” jostles
“A Certain Cure for Smallpox,” while
“Corns” and “Inflammatory Rheumatism”
are separated by “Raspberry Jam.” Sand-
wiched between bits of sentimental verse
are suggestions for the brewing of English
beer and the making of matches, but the
gem of the collection is “A Sure Cure for
Cancer,” which, a footnote explains, was
abstracted from tlie Morning Post in 1860.
Here it is: “Boil line Turkey figs in new
milk, which they will thicken. When tender,
split and apply to the part affected whether
broken or not. Wash with the milk every
time the poultice is changed. Use a fresh
poultice night and morning and at least
once during the day, and drink a quarter of
a pint of the milk the figs are boiled in
twice in the 24 hours. If the stomach will
stand it this must be persevered in for three
or four months at least.”
* * *, *!*
“Herodot” : As a homing animal, the dog
(B. 22/12/’27) isn’t in. it with the cat. The
other day some dwellers in a Darlinghurst
flat took a superfluous puss for a run in the
car, and unkindly jettisoned Tom in Strath-
field, at least 10 miles away. Three morn-
ings later he returned, a trifle footsore, but
bearing no other sign of having negotiated
a wide area of city traffic composed of dogs,
cars and other ensifiies. As the animal had
no opportunity of seeing the route followed
on the way from Darlinghurst to Strathfield
it must have been guided solely by what we
call instinct.
MAN’S MOST DANGEROUS RIVAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In these iconoclastic days,
Hard-bitten by the athletic craze,
Our women have erased the line
’Twixt masculine and feminine.
They ape the men in sport and dress,
And I applaud, I confess,
Since beauties —over-long concealed—
Of form and figure are revealed.
At first—with architecture sound—
Reforms began close to the ground:
Skirts that were flowing draperies
Are boldly kirtled to the knees ;
And silken highly-polished calves
We view e’en on our better-halves,
While grandmammas now “do the Block”
Bare-armed and -breasted with their flock.
Thence rising to the upper end,
Maids’ locks —once “shortened by a friend” —
The barbers closely crop and bang;
E’en tresses which a bard might bang.
So when, in evening’s blissful hour,
Love manifests his wondrous power
And lovers occupy one chair,
Your mouth is seldom filled with hair.
N.S.W.
GEORGE BLACK.
LITTLE GREATHEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is the melody with sweetness sowing
The barren tumult of the cold wind's Mowing?
Oh, look and mark!
It is the lark
Up the long road of his great spiral going.
Where the white streams of driven cloud are
flowing
Far in the void he sails on dauntless wings.
And into Heaven his joyous challenge flings.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
A SONG OF CANDIDATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ten little candidates
Sitting in a row ;
“Bulldogs” magisterial
Pacing to and fro.
First little candidate
Soon began to climb ;
Now removes appendices
At thirty quid a time.
Second little candidate,
Who has taken silk,
Won acquittal for the third,
Adulterating milk.
Fourth little candidate
Hammers at a text;
While the fifth, a counter-hand,
Murmurs “And the next?”
Sixth little candidate —
“Fez pliz” on a ’bus —
Takes a “tray” from Number Seven,
Sleek and prosperous.
Eighth little candidate —
Movies got his goat—
Chants the latest Gloria film
In a purple coat.
Ninth little candidate—
Clever little swot —
Has the school at Woop Woop now,
Place the Lord forgot.
Tenth little candidate?
Modesty restrains,
But the cheapest thing on earth,
Take my word, is Brains.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


“Jim Lynch”; Heavy train loads, is it?
On the broad-gauge sections immediately
north of Adelaide Commissioner Webb’s
Mountains, Mikados and Pacifies are
scheduled to haul 2000 tons. , They are
doing it, too.
* * * *
“Troy”: No, I don’t think there is any
limit to the duties of our policemen. I was
lingering in the vicinity of one on point
duty in George-strect the other day when I
heard a feminine voice asking sweetly, “Ex-
cuse me, Constable, but can you recommend
a good dentist?” With one eye on the up
traffic and the other on the down, one arm
directing eastward cars and the other giving
westward vehicles their cue, lie supplied
the stranger to the city with the required
information. It was all in the day’s work.
X X *
“Hayband” ; Some memories seem to work
on a delay-action principle. Two women,
both in the seventies, had lived next to
each other in a Sydney suburb for about
three years. They’d often yarned, but with
never a suspicion that they had met before.
One day the pair arranged to give some of
their grandchildren a trip to the Zoo.
Sitting on the suburban station I heard one
ask the other, as if it had only that moment
occurred to her: “Aren’t you Nellie
Bennett?” The other stared a second.
“Good Heavens!” she gasped, “and you’re
Jean McPherson.” The two had been great
friends on the sailing-ship voyage to
Australia 66 years before.
!|: * Hi *
“.Cartot” : When the Sydney Mint was dis-
mantled recently there was a close and pro-
longed examination of every hole and corner
for minute fragments of the precious metal.
Exactly liow much was retrieved remains an
official secret, but since then a prospector of
experience has purchased the right to delve
in the ruined brickwork and battered old
stones for anything which may remain. Five
per cent, of what he may obtain goes to the
Treasury. It may be doubted if he will
do as well as some purchasers of several-
times treated tailings heaps on the W.A.
goldfields, but there are possibilities in the
bricks and plaster used in the construction
of old retort-tubes and furnace-flues. Also
there is dust to be gathered up from beneath
the floors of the ancient building, and
powdered stone which formed the floors of
the assay-rooms.
■x # * *
“Y.L.D.”: I don’t remember our A.I.F.
farrier ever trying his hand on a set of
false teeth (B. 29/12/’27), but there wasn’t
much upon which he wasn’t ready to exhibit
his versatility. Among other accomplish-
ments, he could tune up the dullest razor
like an expert. So well known was his
proficiency in this direction that the usual
excuse of “Razor wouldn’t cut, sir” cut no
ice with our officers. “Take it to the black-
smith then” was the invariable rejoinder.
is! :|c ❖
“Strict Veg.”: Touching the dispute
between the Vienna insurance company and
the aged client who purchased an annuity
and promptly got monkey-glanded by Voro-
noff (B. 29/12/’27L the chances are that
the company has suffered no injury. It may
even have gained. There are lots of medical
authorities who maintain that the gland
operation does not prolong life at all, but
only speeds it up. There is an Australian
case to support this view. An elderly busi-
ness man of Perth was duly treated when
on a European visit. He felt much better.
In fact, he was a giant refreshed, and he
behaved like one. For six months he was
the giddy bachelor again, in the prime of
his manly powers. Then he blew up. He
had succeeded, incidentally, in wrecking a
domestic peace that might have endured for
years.
X xx X
■ “Tambo”: Touching the Fijian bashing-
stone now used as a baptismal font in Bau
church (B. 24/11/’27). “Mission” doesn’l
mention that an inquisitive tourist succeeded
in extracting from one of the small cavities
in this stone a human tooth, a memento of
one of the 1000-odd human beings whom
King Cakobau is credited with having tasted
during his reign.
“Gore”: The Japanese naval officer who
got into the cable columns by committing
hara-kiri the other day was in some respects
an innovator. Firstly, he cut his throat with
a razor; and in the second place he did so
alone, sending his family into the next room.
The old etiquette demanded that the prin-
cipal actor should disembowel himself with
the small katana, one of the two swords
which every Japanese of Samurai caste is
entitled to wear; also that the ceremony
should be conducted in the presence not
only of the family but of all his relatives.
I am credibly informed that the stately
and interesting performance is not nearly as
messy as throat-cutting, with its severance
of the great arteries. Still, hara-kiri, like
the English prayer-book, is expected to move
with the times, and it is gratifying to learn
that, after a decent interval, the wife of the
dead officer led her children into the pre-
sence of the corpse and there carried out
the ceremonial worship due to the man who
did the right thing, even if he went about it
in a modern way.
“Murkah”: The subscription library (B.
8/12/’27) which opened its doors in Sydney
in 1827 wasn’t the first in Australia. In
1821 the leading citizens of Sydney, suffering
from a shortage of reading matter, compiled
a list of books possessed by each. They then
exchanged. But even that wasn’t No. 1.
About 1819 John Pascoe Fawkner opened a
composite business in Launceston (Tas.),
bookselling being one of the branches. The
circulating library which the energetic oddity
ran in connection therewith was the first
library in Australia. Fawkner was always
a bookish being and, incidentally, was the
father of the press in Victoria as well as the
Speck.
:|s * X *
“Cooramin” : I have seen dozens of brass
plates worn by abo. kings, bearing the name
of the owner and his toicri. But there was
one on the Clarence River whose plate was
inscribed “Sandyman and Biddy, King and
Queen of Asliby.” The ironmongery was
always worn by his Majesty, while the Queen
humped the blankets and carried the fire-
TEMPERING THE WIND.
“The Victorian Parliament, which wants its salary of £5OO per member increased, has decided to
ask the Chief Justice to find a Judge who will inquire whether it is not worth more.”
THE FOOTPAD: “I could take it myself, your Honor; but I thought if you'd fist tell him
to hand it over, he might feel better about it — see.”
stick to light the royal pipe. In a way she
was lucky, for Sandyman was an old scamp,
whose matrimonial record was something
like that of Henry VIII. For a long time
lie was outlawed for the murder of a swag-
man at Maclean, then called Rocky Mouth,
but he managed to elude the police, and
eventually the matter was allowed to drop.
The blacks, however, considered him a dan-
gerous character and avoided him as much
as possible. Though pardoned by whites, he
was still an outlaw king.
•-;< X X H:
“Iven”: Queensland may claim to have
both the wettest and driest spots in Aus-
tralia. Harvey Creek, with a maximum of
255 in. and a minimum of 80Mn., is the wet-
test ; Boulia, with a total i*ainfall of only
four inches in seven years, is the driest.
“Coot”; At Pasco Vale, one of Mel-
bourne’s outer suburbs, two new houses on
adjacent blocks recently found a purchaser.
When the money had been paid over the
agent asked if the owner would like him to
secure a tenant for one of the houses. “No,”
was the reply, “I’m shifting into both.” And
a few days later he did. The incoming
family numbered 21!
* $ * $
“Up North” : A Sydney shrewdie has been
trying unsuccessfully in Thursday Island a
game that scored him many a free meal at
home. With a cockroach in his pocket
he would betake himself to a restaurant
and negotiate a meal; at the conclusion he
would bury the ’roach in the final spoonfuls
of pudding and then quietly inquire for the
manager. He would inform that worthy
in a pained tone that he was no entomologist
and, anyway, wliat was going to be done
about it? He was invariably bowed out,
uncharged for what he hau consumed, with
abject apologies; in fact, lie boasted that
for three solid months in Sydney he had
lived on ’roaches. But the old stunt failed
to work in a Chinee cliop-suey joint at T.l.
John Chinaman merely smiled benignly at
the murdered insect. “Him all light. Him
alia same beetle. Me no chop him up fine,
tha’s all. You pay him all li. Two chillin’,
please!” And the shrewdie was so dumb-
founded that he paid. No doubt he will
presently be telling his Sydney cobbers that
Thirsty Islanders really do live on stewed
cockroaches.
:fc * * *
“Joy-stick”: The action of the Federal
flying authorities and of the Maoriland Air
Board in expressing disapproval of the
’plane in which a couple of M.L. Air Force
officers propose to try the Tasman hop
wasn’t exactly unexpected. Certainly, it was
a Wright-engined Ryan monoplane in which
Lindbergh flew the Atlantic; but Lindbergh’s
chance of survival in the event of mishap
was about 1 in 10,000. There are at least
a dozen types of British seaplane suitable
for the job, and with any one of them the
M.L. Government would feel easier in its
mind concerning the safety of two valuable
officers. Anyway, why should Maori landers
give Uncle Sam an advertisement out of the
pioneer Tasman flight?
s|j sH * %
“M.G.S.” : What “Murkah” said originally
was that telegraph operators had instructions
to paraphrase messages during the war to
prevent news getting to the enemy. He
now shifts his story on to the shoulders
of radio officers, shipmasters and p.m.’s (B.
29/12/’27). Now, terminal stations, at the
request of the receiver, can ask for the
repetition of the whole or part any
message from the original copy. If “Mur-
kah’s” officials exercised this alleged power
of paraphrasing en route, how is it that the
repetitions were invariably the same, or
only different by a letter or so from the
words as first received? I handled thousands.
“Murkah’s” amateur censors are a myth.
* :J: * *
“Malo”: Domestic fowls are as slow as
cattle to get used to aircraft (B. 8/12/’27).
Last local show day several ’planes flew over
our yard. The hens took cover in the shed,
where they remained nearly all day ignoring
egg-production. In the evening I found one
of them dead. There was no rooster to lead
out the chooks after the danger Lad passed,
which perhaps accounts for their sustained
fear.
x x * *
“L. 1.”: It isn’t only occasional human
beings who can boast of being immune to the
effect of high-voltage currents. lizard
which climbed to the top of a 12,500-volt
transmission pole at Morniugton (Vic.), pre-
sumably to see the view, fell to the ground
twisted into a dozen knots. An hour later
it opened its eyes and intimated it was
feeling like another lizard. It is now a
lively exhibit at Melbourne Zoo.
Ijl '!* *!*
“Snowhite” : A remarkable defect has been
exposed in N.S.W.’s anti-drug legislation.
When a man was arrested recently at. Dar-
linghurst for altering a doctor’s prescription
in order to increase the amount of morphia
it was found he could be charged only with
a misdemeanor at Common Law. The
patient had consulted a Darlinghurst doctor
ostensibly to be cured of the drug habit. He
was put under a treatment whereby the
amount of dope allowed to him was to be
reduced daily. A chemist, however, noticed
alterations on one scrip and began to make
inquiries. He found that his customer had
raised liis allowance in one case from one
grain to 45 grains, and in others from one-
eighth to, one-lialf of a grain.
“C.Q.” : Victoria’s first navy is to follow
South Australia’s original armada, the Pro-
tector, into the wrecker’s hands. She was
until lately the Huddart Parker steamer
Courier, but she was originally built in the
Cold Land as an armed cruiser which her
owners were to hand over to the State Gov-
ernment should Mars bang his gong.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The “spiff” is the
special commission the shop-assistant gets on
sales. In the days before the old Arbitration
Court made the first shop-assistants’ award
it was the main source of the assistants’
incomes. In the evidence in that case the
public was shocked to learn of_married men
receiving wages of 20s. and 255. per week.
But the “spiffs” were so good that the smart
salesman could add several pounds to his
pay. In spite of the increase of wages the
“spiff” remains as an encouragement, but
in a very attenuated form. In one city fur
department a girl assistant recently was
credited with sixpence on an £ll sale; on
a £7 sale she got a whole threepence.
* * * *
“IT anno” ; The first convictions under
N.S.W.’s recently-amended Drug Act were *
recorded in Sydney a few days ago, a fine
of £lOO being inflicted in one case, that of
a woman, and of £5O in the other. It is
impossible not to sympathise with the unfor-
tunates charged under the Act, which is a
sloppy and inequitable piece of Lang legis-
lation. It forbids absolutely the possession
of narcotics. But medical science has come
to recognise that a person addicted jto
narcotics cannot be cured simply by taking .
the stuff away, such being only to inflict
torment without benefit. The only safe way
is a course of treatment based upon gradual
withdrawal. This means some weeks in an
institution under skilled and understanding
medical care. Naturally, this is out of the
question for the sufferer who cannot afford
to pay the cost of this treatment, and so he
or she lives perpetually in fear of gaol for
possessing the stuff which is life itself.
Meanwhile the loathsome trafficker, who
frequently makes a profit of a thousand per
cent., rubsi his hands and, being in no
danger of gaol, rejoices at the Act which has
brought about increased prices for the dope,
and reflects that even if some mischance
should occur and he should be caught, he
will not have to pay any greater fine than
his victims.
“Bad Australian” : The Lartigue-
system monorail from Listowel to
Ballybunnion, Co. Kerry, Ireland,
referred to in a recent Bulletin,
is the quaintest bit of engineering
I ever saw. The track consists of
a series of triangular-shaped
trestles about four feet high fixed
to light rolled-steel sleepers. These
trestles support a running-rail
bolted to the apex of each set. The
cars and waggons are swung from
a frame set on wheels, which run
on the rail; viewed end on, each
unit looks like a pair of enormous
saddle-bags. The locomotive is a
nondescript affair, consisting of a
boiler swung on either side of the
running-rail with the engine bolted
on top of the supporting frame mid-
way between the boilers. The line,
which is some 12 or 14 miles long,
carries tourists and golf addicts to
Ballybunnion, a small, bleak sea-
side resort. Turf is used for fuel,
the fireman, by constant and dex-
terous juggling of the product of
the bogs, managing to keep his con-
voy of giant packsaddles moving at
15 miles per hour. When I saw
the weird contraption in 1919 it
was paying something more than working
expenses.
* * * *
“Bingil” : Is there anything quite so cos-
mopolitan as gambling? A recent police
raid on a fan-tan house in Chinatown, Innis-
fail (N.Q.), gathered in 26 delinquents. In
the bag, besides Australians and Britishers,
there were Austrians, Spaniards, Greeks,
Italians. Japanese, Chinese, Malays, Papu-
ans and a few other racial odds and ends.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: How mean unionists can be
was revealed the other day in that Gibraltar
of unionism, Broken Hill. Nurses in the
Labor-run hospital there have to pay 2s. each
for broken thermometers, even when the
damage is done by fevered patients. As
much as 6s. was recently deducted in one
week from the slender pay of a probationer,
and the breakages were not her fault.
Concerning a great change:—
Advertising isn’t what it was a few years ago,
when anybody used to scribble off an advt., giving it
as much consideration as he would the purchase of
a packet of pins. In these days every big firm
has its advertising department, whose job it is to
think out new schemes, and the pay of these special-
ists runs up to and probably beyond £1250 a year.
The man who can strike a new line is a treasure.
Some goods are infinitely harder to advertise than
others; and that’s where the expert shows himself.
Take Meggitt’s, for example. They’ve got linseed
oil and llnseed-meal products to shift; and these
look pretty hopeless. Yet the job that E. Havre,
the co.’s advertising manager, and W. J. Dowman,
the artist, have made of a Bulletin two-page
advt. —collaring “Banjo” Paterson’s Saltbush Bill
for the purpose —extracts from The Bulletin this
infrequent burst of admiration.
DISILLUSIONED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You blew two pencils, as it were, of smoke
Your delicately-chiselled nostrils through,
And shattered definitely at a stroke.
A dream I tried to hold concerning you.
I featured you an angel hitherto,
I found a goddess in your every pose,
Until with studied elegance you blew
Two shafts of scented vapor from your nose.
Visions of Heloise in me you woke,
And Iseult —Amelia Osborne, too ;
Albeit an unimaginative bloke
From various Heliconian founts I drew
Dreams of fair women, sipping lioneydew
And milk of Paradise, on beds of snows.
You spoil it all, my dear, indeed you do,
By puffing those Virginias down your nose.
I meant the Muse Euterpe to invoke
Upon the old, old theme, for ever new;
How your celestial attributes you_ cloak
Beneath a skirt and blouse as faintly blue,
A dainty hat and eke a shapely shoe;
You were to me as rare a June-time rose
As ever Burns compared a lady to —
And now you make a chimney of your nose!
Envoy.
Phyllis, I thought to weave a rhyme for folk
To recognise you hide beneath your clothes
Ethereal qualities. But something broke
The day I saw you smoking through your
nose.
N.s.w.
IFORD.
THE EGOIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I wear a new hat, there’s rain;
When I take my brolly, it’s line.
When I sleep outside it’s windy
Or the dust kicks up a shindy;
In short, it is always plain
That the weather’s way is not mine.
So. ready with sun or thunder,
Sitting up there in the blue,
God must be kept pretty busy
Watching me till he’s dizzy
And all on edge with wonder
What next I’m going to do !
VICTORIA.
RIKKI T.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
POLISHED MAHOGANY EIGHT-DAY CLOCK
sdf
sďf
WONDERFUL VALUE AT 65/
Of Unusual Beauty
A charming little inlay design
outlines the case and shows
up the deep lustre. The
movement is on ’the lever
principle, soundly constructed
and completely accurate.
The absence of a pendulum
allows of moving the clock
from place to place without
impairing its truthful time-
keeping.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 & 25
Flaii. Figure,,.
, LTD.,
Hunter Street.
Cash Only.
Qsjp ft
SYDNF.v.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Deceptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs., Fri., Palm Court
Table d’hote Dinner, 6 to 8 p.m., 8/6; or
it ia carte. Evening Dress optional.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Supper Dance, 9.4."
till 1 a.m., 10/6. Evening Dress only.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 8 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.rn.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards 3/6.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAND
A. W. Blair, the Wellington (M.L.) lawyer
who has been selected to fill the seat on the
Supreme Court bench left vacant by the
death of Oscar Alpers, made his first appear-
ance in court after his appointment in rather
unusual circumstances. lie wasn’t on the
bench, but in the witness-box, and a legal
brother accused him of having dcspitefully
used a tough-looking customer in the dock.
What happened was that Blair went to col-
lect his washing, and found a man flourish-
ing a razor at the girl behind the counter.
He asked the girl if she was being annoyed ;
she nodded, and he threw the razor-waving
gent, into the street. But there was a lively
scrap first, and both ’Sonah and the lad with
the lethal weapon had marks to show. The
police-magistrate reckoned that Blair had
acted judicially in plunking the other bloke
in the eye, and fined the defendant £5, with
the option of three weeks in jug.
E. G. KNOX, Managing Editor of the
Sydney Evening News.
“Five Eight” : The review of E. R. G. R.
Evans’s “The Mystery of the Polar Star”
(P>. 8/12/’27) reminds me of one war stunt
of his. When in command of 11.M.5. Broke,
of the Dover Patrol, his ship and 14.M.5.
Swift chased two German destroyer-raiders,
and Evans ran alongside his opposite
number and actually sent over a boarding
party. The Germans responded by boarding
the Broke, and a dingdong hand-to-hand
fight ensued, an R.N.R. snottie named Giles
bagging a V.C. out of the scrap. Evans was
quite at home in any capacity aboard ship.
He was a gunner, navigator, torpedo man
and engineer. His dare-devil stunts didn’t
finish with the war. When with the China
Squadron later he answered an SOS call by
diving over the side and rescuing numerous
Chinks.
Australia will have a real sky-pilot when
the Rev. Leonard Daniels starts shepherd-
ing Wilcannia (N.S.W.) by aeroplane. His
parish touches the S.A. and Q. borders, and
is measured in square miles —40,000 of them.
To pay one little call he has to travel 220
miles. The ’plane, which was landed in
Melbourne last week, was provided by folks
in England. Daniels was in the Air Force
during the latter part of the war; he began
it as a private with the Devons.
“Schnorrer” : Morris Jacobs, who had only
98 years to go to complete his second cen-
tury when he closed his innings at Geelong
(B. 29/12/’27), shared with his wife —who
is still alive at 95 —-Australia’s record long-
distance matrimonial alliance. The couple
celebrated their 75th wedding anniversary a
few weeks before the old gentleman passed
out. Jacobs was a sort of walking cash-register
in his business days. He used to keep
coins of different denominations in different
pockets, and when his shop-assistants handed
him money for change he passed it out to
them with the slickness of a pickpocket. At
the end of the busiest day he could state
the total of takings without troubling to
count it.
Benjamin and Mary, of the “House of
David,” created a small sensation when they
arrived in Australia, and more when they
took away some Australian women as dis-
ciples. Later there were the usual “dis-
closures," in the midst of which Mary seems
to have faded out of the picture and Ben
got on the financial rocks. He is now re-
ported dead in the U.S.A. His common
or garden name was Purnell.
A man who was associated with the
stormy period of M.L. history is just dead
at Torquay, Devon —Colonel Sir St. Vincent
Hammick, 88. He served in the Maori War
of 1863-66.
“Karaji” : Add to the list of Irish medicoes
who practised north o’ Sydney in the buried
days (B. 22/12/’27) Drs. W. W. Power and
W. J. Russell, whose plates hung out at West
Maitland. Russell, who was the first to do
abdominal surgery in the old Hunter capital,
now resides permanently on the Isle of
Jersey, though his business interests, which
include colliery holdings, call him back this
way occasionally.
Jimmy Butler, chief clerk of Vic. Lands
Department, who passed on at Malvern a
week ago, was for more than 40 years in
that branch of the service. He was making
a bid for the under-secretaryship, in suc-
cession to Harry Allan, just retired, when
his innings was closed.
Charity and an enthusiasm for the Church
of Christ were the latter-day interests of
John Hindle, successful business man and
one-time politician, who has turned down his
last leaf at the 72nd chapter. In the early
’nineties Hindle was in the Ma State Par-
liament, but in 1906 he was beaten by J. H.
Catts (then Labor) when he sought Federal
honors in Cook.
E. S. Carr, first to put in a claim for the
Wollondilly seat, left vacant by George
Fuller’s acceptance of the N.S.W. Agent-
Generalsliip, became M.H.R. for Macquarie
in 1906. He was the first Laborite to quarrel
with the party over its war attitude, and,
although he survived one election, his expul-
sion cracked up his political career. The
Wollondilly seat is a Nationalist gift, and
there are others who may have more strings
to pull it their way. Carr edits an Orange
newspaper.
“Ex-I)ig.”: Reference to Frank Stuart,
who, although badly smashed in a motor crash
five years ago, continues as a fencing instruc-
tor in Sydney, recalls Sergeant Miller, of the
1st Batt. Miller was a physical-culture
expert and a magnificent specimen. In his
youth he was in the Life Guards. In a par-
ticularly hot patch in the lines he got a
shrapnel-burst all to himself which gave
him 37 distinct wounds. The early opinion
that, he could live for only a few days was
modified to the assertion that he could not
possibly survive six months, and finally
altered to the statement that he might linger
but would never be able to walk. I met
him after the war striding along a Sydney
beach. He was leaving next day to take
up a job as physical-training director in the
S. African Y.M.C.A.
“Coot” : Henry Condell, Melbourne’s first
Mayor (B. 24/11/’27). was not the first
member of Victoria’s first Legislative Coun-
cil. Adolphus Goldsmith, returned for the
counties of Ripon, Hampden, Grenville and
Polwarth, was the candidate earliest elected.
This election took place in 1851 and Condell
was not a candidate. He was, however,
elected as one of the first of Melbourne’s
representatives in the Legislative Council of
New South Wales in 1843. defeating Edward
Curr by 34 votes. Condell resigned in 1844.
The clock in Melbourne’s Town Hall tower
was presented to the city by Condell’s son
to perpetuate his father’s memory.
It is difficult to get a Supreme Court
Judge to become a member of a deputation
to a State Minister, but the crowd that
went to Jones. Labor Minister for Works,
in Melbourne the other day to protest agin
electrifying Collins-street trams managed to
lure McArthur. Jones told them, in so
many words, that it was their own particular
friends —a majority in the Upper Chamber —
who had thrown out the clauses in a Tram-
way Bill which would have enabled the
Ministry to hold up the conversion. As it
was lie could only be the deputation’s mes-
senger to the Tram Board, which had the'
power and the money to go ahead. The late
John Madden, C.J., when Chancellor of the
Uni., dropped in occasionally at the head of
a deputation to see the Treasurer or Minis-
ter for Education and ask for more money,
and it was mighty hard to refuse him, he
was always so convincing.
Theodore Cleveland Rougliley, economic
zoologist at Sydney’s Technological Museum,
who goes south this month to investigate
oyster problems in the Speck, probably
knows more about that type of sliell-fruit
than any other man in Australia. At the
last Australian fisheries conference in Mel-
bourne he was
appointed perma-
nent chairman of
the Oyster Investi-
gation Committee,
and is now begin-
ning a Common-
wealth survey of
the species, extent
and potentialities
of da oyst’ and
methods of culti-
vating it. His
“Oyster Culture on
the George’s River”
and “The Story of
the Oyster” are
standard works in
their line, as is
also his well-com-
piled, comprehen-
sive and finely
illustrated “Fishes
of Australia and
Their Technology.”
In his spare time
he takes the chair
at meetings of the
marine biology sec-
tion of the N.S.W.
Zoological Society.
T.C. ROUGH LEY,
of the Techno-
logical Museum,
Sydney.
\ ictoria contains some healthy old ex-
public servants. H. C. A. Harrison, the
father of the Australian game of football,
once Registrar of Titles, is 91; J. H. Silke,
master of the John Nimmo, is 96; Geo, Bell,
of the Chief Secretary’s Department, is 89 ;
and A. W. Dumarcsq, of the Treasury,
82. C. A. Topp, ex-Public Service Commis-
sioner, and 11. M. Meakin, a one-time Under-
Treasurer, have each scored 80.
Harry Budge, who has just had the
initials C.M.G. added to the other end of
his name, is the most confirmed vice-regal
secretary Australia possesses. A King’s
School boy, he joined the N.S.W. Chief
Secretary’s Department 38 years ago; and
he was the executive hand, as a member of
the staff of Lieut.-Gov. Darley, when the
present King and Queen visited Australia.
He even attended to such details as the
spare whisky bottles. In 1902 Budge’s job
was give n the title of “official secretary,”
and ever since he has been an efficient
handler of big public events. The civil
servant habit is hereditary with him; his
father, who retired in 1937, had 47 years’
service and held some big jobs.
R. A. P. Murray, well-known geologist in
the days when gold-mining and Australia
meant much the same thing, joined the Tie.
Geological branch as a lad of 16, and spent
upwards of 40 years in its service, holding
the position of Government Geologist for
many years. Rather than bear what he
considered a gross injustice at the hands of
the Government of the day Murray resigned
and sacrificed a pension of £530 p.a. to which
he would have been entitled after another
three years’ service. He spent his old age
fossicking in the Victorian hills, struggling
along on the old-age pension and a few
shillings “special allowance.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The will of the Earl
of Darnley, who as Ivo Bligh, the Kent
cricketer, literally took the ashes away from
Australia in 1882, has panned out at
£237,030 (net personalty £224,088). The
Earl, before he was one, married Florence,
the more than merely fair daughter of John
Stephen Morphy. P.M., of Beechworth (Vic.).
The story of their introduction was in all the
papers at the time. It started with the
loan of a handkerchief.
Publication of Vol. X of the “Official His-
tory of the War,” covering the Rabaul
operations, recalls the rough spin one early
Rabaul Digger, Conrad Eitel, was given by
the Army authorities. Eitel, the son of a
S.A. Lutheran parson, and himself a good
Australian, enlisted early in the war, and
was one of three men who gamely approached
the wireless-station at Rabaul when hot re-
sistance was expected. Later, returned south,
he was about to embark for overseas as. a
sergeant when the outcry against men with
German names brought about his discharge.
Re-enlisting under a false name, he was
promoted to sergeant again, but the impos-
ture was discovered, and he w T as court-mar-
tialled, sentenced to imprisonment and dis-
charged. He vanished after that. Probably
he made another attempt to get away, suc-
ceeded and did not come back.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Street, one of the
New Year knights, is still a crisp young
man, and a dinkum Australian ; his great-
grandfather on his mother’s side was ex-
plorer Lawson.
When in Sydney, Robert Keable, the ex-
parson author who died at Tahiti the other
day, had to be rescued from a scheme laid
by a woman swindler, whose sentimental tale
of betrayal he was inclined to believe, even
when the most indubitable evidence of perfidy
was produced. As other clergymen-autliors
have done, Keable overdid the sex passages
in his books. He was the son of a parson
and was only 40 when Death wrote finis
on his last chapter.
John Barron Quinlan was amateur weltei-
weight boxing champion of Queensland and
a member of the Brisbane Western Suburbs
football club in 1915 when lie joined the
Ninth. He came back minus an arm, but
this did not damp his enthusiasm for sport
and he became a Rugby League referee. He
was tin' first secretary of the Returned Sol-
diers’ Labor League, and still dabbles in
politics. Quinlan was given his midfile name
because he raised his first howl within sound
of the Barron Palls.
John Longstaff, the first Australian painter
to secure a knighthood, is almost as much
a warrior as he is a portraitist. He served
in South Africa, and in the bigger stunt had
command of some noddies for awhile. Later,
lie was liaison officer with the Americans
when they entered the scrap, but when the
War Records people started tlieir hos-
tilities he was collared for work in the
art section. Except for portraits, however,
he did no notable work in depicting Aus-
tralia’s part in the war. Longstaff has done
so well on his chosen side of art since that
he hardly ever touches anything else; when
he does it is hard to believe the brush of
such a high-up artist did the job. His
picturing of prominent or financial Aus-
tralians has brought him in over £5OOO per
annum since his return from England a
couple of years ago.
Recently appointed chaplain to Sydney’s
North Shore Grammar, Rev. N. a’B. Back-
house, 8.A., is an all-round padre. A
graduate of Melbourne University and an
athletic “blue” (lie was a great half-miler),
he enlisted as a private in the A.1.F., and
later resumed his chaplaincy. He put in
three years in Palestine, and returned to
fill the chaplain’s job on board the Australia
for two years. Subsequently he was chap-
lain among the boys of the Armidale
(N.S.W.) school. A keen golfer, he won
the Armidale championship twice.
Artist HERBERT MOORE, who has just
published a book of pen and ink draw-
ings entitled “Links With Other Days,”
which includes artistic line sketches of
Melbourne’s oldest landmarks.
Apropos of the decision of Vic. Assembly
to ask a Supreme Court Judge to say
whether members, who now draw £5OO a
year, are entitled to a rise, Irvine, C.J.. is
the solitary member of the State’s superior
judiciary who has had experience of politics.
But Moule and Williams, of the County
Court Bench, each had an innings in the
Assembly.
IT ISN’T MUCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It isn’t much a man can do when everything
is reckoned ;
The race he ran is soon forgot and who
was first or second.
It doesn’t signify a bit how big the cheques
he cashes,
There won’t be many who will grieve above
his dust and ashes.
It isn’t much a man can do, despite the
advertising
Of those who rush about the land “Awake”-
ing, and “Arise”-ing.
There’s nothing that a man can find in all
their guff and slobber
So good as standing by his guns and stick-
ing to a cobber.
It won’t be much a man has done when
everything is counted;
They’ll tell how small the sum to which his
efforts have amounted ;
They’ll say he never reached the goal that
he had been pursuing.
It won’t be much a man has done—still it
was worth the doing.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
sf
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
m
a
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows:
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
f i rrTßirXi*^-
Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SILVER
EDGE
d
BRAKE LINING
REPRESENTATIVE: —
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
BRITISH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank, from the time it absorbed the London
Bank of Australia and purchased the Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania: —
Profits on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Oil. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1921 262,976 4519 10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
1922 330,474 7064 10 „ „ 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 . . 1,619,240
1923 395.348 0004 124p.c.=178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 12* „ ~ 187,500 67,500 2,012,602
Premiums on shares, £302,331 . . 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 12* p.c.=243,750 65,000 2,214,664
1926 522,308 750 12* „ ~ 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 .. 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 12* p.c.=295,313 95,000 2,926,397
It was in 1921, when the “Scottish” absorbed
the London Bank of Australia and the
Commercial of Tasmania, that it took its
coat off; and, helped by a long run of good
seasons, some glittering figures have since been
achieved. Last year the outstanding event
w T as the absorption of the Royal Bank of
Australia, which had a very solid little
Victorian connection and branches at Sydney
and Perth and an office in London. The busi-
ness was taken over as from March 31 last,
and the price paid was £1,125,000 —£750,000
cash for return of capital and the allot-
ment to Royal shareholders at par of 125,000
E., S. and A. £5 shares paid to £3 for surplus
assets. At that date the Royal had, in
addition to a paid capital of £750,000,
reserves and undivided profits valued in its
books at £1,458,422. Thus the purchaser
made an apparent profit on the deal of
£333,422. One immediate result of the
absorption has been to advance the E., 8.
and A. from seventh to third place as a
deposit holder amongst the associated banks
in Australia. Also it has eliminated a dupli-
cation of branches in those centres where the
two banks hitherto competed for business
side by side. This must have an effect on
overhead, and therefore on profits. To begin
with, some of the Royal’s premises—the
lot stood in the books at £157,400 at Sept.
30, 1926 —have been sold at a handsome
profit of £66,578. That made the total sur-
plus on the Royal purchase £400,000, and
that amount has been added to reserves.
Earnings, of course, have not yet had
time to feel the full benefits of the merger;
but gross profits, which have been sluggish
in their movements of late, sprang £59,976,
mounting to £1,425,836 at June 30: —
Gross 1923 ' 1925 ' 1926 ‘ 1927 -
profits £1,251,197 £1,355,328 £1,365,860 £1,425,836
Expenses 557,039 663,387 662,163 705,174
Taxes 223,311 175,960 161,389 169,674
Net Profit £470,848 £515,981 £542,308 £550,988
Exes., however, continue to move along
briskly, and taxation, always a hefty item,
required more than half as much as the
124 p.c. div. Thus after allowing for con-
tributions to the provident fund—£lo,ooo
last year—the net improvement was only
£18,680 compared with £16,327 in 1926.
But that was after provision had been made
for bad and doubtful debts and contingencies,
including expenses incidental to the pur-
chase of the Royal’s business. The
£540,988 netted represented a juicy 23.1 p.c.
on average capital compared with 23.2, 25.9,
31.1 and 27.7 p.c. back to 1923.
What makes those fat returns possible is
the fine pile of visible reserves—they were
£301,397 in excess of the £2,625,000 of paid
capital at June 30 —and the large amount
of cheap working capital in the form of per-
petual dehenture and inscribed deposit
stocks; £983,547, 4 p.c.; £889,419, 3 p.c.;
£158,000, 44 p.c. Further, a fixed percentage
of profits has to be used in buying up the
44 p.c. deferred stock. Last year £93,750
bought £95,000 face value, and in that way
no less than £359,500 has been struck off
premises and so passed to inner reserves
during the last five years. The profit on
these transactions is shown in the introduc-
tory table. At the latest rate of redemp-
tion this charge will be disposed of within
the next two years.
The growth in balance-sheet figures is
mainly the result of the absorption of the
Royal Bank's business
Liabilities.
1925. 1926. 1927.
Notes .. .. £1,148 £1,128 £l,llß
Bills, etc. . . 1,967,092 2,393,680 3,289,955
Deposits at in-
terest . . 14,065,484 15,538,685 19,781,959
Free deposits.. 11,663,827 12,379,946 13,306,550
Total . . £27,697,551 £30,313,439 £36,379,582
Assets.
Liquids . . £13,130,776 £14,947,252 £15,774,869
Advances . . 20,635,697 21,542,691 27,507,326
Premises . . 782,457 762,684 872,564
Total .. £34,548,930 £37,252,627 £44,154,759
Of the £36,379,582 owing to the public 43.3
p.c. was in liquid form compared with 49
p.c. in 1926. The shrinkage is due to the
cash payment to the Royal shareholders;
but the position has been strengthened since
the close of the accounts by the issue of
125,000 £5 shares called to £3 at a premium
of £3 each. When all the money is in (the
final payment was due last month) paid
capital will be £3,000,000, and reserves will
have another £375,000 of share premiums.
A 124 p.c. div. will call for £165,988 less
than was netted last year. At June 30 the
bank was holding £6 11s. of the public's
money for every £1 of its own funds; the
new capital and premiums, however, will
make the position in that respect much
easier.
Recent rains have painted out most of the
drab patches in the pastoral and agricul-
tural industries; but, chiefly owing to lack
of adequate tariff, prospects in many of our
secondary industries are not bright. ~ Never-
theless when the next balancing date arrives
the “Scottish” should be able to write much
bigger figures. And the market, impressed
by the bank’s position and its vigor (it is
too bold, some think) and its prospects,
prices the scrip at £7 12s. The return at
that figure is a whisper under 5 p.c.; and
visible net assets amount to £7 19s. after
allowing for the new issue.
$ $ * *
The Rosella Preserving and Manufac-
turing Cos., Ltd., of Richmond (Vic.), which
took over a proprietary in 1910: —
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves.. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 8,607 8 p.c. = 7,500 1107 26,243
1919.. 14,724 10 „ ~ 11,510 3214 29,457
1920.. 15,721 10 „ „ 12,500 3221 32,678
1921.. 13,089 8 „ „ 10,000 3059 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ „ 16,983 1200 36,967
1923.. 24.155 124 „ „ 18,750 5405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15" „ ~ 23,853 2375 44,747
1925.. 30,620 17* „ ~33,162 3458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . . 23,205
1926.. 44,813 17* p.c. = 39,404 5409 28.614
1927.. 54,548 17* „ „ 46,294 8254 36,868
And the progress continues. To finance
last year’s expansion the board had to get
in another £25,000 of capital, making the
total £275,000 at October 31. Five years
back paid capital was only £150,000. One
of the remarkable features of the business
has been the steady increase in earning
power which has accompanied the inflow of
new money. The £54,548 netted last year
climbed to 18.6 p.c. on average funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) compared with
17.8, 15.5, 12.9 and 12.7 p.c. back to 1923.
Attractive returns all of them; but, of
course, there is a limit to the growth. The
ratios suggest an increasing and very lively
turnover, along with careful management.
Here are some explanatory figures:—
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1913 .. £36,848 £21,832 £2,293
1915 . . 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 . . 65,811 44,256 5,833
1923 . . 96,883 63,758 8,971
1924 . . 107.235 72,691 8,316
1925 .. 123,648 75,728 11,643
1926 . . 147,391 90,437 12,311
1927 . . 173,464 105,773 13,176
Another pleasing feature is that, after
handing shareholders 17i p.c., £8254 of last
year’s net profit was left in the business,
and that was more than twice the amount
that remained two years ago. Manufac-
turing profits have more than doubled in
the last five years. That and the wary eye
of the management have helped the expense
rate down; it was 61 p.c. last year as
against 61.3, 61.2, 67.7 and 65.8 p.c. in the
four preceding terms. And since 1922 no
less than £54,417 has been visibly struck off
plant, etc., which is in at £161,467, or
£81,238 above the 1922 figure.
Here is further evidence of the co.’s
expansion:—•
1921. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. £125,000 £200,000 £250,000 £275,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 65,046 '53,905 71,709
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 143,733 153,067 161,467
Stock.. .. 92,839 113,795 87,987 129,283
Debtors and
bills .. 55,813 85,434 100,783 112,150
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. 6,263 3,452 30,086 26,972
Creditors (£71,709, up £17,804 during the
year) could see nearly twice the amount
coming to them in book debts, cash and
investments alone. Much of the co.’s suc-
cess is due to the support given by Moran
and Cato, an energetic firm of inter-State
retailers, whose system of chain stores has
greatly helped in winning a market for the
73 or more commodities that the co. manufac-
tures. Also, of recent years, the management
has built up an export trade, and that has
hastened the development. The Sydney
factory, which now turns out many of the
co.’s principal lines, is getting cramped for
space, and anew factory is to be built at
Newtown (Tas.), thus avoiding the bulk
shipment of soft fruits, so there should be a
saving there. To finance these extensions
shareholders will probably be asked for;
another £25,000. That will make paid capi-
tal £300,000; but a 174 p.c. distribution
will still call for £2OOO-odd less than was
netted last year.
The market, impressed by the co.’s pro-
gress and prospects, pays 525. for the pound
shares. At that figure the immediate return
is 64 p.c. on a 174 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible backing amounts to only 225. Bd.,
subject to an unspecified amount of goodwill,
which is lumped with freeholds and plant.
* * * :!:
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.,
wholesale book- and news-agents, paper and
printing-machinery merchants, advertising
contractors, etc.: —
r~ ——Dividends Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£. & £ £ £
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar., ’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33.851 4000 8 p.c. = 16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 ~ „ 16,000 19,2617 30,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 15,422145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 400010 „ ~ 25,000 9,580155.223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 400010 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
After the present co. re-amalgamated the
widely-scattered and old-established Gordon
and Gotch businesses in 1919, financial results
for the first few years were disappointing.
That was because a lot of organising work
had to be done. This completed, the busi-
ness made steady progress and the board
was able to pay 8 p.c. with a comfortable
margin for reserves. In the March half of
last year, although net earnings slipped back
a little, an extra 2 p.c. was handed to the
ords.; and that looked rather liberal. Yet
it called for less than three-quarters of the
net profit after allowing for the prefs. Dur-
ing the last half there was definite improve-
ment ; gross profits climbed £6300, mount-
ing to £75,019, and net profit (£42,142) got
more than half the increase. After satis-
fying the prefs. and repeating the 10 p.c. to
the ords., nearly one-tliird of the net earn-
ings remained in the business. Goodwill is
valued in the books at £115,074. Against
that there are accumulations of £168,365.
That is to say, there were physical assets
with a book value of 21s. Bd. at work to
earn divs. for each 20s. of paid capital, At
Sept., 1923, the amount was only 16s. lOd.
Balance-sheet figures have grown in this
way:—
Sept.,’26. Mar.,’27. Sept.,’27.
Paid capital .. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages. . .. 69,575 69,000 66,357
Sundry creditors.. 142,406 127,050 147,941
Bank overdraft .. 116,622 79,880 108,389
Liabilities .. £328,603 £275,930 £322,687
Freeholds.. .. £174,902 £199,230 £208,015
Leaseholds . . 25,762 25,515 25,333
Plant, fixtures, etc 44,688 46,595 52,655
Stock .. .. 334,671 322,896 326,247
Book debts .. 404,442 353,249 390,158
Other assets .. 20,810 18,560 23,658
Tangible assets. . £1,005,275 £966,045 £1,026,066
Because of the rapid growth in the value
of city properties, and therefore in rents,
this co., like many others, decided to put a
good deal of money into freeholds. The
£200,000-odd of new capital that has come
in over the last five years has been used
largely to finance the erection of anew
warehouse in Brisbane, now complete and
occupied, and in remodelling the Sydney and
Adelaide properties. The £208,015 at which
the lot stand in the books appears to be a
conservative figure. During the last half
£46,757 was added to the co.’s debts
(£322,687), but the movement was largely
seasonal in character. At Sept. 30 last there
was 10s. of outside money at risk in the
business for every £1 of shareholders’ funds
represented by tangible assets; at Sept.,
1923, there was 19s. 2d. at risk. But the
financial position is comfortable i enough;
book debts (£390,158, down £14,284 during
the year) were £133.828 in excess of the
floating debt, and stocks,' in at £326,247, are
£8424 lower than they were 12 months ago—
healthy movements on a growing turnover.
The market values the goodwill at approxi-
mately the same figure as that at which it
stands in the books, and for the 20s. ords.,
which have a net tangible backing of 225.,
it pays 275., cum 6d. div. After allowing
for the latter the return to the investor is
74 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. For the
well-protected prefs.—they carry a cumula-
tive 8 p.c. and the backing amounts to £6
10s. in net tangibles—23s. was recently
offered without attracting sellers.
s',: * * *
W. E. Smith, Ltd., printers anu stationers
(Sydney)
Written Re-
Oct Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 . .. 8128 104 p.c. - 4687 925 9,570
1919.. .. 9678 124 „ „ 5624 1034 12,590
Cos. reconstructed, visible and internal re-
serves capitalised, and goodwill included at
£7522 (not treated as an asset hereunder).
To Re-
serves. Deficit.
1920.. .. 12,594 8 p.c. = 8000 4594 2,928
1921.. .. 4,751 5 ~ ~ 5000 3,177
1922.. .. 6,381 6 „ „ 6000 381 2,796
1923.. .. 7,515 6 „ „ 6000 1515 1,281
Reserves.
1924.. .. 6,532 5 „ „ 5000 1532 251
1925.. .. 5,376 5 „ „ 5000 376 627
1926 . .. 6,562 5 ~ „ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 „ „ 5000 2387 4,576
The movement is sluggish. Net profits
make only a poor showing, and there is not
much of a_ buttress for paid capital
(£100,000) in the £4576 of reserves. Inci-
dentally goodwill (£7522) was wiped off out
of reserves last year, but this Column has
never treated the item as an asset. How-
ever, the 5 p.c. div., which called for only
a little more than two-thirds of the year’s
net earnings, is equal to a shade over 11 p.c.
on the face value of the scrip before the
reconstruction of eight years back. That
was when the assets were written up and
the £30,000 struck off capital in 1914 was
restored and an extra £25,000 was added for
good measure. But with the growth of the
small printer, who has set up in cheap
quarters and who doesn’t mind working an
hour or two extra himself, conditions in the
trade have altered. Competition is very
keen; a number of lines are cut and business
has to be hunted for with vigor; and con-
cerns with a heavy overhead suffer.
The problem is largely one of how to re-
duce costs and keep overhead down. When
this co. moved into its new Ceorge-street free-
hold three years ago gross profits eased;
letting space moved slowly, and the £29,000
of 7 p.c. debenture money then got in had
to be fed. What has happened since 1923
is seen in these figures:—
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Gross profit .. £39,607 £33,312 £40,572 £44,383
Exes 32,092 27,936 34,010 36,996
Net profit .. £7,515 £5,376 £6,562 £7,387
Rents are not disclosed; but as a year ago
the letting space was practically all taken,
the further improvement in the figures pro-
bably means that trade has been a little
better this past year. But while the turn-
over has crept up, exes, have hung on its
heel; they are very heavy, and consumed
83.3 p.c. of last year’s gross profit compared
with 83.8, 84.1, 82.5 and 81 p.c. back to
1923.
Plant and equipment are constantly being
added to; £7913 was spent under that head
last year and £5093 was written off, leaving
the item with a net book value of £38,525.
"Whether allowances for depreciation have
been sufficient depends upon the age and
condition of the machines, among other
things. Stocks (£57,276) are £7096 heavier,
and much depends upon the figure at which
they have been written. Book debts (£22,9421
showed little movement, but £IOOO was
lopped off the debenture debt (£26,000) ;
also the mortgage (£12,667) was reduced by
a like amount, and that left freeholds in the
books at £39,048. To do all this the co.
had to go to its bankers for £4979, and £3060
was tacked on to the trade debt (£21,496).
That affected the liquid position slightly
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Stocks .. .. £50,577 £53,280 £50,180 £57,276
Book debts, etc... 22,245 16,110 23,379 23,984
Cash .. .. 4,942 2,972 5,973 718
£77,764 £72,362 £79,532 £81,978
Liabilities .. 9,920 40,071 45,436 52,475
Liquid surplus .. £67,844 £32,291 £34,096 £29,503
Less final div. .. 3,000 2,500 5,000 2,500
£64,844 £29,791 £29,096 £27,003
Liabilities are apart from the mortgage, men-
tioned above, but there is nothing uneasy in
the position.
Each pound share has a net tangible back-
ing of 20s. lid., of which surplus liquids re-
present ss. 5d., freehold 7s. 10d., plant and
equipment (worth what it can earn) 7s. Bd.
The market, which is not enthusiastic about
prospects, pays 11s. for the scrip, and the
return at that figure is a shade over 9 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
From the Vic. Board of Directors of the
A.N.A.
As you know, the Australian Natives’ Association
has been gravely concerned with the activities of a
company registered in N. S. Wales as the A.N.A.,
Ltd., and which conducts, among other activities,
life insurance business. The company registered in
Victoria and sought to obtain business, using the
title “A.N.A.” Our association took immediate action
to protect its members and the general public from
inferring that such company was connected with out


Insurance Policies,
IS YOURS SOUND?
This is among the very importani
matters dealt with in the January
Number of
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly”
ON SALE SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -(- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every reauirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
For irrigation and general fanning purposes
Pioneer Wood Pipe is yearly gaining greater favor.
It is very light and can be moved from site to site,
as required, easily. It does not corrode, nor tuber-
culate and is unaffected by extremes of heat or cold.
These points, with low first cost, make it the most
economical as well as the most adaptable conduit
for the use of the man on the land. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. (Ferry to Figtree). And at Footscray, Vic-
toria.— Advt.
* # * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Svdney; J R
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt,
* * * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Lep’lastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide
—Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THIS INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
>esides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
...'ll , or federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
fVL necess,t ating heavy borrowing for
i„ PU T P ° Be \ a < ‘ ourse which is bound
butinn 0 M lenßthy (,elav in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
YG
fjOORD Sc Som
LONDON, ENGLAND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
$2
n\\ a
DT
■ Swift & Company Ltd.. Auwtralasian Agents. 20 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure withi the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office iu Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Mel bourne
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona]
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
association, and ultimately a Companies’ Names Act
was passed by the Vic. State Parliament, prohibit-
ing an insurance company from using the name of a
registered friendly society except with the consent
of such society.
This association is not satisfied that A.N.A., Ltd.,
has completely severed its connection with Victoria;
and it asks persons canvassed by the Associated
Deposits Assurance Society, Ltd., to satisfy them-
selves that there is no connection between the two
bodies.
But, after all, the objection to these people
was that they traded as the A.N.A. If
they'trade as something else, and don't drag
the A.N.A. into the business at all, the objec-
tion to them from that point of view falls
to the ground. What alone remains then '• o
consider is their financial strength; and that
is a matter into which every person can-
vassed by every insurance office should in-
quire—very carefully, too, in these days.
❖ Jjt sjs t\i
Out of 35 leading investment stocks in
Melbourne, only seven show a rise in price
since January 1927. They are Brighton
Gas 25., Huddart Parker Is. 6d., Australian
Glass 3s. 9d., British Tobacco 3s. 9d., Gordon
and Gotcli Is. 9d., Rosella 6s. and Victoria
Nyanza Sugar (South Africa) 17s. 6d. The
biggest falls took place in Denton Hats 12s.
9d., Dunlops 65., Electro Zincs 75.. Ilenry
Jones 135., Holdens 15s. 3d., Lincoln Mills
15s. 10d., London Stores 6s. 6d., Myer Em-
porium ss. 4d. and Yellow Cabs 15s. Some
of these rises and falls were caused by new
issues. Business in Government debentures
has fallen away and the recent Common-
wealth loan of £86,000,000 was not a brilliant
success. A good deal of Bawra’s dividend of
£7,700,000 was put into this loan, and there-
fore did not help the general market. With
lead as low as £2O Is. 3d. a ton, the nine
Broken Hill cos. lost in dividends £463,450
during 1927. 8.11. P. shares dropped 3s.
2d., Souths £1 10s. 6d., and Norths £2 Is.
during the year. About £600,000 in dividends
was paid to Australian shareholders by tin
cos. in Queensland, Tasmania and Malaya.
It is pitiable to have to refer to goldmining.
Rose, Shamrock and Thistle Cos. was the
only Vic. co. to pay a div., and Adelong Gold
Estates Dredging Cos. of N.S.W. distributed
£3750. Business in cos. searching for oil
was trifling and purely speculative.
* * * *
Beer breweries have had so much money
that they long ago contracted habits practi-
cally unknown to the rest of the manufac-
turing world. A newspaper co. is a brewer,
too; but it can’t afford to go around buying
up newsagencies and stocking them with its
own wares to the end that a rival’s wares
may be excluded. Nor can the manufacturer
of mouse-traps, tweeds, candles, watches or
other articles of commerce. Ev.en the flour-
miller, who might almost be expected to do
something of the sort, doesn’t set up bakeries
all over the country to consume his output
to the exclusion of all other outputs. The
brewery, however, found its purse so well
filled that it began; to dip into it to buy
hotels; and so grew up the system of “tied
houses’’ which at one time horrified the
community a good deal more than it does
now—chiefly, of course, because the com-
munity didn’t know what was happening. And
the more the brewers dipped into their purse
for the purpose the heavier the purse seemed
to grow. Then another person came on the
scene—a poor person called the landlord,
who was sorry the brewers should be
embarrassed by their riches; so he began
to push up the price of pubs, and set one
brewer competing against the other for the
right to instal his own particular brand of
tangleto.9. In N. S. Wales the breweries
(and therefore the competitors) have been
reduced to practically three; and of these
two are public cos.—Tooths and Tooheys,
whose purpose in life is to make profits.
Finding that they are being more and more
driven into competition for hotel stands,
these two have lately come together; and
it is possible—.even probable—that ’some
basis of amalgamation will be reached. As
for the third, Resch’s, family interests here
have weight; and for the present the family
declares that it is not concerned with the
negotiations.
* * * *
The fall in tin prices was not stayed by
the holidays, and the year closed with the
metal at £265 2s. 6d. spot, a drop of 20s.
on the previous quote. The continued fall
lias been due to several causes, among them
being failures on the Metal Exchange, the
slackening of the American trade boom, and
the growing fear of production exceeding
consumption when the 80-odd dredges now
building begin to dig. This last fear—or
the public expression of it. at least —has
given rise to some peculiar movements
lately, notably the apparently abortive
attempt to standardise tin prices by a pro-
posed combination of tin-producing interests.
But there are several offsets to that view;
an important one is that the odds are against
many of the later flotations getting near
tle average of tin production estimated in
the prospectuses. That there is good ground
this belief is evidenced in the compara-
tive figures of monthly dredging returns
which have been appearing in The Bul-
letin. In most cases the promised returns
have not nearly been attained, and this
holds true of dredges wmrking in the F.M.S.,
Southern Siam and Burma. There is no
reason to suppose that the new shows will
do any better when they begin to dig, though
there. may be exceptions. As far as the
working cos. are concerned, the generally
high prices of tin throughout have enabled
many to earn very handsome profits, and
there seems no reason for depression among
holders of tin stocks of this type.
* * * :i!
The officially compiled tests of the Roma
No. 1 bore show a decreasing percentage
of petroleum recovery. Early in October
it represented 40 to 50 p.c. of the fluid
discharge. The ratio kept getting smaller,
but for the past three weeks has remained-
almost stationary in the region of 10 p.c.
The movement throws little or no light on
the rival theories of derivation from filtra-
tion or condensation. The latter is held by
what may be called the pessimists, mostly
chemists, though there is one notable excep-
tion ; it is encouraging to know that Dr.
Woolnough supports the former view, and
thus hopes to strike the residual oil pools
after, possibly, a long and costly search. The
nearest oil wells, in point of light-oil com-
parison, are probably those of the Alberta
and Calgary fields in Canada.
* * *
The Wild Irishman, at Herberton* (N.Q.),
has come to the fore again after a lean year
and opens 1028 with rosy prospects. A seam
of tinstone followed down below the 120 ft.
has opened out into an ore body which has
been sunk into for 18ft. and shows at present
a face Bft. by 2ft. of 20 p.c. ore. The
owners crushed 60 tons of this ore for 12
tons concentrates valued at £2200, represent-
ing nearly one-tliird of the field’s output for
a month. Practically all the considerable
tin output from Herberton the last few years
has come from similar discoveries in old
mines and demonstrates a pressing need for
the examination and scientific prospecting of
the ore bodies in the Herberton mines. In
the Irishman the winze into the ore is yet
too young to show whether the shoot will
last a matter of months or years.
* * Hi' *
Mount Elliott has not succeeded in prov-
ing any payable copper-porphyry deposits in
the _ Cloncurry district and has stopped
drilling for the present. The co., it is re-
ported, is proposing to carry out a compre-
hensive mining and geological examination
of the principal copper deposits in the district
with a view of assessing prospects of payably
treating them with a central metallurgical
plant. This looks like a return to W. H.
Corbould’s old plan of having a plant erected
at Cloncurry. Any general scheme must
take in Mount Oxide, the richest mine of
the lot, and now in the hands of tributors,
who are expected to turn out 20 p.c. ore now
that a decent road has been completed to
the mine. A feeler has been put out to the
Commonwealth Government regarding assist-
ance to the prospecting work taken on by
the company.
* * * *
W.A. Government, in trying to revive the
mining industry, is making some big ad-
vances. It is handing £72,000 to the Man-
ganese Cos. to provide rails for its railwas 7
on the security of the rails only. The ques-
tion has been asked why the Government
did not demand security over the whole of
the co.’s leases and assets as it has done
in the case of advances to gold shows. Also
£55,000 has gone or is going to Golden
Horseshoe and £78,000 to Sons of Gwalia:
and there is a promise to build a £300,000
railway for the Wiluna co. The £78,000 to the
Sons of Gwalia appears the soundest of the
lot. But it has been stated often in these
columns that, while the lives of more or
less exhausted mines may be prolonged by
a system of State cash advances, the indus-
ti'y generally will not be revived by such
means. The discovery of new fields or new
ore bodies on old ones will bring about the
revival quickly enough; and it is fair to
state that the Government is not neglect-
ing lona fide prospectors and investors in
their efforts to locate something new.
* * * #
Brilliant, Yalgoo (W.A.), after a 12
months’ struggle against an exceptionally
heavy inflow of water, has struck the reef
at No. 5 level. Where intersected by the
main crosscut it appears somewhat disap-
pointing, but there is little doubt it will
improve in value and volume as the north
drive is extended. Asa feat of shaft-sink-
ing and cross-cutting in face of much phy-
sical difficulty, the pursuit of the reef at
No. 5 level is noteworthy. At the same time
it is doubtful if the success will repay the
big outlay involved.
* * # *
Golden Lily, Aberfeldy (Vic.), is a mine
with a prosperous past and a doubtful future.
Big shoots were a feature of the old Lily of
the Valley. Last half-year £l6Bl of gold was
won from ore averaging nearly sdwt. per
ton. This is, of course, unpayable, but the
co. is tempted to continue because in driving
south from the main adit a reef a foot
thick averaging 2ioz. per ton was cut, and
it is intended to go after this.
* * * *
From a New Guinea correspondent:—•
The Edie Creek section of the New Guinea gold-
field is probably unique for a proposition of the kind
in the world to-day, for the height above sea level
on the creek beds ranges from 6500 to 7500 feet.
The gold is found chiefly in Edie, Midas, Merri and
Pryke’s creeks, in the form of alluvial gold, and
in rich specimens of quartz and gold. The first
lode mining lease was pegged by Dover and Turner
in March, 1927. In May, Guinea Gold sent E. B.
Jensen up to investigate, and he reported the exist-
ence of a contact along which payable ore might be
looked for around Merri Creek. The first lode was
discovered by the Kaindi syndicate, and almost
simultaneously the Edie and the Day Dawn lodes
were discovered in June, 1927. The most promising
to date appears to be the Day Dawn, which
was favorably reported on by Warden McLean in
July. This lode upsets the early theories of basic
dykes. It is a formation up against the big contact
which runs along the Merri Creek, and was dis-
covered by W. Digby, E. French and N. P. H. Neal.
* * * *
Misma, off the New Guinea coast, over
which 15. H. Block 10 lost a small fortune,
started treating ore in June, 1924. without
crushing it in any way; the stuff is merely
trucked to vats and cyanided. Thus far, 36,500
tons have been treated for a recovery of
£43,000, or approximately 255. 2d. per ton.
Capital subscribed was only £2950, and divi-
dends paid have been £3750. Stores and cash
have been accumulated to the extent of £2OOO,
and works, houses, mules, etc., have been
bought out of profits—a further £BOOO. Far too
much gold is now being lost in residues
through being locked up in gravel, clay, etc.
During the last 12 months £14.531 has been
won from a 50 per cent, extraction. Based
on only 80 per cent, extraction, £23,249
should have been recovered—and would have
been if the ore had been even coarsely
crushed before cyaniding. It is now pro-
posed to erect 10-head stampers and crush
without amalgamation. The gold is excep-
tionally and uniformly fine, and the lode is
easy to work. Ore reserves total approxi-
mately 40.000 tons, worth from £2 to £2 Bs.
per ton; and as the surface lode extends
three-quarters of a mile beyond present
workings there should be many years of
work ahead of the co. The Papuan Govern-
ment has granted a sum of money to improve
the road to the coast, and the co. intends
to msta. a motor service.
®jtupolo Tin. registered in Melbourne in
1926, a subsidiary of Pulo Tin, a prospect-
ing and holding show which started a year
earlier, is expecting its dredge to be at
work about the middle of January. Accorrl-
ing to the original schedule it was to be
delivered and under steam by July last.
Delay is not an uncommon experience with
dredge deliveries. To start free of debt the
directors have resolved to call up 2s per
share. This call will be on the 90,000 con-
tribs. now paid up to 17s. The balance of
the issued capital is made up of 40,300 ords.
and 29,000 10 p.e. cum. participating pref
shares, including 18,500 handed to the
vendor, all fully paid. Authorised capital
is £200.000 in £1 shares.
* * * *
Selayang, an English co. whose property
was acquired by present holders from F. G.
L r n non - an( i Nlalcolm Newman, who received
±40,000 in f.p. shares, has been digging since
August last, but returns to date have not
been conclusive, though this is often the case
m setting m on new ground. The December
return, from a full month’s work of 545
hours, was 19 tons from 109,000 yards or a
shade under .401 b. to the cubic yard. English
r valued the property at from .601 b.
to .451 b., though it was suggested that close
noring would show a higher average. Mal-
colm Newman was more optimistic, and
valued the property generally as likely to
return from ,801 b. to .901 b. So far, the'best
results came from the opening gallop, when
a small yardage returned 8 tons, the average
being lolb. Since then the average has
been hanging around the ,401 b. mark. The
management is not impressed with the low
percentages to date, but says the dredge site
was chosen more for convenience than for
values. It is expected better things will be
reached early in the coming year. They will
be welcomed, for capitalisation is £175 000
* * * * '
The Pratten-Alluvial Tin people are in
early with their December returns from the
Malayan dredges these being, presumably,
np to the Christmas holidays, though this
is not stated. In most cases, averages show
an improvement on the November figures
tnougli tonnage in some instances is less'
tor obvious reasons. Rawang reports a 40-
ton recovery from the dredge, 120,000 yards
average .741 b.—a sharp rise on the Novem-
ber rate. The average for the last quarter
of the year 1927 was a little over 6‘>lb
That for the whole of 1926 was ,711 b. Malim
Nawar took 23 tons from 112,000 yards
averaging .441b., a trifle better than the
two previous months. The quarter’s aver-
age was .471b. Started in April, 1926, the
dredge was delayed and did little serious
digging till December of that year, when an
average of .401b. was returned. The ground
was estimated to go .821b., but the average
has not been above .501b. as yet. Malim
Nawar South’s figures for December are
25 tons from 84,000 yards; average, .661b.
This is a big jump on figures for November
and October, and brings the quarter’s aver-
age up to .591b. Here, again, the estimated
return, which varied from one pound to
.751b. per c.y., has not been realised. Kuala
Kampar, with 25 tons from 185,000 yards,
dropped badly, averaging .301b. to the yard,
against .571b. and ,471b. in the two previous
months. The quarterly average was .451b.,
though estimated returns ran from one
pound to .66lb. to the cubic yard. Tanjong
Tualong’s recovery for the month was 40
tons from the largest turnover yet reported,
175,000 yards. The average was .51 lb. for
December, and the quarter’s .531b. , Here,
again, estimates ranged from one pound to
.661b. to the cubic yard. Kundang has
shown a measure of consistency for the
quarter. The December average was .631b.
from 95,000 yards; while October and
November averages were .651b. and .541b.
respectively. The three months measured
up .601b.; quite a record when one considers
the original estimate was onlv a modest
,751b.
# * * *
McCahon’s co. won 167oz. from 200 tons'
from its option over the old Edna May Con-
solidated, and there is at least another 1000
tons of similar grade ore in. sight. As the
option is being efficiently handled, the 167oz.
will show a decent profit. Were it not for
the well-known Edna May deluge below the
120ft. level, the Consolidated would have a
chance of developing into one. of the very few
shows that pay dividends after a second try.
If the managers of the four Edna May mines
had sunk their petty differences and jealous-
ies and installed one pumping scheme for
the Westonia field, instead of running four
pumping units, all the shows would have
paid more dividends and kept men and
managers longer on the payrolls.


WE ARE THE AGENTS
the
d
u bulldog”
HAMMEf)L£SS
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOY/ PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE POX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5. ~ .
WESTERN ARMS 00. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents lor
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS ik CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
BRANDY
Stanchfbi QcfC c 2
oil ox/eA tfcz, Wa\£d j
I
m
FOR ALL
EMERGENCIES
NEVER FAIL
asdf
Write for llluttrotel Cototogue,
The Ever*Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
THE PRIMA DONNA SINGS THE BABY TO SLEEP.
“Excelsior!” seems to be the motto where
skirts are concerned.
With all these Australian hosiery manu-
facturers going out of business, life will be
just one darned thing after another.
*
, A Melbourne geologist, just returned from
the Buffalo, hazards the opinion that it must
have taken millions of years to excavate the
famous Gorge. Government job evidently.
Vic. politicians have been debating the
milk problem. A perusal of Hansard shows
that they didn’t condense it.
At one time it was only chameleons that
could change color.
:J: *
Among the articles sold by the Vic. rail-
ways recently as unclaimed goods were 23
Brass Hat hangers. Evidently war relics.
•e -I*
A chemist recently declared that wood
can be made palatable and nourishing. When
it comes into general use we shall all be
boarders.
When a man enters Parliament he comes
to a pretty pass.
S'! *
Confidence men make their money by put-
ting rough ones over smoothly.
* *
A doctor claims to have discovered a cure
for obesity. But what doctor wants to get
rid of the bulk of his patients?
* *
Newspaper heading: “Shipping. Latest
Movements.” But they can’t be worse than
the old rolling and pitching.
s': sj:
According to a famous engineer it would
take 50 years and cost £20,000,000 to sink
a shaft 12 miles down into the earth. We
feel sure that our neighbor’s dog could do
it much more quickly and cheaply.
When a small boy
looks as if butter would
not melt in his mouth he
is probably hoping that
ice-cream will.
There is no time when
a married man feels so
strongly that a woman’s
place is the home as
when his wife catches
him out with another
woman
A convicted prisoner told ’Sonah, after
he had been sentenced, that he realised a
life of crime was unprofitable. He had
found it a cell, of course.
*
An estate-agent naturally has the lie of
the land.
Some grocers have their own weighs for
making a profit.
* *
After all, there is much more satisfaction
in being a good bad man than a bad good
man • but it lands you in the same hole.
❖ ❖
Last year, according to the Argus, a
greater number of tramcars ran for a fewer
number of passengers than ever before. Pre-
viously, of course, a greater number of
passengers ran for a fewer number of trams.
The way she dresses her hair is a woman’s
mane consideration.
At a swell Hebrew wedding in a Mel-
bourne suburb last week the happy couple
received congratulations amid a forest of
waving palms.
4= *
The net profits at the Monte Carlo Casino
last year were estimated at £1,250,000 Os. 3d.
The extra 3d. is accounted for by the fact
that Sir Harry Lauder had a wager there
during his last farewell tour.
PROOF OF IT.
“But are you sure lie’s a good plumber?”
“Why, of course he is—he goes to church every Sunday.”
A feature of swimming week at St. Kilda
was an event in which a damsel defeated
her opponent by a bare neck.
JOE’S YARNS.
“A man could tell you plenty.of yarns that
would make you look,” said Joe,
As we sat and smoked in the hut last night,
when the fire was burning low:
“I could tell you some that would make you
laugh and some that would make you
sad.
I could keep ’em going till breakfast-time —
if me memory wasn’t so bad.
“I could tell you yarns, too right I could,
that would open your eyes a bit,
If I told of the times when a man was
damned if he didn’t have tons of grit.
I could tell you yarns of the old blade-sheds,
of scabs and of squatters’ pets;
Yairs, I could tell you plenty of yarns —
but, lumme, a man forgets.”
Old Joe is a trier, nevertheless, in spite of his
handicap,
Though the wells of memory have gone dry
there is always a yarn on tap,
And each sad meal sees one begun, but
never it sees its close.
And the sun comes up, and the sun goes
down, to a thrice-told yarn of Joe’s.
We have suffered it long, we are suffering
now, we must suffer it yet awhile,
Though our endurance is almost gone, and
our language is mostly vile.
We have but one prayer—it’s a fervent one
—to the gods that be we pray:
“Give back to Joe his memory, or else take
ours away.”
W.A.
O. W.
SHIFTY FELLOW.
With orators stampin’ and rayin’
About the afflictions we’re havin’, _
There’s some who abuse Mr. Bavin
While some blame it all on Tom Bavin.
So the verse I compose whilst I’ni shavin’
Appears to be stricken with spavin ;
How can I be rhymin’ with Bavin
And still keep a wallop for Bavin?
N.S.W.
DOWNTRODDEN WORKER.
SWAN SONG.
“Beei' and wine have advanced 2d. a glass.”
One time a pewter was a tray, and it was
thrippence for a pinky,
And I could weariness allay whenever I was
feeling sinky;
But steadily they’ve raised the price, and
now they’ve made it tuppence stronger.
The wine may pass; what troubles me’s I
cannot beer it any longer.
N.S.W.
HOMFREY AGAIN.
THE MUG.
In an old mining town in
the heart of the
scrub,
I know an old sailor who
grooms at the pub.
For three mortal hours
he once yarded me
And moaned of his ill-
luck on land and on
sea.
The old liar took breath
at the end of his tale.
And agreed that he could
sink a mug of good
ale.
Maybe ’twas a memory
that caused him to
grin—
Or was it the joy of two
mugs taken in?
N.S.W.
G. B. L.
ALIMONICAL.
“My Perce!” she used to trill in days
Ere married life became a curse.
Now of the past this one thing stays—
She still regards me as her purse.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
TIMES CHANGE.
“In view of modern changes of opinion and of
fashion, it is amusing to recall that in the older
light-musical pieces, ‘shocking’ was the favorite
rhyme for ‘stocking.’ ” —Argus.
How thoughts and modes and rhymes all
change,
The poet’s efforts sadly mocking!
Your bard would be accounted strange
To-day who found a stocking shocking.
Our vision soars as time goes by,
And now each versifying martyr
Must rack his tortured wits and try
To find a handy rhyme for —garter!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.
THE SMUGGLERS.
Harold is all right, except that he suffers
from an inquisitive eye and a suspicious mind.
Being a gentleman of means
and a keen fisherman, he is
summering at Battered Bay.
Last week I got a telegram:
“Come Viewport Hotel
Saturday alone armed. Per-
haps danger. Harold.”
If Harold was to be armed,
I foresaw that there was
going to he considerably
more danger than the two of
us could grapple with, so I
decided to lessen the risk by
leaving my weapons behind,
particularly as I hadn’t any.
Harold met me at the
hotel with a hist on his
lips and a caution in his eye.
“This is an unexpected
pleasure,” he cried loudly;
and then from the lee of a
big, fat hand he murmured:
“Careful. May be watched.”
We wormed ourselves out,
and pushed'off from the jetty
in Harold’s rowboat.
Neither Harold nor myself
are in the world’s champion-
ship class, so we pulled,
puffed and perspired until
we turned into a handy-sized
beach sprinkled with cot-
tages, boats and bathers.
Conversation was brief
while we swam and later re-
freshed ourselves with a
thoughtfully - provided bottle
of beer. After that Harold
suggested a walk in the gar-
dens. We ploughed through
sand and round a patch of
sand edged with stones to
show it was a garden.
“You know, of course,” said Harold, “that
the threatened increase of silk duties and the
continued high price of liquor has resulted
in an outbreak of smuggling?”
“No,” I said. “Has it? What about it?
“Only this,” said Harold, “that I have dis-
covered a smugglers’ gang.” He paused, and
added dramatically: “Here!”
“Perhaps it’s something in the air,” I sug-
gested. “The salt breeze around here is
particularly strong, isn't it?"
“That’s the dustbin,” said Harold. “The
dustman hasn’t been for weeks, and there
doesn’t seem to be any authority to write to.
Come into the house. It isn’t so noticeable
there if the windows are kept shut.”
“Yes,” went on Harold, when we had
entered the cottage and seated ourselves in
a closer but less odorous atmosphere, to
think that I, who notice everything, should
have been lieVe for three weeks before
I discovered the existence of the gang.
“Truly remarkable!” I agreed.
“How did you? Discover them, I
mean.” , , „ ,
Harold leant forward and fixed me
with a glittering eye.
“One night,” he said, “I was sit-
ting in here reading—it was about
half-past nine—when
I heard stifled laugh-
ter and stealthy foot-
steps. 1 sneaKed to
the door and peeped
out. What do you
think I saw?”
“A man cuddling a
girl,” I suggested.
“Don’t be indeli-
cate,” said Harold,
who is a bachelor by
birth and instinct.
“No. The tide was
out, and coming over
the beach from the
bay was practically
the entire population
of this place, two and
two, carrying between
them casks of brandy
and bales of silk!”
“How do you know
they were casks of
brandy?” I inquired. “Did you capture
one?”
“Don’t be a fool. What else should they
be? The next night I watched again, and
the same thing happened. The tide goes out
a long way here, so I couldn’t see where
they were securing the stuff, but I presume
it was dropped from a big vessel on to small
boats at the Entrance and brought in.”
“Maybe,” I said, somewhat impressed. “A
pretty clever scheme if it’s true. They could
get it into the city by that old road at the
back of the scrub. But the people about
here look a real holiday crowd, surely?”
“That’s nothing to go by,” said Harold;
“you wait until to-night and see.”
' That night at dusk I peeped out of the
window and saw a truly amazing scene. The
beach was swarming with people, as Harold
had said, each pair carrying a keg, cask or
barrel.
“Harold,” I cried, “unarmed though I am,
I’m going to look into this.”
Jumping to my feet, I rushed to the door
and threw it open.
THE PESSIMIST.
THE BRUNETTE: “She’s a bit of a pessimist, isn’t she?”
THE BLONDE: “Oh, terrible! She can’t go for a motor
spin without taking a pair of walking shoes with
her!”
“Good-o,” said a voice from the darkness.
“Some of us were thinking of giving you
people a shake-up. Your dustbin has been
stinking us all out. Take it well out on to
the beach, mind, and chuck it into the bay.
Follow our tracks. But you’ll have to hurry,
because the tide is just on the turn.”
WILMER.


c e.
m
&
ffl
IS*
&
m
•M
Tit
y'o^Sfc
\\ SH £■'
Vv • ■/- V.^'S
m
J
?
<f
m
"SjS
i
Exactly
Right
M anufactured in your own
Country from the finest
Selected Virginia leaf.
IVORY-TIPS
CORK.-TIPS
PLAIN
Cidareiies


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
1
Hi
mm
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Scott’s
MELBOURNE
i Us'", yy*''' ■•''"//•'/js,j„ssX'yX///////(''/////ss///‘/w
Ma \ W
■■■ w:/a.?a.
■y/s.
Am
f iw.fi
\ HK4I
/ : few
;- ; t'/Z/'S/Av, "\
r/y m ■ hm>:w- „ i
* ffi&mfaiZV
fflflii
,r.r-4 - v"...,/'//.
w : yyAAAy< > A>AAy/A//A;yyyA/yM‘. / , / /^ i
• f t , \ y *.
Y'f'ft 'j '*• \
•"'*"*/'"s'/*** f */'■'////
////////// Vy//r/////////<//,./. /.
/" v '//"/"S'/'//'/.
Central and
With Every Refinement
Many come to Scott’s year after
year, because of its central situa-
tion, and the fact that it is replete
with every refinement and convenience
that you would expect of the most
modern hotel in the State.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed & Breakfast Rate
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
SCOTT’S, Melbourne.
asdf
sdfsdfsdf
Finc/t Inland Golf"
Links in Aushtaiid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, £l/1/0 per day
£6/6/0 per week
Sydney Boohing Office:
84 Pitt St. Phone: B 6491
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
A Federal Government House party lent
tone to the Y.A.T.G. races last week. The
Governor-General was accompanied by Lady
Stonehaven, who showed beneath a natural
kasha coat a glimpse of a crimson and white
patterned silk frock; her close-fitting grey
felt hat had black leaves over each ear. Lord
and Lady Grimthorpe, who are visiting the
v.-r. couple, were with them, Lady Grim-
thorpe wearing a fawn coat over a petunia-
shaded frock, topped by a large balibuntel
hat banded with purple. Other visitors from
England were General and Mrs. Archibald
Douglas, who were with their hostess, Mrs.
Norman Bayles. Mrs. T. A. Tabart, Mrs.
James Grice and her daughter-in-law Mrs.
Claude Grice, Mrs. Clive Leonard, and Mrs.
Ben Chaffey were in the committee ladies’
box. Mrs. James Purves was there with her
sister Florrie Green. Mrs. Rogers Thomson
and Mrs Richard Linton studied the racing
together.
The old year went out at the end of a day
of sweltering heat, the city being swept by
brick-red dust. The dust was at last scat-
tered by a gale and laid by a shower that at
its outset looked like a mud-fall. New Year’s
Day broke sunny and cool. A few bells and
whistles assaulted the welkin at midnight
on December 31, but public excitement over
the turn of the year was very mild.
The pipes skirled and tartans waved over
bare knees at the Lauchie Mackinnons’
Toorak mansion on New Year’s Eve. _ At
supper a special brew of punch was mixed
by the host, who wore the Mackinnon plaid,
to toast the new year, and a piper marched
around the board emitting sounds which were
identified by many as the notes of “Auhl
Lang Syne.” The company, mainly old
friends of the Mackinnons, included Admiral
and Mrs. Napier and Mrs. A. Y. Kewney.
The hostess wore a sparkling black gown.
A Wedgwood-blue drawing-room with fur-
niture upholstered in silver and French-grey
is the setting for the first act of “All the
King’s Horses,” the new Boucicault-Van-
brugh offering at the King’s, which started
on New Year’s Eve. Irene Yanbrugli, as
the oppressed wife of a pompous husband,
fits nicely into the picture in draperies of
beige georgette and radium lace. Later she
wears an attractive gown of black ninon and
lace, with a rope of diamente. She rebels
against her lord and master in a confection
of apple-green, all fluffy frills, surmounted
by a silver-embroidered bridge coat, and
accepts an olive-branch in a trim suit of ruby
hue and a swathed toque of many-hued
Oriental fabric. Marjorie Playfair as the
flapper daughter sports an ensemble suit of
cream cloth with a dash of red, worn with
a felt hat; and later figures in a filmy frock
of apricot hue. Annie Saker wears a check
tweed suit and turned-up millinery, and
Gwynne Whitby comes on in a fawn coat and
skirt of arresting cut. The only flowers
handed out were those that rested on the
ledge of the v.-r. box for Governor Somers.
Lady Somers wore deep pink, with a richly
embroidered shawl, and Mrs. Davidson’s
black gown was hidden beneath a rainbow-
hued cloak. Others who laughed away the
dying hours of the year were Dr. Margaret
McLorinan, the George Paxtons and a family
party, Mrs. W. Perry, American Consul Gar-
rels and his wife, she in white; the Italian
Consul and Donna Grossardi, the Thring
couple, the Consul-General for France and
Madame Turck, the W. Mortills and Prof.
Osborne and his wife, Dr. Ethel Osborne.
Our Imperialistic-minded visitor, Lady
Cowan, poured tea for a gathering of women
at Menzies’ on Thursday and said her fare-
wells. Her visit, which was intended as a
holiday, developed into a mission of propa-
ganda on behalf of inter-Empire trade. At
the good-bye tea-brewing the hostess wore
nasturtium red voile, patterned in black and
dull gold, her daughter Jean wearing blue
with embroidery in oxidised silver. The,
Allen lady and Mrs. John .Tones congratu-
lated the hostess on the zeal she had shown
in a good cause. The Cowans intend to join
the Orama at Fremantle, and will have a
look at Adelaide and Perth while on the way.
Isn’t it about time that we invented
something Australian to take the place of
Santa Claus? The idea of a benevolent old
gentleman who rewards good children at
Yuletide is a beautiful one and beloved of
the youth of all nations, but Santa is the
product of another hemisphere, and to be
complete he ought to drive on a sledge drawn
by reindeer over crackling snow. In every
big store at this season some perspiring Aus-
tralian has had to don a fur-trimmed robe
with a hood and conceal his features in
bushels of white hair, and persons similarly
attired have been seen in motor-cars in every
suburb from Footscray to Toorak. The
intention is all right but the climate is all
wrong, and in the interests of the adults of
the Southern Hemisphere something ought to
be done about it.
Some of the younger set had an unex-
pected hop aboard ship one night last week.
Captain Upton, who has charge of a group
of merchant marine cadets on the North-
umberland just in port, sent out an SOS
which was picked up by Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Gipps, or the E.S.U., who mobilised
a company of our prettiest maidens for a
dance. Decks were cleared, and the guests
found the ship a glimmer of shaded crimson
lights and streamers of flowers and balloons,
with plenty of cosy sitting-out corners. Cap-
tain Upton, Lieut. G. Clark and Dr. Davis,
did the honors. Licuts. Robertson and Weth
erall gave the hop a picturesque touch by
appearing as sheiks of Araby. Amongst
those who danced were the Richard Gipps
couple, she in blue georgette ; Howard Love
and his wufc, lately returned from England,
whose white gown was a shimmer of dia-
mente; the Jim Massey couple, lately trans-
ferred from Brisbane, with their daughters
Noreen and Margaret; cricketer Hughie
Trumble’s daughter Violet; Nancy Grant, in
berry-red georgette; Evelyn and Marjorie
Mannets-Sutton; the two Ruscoe Steele
girls, from Ballarat; Audrey Osborne, elder
daughter of Prof. Osborne; Peggy Barnes
and Dr. Wemyss Grant. The Northumber-
land’s boys have been inundated with invi-
tations to picnics and parties ever since.
The Luxtons, at their holiday home at Bar-
won Heads, gave the cadets a wonderful day.
Medical knight James Barrett and his lady
gave an afternoon garden-party last week
at their Toorak home, Palmyra, in honor of
Dr. Haden Guest and Dr. Lewis Smith and
his wife, three visitors from the Old Dart
who intend to give Australia and Maoriland
a look-over. Invitations went chiefly to mem-
bers of the Royal Colonial Institute. Exqui-
site blossoms decorated the library, where
the host and hostess extended hands of greet-
ing, the lady wearing a black-and-white
feathered boa over a black-lace and chiffon
frock. Cora Barrett, who helped to enter-
tain, wore a gown of blue patterned in
blurred pink, with a biscuit-toned hat. Mrs.
Lewis Smith wore voile in mushroom-pink
and fawn hues, with harmonising millinery.
•Others there were John Grice and his lady,
she in a magpie effect ; Mrs. Albert Miller,
Mrs. J. S. Fraser, in old-rose lace gown
with wide-leafed hat; the F. W. Egglestons
and Director of Education Frank Tate.
This is a Dickinson-Monteath picture of
Nellie Veitcli, one of our foremost teachers
of the art of speaking English. She is re-
tiring from her profession, and proposes to
use her first few months of liberty touring
Europe. Her
talents as an
e 1 o c u t ionist
were d is-
covered when
she was a
p u p i 1-teacher
in her native
Ararat. She
came to the
city and after
some successes
as a reciter —
she admits
with a blush,
that “'Curflew
Shall Not Ring
T o-n i g h t”
figured in her
rep e r toire—
she was taken
under the wing
of Genevieve
Ward, who was
on a theatrical
tour of Aus-
tralia. For a year she was a member of
Miss Ward’s company, playing dozens of
r6les, but the stage did not appeal, though
the Firm offered further engagements. Miss
Veitch decided she would be happier teach-
ing and giving recitals, with occasional visits
to England for study. Farewell gifts have
been showered upon the popular teacher by
grateful pupils of various colleges which
have enjoyed Miss Veitch’s services.
The Colin Campbells gave a Christmas
dance at Queenscliff, making an opportunity
to say au revoir to many friends prior to a
jaunt oversea with their son and daughter
early in the new year. The guests included
Colonel and Mrs. Robertson, Major and Mrs.
Alec Forbes, the E. R. Stewarts and Colonel
and Mrs. Smart. The hostess wore a lacquer
red robe glimmering with crystal, and her
daughter Shirley’s iris mauve frock was
adorned with seed pearls.
The E. 11. Morton couple gave a New
Year’s Eve jollo which served also as the
former city engineer’s farewell to his friends,
on the eve of his departure for Sydney, where
lie is to be one of the triumvirate of City
Commissioners.
Another end-of-the-year celebration was
a fancy dress dance at Ranelagli golf house,
Frankston, a merry affair that lasted till
1928 was well into its stride.
Harriet Carson, a visitor from Glasgow, is
preparing to make a regretful withdrawal
from the circle of friends that have grown
round her during her stay here. She has
been the guest of her cousins, the Grays, at
Rosebank, Geelong.
Mrs. C. M. Howard, who, with her small
son, occupied Shanghai Villa, St. Kilda-road,
for some years, has returned to enjoy a
summer holiday and is staying at the
Oriental. A member of the Winter Irving
family, she went to Britain to establish her
son Nigel at Eton. Now that he has passed
through Sandhurst into the Air Force his
mother feels herself free to answer the call
of Australia’s sunshine.
Peggy Craig, whose home at Kew lately
came under the hammer, consequent on the
death of her father, has accepted an engage-
ment token from Frederick Love, an architect
who expresses his ideas in cardboard models.
Her many Melbourne friends will be
pleased to hear that the lady with the fan,
professionally known as Carmen Pascova,
lately gave a successful song recital in Lon-
don, after hav-
ing had a very
satisfactory re-
ception in
Vienna. Unde-
terred by timid
friends the
soprano decided
upon a con-
cert in the
Austrian capi-
tal, and a full
house that in-
cluded many
of the bluest-
blooded in the
land gave her
cordial greet-
ing. The press
was most flat-
tering. Just
nowthe singer,
who in private
life is Mrs.
Arthur Harris,
is in Singapore with her husband, who is
general manager for Nestle’s in the East.
Ruth Hollick pictures the warbler, who is
a daughter of the late Madame Weiderman,
long connected with the training of Vic-
toria’s songbirds.
The Pliilp lady, widow of the one-time
Premier of Bananaland, stepped off the Bris-
bane express on New Year’s Eve to spend
some weeks in this city, where she has many
friends. She is making Tasma her head-
quarters.
Fan Dango McKay, the former musical-
comedy charmer who achieved a rich Vic-
torian husband, has settled in London with
her son Peter. The youngster found English
public school life distasteful and chose a
tutor for himself.
The girl who has a sister settled in the
blast has now become the envy of her circle,
for the chances are in favor of her getting
a thrilling oversea holiday. Thelma Halbert,
the fortunate one of the moment, is cram-
ming her suit-cases for a jaunt to India,
where her sister, Mrs. Vasey, is settled with
her major, who is ploughing through a
military course at Quetta, and Quetta is a
very gay little town.
Since almost every liner brings another
officer on loan from the Royal Navy we
must expect to give up some of ours, but
eligible bachelors are scarce, and neither
matrons nor maids like to see them go. The
latest to receive sailing orders is Dr. Down-
ward, who hurriedly packed his kit and sped
to Sydney before walking up the gangway.
The doctor, whose job was attending to
Jack’s health at the Naval Depot, left un-
attached.
Mrs. E. E. McKellar has decided to take
her two daughters to Europe, so Miss C.
McKellar is turning her back on Bell Park
to join her mother and sister Nesta. The
trio will sail on the Moldavia.
The Frank Addisons have come from
Warracknabeal to enjoy a golfing holiday.
Mrs. Addison, who lived in the Blue Lakes
district of S.A. before she became a banker’s
wife, is preparing to part with her second
daughter, Betty, who when term begins will
join sister Joyce at the Hermitage school,
Geelong.
That promising young pianist Lindsay
Biggins writes from Leipzig that he has
begun study under the famous Max Pauar,
who was impressed by the training the Mel-
bourne boy received at the Uni. Con. under
Prof. Laver and F. W. Homewood.
George Johnson, who is one of the import-
ant folk of Calcutta, is here with his wife,
well known in Melbourne as Mrs. G. Blair,
and before that as Val Robertson, of St.
Kilda. When left a widow she went to
India, and her grit and personality won her
a lucrative job as supervisor of the Bengal
telephone exchange, which she held for seven
years until her second marriage. Her little
daughter, Gina Blair, who has been with
her mother in India, began her education in
a school among the hills of Darjeeling, and
probably will continue her studies here. The
Johnsons, with the George Strables of Hamp-
ton, motored through Canberra to Sydney
for the new year holidays,
A gentlewoman of the old “colonial” school
who has just celebrated her S6th Christmas
in Australia is Mrs. Agnes Fraser. She came
to Australia with her parents in the ship
Marquis of Bute in 1841 as a girl of 10.
The family settled in what is now Fitzroy,
but was then virgin bush. She cherishes
happy memories of Crcmorne Gardens,
situated on the Yarra and run by George
Coppin. John O’Sliannessy, who afterwards
climbed into the job of State Premier, was
one of the family’s friends. He lived in a
mud house, roofed with bark, situated on the
corner of Bourke and Swanson streets, but
never appeared in public without a bell-
topper and a frock-coat. After marriage
Mrs. Fraser became a wealthy resident of
the St. Arnaud district and was noted as
the most daring rider and the smartest dresser
of the country side. Judge Gaunt was one
of her circle of friends, and she became a
strong supporter of his political views. Mrs.
Fraser has survived three husbands, and
retains her belief that marriage is a sound
and happy institution.
Hope Campbell has been entertaining a
large Christmas house-party at Western
Park, Bittern. Among the guests are his
relatives Lady Mary Barton, her daughter
Sheila and the Roland Grahams’ niece
Edith Orr, who has just arrived from over-
sea with her uncle and aunt.
Nurse Thelma Ada Hooper, who hails
from Geelong, is wearing a modest blush of
satisfaction. Dr. Jeffreys Wood's medal has
come her way as a reward for securing the
highest marks in the three years’ service
class at the Children’s Hospital. A condi-
tion of the award is that the recipient must
prove the possession of practical knowledge
and also kind and sympathetic understand-
ing of her shall charges.
Alex. Turnbull, who passed out recently
in London, had both relatives and friends
here. Some years back he had a successful
career as an operatic singer and acquired a
number of suburban houses which proved a
good source of income. He died a bachelor,
leaving his all to a favorite niece. The girl
is a comely lass, whose engagement was
announced some time ago.
With the laudable intention of making
Melbourne brighter and better on rainy days,
a leading rag-shop has imported a collection
of colored raincoats for the fair sex. These
are in shot-silk effects with a sheen of vel-
vet, in plaids, and also in imitations of
reptile skins. They are smartly cut and
pleated, with buttonholes picked out in con-
trasting colors and decorative buttons.
Mrs. T. a’Beckett returned from abroad
in time to spend Christmas with her family.
The Lyceum Club will give its president a
cordial welcome home early in the New Year.
The Somers household has transferred
itself from the cottage on the heights of
Macedon to The Point, Black Rock, the
home of the Turner-Shaws, which has been
taken for a term for the sake of the sea air
and bathing.
“A.G.M.’s” notes from London: —
Mrs. Cameron, the widow of Dr. Cameron, of Bris-
bane, has a flat in Hanover-street, where she and her
pretty daughter have been entertaining several artist
acquaintances made during their stay in London. It
is Mrs. Cameron’s intention to visit Scotland soon
and see her husband’s people, the Camerons of Lochiel.
On returning to Australia it is probable she and
Miss Cameron will settle in Sydney.
A bright little Sydney girl, Miss Hesper Quaife,
is making her home in London and has taken a
handsomely decorated flat near Lancaster Gate, though
she cannot get possession till the new year. She has
been spending some time with her brother, Dr.
Quaife, in Manchester.
A political marriage announced for December 6
has occasioned some puzzlement because of the prefix
“lion.” to the intending bridegroom. Very few
people knew that the member for South Shields, E.
A. St. Aubyn Harney, K.C., was formerly a member
of the Australian Senate, which confers the handle.
The bride-elect is Kathleen Anderson, of South
Shields, whose father introduced Harney as an
eleventh-hour Liberal candidate in the 1922 election.
Lord and Lady Hastings, son and daughter-in-law
of Lord and Lady Huntingdon, are expected in
London in a day or two after their Australian visit
and will stay with their people in Manchester-square.
They have been absent from England since their
marriage in 1925.
Bridget Fuller, daughter of the late Sir John
Fuller, whose wedding last v'eek to John P. E. Walker
was attended by several Australian friends of the
ex-Governor, wore a most artistic blending of velvet
and old Iloniton lace, with a delicate embroidery of
crystals and pearls. The veil was of old Brussels
lace and pearls were introduced into the wreath.


o
.--1
. %
-
UN «
8 DAY LACQUER CLOCK
SIZE -11" x 6"
£
! O
m
■>-..
Handsome LOUIS'XV-’
0 U hi L.
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Beauf'iPulLy Inlaid
and Mounted
£ 20
Fan cy Inla i «d
■B-UM'L
DRAWING-ROOM CLOCK
Gift mounhs, Shrikes the
half-hour® «. Hours 005005
ft \Z n
£2l
WM-DRUMMOND & CO.
344-346 COLLINS STREET-HELBOUR.NErI
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm in the World
with permanent offices in all
countries to give service and
assistance to Travellers.
sdfasdf
Their Uniformed Interpreters at all
ports and stations in Europe assist their
patrons in passing Customs examina-
tions, registerirg baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
, Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers* Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building.
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
A. SAUNDERS’
TOILET GIFTS
in ZYLONITE or
SHELL.
A. Saunders’ Eau-de-Cologne,
in Cut-glass Decanter, Globe
or Square Shape, 15/6
Large Plain Decanter, 30/-
A. Saunders’ White Xylonite Puff
Jar, 17/6-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6
A. Saunders’ Brush, Comb and Mirror,
Shell or White Xylonite, in Silk-lined
Case, £3
Others, £3/10/-, £4
Special
Care and
Attention
Given to all
MAIL
ORDERS.
m
I*ll
3*.'
as**
m
mm
« m
Send for
Our Free
Catalogue.
Satisfaction
Guaranteed
A. Saunders’ Manicure Set, finest quality Instruments in
White Xylonite or Shell, in Xylonite or Shell Case, £3
Other styles, 20/-, 25/-
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
L
m
; rii
!> .Dll)
Unhurried
Craftsmanship
Every ELGIN is a strik-
ing example of good
taste, authentic design
and unhurried crafts-
manship.
Conceded to be the world’s stan-
dard for watch integrity, ELGIN
also combines exquisite beauty of
design.
v.- V >■ f. *
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
(s>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
J)up frade Mark in the Watch Care


* ■•***• ?*»
m..
*+~r ***-
• ■*•
•$* * ■*»
:* ;.?? V*' •> :*' * *
« 'Ci' :
J j , v
< N
M!
w;
rA \Jv«4
«*/
J^in
ti
'*C :* '
m
\v
Q
r
<4,
/>
<m
>'a
Hf «
v : ' ".
..••••
4
■, ~,*
>.
Mi
-
■I
'<=rai
n • m
■:** nwi
%
'
Ah
/ '/ , • *
..' g
•, «&
/ - i
' . ><* ''
■ 4.4
\
**•
/
V = ■ . .4
* <»
iiKS m if
, .. i
m
\
««&
M
, 'JT
«r
nr
:*
V
/■/
%-
a
to4m
OUR illustration depicts the fight scene in Mr.
famous poem, ** Saltbush Bill.” (The C<
A. B. Paterson. Angus & Robertson, Ca
Sydney.) In this poem Mr. Paterson tells hi
eloquently, of the battle with the Eighty drought
Bill's cunning method of obtaining a feed for the
sheep which he was presumably moving to agi
“ He was drifting down in the Eighty drought with a mob tha
(When the kangaroos by the thousand starve, it is rough on
And he camped one night by the crossing-place on the edge c
* We must manage a feed for them here / he said, ‘ or half of ih
On leaving the camp Bill allowed the mob to spi
feed instead of keeping to the legitimate half-m
some time, one of the Wilga Jackaroos and a stati
sight. They proceeded to drive back the starvin
half-mile which marked the Stock Route.
Bill cursed the Jackaroo as only a drover can,
young fellow dismounted and promptly “ mixed
Since those days of the Eighty drought, science has
poet submits these lines, which bear on the subj e
That Sal
He battki
Though g
He carrier
He puts n
When he <
Victoria :
South Aust :
West Aust :
Q’land :
Branches and Agents:
Meggitt Ltd., Box 4510, G.P.O., Spencer St., j
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Box 387 G.P.O., At
Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Perth, Distributors
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd., Perth, Sub-district
Denhams Ltd., Brisbane.
Denham Bros. Ltd., Rockhampton. ,
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and
Apart from their value in maintaining starving
sheep, Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts are playing
a big part in tiding sheep over the adverse seasons
of each year, when grass dries off and loses feeding
value.
In order to increase your yield of wool and lambs
—feed
Meggitt’s Linseed
Sheep Nuts
whenever pasture is dry and mature.
This food supplies exactly what is lacking in the
grass and ensures production on the highest
possible plane.


1
«
sis
*l3.
ZZk
I f •*>•
w
Jk , .'••* - ■
*r M
#* I
* * *
44
*«**•'
y#Sig
it
. * ■
*
■- ■ • ■&: '
21-^“'-
*
e,
Ci «
~;
'
Mi
m
c /SJi/
*»► . a«*vw*sl i
j
5« # W
»v HI
41«%
*&3 j
■ ■■
■ ■>•
■
.
f
■ .
.
•'
•'
i
# •
n*
•:/
7.;
•:
- : a •
j
'
: ,1
I !
| \
■
,T !
\
*%/&*■'* m ‘ -' V! " C; "”' r -~^
- *•-**»• f
%
M *- j 3
■*«
■ *»
| r ||W
*-
**sa*
... . • - njfc
!.& Wi
‘•alSp®
«k*KU»
.
s
Mr. A. B. Paterson's
: Collected Verse of
Castlereagh Street,
humourously, but
ight and of Saltbush
he mob of starving
agistment country.
) that could scarcely creep
h on the travelling sheep),
dge of the Wilga run ;
of the mob are done ! ’ ”
spread in search of
f-mile track. After
station hand hove in
rving sheep into the
:an, whereupon the
ixed it." This was
exactly what Bill had planned, so that his sheep might spread with-
out interruption,
“ So he shifted ground, and he sparred for wind, and he made it a lenghty mill,
And from time to time as his scouts came in they whispered to Saltbush Bill—
* We have spread the sheep with a two-mile spread, and the grass it is something
grand ’ ;
4 You must stick to him, Bill, for another round for the pride of the Overland.’ ”
They fought on till at last, seeing his sheep hopelessly mixed with
the Wilga sheep, Bill gave his opponent best, whereupon the young
man returned to the Wilga homestead and told a thrilling tale of
how he had thrashed Saltbush Bill, King of the Overland,
“ But the travelling sheep and the Wilga sheep were boxed on the Old Man Plain ;
Twas a full week’s work ’ere they drafted out and hunted them off again. ”
However, Saltbush Bill's sheep were saved, for
“ With a good week’s grass in their wretched hides, with a curse and a stockwhip
crack,
They hunted them off on the road once more to starve on the half-mile track ,
And Saltbush Bill of the Overland will many a time recite
How the best day’s work that he ever did was the day that he lost the fight. ”
has done much to help the grazier in his ever-recurring fight with drought, and our office
übject, with due apologies to “ Banjo ” Paterson,
Saltbush Bill has his fight to-day, there isn't the slightest doubt ;
attles it out in the modern way with the grim old spectre Drought ;
igh grass be baked and ground be caked he's cheery and undismayed,
irries a scientific punch, for “ Meggitt's " brings him aid ;
utsnew light into glazing eyes —new life into starving guts,
i he springs his great last-round surprise with Meggitt’s Linseed Nuts.
St., Melbourne.
Adelaide.
[tors.
rifcitors.
and Cairns.
C /PL&(fssitt JZimited
HEAD OFFICE, 26 KINC ST., SYDNEY
VDorfts ■■ Parramatta. N SVU. ■ Melbourne. Victoria • Port Adelaides A.
im
CKc Aoy on /Ac tug
QiuuwUreJ yuuhty'
'y/ie />og on the
guarantees quality


Under'
Royal
.Warrant
ToH.M
King
George \
sdf
Vintage 1917. I
CHAMPAGNE <
Charleslleidsieck
mmimm •
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
L
/
Champagne
l3 »arlcsHcidsic(>
Reims
Ml
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address: “MUM'
Wire Accommodation.
HdlfeL
Offers the Perfect Accompaniment
to Twentieth-Century Travel.
The Most Up-to-date Hotel in the
Southern Hemisphere.
Luxurious lounges. Private Suites. Hot
and Cold Water, and Telephones in every
room. Rooms with or without baths.
SEE SYDNEY UNDER PERFECT
CONDITIONS.
TARIFF:
Room with breakfast, 17/
Inclusive Board from 26/-
with bath from 30/-
Attached is the Famous Went-
worth Cafe. The Mecca of
Social Sydney.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
aO The centre of Queens/onfs
d/stnJwsPed Soc/o/ Lite.
Mate I
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Liner
sdf
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
SAY
Kayser
SLIPPER HEEL
[?]
STOCKINGS
Half-empty stands (and yet the turnstiles
registered 42,000), a nippy breeze and gloom-
ing skies were Randwick's apparel for the
A.J.C. Christmas party. The gauzy girl who
generally puts a bubble into the Summer
Cup with her rhythm of chiffons and organdie
stayed mostly either at home or in a cocoon
of nutria, kasha or fur topcoat. A few, de-
luded by their inborn faith that Sydney must
put out a line of sunshine in December,
appeared in flimsies, and their lips became
positively blue with suppressed language. But
even the weather couldn’t suppress the glad-
ness of Sydney’s shoes. Strapped and laced
and latticed, in satin, in enamelled kid, in
Eve’s ruin, but never in suede, they ascended
and descended the stands in a bewildering
variety which might easily have inspired
Handel’s “How Beautiful are the Feet !”■ A
pair in red morocco were proudly worn by
a girl who was otherwise white from her
stockings to the throat-button of the heavy-
weigiiL crepe de Chines under her hand-made
woollen topcoat. A little red hat like lacquer
completed the outfit.
The Governor and Lady de Chair left
the Arcadian delights of Sutton Forest in
response to the beckoning horseshoe, and
brought with them a great company to dress
the vice-regal pews. The black coat with
which Lady de Chair covered the Celadon-
blue fringe of her frock was woven with a
design in silver thread, and her hat was
blue and wide of brim. Elaine wore one of
the buttoned-to-the-chin jumpers. It was
black, but the skirt beneath it was green, and
a green water-lily snuggled at the side of her
wide black hat. Dame Clarissa Reid, who
is. still star-boarder at Government House,
mixed Chinchilla and black satin and crowned
them with ospreys. Mrs. Horncastle, who
occupies the other guest-room, warmed her
Italian blue crepe de Chines under an em-
bossed coat in black and gunmetal. Very
impressive was Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar in
mulberry kasha, above which her toque
bloomed with mauve petunias. The Chief
Justice Streets were with the State Exes.,
Premier Bavin was with Colonel Murdoch,
the owner of Vitality, and Margaret Mac-
arthur Onslow was with a fair girl in a
jade-green hat, the new Mrs. Denzil Onslow.
Mrs. Gordon Wesclie and Mrs. Colin
Stephen, the latter in cigar-brown kasha,
worn with a small hat smooth with hackle
feathers; a lady in a black and white
calf-skin coat; and the newly convalescent
Mrs. A. C. Goclhard in a grey lizard-skin coat
deserving of the greatest admiration were
others who watched the horses come and go.
Canonbury, the gracious old Darling Point
home that was generously given by the
A.J.C. for the use of disabled soldiers, is
now a playground for little boys and girls
in convalescence from the public hospitals.
The A.J.C. never does things by halves, and
although the bills for the upkeep of the
home amount to £6OOO a year, the forty
kiddies at Canonbury had one of the most
gorgeous Christmas parties in Sydney. A
tree that glittered in the most distracting
way was allowed to burst on the gaze of
wide eyes after the owners thereof had
wrapped themselves around the usual
goodies that bloom in December. There
were toys and jazz-caps and fun for every-
body, and Colin Stephen and his lady and
Charlie Cropper, Eadith Hill and a group
of other warm friends of Canonbury saw
happiness romp about the rooms and over
the emerald lawns of the one-time home of
Harry Rickards. Maybe the old showman
on ghostly feet paused among the little
guests to listen to the conjuring patter and
storytelling of Mr. Garling, who for a good-
half-hour had the kiddies in the hollow of his
hand.
This Letter bids a rather sorrowful fare-
well to. Mrs. Mostyn, the last Mayoress who
will reign over the reception-rooms in Sydney
Town Hall for two years at least. ' One
wonders what the ghostly company of dead-
and-gone Mayoresses—some of them beauties,
many of them the strong force behind their
husbands’ success—will whisper about the
innovation of three Commissioners to
handle civic affairs instead of a company of
aldermen led by a gentleman in rabbitskln
and chains. Mrs. Mostyn has been an earnest
and amiable Mayoress, and if Town Hall
functions have been rare rather than rich
during her term of office, the reason has been
the state of civic turmoil and not the lady's
lack of capacity.
The three Commissioners lay no claim to
being society entities—and indeed music
and song and dance play no part in the
work they will be called on to do for the
city. Perhaps some provision in the way of
an entertainment allowance w T ill go 'with the
office of Town Clerk, and in that case no one
will spend it more graciously and with a
finer gesture than the present W. G. Layton.
As a rallying point in times of disaster or
distress the Town Hall and its Mayoress
have always been a great factor. It would
be a pity to allow the Hall to cease function-
ing in these respects.
While Sydney has been rejoicing in per-
fect days and nights, almost all Europe has
been sniffling through the worst Christmas
weather it has had since the century was
very young. On Christmas Day, following
a blizzard, snow fell heavily in London; and
there were snowdrifts 20 feet deep on Salis-
bury Plain. The P. and O. boat which had
unshipped Australian passengers at Mar-
seilles in time to catch train and boat for
an English Christmas was afterwards storm-
bound in the Bay of Biscay; and some of the
passengers who liad left at Marseilles found
the crossing at Calais blocked. Wayward,
this land of ours, no doubt; but, after all,
what a good land!
When the heads of the Bay Line offered
the Moreton Bay as the flagship of the
Balmain Regatta they did not take into
account the inclinations of the stewards;
and when the day came and the G.-G. had
been played on board, and the bidden guests
were thinking of lunch as a welcome inter-
lude, the stewards said they were much too
tired after the voyage to wait on holiday-
makers. Serve passengers they must, but
serve regatta visitors they would not —no,
not even for double pay. And they did not.
So his Ex. had a snack in the captain’s
cabin; but like the fourth little pig in the
rhyme, the other poor guests, Dr. Evatt,
Balmain's member, among them, got none.
It isn’t only the bush-born girl who does
these wonderful things out in the saltbush
and 'the mulga. The other day a little wisp
of a Sydney ■girl, who had gone out into
Western Queensland and accumulated two
babies and a single-seater, decided that il
was time mother saw the wonderful infants.
Dad couldn’t get away, but there was a girl
friend handy who also wanted to show
mother another wonderful infant; so the pair
loaded their three trophies in the single-
seater, hung it round about with gear, slipped
a well-handled rifle under the seat in case of
accidents (the little wisp has learned how to
bowl over kangaroos and make rugs out of
the skins), then climbed in and headed for
Bourke. That was at Winton, 1200 miles
from Sydney; and, though they met heavy
rains on the way and had to camp out one
night in a hopeless bog, and another time
had to call a tractor to the rescue, they
turned up in Sydney at the end of the ninth
day. And on the morning of the tenth day
three infants were goo-gooing as though
they hadn’t just been through an adventure,
and, having sorted out the washing, the wisp
was enthusiastically driving into town to
see what the traffic was like.
This pretty
creature is
Mrs. Mackie,
one of the
strongest
hopes of the
Players’ Club.
In addition to
being a clever
actress, she
has a taste for
stage manage-
ment. She was
responsible for
the production
of “Over-
rule d,” the
Shawone-acter
which was a
feature of the
last bill pre-
sented by the
club to the
public. May
Moore made
the picture.
Sydney singing girl Nellie Leach spent
her Christmas at Nice, in a little chateau
perched above the Cascade de Gairant. From
there she sends New Year greetings to her
Australian chums. When in London Nellie
runs a bonnet shop. And from snowbound
England Mrs. H. C. Hardy, -who was Fay
Ainsworth of Warrawee, and from her be-
loved Italy popular Lute Drummond wing
each a thought across the cables to Sydney.
But the happiest thought of all was that
which was delivered at her own doorstep to
a Cremorne mother on Christmas Eve.
From Searl’s came a basket of radiant
roses and Christmas bush, and tucked inside
were two cards with a message in the hand-
writing of her two daughters in England.
You place the order with your florist in
London or Liverpool or Sydney, hand him
the cards, tell him the date you want the
flowers delivered, and again man’s ingenuity
annihilates space.
Inverell Mclntyre, whose father sells law
at Inverell, has said the word that tops off
the luck of Vernon McDougall of the same
district. Vernon, who is an ex-Digger, wrings
his crust from the land. There’s jam there-
on, though, for the young man is a legatee
of the late Arthur Stirton.
Another descendant of the eloquent Dr.
Kelynack is about to be married. She is
Phyllis, daughter of padre L. H. Kelynack,
of Stanmore. The young man in the case
is Rupert Scott, of Elizabeth Bay.
M.L.A. Mutch, this State’s Minister for
Education in the Lang Government, will
take his second plunge into matrimony early
in the New Year. His bride wall be Dorothy
Joyce, a Melbourne girl on the staff of the
Parramatta High School.
Another wedding which is an early fixture
is that of Sydney Equity .barrister F. R.
Jordan, to Bertha Clay, a Sydney girl, the
niece of Dr. Scot Skirving.
A week or two ago this Letter discovered
the Boomerang Club, the object of which is
to help the aborigine—especially the child
abo. To every available native camp in
Australia it sent Christmas greetings in cash
or kind: yet it is a small club, its mem-
bers a group of girls in Marrickville _ who
first became interested through the visit of
one of their
number to the
settlement at
Bom aderry.
She had gone
with clothing
and groceries
sent by the
subject of this
May Moore
picture, Mrs.
J. B. Smith,
who had been
interested in
the work
when, before
her marriage,
she was a sis-
ter attached
to one of the.
City Church
Missions. The
Boomer ang
Club, of which
Mrs. Smith is
the president, is now an established tact,
and this season small black brother and
sister have had their share of the joys that
Christmas means to the youngsters in our
own homes.
The native missions are very hard up,
and the sisters who give their lives to the
work are only impelled to carry on by
the fire of a great enthusiasm. They love
their little charges, wliose intelligence they
aver is equal to that of other races. They
will quote you school tests if you look
astonished, and will tell you of aborigine
girls who have a talent for teaching, of
others who, having left school, pay for
further studies out of money they earn in
daily jobs. In the meantime the camp at
Bomaderry very badly needs a few improve-
ments. They will cost £4O. That sum is
mentioned in an awe-stricken whisper.
The Boomerang Club means to raise that
money. It’s not necessary to live in Mar-
rickville to subscribe.
The Great Synagogue was a blaze of lights
early last week for the marriage of Olga
Himmelhoch, of Double Bay, to Dr. Joseph
Schwartz Barr-David, of Melbourne.
Modelled on the fashion of the early-Victorian
period, the bride’s frock was a wide and
swaying affair of white moire and tulle, and
her coronet of orange blossom rose graciously
over billows of white tulle even as the Ark
surmounted the billows of old. Two attrac-
tive ’maids in blue taffeta and tulle, their
hands filled with roses, followed the bride:
and later her mother and father entertained
the wedding guests ,at Dungowan.
The Killara Congregational Church blessed
the vows exchanged by Dr. Muriel Felstead,
of Castle Crag, and Dr. Jack Barnes, of
Bellevue Hill. The wedding was one of the
few events between Christmas and New
Year, and was at once pictorial and intimate
—only relations and close family friends
joined in the ceremonial. The outstanding
feature of the bride’s raiment was the lace
veil of great age and price that draped the
white georgette frock. Two maids, Elaine
Felstead and Dorothy Barnes, in rose du
Barry and mist-blue georgettes, were in the
picture.
The South Coast’s first “motel” was opened
last week. It is in Sylvania, on the corner
of the main road and the road to Cronulla,
just beyond the punt at Tom Ugly’s.. It
consists of a number of detached kiosks.
At one the passer-by can procure eggs, veget-
ables and fruit (mainly from the farms near
by) ; another is a soda fountain; still
another is an open-air dance floor. Fringing
this are supper tables, and a feature of this
out-of-doors catering is that you will wait
on yourselves, cafeteria fashion. A bowser
conveys the glad tidings that refreshment
is provided for man and beast. When the
“motel” is in running order tennis-lawns,
a nine-hole golf course, and a swimming
bath will be a few joy-makers for the
brethren who always want to be doing some-
thing. Five acres of ground —just now a
blaze of Christmas bush —stretches down to
the water’s edge, and here camping space for
motorists is provided. In the U.S.A. these
“motels” occur regularly along every motor
route. The idea is one that should take on
in Australia, though it’s to be hoped the
name, made in America, won’t. Yet perhaps
it’s a shade better than the “Do Drive Inn”
legend that shakes in the breeze above every
second of these Yankee establishments.
Sylvania turned out in full force to thank
the pioneer of this new form of road house.
He is, by the way, a son of the once well-
known Dr. West.
Just how much the road house owes to a
young fellow named Longfellow would be
hard to estimate; His “Tales of a Wayside
Inn” made one caravanserai so financial that
enterprising men in the neighborhood set
about building in and out of highway and
byway. But then, out of sheer cussedness,
the supply of Longfellows would not keep
up with the builders. So somebody in-
vented jazz bands to take the place of
poets, and the road house became as national
an institution as the White House or the
Mayflower.
Previous mention of Dr. Evatt, of Bal-
main, recalls Peter, the small boy of the
family. Dr. Evatt’s wife, who is bubbling
over with human sympathy and good deeds,
had opened a sale-of-work in aid of a local
church or charity (they are much the same
over at Balmain), and the clergyman had
taken the platform and was heaping praises
on the head of the lady. On and on he went,
piling story upon story of her goodness,
until Peter simply .could not stand it any
longer. Slipping down off his seat, he darted
up, pulled down the lady’s face, gave her two
large kisses and darted back again. Had
it been stage-managed it would have been a
stroke of genius; unrehearsed, it got more
applause than the parson ever hopes to
win.
Ethel Osborn is winning high praise from
English provincial critics on the annual
Butt-Rumford pilgrimage round the Cold
Land. Australia hasi four representatives in
the party —Ethel herself, Miss Wade (Dame
Clara’s secretary), Adrian Holland (a new
recruit as accompanist), and “Robin,” a
vociferous galah which travels as mascot and
acts as watchdog over Dame Clara’s well-
filled jewel case. Miss Osborn coo-ees her
New Year greetings through The Bulletin
to her friends in Australia.
Romano’s is Sydney’s newest jazz palace.
It is in York-street, near Market-street, and
close to the Civil Service Stores —they
have lately gone into their new quarters,
formerly Lassetter’s. At the entrance to
Romano’s on the opening night stood a small
Enver Pasha, very correct as to costume.
The lounge, which is lush with hangings
and upholsteries, is separated from the
dancing floor by a wall of plate-glass, and
crystal lamps diffuse the light. Now the
just-back-from-London girl and boy are hop-
ing that somebody will start a _ night club
like those wherein Mayfair provides “copy”
for Mr. Michael Arlen. The new restaurant
gains its name from its proprietor, who
came from London to manage the Ambassa-
dors.
The English Field is responsible for
starting scientific investigation which if
successful will make every dog-lover the
world over arise and call it blessed. The
objective of the fund is £25,000 (it is now
within £4OOO of the amount), and the money
is to be devoted to finding out the causes,
prevention or cure of distemper in dogs.
The investigators believe they are within
sight of victory, for as a result of experi-
ments at the research station at Mill Hill
dogs have been rendered immune. Now the
problem resolves itself into producing a
vaccine which can be made available for
general use. And then the Australian silky
will rejoice with his brethren of Yorks, and
the Irish terrier with the St. Bernard. And
perhaps when that day comes dogs of every
nation may no longer delight to bark and
bite, and their masters may put up the
shutters at the old shop at Geneva, having
been led on to the discovery also of the
cause, cure and prevention of distemper
among men.
For the December issue of their House
Magazine the Berlei corset people gathered
a posy of Australian sentiment. Henry
Lawson, Will Ogilvie, Dorothea Mackellar,
George Essex Evans and others who have
turned their love of this great continent into
a song live again in the well-printed booklet;
and Will Ogilvie’s glinting Opal Poem is
another gem of the collection.


JiARDY BROTHERS LTD
SPLENDID GIFTS FOR MEN
131804.
Silver Cigarette Case, attractively
engine-turned, to hold single row
of cigarettes. Size 3J x 2} ins.
48/-
81803.
Silver Cigarette Box, neat plain design.
To hold —
50 cigarettes, 78/-
75 cigarettes, ££>
100 cigarettes, £0
: dfg
dfg
HlBO6.
Blue Fine Seal Tobacco Pouch,
lined oiled silk, with two
silver corners. Size, folded as
in lower illustration, 5 S x 2-if
inches.
28/-
Unmounted design, 18/-
81802.
Silver Barrel Match-
box with Steel
Striker, tin. in
diameter. Will take
box of wax matches.
IS/-
Five Per Cent. Discount Allowed for Cash.
Hardy's New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
coS..
Melbourne.
HAfl DY
BROTHERS LTD
£7/te%ousc oP Qxcluswc VewclUnj
U6-JlB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
BY STEELE RUDD.
THE ROMANCE OF
RUNNIBEDE
JUST PUBLISHED.
Steele Rudd has won the regard of all lovers of a clean story,
his latest work, THE ROMANCE OF RUNNIBEDE, will enhance
his reputation as Australia’s greatest writer.
A CONVINCING STORY.
He tells a convincing story of old pioneer days, when they
who flung themselves into the wlldernciia without experience,
buoyed up only by their giant courage and unyielding faith, fought
valiantly against the ever-present spectre of flood, fire and drought,
and with undaunted hearts faced the spears of hostile blacks. I o
these pioneers of old, Australia owes a debt.
MANY RUNNIBEDES.
Steele Rudd now, with facile pen, pays a tribute to their
memory by writing the ROMANCE OF RUNNIBEDE, and places
upon record for all time an authentic story of those early days.
There were many Runnibedes, but few writers have essayed the
task of chronicling their stirring story.
RUDD’S BEST BOOK.
The ROMANCE OF RUNNIBEDE is the finest book that
Steele Rudd has written. It is quite different from his earlier efforts,
which depicted the lighter side of bush life. Rudd has given us a
ieal Australian story with true atmosphere of the bush on every
page—exciting incidents and a charming love story are blended in
what is a really big story.
THE BOOK ITSELF.
It is a special film edition, crown Bvo, cloth, with striking three-
►color loose cover and eight one-color illustrations from film scenes.
PRICE 4/6; Posted 49.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Rowlandson House,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The races at Ascot were run under blue
skies and watched by thousands. Against the
flower-beds of zinnia, scarlet salvia and gaudy
love-lies-bleeding moved bright voiles and
delicate summer gownings. Lady Goodwin
wore rose-colored mariette and margot lace,
with a hat in tone, and a rose-painted scarf.
Mrs. N. A. 11. Campbell was in apricot with
pearl-grey hat, Mrs. A. W. Macnaughtou
wore willow-green and Lady Sleight was in
navy. She is staying with Mrs. 11. R.
Carter, whose gown was smoke-grey, with a
hat of moss-green. Mrs. Wallis Hoare’s
flecked crepe <le Chine had a panel of tiny
lace frills and her hat was of black and
cream; Mrs. W. B. Journenux wore ivory
and jade; Mrs. Alan Jeff ray was frocked
in lime, with golden-brown cloche; Mrs. J.
P. O. Cowlishaw chose mauve, and her
daughter Phyllis was in ivory and green;
Mrs. Cadell Garrick was in leaf-brown Chan-
tilly. Amongst the throng were the M. L.
Readings and E. K. Tullys. The committee
entertained the v.-r. party at lunch.
Socially, Brisbane follows the approved
Christmas fashion, and the smartest folk
don’t like to be seen in the city; but there
have been a few dinner parties at Lennon’s,
and the Goodwins gave dinner at Govern-
ment House to the E. K. Tullys, Cecil
Palmers, Dorothy and Alice Hawthorn, Irma
Dearden, Jean Darvall, Captains Darvall and
11. M. Saunders, Jerry Bannister, Kivas
Tully and others.
Southport has been the centre of gaiety.
The Wychcourt tennis club had a dance in
the School of Arts amidst gum-boughs and
ijay balloons. Edna Barron and Reg Mclntosh
made music, and Mrs. Hal Pain saw to the
extras. The supper was buffet. Mrs. Pain
was in peach pink, Mrs. Western Walsh
in sequined-black and Mrs. Max Graham in
beaded black. Mrs. Lance Jones’s black
was relieved with gold; Kathleen Wearne
wore green and gold; Marjorie Armstrong
was in mauve; Bebe Bulcock wore pink;
Dorothy Webster was in mauve shot-taffetas ;
and Hilda Walsh was in rose.
There have been several parties for Eileen
Walsh prior to her marriage. Doris and
Jean Alford had a handkerchief tea amid
decorations of verbena, and Dr. and Mrs.
Berry gave a mail jongg evening for her’,
when Coora-jcebea was decked with roses,
honeysuckle and hibiscus blossoms.
The W. H. Barneses are in Sydney, and
Mrs. M. Forrest and her daughter go there
for a holiday early in the New Year. Dr.
and Mrs. George Thomson spent their Christ-
mas at Coolangatta, and the F. C. Gores are
there now.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin are off to
Toowoomba for a few days.
Archbishop Duliig is with us again and
will lecture about his travels.
Mackay is to have Sergt. Bill Angus, one
of the “Old Contemptible” V.C.’s, as a sugar-
grower. Lord Ncwlands, a Scottish peer,
gave him £lOOO, and with his wife and two
kiddies Angus brings it to Bananaland.
“Cradle Snatchers” at His Majesty’s is
liked by Brisbane people. At Cremorne
“Aladdin” has been bursting into an abnor-
mal number of matinees. Local kiddies are
dancing in the panto. The Empire has put
on a new interior dress of brown and gold,
with white pillars and blue cloth, as part of
the setting for “Abie’s Irish Rose.”
Arthur Boyle is taking a concert com-
pany through the wilds of Tambourine and
the jungles of Ipswich. Lyric-tenor Willie
Pierson goes along. The Dublin boy has a
very pretty brogue and the kind of voice
warranted to touch Irish hearts.
Jean Love, daughter of the James Loves,
of Glenkerdron, was married to Escourt Lux-
ton. son of I*. J. and the late Mrs. Luxton,
Melbourne, in St. Andrew’s, Lutwyche. The
kirk was decorated with white flowers. The
bride faced the altar in ivory satin and veil
of Carriekmacross lace; the latter lent by
Mrs. Osborn. Mrs. Jack Boyd, her sister,
in blue georgette, was matron of honor, and
Irene Edgar, in pink, ’maided. Both had
posies of Dorothy Perkins roses. In pale-
blue georgette, Mary Billington was train-
bearer.
Heber Longman is gloating over the skin
and skull of the red dog of India which Sir
John Goodwin obtained from Bombay and
presented to our Museum. .It is something
like our dingo. In life he does not bark
and is utterly untamable.
The Yorkshire Society had a Christmas
party in St. Luke’s, and there was a Santa
Claus and a tree.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
His Excellency, accompanied by Margaret
O’Grady and Mrs. Kerr Cameron, was at
the reception given by Mayor and Mayoress
Wignall at the Town Hall to commemorate
the 70th anniversary of the incorporation of
the City Council. The hall was brilliantly
decorated, and the guests included descend-
ants and relations of every Mayor wdio has
held office since 1857. The O’Grady waxed
poetical, adjuring the burgesses to lift up
their hearts, and have vision, courage and
hope. Music and victuals rounded out the
evening.
Lady Cowan paid us a visit and gave an
address at the Town Hall on the aims of the
British Women’s Patriotic League, of which
she is president. Mayoress Wignall intro-
duced the lady, who said that -when she
went shopping in Hobart she found foreign
goods more easily obtainable than British
or Australian. She praised the qualities iff
Australian-made stockings.
The O’Grady, daughters and party, in
which were included the Simpson couple,
visitors from the Cold Country, and Padre
Leonard, went to New Norfolk for the
regatta. The party was met and lunched
by President L. M. Shoobridge and the
officials of the Regatta Association.
The coming-out dance of the W. W.
Giblins’ blue-eyed, dark-liaired daughter
Betty was one of the smartest and prettiest
jollos of the season. The hall of the Con-
tinental was ablaze with golden broom, and
the ball-room was bright with colored bal-
loons and crystalised crackers. The debu-
tante’s frock was of silver tissue, with silver
lace flounces. The long rucked French bodice
was decorated on the right shoulder with
a cluster of shell-pink roses. There was a
big muster of the younger set.
This is Mrs. F. T. Baxter, who has made
herself a high reputation as an organiser.
She originated
an d carried
out tlie idea
of the Tassy
children’s gift
of a minia-
t u r c suite o f
doll’s furni-
ture, presented
to little Prin-
cess Betty
when the
Yorks were
here last year.
The beautiful
Sunbea rn
C h i 1 d r e n’s
Chfllet at the
Consumpt i v e
Sa natoriu m
also owes its
existence to
her, and for
the past 12
months she has
been relieving Mrs. Darling on the Bush-
nursing committee as well as being a valued
supporter of many other charitable and social
movements.
Two of our ■ old-established country
families have formed a bond by the engage-
ment of Zeerust, second daughter of the
T. W. 11. Clarkes. Quorn. Campbell Town,
to Alan, eldest son of the Eustace Camerons,
Mona Yale, Ross. The prospective bride is
one of our foremost social beauties and
an all-round sport. She and her sister Ronda
are indefatigable riders to hounds with the
Midland Hunt Club.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Belmont Racecourse was a blaze of
color on Derby Day, and giant cannas. round
beds of massed phlox, a profusion of roses,
glowing petunias and banks of mauve
hydrangeas made a gay setting for summery
gowns. Shady maples and camphor laurels
kept the green lawns cool. Lady Campion,
in black lace gown and hat, watched the
gallops from the palm-decked v.-r. coop.
Mrs. Langlois Lefroy was graceful in rose
chiffons and hat; secretary Marillier’s lady
chose black georgette with plumbago and
gold traceries; Mrs. Edgar Meares wore
Nile-green chenille georgette, and Mrs. Drake
Brockman peach hemstitched voile. Mrs.
Reg Summerhayes, sporting a trousseau
gown of ecru lace and deep-cream georgette,
and Mrs. ,T. L. B. Weir and some well-
turned-out daughters were in the throng.
Other smart dressers were Mrs. Cecil Dent,
in mauve checks, and Mrs. Ambrose, in a
striking creation of black satin embossed in
gold thread.
Iler Ex. chose another black toilette for
the Railway Stakes meeting. Mrs. Fergu-
son Stewart wore cinnamon and a wood-rose
hat; Mrs. Walter Kingsmill, kingfisher blue ;
Doreen O’Hara, a suit, of white and jade;
and Nora Lovell, green broche. Mrs. E.
W. Leake was attractive in white French
voile. Kathleen Ripper chose a blush-pink
Manilla frock, and Jean Loutit green
accordion pleatings.
Dr. Dixie Clement and Keith Barker, as
president and captain respectively, are pro-
mising to do great things with the Lake
Karrinup Country Club. Coif links, with
sports grounds and a residential club-house,
are tempting bait for prospective members
and for purchasers of land in the vicinity.
Another golf links is in the making at
Mt. Yokine, only four miles from Perth Town
Hall. The West Australian Coif Co., which
is running the show, proposes to spend
£ll,OOO on the club-house.
Jim Ainslie has bagged his F'.R.C.S. in
Blighty, and intends to hoist a brass-plate
somewhere in his native State. First-class
honors in his final year and three exhibitions
were his share of Melbourne Uni. spoil.
Another Westralian we’re proud of is
Fred Maw. He graduated in engineering at
Perth Uni., and has had experience in Smga-
pore and ]\laoriland. Now the \acuum Oil
Co. has made him its chief construction
engineer for Australia. He and his wdfe
will housekeep in Melbourne.
Mrs. George Ridgway and Mrs. Chandler
filled the former lady’s drawing-room with
flowers and small tables for a bridge ann
tea in honor of Mrs. Lazarus, who leaves
with her husband by the Euripides. In the
Cold Land they will collect daughter Julia,
who has had 12 months’ polishing abroad.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
An old resident of the Territory died in
Scotland recently. She was Mrs. Strath,
whose husband was for a number of years
in charge of the Fanny Bay gaol. Strath
joined the police force in Darwin in the
early ’eighties, and it was while on a holi-
day in the land o’ cakes that he wooed and
won his bride. Some years after the war
ended he retired from his position as chief
warder at Fanny Bay and went back with
his wife to their homeplace.
Members of the local rifle club, which is
one of the oldest clubs in Darwin, held a
smoke social at the Soldiers’ Hall on Dec.
.‘1 to bid farewell to their captain, M. C.
Todd, and to other parting members.


Send Your
Wool
to
Vinchcomt
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
by Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
Such a reputation is not won overnight
Wt
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d ♦ • . ♦ 20 for l/6
Major Drapkin dS Co., London. Branch, of The United
70
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd,
PEAPES
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
Men’s and Boys’ Wear of
the highest quality, at the
lowest prices at which such
quality can be offered.
All Goods Guaranteed.
Catalogue promptly on request.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Pfella” : Having been forced to camp for
over half a year in one spot in nor’-wesr
Groperland, I decided to make a decent fire-
place out of rocks and
anthill material, and
commenced hacking
down the nearest ter-
mite mound. Some-
where near the middle
my axe struck tin,
and working round it
roughly I lifted out
an old billycan. When
I had cleaned out the
dirt I found the metal
parts of a silver-
mounted pipe, the
skeleton of a clasp-
knife, a tin of matches
with the contents
melted into one mass,
and a plug of tobacco
which the ants couldn’t
stomach. From a half-baked study of the
ants’ activities I reckoned it took two years
of their skyscraper building to cover the
billycan.
* Hs * *
“R.K.”: What is there about the nest
of the brusli-turkey which makes it immune
from attention by the dingo? A turkey’s
nest containing up to two dozen big eggs
is a prize worth having by either man or
brute, but I have never known one to be
disturbed by the red dogs.
* * $ *
“M.G.” : Recently I had an opportunity of
seeing a lady carpet-snake in her home sur-
roundings. I was cutting cane when I
became aware of the head of
a 14-footer raised in mild
expostulation at my pre-
sence. The nest consisted
of a pile of cane trash
which would generate the
heat necessary for incuba-
tion. When I succeeded in
shifting the lady off her
mound I found, beneath, 13
eggs, each about the size of
a pigeon’s, encased in the
usual white parchment-like
covering. When the coast
was clear she recoiled her-
self in her former position,
evidently for the eggs’ pro-
tection, as her body could
provide hardly any heat to
assist incubation. Any other
species of snake similarly
discovered would have had
its career cut short, but a
baker’s dozen of carpets in
a canefield is a fine asset to
a cane cocky in the removal
of the destructive cane-rat.
* ❖ ❖
“Kooragai”: A marine
curiosity not often captured,
though it is fairly plentiful
along parts of the eastern
coast, is the angler-fish,
which nature has provided
with rod and bait for catch-
ing its prey. The rod is a
curious projection growing
from the head, and has a
fish-like filament on the end,
which dangles before the
angler’s open mouth. When
the prey makes a dart for
the bait it is jerked out of
the way and the mouth en-
gulfs the innocent. The
angler, generally lurking
among weeds where it is
hard to see, is as ugly as
anything that swims, and
has side limbs or hands for
climbing strong marine
growths. In such situations
it is out of tire way of the
average fisherman.
“Fana”: The remedy suggested by
“AdeL.” for scorpion-stings, to dab on some
ammonia (B. 8/12/’27), is all right if applied
within a minute or two of the sting, but
after that it is useless. Like all toxic animal
secretions, the fluid injected from the telson,
at the base of the scorpion’s tail, is chemi-
cally acid in reaction, and is neutralised and
rendered harmless by the alkaline ammonia.
But this applies only when the ammonia
can be brought into direct contact with the
poison : this, of course, is impossible when
sufficient time has elapsed to permit of
absorption. When absorption lias taken place
the best treatment is to follow the symp-
toms —that is to say, to administer stimu-
lants if there should be any signsof collapse
or of the weakening of the heart’s action.
$ sfc ❖ *
“Bihai”: It is strange that hundreds of
busliraen of “.Cassidy’s” acquaintance (B.
15/32/’27) should be unfamiliar with the.
bombardier- (or powder-) beetle. It is quite
HINTS ON , SHEEP-RAISING.
FRIEND: “Have the flies been bad this summer?”
SQYATTER : “About as usual. We have to watch all the time or they attach the sheer."
NEWCHUM: “I was reading that if -anything is hung twenty feet from the ground
flies won’t reach it—have you tried that?
common around Sydney. Thirty years ago
I collected many on the Hawkesbury River,
and lately I saw some in a suburb on the
Western line. Only a few days ago I
caught one in my garden at Narrabeen. Un-
less the bombardier is struck, it doss not
advertise its ability to put up a. strafe;
perhaps this accounts for its not being well
known. It is said to be able to produce
10 or 12 explosions successively, but the
specimens I have tried have run out of
powder after four or five shots, each shot
being weaker than its predecessor. The
New Guinea variety is black and orange,
like those described by “Cassidy,” but the
N.S.W. ones are more of a dun color with
but little black. They do not necessarily
need a creek bank for habitat, as I have
found them on dry clay soil a mile distant
from water.
“Moe”: The borhbardier-beetle does not
eject a jet of fire, nor is there any phos-
phorus in its secretion. What is described
as smoke is really the fumes from the stuff
it squirts out. Although there is little
known about the chemistry of this fluid,
it seems to consist largely of some compound
which oxidises rapidly on coming into con-
tact with the air, giving off pungent fumes.
Some formic acid is also present, this and
another allied compound being what causes
the irritation and the slight burn when it
touches the skin.
* $ *
“Up North” : With several of the Finger-
point tribes it is customary to drown the
harpooned dugong to a chanting song, the
idea being that she thus parts with life
more agreeably. Of the first catch of the
season, whether turtle or dugong, no woman
or piccaninny may eat, otherwise the
spirits of the chase will grant the tribe no
luck for the remainder of the season. Tribes
further south, when the sea-cow has come up
for a blow, dive down and half-hitch a rope
to her tail; being then helpless, she is towed
ashore.
* * * *
“Gougcr”: “G.R.F.” (B. 10/11/’27)
questions the fact of a diver hitching his
life-line to a rock while on the ocean floor.
The diver mentioned is the most daring and
successful of the Japs who make Thursday
Island their headquarters. He is not in the
habit of discarding his life-line; he does it
only when a quick haul of shell can be made
thereby, and when tides and weather give the
lugger every chance to mother his move-
ments. Around Maubiag, for instance, where
huge underwater caverns and holes in the
ocean bottom are grouping places for shell,
he may take such a risk. The lugger, on
signal, heaves to or drops her anchor. As
quickly as he can he fills his bag with shell,
then waddles back. If a tide were run-
ninfr b e could never reach the life-line again,
an( ] disaster might come if he were attacked
by a fish or if his air-pipe were sawn through
by coral or rock or entangled in a “sea-tree.”
However, he has so far evaded serious
trouble, and instead of snatching only a shell
or two from awkward spots, he has brought
up bags of them. The anchor-dragging style
0 f fishing, mentioned by “G.R.F..” has long
been out of date in Torres Strait waters.
In these days the diver is carried over the
ocean floor while sitting in a loop in his
life-line, his boots almost touching the
bottom. Immediately he sights a shell he
signals and the tender quickly pays out a
few extra fathoms both of air-pipe and life-
line. The diver touches the floor, bags the
shell, and almost immediately is whipped off
his feet and goes sailing through the gloom
again. Under these conditions a man may
be quickly carried over a rich patch, and if
it is not in open grounds must let it go.
A boat seldom anchors ; it drifts nearly all
the time.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: “Bayard" (B.
l/12/’27) need have no fear of losing his
bet that tiger-snakes go more than 6ft. I
recently destroyed one that measured two
inches 'off Bft., and have deposited a photo,
of the trophy in the archives of THE
Bulletin. [Photograph of young- man
holding up deceased snake, unidentifiable,
received. —B.]
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale” : Tommy deserves a par.
in the Abo. column. The progeny of a kel-
pie mother and a full-blooded dingo, father,
he was born in the scrub environing Mt.
Hope (N.S.W.), and was given by his finder
to a Digger. The Digger taught him mili-
tary tricks, with which he delighted country-
town and construction-camp audiences in
N.S.W., Vie. and Queensland for eight years.
Tommy’s chief stunt was an imitation of a
soldier undergoing court-martial and execu-
tion. The fall and the solitary convulsive
kick after the firing never failed to draw
shouts of laughter from A.I.P. men and their
cobbers. Tommy was settled,, poor brute,
by a dose of powdered glass, believed to have
been administered by a revengeful camp-
prowler.
* * * *
“Momokeni” : “Mata Mata’s” cookboy (B.
15/12/’27), whose toe was gnawed by a rat,
was undoubtedly a betel-nut doper. I once
had a patient whose foot was burnt to the
bone. He had been sleeping by the fire, and
his foot slipped into the embers and was so
badly burnt before he awoke that he was
left with only a stump. Another boy com-
plained of ear-ache. After a preliminary
softening with oil, I applied an ear-syringe.
The first douche brought out a lump of clay ;
a second expelled a comatose spider and
several small caterpillars, and a final one
produced the living larv* of a mason-wasp
half an inch in length. The wasp had laid
its egg in the ear cavity, filled up the larder
for its progeny and finally sealed the pas-
sage. with mud. Such cases could only occur
after an orgy of betel-nut chewing had
deadened the senses.
WALLAROO MINES, 1927.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Softly the night descends, and softly sleeps
Beneath a crescent moon the mine-scarred
plain,
Demolished all her glory, sealed her deeps;
Here only piles of rust and wreck remain
Huddled among the long-grown grass—
her slain!
Here are her proud red chimneys. Earth has
claimed
Them who so long have leaned against the
sky
Wooing the wind’s clean kisses; broken,
maimed,
And prone amid the barley grass they lia
Mourn, winds, a requiem for those that
die !
This is a Place of Death. The dying trees
Have yearned in vain for pity from the
sun.
Against his might, of what avail the breeze
That lightly lifts their leaves when day is
done?
Stricken, they yield him master, one by
one.
A place of pallid ghosts, where concrete
piers
Stand in the dusk as though each masked
a tomb ;
Of strange illusions, where a lamp-post leers,
Or futile sign-post shambles through the
gloom;
Where, far below, the waters cry for room.
Here is abysmal soundlessness! No pump
To wear its anxious heart against the
night!
HIS BAD LUCK.
“I bin out of work since larst Easter, lady.”
“How is that?”
“Well, yer see, lady, I’m a ’ot crorss bun maker.”
Oh, here is desolation, where the dump
Broods all alone, dishevelled, robbed of
sight.
How can she ward the Plains, who lacks
her light?
Only one eye in all the distance wakes;
Leaps out a light from one far window
pane
Where some disquiet stirs a blind and shakes
A level spear of light above the plain.
It dwindles in the dusk, and hides again.
Here is the end of servitude, this 1 )eath!
The great red mine will suffer man no more
To grope within her vitals, nor his breath
Again offend her. Shuttered is the door,
Shuttered, and timbered o’er.
Oh, she has bought her liberty! She sleeps
Denuded of her trappings, shorn of pride;
She has put off her splendor and there creeps
Over her scars the t(iin grass like a tide.. . .
The price to Man for Freedom... .that she
died!
S.A.
MADGE R. C.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq. • W H Hart Esn •
M. J. Ryan, Esq. ; D. W. Macdonald, Esq ‘ > <!• t
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . , . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also’ representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
/V
k ...
3 usca
iv
!W»
'■-C
N^ v >- ' 1
'iwi'iiviiif
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
“Yarri”: The longing for a walkabout is
a queer thing. I have been on runs where
half the stockmen were abos., many of them
born on the place, and no matter how many
holidays they had for races and so forth
they had to have a walkabout at least once
a year. They chose some secluded part of
the run, where they threw off the clothes of
civilisation and hunted and corroboreed as in
their good old days. The only civilised habits
they retained were smoking and card-playing.
Some of them gambled away all their clothes
and came back naked. Restless white bush-
whackers don’t exactly do that; their walk-
about is on the track. They never stick to
one place, but throw up good jobs after a
time to wander off they don’t know where.
Perhaps, after a long interval, they will
wander back, but generally they find a tem-
porary anchorage somewhere else. With
many I have known, the beginning of the
walkabout was to the pub. One such was
“Long” Bob. “This place an’ its faces are
gettin’ dam’ monotonous; I’ll ’ave to lose
’em,” was his valedictory.
* * * *
“N.L.”: I give evidence in the case of
Sugar v. Cunjevoi. I myself was a victim
as a child, and my old nurse, a half-caste
abo., crammed a fistful of sugar into my
mouth. From what I can remember the
sugar did not reduce the swelling instantly,
though the pain was greatly lessened. A
numb, prickling sensation remained in my
mouth and tongue for days afterwards. On
two other occasions I have seen sugar used
with effect on tongues that had been bitten
almost in two. One sufferer was an abo.
child, and the sugar was given by an old
stockman; the other was my brother, who
had been bumped under the chin by a horse’s
head. We were many miles from a doctor,
so I tried the sugar cure. Both tongues
healed quickly and well.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: “Toonooba’s” mention of
the Keppel Islands (B. l/12/'27) reminds
me of a journey there
about 30 years ago.
My brother and I
hoisted sail in a little
keelless dinghy, set off
from Ross’s Creek on
the mainland, and, slip-
ing out on an early
land breeze, reached a
semi-timbered island of
the group. We were
surprised to find a well-
beaten track through a
shallow valley. Fol-
lowing it with blood
tingling in our veins at
the prospect of canni-
bals, pirates and
buried treasure, we
suddenly came upon a
small wooden house,
sentinelled with palms.
The front door an.d
windows were closed.
Sneaking up like a
hero in a book, my
brother cautiously
turned a rusty door-
knob. Something
moved inside. We hel(|
our breath and listened.
There came a curious
sighing noise. My
brother pushed the
door open a few inches.
As the old hinges
creaked there was a
swift scamper inside,
and the pair of us
bolted down the track,
across the little beach
and got aboard our
boat. It was then we
saw the string of sheep
climbing the hill at the
“G.V.H.”: Working through the maze of
creeks which go to make up the Western
Sunderbunds of India, I encountered a unique
tribe of native snake-catchers. The members
of this nomadic tribe live in quaint house-
boats —long, narrow, canoe-shaped vessels,
with a rounded covering of matting. Boxes
baskets and crates embellish the outside;
in these are kept snakes, provender and
poultry. A few bamboos and three or four
long, polished poles with spearheads, or two-
pronged forks, are also lashed on top. I
accompanied one of the tribe on a business
outmg. 1 here were three or four women
with him, and on getting ashore they spread
out and moved into a patch of short scrub,
1 kept alongside my bearded companion. In
a short while he drew out his pipe and
commenced a weird melody. This continued
for some 10 minutes, and then I heard a
rustle in the grass ahead of me. A tre-
mendous cobra of the spectacled variety
STUDIED IT FOR YEARS.
"Mum, do you know how to get at the cubic contents of a barrel?"
"No; ask your faather.”
glided forward to within 10ft. or so of the
piper; then slowly it erected its hooded
head, with unwinking gaze fixed on him.
The piper now played a sort of jig, and
the cobra began swaying to the tune. Faster
and faster went the music, and faster and
faster swayed the reptile, till the charmer
ran up the scale in a burst of sound and
broke off suddenly on a top note. The snake
stopped swaying and remained as if stricken
to stone. The charmer strode forward,
caught it below the head and thrust it into
his basket. I breathed a sigh of relief and
asked whether he was extracting the poison
glands, but he was not, as that would make
the reptile valueless. The tribe claimed to be
immune to poison, and after watching a
few tricks Performed by the women with
cobras that hud their poison glands intact
and which struck at and bit the women on
the face, to their supreme indifference, I
am prepared to admit the claim.
* * * *
“Almurta” ■ I remember a arasshonner
invas!r S omewhat s“mX to tha? described
by “Oodnadatta” (B. 24/11/ , 27) ; I met it
whilst travelling on horseback from Blinman
to Beltana (S.A.) in April, 1884. I did a
40-mile ride through the insects, which were
flying north to south. They looked like a
snowfall, and I had great difficulty in getting
my neddy to face them. I was travelling
from east to west, and as the ’hoppers came
at us broadside I had to use my spurs on the
horse to keep him moving. I got some ter-
rible smacks on the face, which left a sting-
ing sensation for a long time afterwards,
The ’hoppers remained in the Blinman dis-
trict that year during April, May and June.
They cleared off everything in the shape of
feed, and in some cases got into the houses
and destroyed the hangings.
* * * ...
((T7 , j „ T .• i • .. » „
Esmonde : In his description of native
bread (B. 24/11/2<) Bansbrook, Jun.,
has run off the track It resembles a yam
or sweet-buck and is found about six inches
in the giound. Peihaps he was thinking of
breacllruit. * *
iir , , ~ „ rnl , ,„
Centralia : That Thomas Euery was
more than a shingle short was unchallenged
by his fellow-workers round the copper-
mines until M llliam Thomas s purchase of a
pony from the reputed hatter raised a
doubt. After taking delivery, William next
morning found the animal dead. Witu
thoughts of compensation he sought the ven-
dor at his skillion house on Billygoat Flat,
Know that chestnut Pony you sold me
yesterday? he gasped Tliomas Enery
nodded. Well, hes dead. Dead, ess e.
replied Thomas Enery dreamily. Well, I
bad on eighteen munce,,an e never did that
all the while I had en.
, * ~ * * *
(1 “Wingella”: The _ operation described by
Cuddy” (B. 22/9/’27) is frequently done
by the N.T. niggers. If a boy has a pain
in his back, his lubra will cut gashes in him
“to let the pain get out,” and often enough
it is effectual, though whether through faith
or not I cannot say. I have had boys work-
ing for me who showed hideous red gashes
in their dusky hides. The invariable answer
to questions has been: “Too much cheeky-
feller debbil-debbil sit down humbug; my
bin cuttem skin, by-umffiye him run away.”
* * * *
“Mundowie”: I found Wolla Jimmy
sitting at a rubbish heap, patiently extracting
hobnails from old blucher boots. “Going to
put them on your own boots, Jimmy?” I
asked him. “No fear,” said Jimmy. “Boot
finish longa this feller. Head get ’em next
time.” He used them for studding the
knobby end of his nulla-nulla to make it
heavier and more deadly. “You know
Combo?” lie continued. “Bad feller that,
Plurry half-caste. He put um brass tack on
nulla-nulla, make it flash feller. I bin
laugh, an’ he knock me down, an’ tell it
‘Laugh now.’ By cripes, I laugh all right
w h en I finish this one.” Subsequently
ji mmy nearly finished Combo,
* * * *
“nia Time,-” • “V*nr« ” «airl the snake-
cliai “etwe'en drinks, “I never knoo the
guu wa ’ loaded< An > w > en 1 wag show in’
the bloke , QW to shoot rabbits , ’ an g me if I
d j dn >j. near i y blow ’im into maternity.” I’d
dit but j nev er expected to hear it.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: A pathetic victim of the
blanky habit was a stuttering boundary-
rider named Brown He never accepted
verbal assistance, and one had to wait until,
a^ G f fearful facial contortions, lie had
e J e f? d <*b adjective that blocked the flow
118 eloquence. One day, during a dry
Brown galloped up to the drafting-
yards> evidently excited about some news he
bad to tell. There s a b-b-b-b, he begs .
overseer interrupted him savage y.
. ml ?d the blanky cut it out, you
nlw and say wbats happened,
-f bat “ude Brown more nervous, and moie
determined to expel the adjective. He started
?f al ?' There s a b-b-b Cut that
Wanky word out! yelled the overseer.
y< ! u s tuud there making a noise like
a blanky motor-bike I’ll give you a thick
ear! Brown grimacing horribly, started
over again, when a jackeroo saved him
by shouting: “There’s a lot of smoke
o*er 0 * er towar | s the woolslied paddock, sir!”
That was enough. Bush-fires had been on
OUI , nerves a n the summer. In two minutes
we were aU racing for the fire , Brown still
trying to explain. After several hours’ hard
work we managed to save the fire from
spreading to the woolslied. Riding wearily
bome i n t be moonlight, the overseer said:
« Brown if ever you say that blanky word
again when you ’re talking to me, I’ll give
you bbe sac k.” A few weeks later Brown
tried to inform the overseer with the usual
preliminary that a bull had broken out of the
bull paddock, and was sacked on the spot,
« It ’s a b - b -b-b-blanky shame to give a man
the b-b-b-blanky sack just because he didn’t
S p eak iik e a b - b - b - b l a nky book,” he protested,
Replied the overseer: “You got the sack
because you’re too blanky obstinate to give
a b l a nky silly habit after being warned
a million blanky times against it.” I still
remember scrutinising the overseer’s grave
face, wondering if he was a humorist or
merely a man unconscious of the fact that
he, too, had acquired the silly “blanky”
habit.
RAMS FROM RIVERINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Augathella mails had to be taken by boat
over the Warrego.” “Rams are being trucked to
Queensland from Riverina.” — News items.
m, T , , , , , , ,
Ihe Longreach drought has broken, and
there’s rain in Aramac.
The Warrego’s a banker, and there’s music
on the track,
Pleasant tinkling over pebbles of the water
in the creeks, .
And the mud replacing dust that lay for nigh
a hundred weeks.
where *?. s l he9 P hav . e . died by thousands,
new life leaps within the blood,
And the sands of many a river will be hidden
in a flood,
And the country be a wheatfield, and a
garden—all in one—
With the grass at work for double tides
to grow towards the sun ;
And flocks like maggots in a cheese, and cent,
per cent, of lambs
To record the fond adventures of the
Riverina rams.
Tiie dead sheep by their millions fell to fer-
tilise the loam,
And make a sermon for the pessimist, who
sits at home
And hojx's the country isn’t doomed, although
he thinks it must
Resign itself to be composed exclusively of
dust.
But a drought’s compulsory fallowing, and
then our wondrous land
Pours out its gifts of plenty with an over-
generous hand ;
The many months of skies as cloudless as a
summer noon
Are forgotten when the rain drips from the
wings of the monsoon;
And ewes from south go north and west to
be the new flock’s dams,
ihe new flocks to be fathered by the
Riverina rams.
There are statues in our cities for statesmen,
queens and kings;
There are statues raised to aldermen, and
such-like little things ;
But no statues to the pioneers who made the
land to grow,
No statues to the men who worked until
death laid them low;
No statue to the Golden Ram who grows the
golden fleece
No statue to the men who bred each concer-
tina crease
That makes the ram bewigged and like a
very High .Court Judge—
That air of “Here I’m Master, and of
“Hence I’ll never budge”—
A MERE CAUTION.
INDIGNT WIFE: “Indeed, ’tis lucky ye are to get off so
light—attacking your poor definceless wife! There’s
manny a woman would have had ye bound over.”
That virile air of Master so unlike the back of where the house stood.
little lamb
That grows from all the fierceness of the
Riverina ram.
That curly, horn-protected head should be
engraved in stone,
The emblem of the force that makes our
wool “out on its own” ;
It should figurehead our shipping, it should
ornament our towns,
The symbol of men’s labor from the Cooper
to the Downs.
When next some pompous bore suggests a
statue to* a king,
Or a town clerk or a mayor, or some other
little thing,
Turn ’em down for one in honor of the Kings
of Beef and Wool,
The Indefatigable Sheep, and eke the Busy
Bull;
But at least a bronz.9 in honor of the father
of the lamb,
Symbol of plenty and of strength, the
Riverina ram.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


NRIVALLED Accommo-
'w/ dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £ 1 00,000.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 1874.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
/feodum a moment
" always hade
in the home
it is so handu
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
.
Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
vJeight'alwaps cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36air holes'.
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
nou/. cAU Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYONEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
lleu Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “Cradle Snatchers”
Palace “Cornered”
Empire “The Film Girl”
iivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
King’s “All the King’s Horses”
Royal “Queen High”
Athenjsum “The Alarm Clock”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s ~ Moving Pictures
The Hotel Wendel, an unconventional
establishment where fair women wander the
corridors in pyjamas, is the main venue of
the action of “The Girl Friend,” staged at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday. The
play introduced Annie Croft, and revealed a
rich vein of farcical comedy with unusual
trimmings. Kitty Brown, who has met a
love-at-first-siglit adventure in a train which
becomes mislaid for an hour in the wilder-
ness, just as if it belonged to the Queens-
land railway service, arrives at her desti-
nation without either purse or luggage or
the fascinated and fascinating young man
who might have cavaliered her —he has
been left behind while trying to retrieve
her purse, which has been lost in the
woods. When the distressed damsel has been
duly refused accommodation a cheeky but
kindhearted hotel telephone girl suggests
how she can spend the night comfortably in
the Blue Suite by posing to the night-clerk
as Mrs. Richard Dennison ; it transpires that
the Dennisons, welcomed as an almost-honey-
moon pair, have quarrelled, and while the
lady has returned home the gentleman has
gone to one of the road houses, features
of Prohibitionist America, where it is reas-
onable to suppose that he will be kept
drunk and occupied until morning. But,
of course, Richard, turns up at the rooms,
which have meanwhile been invaded byj
pyjama’d females anxious to see the happy
bride, and so, just as things are going
nicely, does his wife. The cavalier who
missed a train to retrieve a purse also turns
up,-to be pounced upon by the real Mrs.
Dennison as her advocate in the pending-
divorce. Happiness, of course, is eventually
sorted out of the mix-up; and, if the flat-
tering reception of a musically-defieisnt play
is any criterion, will continue to be sorted
out for many weeks.
* * :!: &
Annie Croft, who has been proclaimed
the most fascinating blonde on the English
stage, made her first appearance as Kitty
Brown. It is well for the lady that she
hasn’t to depend for success on her voice, for
this failed, especially on the high notes, in
music that was easy enough. But Annie
Croft is certainly fascinating and artistically
capable. Reginald Sliarland, whose search
for the missing purse led complications,
hasn’t much of a voice, but is a gentleman
whom one can easily call “Reg.” Rowena
Roland drops softly into a minor role as
the daughter of the hotel proprietress; her
job is to look nice in pyjamas and incident-
ally to supply some minor love interest
along with Philip Dennison (Frank Leigh-
ton), who, with few opportunities, provides
some effective singing. Gus Bluett puts in
excellent work as the misfit husband,
Richard Dennison, and Marie Le Varre is
shrill and quarrelsome as his wife. Lorna
Helms sings thinly but comically, and dances
in a fashion that is quite in keeping
with her part as the pert ’phone girl, while
she shows phenomenal strength when she
catches the heavyweight Leo Franklin under
one of her thin arms and heaves him over a
counter. Leo Franklin is the hotel-clerk, and
there is some help from Harry Wotton as the
usual pottering old idiot who wants to give
away money to a deserving young relative,
and from Rosie le Varde as his. wife, Mrs.
Burke. Katie Towers (Reserves a word of
approval as Mary, the hotel servant.
“The Terror” is to fade away from the
Theatre Royal to-morrow (Friday), and that
will be the end of Maurice Moscoviteli for a
spell. “Cradle Snatchers” will come back for
a. return season to fill tiie vacancy. “The
Cuckoo in the Nest” is keeping tins Criterion
lull. Muriel Starr is doing so well with
“Cornered” at the Palace that the policy of
quick changes is to be forgotten, at least for
a week. “Archie” is booming at the St.
James Theatre; and “The Film Girl” is
firmly settling into her stride at the Empire.
At the Grand Opera House the pantomime-
goose is laying golden eggs for Frank Neil;
the Grand Guignol at St. James’s Hall pro-
mises a change of programme, probably next
Saturday; and at Fullers Jim Gerald con-
tinues his brief panto, capers.
* * *
The tabloid panto, at the Tivoli continues
to fill an hour’s space in the bill, with Rupert
Hazel’s romping humor as its main ingred-
ient. Elsie Day and Ted Clifford, who has
some extremely comical dances, give good
support. The Kwong Sing Wah Chinese
troupe supplement the programme, which
also includes the Angel Brothers, meaty
people whose heaven is full of strong-man
stunts.
:!: *
Scots wha hae on whusky fed and others
who, no doubt, are the staunchest Recha-
bites, having done the Hieland Gathering in
the afternoon, put in their New Year’s Niclit
(or what stood for it this year) at Sydney
Town Hall, to some stirring strains. For
wasna Rene Maxwell there to sing “Cam’
Ye by Athol” and “Oh, Whustle, an’ I’ll
Come to You, M’Lad,” and Oliver King to
give “Scots Wha Hae” and “The Lea Rig”?
The audience was so carried away that it
joined the male singer boisterously in the
refrains. Robert Harper scored well with
“Bonnie Mary of Argyle” : and the con-
tralto of Madame Lilian Gibson was heard
effectively in “Hail Caledonia,” but “There’s
Nae Luck About the House” was the popu-
lar success. Hieland dances lent variety to
a programme which this Showman’s friend
Higgs declared set every red corpuscle in his
Scotch blood bounding. Higgs is reputed
to have had a great-grandmother who came
from north of the Tweed.
* * * *
Tolstoy’s “Resurrection,” done into Ameri
can, was produced at the Crystal ralaco on
New Year’s Eve; in the first four parts the
real purpose of the Russian philosopher’s
story is drowned in the American fictional
desire to feed the flapper with the dope she
likes. The picturisation—especially from a
scenic point of view—is excellent, but the
acting of the principals lacks sincerity, as is
inevitable. Even Count Ilya Tolstoy, son
of the Russian author, who is one of the
cast, fails to grip the real idea of the part
he is—or should be —playing.
“False Shame” pursues its way at the
Adyar Hall, Sydney, with the gentleman in
the vestibule ready to administer brandy to
ladies who are overcome by the subject or the
method of presenting it. “What Price Glory”
exposes the hellishness of war by making the
most of war situations at the Prince Edward.
The Lyceum has, in “The Life of Riley,” a
really excellent comedy worked on a simple
plot of two men in love with a widow who
makes cake which is even more to be dreaded
than a woman’s fury. “The Bugle Call,”
screened by Hoyt’s in conjunction with
“East Side, West Side,” is an overstrained
comedy.
❖ ajs ❖
As the years roll by the present critic
becomes more and more convinced that
Nature never intended Miss Vanbrugh to
waste the airy insouciance of her smile, the
rippling incandescence of her humor, on
tragic roles, simply because the public
expects versatility in a leading artist. One
can’t remember when she was really happy
in miserable parts. In “All the King’s
Horses,” her new Pegasus at Melbourne
King’s, she brings the battery of her lighter
emotions once more into play. It is a
typical Vanbrugh show. The lady is thor-
“THE ALARM CLOCK.” AT
MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
Homer Wickham, incipient professor of
Filipino, and Mary, his intended, as
they arrive in London from Canns’
Corners (Campbell Copelin and Molly
Raynor).
oughly at home —so much so that she spends
a whole act comfortably ensconced in the
same nest of cushions, sewing. It requires
fine acting and a warm personality to keep
an audience interested in the spectacle of
a mature actress absorbed in sewing. The
occasion is made even more domestic by a
family reunion at the rising of the curtain,
Dion Boucicault arriving from abroad, full
of hilarity, as her brother. The lady, it
appears, has been 29 years unhappy with
her husband (Norman McKinnel), whose
most conspicuous quality is lack of humor.
His son, Ronald Ward, is about to give up a
partnership in his business and become an
artist, out of disgust at the old man’s
enormous self-sufficiency. Marjorie Play-
fair, his daughter, is also in rebellion
against his proposal to marry her to an
elderly title, and is cut off without a shilling.
At this point Annie Saker arrives and -ex-
plains to the wife that Mr. McKinnel is
Phil Smith as Mother Goose, Field Fisher
as Squire Hardflint, and. Bert Le Blane
as Fitz, a Jewish sailor.
“MOTHER GOOSE” PANTO AT
SYDNEY GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
the father of her child, as the result of a
sudden spasm of self-forgetfulness in young
days at Oxford. Miss Vanbrugh is not as
distressed as, morally, she ought to be.
Rather, she recognises the scandal as a
Heaven-sent weapon for dethroning the
tyrant. The rest of a highly entertaining
evening is devoted to the gradual disinteg-
ration of Norman McKinnel’s monumental
self-esteem, under the combined assaults of
every other member of the cast. One of the
good moments of the play is where the hus-
band clutches at the remnants of his pride
and tremulously asks his spouse to forgive
him for his sin. “Sin !” she replies, or words
to that effect. “It’s not a sin—it’s a glorious
opportunity.”
* * *
Although Mr. .0. E. Openshaw’s middle
name is not George Bernard, he has written
an engaging comedy. It smiles placidly,
rather than glitters in the manner of a
Lonsdale or a Maugham; and the smile is
well distributed over the three acts. The
staging does not measure up to the A grade
of a Boucicault production. Although the
wife is supposed to be threatened with in-
creasing deafness, she talks as if it is the
others who are menaced with the complaint;
and the rest evacuate their lines as if
six-valve amplifiers had been distributed to
every member of the audience. Hugh ’Wil-
liams is notably skilled at the swallowing
of his words. Norman McKinnel’s husband,
if the truth bo told, is a somewhat gross
caricature in black and white, although
when his final collapse comes he is poignant
enough. Nolle of the rest is given much
opportunity of unduly competing for atten-
tion with the stars, though Ronald Ward
succeeds, in liis slightly stagey way, in field-
ing a few guffaws.
*
Davy Jones, Aphrodite, Captain Bowline
of the press gang, sweethearts, village girls,
sea nymphs, cave-dwellers and Sultan’s
guards are among the unexpected visitors to
the island of “Robinson Crusoe” at Mel-
bourne Princess. Mr. Cameron, of the Tram-
ways Board, receives frequent mention also,
and Ponsford turns up, to the huge delight
of the children assembled. The Fuller panto,
is whirling faster than it did, though it still
calls for first-aid from a librettist with a
stronger sense of humor —or even ordinary
fun. The transpontine Playhouse has
“Mother Goose” laying eggs which crowds
of country nippers are helping to make
moderately golden for the management. “The
Student Prince" still persists in making
Beppie de Vries miserable at His Majesty’s,
and looks as if lie might persist forever,
though rumors about “The Merry Widow”
have been whispered in The Bulletin’s
pink ear.
* * * *
Leyland Plodgson continues to pursue the
vivacious Irene North over the Melbourne
Royal furniture with his never-failing smile
and his steadily hardening voice, and Cecil
Ivelleway and Barrett-Lennard continue to
quarrel through the three acts of “Queen
High.” Also the music continues to main-
tain only a motoring acquaintance with the
theme, and whether Roy Russell lias a
singing voice with which Melbourne will be
pleased remains a mystery. His role of a
serious-minded lawyer provides him with
nothing but a legal document, and even a
musicomedy composer can’t make r senti-
mental ditty about a legal document, appar-
ently.
* * * *
“The Alarm Clock” ( alias “Cinderella,”
alias “Beauty and the Beast,” alias “Daddy
Donglegs”) continues to tick off the minutes
for playgoers at the Athenaeum least tedi-
ously of all the show r s in Melbourne. The
Avery liopwood adaptation from the French
has been well done, but why could it not
have been taken further by the Australian
producers? The Gallic peasant girl who
travels to Paris becomes an English country
lass who arrives in London. The gay Parisian
bachelor, who doubtless said “ Tiens!” or
“ Sa-c-re bleu!” through a spade beard, becomes
a Piccadilly blood who says "What, what!”
The local confectors of the feast, w 7 hile they
were on the job, might just as w T ell have
made the rustic bit of skirt emanate from
Jamtin Flat, and the city young man say
“Bonzer!” and “Too right!” Pending the
production of genuine local plays, this
■shandygaff method of adaptation would help
to pave the way for the appreciation of the
Australian drama on the Australian boards.
The trouble about a comedy w'hich adver-
tises itself as clean and wholesome is that
it is so liable to be found empty and bore-
some into the bargain. “Apples and Pairs”
is as clean and wholesome as a play could
be, but the quality of its wit may best be
gauged by such examples as “It’s a dear
little river—-it’s got a bank on each side.”
There is also talk —much talk —of adenoids
and “dear old Auntie Alys.” They are
a poor substitute for even the lingerie type
of stage conversation. The show is at the
Palace, Melbourne.
-f * ...
This Page respectfully commends George
Hurd to the attention of connoisseurs of
juggling at Melbourne Tivoli. The Aus-
tralian has found a new and brilliant use
for billiard cues which Lindrum never
thought of, and he does things with tennis
balls that Jack Crawford can’t. The
Cavanaghs present a rope-spinning specialty
which is not as novel as their cowboy get-up,
and Cook and Vernon indulge in some tedi-
ous conversation. The three apes and the
Gatanos fill out a moderately-fat evening.
* * * *
The multitude which likes to go home with
the comfortable feeling that it has been
attending divine service when actually it has
been enjoying two hours of good, squashy
love-stuff, with plenty of boa constrictor busi-
ness betwmen a Hollywood flapper and a sheik,
is pouring into Melb. Auditorium, wdiere
Tolstoy’s “Resurrection” is on view. If the
picture is a true mirror of the novel, which
present commentator hasn’t read, 'then the
venerable old aristocrat with the. cataract
whiskers and the socialistic theories about
Art was born before his time. He would
have made a magnificent writer of the sort of
scenario in which sex appeal puts on the top-
liat of righteousness and brandishes the
brolly of social reform. The show is very
finely staged in Czarist prisons and synthetic
Russian snowstorms, and the photography is
great.
* * * *
“Smile, Brother, Smile!” is Melbourne
Majestic’s current invitation to be merry, and
“Hills of Kentucky” presents Rin-Tin-Tin
as the usual uncannily sagacious canine.
Breezes of laughter are blowing through
Hoyt’s, where “Cradle Snatchers” are at
their nefarious work.
* * :!:
“Anne, 100 Per Cent.,” is filling Adelaide
Theatre Royal at every performance. Nellie
Bramley throws herself enthusiastically into
the part of Anne and makes every line tell.
Excellent support is supplied by Kyrle
McAllister, a new comer to Adelaide, who
plays the young superintendent at the soap
works. George Hewlett and Ethel Bash-
ford furnish some capital comedy; George
Cross, the producer, scores as the villain
Marsh, and Austen Milroy is well fitted as
the scheming Penvale. With admirable stag-
ing and smart frocking, the play looks secure
of a prosperous eight weeks’ season. At the
Majestic Theatre the Storyettes are putting
over song, dance and musical sketches. At the
Garden Theatre the star turn is the Marion-
ettes ; there are some good topical hits and
the humor of Pat Hanna and his Diggers is
always clean.
* * * *
Obit, Melbourne’s Poverty Point: —
The Sundry Show page seems to be the fitting
place in which to chronicle the demise of Poverty
Point, which passed away quietly at 6 o’clock on
Saturday night. Actually the blunt-nosed promontory
of pavement jutting into Swanston and Bourke streets,
where theatrical managers were wont to recruit
forces for a fresh attack upon the public, had been
dying for a long time. It was too much exposed, for
one thing. The south wind whistled through the
underclothing of many a reliable actor, while the
north wind dried his throat. It was also getting
too crowded with pedestrians ignorant of the great-
ness of the men they trampled on. Newsboys trod
on ■ the toes of Hamlets who had srwayed thronged
houses, and unfeeling policemen made many a Silver
King move on. So Poverty Point had been looking
for a new location for some years past. It was
dealt its death blow on Saturday when the Orient
Hotel threw out its last drunk and closed its doors
by order of the Licensing Board. If anybody wants
to locate the Point to-day, he must go to the
Crystal, a little further along Bourke-street to the
east. But he will find it only a shadow of its
former self.


/or the Trade-mark +GF +on every Fitting
A
§>
r-
s
+ GF+
S
&
Ms
$5
1
fc
+GF+
+GF+
MALLEABLE
IRON PIPE
FITTINGS
Bends, Bushes, Crosses,
Elbows, Flanges, Nipples,
Plugs, Tees, etc.
•3>
E
F
—|— GF —j— MALLEABLE FITTINGS are manufactured from the best English
Iron, treated and annealed by exclusive —|— GF —|— methods. They are made
in one grade only, suitable for Steam, Water, Gas, Oil or Air Services. They
are non-porous, are beaded to give maximum strength and to prevent stretching,
and are entirely free from sandholes and blowholes.
—|— GF —|— MALLEABLE FITTINGS are minutely examined at the works, and
each fitting is absolutely immune from casting defects, this being ensured by an
individual test of 3001 b. per square inch on each and every fitting sent out
Prominent among users of —|— GF —|— Malleable Fittings are:—
The N.S.W. Government Railways.
Norco, Ltd.
The Colonial Gas Association.
All Government Departments.
The Vacuum Oil Co. Pty., Ltd.
The British Imperial Oil Co., Ltd.
Australian Gas Light Co.
Most of the largest contracts.
See the Display in our Clarence St.
Window
2
This
illustration
shows the
malleability
of
+ GF +
Fittings
—and this
shows the per-
fect fit which
they make.
Ti
SOLE AGENTS:
/nmwodV svwai wpiiiim
SYDNEY.,. . . 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE. . Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH. . . . . 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE. . 521-523 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE. ... 157 Waymouth Street.
NEW CASTLE. . 17 Bolton Street.


r Ttotet
Spring St.. Melbourne
Melbourne's Leading Residential Hotel
Two minutes from city theatres and
shops; has a quiet, beautiful old-
world charm and magnificent views
of parks and gardens; it enjoys a
most distinguished patronage.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in all bedrooms. Minimum Tariff
from 22/6 (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 15/-
Telegrams & Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melb.
m®
iilll* l
111 l till
I4H
SHELCOTE
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
Modern Private Hotel.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Tennis Court, Swimming Bath,
Billiards.
Guests’ Own Laundry.
Excellent Cuisine,
MODERATE TARIFF.
’Phone X 1621.
Telegrams, etc.: “Shelcote,” Neutral Bay, Sydney.
Cbe Equitable Cifc
Jlsscc.
fpp
FlOfS
Coy.
of
Australasia Ctd.
Head Office:
Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branches:
N S W * VICTORIA •
81 Pitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb,
Transacts Probate, lAfe Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
(Vacancies for Producers with good records .)
FREDK. LEVY, Mg. Director.
Lesial Notice.
Tn THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND, ROCKHAMPTON.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
Between FREDERICK MILES WOODS
Plaintiff and PEARL MABLE WOODS
Defendant
To PEARL MABLE WOODS
TAKE NOTICE that FREDERICK
MILES WOODS of Rockhampton in the
State of Queensland has commenced an
action against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Rockhampton by Writ dated
the fifteenth day of December 1927 claiming
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your desertion and that if you wish to de-
fend the said action you should cause an
appearance to be entered for you in the
Supreme Court Rockhampton within thirty
days of the date of this publication and that
in default of your so doing the said Frederick
Miles Woods may by leave of the Court or a
Judge proceed therein and judgment may be
given in your absence.
DATED the twenty-second day of Decem-
ber 1927.
J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
Grant and Stumm,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Quay Street, Rockhampton.
Poverty
Point
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : As a film star, Aus-
tralia’s Trilby Clark earns her money. Her
experiences as Maria Martin in “The Mur-
der in the Red Barn” include a good deal
more than mere murder. The villain
struggles with her, throttles her, digs her
grave and buries her, after which she is
hauled out and soused under a huge shower,
the producer insisting that she, as the corpse,
should be thoroughly wet. She comes through
smiling.
“Maunga”: “11. P.” (B. -] 5/12/27) asks
if anyone remembers Herr Bandmann, “the
great German-American actor-manager.” I
do. One night in the long ago a youngster
with the handiest legs I ever saw was
loitering about the pit entrance to the old
Theatre Royal, Nelson (M.L.). His pro-
blem was to get inside without paying. Sud-
denly Herr Bandmann dashed into the lobby
and tripped over the lad with the o-sliaped
limbs. Scrambling to his feet, the re-
nowned tragedian made a fierce kick, missed
and nearly brought down the gas-bracket.
I can see him yet, all doubled up, saying-
prayers over his foot.
“H.M.”: A curious character who was
unable to carry out his customary Christmas
role was John Drane, once an actor of sorts,
but for countless years a professional Santa
Claus—-when teased about the efficiency of
others in the past, he was prepared to bet
£5O that he could “beat the lot of ’em.”
Sometimes he had the money, too; he claimed
that once, as the reward for his effort at a
private party, he received a cheque for £lOO.
But lie never had the money long. He died
a little ahead of Christmas Day, with letters
in his hand asking imperatively for his ser-
vices.
“Soho”: “Hamfat’s” mention of recently-
dead Courtice Pounds (B. 29/12/’27) re-
calls that, though Pounds had a really fine
tenor voice, it was only necessary to refer
to him as an “operatic tenor” to rouse his
wrath. He vehemently spurned the descrip-
tion, and would retort: “No, I am a dancing
comedian with a singing voice.” It was
generally accepted that George Moore’s bitter
summing-up of the operatic tenor in “A
Mummer’s Wife” had something to do with
his fad.
“Elingarah”: “H.G.F.’s” mention of the
objection Irving Sayles had to being called
a coon (B. 15/12’/27) reminds me of a Syd-
ney Tivoli incident that happened when Pris-
cilla Verne made her reappearance after a
visit to America. Sayles, who was on the
corner, was bubbling over with merri-
ment. Laughing and interjecting in
great style he “assisted” some of the per-
formers by singing in harmony and joining
in a step-dance at the conclusion of the turn.
When Priscilla was performing he tried to
give her turn a boost, and got the shock of
his life. Rushing at him like a tiger-cat,
Priscilla called him names that left no doubt
as to his color and gave some unofficial biog-
raphy about his parents as well. Sayles
was looking the picture of misery when a
kindly curtain obscured him from view.
“Extra Turn” : There is more humor than in
most of their turns in the news that a con-
ference of vaudeville performers is to be held
ut Locarno to establish a truce between
variety performers who were on Fritz’s
side in the 1914-18 comedy and those
who starred with the Allies. Among
matters that are to get the bird is
“offensive allusions” to neighbor
nations. While they are about it,
the delegates might also eliminate
allusions to mothers-in-law and
wives, and arrange for the extir-
pation of the stage Irishman
and other combative creations
of the kind. Further, the
fraternity should enter into
solemn agreement not
to purloin each other's
gags. That done, and
jazz bands, serio-comics,
conjurers, American
and other cross-talk
CHANGEFUL.
“My sweetheart’s been quite a new man these last few weeks.”
“Yes, f Who’ve you got now?”
turns, monologue entertainers and lightning-
sketch artists extinguished, there would
seem to be no further reason for vaudeville,
and something like the Millennium would be
sighted up stage.
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: Australia may see Marie
Polini, sister of Emelie, when her husband,
Owen Nares, brings liis company hither
under his contract with J. C. Williamson.
Marie retired from the stage for several
years after her marriage, but in 1920 re-
appeared with her husband in “Mr. Todd’s
Experiment,” and has been with him ever
since. Incidentally, when Emelie Polini
died a few months ago she appointed Marie
guardian of her daughter, subject to her
husband’s parents surrendering the child;
but they have chosen to keep possession.
“Craiser”: I disagree with “Adsum’s”
contention that grand opera in English in
Australia would pay (B. 22/12/’27), just
as much as I disagree with his apparent
belief that grand opera in Italian doesn’t
pay. Although I myself get bored if I don’t
know what Signor Spaghetti is singing about.
I realise that the bulk of the people who
make the fortunes of the Taits enjoy music
in quite another way. A friend who has
been an inveterate patron of “La Tosca,”
“Carmen” and the rest tells me that he has
only the dimmest notion of what they are all
about. He put it this way: “Opera to me
is like the sea. When the overture strikes
up I just take off my intelligence and plunge
in.”
“Craiser”: Perhaps this par. should have
been addressed to the Bulletin’s Service
Department, but here goes. I read the fol-
lowing notice in that allegedly Australian
newspaper, the Age :
Funny without being foolish, and witty without
being wicked, “Apples and Pairs,” which was pre-
sented by Stuart O’Brian’s company at the Palace
Theatre on Saturday, is a clean, clever three-act
comedy farce that should be popular with Melbourne
audiences. ft is screamingly funny at times
and there is hardly a dull moment in it.
On the strength of this I bought a ticket.
The show proved to be the silliest, feeblest,
most infantile and old-fashioned affair seen
in this country for 30 years, and it was badly
performed by an ordinary crowd of players.
If the playwright had been an Australian
and the cast home-grown instead of imported
from America, the patriotic Age would, I
believe, have smitten it hip and thigh. What
I want to know is: Can I proceed against
the newspaper, op the score of misrepresenta-
tion, for loss of time, mental anguish and
the price of my seat?
“The Microbe”: “Hamfat’s” memories of
Courtice Pounds (B. 29/32/'27) are less
accurate than usual. Louis Bradfield was
never with the Royal Comic Opera Com-
pany, though he was head comedian with
the London Gaiety Company. Further,
Pounds didn’t marry “Australia’s adorable
little Violet Varley.” She had been dead
quite a long time before he reached Aus-
tralia ; her hubby was Joseph Tapley, the
Williamson tenor.
“Spokeshave” : Another musical centenary
falls this year—that of Franz Peter Schu-
bert, who died in November, 3825, just
20 months after his great contemporary
Beethoven shook his fist at the skies
and breathed his last. It isn’t certainly
known whether they ever met, or whether
Beethoven realised that here was a com-
poser whose promise was almost as great
as his own. Schubert was the usual pre-
cocity. By the age of 12 he had turned
out songs, sonatas, overtures and masses
in abundance. His songs, many of them
glorious, numbered nearly 600. He died in
obscurity at 31, leaving 15 operas, seven
symphonies and a bagful of concertos still
in manuscript; so if Australian musicians
want to honor him they have lots of material
to work on. Not a great deal is known
about his life, but one thing is _ certain-
lie wasn’t the mild, charming, crea-
ture John Ralston m)ade him in “Lilac
Time” ; the “unfinished” symphony is enough
to knock out that fallacy.
“Craiser”: Max Meldrum never played
artistic father to a stranger chick than
Dresford Hardingham. Hardingliam learnt
portrait and landscape painting under the
fanatical realist. Now he is in charge of the
scenic work for “Robinson Crusoe, the
panto, at Melb. Princess.
“H.P.” : Gaston Mervale, back in musical
comedy at Sydney Her Majesty’s, first ap-
peared at the old H.M. in IS9T as Tigelli-
nus in “The Sign of the. Cross.” He came
here with 10 years’ experience under Wilson
Barrett, Charles Arnold and Millie Palmer- '
Bandmann. In Aussie he has scored as
Cardinal Riclilieu (“Under the Red Robe”).
Talleyrand (“A Royal Divorce”),
Michael (“The Prisoner of Zonda”), Ivlings-
for (“Parsifal”), Scarpia (“La Tosca”),
Justinian (“Theodora”) and Svengaii-
(“Trilby”), to name only a few of his many
parts; as Svengaii he really played the piano,
and played it well. But the man has done
everything well. I wish I could see him as
“The Wandering .Tew”; it would suit him
down to the ground.
“Craiser”: Arnold Ridley, the author of
“The Ghost Train,” has written another
railway thriller, “The Wrecker,” in the
first act of which the audience is allowed
to watch an express rush to destruction by
means of an electrically-lighted chart. And
there is a scene in a signal-cabin which
should satiate even the worst glutton for
sensations. E. J. Carroll has just launched
the show on London at the New Theatre,
and, from reports, London’s hair stood duti-
fully on end.
“ilamfat”: May Beatty is coming back
to Australia, this time for Williamson’s. The
ample lady is to have one of the most import
ant parts in “Hit the Deck” —that of the
mammie whose singing of a “Hallelujah”
song somehow offended N. York pietists.
Lorna Helms is also returning for “Hit the
Deck,” in which Annie Croft will play lead.
“R.K.D.N.”: Australia’s okl theatrical
acquaintance Lawrence Grossmith has taken
up a part in a new comedy by P. G. Wode-
house, whose output of books and plays
must almost equal Edgar Wallace’s. The
piece—-“Good Morning, Bill” —has , com-
menced a canter of England’s “No. 1” pro-
vincial towns. Grossmith figures as young
Lord Tidmouth, and shares the comedy 7 with
the American Ernest Truex, who is Bill.
“E.T.”: Noel Coward, of “Easy Virtue”
and “Fallen Angels” celebrity, is now choos-
ing less hectic titles. His latest play is a
comedy called “Home Chat.” If the change
continues his next effort may be christened
“The Sunday at Home.”
“Sandy”: The only real matinee I have
ever attended in Australia was a rendering
of “Henry V.” by the Stan McKay co. It
took place at St. Mary’s school, Sydney, in
October, 1921. The curtain went up at
10.15 and the show was over before noon.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : At the bright
young age of 62 and 63 respectively Dame
May Whitty and her husband Ben Webster
are making a reappearance in musical
comedy. They are billed for “Sylvia” at the
Vaudeville. Dame May has not played in
musical comedy since she was a -chorus-girl
in “Rip Van Winkle” 40 years ago. This
is the first time she and Ben have appeared
together.
“Cauboy”: The worst has happened or
is going to happen—if present arrangements
hold, the Fuller and J.C.W. grand opera
seasons will open almost simultaneously in
Melbourne. All music-lovers should deplore
the fact. There is no question here of
healthy competition keeping quality up and
prices down. Both organisations will be
worth listening to, and the prices—Fullers
propose to charge 10s., as against the
Firm’s customary guinea, for first nights—
are about commensurate with the relative
quality of the goods. The cause of the
clash appears to lie in a rather cheap
attempt on the part of the Fullers to steal a
march on the bigger concern. As soon as the
Williamson people announced their intention
of providing opera in 1928 a Fuller emissary
rushed off to Italy. The result is that,
whereas, if these entrepreneurs showed a
little public spirit and mutual consideration,
we could have grand opera every year, like
other lands, we are going to be satiated,
not to say deafened, with too much of it
at once. It is a popular delusion, too, that
the Firm pulls an enormous swag out of
its opera enterprises. Australia is the only
country which gets the thing on a first-class
scale without a State subsidy.
THE APOTHEOSIS OF JAZZ.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Wireless messages are never lost as far aa we
know,’ says a Marconi official. ‘They may go on
eternally.’ ” — Melbourne Herald.
I sailed upon the ship of troubled sleep,
With black sails bellying to a gale of
dreams,
Swift driving through the blue, eternal deep
Of skies uncharted ; by the fitful gleams
Of intermittent stars my course was laid
Past shoals of commonsense and reefs of
fact,
Till worlds grew small, yet distance died,
dismayed,
And .Cosmos lay before me, trim, compact.
I sailed—it may have been a thousand
years—
To listen to the music of the spheres.
I heard the tuning of the farthest stars,
Of big, bass planets and soprano moons:
I heard the mighty crash of opening bars
Diminish to the lilt of measured runes
That sang, in huge and rhythmic harmony,
The ordering of chaos and the plan
That harnessed spinning worlds —then,
suddenly,
I heard the little, piping voice of man ;
A mouse’s squeak, though thunder to my
ears,
It pierced the awful music of the spheres.
As one in the tremendous heart of sound
Still marks a tiny singing in his head,
Through all the ’whelming melody around
I heard the shrill of—“Station' BQZ!
The Hot-Mamma Melodeons will play
The celebrated Cat’s Pyjamas Blues.
And ain’t it sweet? Oh, boy, now ain’t it?
Say,
We’ll tell the wobbling world the jazzy
news !”
And so I heard, and hot my shameful tears,
Jazz teaching music to the tuneful spheres!
And then—ye gods, the terror of that
dream! —
It seemed that here and there a world
deferred
Its note; as in some limping negro theme,
The sharp, bright tones of shining suns
were slurred.
And here a star was seen to hesitate,
And there a steady planet swayed and
dipped:
Until whole systems seemed to syncopate.
And, in the very hand of horror gripped,
I saw the dread fruition of my fears —
And back to chaos slipped the jazzing
spheres !
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Stiff beards need die
“VALET”
AaaJlO'
Safety Razor
A stiff beard needs a masterful razor blade. Not a blade
that will bend and give way to the bristles, but a solid
blade of rigid, tempered steel with some strength behind
it. Such a blade is the “Valet” Auto Strop.
The “ Valet ” Auto Strop Safety Razor is a joint concern
made up of blade, stropping device and strop. The
stropping device is actually built into the head of the
razor. The strop slips through the razor’s head. All
conspire together to give you a perfect shave. Ten seconds
for stropping—ten seconds for cleaning without removal
of blade—4o or 50 perfect shaves with a single blade.
ft■
No. 50 de Luxe Set. Contains
heavily silvered razor, twelve tested
Valet ” blades and strop of good
quality. Complete in highly polished
nickel case, with special container for
the strop.
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY,
tACew Zealand Jl en‘s :
Van Siacercn Bros., Ltd., ./}uck’an Wellington, Christchurch.
AwtcvSteop
Shaving Gream
7 his is the Shaving
Cream to get the
best out of
your rngpr
■
j
-
wmA
lit: I
iLijgi
■ 1
4T JaftS
oMU^
JOHN JAMEfON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully !
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS <fc CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q,
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
*9
I
Your grocer sells Grape
Nuts and Poast Toasties
as well as Instant Postum.
Ask about these Post
Products.
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL,
316 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HTHE gradual effect of tea
and coffee drinking has
been proved harmful. When
your doctor says, “Run
Down” it means you should
certainly take the precau-
tion of changing over to
Instant Postum—the delicious,
instantly prepared hot drink
that contains nothing but the
flavour of sun-ripened cereals
plus sweetening. Take this step
now and you’ll experience a
new and delightful beverage.
Instant/Postum
Personal.
WOULD MRS. ANNIE IRELAND, for-
merly of Stanmore, and MRS. ETHEL
LINDA DEFRIES, formerly of Redfern, or
anyone having information regarding their
whereabouts, please communicate with
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,
(Limited).
83-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
ROY, aged about 16, son of
AMELIA DOWNING, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES CO.,
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.


'N
L
/* *
r r r
n
y
n
a*
for General Transport
For the building of roads—for the transport
of goods, materials, foodstuffs or people—
for any job of hauling or carting—
Graham Brothers Trucks, built with the
famous Dodge Brothers engine, have the
power, the speed and the strength to serve
you dependably year after year.
And with their low price and low operating
costs they are recognised money-makers the
world around.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Graham Brothers
Trucks
built by truck division of DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
5/l/’2B.


Hope YOU have had a good time!
Holidays are over—for most of us—but
memories are still vivid.
Campers! Remember those pleasureful days
with the gun and rod. Then think how
Hartleys contributed to the holidays of hosts
of other sportsmen.
Hartleys not only supplied them with best
material, but money-saving prices enabled
more material. If you had a good time using
Hartley equipment, it is not too late to make
this New Year resolution: “Hartleys— my
Sporting Headquarters, 1928.”
to .to,
&K *
m,
/ /■
< \
Steer for Hartleys—“The
Sporting House which gives
a Sporting Deal.”
270 Flinders St.,
Melbourne.
HARTLEYS
148 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Pcivting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. fs
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It was a fortunate day for McShortodds
when J. ,T. Leahy and Dan Lewis became
associated, Leahy as owner and Lewis as
trainer. They win their share of races, but
the stable bets so mildly that when the Leahy
colors are borne home first the pencillers
always feel like throwing their hats in the
air. It must have been difficult for some of
them to restrain themselves from flinging
their “lids" aloft after the Carrington Stakes
at Randwick on Saturday, for Genuine,
owned by Leahy, trained by Lewis and ridden
by Lillyman, the new star among the light-
weights, gave the profession a “skinner.” He
figured at 33 to 1 in a field of 19, and very
few of the odds-yellers laid him. On the
tote his divs. were £15 17s. for 10s. in the
grandstand, £8 4s. 6d. for 5s. in the leger
and £9 2s. 6d. for 5s. on the flat. And his
tote backers divided only 50 p.c. of a pool
(there "were, of course, dividends on the
second and third horses) from which 9 p.c.
had been deducted for the Government, 34
for the club and a bit over 1 p.c. (also for
the club) in fractions of sixpences. On a
straiglitout tote with a 10 p.c. deduction,
Genuine’s price would have been 100 to 1.
The exploited public should be provided with
machines of that class and with equal-division
place machines as well.
The Carrington was a rather rough race,
and the result would very likely be different
if it could be run over again. One of those
who had a bad passage was The Bulletin’s
selection, Lesboo (5 to 1). He emerged from
the ruck with a great run, but could not
quite reach Genuine, though he impressed
most people as a good thing beaten, and as
a real Doncaster horse if the handicapper is
not too hard on him. Whitta (4 to 1), who
secured third place, had every chance in
the race, as also did Chrystal (9 to 2) and
Killarney (6 to 1), while the weight beat
Greenline (14 to 1), and Rampion showed a
glimpse of his old pace and that was all.
Whitta, however, was in a highly nervous
condition before going to the post.' She was
much more composed before the Flying
Handicap on Monday: 7 to 2 for that race,
she beat a smart field, Killarney included,
pointless in lmin. lO^sec. —the fastest six
furlongs ever clocked at Randwick.
The Tatt’s Club Cup was also a pretty
rough race. Course scratchings included
Honan, who had struck himself on the Sun-
day ; and Tibbie, last year’s winner, thus
became this Page’s choice. Largely because
of Newcastle support, the lean brown mare
saw 8 to 1, being backed down from four-
teens, and a considerable percentage of the
ladies present toted their pet. Vitality was
6 to 4 in some places and twos in others :
Vallino was 4 to 1, Amusement 6 to 1 and
Resource 7 to 1. Vitality never looked
like a winner, and is evidently not the
wonder some people thought. Don Moon
(25 to 1) led a furlong or so from home,
after having run second to Spaghetti for
most of the journey. Battling it out sur-
prisingly well for a supposed non-stayer, he
disposed of Vallino and Wedding Eve (33
to 1), who both looked dangerous for a
few strides, but was not quite good enough
at the distance and the weights for Tibbie,
whom Toohey allowed to run her own race,
as it were. Valamita (33 to 1) finished
well and deprived Don Moon of third place,
but could make no impression on the
splendidly-game daughter of Mountain
King—Lady Mehi • Vallino, Wedding Eve
and Resource were next.
Tibbie ran the 12 furlongs in ,2min. 304
sec., time which equalled the Australasian
record established in the Tatt’s Club Cup
nine years ago by Wedding Day, dam of
Wedding Eve. Now trained at Rand-
wick by Frank McGrath, Tibbie has won
£9268 in stakes for J. G. Cameron and J.
Grisdale, of Newcastle. There is not a
hardier animal racing than this Australian-
bred mare, who in four seasons on the turf
has had 63 races for nine firsts, 17 seconds
and seven thirds.
In addition to Lesboo, Poilena and Ulali
impressed close observers as being likely to
achieve future distinction in handicaps.
IN FLEMINGTON’S FIELDS.
BATTLER: “That jockey went to the war with the Light ’Orse.”
GOODMUG: “Did ’e?”
BATTLER: “Yairs, an’ ’e nearly won the V.R.C.”
Poilena is a rugged-looking four-year-old bay
mare by Poitrel out of Fallingbrook, dam
of tbs Metrop. winner Polycletan. She
finishes in the style of a stayer.
H* Jjt :|: :J:
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Sefton Handicap : Rozener ; next, Bacagi.
Three-year-old Hapdicap: Black Duchess;
next, Sarigue.
January Handicap: Spring Days; next,
Lady Brightlights.
Berala Handicap: King Val; next, Janitor.
* * * *
Fields were small at Epsom (Vic.) on
Saturday, owners preferring to wait for some
of the good stakes at Flemington on the
Monday. Small as they were, punters went
down, especially those who laid stol on
Royal Joker in the Open Handicap, only to
see him donkey-licked by his solitary oppo-
nent, Red Tertius (4 to 1), and those who
voted Duke Traquair (7 to 4) a certainty for
the Trial Plate —he was downed by the
country mare Merrylyn (8 to 1). However,
backers of favorites got a measure of con-
solation in the Epsom Handicap, wherein
Mars (2 to 1) outstayed Smoke Bomb and
Coogee Bay (both sto 2). This Martian
gelding of Lou Robertson’s has certainly paid
for liis oats during the holidays ;he scored
in the Malvern Handicap at Caulfield on
Boxing Day.
* $ * ' *
The Woorak —Pantolette filly Sans Culotte
has inherited speed and consistency from
her sire. She scored her third successive
victory in nine days when she beat a good
field of sprinters in the Standish Handicap
at Flemington on Monday. There was a
solid plunge on Switzerland, who generally
runs a good race down the straight six, and
the Bernard horse started first in demand
at fours, with Sans Culotte at fives and
Highland (a little unlucky at Caulfield) at
31 to 2; Lady Beth (7 to 1) and Lady Thrill
(8 to 1) were others in request. The quick-
beginning Lady Beth, on the inside rails,
was in front early, but a furlong from
the winning post Sans Culotte was leading,
and, finishing brilliantly on the favored out-
side rails, Woorak’s daughter beat Donace
(20 to 1) by nearly her own length. Lady
Beth, who tired, was three lengths further
back, and Beppinsan was fourth. The win-
ner is owned by Phillip Russell and A. D.
Guthrie, and is trained by Cecil Godby.
Frank Dempsey, who broke a long run of
ill-luck, had the mount. The time, lmin.
121 sec., was very slick, and perhaps Sans
Culotte will go on and win the Newmarket,
as Sunburst did.
The Bagot Handicap provided some ex-
citement. Spearset (15 to 1) got a break on
the field and was 30 lengths in front at the
six-furlong post. It looked all over when the
Spearhead gelding turned for home 15
lengths clear of Textile (7 to 2), but he
tired almost as quickly as Coinus did in
Spearfelt’s Melbourne Cup, and the Caul-
field Cup winner, finishing very gamely
under his 9st. 31b., defeated him by half a
length, Sea Money (8 to 1), who also
came home well, being three parts of a length
further back. Sun Morn, favorite at sto 2,
“5 flattered his backers. Textile was
1 ldden a really good race by Scanlon. He
cut out the 12 furlongs in 2mm. 334 sec.
Durability (3 to 1) in the January Handi
* * * *
H. Guthrie, a Perth owner has a useful
horse in Phoenix Park, a six-year-old hay
gelding by Kilbroney—En Parole On Dec
17 Phoenix Park won the Belmont Cup of
£SOO, beating, among others, Serbury and
Hint, second and first subsequently fn the
Derby; and on Saturday he captured th"
Perth Cup of £2500, after a great finish
with Pica Pica, a 33-to-l chance Spearame
being third. The two miles were run 7n
3min. 25§sec., which goes into the record-
book in place of the 3min. 25 4-ssec estab-
lished by Eurythmic and
Phoenix Park was 7 to 1 with the book-
makers at Belmont and 14 to 1 on the
W.A.T.C. course. His tote prices were
£6 12s. (12 1-5 to 1) s.o. and £2 5s, (7 to 2)
for a place at Belmont, and £8 11s. (16 1-10
to 1) s.o. and £2 9s. (3 9-10 to 1) for a
place at Ascot. And 12$ p.c. of the pool is
deducted by Government and clubs, together
with fractions of shillings.
*• * - s * *
Before the Port Adelaide Cup was run
J. H. Flannagan announced that he was sell-
ing all his horses owing to the serious illness
of his trainer, McCarthy. Flannagan was
represented in the Cup by Frilford, the Eng-
lish chestnut that he bought from Frank
Bullock. Frilford is reputed a hard horse to
l’ide, but Duncan induced him to do his
best, and his best was too good for the form
of his opponents. The English horse won
by a couple of lengths from Etlielton, whose
career has been rather chequered; Some
Quality was third and Gleamlight fourth ;
Killara and Rumford ran badly. The time
for the 14 furlongs and 74 yards was 3min.
6sec. Frilford’s div. on the £1 tote was
£8 12s., and Ethelton’s was £6 3s. Of the
£4500 presented by the club, Flannagan
collected £3400 and V. Y. Maggs, owner of
the fourth horse, £100 —a very sensible pro-
vision this.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Sydney Stadium people are rejoicing
at the disappearance of tin-liare competition,
but they will require to stage contests of a
higher class than they have been doing if the
crowds arc to come back. Drury (9st. lib.),
at his best, never got past the “useful-pre-
liminary-boy” stage, yet he was put on in
the chief event of Friday night, opposed to
an almost unknown lad, Jimmy McEwen
(9st. lib.). The battle proved worthy of
the size of the attendance it attracted. In
the eleventh round Drury swung a left that
landed below the Plimsoll mark, so to speak,
and the referee immediately crowned Mc-
Ewen.
* * * *
“White Horse”: The late “Griffo” did not
make his first appearances at Foley’s in
the odor of sanctity. One Saturday night he
“hummed’’ loud enough to almost empty the
front chairs. A pressman who was taking'
a fatherly interest in the boy cornered him
off and suggested that he should get a bath
before sallying forth on Saturday night.
“Barf! What’s a barf?” asked the puzzled
youth. Explanations; and the pressman
bluntly gave his reason for the advice. “Did
I ’urn?” quoth the “fedder.” “I wuz cartin’
rotten spuds frum Sussex-street to the tip
and got the muck all over me crabs an’
tow-row-rousers” (boots and trousers). “But
I di’n’t fink yous torffs cud notice it.” The
unsophisticated youth had gone to his home
on the Rocks, had his tea and then entered
the ring with his bluchers and pants caked
with that most revolting of all smelly de-
cayed matter, rotten potatoes.
The Ins and Outs
The Victorians tightened their grip on the
Sheffield Shield in their second match against
South Australia in Melbourne. Kicking off
with another huge first-innings score (637),
to which Ponsford contributed 326 and
Woodfull 106, they dismissed South Aus. for
319, Lee (66) and Grimmett (61 n.o.) com-
ing to the rescue when the visitors looked
like collapsing. Following on, South Aus-
tralia had 119 up without loss on Monday
evening, but when Harris (74) and Rich-
ardson (0) were dismissed on Tuesday morn-
ing the position seemed hopeless to everyone
but game little Schneider (96 n.o.). In
Victoria’s __ innings Grimmett boAvled 41
overs for 5 wickets and 170 runs—his third
consecutive bag of 5 wickets and over. Fast-
bowler Morton got 4 for 111 and Blackie 3
for 63 in S.A’s. first knock.
* * $ $
After an encouraging start Queensland
lost its grip of tbs game against N.S.W. at
Sydney C. G. In spite of a fighting 63 bv
Jack Gregory, the Northerners had five good
batsmen out for 214; then Morgan and Kip-
pax became associated in a partnership
which made the match safe for their side.
Morgan’s contribution was an exhilarating
121. Kippax went on to make 315 n.o. in
masterly style; he is the first N.S.W. bats-
man since Billy Murdoch to top the 300 in
an inter-State match. He had to make
nearly all the runs himself after Morgan
left. Benstead bowled good, fast-medium
stuff to get 3 for 126, but Gough, a useful
slow bowler, had the best figures—3 for 100.
Queensland’s first innings opened with dis-
aster, Lionel Oxenham and Rowe failing to
survive Gregory’s second over. The big fellow
sent them down quite in his old style at first,
though he soon lost his sting. Solid bat-
by Lister (82), O’Connor (37) and
Nothhng (74) helped the score to 276 Phi 1 -
lips, who has a nice style, got 4 for 26.
(Continued on page 38.)
THE FIRST REQUISITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the present round of Sheffield Shield matches
N. S. Wales, winning the toss, opened with 039
against Queensland; Victoria, similarly fortunate,
compiled 037 against S. Aus.”
“What must he do who leads a side,”
I asked a flannelled chap,
"That men will boost him far and wide
For an Ideal Cap.?
What makes the Perfect Skipper, son,
The Can’t-Be-Beaten Boss?”
lie answered: “When the coin is spun
He’s gotter win the toss.”
“There’s some who tell us,” I began
Once more, “we’ll never know
The likes of Noble (Mary Ann)
Again or Darling (Joe).
A hundred times their subtle ways
Saved teams from certain loss.”
“Maybe,” he said, “but nowadays
You gotter win the toss.”
“A chief,” I ventured, “trust inspires
Who’s always mustard-keen ;
Who keeps his field like vibrant wires
With never gaps between;
Who knows his bowlers A to Z,
Who’s never narked or cross.”
“Jesso, but don’t forget,” he said,
“He’s gotter win the toss.”
“He’ll be,” I queried, “good at call
For figures three or so?
And at a pinch he’ll take the ball
And trap the doughtiest foe?
Think you a ’keeper best of Caps.
To keep a shine and gloss
Upon the side?” He yawned. “Perhaps,
But he must win the toss.”
“Whom would you boost upon the field
As Perfect Skipper, son,”
I asked him, “when .lie Sheffield Shield
Is being lost or won?
Who’d your Ideal Idol be,
Your All Sirgarneo Joss?”
He growled : “I wouldn’t care a lot
What qualities he had or not
’Long as he won the toss.”
n.s.w.
MiDFORD.


New Improved Focussing Torch
sdf
1000 FOOT BEAM. Just Think of It!
Here is a WINCHESTER Focussing Torch, which
puts all others in the shade. Nickel Case, 1 3 inches
long, Lens, with Holder for spare bulb in end
of torch, and fitted with ring for carrying. Com-
plete with 4-Cell Battery, 30/-. Spare Battery, 3/6.
The price is now reduced of the Standard Focussing
Torch. 7 inches long, Nickel-plated or Black Duco
Finish, 300 ft. Beam. Complete with 2-Cell Battery.
REDUCED PRICE, 10/- Spare Batteries, 1/9.
POST FREE ALL OVER AUSTRALIA.
Va
LTD
PTV
The Winchester People,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
r a nanbn J
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Soft, Clean and Mellou)
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
“Tenth Slip” : The outstanding feature of
what may be called the first round of Shef-
field Shield matches —that which ended with
the defeat of N.S.W. and Queensland at
Melbourne and Adelaide respectively by the
home teams —was the success of the Vic-
torian bowling. Victoria was recognised
early in the season as being a very strong
batting side, but few expected that such
ancients as Blackie and Ironmonger would
work the havoc they did, or that Morton
would bowl so consistently. For the period
named Blackie took 19 wickets averaging
14.84, Ironmonger 20 wickets at 19.10 and
Morton 15 wickets at 20.80 —a good average
for a fast bowler, even in the days of the
giants. The only N.S.W. trundler who has
come anything near these figures is
MeNamee, whose 13 wickets averaged 21.69.
Mailey’s tally is 10 wickets at 58.10. Grim-
mett has been the most destructive of them
all, but his 24 wickets cost 24.12 each.
*** * ■
“Hotham”: The Board of Control has
issued the programme for the tour of the
English XI next season. The first game will
be played at Perth on October 13 against
Westralian Colts, and Westralia itself will
be taken on from October 17 to 20. The
team will then work east, beginning the
first Test at Brisbane on November 30. A
new feature will be a match against a com-
bined Queensland country team at Warwick,
on the Darling Downs. Vic. and N.S.W.
have a fair allocation of country matches, a
couple of games will be played in Tassy, and
five Vic. and South Aus. players will join
up with half a dozen of the local cracks
in the farewell match at Perth. The Tests
will be played with a six-ball over, the eight-
ball rule remaining good for other matches.
The Board very properly snubbed the N.S.W.
Association by merely “receiving” the latter’s
dolorous protest against the playing of a
Test at Brisbane.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The selection of the Aus-
tralian team which is to tour Maoriland
in February and March is full of interest,
since it is admittedly an attempt to recon-
struct an Australian XI for the coming
Tests. Taking it by and large, and con-
sidering this season’s form to date, the side
would be difficult to better. The Victorians
are Ponsford, Woodfuil,
Blackie and Morton; the
South Aussies are Vic Rich-
ardson, Schneider, Alexander
and Grimmett; the Welsh-
men are Kippax, Jackson.
McNamee and Oldfield ; and
Ron Oxenham is to reprc-
resent Queensland. The bat-
ting is strong, and the bowl-
ing is at least varied,
though the addition of a left-
hander would have improved
it. Hornibrook has been named as a bowling
reserve should a vacancy occur, and Scaife
(Vic.) and Bradman (N.S.W.) will stand by
as substitute batsmen.
* * * *
“Wang”: lan Lee (B. 15/12/’27) is not
the only boy of tender years playing among
adult cricketers in Melbourne. F. Fontaine,
another 13-year-old, was offered promotion
to the Northcote first eleven, but the boys
father, himself a cricketer in other days, said
he would have to grow a bit more first. The
Vic. Colts who played the South Aus. Colts
included Jack Frederick, a diminutive youth
of 16 For two seasons Jack has been the
leading bowler for the Brighton first eleven;
he is a handy type of batsman, too.
* * * *
“Centurion”: The Marylebone C. C. has
sounded our Board of Control several times
with regard to establishing a mutual resi-
dential qualification for players. The Board
has now agreed to adopt the rule in force in
England. Before a “foreigner” can play for
any English county he must obtain the writ-
ten authority of his governing body, to which
notice has to be given before negotiations
for the player’s services are entered upon.
The addition of the words “British Dominion
or one of its States” after “county” in the
English rule would make it applicable to
Australia. The new rule will minimise the
exporting of Australian cricketers on the
hoof, though it may not entirely abolish the
practice .
$ * * *
“Kerel”: Though the South Africans
fared badly against the Englishmen in the
first Test match they are greatly bucked at
having discovered anew bowler in Promitz,
a Transvaaler. Promitz took 5 wickets for
58 in England’s first innings of 313, mostly
with leg breaks. He was made to practise
in secret for weeks before the game, to be
Sprung as a surprise. Such tactics have been
tried before, but rarely with such good
results. The only mystery attaching to the
general run of these “mystery bowlers” when
the light of a public appearance is cast on
them is how anyone ever saw anything mys-
terious about them.
Racquet and Bawl
"Cut Shot” : Few N.S.W. tennis followers
were surprised to hear that Jack Crawford
had knocked up in the County of Cumber-
land tournament and been obliged to pull
out of the singles. For 12 months this lad
of 19 has been playing continually from
practically one end of the country to the
other. The wonder is that he didn’t go
off color earlier. The fact that he should
have done so just as Australians are pre-
paring to tackle the French team reflects
little credit on the commonsense of the
tennis authorities. Time _ after time warn-
ings have been issued against the possibility
of the young champion going stale, but they
have fallen on ears deafened by the jingle
of the gate-money.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Tilden gave evidence the
other day that there is a bite in the old
bow-wow yet. He defeated Borotra 7-5, 6-4
in one of a series of matches played in Phil-
adelphia; and Manuel Alonso was too good
for Brugnon, though the Spaniard had to
fight for the first set —12-10, 3-6, 6-1. In a
doubles match Tilden and Williams beat the
two Frenchmen, 7-5, 6-4. There was no
mention of Boussus, third member of the
French party.
* * * *
“Baseline”: The Australian tennis heads
must have breathed a sigh of relief when
they received a cable announcing that the
French players had left San Francisco in
the Makura and should land in Sydney
about Jan. 25. The original itinerary of
the Frenchmen has varied so much and so
often that pessimists began to wonder if
they would ever arrive at all. On the pro-
gramme finally arranged for them they will
not be given much time to shake down before
hopping into the big stuff.
“Pot Hunter” : Even the laws of the Davis
Cup are not immutable. A change in the
date for lodging entries is desired by the con-
trolling body, which wants it altered from
March 15 each year to January 31. The idea
is that the time gained will give those arrang-
ing the draw and other preliminaries a chance
to unravel perplexities, as well as hurry up
A HEAVY DRINKER.
FRIEND: “Yes, it’s a nice little truck— but how’s her consumption?”
OWNER: “Twenty miles to the garage!”
the usual dilatory candidates who fail to
make up their minds until the eleventh hour.
The participating nations have been asked to
vote on the question of the change; the replies
received, so far, show that two-thirds of them
have agreed to it. The date for the draw
itself will remain as originally decided. The
President of the French Republic will perform
the fateful ceremony in Paris on February 8.
* sit si' =l=
“Runner” : The cabled announcement that
Helen Wills intends to appear again, at the
Riviera tournaments serves as a reminder
that tennis fame is a fading ember. The
Riviera tourneys used to be the undisputed
stamping ground of Suzanne Lenglen, whose
name is never seen nowadays in the papers
that once spread it black across the top
of the page every day in the season. And
the show had to be run the way Suzanne
wanted it. The lords of tennis shuddered at
her slightest frown. Now the fair American
queens it in her stead. The glory has
departed. Also the publicity that is greater
than glory.
* * * *
“Machete”: South Aus. is not alone _in
objecting to the lordly airs of the Australian
tennis authorities towards players in the
smaller States (B. 29/12/’27). Queensland
has also come out with a grievance. The
trouble in Bananaland rises out of the selec-
tion of the Australian women’s team which
is to tour Europe. The Queenslanders say
they were given to understand that the
team would not be chosen until after the
Australian championships. Being under that
impression Mrs. Mpleswortli, who could not
spare the time for both, did not go down for
the Victorian championships, deciding to
wait for the Australian tourney. _ As it hap-
pened, the team was picked immediately
after the Victorian tournament, without the
Queenslander being notified or consulted in
any w 7- * *
“Pit-a-Pat”: Whatever may be the case
in the other States, N.S.W. has a. most pro-
mising crop of young tennis players.
Donolioe, for example, has improved his
game out of sight during the past six months.
He made an excellent showing at the County
of Cumberland tournament. Against Craw-
ford he captured the first set, and led 5-4
and 40-15 on his own service in the second.
Crawford finally won the set,. 12-10, and,
taking no chances, won the third also, los-
ing only three games. In company with
W. B. Dive, Donolioe made another first-
class showing in the doubles matches. If
he hasn’t actually “qrrived” yet, he is
evidently well on Ids way tliere with both
feet.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The ambitious Kirk-
Windeyer Cup competition shows signs of
turning out a dud. Queensland has been
making an effort to raise a team to go across
the Tasman. N. S. Wales will be represented,
though not by its best players; the other
States will be missing. This coolness to-
wards the inter-Dominion contest seems to
have arisen from the fact that two private
golfers presented the cup and framed con-
ditions without first obtaining the counten-
ance and sanction of the official panjandrums.
Gehenna has no fury like a sporting official
scorned. Even the first match for the. trophy
was not officially recognised by the Victorian
heads, though a Victorian team took part in
it, and other golfing States ignored the affair
altogether. Further, the fact that Sydney
was chosen for the opening competition in-
tensely annoyed Melbourne, and that helped.
It is a pity, for our golf is far too insular..
The six States and Maoriland would be all
the better for an annual tilt at each other.
Nothing so improves the all-round standard
of the game as the opportunity to meet new
players and learn new methods.
1 * * * *
“Minus Ten”: The mysterious and far-
away folk who are supposed to be responsible
for the rules of golf have recently shown
glimmerings of commonsense. For instance,
they intend abolishing water as a hazard.
With the old “floater” ball there was some
chance of playing out of a water hazard;
with the modern pellet, Buckley’s hope is
an odds-on bet in comparison. It l;as always
been a recognised principle of that a
hazard, however difficult, shou.d afford a
player a reasonable chance of getting out
with a good shot, as this puts a premium on
skilful play. But the modern ball in a
water hazard is a lost ball. Even a man who
has played a really fine shot into water is
often rewarded by having to drop anew
ball and lose strokes accordingly. con-
sequently it has seemed just to the great
ones that water hazards should go, and clubs
which have hitherto made them a feature of
their courses, with profit to the caddie ball-
dredgers, have been requested to see about
it if they want to remain eligible for cham-
pionship and other big meetings.
;*j
“The McHaggis”: The attempts to secure
the adoption of a lighter and less lively ball,
so as to shorten driving length and permit
the due exploitation of the shots through the
green, seem to have been dropped. The
would-be reformers found themselves up
against the difficulty that the average player
wants all the assistance he can get from the
ball, and resents any attempt to make his
game worse than it is. Attention is now
being turned to the regulation of the length
of courses on which big tournaments and
championships are played. A recent con-
ference on the subject recommended that the
minimum length of these courses be 6400
yards, even in cases where natural or created
difficulties more than balance their shortage
of length. The first-class player of to-day
is driving so long that in many cases courses
will have to be altered at heavy expense, but
there seems to be no help for it. The idea
of reducing the diameter of the hole does
not seem to have occurred to the conference,
though it was more concerned with reduc-
tion of length than with increase of scores.
In any case, that idea is bound to raise such
yells of protest from the everyday golfer
that the writer hastily abandons it.
* t- * *
“Hoylake” : Walter Hagen is not exactly
famous for a bad opinion of himself, but he
does not believe in taking chances all the
same. Since his last visit to England, where
he fell foul of all and sundry, it has been
difficult to get him to agree to a match with
one of the British professionals, though he
periodically announces that he can lick them
one-handed. Lately, Duncan tried him with
a challenge for a match at £SOO a side, but
liagen reckoned it wasn’t worth risking all
that money. He offered to take on the con-
tract if someone would come along and put
up the cash, but backers evidently shared
Walter’s own estimate of the risks involved
and no business was done. Now, however,
Archie Compston has offered to meet Walter
for any money or none at all, and has de-
parted for America to beard the gentleman
on his own midden. Hagen is a great player,
but not even his own countrymen would shed
tears to see him get his issue from the hands
of the Briton.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: An amateur-status row
is raging in the American golf world. The
trouble has arisen over the presentation to
Bobby Jones of £IO,OOO in recognition of
his services to the game. In Rugby Union
football and a dozen other amateur sports
such a gift would make a man a professional
instanter—the R.U., for instance, allows no
one to accept a present over the value of
£2. In cricket, on the other hand, W. G.
Grace received a considerable sum of money
on liis retirement from the game without
ceasing to be regarded as an amateur, while
in Australia benefit matches to amateurs
are common. Again, while Jones may get
£IO.OOO and remain an amateur, he would
be dubbed a professional if he opened a shop
for selling clubs and balls. It is a mad
world in many particulars, and in the
matter of defining what constitutes an
amateur, as opposed to a professional, it is
positively maniacal.
* * * *
“Chelmer”: The recent competition for
golf caddies in Brisbane, which was won
by a 12-year-old urchin with a card that
many a plus man might envy (B. 29/12/’27),
was not, as has been stated, the first of its
kind in Queensland. Five and twenty years
ago, a similar one was started by Innes Noad,
now a N.S.W. M.L.C., and then an enthusi-
astic member of Brisbane’s first golf club,
which had its humble hut on an unpretenti-
ous course at Chelmer, far up the Brisbane
river. It was a handicap event, and the
winner, G. Chamberlain, returned a card
of 105 off scratch. The event was dropped
after its founder’s departure. None of the
six competitors in the first contest have ever
been heard of in more important golf to
this day.
* * * #
“Ploughman”: It is notorious that the
only way for many golfers to ensure that
they will play a shot perfectly is to give
up caring a d—ivot whether it comes off or
not. A notable instance of this great truth
has been seen in Queensland. A player in
a four-ball game landed in a deep guarding
bunker at the fourth green on the Royal
Queensland’s course at Hamilton. Under
the impression that it would not make the
least difference what he did. the despairing
one took his masliie niblick and made a
maddened swipe. To his amazement, the
ball went clear and true out of sight over
the bank, and when he climbed out he
found his mates stricken dumb. The lofted
ball had landed fair in the hole and had
stopped there. There was no rule govern-
ing the case, but that generally accepted
as applying to holing out in one was sug-
gested and adopted forthwith. Perhaps
the most striking feature of the affair was
the optimism of the player’s caddie, who
took the flag out of the hole before his
employer climbed into the bunker to make
his shot, and was thus one of the contri-
buting factors to the miracle.
(Continued on page £l.)


inrara
ST. KILDA ROAD (JUNCTION), ST. KILDA, VICTORIA.
CONSTRUCTED FOR—St. Kilda City Council.
ENGINEER—R. T. Kelly, Esq., C.E.
CONTRACTOR—H. Rowe, Esq.
NATURE OF OLD SURFACE—Waterbound Macadam.
NATURE OF NEW SURFACE —Wood Blocks on top of concrete reinforced with No. 9
Special B.R.C. Fabric.
Ra ad Reinforcements
Modern concrete roads reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric withstand all the
stresses imposed by heavy traffic, and give a length of service, surprisingly
free from maintenance costs, that is far beyond the term of life of roads
not so reinforced. B.R.C. Fabric ensures correct distribution of steel in
the concrete, gives perfect continuity and reduces labor costs to a minimum.
Used extensively and constantly by experienced road engineers in every
quarter of the world.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
rrrrrrnTrrrrrriTrr;
nrrrrrrrrrrmro;
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES . . J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
?rVw^j SLAND J * Wildrid S e & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth
HUme P!pe Company (Amt), Ltd., Hobart
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Wellington.
auqDj
B-R-C


Great Bowling
Carnival
Australian Singles Championship
1170 Contestants
t> c t
> cX3 ,£&
«*<**
, f -t b ;> f> c
ft* 0 *
JV.
ol *bl'
Of
be
Usej t to >ns
*>Ho, >»i.
c e.
B Oty£
ss
P :
Wmmi
ism
J
mim
i
M
■
yszSS
m
SKSSfc
sm
1
Jf
i
m
H
m
■
m
m
: :
•x
«
m
X*W>C-0-*>«k
mmm
**«&!?
■
m
nm
THE WINNER.
Mr. F. DOBBIE
(City of Camberwell),
Victoria.
Photos by courtesy of Sun Pictorial, Melbourne.
Fine Bowling Achievement
Bowling experts from every State—and New Zealand—
took part in the greatest Bowling Carnival ever held in
Australia—and probably in the world. 1170 enthusiasts
competed for the coveted Blue Riband Event, the
Australian Championship
which was won by Mr. F. DOBBIE (Vic.).
DUNLOP BOWLS
were used by the Champion.
Are you handicapping yourself by not using ‘ Dunlop the best
bowl obtainable? These bowls are supreme for quality, finish and
balance. The cost is moderate. Buy a set and see how YOUR GAME
IMPROVES.
Obtainable from Sports Depots. Look for the brand Dunlop.
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD. and N.Z.
RUNNER-UP.
MR. S. FROST
(Middle Park), Victoria.


U-
, '
JKT
T
«*
:
si
: m
V... --'
Ci
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS
The
“Texas” Ranger
COWBOY
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
Freight Paid for Cash
with Order to any N.S.W.
Railway Station.
Bs4— Cowboy Bridle, fancy-
studded with gold-color bit
with nickel horse head on
cheek 76/-
Bs3—Breastplate Studded
to match bridle .... 75/-
B7o—Chaps, fringed, 85/-
Write for Our Catalogue of Texas
and Australian Saddlery and Harness.
d
Bridle
854.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.,
SADDLERS, etc.
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
“Spiel”: The individual who augments his
income by means of his skill at bridge is
plentiful in this country, but we hear little
of the pest, common enough in England and
America, who employs golf to effect the same
purpose. This harpy waits for a stranger
who is looking for someone to play a round,
and casually suggests something on before
driving off. Every opportunity is taken to
force a side-bet during the play, either on
his own stroke or his opponent’s, from the
tee to holing out, and to say that, in racing
parlance, he “runs with the wraps on” till
the good money is up is putting it politely.
Given a good mug, the sharper may make a
profit of a fiver a round. Operations are
aided by the fact that the more lamentable
the mug’s golf the more firmly convinced ne
is of his own prowess.
Car and Cycle
“Bumpkin”: So another motorist has
lowered the speed record between Sydney
and Melbourne (B. 29/12/’27). One of
his predecessors claimed to have travelled
in spots at 80 m.p.h.. This is the sort of
crazy pastime which makes me sympathise
with those country bumbles who, in spite
of the derision of the city, sturdily insist on
a speed limit of 15 miles through their
towns. It almost puts me in harmony with
the Vic. town of Colac, which recently pro-
posed to put dangerous bumps in its main
street to check accelerating asses.
# * * *
“Differential”: Driving a Studebaker
stock model, M. V. Dodwell and F. H.
Vaughan, of Brisbane, recently covered the
rivers route between Brisbane and Sydney,
some 720 miles, in 23 hours 40min. The
car had to wait for seven punts en route —
and N.S.W. people know what that means.
$ $ * $
“Methuselah II.”: In England recently 44
cars lined up to do the 50-odd miles from
London to Brighton in celebration of the
31st anniversary of “Emancipatiou Day.”
This marked the amendment of the Roads
Act, which had practically blocked motoring
on public highways, demanding, as it did,
that no power-driven vehicle should travel
faster than 4 m.p.h. Gars in the joyful pro-
cession had to be of voting age, at least, and
37 reached Brighton in safety, 21 covering
the run without a stop. Seme of them dated
back to 1893. The fact that there were
owners outside of museums who had been
content to keep their old pets out at grass
so long was almost as amazing as the per-
formance of the venerable rattletraps them-
selves.
* * * *
“Giorgio”: Some 70 folk of all ages and
sexes, drawn by 41 Indian motor-cycles,
arrived in Sydney from Melbourne on Wed-
nesday of last week and took up quarters
in the Showground buildings. The party
started on Christmas Eve and came by way
of the Prince’s Highway, riding in easy
daily stages and camping out, as far as was
possible, at night. The trip was a success
from all points of view, and it will doubtless
set a fashion. These “gipsy tours,” as they
are called, have become a feature of
American life.
* * * *
“Hotham” : Harris Horder has been doing
some remarkable bike riding in Melbourne.
He won a five-mile scratch race at the
Motordrome in lOmin. 20 1-5 sec. The
statistics are indefinite, but it is doubtful
whether faster time has been made over the
distance in Australasia. The world’s best in
competition, according to the Americans, is
lOmin. 11 l-5sec.; E. Mayer is awarded the
credit.
Miscellaneous
“Spike” : Though Maoriland regained the
Australasian track athletic championship,
the last of its kind that will be held now
that M.L. intends joining the Internationa]
Federation as a separate entity, Australia
made a better showing than it was expected
to do with Victoria (which won the last
championship) so poorly represented.
N.S.W. did particularly well, taking seven
of the 18 events. The meeting definitely
established the fact that in Jimmy Carlton,
the St. Joseph’s schoolboy, Australia has a
great sprinter, and in C. S. Stuart a very
good middle-distance runner. Their times
were not startling (Carlton won the 100
in 10 1-5 sec. and the 220 in 22 l-5sec.),
but the Wellington track was slow, and they
had to run against a typical Wellington
wind. Then Davidson, of Victoria, cleared
Oft. in the high jump, establishing
new figures for Australia and M.L. Of the
Maorilanders, Randolph Rose, one of the
greatest long-distance runners of his time,
was seriously challenged by Savidan in the
one- and three-mile races. It was only by
inches that he heat the younger man in the
three miles, run in 14min. 49 4-5sec. Kes-
kinen, Queensland’s sole point-scorer, cleared
lift. OJin, in the pole vault, and won the
Decathlon as well.
* * * *
“Spike”: The last of the Australasian
athletic contests, which had their beginnings
in 1883, made only one contribution to the
record-book. It was in the first of the
seriesi that W. T. Macpherson rap 100 yards
in 9 4-5sec., and his time has never' been
beaten in the competitions though it has
been equalled. Only once has the" 220 bean
done under evens. Queenslander Norman
Grehan cut the distance out in 21 3-5sec. on
a circular track at Brisbane. Nigel Barker’s
time for the quarter-mile, 48|sec., has stood
for 22 years; it was made on a dry Sydney
track.. Stuart’s half-mile in lmin. 57 l-5soc.
at windy IVcllington was only a second
worse than the Australasian record, though
well below Dr. Peltzer’s lmin. 51 3-5sec.
* * * :|c
“Rugger” : The triumphs of Jim Carlton
over the hurry-up” distances inevitably re-
call those of a great schoolboy and TTnivcr-
atWete of an earlier day, Nigel Barker.
And, like Barker, Carlton is a first-class
wing three-quarter, though lie has not vet
played outside the ranks of the N.S W Great
Public Schools. Fast track men shoved into
a Rugby team on account of their pace
between the tapes generally dread the tackle.
. °,t one in a dozen proves himself a con-
sistent scorer against a tough opposition,
out Barker was a strong and determined
runner on the wing, and so is Carlton. The
ot. Joseph’s lad picked up 21 tries in seven
matches last year. If he decides to keep
up nis football after leaving school, he will
almost certainly figure in the N.S.W. side to
meet the British team which is to return the
YVaratahs’ visit in 1929.
* * * *
Billy the Goose” : Life is full o’ busted
dreams. I was on me way down ter Syd-
ney ter get a mob o’ these Pitt-street mugs
int rested in the game I tole yez about—
chasm tree-kangaroos with grey’ounds inock-
yerlated with monkey glands—but I on’y gets
fi S i^ as Townsville. They booted me outer
the lifeboat I was trav’llin’ in, so I hoofs
it erlong the breakwater on that perishin’
mile n a arf ter the firs’ pub in Ross Islan’.
Iheres a notice up erbout a great goat
match between the Rocky champeen, Koon-
gai, an. a local fancy called Son o’ Mine.
Ivnowin’ that Koongai’s Carbine over agin,
ony with ’orns and a ’urn that Donal’
'' allace’s ole prad never owned, I ’ad a
stroll roun’ town that arvo and run the rule
over a cuppler blokes that ’d come; in from
the Ross Creek meatworks with a cheque.
ter the speedway, an’ orl it goes
bn Koongai. Strike me unlucky if ’e doesn’t
rn? i, 1 * 5 * n le straight an’ get beat!
Ihe funny capers says nex’ mornin’ that it
was. becos Koongai’s driver lorst ’ees w’ip.
Don’t tell me 1. . They’re fixin" up another
match w’ile I’m writin’ this,, an’l’ll ’ave
ter get up town ter SCe if I c’n pick up
another Ross Creeker, bein’ pretty certain
w ich one’ll win this time. These profesh-
nal_ scullers can’t give no points ter goat-
racin’ kids w’en it comes ter turn erbout’s
fair play. I’ve a screw I’ll see yez in
Pitt-street yet.
‘Rough Stuff”: Of all the felon blows
which have been aimed at croquet since the
coming to Australia of the English inter-
national XV, or whatever it is, the direst
has come from the S. M. Herald. In noting
the team’s arrival in Sydney, the Herald
referred to it as representative of the English
“Hockey” Association, and announced that it
would engage the members of the kindred
N.S.W. Association in three Test matches.
Croquet players have suffered a good deal
in the past by these unthinking errors. I
have even known it to be mistaken for golf,
a pursuit leading to untruthfulness and
strong waters. But to confuse the game with
hockey is the bally limit, what?
JAMES CARLTON, the N.S.W. schoolboy
sprinter, who won both his races at the
Australasian championship meeting in
Maoriland.
Shrewsbury”: The cabled information
that the Prince of Wales had entered the
semi-finals of a big squash-racquets tourney
in England by beating Commander Kershaw,
the Rugby international, stirred the Empire
to its socks. Even at the tin hares inquiries
were made as to lI.R.H.’s price for the final.
But it was not to be, for Edward the Next
was overcome by a phlegmatic chap named
McKenzie. Squash racquets, an old Rug-
beian friend affirms, was looked on in his
day as a “loafer’s” game at the school which
invented it. Nowadays, like first-class tennis,
it demands perfect condition, a supple wrist
and a good eye. The man who can play
through a modern squash tourney and make
good_ against such famous all-round athletes
as Kershaw has nothing soft about him.
* * * *
“Draw”: Melbourne entertained a multi-
tudinous army of bowlers, from all parts of
Australia and Maoriland, during the
holidays. There was great jubilation when
Australia beat Maoriland in the inter-Domin-
ion match, for the chaps from across the
Tasman are as hard to beat at bowls as they
are at football. Australia won all three
games—ll 4 to 78, 119 to 60 and 121 to 77.
In the first tw r o matches it was represented
by a rink each from Tasmania, Westralia
Victoria and N.S.W.; in the third Victoria
stood aside for South Aus. Queensland did
not provide a rink, though many Queens-
landers appeared in other competitions. In.
the_ singles championship of Australia Vic-
torians monopolised the semi-finals. E
Dobbie, of the City of Camberwell club beat
S ; Erost, of Middle Park, in the final, run-
ning to his points of 31 when his opponent
had reached 11. Dobbie, a very fine player
has been State “champion of champions” on
three occasions.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The old wrangle over
the standardisation of bowls still arouses
the echoes. A dozen attempts have been
made to standardise a general form of test-
ing-table and get it adopted by the bowline
aiithorities of aH the States, but they have
all failed. Meanwhile gentlemen who use
woods with about as much bias as a
Diiiiard-ball continue to vanquish and in-
timate players who conform strictly to the
regulations and employ bowls that are made
to draw. If bowling associations would set
idr teeth and disqualify persistent offenders
tne trouble would soon be ended. As it is,
these are subject to nothing more than the
smothered hatred of bowlers who have to
meet them on handicap terms, and little they
care about that as long as they win trophies.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman” : In addition to Soccer
tootba l, America is taking to bowls. An
English team which recently visited Gahd’s
own country reports having found plenty
ol good greens and good players. The vogue
ot both games is largely due to the emigra-
F. L. MORION (Vic.), the most successful
fast bowler in the Sheffield Shield games
to date. 5
tion of skilled Scottish and English mech-
T> ni^ s t^le American industrial plants.
Both types are keen on Soccer, and the Scots
.are particularly addicted to bowls and its
concomitants.
* * * *
: . An annual piscatorial event
in Melbourne is the competition sponsored
by n™ leys ’ ,^ h , e porting dealers. This
year 900 would-be anglers entered, and the
battlefield selected was Jackson’s Creek, at
the moment a chain of ponds near Sunshine.
'\ et flies and dry flies, yabbies, mud-eyes,
worms and maggots were amongst the
astounding assortment of meals offered to
the fish. A laborer won the trophy with a
collection of English perch weighing alto-
getiier olb. loz. There were free beer, a
wireless set and a cinematographer on the
bank. llie cinematographer was the only
person who went home disappointed. A
i 1 j j trout was the heaviest creature
landed; and even the camera lens, with its
well-known ability to distort things, couldn’t
make much of a sensation out of that.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: The Waratahs have
been able to rest the hopes of the side for
the. match against England; the game
against London had to be abandoned, and a
second team was fielded against Warwick-
shire and the East Midlands—it won on
a frozen ground, by 8 to 5. A victory over
Jim gland i s desired above all, and though
tne Jii.lt. U. has selected the most powerful
■side it can get together the visitors are fan-
cied, for it will be England’s first game this
season. On last year's form it should be
a good thing for the tourists have beaten
Ireland—bracketed even with Scotland for
the international championship last season
—and were perhaps unlucky to lose to the
Scots by two points. The English side in-
cludes Sir Thomas Devitt, whose mother
was a N.S.W. girl; he belongs to the Black-
heath club, which has three men in the
team. After this match there will be a
s ™. rt , tour of France, and then three games
will be played in British Columbia
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: In an exchange of com-
pliments.after the Wales-N. S. Wales match
the president of the W.R.U. testified that
the Waratahs played the game in the spirit
ot the British public schools, and Austra-
lian manager Gordon Shaw said he hoped
to see a Welsh team in Australia in 1930
1 here was one Welshman, W. H Thomas'
here with Stoddart’s side in 1888; another’
Gwynn Nicholls, came with Mullineux’s 11
years later. The British team of 1904 con-
tained eight Welshmen, including those
really great halves Vile and Bush ; and there
11 Taffies in the Anglo-Welsh side of
1908. That combination distinguished itself
by* beating the Wallabies 8-0 in Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“C.Q.”: Few of the lunch-hour idlers who
rick their necks staring at the T. and G.
building, now growing in Russell-street, Mel-
bourne, realise that they are surveying
another record. The immense concrete honey-
comb has the longest cantilever cornice in
Australia. It is 430 feet from one end to
the other.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: If Bananaland worked up its
<?wn gems there would probably be thousands
earning good wages in that industry alone,
for the range includes diamonds, sapphires,
opals, amethysts, emeralds, zircons, topaz,
garnets, olivines, turquoise, tourmalines
actinolites (cat’s eyes), agates, corundum,
beryls, pearls and others. Q.’s most glori-
ous gem is the sapphire, which is found in
many beautiful colors, the highest prized
being the yellows and greens. On the fields
where these are obtained sunny days are
known as sapphire days, as buyers will not
operate unless the sun is shining.
* * * *
“Bill Ding” : While Australian sawmillers
are trying to secure a bit more trade in their
own country, it seems extraordinary that in
the many large theatres (mostly picture)
springing up in our cities there is little or
no Australian lumber. Despite the very
free use of steel and cement there is still
need of big quantities of timber in most of
these palaces, but it is invariably Oregon
and Baltic instead of mountain-ash, stringy -
bark, karri or jarrah. It is argued that
these increase the weight of floors and
require heavier girders, but their breaking-
strains are so much greater that consider-
ably smaller dimensions could be used. Are
architects to blame, or is it that overseas
lumber interests are linked up with overseas
picture corporations?
* * * - *
“Lao-dah”: The engineers engaged on the
Spencer-street bridge, Melbourne, are making
discoveries. One is that the bottom would
not have carried the structure as originally
designed. It was to have been planted on a
floor of rock, but the floor turns out to
be only eight feet thick. A new design will
have to be prepared.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: Melbourne cablers
haven’t taken long to discover one advantage
of the Beam. If they lodge their messages
with it they save fourpence on every word.
If it fades out, which it has been doing for
hours together of late, the accumulated traffic
is handed over to the cable companies.
Amalgamated Wireless doesn’t ask the sender
to make up the difference, but avoids criti-
cism by forking out itself. So, as half-
owner of the Beam, the Australian taj aycr
is paying out twopence a word on telegrams
that don’t concern him in the least. A Mel-
bourne business man was quite frank about
it. “My message gets there somehow and I
save several shillings on every one,”
* * * *
“Esters”: The year’s output of Aus-
tralian wine was close on 20,000,000 gal-
lons. For the year ending on June 30 last
3,077,588 gallons were exported, nearly
double the volume sent away the previous
year. Close on 3,000,000 gallons of this was
absorbed by the United Kingdom. In four
months since June 30, 2,093,073 gallons of
wine have left these shores, and all records
have been broken. For the nine months
ended Sept. 30 last Portugal exported
4,690,181 gallons to Britain, and Australia
3,127,281. France was third with 2,361,018
galls., and Spain fourth with 2,248,029. And
we still have the best market of all —the
home market—less than half exploited.
* * * *
“E.H.S.” : “A.G.M.’s” pessimistic prophecy
from London regarding the future of Austra-
lian “Aspro.” in England (8.4/11/’26) has been
punctured by experience. Not only have
Nicholas Pty. had to open a factory at
Slough to cope with the British demand
for the tablets, but the sales of “Aspro” in
England threaten to exceed those in Aus-
tralia —this in spite of the fact that some
of the big department stores are selling
imitations at well under “Aspro” prices.
Australia, Maoriland, England and Germany
have all now got “Aspro” factories. Mr.
A. M. Nicholas went to Europe specially to
launch the big selling campaign in England,
and left a little group of Australians behind
him to carry on.


Amusements.
JP M P I R K THEATRE,
■“Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
Rufe Naylor has the honor to present
2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 5/6
NIGHTLY, 7.45 SHARP.
Reserves at Theatre (M.A. 1000), Nicholson’s,
Paling’s, Hotel Australia, Usher’s, Carlton. Samuel s.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
Theatre Box Office Hours; 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
§ I'DNE Y’S CHIEF TH E VIRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
ROYAL: CRADLE SNATCHERS.
PALACE: CORNERED.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
r «>.ssees: Harry Rickards' Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS-
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
THEATRE ROYAL: QUEEN HIGH.
A THEN M U M THEA T R E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Prank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.15.
The Laughable Three-act Comedy,
THE ALARM CLOCK.
“A Tickle in Every Tick.”
‘ Direction E. J. CARROLL.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOY T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
CRADLE SNATCHERS
With LOUISE FAZENDA.
ALSO
PUBLICITY MADNESS
With LOIS MORAN.
Legal Notices.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND, WELLINGTON DISTRICT.
No. 3010. In Divorce.
Between EILEEN WINIFRED HARRI-
SON «Petitioner and CHARLES ARCIII-
B ’ LD HARRISON Respondent.
To C ARLES ARCHIBALD HARRISON
fo.. uerly of Wanganui now of unknown
address Manager,
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Wellington citing you to appear
and answer the petition of Eileen Winifred
Harrison of London England Married Woman
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the grounds of deser-
tion and separation by mutual consent and
such citation intimates that in default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
after the date of the last publication of this
abstract to attend in person or by your
Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington and there to enter an appearance
and file! an answer without which you will
not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings. A Copy of the
said citation and petition will be supplied to
you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington
DATED at Wellington this 24th day of
November 1927.
[L.s. l G. S. CLARK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward to him the
foregoing advertisement.
George Herbert Malis Moir is the Solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the office of Messrs. D. M. Findlay and
Moir, Lambton Quay, Wellington.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
1 ZEALAND. NORTHERN DISTRICT.
No. 231/27. In Divorce.
To GEORGE PATRICK haSKIVILLE
formerly of Sydney Showman and now
of parts and occupation unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation lias been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Auckland citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of Maysie Frances
Baskiville wherein she prays for a disso-
lution of her marriage with you on the
grounds that she has been separated from
you by virtue of an Order of the Stipen-
diary Magistrate (made on the 24th day
of July 1923) for a period of three years
and upwards and such Citation intimates
that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and
to pronounce sentence therein notwithstand-
ing your absence NOW THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said you are within twenty-eight days after
the 12th day of January 1928 being the last
date of this publication to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Supreme Court
Office at Auckland and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage
of the proceedings. A copy of the said
Citation and Petition will be supplied to you
on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Auckland.
Dated at Auckland this 23rd day of
December 1927.
A. E. DOBBIE,
Deputy-Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward to him the fore-
going advertisement.
John Ferguson Strang is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is
at the offices of Messieurs Endean and Hol-
loway, Solicitors. Endean’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
Amusements.
It/| A.TESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
,wi “One of the Union Theatres.”
Warner Brothers present
MONTE BLUE in
THE BLACK DIAMOND EXPRESS.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard
II.” In Season Hobart Theatre Royal.
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229,
Sydney.
ď
Sports Trousers
at Murdoch’s . .
13/11
Twill Gabardine Sports Trous-
ers. Designed for freedom of
movement, with side strajjs, belt,
loops and cut bottoms 13/11
Better Qualities at 25/-, 30/-,
35/- post free. Write to Desk R.
MURDOCH’S IN PARK ST. LTD., SYDNEY
d
đfs
fs
Water Can’t Wet
1 Your Matches
if you carry Mar-
ble’s Match Box.
Only big as io-
gauge shell, made of
seamless brass nickeled.
Rubber gasket in cover
makes it wholly moisture-
proof. Can’t lose cover.
50 cents—may save your
life sometime.
Can’t Lose This
Trusty Compass \
Waterproof screw case.
Double safety pin bracket—
snaps on coat or belt TO
STAY. Won’t mislead, and
may save your getting lost.
This “Ideal” Knife
made of GOOD steel, handy in
shape, great for sticking, skin-
ning, or camp use. Light and com-
pact but hugely strong. Blades 5 to 8 in.
Marbles
Famous Safety Axe
Fits the pocket yet will fell an 8-inch
tree in five minutes. Lead-lined spring-
hinge guard precludes accidents. Staunch,
keen-edged and invaluable to campers.
These are 4 of 60 Marble Specialties you
should own, including Marble’s Great
Game Getter Gun. Drop in and see them, I
or order now and your money back if J
dissatisfied. 84-E f
Write for illustrated catalog. Sent postpaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.,
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
dfs
dfs
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Return of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to tlie Fire Brigades Act, 1909-27.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December. 1927, with-
in the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
27, applies; less any part of such premiums
actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1928; subject to a penalty nof exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1927. ♦
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc., Insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-27.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associa-
tions being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-27, has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State; are hereby notified that they
are required to send to the Board of Fire
Commissioners of New South Wales, returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1927.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1928; subject to a penalty not exceeding
£1 per day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
December 1, 1927.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Elleuora D.: Got very near the mark. .. .
J.W.B.“Spirit of Christmas” horribly under-proof.
.... J.A.H.: Not enough in it.... J.H.: “In and
Out” nearly in....G.R.: Not sufficient story in the
curious mental coincidence... .R.1.K.: The issue is
made altogether too vague.... 1.C.P.: It hovered on
the edge.... 0.W.W.: Weak... .H.S.F.: (Fiji):
Mainly they travel over worn paths ; the one on Fiji
went nearest. .. .W.A.H.: Why all the notes of excla-
mation ?. .. Della G.Doesn’t your typewriter possess
any “n’s” ? It made you “sig a sog,” for instance.
....R.W.T.: Duly destroyed. .. .P.J.M.: No use giv-
ing you advice. Your bad-verse disease seems incurable.
....S.H.: The character-drawing can’t carry the
weak story. .. .A. 8.: The points of ■ the yarn are
lost in its wanderings.... Maude A.: It won’t come
into our garden, Maude.... Gil E. M.: Stupendous
thought:—
The train puffed out, puffed out!
“Alas,” thought I, I thought “Ah me!
Each train by which we rush about
But rushes to Eternity!”
. ...W.L.G.: “Oh, take your angel wings and fly.”
We can’t. It’s our busy week. .. . D.M.: It wouldn’t
be Christmas unless someone sent that yarn in!....
J.L.; Not half as much need to apologise for the
handwriting as for the verse... .M.W.: “Forest —
smallest’ ’ is another of those wonderful rhymes....
G.R.S.: The plots are fair; the trouble is that all
your characters might be hanged without anyone
caring.. . .A.S.H.: Dies away suddenly. .. .8.J.M.:
Weak finish —therefore finished... .M.G.: Sad remark
about having to drink water “like the brutes” was
the only one to touch us... .D.M.L.: “When you
read this story, which I declare to be true, you
will say, ‘That be damned for a yarn.’ ” We didn’t.
We stopped after “damned”.. .P.S.S.: The wedding-
bells sound in tlie first paragraph... .W.L.G.: Sheer
foolishness.... Carol Ine: You use “the hand of
Fate,” “Heaven above,” “the dewy eve” and other
old props, and then you call it “Thought”!. ...
M. J.: The great fish that swallowed Jonah was not
half as wonderful as that anyone swallowed the fish.
....Ron C.: Old, old fraud E.S.L.Poor setting
for an old question... .8.L.G.: You assert “I am
the original author of this.” Have you Noah’s
certificate ?.... Gerald M.: See issue 2-2/12/’27, page
35.... Blythe K.; The hand-script is all right, but
the story isn’t... .Edwin W.: “Mug” is not good
beer... .T.W.N.: Too pretentious... .U.E.B : You
wouldn’t like The Bulletin so much if we were to
print “stories” like that..... .Thos. T.: You haven’t
the faintest idea of telling a yarn F. J.H.:
Fails. .. .K.G. (Charters Towers) : Pale humor....
J.H.: Pirate nearly bounded in.... Geo. L.: Has
points, but not enough... .Z.V.W.: The blackmail is
too mild to be interesting.... Glamis S.: Needs too
much washing-up.... Math. L.: Too long, and doesn’t
altogether convince.... Dil R.: Your belief that
“foxes —lobsters” is rhyme is pathetic... . Bis G.: You
make a whole story of it, and it’s below par. .. .
Geo. B.: “Irene” doesn’t deserve to have such
verse written about her —whatever she did.... Fan :
It’s a. mere outline of a story... .Myra E. • Don’t use
jso many hackneyed “props”.... Ruby D.: Tedious
chronicle of nearly amusing events... .Chas. C.: Marks
lof manufacture too evident... .Ron C.: You killed
j him off before we even suspected that he was i 11....
A.E.W.: Trite little verse Spectator: We don’t
want the verse containing the wish that the Botanical
Gardens should be your cemetery... .Pain: Ponderous
in style and trivial in content.... Della C.: “What
do you say to these?” We don’t say anything—
merely drop a tear. .. .F. 8.: It’s a long-winded criti-
cism. .. .Nance W.: Some of them get very c105e....
H.A.: Wicked old man !... .M.L.C.: “Death in
Domino” item dominoed.... Awain: That rhyme “The
Quay—Manly” made you miss the ferry ... .R.J.: You
went to stay in the country and slept on a stretcher
bed. What an adventure for 2000 words !... .Bill J.:
You get your seasons mixed... .Ernest E.: Rather
liked your lunatic; but his leaps up and down stairs
don’t supply enough story... .Peggy S,: Has faults,
but shows promise... .Cam D.: This is real pathos:—
Alas ! Alas ! Thou faded flower,
Thou livedst thine life and had thine hour,
What is there, now, 'my heart to cheer?
There’s nothing left but vice and beer!
. ...8.G.: “Don't wake me up, but let me rest.”
Sleep on. . . .8.R.: And you can join him... .8.L.G.:
You, a “third-generation Australian,” write about
“we colonials” !.'.-. .A.8.T.: Left us dazed... .F.M.FI.:
“Gift” not wanted. . .M.L.F.: Doesn’t reach the level
required... .A.A.: The violin item has throbbed itself
back to y0u.... Peter I.: Has a good end; the start
is dreary ' and unconvincing... . T.S.G.: Unreal. ....
Neville T.: Well enough done; but doubt if there’s
much interest in it....Quin: Mere statements of
fact with occasional rhymes.... Glamis S.: The idea
is all right; but the verse isn’t Worth that much
spaee...;Richard R., R.F.G., Garin: Failed on the
second time round... .Ben G.: Deserves more dra-
matic treatment.... Dora B.: An old plot and a
false ring. ...Ted M.: It wasn’t much of a swindle.
. ...F.M.H.:, Nothing attractive about Adolph’s
furniture... .Ivenn: We’ve had a jury sitting on
that story. There is good stuff in it but a power-
ful majority won’t accept the conclusion (p. 8) as
even probable R.G.W.: “Impotence” just about
describes it—you don’t say what you seem to want
to say. Nothing new in the other.... Ariadne:
“Gaoler” all but got inside.. . .Norma B.: “Memo-
ries” strained.... Elouera: The picture in “The
Bather” is good; but . that careless second stanza
ruins it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A. 8.: The swarm of bees clinging to the seat of
his pants was smoked 0ut.... F. 8.: “Little Willie’s
First Drink” too reminiscent of a colored supple-
ment Phil May did... . J.M.C.: No opening for your
grass-eating tramp.... Trig: Promising; try for more
freedom... .D.R.E.: Wait until you can do some-
thing with island color in it 0.W.T.: Sorry, but
it is not “for The Bulletin” ... .A. A.: Make ’em
more shapely... .E.A.U.R.: No use for inventory of
insects found in soup. .. .E.P.: Pallid and wrinkled
little thing.... D.H.: Damsel in various stages of
undress is supplied with a wrapper to accompany
her home. .. .G. 8.: Mere head studies not wanted...
R.H.: McSnorter struck bad luck in this office also,
i ... .E.A.: Uneven and scratchy. . . .R.S.R.: Spirit-
J less humor, and the drawing misses. .. .A.E.R.: A
hopeless tangle. .. .F.V.: Worn-out tin-hare gags.
. ...A.E.K.: Linework needs a stiffener. .. .1.D.: Old
joke; treatment muddled... .J.R.T.D. : Work still
coarse. .. .11. D.: Unsuitable.... \V. J. K.: Try another
shop F.C.H.: Badly balanced. .. .G.T.C.H.: The
joke has run to seed.
THE INKY WAY.
“Knib” : Syd Deamer, chief sub. of Melb.
Herald, has resigned the general presidency
of the A.J.A., and is succeeded by Ted
Sayers, formerly Victorian president.
“Hamer”: The growing value of the
specialist journalist is shown by the esti-
mate of the London Daily News that
Lloyd George is making x 18,750 p.a. by
press work. The ex-Prime Minister is any-
thing but a voluminous writer, but his name
gives his articles a tremendous value, and
big groups of papers share the expense. But
£360 per week is probably the record for a
free-lance.
“Ex-M.L.A,”: The press gallery at Can-
berra may regard itself as justified in empty-
ing when Perkins, M.H.R., speaks, as a pro-
test against Perkins having used his position
to attack a pressman. But what about a
pressman using his position to attack (or
ignore—which amounts to the same thing)
a member? The average pressman speaks to
a bigger audience than any member is ever
likely to command.
“Mapee” : Thus a Brisbane Sunday paper
in an article on ancient superstitions of
criminals: —-
If a housebreaker, on his way to burgle a house,
met a cross-eyed woman, or saw three cows pass
overhead, he would immediately abandon his project
and return home.
And swear off hard stuff, too, if he were
wise.
“Q.N.” : How hard some of these traditions
of dignified journalism die! The Argus reso-
lutely refuses to mention such things as
“tin hares” without inverted commas or to
headline the new pastime as anything but
“mechanical coursing.”
“Uramao”: What do brother freelances
think of this idea from Vienna? A now
weekly paper in the Austrian capital invites
freelance contributors to look for remunera-
tion to the readers of the journal. The
writer is asked to attach his name to every
par., and readers are invited to send him
along the amount they think his literary
effort is worth. The reader can send the sum
to the paper if he desires to do so, and the
management deducts a percentage and passes
the rest on to the chap who has earned it.
I suspect that there is no equivalent to the
A.J.A. in Austria.
“Tariff”: Some of these Parliamentary
jeux d’esprit find their way into Hansard,
as witness the following extract from the S.
Aus. publication (30/11/’27) : “The mem-
ber for Sturt deliberately distorted my
speech. If it were not done deliberately,
there is only one alternative that I as a
medical man can offer. I believe the neu-
rones in his grey substance must be under-
going a process of degeneration.” Apparently
the victim consulted Webster that night, for
next day he is reported: “I reply by saying
he is suffering from hypertrophy of the
cephalic lobe.”
“Umses” : Talking of queer birth notices
(B. 24/11/'27), a South Canterbury (M.L.)
paper had the following : “To Mr. and Mrs.
, of , a sow.” The fact that the
happy father was a well-known breeder of
pigs did not help matters, though the paper
nearly fell over itself in its hurry to publish
an amended notice in the next issue.
“Tahune”: Lieut.-Governor Collins (I>.
8/12/’27) ■ started the first newspaper pub-
lished in Tas. This was in March, 1810.
There wasn’t much news in the paper, but
some of it was published in a way that reads
a little startlingly nowadays. Take the fol-
lowing wedding notice: “On Monday, 26th
ult., R. C. Burrows to Elizabeth Tucker,
both late of Norfolk Island. They had co-
habited together 14 years, verifying at last
the old adage, ‘Better late than never.’”
The seventh number of the paper contained
a full account of the death and burial of its
founder; there were only 12 issues in all.
“M.L.”: An Inky Wayfarer who knew
the inside of most of the newspaper offices
in Maoriland was Dave Gorman, Irish born,
who passed out the other day at 47, the
victim of post-influenza complications. He
was a quiet, conscientious chap, but he liked
variety, and no assignment book enshrined
his name for long. Death found him in the
editorial chair of the Temuka Leader, the
organ through which old Jeremiah Twomey,
one of the quaint characters of M.L. politics,
used to thunder. Gorman, who was a
widower, was the son of a Methodist parson,
at one time principal of Wesley College.
Dublin.
“Wang” : I took my first Bulletin cheque
(B. 8/12/’27) to the pub, after asking four
or five blokes to join me. The barman
shoved the pots across, and I proudly
handed over Mr. Micawber’s portrait. He
glanced at it, and pushed it back. “Y’
can’t come them capers with me. boy,” lie
remarked. My companions, realising that
my “paper” wasn’t being accepted at face
value, gulped down their beers and drifted
off. The barman, after demanding payment
“in good money” and being told that be
couldn’t have any better, threatened to call
a policeman. I was sarcastically telling him
to go his hardest when the licensee, hearing
the dispute, came into the bar. Picking up
the cheque he gave me a grin. “Haven’t
seen one of them since I left Noo South,” he
declared. "Yes, Tom, it’s all right.”
“A. .Tack” : Broken Hill had a visit from a
sprightly old chap of 90 the other day. He
was John Moore, who, hearing fellow train-
passengers talk of the delights of air travel-
ling, said “I’m going to try that,” and
did, flying to Adelaide a couple of days after-
wards. That impulsiveness was responsible
for giving Bourke its first paper. Going
broke on the land out back he was lazily
travelling to Melbourne when he noticed his
friend Webb reading. “Is there any money
in newspapers?” lie asked curiously. “Yes,”
was the reply of his companion, a printer.
“Right-o, we’ll start one,” said Moore, and
that was the beginning of the Central Aus-
tralian. While Moore was beating up sub-
scriptions in the bush his pal returned from
Melbourne with the plant, and got going
before Moore could return, with the result
that the first issue was a page of ads. and an
intimation that the staff was drunk and th"
partner away, but better would be done with
the next issue.


“THE BULLETIN” IN 1928
“THE BULLETIN” can now announce its list of artists for 1928.
There will be drawings by (among others) NORMAN LINDSAY,
DAVID LOW, LEASON (Leason will return in January as one of the
regular cartoonists), JARDINE (with some exquisite verse illustrations),
B. E. MINNS (a fine series of abo. drawings), SOUTER, SCORFIELD,
PERCIVAL, PERCY LINDSAY, BERTHA BENNETT BURLEIGH,
OSWALD PRYOR and COLIN COLAHAN.
The supply of short stories for some years after the war was poor
During the last two years it has improved so enormously in quantity
and quality that this section of the paper will be extended “THE
BULLETIN” Short Stories of 1928 will be memorable.
PRICE STILL SIXPENCE.
YOU MUST LIKE TO BE POOR
if you earn money and spend it.
Don’t!
Earning money is NOT easy, but saving is, if you’ve any
strength of mind at all.
Ensure against the future by opening a Savings Account.
The Money you save will earn Interest as long as you do
not urgently need it for any other purpose—it will be immediately
available to you when you do.
Every Post Office is a Savings Agency of the
Commonwcaltb lank of Huslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
A Lunatic Interlude.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF me bones was musical,” said Meteorite
Smith, “I’d be a human xylophone;
blime, Bill, if I get any thinner I’ll
have to put pads on the end of me bones
so’s I won’t cut me saddle.”
“For the love of Mike, stop your clapper,”
wearily replied Bill, rattling his heels along
the ribs of his scraggy mount. “How can
yous expect to put on flesh when you’re
talkin’ it off as fast as you put it on. You bin
doin’ nothin’ but talk ever since I met yiz.”
Meteorite laughed mirthlessly. “Strewth,
Bill,” he observed plaintively, “I wonder
what a pound of rump steak with fried
onions an’ Wister sauce an’ chipped spuds
’d make a man feel like? I reckon a mouth-
ful of dinkum grub would cannon off me
backbone all the way down.”
Bill grunted and tightened his woven,
kangaroo-skin belt a few more holes.
For a while nothing but the shuffle of the
horses’ feet on the dusty track broke the
silence.
It was late afternoon and the heavy timber
on either side of the narrow track loomed
out of a pale grey mist. Occasionally be-
tween the trunks of the trees could be
glimpsed well-grassed river flats of a valley
below —a valley already heavily barred with
purple shadows.
“Got you any ’bacca?” inquired Meteorite
presently.
‘‘Not a skerrick,” grunted Bill; “nor no-
thin’ else. Say,” he went on suddenly,
“ain't that a farmhouse?”
The two men pulled up crocks only too
ready to stop and peered through a break
in the bush.
“It is,” said Meteorite, “an ’if I don’t get
a feed there may I go prancin’ through Hell
on a’ icicle.”
Something of the renewed hope of their
riders, was transmitted to the prads, which
were induced to break into a lumbering trot
that presently brought them opposite a
homestead standing back from the road
amongst gum-trees.
The two men dismounted, hooked their
horses to opposite gateposts and walked down
a winding path, bordered by geraniums, to-
wards the house. Just before they got there
they stopped and quested the air like beagles.
_“Smells to me like ’am an’ turkey,” quoth
Meteorite.
“You’re right,” returned Bill;
“let’s push on.”
So they pushed on past a
bow window, before which they
both stopped as before.
Said Meteorite in an awed
voice: “Jelly, custid, plates an’
plates of brownie, butter, yeast-
bread, fruit —Gorstruth, Bill, is
it real or a mirage?”
“It’s real,” replied Bill; “let’s
push on.”
Arriving at a heavy door
Meteorite straightened his
shapeless and weather-stained
hat, passed a nervous hand over
the three days’ growth on his
face and knocked.
Almost immediately the door
was flung open and there ap-
peared, with the abruptness of
a cuckoo from a clock, a bull-
necked little man who held in
one vast red paw an axe-
handle.
Without waiting for prelimi-
naries, “Git out,” he roared, “Is
it always to be plagued I am be
loafin’ thaves the like of you!
Away wid yez, or it’s a charge
of small shot you’ll have in your
slacks.”
“Stop,” cut in Meteorite, rais-
ing one dirty hand and throw-
ing out his meagre chest. “Do
you have the impudence to
imagine me an’ my mate here
would ask an Irish cocky we
don’t know for a feed? Not on your life!
We don’t want your damned tucker. We
come to tell you something, but a bloke’s
a mug to go out of ’is way to hand the oil
to a cow like you.”
The farmer glared at Meteorite and
scratched his bullet head, obviously strug-
gling between irritation and curiosity.
Curiosity won. “Well,” he asked, “phwat
is ut you have come to say?”
“There’s a loonatic in the distric’; and
he’s armed. We met the police back there,
an’ they warned us not to come on; on’y
Bill here’s got a rifle an’ can shave the
hairs off of a bee at 100 yards, so we pushed
on. The police told us to call in here an’
give the warnin’. We had to come out of
our way to do it, too; an ’all the thanks we
get is to be taken for bums !”
Having said which, Meteorite turned sharp
on his heels and strode towards the gate,
closely followed by Bill, who was seen to
be talking with unusual energy. They got
on their horses and, after a short discussion,
were soon swallowed up in the bush.
Shortly afterwards the sun sank over the
iulls, leaving* behind a flood of crimson and
gold that dyed the haze in the valley a warm
pink. But despite its appearance of warmth
the mist was cold, and the air full of frost
and so still that the smoke from the home-
stead rolled straight upward, and all the
small sounds of the valley were accentuated
a hundredfold. There came a peaceful
gurgle from the stream far below, the dis-
tant troll of a bellbird and the cawing of
homing crows ; and from a lush paddock on
the other side of the stream the sharp tinkle
of sheep bells and the lowing of kine.
( Then suddenly the peace was ruptured.
Came the staccato beat of galloping horses.
.... a yell that broke across the still valley
as chain-lightning across a cloud then a
shot —and immediately afterwards a man
galloped from the bush into the twilight.
Came a fusillade of shots, and the rider, with
a cry, sprawled face downwards on the grass.
A moment later another horseman galloped
from the bush, checked his horse for a
moment in front of the motionless carcase
on the road, and then galloped up to the
gate where the farmer, his wife and three
children clustered together in a panic-stricken
group, the man, a gun in both hands, reit-
erating : “Why didn’t I get them cartridges?
Why did I forget?”
“What’s happened, for the love uv God?”
he shouted as Bill brought his horse to a
standstill so abruptly that he nearly slipped
over its rump.
ANOTHER GOOD BOY SPOILED.
MRS. BUGGINS: “Mrs. Juggins fair iderlises ’er son Bill.”
MRS. HUGGINS: “My word, she does. Idle! — why, ’e ain’t done a day’s work since’e left
school.”
“That loonatic!” cried Bill. “The
swine’s done in me mate. God A'mighty, what
are yiz standin’ there for; there he is in the
scrub!” Bill threw himself from his horse,
took quick aim, and blazed.
“Missed !” he roared. “An’ I on’y got two
more cartridges. Here, you,” turning to the
farmer, “get your family away. He’s blood-
mad. He’ll be workin’ round the edge of
the scrub an' firin’ on us again as soon’s he’s
reloaded. I’ll try an’ hold him here while
yous sneak down this hedge till you get
to the road on the other side. Then go like
the hammers of Hell.”
“Get away, Maggie, quick !”
“But, Mike, how about the house? An’
the dinner is just ready to seivve*” .
“This is no time to be worritin’ about your
dinner, mum,” cut in Bill; “he won’t do no
harm to that. All ’e seems to want is people
to shoot at. Anyhow, I can’t leave me mate,
so I’ll give an eye to the house.”
“Get along, Maggie, for the mercy of God.
There’s no good we can do by stopping here;
we’ll take the short cut to mother’s.”
“How fur is it?” inquired Bill.
“Four mile.”
“That’ll be safe enough, I reckon —likely
he’ll hang round here all night an’ the
police’ll get him in the mornin’.”
And while Bill took cover behind a big
jarrah corner-post and peered cautiously
round it, the farmer and his family crept
away in the opposite direction down the side
of the hedge and were soon lost to sight in
the deepening mist.
As the evening wore on the cold became
more and more intense, and when the moon
came up from behind the hills it shone into
a valley white with frost. Its rays strayed
into a room cosily warmed by a log fire that
glowed on a broad, old-fashioned hearth.
There were no lights in this room ; but the
fire’s soft glow showed a table strewn with
the remains of a feast; and it threw into
prominence the figures of two men sprawled
luxuriously on deep armchairs. Both puffed
at long cigars.
Presently one of the figures slowly stirred,
reached out a skinny arm for a tankard on
the floor beside him and buried his face
therein, meanwhile gently massaging his
stomach with his disengaged hand.
“Gor lumme,” said Meteorite, when he had
finished the tankard and wiped some froth
from his mouth with his coat-sleeve, “these
farmers lives well. Wisht I’d a bin brung
up a farmer ’stead of a bleedin’ circus act.”
F. Rhodes Farmer.
Sweeter than Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TOE BERRY emitted a sob and threw in
his cards. He was cleaned out. His
F opponents appeared blurred at the edges
even at the small distance that intervened.
Not only were they blurred ; they were un-
stable. Their figures merged, parted, blended
again, shrank, attained vast dimensions and
sometimes dissolved in an opaque haze. As
Joe placed his hands on the table to gain
sufficient leverage for rising it heaved like a
boat-deck on an agitated sea. His pot of
beer eluded his groping fingers; and when
he grasped it with both hands he found it
empty.
He extracted a piece of cotton-waste from
his pocket to wipe away the tears that
glistened in his moustache. Not for many a
Saturday night spent at the Locomotive
Hotel had he been so unlucky. Rarely dur-
ing all his week-ends of cards had he been
so drunk. To-night was the worst evey.
He was broke, he was lonely and thirsty,
and his senses were not functioning as they
should. With the present bearing such a
jaundiced tint, he could not endure to look
forward to the morrow. It was best that
life should end before the Sabbath came.
“Goo’ nightsh, boys,” he murmured
brokenly, searching for his hat. “I’m done.
Settled. Thisish end. Goo’-bye, boys! I’m
goina Ya think I’m drunk, don’t ya?
Wei], I’m not.
“No, old fellah. You’re sober ’sa Judge.
Sit down. ’Snot quarter to twelve yet.
Joe did not waver. Having found his hat,
he gazed at it fondly. He had bought it
only that day. For a moment pride of pos-
session nearly caused him to relinquish his
scheme of a dramatic exit. But only for a
moment. From far down the line came the
faintly melodious whistle of the approaching
11.50. Joe adjusted the hat carefully, think-
ing with satisfaction that he would be
decently dressed for the morgue. He stag-
gered out of the room, weaved along the
passage and fell down the front steps. His
liat came off and rolled sluggishly in the
gravel. He commenced to weep again. A
hurried examination in the light shed from
the lamp above the door revealed that the
damage was but slight. He wiped it care-
fully, adjusted it again and rose.
Across the road loomed the seven-foot
picket-fence, ornamented here and there with
“Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted.” It had
been an impassable barrier till railway
employees hacked out a few feet of it to make
a short cut to the Locomotive Hotel. Though
it was near midnight and very dark. Joe did
not have to search for an opening. He made
for one as unerringly as a wounded rabbit
speeds for its burrow, with something of the
same rolling, unsteady gait.
He stooped to get through. Once again
the hat was dislodged. A feverish search
restored it. He could not stop to renovate
it, for again came the whistle, penetrating
now, calling for the signal.
Through his fuddled senses filtered the
realisation that he would have to hurry.
He stumbled across apparently intermin-
able sets of rails, weaved round trucks,
tripped over signal wires, and eventually
arrived on the main road. Here were two
sets of rails, the up and the down track.
The problem was to make one of them
remain stationary while he placed himself
across it in readiness for the coming express.
Far down the track to his left an orange
light glowed, rapidly increasing in distinct-
ness. On his right a bunch of smaller red
lights seemed to hang suspended in midair.
Joe swayed as he stood ; then fell, with
drunkard’s luck, square across the metals.
He could hear the tick-tick, tick-tick of
a hundred spinning wheels on the rail joints.
The whistle blew deafeningly. One of the
suspended red lights switched to green.
Joe Berry relaxed. He was feeling sleepy.
The ticking under his head lulled him ; his
hands groped for his hat, laid it on his chest
and folded over on it.... He dozed quietly,
forgetful of time, place and purpose.
At the winking of the light from red to
green, the man on the footplate of the 11.50
let her have it. He believed in flogging an
engine on the home stretch. He did it now,
approaching the recumbent Joe at 50 m.p.h.
The driver settled down in his uncomfort-
able seat, blsw the whistle for the level-
crossing. and. turning to his fireman, asked
who was going to win the Doncaster.
A quarter of a mile away Joe slumbered
fitfully.
He awakened to the jarring clash of the
11.50 almost on top of him. The baleful
glare of the headlight flooded around him
like a premature halo. The explosive throb-
bing of the blast caused the drums of his
ears to snap shut; a purely involuntary
muscular action of other than which he was
incapable. A few stray cinders stung his
face —then the black mass of the engine
loomed for a second above. He felt the
scald of a jet of steam....
The train rattled on. In the cinder-scat-
tering engine the driver was still sneering
at the Doncaster selection of his colleague,
happily unconscious of the wreck he had left
behind. But if he was blissful in his ignor-
ance, there was one who grieved. For the
11.50 had thundered along on the up-road,
which was still dotted here and there with
glowing coals; but on the down-track, where
Joe Berry had lain in his sleepy ignorance,
he now danced in a frenzy of baffled rage,
endeavoring to kill a smouldering patch that
was slowly consuming the treasured hat.
WALTER E. WYNNE.


SI
2
&
=j
&
I
V
More Car For Your Money
Compare the Chrysler“so”with
any other car in its price class and
you will instantly see that it offers
far more —in sheer performing
ability; in the ruggedness of its
chassis and body; its remarkable
fuel economy; its full-sized room-
iness; its captivating beauty and
its downright value.
Come and see the Chrysler “50”
-—if for no other reason than
as a standard of comparison.
Full-sized, with ample
family seating capacity;
Mohair-plush upholstering;
52 miles and more an hour;
5 to 25 miles in 8 seconds;
Endurance and Economy*
CHRYSLER “50
BUILT AS ONLY CHRYSLER BUILDS
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
?ld.\ Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
th. Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aust'.: William Attivood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
99


As the Years Slip By
SOME men provide for their old age, others for their
dependents, but there are others who recognise this obliga-
tion and let the years slip by without making provision.
The only safe way to ensure protection is by means of Life
Assurance—and the longer you leave it the higher the premium
to be paid. For your protection, for your peace of mind and
in the interests of economy take the first step without delay
lalk it over with our representative, who will gladly give vou
the benefit of Ins expert advice.
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS’
Co-operative Assurance Co. of Aust., Ltd
114-120 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Gov. Director: v, ,
Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. General :
IE
«Tal
¥} It
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
GAUGE THE RAINFALLS!
“J.H.S.”: The study of rainfalls and
their effect on the various soils is essential to
the man who would become a successful
farmer, and no farm should be without a
rain-gauge of some sort. The standard pluvio-
meter and the graduated measuring-glass
are by no means necessary where only the
approximate value of the rainfall is desired,
and this is quite sufficient for all ordinary
purposes; a level-bottomed tin with straight
sides five or six inches high, such as a
syrup-tin with the rim removed or an ordi-
nary billycan, for instance, and a foot-rule
showing sixteenths, will serve just as well.
Whatever the nature of the vessel used for
catching the rain care must be taken that it
is as wide at the mouth as it is at the
bottom, but no wider, and that the vessel is
set out well away from the shelter of
buildings, and where the falling rain cannot
splash into the reservoir from adjacent
objects or drip in from overhanging trees.
A depth of l-16in. of water in the gauge repre-
sents a precipitation of exactly 6| points ;
an eighth of an inch represents 121 points,
and quarter-inch 25 points. A half-inch,
of course, represents 50 points, and one inch
100 points.
The irrigating value of rainfalls varies
according to the nature of the ground, the
intensity at which the rain falls, and the
state of the ground at the time of the
downpour. Precipitations of five or six points
have little vegetative value, if not followed
by further downpours. Particularly when
rain is most needed, these small amounts do
little more than lay the dust. A downpour of
12 points is more serviceable, penetrating
the crust and refreshing temporarily shal-
low-rooting crops, but unreinforced by
further showers is useless for setting out
crops. A quarter of an inch of rain will
go down from one to two inches only in
light soils, and anything up to one inch in
stiff, clayey soils. Half an inch will pene-
trate down to a depth of four inches in
loamy soils (a little deeper in freshly-
ploughed ground), and down to three inches
in stiff, land. An inch of rain will irrigate
light soils to a depth of from eight to 12
inches, and heavy soils down to six inches
and over. Thereafter each additional inch
of rain will penetrate to double the dis-
tance of the first inch, until the ground
becomes thoroughly soaked at from six to
eight inches, according to the nature of the
soil. These remarks apply to steady rain of
a soaking nature when the ground is more
or less parched. Of course, if the ground
is not dehydrated to a greater depth than
J-2 or 18 inches it will not require six inches
of rain thoroughly to soak it, nor will it re-
ceive a thorough saturating, except in the
valleys and water-courses and on very level
country, if six or eight inches should fall
m torrents when the ground is sunbaked and
parched.
On farms where a rain-gauge is kept, and
where the. effect on the soil of rainfalls has
been studied, it is never necessary after a
downpour to go out with the hoe or spade
(the common practice where no rain-gauge
is kept) _ to. test the ground to determine
whether it is damp enough or too wet for
putting in a crop. The observant and experi-
enced man knows directly he has consulted
his pluviometer whether the ground is moist
enough for planting or too wet for plough-
ing, while the amateur and the careless
farmer, who have been waiting for rain,
often go out to put under crops or to turn
up the ground when barely sufficient rain
has fallen to lay the dust.
CHILLED-BEEF PROBLEMS.
“W.P.D.”: The trial shipment of chilled
beef from Queensland to Britain, on the
Port Huon has been delivered at Hull in
good condition, and has found buyers for
both hind- and fore-quarters at prices not
much under those for Argentine chilled
beef. Transit took about 47 days, and the
consignment consisted of 100 hinds and 50
crops from Clermont cattle, prepared at
Borthwick’s Moreton works. So far so good,
but there are many difficulties to be got over
before an Australian chilled-beef trade can
be established.
We cannot guarantee regularity of supplies,
and the quality of our cattle will have to
be improved before our chilled beef can
meet that from Argentina on equal terms at
Smithfield. In a good season not more than
ho per cent, of Queensland cattle are suit-
able for chillers. Then again, the existing
freezing-works are not equipped for chilling.
Probably not one freezing-works in Aus-
tralia could prepare a full shipment of
chilled beef for export, and if it could it
has no facilities for holding it until the
arrival of a suitable steamer. Extensive
alterations to Queensland meatworks will
be necessary if the chilled-beef trade is to
develop.
Only one or two lines of steamers carry-
ing meat have fixed schedules for the port
of Brisbane, from which nearly all beef ship-
ments are made, and most of these boats take
55 days and upwards for the voyage.
Cliilled-beef carriers are structurally differ-
ent from frozen-beef boats. Chilled beef must
be suspended, whereas frozen is stacked. To
carry chilled beef in ships built to carry
frozen meat would mean a loss of space, as
the holds are from Oft. 6in. to 12ft. in height,
while chilled hindquarters want only 7ft.
Thus there would be a space wastage of 2ft.
Gin. to sft. in each hold. Argentine chilled-
bsef boats are specially constructed with
holds of the exact height, and are divided
into compartments, lessening risks of damage
to meat. Will it pay owners of steamers
trading with Australia to go to the expense
of altering their boats for this new class of
business ? The space occupied by frozen
beef is estimated at 90 cub. ft. per ton, as
against 120 cub. ft. per ton for chilled.
The increase in freight rate from this cause
alone will be 33 § per cent. The risks
in carrying chilled beef are far greater than
for frozen, consequently marine-insurance
rates are far higher for the 50 days’ voyage.
Claims on chilled-beef cargoes are heavy,
as a slight rising of the temperature may
mean the growth of mould, while a lowering
will freeze the meat and thus break the
“chilled” warranty of insurance.
On landing, more labor is required for
chilled meat, and charges for cartage,
railage, etc., are all on a higher scale.
Chilled beef cannot be stored; it must go
into consumption at once or be frozen down.
The Argentine firms have large staffs at
landing ports who supervise the unloading,
surveying and weighing of the beef immedi-
ately on arrival. This is essential to check
loss of weight and to arrange for immediate
delivery. The shipment of a small consign-
ment of chilled beef in a specially-construc-
ted chamber in a minimum of time proves
very little.
LOOK AFTER YOUR HARNESS.
“Dai R.”: The total amount of money
lost in a year by the average farmer through
carelessness with harness would very greatly
surprise him were it dumped in a heap in
front of him.
Most of such loss is due to leaving the
gear exposed to the weather, which perishes
the leather and rusts chain parts and buckles.
It’s always worth while to knock up a bit of
a shack for the harness. Careless employees
incur a good deal of such wastage needlessly.
If a man leaves harness outside when there’s
a shed for it, get rid of him.
Omission to adequately grease harness also
accounts for much unnecessary expenditure.
Harness that is greased once a week will last
easily four times as long as that which is
only dressed, say, once every three months.
CURING REARING HORSES.
“Homby” : “Bad Australian” (B. l/12/’27)
doesn’t know all about horses. I could fill
a column of The Bulletin with names and
addresses of well-known bushmen who have
successfully tried the cure for rearing horses
described in my par. (B. 10/11/’27) without
any injurious results to the patient, such as
“the nag going down with a fractured skull,”
and other nightmare imaginings of “Bad
Australian.” R. J. Kelly, right-hand man
to P. A. Badgery, of Ivy Hall, Exeter,
N.S.W., has used the method described on
many occasions without a solitary failure
or an instance of injurious effect, and there
are others. _As for the operator “needing a
coat of mail to protect him from the re-
sultant shower of shattered glass,” a
moment’s thought will satisfy anyone that
if the operator sits well back in his saddle
(using his arm-length instead of bending
over) he need have no fear of being cut,
more especially if (as stressed in my par.)
he uses a cracked bottle. Regarding “Bad
Australian’s” hypothetical difficulty in apply-
ing the cure to a horse that rears in harness.
in that case the bottle is attached to the
end of a long stick.
FEEDING THE HORSE.
“Villers-Brett.”: No matter how willing
he may be, a horse improperly fed is physi-
cally unfit to do the same amount of work
as one properly fed. It is very important to
see that the teeth are in a proper condition
to masticate the food. Sure indications of
imperfect teeth are the dropping of food
when eating; excessive noises caused by the
sharp edges grinding; and no noise at all,
showing that the grain is not being crushed.
If the food is not properly masticated very
little nutriment will be extracted. Bad
teeth are a predisposing cause of indiges-
tion, loss of condition and attacks of colic.
When the teeth have sharp edges the tongue
and cheeks will be lacerated and the animal
will suffer great pain when it eats. The
teeth should be examined regularly with the
aid of a mouth-gag, and a tooth-rasp should
be used to correct irregularities.
The best feed is the cheapest in the end.
It takes less to supply the right amount
of nourishment and keep the animal in good
health. A chaff diet should be varied with
an occasional feed of sliced carrots, lucerne
and green oats or barley. A horse’s stomach
is small, and its food should not be too
bulky, otherwise it will overflow into the
bowel before partial digestion takes place in
the stomach. When turned out to grass it
is unnecessary to supplement the feed unless
there is a shortage of grass. When brought
in for work again, a sudden change to dry
fodder is inadvisable. For a few days the
feed should consist of chaff and bran, well
damped, without the addition of grain. Give
light work until the animal’s muscular con-
dition is hardened.
Regular feeding is of great importance.
Four feeds a day should be given, the first
early, so that it is finished before harnessing
up. A feed of hay last thing at night is
a good idea. It takes longer to eat this and
keeps the horse content during the night.
Dry and dusty chaff should be slightly
moistened.
It is a mistake to give horses as much as
they can eat. Digestive troubles, colic, skin
eruptions, sluggishness and loss of appetite
follow from over-feeding. For every 10001 b.
weight of horse a ration of 51b. chaff, 31b.
oats, lib. bran is ample. If hard work is
intermittent the oat ration can be reduced.
Keep a lump of rock-salt in the feeders,
and as an occasional laxative dissolve three
packets of Epsom salts in sufficient water
to damp the feed. Always Avater before
feeding. It is unwise to water immediately
after. The undigestible food washed out of
the stomach into the intestines is liable to
bring on an attack of colic.
LIVE STOCK IN RAILWAY TRUCKS.
“Pick”: In loading stock, when the
animals are loosely packed the jolting of the
train, and its swinging on the curves, will
cause many to fall or slip their legs between
the lateral bars. They are then trampled by
the others staggering to keep their foot-
hold, and rarely rise again without assist-
ance. The correct practice is to load closely.
The animals then support each other, and
largely escape the pitching and bruising
incidental to a long train journey. Com-
monsense might also take a hand in
designing the stock-trucks. Complaints
about their unsatisfactory construction and
the suggestion that they should be built with
a surrounding panel to prevent the animals’
legs from protruding have time and again
been made for the past half-century without
any improvement. is exer-
cised when drovers are required to tend the
herds during their travel by rail. At every
stop they can give attention to the fallen,
and there will be a much increased percent-
age of live arrivals at the journey’s end.
MANAGING THE BULL.
“Paul C.” : Keep the herd bull apart. The
dairyman by this method can arrange the
calving of his coavs just as it suits his
business, whether he is supplying milk to
customers or cream to a factory, and he
can also gauge the number of milking-cows
according to the season of the year and what
quantity of fodder must be conserved for
hand-feeding.
Calculating the period of gestation as
283 days, which is a sound basis to work
on, he knows by looking up his service date-
book just when to expect each cow to calve.
Keeping the herd bull apart has the addi-
tional benefit of conserving his vigor, and
the further advantage of keeping him at
home. When he is allowed to roam with
the herd he often contracts the habit of
smashing fences and visiting all and sundry,
till he is regarded as a pariah bull. He
then runs the risk of becoming the channel
through which that troublesome disease, con-
tagious abortion, is introduced to the herd.
A PIGS’ FEED-BOILER.
“Cocky Bill”: A simple pigs’-feed boiler
can be made with a few bricks, some kero-
sene-tins. a couple of stout iron bars and
a bit of sheet-iron. Build a brick box big
enough to take six or eight tins—you don’t
need to use mortar —leave a hole near the
bottom at one end to shove fuel through, and
lay two iron bars at the bottom—l use
tramway rails —to keep the tins off the fuel.
The tins have handles, of course, and are
easily lifted in and out. A bit of flat sheet-
iron for a cover completes the outfit. The
brick box must be big enough to leave a
little space between the tins.
WANTED—A MACHINE.
“Gezireh”: There seem to be only two
things that can save the Australian cotton
industry. One is a determination on the
part of Australians of both sexes to buy Aus-
tralian goods. But that sentiment makes
headway very slowly. The other is the devis-
ing of some cheap mechanical means of
gathering the cotton-bolls. The cost of har-
vesting under the present system of hand-
picking by highly-paid labor is the heaviest
burden the industry carries, and the inventor
of a machine that will cut this cost down
to something like that of cheap oversea
nigger labor will deserve the thanks of the
nation and a statue 90 feet high.
A WORD FOR MITCHELL GRASS.
“Kooragai” : None of the boosted imported
grasses can equal the good Australian Mit-
chell grass, much of which is made into hay
by provident stock-owners. On clear plains
mowing-machines are used; in other places
the grass is cut with scythes and reaping-
hooks. Mitchell grass is the only hay stored
at many central homesteads, and is used
for stable-feeding as wmll as a standby for
starving stock in drought-time. On one of
Tyson’s stations a stack of Mitchell grass
was left untouched for 20 years, and was
then quite good and sweet. Out back it has
kept sheep in good condition in dry years
when it was reduced to sunburnt stubble.
SALTBUSH AS FODDER.
“Millie”: Now that one of the worst
droughts on record is practically, if not
completely, broken, I would like to advance
the claims of Australian saltbush as a
fodder plant. A grazing experience of 30
years upon a part of the once-famed salt-
bush plains has convinced me of its high
feeding value. The best kinds, w r hen freshly
cut, contain about 75 per cent, of water, 4
to 6 per cent, of fats, about 2.3 per cent, of
albuminoids, 10 per cent, of digestible carbo-
hydrates, 3 to 4 per cent, of woody fibre
and a very high percentage of ash, of which
half is common salt, ranging from 5 to 10
per cent.
Saltbushes are richer than barley, maize,
oats or sorghum fodder, weight for weight,
and are just a shade below lucerne and the
best meadow hay. Their nutritive ratio is
1 to 4, proving that they are a rich food, as
they contain one part of flesh-forming sub-
stance to four of heat-giving materials, and
thus furish one of the best-balanced rations
for fattening pasture animals.
The saltbush has an amazing capacity to
resist drought, and from seed soon establishes
itself upon light soils; yet it is not an
uncommon sight to see practical men sowing
bushels of sudan grass and other imported
seeds upon typical saltbush country from
which the plant has been flogged out and
then forgotten.
RABBIT AND ’POSSUM FARMING.
“Lapin”: The announcement that the
N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture is consider-
ing an inquiry into the possibilities of fur-
production on a commercial basis within the
State has some interesting aspects. Most of
the leading societies connected with the pri-
mary industries have been asked to appoint
delegates, and officials from some of the
Government departments and the Taronga
Park Zoo will also be asked to attend.
The suggestion is that the commercial pro-
duction of ’possum-skins should be specially
noted, as well as the possibility of breeding
the special fur-bearing variety of rabbit, as
well as the silver fox and other alien fur-
bearers that are now bred in captivity on a
large scale in the United States and Canada.
The ’possum is, of course, a very valuable
asset already. In 1925-26 Australia ex-
ported ’possum-pelts to the value of £362,406.
The once-despised rabbit and his relative the
hare furnished pelts for export valued at
£2,880,360 for the same period. The ’possum-
skins went mostly to Britain, where they
are made up as comparatively high-class furs.
The rabbit-skins were chiefly absorbed by
the United States, which converts much of
the fur into hats, and the remainder into
50 different varieties of fancy furs, which
return to the country of their origin under
names that don’t suggest any connection
with Bunny.
It is to be doubted wh-sther there is
any necessity for importing and breeding
alien furbearers. In the ’possum, this coun-
try has a fur-producer which, if it cannot
rank with the sable and silver fox, is yet
(Continued on page


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
Georgr J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 158 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every descrintion of flanking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3’609’,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixea
periods and jransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. . . .. £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund . .
. . £1,250,000
950,000
n , . £2,200,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
S' OjTyUjUUU
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abvoad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Ollice in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600!00n
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEULY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
dfsdf
All Good
Hotels and
obacconists,
64
each.
25 Cigars,
12/6
50, 23 9
100, 46/-
I’ost paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
CraiggAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciufe
Reil Cigrar Factory.
Shipping, etc.
\v
Pa,
& Canada
(JNIJEETsTATES
EUROPE
across fie ‘Pacific
andJVcrttffimerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CAN ADI AN-AUSTRAL ASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
(via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and from Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY!
Take a Trip to the South Sea Isles.
REGULAR SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY TO
New Guinea, Papua, Solomons, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New
Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 5 WEEKS
Affording a Restful Holiday Amongst Beautiful
Scenery and Interesting Native People.
mm
l A
m
STEAMSHIP BOOKINGS ARRANGED TO
ENGLAND
EUROPE
AMERICA
CANADA
AFRICA
INDIA
JAPAN
CHINA
JAVA, etc
At regular passage rates. No extra charge.
ALL LINES. CHOICE OF ROUTES.
Attractive Tours to
NOUMEA, JAVA, HONOLULU, COLOMBO, etc.
VISIT JAVA (The wonderland of the East).
Regular monthly sailings of the s.s. “Marella” and
in.s. “Malabar” to Java and Singapore via Queensland
ports, Thursday Island, Darwin, etc. Smooth-water trip,
Deck Cabins, interesting ports of call.
APPLY
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
WORLD TOUR and TRAVEL DEPARTMENT.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NIC W SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,423,440
, .. 5,650,000
7,423,440
£20,496,880
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop. Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ■ S E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
Gallic remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
r.cflntiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,710,412 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,730,512 10 0
£13,390,925 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman: Hon. SIR THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C., Deputy
Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. J. W.
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.: OWEN E. FRIEND.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queenslai.New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Butibury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
s
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackayi,
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
58 Margaret St.
HAWAII
LOVELY HOLIDAY LAND.
AH expenses of round trip to this Island Para-
dise land of melody—for about £lOO to £l5O
in eight weeks or less, including three to four
weeks in Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago. Balmy weather, tropical fruits and
flowers. Golf, tramping, outrigger canoeing,
surfboard riding, excellent motor roads. Inter-
island cruises; volcanic marvels. Quaint tea
gardens; good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3
per day. Ask steamship or travel agencies, or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Department 26,
Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beauti-
fully-colored booklet.
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGE FREE
En Route to AMERICA or EUROPE
HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —livery Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Rrisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart ParkerUM 1
Magnificent
Faet Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
T hree-
Day
T ours —
Rail and
Motor,
£4/7/-
Motor All
the Way,
£5/5/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious Scenery,
Wonderful Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Syd’ney.


W&W26.
mum
I/ondon Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAND
/K.-Z]
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY.
LTD.,
Contractors with the Boai'd of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Having passed through the early stages of experi-
ment in shaving, men finally adopt the KROPP
as their lifelong friend, because inventive genius
has not yet devised a superior instrument.
™*KROPP
It never
requires
grinding.
-
:| ir3dß
: m
Supplied with Black, Xylonite or Ivory Handles,
Each Razor in a case.
Obtainable from all Hairdressers, Cutlers, Stores, etc.
Wholesale only —
OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO. LTD., London, England.
Dainty White China .
White China-Real White-is once again much in vogue, and
a breakfast or tea set of the famous “Shelley” Dainty White
China is a present that is sure to please, and which could
live at peace with any surroundings. It is not expensive,
and includes attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffin dishes, fruit bowls, fruit saucers and honey pots.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to :—T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sfgihib
CHINA
look for the name Shellei) on each piece of China'll
mm
PAINT YOUR
OWN CAR
motor
PAINT
FORTY YEARS
of scientific develop-
ment in the factory—
-40 years of honest and
skilful merchandising,
have established the
fame of Ripolin
throughout the civilised
world. The extreme
durability of Ripolin
and its ability to stand
almost continuous wash-
ing make it a wonder-
ful Enamel to use on
Motor-cars. Apply with
a brush—give a full
flowing coat.
THE F JNISH that stands dry cleaning
T . _ , pol * n Does Not Require Polishing.
Ihe Colors Are Permanent and Will Not Rub Off
RIPO LI N CAN BE APPLIED THROUGH A SPRAY.
Write or telephone for Color Card, Booklet, etc., to
L. A. CORMACK
(Factory Rep.), 4 Underwood Street
(off 35 Pitt Street), SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: S. J.
Ltd., 379 Flinders
MeMinn Co. Pty.,
Telephone, 83284.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
C; 4 LB R OU RNE: Standard Agencies Pty.,
°t a very high quality. Attempts have
already been made to enclose and breed
possums in Tasmania and Victoria, but it
would seem that the great opening lies in
the exploitation of the rabbit, and that not
the specialised Angora and his kin, but the
everyday pest of the countryside. The market
is assured. America cannot grow rabbits
to keep pace with the demand. Britain can
use all she produces.
CROSSBRED SHEEP FOR
BANANALAND.
“N.M.L.”: “GG6” (B. 17/11/’27) refers
to crossbreds for the Queensland coast. He
says it is essentially a small-man' job. Why?
* know Maoril-anders who shear up to
bO,OUO, nearly all crossbreds, and that is no
small-man proposition. The Queensland
coastal climate should be more favorable
than that of Maoriland, and there’s no
doubt about the rainfall.
In most years merinos will not thrive on
the coast; they may be used only as the
foundation stock of the crossbreds. Even
then a man must expect losses if the rains
are heavy. But their progeny, bred on the
place, take hold and enjoy life to the full.
I have killed a lamb, perhaps less than
S 1- months old, fed on natural grasses alone
which weighed over 451 b. He was by a
Romney ram out of a W.Q. merino ewe.
Even so, the man who breeds crossbreds on
the coast wants to get out of the foundation
merino as soon as possible. They can’t stand
the wet. But if the3 r must be used, it would
v C ‘v. madness to run them in any but
the hill or well-drained country. Romneys
are one of the few breeds of sheep which
will stand swamp life, and are immune to
foot-rot. Merinos won’t and aren’t. As
tor the market, if a man can breed the stuff
the market is there waiting with its mouth
open to absorb all he can produce. North
Queenslanders haven’t yet been educated to
the delicacy of fat lambs, but even at
ordinary mutton prices there’s big money
in them. Particularly a man wants to
avoid over-stocking. It’s not a case of what
the country can carry so much as what it’s
possible to carry without inducing disease,
it sheep are crowded, then surely disease will
come. With artificial grasses, which take
hold and grow without any trouble at all, as
many as eight to an acre have been sug-
gested as a limit. That might be the land’s
limit m carrying capacity, but half the
number would be safer.
COARSE V, FINE WOOL.
“Te Hipi”': Maoriland, producing a clip
. Poetically all coarse crossbred wool, is
m a different position to Australia in regard
t j?~. coarse V• ne wool controversy, but
the difference is not as much as might be
fu P Pi? ed ‘, be Maoriland rule is, generally,
that the better the land the coarser the wool
you should aim at. On poorly-watered, light
country the fine-wooled long-travelling sheep
pays better and lives better. Although you
get more for his fleece the net gain per head
counting fat lambs produced as well, is not
as much as from the heavier fleeced coarse-
wool when both are run on well-watered,
neavily-grassed country.
bvm a u ar i ner .® nc * s his flock is getting too
lght and fine m the fleece, he buys coarse-
wooiled rams or ewes from whichever stud-
master he fancies. The business of keeping
“P “ e standard of the sheep lies with the
stud-breeder and not with the grazier. The
latter will consider his pocket first and
keep his flock to the standard which best
smts the pecufiarities of liis district. The
stud-breeder is looked to to supply coarse-
or fine-wool purebreds to tone up the flock.
DEFORMED LAMBS.
“Te Hipi”: A Southland (M.L.) sheep-
tarmer had a most amazing experience with
T?irrt eaS ° n , S i TOp of lambs ; Perhaps some
Btjixetin land man can throw light on the
In one of bis Paddocks, grazing
about 250 ewes, over 50 per cent, of the
lambs were deformed. About 100 of them
were born with extra heads, duplicated tails
or spare legs, some of them having all three
abnormalities. He thinks the pasture, mainly
composed of Chewings fescue, may have
had something to do with it, as his stock
was not inbred and have not shown signs of
abnormal breeding in other years.
POULTRY FOR ORCHARDISTS
‘.‘Milltrack’s” bubble profit of
, per hundred birds per week(B. 15/12/’27')
was th Gn • exploded for some years. That
noliffrv f ldea °! Repat when they started
S for , re turned soldiers—6oo
SV 6 ® 61 ' week—but the farms,
wnvk the ,? l a r m f, where the man goes out to
work whilst the wife and kids look after
the fowls, tell a different story. “Milltrack”
surely knows little of poultry-farmino -when
he suggests 2000 fowls as a side-line, °especi-
a;ly the y were scattered over 30 acres of
over « y the way ’ fowls wonH scatter
mp n t fiv ®, acre - s a beneficent Govern-
ment saddled or. the returned soldier. Fowls
floc^ ega / 10U l and clia £ to one small area,
“MOlr™ vP her IJ a \ closely as possible—so
Milltrack would have to distribute his
houses and divide the 30-acre orchard into
SLwwf £ nd ’ . es P e ci a ny in summer
weather, that by the time he’d walked over
ms ou acres, feeding, watering and collect-
t0 8 from his 2000 fowls, he would have
annle w? n . the . de ? tric over the
apple-trees to start picking his fruit, and by
i h / d SOt throl^]l that, packing his
Si ld ° CCU S y J he few spare moments
again. &nd tlme to feed and water
bananas v. pineapples.
Jack Point”: “Cleveland” is right in
fn VlS cbf banana-growers not to be too hastv
Vl2/’271 glng 4 ° V f t 0 pineapples (B
were worth f Waek Q or two bac k pineapples
worth up to Bs. a dozen in the Rris-
them no one had
tnem to sell. When there is a decent ernn
SSS" fetCh abm,t Ss - » hundred
burrnm iir f wer ? S rown at the Beer-
“CleveDml ” le^-n Se v tl6me - nt ’ mentioned bv
ev .land. Still the Diggers went broke
Government had to face a'big loss
owing to over-production. It is not so with
bananas, which have made a lot of money
tor growers since the embargo on Fiji fruit
w S J mpo v-’ L espedall y in the coastal belt
between Brisbane and Gympie. Banana-
growing is not dependent on export, and
r,,f r i e ! S / n l nereasin S demand in the home
market for first-quality fruit. Only in the
interior grades do glut prices occasionally
Minister Forgan Smith stated
ecentiy that the industry was worth a
* oa ar K to Bar ;analand, and that this
hgure could be quadrupled, to which end
ff u experimental stations are to be
'f aj i ls ied 111 North. Experienced pine-
apple-growers say that pines take a lot out
wLifl 8011 ’ ? nd afte ? a few years the results
f nd manuring fails to restore the
exhausted soiL Incidentally, if anyone is
£Tmi°s changing from pines to bananas,
mnL 11 find V, iat tlle old Pineapple plants
make an excellent mulch for the young-
banana suckers.
MONEY in raspberries.
Veronal : Considered as a side-line, at
any rate, there seems to be money in rasp-
berries. A good many years ago a Vic.
faimer possessed of a stretch 0 f red volcanic
i P a rm ed two and a half acres of the
nuit. I Ins area produced over 7 tons of
raspberries, which realised 2d. to 3d. per
pound delivered at the local railway station,
™l dlr %i a s /n s return of flB0 > or £72 per
. followin g year—the price having-
dropped—his return was £l4O, or £56 per
acre. \\ holesale prices are now ruling lower
• at ., i-hcre should still be a good profit
in the berries. Jhe climate and rich black
volcanic soils of Monaro (N.S.W.) by the
way, suit the raspberry admirably.
THE EGG-EXPORT TRADE.
hv dac V pint : According to returns issued
by the British Board of Trade, 162 million
dozen eggs were imported by the Old Dart
in the first eight months of 1927. Australia’s
contribution to this total was negligible,
although our export trade is growing slowlv
and is being directed along the right lines,
let we are admirably placed to furnish a
big proportion of Britain’s eggs, our months
ot high production coinciding with the low-
production period in Poland, Denmark and
the Netherlands. In addition we have the
layers, and the methods employed at our
biggest farms compare favorably with those
• a Q^ Se anywhere in the world. Maoriland
is all eady doing a substantial export trade
in eggs, and finds it profitable.
<*v MINTS FOR THE FARM,
r, u Fi the places where people rely
on tank water frogs are a curse. Even per-
forated strainers will not keep the croakers
out; and once in they generally die and so
poison the water. To stop this, remove the
strainer altogether from the tank and thrust
m a pole long enough to reach from the
floor to a little out of the manhole. This
allows the frogs a means of exit when they
are tired of paddling in the tank. The
croakers, by the way, keep the water clean.
, lutl ! : Many a good set of teeth has
been ruined by ram water caught in tanks.
Ibis is on account of the water not con-
tammg enough iron-rust. To get over this
difficulty, throw in an old axehead or two
ora ploughshare.
tnkJ > 9 1 f rS '^ le i tt- ”i cure colic in borses
take 2 handfuls of linseed, place in a bucket
aad P°urm 11 gallon boiling water. Cover
and let stand for half an hour, then add 2
quarts cold water and it is ready for use.
A small quantity of honey added to the
m V)™re will relieve an irritating cough.
E.VV. : For damp sections of the garden
mint is a payable commercial proposition.
At present in the Sydney market it is
bringing 3s. a dozen bunches—and small
bunches, too.On a half-acre of swamp
land a N.S.W. farmer, after drainage, set
ron ? nd two later cleared
ioU off the bed.
. “Hornby”; I’m with “C.H. (B. 17/11/’27)
in Ins tartar emetic remedy for distemper
m dogs. Ive tried it myself and it’s O.K.
when you can get it. But if you happen to
be in the Gulf country or some other place
where there ain’t no t.e., and your tyke gets
ie disease, mix about 2oz. of common soap
in a dish of water and chain him up till he
drinks it. He’ll start to mend inside three
nours and will be quite well in 24. Manv
drovers and other busnmen give it in stew or
incisions in raw meat, but it is not as sure as
Sp wita vel “? le > as th e dog is apt to sort
Hop Scrub”: Water-melons with’ verv
few seeds should be popular. Try this out
!° aa^ e w vines that have just ripened the
last of their normal fruits. Cut off the
vines six inches from the crowns and dust
the ground lightly—some distance from the
viae —with nitrate of soda. New runners
will jump off the mark. Water and culti-
vate , w eH. A crop of melons will ripen
about May, and they will have only very
ew seeds, and many of those seeds aborted
and small. The flesh will be a bit lighter
bu ( t crisp and of good flavor.
: T ° *s* ri< ? of peach aphis apply
1 lenty of soapsuds. A tree grown near the
laundry, which has soapsuds emptied round
anM« Ce mi Week ’ Wll l rarely be affected by
aphis. They come from below and soap
exterminates them. Keep the trunk and
will S i? e fl lthy ’ and the leaves and blossoms
will be the same.
Black Tracker”: I know of nothin°- in
the shape of summer fodder for the small
dairy-farmer in cool districts to equal Chou
moliere cabbage-tree for producing a large
mnount of succulent fodder off a small area
with little attention. In order to 5v R T
six pennyworth of seed and
S£lfto *3 a S 6 # bed - Jt me enough
plants to do half an acre, placing them
apar J : in r °ws the same distance
Horf S tn ble i° f^ ed 12 cows with abundance
ri<,ht through the summer. By pulling the
be aV had m mi tati< l n a continu ous supply C an
a f° s Mill bearing!
wu Leer rnrougn the trunk it bn« nnt u s
pruned or cultivated for the last 20 yea™


A Catalogue of
Modern
Hospital
Steel Furniture
and
Antiseptic
Fittings
Etc., Etc.
i JOHN
&.SON
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
WARD OR BEDSIDE
LOCKER.
Hospital Equipment
Our manufacture of Modern Hospital Steel Furniture includes
OPERATING TABLES, EXAMINATION CHAIRS,
INSTRUMENT TABLE, DRESSING CARRIAGES.
DRESSING CABINETS, WARD LOCKERS,
THEATRE TROLLEYS, OBSERVATION STANDS,
etc., etc.
See our Catalogue for these and Antiseptic Lavatories, High
and Low Pressure Hot- and Cold-water Sterilisers for Dress-
ings, Instruments, etc., and all Hospital Equipment,
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
■DIB
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A BOON
AND A BLESSING
THE J.D. FAUCET.
s
Banks’ Bubbling Fountains
SERVE CLEAN WATER CLEANLY,
DOCTORS SAY—THERE IS NO BETTER WAY.
The Fountain with a Danks Bubbling Faucet is the best thing
yet for a really clean drink, and Danks’ Bubbling Fountains
are very much appreciated wherever installed.
FOR SCHOOLS, PUBLIC GARDENS,
PARKS, SQUARES, STREETS, ETC.,
There is nothing better for the purpose. Bubbling Fountains
can be supplied complete in several styles, or the J.D. Bubbling
Faucet and Self-Closing Valve may be had for the conversion
of existing drinking appliances.
FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES ON REQUEST.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
HMB
391-403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
J.
t
“Sanatogen has a
direct favourable
influence on the
whole nervous
system,”—
wrote Prof. Rodari,
of Zurich Univer*
Buoyant Health
—with Sanatogen
NERVE 'STRENGTH and buoyant
health, that’s what Sanatogen will
give you.
Sleeplessness, listlessness, loss of appetite —
all those signs of weakness will very soon
disappear, in fact, within a fortnight you
will notice a remarkable change for the
better in your health.
START taking Sanatogen to-day. It is
sold at all Chemists from 3/9 ner tin.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
<qj>
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBORO’, ENGLAND.
ew
d^V
\a
eta
aa
pO^
tdP^
\s
vw d
eQ.
ot
sage
B\ae
s cd°
Y\ato
dl£
oi
its
T
to
iteto-
s^ e
dap
d)\e
spea
de
staa
to
eatvs
atv
at
ca
atvce
rO^
a°
eat
apP
apP
py
diate
yet
Vdte
mta e
au
t\tto
\mvh
co
wdtty
don
con
•ropy
da
eev
etP°
pea
sn
C*iot4
D«P at
C^'
don
Sfr
133
c°n
eta
ReP otf
133
vies
a) l ®
£ad°
Cyne
Ag« n ‘ s
}s&
cow
b'iU
UiV-
- ogi»g
eel
vSO^
Mfl»
SH
sm atl
yVA
vice
Yeti®
CW e
ci' s
l&l
c V.\3ii d
?e«'
£Va
poyd
VeH s
S^jaO
fIWW 1
'
9
yN TI °
/
oP
s
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives ;
NORMAN BAKER * LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
No. 1369.


C
o
mm
A
MISS
ROW ENA
RONALD,
a beautiful
Rexona, Girl,
writes:—“l
think there is
nothing like
Rexona Soap for
beautifying the
skin and hair.
I always use
it and heartily
recommend it
to my
friends.”
Girls! Why Not Enjoy a
Good Complexion?
ou cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash your
face do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, but that vour skin
needs a soothing, healing influence to keep yotir complexion fresh and free from' blemish ?
Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware.
Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate texture."
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way. help to improve the skin, but Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, lAit is medicated on the same prin-
ciple as the famous Rexona Oint-
ment, which is famous through-
out all of Australasia as the Rapid
Healer. That is why Rexona Soap
really does for the skin and face
what cosmetics are supposed to
do, by ensuring not only a clean
face, but a pure and healthy skin,
and thus gives you a clear com-
plexion.
REXONA
SOAP.
c7or Wealth
wd^eauly
m
K3VJ
m
in*""
s*v^
1/.
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia,
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
Cuwit'HUlia
162-166 PITT STREET,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS,
CAS TIE REA GH S TREE T
(NEXT THEATRE ROYAL),
| SYDNEY.
B ] ...
m
;
\V ;
■
:■
wm
+ 'l\x
1
scs
res
• n
IVhat a lovely
Gift! "
Queensland Pastorale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SILENCE, and opaline hills, and steadfast
horses
(The warm, dear odor of horses ; reek
Of them and the saddle!) ; dry hay by the
chuckling creek;
Light so intense that it eddies about one,
sweeping
Strong and thick, like a king-tide; seeping
Into the heart, the soul; while the water-
courses
Fulfil the promise the long drought gave, and
is keeping.
White spoonbill and tall pied ibis wading
In lush swamps. Frogs chanting
When dusk falls over the smoky hills,
And the stars at day’s fading
Send their first thin beams slanting
Through the silky-oaks’ dark quills.
A way hooves have of echoing their own small
thunder
On a dusty road or in a leafy clearing.
Until one pauses, to turn and listen and
wonder
What wraith-steed one is hearing.
Scarlet zinnias under a wire fence peeping,
And the convolvuli.
Like lovers in purple surtouts, creeping
To laugh, and kiss.
The auburn tassels on the dun stalks sleeping
In dreamless bliss
In aisles of corn, where the eerie silence
breaks
lake a shell, at a bird’s crying.
Wave on emerald wave of wheat; and pink
light dying
And the scent of soil where soft ■
The dew is lying;
And a long desire that wakes
In one to be part of the quiet and the dusk’s
sighing!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.
The Red-haired Girl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JN the year 1816, when Ensign Calder was
J at Headquarters, Mr. Wicks discharg-
ing the duties of his rank as First
Lieutenant of H.M.S. Emu in Port Jackson,
and Mr. Pilkington, as deputy, assisting in the
conduct of the Commissariat Stores hard
by Sydney Cove, one Joseph Oglethorpe kept
a licensed tavern in George-street, Parra-
matta. It was not one of the leading inns
of the place, but it was a very good one,
though small in its accommodations; it was
clean, well kept and orderly, and the credit
for this was largely due to the jovial Joseph’s
wife, Peggy, a young matron as capable as
she was good-looking, and as virtuous and
chaste as any woman in the colony. There
were a great many, it is true, who were
both unchaste and vicious, but the highest
standards of female morality were quite
as elevated then, in New South Wales, as
they are now.
Mr. Oglethorpe had been a sergeant in
the New South _ Wales Corps, and when
that somewhat discredited unit was relieved
by the 73rd Highland Light Infantry he
had elected to settle in the country. His
discharge being an exceptionally good one.
Governor Macquarie had sent for him and
made him an officer. It was as flattering
as it was kindly. This was towards the
end of 1812.
“Sergeant Oglethorpe,” said Ifcis Excel-
lency, as the fine-looking Englishman stood
to attention before the table in the Gover-
nor s office, “I have desired your* presence
here this morning in order that I may place
a proposition before you which rhav be of
some advantage to you. I will Have it to
your consideration. Major Abbott has given
me the very best account of you, “both as a
soldier and a man, and I feel srlre that I
can repose every confidence in 3 'our char-
acter. You were, I think, originally a
member of the Marine detaehm ent which
garrisoned this settlement?”
“Yes, y'r Ex’lenzy.”
“Ah, I thought you must hatve had a
better military origin than this, ill-condi-
tioned Corps. Well, Oglethorpe, what I am
about to propose to you is this. |You know
of Port Dalrymple, I take it?”
“In Van Diemen’s Land, y’r Exflenzy—
the settlement 011 the river Tamnr?”
. “ Yes - I have been thinking o£ establish-
ing a special detachment of police at that
place, to act, independent of tliie garrison
and the convict constabulary, in keeping in
check the gangs of bushrangers and mar-
auders who have become such a pest on the
outskirts of the settlement. It will be an
onerous duty for all concerned, and especially
tor the officer in charge of the forjce. A good
man is needed for the position*—one who,
from long experience of colonial conditions,
may be able to cope successfully with these
gentry. Every one of the officers of your
late regiment whom I have consulted has
spoken in the highest terms of yourself as
a man well endowed, by nature and experi-
ence, with those qualities which would make
tor success. in such a position, \Yere you
to accept it, I would promoke you to a
rank equal to that of lieutrmant in the
army, with corresponding pay and allow-
ances. Now, what say you, Oglethorpe—
are you wiling to undertake th’fc work?”
The burly ex-sergeant looked a little
blankly at the Governor. BJe fidgeted on
his feet, and cleared his throat nervously.
Ao one felt very comfortable when they
intended to run counter to tihat autocrat’s
ideas—-especially when they stood in his
august presence.
“If y’r Ex’lenzy pleases” He hesi-
tated.
“Yes, yes—proceed,” encou faged the Gov-
ernor. I wish to hear yo lir views quite
frankly. Pray do not hesitate to state
them. I shall endeavor to meet them in
every way possible. Go on, Oglethorpe.”
“Well, y’r Ex’lenzy, ’tis this-a-way wi’
me, y’r honor. Ye see, I been a soldiering
ever since I were sixteen year old, and now
1 be forty-five. Nine an’ twenty year, y’r
honor, I’ve follied th’ drum, at sea an’
ashore, boy an’ man, an’ it do seem to me
as though I ha’ had enough of it. I’d like
for to ha’ done wi’ drill an’ discipline, y’r
Ex’lenzy, an’ be me own man. I like this
country, and I do seem to’ve made good
friends in it. Them a?'ll stick to me. I’d
a mind for to go into business in the public
line, sir—an’ a very promisin’ openin’ is to
be had just now. A couple o’ gentlemen—
officers of th’ Corps—ha’ promised to lend
me a hand, y'r Ex’lenzy, an’ the purchase o’
th’ business is nigh completed. If so be as
y’r honor could find someone else for this
’ere job at Port Dalrymple—an’ I thanks
y’r ex’lenzy kindly for having honored me
wi’ th’ offer o’t —why”
Macquarie, frowning a little —he was not
used to being thwarted in his intentions,
and especially his benevolent intentions—
checked Oglethorp’s protestations of grati-
tude with uplifted hand.
“Say no more, Sergeant Oglethorpe. I
see that I must look elsewhere for some
reliable person to whom I may entrust my
plans for dealing with bushranging in Van
Diemen’s Land; and I regret to say that
such people are not easily to be found. They
do not grow on every bush. However, you
are your own master now. The service "has
no further claims upon you, though I am
sure you will be found a member of the
Loyal Association, should ever the necessity
of calling for volunteers under arms arise
—which God forbid. But may I ask what
and where is the business in which you
propose to employ your future?”
The Governor leaned back in his chair and
contemplated the fine figure of a man who
stood, stiff as a ramrod, on the other side
of the table. Macquarie ever loved a good
soldier, and had a keener eye for such than
a trainer has for a horse. Joe Oglethorpe,
although dressed in civilian raiment, was so
obviously the beau-ideal of the very best
sort of soldier —and there was a high
standard set in the years of the Peninsular
campaigns—that the Governor could not but
contemplate him with an admiring eye.
“ ’Tis a little public in Parramatta, y’r
Ex’lenzy—the Cornstalk Arms, in George's-
street. A small place, but easy to be made
into a good one, an’ in a good situation. I
was a-comin’ to-day for to ask y'r Ex’lenzy’g
permission for to transfer the license from
Thomas Spalding to meself, if y'r Ex'lenzy’d
be pleased for to do so.”
“Are you married, Oglethorpe?”
“Jest about for to be, sir,” replied Joseph
a little shyly.
“And —er —who, may I ask, is the fortu-
nate woman?”
_ “ ’Tis Frank Morrison’s eldest daughter,
sir—him that has the sawpits near Kissing
Point, on the river.”
“Ah—l know him well. A most worthy
man. He contracted largely for timber for
the new hospital. Has your bride-to-be got
—er —auburn hair?”
“Red, y’r Ex’lenzy—not to say ginger.
But good looks wi’ it, too, y’r Ex’lenzy.
An’ a good girl—th’ best in th’ Territory.”
“Of course, of course —the best in the
world, eh?” Macquarie smiled genially, as he
sometimes could. “Well, well, I must con-
fess that I begrudge you to her. I’d like to
have had you in Van Diemen’s Land. But
it can’t be helped. You must study your
own interest. Of course. Quite proper. I
know the lady by sight and think you have
chosen wisely. lam sure you will be happy.
Of course I will permit you to take over the
license from Thomas Spalding. And I’ll tell
you what, Oglethorpe. You may paint upon
your signboard that the —the —what is it
called?”
“The Cornstalk Arms, y’r Ex'lenzy.”
“Oh yes—the Cornstalk Arms. Well,
you may state on your 6ign that the inn is
under the Governor’s patronage.”
“Indeed, y’r Ex’lenzy, I thankee kindly.”
“Think nothing of it, Oglethorpe. I like
to encourage merit such as yours. Only, be
prepared for an occasional visit from Mrs.
Macquarie and myself when we come to
Parramatta. I don’t intend to pay you a
mere empty compliment. We may come and
call for refreshment at any time. See that
you’re able to provide it.”
He stood up, and stretched out his hand
to the embarrassed Joseph, who grasped and
shook it fervently, stammering his thanks.
“Y’r Ex’lenzy—’tis—’tis too good of ye,
sir. I’m sure we’ll both do our best to
desarve your kindness. Ye’ll find the house
all it should be, sir—and our very best for
your lady an’ yourself.”
“Well, good luck to you, Oglethorpe.”
* * « *
Mr. Wicks, temporarily in command of
H.M.S. Emu during Captain Fletcher’s
absence on leave at South Creek, whither he
had betaken himself to spend a fortnight
with Mr. Gregory Blaxland, felt, at the end
of the first week, that duties faithfully dis-
charged entitled him to a day of rest and
recreation. Accordingly, he had consulted
with his friends, Messrs. Calder and Pilking-
ton, at the latter’s residence on the blocks,
as to the best and most profitable manner
in which such a day might be spent in their
stimulating company. Mr. Calder had a
plan.
“Of course,” he said, “we can all get
away to-morrow. Bill Blake’ll let me have
the day off —’tis Saturday, and nothing much
doing. Brummell never does- do anything in
particular, so they won’t miss him at the
Stores. And as for you, Pansy, you’re your
own master, and can take as much leave as
you like. We’ll go to Parramatta, an’ I’ll
show you an uncommon pretty girl. But
ye’ll both be good enough to bear it in mind
that I found her, and that she’s my friend,
not yours. She”
“Well, but my dear Patwick,” interposed
Mr. Pilkingtou, “that’th all vewy well, you
know —but where do we come in?” Ain’t
there any pretty girlth for Panthv and my-
th elf ?”
“Yes,” agreed Mr. Wicks. “What’s there
(Continued on next page.)


w /
%
m!
“■Gvery picture
Zells a Story”
thereby preventing, a
matter what your age
kidneys; they do not
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
MUCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, pro-
bably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure,
s well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don’t run serious risks! No
may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. Pullbrook, sen., 42 May Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says: “For
six or seven years I was troubled with weak and disordered kidneys. Ihe
chief symptom was backache, and the pain I suffered was awful. Mhen 1
stooped the agony in standing up again was almost unbearable, and 1 otten
had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to relieve the pain,
and I used to wonder if I should ever be well again. One day I was urged
by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it was a real friend s
advice, for a few bottles completely cured me. My experience proves that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine remedy, and I sincerely trust
that other sufferers will benefit by my experience and take these splendid
PlllS ’Fourteen years later Mrs. Pullbrook says: “I am still a great believer
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and would not like to be without them.
They are invaluable to the kidney sufferer.”
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. B. Preston, “Elsinor,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says: “In con-
sequence of a cold settling on my kidneys I was almost crippled with back-
ache. My back ached terribly and every movement seemed to make the pain
more acute. My rest at night was disturbed, no position being comfortable
for long, and during the day I was tired and weaiy. The kidney secretions
were disordered, being thick and cloudy. My witfe, who had taken Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills some time previously, with very beneficial results,
advised me to give the remedy a trial. I acted on her advice and am very
glad I did, for three bottles of the pills cured me completely. I feel splendid
now and have only Doan’s Pills to thank for my freedom from backache
and kidney trouble.”
Two years later Mr. Preston says: “I am still well and have not been
troubled with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
df
OAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
P’ills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers.
foster-McClellan Co., Pro-
prietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
iu this jaunt for us? For my part, I don’t
exactly look upon the honor of escorting you
into the country, in pursuit of your dissolute
amours, as a recreation. What do we get
out of it?”
“Oh well, you say you want a day in the
country, Pansy, and Brummell isn’t particu-
lar where lie goes or what he does, so long
as he gets out of the town for twelve hours
or so. So it won’t make any difference to
you if I have an object in view at Parra-
matta. You can amuse yourselves well
enough. And I'll tell you what. I’m a bit
flush just now—a remittance from my uncle
the Colonel —and I’ll stand ye both a good
dinner. I know the very place in Parra-
matta —quiet and homely, where the food is
of the best and the wine quite good. ’Tis
kept by this pretty girl I’m going to see.
You’ll be well fed there. What more d’ye
want? A day’s outing and a good dinner,
and whatever may turn up. You don’t want
to stay a-boozing about Sydney, do you?”
“No, no —-Patwick. Indeed not,” said Mr.
Pilkington languidly. “But who'th thitli
pwetty cweature?”
• “Her husband keeps the inn—the Corn-
stalk Arms.”
“You dog!” observed Mr. Wicks cheer-
fully.
“A little wepwehenthible, my dear Pat-
wick—eh. what? Mawwied woman, you
know! Dangewouth. totally!”
' “Well, never mind that. The question is,
how are we going to get to Parramatta?
What about your curricle, Brummell?”
“Can't be done, my dear boy—the wheelth
,are being we-tired. Won’t be finithed thith
week.”
“Oh well, I suppose we’ll have to hire
horses and ride. What do you say, Pansy !
“Oh. I dunno —I suppose we may as well
go to Parramatta as to any other d —d place.
But I’ll tell you what. We’ll go by water.
I can take the captain’s gig. The tide makes
early in the morning, and we can go up on
the flood, and come back on the next ebb but
one at night. That’ll be the way to do the
thing in comfort. I’m not very desirous of
skinning my legs again, as I did that time I
rode to George’s River with Brum here. I
don't navigate easily on horseback. Damme
if I do. The boat’s the best way. What do
you think, Brum?”
“Oh, yeth—leth by all meanth avail our-
thelveth of hith Majethty’th navy, thinth it
puth itthelf at our dithpothal. \\ hat time
mutht we thtart, Panthy?”
“Six o’clock —to catch the tide.”
“Damme —the middle of the night! Oh,
well —alwight.”
And so the early November morning sun
saw these three ornaments of their respec-
tive services being rowed up the long, silent
western reaches of Port Jackson —which have
been misnamed a river—towards the head of
the harbor, where Parramatta was then the
second town in all Australasia, by six sturdy
able seamen in Captain Fletcher’s gig. Mr.
Calder’s red jacket made a splash of color
in the sunlit vista of sparkling waters and
wooded, hilly foreshores. Mr. Wicks was
also in uniform, and Mr. Pilkington was
arrayed as no one ever has been arrayed,
before or since, in New South Wales.
Imagine the last word in the apparel of a
buck of the Regency—a hanusome, athletic
dandy, top-hatted, in a flowered-silk waist-
coat, eye-glassed, his snowy linen befrflled,
his cane gold-topped, his hands gloved, the
very acme of Georgian elegance—and you
may conjure up some vision of Sydney’s only
exquisite in the year ISIG. They breakfasted
ashore on beef-steaks and bottled porter, the
former grilled by the coxswain of the gig
over an open fire, and the latter drunk out
of tin pannikins, somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of Hunter’s Hill. By eleven o'clock they
had landed at the foot of George-street, the
splendid spacious thoroughfare which Gover-
nor Phillip gave to Parramatta.
Leaving the boat’s crew with ample pro-
vision to await their return sometime in the
evening, the three heroes of this story wended
their way along the highway until they came
to the Cornstalk Arms, “by Joseph Ogle-
thorpe.”
A long red brick cottage building it was,
with a wide verandah, and a hospitably open
front door with a semi-circular fanlight.
Roses grew up the verandah-posts, and were
trained upon a trellis along the front of the
house, which stood back trom the street in
a pretty garden, as many old and habitable
houses do there yet—the Cornstalk Arms
amongst them, though it has not been an inn
for nearly eighty years.
As the three young gentlemen walked up
the pathway leading from the wicket-gate
the red-coated soldier in the lead, a very
comely, smiling, dimpling, fresh-complexioned
girl appeared in the shady doorway, dressed
in pink gingham. Her hair was a glorious
golden red, and her jolly smile, Mr. Pilking-
ton vowed to himself, was the most gracious
thing he hafl. seen in New South Wales.
“Why, ’tes Mr. Calder!” she laughed.
Taking off his shako, the polite Patrick
bowed, and turned to present his companions.
“How are you. Peggy?” he greeted her.
“And how’s Joe?”
“My aunt!” muttered Mr. Wicks to Mr.
Pilkington. “What a stunner!”
The three naving dined early with great
sumptuousness and drunk copiously of the
excellent claret which Joseph Oglethorpe kept
in the deep, cool cellar below the red cottage,
and also having finished a bottle of an even
better vintage of port, Mr. Calder intimated
to his companions that it would but be
courtesy on their part were they to call at
the Barracks, where was stationed a company
of the 46th under a captain and two sub-
alterns. Upon Mr. Wicks making inquiry
as to why Mr. Calder should not accompany
them, that gentleman merely winked solemnly
at the naval officer and the commissary and
remarked in an undertone:
“Get out. Pansy. Don’t be a spoil-sport.”
“Come, Panthy, we will call upon the
benighted tholdier-offithertli at the Baw-
wackth. I thuppothe we can take a hint.
But I mutht thay, Patwick, Mr. Oglethorpe
being away at the Hawkthbury, ’tith hardly
theemly”
“Oh, go to blazes both of you! You owe
me something for the good dinner I’ve given
you.”
“Well, what about the Emu’s gig?”
grumbled Mr. Wicks.
“And my company?” protested Mr. Pil-
kington.
So presently they departed, and Mr. Calder
was left alone at the Cornstalk Arms —the
pretty landlady being somewhere on the pre-
mises.
About half-past three that afternoon, being
temporarily in residence at Parramatta,
where the new Government House on the hill
in the park was not yet quite completed,
but was partly habitable, his Excellency and
Mrs. Macquarie, unattended, set' out to take
a stroll through the town. The trees they
walked under are still there, and some of the
houses they passed by, for in George-street
to-day there is yet much of Old Australia sur-
viving. It was a beautiful afternoon in
early summer, and all the gardens were full
of blooming flowers, and the scent of flower-
ing wattle was in the air. Across the valley
to the northward the heights of Castle Hill
were blue in the lieat-haze. Overhead was
the clearest of skies. One of those days
when the beautiful valley of Parramatta was
looking its very best—and it is still a beauti-
ful valley, though different in its aspects, and
not quite so beautiful perhaps as it was in
1816.
Down the hill they came, arm in arm, a
noticeable couple, smilingly acknowledging
salutes of all and sundry who passed them
by. If he was respected of the common
people, Macquarie was likewise feared; but
no one there was who did not love his gentle
lady.
They walked round by St. John’s Church,
where the twin towers that are so notice-
able a feature of the town to-day had just
been completed, and paused awhile to cou-
template them. Turning away at last, Mac-
quarie put a question to his wife.
“And where to now, my love? I vow ’tis
too fine an afternoon to return just yet.
What would you like to do? Where shall
we go?”
Mrs. Macquarie thought for a little while.
“Oh, I have it, dear Lachlan. Do you
remember that pretty inn in George-street,
where we dined last year? The place where
that lovely woman with the beautiful hair
is. A charming creature. ’Tis a shame
she should be childless. What was the name?
I forget.”
“Do you mean Joseph Oglethorpe’s —the
Cornstalk Arms?”
“Yes, yes—-that’s the name. Do let us go
there and see whether Mrs. Oglethorpe can
give us tea. I must confess I was charmed
with her when we were there before —such
a jolly, modest creature, so different from
most of that class of people. We’ll go and
see her, shall w'e?”
“By all means, yes. A most worthy man,
her husband. I have a great respect for
him. We’ll go and see Joseph Oglethorpe
and his pretty wife. By all means.”
The red brick cottage was very quiet when
they reached it, seeming to sleep in the
warmth of the afternoon. Projecting over
the sidewalk swung the big signboard bear-
ing the tavern’s name, and, in smaller letter-
ing, an intimation that it was “Under the
Patronage of General Macquarie.” The Gov-
ernor lifted the latch of the gate, and they
stepped into the garden path. Then they
became aware of the sound of a woman’s
voice. Clear and distinct, it came through
the open door, so that they could not fail
to hear the spoken words —words, obviously
uttered in protesting indignation.
“ Sir —you forget yourself!”
Mrs. Macquarie paused and looked up at
her husband in alarm. The Governor halted
also, undecided whether to go forward or
retreat. The two of them waited, involun-
tarily expectant.
And then they heard a little scuffling noise,
and, a moment later, the sound of an unmis-
takable slap on a face, and a grunt of aston-
ishment that was, very clearly, a male
grunt. Immediately afterward they were
aware of Mrs. Oglethorpe curtseying in the
open doorway—flushed of face and with
brighter eyes than usual, but smiling and
dimpling in the pretty fashion Mrs. Mac-
quarie so much admired.
“Oh, ma’am —oh, your Excellency—pray
do come in. I’m so sorry sir—my husband’s
away at Windsor, at the cattle-salss. But
pray come into the parlor, and drink a dish
of tea. Joe —my husband I mean, sir—he’ll
be rare and sorry he was not at home.”
“Mrs. • Oglethorpe,” asked Macquarie
anxiously, “is anything the matter? We
thought we heard something. Pray, what is
it? Is there anything amiss? I thought I
heard your voice-—in distress.”
The pretty woman with the red-gold hair
laughed merrily.
“Oh, no, your Excellency. ’Twas but —
’twas but my parrot. He imitates me per-
fectly. ’Tis one of those green ones from
the Brazils, which a sailor gave my husband
last year in Sydney.”
“Dear me —a remarkable bird!” said the
Governor, as they went inside. She led
them into a parlor on the right, facing the
coffee-room.
* * * *
It was a shamed and stricken Ensign
Calder who waited at the boat until after
dark for his friends to rejoin him. When
they did they did not spare him.
“Patsy, you’re a swine,” said Mr. Wicks.
“She’s been too good to you. I wish she’d
taken the old boy into the coffee-room, and
not given ybu a chance to sneak off out the
back. She told us all about it, you dog.”
Mr. Calder could only scowl ineffectively
in the darkness.
“Yeth, by heaventh, Panthy, I’d have given
a quarter’th pay to have theen Macquarie
catch you. You detherved it. Gweat George!
The girl’th a perfect twump, by gad she ith!
You inthult her gwothly—and the thweet
cweature thaveth your bacon. Lord, but
I’d have handed you over to him, if I’d been
her. And now, damme, she thayth to me —
‘Tell Mr. Calder he made a mistake. I for-
give him,’ and she thent you a flatlik of
bwandy, which Panthty and I didn’t think
you detherved. Tho we dwunk it.”
“Let’s get back to Sydney,” said Mr.
Calder, in a stricken voice that trembled a
little.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


iV?. ■
3
'
WESTIN C HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland & CHCRCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“Chancery Hou&e,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
Bitumastic Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks
tasteless and odorless.
bitumastic Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyna.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
£2* fa •
No. 6821.
18/6 ,
Complete.
Post Free.
Extra
Battery,
No. ssli,
2/6, pins
postage 6d.
How often Kaye you asked your companion that question
when, on a pitch-dark, rainy night, miles from anywhere
an „ j nC6rta ' n your exact location, you have been com-
pelled to stop your car and strain your eyes in a vain effort
to decipher the words on a cross-roads signboard?
Finally you have been obliged to get out and strike a
match or back the car round so as to bring its head-
lights to bear on the indistinguishable letters.
y AS rI^, W ? RTH THE TROUBLE, when a WINCHESTER
No. 682! FOCUSSING TORCH—which throws a deai
beam of brilliant light to a distance of 100 yards—might
have been carried in the side-pocket, ready for instant use?
Built i> y the WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY,
this Flashlight and its batteries are—like the Winchester
Repeating Rifle and its ammunition—efficient, reliable, and
unequalled in quality. It is fitted with a patent two-way
switch, controlling either steady or intermittent light; a
shock absorber to protect the delicate bulb from injury; an
octagona screw cap to prevent it from rolling; and a
concealed loop by which it may be conveniently hung up.
Write for our interesting 8-page Catalogue “TP,”
which shows the complete range of Winchester
Torches, from the tiny vest-pocket models to the
latest 500-yard ,Focussing Searchlight.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-established Gunmakers in Australia),
453 Kent Street, Sydney.
Phone: M 3388. • *
This year the bigger Bulletin ’ won t print as many short stories as the
Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy‘‘The Bulletin"—bigger and better
b.
BfUffWi ini m HI iiiffTiflil
IPOSTFREE j
m
Th»o morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
el
v
a
ill
I iliHiniiTri hi Ml h HTT.'Tir M Trtrrn
wmmtMmrmamfrtgfmm
MARINE ENGINES
V.
m
All Parts Stand-
ard and Inter-
changeable.
American Bosch
Magnetos - im-
pulse coupling.
3 to 100 H. P„
i to S cylinders,
■S-cycOe gngjaea.
JCERMATH MANUFACTURING CO.
Detroit, Michigan, U. S. A.
Cable Address, Kermath
Built with the greatest care so
that only ordinary care is required to
keep them in perfect running order —
Kermath Marine Engines are first in
service, economy, and dependability.
HALL BROS., LTD.,
Careening Cove (foot o’f Willoughby StA
Milson’s Point, North Sydney, N.S.W.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
"""""" "' J 11 ‘
T \ eather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Jlacquarie at 10.15 a.rn. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
_ i. Tares: All-day, 2/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children. 1/- and 6d
cDrriAI^TDIDTup a DV n VnMnVV“ Gardens Hot ® L Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at 3 P . m . , rom No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
8697« u lineot Adults, 1/6. Children. 6d.
hnefl >- Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
Tels.
“ON THE HOP,” New Edition.—Over 200 of “Hop’s” most
famous drawings. Heavy art paper, 2/6. Post 6d. extra.
0*
0<4%
C 5® 6
.jfiP «
V ..•• ..•••>,<!** *
•*»
* c®’


The label's
on the squint-
The bottles
on the square;
If you ash.
for Johnnie Walker
\bu will find
him eveiywhere
s
Vi,
V
*
V
Bom 1820
-Still
Strong
It’s easy to see why "JOHNNIE WALKER *
has the largest sale ofany whisky in the world
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. LONDON & KILMARNOCK
