

-J
5
e
a
&
&
K
a
'A
3
**z
tJtrsZ QJiapter 9
On the shores of Port Waratah, close to Newcastle, . New South Wales, there
existed for centuries an unhealthy, unsightly swamp. .
When the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., decided, in 1912, to engage
in the production of iron and steel, this spot was selected, on account of its
deep-sea frontage, as a suitable spot for the establishment of the works. By
the outbreak of the war the construction of the works was well advanced,
and the Government and people of Australia were consequently able to look
forward with confidence to the maintenance of railway communications and
the continuance of manufacturing operations. '
The swamp had produced nothing—the Steel Works, which were taking 1 s
place, were relied upon to produce sufficient iron and steel for the industrial
salvation of Australia.
After the establishment of the industry the first
thought was naturally for National Australian needs.
The Australian Railways required rails and fishplates
engineering workshops needed iron and steel in various
forms to enable them to keep the manufacturing and
mining industries going
These requirements were carefully studied, and the
necessary supplies were produced, with the result that
the wheels of Australian Com-
merce and Industry were kept
moving, and employment given
to the many thousands of
m
m
A%
"Hn I#*
ear
i®
ill!
■ ' - & > • I
ft
r
t
zy
%
3X#**
S\
But there were other materials required in Australia—the
needs of the great Primary Industries next came under
review. As the production and distribution of these articles
required specialised handling, it was decided to operate a
subsidiary company, Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Limited, whose worxs
were established adjoining the Steel, Works at Newcastle.
"WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, “WARATAH” BARBED
WIRE and “WARATAH” WIRE NETTING were the first lines
turned out. These were of the very highest grade, comparing to
advantage with any similar articles produced in any part of the
world. These articles were eagerly welcomed by primary pro-
ducers, their sterling quality at once recommending them.
The Management of the Newcastle Works were, however, not yet satisfied. They saw that, year after year,
hundreds of miles of fencing were destroyed by bush fires. Could this great loss be pievente . yno
steel fence posts?
No sooner was the question raised than steps were taken towards its solution.
The posts required must be exceptionally
strong,'"easily erected, noTtoo and with a lifetime of service before them. They must be so constructed that the
fiercest bush fire would not harm them. After many experiments all these requirements were fulfiUed, and primary producers all
over the Commonwealth are now using WARATAH "B.H.P. STAR" STEEL POSTS, wh.ch are absolutely -htafe ™« »
rot, are impervious to white ants, require no postholes, do not neeed to be bored, do away with wedges or ties, and obviate the
necessity for ramming the posts, or for insuring fences against fire. ~ . , , , 1 crrMtMt Vmon
The “WARATAH” STEEL POSTS, which are prepared exclusively from Newcastle B.H.P. Steel, are probably the greatest bo
yet enjoyed by the man on the land. They have been made possible by the establishment of the Steel Works at Newcastle, an .
Theta'ust iroduct n rr HnLwntrTis m the a FLEXO STEEL DROPPER, which is unbreakable, fireproof and rustproof. It is flexible,
easy to fix and can be attached to any existing fence. It is specially suited for use wth the Waratah Steel Posts
The Newcastle Steel Works give employment to thousands of Australan workers, enable Australian Railways to be run, p
tralian engineers and manufacturers, and assist primary producers to conduct their operations efficiently and economically.
THE PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY OF AUSTRALIA
ARE CLOSELY LINKED UP WITH THE NEWCASTLE IRON
AND STEEL INDUSTRY.
the broken hill proprietary coup
1 ■ ■ IRON AND STEEL MASTERS.
IRON AND STEEL MASTERS
RRANCH OFFICES— SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street. ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street.
LONDON: 3 Gt- Winchester Street. t. t
WORKS Iron & Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Wire Mills: Rylands Bros. (Ans.), Ltd., Newcastle.
Iron Knob. S.A. Limestone Quarries: Devonport, Tas.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
PERTH: St. Georges Terrace.
Ironstone Quarries:
The Bulletin
j£s<JV dviioU \\lwk, ! /It*- S3
VoL 49.—N0. 2534.
Wednesday, September 5, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
In every heart there hides, so sages say.
Some haunting sin or shame of yesterday
Some rankling wrong which festers in the’ mind
Some deep regret for which no ease we find ’
But human happiness doth still survive
And ease for bronchial ills, which all endure.
To keep the cheering flame of hope alive,
Is found in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Apvt.
Learn
Story Writing
THis Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’
My Name
My Address
ORT STORIES.
Learn HOW to write them, and
HOW to market them.
There is an unlimited field for writers who
know HOW. Write for particulars to the
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE,
338 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD,
i 12 I
ID 1
7 EJSS
Opulence
has
Little Place
Sfif
!i 12
wsa
in the modern conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste;
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
df
gd
in the Watch (are
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A
WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER 4 LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
fg
No. 1369
ext
Wrn
itsii
m
m
malm.
I
m
nta
m
HUH
mwm
.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
jyiade of superb Havana'Tobacco,
With a smooth, satiny wrapper.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/.
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITRF/N, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors lor Club Reil Cigar Factory*
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
huinan mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being’ the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe, and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinp* destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
Ihe Lancet (London) states:—“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
«el.v to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eiimenthc l .Jujubes proved to be as effective bao-
ternjidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin,
m
3»
«■1
IA. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
, Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe oi one
'of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis and
The Red Page
“The Bulletin" Literary Competitions
Consideration is being given to the con-
ditions to be attached to the second of
The Bulletin’s Literary Competitions,
and they may not be finally settled for a
few weeks (some of the judges, whose
advice will be sought, are taking a well-
deserved holiday). What can be said defi-
nitely, however, is that entries will close
on December 31, 1929. It is not likely that
the conditions will vary greatly from those
of the First Competition, except that in
the Second Competition serial value will
be taken into account. In the First Com-
petition there were many entrants who
sought to adapt their writing to serial use,
and it became difficult at times to judge
fairly between these and others in which
that quality had not been attempted.
A Novel Is Built
EMr. Clegg was chairman of the committee of
judges which so successfully dealt with the first
Bulletin Literary Competition.]
My colleague on the committee of
judges in the recent Bulletin Novel Com-
petition, Mr. Cecil Mann, has written a
brief but admirable account of the impres-
sion left on his mind by the reading of the
many Australian novels that were sub-
mitted to us. I have no intention of
traversing any of the statements made
by him; nor could I, since they have
my hearty assent. What I do propose to
do is to add to them my own personal ex-
perience in the hope that it may be a help
to a fleet of young writers who have
launched their literary boats on a trouble-
some sea and failed to bring them into port
successfully.
One very clear impression left on my mind
after reading hundreds of these novels is thai
the average young writer has approached
his task much as an unskilled builder would
the erection of a house, without a carefully
mapped-out plan before him. Scores of
these novels were hopelessly dispropor-
tioned; in some cases the foundation failed
to support the superstructure, in others the
foundation was solid and the upper edifice
a thing of laths and plaster. A most
frequently recurring form of design, if de-
sign it may be called, reminded me always
of a dumb-bell—two weighty knobs
attached bv a comparatively slender bar.
These dumb-bell novels came up by the
score. They started vigorously and reached
about a third of the novel’s length with
some impression of weight; then followed
(say) another third, when vigor spjndled
into mere words; then came the final third
with some renewal of the initial strength.
They were the legs and head of a short
story. Evidently what happened in most
of these cases was that the author started
off without any plotted-out distribution of
material and used up so much of it in the
initial effort that he became scared of clos-
ing down long before novel length had been
reached, so proceeded to fill in with imma-
terial matter. There were sufficient of these
ungainly children of the mind to fill a
literary orphanage. Any man can build a
house of sorts; so can any man—and cer-
tainly any woman—build a novel of sorts.
The trouble is that the one is uninhabitable
and the other unreadable. I wish to stress
—as Mr. Mann has stressed—that, until the
young writer regards his work seriously as
a creature of art and specialised education,
he dan have little hope of success. The
art of the short story and that of the
novel are as apart as moon and sun. You
cannot convert the short story into the
novel by a simple process of expansion.
Structurally they are distinct.
I have been speaking of the novel as the
C u nV i eyance a stor y> f° r in practically
all these cases that was the type of novel
we had to deal with. Of novels that were
purely the work of the literary surgeon,
such as the dissections of character and
the primitive sex instinct, there were com-
paratively few. In them plot and narra-
tive were largely negligible. But the bulk
of the novels were of the story and narra-
tive type where skill in construction and
excellence in narration are primary reauire-
ments.
I hope that the next competition may
snow a marked advance in this respect.
What a successful story-novel needs is I
think, primarily a good and probable plot
with an underlying theme; well drawn
characters that fit into and form part of
the structure of the story and do not, as
so often happens, need the author to step
on to the stage and explain for what, if
for any, reason they are there; an appro-
priate scenic setting and an increasing and
unbroken interest and a vital purpose from
start to finish. Don’t invite your reader
: n middle of the novel to sit down and
have a smoke with you.
And a few lines in conclusion. Whence
comes this strain in our novel-writers that
makes them, almost with a sort of Greek
fatalism, end their work with a tragedy, a
disaster or at least a couple of funerals?
“You are old, father William,” might. I
know, be said to me; but even age has its
advantages, and I can honestly say that,
taking the world as I have seen it and
known it. there has not been a tenth of
the misery crowded into it that some of
our Australian novelists have poured into
their literature. Why can’t we get more fun,
more brightness and more humor into our
literature? Is it that we balance the sun-
shine in. our lives by the shadows in our
thoughts? Whatever the cause may be I
would like to see this morbid tendency
diminished.
T. B. CLEGG.
The Opinions of R. Crawford.
R. Crawford’s outburst, which in his un-
happy state oi mind he entitles “A Shop-
man and His Wares” (R.P. 15/8/’2B), would
not excite any response but for the fact
that it appears in the “Red Page.” That
fact renders it necessary that the mislead-
ing impressions he desires to convey should
be effaced. Mr. Crawford has written some
notable Verse, and is highly esteemed in
literary circles; but when he delivers him-
self of such statements concerning the
work of some of our best-known writers, he
brings discredit upon himself and arouses
doubt as to his motives.
E. A. Vidler’s. article (R.P. 18/7/’2B) was
a pleasant and harmless, though incomplete,
catalogue of certain Australian poets who
are more or less well known to the reading
public. With his comments and criticisms
one cannot fully agree; but those who know
Vidler will not believe for an instant that
he wrote as a shopman, or that he could be
guilty of entertaining the unworthy purpose
attributed to him by Crawford. His words
wore not all praise, but he did not decry
anything. He leaves the belittling and
wanton abuse of the work of others to the
bitter mind of a Crawford.
It is a despicable thing to quote the
opinions of the Bookfelloav on the subject
of Furnley Maurice and Marie Pitt. Those
opinions were written by one who years
ago was the only critic in Australia worthy
of the name. He wrote with power, dis-
cernment, and originality. But there came
the time ot waning, there came disappoint-
ment and bitterness. His judgment, in con-
sequence, deteriorated, and he developed
prejudices and a snarling attitude. For a
very considerable time now his criticisms
as they appeared have been greeted with
an understanding silence. It has remained
for Crawford to quote them. In quoting
them he has reduced himself to their level.
Furnley Maurice has written- some of the
most arresting poems in our Australian
literature. In his work he deals with many
phases of philosophy, with Nature, with
rebellion, with war and its spiritual effects.
His poems on children’s ways are charming
in their simplicity and originality. He has
his faults, but to call a man like this “a
poetaster” is fatuous. And Vidler has never
published a book by him.
Marie Pitt, in the estimation of all com-
petent judges/stands in the foremost rank
of Australian poets. She has contributed
many fine poems to The Bulletin and
other journals, and in her collected poems
one finds beauty in many forms. She is
a Celtic mystic, a rebel against injustice, a
woman of the Outback, a lover of Nature,
and a musician. Let Crawford read her
“Spider Orchids,” or her fine ballad “A
Tale of the Old Coast Road,” and other of
her verses, and perhaps he will be just
enough to own that he was wrong. Per-
haps.
Bernard O’Dowd needs no defence. Dr.
L. H. Allen, one of the best-equipped judges
we have, says that O’Dowd’s “The Bush”
must always remain as an inspiration to all
future Australian poets, and whoever would
write of Australia must draw upon its store.
“And as for Louis Lavater,” Crawford
says—proceeding then in his polished style
to talk of “mullock.” What of Louis
Lavater? He is a warm-hearted man, poet,
philosopher and composer of music. There
is no better technician amongst our poets,
and in his work one finds a generous use of
color, an intimate knowledge and love of
Nature, and both warmth and tenderness
when he deals with human emotions.
Has R. Crawford’s vanity been hurt by
someone, or has he a pain? In either case
one sympathises with him, but regrets his
lack of control.
R. A. BROINOWSKI.
Australian Poetry
May I reply, with all humility, to Mr
Crawl ord, who by the bye is a poet whom
I neglected to mention in my article on
The Spirit of Australian Poetry”? I cer-
tainly did publish the poems of Marie E.
J. Pitt, but none other of the poets whose
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in advertising” ensures the absolute accuracy of every description and illustration.
Anthony Horderns
Cricket Needs at Famous Low Prices
Cricket Apparel.
Men’s Outing Trousers. Designed with loops
for belt, side and hip pockets. Side straps and
cuff bottoms. Medium or wide legs, All
materials have been thoroughly shrunk. Grey
Flannel in light, mid or dark shades. Pr., 22/6
Australian XI Flannel. Pair , 55/-
Cream Wool Gabardine. Pair ..;.... 29/6
Cream Wool Fancy Gabardine. Pair . . 35/-
Cream Cotton Gabardine. Pair 17/6
Tussore Silk. Per Pair 27/6
Men’s Sports Coats in Newest Designs, with
patch pockets. With or without vent and belted
back. Select from reliable fancy Tweeds. In
plain Herringbone and mixture designs. In all
the latest shades of Fawn, Grey and Brown.
Each expertly cut and designed to allow unre-
stricted freedom and movement. Price, ea. 30/-
Better qualities—
Price 35/-, 42/-, 45/-, 50/- to 75/-
Men’s Tennis Shirts, made in our own work-
rooms from reliable materials. Finished with
collar and pocket. Mercerised Twill.
Each 5/3, 6/-, 6/9
Superior quality Mercerised Twill. Each 8/6
Mercerised Drill. Each . 9/-
Stout quality Matt. Each 8/6
Men’s Sports Shirts. Designed with open roll
back sports collar, which can be fastened close
up to neck if desired. The materials quoted
have been specially selected to ensure reliable
wear. White Mercerised. Each 6/9
Department, Ground Floor—Carriage Paid.
liMil!
,
vA
sea
€
&&«*!
m
<*<>
%
Nv\
L
Cricket Bats—Popular Makes
Gunn and Moore Special
Star Bat 507-
Autograph Bat, extra
specially selected. 48/6
Autograph Bat, specially
selected. Each . . 42/6
Cannon Treble Spring.
Each 33/6
Stuart Surridge’s Bats.
Oval Driver. Each 19/6
SpecialHordernian. 257-
Standard Driver. 267-
Country Driver. 30/-
Notts. Driver. Ea. 367-
Rapid Driver. Ea. 357-
Rapid Driver, specially
selected. Each 42/6
Rapid Driver, extra
special 47/-
The Perfect Special
Bat 54/-
Stuart Surridge. “Sut-
cliffe” 4 Rose . . 57/6
Stuart Surridge. “Sut-
cliffe” 3 Rose . . 48/6
Stuart Surridge. “Sut-
cliffe” 2 Rose . . 40/-
Stuart Surridge. “Sut-
cliffe” 1 Rose . . 34/6
Alan Kippax Special
Club Bat 45/-
Coblett’s Patsy Hendren
Autograph Bats. 55/-
M.C.C. Barrier Bats.
Each 55/-
Wo o dfull Autograph
Bats. Each .... 32/6
Harrow Size Bat. 32/6
Dye’s Special XXX
Ayre’s Macartney Bats.<
50/-
Autographed by J. B.
Hobbs
Force XXXX. Ea. 48/-
Force XXX. Each 46/-
Force XX. Each 39/-
Force X. Each . . 30/-
Duke and Son. The
Warren Bardsley Auto-
graph Bat. Autographed
by the well-known Inter-
national Player—
-45/-, 50/-
Star Driver. Each 27/6
Record Driver. 32/6
Challenger Driver. 37/6
Imported Cane and
Rubber Handle, Full-
size Practice Bats—
-14/6, 18/6, 19/6
Stuart Surridge College.
Each 27/6
Driver, size 6. Ea. 23/6
Driver, size 5. Ea. 21/-
Warsop’s Superior
Match. Sizes 6, 31/-;
5, 19/6; 4, 16/6.
Warsop’s Match. Size
2, 19/6; size 5, 16/-;
size 4, 14/6.
Department, Second Floor—Carriage Paid.
df
Nimrod Special Braided Flax Casting
Line. A line of exceptional merit.
Made in Belfast from finest flax pro-
curable. Braided by special machinery
and guaranteed not to kink. Ideal for
spinning line, and trolling in fresh or
salt water. In 2 5-yard coils, 8 con-
nected.
Sizes 12 3 4
Test 18 30 45 54 Ib.
25yds. 1/- 1/6 2/- 2/6
Fishing Tackle Dept., Ground Floor.
Excellent Values Offered in Fishing Needs.
Greenheart Sea Rods, 7 ft. 2 joints.
Porcelain Rings. Cork Grip. Light. 30/-
Winchester Split Cane Fly Rod, 9ft., 3
joints; extra top cork grip, with bamboo
top case. Price each 95/-
Farlow’s Paris Tournament Split Cane
Trout Rod, 2 joints, cork grip,
weight about 6oz. Price each ... £9
We believe this to be the most powerful
•60z.. rod made.
Far low’s Rlagdon Split Cane Trout Rod,
1 1 ft., 2 joints, cork grip. Weight about
Bfoz. Although light, this rod is power-
ful and well balanced. Price £lO/10/-
\
.TTTThukk
w
©
Donegal Genuine Cuttyhunk Line, made
from finest Irish Linen Thread. 100-yard
spools.
Sizes .... 6 9 12 15 18
Dry Test. . 12 18 24 30 361 b.
Price . . 6/- 6/6 7/6 8/6 10/-
Greenheart Rod, 10|ft., 3 joints, raised
grip. Beautifully finished. Price 30/-
Alcock’s Split Cane Spinning Rod, 1 04 ft.,
3 joints, extra top with Porcelain Rings,
Cork Grip, medium weight. Price. . 857-
Heavy Solid Brass Star Back Reels, with
movable check and tension brass lining.
Flange and line guard. Used extensively
for heavy fishing.
Sizes 3i 4 5 6 7 in.
Price 32/6 35/-37/6 40/-47/6 57/6
Lee’s Casting Reels. Without check, 25/6*
With check, 28/6. With check . ,
and line-drier, each
Aeroplane Spinners, for Cod. Size of
treble hook.
Sizes .... 1 2-0 5-0 6-0
Prices .. 1/6 1/9 2/3 3/-
Heddon’s Crab Wiggler. Body 3? in.
long. Weight loz., with detachable
double hooks. A very successful lure
for perch. Can be had in yellow
perch and frog color. Each. .
Carriage Not Paid on these goods.
Use Our “Deposit-Purchase” System
Simply leave a small deposit on the goods you require.
Pay the balance in convenient instalments. You pay
only the Cash Price. There is no extra charge whatever.
’Phone M 2401 (Day and Night)
and leave your order at any hour just as the thought
occurs to you. This unique service is for your use!
Trunk Calls between 7 p.m. and 8 a.m. are at Half Rates.
Anthony Horderns:
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


0 oi
3 rlotw er
~)enioffine
iM
\
J:
3
u?
V*.
""I
*5
#
S 3
l
\
l-ir*
A Car of Distinguished Excellence
You will find many attractive sixes on motor row, but
none that conveys more forcefully than Dodge Brothers
Senior the impression of distinguished excellence.
You will find high-priced sixes performing brilliantly
on city pavements, but you will not find the Senior’s
equal at near the Senior price. Where road conditions
are well nigh impossible and all but the mighty are
beaten at the start, Dodge Brothers Senior reveals its
superiority with an emphasis that commands respect.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. W. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. . . New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
5/9/’2B


Quality Cutlery
SELECTED SHEFFIELD KNIVES
To grace your table select David Jones Sheffield Cutlery with
Firth’s renowned stainless blades, hand-ground and fitted with
the best quality grained xylonite handles.
Rack box of 6. round or square shape. Table Knives. Price, 14/6
Rack box of 6 Dessert Knives, round or square shape. Price, 12/6
STAINLESS STEEL
Price b 3/ - Set
Harrison Bros, and Hawson stain-
less steel Table and Dessert Knives
with mirror finished blades and
first quality xylonite handles,
square shape. 6of each in leather
covered case. Price the Set, 63/-
i
'C. Xv. >
Stainless Steel Carving
Set, a Harrison Bros,
and Hawson’s quality.
In convenient rack
s« . Pri< ;: 19/6
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets.
■work I dealt with, except in the little maga-
zine of verse, “The Spinner,” now defunct.
I am not one to boost my own wares, or
I would have worked in references to
Atkinson, O’Hara, Tate and many others,
whose volumes I have published. The spite-
ful tone of Mr. Crawford’s note seems to
suggest some personal rancor. But the mat-
ter is not important.
Mr. D. P. McGuire, however, in the same
issue of The Bulletin (15/8/’2B), writes a
thoughtful rejoinder to my claim that Aus-
tralian poetry should be Australian. I
tided (perhaps unsuccessfully) to explain
myself. I did not ask for scenery or even
character as one might ask for either from
a painter or a novelist, but just that spirit
of youth, virility, freshness of a young
nation and the sense of wide spaces, the
sounds and sights of the bush as they may
be expressed by the sensitive poet and the
composer. The point is rather delicate, but
I am sure with Mr. McGuire I need not
labor it.
My friends among the poets (and such-
like folk) think that, as an Englishman, I
am unduly thrilled by Australia and feel
this spirit that is Australia more keenlv
than they do. They have walked with me
in my Australian gardens and have seen
native plants and trees they had never
heard of, much less seen before, and they
have noted that I have bookcases full of
Australian books, and walls all too crowded
with Australian pictures. And when I talk
to them of the Australian spirit in poetry
they say, “That went out with Lawson and
Banjo Paterson.” But I didn’t mean the
bush ballad at all. I meant the under-
standing heart.
EDWARD A. VIDLER.
P’s and Q’s Continued
In “The Music of P's and Q’s” (E.P.
25/7/’2B), Mr. L. T. Luxton gives us some
refreshingly original notes on alliteration.
Partly because he seems more interested in
its application to prose, and partly doubt-
less from considerations of space, he has
drawn few of his illustrations from poetry.
His thoughtful comments, however, open
up such fascinating issues that it is worth
while to offer a few verse examples.
Consider for a beginning a stanza from
the first chorus in Swinburne’s “Atalanta
in Calydon”:—
The full streams feed on flower of rushes,
Ripe grasses trammel a travelling foot,
The faint fresh flame of the young year flushes
From leaf to flower and flower to fruit;
And fruit and leaf are as gold and fire,
And the oat is heard above the lyre,
And the hoofed heel of a satyr crushes
The chestnut-husk at the chestnut-root.
Here is a symphony whose initial motif
in F, with a firm announcement of R in
“rushes” and “ripe,” swells through a rippling
cadenza of liquid L’s to a broad theme of
H, with a superb return in the climax,
“root,” to the R tentatively introduced in
the opening lines. This sparing, suggestive
employment of R in preparation for em-
phatic use in a keyword to appear later is,
by the way, one of the most subtle devices
at the poet’s command. There is a striking
instance of its effectiveness (pointed out, I
think, by George Wyndham) in the final
couplet of the 109th of Shakspeare’s sonnets:
For nothing this wide universe I call,
Save thou, my Rose; in it thou art my all.
The budded internal R in “universe"
literally flowers to perfection in “rose.” It
may be pointed out, in passing, that the
initial O of “oat” in the Swinburne selec-
tion counts, as the writers of early English
alliterative verse laid down in their precept
and practice, as equivalent to any conso-
nant; and the same applies here to the
vowel beginning of “universe.”
Mr. Luxton refers to the late David Mc-
Kee Wright’s marked tenderness for W.
This characteristic he shared with Spenser,
who indulged in such performances as this:
Why wail we then, why weary we the gods with
plaints ?
Looking over some notes I made a few years
ago on Spenser’s early technique, as dis-
played in the “Shepherd’s Calendar,” I
find that in the November eclogue W
appears as an initial sound 84 times, while
S (including, of course, C soft), TH, H, D
and L occur on 84, 61, 51, 42 and 41 occa-
sions respectively. In two other poems,
August and October, similarly analysed, S
and W (with the exception in one case of
the inevitably common TH) again top the
list.
The labial P claims a paragraph to itself,
as being in some ways the most purely
ornate of all the consonants. An instance
of its decorative character is afforded by
the line
And piled him a palace straight to pleasure the
princess he loved.
Which line, strange as it may seem, is not
by Swinburne, but by the heterodox Brown-
ing, of whom the critics were wont to wail
he had no care for form. It will be noted
how in this line the alliteration is functional,
over and above its merely ornamental office,
in dividing up the line into the two kinds
of feet, iambic and anapaestic, interchange-
ably employed. The true Swinburnian note
is heard in three lines chosen at random:—
The pulse of war and the passion of wonder.
Life sweet as perfume and pure as prayer.
• Pale, beyond porch and portal.
As an instrument of wit alliteration pos-
sesses an importance not to be overlooked.
Pope excelled at and delighted in the game
of giving further point to his already pun-
gent epigrams by its aid, possibly the most
famous example being:—
Here thou, great Anna, whom three realms obey,
Dost sometimes counsel take —and sometimes tea.
The emphasis of bathos given by the T in
“take” and “tea” is admirable. In like
spirit are Praed’s
By making puns and making presents,
and the passage in “The Ch.aunt of the
Brazen Head,” satirising man’s idea of fame,
that unsubstantial vapor
For which the soldier bums a town,
The sonneteer a taper.
A nonsense-line by a modern writer (Walter
de la Mere) depends for its full effect on a,
subtle combination of two unaccented G’s
and two accented D’s, with a chime of
B’s merrily pealed for good measure:
The Lady Godiva Godolphin of a blood by the
centuries blued.
Read it aloud, deliberately, and taste the
full jocund flavor of it.
Tennyson, as is well known, abhorred the
hiss of two S’s in juxtaposition, and labored
strenuously to exclude all instances of it
from his work, a proceeding he used to call
“kicking the geese out of the boat.” He
was heard to complain because people fre-
quently misquoted “And slowly broaden
down from precedent to precedent” as “and
broadens slowly.” As a final indication of
the care with which a great poet considers
the music not only of passages and lines,
but even of a single word, here is a passage
from one of Francis Thompson’s letters:
Of “nervure” ; I should not, in a like passage,
use “cuticle” of the skin of a flower or leaf ; because
it is a streaky word —its two K-sourids and mouse-
shrewd U make it like a wire tweaked by a plectrum.
The U of “nervure” is not only unaccented, therefore
unimportant in sound, but the soft V and N quite
alter its effect from that it has when combined
with K’s and parchment-tight T’s.
RICHARD MERDITH.
A Satchel of Books
The Beast with Five ,Fingers , by William
Fryer Harvey (Dent). Fourteen short
stories of the uncanny order, all
excellent, and at least one of them, “Six
and Six-thirty,” a little masterpiece of im-
pressionistic writing. The author uses
clean and pure English, and that is some-
thing in these days of magazine tnpe-
machine work on the one hand and precious
affectation on the other.
The Reply, Whispering Echoes and Even-
ing Reveries, by T. W. Boyce (Exchange
Printing Co., Brisbane). Three collections
of verse by an industrious writer who says
they are the forerunners of several others.
One example:—
Unguarded, she lies in an Austral clime
A fair lady calling, imploring alone;
Her long poignant wail of neglect in her prime
Is unheard, and unanswered —to-day ’tis a moan.
Rhyming Epitome of the Colonial History
of Australia, by J. C. Law (Philip and Son,
Sydney). Australian history up till 1890
told in doggerel, and put forward by the
author in the belief that it represents a
sound method of making the important his-
torical facts stick in Young Idea’s mind.
What effect it would have on any potential
Shelleys of the classroom might well be left
to the imagination.
The Unrisen Dawn, by, Anatole France,
translated by the late Frederick Chapman
and James Lewis May (Bodley Head). This
collection of Anatole France’s _ cemetery,
banquet and other addresses delivered be-
tween 1898 and 1906 is important chiefly
as a revelation of the man. He was a poor
speaker, and at the best his speeches are
those of a writer, better to read than to
have heard. But they contain illuminating
autobiographical asides. In few of his books
does the man Anatole France live so clearly.
The American Women’s Club Cookery
Book, compiled by Pearl Droste Plogsted
(Putnam). American cooking, it is dis-
turbing to know, is “sometimes venturesome,
almost intrepid, often fantastic.” But,
“although it may not have the subtlety of
the French nor the frankness of the Eng-
lish,” it has “a piquancy and youthfulness
that has its own engaging charm.” The
American Women’s Club responsible; for
this book tastes its dishes in London, and
it certainly has given a comprehensive
list of recipes ; there is even one for happi-
ness. A book that every gourmet will wish
his wife knew by heart.
Reminiscences of Scottish TAfe and Char-
acter, by Dean Ramsay (Bodley Head).
Anyone knowing nothing about that country
might get a very workable knowledge of it
by glancing at a map, racing through a
history, and carefully reading this entertain-
ing book by the whimsical, broadminded,
side-levered Scot who was sometime Dean of
Edinburgh. Racy anecdotes, supplemented
by shrewd observations, reveal Scottish life
and character as it existed for a long and
hectic period, and get down, too, to the
fundamental, unchanging things. First pub-
lished in 1857, it ran into about a score of
editions, none more welcome than its pre-
sent inclusion in the Bodley Head’s “Week-
end Library.”
♦
“C.” : There is more in the illustrations to
Captain Samuel Wallis’s “Historical Account
of the Colony of N. S. Wales,” than the fact
that they were engraved by a convict artist,
W. Preston. The craft of etching was so little
practised in Sydney in 1821 that no copper
plates were to be had anywhere; so Preston
used sheet copper, of the kind ships are
bottomed with. Nevertheless, the 12 etchings
in this book are of an extraordinary freshness,
as rich as though pulled from the press
yesterday. Lionel Lindsay, on admiring them
once, said they reminded him of the diamond-
pointed tools used by some European etchers.
Lionel’s own favorite tool is the one he
began with 30 years ago, a needle rounded
at the point and centred in a penholder.
“M.”: While Araluen tourists are misled
as to the whereabouts of the grave of Ken-
dall’s daughter (B. l/8/’2B), Gosford trip-
pers amuse themselves disfiguring the well-
known Kendall’s Rock, the inspiration of
“After Many Years.” The Erina shire coun-
cil does its best to discourage such van-
dalism, but. although the rock is on private
property, it is not safe. The N.S.W. His-
torical Society might consider the erection
of a barrier to preserve it from desecration.
Answers to Correspondents.
*. ,o„e, ccept ol . M.til, ,M,acter> *U TuSSS^cSSS J'TSJ
v nmp and address must appear on the MS. No liability is uraaermoc™
tarily submitted; and no MS. unit <be returned unless stamps accompany.
Query: Not worth all that.. . .Candide :
Much obliged.... Edouard A. J.: It fell to pieces at
the end W.S.: “Unwanted” exactly describes
it Jim R. T.: A sample of your carelessness
lobbed into your covering letter —“I am a stamped
addressed envelope for return”.... Bern B.: Sorry.
.. . .D.C. and M.: Our patriotism won’t let us rhyme
“Australia” with “failure”... .G.D.S.: Timeworn.
... .A.L.T.: One who can rhyme “competition—
slippin’ ” can do almost anything. But not here—
not here! ... .E.J.W.: You don’t make it convincing.
G.A.B.: Nearly First Offender: Let off under
the Act... .Bluebird: We won’t disturb your
“Solitude” D.A.R.: The man who said it was
no crime had never read your “Poverty”... .A.G.J.:
No substance in it.... Gan II.: Such awkward
lines! Noel: ’Ell, no! W.D.W.: Your patriotic
verses are better than most of the breed, but
strike some of the common pitfalls... .Ervina A.:
The story has dramatic interest, but the treatment
is not good enough.... Steve H.: The signal was
against it.... V.P.R.: No interest in the characters.
M.R.C.: “Seasonal” not well enough spiced
Esther P.: Poor 8.W.: What have the simple,
necessary articles done to you that you should ignore
them?....A. Traq: No man would waste words in
a telegram like that; nor should you waste words in
a story.... Nat Y.: “The Road,” short as it is, is
weary Isabel F.: “Warble —squabble” and “jury—
they” are impossible... .Jim D.; Too slight....
W.H.D.: You contrive to make an interesting theme
banal Carlo M.: The sequence of jerks is plain
tosh W.J.S.: You’ll have to learn to handle words
better. Is “dart” the only rhyme you can find for
“heart”? A.VV.R.: Your “Memories of Paradise”
are blurred... .P.L.G.: “Banquet” is just journalistic
counter-lunch G.R.S.: “Heart-throbbing like a
motor-car” is a peerless line G.O. (Armi-
dale): One late; other dull F.C.M.: Left
us dazed Q.P.: Fails to grip Richard
O. : It’s the sort of original matter that
nobody will ever want to copy Versifier:
Has it taken you six weeks to work that out ?. ...
M.H.: Would probably do elsewhere A.R.M.:
Dear lady, in your hours of ease, try to improve on
“This ’Ere Sneeze”.... Rachel C.: Martin started
to “fall at her feet” from the very first line
Gert M. A.: Well, you married your snob to your
vixen. Now let the unpleasant creatures wrangle in
their obscurity A.T.C.: Your description of the
fight is too suggestive of a bun-scramble... .R.8.D.:
“Flowers” faded under the sun of criticism....
W.Y.H.: Written on 'sound principles—sound only.
G.J. J.: Evidently you regard poetry as a punch-
ing-ball ; but poets can’t live by swat alone Gar
L.: “Sombrely lay it into its grave.” We obeyed
. ...W.J.W.: Don’t know w'hat your bird verse
means; anyway it was shot 0ut.... Rove V.: A
mere whoop... .T.J.H.: Couldn’t you find rhymes
for a brief thing like that?... .Nina L.: Almost. ...
P. : Not succinct enough... .R.11.M.: Your
verse-feet stumble too often. .. .M.W.R.: Can’t
understand where they got their fires from....
J.A.H.: Story of the trial doesn’t carry conviction.
. ...Thack: Ought to be a good line in those
stories; but the plot you send is feeble. .. .0.A.J.:
Observation about the mountain slides into the
usual valley.... F.S.G.: You don’t make it seem
possible. .. .J.W. (Heidelberg): Unfortunately it
is not poetry.... R. 0.: “Remember—chamber
—that was its funeral.... N.S.M.: Horribly unreal.
....P.S.'A.: Say what you mean; it’s too much
trouble to guess. .. .D.S.T.: How you mix things'.
That was not Carlyle, but Kelvin... .P.R.M.: The
description of Loch Katrine is in “The Lady of the
Lake,” not “Marmion”. .. .W.W.J.: “Ole Ben” fired
here too Boon: Heavy Ermyntrude: The title
is the best thing about it A.E.F.: You nearly
ruined our eyesight with that faint typing; and
then the stuff was no dashed good Saidee M.:
Can’t find any reason in the adventure... .E.W.M.:
“Prohibition” drowned Applea: Dropped out
from sheer weakness.... Mary R.: Terrible verse....
V. FitzP.: Far below standard.... Dudley F. J.:
Rang its own kne11.... Worth N.: A capital idea,
but the treatment is unskilful. The long introduc-
tion is unnecessary... .E.E.S.: Not quite. .. .E. 8.. It
seems to be a case of “the villainess still pursued
hi m >» R.E.8.: Doesn’t convey to the reader the
thrills you mention Neura: “The Storm” blew
itself out of this office M.G.: Your sea ballad is
roug h Colin K.: Even the remarkable conclusion
doesn’t save it. .. .R.W.K.: Ideas too faint....
C.1.D.: All sound and no sense N.E.M.R.: Down
for the count in the first round M.C.: Funeral
yarn buried... .G.H.: Very belated. Keep it till
next year; then send it early. . . .M.R.A.: Stumbled
on the doorstep Amicus: Unsuitable... .Thos. L.:
Cricket verse is out.. . .G.R.S.: The rapids fell into
the w.p.b Jas. D.: Hardly worth a stamp
Maria G.: Dowden, Shelley’s biographer, gives some
particulars of Reveley’s sojourn in Westralia. Early
records show that the young man received a grant
of land in the Beverley district, but apparently he
didn’t remain in the country long G.H.U.: Tas-
mania has had proportional representation since 1909.
. ...Ralpho: The w.p.b. is a whale for that sort of
story; it swallowed your “Jonah”... .D. 5.0.: Youi
“Ploughman” should have plodded his way home
by now W.T.W.: All p00r.., .L.S.D.: Hymn of
joy because the flies are coming—rejected G.S.R.:
Take back the verse and send in the beer....
TOR - After reading four lines commencing “wilt
we wilted....G.P.L.: What’s the hymn of hate for?
Has the war broken out again ?... .Lucy H.: The
garden is too 10ng.... Gilbert Mac: Its feet stumble
over too many rocks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
PE ■ Good in its way; might do elsewhere
J.M.L: Also ran... .M. 8.: The gag is getting on *in
y ears J.W.M.: Yours is the thirty-third we have
seen go home this week... .Effel: Distanced....
W.G.R.: Fragile effort dropped gently into the
post... . K.H.: Aeroplanes, steamships, skyscrapers
and treetops have all been used in connection with
that terra firma gag... .0.T.H.: A barbarous pun.
. ...L.R.T.: What the waitress said about the eggs
will apply also to the “art” L.D.: Sentence on
joke suspended.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service 0 f Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
. . The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Wants.
By French graduate, speaks three lan-
guages, business training, position as tutor
or bookkeeper on station. Drive car; good
horseman. Small salary. Refined surround-
ings essential.—6289.
Young educated woman, used to children,
as companion, also to do three children’s
washing. No cooking or household washing.
Station, Western N. S. Wales.—6299.
By young man, now overseer Q. station,
similar position N.S.W. about November.
Experienced 8000 to 10,000 sheep. Ex. ref.
—6266.
By nurse (24), charge of invalid or
children, in return for passage to England.
Good sailor. —6254.
By ex-officer Imperial Army (31), position
as tutor or bookkeeper, or both, in country.
Uni. education; previous exp.; teach any
subject to intermediate standard. First-
class refs. —6246.
By Englishwoman (32), experienced, posi-
tion. as housekeeper, cooking and household
duties; go anywhere; help with secretarial
duties. Ten years in English civil service
prior to marriage.—6212.
By expert woman, position in Melbourne
or vicinity, catering, housekeeping or cook-
ing.—6232.
By young man, job on Q’land station. Pre-
vious exp., good refs. —6244.
By married couple, middle-aged, one boy
13, position together Q’land. Both good
cooks, domesticated, sober, clean and reliable.
Station and hospital exp.; good refs. —6233.
Desperate man, good athlete, young, seeks
situation of extreme danger, Sydney, carry-
ing high remuneration. —6202.
By young woman (23), well educated, 12
months general hospital training, care of
invalid or elderly person, Q’land preferred.
Patient and gentle; good refs. —6195.
- To exchange stamps of all countries with
medium collectors; also to buy any quan-
tities of Commonwealth stamps. (To K.
Farmer, 23 McKinnon-parade, N. Adelaide.)
Table of offsets, or the moulds, of 12ft.
beach canoe. —6199.
Words of poems “Hellgate of Soisson”
and “Battery L.” (To H.R.E., Loughnan,
Kenilworth, Mitchell, Q’land.)
To buy copy of “The Australian and New
Zealand Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.”—
6219.
Words of a few war-dances or war-cries,
or book containing same.—6204.
To buy unbound copies of “All the Year
Round.” (To L. L. Jenkins, Box 32, Post
Office, North Sydney.)
To buy Art in Australia, No. 20 (June,
1927), Sydney number; to sell Art in Aus-
tralia, No. 15 (March, 1926), Heysen
number.— 6203.
To rent, from Oct. to Dec., modern self-
contained, furnished flat, with two bedrooms,
at Manly, Sydney.—6188.
To lease Island property, Whitsunday
Group (Q.), five miles from land, two sq.
miles area, few sheep and goats, small house,
fruit-trees, permanent spring water, £125
cash, or terms. Rent, £1 10s. per year.
—6189.
To sell, to black-and-white artists, original
suggestions for full-page sketches, joke-blocks,
etc. Will accept payment on publication.—
6238.
To sell “The Historians’ History of the
World,” 25 vols.—6214.
To sell course in commercial art, just com-
menced. Cost £7 10s.; £5 10s.—6230.
To let Highland home, fine place, showers,
garage, Gloria lights, part furnished. Rent
moderate. (To John Gemmell, Glen Apliu,
Q’land.)
To sell Correspondence Course in journal-
ism, 12 booklets, £2 4s. posted—6208.
To sell Yellow Book, vols. 1 to 4 (Beards-
ley numbers), 1st edns. £3 12s. 6d.; good
condition.—6265.
To sell course 53 lessons on metaphysical
Bible interpretation by the College of
Divine Metaphysics, U.S.A., cost £21. £6.
—6294.
Words of Byrd’s madrigals. “Though
Amaryllis Dance” and “This Sweet and
Merry Month of May.”—6273.
. To buy copy of “Baynham’s Elocution-
ist,” published in Glasgow.—6278.
Whereabouts of Phil Edments (about 32),
once of Murrayville (Vic.) ; was at one
time officer in Salvation Army, Adelaide.
-—6250.
Information Sought.
What income taxation is payable on Bawra
distributions, (1) for Federal, (2) for State
purposes f—6132.
(1) Original holders are exempt. Others
are taxable on the difference between the
price paid for the shares and the amount
received, from the association. (2) Full
amount received is taxable.
How can I exterminate colonies of meat-
ants about my house before the summer
comes ? — 6194.
Mix 1 tablespoonful of caustic soda, 1 tea-
spoonful of arsenic and 1 tablespoonful of
thick black treacle. Put this in the lids of
tins near their tracks.- If their nest can be
located put some of the mixture down the
holes. Balls can also be made of same mix-
ture with the addition of bran, and these
should be placed on the shelves. Be careful
if children or pets are about, as the stuff
is highly poisonous.
I have a five-valve receiver, tut only pos-
sess the knowledge of tuning-in Australian
“A”-class stations. Row can 1 tune in “B”-
class stations, and where would these stations
he located on the tuning dials? —6138.
“B”-class stations are tuned-in in an iden-
tical manner to “A” class. They are located
at the lower end of the tuning dials. First
tune in 2BL (353m.), and then slowly
rotate the dials towards zero and you will
pass 2GB (315m.), 2UE (293m.), 2KY
(280m.) and 2UW (267m.). If your re-
ceiver will not tune down as far as 267m.
you will be unable to receive 2UW, and in
all cases the signal strength will be less
on account of the smaller power used.
What is the exact meaning of gross, net
and displacement tonnage? —6191.
Gross tonnage is the capacity of a vessel in
tons without deduction. Net or register ton-
nage is the gross tonnage less deductions for
space occupied by engines, crew’s quarters,
etc., giving a rough measure of the capacity
of the ship for cargo and passengers. Dis-
placement tonnage is the weight of water dis-
placed by the vessel.
Did The Bulletin publish in parallel
columns a S. M. Herald report of a Mel-
bourne Gup meeting and a description of a
race-meeting by “ Ouida,” by which it was
proved that the Herald reporter had cribbed
passages from the novelist’s work? —6196.
Yes, under the heading “Stolen Sentiment
in the Sydney Herald,” Plain English page,
November 20, 1886. The passage referred to
was lifted from the second chapter of “Chan-
dos.”
(1) Does the N.S.W. Master Builders’
Association conduct a bricklaying and plas-
tering school in Sydney? (2) If so, where?
(3) What are the fees? (4) How long does
the course take? —6207.
(1) Yes. (2) At Marrickville, Sydney,
where classes are held for lads under the
age of 21. (3) No charge for tuition or
materials. Students must buy their own
tools, the cost of which in the case of brick-
laying is 14s. 8d.; plastering, 20s. 6d. (4)
Three months.
I am one of two executors of an estate.
No remuneration is provided in the will for
our services. My co-director disagrees with
me as to the value of my services. Can I
refuse to hand over the present residue of
the estate until my claim is settled, or should
I petition the Court? —6067.
You cannot refuse to hand over the resi-
due. Petition the Court for reasonable re-
muneration.
I have a piece of walnut timber which I
wish to turn into a gun-stock. (1) What
treatment is required? (2) How can I give
the stock a dark polish? —5885.
(1) Cut to shape and smooth off with fine
sandpaper. Then soak in raw linseed oil for
half an hour. (2) No stain is used in such
cases, and no further treatment is required.
Financial writers state that when a loan
of, say, twenty millions is borrowed from a
foreign country it means buying that much
of ' that country’s goods. Why cannot we re-
ceive the money only? —6187.
If financial writers say that they don’t tell
the truth. There is no reason whatever why
when a country borrows abroad it cannot re-
ceive money. The two reasons why we don’t
receive it are: (1) Our interest bill must be
paid; (2) if we ivill buy foreign goods, the
bills for them must be paid, too. And if our
exports won’t pay them, then our loans must.
(1) How can I make furniture polish?
(2) How is it applied? —6096.
(1) Take 21 oz. beeswax, \ pint boiling
water, £ pint, turpentine, 1 dessertspoonful
cloudy ammonia. Shred wax and melt slowly,
stir in. boiling water, then add turps and
ammonia. Stir occasionally till cold, then
bottle. (2) Rub in a very small quantity
with piece of flannel, and polish off with
a soft cloth.
/ have two sugar gum-trees about three
years old. Lately one of them developed
black spots on the leaves, which are falling.
Now the bark is starting to peel. Is there
a cure? —6065.
Can’t advise without inspection. Send
specimens of leaves and bark to the Chief
Entomologist, Dept, of Agriculture and
Stock, Brisbane.
What are the sail areas including extras
of open boats racking in Sydney? —6252.
Ten-footers’ sail area is not restricted;
average 220 sq. ft.; 18-footers are also unre-
stricted ; average 250 sq. ft. The sail area of
21ft. boats is limited to 450 sq. ft. The 16-
footers (Port Jackson, skiffs) carry 220 sq.
ft. The foregoing sizes are of complete
No. 1 suits—the biggest suits carried by the
boats.
What is the rig of a topsail schooner and
hoiv many masts may it have ? —6228
It is fore and aft rigged on all masts,
but on the foremast carries yards for square
topsails only, the foresail being fore and
aft. It may have two or more masts.
(1) What is the address of the S.A. Dis-
trict secretary of the Journalists’ Association?
(2) What is the . annual, subscription? (3)
Is a free-lance eligible for membership? (4)
Is a man who writes as a hobby, and who
makes not more than £100 a year from it
entitled to be called a free-lance journalist9
—oO:>2.
. W. Lodge, care the Register
Adelaide. (2) £2 per annum for a contri-
butor. 3) Yes, if his contributions are
frequently published. (4) Yes.
are gramophones records made
of? (2) How are they made? (3) How is
the sound reproduced? (4) What process
does a record go through in the course of
manufacture? —6066. • 1
(1) Charcoal, shellac and bareta. (2)
bounds are recorded through a microphone
and the vibrations are carried by wire to
the stylus, which cuts the impressions re-
ceived on a wax disc revolved on a turn-
table 78 revs, to the minute. (3) As the
sound waves agitate the stylus which cuts
the impression on the wax disc it follows
that the needle, when tracking the grooves,
must give off the same vibrations as were
recorded in the groove. As the needle picks
up these vibrations they are transferred to
the diaphragm of the reproducer and pass
down the tube of the sound-chamber. The
sound-chamber acts as an amplifier of these
tones. (4) The wax disc on which the
original record was made is powdered with
very fine graphite, and a copper wire is
bound around the edge for the purpose of
conductivity. It is then immersed in a bath
of sulphate of copper through which an elec-
trical current passes. This action causes
fine particles of copper to adhere to the
surface of the record, and after 24 hours’
immersion in this bath a copper shell has
formed on the face of the disc. This is
taken off, and the copper shell has a per-
fect impression of the sound grooves. This
copper disc is kept to make other discs for
the purpose of pressing the sound grooves
into the material of which the final records
are made. The pressing disc, or matrix, is
inserted into a hydraulic press with one mat-
rix on top and one underneath. The record
material, in a hot plastic state and rolled in
the form of a ball, is placed between the
discs, the title labels being in place on the
two matrices. The hydraulic press then
squeezes the plastic mass between the two
matrices under a pressure of about 7001 b. to
the square inch. The record is allowed to stay
in the press for 10 seconds, and is then re-
moved to cool off before the final polishing
of the edges takes place. The record is
then tested and passed for sale to the
public.
What are the bran and wattle-bark meth-
ods of tanning wallaby skins? —6133.
Pour quarts of boiling water over 2
quarts of bran, and strain. Dissolve in 5|
quarts of water as much salt as it will
absorb. Mix-the bran-water and salt-water,
and to each gallon of the mixture, when
lukewarm, add loz. sulphuric acid. Then
immerse the skins, turning now and again
till tanned. ’Possum skins will tan in 20
minutes; larger skins take longer. When
tanned, rinse in clear, cold water, and hang
in a shady place to dry. Afterwards rub
with pumice stone to make limper. The
wattle-bark process is better, but takes days
instead of minutes. First make a weak
solution of bark and water, and place skins
in this for eight or ten days, taking out and
replacing them every morning to ensure
evenness. Then make a stronger solution,
and transfer the skins to that for a few
days, and afterwards place in a very strong
solution till the skins are thoroughly acted
upon. When the tanning is complete hang
the skins on a line to dry.
(1) What is the quality and average staple
length of cotton grown in Australia? (2)
What is the average price for lint? (3) How
is cotton marketed? —6304.
(1) Of last season’s crop 54 p.c. had
a staple length of from lin. full to lgin.
and 38 p.c. from ljin. good to 1 3-16 in.
The balance was below lin. full. (2) The
average price per pound for the whole of
the season’s lint production was in excess
of 14d. net (including Commonwealth
bounty). (3) There is in existence for
the purpose of handling and marketing the
cotton crop in Queensland a body known as
the Queensland Cotton Board, which oper-
ates under the provisions of the Primary
Producers’ Organisation and Marketing Act.
The board consists of five cotton-growers
elected by the cotton-growers of Queensland,
and in addition there is a Government repre-
sentative in the person of the Director of
Marketing. Seed cotton is consigned to the
Cotton Board by the growers. The board
pays the whole of the costs of transport, gin-
ning, handling and other marketing charges,
and after deducting these costs the balance
is returned to the growers. The Cotton
Board makes no profit.
(1) Is the iodising of salt for stock licks
an expensive process? (2) Could it be done
on the farm? (3) If so, how? —6060.
(1) No. (2) Yes. (3) Take lib. to 21b.
of potassium iodide to 1 ton of mineral lick.
Dissolve the iodide in water and sprinkle
the mineral lick put out in a heap on the
floor, thoroughly mixing with a shovel.
, (1) Is the port of Whampoa likely to
rival Hong Kong? (2) Is Hong Kong held
on lease by the British ? —6192.
(1) It is a poor harbor where ships are
obliged to lighter on some tides, and is
never likely to rival Hong Kong, which is
one of the finest natural harbors in the
world. (2) Hong Kong consists of (a) the
original.island ceded to Britain in 1841, (b)
the peninsula of Kowloon obtained bv Con-
vention of 1860, and (c) the New Territory,
leased from the Chinese Government in 1898.
I have a 4-cyl. 1928 Dodge, and since pass-
ing the 10,000 -mile mark a persistent
whistle has developed in the carburetter.
What is the cause and remedy? —62lo.
The cause is a sharp edge or shoulder in
the air chamber immediately below the car-
buretter bell seat. It can be scraped away
with a hand scraper. Also suggest that the
edge of the air holes that pass through the
conical seating of the carburetter bell be
slightly scraped around the edge. Care must
be taken not to damage the carburetter bell
seat when scraping.
What is the best way to obtain vocal
engagements at city or suburban picture-
theatres? (2) Do I have to belong to the Pro-
fessional Musicians' Union? —5646.
The only way is to apply to the various
theatres. If you are a member of the Actors’
Federation of Australasia, an engagement
might possibly be secured through the agency
of its office. (2) No. the Musicians’
Union is concerned only with orchestral
work. The Actors’ Federation is the union
to which -you should belong.
Does Anybody Know?
How many words there were in Francis
Bacon’s vocabulary?—6l67.
How to bore a hole in plate-glass?—62o6.
The easiest way to remove the inside
canvas from a motor-car tyre for sleeves? —
6245.
Has any reader had success with the
Christofleau electroculture apparatus?—622o,
Information Supplied.
5878.—To clear well water that is very
dark shovel some lime or gypsum into the
well, and if the fault lies in the water it
will become clear. If it isn’t, sink in an-
other spot.—“G-Gar.”
6029. —Stretch the hessian in position on
the walls and whitewash or paint alternately
on the different sides until the fabric is
well filled. A good concrete paint is made
by mixing cement with milk until the con-
sistency of thin cream.—“Wrash.”
6030. —Before applying kalsomine or paint
to pise walls, dissolve four tablespoons full
of powdered glue in a gallon of water. With
the mixture give the pis£ walls three coats,
allowing each to dry before applying the
next. —“Brick.”
6002.—To apply tar so that it will dry
hard, boil it in an old pot or drum clean on
the outside. Be careful that the flames
don’t lick into the pot and set the tar afire.
With a large brush apply the boiling tar to
the wood. —“Rotom.’’
Brief Answers.
C.C.C.: (1) A pamphlet giving full par-
ticulars has been posted. (2) If you want safety
first, choose something that has been proved....
W.S.G.: The Queensland Railway Department states
that no figures are available P.J.C.L.: (1) Ask
Customs, Brisbane. (2) Anthony Hordern’s, Sydney.
— .J.J.: Write to Sir H. G. Lyons, Director and
Secretary, the Science Museum, South Kensington,
S.W.7... .A.T.H.: Judgment creditors can garnishee
wages above £2 a week. Bedding and tools of trade
cannot be interfered with... .F.M.N.: Unless you
have some very good reason for not doing so, employ
the same solicitor... .Noiram: (1) War pension
should not be included as income. (2) Amount
received from English estate is not income. (3)
You would be entitled to the benefits of the N.S.W.
Family Endowment Act... .E.T.: In the case you
mention the husband would be allowed to earn
25s. per week.. . .G.D.T.: Sorry, cannot publish any
information concerning Calcutta Sweep... .H.II.C.:
(1) Yes. (2) From £3 3s. per week to £6 6s.
according to location and class. (3) An advt. in
the S. M. Herald would attract the attention of those
with flats to let. .. .M.E.H.: (1) The All Blacks
beat Bulawayo by 44 to 8. (2) Gate-takings not
available in Sydney. (3) £1 and 12s. 6d. would
probably be the prices charged for admission to
ordinary matches. . .. S. Per Shent: Of course you
can only escape paying calls by selling. It has
got very fair chances... .T.H.H.: (1) A bad time
to sell. (2) Hold. (3) Prospects not good. (4)
Very doubtful. A bit late to sell, yet their figures
may quite likely get worse... .Z.Y.X.: If he dies
intestate one-third of the estate would go to the
widow and two-thirds would be divisible among the
children. The carrying on of the business would be
a matter for family arrangement. .. .M.D. : Death
duties are on a sliding scale, the rate increasing as
value rises... .A.B.: Ask the firm for full details of
the claim. If you cannot show receipts they can
sue you. Two years’ lapse of time is not a bar....
D. Dunlop: Unknown to medical science. Possibly
you mean sphagnum moss, which was used in war-
time as a substitute for cotton-wool... .E.A.G.: Yes,
A is under liability, and should insist on a lease....
F.A.M.: A dispute as to the sufficiency of an exist-
ing fence can, under N.S.W. law, be referred to two
arbitrators agreed on by the parties. If they dis-
agree the matter can be settled by an umpire chosen
by the parties... .A.J.T.: A testator is not bound
to leave his property to his children, but if he
fails to do so application may be made to the Court
to make adequate provision for them out of the
estate... .L.D.: Cannot trace any record of squatters
paying 2s. 6d. per scalp for rabbits—.J.B.: An
old age pensioner mustn’t work at less than award
rates of wages without a permit. State your ease
to the Industrial Registrar, Sydney.... K. and K.:
Why not test the “alleged expert’s” allegations by
your own experience? You’ve bought the machine,
and by this time ought to be able to judge for
yourself on questions (2) and (3)....G.M. : There is
a white Portland cement, but it isn’t made by bleach-
ing the grey stuff or adding white ingredients....
L. : Alfred Hill’s text-book, “Harmony,” A.
E. Smith and Co., Hunter-street, Sydney, might
help.... Rastus: Depends largely on what your
facilities are for feeling the market’s pulse. If
you are in a position to do that, take Horderns....
H.R.: No; not unless you want to gamble on success.
Most new ventures are gambles... .Five-three: In
your circumstances don’t touch it. There are hun-
dreds more suitable. .. .F.L.M.: (1) January 31,
1880. (2) March, 1919. (3) Map Sales Branch,
Department of Lands, Bridge-street, Sydney....
B.P.L.: (1) We expect a recovery. (2) Leave it
alone W.F.S.: You have entered into a con-
tract, and the law obliges you to fulfil it. Best
thing to do would be to accept delivery and pay
up. Action would be taken in the State in which
the contract was made... .ClMcL.: “Grammar for
Grown-ups,” by C. C. Boyd, 2s. 6d., ought to suit
your purpose... .T.P.: Any naval architect could
supply the tables required for about 10s. 6d
Shareholder: Malayan and General Trust Co. is an
English co., registered 1926. Divs. to December
31, 1927, averaged 25 p.c. p.a. Assets then mostly
mining investments. No later available figures. . . .
M. : The safest course would be to first write to
the editor of the paper concerned and inform him
of your intention to submit the contributions to
another paper E.D.C.: Ilodder and Stoughton's
Sydney office has promised to send you a copy of
the conditions as soon as they arrive from England.
G.L.: Matson Navigation Co., 215 Market-street,
San Francisco... .R.O.Y.Get in touch with M.
Hawkins, fruit inspector, Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.,
who will be able to advise you of a reliable nursery-
man. Insist upon “Patterson seedlings” if it is found
that your soil is suitable. They should cost about
£5 per 100 J.J.H.: The stamp is very common
and worth about 7s. 6d. per 1000. The letters in
the corner of the stamp simply denote its position
on the plate, and there are 240 different combina-
tions. .. .Model Maker: Write to Marks Electrical
Radio Co., 66 King-street, Sydney M.W.: There
was a N.S.W. State Board that assisted inventors,
but it is now defunct. Do not know of any other
organisation that could help... .W.C.: Up to Dec.
31, 1927, 20,104,541oz. gold (fine) were taken from
East Coolgardie. The boundaries of the district
exceed a radius of 10 miles from Ivalgoorlie, but
the bulk of the gold came from within that area
N. : There are a number of works on the subject,
notably those by Havelock Ellis, Forel, Moll, and
Krafft-Ebling and Bauer. The last was translated
by an Australian, Norman Haire, and is entitled
“Woman.” Most are obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, or Dymock’s, Sydney... .Jass: Poa
aquatica roots are obtainable from Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney, at 35s. per sack.
Don’t recommend it in your case. It is likely to
die out when the swamp dries off. Wimmera rye,
Sudan or subterranean clover would be better....


Mellow Cheese and Absolutely Clean —KRAFT
PgIHEESE at its very best! Mellow, delicious and appetising,
IHI Kraft Cheese meets with everyone’s delighted approval. In
its tinfoil wrapping Kraft Cheese not only looks attractive,
but it is absolutely hygienic. From first to last, right up to the time
it reaches you, Kraft Cheese is untouched by hand—it is absolutely
clean and particularly wholesome!
gdf
g
Kraft Cheese is uniform and consistent in quality and
flavor. The tinfoil wrapping keeps it from exposure
to the impurities of the air and the dangers of
continuous handling. From the first process of manu-
facture until it reaches you Kraft Cheese is absolutely
clean and pure.
All the good qualities of cheese —Vitamines, Mineral
Salts, Proteins —are retained in Kraft Cheese. It has
a delicious and distinctive flavor; it is economical and
convenient; and it keeps fresh —wrapped in tinfoil
until you are ready to eat it. There is no rind and
consequently no waste.
;
us
$
SS3
-S^SsES
luir
4: >h
When you see the Kraft Tinfoil Wrapper,
just remember that it is the Kraft Guaran-
tee of Supreme Excellence and Quality.
df
Kraft Cheese cuts smoothly and easily
into golden slices for Sandwiches,
Picnics, Lunches and Suppers.
| CHEESE 1
TRY KRAFT CHEESE THIS WAY
POTATO CHEESE PUFF
INGREDIENTS: Three cups mashed potatoes, cup milk, i Kraft
Cheese grated, 2 eggs, season to taste. METHOD: Heat milk in
double boiler, add cheese and beat until smooth; then add to the
mashed potatoes. Season the mixture, and add the egg yolks which
have been beaten very light. Last of all, fold in the stiffly-beaten whites
of eggs, and pour the mixture into a buttered baking dish. Place in
hot oven and bake until firm and brown.
FRIED KRAFT CHEESE BALLS
INGREDIENTS: One cup of Kraft Cheese—grated, U tablespoons flour,
whites of 2 eggs, salt and pepper, bread crumbs. METHOD: Beat the
white of the eggs, add flour, cheese and seasonings. Shape into balls,
3 roll in bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. If desired, the mixture
may be dropped into fat without rolling in bread crumbs.
Kraft Cheese is Made in Australia
Kraft Cheese is sold by weight or in fdb. cartons
by all grocers and storekeepers. Made by KRAFT
WALKER CHEESE CO., PTY., LTD., at River-
side Avenue, Melbourne, Victoria.
<(
CHEESE AND WAYS TO SERVE XT
This is the title of a book of recipes, beautifully illustrated in color,
copies of which are free. Send a 1 £d. stamp to cover postage and
we will forward your copy at once.
>»
CUT OUT THIS COUPON AND POST TO NEAREST ADDRESS.
KRAFT WALKER CHEESE CO. PTY., LTD.,
GRAND CENTRAL HOUSE, 270 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
RIVERSIDE AVENUE, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Please send me a copy of "Cheese and Ways to Serve It.”
enclose 1 £d. stamp to cover postage.
NAME
ADDRESS


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
Office and Saleroom .... Scottish House, 19 Bridge Street, Sydney
Wool Stores Windmill Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney
Directors:
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
0. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
HARROLD COYVLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G. H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn, free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
‘Allenburjys
Glycerine & _ _ _
Currant PASTILLES
Protect the mouth and _J
t| throat against infections,
allay irritating coughs ||p
and clear the voice. .Hit
Your Chemist stocks
them. II- and 2/9
n
per box
m
m
m
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
OATS IN CROP ROTATIONS.
“Firestick”: In our wheat belt (Glen
Innes, N.S.W.) the great reason for rota-
tion of crops is disease-control, coupled with
conservation of humus. The common narrow
rotation—wheat, bare fallow —adjusts the
immediate soil conditions, moisture, weeds,
compactness, mulch, etc.; but by going a
step further and growing a crop other than
wheat one year in three, we are able to
check those diseases such as flag-smut, take-
all and foot-rot to which wheat is so liable,
and at the same time to increase or at least
maintain in the soil the humus content which
is so easily lost in Australian farming.
Depletion of humus and not plant-food ex-
haustion is the great cause of the so-called
“giving out” of our wheat soils. Actual
practice shows that oats grow successfully
after wheat, and there is no other crop
which will give the same bulk of fodder,
and therefore produce so good an effect upon
the soil humus, as in feeding-off a crop about
75 p.c. of it is returned to the soil in the
droppings of the stock. Further, oats pro-
duce the heaviest yield of green fodder at
the time when it is most required; and
later on, if stock are removed, it can be
harvested for hay or grain, while in the
wheat country all oats-cultural operations
can be carried out with the only machinery
available on most of the farms—that for
handling wheat.
OUR NITROGEN SUPPLIES.
“Burrum”: The most potent manurial
factor in wheat-growing is nitrogen. For-
tunately we in Australia don’t have to
supply the expensive stuff as yet—our soils
and climate are generally favorable to the
nitrate-forming bacteria which operate on
the organic nitrogen in the soil’s decaying
vegetable matter' (roots, straw, dung, etc.),
and convert it into the available nitrates.
The bacteria need a neutral or alkaline
soil. Our inland soils are not too poor in
lime, which combines with the nitric acid
first formed. In Wimmera soils, 90 to
100 lb. nitrate per acre may be formed in
good fallow by May 3—enough for a crop of
60 bushels of wheat. Some of this supply
may be lost by leaching during a wet winter,
and further production ceases in cold
weather. An excess of nitrogen renders
plants more susceptible to fungoid diseases,
and rust in wheat after a warm wet spring
is due to 'the fact, not that the weather was
muggy, but that moisture and warmth in-
creased the nitrate supply by stimulating the
bacteria.
The whole process of nitrification depends
on the presence in the first place of organic
matter. Aren’t we lucky we don’t have to
spread dung and plough in green manure, as
our successors will have to do?
NOXIOUS WEEDS.
‘iSilentio” : It’s up to the Government —in
my own State at any rate —to tighten up the
laws re destruction of noxious weeds. One
holder regularly cleans up his paddocks, the
next-door neighbor lets his rip. The seed is
spread by the wind, birds and stock, and the
first chap is no better off, as his clean-up
has to become a yearly affair. There is
nothing like a good breeze to sow thistle
seed for miles from a neglected patch, and
woe betide the fallowed or cultivated ground
near by. The same thing happens with the
pear in N. S. Wales. Some councils compel
landholders to clean it up; but the roads are
left. Our local council gazetted African
box-thorn as a pest, and issued the usual
notice. _ The very alderman who seconded
the motion for the gazettal owns ground in-
fested with this plant; and although two
years have passed he has not cut one plant
out. To my knowledge the adjoining pro-
perty has been cleaned up ; but what chance
has i't to keep clean, as the thorn is a great
fruiter and the seeds can pass through a
bird and still germinate? And each berry
contains as many seeds as a prickly-pear.
Under present loose methods the laws are
for those who choose to obey them. A nice
condition we should be in if we applied that
plan to murder and burglary too.
TO MOUTH A .COLT.
“Aneb” : It is presumed that the colt has
been taught to lead and tie up.
First, tie him up; put on the roller and
adjust crupper, and tie a piece of rope or
rein around the neck and through a ring
on the roller at the wither—to prevent the
roller working back. Put on an open bridle,
passing the headpiece under the noseband
of the halter. Any bit will do; but, if at
hand, I prefer a bar with three key 9. Now
adjust the headpiece carefully, seeing it is
not too short to irritate or long enough
to allow him to get his tongue over—a little
on the tight side, if anything. Take off the
halter and allow him the free run of the
yard. The more he champs the bit and
froths the better. Take off the bridle for
the lunch hour and replace after.
Next morning repeat the above, but put on
the side-lines, i.e., tie one end of a plough
line to the ring on the off side of roller about
trace-high. Pass it through the off ring of
bit, from outside, up on. the off side of neck,
through the ring at the wither of the sur-
cingle, or roller; again through the ring
of the bit on the near side, from inside out,
and back to the ring on the near ribs of the
surcingle, and make fast. Don’t fasten too
tightly, but there must be strain. This
running rein causes even pressure on both
sides of the mouth, and is a great improve-
ment on the ordinarily-used side-lines. Take
off the “lines” while you lunch to prevent the
mouth becoming numbed. Readjust the lines
for an hour or so after lunch, and then put
him in a yard, round if possible, and drive
with long reins. Just fasten the reins to
the bit, not through the surcingle. When he
is trotting round get the off rein breeching-
high and pull with considerable force, turn-
ing him right round the reverse way. Do this
several times, reducing the force each time,
but it must be done decisively. Let him
out into a large yard and drive quietly
about, continually turning, and forming
figures of eight.
Saddle next day, drive a few minutes and
then ride. Half an hour for a first ride is
ample, and the oftener you saddle and un-
saddle the better.
If the skin at the mouth “breaks,” a little
zinc ointment is the best and all that is
necessary.
A FENCING WRINKLE.
“Siwai”: A very efficient foot for a dip-
post is constructed thus. Sink the hole
spade-breadth to the usual depth plus about
two inches; the bottom of the hole to be
about two feet long—more or less, according
to the holding capabilities of the soil and
the acuteness of the dip. Undermine five or
six inches flush with the bottom, at the end
at which the post is to stand. Cut the foot
timber the length of the bottom of the hole,
four or five inches wide and two inches
thick. Make a long No. 8 wire staple that
will reach from the bottom of the hole to
about eight inches above the surface of the
ground. Place the foot timber flat in the
bottom of the inverted staple and insert in
position in the bottom of the hole.
Place the post in position on top of the
foot, staple firmly the loose ends of the foot
wire to the sides of the post about six
inches above the surface of the ground,
and fill in. Ram well. Thus if for any
reason the post snaps at the ground level,
the foot wires hold the upper part of
the post in position, preventing the
stock from boxing and making the repair
job a simple matter. For temporary fences
this type of foot also has obvious advantages.
After the last post-length has been sawn
off the tree in the bush, there is usually a
24in. or 30in. butt left. Saw that off, use it
for foot timber, and save posts.
“PEAR” LANDS OF QUEENSLAND.
“Degilbo”: Some of our southern cousins
may contemplate trekking to Queensland to
go on pear land. A word of warning or a
word of instruction may not be amiss.
The pear-infested land of Queensland is
estimated to cover an area of 20 million
acres, and at one time was increasing at
the rate of a million acres a year; but,
thanks to cheaper and more improved means
of destruction, the menace was stopped and
we are on the swing towards reduction.
Pear lands, especially heavily infested areas,
are generally of the best quality. Pear will
not grow to any extent on poor land. What
does grow there is mostly scattered and
miserable looking.
That the pest can be eradicated is un-
questionable; but the settler who takes up
pear land without previous knowledge must
be prepared for set-backs. The pear he can
see is not the whole menace. The worst
curse is the pear in the soil, the seed of
years, and year after year fresh plants will
spring up. I have seen paddocks where pear
has never been allowed to bear fruit for
upwards of 10 years, whose owner neverthe-
less finds plenty of work pear-destroying for
from one to two months every season. More-
over, if pear grows anywhere unchecked in
the neighborhood of clean areas, birds, bandi-
coots, rats and other vermin will curry the
seed and infest the clear country.
The settler who decides on buying or select-
ing pear-infested country should possess one
of two things—plenty of capital or a big
family, mostly of the male sex and of a
farm-loving disposition. His reward may
come in the shape of rich land acquired, so
far as actual purchase money is concerned,
for little or nothing.
SELECTING CROSSBRED RAMS.
“R-Gar”: The recent outcry in English
wool circles regarding the prevalence of
grey and black fibres in colonial crossbred
should be taken as a warning by stud
masters who breed crossbred or Corriedale
rams for sale, and also by farmers who buy
outside rams for use in their flocks. Wool
showing fibres other than pure white brings
anything up to 6d. per lb. less than pure
white wool; and if one uses any but the
very purest rams, the tendency always is
for foreign fibres to increase. Buyers should
thoroughly handle every ram, and look for
this fault, more especially so about the
breech, where kempy hairs are so commonly
found. Even though the breeding ewes and
rams may be entirely free from fault, there
is always a danger of the future lambs show-
ing the black or grey fibres. Look carefully
for them and under no consideration allow
such lambs to become breeders.
LAMBING TIME.
“N.M.L.”: When “G.IT.F.” provides his
boundary-riders with rubber gloves at lamb-
ing time it is well to give them a few simple
directions. A man who attempts to remove
a lamb by force and with a straight pull
is a fiend and a double murderer—mother
and progeny are his prey. It’s almost im-
possible to make a sheep call in pain ; but
I've known a ewe bellow in agony when that
straight pull was attempted. If a lamb is
presented improperly it’s almost as well for
the ordinary stockman to cut the ewe’s
throat. That refers to a turned presentation
or other abnormality. But if. as is the case
nine times out. of ten, a lamb is presented
in proper fashion but the ewe is unable to
deliver it, the cause is almost invariably that
the lamb’s shoulders are jambed in the apex
of the ewe’s pelvic opening. A straight
pull there achieves nothing. But that’s an
easy delivery, if a man only knows how to
go about it. Catch the ewe and turn her on
her back. Put one hand under the lamb’3
head, and bring it forward through the ewe’s
crutch, pressing that head on the ewe’s
udder. With the other hand rub the ewe’s
abdomen—this induces a labor. When the
ewe labors, and only when she labors, press
with a pulling motion on the lamb’s head.
There’s no need to use undue force either.
If the lamb doesn’t come first time, wait for
the next labor, and rub the ewe’s belly to
bring it about.
LOCKS AND STAINS.
“Bud-G”: Both stained pieces and locks
should be spread out on a sheet in the sun
to dry, and either rolled up in the sheet
at mght or brought into the shed. Dry
them thoroughly; weight lost will be well
compensated by price gained. Second cuts
and table locks do not need drying, but
should be baled separately and branded T-
locks. Make two sorts of the stained pieces,
provided there is enough weight to make
full bales without mixing, by picking out
the longest stapled wool and that most free
from stain. The same with locks, taking
care to keep the extra daggy locks on their
own.
It is a big mistake to press either locks
or stains heavily—that is, to make heavy-
weight bales. Don’t let the monkey of the
Press down too far. A station forwarded
10. bales of locks to a broker, the average
weight being about Bcwt. The lot when
submitted realised 2d. per lb. The buyer,
scenting a profit, had the locks emptied and
re-baled, making a 33-bale lot. When re-
offered the locks brought s£d. per lb., and
the buyer received what the owner should
have had —and would have had if he had
stopped the wool pressers from putting so
much weight in the bales; 4001 b. is quite
sufficient for any bale of locks or stained
pieces.
FERRETS.
. “Curlew”; Where rocks and rubbish are
plentiful, it is often difficult or impossible
to cope with bunny by the usual methods;
but wherever a rabbit can go a ferret can
follow, and, though a rabbit may get into
a dead end whence a ferret cannot dislodge
him, this does not happen very often.
My lad, during the past two seasons, has
reared about 100 ferrets, with practically
no losses. _ The average person looks upon
them as vicious little devils anxious to put
their teeth into one; and. badly handled,
that describes them all right. But if they
are treated kindly and handled freely they
may be fondled like kittens and will enjoy
it as much. That is one of the main points
m successfully using ferrets. The other is
to feed plenty of raw meat—as much as they
will eat every day. When they are not meat-
hungry they will not feed as they kill, and
so there is no risk of their laying up.
They are curious creatures in their anxiety
for their young. The sleeping apartment
should be separate from the feeding portion,
so that the little ones may not be exposed
to view. . If they are the mother almost
certainly will be alarmed for their safety
and will pick up one of them and chew at
it as long as any intruder is about. Result,
dead ferrets. Never go near the little ones
till they are three weeks old and preferably
not for a month. Semi-open sheds are the
best places to keep them in; floors of asphalt
or concrete, raised in the centre; walls 3ft.
high, of boards, a foot at the top lined with
petrol tin to prevent them from climbing l
out; a sleeping box in the centre; a couple
of inches of dry sand scattered over the
floor. Dry earth or, preferably, ashes
sprinkled around the walls keep the place
clean with the minimum of trouble.
BRAHMIN CATTLE.
“FY7”: Has anyone in Australia experi-
mented with Brahmin cattle? On a recent
report of the United States Department of
Agriculture, the breed might prove more than
useful, in a diluted form at least, in North
Queensland. They have been established in
America for nearly a century, most of the
big herds being found in Eastern Texas,
along the coastal belt. In a pure state they
are far from ideal beef cattle, but by crossing
them with established beef strains the un-
desirable features are easily bred out, while
their good qualities of hardiness, prolificness
and weight remain.
Even more important is the proved
immunity of the breed from ticks, this being
perpetuated in the crosses. The immunity
is ascribed to the very scanty hair, the thick-
ness of the hide, and the secretion by the
latter of a characteristic waxy compound,
while they are also indifferent to sandflies,
a curse in many seasons to Western Queens-
land cattle.
Purebred cows run from 6001 b. to 7001 b.,
and a cross with Shorthorn or Hereford raises
the weight from 8001 b. to 9001 b. The Ameri-
can breeders claim that the crosses can
come through dry seasons in infinitely better
condition than any British breed run on
American holdings, and that again should
prove a testimonial in their favor to Aus-
tralian breeders.
DENNIS GOES TO MARKET.
“P.M.”: The modern dairy-farmer has a
car to go out in, and the motor-lorry from
the butter factory calls for the cream. If
he wants a bag of cement or a tin of
kerosene, he sticks it in the back of
the car. The old-time waggons are falling
to pieces, and Cocky is not bothering to re-
place them, unless he can afford a one-ton
truck. This leaves the question of pig trans-
port, and there are some funny makeshifts
to be seen. One cocky of my acquaintance
bought an old-fashioned phaeton for 10s. at
a clearing sale. He pushes Deiinis
into the floor of the phaeton, drops an
old garden gate across the top of him from
the front seat to the back, sits on top of
the gate, and away she goes! Another
farmer I know has an old Ford with no hood.
When carting pigs he ties an old wire
mattress across the top and puts the pigs
into the back through the door.
FRUIT OR TOBACCO?
“Oldog” (Macclesfield, S. Aus.) : For four
years with my brother I have grown tobacco
here with only fair success. Seasons have
not been very favorable, labor has been too
dear, conditions generally have been dry
during the period when rain was required,
the quality of leaf produced on the whole has
been far below a desirable sample, and conse-
quently profits have been very small. Last
year we planted nearly 30 acres of our
tobacco land with fruit-trees and reduced our
tobacco area to a couple or so acres; this
•is easily handled and promises to show a
good profit.
The fruit market may fall a lot yet before
there is no profit in producing it, provided
one has the volume of fruit to market; on
the other hand, tobacco so far has proved
a very uncertain crop.
HOW I GROW POTATOES.
“R.W.J.”: “Curlew” (B. 11/7/’2B) is
right when he cites superphosphate as a
good manure for potatoes ; but I don’t agree
with him as regards farm-yard manure.
Even should the latter give a good yield the
tubers are usually ugly and of poor quality.
Potatoes being mainly starch and water, we
are striving to get a lesser content of water
and give consumers a tuber that when
cooked will be of a floury appearance and
more palatable.
As a grower and a very successful exhibi-
tor at Vic. shows I give my methods of grow-
(Continued on page 31.)


Chrysler “72”
Severuseater Phaeton
%Y
Tv : .•Xvi-XrXtM
m
app
Ipl
i®
■ '
XT**,
IN SHORT,
SHE LIK
i ■ ■«■ »«iuuww»^»»A , »»»‘Ay<*?^W^^
I /
.
~Ui
4£W*
&£**&%*
* /
"V.
ES A CHRYSLER
'HE things a woman likes in a
X motor car are those things
that govern her choice of any per-
sonal possession lived with day
after day.
Just as in her home, a woman
values —in a motor car —tasteful
surroundings. She appreciates
colour combinations in keeping.
She likes stylish, graceful lines.
She appreciates comfort such as is
summed up in controls that are
easy to reach, steering wheel and
foot pedals that are just right and
saddle spring seat cushions which
make driving or riding, no matter
for what distance, restful and easy.
She likes a car that responds read-
ily to the throttle so that she has
nothing to worry her in traffic or
on the highroad as far as smooth
and rapid progress is concerned.
She likes the safety of hydraulic
four-wheel brakes. She likes a car
that is compact and handy and
therefore easy to park.
She likes a car which was designed
with a woman’s needs in view,
one that is specifically her type of
automobile and one that she finds
it a pleasure to drive.
She likes a trouble-free car, one
that she can drive day in and day
out with justified confidence in
its dependability.
Every woman’s innate thrift
makes her like a car that is mod-
erately priced, moderate in its cost
of upkeep and long-lived.
In short, she likes a Chrysler*
“52
62
72
IMPERIAL 80”
'AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
tJ.S.W.: Larke Neave d Carter Ltd., Grenville House , William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne ,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide,
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-} 01 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellm^tonj


9
&
ii an
I )
■
Hi
,1
■
1
I«
■
■Pi
IhHhAA
L 0
s%
mi
&■/
/
/ /
■H
■MI
■
' :
* -
f - '
Hf- * M
Tpr i,!^l ' 7*7
■ - *Jf
I
■ nf
f
/
iH9
J
k
.■ , ><#* 4 J . ■ "
■
A /
«
u
I 1
it
ism
m
m m
111
mm
.
ill
m
i
8 *$
i
/ i
w


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2534,
September 5, 1928.
“SIGN, PLEASE!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
2Vf George Street, Sydney.
STATE OFFICES:
Victokia: IU-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £ 1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, ?s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £ 1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.j 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdoml/oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional l/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT G
MAN ON THE LAND 8, 31
EDITORIAL 12, 13
“THE COAL CRISIS” (Cartpon by Percival) . . 13
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . . . .. 14
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 15, 16
PERSONAL PARS, (illustrated) 18
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 21
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 22, 24
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 27, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
POVERTY POINT 36
POT AND PALETTE 39
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. 41, 43, 45
PAGE DRAWINGS—
“SIGN, PLEASE,” Leason 11
“TAX COLLECTOR’S DREAM.” Scorfield . . 19
“A ROAD IN FRANCE,” Jardine .. ..59
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 51
“COONARDOO” . 53, 55, 57, 61
SHORT STORIES—
“WILLOW PATTERN,” Fane and Lofting . . 63
“BEN HALL’S APPRENTICE,” by J. H. M.
Abbott .. .. .. 65, 66
VERSE—
“MOTHER OF SOLDIERS,” E. J. Brady .. 63
“SUMMER HAZE,” M. Forrest . . .. 66
“WHEN A FELLOW LOOKS AHEAD,”
Oscar Walters.. .. .. ..18
'ffurfyulletz/ri
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1928.
UNCLE SAM AND HIS PACT.
London Times said that the Kellogg
Peace Pact appeared to be “a somewhat
sceptical commitment to a nebulous ideal.”
Australia, though a signatory and proud to
be one, will not see much more in it than
that. It comes from the U.S.A., that home
of soaring but largely unattained. aspira-
tions. The Americans hate war; they have
said so many times, and the bitterest criti-
cism and greatest truth ever expressed about
war in terms as brief—that it is Hell—came
from the U.S.A. Yet they have engaged in
war as readily as any other people, and
there is nothing in the national character to
imply that, when one of their Govern-
ments thinks fit to get the machinery of
war-propaganda going again, they will fail
to respond as before. Theoretically, they
hate all armaments. Yet they have the
strongest battle-fleet in the world to-day;
18 battleships compared with 16 British
capital ships when the new Nelson and
Rodney are included. The naval hegemony
of the U.S.A. is unchallengeable in the
Western Atlantic—which is more than can
be said for that of Britain in the Mediter-
ranean, where the Empire used to be
supreme, and through which so many of
its vital trade-routes pass. And the dis-
solution of the Anglo-Japanese alliance
which America secured at Washington made
the great Republic’s position much more
comfortable in the Pacific.
❖ ❖ *l*
Theoretically also the Americans hate
Imperialism; British, German and other
varieties of it come in for drastic criticism
in their school books. But Uncle Sam is.
in fact, as great an Imperialist as John
Bull, and potentially a greater one. At
present Washington dominates South
America politically, and to an extent econo-
mically. No development at Geneva, Paris
or elsewhere would induce a U.S. Govern-
ment to agree to a modification of the
Monroe Doctrine. Modern America has
done at Panama what Victorian England
did at Suez—asserted rights in the isthmus
which are essential to an Empire that means
to control adjoining territories. If the
League of Nations had been in existence
20 years ago, when Imperial Britain was
unassailable at sea and safe from air
attacks, no British Ministry would have had
anything to do with it. Now it is Imperial
U.S.A. that holds command of large areas
of blue water and is safer from invasion
than any Power; and naturally, it stays
outside the League.
* * # *
The nations of Europe admire the ideal-
ism which is an outstanding feature of the
American character; but they believe, as
a result of bitter experience, that indi-
viduals are only as idealistic as their nation
.allows them to be. They admit thankfully
that America, the richest and most powerful
country on earth, is eager to help them, but
hint that it is chiefly because, unless they
are saved, the U.S. Government will lose
markets and the money it has lent them. In
their eyes America is simply following the
well-worn path of all previous Empires. It
has become rich and powerful, and it is going
to have the things that riches and power
have always been able to buy. Even if
America wanted to stop pursuing more and
more glory, and more and more opportuni-
ties to make money, it could not do it. It
must go on; some of the U.S.A.’s wealthiest
men are among its hardest workers, and
nations react to prosperity just as their men
and women do.
HEE-HAW, LET’S BORROW MORE.
The Federal Country Party Parliamentary
Committee has issued a pronouncement on
borrowing. If it means anything at all it
represents the financial policy on which the
Page half of the Ministerial party is going
to the elections, and most policies turn on
finance now, or the want of it. The prin-
cipal items of the tale are:—
“Our only alternative to oversea borrowing
is increased taxation. The Commonwealth
oversea debt in the last five years increased
by £27,315,000. If loans to this amount
had not been secured overseas it would have
been necessary to collect £27,000,000 more in
taxes. An attempt to raise such a sum would
have ruined many industries and thrown
thousands out of employment.”
“The practice of oversea borrowing is not
confined to the Commonwealth. As a matter
of fact the States have borrowed far more
than the Federal Government overseas. Dur-
ing the five-year period in which the Federal
debt increased £27,315,000, the oversea debts
of the States increased by £76,412,000.
Oversea borrowing is necessary because
borrowing is essential to the development of
Australia. The local market has been
thoroughly exploited, as is shown by Aus-
tralian loan flotations. The States have
taken full advantage of over-the-counter
sales.... The figures indicate that all the
available loan money in Australia has been
obtained.”
It can’t be called an eloquent composition,
and it indicates a return to the infant class
stage of finance —if, indeed, the party ever
left it except for an excursion into the
wilderness in search of thistles.
$ * * #
The manifesto begins with the statement
that “the only alternative to oversea bor-
rowing is increased taxation.” That indi-
cates an inability to distinguish between
paper money and gold money. The only
alternative to oversea borrowing is in-
creased production, or reduced consumption
of goods from oversea, or a combination of
the two, and on a very large scale. A short
and definite statement of the case is that
the collection of “£27,000,000 in taxes,” or
even of £103,000,000, wouldn’t, in itself,
reduce the demand for oversea loans. Local
taxation comes in, under existing conditions,
in the form of Commonwealth notes and
small change, whereas the money needed to
pay external interest is gold—'the gold
which our insufficient production of export-
able goods fails to provide. Indeed, in
much too frequent years the export of
goods has been insufficient to pay for all
our imports. The Federal Statistician
shouts this fact once a year in the upstand-
ing and hairy but inattentive ear of the
Federal Country Party Parliamentary Com-
mittee. This brings us back to the old
problems of more local production and much
less local consumption of overseas wares.
If more Protection fails to produce the im-
mense result that is necessary, Prohibition
of many articles might answer.
* * * *
The burden of the Country party’s song
is that external borrowings are necessary
for development. If this means anything it
means that development follows on external
borrowing. But, later, the F.C.P.P. Com-
mittee makes this remark:—
“Commonwealth loans in Australia for
war-conversion purposes have been under-
subscribed by the Australian public. In 1923
a shortage of £6,000,000 was recorded, and
in 1927 a shortage of £10,000,000.”
So whereas there was plenty of money avail-
able for new loans at the time of the original
flotation, it is now difficult to scratch up the
price even of a renewal when repayment
day comes round, notwithstanding all the
foreign loans that have meanwhile been
spent on “development.” When this un-
fortunate fact has soaked into the Country
party, it may realise that all the alleged
good effects of the foreign borrowing have
been more than neutralised by the import-
ing craze and the adverse trade balance
which arose in the interval. Still there
isn’t the slightest hope that the Scullin
following would be better, and it might
manage to be worse; so the only resource
is to urge the agricultural section of the
Government to reconsider its position and
buy itself a course in political economy.
BRINGING DOWN THE INCOME-TAX.
The late N.S.W. Slangwhang Government
regarded taxation as a means of punishing
its opponents and distributing favors among
its friends. Among other exactions, it shoved
up the rates on middle-class incomes and
company profits, and it was with difficulty
restrained from making employers pay
per cent, per annum on their wages bills to
finance a crude child-endowment scheme—
an impost which, it is now clear, would have
killed what remained of the overseas and
inter-State coal trade, to mention only one
certain consequence. The Bavinshaw
Government’s ideas nn the snhieet ef
hi irSli n aaX
tion are different. It suspended the opera-
tion ot the child-endowment tax, which was
fixed at 3 p.c., though if it decides to con-
tinue the experiment it will have to re-
impose at least portion of the tax or find
a substitute. And it proposes to lighten
the burden on middle-class payers of in-
j i nil 111 • J •
come-tax and shaieholders m companies re-
turning dividends.
** . *
dhe Bavinshaw pla«, as published, is
to take Is. in the £ off the present extortion-
ate company tax of 35., to start the rate on
individual incomes at 6d. in the £ instead
of 9d., and to lower the exemption from
D-jno oofrri + ■ + i „„„„
0 to £250 except in the case oi married
men (who are, m effect, allowed £5O for
their wives) and the unmarried who can
prove they are supporting ■ dependants. It
is a good plan on the whole, and it is to
be hoped that the Government wont
weaken. Already the cry has been raised
that the allowance to married men will be
monstrously unjust to the single, although
the principle has been adopted almost every-
where. As a matter of fact, bachelors who
have grown to manhood since the war and
who are getting the basic wage and up-
wards in N. b. Wales are having the time
of their lives. They are exempt from the
war tax, and most of them are exempt from
military training; their wages and work-
ing hours are prescribed by State and Com-
monwealth tribunals, and they can live very
comfortably for £2 a week. These young
fellows are props and supports of pony-
races, tm-hare meetings and two-up schools.
It is only fair that they fould contribute
to the cost of government, and the mora
discipline of having to pay income-tax will
be good for them The real objection to the
proposed exemption of £250 is that it is
too generous. In Westraha under a Labor
Government single men pay on £lOl and
upwards.
Westralia has had its reduction of income-
tax. In the latter part of 1926 the Collier
Government announced a rebate of 334 p.c.
in respect of income earned in 1925-26. This
has continued to operate, and though
primarily a shrewd election move, made pos-
sible by the hoarding-up of Commonwealth
grants, it has been a great stimulus to in-
dustry and the healthy optimism which
every visitor to Westralia now remarks,
On the other hand, the extraordinary taxa-
tion imposed by the Butler Government
in a courageous effort to wipe out the
deficit has had obviously depressing effects
in South Australia. A reduction on the
Westralian scale would be the best thing
that, could happen to that State, and also to
N. S. Wales and Queensland. Perhaps a
separation of spheres of taxation would be
the best way to bring this about, and make
it permanent as well as general, the Com-
monwealth taking incomes and the States
death duties, land values and entertain-
ments. The way would be clear then for a
scientific redistribution of taxes. Our tax-
gatherers are obviously taking too much
from industry; perhaps they are getting too
little from dead men’s property. High as
the British income-tax is (too high, many
economists argue), about one-tenth of the
Old Man’s tax-revenue comes from death
duties—they yielded £67,320,000 out of a
total of £663,933,000 in 1926-27. In Aus-
tralia during the corresponding year, the
Commonwealth and State tax-revenue
amounted to £77,825,000 and only £4,308,000
was derived from the Commonwealth estate
duty and the State probate and succession
du ties.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Shovelling Snow in Russia.
A few lines from Comrade Ryan :
The Bulletin (22/8/’2B) quotes my im-
pressions of Moscow: “I was given a prac-
tical illustration of the equality of the sexes
in Soviet Russia. Men and women were
working side by side shovelling snow. On
inquiry I learned that they received exactly
the same wages. On the trams the same
thing operated.” In what was, I suppose,
considered to be a humorous gibe, it con-
cluded “Yours for the great Australian Revo-
lution and shovel work for women!”
Equality of the sexes and equal pay for
equal work are numbered among the great
achievements of the Revolution. Women in
Soviet Russia no longer have to merge their
personalities into those of their menfolk ; they
are no longer public saints and private slaves
or playthings; they are not now compelled
to endure mates they have ceased to love be-
cause of economic circumstances; they are
not now forced on to the streets to gain a
livelihood. The law makes it an offence for
men to hire their favors.
It is only those women in Soviet Russia
whose physique is better developed than their
mentality who are engaged in shovelling snow
or other heavy work. Other women are
working in factories, offices, theatres and all
branches of industry as ordinary workers,
superintendents, managers or directors. It
all depends on their capabilities. The same
can be said of the men. There is no sex
discrimination unless the type of work is
injurious to the health of a particular sex —
such as underground in coalmines, where
women are not permitted to work.
Of course, it is recognised that women have
to carry the burdens of motherhood; there-
fore, care is taken to ensure that they are
not handicapped because they perform such
a useful and necessary service to humanity.
Accordingly, all women workers, excepting
office workers, are given two months’ holiday
on full pay before and after the birth of
a child. Office workers receive six weeks’
holiday before and after childbirth. In addi-
tion, creches with trained nurses have been
established wherever necessary, and mothers
are allowed 30 minutes every three and a
half hours to feed their babies during work-
ing hours.
The Russian women have their homes
cleaned by special workers during the day;
they can take their children home after work,
and, with their husbands, really enjoy their
leisure hours. The important thing is that
their husbands are real mates, not meal-
tickets, consequently no young man need be
afraid of getting married because of economic
insecurity.
I am of the working class, and have not
had the necessary training to enable me to re-
gard prostitution as a necessary evil, there-
fore I cannot help believing that as economic
security and independence for women wipes
out the basic cause of prostitution, any pre-
judices which act as a brake on such pro-
gress should be liquidated.
Anyhow, put this to his credit—Comrade
Ryan doesn’t go back on what he said.
In happy Russia, if a woman’s physique
is better developed than her mentality, and
she is strong enough to do pick and shovel
work, pick and shovel work she does. There
is none of your flabby sentiment about keep-
ing a woman out of a pick-and-shovel job
just because she is a woman. Indeed, this
“emancipation” of women is “numbered
among the great achievements of the Revo-
lution ! ”
Getting Men Used to Law-breaking.
When E. G. Theodore was giving evi-
dence before the Commission which sat to
ascertain whether Federal seats were being
bought and sold, he was asked what his
election expenses were when he secured
the job of representing Dailey vice W. G.
Mahony. In reply he gave some ridi-
culously low sum, and, impelled by the
grins evoked, added that his return was
probably as accurate as the Prime Min-
ister’s—in other words, that no reliance
was to be attached to either. Then Theo
dore’s counsel, to hammer it in that
everyone “cooks” the electioneering
account required by law, asked Theodorc
if he considered it likely that Earle Page
was really returned at a cost of £8 Is. 9d. ;
and the witness drily remarked that it was
highly unlikely.
All of which calls attention to an impu-
dent evasion of the law. In Britain, where
there is no statutory limit to what may
be spent at an election, the public learns,
even to the odd halfpence, what it costs
to win (or lose) a seat. At last general
elections, the amount spent by 1428 can-
didates for 615 seats averaged £615. But
in Australia, where the framers of the Con-
stitution, in their unwisdom, decided that
not more than £2OO should be spent by
a candidate for the Senate and not more
than £IOO by a would-be M.H.R., the real
expenditure is camouflaged. The law says
how much a candidate may spend, but it
doesn’t trouble in the slightest how much
his organisation may spend for him. In
other words, he may spend pretty much
what he chooses, if he likes to employ a
deception that has become so general that,
it has ceased to be regarded as one.
The limit, of course, is preposterous—
one wonders how intelligent men could
ever have set it down. What is spent by a
Parliamentary candidate in the U.K. is the
best proof of that. To expect a man who
has to stump a whole State to spend less
than a third of what it costs to fight a
London constituency is a mockery. Still,
however senseless a law may be, lawmakers
themselves should refrain from driving
motor-lorries through it. It sets a bad
example to people in less- exalted positions.
If there is to be a limit to what candidates
may spend in Federal elections, it should
be a reasonable and an enforceable one.
Few worse things can happen to a coun-
try than to clutter the Statute books with
laws which large minorities believe it no
wrong to break. Disrespect for the law as
a whole is thus cultivated; and that dis-
respect is one of the most disconcerting
features of modern life.
.—
A Real Political Issue.
Mr. Hughes and Mr. Theodore are united
in thinking that there ought to be at least
one real issue in Australian politics. Mr.
Hughes, with the instinct of the born
politician, seizes on the latest indiscretion
of a Labor party “by schisms rent asunder
and heresies oppressed,” as it says in the
hymn. He would like the wrangle to be
around the White Australia creed, which was
slightly dinted recently by a conference of
a newly-constituted body of Laborites. Since
the ruling spirits of that conference were
gentlemen who expressed the utmost con-
tempt for and distrust of the organisation
of which they were supposed to be members,
and put in their prettiest work when most
of the delegates had returned to their homes,
it would not be fair to charge all Labor
with piebald inclinations. On the Labor
side this issue is a vital one, but it is not
yet a matter for national concern.
A remark that did raise a live issue was
made by R. A. Marks, chairman of the
N.S.W. Chamber of Manufactures, when
he said: “On the one hand we have a
party with a Protective policy, but appa-
rently lukewarm in putting it into effect,
and on the other hand a party strongly
Protectionist, but imbued with socialistic
ideals and aspirations which would whittle
away any benefits which its tariff policy
might confer.” The manufacturers of the
Ma State, of course, are still smarting


THE COAL INDUSTRY.
PREMIER BAVIN: “The old horse doesn’t look too willing. I wonder what
can be the matter with him.”
under the scorpions with which Jack Lang
whipped them, and they may be pardoned
for assuming that Labor in the Federal
arena would play the fantastic tricks that
precipitated the downfall of the land-agent
of Auburn. That leaves only the Nation-
alists for manufacturers and would-be-
manufacturers to look to; and it is most
unfortunate for Australian industry that the
Nationalists’ attitude towards Protection
should give color to a charge of lukewarm-
ness.
There are two ways of approaching the
question of the degree of Protection, and
they are both—to use Mr. Bruce’s term—
scientific. You may ask “Can the com-
munity stand it?” or “Does the industry
need it?” Uncle Sam applied the second
formula; one result was that, in five years
to June, 1927, he sold us an average of
£35,355,000 worth of manufactured goods per
annum, and bought from us only an annual
average of £11,485,000 worth, mostly raw
materials. Our relations with other coun-
tries weren’t all as bad as that; neverthe-
less our trade statistics show that we bought
an average of £9,475,000 more goods than
we sold every year from 1922 to 1927, and
spent millions of borrowed money on finding
day-labor employment for thousands of un-
skilled laborers who, with their wives and
families, would probably have otherwise
starved or taken to crime. The community
certainly can’t stand much of that.
So if Mr. Hughes and Mr. Theodore
want a real live political issue, there it is.
Let them discuss the tariff.
Unions and the Guild Spirit.
The cardinal defect of trades unionism all
the world over, and particularly in Aus-
tralia, is that, generally speaking, it has no
concern for standards of craftsmanship.
There are some notable exceptions to this
rule, but they stand out like good deeds in
a naughty world. This is strange, because
the average Australian skilled workman,
taken individually, is a first-class trades-
man, and proud of it.
That sort of pride was expressed corpor-
ately in older times. In the fifteenth cen-
tury an apprentice to the “art and mystery”
of cabinetmaking, for instance, had to
demonstrate to his guild that he was a
master of his job before he was allowed a
journeyman’s status. He had to design and
execute a piece of furniture —sometimes it
took him as long as eight years —and when
he presented it for examination, grave and
reverend jurors gave it a most searching
examination. If there were any flaw or,
defect, however slight, the offering was
publicly burnt before the door of its maker’s
dwelling, and the apprentice couldn’t re-
deem himself until he had produced some-
thing up to guild standard. The guild
wardens visited every workshop periodically
to make sure that goods were honestly and
skilfully made, and all goods were sold in
open market so that the wardens and others
interested might see that there was no over-
charging or deluding of the purchasers.
An injection of a'little of that spirit into
modern trades unionism would give Labor
in the political field something solid to
stand upon. And there wouldn’t then be
any trouble about getting preference for
unionists.
*
Mending Broken China.
“Feng-Shui”: Chino-British circles are
buzzing with the story that John Ting
Smith has placed enormous contracts with
English firms for the Nationalist Govern-
ment at Nanking. They are to build roads,
railways, docks (where the proposed 600,000
tons of Chinese navy are to be constructed),
and, by administering every phase of
Chinese industry, enable Britain to recap-
ture the commercial leadership of the world.
The project is not new. It had its
genesis in the fertile brain of Sun Yat-sen,
who, during the Great War, pointed out
that the various belligerents were spend-
ing in lethal weapons 240 millions of dollars
(gold) per day. When the peace-trump
sounded a new commerce representing an
annual expenditure of 900 million dollars
must cease. Where, he asked, would Europe
and America find an outlet for this produc-
tion except in the rehabilitation of the
Flowery Land? He proposed 100,000 miles
of railways, 1,000,000 miles of roads, rebuild-
ing of canals, deepening of the Yangtsze,
construction of docks along all navigable
rivers, the building of modern cities with
social conveniences of all kinds, erection of
iron and steel works on the largest scale,
irrigation of Mongolia and Chinese Turkes-
tan and the colonisation of Manchuria,
Tibet and Kokonor.
None of these fair things was realised.
At the time Sun dreamed, seven generals
were warring in Szechuan, the Yangtzse
Valley was torn between three feudal lords,
and half a President was more or less func-
tioning in Peking. To-day the situation
has somewhat improved, but a new factor
has come to stay. In former happy days
the foreign concessionaire only advanced
his money on some gilt-edged security like
the foreign-controlled Customs. In the event
of China defaulting, he was certain of the
diplomatic support of his own Government,
which in the last resort meant gunboats.
Nowadays the Chinaman has been showing
a disposition to administer these securities
himself. Any local authority which pledges
the country’s resources to a foreigner is
liable to be mobbed; and if the Government
of a foreign country backs the interest bill
of one of its nationals with troops, the
nation starts a boycott and that country’s
trade fades away.
This isn’t to say that China is not a
fine field for investment for those who like
to take a sporting risk. Some foreign-built
railways have paid 30 per cent. But on
others the rolling stock has been converted
into flats and the occupants have planted
gardens round them. There is a Celestial
saying that it is easier to make a million
in a dream than a dollar in broad day.
O
These Hospital Appointments.
“Hippocrates Junior”: The appointment of
a doctor to an honorary position in a
public hospital is in some respects a national
event. From the point of view of the
community, any member of which is a pros-
pective patient through an accident, if not
through disease, it is right that certain
abuses in the making of the appointments
should be ventilated.
One of the abuses is the pernicious habit
of appointing the most recent medical
superintendent to the next vacancy (medi-
cal, surgical, gynaecological—it matters not
which), however many better equipped
people are candidates. The retiring super-
intendent is usually a very good fellow,
but 85 per cent, of his work as superin-
tendent has been administrative and he gets
a minimum of practical training in the
work which he is soon to attempt when he
wins his honorary appointment. As superin-
tendent he receives a very comfortable
salary and quarters, so that the plea that
“he has served the hospital” is eyewash.
Meanwhile, many of that superintendent’s
contemporaries have been serving a hard
apprenticeship, usually in one of the speci-
alties, and almost always at great financial
sacrifice; these men are invariably turned
down in favor of an ex-superintendent.
Several recent appointments are examples
of what I mean:—
(1) Hospital A required an honorary
assistant surgeon. Sixteen men applied, of
whom five were distinctly better qualified
and experienced than the rest. But from
the start they had no chance against a
recent superintendent. One of the men, the
best in the opinion of most of his peers,
was appointed a few weeks later to Hospital
B. And Hospital B would also have missed
him had there not been two vacancies;
almost automatically an ex-superintendent
was appointed first and given seniority. The
better man scored only because of the second
vacancy.
(2) Hospital A required a gynaecologist.
Again an ex-superintendent was appointed
against a strong field, Two of the candi-
dates had outstanding merits; one was the
first M.D. in Obstetrics of Sydney Uni-
versity. The other, besides having a long
experience and high British qualifications,
is also a Fellow of the local College of
Surgeons. How recently we heard that this
college was to be regarded as. setting the
standard for surgery in Australia!
(3) Hospital C wanted a doctor m obstet-
rics. The successful candidate was quite a
junior in experience and qualifications. She
(and I am not counting sex as a disquali-
fication) was the protegese of influential
people. . ,
(4) To a recent surgical vacancy m
Hospital D was appointed a gentleman m
absentia : he is still abroad, acquiring ex-
perience in surgery, having graduated only
a few years ago. There were several candi-
dates more matured and experienced, but
none of them could pull enough of the right
strings. The man appointed is the protege
of a famous surgeon.
These cases are glaring and well known in
medical circles. It is time the community
at large was informed; only thus will the
vicious circle be broken, and merit and
hard work come into their own.
+
Perverted Humor and Bush Outrages.
“M.M.E.”: Maybe prevailing fashions in
women’s dress, plays, movies, etc., are a
contributing factor in the downfall of men
of weak mentality and strong sexual urge.
Still, the two recent tragedies in W.A.,
about which this discussion started, occurred
in country districts, far from all these
alleged incentives to evil, and in each case
the perpetrator was a man who had been
living in the bush for years.
Being a country school-teacher, my work
has taken me into many parts of the
Westralian bush, and there I have come in
touch with a number of mentally deficient
men who have left the towns where com-
petition is keener, and secured work on
farms. As a result of my observations, I
suggest that a potent factor in stimulating
the said sexual urge is the perverted sense
of humor of the average country male,
and what needs fostering is a public con-
science in connection with the matter.
I could give innumerable instances in
support of my contention, but one will >
suffice. Woi’king on a farm some two years
ago was a quiet young Englishman of the
type termed “simple,” yet apparently harm-
less —the sort to whom one should feel
bound to lend a helping hand. But no!
He was the butt of the little community.
On “train day” at the siding the local wits
provided general amusement by baiting him,
and “ragging him,” as they termed it, be-
cause he “couldn’t get a girl”; or urging
him to “make up to” one “tart” or another.
Some went so far as to write letters to
him purporting to be from girls in the
district. At last a few of the leading spirits
persuaded him that a young postmistress
was “struck” on him and that all he needed
in order to cut out a certain rival was a
motor-car. God knows how he got the
deposit, for he was working for 30s. a
week; but he secured that car and mort-
gaged his wages to the extent of £1 a
week, and, incidentally, provided fresh
amusement for the district by embarrassing
the postmistress with his attentions.
I will leave it at that; the rest makes a
long story, but I have told enough to show
how a certain type of so-called humor can
turn a quiet weakling into a desperate person.
+
The Car and the Corpse.
Sydney’s City Coroner wrote a postscript
to the recent Bulletin suggestion that the
drink-muddled motorist ought to be re-
garded as a bloodthirsty criminal rather
than as a reckless fool. He laid it down
that pedestrians should take more pre-
cautions than motorists do, because they
are sure to get the worst of it. And appa-
rently the pedestrian must be presumed to
be at fault if he gets run over and killed,
because “No motorist would knock a per-
son down for the fun of it.”
Surely that is the wrong judicial attitude.
If a motorist drives at a fast pace in front
of Sydney’s Circular Quay, where crowds
that include old folk, cripples and little
children simply have to cross to get into
the city, he shouldn’t be encouraged by the
Bench to believe that the pedestrians are
to blame for being on the road. A saler
rule in everybody’s interests is that folk
on foot have a paramount right to be in
the streets, save in cases where a munici-
pality makes and does its best to enforce
a by-law restricting street crossing to street
corners.
Ordinarily there should not be any cross-
ing except at corners. When foot passen-
gers thread in and out of traffic it is often
impossible for the driver to see the pedes-
trian. What happens in such cases is that
the pedestrian steps in front of a car
which he didn’t see for precisely the same
reason that the driver didn’t see him. And
that makes it all the more necessary why
extra care should be insisted upon by drivers
at places like Circular Quay, where the
pedestrian simply has to cut across the
street and the traffic.
As for the rest, The Bulletin repeats
what it has said again and again: that until
Australian cities—Sydney especially—set
up “islands,” as London has done, they
won’t have done the most obviously neces-
sary thing for the protection of foot pas-
sengers.
4 ■
Education in Torres Strait Islands is receiv-
ing a further good lift. Through the efforts
of the Bishop of Carpentaria, Government
inspection of schools was started three or
four years ago, and the inspector’s reports
indicated that there was good material to
work on. Last year the Queensland Director
of Education visited the islandjs; as a
result, a new syllabus has been prepared
for use in Torres Strait schools. In addi-
tion, a committee of experts has drawn up
a new reading-book, containing island stories
and folklore to replace the usual English
stories of snowballing, etc. This is a first
step towards a big thing, since in addition
to providing more interesting lesson-books
the island traditions are preserved. Also
a hostel for high-school work is now be-
ing erected at St. Paul’s, Moa Island, where
native teachers will be trained and educa-
tional foundations laid for girls who may
be seeking nursing qualifications, etc., later
on. There is already a native clergy train-
ing college at the same place.
♦
“Sol Malaprop” : A Settlers’ League at a
recent meeting considered the Northern
Territory “question,” and decided to go
into it further at a subsequent date. The
proposal was that “Australia should offer
to Britain, or to a chartered company, an
area of Crown land in the Territory for
the settlement of British migrants. _ The
area should not be less than the size of
Victoria—B7,BB4 sq. miles.” What the N.T.
needs is a train running through from the
South, with branches later on; somebody to
sell tickets, and a few land offices where the
necessary officials, provided with plans,
would offer farms to would-be settlers in
reasonable (not starvation) areas, under
reasonable conditions —part cash and the
rest terms. This would be different from
the Canberra policy whereby people are
incited to bid high against each other at
auction, but actually pay only 5 per cent,
per annum on the amount, or the Westralian
method whereby “group” farmers are paid
sustenance allowances. There is no need to
experiment with a band of isolated and in-
corporated exiles Robinson Crusoe-ing in a
northern wilderness. But we have talked
ourselves into such a frame of mind that
the N.T. looks as if it was 10.000 miles
away, 250 degrees hot, and infested by
incandescent copper devils. It has become
a “question.”


is®
Result of 3,000 Miles
Sealed Engine Oil Test
“Light carbon deposit easily removed” and “plugs
slightly sooty only” was the official report on the
condition of the Indian Scout after completing
the sealed engine oil test.
Six months normal use crowded into 3 weeks —
600 miles of continuous hill climbing —2,000 miles
of all conditions of roads in three States this
speaks volumes for the anti-carbon properties of
Golden Shell Oil
and SHELL SPIRIT
which were used throughout.
019 S
POLITICAL
POINTS
A drop of £2,105,000 in customs and ex-
cise revenue, a deficit of £2,630,000 and an
addition of £33,061,000 to the Commonwealth
debt, which has reached £494,129,000, were
the noteworthy items of Page’s sixth Bud-
get. The undaunted Page is nevertheless
going on with his scheme of “national” in-
surance, “the cost of which will be shared
by Commonwealth, employer and employee,”
though there has been no public demand for
the blessed thing and it is questionable
whether industry, with so many other bur-
dens to bear, can stand it. Meanwhile the
gentleman has hit upon the reactionary
notion of making the great life-assurance
concerns, repositories of the savings of the
middle class, which is, of course, to be ex-
cluded from the “national” insurance
scheme, pay company tax on their income
from investments.
Senator
McLachlan.
In Paris last week
15 Powers declared,
through their represen-
tatives, that “they con-
demn recourse to war
for the . solution of In-
ternationa] contro-
versies, renounce it as
an instrument of nat-
ional policy, and agree
that the settlement or
solution of all dis-
putes or conflicts....
which may arise among
them shall never be
sought except by paci-
fic”—not P a c i fi c—
“means.” Senator Mc-
Lachlan, S.A.’s repre-
sentative in the Minis-
try, signed for Aus-
tralia, and the fact
will be preserved in
history—or, at least,
in the archives of the
Mount Gambier High
School.
Considering its dreadful handicap, the
Dry party in N. S. Wales ran its race both
pluckily and fairly. A party that had to
meet the devastating criticism that State
prohibition was hopeless, and that the bill
was too big for a thing that must be half a
failure at best, might almost have been ex-
cused if it had fought all-in and Rafferty’s
rules; but except that they made wild esti-
mates of the financial advantages of Prohi-
bition there was mighty little in the Drys’
campaigning for the Wets to kick against.
In the U.S.A. a few big employers are
among the largest contributors to the Dry
party’s funds; but not much help came
openly from that quarter in the campaign
in N. S. Wales. About the most conspicuous
exception was Stewart, the big ’bus-owner.
Stewart lived more than half his life very
humbly, and he hasn’t forgotten the little
church he clung to in those days. So his
widespread ’bus-line flaunted the call: “Put
your cross in the Top Square and vote out
the Drunken Driver.” It was a neat piece of
propaganda, anyway.
The petty rows arising out of preference
for imported goods are endless, and Victoria,
in pre-Federation days a shining example
of Protection, is one of the worst offenders.
Recently the State Savings Bank decided to
put a new face on itself, and it specially
stipulated for the use of certain non-Austra-
lian brands of paint. Criticism brought an
assurance that the imported articles “give a
better finish.” That point will be decided
when it is too late to scrape the stuff off
and ship it back.
Peter Loughlin.
A small army of
Labor and ex-Labor
politicians took the
field in the anti-pro-
hibition interest dur-
ing the N.S.W. refer-
* endum campaign. Pro-
minent among them
was Peter Loughlin,
who, though a tee-
totaller, has no use
for a dictatorship
of the Drys—he had
enough of dictator-
ships when he was
Slangwhang’s Minister
of Lands. By resign-
ing from the Cabinet
Loughlin put a period
to Slangwhangism,
and though he lost his
seat at the general
election in a lone-hand
fight against all three
parties he will come
again.
Much has been made of the fact that
Germany (Allemagne) was the first to sign
the Kellogg Peace Pact. The U.S. delegate
was the first to sign nine years ago, when
the programme (also drawn up in America)
was “international co-operation” and the
achievement of “international peace and
security by the acceptance of obligations not
to resort to war,” and so on. Unfortunately
the U.S. Senate rejected- the arrangement
next year.
A confidential and bright Red circular
issued to the Victorian carpenters and joiners
intimated that Communists were nominating
for all union billets, and if successful, as
they hoped to be, they would at once insti-
tute stop-work meetings to discuss griev-
ances, irritation strikes, abolition of overtime
and appointment of shop committees on all
jobs, the object being to take the industry
“out of the hands of the capitalist class.”
They didn’t say that anyone would benefit,
but apparently Bolshevism is its own re-
ward, and a dashed poor one.
The Northern Territory Workers’ Union
recently fined one of its members £lO for
drinking a glass of beer when beer had
been declared “black” It failed to recover
the penalty at law, though such penalties
had been recovered, but it may succeed on
appeal. In any case, the recalcitrant member
is probably in for a bad time. This is one
of the things which don’t encourage British
immigration much.
Disney, Honorary Minister in the Vic.
Labor Cabinet, dared to differ from Jones,
his leader in the Uppah House, on the ques-
tion of the maximum license fee that should
be levied by municipalities on petrol pumps.
Next day Cotter, M.L.A. for Richmond,
praised Clapp as a railway manager—Clapp,
whom Premier Hogan and Minister Tunne-
cliffe never speak of without scorn. If
these exhibitions of independence continue,
what will become of Solidarity?
Two imported blatherskites who have
achieved a mischievous celebrity, thanks
chiefly to the “capitalistic” press, were the
central figures in Crimes Act prosecutions
arising out of the sea cooks’ strike. Garden
of the Sydney Trades and Labor Council,
was acquitted on a charge of inciting mari-
time unionists to throw “scab” cooks over-
board, the jury apparently taking the view
that the Red fool didn’t mean what he
said. But Johnson, of the Seamen’s Union,
was sentenced to six months for threatening
certain Port Adelaide seamen with the
merciless pains and penalties of “scabbery”
—they had manned a steamer in accordance
with the decision of their branch. There was
no jury in Johnson’s case and the magis-
trate, saying he didn’t believe the accused’s
evidence on important points, refused to
give him the alternative of paying a fine.
Sydney’s Red Trades and Labor Council
has ordered the members of affiliated unions,
many of whom would like to see Garden and
Johnson deported, to find the costs of the
proceedings against these worthies —John-
son is appealing. “All unions,” a resolution
says, “are requested to strike a levy of
Is. on their members,” but in case it is
imagined that members needn’t pay unless
they like, “a list is to be published of all
those who contribute” —and the Lord help
those who don’t! If the Crimes Act per-
mits extortion accompanied by threats, veiled
or otherwise, for such purposes, the sooner
it is amended the better.
Prime Minister Hertzog found consider-
able difficulty at the recent Congress of the
Dutch Nationalist party in keeping some of
his flock to heel. The secession clause of
the party’s constitution came up for con-
sideration ; with much trouble Hertzog suc-
ceeded in having this modified to a practical
acceptance of Dominion status as “sovereign
independence.” This is so much eyewash,
but it can be paraded as an earnest of the
party’s “loyalty to Empire ideals” at the
general election.
Certain persons who lately flew for 10
days over parts of Queensland, and made
60 landings, reported a dry lake, prolonged
drought, and in the south-west and the S.
Australian north-east conditions which were
“appalling.” When a large area is marked
on the map as having an average annual rain-
fall of from nothing up to 10in., irrespective
of droughts, such conditions must be ex-
pected, and the “patriotism” which denies the
fact is a bogus emotion. Anyhow, it is grati-
fying to reflect that Australia, being the
second largest buyer of Britain’s exported
manufactures and of the U.S.A.’s exported
motor-cars and films, has plenty of room to
expand. Drought seldom gets into factories.
At the advent of Federation the Westra-
lian goldfields were allotted two-fifths of the
State’s representation in the House of Reps.
At the end of the fourth Parliament Cool-
gardie, after having had huge extraneous
tracts embedded in it as a temporary ex-
pedient, disappeared off the electoral map.
Now Kalgoorlie, although its boundaries have
been extended to the northernmost part of
the State, has only about two-thirds of the
electors that the other four divisions average.
This suggests that the goldfields are now-
adays entitled to no more than one-eighth of
the State’s political representation. In the
Leg. Assembly, however, they still return 12
members out of 50, and among the 12 are
the Labor Premier and three Ministers.
When Harry Gullett, Henty’s M.H.R..
entered public life he was an enthusiast for
borrowing millions —
fifty millions, he sug-
gested—to put immi-
grants on the land.
Now he has discovered
that in five years the
national debt climbed
from £884,000,000 to
£1,043,000,000, Com-
monwealth and State
tax-r e v e n u e from
£66,500,000 to
£87,000,000 and muni-
cip a 1 t a x-revenue
from £9,470,000 to
£14,061,000; and he
proposes a non-party
committee to arrest
“the alarming and
blighting gro w t h.”
The proposal is not
likely to be adopted,
but every little con-
version of this sort
helps.
Gullett, M.H.R.
Something which burst the other day in
Sussex-street, Sydney, was a demand for
monumental returns of all moneys received
during the last two years for produce from
Tasmania, with a view to collecting tax
thereon. A clause in the Income-Tax Act
says that the man who sends his produce
to N.S.W. shall be deemed to have made 5
per cent, profit, and his selling-agent must
intercept tax on that amount, or presumably
pay it himself. The taxation of imagined
profits, or even of real profits earned by the
sweat of the agricultural brow in another
State and taxable there, is of very doubtful
legality. The catch-farthing device seems to
have been a dead letter, and if the letter is
coming to life agents want to know how
they are to collect arrears, especially from
bankrupt farmers, missing farmers and dead
farmers.
The cult of Big Bill Thompson has appa-
rently won a victory in Chicago. There
has been a review of school histories, and a
general clearing out of everything which
showed a trace of friendliness to the British
Empire. It is a movement with complica-
tions. The German troops of stupid old
Germanic George 111. were largely respon-
sible for the atrocities committed in the War
of Independence on the then mostly Anglo-
Saxon Yanks. Since then Germans and sun-
dries have poured in and are so wild at the
deeds their ancestors perpetrated on the old-
time British Yank that they would gladly
wipe Britain off the earth.
One reason why the week-end hoodlum
can’t be restrained from cavorting round
farmers’ property in Vie. is that trespass is
no offence unless damage can be proved. On
the rare occasions when a trespasser is
caught he is, in most cases, far from his
scene of ruin, and all the farmer can charge
him with is treading down the grass. The
penalty for that isn’t worth taking the case
to court for.
The British Government has shifted the
sugar duties round a little to give £2 a ton
more Protection to the local sugar-refining
industry. It is reckoned that £3,000,009
per annum which used to gcf to foreign re-
finers will now go to British ones instead.
The British men have promised to reduce the
price of the finished product, and Freetraders
are passionately declaring that it’s not fair.
T. J. Ley’s capture of the Barton
Ley, of Barton.
(N.S.W.) seat for
Nationalism was
one of the surprises
of the last House of
Reps, elections, since
the Labor majority
was 3521. in 1922.
Ley won by 1060 in a
poll of 51,284. The
A.L.P., persuaded that
he was helped by cir-
cumstances which van-
ished with the unfortu-
nate McDonald, vows
that he shall lose
next time. Certainly
he would be more com-
fortable if the. indus-
trial parts of his over-
loaded electorate had
been added to Cook,
which they adjoin, and
which is thousands
short of the quota.
Maoriland’s “United party,” which is a
little bit of all sorts with a backbone com-
posed of what is left of the Liberals, was
invited recently by Priminister Coates to
link up with the “Reformers” to “present a
united front against Labor.” It was unfor-
tunate, in a way, that the head of the new
party should be George Forbes, who three
years ago accepted a similar invitation on
behalf of the Nationalists (as the Liberals
now style themselves). There was a nice
little corroboree, at which everybody was
extremely polite, and the Libs, went away
feeling that this was the best of all _ pos-
sible worlds. They altered their opinion
next morning, when Coates sent out a news-
paper bulletin to the effect that the Libs,
had no principles and were so greedy for
portfolios that the Reformers had righteously
decided to have nothing to do with them.
“0.P.H.” : Melbourne saw and heard with
approval the welcome given by Dean Aickin,
acting-chief of the Anglican Church, to
Cardinal Cerretti and the other Catholic pre-
lates at the Town Hall civic reception before
they moved on to Sydney. The Dean’s speech
made a great impression; he clothed in
memorable words the spirit of tolerance
which has grown up since the war. The
oldest inhabitants, recollecting past explo-
sions of bigotry, think that wireless and air-
craft are not the only modern wonders.
The “liberated” Chinaman has begun to
play up. Recently Mandarin Ah Fat asserted
his Court’s right to deal with foreigners
by passing on a Greek a sentence of 14 years
in the noisome Chinese gaol where instruments
of torture and other properties are kept.
The Greeks, having no Consular Court of
their own, are under the protection of the
Italian Court, but Mandarin Fat told the
Italian representative that the treaty which
so provided had expired, and refused to let
him even watch the case. Mussolini, whose
coat-tail is dangerous to tread upon, says the
treaty hasn’t expired, and he will see about
the matter. The throwing of bricks at badly-
selected persons has been many a Chow’s un-
doing.
A friendly tamasha seems to have been the
opening of the Young Communists’ Inter-
national at Moscow. The chairman read the
oath binding its takers to mobilise the toil-
ing youth in all countries, to train soldiers
to uphold the Soviet, to destroy the bour-
geoisie, and to accomplish a world revo-
lution. There were delegates from Asia,
Africa and America, and there was an Aus-
tralian unit, which “joined with young
negroes and Chinese” in the promise to
organise against the oppressor. The Aus-
tralian unit was in worthy company.
Inspired by the number of cases in which
legal practitioners have been convicted of
embezzling trust funds, the Maoriland Law
Society has put forward a bill empowering
it to levy an annual fee of £5 55., which
may be increased to £lO in case of emer-
gency, from each practising solicitor, to
build up a fund out of which victims of
embezzlement can be recouped. Included in
the bill are some very contentious clauses
intended to keep landbrokers and accountants
from poaching on legal preserves, but the
general principle seems good.
JOCULARITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Jock’ Garden, secretary of the Trades and Labor
Council, was acquitted of ‘soliciting and encourag-
ing persons to murder’ during the sea cooks’ strike,
on the ground that the words ‘the sea is deep, the
water damp and dead men tell no tales,’ were used
by him jocularly.”
Wi’ deeficulty, ’tis agreed,
A host of chiels from north of Tweed
Let fall or slip the merry quip
That makes the hearers rock,
Or unrestrainedly engage
In light and airy persiflage;
But when he said the sea was deep
And those upon its bed who sleep „
Interminable silence keep
He spoke
In joke,
Did Jock.
Though stern be Caledonia’s sons,
Their sense of humor sometimes rung
Away with lots of pawky Scots,
Detractors’ sneers to mock.
And when he mentioned waves were wet
To luckless souls from ships upset
Into their treacherous expanse
By some malevolent mischance,
’Twas but a blithe irrelevance,
A hunk
Of bunk
From Jock.
No meaning sinister could lurk
Within such quaint, capricious quirk.
He never guessed that artless jest
Would land him in the dock;
He never dreamed that men of sense
Could glimpse indictable offence
In pleasant humor bubbling free,
Or amiable levity
About the deepness of the sea.
In fact, ’tis plain as plain can be,
For jester’s bell and cap—nought else—
He bid
With “kid,”
Did Jock.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Wai-hoi”: At many points along the
Northern Territory coast huge tamarind
trees (indigenous to Asia) mark the old
camps which Malays made their head-
quarters whilst they worked the neighbor-
ing waters for trepang. Some of these trees
must be centuries old—sure proof the visi-
tors from across the Arafura Sea knew the
track down to the Northern Australian coast
long before Europeans. In wliat he called
Malay Road, south of the English Com-
pany’s Islands, Matthew Flinders on h eb-
ruary 17, 1803, intercepted a fleet of six
Malay proas, in charge of an old Moham-
medan named Pohassoo. The latter told
Flinders that the Malay trepang fleet, work-
ing in sections along the coast, numbered
over 60 vessels. Before going their different
ways, East and West drank a glass of port-
wine together.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The other evening I was enjoy-
ing the fresh air in the dark seclusion of my
verandah when two men stopped a few yards
away from my front gate. “Listen to this,
Jack,” said one of them, not noticing me.
From the house next door I, as well as they,
could hear a fierce domestic argument cul-
minating in, “This is the end. I’ve stood
it long enough, Maggie. Go and get me a beer
or I’ll smash everything in the house.” The
sound of breaking crockery followed, bring-
ing from without the cynical comment:
“That’s married life for yer, Jack.” Silence
followed for a moment and then we heard:
“Station 2BL, you have been listening to a
sketch by Win and Windle, English Enter-
tainers.” But the two men had passed on,
and I’m left wondering what the effects upon
them will be.
* # * *
“Lao-dah”: A young couple successfully
evaded the building regulations of one of
the strictest of Melbourne municipalities,
Middle Brighton, for several months re-
cently. They selected one of the most
popular reserves where the ti-tree is at
its densest and dug a hole in the cliff. This
they divided into two apartments, simply
but neatly furnished with petrol-case furni-
ture. A spirit-lamp carefully screened so
that no light was visible outside provided
illumination, and a spirit-stove did the cook-
ing. The occupants had to enter on hands
and knees, but once inside were reasonably
comfortable. So perfectly camouflaged with
dead and living trees was the illegal nest
that, although the council officers. had sus-
pected its existence for a long time, they
only stumbled on it by accident.
„** * *
“Centurion”: Not all the “dags” were in
the A.I.F. An old South African pal whom
I met commanding a battalion of “High-
landers” from Glasgow in the Sinai desert
told me this. He was looking over his very
rough command from the door of the orderly-
room as the first draft came into camp, when
one of them lurched up. Though fresh in
demeanor, there was no doubt about the
young man being well pickled. “Weel, hoo’s
a’ wi’ ye?” he said, without any semblance
of a salute. The Regular felt that he might
overlook little infringements in the present
state of affairs. “Man,” was the next query,
“d’ye soop?” Again the officer condescended
and remarked that he liked a “spot” on
occasion. “Gr-r-and,” said the other. “Hirple
roond ahint the wee hoosie, laddie, an’ Ah’ll
gie ye a taste o’ my bottle.” This was too
much for the 0.0. “Sentry,” he exploded,
beckoning the man on duty outside the
orderly-room. “Na, na,” cried his would-be
benefactor hastily, “dinna bring him tae. Ye
see, Ah’ve got but twa soops left.”
H: * * *
“Mudros”: Queer accidents? Bounding
along at well over the speed limit, a South
Australian 'motorist bumped into a spoon
drain with such force that he looped the
loop, and landed on the highway in disorder,
while the car continued on its way unat-
tended. Striking a post with considerable
violence, the vehicle turned about in its
own length, and came charging down the
road again just as the dazed owner was
picking himself out of the mud. For the
second time he massaged the macadam, and
was lucky to escape with a broken collar-
bone.
* * H: *
“Let Go”: No Fagins are needed to give
the youthful Gyppo instructions in thieving.
Whilst a mate and I were doing the rounds
of the Cairo bars one evening, and dodging
sundry “Jacks,” a 10-year-old hurried up to
my mate, and in fairly good English said,
“Quick, Australia, I just see ’Gyptian mail
steal your wallet.” My half-doped mate,
calmly opening his tunic pocket produced his
wallet, remarking, “No, here it is.” That’s
all he did say, at least to the boy, for the
dusky Artful Dodger promptly grabbed the
wallet that contained our remaining piastres
and streaked like lightning up a side alley.
We went thirsty until we reached camp.
* sfc s ' ;
“Kerys” : Extensive landslides, as well as
’quakes, are not infrequent in M.L. A resi
dent of Te Arai Poverty Bay district,
was standing on a hillside the other day
when he suddenly realised with horror that
this particular bit of scenery was moving.
The heaving mass slid downwards to a stream
PIG-HEADED STILL.
RENA: "Another argument with your hubby? What’s the trouble this time?”
FREDA: “Aw, the same old thing. I’m right, and he won’t agree with me.”
below, carrying with it the man, two horses,
numbers of cattle and over 60 sheep. The
first, by hard struggling, managed to keep
his feet, and was finally tipped over a cliff,
half-smothered and badly bruised. When
the slide came to rest in the river-bed it
caused a block over a quarter of a mile in
length, damming the waters, destroying miles
of fencing and creating an enormous lake.
Most of the animals were found peacefully
grazing on a large area of undisturbed sur-
face after their alarming plunge was over.
* * * *
“E.S.”: The train-run from Broken Hill
to Adelaide beats all the lines I have trav-
elled on for ticket-clipping. You begin to
wonder, as puncture after puncture is made
in your bit of cardboard, if there’ll be enough
of it to carry you through. In our
compartment was an ancient from
Farrell’s Flat whose ticket was
kept inside the top of his long boot
for safety. When the clipper came
round the boot had to come off, and,
the wearer’s memory being faulty,
he sometimes took the ,wrong one
off first, while once or twice the
ticket got inside his sock, which
necessitated further operations.
Whilst the railwayman fumed im-
patiently, Farrell’s Flat talked to
him about a job. “You’re pretty
slick with the nippers,” he said,
“an’ if you come out my way I’ll
get you on lamb-markin’ ; ” Finally
he was threatened with violent mea-
sures if he failed to dig up the
“brief.” “Hold on a bit, sonny,”
he said blandly, “it’s, about me feet
somewhere, what you’ve left of it,
an’ we’ll round it up directly.”
When he did round it up, in four
perforated pieces, the official clipped it
with a vengeful snap and banged the door.
“No,” said Farrell’s Flat, “damn me if I
will get him a job lamb-markin’l”
* * * *
“Carel”: A school-teacher friend of mine
told his class the story of Aurora and Titho-
nus, and how the goddess became so en-
amored of her mortal lover that she suc-
cessfully entreated the gods to bestow on
him the gift of immortal life, but forgot to
stipulate for perpetual youth also. . Later,
a composition test brought forth this from
one bright lad: “Aurora loved Tithonus so
much that she wished him to become immoral
like she was, and he was glad to be at
first, but when he grew old he <*ot tired of
immorality and said to Aurora, 'This is all
vour fault. If it hadn’t been for you I
should never have been immoral.’ ” The
conclusion has somehow quite a familiar
ring.
* # * *
“Billy See”: The first white murderer
hanged in W.A. was a lad of 15. Johnny
Gavan was his name; one of a batch of boys
from the Parkhurst Reformatory (Eng.), he
had been a house-servant to a family of
settlers named Pollard, whose kindness he
repaid by creeping into the eldest boy’s bed-
room and chopping his victim’s head into
slices with an adze. The youth was duly
hanged on April 6,1844. So light and pinched
was his wretched body that weights were fas-
tened to his feet to ensure a speedy despatch.
The hanging was dene in the old-fashioned
Tyburn way with a gibbet and a horse and
cart. The body was buried in the sandhills,
and the bones probably lie to this day under
the business part cf Fremantle. The moron’s
death mask was taken by a German scien-
tist named Oppenheim, and for years after-
wards the extraordinary formation of the
head excited interest amongst criminologists.
Quite likely this curio is still preserved in
some German museum.
* * * *
“X.D.” : If the feelings of divorce-seekers
deserve to be studied by the newspapers,
how about those of the breach-of-promise
plaintiffs? The defence in these cases usually
takes the form of questioning the motives or
ridiculing the pretensions of the girl who
seeks a pecuniary poultice for her wounded
amour propre. In a recent example in Mel-
bourne a timid spinster of 27, in endeavoring
to prove that the young man who lived
opposite had definite intentions, had to sus-
tain a gruelling from the defendant’s lawyer
which seldom falls to the lot even of a
hardened co-re; The confession that she sat
on her front verandah till 11 p.m. and he
never turned up evoked smiles from the
Court, but the cruellest blow came from the
swain himself. Asked what his feelings had
been to the lady, he replied : “When I saw
that she had no one to take her out, I took
pity on her.”
* # * *
“R. Volt”: An electrocution horror in
America, in which four persons were succes-
sively caught and killed in an attempt to
drag a fifth away from contact with a high-
voltage wire, once again raises the question
as to what is the best thing to do in such
circumstances. Hard as the instruction may
seem, it is better, even if it is your own child
who is trapped, to do the unheroic thing
than the heroic. If you know something
of the laws of electricity you may perhaps
achieve a direct rescue by standing on a rub-
ber sheet or some other dry, non-conducting
material. Otherwise, it is best to stifle your
natural impulse, go to the nearest telephone
and ring up the power-house, which will
immediately cut off the current. Other meth-
ods may be more spectacular, but they are
less sensible.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Sydney firm which recently
caught the wrong man’s money with a garni-
shee order found the mistake a costly one—
the angry chap sued for damages and was
awarded £175. How the tangle occurred
was not explained, but there is a previous
case on record where the debtor, knowing a
garnishee order was to be sought, exchanged
jobs with his cousin. The creditor firm, hav-
ing ascertained from the employers that one
William Dash was on their pay-roll, went
straight ahead. The subsequent revelation
that there were two Williams and that they
had caught the wrong man’s _ wages filled
them with a desire to apologise; but the
injured man demanded a golden solace and
got it. Presumably the cousins split the
£2OO between them.
* * * *
“Shop”: It was at Lagnicourt that we
first utilised Fritz prisoners to help clear
our wounded out of the line. With our
stretcher cases lined up in a sunken road
the escorts detailed the captives into
squads of four according to size, the escorts
themselves bringing up the rear, assisting
walking cases to get out. Among the
prisoners was a German officer of high rank,
who sarcastically smiled at the stretcher-
bearing proceedings. When the other
prisoners had dwindled to three, it became
clear that the General would have to do
his bit. “Hook in, Fritz, and make up
this squad.” commanded a burly escort.
“I’m an officer,” came the reply in English.
“Reduced to the ranks,” came back the other
“and no more abuse! I’m a Lance-Corporal.”
Still the officer hung back. “Look here,
Fritz,” came from the angry escort, “you
can compree this. You’ll join your cobbers
here, or have ago at me.” That settled it,
and the brass-hat got his first lesson in
stretcher-bearing.
LAST NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When we were coming home last night, old
Jim and Joe and me;
We’d been down to Dan Casey’s pub and
swallowed two or three,
And so perhaps it was the beer, though that
seemed pretty right,
But something happened to old Jim as we
came home last night.
We came along the river road, the old mare
trotting slow,
And straight ahead the rising moon set all
the east aglow;
The river sang its age-old song unto the
quiet skies;
A silky breeze was moving through the
jarrah on the rise.
Old Jim was silent for a while, and Joe had
all the say;
We heard of all that he would do when
things would break his way;
We listened patiently till he was quiet for
a bit,
And then Jim said, “It’s funny when you
come to think of it.
“A fellow he goes rushing round, and tear-
ing to and fro,
And scorning gods, and cursing men for
travelling too slow.
He fusses round till at the end he knows not
where he stands,
And all the time the things that last are
right into his hands.
“His dreams are trampled in the dust by the
swift marching years,
And none save he remembers long his foolish
hopes and fears;
The strongest arm proves all too weak, the
surest aim will miss,
The brightest vision fades and dies, but
always there is this.”
And on the gum-trees’ shimmering tops the
moon her silver threw,
And down below the river sang its song for
ever new,
And startled birds awoke to hear the old
mare’s steady tramp
As we along the river road were coming
back to camp.
SOMETHING WRONG.
SHE: “Albert, does my dress look as if it is falling off?”
HE: “No, it’s quite all right.”
SHE: “No, it’s not then—it should.”
Old Jim’s his same old self to-day; he’s
cursing loud and strong,
He’s blasting this, and blinding that, and
everything is wrong.
And so perhaps it was the beer that set
him going free
When he was coming back to camp last
night with Joe and me.
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


“P.M.”: The experience of the Perth bur-
glar who got a lift from the police patrol-
car (B. 8/8/’2B) recalls an incident in the
Victorian police strike of 1923. A car pulled
up alongside the kerb near several young
larrikins who were carting off an armful of
loot. “We’ll take you home if you make it
worth our while,” said the driver. “Righto,”
said the boys, and in they got. “Take us as
far as Kew station and you’ll do us.” But
it was in Russell-street police station that
the delinquents found themselves before they
realised who was taking them “home.”
* * * *
“Ealderman” : Recent civic happenings in
Sydney somehow call attention to the possi-
bilities attaching to the job of “knoddebaier,”
a type of civic official which flourishes in
Holland. He is something of a .blend between
a policeman and a J.P., but exercises more
authority than the former, nor is his job
ostensibly honorary like the latter’s. He can
hold up and fine people for minor offences in
the street, such as spitting on the footpath
or dropping a tram-ticket in the gutter. The
verdict is given and the fine collected on the
spot, the perambulating Solon keeping half
the amount for himself. As a get-rich-quick
proposition, his office would be more attrac-
tive in Sydney than allotting a civic con-
tract.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: There is a job worth £GOO,
plus £3OO expenses, available to the Aus-
tralian zoologist who is prepared to study the
biology of the flying-fox with a view to its
extermination. No practicable method of
dealing with the pest, which causes immense
damage to Queensland fruit-growers has yet
been devised, though gas, flamenwerfers and
poison have been tried extensively. The
loathsome-looking creature with the pene-
trating odor and the vermin-infested body is
widespread in Northern Australia, but it
attains the highest degree of luxuriance in
the Dutch East Indies. When I was
stationed at X, in Insulinde, a camp of the
QUITE A WASTED TRIP.
“Oh, is she back? Did she get any new frocks?”
“No, dear—nothing to speak of. Merely a divorce suit.”
brutes was established in an enormous ban-
yan-tree opposite the superintendent’s house.
There they hung head downwards all day
long, quarrelling over each other’s wives and
indulging in the most flagrant abuse of matri-
monial conventions. It was this last which
proved their undoing. The spectacle dis-
tressed the superintendent’s wife mightily.
The natives would not touch them. They
regarded them as the spirits of dead Na-
tives whose married life had been unfortu-
nate, and were convinced that the person
who destroyed one ran the risk of having the
liberated spirit enter the body of his own
life-mate, to cause more marital infelicity.
The bachelor members of the mess decided to
put the acid-test on this superstition, so they
mustered all the guns on the station and
thousands of sceptical indigenes assembled to
observe the result. At the first discharge 40
of the uncanny animals were massacred. Six
months later the superintendent’s wife bolted
with a sugar-planter.
*
“Guard”; The old red cover (B. 22/8/’2B)
got me out of a predicament when I had
the misfortune to smash the red glass of
my signal-lamp. I used it as a substitute
for the glass, and carried out my duties as
guard and shunter for two nights without
mishap. Also I saved myself a depart-
mental reprimand.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: I never cease to
wonder at the way practical woman clings
to the hand-bag habit. Lately the motor
thief has perceived the possibilities of the
business. The method is to range up along-
side .the gutter, snatch the passing reticule
and make off before the victim has had
time to say Bolshevik. There are many ways
in which a woman could conceal her money
safely about her person without spoiling the
cut of her costume —the vast storage capacity
of shoplifters proves that. Yet right
through the ages woman seems to have suf-
fered from an anti-pocket complex.
* * * *
“F.S.”: London seems to have a penchant
for Direct Action as far as its statuary is
concerned. When Epstein’s memorial to
W. H. Hudson was erected in 1924, it was
promptly whitewashed. The attack in this
case was made by art- and nature-lovers
who resented what they x-egarded as a filthy
futurist caricature of the work of the great
ornithologist. The latest outrage, the tarring
and feathering of “Peter Pan,” Sir George
Frampton’s illustration of Barrie’s famous
child, appears to lack any motive. The
statue is in the conventional, whimsical and
sentimental vein of the original, and could
hardly annoy anyone—except, perhaps, a
futurist.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Influence of the movies? A Mel-
bourne swain proposed to the girl of his
choice and when turned down told her he
would take her to the registrar by force, if
necessary. She remained obdurate, so the
caveman punched her. Her mother rang for
the police, and when they arrived the would-
be husband departed. Returning later he
found the mother barring the way, so knocked
her down and dragged the damsel into the
street. He had not got far on his way to the
matrimonial department when neighbors in-
tervened. The Court further cooled the pugil-
istic suitor’s ardor by binding him over for
two years to be of less celluloidjsh behavior.
* * * *
“Eureka”: The other night a broadcasting
station was transmitting dance music from
the deck of a steamer. Evidently the micro-
phone was placed very close to one of the
tables, for during a lull in the music a male
voice was heard inquiring “Are you mar-
ried?” The answer came in a pleasant
female voice, “Well, yes; but my hubby goes
his way and I go mine.” I am still wonder-
ing if hubby was listening in and “placed”
the speaker.
•!• 'i* *l>
“FY7” : The chief librarian of the N.S.W.
Public Library, W. 11. Ifould, has been tell-
ing a Melbourne audience that not one in
four adult Australians in town or country
ever reads a book. Whatever truth there may
be in the charge as regards the townie,
the Outbacker is probably the most om-
nivorous reader on earth, with a rare zest
for anything from the history of the Kelly
Gang to Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall.” The
writer can recall one station library to
which the hands had access; at one time or
another, every volume of a large and catholic
stock of fiction and varia had made the round
of the boundary-riders’ huts and the
quarters at the head station. I remember
a dog-trapper who preferred really solid stuff
like Prescott’s works on Mexico and Peru,
because they filled interminable hours for
him, and the boundary-riders were of the
•same leaning in literature. The shed libra-
ries now so general in Western Queensland
are liberally patronised at shearing time.
I’ll admit that a lot of the stuff called
literature nowadays is not sought by the Out-
backers. The sex complex has little interest
for most of them, but swift action, red meat
and lots of blood, with virtue triumphant in
the end, is read as avidly as ever. Many a
boundary-rider or tank-minder has travelled
round the world with his books as a magic
carpet, and still continues to do so in spite
of Mr. Ifould’s generalisation.
LOOKING AHEAD.
“Why do you keep on entertainin’ that crowd? They never ask us back, and you
haven’t a hope of breakin’ into their circle.”
“Oh, Percy dear, you don’t wiriersTAND them. I’m sure if anything happened to you
they’d be really nice to me!"
“Schnorrer” : A £50,000 company has been
registered in Victoria for the settlement of
Jewish immigrants on the land. The Jews
in Eastern Europe have been having a hard
time of late, and one of the results of the
introduction of the quota regulation in the
U.S.A. is that 1500 Jews, mostly poor,
arrived in the Commonwealth last year. The
members of their race have organised activi-
ties to give the newcomers, who sometimes
have to be even taught the language, a start:
and it lias been decided that a systematised
training for the land, and subsequent help to
start as orchardists, poultry- or dairy-
farmers or agriculturists is the best way out.
There is still the remains of a Jewish land-
settlement scheme in Shcpparton (Vic.) ;
it was not a great success, but neither was
it the complete failure some have supposed,
and the settlers lacked the helping hand
which their successors can rely on getting.
* * * *
“Old Unionist”: The story is being told
gleefully in Trades Hall offices about the
way in which one of the ex-aldermen involved
has taken a slice of the evidence in the Civic
Coal Graft Commission. The witness, a
sometime official of the Sydney Council,
frankly told how he was commissioned to
gather in £SOO as the quid pro quo for a
contract; he went on to explain how, by
some misunderstanding, he got £750, but
handed over only the smaller amount to his
co-grafters; he split the odd £250 with two
men concerned with the firm which paid the
bribe or blackmail. “A dirty bit of dis-
honesty on Dick’s part!” is what the ex-
alderman is reported to have said with every
sign of virtuous indignation.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The nearest parallel to Edie
Creek in Australia was the Rocky River
diggings on Cape York Peninsula, where the
reefs were 2000 feet above the sea in dens. l
jungle. The Leo and the Rocky are moun-
tain torrents shadowed by dense tropical
vegetation. The reefs, though very small,
were phenomenally rich. It was impossible
to pack the poorer stone down the precipitous
range, so Lakeland, the finder of the field,
build a water-wheel in the jungle and for
years crushed by water power. Rich allu-
vial was won in the streams. To get to the
field overland meant a trudge of over
300 miles from Cocktown. By sea you went
to Claremont Island lightship, then by lugger
to the Chester, finishing with a wild busn
scramble up the great range. Lakeland was a
fine type of the old pioneering prospector, and
was in harness to the last. He went out
alone with his team a few years back, and
his bones were found by the Coen police.
* # * *
“F.D.” : I was shown over the “R 101” last
spring—the British airship which,, as a Syd-
ney paper mentioned last week, is as large
as the Mauretania; or, in other words, a
good deal larger than the biggest P. and O.
finer. So closely are her secrets guarded
that it is as difficult for unauthorised per-
sons to get into her hangar as it is to get
into Buckingham Palace. If she proves a
success at her coming trials Australia will be
the chief gainer. Flying at an average speed
of 100 miles an hour she is expected to do
the trip from England to the Commonwealth
inside a week, carrying passengers in com-
parative luxury (the cabins are the same size
as sleeping compartments on the Melbourne-
Sydney express) and at fares not much more
than double those charged on a first-class
ocean liner. Some of Britain’s greatest
engineers and scientists claim that the con-
structional problems which have caused the
destruction of so many lighter-than-air craft,
from the Zeppelins to the Italia, have been
solved in the RlOl. The only element of
uncertainty has to do with the mooring-
masts, monstrous steel affairs, containing
elaborate passenger and other lifts and much
intricate machinery. . They cost about
£50,000 apiece, and one of the British Gov-
ernment’s ambitions is to get the Common-
wealth to construct one or two. At the last
trial of one of these airships something went
wrong at the mooring-mast, and the airship
and her crew were only saved by a miracle
of nerve and resource on the part of the
officer in charge.
* * * *
“Winer”: I get very tired of the moans
from England about the misery the Briton
has to endure as a result of being called a
Pommy. Look at this from a daily paper
correspondent:—
Is it not time parents of our future men ani
women appointed themselves to the task of scotching
this Anglophobic germ? To discredit immigrants is
not encouraged in our public schools, yet mere child-
ren use this term.
A more sensible form of propaganda, it seems
to me, would be to scotch ultra-sensitive-
ness amongst newcomers to Australia. Every
strange bird in all society’s innumerable
aviaries has to put up with a more or less
unflattering appellation to start with. A
British army recruit is a “rookie” ; a new
arrival at Oxford is a “fresherFisher
and Beatty were “snotties” when they
joined the R.N., and so on.
* * * *
“Scbrof”: When Fritz retreated to the
Hindenburg line in March, 1917, delayed-
action mines were not his only legacies. At
one village on the Somme was an attractive-
looking spring-board over the river. Two
months after the retreat the first Digger to
take a header off the board was impaled on
an iron spike neatly fixed at the correct angle
for the purpose which it fulfilled.
* * * *
“Wang”: The sozzled gent slumped up on
the seat of the carriage opposite me stirred
uneasily in his slumbers, and dragging his
overcoat closer around him, muttered, “Dash
—hie —it all, d’yer want all th’ —hie—
blanketsh?”. A couple of stations further on I
poked him in the chest. “Warra want
noAv?” he asked, peevishly, without opening
his eyes. “Where do you want to get out?”
I asked “Warra shay?” he mumbled. I
repeated the question. “Out,” he echoed,
“corsh it’s out. Milk jug, an’ th’—hie—
damn cat’s out, too, Shirrup, an’ lemme
go t’ sleep.” I let him.
* * # Hi
GOLD MORNING.
[For Tttf, Bulletin.j
Gorse clads the distant hills
With cloth o’ gold.
Spreads to the arching blue
Fold on rich fold.
Blue seas a-ripple run,
Gold sun a-gleam ;
Kowhai-trees shower down
Gold to the stream.
Tuis on blooming bough
Ring mellow notes;
Sweet as the honey-dew
Gold in their throats.
Ah. here is beauty spread
To heart and eyes !
Give me to treasure it,
Lord, for life flies!
MAOBILAND. PHYLLIS GAVIN.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Roy Chapman Andrews, leader of the fourth
American Mongolian Expedition, reports the dis-
covery of the bones of an elephant possessing a 6ft.
lower jaw, with front teeth Bin. square.”
When Noak’s Ark put out to sea,
And lost all trace of dry land,
Shem, in the crow’s nest, shouted “Gee!
Tell dad I’ve seen an island.”
Noah, enjoying forty winks,
Rose grumbling (such his habit).
“If I ain’t round, then no one thinks
To give the snake his rabbit.
“Well, whassermatter now?” At that
Said Mrs. Noah, bridling,
“Put on your slippers and your hat!
You men, you’re always idling!”
“I slave and slave while you just snore,” —
Said Noah, peeved in manner,
“I didn’t get to bed till four,
Nursin’ the sick goanner.”
“Well, never mind. You come on deck,
And see the island looming.”
When Noah sees the floating speck,
His laugh is loud and booming.
With waggish eye he turns to Shem,
Who wonders what the lark is.
“You oughter seen enough of them —
It’s just a jumbo’s carkiss!”
VICTORIA.
WAWHERSH.


k "«j‘.l;V ,r ,;i'»l., 1
i^v%i)
' *’■ ,>f:
'•• ''jV '
sssi
s«v
" A
■
fe^S:
rfjc?
!3Sk*
n
-jga
w&mw
m
mg*
*****
*
c -,. ''"'Ja^.lri
iff**
‘,mm
MM
m:Mi
dIW :
-Ss»w
ia
■^£r aa ‘^**»-'ssSj
vjfys'fj-
’*hA
Ipi
“5*S
ant
m
m
•.
'
m
raisH
f >S
In Nelson's day the
flag was nailed to the
mast ere the ship
engaged in battle.
There could be no
surrender!
lA r ailing the G)lors to the <_Mast ”
Eighteen years have passed since the
J. H. Sharwood enterprise was
launched. The standard nailed to the
mast then still flaunts bravely in the
breeze of prosperity. Though the
shoemaking industry has been passing
through a period of depression the
extensive plant in the Sharwood works
is never idle, for the business has been
built on a sound policy—i.e., to main-
tain the highest ideals of manufactur-
ing. The passing of the years has not
dimmed the ideal which inspired the
young man who set out to make better
boots and shoes than had ever been
made previously in this country. It
is that fact which has resulted in the
production of an article which is
genuinely good and which continues
to increase in popularity all over
Australia.
In the making of Sharwood Shoes only
the finest materials are used. No
fabric which is in the slightest degree
defective is permitted to enter the
factory. Workmanship is exceptional
because the craftsmen have been speci-
ally trained over a number of years.
The goods are available in a great
range of varying shapes (made in true
half sizes), so that for any normal foot
there is a perfect fitting. Moreover,
a Sharwood shoe will retain its original
shape for a lengthy period.
“The shoemaker owes a duty to the
public” is the emphatic opinion of
J. H. Sharwood. “It is his duty to
protect the consumer against the evils
of shoddy footwear. The purchase of
a defective boot or shoe entails in the
long run a montary loss. In addition,
the wearing of faulty footwear
(according to medical testimony) is
a menace to health. I hold that the
manufacturer who makes bad boots is
guilty of a serious offence against the
public. There is but one way for the
purchaser to safeguard himself, and
that is to insist on having an article
which bears the brand of the maker.
I will not permit my name to be in-
scribed on a shoe unless it is as near
perfect as human skill can make it.”
Idle boasting is not the object of this
advertisement—it is to assure the
public that behind the Sharwood pro-
ducts is an ideal—a policy—which has
been tried and tested in the battling
of eighteen years. More than once in
the past this manufacturer has faced
possible disaster by his refusal to get
down to a lower grade—but the colors
were nailed to the mast —there could
be no surrender!
When next you need a pair of boots
or shoes—try Sharwood’s. They are
made for both men and women, in
welts and pumps, in many shapes and
many shades. There is no need to
have shoes made specially when you
wear Sharwood’s—they cost a little
more, but you will find them surpris-
ingly comfortable and durable. The
name is on every pair—look for it!
IjC£s of Htfinmmt.
Obtainable leading stores throughout Australia. Any difficulty in procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with
the Sharwood Service Bureau, Box 7, Post Office, Abbotsford, Melbourne (’Phone J 3104—3 lines).


Have you tried,
333
with the' NEW
PERFECTED
IVORY TIPS-
Sign; ramps
333
CIGARETTES
777
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
Cork Tipped.
20 for 1/6
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages of some more Australian authors: —
Prof. Gilbert Murray 62; “Banjo” Paterson 64;
Judge Piddington 66; Ambrose Pratt 54; John
Quick, LL.D., 76; Rod Quinn 59; Prof. Itadcliffe-
Brown (Syd.) 47; Rev. Wm. Robertson (Hay) 69;
Dr. R. S. Rogers (authority on orchids) 66; Rev.
T. E. Ruth (Syd.) 53; John Sandes (Syd.) 65;
Conrad Sayce (Melb.) 40 ; Prof. Ernest Scott (Melb.)
60; Prof. Shann (W.A.) 46; Prof. Elliot Smith,
P.R.S., 57; his brother S. H. Smith (Director of
Education, Syd.) 63 ; Dr. W. Ramsay Smith (Adel.)
69 ; E. S. Sorenson 59 ; Dr. C. H. Souter 64 ; Prof.
W. Baldwin Spencer (Melb.) 68; Prof. Archibald
Strong (Adel.) 52; Prof. Griffith Taylor 48; Prof.
T. G. Tucker 69; Prof. R. S. Wallace (Syd.) 46;
Bishop Gilbert White 69 ; Capt. T. A. White
(Syd.) 42 ; Archdeacon Whitington (Hobart) 75;
Prof. W. H. Williams (Tas.) 76 ; and Frank Wilmot
(“Furnley Maurice”) 45.
ARCHBISHOP MANNIX, the brilliant
head of the R.C. church in Victoria,
and one of the imposing figures of the
Eucharistic Congress.
“Tallama”: Where do the social derelicts
and voluntary exiles go now after leaving
the scenes of their triumphs? Before the
war I should have said that most of them
made for the Barcoo district, where I met
many who had seen brighter days. Degree
men from various universities; singers who
had once made music for a nation; a nephew
of a former President of France, practising
as a doctor with certificates that were not
perfect; lawyers who should have been lead-
ing legal lights in Australia; an old Bulle-
tin artist, who sketched his orders to local
firms; broken-down actors and remittance
men—many pre-war residents of the little
township of Blackall (Central Q.) will recall
them as likeable men.
Brudenell White, Australia’s brilliant sol-
dier and one of the outstanding Chiefs of
Staff in the war, has started on his latest
job as pastoral inspector in the Common-
wealth for the N. Z. Loan and Mercantile
Agency, which has extensive holdings in
Australia, and especially in Bananaland.
White is now touring his native State get-
ting in touch with things. The man who
drafted the organisation of the A.I.F. should
be quite at home in the personnel, equipment
and supply of a great pastoral institution,
while shifting cattle and sheep in drought
time should have no terrors for him. Didn’t
he organise the evacuation of Gallipoli?
The most debonair and polished personality
in Maoriland politics, Joe Ward, now hasten-
ing home after a health trip abroad to defend
his seat at the elections, very narrowly
escaped the fate of Massey and of his prede-
cessors Seddon, Ballance, Atkinson and many
others who died as the result of over-strain.
He was a very sick man for years after he
laid down the portfolios Massey allotted him
in the National Government, but he weath-
ered the storm in retirement, and is now back
in the House and contrives, by travel after
each session, to keep fairly fit. He has beeu
offered the leadership of a new party com-
posed of Nationalists and renegade Reform-
ers, but, as he prides himself on being the
only remaining Liberal in Parliament, it isn’t
likely that he will head the hybrids.
Lockhart Morton, who died in S. Aus. the
other day at 77, was no wowser. He gave
up well-paid pulpits (Presbyterian) at Balla-
rat and Malvern (Vic.) to run the inebriate
retreat at Belair (S.A.) and Angas College
for training missionaries in Adelaide. Chronic
drunks were his especial care—and worry;
and in his book “Drifting Wreckage” he
told how he had set many of them on the
right track. But his pet story is not in print.
A gentlemanly inebriate, who had had several
but could carry them, indignantly offered to
stand a test of sobriety. Morton gave the
Biblical testword “Shibboleth,” which is all
the easier to say when one has had a couple,
and the stranger said it comfortably. “And
now, sir,” he demanded, “let me hear you
say, ‘The church of North Perth dismiss-
eth us.’ ” Morton had a shot at it, but
boggled. “There you are,” cried the merry
one; “disgracefully intoxicated, by your own
method of testing!”
“Gouger”: Hans Dehn went west recently
on the Cape York Peninsula coast. He died
of starvation. Handicapped by age and sick-
ness, heavy rains stopped his trek back
to civilisation. Hans had prospected the
Peninsula for 4Q years. He located decent
claims during the gold rushes to the Coen,
Ebagoolah and Batavia, and recently, with
Tom Burgess, of Thursday Island, he located
tin country close to the old find in the
mountains -near the mouth of the Pascoe.
He had several “gullies” in the wild
range country to which he could always re-
tire when hard up and replenish his shammy,
I farewelled him at Thursday Island recently,
full of hope and hops, little dreaming he was
going to his last claim.
Max Meldrum, the Victorian apostle of
realism in painting, is trying out in the
United States the adage that a prophet is
not without honor except in his own coun-
try. He had no sooner landed in New York
than he was handed a contract to deliver
100 lectures. Since last May he has toured
the Fundamentalist States of Florida,
Georgia, North and South Carolina, Tennes-
see, Kentucky, Alabama and Indiana, and
is now busy with Michigan, Wisconsin and
Illinois. He gives six lectures a week, shift-
ing from one town to another every day by
car. Sometimes the audiences are enormous,
ranging from 1500 to 4000 attentive listeners.
In Melbourne, except for a few devoted dis-
ciples, nobody hearkened to him —unless to
revile him.
When John Drayman Woods was the
Speck’s Speaker he discarded all the trappings
and furbelows of the Chair, and presented a
polished headpiece to the crowd. For the
newly-elect, Jacky Evans, the rohes and. frills
are getting an airing after a long spell in the
Parliamentary moth-proof locker.
One of the most brilliant minds in the
whole Eucharist Congress belongs to
Father T. Martindale, who is to deliver the
English representative paper. Martindale
scooped the pool of all honors at Harrow,
where he was held in such esteem that when
he followed that up by taking all the
highest honors at Oxford the old school
celebrated with a special holiday. At 17
in a brilliant pamphlet retort to a book
on religion, he showed the trend of
his thought. Soon afterwards he joined the
R.C. Church —he was bred as an Anglican.
He has written on religous matters and is re-
sponsible for some humorous novels. He
preached the opening sermon at the League
of Nations Assembly at Geneva, and he was
a padre at the war.
One of Australia’s first X-ray 1 heroes,
Arthur Mole, of the Prince Alfred Hos-
pital, Sydney, has at last ended the suffer-
ings his job as radiographer brought upon
him. He was a sailing enthusiast, and at
one time a prominent amateur cyclist.
CARDINAL CERRETTI, the beaming
Papal Legate at the current Inter-
national Eucharistic Congress, formerly
Apostolic Delegate to Australia.
Though it has been asserted in many
quarters that A. A. Kirkpatrick, who was
given a State funeral in Adelaide the other
day, just headed Lancelot Stirling as Father
of S.A. politics, Fred Johns, of “Who’s
Who in Australia,” points out that Stirling
has an aggregate of something like 45 years’
service in the Legislature. That is put
forward as an Australian record in respect
of elective chambers. Kirkpatrick did not
go into English politics; when his term as
Agent-General expired he returned to S.A.,
and the following year was elected to the
Assembly.
Gone west in Geelong, Charles Hobday,
noted bandmaster and brilliant cornetist,
who took his band to the war, but re-
fused a soft job as musical leader and
entertainment-promotor, claiming a right to
the trenches. Severely knocked twice, he
has gone down pluckily to his wounds.
Melbourne is mourning Dr. R. A. Stirling,
one of the ablest surgeons it has known
for half a century. For nearly 30 years he
was associated with Melbourne Hospital as
resident (junior), superintendent, specialist,
outdoor and indoor surgeon. The Uni. knew
him as lecturer on surgery, and until a year
ago he was chief med. of the A.M.P. in Yic.
He could be candid and scornful when he
pleased, but he could also encourage. Once
a suburban doctor sent him, as consultant,
a man whose arm the suburban mender had
set for a fracture. Stirling despatched back
the message, “Tell Jack M. it could not
have been done better by a college of sur-
geons.” A fair bouquet to throw to a
brother practitioner.
An old war horse, R. A. Crouch, has been
selected by Labor to battle for Corangamite
against the Postmaster-General. Crouch had
ten years’ life in the Reps, as member for
Corio when the Federal Parliament first
met. In 1922, contesting Corangamite, he
had a lead of nearly 5000 over W. G. Gibson,
but lost on the Nationalist preferences.
Australia can claim more than passing
interest in the late Gerard Trower, Bishop
of Nyassaland from 1901 to 1910, when he
took over the see of Nor-West Australia,
which he held until 1927. Sydneysiders
will best remember him as rector of Christ
Church more than 30 years ago, before he
went to East Africa.
A lady who may fairly be called a relict of
the roaring days, Mrs. Mary Baker, of Wattle
Flat (N.S.W.), has joined most of the
others iof her time at the estimated age of
90. In the gold rush of the ’seventies she
worked her own claim at Surface Hill, near
the Flat, mingling with “the boys” as one
of them, and smoking a clay pipe. At 80
she married again, and was going strong
until burns due to her clothing catching fire
on washing-day brought a well-filled life to
a finish.
“D.”: Viscount Haldane, who has just
died, was one of the most remarkable men
in the world, inasmuch as lie lived entirely
in the remote and chill realms of principle
and intellect. lie never married, and had
as his only female companion a sister, who
kept house for him. During a good deal of
his public life he was a maligned and mis-
understood man. England never forgave him
for a remark he made before the war —that
his “spiritual home was in Germany.” He
was a pacifist (though the founder of the
Territorial Army which did a lot to win
the war), a vehement humanitarian and
opposer of blood-sports, a radical in politics,
and many other things that the conventional
Briton detests. He constituted, with Lord
Parmoor, the Labor element of the Judical
Committee of the Privy Council, and nothing
diverted members of the Bar more than to
listen to the passages which occasionally
took place there between Haldane and ultra-
Tories like Lord Carson. Haldane, who
was sheer brain, invariably routed Carson,
who has always been one-part brain and
three-parts personality, but none of his vic-
tories seemed to give him the slightest joy.
He was a large, stout, sallow, lymphatic,
sad-looking old man, with an enormous head,
a long and lugubrious upper lip, and the
stolidity of an Oriental.
Dr. Cockburn, one-time S. Aus. Premier
and Agent-General, who has been living in
the Cold Country for many years, was
78 on Aug. 23. In 1874 he took the M.D.
degree at London Uni., and that university’s
gold medal. The doctor is the last survivor
of those who attended the first two Feder-
ation conferences held in Melbourne in 1890,
and in Sydney in 1891. There are 10 living
of the 50 delegates to the National Convention
which framed the Commonwealth .Constitu-
tion in 1897-9 S. Cockburn is one of them.
An old acquaintance, G. G. Randell, has
been given the command of the P. and
O. Co.’s Naldera, which, after another trip
or two to Asia, will probably come into the
Australian trade again. The skipper’s first
sight of Australia was from the clipper ship
Patriarch in 1893. During the early Galli-
poli days he was attached to the A.I.F.
Capt. L. H. R. Gordon, the new presi-
dent of the Public Teachers’ Union in
S.A., was a way-back schoolmaster when
the war began. He served in Egypt and
Sinai with the Light Horse till after
Romani; then he joined the Artillery _in
France, and, with -a captain’s commission
and the M.C., did liaison work for the Uni-
versities’ Administrative Committee. He has
since been working his way up in the S.A.
Education Dept.
ARCHBISHOP KELLY, who has been
living for this week, which has witnessed
the opening of the completed St. Mary’s
Cathedral in Sydney.
That’s a fine drawing of Jardine’s to illus-
trate “A Road in France” in this issue. It
loses something in the reproduction, of neces-
sity ; and for the benefit of collectors and
connoisseurs a few prints have been made on
art paper. Subscribers may have them
(while they last) ; send 9d. to The Bulle-
tin Service Department to cover cost of
packing and freight. This great black-and-
white artist, by the way, has set up a studio
in Kembla Buildings, Sydney. He has
accepted The Bulletin’s commission to
illustrate “Men are Human,” Vance Palmer’s
story, for serial rmblication.
WHEN A FELLOW LOOKS AHEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the game has gone against him, and
his bluff is broken down,
When he’s weary of the bushland, and dead-
tired of the town,
When the aimless drifting sickens, and the
joy of life is sped,
Then a fellow realises that it’s time to look
ahead.
When the splendor comes no longer, and the
pageantry is past,
When the idols he lias worshipped prove
but broken reeds at last,
When his world is going to pieces, then a
fellow finds a need
Of a surer course to steer by, and a more
sustaining creed.
When his gaze no longer travels to horizons
faint and far,
When he seeks a goal that’s nearer, when he
sees things as they are,
Will he, spite his reformation, never feel a
fleeting doubt
If he wasn’t sometimes happier ere lie
reasoned matters out?
When he’s reached the goal he’s seeking, and
success is his at last,
When his madness is all over and his folly
done and past,
Still a memory shall linger, until life itself
is sped,
Of the mad days and the glad days ere he
learned to look ahead.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


THIS WEEK'S FAIRY TALE.
"The Administrator, General Wisdom, reports that in New Guinea, as a result of good rule, the extraordinary spectacle has been seen of whole villages going in and
requesting permission to pay taxes.”
if we happened to get good government in Australia, Mr. Whiddon and the other taxgatherers might dream things like this.


: ■
'x
'I
■H
iSSSI
I
m
mm
r
(l
HPHE showcard reproduced above gives an excellent idea
* of the smart lines on which Battersby soft felts are built.
Spring usually means a new hat, and we suggest that the large
assortment of new Spring models —bowlers and soft felts —will
meet your every requirement.
Battersby Hats are known in all parts of the world for their
style, finish and value.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD BY THE BEST HATTERS
Actual Makers: BATTERSBY & CO., LTD., STOCKPORT.
For further particulars, write-
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
BOX 763.


Soon “The Pearl of the Pacific” will
be gay with the many attractions of
this famous carnival.
■
n
OliH
I
fflSßl
Z E
3
B
Our regular patrons should wire reserva-
tions at once to avoid risk of disappoint-
ment. Only to some 400 guests can ‘The
Australia’ offer those many niceties of
accommodation and entertainment which
its name has come to signify.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic Address;
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
ms*
(Capital Paid Up, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's i Grand Opera
Roy al “The Silent House’’
Criterion “Other Men’s Wives”
Palace “Dear Brutus”
Empire “Mother Macree” and “Models”
Tivoli , Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Hit the Deck.”
Royal “The Patsy”
Neyv Comedy “Belinda”
King’s “Donovan Affair”
Athenaeum “White Collars”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Nothing better displays the foolishness of
presenting opera in a foreign language (a
practice which neither France nor Germany
will stand) than the solemnity of an audience
listening to such a production as “Tales of
Hoffmann.” The “Tales” has won its place
in grand opera by the grace of some of its
melodies, the Barcarolle being the item
which endears it chiefly to its public. The
initial performance saw Toti dal Monte and
her ’groom back from their honeymoon,
which circumstance helped largely to make
spare standing-spaces valuable. Lomanto,
the Hoffmann of the production, was suited
by the lightness of his songs; his advantage
is a clear and easy enunciation. In the first
Tale Toti was a charming doll; but the
impish drollery of the story, its humors dis-
guised by a foreign tongue, was received by
the audience with the gravity one expects
in a cathedral. Luisa Bonetti, though her
yoice was almost drowned on at least. one
occasion by the orchestra, was an effectively
sensuous Giulletta in the second Tale; and
Corrado Zambelli was an impressive Schle-
mil, albeit he showed the ignorance usual in
grand opera about the proper method of dying
at the point of the sword. The consumptive
Antonia of the third Tale was gracefully pre-
sented by Aurora Rettore, whose “Fond Dove
That I Cherished” was delivered with real
sweetness. Like Lomanto, Apollo Granforte
strode through all three Tales ; he was best as
Coppelius. The useful Luigi Cilia again
helped the first Tale as a footman almost
absurdly concerned about the well-being of
the moving doll Olympia.
$ * - * $
It seems strange that the outstanding
“L’Amore Dei Tre Re” should have been
BEPPY DE VRIES, once Madame Pompadour,
now of “The Student Prince,” which follows
Grand Opera at Her Majesty’s, Sydney.
limited to two performances, the first
on Saturday and the second last night (Tues-
day) ; but perhaps the plebiscite which is
to decide the last week’s programme will give
it another airing. Montemezzi’s strong and
sometimes clamorous music has a very high
dramatic interest, and the opera finishes, in
a veritable orgy of tragedy. When Scavizzi
Fiori, her husband Archibaldo and her lover
Avito lie dead of the poison on her lips
intended for only one of them by the blind
father-in-law who strangled her, and the
old gentleman gropes about identifying the
slain, the orchestra burst into sounds like
the conglomerated noises of the runners of
twenty evening papers selling special editions
with a, full account of the horror. Scavizzi’s
voice waged an unequal battle with the
insurgent orchestra in some of its most tre-
mendous spasms, but her fine dramatic sense
was more than compensation. Granforte
found the amiable Archibaldo too light a
part until the husband is torn by his wife’s
backsliding; Francesco Merli made a melli-
fluous Avito, and Autori was responsible fox-
some really magnificent work as the blind
man.
* * * *
In spite of the appearance of new gems in
the string of productions—“ Faust” came
in on Monday, whilst to-night (Wednesday)
Mascagni’s “Lodoletta” is to arrive, with
“Carmen” to follow on Saturday—the man-
agement announces that next week will be
the last of the season. Then Her Majesty’s
will be handed over to “The Student
Pi-ince.”
* ¥ *
The Grogan McMahon “repertory” com-
pany opened its Sydney season on Saturday
at the Palace with “Dear Brutus.” Barrie’s
whimsical idea of shuffling the unhappily
married so as to show them that they are
just as likely to make a mess of things on
a second trial pi-ovides an amusing enter-
tainment, with an intense note of pathos in
the loss Dearth feels when he awakes to the
absence of the dream daughter with whom
he had wandered in the magic wood. Arthur
Greenaway puts some sincere feeling into the
part of the painter, and Pearl Appleton’s
dream daughter is a charming creation;
Neta Pelham does well as Mrs. Coade, and
Gregan McMahon makes the mischievous
old Lob, who starts the whole tangle going,
an almost real creature.
* * ¥
“Chicago,” the new venture of Sydney Play-
box company, which entered on a series of
Wednesdays last week, is a bitter satire,
comedy-coated. The “heroine,” Roxie Hart,
is an obnoxious married female who, having
shot her lover, wallows in the publicity, whilst,
the press and a. costs-grabbing criminal
lawyer help her to compound a story which
will gain her acquittal. Her best card is
played when, hysterical at finding the lime-
light switched on to a newer murderess, she
faints and tells the tale about the child that
will be born in gaol. The sentimental papers
make columns of it, and Roxie
faces her trial as a pathetic
figure, a girl who, trying to re-
form for the sake of the pledge
of affection she is about to
bestow on her husband, has been
forced to shoot in defence of
the honor she was trying to re-
establish. Her hour of triumph
upon acquittal is spoilt because
the court crowd has rushed away
to look at a street row; the
story finishes wfith Roxie’s revel-
ation to the duped husband that
the expected infant is a myth,
and that she is accepting the
best offer made her to go into
the movies. The trivial Roxie
is expressively done by Freda
McGhee; Miss M. R. Keith is
good as the newspaper “sob
sister”; Mattie Doyle likeable
as the unprincipled matron of
the County gaol; and the other
characters are adequate.
* *
“The Rosary,” back at the
Grand Opera House, Sydney,
has proved itself a drama which
can stand periodical revival, and
the occasional tear rolls nightly
from the eyes of d.-c. front-
seaters on to the bald heads of
gentlemen in the stalls. The
company, strengthened b y
Walter Hunt as the priest,
makes a reasonably good job
of the production, which is to
run for a fortnight.
* *
“Other Men’s Wives” is keep-
ing the Margaret Bannermau
pot boiling at the Sydney Cri-
terion ; Moscovitch, who is giv-
ing a charity matinee for the
assistance of the starving Jews
in Eastern Europe on Tuesday
next, finds “The Silent House”
brings the Theatre Royal plenty
of tenants ; “Rio Rita” marches
on its way to records at the St.
James; and “Models” and “Mother Machree”
are satisfying the Empire Theatre manage-
ment. The adventurous Allan Wilkie, having
secured a fair return from his discovery of
the suburbs as a playing area, was last
heard of at Wollongong.
* * ¥
Alfred O’Shea drew a friendly multitude
to Sydney Town Hall on Saturday. This
is' the first of three concerts; the others on
Wednesday of next week and the following
Saturday. William Heughan is to make
his appearance at the same address on Sep-
tember 18.
* * *
The yellow side-buttoned boots of Joe Ter-
mini flash in the chief place at Sydney
Tivoli, whilst that entertaining musician
shows how rich comedy can be made of
fiddles and banjos. Fred Bluett is back,
singing soulfully of tripe; and if the man-
agement had only told the women of Sydney
more about Alphonse Berg there would be
no room in the
theatre for mere
men. With a few
lengths of dress
materia] and a
packet of pins
Alphonse attires
his two living
models in dress
“c reation s” at
breakneck speed.
The graceful danc-
ing of Meazza and
Adrienne deserves
a word, also.
$ *
This week “The
Black Eagle” is
soaring on gales of
laughter at Fullers’
Theatre (Sydney)
with Harry Gould
shining particu-
larly. The vaude-
ville end of the
show still holds the
entertaining Huley
and Bent; Clara
Keating, although
obviously more
satisfied about her
smartness than the
most ardent of her
admirers, is a
perky little per-
former who helps
to keep the pro-
gramme bright.
* sjs
Hayt’s De Luxe
(Sydney) is mirth-
making this week;
Ford Sterling, as a
staid husband who
decides to seek the
bright lights, falls
into the soup and
sundry other items
of the menu in
“Chicken d la
King” ; and Monty Banks chases laughs in the
usual furious manner in “Play Safe.” To sea-
son this dish of humor, Bob Barlow, the man
who puts glycerine under his eyes to aug-
ment his sobs in “The Heart of a Pool,”
sings sentimentally during the interval. The
Regent has changed to “Four Sons,” in
which the producer artistically avoids the
temptation to bathos as he pictures the self-
sacrifice of a nice old mother when, one by
one, her sons leave her. The Capitol is
offering “The Last Command” and “If I
Were Single,” which is mainly concerned
with the domestic explanations of a man
who isn’t. At the Prince Edward “The
Student Prince” pursues his way; but “The
Merry Widow” will finish at the Crystal
Palace after next week.
* * ¥
Whether John Brownlee is destined to be
the world successor to Chaliapin or not, his
steady development, even since his return to
this country, suggests that he has a great
career on the concert platform before him.
At his first appearance at Melbourne Town
Hall last week he succeeded in instilling
some interest into a tripey excerpt from
Massenet’s “Thais,” and his singing and
acting of a duet from “Don Giovanni,” in
which he and Elena Danieli nearly circum
navigated the grand piano, created a mild
riot. There seems to be no immediate end
to the young man’s acquisition of stage de-
portment, and his voice reaches with each
performance further down into the bass,
while at the other extremity it threatens
to do some leading tenors out of their jobs.
Brownlee has the whole gamut of emotion
at his disposal. He can be tender (“Du Bist
wie eine Blume” —Schumann) ; or passionate
(“Eri tu che Macehiavi” —Verdi) or dra-
matic (“Danny Deever”). After the per-
former had hanged the last-named, present
scribe felt as if he had attended an exe-
cution at Long Bay.
¥ * #
Students of dramatic infantilism are
recommended to attend “The Girl in the
Limousine” at Melbourne Princess.
* * *
Melbourne Repertorians will unlock “The
Silver Box,” by John Galsworthy, at the
Playhouse to-night and on three nights there-
after.
* * *
There will be no fresh attacks upon a
jaded theatregoing public in Melbourne on
Saturday. Leona Hogarth continues to marry
15 000,000 dollars nightly at the Atlicnfeum,
where “White Collars” is the wear. The
Patsy” is in its eleventh week at the Royal.
The Guns of H.M.S. Publicity not having
reduced His Majesty’s to a heap of mins,
“Hit the Deck” is still in occupation there.
H- ¥ *
That fine German actor Emil Jannings
has lately been bought up by Hollywood, and,
despite the treacly nature of the role, his
great histrionic ability male's “The Last
Command,” at Hoyt’s house, the outstanding
picture of the week in JYlelbource. J lie Ited
DAPHNE DEANE, who is now in “Dear Brutus,” at the
Sydney Palace.
revolt in Russia is a lurid background to
the story. Dolores Costello is loving a
soldier of the North, though her duty is to-
wards the soldiers of the South in “The
Heart of Maryland,” a melodrama of the
American Civil War at the Majestic.
* # *
Irene Vanbrugh appeared at Melb. Comedy
Theatre on Saturday night in the wholly
feminine rOle of “Belinda.” Irene flirts and
flits time away delightfully as the grass-widow
of 19 years, who is eventually re-wooed by
the errant husband, J. B. Rowe. Dion
Boucicault, as Belinda’s elderly lover Harold
Baxter, combines parsonic tones with a
facial make-up reminiscent of the teddy bear
of a boot-polish advertisement. Ronald Ward
is the poet w T ho shifts his affections from
mother to daughter Delia. Rowena Ronald
has been transferred very successfully from
“Hit the Deck” into the part of this just-
left-school maiden; and Anne Saker has the
all-unworthy exits and entrances of Betty
the maid.
# * *
Surrounded by stronger support than on
previous visits Muriel Starr presented some
thrilling mystery fare at Melb. King’s Theatre
on Saturday in “The Donovan Affair.” The
solution of the riddle should keep the house
full for weeks.
* -T-
Adelaide’s new and sumptuous picture-
theatre, Hoyt’s Regent, has a really funny
film of the truly-Yankec Straight Crook,
who wants to continue straight if the Bad
Detective will only let him. Wondergraph
has Milton Sills in Jack London’s old Klon-
dike yarn, and the Clever Dynamite hound
holds the screen at The Pav. Women so
seldom get much chance these days that it
is refreshing to find Dolores del Rio scoring
heavily in “Ramona” at the Pav. Royal
and Prince of Wales are closed, but will
both re-open in Show Week. As for the
King’s, it has got tired, and turned itself
into yet another dance “palais.”
Sydney’s North Shore line is easily the
Driest part of N. S. Wales; at Gordon the
Wets won by only 1686 votes in a poll of
13,688, and Willoughby and Ilornsby had
comparatively narrow majorities for the
Beer pump. Of country districts Lismore
and Orange are the only two where the
Wets weren’t lost in the dust, they made in
the distance. And even there the Drys
couldn’t get on anything like even terms.


INSURE WITH THE
Sto
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
“TTOW can busy and successful men find time to read
* * the course ?” you may ask.
The answer is that the Alexander Hamilton Institute
does not offer a course in the ordinary sense, but a Service.
Often a single idea gathered from a fifteen-minute session
with one section of the Course, or from a personal inquiry
to the Institute staff, will repay the cost of the Modern
Business Course and Service many times
An illustrated book, “Forging Ahead in Business,” tells all
about the Institute Course and Service. It answers every ques-
tion. It tells exadtly what the Institute can do for busy men.
It is yours for the asking.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. B 5
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Bursilary, Rive Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd.
Net To
Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
May, £ £ £ £
1918.. 670,587 10 p.c. = 236,201 434,386 2,760,181
Share premiums, £510,390 .. . . 3,270,571
Transferred to capital, £1,500,000.. 1,770,571
1919.. 787,343 15 p.c. = 302,634 484,709 2,255,280
1920.. 517,664 15 „ „ 315,000 202,664 2,457,944
Share premiums, £443,816 .. .. 2,901,760
Transferred from sinking fund, £50,500 2,952,260
1921.. 351,331 15 p.c. = 341,108 10,223 2,962,483
1922.. 103,300 3J „ „ 92,054 11,246 2,973,729
Loss.
1923.. 100,086 Nil 2,867,643
Share premiums, £lBl2 .. .. 2,869,455
Profit.
1924.. 279,339 Nil ' 279,339 3,148,794
Share premiums, £73,477 .. .. 3,222,271
1925.. 372,307 5 p.c. = 123,614 248,693 3,470,964
1926.. 303,032 10 „ ~ 268,771 34,261 3,505,225
1927.. 291,577 10 „ „ 268,771 22,806 3,528,031
1928.. 222,617 10 „ ~268,771 3,481,877
Profits include: 1924, £164,314 tax and law costs
recovered; 1925, £64,015 taxation recoveries; 1927,
£11,902 taxation refund.
Although the year’s net result fell away to
8.2 p.c. on average capital compared with
10.8, 11.2, 15.2 and 11.3 p.c. back to 1924,
the board repeated the 10 p.c. to share-
holders ; but reserves had to be dipped into
for £46,154 to do it. That implies a con-
fidence in the future not to be drawn from
the current figures. The drop of £68,960 in
net profit was mainly due to slackness of
orders over the last half of the term, the
closing down of the mine at Broken Hill
and heavier overhead.
The year’s sales (£4,133,521) fell away
£553,483, and the balance on working
account (£611,702) was £74,238 lighter;
but interest, etc. (£171,920), brought in an
extra £10,607. Most of the £783,622 thus
received went in this way:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Depreciation .. .. £155,304 £280,979 £284,058
Office and other exes... 68,837 79,024 73,014
Debenture interest . . 131,227 103,683 98,953
Income tax . . . . 65,893 69,980
The mine at the Barrier could not have
contributed much, if anything, to last year’s
profit. Work there ceased on Sept. 24, 1927,
because of the low price of metals. At New-
castle, during the first half of the term, the
works were more active than at any other
time in their history, due largely to orders
placed in Australia as the result of the Eng-
lish coal strike. But during the second half
overseas competitors were on the Australian
market again, and the old conditions pre-
vailed. Only one of the three blast furnaces
was in continuous operation throughout the
term, and the production of pig-iron (333,368
tons) dropped off by 10,433 tons. The out-
put from other units of the big plant moved
in this way;—
1922. 1927. 1928.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
Open hearth (steel
ingots) . . . . 219,799 340,399 347,288
Blooms and billets .. 204,551 309,723 326,741
28in. mill . . .. 110,226 194,023 212,282
18in. mill .. .. 67,071 91,768 87,308
12in. and Bin. mills.. 27,333 57,932 56,265
Rod mill .. .. 30,168 77,692 76,068
Fishplates .. . . 3,231 5,987 6,938
Steel foundry . . .. 2,806 13,283 12,101
Direct metal foundry. . 4,737 10,264 8,047
Coke 191,038 350,865 311,666
Sulphate ammonia . . 3,201 4,962
Gal.
Tar 1,890,485
The blooming mill was regulated to suit
the increased flow from the open-hearth
furnaces, and there -was an encouraging out-
turn of rails, structural steel, etc., from the
28in. mill.
The next table shows how the co. has
financed the heavy outlay on its great iron
and steel enterprise :
Paid All Other
May, Capital. Reserves. Debentures. Liabilities.
1918.. 472,402 2,760,181 901,700 801,730
1919.. 2,100,000* 2,255.280* 848,600 742,253
1921.. 2,452,937 2,962,483 1,936,422 990,689
1922.. 2,455,048 2,973,729 2,109,300 560,339
1923.. 2,455,048 2,867,643 1,962,200 598,399
1924.. 2,460,736 3,148,794 1,833.400 674.089
1925.. 2,687,708 3,470,964 1,702,300 675,701
1926.. 2,687,70 S 3,505,225 1,572,800 717,009
1927.. 2,687,708 3,528,031 1,518,600 903,751
1928.. 2,687,708 3,481,877 1,262,400 784,443
* £1,500,000 of reserves capitalised.
Since May 31, 1922, £846,900 of the deben-
ture debt has been redeemed. One result
was that last year’s interest bill (£98,953)
was £32,190 lighter than the bill of six years
ago. Reserves include £1,383,105 of share
premiums.
Not only has the plant cost a heap of
money, but the ordinary conduct of the
business calls for big resources, too :
Stocks Book Debts,
Mining Metals In-
Steel Equip- and Steel vestments,
Works. ment, etc. and Stores. Cash. etc.
1912.. Nil £556,548 £709,170 £249,666
1915.. £1,283,000 532,038 482,545 350,513
Fort Pirie Smelters sold.
1917.. 2,369,600 163,738 778,084 679,942
1919.. 3,365,000 97,388 1.006,924 1,189,724
1920.. 3,974,846 83,388 1,147,306 862,470
1921.. 5,039,107 93,988 1,544,433 1,377,886
1922. 5,783,800 258,088 742,592 1,026,820
1923.. 5,698,279 249,546 705,135 943,213
1924.. 5,646,651 236,408 681,186 1,293,371
1925.. 5,778,770 225,670 698,517 1,649,309
1926.. 5,723,558 224,744 608,577 1,816,458
1927.. 5,635,715 228,952 706,777 1,995,241
1928.. 5,623,013 363,908 553,275 1,639,826
The call for replacement money is very heavy.
In addition to the £284,058 written off plant,
etc., last year, a special £35,000 was struck
off the book value of the mine, reducing it
to £35,405. The report is silent as to de-
velopments in connection with the installa-
tion of a new battery of coke ovens, which
the board has had under consideration during
the year. It means a pretty heavy expendi-
ture —something like a million has been
spoken of. The £134,956 added to the book
value of mining equipment, etc., is mainly
due to the electrification and ether assaults
upon costs at Iron Knob and Whyalla. Also
the tramway is being extended to serve the
co.’s Iron Baron leases.
Despite the heavy outgoings the financial
position is very comfortable: —
1924. 1927. 1928. ,
More or less
liquid assets . . £1,974,555 £2,702,018 £2,193,101
Floating debt . . 674,089 903,751 784,443
Surplus .. .. £1,300,466 £1,798,267 £1,408,658
Debentures . . 1,833,400 1,518,600 1,262,400
—i
Excess liabilities £532,934 —■
Liquid surplus . . £279,667 £146,258
B.H.P. collieries’ two shafts are each down
to the seam, but there is still a lot of work
to be done before the co. will be able to
draw coal from them. Last year the co.
had again to buy substantial quantities of
large coal because of the shortage of small.
It has been a great achievement, particu-
larly since a market has had to be won in
the face of competition from cheap-labor
countries and with the meagre assistance of
a timorous and inadequate tariff. Marketing
at profitable prices is still the big problem.
Production costs under Australian conditions
make high protection for the industry im-
perative. Wages alone are about 115 p.c.
higher than in England, and, besides, practi-
cally all the co.’s materials and stores are
of high-priced Australian origin.
Recently the scrip was classified as an
industrial instead of a mining stock, which
means that no buying brokerage will hence-
forth be payable in respect of share trans-
actions. The market, confident of the co.’s
future —notwithstanding that the first fur-
nace owned by the reconstituted Hoskins
Co. has just been blown in at Kembla —pays
255. 7d. for the scrip. At that figure the
return is 7.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to £2 5s lid. in net tan-
gibles, mostly plant of one kind and another.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 14,450 10 p.c. = 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 „ „ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO .. 68,722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ „ 10.800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 „ „ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ „ 15,600 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ „ 16,800 5151 86,716
1925. . 24,388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1926.. 24,615 14 „ ~ 19,600 5015 97,219
1927.. 22,472 14 ~ „ 19,600 2872 100,091
1928.. 26,693 14 „ „ 19,600 7093 107,184
This, Australia’s oldest trustee co., cele-
brated its jubilee last year by gathering a
record harvest. The stage was set for
better earnings when, in 1927, the N. S.
Wales Parliament gave the co. full trustee
powers in that State. For the year to June
30 last £958,000 of capital funds and assets
was paid out to beneficiaries. On the other
hand nearly £4,000,000 of new trust business
was put on the books. Thus the net increase
in the volume of trusts was £2,956,791,
which dwarfs the previous year’s increase of
£1.612,500, the next best leap being
£584,343 in 1923. The comparison which
follows shows the growth in trusts handlei}
since the beginning of the century:—
1900.. £6,300,000 1923.. £14,866,551
1905.. 7,787,043 1925.. 15,776,909
1910.. 9,013,807 1926.. 16,328,516
1915.. 10,936,858 1927.. 17,941,016
1920.. 13,533,081 1928.. 20,897,807
And there is still plenty of room for further-
expansion. In Victoria only about 13 p.c.
of the total number of estates and 20 p.c.
of their aggregate value are managed by the
trustee cos. But the figures grow larger
every year.
A noticeable feature in connection with
the investment of this co’.s trust funds
is that the amount on mortgage (£2,028,184)
has increased over £733,000 during the last
two years. That is mainly because of the
disappearance of tax-free issues from the
list of Government securities, which have
thus lost some of their former attractive-
ness for big incomes.
A pleasing feature of the accounts is
that last year’s record business was handled
at an extra cost of only £262G, while the
spring in income (£74,190) was £72QB; thus,
after allowing for reserve adjustments, the
increase in net profit was £4221, the total
reaching 19 p.c. on capital compared with
10, 17.5, 18 and 18.3 p.c. back to 1924.
Notwithstanding this and the fact that it
was the co.’s jubilee year, the div. was kept
steady at 14 p.c., and reserves of £107,184
had accumulated to assist £140,000 of paid
capital at June 30. So shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) have to earn
only 7.9 p.c. to pay a 14 p.c. div., whereas
the £26,693 netted last year was approxi-
mately 11 p.c. on average funds.
The board has never handed out bonus
scrip, the policy being to make new issues
at par as the business expands. The last
issue was in August, 1924, one for three.
There are 160,000 shares issued, with a
nominal value of £5 each, but 50s. of that
is callable only in the event of liquidation.
Of the remaining 50s. only 10s. is paid on
100,000 shares, and 30s. on 60,000. The
latter the market values at 755.; it prices
the 10s. paids at 28s. The immediate re-
turn is 5.6 p.c. and 5 p.c. respectively on
a 14 p.c. div. basis. Obviously the market
anticipates a further call on the 10s. paids;
if another ss. were got in the return at the
above price and on the same div. basis would
be 6.3 p.c. A one-in-two par issue, called
to 10s., would produce a slightly better result.
Individual holdings, by the way, are re-
stricted to 500 shares in each class.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney).
Writ-
ten Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 17,230 10 p.e. = 11,000 2622 3,G08 8,974
1919.. 17,798 10 „ ~ 11,000 3942 2,856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32,291 10 „ ~ 11,000 3684 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 . . 19,136
1921.. 27,768 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,669 10 ~,, 15,313 2728 5,628 2,136
Reserves.
1923.. 20,034 9 ~,, 13,781 2761 3,492 1,356
1924.. 17,297 8 „ ~ 12,832 2709 1,756 3,112
1925.. 15,966 74 „„ 12,421 3351 194 3,306
Profit on sale of property, £8856. . 12,162
1926.. 19,537 9 p.c. = 14,905 3807 825 12.957
1927.. 26,004 10 „ ~ 16,561 3951 5,492 18,479
1928.. 21,625 10 „ ~ 16,561 3703 1,361 19,840
Price-cutting in the tobacco trade and in-
creased overhead were responsible for the
shrinkage of £4379 in last year’s profit.
After allowing for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table, enough of the year’s
net earnings remained to pay 10.8 p.c. on
capital compared with 13.3, 9.5, 7.6 and 9.1
p.c. back to 1924, an average of approxi-
mately 10 p.c. Over the same period an
average of a whisper under 9 p.c. was handed
to shareholders.
Keen competition and price-cutting have
been endemic in this trade for some years,
and since overhead kept on mounting the
business, for a while, looked pretty sick. To
gain strength new departments were intro-
duced at the co.’s Haymarket (Sydney) head-
quarters about three years ago. Wireless,
mercery and a cafe were added to the co.’s
other lines, and the management cast an
eye over the organisation generally. The
next comparison shows how trading figures
responded
Gross Trading Exes. p.c.
Profits, etc. Expenses. Gross.
1912 .. £39,955 £28,819 72.1
1916 .. 59,441 44,855 75.4
1920 .. 106,780 78,178 73.3
1923 .. 101,264 83,861 82.8
1924 .. 101,598 87,321 85.9
1925 . . 109,537 96,985 88.5
1926 . . 120,202 104,512 86.9
1927 .. 136,741 114,415 83.6
1928 . . 139,642 121,215 86.8
If exes, move up much further the 10 p.c.
div. will be in danger. And the £19,840 accu-
mulated in excess of the £22,110 of goodwill
is not much of a buttress either.
Chief balance-sheet movements were in
connection with the purchase of a freehold
adjoining the co.’s headquarters in Sydney:
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £llO,OOO £166,145 £166,145 £165,995
Liabilities .. 37,313 142,680 182,656 256,587
Freeholds . . 130,048 130,119 215,325
Plant, etc. .. 20,277 24,795 26,996 25,947
Stocks.. .. 99,287 119,743 134,660 137,322
Book debts . . 21,861 49,438 48,635 57,059
Cash, etc. .. 6,371 6,898 35,150 15,051
The book value of premises (£215,325) in-
creased £85,206, and was equal to 47 p.c.
of the total tangible assets. To finance the
deal the board went to its bankers for
£30,904 and tacked £40,828 on to the mort-
gage (£134,626). The idea was to provide
more space for display purposes; but thus
far the board has not been able to move in
that direction because of a City Council re-
sumption scheme. All this, of course, did
not help profits. At April 30 there was
263. 7d. of outside money at risk in the busi-
ness for every £1 owned by shareholders.
The excess of liabilities over the more or
less liquids, including stocks, amounted to
£47,155, the position having worsened by
£82,944 during the year.
Last month the “tobacco war” amongst
Sydney retailers became really vigorous, and
drastic cuts were made in popular lines.
On most of these the gross profit is now
only 5 p.c., and is as low as 3 p.c. on others.
Plainly this means that a number of small
traders are going to be squeezed out of
business unless a way out can be found
very soon. And the disappearance of the
small trader is not going to help Mick Sim-
mons, Ltd., which has worked up a strong
connection amongst Sydney suburban re-
tailers. Also the wholesaler will be fortu-
nate if he manages to collect all his accounts.
The trouble began with the methods of com-
petition adopted by the N. S. Wales Rail-
way Commissioners, who do a big tobacco
business as a side-line. They are making use
of legislative favors they enjoy in respect
of ovei’head and selling hours to the detri-
ment of metropolitan tobacco traders gen-
erally. ■ Powrnr used in this way is dangerous,
and needs to be closely watched.
One immediate result of this price-cutting,
which is not going to do anybody much good
in the long run, has been a sharp contrac-
tion in the market value of Mick Simmons
scrip. For the paids sellers now ask 215.,
with buyers at par. Three weeks back the
best declared sellers were at 245. 6d. The
contribs. (10s. paid) are on offer at 11s.
The backing for each £1 of paid capital
amounts to 225. 4d. in net tangibles.
Australian Drug Co., Ltd.
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 17,081 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 ~ „ 10,000 2010 29,173
1920.. 13,939 10 „ „ 10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ „ 11,250 221 33,333
1922.. 9,438 10 „ „ 12,500 30,271
1923.. 14,010 10 „ „ 12.500 1510 31,781
1924.. 12,500 10 „ „ 12,500 31,781
War Profits tax, £7200 .. .. 24,581
1925.. 10,269 10 p.c. = 12,500 22,350
Profit on sale of assets, £5875.. 28,225
Premiums on new shares, £2278 30,503
1926.. 14,688 10 p.c. = 13,308 1380 31,883
Pref. Ord.
7i p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 17,254 3531 13,723 j— 31,883
1928.. 21,247 4708 13,722 2817 34,700
After paying all exes., including taxation,
and making provision for depreciation, the
board of this Sydney co. wrote last year’s
profit at £26,026, or £7375 better than the
1927 figure. However, £l7lB of the increase
was reserved against bad and doubtful
debts, and a further £3061 was labelled
“reserve for taxation,” thus reducing the
final result to the £21,247 shown in
the table. The provision for taxation has
not hitherto appeared, which suggests that
each year’s earnings have been charged only
with "the previous year’s assessment. If
that is so then last year’s income bore a
double charge for taxation, and the actual
result would be better than it looks.
After allowing for the pref, requirements
(£4708) the £16,539 of the year’s net earn-
ings that remained was 12 p.c. of ord. capi-
tal compared with 10, 11, 8.2, 10 and IIA
p.c. back to 1923. Apparently the co. has
been gaining ground at many points: it
seems to have competition better in hand.
And, of course, earnings needed to improve.
There is now an extra 12.225 ords. and
62,775 prefs. to be fed compared with three
years ago ; thus £5930 has been added to the
annual div. requirements. Shareholders have
had a regular 10 p.c. for the past 16 years,
but over the last eight of them disclosed
net earnings have exceeded divs. by only
£636. What, if anything, has been stowed
away inside nobody knows, though the
management believes that it has _ provided
very substantially for certain contingencies.
Visibly, there is only ss. Id. of accumulated
profits to help each £1 of ord. capital; on
the other hand, apart from any other pos-
sible internal reserve, unearned increment
has provided hidden strength in freeholds,
and the completion of the Harbor Bridge
and City Railway should further enhance
their value. Together with plant and fittings,
property figures in the books at £174,335,
and that is oflly £80,452 more than it was
four years ago. To represent the increase
there are two modern concrete structures;
one, of 12 storeys, houses office and ware-
house, and also brings in .a tidy sum in rents;
the other, seven storeys, is used as factory
and stores.
To finance its building programme the co.
had to go into debt, and it was to lighten
the burden that the pref. capital was issued
two years ago. This comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows what happened;—
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £125,000 £137,225 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 62,029 205,210 151,854 153,864
Premises & plant 35,528 165,841 172,032 174,335
Stock • ■ 102,208 106,722 105,661 101,730
Book debts .. 87,370 114,109 121,170 135,288
Cash, etc. . . 6,205 955 3,525 421
Last year £2OlO was taeiked on __ to the
amount coming to creditors (£153,864) ;
book debts (£135.288) expanded £14,118 and
stocks (£101,730), in at cost o r market
price, whichever is the lower, were down


u
•1
id
as
9 a
HH
m :
11
f. J
s
■
£§ :
. i ;
.
-
t J 1
p
wgtis
.HmM!
«»> -
Jtr >#sg&r
fl—jg f
m
irM
M
They are built to do their job without need
for supervision, interference, or even notice.
You take a step which
transforms your “spare”
into a purely informal
insurance against the
remotest of remote
possibilities.
ARNCT
Barnet Glass Tyres -for ike Motorist who dislikes "jaokmg up
a


“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, Tin, etc.
Address: Tatong, via Benalla, Vic. —Advt.
* =l= * *
The non-corroding quality of Pioneer Wood Pipe
gives it a big advantage, for it will safely carry
any kind of fluid without damage to the pipe or
its contents. This factor in conjunction with light
weight and unusual simplicity of installation has
led to the choice of Pioneer Wood Pipe in many
industrial and mining projects. Full information
from the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
NS AV • and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
’* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting 7
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
:}e * 3 s *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888) hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JIAV CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
tiadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing: Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Rvdney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Berth. W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
. Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
£3931. It all suggests that trade was brighter.
The more or less liquid surplus (£83,575)
was £5073 stronger than it was a year
earlier.
The market prices the prefs., which have
priority as to capital and a cumulative 7J
p.c., at 21s. At that figure the return is
7.1 p.c. Last year’s net profit was
times their annual requirements, and the
cover amounts to £3 14s. 9d. in net tangibles.
The ords., which have a net tangible back-
ing of 255. Id., mostly in freeholds, are
valued at 28s. 3d. At that price they show
a return of 7.3 p.c., after allowing for Is.
accrued div., on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Mt. Morgan liquidators had raked up.
£1,312,007 by Aug. 15, had spent £221,613
and distributed £1,000,000 (£1 per share),
and, besides the balance of £90,394, had still
in hand the Morgan mine and other Queens-
land properties, plant, machinery, etc., and
£9600 of Vic. Government debentures. They
haven’t had any luck thus far in finding-
buyers for the mining property; but that is
the sort of thing that to a great extent a
buyer lias to be made for. One minor
thing is in suspense; the liquidators were
to be paid 2 p.c. “of the gross proceeds of
the sale of the co.’s assets,” but they don t
know whether that includes interest on
assets or earnings pending distribution or
not. They have thus far drawn £25,167 ; if
the 2 p.c. is payable on the interest, another
thousand or so is coming to them. Mean-
time it appears in the accounts as a con-
tingent liability. Nothing in the shape even
of a guess can be made as to the further
amount coming to shareholders, but the mar-
ket has a buyer at 4s.
« * * *
Chairman Horne had something interest-
ing to say at the Zinc Corporation meeting
about lead and spelter prices and the forma-
tion of a new co. to take over special invest-
ments. He asserted that consumers could not
yet comfortably absorb production of the
volume of 1926 and 1927; on the other hand,
there was abundant proof that the world’s
resources of the metals could not stand up
long to the enormous drain that was being
made on them. He declared there was a
good case for considering better regulation
of market supplies, and, if need be, regulation
of production. Dealing with the co.’s special
investments —which had for their main object
the extension of the metallurgical and manu-
facturing industries of Australia —the direc-
tors believed the time had arrived for placing
them in a separate investment trust co.
The Zinc board was considering with those
of North and South Bi’oken Hill some
collective action in this direction. Immedi-
ately a scheme was finally agreed upon share-
holders would be informed.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
Broken Hill is feeling a shade better.
Metal prices arc still very low, but the field’s
advices are that consumption is being stimu-
lated ; a return to the metal is taking place
in various industries which had been driven
by the high prices of a few years ago to
discard it. A firmer market is therefore
expected in 1929.
* * * *
“D.M.”: The final meeting of the Hamp-
den Cloneurry Copper Co. (Q.) recalls an
old incident. John Godkin, a prospector well
known in the early days of Zcehan, came
to me with a request that I should help
him float three cos. on three Hampden leases.
Godkin had pegged the ground, and the
original leases were put into three syndi-
cates by William McMurtrie, a brother-in-
law of the late William Knox, and myself.
Wo had a splendid share list in each of the
syndicates, including David Syme and Bowes
Kelly. Nobody knew anything about the
prospects of the property, and we did not
intend to do more than have it inspected and
reported upon by a mining expert of our
own. When William Knox heard the news
he sent 11. 11. Schlapp post-haste to Hamp-
den to look over the ground. Schlapp’s re-
port was telegraphed to Knox, who inserted
it in the newspapers, and it was so doubt-
ful that we gave the people their money
back and dropped the business.
Schlapp, by the way, was the man on
whose report “the Queen-street crowd”
secured Mt. Lyell; and it was William Orr
who piloted him to the property. Schlapp
at the time was metallurgist of the Broken
Hill Prop.—the first front-rank American
mining man to be brought to Australia.
J|c * =l= =£
The Mother Lode at Mt. Wright, Ravens-
wood (N.Q.), after dealing with overburden,
recently crushed about 50 tons of stone which
yielded a handsome profit, the directors
say. Notwithstanding a recent report to the
contrary they assure the “Wild Cat” that
the co. has never stopped operations, is in
the happy position of owning a credit bal-
ance ; also there are few calls in arrears.
* * * *
Glen Aplin tin, Stanthorpe, has ceased
operations for the time being, and has got
exemption for six months for the purpose of
raising further cash. The co. started out
a few years back on a very rosy forecast.
Placer Development, which recently added
an option over Guinea Gold’s North, Central
and South leases on the Bulolo River to its
holdings, is preparing to give the areas a
thorough testing. A previous option had
been held by Territory Investments, another
Sydney co., but was not persevered with
after Tom Horton had gone over the ground.
L. A. Decoto and L. J. Joubert leave for
New Guinea this week to make an exhaustive
examination of the leases, taking with them
a drilling and shaft-sinking plant, and will
put in six months on the job. The first-
named has examined properties during the
last two or three years in Alaska and Col-
umbia for Placer Development, and, like his
partner, is a dredging and sluicing expert.
The directors emphasise the importance of
a Government road to the field. If the
latest reports from there are to be relied
on, the road, of which so much has been
heard, is showing about as much progress as
a Barrier Reef clam.
The co. has also decided to make a new
issue of 30,000 shares of five dollars each at a
premium of one dollar. At present, issued
capital is 150,000 dollars in 30,000 shares.
The increase is being made to permit the
co. to take advantage of the Guinea Gold
leases and other possible prospects in New
Guinea. The Columbia (South America)
property has been proved “leaner in value”
than was hoped when the option was taken,
which is significant. It was announced in
December last that preliminary borings on
a section of this property had shown gold
values of 14d. per yard.
* * * *
Whether the Germans knew of Edie Creek
is not certain, but it is likely they had done
some fossicking in the lower portion of it.
At any rate, one mining concession granted
by them had the famous creek within ps
boundaries. The Upper Waria was within
another. This had been tried and thought
of so highly that machinery to work it was
ordered from Germany. On the outbreak of
war the ship carrying it was seized and in-
terned at Capetown, where the machinery
still lies.
The Waria ran into an ancient crater lake,
and for ages enriched its gravels from some
source yet to be discovered. During mons of
time the overflow cut deep through the sides
of the crater, leaving the walls terraced like
some vast stairway. Many millions of yards
of this auriferous gravel are to be attacked
in October with six giant nozzles and a
tremendous pressure of water by the original
holders of the concession, who have floated
Waria River Gold and Platinum Mining Co.,
Ltd., which has a strong backing in Europe
and America. Two Fokker all-metal one-ton
’planes are to be used for transport from
Morobe to the field, and an excellent landing-
ground exists close by. The co. holds 16
leases (3840 ac.). An electric plant and saw-
mill will form part of the equipment. George
Eidelbach, the manager, considers the stuff
will go Sd. per yard, but the Morobe Warden
says 4d. is nearer. A much more experienced
man. than either of them who sluiced a lot
of it through boxes says it should go nearer
Is. a yard. One trouble will be to get rid
of the tailings, but as the river runs rapidly
there they may be washed away. The Warden
considers that in 30-odd years the co. should,
by working 300 natives and a score or so of
white men, clean up some £30,000,000-worth
of gold. But that is one company’s affair.
There may be more where that came from.
fc * * $
“ Jalax”: The unwarranted rise in Freney’s
oil (W.A.) scrip was followed by a much
more warranted fall. The reports from the
field showed that a thick residuary oil was
present in unknown but probably small quan-
tities. Many seem to ignore the fact that an oil
series should be sealed in some manner to pre-
vent the escape of the lighter hydro-carbons,
and a few hundred feet of porous sandstone
(as reported from this bore) would be the
ideal formation for the dissipation of oil and
not for its conservation. The analysis of
the material obtained, taken in conjunction
with the reports of the field management,
should have sent shares down, as represent-
ing the worst combination of indications that
could have occurred from an oil-finding point
of view. Below the porous rock—bored
through at present—may be natural oil reser-
voirs, but a big change in the country will
have to be met before payable oil is found.
❖ ❖ ❖ s|:
Backed by the Transvaal Agency, the
Golden Horseshoe reconstruction has been
completed in London without a hitch. At
present quotations for the old shares are
more or less nominal, and as their value is
extremely problematical prices are more
likely to sag than harden. A little ginger,
however, will probably be infused into both
the pref. and ord. markets before long, as the
crowd who arc supporting the venture are
not the sort to let things flop. More interest
is being taken in Kalgoorlie mining in Lon-
don, and the feeling is steadily growing
that much more interest would be taken in
Golden Mile ventures if, in some mines, new
managers were substituted for old. Amalga-
mations are unpopular.
Coolgardie (W.A.) lias been stabbed here
and there without much success by a Govern-
ment drill during the past few months, and
is now protesting because the plant has
been sent to the old Harbor Lights at
Leonora. Years ago about £40,000 worth of
gold was extracted from shallow workings
in this show, and boring is expected to
reveal further wealth at depth. But there
is quite as good a chance of finding a pay-
able lode in the locality from which the
drill has just been removed as in the one
it lias been taken to.
sj; ijs sfc *
Radio South, which began looking for gold
on Yilgarn (W.A.) some years ago, has
taken a small interest in the Enterprise,
Kalgoorlie, whose chances of making a living
out of the old Boulder No. 1 and Golden Pike
leases have already been mentioned on this
page. Several other ventures recently in-
vestigated on behalf of Radio South were
considered unsuitable.
* * * *
Tinsongklah shareholders got a shock a
few days ago when a wire from general-
manager W. PI. Blaikie, who is on the field,
announced that, though the dredge had appa-
rently got to bottom at 42 feet, there was
no sign of tin-bearing wash. The dredge
had put in 126 hours and turned over
9000 c.y. The jigs, run for one week, yielded
3341 b. of concentrates, which turned out to
be mostly amang, a combination of worth-
less mineral oxides frequently found in con-
junction with tin oxide. The ground on
which the dredge set in early in July had
been bored to go lib. of t.o. to the yard.
The general manager’s .report says that the
dredge is now at a snot where this value
should be recoverable according to the boring
estimates. So far there is no sign of the wash,
and the bottom reached is laterite, which is
the dead finish where alluvial deposits are
concerned. The directors have announced
that an engineer is to visit the property and
confer with the field manager with a view
to determining the values by additional
boring.
Tinsongklah is a comparatively small pro-
perty in Southern Siam, the dredging area,
selected by T. J. Shephard, being under 200
acres. It is one of the Palfreyman-Ambrose
Pratt group, and a director is Ivhaw Joo Tok,
of Penang, one of the heads of tin-mining
finance in Malaya and Siam. The property
was bored to go an average of 16ioz. to the
yard over three sections, the lowest esti-
mate being 14Joz. for 60 acres. It was
stated that the oxide was of excellent quality,
assaying 75 p.c. of metallic tin, and was
remarkably free of impurities. A dredge with
a capacity of 140,000 c.y. per month was
ordered, the idea being to clean up the
dredging material of 9,250,000 c.y. in record
time, thus saving costs. When Tinsongklah
was floated in 1926 capital was £lBO,OOO in
£1 shares. This was raised later to £225,000.
Issued capital was £141,500, and this has
been increased to £176,875 by raising issued
share values to 255., with an ominous hint
that 3s. more per share is likely to be called
up. There is an accumulation of debts
amounting to £20,000.
In view of all the circumstances, the direc-
tors could hardly do less than issue their
announcement that the show has, to the pre-
sent, turned out a dud. It may be that the
dredge has been so unfortunate as to strike
a blind pocket in an otherwise good pad-
dock : on any other presumption, in view of
the boring estimates, the situation is ex-
tremely puzzling. About a fortnight ago
the scrip touched 19s. ; recent sales have been
at 10s. 6d.
H: * * *
Rawang's balance-sheet, to March 31, is
accompanied by a report from Malcolm New-
man of extra areas to be acquired by the
company, and an intimation that 'another
dredge is to be put on the property. The re-
port, however, does not indicate how the
purchase of the land and dredge is to be
financed, and it would be interesting to
learn the directors’ intentions regarding
this. The company has not the funds. Re-
serves are in at £148,000, but these are
swallowed up in plant, machinery, etc., from
which, by the way, nothing seems to have
been written off. Cash resources at March
31 were stocks of tin ore, £4548; sundry
debtors, £296; deposits at interest, £27,134;
loans at call. £15,062; cash on hand, £3963.
That lot. (£51,003) less sundry creditors
and unclaimed dividends (£25,033) leaves
a surplus of only £25.970. And the position
has weakened since. During the four months
to the end of July, a profit of £7468 was
earned ; in June a dividend of Is. was paid,
which took £12,000. On that basis present
cash resources amount to £21,438, which is
equivalent to an eighteen-pence dividend.
If returns do not improve, indications
are that Rawangs will be off the dividend
list very shortly.
* * * *
Selayang, floated in London in 1924 to
work a property near Kuala Lumpur
(F.M.S.) acquired from F. G. Pratten and
Malcolm Newman, ended its first working
year on December 31 last with a profit of
£2895. Of this, £2699 was used to write off
preliminary exes, and £196 was carried for-
ward. The dredge, which cost £77,185, com-
menced to dig in August and by the end ot
December had recovered 83 tons t. 0., the
average being .421 b. per yard. Values have
improved during the current year for the
four months to the end of July the average
return was .661 b. In the first quarter it
was .601 b. Application has been made for
an adjoining 53 acres and for a further IJS
acres near by. The dredge has not been able
to reach its full capacity of 150,000 yards
per month, owing to difficulty in filling the
buckets. Whether this was due to the lime-
stone-pinnacled bottom which is alleged
against the area is not stated. Unless ; there
is more in this than the “Wild Cat be-
lieves there is, the co. has a good future
when the dead horse is worked off. Its paid-
up capital is £174,300.
* * * *
Malim Nawar has not had the best of
luck since Alluvial Tin hatched it in 1923,.
and, a run of disappointing returns having
been capped by the capsizing of the big
dredge early in the year, the plant has been
out of action ever since. The accounts for
the 12 months to March 31, 1928, neverthe-
less, show a profit of £10,635, which is to be
carried forward. The board has decided to
convert the bucket dredge to a 14in. electric
gravel pump unit, using the existing pon-
toon and treatment appliances. Complete
re-boring of the deep ground will be under-
taken before deciding upon further equip-
ment. Meanwhile 1 the necessary finance is
being provided by the directors.


UNDERWEAR
/•*
"W J
JDp- .
R?fWawB;
<» /;.'/•/
✓<o*
'**» a rs**
smm
&mm
mu:
& V J.
mktm®
gs&«w<:
i-V>
'JW'‘
m.
83KB
us
~7//>
' f^
4
, a#''V.
<G
i !Sk
vaa:
:l/
:r/£r/'-;'
vts
H
f,-
Ai» , 'i3SU>¥S®WK‘Uf|fJ'
«•*«*
~, .-. -,~,Gf&&s
f&'t s? f aft
■**?/*■>/
tj&’Q&k
SftsS
/* ZOS&t&RlB
y/L
•‘‘Vf^vrryy.
3f®&*
m
V £*s. £<*.?s /
*
r;v;
/.a®
$3
!£&s& * *
*0
Jl-y
j'.fflMz
t mm’ZZ&it&sXfx
i, iiii.feriL
JHMft&gtfc
9Sm
X
lISSI
MLi
3.«
i#
WmMr
LI
&^r<3<v4i^
<is
Will
Sa
mi
m
Vjtfi!
ir-vY
f;Ri
gp.-t j.
■:,V. ;
m
M
MU
m
WA
W;
<l!i
WMM
:ii
I
»
m
m
1
M«!
•. &
«e
<■■■"■■
>V.’ <'-i
%&8&5
-,0/V
a£*S&&.*&E
"■’•'■•'hrs
ilillj!
'„• !:■}
>'•-*
' S .!
SK3
!^945^»
M<y. r &i't£'}sS
:■;
ti-r
.
■?>v
&vSti
MS
'W*W$
■mm
t vv
m
•vM%g
mmm
m
mmmm
■AJjtu
JS
/-I
(S
;fiv 5 i
mi
t&iPJjM
/fl
Wjpijr£,’■'i'M
mm
yy'n
Y
'■Mi
m
m^m
£>"z
'Si
WH
/
Ell
gS^iy^SSi
M
y
K-
.-iv,'
a>
sa
Q^ 1
A 1
UL
'YZJ
r,m
■
A.
LH-i
fW\-yjM ,Y\ NV -
M\\
d
r
ji*..
■•>'X
t <2
; > <s
39 & 1
QUALITY, and quality alone, was the basis upon
which “Gibsonia” Pure Wool Underwear was first
manufactured—a standard which has been rigidly
adhered to ever since; nothing will ever cause this ‘ rule of
quality” to be departed from.
At the very inception, and ever since, the wool selected
for making into “Gibsonia” Underwear was the finest
quality grown in Australia the wool which Wool Experts
of the world come thousands of miles
to outbid each other for nothing but
the absolute best is good enough for
“Gibsonia” Underwear.
There is Safety in Wearing Pure Wool
“Gibsonia” Underwear
Pure wool is without equal as a protection
for the human body—it is Nature’s provision
for mankind. Even bodily warmth is regulated
in all temperatures, chill and overheating are
prevented, air is given free access to and from
the body.
“Gibsonia” Underwear is purest wool in its
most attractive form it is the choice of all
whose paramount concern is Health. The fit-
ting of every “Gibsonia” Undergarment is the
essence of comfort, the wearing ability cannot
be surpassed, the value is unequalled.
Wear “Gibsonia” Underwear
and benefit by the advantages
of pure wool underwear
there are garments for all
ages, weights for all climates.
Price Lists on Application to
FOY & GIBSON Pty. Ltd.
Bourke Street, Melbourne
Smith Street, iCoilingwood.
Also at
Rundle St. . . . Adelaide
The Valley . < . Brisbane
Hay Street ...... Perth


And
now
The Ricardo
Patent
m
■■III
vim
■
m
iff
iTfl
>■ ■?:■■■
% ms ng
ft , _
.;
: s:
la
FU 7.
High Turbulence
Cylinder Head
crowns the
jsTen
British
Fig. 2.
Conventional
L-shaped Cylinder
Head.
Fig. 3.
Ricardo Patent
Head as fitted to
Lister Engines.
To get some idea of the advantages of the Ricardo
head, look at diagram 2, which represents an ordi-
nary “L”-shaped cylinder head, and then at diagram
3, which represents a “Ricardo” head engine. In
each, A is the piston moving upwards on the com-
pression stroke; B is the charge of fuel-air mixture
being compressed. Now note the high-domed com-
bustion chamber D in 3, and the closeness of the
main portion of the cylinder-head to the piston when
it reaches the top of its stroke (see Fig. 1 at top
of page). The shape of the Ricardo head induces a
whirling of the gas, called Turbulence, as it is
forced through the throat Cby the piston. More-
over, practically the whole of the charge is concen-
trated round the spark plug, and when firing takes
place the whole of the charge is “exploded” almost
simultaneously. This increases considerably the
force transmitted to the piston.
4 S-h.h.p. Lister
Engine.
■*», l
ft
i
M : :
yjk l ; ■; J% f -' i
L
J
■
II
li
, :
supremacy
Although the Lister engine has for years been
a standard for reliability and long life, its
designers are not content to rest on their
laurels. Moving always with the latest
developments of engineering practice, the
1 928 Lister has taken a tremendous jump for-
ward and completely asserted its supremacy
by the incorporation of the Ricardo High
Turbulence Cylinder Head.
The Lister engine, therefore, now gives you: —
More power from the old bore and stroke;
Lower Fuel consumption per b.h.p.-hour;
Increased accessibility, as petrol engines as
well as kerosene type now have detachable
head for easy decarbonisation;
The “old reliable” Lister features —dust-
proof construction, automatic lubrication,
pump fuel feed, fool-proof operation;
“Rolls-Royce” dependability and length of
service—
and all at a moderate price.
In 4-h, 6b 8, 10 and 14 B.H.P.
Also the Lister-Junior in 1 2~b 3% B.H.P.
Write for full -particulars to the agents for your State.
VICTORIA:
Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
West Footscray.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd.
Mile End, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
Malloch Bros.,
William Street, Perth.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
Young Street, Sydney.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY - VALUE
SERVICE.
Peapes’ window displays are
always worthy of inspection—
providing, as they do, a mirror
of the most approved styles for
men and their sons. To-day they
are of particular interest because
of the new early Summer Styles.
They are very easy to locate,
being exactly opposite Hunter
Street in George Street, one
minute’s walk from the G.P.O.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE IDEAL “ALL ROUND” GLASS
ROSS Extra Wide
Field, Screw Focussing
FIELD GLASSES
wSPWfo
In this model all the advantages of Extra Wide field and the perfect quality
of illumination and definition are combined with easy focussing by screw
adjustment, with no increase of weight. It has a magnification of 7 diameters.
Price, £l5/15/-
All Ross Glasses are Sold at London catalogue prices by the Australian agents.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sight Testing Opticians,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Vero”: The latest addition to the long
list of Australian venomous snakes is a
variety of browm snake with spots, found in
Queensland. It has been christened Diemenia
punctata. A previous discovery was the giant
venomous snake found near the Coen River
(N.Q.) by one of the late H. L. White’s
collectors; being of an entirely unknown
species this aroused greater interest.
CRUELTY.
THE BOSS: “What’s all this row between you and the Clown?”
LION TAMER: “Why, the cow sooled his educated mice on to Leo.”
“Nuces”: I have been trying to get an
echidna for a town friend. I caught one
and put him in a tin about 3ft. deep. Ho
got away. A second captive I shoved in
a box, covering the box with a plank on
which I placed three pieces of iron weighing
over 561 b. In the morning I found he had
levered up plank and weights and escaped.
The box was 2ft. deep. Is there any limit
to the feats of strength these animals are
capable of performing?
“Sucker” : Willy Wagtail gets
my vote as the friendliest bush
bird. Whether it’s a house, a
shed or only a tent, he’ll come
in and sit on the table, and take
flies and other insects out of a
man’s hand with little training.
And if he happens to find a
looking-glass he’ll fight it till
something breaks—either his
own heart or the glass. For
friendliness I place ’em: the
wagtail, the magpie, the butcher-
bird and the bower-bird, with
the jackass among the also-rans.
“Yarri”: Jack Spyer was carrying on a
road where he had to do some dodging at
times to obtain feed for his horsesi. One
afternoon he had planned to turn them
into a well-grassed paddock, ana near sun-
down he was sitting on a top rail of the
fence, working on the end of it with a strong
clasp-knife, when Mr. Jumbuck rode up.
Jack covered his nefarious job with his log,
and said he was waiting to ask if he could
cut an armful or two of the immediate
grass for his night-horse. “All right,” Mr.
Jumbuck answered, and was turning away
when the rail suddenly broke, and Jack
Spyer crashed. The license to cut grass was
off.
•K *!» sK
“Nota Greeing”: I do not agree with
“Nota Bene” (B. 25/7/’2B) that the “so-
called intelligence of the horse is merely
a matter of memory and habit.” A horse in
the Ilillston (N.S.W.) district, belonging to
a new settler who had brought his horses
with him from Victoria a few weeks previ-
ously, was missing one morning. Several
weeks later the settler had a letter from Vic.
to say that the animal had arrived at its old
home. He must have opened gates and swum
rivers to get there. Neither memory nor
habit can explain that.
“Jimmy Possum”: “Mae-Ropus” (B.
S/8/’2S) wants to know what ’roos and the
like do with the little extra double-clawed
toe on the inside of the foot. They currycomb
themselves with it. When something tickles,
up goes the foot; and the double claws,
cutting through the fur, cast out the tickler,
whether it be flea, louse or ant.
SAFETY FAIRST.
TAXI-DRIVER: “Cripes, I can’t pull ’er
up!”
PASSENGER: “Weel, mon, stop the
meter.”
“Wingella”: Cloudy ammonia will
lessen the pain of stings from the
Portuguese man-o’-war. I have used
it when my kiddies got stung, and
found it to act more quickly than
anything else. Niggers scrub the stung
part with wet sand, and that will ease the
pain a trifle, but cloudy ammonia is better
than anything else I know. The weals made
by the Portuguese man-o’-war remain for
life, and are horribly disfiguring.
* . H* * *
“Old Timer”: “Neurone” (B. 15/8/’2B)
can’t know much about rabbits when .he
says that a fox can smell out the furless
kittens in a crowded warren. There never
are young ones in a crowded warren. Mrs.
Bunny, when her time is drawing near, goes
away and digs out a new burrow, lining it
with the softest grass. When the young are
born she covers all trace of the maternity
ward each time she leaves it. If she did
not dad would swoop on it and devour all the
kittens.
“Bad Australian”: The fox is undoubtedly
an artist at locating and digging out young
rabbits, but this does not prove that he has
a more acute sense of smell than the dog.
According to my observation he always gets
in his fine work on the ordinary shallow,
detached breeding burrows, or some equally
shallow branch of a big warren —never on
deep workings—and in any of these shallow
burrows the nest is easily located by sound
alone. I have often stalked and shot foxes
from the windward side, but I have always
found the dingo exceedingly difficult of
approach even with the wind in my favor.
Wherefore I conclude that the dog has a more
highly-developed sense of smell than the fox.
* * * *
“Up North”: The far northern Binghi
sheaths his firestick throughout the wet
season. The case is generally a hollowed
rush or bamboo decorated with a knob of
bees-wax thickly studded with crimson ber-
ries, the haft occasionally decorated with
tiny white cowries and tassels of the missus’s
hair. The witch doctor has the privilege
of adding a string of human teeth to his.
During the drizzle weeks this sheath is very
necessary, especially when travelling. But,
expert as they are in fire-making, abos. have
a lust for matches. Sometimes they will
sti'ike a whole box simply for the joy of
seeing them light. Mostly they pack the
vestas away singly in their greasy hair.
After an all-day tramp through misty rain
their chagrin on attempting to strike a light
at eventime is great. I saw an unfortunate
gin nearly beaten to death because, after
she had swum a river, the matches in her
hair refused to strike.
* * * *
“Soda”: As assistant to the medical officer
of the Anophyline Islands, I accompanied
him to a post-mortem three or four miles
away from the hospital. 'When we were well
on with the gruesome job we discovered that
the microscope was needed and we hadn’t
brought it. There was no one at the hospital
to w T hom to send a note, so I called up an
orderly boy and tried to convey into his
barbarous brain a description of the instru-
ment. I did most of the description with
my hands, there being no equivalent word
in Melanesian tongues, and raved about a
“little feller bockis he stop long cuhoardee
long housee belong botteli.”- The creature
seemed to think that I was making a joke,
and laughed. Then the doc. had a go. He
tried half a dozen ways; this was the last:
“This feller something he stop long red
bockis, him he brass, he gottim glass allasim
spyglass. This feller something he sitrong
medicini; s’pose boy gottim sick long blood,
me two feller dokitor catcliim blood, puttim
long inside this feller something, go lookim
long heye and little feller blood, oh he makim
big too much. Savvey now, you blithering
black idiot?” The coon didn’t, but laughed
louder and longer than before. “How on
earth is a man going to make that barbarian
understand that he wants a microscope?”
the doc. groaned. Our dullard suddenly
looked intelligent. “Me feller savvey micasco
all right, master,” he said. “You want ’im?”
The doc. almost threw a fit on the corpse.
❖ * *
“C.K.C.”: One of my best milkers has
slipped from the path of rectitude. She has
acquired a craving for nettles, with the
result that at every milking she comes home
or, as is more often the case, is brought home
in a staggering condition of drunkenness.
When approached she stands swaying, with
legs akimbo, leering horribly and dribbling
—utterly blithered. Urged along in the direc-
tion of the milking shed, rolling and heaving
with tongue well out, she is an object of
pity to some and the cause of mirth to others.
The other members of the herd feed right
alongside the drunken wretch. There are
no shrugging shoulders or raised eyebrows
as they pass her in the paddock, nor is there
any suggestion of social ostracism when she
is able to lurch her way into the yard.
During the five or six days that the jag has
lasted she hasn’t varied much in her yield,
and the last patch of nettles is nearly done,
so we hope for the best.
* * * *
“Shed Hand”: At certain times of the
year white ants swarm like bees, but under
different conditions. On the first real warm
afternoon after spring, wings develop on the
latest hatched termites within the space of
half an hour, and they pour out of minute
holes specially made in their crusted pas-
sages—by instinct they fly direct to the most
suitable timber crack to commence operations.
As sudden as their wings appear they drop
off again, and before sunset the new colony
is organised. For 16 successive years I
watched this happen in the Perth railway
goods-sheds. ,
* * * #
“Wild Dog” : Wild-pig hunting was sam-
pled by our shooting party recently up on
Toorilla Plains, north of Rockhampton
(0.Q.). We rode out on the swamps and
plains, and after lighting upon the pigs ran
them down until tired, when they were easily
caught. The suckers made good eating, but
the old sows and boars were terribly tough.
The last boar shot had hide two inches
thick on his left shoulder, enough to block a
bullet. This toughness develops from years
of fighting. I have seen two boars charge
each other with murderous intent, but their
tusks made little impression. These boars
are nasty customers, especially when slightly
wounded.
(Continued on Page 29.)
ZOOLOGICALLY SPEAKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I was ’alf a jerry when ’e blew in,
I ’ad an ideer what ’is lurk would be,
Vn’, spare me days, but I ’ad to grin
When ’e starts pitchin’ that plod to me.
E must ’ave thought that me eyes were
crook,
An’ ’e must ’ave reckoned a man was
green,
If I’d ’ave fallen for that. Now, look,
What sort of a goat would a man have
been?
I quick woke up to ’ow much ’e knew,
’E came a gutzer an’ no mistake,
An’ I bet it ’urt ’im, ’im thinkin’, too,
’E’d only to word me an’ it was jake.
Oh, ’e was sure ’e was on a win,
An’, lumme, I bet you ’e’s feelin’ sore
At the way it went, an’ I’m wonderin’
What sort of a lizard ’e took me for?
An’ it’ll show you, take it from me,
An’ I ain’t a feller that likes to spout,
But this is dinkum, a man can’t be
Too careful with spielers like ’im about.
Wouldn’t a feller be whippin’ the cat,
An’ wouldn’t ’e be in good fightin’ trim
If ’e’d ’ave come at a lurk like that,
And done ’is dough to a cow like ’im?
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Price Reductions Create
a National Sensation /
the leader in Beauty and Quality
A
0
PfjjWt.—'X*.,.
The new low prices just announced on the
perfected Whippet are causing a sensation in
every part of the country. The beauty of these
cars —the remarkable quality revealed in every
detail of construction and finish —are the subject
of the highest praise.
Maintaining the important mechanical advan-
tages which it introduced—and offering new
features of design Whippet sets a value
standard never before reached.
It still leads in its power—efficiency—economy
of operation—and smoothness. It is still ahead
in its development of BIG 4-wheel brakes, long,
semi-elliptic springs with snubbers, balloon
tyres, petrol tank at the rear. It goes still
further in offering fine coachwork, beautiful
new color harmonies and neW equipment.
Immediate delivery of the Whippet is available.
Come in and see it for yourself.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castiereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
WILLYS-OVERLAND FINE MOTOR CARS


SEND YOUR
SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE
CARSON
%
etr.
Top
Prices
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of skin make full values at
Winchcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
-Such a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d.... 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <6 Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
apu/u
Ik dfth Jk 4k A ill A
Y©
Comfort for the
RUPTURED
fg
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss, while
ensuring effec-
tive support, is
always com-
fortable, and
permits every freedom of
movement. Has a patent
water pad.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
WRITE FOR FREE
RUPTURE PAMPHLET.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 267 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Fred Rich”: On Richard Allen’s property
at Dean (Vic.) is a seven-year-old mare
whose twin was a colt. She has produced
three fine healthy foals. This seems to
settle the controversy as to whether such a
filly will breed.
* * * *
“Pick” : The evening gambolling of mother
fox and her family, often mistaken for play,
is in reality training for the youngsters.
Sniffing noisily along a trail and
urging the little fellows to
do the same, the vixen teaches
them scenting. When she squats
suddenly whimpering to the
pups to follow suit, she is teach-
ing them the art of escaping an
enemy’s vigilance: when she
flattens down to creep through
the tussocks, followed by her
crouching offspring, it is a
lesson on how to approach a
flock of feeding birds. By whirl-
ing and dodging among the
bracken she shows them methods
of escape, and worrying tufts of
grass is tuition in attack.
Stern and snapful discipline
is exercised during school hours,
and the fear displayed by the
pupils is proof that to them it is
not regarded as playtime.
“Gouger” : It’s a bustling morning in the
camp. The gins and elder boys, scurrying
away towards the big plain, are followed by
eager mongrels. The tribesmen remaining are
carefully deadening the smell of their bodies
with mud, balancing their spears, hooking
womeras, and indulging a last chew at a bone.
Then they, too, move swiftly off towards the
plain, spreading out as they walk into groups
that again divide into one long crescent line.
Behind many grass tufts the line hides. Pre-
sently from the distance comes the excited
barking of dogs. The huntsmen crouch lower,
some even beginning to tremble, their eyes
gleaming in the deep, shaggy sockets. Later,
a closer barking breaks out in many sharp
yaps, and the huntsmen know the boys are sig-
nalling that the game is drawing near. “Thud,”
“thud,” “thud” —a mob of big grey ’roos is
bounding straight for the centre of the line.
When within easy spear range three huntsmen
spring from the ground and yell hideously,
a long spear quivering in the womera. For a
, second, the startled ’roos sit back on their
tails and three spears fly for their marks.
The ’roos divide. Some bound towards the
right of tlie now continuously yelling men,
others to the left. But both to left and right
suddenly appear two more groups of three
spearsmen, and yells greet the now thoroughly
NOT BUILT FOR IT.
TIRED TIM: “Ain’t you got no work to do?”
IDLE IKEY: “Work? Wot d’you take me for? A norse?”
frightened ’roos. They bound frantically
along the line, but the further they go more
men magically appear ; more whizzing spears ;
a greater volume of yells. Panic stricken, the
survivors in scattered pairs bound straight
back the way they came. They arc met by
furious dogs and screaming boys and gins
rushing towards them, waving branches. The
’roos swerve around and bound straight back
in mad-eyed terror, to be met by a line
of men rapidly converging into a circle
with the boys, gins and dogs. Few break
through.
* * * *
“G.E.8.” : My brother and I were rounding
up wild cattle at the back of our Maoriland
farm, when a cow with a calf about three
days old broke her leg and had to be shot.
We meant to kill the calf also, but a stam-
pede took us away till nearly dark, when
the dogs failed to find the orphan. Feeling
pretty sick about leaving it to starve, we
had to return home. Six months later
we came upon that calf, pretty weedy
and rough-haired, but alive and kicking.. He
had evidently lived on soft fern tops and
punga fronds till he could nibble grass.
:i: * * *
“Megaderma”: “Toonooba’s” giant marsu-
pial remains in Ten Mile Creek (Q.) were
not the first found in the Rockhampton dis-
trict. At Marmor Quarry, 26 miles from
Rockhampton, in 1921 a carnassial tooth of
Thylacoleo carnifex, the “marsupial lion,”
was unearthed. In 1922 portions of a tooth
of Diprotodon australis were found, and at
the same time a large fossil kangaroo,
Macro pus anak , and a single vertebra of a
giant lizard allied to but far larger than
our goannas were dug up. In 1924 a frag-
ment of the upper jaw, with three teeth, of
Surcophilus laniarius, an extinct Queensland
relative of the Tasmanian devil, came to
light, whilst among discoveries in 1925 was
a molar tooth from the lower jaw of a
fossil “marsupial wolf.”
$ $ $ $
“Corso”: They were discussing strong
blows they had experienced. “One day last
summer,” said Lanky, “me an’ a mate ’ad
just finished paintin’ a weatherboard ’ouse
in Rock’ampton when it started to blow.
You mightn’t believe me, but it blew so ’ard
that all the paint was blowed off the ’ouse
on to the one nex’ door, an’ when the boss
came along ’e sacked us for paintin’ the
wrong ’ouse.”
A' A- :J:
“Atherton”: After all, man plods a long
way behind nature. Up north the thistles
fly away on sometimes unbelievable journeys,
and each aeronaut comes to earth in one of
the cutest parachutes imaginable, drops his
seed and carries on with the business of life.
There are also spiders in Cape York Penin-
sula -that sail away in flocks of scores of
thousands until the air resembles drifting
snow. These chaps build an exquisite silken
balloon in which to sail, anchoring to the
tops of trees as the mood seizes them. Many
plants send their seeds abroad in flying
vessels; some seeds have dinkum wings
attached. Other plants have a fancy for water
voyages and launch their embryos from river
banks to drift oceanwards in non-collapsible
and non-sinkable boats. Many are the clever
schemes to get the seeds planted in unoccu-
pied land, as far away from the parent as
possible. Some seeds are gummy and stick to
passing animals and birds, thus riding on
the cheap for great distances. No matter
where or by what method man has travelled,
the seeds of plants have shown the way
many thousands of years before.
“Bad Australian”: In the early days of
settlement in the Victorian hill country the
selector usually started by planting an acre
or two of corn and potatoes. As the beginner
always had work of more immediate urgency
to attend to than fencing, the plot was left
open to the depredations of wallabies, wom-
bats and the lesser vermin, until somebody
invented the kangaroo-dog fence. A wire was
stretched from tree to tree around the “pad-
dock,” each section being passed through one
of the links of a short chain; the chain was
then attached to the tyke’s collar, and that
section was in working order. As each dog
had a free run over the full length of his
section the “fence” put an effective stop to
the inroads of the vermin. The weak point
was that each panel had to be regularly sup-
plied with a ration of meat, and it wasn’t
always convenient for the selector to go
hunting wallabies or tearing wombats out of
the bowels of the earth to get it.
* ❖ *
“Botanist”: “Kooragai” (B. 8/8/’2B) is
wrong about the solitary grove of Fagus
moorei on the crest of the Macpherson Range.
This variety of beech is found all over
the Macpherson Range and on Barrington
Tops, above Dungog. It can be seen at Bald
Hills, near Ebor, all over Dorrigo scrubs
above Bellinger River, and at the head of
the Hastings, Macleay and Manning rivers.
-]• ❖ ❖ sis
“Homfrey Beale”: The last decade has
witnessed a great increase in the use of
porcupine flesh as an article of diet among
bush dwellers. In parts where it is to be
had it is now a fairly common item on
settlers’ tables, as also on those of boundary
riders and such like isolated bush workers,
while with swagmen, “spiky,” as he is affec-
tionately called by the tribe, is a great favor-
ite. Many of the opal gougers of Lightning
Ridge, where the little fellow abounds, graze
regularly off “porcumeat.” At one time there
was a prejudice against porcu. on account
of the anty flavor of its flesh, but the
resourceful folk of the bush soon discovered
that soaking all night in vinegar and water
with a teaspoonful of mustard removed
that drawback. We may yet see gaudily
decorated tins labelled “Prime Porcupine”
staring at us from grocers’ shelves.
'* * * *
“C.G.L.”: The Bulletin has many a
laugh at the newchum, but what about the
dinkum Aussie? At Dandenong one of them
was filling a powder-flask from a small tub
which, for convenience, he had between his
knees. He cheerfully smoked a cigarette while
he worked —and the explosive and liis face
went off together. After all, when it comes
to stupidity, no country has a monopoly.
DAVID’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cripes, ’e’s the limit, this ole man o’ mine!
I feel like peltin’ ’im with rotten spuds.
From dawn to dark I’m sweatin’; ’aven’t got
Even a decent suit o’ Sund’y duds.
“Git up an’ fetch them cows!” ’e yells at
me—
’E wasn’t up ’isself—l might ha’ been
A bloomin’ dorg ther way ’e stirs me round,
Or else a blinkin’ kid —an’ me nineteen!
What if ’e is me father? That don’t say
That ’e can treat me any’ow ’e likes.
I’m fair fed up with seein’ other coves
Go whizzin’ past me on their motor-bikes
Down on the road, where I bin ploughin’ up
That stumpy forty-acre by the barn.
I sometimes think I’ll play the proddy-gull
Dike the chap did in that ole Scripture
yarn.
But with a diff’renee. This ’ere proddy-gull
Would keep a-goin’ once ’e shook the dust;
’E wouldn’t see me crawlin’ ’ome agen.
No fatted calf a-bellerin’ fit t’ bust
Around the ’omestead would be kept fer me.
’E wouldn’t kill a fatted bandicoot!—
“Broke, with your tail between your legs, I
s’pose,”
’E’d say; “get back to graft, you lazy
loot.”
Yisterd’y mornin’ it rained ’eavens ’ard,
An’ ’ere’s me chasin Polly through the
scrub
At 6 a.m., an’ wringin’ wet an’ cold —
Aw, blime! I’m an ’umble wormy grub
To stand it! —an’ ’e meets me at the shed
’An’ sez, “We’d better milk before you
change”—
I nearly jambed me bucket on ’is ’ead.
I’m like a pore ole lame dorg with the
mange
Fer all the spirit that I shows. But what
In ’Ell’s the use? It’s no good ans’rin’
back.
I tried it wunst—’e bloomin’ near went mad ;
An’ Mum cried when ’e fetches me a
whack
With ’alf an ’andy six-foot junk o’ rail.
That finished me, to see mum’s face all
day.
I felt a crim’nal; laid down an’ ’owled
On the verandah when ’e’d burled away,
Stormin’, to round the sheep; an’, gentle-
like,
She comes to where I’m ’owlin’ out me
eyes—
An’ she was cryin’, too, me dear ole mum—
THE GO-GETTERS.
An’ strokes me with ’er ’and, an’ sort o’
sighs
So sad-like through ’er tears, “Oh, Davie
boy,
Don’t make it worse for us than what it is.
Don’t answer back, Dave; ’e can’t ’elp ’is
ways;
It’s ’ard on us, too; think of me an’ Liz.
“Try to put up with ’im fer my sake, Dave !
We couldn’t do without you, dear ole lad.”
An’ then she cried right out, an’ broke me up
Agen; yet I felt sort o’ proud an’ glad
For what she said. That’s why I ’aven’t
gone
An’ left ’im to it —them two battlin’ there.
Hard on ’em? Yes, it is—an’ ’ard on me!
Git up, Chance, Starlight, blow you—l
don’t care!
TASMANIA.
C. W. P.


Special
SAVIDGE VALVE LATHE.
• FEED SCREW FOR LATHE CUT
HIGH SPEED STEEL CUTTER
GROUND READY FOR USE
CLAMP VALVE STEM FIRMLV
a> . «... TURNING
SET CARRIAGE
turn in very
LIGHTLY TO
INCREASE CUT
COCKING NUT
THIS SCREW
THEN
TIGHTEN WITH
THIS SCREW
TURNING CRANK
Avoid the usual drudgery by using this Valve Lathe for your
Valves. It is self-centring and accurate.
Can be used on valves with 45 or 30 degree heads, up to
24 inches in diameter and with 7-16-inch stems.
Two features of this Lathe are its sturdiness and its simplicity.
Anyone can use it. Just slip in valve, turn the handle and
operate the feed screw as required.
Will save you pounds. PRICE 40/- each.
We also stock the Junior Valve Lathe for Ford Valves and other
valves, having 5-16-inch stems and heads of 45 degrees, up to
If inch in diameter.
This line is not illustrated, but is of the same rugged construc-
tion as that shown, only smaller. PRICE 16/6.
Both Lathes are designed 'to produce quick results and to avoid
tedious work.
RENRUT
TYRE
GAUGE.
df
10/6
A Tyre Pressure Gauge of outstanding quality.
Always dependable and accurate. Strongly made.
When fitted over the tyre valve the pressure is
shown on the dial. The hand is returned to zero
by pressing button A.
This Gauge is especially suitable for balloon tyres.
Price, 10/6; postage, 6d.
“KEYSTONE” RATCHET WRENCH KIT
mm®
HH
m»- e a«. 11 %t-4 ga
C/ ra eit y t; ;
: H
A Keystone “Soc-Kit” Wrench Set is one of the most useful
tools of this machine age. Not only motorists, but all house-
holders and farmers have daily use for it.
Keystone “Soc-liits” are made to withstand hard usage. All
sockets are made of case-hardened, heat-treated steel, for
accuracy and resistance to wear.
The compactness and fine appearance of these kits will appeal
to all.
The Ratchet Kit, as illustrated, is a particularly fine set.
Sockets made of case-hardened, heat-treated steel.
Eight socket sizes: 7-16, i, 9-16, f, 11-16, J, i, 15-16 in. and
screwdriver.
Ratchet Handle, 7in. drop forged steel, heat-treated pawl,
36deg. swing turns the nut.
Hexagon Handle, Bin. long, may be used with ratchet handle
as long adapter.
Channel top case, nickel-plated and highly polished. Price 8/6
postage.
Another handy kit (not illustrated) is the Keystone Box Kit.
Heavy gauge-pressed steel box, nickel-plated and highly polished.
Sockets made of case-hardened steel, heat treated.
Six socket sizes: 4, 9-16, |, 11-16, J, % in.
Handle, Jin. hexagon steel, 7in. long, attaches to socket with
spring and ball snap. Price 4/6 postage.
Proprietanj limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
582-592 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, Vic.
116-130 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE, S.A.
PETROL STORAGE OUTFIT.
:::
3C
_lB
JL
,?
)
JL
JL
&
JL
CL
‘M
\f * ; r :' V,
MAKE YOUR PETROL SAFE.
The illustration shows the better, safer method of storing it.
The “Macson” Petrol Storage Outfit is made for installation
in private, as well as in commercial, garages.
It is comprised of a strong, electrically-welded steel container,
to which a Semi-Rotary Pump, especially adapted for pumping
petrol, is connected by strong, suitable piping. A 10ft. length
of petrol hose with brass nozzle is supplied, also a
filler pipe. An air vent is fitted to the container.
The “Macson” Outfit can be placed wherever con-
venient, but probably the best place is underground,
outside the garage.
Here it is safer from fire and theft than when in
tins. Another advantage is the saving of space in
the garage.
Capacity 100 gals. 200 gals. 300 gals.
Price £15 £17/10/- £20
With this outfit you are enabled to buy petrol in
bulk and SO EFFECT A CONSIDERABLE SAVING
PER GALLON.
This saving will soon cover the initial cost. Call
or write for particulars.
(pieman
Quick-Lite
J-JERE’ S another new Coleman in-
vention—the Instant Lighting
Coleman Iron! You’ll like the way
this new iron Iights—INSTANTLY!
Just strike a match, turn a valve —
and it’s going right now! No more
pre-heating, no more generating with
methylated torches, no more burned
fingers from holding matches.
It is self-heating. Makes and burns its
own gas—use it anywhere, indoors or
out. It is perfectly balanced, weighs only
pounds—just right for easy ironing.
A guiding, gliding motion is all you need
—no bearing down necessary.
You’ll like the way this new iron works.
It is a double-pointed iron—gives you
the same wrinkle-proof results on both
forward and backward strokes. Regu-
lates instantly for light and heavy ironing.
You’ll like the hot point, which makes it
easy to iron the hard-to-get-at places—
pleats and tucks and around buttons and
hooks.
You’ll like the COOL BLUE HANDLE.
Price 45/-
53SVyInstant Lighting
Coleman iron
It.
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle
PATENTS PENDING
I
111
lIIIIIJ
LIGHT, HEAT AND COOK. THE COLEMAN WAY
gd
Coleman
Quick-Lite
Lamp
and
Lantern
fg
Coleman
Radiant
Heater
if
Coleman
Self-Heating Iron
df
Coleman
Air-O-Gas
Cook Stove
(oleman Quick-Life
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.


IP
V.
s ;
Y
Double-soled comfort
A restful, pliant Abbey Boot,
made on a special last that’s
hard to beat for easy-fitting
shape.
SOFT LINING Of leather
throughout. There’s no canvas
inside the boot. The flat seams
increase comfort.
DOUBLE UPPER The soft
leather lining makes a second
thickness for the upper, which is
cut to slope a little towards the
back, so that it fits better.
ARCHED LACING—Lies natur-
ally over the instep, ensuring a
neat fit without being tight.
3 WIDTHS—Narrow, medium
and wide fittings available in
each size.
POSTAL ORDERS*— State width
as well as size. Aslc also for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
40 -page Catalogue Post Free on Request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George fit. & 224 Pitt St.,
LBB . SYDNEY.
GET EVERY SKIN BY USING
THE QUICKEST POISON.
SAYASTRYC
STRYCHNINE
with the addition of another chemical
to make it quicker in its action.
IT IS CHEMICAL LIGHTNING.
aw
Drops Them Deadonthe
t MMtUfACIWtB ay SAYERS AILPORT PROP’ L'.53 MACQUARIE OJ
Post free to any part of Australia,
4/- per ounce.
GUARANTEE.
If Sayastryc does not please you better
than the best Crystal Strychnine we
will refund the 4/- for the ounce tried.
MANUFACTURED BY
SAYERS’ ALLFORT PTY., LTD.,
55 MACQUARIE STREET, SYDNEY.
GRIP YOUR HORSE
gd
THE PRINCE
POLEY
£l4/14/-
Complete.
SIGN HERE and I
Name
Address
Post this Ad.
with Wieneke’s
New Model
1928
PRINCE POLEY
The kneepads are set
higher up, but the
stirrup bars are free
for safety; in case of
an accident the
leathers will pull off.
Forty years' saddle-
making has made the
Wieneke world-
famous.
will send you my big book of
saddles and my experiences.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney.
432 Queen St., Brisbane.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — , think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attentk
GROCERS.
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE . . . . . . . . . . 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Jtnoic.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at .WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
5 WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney.
JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
LAUREL HILLS
SPLENDID MIXED FARMING LAND.
5,600 ACRES, FREEHOLD AND C.P.
Gilgandra District. Rainfall, 26 inches.
For Auction Sale on WEDNESDAY, 19th SEPTEMBER, 1928,
At the ROYAL EXCHANGE (Wool Sale Room), Sydney,
at 11.30 a.m.
Under instructions from MISS K. BOLGER.
Situated 26 miles from Gilgandra, adjoining Tooraweenah. Well Improved Land,
with 1,000 Acres of Growing Wheat. 400 acres of crop free of labor to Purchaser.
2,000 acres Freehold, 3,600 C.P., 1 1/- per acre due to Crown.
COUNTRY: Undulating country with box, pine, kurrajong, apple-tree and myall.
Enough Kurrajong to feed 6,000 sheep for 12 months.
IMPROVEMENTS: Permanent water, 2 equipped bores, springs and troughing,
tanks and dams. Good homestead, newly painted, and necessary outbuildings.
Water laid on. Night light, good garden and orchard, and 30 acres of newly-sown
lucerne. A big area suitable for maize, potatoes and lucerne. 3,000 acres have
been cultivated; 4,000 acres suitable for agriculture.
Boundary completely netted, mostly new netting, fenced into 22 paddocks, with
9 netted rabbit-proof subdivisions, fencing in good order.
TERMS: Half Cash, 10 p.c. deposit, 40 p.c. on completion, no payment for 4 years,
balance at end of the fourth year, bearing interest at 6£ p.c., payable half yearly.
The proposed Mendooran-Tooraweenah Railway has been authorised, and this will
bring the property right alongside rail when completed. There is a first-class road
to Coonabarabran and Gilgandra, now under the control of the Main Roads Board.
For Further Particulars, or Arrangements to Inspect, apply to the Selling Agents;
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED, SYDNEY,
and all Branches.
ing. I pick out next year’s paddock in the
spring, and after ploughing sow either rye or
oats. When the ears are just about to show I
plough all tdie crop down, having rolled it
previously. I leave the ground in the rough
state till the first weeds appear, then give
it a good harrowing in warm weather, and
work as the occasion arises. A good mellow
tilth results.
Using well-greened immature seed, well
shot, I plant each set 16 inches for early
varieties and ISin. apart for late ones, in
drills 21in. apart, along with 2 to 3 cwt.
super, and lewt. sulphate of ammonia. I
give two horse lioeings to keep weeds in
check, the first as soon as possible after the
potatoes are up and cannot be covered up.
The second may be given about two weeks
later. Hilling, which keeps tubers from
greening, should be done about three weeks
after the last horse hoeing—a little sooner
if possible.
The above treatment gives good yields and
fine quality in most if not all potato growing
districts in Vic., and should be successful
in like places in other States.
HOW TO GROW PARSNIPS.
“Hortus”: Parsnip seed is of a flimsy,
papery nature, rather difficult to have suc-
cess with. The trouble generally lies in not
giving the seeds a “wet start.” Leaf mould
is essential. Always have some handy ; it
is easy to sweep the old leaves up into
a heap and cover them with soil. Make
drills about one inch deep, and sprinkle this
leaf mould along the drills fairly thickly.
Then go along with a watering-can (without
the “rose” on) and soak this leaf mould
properly. Then place the seeds fairly
thickly on top of this wet mould and cover
them with some more leaf mould. Rake
level and soak well either with hose or
'watering-can (with “rose” on). Cover the
whole with a small layer of old horse
manure which lias been finely broken up.
The parsnips will begin to appear within a
fortnight and make quick growth.
NATIVE TREES.
“Mullarula”: The disappearance of native
trees would be checked if owners would fence
off narrow strips of their ground here and
there —and just leave them fenced off. The
seed is already in the ground awaiting a fire
to crack its hard outer shell and let the
moisture in, and it would be a simple matter
to run a fire through the dry grass which
would remain in enclosed spaces at times
when the surrounding areas were bare. The
worst enemies of seedling trees are the sheep,
which eat them off almost as soon as they
appear. The result of enclosure may be seen
in the dense forests of young trees between
railway fences in some districts where all
other seedlings have been eaten away by stock.
The resultant growth may consist of com-
mercially useless trees, but even a belt of
wattle-scrub has its value as a breakwind.
Of course it would be better still to plant
the same sti-ips with trees which would grow
into money.
One thing is certain. Wind, fire and other
agencies are surely, and not always slowly,
wiping out the shelter and shade-trees left by
the ringbarkers, and if the stock won’t allow
seedlings to take their places, big areas of
our pastoral country must, in time, become
treeless wastes.
HATCHING TURKEY EGGS.
“Bronze”: Contrary to the advice of the
N.S.W. State poultry expert, turkey eggs
hatch well in incubators if proper condi-
tions are observed. The temperature re-
quired is at least one degree lower than for
fowl eggs. The thermometer should never
read more than 102 degrees F. until the eggs
begin to chip, when it may go up a degree.
Fill the moisture trays when the eggs have
been in a week, and take them out just before
the hatch takes place. Cool the eggs and
allow ventilation in the usual way.
A broody fowl will cover about eight turkey
eggs. If a turkey is required to sit, take
away each egg from the nest as it is laid,
leaving one so that the hen will go back
to it. Store the eggs until she has finished
laying and goes broody, when the clutch
should be replaced under her. If this is
done, all the chicks will hatch out at the
same time, and there will be no risk that
some will be left in the nest. Remember
that turkey eggs take 28 days to hatch.
BUILDING UP A WEAKENED HIVE.
“Pick”: After taking a bush bee’s nest
when only a small lot is collected from the
smash of the fallen tree, Or when a home
hive has been depleted by lack of food or
winter dwindling, assistance must be given,
or the swarm will peter out. Under the best
conditions any small colony of bees placed
in new quarters cannot survive without help.
It takes six weeks for them to build combs
and rear young bees, and before the end of
that period the wings of the workers will
have frayed, and they will have abandoned
the hive to die, leaving a solitary queen
alone wandering amongst the combs. The
expert apiarist therefore comes to the aid
of his dwindled swarms. He gives them two
or three frames of well-advanced brood comb
from his stronger hives. With the young
bees in their charge the swarm will never
attempt to leave the hive, and in a few days
they will have young workers to replenish
the daily loss of the old fellows.
MOUNTING GRINDSTONES.
“E.W.11.”: I mounted a 2ft. stone, weight
3051 b., absolutely plumb and true by the
following easy method : I screwed one flange
on the axle, then placed the axle vertically,
using a builder’s level, in a vyce; next lifted
the wheel into position on the axle, i.e., in a
horizontal position, and supported by the
flange. The wheel was thus at right angles
to the vertical axle. It was then an, easy
matter (with a rule) to move the wheel
—horizontally, of course—until the axle was
in the centre of the hole —a square hole, as
usual. Next I poured in molten lead (the
flange held the lead on the underneath sur-
face). The wheel ran perfectly true.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Silentio”: Keep a small tin of dry bran
before the chicks in the brooder run, and
bowel trouble will be reduced to a minimum.
“Silentio”: If setting duck eggs in an
incubator, remember that they require far
more moisture than hen eggs, as the skin
inside the shell is very thick. Better to
use a hen; or get in touch with the makers
of the incubator for instructions.
“Tuan”: A solution consisting of loz.
arsenate of soda, 4oz. of sugar and 1 gallon
of water will destroy flies. Place in dishes,
preferably rusty ones, about sheds, milk
bails, etc., but out of reach of chickens and
animals, as it is poisonous. After milking
sprinkle a little of the solution wherever
milk has fallen on the floors or in the stalls.
“Brady’s Lookout”: “Mullarula” (B.
25/7/’2B) recommends river-oak for bullock
ypkes. Poplar is first-rate, too. It dries
out as light as cork, and, unlike its cousin,
the willow, never warps. It will stand any
amount of work. Here, in Tasmania, any
bit of poplar stick stuck in the earth will
grow into a tree, so long as the soil is deep
and damp, often reaching a height of 80
or 90 feet with a diameter of 2ft. or more;
so there is no trouble to get sizeable timber
to work.
“Edward S.” : It’s the bays, browns and
blacks that make the best hacks. The
chestnuts are the out-and-out rogues and
jibs; the greys are the quietest to catch and
the biggest jibs of all. For a good quiet
puller and hack, give me a bay; but blacks
and browns make the best walkers.
“Slushlight”: Most buslimen make it a
practice of giving their dogs the soapy water
they wash in, reckoning it keeps the tyke
free from diseases. Dogs that are used to
it prefer it to clean water.. Can there be
anything in the notion?
“Wrash”: When a bush fire has been
through, burning logs or stumps threaten a
renewal of the trouble with the first breeze.
Most of the water is wasted if a full bucket
is swilled upon the fire, and the log may
kindle fiercely again before a return can be
made from the creek or well. So let your
mate bring more water while, with a bunch
of foliage well wetted, you sprinkle out the
blaze. Keep on until steam ceases to arise.
“Mei” : “Dan Drewe” asks for information
about the disease known as “knotty guts.”
It is caused by the nodule worm, probably an
importation from America; sheep in that
country are more seriously affected than
Australian flocks. Old sheep are most often
troubled. The worm is about seven-tenths of
an inch long ; but it is not the adult that
causes the pus-filled nodules on the walls of
the bowels, but its embryo. Treatment con-
sists of a change of feed, plenty of salt, and
a tonic lick. Twenty grains of sulphate of
iron as a daily dose is helpful. But if your
sheep are off color, don't worry about the
nodule worm until yon have looked for
ordinary stomach worms. Nodule worms are
often present, but it is seldom they do any
harm
“Fangaloli” : To check a “puller” or run-
away use a bit with four rings, two loose,
two fixed. Put a strap across the nose and
fastened at each end to the loose ring. Attach
the ordinary reins to the fixed rings. When
both reins are pulled the loose rings slide
along the bit, squeezing the nose and lower
jaw; when one only of the reins is pulled
there is no unusual effect, and as soon as
the strain is relaxed from .reins the loose
rings return to the outer ends of the bit.
There should be a thin strap from the nose-
band to the forehead-band. This arrange-
ment will stop any horse in a few yards.
• “W.D.S.” : On breaking in a young horse,
particularly a saddle horse, to save having
to yard or hobble him after lie has been
handled, get a strap the form of a bell
strap—one made from an old motor-tyre is
the best and cheapest—put that round his
neck, hang about 2ft. Gin. or 3ft. of a light
trace or plough chain in the strap, and let
him go with that. If he wants to have a
run when you go to catch him let him have
a good one; he won’t want much. lie will
soon see he can’t get away from the chain
and will stop and let you catch him.
“Sylvester”: The pig wants plenty of
shade in his run, especially in warm locali-
ties. Plant in it a few of the fruit-trees that
do well in your district, protecting the barrels
while young. Dennis will turn to good use
what fruit you do not want yourself.
“Emel”: I Stet some eggs on March 8,
and for a fortnight the hen behaved beauti-
fully. Then she became unsettled, and finally
I had to shut her in to prevent her abandon-
ing the eggs. Even then she was very
careless about covering all the eggs. It
was not until the 23rd day that the first
chick arx-ived. After that they appeared at
the rate of one per day until on the 29th
day the last of the batch chipped the shell.
Is this a record?
“Slushlight”: Someone is asking if
horses have to acquire a taste for sugar.
“Nearly all horses liave to acquire a taste
for anything but their natural tucker. Most
busli-bred prads, used to living on grass
and saltbush, will turn their noses up at
oaten or wlieaten chaff the first time they
see it. But once they take to it they will
always go for it, even after running out in
the paddocks for months.
“Neurone” : “Ephebus,’ who questions that
fruit feeding. lowers the egg cheque, can’t
make generalisations on his experience with
a couple of dozen hens. Ask any poultry
breeder who deals with hundreds. There can
be onlv one answer.
“P>ud-G.”: “Sox” (B. l/8/’2B) mustn’t
run away with the idea that lambs are
exempt from fox attacks if they are tar-
marked on the rump. I’ve seen scores of
freshly-marked lambs killed,
“Taliune”: An unusual example of fecun-
dity was shown by a Richmond (Tas.) ewe
which recently gave birth to five lambs. It
was labor in vain, as none of them lived.
“J. 8.”: Re the discussion between “P.M”
and “Paul C.” as to causes of variation in
cream test, there are 10 of them: Smooth
or other running of separator, cleaning of
separator, volume of milk inflow, speed,
temperature of milk, condition of milk, rich-
ness of cream, richness of milk separated,
amount of water or skim milk used to flusli
bowl, and position of cream screw.


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
Army Climb
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
c
%
#
Mtk
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
What puzzles us about these razor gang-
sters is where they get razors that will cut.
* *
Some girls cry “Help!” when they really
mean “Help yourself.”
* #
Aldermanic sins are apparently more of
commission than omission.
LIKED HERS FRESH.
ELDERLY CONVALESCENT PIRATE: “How about
a date with you, little chick?”
LITTLE CHICK: “Nothing doing, old Gig;
I don’t like preserved fruit.”
What Australia seems to need at the
moment is an athlete or two who can take
the limn out of Olympic.
It seems nowadays that a man is no
sooner settled down in matrimony than he
has to settle up in alimony.
* *
“The airmen,” says the Sydney Sun,
“will then continue lying from Egypt to
India.” That must be nearly a record, even
for airmen.
It is reported that Gene Tunney is en-
gaged to be married, and has had his last
fight. What an optimist!
* *
“The early Egyptian had alarm-clocks,”
says a professor. If the clocks were anything
like the one we have the Egyptians mightn’t
have been so early.
* *
A tribe of New Guinea natives has re-
quested permission from the Government to
pay taxes. It’s time a mission was sent to
civilise those chaps.
Douglas Fairbanks is reported to have
said that he makes less than one picture a
year nowadays because he cannot find any
stories worth filming. But that does not
appear to have handicapped him in the past.
Complexion like roses,
Her hair titian hue,
Those lips, red as rubies —
A face fair to view,
So gracefully framed,
In a chic little hat —-
But Heavens! her figure!
She couldn't buy that.'
TO-DAY’S GREAT THOUGHT.
Always remember that on a Friday, espec-
ially if it falls on the thirteenth of the
month, it is unlucky to pass under a racing
train.
* ¥
In mythology Mars is the god of war. In
homeology they play the same rCle.
Recent newspaper complaints that Aus-
tralians are losing their sporting spirit seem
to be justified. At a country football match
the other day a policeman arrested two
players who were fighting without being once
kicked.
* *
By the look of some of our girls’ dresses,
dressmakers’ net profits must be pretty large.
* *
The bore we have with us always.
* *
Every man suffers from his wife’s com-
plaints.
* *
“The man Shakspeare was a broker,”
says the Age. He certainly supplied the
world with a long list of stock quotations.
Mr. Bruce has said that any dash fool
may become a member of Parliament. Of
course they may; what we object to is that
so many do.
* ¥
“Going to Mrs. Divorcee’s wedding on
Saturday?” “No, I can’t. I’ve promised to
attend Mrs. Flighty’s Decree Absolute party
that night!”
* *
“None but the brave deserve the 1011'" —
Mere words! But the fellow who said ’em
IF as right, for no doubt he was quite aware
What heroes the men are who wed ’em.
* *
It is easy enough to make money by
writing—-if you have generous relations to
write to.
¥ *
A missionary schoolmaster who has been
22 years in New Guinea had never seen
motion pictures before he was recently
visited by the Administrator. Latest advices
report that the schoolmaster was last seen
heading for the unexplored interior.
* *
Argus heading: “A Great Race of
Mothers.” Evidently an account of a
bargain-sale marathon in Bourke-street.
i ¥ *
You can lead men into Parliament, but
you cannot make them think.
* *
A woman’s mind is something she uses to
guess with.
JUNIOR HOWLERS.
Crematorium is Latin for a butter factory.
Unlike other places, water is surrounded
by Venice.
Technology is the science of discovering
crime. •
A vicar’s wife is called a vixen.
A testator is a special seed spud.
Caddies are little cads.
When the cat’s away—Ethel’s young man
comes in at the front door.
Any woman will look before she leaps—
if there’s a mirror handy.
Love sometimes makes a fool of a man;
marriage often makes a man of a fool.
* *
Smith: “Who’s that man who always walks
along with his hand behind his back.
Brown: “Oh, he used to be a city coun-
cillor.”
* *
Widows, at any rate, cannot be accused
of always looking out for number one.
# ¥
Your own time means money; the boss’s
money means time. ,
A CATCH IN THAT, TOO.
FATHER O’FLYNN: “You don’t seem to have a thought
for anything but motoring. Why don’t you put
your wife before your car sometimes?”
MOTORIST: “My word, that’s a good idea. But no — I’m
scared of being found out!”
Nearly every married man looks forward
to his wife going away for his holiday.
* ¥
I met Muldoon this morning,
He said that in the night
A burglar entered, and his wife
Was speechless from the fright.
Since then she hasn’t spoken —•
I really must inquire
If any city agents
Let burglars out on hire.
n.s.w. Troy.
* *
A writer in the S. M. Herald, referring
to recent Sydney City Council exposures,
says that “civic confidence has been shaken.”
Well, why should they make an exception
of that?
* *
Many a family skeleton has been created
by modern woman’s effort to retain a good
figure.
# *
There is no one more conscientious than
a smuggler; he always believes that duty
must be done.
* *
THE WEAKER SEX.
A wisp of a dress and a tiny hat
And stockings quite awfully thin
Were all that she wore, and her feet isere
clad.
In scraps of a lizard skin.
She called at his office one wintry day,
Her husband she wished to scold,
“I’ve brought in your scarf, you must wear
it, dear,
Or you’re sure to catch a cold!’’
n.s.w. Doric.
* v
FROM A GENTLEMAN’S DIARY.
June 4.—Finished “The Emerald Pin.”
Private detective solves mystery. No fee
mentioned.
June 5. —Read “Gritted Teeth.” Private
detective confounds criminals and charges
no fee.
June 6. —Have finished “The Poisoned
Prune.” Private detective sees through vil-
lain in a flash. Charges no fee.
June 7. —Lost my watch. Very valuable.
Cost grandfather two pounds ten. Must
visit private detective.
June S. —Called on P.D. Strange man
with rheumatics from being out in the park
all night on business. Asked funny ques-
tions about the wife, and assured me “strange
pyjamas were the only real clue.” Wasn’t
a' bit like the private detectives I’d known
before. i
July 2S. —Found watch in coal-scuttle arid
bill in letter-box: “Dr. to Rising Sun Detec-
tive Agency, £lO 10s. 6d.”
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY TALE.
“No, sir,” said the paper-boy; “there’s
no last-race editions this evenin’ —an’ no
tragedee, either!”
¥ *
It is reported that many good air pilots
are lost through marriage; their wives in-
duce them to seek other callings. Marriage
usually does bring a man down to earth.
* *
It’s not only the fish that is scaled by
the fishmonger.
“Marloo”: The Dingo
Flat Dramatic Society was
staging a thriller. The
curate hero was allowed to
change one of his lines, “My
God. I’m shot!” to “My
goodness, I’m shot!” On the
night of the performance a
bold, bad nark plugged a
few ripe raspberries down
the barrel of the pistol.
When the villain fired the
shot the curate clasped his
hands to his breast and
bleated, "My goodness, I’m
shot!” Then, seeing and
feeling the redness, he ex-
claimed, “My God, I am
shot!”
* *
A cricket writer says that
the English and Australian
Test teams appear to be well
matched on paper. No doubt
this refers to their prowess
as newspaper correspondents
and cricket- article writers.
But the Australians will feel
the loss of Maiiey, who was
a cartoonist as well.
* *
Melbourne doctors are
puzzled by the strange case
of an angler who persists
with the story that the fish
that got away last Satur-
day was so small that he
would have thrown it back
anyway.
A move may be made in
Sydney shortly to prevent
women flat-dwellers from
drying their clothes on the roofs. We under-
stand that a large order has already been
placed for the necessary microscopes.
A new clock is to be installed on one of
the Sydney wharves. We suggest it should
be one that doesn’t strike.
* *
A NEW SEX PLAY.
When we realise that Mr. Tosh has writ-
ten 241 plays (one of which has been pro-
duced) we can understand the audacity of
his latest, “Bedroom Slippers,” a particu-
larly nasty sex play, produced at the Hot
Dog last night. We hesitate to describe the
excessively nauseating scene which caused
four people to leave their seats —in order to
move into better ones. Still, we have a
duty to all decent-thinking people in the com-
munity.
The man on the stage asks the lady if
she has any bedroom slippers. She pro-
UNSCATHED.
NICE OLD LADY (to collector for Diggers'
band): “I suppose you were in some
fierce engagements in France?”
DIGGER: “Only one. But she broke it off in
writing, so she had nothing on me.”
duces them and, pointing to the left one
remarks, “Isn’t she a dear'?” He repliea
pointing to the right one, “Yes, I like him*
awfully.” The two slippers, thus admitted
to be of different sex, are then placed under
a couch and left there together all night.
The disgusting affair is drawing packed
houses.
THE LIVELY CITY.
“Accused of being drunk whilst in charge of
a motor-car and having injured a passenger in a
collision with a cable-tram, a Melbourne man said,
‘The tram must have swerved towards me.’ ”
The town I live in’s strange and wild;
With vital flame its bricks are filled;
I’ve played with lamp-posts like a child,
By savage shops been nearly killed;
And I’ve met houses, late at night,
That blocked my path and wished to fight.
Towards the closing of the day
Its edifices start to lurch,
Or jump with joy—to fight and play.
One moonlit night a drink-crazed church
Rushed at me with an angry roar,
And chased me nearly to my aow.
Another night a dancing street
En-ringed me in a silly game.
The shops skipped round on dancing feet;
I had—my modest soul a-flame —
To kiss a fish-shop on its pane
Ere they %could let me go again.
The trams are full of silly pranks;
When I would board, they leap away
To make me fall. I joined the ranks
Of motorists to dodge their play.
But it is all no good! Alas,
They siverve and bite me as I pass!
N.S.W.
HAMER.
THE SPECIALIST.
The bots had found the old man's mare,
The best in either hemisphere.
We saw that Dad teas in despair,
And tried our best to stem his fear.
We heard the vet. was called afar,
Yet thought that it teas best to see;
So Dave got in the motor-car,
And drove it madly westerly.
But when he brought a■ half-sprung bloke
We sensed a great calamity;
And Dad, quite hoarse with anger, spoke:
“The silly cow; why, damn it, he
Has brought some drunken blob! Of course _
Of brains he hasn’t got any!”
“This man,” spoke Dave, “will cure the
horse —
He’s written books on botany.”
QUEENSLAND.
SYLVERSTER.


Modem application
and its
th
l A.
**
s>*&*
<&*■#* y*
&■ v * ~ K ° v° v ~ O K«
i : i
• '\£ VCO'
3t& ~J> '
o V % ' > v v s^
\° > . .Vv 6
• V
v^ v ’ rSN
„^ e ' V o^ 1 Y v ‘' <P*
4 ///>>
&p
fll 1
<l‘
\\ '^ V
A \P h'* <* <& KV C
e< \P C ° e^ - &*
V vS <k 'P VV , N.^
' <*°%* V v*
<#* <* <
fc*
. f V^.o^ V .
K°
&
&
■\S
Sv
A
«
\P
?C3-_- '
L? rr Z- ***** i
\\foZ3i'MM
'j£-ri«Lgo»n«
ft--* /
.V^
V
v
PRICE
BIkRY
>Sf
nOiHunt
•J
ins
fj
o sr mg » oo'TLro-4r=:
=§§9!oerai DiSTimfttQJES
» I t.i’rmrJ
of us would like to see Australia in the position of “the
goat.” Yet some Australians are being deluded daily by
prejudicial propaganda directed against Australian-made goods.
They are told, or it is hinted to them that “the imported is
better.”
What a fallacy this is !
Take Old Court Whisky for example. Surely the non-acceptance of our £l,OOO
Challenge clearly establishes its purity. Frankly, in face of the employment of the
most modern methods of distilling, plus the use of Australia’s incomparable raw
material, it is impossible to disprove it.
It is not only pure, but mellowed and matured by years of patient “ ageing in the
wood.”
There are Australians who haven’t yet tried Old Court Whisky. They have
been persuaded that some other brand is better.
Last year Australia lost £1,875,000 by drinking imported whisky.
This, to say the least of it, is looking into a well of national disaster. Keep out
of it! Rely on your own judgment! Try the test of taste and prove to your own
lasting satisfaction that Old Court is incomparable.
♦
£/lic Voiicfc Purest


Africa
Land of mystery, of strange peoples,
of many perils, of trackless deserts,
of dense bush and tangled jungle, of
broad rivers and black, treacherous
swamps—a tremendous testing ground
for motor car endurance and depend-
ability .
y. *
.■• SSSKhI m
v ' - giFN -
.ft,
j
I HU
HI
m 9LA
ISP 1 r
*** ; #
11®
llii v
W 1
VJ
es II
A
CABLE
tells of
01
tures in motorir
Town to Cam
\
“CHEVROLET EXPEI
ALL WAY BY ROAI
MENT OF ITS Kit
EXCELLENT MECHi
CONFIDENCE IN W
Never has a cal
or more difficd
a greater tribu
ability of Chevi
Touring Mode
Sports Roadste
1
Warranted for On
MELBOURNE —Lane’s Motors I
BRISBANE —Metropolitan Mote
PERTH—>
GENE


est Africa
iOLET
ts Stamina
from Africa briefly and graphically
me of the most dramatic adven-
tig history—a journey from Cape
». The cable reads---
:[TION REACHED CAIRO FROM CAPE AUG. 6th.
I—NO BOATS NO RAIL. GREATEST ACHIEVE-
UIN AUTOMOTIVE HISTORY. SEDAN AND TRUCK
UICAL CONDITION. CHEV. HAS JUSTIFIED
>RLD’S BLACKEST JOURNEY.”
faced a more arduous, dangerous
journey. Never has there been
le to the world-known depend-
olet.
£205 The Standard Roadster, £205
£226 The Two-door Sedan, £285
e Four-door Sedan, £315
Year Buy from Your Local Dealer
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:—
r B -, Ltd., Exhibition St. SYDNEY J. McGrath, Ltd., Elizabeth St.
Ltd., Adelaide St. ADELAIDE—Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Franklin St.
upper Bailey Motors, Ltd., 900 Hay Street.
AL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA)
PTY. LTD.
I
rrsk,
r
j£
It
* ■- :
■ i&mHK*
y -> P :
*<V. FliL&Sr „
*%* >* »"Fii; .•-•},, &.*■,* •*
jsl|i * /f sv " 'M’ ;
” -4 >’ - *
•■■ »«*w» H’V,.
pf , % i* ja
HHt ’ /.vi,- 1 % ' ' ?
/ a
\w&- I . '
r#
/
%
—«d
Ik
ttL
■
Mi
m
Mjf *3l
: .
\j igr*
M &*, -M
Or-
a
&
■
I:
■
S’
*■
■
■
■
■
1
■
m
■
ill
m
I i :
«
J
m
»
mm
m
f
m
m
.
m
f.
:f
:»
#;f
is
■
jjflp ' 1
, *#* : I ’
! '
a
var
Si
9
IKK
•• f ': ■ '■" v
W m<mmk
i
H
■
: **
• : :
(A
m
mm
m
«SR
■
Hi
... -^
L
I
: -
m


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests,
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
P,ed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
‘7/s Quality Never Changes. 99
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
FAME!!
ON merit alone I was selected to supply the
White Trousers for the visiting West Indies
Cricket Team in 1923. In 1926 the Australians
were wearing clothes made by me; also the
New Zealanders in 1927. The West Indian
team playing in Britain this year are wearing
kit exclusively supplied by me.
These celebrated teams are naturally fastidi-
ous over the cut and quality of their clothes.
Are you?
I have been in business now for 25 years and
my Australian clientele is growing rapidly, as
are the number of repeat orders I receive.
The cloth I use is made by the most reputable
manufacturers from the finest Australian Tops.
The cutters I employ are “live” men with
wide experience of British and Colonial tailor-
ing, and the clothes they make are guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
My prices are based on cash payments only,
Lounge Suits, for instance, costing from 7
to 10 guineas.
W. G. JENNINGS,
119 Newgate Street, London, E.C.I.
Poverty
Point
G.S. : One Henry Strubb was sentenced
to hard labor for life at Cairns recently.
According to the evidence “lie pointed a
pistol at liis brother-in-law and said: ‘Taste
tins and face death.’ Then he pulled the
Uigger, but there was no report.” It re-
minded me, in all respects, of the most
painful theatrical 'contretemps at. which I
have ever assisted. Cole, “The Bohemian,”
who used to play lead in all his horrodramas
wearing a velvet coat, drew a pistol in his
capacity of avenging hero, and levelling it
at one of the undesirable characters, thun-
dered, “For that remark you taste death.”
He pulled the trigger, but nothing hap-
pened. After a pause the other fell to the
stage with a resourceful cry of, “God! I’m
poisoned!” and the play proceeded. Fully
five, minutes passed, and then, as Cole was
dallying with the heroine, the pistol, which
he had replaced in a holster at his side, went
off with an appalling roar. Nothing done by
the comic man that evening produced such
an effect on an already overwrought audi-
ence.
“Goldilocks” ; Bert Bailey has lost, count of
the number of times he has played “On Our
Selection,” but he keeps a rough tally in
thousands, and knows he has exceeded three
of them. It is 16 years since he first pro-
duced Steele Rudd’s play at the Sydney Pal-
ace, but when the piece bobbed up again at
the Newtown Majestic the other 3ay five of
the original players were still in the cast —
Queenie Sefton, Bert himself, Fred McDon-
ald, Lennon and Driscoll.
“Cmsar’s Ghost”: The interval habit at
the theatres, always an affliction, has been
intensified by the grand operators. In Syd-
ney between two of the acts of “Manon” an
interval of 25 minutes was actually
announced in the programme, but it was
made longer. The necessity of a big scenery
change was given as a reason, but, after
about 10 minutes had passed, I saw one of
the mechanics taking the air in the lane at
the side of the theatre. He didn’t like my
badinage about the go-slow policy among
stage-hands. “We’re finished all right,” he
said. “It’s these blanky I-talians; they won’t
come out of their dressing-rooms until they’ve
had a smoke and some coffee.” But the
opera people are not the only offenders.
Knowing one g.o. interval would be at least
20 minutes, I popped across to the Palace to
try to catch portion of an act. A dreary
interval was in progress there, too.
“O. Kay”; As “Cauboy” states (B.
22/8/’2S) Izobel Duncan is the first Aus-
tralian woman to play Hamlet, but Australia
has known more than one lady Hamlet. Rose
Evans was the first, at the Melbourne Royal,
in November, 1872. Ten years later, at the
same theatre, Louise Pomeroy, another
American, wore the sombre trousers. Then
followed Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, an English-
woman, who appeared in Melbourne early
this century. Ursula Faucit, who boasts
a blue theatrical family-tree, was another
fair Hamlet, and I think there have been
others.
“D.”; One of those despicable creatures
who are ever eager to interfere with the
healthful enjoyment of our young folks came
to me to-day with the whining complaint
that “certain U.S. films reek of vulgarity and
eroticism.” My simple yet smashing reply
was to hand him a Sydney evening paper
advertising the screen activities of Clara
Bow. He read two extracts;.—
Elinor Glyn created this spicy romance of the
modern flapper for bewitching Clara Bow. You re-
member “Three Weeks”—you say “It”- —but you
don’t know a thing about love until you look this
one over. The “It” Girl—with a dimple on each
knee—will have you head over heels as she struts
her stuff in the niftiest bathing suit since Eve
handed Adam the apple.
“Boy! Does she step—and how! Just a sweet
little manicurist who likes pretty things—the girl
who has “it” and a red-hair personality, leading a
host of admirers around by their coat-tails, and
they like it! —Speed—The throttle’s wide open!
You just can’t miss this one! ‘
“Can you find anything like that in Shaks-
peare?” I inquired. He slunk off without
replying, sick with envy, or shame or some-
palpably sick.
“Goldilocks”: If I had one, I would feel
inclined to lift my hat to Allan Wilkie for
his plucky adventuring. His pioneering in the
Sydney suburbs with a large and expensive
company has a touch of heroism about it, and
deserves the success it has achieved. Now
he is going to do a new bit of pioneering;
after finishing his present suburban tour he
intends visiting Canberra for a short season
in the middle of September.
“Santander” ; The Firm’s next production,
“The Desert Song,” will bring to local notice
“MADAME BUTTERFLY” BY THE WILLI AM SON-MELBA COMPANY.
The Marriage Broker (Luigi Cilia ) fixes final details for the marriage of Butterfly
(Hina Spani ) and Lt. Pinkerton (Browning Mummery). Consul Sharpless
(Emilio Chirardini) in attendance.
the smiling countenance of Herbert Mundin,
an English comedian who has figured exten-
sively in Andre Chariot’s revues. Mundin,
who was formerly a wireless operator in
the Royal Navy, whirled about with a concert
party at Boulogne just after the Armistice.
Whilst doing a turn with a small organisa-
tion at Eastbourne he was noticed by Char-
iot, who was on a visit to the village, and he
was given a London engagement. Since
then both his eyes have been bulging with a
fine forward gaze towards larger and larger
contracts.
“Santander”; Muriel Starr is to return to
the Firm’s banner in a production of “The
Donovan Affair,’’ written by Owen Davis,
the Nat Gould of the American stage. Davisc
who has been penning vigorously for 30
years, has composed so many tripes of the
calibre of his admitted masterpiece, “Nellie,
the Beautiful Cloak Model,” that he would
be hard put to remember all of them. Two
or three years ago he was afflicted with an
ambition to leave a reputation behind him,
so he set to and brought out a drama en-
titled “Ice Bound.” It was a frost, packed
with cliches of thought and situation; but
some uplifting quality about it caught the
notice of the committee governing the awards
of the Pulitzer Prize and Davis duly re-
ceived the cash. He was paralysed by the
honor, and even now cannot speak of it
without blushing to the roots of his intel-
lect.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Phyllis McDon-
ald is well on the way to acknowledgment as
one of Australia’s most serious contributions
to the musical world. Towards the close of
last year she and three other women students
of the Royal Academy set themselves the task
of playing the whole of Haydn’s 83 string
quartets. In the Duke’s Hall of the Academy
the other day they successfully concluded
critical audience who were lavish in their
congratulations on the hitherto unperformed
feat.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : “Spread
Eagle,” the new drama by two American
journalists, George S. Brooks and Walter S.
Lister, is drawing overflowing audiences to
the New Theatre. Critics and public accept
it as a powerful argument against war ; the
dramatists are not reticent over the means
used to provoke international strife. The
scene is laid in America, Uncle Sam’s coun-
try being put in the part which the Allies
assigned to Germany, while Mexico corres-
ponds to Servia. It is mentioned as evi-
dence of American toleration that the drama
made a great hit in the States and that the
playwrights still hold their jobs. The chief
argument is that nations go to war only at
the call of powerful interests, but that a
sentimental excuse is always found in order
to incite men to do the fighting.
“Kelby” : It has taken theatrical manage-
ments a long time to recognise that it pays
to have the whole house booked, but at least
one has wakened up to the fact at last. The
manager of the Southend-on-Sea Hippodrome
lias actually advertised that seats booked in
advance would be cheaper than those bought
at the door. A little bit different from the
Firm’s extra charges for booked seats!
“Vraidex”: Real shooting on the stage?
In a Rockhampton vaudeville show the vil-
lain in a comedy sketch shot his wife. She
fell, and the curtain came down; then she
joined in the dance and chorus of the finale.
Half-way through she was forced to go off,
as blood was beginning to stain her frock.
A wad of hard material was found lodged in
a wound in her breast.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Marie Tempest and
Graham Browne have projected all the ele-
ments needed for a long run into a farcical
comedy, “Passing Brompton-road,” by Jevan
Brandon Thomas, son of the benevolent play-
wright who gave so much laughter to the
world with his “Charlie’s Aunt.” Marie
Tempest’s treatment of the frothy trifle,
which differed entirely from the author’s
original idea, convulsed the Criterion audi-
ence at the premiere the other night, and
now there is heavy advanced booking. The
absurd story turns on a socially ambitious
but blameless wife who conceives the idea
°f getting into the Divorce Court as a means
°f entree to the most exclusive set.
“L.H.P.” : The wreck of the Dunbar at
Sydney Heads in 1856 inspired two dramas,
Dampier wrote one called “The Wreck of
the Dunbar” and produced it at the old Syd-
ney Standard in ISB7. The other was
Edmund Duggan’s “The Southern Cross,”
produced in 1907 at the Sydney Criterion,
Neither was a money-spinner,
“L. de R.”: Malvern (Vic.) is probably
unique in Australian suburbs in having a
fully-manned symphony orchestra fit to fiddle
and blow it with the best city organisations,
it has over 80 performers, and conductor
Mallinson keeps its repertoire up to a pretty
i o f ty standard. It is only a year old, and
hasn’t yet invaded the city nearer than the
Playhouse, but it has Town Hall ambitions,
It SCO red top marks at Ballarat last com-
petitions
.._ . , , ,
Cauboy : If Melbourne music-lovers had
kept their sons and daughters away from
“Hit the Deck” there might have been a re-
turn opera season. As it is the success of
that tripey American adaptation has decided
the Firm not to risk interrupting the flow
of gold by bringing opera back to His
Majesty’s. There will be no season in Adel-
aide either, and for that the Churchv citv
can kick its politicians. The new additional
State amusement tax, plus the Federal tax,
brings the revenue deductions up to 25 p.c.,
and the tender-hearted Firm says it would
hate to ask a price that would make a visit
profitable.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Towsend Whitling, of
the Percy Hutchison co., is making his third
visit to these parts, and claims that by this
time he can almost class himsfelf as an Aus-
tralian actor. His first appearance here
was with Ethel Irving in 1911; he was also
with “The Farmer’s Wife” a couple of years
ago. The stage gathers a remarkable num-
ber of recruits from the pulpit and the army,
and Whitling has a derivation from both;
his father was a parson, and he himself was
trained to wear a Sam Browne. His wife is
Violet Ley, who is also almost Australian.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Daniel Mayer, who in-
troduced Melba in Britain and America, has
taken his final curtain. Melba was only
one of the musical stars whose business
he looked after. His career started 41 years
ago, when he introduced “the remarkable
boy pianist,” Josef Hofmann, still the doyen
of all pianists. Belle Cole was a subse-
quent venture. Mayer visited Australasia
personally with Misclia Levitzki.
“Hamfat” : Lew Parks, who has been long
enough publicity merchant for the Fullers
to be regarded as a fixture, is pushing out
on his own account with his brother Hal,
equally well known as the chap in charge
of the front of the house. They have a fist-
ful of enterprises in hand—at present they
are running a suburban circuit with “Up-
in Mabel’s Room” and “Spooks,” and the
Sydney Conservatorium will be requisitioned
for some of their ventures. Among other
things they have signed up for the rights of
a play by Dr. Mary Stopes, who has decided
that the stage is the best place from which
to argue.
“I Phelps”: The Firm is talking of an-
other large revival of “Rose Marie,” with
Phil Smith this time in the part of Hard-
boiled Herman. The original Herman, Fred-
erick Bentley, who has since returned to
Britain, created something of a record in
this country by doing the part continuously
for 102 weeks with only two absences, due
to /an overworked larynx. Bentley’s spidery
figure gave an air of joyous juvenility to
his performance, though he is well up among
the veterans and can’t now see 45 without
a telescope.
“Ida Lot” : There is more money in man-
agement than in acting, even star-of-the-first-
magnitude acting. Augustus Harris (“Dru-
riolanus”) left £23,000; Rupert D’Oyly
Carte, £240,000; Sir Charles Wyndham,
£197,000; Sir Herbert Tree, £44,000; Sir
Henry Irving, £20,000; Sir George Alexan-
der, £90,000; Sir Edward Moss, £200,000;
and Frank Curzon £170,000. Most actors
leave the noughts only.
“Lud”: Although he described himself
as a “dinner-jacket comedian,” Sir Gerald
du Maurier, the recognised leader of the
London stage, rather damped the spirits of
an audience of theatrical people recently.
“In my opinion,” said he, “the literal art
of the theatre mo longer exists on the Lon-
don stage. The reason is that we have not
any very big men in my profession.” He
was right, too. The days of the big a'ctor-
managements have passed. Most of the
West End theatres are now run by city
speculators. And a nice mess they’ve made
of things.
“The Tramp”; Auckland (M.L.) must
easily take pride of place as the most over-
seated (theatrically speaking) city south of
the line. With a population of less than
200,000 (city and suburbs) it has 45
theatres and pictures-lialls, most of them
open nightly. How they all live is a mys-
t n rv. cud v-’t egret'll seems to be plentiful,
for more are mooted.
“Lud” : Australia’s old acquaintance Mor-
ton Selten, one of the best of light comedians
when he appeared here with the Marie de
Grey company, is still going strong in Lon-
don. He is now associated with Harry
Cohen—also well known in these parts—in
a new production under the latter’s direc-
tion at the Ambassadors. In this piece
(“Tell Me the Truth,” a farcical comedy by
Leslie Howard) the■ evergreen Selten is the
indispensable familv solicitor, and he is
highly commended by critics for a clever and
“slyly-humorous” performance.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: It was out of “Rob-
bery Under Arms” that Alfred Dampier
built his home in Grosvenor-street, Waverley.
He wrote what he called the “Alfred Dam-
pier version” in collaboration with Garnet
Walch, which meant that Walch did the
writing and Dampier adapted his script for
use on the stage. A couple of years after the
play had made its Australian appearance
(1894) it was produced at the Princess
Theatre, London; but there was not much
about that apart from the satisfaction of
a Fog City appearance. Garnet Walch, inci-
dentally, wrote a number of plays that did
fairly well in Australia, and the “Head Over
Heels” which was produced at the Adelphi
in London in 1923 by Seymour Hicks had
a distinct resemblance to Walch’s corned \
of the same name.
BALLADE OF a BEL AD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The marriage of Signorina Toti dal Monte and
■j.iFnnJl Jinzo , de Mur ° Lomanti attracted a crowd of
00,000 people.”
Artists and singers, all of you who crave —
vr , 11( * wfiich of you does not? —publicity,
-'lakers of mirth and eke tragedians grave,
| > rv ’ 1 ] 1 !g in embryo or potential Tree,
Budding Bernhardt and Jenny Lind to be,
■’'mu l • * n le P a tfi °f Clara treading,
Thespians, in short, of high or low degree,
ne word : No other ad. can touch" a wedding.
" * n opera you trill the stave
J hat Melba witched with at her apogee,
Or emulate _ the notes Caruso gave
A wond ring world and found therein the
key
rn To deathless fame and stacks of £ s. d.
1 he shortest route to butter for the spreading
And yards of eulogistic notice, free,
Is furnished by a fashionable wedding.
W hat though the movie sheiks and stars
behave
As though there were a better recipe
In severing domestic ties that they’ve
Found uncongenial after two or three
Aears (or it may be months) o’ matri-
m’ny,
earn thereby a double-column heading
That screams and yammers in a louder
key,
The most seductive ad. remains a wedding.
Envoy.
Stage pets who bathe the world in smiles
of glee
Or set impressionable persons shedding
Involuntary tears, take it from me:
There’s nothing knocks your public like a
wedding.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


m
■
JS
%v <
'
v§ itp*^
AMERICAS
FAMOUS
GIRL
ORCHESTRA
Comprised of 20 beauti-
ful American University-
Girls, all accomplished
instrumentalists, now
appearing at the Tivoli
Theatre, Melbourne.
“I consider Rexona Soap
a boon to the Skin■ and Hair.''
—M is s MARGTJERITA'
LIGHTI.
“7 am simply
delighted with
Rexona Soap —
‘Absolutely
lovely!’ is how
T would describe
it for the Shin
and H ai r.”
—Miss MINA
SMITH.
“I consider Rexona Soap
stands alone as a Skin and
II a, i r bcautifier" —M is s
BEBE COLBY.
“I find that Rexona Soap is
by far the best Shampoo for the
hair. It is delightful to use,
and excellent for the shin.” —•
Miss PEGGY O'JStEIL.
“We are all
Rexona Girls, and
use only Rexona
Soap—to hi c h is
simply delightful
for the Skin and
Hair,” “THE
INGENUES.”
tide afiCc<cna Soap
Qndwied {Beauty tie Skin unci Mull
That natural beauty of skin and hair which
cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular
use of Rexona Skm Facial Soap. Ordinary
toilet soaps do not assert this influence. Many
of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry
the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even
the best of such soaps can only cleanse—they
cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, heal-
ing, antiseptic balms as Rexona, the Rapid
Healer; the value of which in the treatment
of skin affections is known throughout the
world. Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap regularly once or twice a day and see if it
does not quickly soothe and cleanse the. pores,
lessen the tendency to pimples and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
i
m
v&
tse ftrftu !
Ic)e ©airtty!
If)c y[ttpactwe!
l/)e <3/ f?exom
m
m
m
'Rexona
c "for ffealth
and^eauty
Ilhli !i
m
>h
/a
%
AU'J
f £
!//.://7a
V®
!C
Sft?
o*
m
**
w
7//
'77
'//
///
///,
fg


Queensland’s Furnishing
Headquarters.
Minimi
(JOHN HICKS €r COMPANY LTD.)
u ritxco
GEORGE STREET
AT CORNER OF ANN ST.
BR 1 S BANE ...jiHii
WIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU
IF YOU CAN
“COME AND SEE”
All we provide of Home Furnishings and Comforts
IF YOU CANNOT COME TO US
Ask us to give you the fullest of information.
Our Catalogue is yours for the askjng.
We are Manufacturers.
Retailers of Everything for the Home.
Our Prices and Values are Worth While.
Our Terms are just what you require.
Your Enquiries will be Appreciated .
JOHN HICKS k COMPANY LIMITED
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
PLEASE MENTION “THE BULLETIN!
UNDEFEATED
PERFORMANCE!
122 STATIONS
dg
C.C.M. 3 Valve
Set
122 Stations have been received,
including KGO, California, India,
New Zealand, and Manila., by Mr.
A. McLaren, Toowoomba, on a
C.C.M. Three Valve Set.
Price Complete £l9-10-0
Terms arranged
C.C.M. 5 VALVE SET
“ THE OPINION OF EXPERTS ”
“ With reference to the C.C.M. Five Valve De Luxe, we wish to advise
you how pleased we are with same.
“ The production is REMARKABLE, and the volume of all Australian
Stations is WONDERFUL.
“ We were surprised at the beautiful finish and workmanship of the
cabinet, the simplicity of controls, and the neatness of the interior.
“ We have been testing Wireless Sets in the North for the last two
years, and have at last secured a suitable set for long distance
reception.”
Messrs. B. HILLMAN & CO., Flinders St., Townsville.
Price Complete £33-7-6 Jf™ g ed
C.C.M. Ampliphone
The very latest electrical device for supplying magnification of Gramo-
phone Records. Has volume and clarity to fill Theatres, Dance Halls,
Schoolrooms, etc.
Read this opinion:—
Pier Pavilion, Southport, 16/S/1928.
“We wish to express our appreciation of the Electrical Ampliphone which you
installed at the above theatre. The Ampliphone gives both our pictures and
dances the music of the world’s finest orchestras. Patrons of this theatre are
delighted with the innovation.”
SOUTHPORT GOLF RECREATIONS LTD.
The Three and Five Valve Sets, also Ampliphone, are manufactured
in our own Technical Department.
Burgess Batteries—the world’s famous Dry Cell
Phillips Valves and Radio Accessories
Emmco Radio Accessories
Canada Cycle and Motor Agency (Q.) Ltd.
Adelaide & Creek Streets, Brisbane
Nobody ever made anything
GOOD YET—BUT THAT SOME-
BODY COULD MAKE IT WORSE
—AND— SELL IT FOR LESS !
NISSEN’S SELL GOOD GOODS
GUARANTEED
20 YEARS.
£5
Ladies’ Fashionable, Solid 9ct. Gold Wrist Watches, as illustrated, fitted
with “F. W. Nissen’s Special” 15 Ruby Jewelled Lever Movement,
possessing all the latest improvements, including interchangeable parts. We
Guarantee these Levers for 20 years, and keep them in repair for the
first twelve months (breakages excepted). Wonderful value at £5.
In
Sterling
Silver
701
ye*®
rprj
GO
In
10 Year
Gold-Filled
70 1-
“F. W. Nissen’s Special”
Wrist Watch for Gentle-
men, 15 Ruby Jewelled
Lever Movement. Guar-
anteed 20 years, and
kept in repair for the
first I 2 months. (Break-
ages excepted.)
9ct. GOLD.
£6/10
Strong Cushion Shape
Case, Luminous Figures
and Hands, and good
stout Suede Wrist Strap.
Never pass over an
opportunity to secure
something good. You
have it now.
“WHERE QUALITY DWELLS.”
F. W. NISSEN
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER & WATCHMAKER,
NISSEN’S BUILDINGS,
216-218 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
“The Biltpark” ,
—the World’s Economy Collar—is
Two Semi-Soft Collars in One!
THE Biltpark is reversible. It is exactly the same on
both sides. It is the only double-sided collar made.
By the simple process of turning it over it may be worn
twice at the one washing which means that the life of
the “Biltpark” is twice as long as that of the ordinary
semi-soft collar. The fabric of the “Biltpark” is specially
woven and the famous patented “neck curve” is fashioned
into the collar, which makes it “sit” well on the neck
without sagging. The “Biltpark” is exclusive to Rothwells
Outfitting, Ltd.
A COMPARISON:
Reverse side of ordinary
semi-soft collar.
Reverse side of the
“Biltpark.”
Sizes 13| to 18.
Price 2/6 each.
POST FREE.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
EDWARD STREET BRISBANE


ffsuou
ml ft
Cooling-Re freshing
Appcfism^-M^orati^
of oil 5
At all Hotels
'///'/.
BULIMBA
I
I
aSJE
Product of Queensland Brewery IF Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
THERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
ITS majestic fiords and sounds, its uncanny thermal
wonders never fail to impress the keenest and most
critical observer. Its trout and deep-sea fishing, its
deer-stalking and native game provide the best of sport.
EW ' ZEALAND is reached by palatial steamers,
N EW Z
and cared for by those whose duty it is to see that
he has a good time. He is taken care of from the time
he sets foot on shore until he steps on board his
steamer at the conclusion of his tour.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to be seen
The COST involved
application to the
may be had on
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Booked.
Tours Planned.
Pot and Palette.
“Eureka”: Another use for The Bulle-
tin’s pink cover. Once when I was many
miles from nowhere I had occasion to develop
some photographic negatives, and with a
piece of candle, a broken beer bottle and the
pink cover of a Bulletin I made a good
dark-room lamp. While the films were fixing
I amused myself reading the illuminator.
“Royal”: Speaking of odd journalistic
announcements (B. 15/8/’2B), the queerest
I have seen appeared in each of the few
issues of a paper published, at somewhat
irregular intervals, at Port Lincoln (S.A.)
some years ago. The title, printed in ornate
capitals, was the West Coast Weekly, fol-
lowed, in smaller type, by “Published Fort-
nightly.”
“Sempronius”: Melbourne Argus has at
last succumbed to the spell of che pitchers,
and brought out a “Saturday Camera Supple-
ment” for the benefit of young moderns who
are trained to have no time for reading.
It is significant that the first page of the
first number was devoted to a girl’s head in-
scribed, “An American Beauty,” followed
by a photo of three little niggers eating-
water-melon !
“N.X.”: The pen of Jack McLaren is not
being allowed to rest in the London fogs.
He has revised his first large travel-book,
“My Odyssey,” and it is being re-issued by
Renn, who has bought McLaren’s agreement
from Cape. A new novel is expected in a
month or two full of birds-of-paradise
plumes and other inaccessibles. The new
“My Odyssey” Avill have a preface by the
Londoner Thomas Burke.
“Hamer”: Probably the oldest newspaper
association, outside the venerable John
•Gale’s attachment to his Queanbeyan sheet,
was celebrated when Steve Sullivan was
feted by the staff of the Wagga (N.S.W.)
VANCE PALMER, author of “Men Are
Human,” the third prize in The
Bulletin Story Competition. Mr.
Palmer is a prolific writer, and contri-
butes largely to American magazines.
The judges report that “Men Are
Human” ranks very high as a serial.
It will be published in The Bulletin
within the next few months.
Daily Advertiser on his 81st birthday.
Sullivan joined the Advertiser —it was far
from being a daily then, and he was most
of its staff —60 years ago, and later became
owner. He kept actively at work on the
journal until his sight failed; and he still
takes an interest in the business.
“Coot”: Victoria’s Public Library recently
acquired copies of No. 4 and No. 5 of
Melbourne’s first newspaper, the Mel-
bourne Advertiser, issued in manuscript by
John Pasco Fawkner in 1838. Nine num-
bers in all were handwritten, and the
library’s set of these is now complete.
George Colville (Fine Arts, Melbourne)
advertises in a diversity of manners 44
attempts at a multitude of subjects and a
variety of problems. What is lacking in
all but a few is a quiet sober study of
values. Orthodox composition won’t pull a
picture together if the planes are awry. The
best of the lot is No. 17, a picture of an
agreeable miss sitting on a bench waiting
for the artist to finish her dress.
“Kewpie”: M.L.’s newest literary effort
commences under a better star than most, for
it owns the services of C. A. Marris, ex-
editor of the Christchurch Sun and defunct
N.Z. Times. It is to be known as Art in
New Zealand, and the first issue is due in
September. Associated with the A.N.Z., which
will probably be a quarterly, are Harry
Tombs, artist, and John Cam Duncan, whose
art criticism, cooked at Rotorua, is known
all over the Dominion. Auckland promises
to let loose another weekly soon. It will he
known as the Upper Story.
“Ike Hollar”: For 18 months I worked
under Tom Heney without any closer
personal touch than a passing nod, or
an occasional appreciative memo. Later,
after I had left the Herald, a contributed
article on “Go Slow” caused him to send for
me. There had been a lot of vague talk
about the 1.W.W., but there was no general
knowledge of what it stood for; the revela-
tion of a definite plan to make capitalism un-
profitable by smashing or crippling the mach-
inery of production shocked Heney to the soul.
He asked for proofs that the statements were
correct, and in due course the Herald gave out
the first precise information of the I.W.W. in-
tentions. Whenever we met subsequently
Heney used to make some such remark as
“That was a very terrible revelation :
or “What you said was only too terribly true !”
I often wondered if he allowed other news
he handled to prey equally on his gentle
mind.
A touch of J. J. Hilder and Eliotli Gruner
combines with an individuality of his own
in R. W. Sturgess’s pictures shown at
Farmer’s Gallery. The Victorian artist’s
first Sydney appearance should win him a
host of friends, for the work shows a delight-
ful appreciation of beauty and a sure and
sincere craftsmanship. The Gruneresque
“Evening Light” is a song sung in paint to
soothe the spirit: “Ploughing On the Up-
lands” is strongly done, with a simple nobility
of conception, and “From My Studio Win-
dow” is another delightful thing. A refresh-
ing show, altogether.
“Sobk”: One erudite review of “The
Ghosts of Menin Gate” didn’t get printed
when that picture was on view in Perth.
The contributor of it to a local paper writes
a villainous fist, and the lino, man into
whose hands the screed came, after decipher-
ing the words “psychic” and “ectoplasm,”
and concluding that the word “phenomena”
was “pneumonia,” decided that the heading
was “The Glionl of Meningitis”—and duly
rendered it as such. By the time a reader
had spotted the tragedy it was too late
to do anything except cut the article out and
insert an uninspired par. to the effect that
the picture had arrived and was on view.
“R.J.R.” : “Bent Pin” is wrong when he
states that the Hobart Town Gazette was
Tassy’s first newspaper (B. 15/8/’2B). The
Derwent Star and Van Diemen’s Land
Intelligencer, published fortnightly, ap-
peared in 1810. The Van Diemen’s Land
Gazette followed in 1814. Andrew Bent came
along with the Hobart Town Gazette in
1816. Andrew Bent, son of the aforementioned,
may have been Melbourne’s first compositor.
Fawkner’s handpress was brought from the
Speck; a supply of type came with it, but
the comp, engaged failed to turn up. A youth
of 18 with a little knowledge of the trade came
to Fawkner’s assistance. If this young man
was Andrew Bent, who served 50 years with
the Geelong Advertiser (which appeared
in 1840) and later ran a newspaper in
Windsor (N.S.W.), he must have lived to
a ripe old age.
Another exposition of the Fantod School
of Art is thrown on the walls of the Mac-
quarie Gallery, Bligh-street, Sydney, in some
samples of the work of Roland Wakelin.
A “Self Portrait,” although the artist is
satisfied with a hand of painted wood, is
(expressive enough; a companion picture
is “The Painter’s Family,” a kitchen, visioned
in a nightmare of mangled perspective and
furnished, amongst other things, with a
Noah’s Arkish cat looking indignant at being
expected to live in such surroundings. An-
other view shows an “Interior,” which may
be the artist’s sitting-room; and although
it contains a settee which no self-respecting
furniture-maker would own, this is a less
nightmarish exhibit, and the same may be
said of a figure study (No. 31) which has a
certain liveliness, and might be recommended
if the artist had finished it. “Mockbell’s,”
in addition to its atmosphere, has a runner
of matting which twists lop-sided]y on the
general principle, and there is a good reason
why artists should hate Suburbia if “Subur-
ban Houses” is what they see there.
“Carmelite”: The S. M. Herald rule that
no one over 40 shall be engaged for its liter-
ary staff is surely one of the most touching
instances on record of the admiration of
age for youth. It is also a fine example of
a self-denying ordinance. If it had been
adopted by other papers in the past five years
or so, nearly all the greatest journalists in
the world would be unemployed. Dean Inge
was over 65 when he went to London Even-
ing Standard, and at once gained it an
immense new circle of readers. Arnold Ben-
nett was just on 60 when he contracted to dis-
cuss literature and review books for the
same paper at an enormous salary. Edgar
Wallace became the sporting expert of an-
other evening paper at 52. The incompar-
able Wells is 62, and Lloyd George is 65.
Churchill and Birkenhead are in their fifties:
on the, other hand, Shaw, the brightest,
youngest journalist of them all, mentally
speaking, is over 70. There is not a leader-
writer on the London Times under 50, and
the two greatest writer-editors in France
(men who could transfer to almost any Paris
paper at their own price) are over 60.
“Whitehall”: The Daily Express, which,
according to a cable, is now publishing in
Glasgow as well as in London and Man-
chester, and which has increased its one and
a half million circulation by 350,000 in a
year, looks like out-distancing the Daily
Mail before long. The brains and energy
of the great Beaverbrook papers—the Ex-
press, Sunday Express and Evening
Standard —are chosen, directed and typified
by Ralph Blumenfeld, an American of He-
brew extraction, and perhaps the greatest
managing editor in the world. In his own
sphere he has the powers of a Mussolini; his
employer, Beaverbrook, has said so. His
papers have only two policies. The first
is to be different from the Rotliermere press—
to justify what their rivals oppose, as far
as is practicable, and to criticise what the
other side advocates. The second is to
engage the best and most popular writers re-
gardless of expense. The Rothermere press
lias no artist to set against Low; no special
writer to set against Dean Inge ; no literary
critic to set against Arnold Bennett; no
gossip-expert to set against Lord Castlerosse.
The Mail has been driven, of late, into the
fatal position of following where the Ex-
press leads. When the Express got Castle-
rosse—a wit and a seasoned man-about-town
who has done everything, been everywhere,
and 1 met everybody of interest to readers of
papers like the Express —the Mail could
only respond with Lady Eleanor Smith, a
pretty society girl who has not long emerged
from flapperdom. The Mail might as well
have matched her against the stout Irish
viscount at golf—at which he is a scratch
player.
LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has become a habit,
O Katharine Susannah!
I’m still an “also-ran-er”
Who never won a tanner.
In disconcerting manner
You will rush in and nab it!
Yes, it is simply habit,
O Katharine Susannah !
N.S.w.
MOUNTAIN GOAT.


j. m :i\
b
i¥Hiy
Atwater Kent Prices.
Six- and Seven-Valve,
One-dial Atwater Kent
Receivers, £25/10/- to
£37/10/- without valves
or equipment. Radio
Speakers, £3/15/-,
£4/10/- and £B/15/- '
LL that makes radio pleasant to
hear, all that adds certainty
and ease to the selection of
programs, is built into Atwater Kent
Radio. Compact, but not cramped,
all crudities refined, it is a perfected
instrument. Adjustments are reduced
to the absolute minimum. Effectively
shielded against dust and dampness,
staunchly built for long service, Atwater
Kent Radio is a lifetime set.
We ask you to hear Atwater Kent
Radio. Test its natural tone, let your
finger-tips prove the uncanny sureness
of its FULL-VISION Dial selection.
Thrill, as millions have thrilled, to its
unhampered range and power. This is
the ultimate in present-day radio.
There is an Atwater Kent dealer near
you who will show and explain. Visit
him or write this Melbourne address for
full facts and prices.
3
K
V
;
r
MODEL E RADIO SPEAKER.
New method of cone sus-
pension, found in no other
speaker. Makes certain the
faithful reproduction of the
entire range of musical tones.
In attractive color combina-
tions.
MODEL 35.
Battery operated. Powerful,
six-valve, FULL-VISION Dial
Receiver, with Shielded Cabinet.
Ideal for small table, window-
sill or bookshelf.
Inserted by Atwater Kent Manufacturing Company, Phila-
delphia, Penn., U.S.A., on behalf of Australian Dealers.
Atwater Kent, Wholesale Distributors for Australia.
A. G. HEALING LTD.
MELBOURNE - - - - - SYDNEY ADELAIDE
Dealers Established Everywhere.
,1
ltl.’J e re^a^ e
/ fttre 6 ”
.*»* - vU
iS< j>(J,l
>°-
iA»r
',,«ss»T s ,
«**■s*»"
ss s


Illii
When ii\ Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BENT BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. f 2
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Car and Cycle
“Wallaby”: A Vauxhall six-cylinder
20/60-h.p. car has finished a very thorough
all-round reliability test. After some 12,000
miles’ travelling in South Africa and the
Balkans, it was taken back to England.
There it was run up and down a stretch of
rough and scrubby hill country off the roads,
and finally tipped over a high embankment,
the petrol having been turned off in case of
fire. It turned two somersaults and landed
on its wheels, after which it was driven off.
The windscreen and two mudguards were
broken and bent, but doors and windows
worked properly, while radiator, bonnet,
wheels and steering gear were in first-class
order.
* * * *
“Richmond”: Sydney Bicycle and Motor
Club held some “grass hill” races at Pro-
spect recently—the first of their kind in Aus-
tralia, it was claimed, though there were
some in Melbourne three or four years ago.
Competitors—drivers only—had to “go for
their lives” uphill over the natural ground
off the road. F. A. Paarle’s supercharged
Bugatti made the fastest time, 26 2-ssec. A
30/98-h.p. Vauxhall, driven by R. Moore,
did the climb in 31 2-ssec. The cars were
not classified, but handicapped on prelimi-
nary time trials. They raced in pairs, and
the winners met again until the last pair
fought it out in the final.
* * * *
“Patch”: It was 40 years the other day
since John Boyd Dunlop applied for his first
pneumatic-tyre patent. The story of how the
invention was evolved to still the complaints
of his young son about the inconveniences
of riding a hard-tyred bike over the cobbled
streets of Belfast is known the world over.
The invention revolutionised cycling and
road transport, and made the motor-car a
practicable proposition. It lias done hardly
less for the aeroplane, since the rubber pneu-
matic tyre to absorb the shock of landing
has been a very important factor in the
success of these comparatively frail craft.
* * * *
“Garry”: When Gottfried Daimler in-
vented the first practicable internal com-
bustion motor he started a revolution in fast
transport methods that isn’t yet revving up
to full velocity. Before he came into the
field the railway locomotive, capable on level
tracks of covering a mile a minute, was the
world’s standard of speed. That still re-
mains the locomotive standard, but auto-
mobiles have cut the record down to a mile
in 17 seconds, and aeroplanes have covered
the distance in 12 seconds. Yet it’s less
than 35 years since the first motor vehicle
chugged along a highway, less than 26 since
the first engined aeroplane carried a man
into the air, and an even 20 since A. V.
Roe made the first flight in Britain. He
flew 75 feet, at an altitude of 2 feet, and,
to use his own words, he had “an exhilarat-
ing feeling of conquest.” And he wouldn't
have succeeded even to that small extent had
not he been lent a French-made eight-cylin-
der motor developing 24 h.p. that had alu-
minium cylinder-heads and weighed only
981 b unique in its day.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Brisbane Motor-cycle Club is
ambitious of striking a new note in Aus-
tralian track-racing; it plans to stage a
100-miles handicap race some time in Octo-
ber. The old Deagon racecourse, near Sand-
gate, which is now used as a grass motor-
cycle track, will be the convincing ground.
In a race of this length it is difficult for the
spectators to tell who is leading after a
few rounds have been reeled off, so the club
intends to instal a huge blackboard on which
the story will be written as it is run. The
affair should be a great test for men and
machines.
¥ «l» »I* ¥
“Sprocket”: A couple of long-standing
road records for the push-bike have been
cracked by N. 11. Madden, a Sydney ama-
teur rider, the distances being 50 and 100
miles. The full course was from Mt. Vic-
toria to Croydon (N.S.W.), and in spite of
a head wind most of the way Madden averaged
191 m.p.h. for the full journey; his time for
the first 50 miles was 2hr. 15min. 33 2-ssec.,
averaging 221 m.p.h. This knocked 32min.
55 3-ssec. off the old record, made by Gavin
Park in Victoria in 1900. The 100 miles
took shr. Bmin. 37 2-ssec., breaking Park’s
figures by 49min. 51 3-ssec.
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: The visit of the Stanford
University baseballers has made it clear
that an American coach will have to be en-
gaged if the necessary improvement in Aus-
BUSINESS IS BUSINESS.
TED: “He is a shark! I borrowed a hundred from, him and he charged fifty per cent.
in the winter and sixty in the summer.”
T OM: “Why sixty in the summer?”
TED: “He said the days were longer.”
tralian form is to be effected. Now, as in
the days of the late Frank Laver and Billy
Ingleton, the best Aussie side would have
Buckley’s chance against any U.S. team of
fourth-rate calibre, for the very rudiments of
combined play—a feature of the young Cali-
fornians’ game—are unknown here. The
trouble is that baseball coaches are expensive
persons, and Australian baseball organisa-
tions are not rich. Still, in circumstances
equally difficult Union Rugby football has
come back, and the removal of the Sydney
Cricket Ground embargo on all winter sports
except League Rugby should help.
“The Gaffer”: The mills of the manage-
ment of professional pedestrianism grind ex-
ceeding slow these days. Last season a
Maoriland ped. was discovered to be run-
ning in someone else’s name at Stawell. He
was prosecuted for obtaining money under
false pretences; and now, after so many
months, the Vic. Athletic League has ordered
him on the ice for life. Of course that won’t
matter much—there’ll be small difficulty about
getting fresh papers or running as a novice
in remote parts of N.S.W. if he wants to
begin again. But it irritates me to think
that the poor young man has been waiting
all these months to find out what the heads
were going to hand him —what the beak did
is all in the game. In the good old days we
didn’t deny justice for long to any man.
I’ve seen a ringer from the South spotted
and passed out for a year at Charters
Towers and winning a Sheffield at Cairns
the same month, after a neAv set of briefs
and a clean shave.
#*. * *
“Market Street” : A test case of interest
to dead-game sports was decided in Sydney
the other day, when a billiard-room keeper
was charged with playing the game of Mur-
rumbidgee. As the world in general knows,
this consists in throwing a pool marble from
the basket to each player,. he having first
deposited his stake in the kitty. The holder
of the highest numbered marble (16) collects
the kitty less the commission to the master of
ceremonies. In this instance, the table was
decorated with the wooden pegs used in
playing devil’s pool, a legitimate game of skill
in which the drawing of a numbered marble
is a necessary preliminary. Defendant pleaded
that his clients were just about to take part
in a game of “devil” and were receiving their
marbles when the Narks came in. The magis-
trate, admitting that this was possible, gave
him the benefit of the doubt. After this
“devil” should become more popular than
ever in circles where a cheap little flutter
which calls for no skill in any of the partici-
pants—save, perhaps, tlie gentleman who
hands out the marbles —is always welcomed.
* * * *
“Dead End”: Touching single bowling
matches, the games mentioned by “T.G.H.”
(B. 15/8/’2B) were 31 up. In a game 25 up
Inglis, a Sandy Bay (Tas.) player, beat
Bucirde, of Hobart, 25-22. Thirty-eight ends
were played—29 ones and 9 twos.
* * * 4c
“Hotham”: The Henley-on-Yarra people
are noted for the completeness of their
arrangements for the accommodation of visi-
tors, and this extends even to their boats.
Melbourne clubs have been notified that
space will be required in their sheds for
visiting craft during the regatta period,
and have been asked to clear out all but
their racing boats. The evicted vessels are
to be housed in a special marquee.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: For the third year in suc-
cession Lancashire has won the English
county championship. It now takes rank
with Yorkshire, Surrey and Notts, all of
which have pulled off the treble since the
competition was begun in 1873. Lancashire’s
percentage was 77.23; Kent, in second place,
scored 69.82 p.c. Though the solid Red Rose
batting, headed by Hallows and Tyldesley,
had much to do with the triumph, a great
factor, as in the previous two seasons, was
the bowling of E. A. McDonald, w T ho, in spite
of his 36 years, showed that he can still be
relied on to win a match on his own account
when the necessity arises. Against Kent
in the match that practically decided the
championship he took 15 for 154 on a good
wicket, and his total for the season was 17S
at 18.84—second in tallies and third in
averages. Larwood, the Australian’s Eng-
lish rival, headed the list with 118 at 15.16,
but Larwood bowled only half as many overs.
* * * #
“Senex”: S. F. Barnes, now in his 53rd
year, is still a bowler to be feared. Last
week lie skittled the powerful Lancashire
batting side, taking 6 wickets for 58. The
veteran played for Wales in an exhibition
match against the champion county at Black-
pool.
* * * • He
“Shrewsbury”: The omission of V. W. C.
Jupp, undoubtedly the best all-round amateur
in England to-day, from the first selection
of the English team to visit Australia sur-
prised many, both in England and Australia.
Now comes news that he has been added to
the side. A professional with Sussex before
the war, Jupp has played as an amateur
since; he is captain as well as secretary of
Northampton county. He is a brilliant field
at cover, an attractive batsman who can hit,
and a right-hand medium spin bowler. Jupp
was the first man to reach the 1000 runs
and 100 wickets in English cricket this
season. The spectacle of a professional turn-
ing amateur and captaining his county is
not so unusual as might be thought. Richard
Daft did it for Notts, long ago, and J. C.
Sharpe, of Lancashire, in our own time.
* * * *
“Lancaster Park”: Maoriland cricketers,
having had their glorious hour on the fields
of Britain, are now somewhat sadly counting
the cost, for the tour shows a deficit of
£4674. It wag not well arranged, for most
of the matches against counties which draw'
big gates were fixed for the beginning of the
week, minor teams being played at the week-
end. However, cash isn’t everything, and
the experience gained will be useful for years
to come.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : Someone has been setting the
teeth of Melbourne cricket experts on edge
by suggesting that left-hand bowlers should
give up what he calls “the fetich of the
natural break from leg” and cultivate the
turn from the off. Now and then one comes
across a left-hander who tries an occasional
turn from the off to a right-hand batsman,
but the mollyhand trundler who habitually
uses it is a rare bird. There seems to be
no earthly reason for the general obsession
for the “natural” break in such cases. The
right-hander’s “natural” break is from the
off, yet that does not prevent him, in many
cases, from being successful with leg breaks
—I am not referring to the googly bowler.
Perhaps, as the Melbourne innovator sug-
gests, the adoption by some of our rising
young aspirants of his theory may lead to
the development of yet another great Aus-
tralian bowler whose defiance of tradition
will ultimately raise him to the stars —in
this case the ranks of an Australian eleven.
* * * *
“Robot”: The tin hare, though banned in
Australia, Maoriland and South Africa, still
enjoys a vogue in Britain, but the failings
of the beast are at length being realised in
that paradise of free-for-all gambling. One
club has field a serious investigation into
the causes of the “continual failure of
the favorites.” The causes, of course are
as old as the day when Cain stiffened Abel,
though the methods employed are more ad-
vanced. Over-feeding, substitution, doping
and crippling are commonplaces of the
“sport”; in fact, there are more ways of
stopping a racing dog than any crooked horse-
trainer has dreamed of in his philosophy.
A quaint incident is reported from Belfast,
where a black dog from the South licked the
local favorites, tail up. The agony of the
thrifty Ulstermen moved the stewards to in-
vestigation, and a petrol bath revealed that
the hound was a famous performer with
four white feet and a white-tipped tail.
Belfast is considering ways and means of
getting even.
(Continued on page 43.)
THE STATUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The question of the amateur status needs serious
consideration in Australia.” — Bulletin 29/BJ’2B.
I saw a tennis champ, as down he laid
His trusty racquet for a fountain-pen;
He eyed them lovingly, both tools of trade:
“I smash my way to fame,” he said, “and
then
Make copy of my prowess on the court
And turn it into many a useful cheque.”
“For that,” I said, “the cablegrams report
The mighty Tilden’s got it in the neck.”
“Those Yanks,” he growled, “are hard to
understand,
Such fool distinctions here we wouldn’t
endure.
Thank Heav’n in this more enlightened land,
Racquet in one, pen in the other hand,
A chap can still remain an amachure!”
I saw a cricket team with laurels crowned
Returning from a tour across the sea,
And each was richer by five hundred pound.
In England, someone mentioned, pros,
they’d be.
Such old-world snobbishness, they all agreed,
Disgraced the noble sport of ball and bat.
“A most invidious and outworn creed,
Please God,” said one, “we’ll never come
to that.
The quid pro quo we naturally claim
That eminence in any walk ensures,
And though we draw our divvies from the
game
We’d reckon it a black and grievous shame
To have to drop the name of amacliures.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


—V
ltd
p
1
in
i
□
i i
Q*
N J
r
-T
m
~5
EE .5
\
\y\
bi:
tn>
< nri
h!
□
(\ <\
31
K 1
E 3
«- ' i
CEi
i: v
iu
o
H
I -t
QF.W A '
(SE
Vh /ft®
Al
1/ fi
V)
px. r>.
Dfflb
SM
T=3 P 0
iyp
&
a
! i 1%
k-A M
fr s?
1%
E "'A T
—*T
mgfi
$ a
-V
(t
w —(
1 Jr
rM
f
«rt
Kk
«=J>
fE
‘ \
u
4
?« 5?
0
0
Co®
Our Valuable Booklet
Road Wisdom
gladly supplied on
application to our
nearest branch .
Just why do you drive carefully—why do
you observe all traffic signs and signals?
You do so for your own safety’s sake, for
the consideration of others, and because
you wish to get the best out of motoring.
Those are just the reasons why you should
buy carefully, too. The ability of your
engine to respond to every call made on it
depends greatly on the motor spirit you use.
You cannot be sure of this perfect engine
performance by haphazardly filling up at
whatever pump is nearest.
Careful motorists select Plume. Its superior
volatility means easy starting, sweet run-
ning, more miles, smooth power and a
cleaner engine.
The Wisest Sign to Observe
is the sign on the Plume
MOTOR
SPIRIT
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, PUT I™


Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfront*
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
>NEW MEMBER
OF AN OLD FAMILy/
A worthy addition to a famous line of
Golf Balls, the new Henley “Black
Name” more than upholds the high
standard set by its predecessors. All
the good points of previous Henley
Balls, including the famous “Why Not”
and “Henley” Mesh Marking are em-
bodied and excelled in the new ball.
With its phenomenal accuracy, extreme
length an'd amazing toughness, the
Henley “Black Name” will set a new
and higher standard for Golf Balls.
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
o
O
o
D
o
DOG
OO
0
Q
HENLEY
ffi/acAyP&mes
PRICE 3/6
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence o( Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Racquet and Bawl
“Glenelg”: Though the Australian tennis
championships were allotted to Adelaide this
year, an attempt has been made to have them
transferred to Melbourne, the excuse being
that the Adelaide “gates” would not be suf-
ficient to pay expenses. Failing this, it was
proposed that S.A. should guarantee the
Federal body against loss. However, that
has all fizzled out, and Adelaide is to have
the meeting.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide has played up to its
traditional piety by refusing officially to
allow Sunday tennis. On a general vote, 194
members of the Tennis Association were for
it and 128 against; and a sub-committee
framed regulations accordingly. But the
E.T.A. Council threw them out by eight to
four, several of the majority saying that
they play regularly' themselves on private
courts, but “on public courts it’s another
matter.” Of course.
*J» H 8 H*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The allocation of the
handsome profits from the Australian tennis
championships played last January has
been causing the Big Chiefs of the game mucli
agony of mind; indeed, a Iv.C. had to be
called in to tell them how the swag should
be cut up. The decision is that £5OO is to
be paid into a reserve fund and a similar
sum to the Australian championship account,
while £313 is to wipe out a deficit; then
N.S.W. has been allotted £5lB, and the
remaining £5lB is to be whacked up among
the other States. The scheme was adopted
by 7 votes to 6 at the association meeting
in. Melbourne, the minority being of the
opinion that N.S.W. was getting more than
its share. Association investments now stand
at £6550, and the Federal body might well
consider the spending of some of the interest
on helping the game elsewhere than in Vic-
toria and N.S.W.
$ * # $
“Cut Shot” : The Australian tennis autho-
rities have let themselves in for a heavy
season. In addition to the English team, a
party of South African girls will be starred in
all the States; for once Tassy is to be given
a look in. The Englishmen are to open against
Queensland at Brisbane on Nov. 15, and will
play their way to Perth, where the farewell
match begins on February 9. The undertak-
ings look profitable, but some of the official-
writers of the N.S.W. press take a gloomy
view of the fact that the Australian eleven
will be playing the same centres at the same
time, and will probably seriously affect the
tennis houses. One of them, however, finds
comfort in the fact that the South Africans,
at least, are to be housed in private homes,
thus saving a lot of brass that might other-
wise have been squandered on hotel accommo-
dation.
* * *
“10-2-4” : With the suspension of Tilden
as an amateur the U.S.A. has lifted another
prized distinction from British sportsmen.
For years the British told themselves that,
though they were getting licked by Ameri-
cans at almost every game they knew, it was
only because the conquerors were camou-
flaged pros. England was the home of the
only ‘‘pukka” amateur —the gentleman. Now
America has outed the most conspicuous
figure in the world of tennis, which has less
professionalism abdut it than any outdoor
game, and for an offence which British ten-
nis-players, cricketers and even polo-players
commit every day of their lives. It will
worry the old-fashioned Briton more even
than the departure to the U.S.A. last week
of practically the last remaining champion-
ship in the Kingdom—the boys’ golf cham-
pionship, which has lifted by one Stewart
Scheftel, of New York.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: The monotonous chro-
nicle of “holes in one” has been varied by
the performance of the feat by a one-armed
golfer, J. Burrowman, of Moore Park
(N.S.W), who left his other wing in France.
An ex-soldier of the Black Watch, he, as
became a Hlelanman, rendered the cus-
tomary tribute in due order and with the
appropriate ceremonies.
# Mi
“Adelaide”: An unusual double came off
at the Kooyonga (S.A.) links when W. S.
Rymill, who lately won the State champion-
ship from Legh Winser, won that of the
club also on the same day that his mother,
Mrs. H. L. Rymill, captured the club cham-
pionship for ladies. It recalls the achieve-
ment of Mrs. Rowe and her son a few years
ago; mother retained the title of lady tennis
champion, while son proved himself one of
S.A.’s best two men. Mature excellence is
more common in gulf than in tennis.
* * $ *
“Millicent Midiron”: I venture to call
the attention of “Colonel Damurize” to two
recent books on golf by women : one a volume
of reminiscences and the other an instruc-
tional work. A reviewer says of the latter:
“If men wrote so much sterling sense, and
others read it, they might have a chance of
improving- their play.” My fellow-associates
and myself would like to present a copy to
your eminent expert, and would be glad to
hear from him as to a favorable time and
occasion for the ceremony. Tea and light
refreshments will be served.
$ * * *
“The McHaggis”: One of the world’s
innumerable golf experts has been explaining
that excellent masliie practice can be ob-
tained by placing two balls one in front of
the other, a foot apart, and lofting; them
both with the same stroke. The idea is that
if the flat finish of the stroke is properly
observed both balls will be lofted. In some
cases, and at certain periods, notably after
a golfer’s lunch, it is not necessary to place
the second ball on the ground, the golfer’s
eye supplying the duplication of the objec-
tive. Since, however, this method of play-
ing the stroke obviates the necessity of
“taking a divot,” considered by many to be
essential for a mashie shot, it should appeal to
players on the flinty courses of West or North
Queensland, w'here the nian who tries to
take the divot has to take a new mashie for
the next shot. I can recall one player, fresh
from Scotland, who carried out his train-
ing in respect of divot-taking so enthusias-
tically on a Western Queensland station
course that the game had to be suspended
for a fortnight until a fresh set of irons
arrived from Brisbane.
* ’ * * *
“Biv'sey”: It is a curious fact about
golf that, while all the masters are insistent
on the importance of continual practice,
most of the rank and file of players do much
better at the game—for a period—after they
have been absent from the links for some
time. Two recent instances are recorded in
Queensland, where Judge Brennan, after
being away from Rockhampton or any other
course for 12 months, turned in a card
of 78, a course record, though he is by no
means in the plus class. Similarly, the
THE LOST LEGION.
VISITOR: “But most of the members seem to waste their time in
the bar.”
MEMBER: “Oh no; some of the dashed fools waste it out on the
links.”
Toowoomba professional Quarton, who has
been laid up for months with a badly broken
leg, put up a new record for his club course
in his first game after turning to again.
Possibly the explanation is that the player
forgets during the interval faults acquired
during a continued period of play, and on
resuming plays a natural game for a bit —
for he invariably backslides again.
He * * *
“Mid Iron”: Yet another golf course will
shortly be opened near Sydney, the Eleanora
County Club links being well advanced.
Nine holes should be ready by the end of the
summer, while a nine-hole course for women
has been commenced. The full course will
be 6500 yards long and of a very sporting
nature. The special feature of the new club
is its intention to follow the fashion so
general in America of selling certificates of
membership to its members. These become
the property of the member and may, with
the consent of the club committee, be trans-
ferred by the owner or liis executors. In
America the certificates of the more famous
clubs are valuable property.
* * * *
“Nib”: J. H. Kirkwood, who, according
to Rufus Stewart, of S. Aus., may visit
Australia at the end of the year, was a tre-
mendous draw when he was in England last
summer. The British papers talked per-
sistently of the popularity of Bobby Jones,
but the fact remained that the ex-Australian
was far the best-liked of the American golf-
ing contingent by the average spectator.
Jones is a dour little man who is about as
exciting to watch as a machine —he is known
as the “golfing machine.” He never makes
a real mistake, never looks like making one,
and seems to loathe the crowd, the game
and all associated with it. I saw him play
a foursome with Kirkwood against Tolley
and Wethered at the R.A. Club near Epsom.
There were 7000 spectators, and when they
crowded round a green at which Jones was
approaching, he would march up and dis-
perse them with his mashie in no amiable
manner. Kirkwood made one or two smiling
attempts, to assist the stewards in this
direction, and then gave it up, and ap-
proached over the heads of the crowd. It
was astonishing to see him lay a ball dead
within a few feet of the hole from the other
side of a hill and with a wedge of on-
lookers 20 deep between him and the
flag. Of course trick shots are his specialty,
but the crowd knew this; what they liked
about him was his imperturbable good temper
in all circumstances. Few golfing champions,
British or American, are remarkable for
this quality.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: In spite of the fact that Rufus
Stewart, the South Australian professional,
will be on hand to defend his title in the open
championship of Australia in Sydney, Adel-
aideans are pinning their faith to Fergus
McMahon, professional of the Marino Club,
who has been playing wonderful golf. On.
present form, at least, McMahon and
Stewart should have most to fear from Harry
Sinclair, the N.S.W. ex-amateur, who was
Australian champion in 1925.
* * * &
“The McHaggis” : The practice of charging
gate-money at golf championships is growing
in favor in Britain, not only for the assist-
ance given the
championship funds
by the receipts but
for the fact that it
has greatly reduced
crowds, this being
particularly notice-
able at St. Andrews.
'Before the system
was introduced
players were seri-
ously incommoded
by deadheads who
thronged the fair-
ways and were con-
tinually getting in
the way. Now the
crowds have dwin-
dled to controllable
dimensions, with
great benefit to the
players and their
game. Something
of the sort is need-
ed in Australia. In
the last N.S.W.
championship both
players in the ama-
teur singles final
were unlucky
enough to see good
shots spoilt by the
ball striking some
interfering spec-
tator, and similar
instances occur at
every important
match. Some of
the nuisances have
the nerve to com-
plain ; indeed, cases
have been known
where compensation has been claimed by
those who have thrust some past of their
anatomy on the path of a sizzling drive.
* * * *
“The O’Sporran”: An American golfer re-
cently in Sydney is credited with having
reached a 534-yards green in two from the
tee at his home club in Arizona. He ex-
plains this feat of long hitting by alleging
that it was due to the rarefied air of Ari-
zona, and this has raised an argument as
to whether the heavy air of Sydney does not
tend to correspondingly retard the flight of
a golf ball. It is doubtful. whether there
is much in either contention. The British
Isles boast a climate as heavy as most
places, but such drivers as Tolley and Mit-
chell stand alone in the matter of hitting a
long ball. Douglas Blackburn, probably the
longest hitter who ever lived—he has one
record of some 450 yards to his credit at St.
Andrews—played most of his golf in Scot-
land, where the atmosphere is often as thick
as pea soup, or, as the indigenes call it, “a
wee bit saft.”
Footbrawl *
“Hotham”: The time bells used in the
Australian game of football have been the
subject of a lot of discussion in Melbourne
and Adelaide of late. At the finish of
the Melbourne-St. Kilda match, the umpire
failed to hear the feeble bell provided, with
the result that St. Kilda kicked a goal after
time had gone and won by a point. The
same thing has happened before —in 1922
St. Kilda beat South Melbourne in
exactly the same fashion —and now demands
are being made for the installation of
electrically controlled gongs placed around
the ground and operated by a timekeeper at
a central post. Footscray has such a system,
and the gongs are said to drown even the
execrations of the barrackers as they hasten
in pursuit of the umpire.
* # * *
“N.A.”: Many followers of the Australian
code of football are of the opinion that the
time is over-ripe for changes in the rules such
as have marked the progress of Rugby and
Soccer in recent years. Both South Aus-
tralian and Victorian reformers desire to
see the system of replacing injured players
adopted. A suggestion has now been made
in Adelaide that the hand-passing rule should
be altered to permit the ball to be thrown,
as in Rughy. Throwing is more accurate
than punching, and greater distance can be
got, while the change, it is claimed, would
do away with a lot of unsightly scrambling.
Of course, the diehards are objecting; still,
the rules have been altered with advantage
many times before, and the chances are an-
other little change wouldn’t do them any
harm.
* * * *
“Te Waipiru”: M.L. League footballers are»
awaiting the decision of the N.S.W. and
Queensland League authorities as to whether
a Maoriland team is to be invited to Australia
next season. The board is reported to have
snorted indignantly at the very notion a few
weeks ago, but the successes of the struggling
little M.L. League against the Englishmen
have put a different complexion on things.
The N.S.W* League, at least, will simply
have to get some attraction to counter the
visit of the Rugby Union All Blacks.
* * * *
“Nark”: The acerbity which has long
marked the relations of the Queensland and
the N.S.W. Rugby Leagues has sharpened
since the recent “gate” grab by the latter
and its attempted repudiation of the so-called
board of control. Domestic strife has been
troubling the Queensland body sorely, and
the other day the Sydney body' forwarded its
sympathy, or advice, or something. The
northern sister came back with an emphatic
request that the N.S.W. lot would mind its
own blanky business. In a stunned silence
the letter was “received” and attention
switched hurriedly to the next item for dis-
cussion. .
* * * *
“Swing the Boot”: One clause in the new
agreement which the trustees of the Sydney
Cricket Ground have drawn up for signature
by those desiring to lease the arena for foot-
ball is significant. It gives the governing
body power to cancel the lease as a result
of misconduct by players. Small wonder
the wrathful Rugby League has spurned the
idea of leasing the ground. The risk of being
heaved out instanter, following on an exhi-
bition similar to those which have disgraced
League grounds this season, is too great—
no insurance co. would write a ticket against
it. Thus is another League chicken coming
home to roost which might have been shooed
away by the enforcement of ordinary disci-
pline.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland Rugby Union
closed its season with a match between
Y.M.C.A. and Old G.P.S., the former winning
18-11. The match showed that the fine
points of the game as taught by Otto Noth-
ling and Tom Lawton are being rapidly
absorbed. One of the G.P.S. tries came from
a double crosskick from Centre to wing and
in again that would have been a credit to
an international side, while in getting Y.
Emma’s final try six players, from the full-
back to a forward, handled the ball. A
fine forward is H. St. John, a Brisbane
Grammar boy 6ft. 3in. and 13st. in weight,
who combines marked football ability with
considerable pace. Vivian, who used to play
Australian rules, is another; and among the
backs are Fisher, a big and speedy winger,
and Powell, a promising centre. Next season
should see the game flourishing, and at the
present rate of progress there will be no
need for recruits from the League game to
establish a good standard of football.
(Continued on page J/S.)


ran
MB
m
m
H-
hri
-H
m
l-H
Era
m.
We Supply Anyone Direct
at Wholesale Prices.
Following the American system we go direct to the
public and cut out the storekeeper and retailers, and
give the user all his goods (except soft goods) at
Wholesale Rates.
Our operations extend all over Australia.
Condition of purchase: Entire satisfaction to cus-
tomer or money back.
SPECIAL BULLETIN OFFER.
A few lines all quoted delivered right to your door by
post or nearest railing station without extra charge.
Posted Free Anywhere.
(1) Spalding’s latest Royal Crown Tennis Racquets, 13, 13£
or 14oz. Retail value at least 45/- to 50/-. Our price
to you, 27/6.
(2) Spalding’s Tennis Balls, latest 1928 season, 19/6 doz.
• Posted free anywhere. Also 100 doz. only 1927 season,
apparently just as good as the latest 1928 season.
Quality guaranteed. Special offer, 12/6 doz.
(3) Golf Material.— We allow 10%
off retail prices, and post free
of charge.
(4) Hibiscus latest pattern Wire
Strainers, 12/6 each.
(5) Rabbiters’ Set, best Sheffield
Knife and Steel in sheath, 5/-
(6) Vermorel Eclair Copper Knapsack Spray
Pumps. Retail price, £5. Our price to
anyone, 75/-
(7) Brass Bucket Spray Pumps. Retail price,
40/- Our price, 27/6.
(8) Pifco latest Incandescent Kerosene Table
Lamps. Handsome Satin Bronzed Finish.
40/-, posted free anywhere.
(9) Also Primus Stove and Incandescent Lamp
combined, 30/ -, posted free anywhere.
(10) Hibiscus 3-quart Steel Churns, 75/-, posted
free anywhere.
AIH
gd
(11) D.8.8.L. Hammer Guns, 12g.,
with Greener Cross Bolt, 95/-
(12) Hammerless Ditto, 12g., with
I Greener Cross Bolt, £6/10/-
(13) .22 Cal. National Sporting Rifles.
Take .22 short, .22 long and .22
long-rifle Cartridges, 22/6.
(14) Jeffieco Automatic Pistols, .22
cal., 35/-; .32 cal., 40/-
If ordering mention The Bulletin.
Also lowest for all groceries, wire-netting, galv.
iron, cement, paint, motor spirit and kerosene,
sprays and chemicals, stoves, lampware, farming
material, tools, kitchen ware, furnishing, etc.
Our Comprehensive 144 -page Illustrated Catalogue will save you Pounds. Send for it to-day.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited,
DIRECT SUPPLIERS,
BOWEN STREET (OFF ANN STREET, BETWEEN FIRE BRIGADE
AND AMBULANCE), BRISBANE.
Letters: Box 768 K, G.P.O. ’Phones: 6 lines, 5410.
JOHN JAMEfON
JK JK JkL
WHISKEY
JOHN Jameson *** Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method—as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co. Perth, W.A.
LYMAN
for practically
SIGHTS
every gun made
fg
You can make yourself a top-notch shooter by using the
correct Lyman front and rear sights on your gun. Best
results for hunting or fishing. Favorite with shooters the
world over for 40 years. Follow the Sight Chart in the
catalog. Send 6d. for the complete Lyman Sight Catalog
or Free Folder.
dfg
No. 3 Front Sight
with Ivory Bead.
Holds aim on the
mark. Price, 6/6
each.
No. 1 Comb. Rear Sight for
Remington 12, 14, 24, 25 and
Browning Auto. Rifles. Price,
21/- each. 22/6 with disc.
Famous Lyman No. 1A Tang
Sight. Built-in, turn-down peep.
Pat. thumb-lock. For Savage,
Winchester, Remington, B.S.A.
and Browning Repeaters. Price,
21/- each. 22/6 with Disc.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP.
For prompt reply,
send your inquiries for
literature to our exclusive representatives —
ASHER SMITH LTD., P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn. U.S.A.
,
m
THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT BANK LTD.
Brisbane.
DEPOSITS.
Deposits received for fixed periods and interest paid at
following rates.
For 12 months 5% per annum
>» 24 ~ „ ~
Current Accounts opened and interest allowed on
minimum monthly balance, when not drawn below £5O.
ADVANCES.
Advances made on approved securities.
115 Queen Street, Brisbane; and at Wickham
Street, Fortitude Valley.
Decidedly
and Ulosl Com}or table
“Merino-Knit”
Sweaters and
Cardigans al-
ways meet your
critical taste in
Knitted Sports
Wear. The de-
signs are strik-
ingly attractive
and the quality
superb! Just
what you wish
for wear in the
home or the
office, at golf
or tennis.
Flawlessly
Knitted for
JTlen of Taste
tf m
Jy- '• %l
l! Mm? q
KmSmM f (
'MERINO-KNIT
Men’s Cardigans & Sweaters
Made Exclusively by the Merino Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.,
Specialists in Men’s High Grade Sweaters and Cardigans,
Half Hose and Golf Hose.
ALL QOOD MERCERS STOCK MERINO^KNIT -IDEAR
The“QUEENSLANDER”
QUEENSLAND’S GREAT WEEKLY PICTORIAL.
An Excellent Advertising Medium which
should be included in all Queensland
Campaigns.
The "Queenslander” is the largest and most widely circulated weekly
in the State. It covers every Pastoral, Mining, Fruit, Sugar and Agri-
cultural district, establishing itself pre-eminently the Country Journal
of Queensland. As an advertising medium it is unsurpassed.
Rates, distribution charts and
specimen copies may be obtained
from the office of the represen-
tative, Robert D. Fisher, 74
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Published by the Brisbane News-
paper Co., “Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane, also
publishers of the “Courier” and
“Sports Referee.”


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the CafS de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
Vs 7
O
' Triton Electric
Central Hot Water
Sustem
With this system hot water is obtained immediately
at any hour of day or night by merely turning on
the hot-water tap for the bath, shower, wash-basin,
kitchen sink, and wash troughs respectively. The
heater itself is in the loft, and the necessary pipe-
line is run tb the various draw-off points. The system is
absolutely hygienic—no dirt, no fuel used, no matches,
no smell or smoke or poisonous fumes. Saves tremen-
dous labor, and the consumption of electricity is so
moderate that the system soon pays for itself in the
economies it effects. The “Triton” System is covered
by a two years’ guarantee against electrical defect.
Full Particulars from the Manufacturers and Patentees •
THOS. ABBOTT & CO.,
13a Hardware Street, Melbourne. ’Phone F 4042.
Cr. Wynyard and Margaret Lanes, Sydney; 111 Tara-
naki St., Wellington, N.Z. Agencies — A. C. Clarke,
112 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.j Harris, Scarfe and
Sandover, Ltd., Perth, W.A.; W. H. Knight and Peter
Bros., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; James Campbell
and Sons, Ltd., Brisbane.
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives •
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Footbrawl
The closing matches of the first round of
the Victorian League premiership saw Carl-
ton win to a place in “the four” by beating
Collingwood, 87 (12-15) to 67 (8-19). Col-
lingwood, Richmond and Melbourne were
certainties for the first three places, while
Carlton, Essendon and St. Kilda were neck
and neck for the vacancy. St. Kilda headed
Footscray by 70 (10-10) to 67 (9-13), while
Essendon triumphed over Hawthorn by 118
(16-22) to 60 (9-6), but in neither case was
the percentage good enough. Carlton meets
Richmond in the first semi-final next Satur-
day.
* * * *
The All Blacks beat South Africa in the
fourth Test-match at Capetown by 13-5, after
leading 6-5 at half-time. Counting the three
Tests in M.L. in 1921, each side has now won
three matches, one being drawn. Points are:
S.A., 53 ; M.L., 44.
❖ $ ❖ ❖
University won the Shute Shield in hollow
fashion from Y.M.C.A. at Sydney Uni. Oval
on Saturday, scoring 38 to 11. This is
Uni.’s eighth premiership since 1900, and
the third in succession.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Union side in Maoriland
scored two more good wins last week. It
beat Wanganui 20-16 and Hawkes Bay 19-6.
$ ij;
The Rugby League clubs qualifying for
the first-grade semi-finals in Sydney on
Saturday were Eastern Suburbs, St. George,
South and North Sydney. University, which
had a chance of a place, went down 8-4
to Eastern Suburbs at Wentworth Park in
a poor game. As E. Suburbs and St. George
are neck and neck at the head of the table,
neither will have the right to challenge
if beaten in semi-final or final.
Under the Whip
The Ilobartville Stakes at Warwick
Farm on Saturday gave a very large crowd
its first sight of Mollison this season.
“Doesn’t he remind you of Gloaming?” was
a frequent remark as E. M. Pearce’s un-
beaten bay was led about the weighing-in
enclosure, and there were more of such
rhapsodies after the race. For Mollison
immediately bounded to the front, made all
the running, responded generously to
Daniels’s call when Ramulus threw out a
challenge in the straight, and won by a couple
of lengths in lmin. 27sec. for the seven
furlongs. All the same, he has yet to prove
that he can travel the Derby distance and
finish strong. To this Page he seemed to
be going at his top when Ramulus was
threatening danger, and the issue was settled
rather by the Briens’ colt weakening than
by Mollison increasing his pace. The Vic-
torian gelding was certainly the better off
for condition. Prince Humphrey, coming
home well, cut Elizabeth’s March out of
third place, and though possibly not of
Derby class may turn out the best stayer
of the lot. The betting was 3 to 1 on
Mollison, 8 to 1 bar one.
Limerick had only four horses to beat at
w.f.a.'in the Warwick Stakes, run over his
favorite distance of a mile, and looked more
forward than any of them. So the book-
makers demanded 6 to 1, Jocelyn being 6. to
1 against. The champion was the first to
move, but Jocelyn galloped alongside him
for half a mile, only to find the going too
hot. Winalot was second into the straight,
and for a moment it looked as if he might
catch Limerick, but the Maorilander came
away again and won by a length, with a
good bit in hand, the time being lmin.
384 sec. Statesman pleased William Kelso
by the way he finished in third place; he
donkey-licked Jocelyn, and was gaining on
Winalot, with whom he is disputing favor-
itism for the Melbourne Cup.
Royal Tune shortened to evens for the
Campbelltown Handicap—a ridiculous price
—Avant Courier receding from twos to
fours. Both met with interference, but it
is questionable whether it made any differ-
ence to the result. Habashon (8 to 1),
carrying lib. more than his Epsom weight,
7st. 61b., ran an excellent race, being always
in or near the front; however, just when
Hugh Denison’s chestnut had disposed of
Eugia (12 to 1), Karuma (10 to 1) came
along brilliantly and beat both. The son of
Magpie and Earloona had not been pleasing
the watchers of gallops, but he did so well
with the colors up that he is again favorite
for the Epsom. He carried Bst. —the same
as at Randwick—and covered the six fur-
longs in lmin. 13Jsec.
John Wren and co. will remember this
meeting for the sad error of judgment of
which they were guilty. Instead of leaving
Pigeon Pie in the Glenlee Handicap, which,
being a good miler, he would probably have
won, they saddled him up for the Spring
Handicap, a mile and three furlongs, and
sppported him so enthusiastically that he
went out at twos. This enabled Kelso, who
sportingly ran both his Metropolitan candi-
dates and backed both, to get sevens Bacchus
and 9 to 2 Fondant; Adrian also had num-
erous friends at 6 to 1. When the field had
settled down Fondant had a good lead and
Bacchus was last, lengths behind the bunch.
But Bacchus made up his ground so rapidly
that he was fighting it with Fondant and
Mountain King a furlong from home ; Pigeon
Pie and Adrian, both prominent for a mile
or so, had dropped back beaten. Fondant
hung on gamely, and little Pike landed him
a winner by a head, the same distance separ-
ating Mountain King and Bacchus. The time
was 2min. lSfsec. Bacchus had his Metro-
politan weight, Bst. 101 b., and his perform-
ance satisfied those who have backed him
for that race. But Fondant must now be
given a rattling good Metrop. chance. For
a horse that has won three good races in a
few weeks he is remarkably well in with
6st. 91b. And it should not be forgotten that
he was third in the Waverley Handicap, at
a mile and three-quarters, last season.
* * * *
The Mollison people did not nominate
their gelding for the Chelmsford Stakes,
won in other days by Limerick, Heroic,
Gloaming and other great tliree-year-olds.
However, Raasay, Prince Humphrey, Ramu-
lus and Stalden will provide some of the
opposition to Limerick, unless their trainers
think better of it, and Winalot, Jocelyn,
Rionscup and Statesman are among the older
horses engaged. The Tramway and Spring
Handicaps are other important races at
Randwick on Saturday. Fancies: —
Novice Handicap: Blue Star; next, Bob
Humphrey.
Tramway Handicap: Anambah; next,
Vaals.
Spring Handicap: Blather; next, Moun-
tain Prince.
Chelmsford Stakes: Limerick; next, Raa-
say.
Welter Handicap: Lord Romeo; next,
Sion.
* * * *
Jimmy Pike travelled to Melbourne to
ride Gothic in the V.A.T.C. Memsie Stakes
at Caulfield on Saturday, and a very easy
ride he had. Third to Lady Beth and Fara-
manch when two of the nine furlongs had
been traversed, Sol Green’s English stal-
lion got to the front with a furlong and a
half to go and won, pulling up, from the
mare, who beat Faramanch by a head ; the
time was lmin. 53fsec. Gothic was, of
course, favorite, 10 to 9 on being his closing
price, but there was a ton of money for
Faramanch at 7 to 2. As the three-year-old
was receiving a stone from Lady Beth and
301 b. from Gothic, it was not much of a per-
formance on his part; still, he did a lot bet-
ter than Balmerino. Governor Somers’s horse
Fourth Hand shocked his admirers by finish-
ing last.
Heroic’s half-brother Cimbrian had a very
easy win in the second division of the Doona
Trial, for which he started at 5 to 4, and is
going to turn out a good horse. A. T. Cres-
wick may now regret that the youngster was
not nominated for the Caulfield Cup. Nepean,
who is in all the big races, added to his
creditable record in the Whittier Handicap,
W. V. ROBERTSON, one of the W.A.T.C.’s
new stipendiary stewards. He gradu-
ated in the A.J.C. office.
six furlongs; and Horoscope (4 to 1) just
beat Beppinsan (8 to 1) in the Heatherlie
Handicap, Jones timing it nicely. Horoscope
is in the Caulfield Cup with Bst., and has
fair credentials.
* . =!: * *
“The Urger” : Ballarat (Yic.) Miners’ Turf
Club, famous in former days, has momen-
tarily come into the limelight again because
of a steeplechase. There were four starters,
and all four missed a fence. After that hap-
pening Crown Sign, the favorite, lost his
rider. Snoove, second favorite, went on ana
won. The stewards were considering the
position when Crown Sign’s rider remounted
him, and, taking him back to the missed
fence, completed the course. Meanwhile
Snoove’s number had gone up. The stewards
disqualified all four horses, and sent the
betting tangle down to Melbourne for the
y.R.C. to unravel. The V.R.C. lias ruled
that bets made on any particular horse
pr i oP to his cutting out the jump must stand,
tbe backer to lose his bet. Bets made on any
borse after they ran off are null and void,
There was fairly heavy wagering, and the
bagmen profited without having a chance to
P. A. PAVEY, the Victorian rifleman, top-
scorer in the match for the Kolapore
Cup at Bisley, and winner of the Grand,
Aggregate at the Canadian R.A. meet-
ing.
lose. The incident ought to gain a few ad-
herents for the tote. Had that implement
been operating the punters who. have lost
their money under the V.R.C. decision would
Lave had it returned to them, minus the
statutory percentage.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Kid Socks (Bst. 61b.) got a questionable
decision over Archie Cowan (Bst. 41b.) at
the Sydney Stadium on. Saturday night;
before a lean “house.” It was a smart give-
and-take quarrel. The Australian, boxing
wdth speed and skill, scored a fair margin
of points in the first half of the contest, but
in the twelfth round Socks spurted despe-
rately and shook Cowan up quite »i lot.
Cowan went ahead again over the last three
rounds, and most of the onlookers reckoned
him a rather easy winner. The referee
thought otherwise, however, and gave his
verdict to the English lad.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: For months past 20 or more
well-nourished foreign gentlemen, billed as
wrestlers and “contenders for the light-
heavyweight championship,” have been
cavorting in public, with profit to themselves
and the promoters. Their branch of the show
business has been greatly assisted by the
carefully fostered belief that the pretence of
frightfulness with which they camouflage
their operations inside the ropes is brutality
of the most aggravated Character. The truth
is that if the gestures of biting, kicking and
strangling were genuine, an inquest would
follow pretty well every meeting. Some of
these gentry are well advanced in years,
having been at the game for something like
a quarter of a century. The poor old boys
would be dead to the wide for weeks after
if the stuff served up was dinkum. Heart
failure would probably claim most of them.
Yet they are to be seen the morning after
“a caveman encounter,” unmarked and
apparently unaffected. Gullible Sydney
papers have practically forced the police to
inspect the alleged atrocities. The police,
being level-headed people, with the knowledge
that wrestling exhibitions are a byword
the world over for fake and flummery, have
reported that the alleged brutality is just
showmanship. Their only reward for having
to repeat an obvious truth is that they have
been, attacked by the gullible ones generally
as unable to see a hole in a ladder. There is
no truer axiom than the spieler’s that a goat
is born every tick of the clock.
That boon and blessing to sporting men,
Miller’s Annual, has made its bow for
1928, this being its 53rd year of existence.
The racing section is particularly valuable
and is an accepted authority on the sport in
Australia the world over.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“B-Gar”: The arrowroot industry, once a
power in the north of Q’land, is to be re-
vived ; at Coomera, in the Tweed Heads dis-
trict (S.Q.), a mill has been erected, and
starts operations immediately. It is capable
of an output of five tons of flour per day,
and as the district has about 50 acres under
arrowroot, expectations are good.
* * * *
“Ironbark” : This year there has been great
slaughter of native game in the Speck, and
a three-years’ ban has been suggested. The
diminution of opossums in some districts will
probably cause the authorities to make kill-
ing illegal for some years; the use of gas-
lamps gives the animals little chance. On the
other hand the fur season is a boon to bush
people and those out of work. Many trap-
pers make cheques of £6OO and £7OO during
the season.
:i: * *
“Garry”: Holden’s, Ltd., of Adelaide,
held an exhibition of their work in Sydney
last week that was a revelation of fine crafts-
manship. Frameworks that were master-
pieces of good joinery; steel pressings of the
utmost intricacy, and a vast variety of metal
fittings were displayed, and a huge fleet of
Holden-bodied cars on chassis of a dozen
or more popular English and American
makers demonstrated the beauty of the
finished product. The show was a very
impressive testimony to the benefits of ad-
equate tariff protection. Holdens now make
50,000 bodies a year, and employ directly
3500 Australian workers; indirectly, since
most of the materials they use are Aus-
tralian, they contribute to the wages of
a very much larger number. Nearly half a
million was spent by the firm on plant and
improvements last year.
* * * *
“Pigcat”: Porcupine and spinifex usually
grow on the poorest country, too rough to
he of much value for stock. The shrubs
grow up to 10ft. high, 20 or more feet in
diameter. Now and again some person comes
out with the idea that either porcupine or
spinifex is good stock feed when seeding,
when sprouting after a burn or some other
old time. They may be; but it needs a
dickens of a lot of bushes to a very limited
number of stock. There is no doubt about
the oils in them, though. They will burn
any time at all —while it’s raining or when
it’s dry. When it burns there’s a black
pall of smoke and a distinct smell of tur-
pentine. There are thousands and thou-
sands of waste acres in Bananaland alone
of this class of vegetable. Has anyone done
any research work on it?
* * * *
“Catalyst”: Rock phosphate deposits are
rare in Australia, but there is one at Molong,
200 miles from Sydney, and it is strange
. that it isn’t wox*ked at a time when we are
importing about £BOO,OOO-worth of rock
phosphate annually. The Pacific Island
Commission, by which the whole of the phos-
phates from the Pacific Islands is brought
to Australia, is unable to supply the large
superphosphate manufacturers in four States
with their full requirements, and for the first
time for many years Australia is importing
Florida (U.S.) pebble. This pebble contains
calcium fluoride (fluorspar) which, during
the course of manufacture, gives off a poison-
ous and irritating gas (hydrofluoric acid)
requiring expensive plant to carry away.
Meanwhile about 250,000 tons of stone carry-
ing 20 to 30 per cent, of phosphoric acid
(Island phosphate contains 38 to 40, and
Florida pebble only about 16 p.c.) is exposed
at Molong, and there may be millions of tons
more.
* * * *
“Ex Fumo”: South Africa is far less pro-
gressive than Australia, but there are some
activities in which it leaves us literally
standing still. In .the early ’nineties 1 lived
for three years in the land of dop and bil-
tong, and the tobacco I was compelled
to smoke for lack of anything better —
the tealeafy Transvaal stuff and the
dusty, pungent Kaffir-made rolls —remains
an unpleasant memory. Now in every
large-sized tobacco shop in Sydney you will
see S. African tobacco featured. I asked
a leading tobacconist how brisk business
was, and he told me briefly that of the pipe
tobacco sold over the counter that morning
nearly a third was Cape product—he had
the wares of four different companies.
“There’s quite a rage for it,” he said,
“because of the flavor and fragrance”—and
it certainly has both. I asked him if he
did anything in Australian tobacco, and he
shook his head gloomily and said it lacked
flavor, and seemed inclined to blame the soil
or the climate, or both, for its deficiencies.
But that is obvious nonsense. I have read
that experts from Virginia (U.S.) have been
mainly responsible for the improvement in
South African tobacco until now it looks
like securing a world vogue. Is it for lack of
such enterprise and assistance that the indus-
try makes little, if any, progress here?


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
ToH.NL
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
MSK
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
BYDNEY.
fcWSh*-
CMampachc
'iarJeslieidsieo c
REIMS
UTlllll I* j ;j
rgg
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
To Mark Linen
CASH’S NAMES are destinccive*
(ye{ neat fadeless and durable)
Actual Sue.
Style No. 6
c$ &.lf / c£Cca/ru3'
Prices; 12 dox. 7/6, 6 doz. 6/*, 3 dox. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS..
Write Tor Name Style Circular t®
3f. & J.CASH Pty.Ltd.
B 5 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES
gd
Washing
Ribbons
Lm£en®
fg
"ftp cen/re of Queens /on c/s
cf/shngu*' step/ Socio/
W)o\c\
ClIDISB
BRISBANE
dfg
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacneu. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 57 80 —10 Liner
HiOht opposite JhkMdes
Jiiw 'Jiailmy Station/
df
To meet you as you enter
Adelaide; to make your stay
one of unlimited pleasure;
to give the fullest measure of
“Service,” the Grosvenor is
the best situated and finest
equipped hotel in Adelaide.
3®OSVENOR
r- cJldekudes Finest Unlicensed .Hotel
Opp. Railway Sin. Norl-h Terrace. JKSwifi -Manage
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
LEATHERETTE
GLOVES
It was the school children of Sydney who
opened the Eucharistic Congress—they who
gave the first public welcome to Cardinal
Cerretti, the Papal Legate. Perhaps some-
one had remembered that when the Cardinal
was in Sydney as Apostolic Delegate he loved
above all to visit the schools. And he has
not changed. His face broke into smiles of
delight when he saw the avenue of small
girls and boys that lined his approach to
St. Mary’s on Thursday morning. All along
the pavement in front of Hyde Park shining-
faced small boys were massed, five and six
deep, each bearing either a flag of Papal
white and gold or an Australian star-spat-
tered emblem. Facing them, along the pave-
ment in\ front of St. Mary’s, were other small
boys equally massed and shining-faced.
Amidst these were companies of girls in their
school uniforms, andon the Cathedral steps, like
a flight of pigeons beating against the grey
stone of the Cathedral, fluttered little girls in
snowy white. Red carpet rippled down the
steps and on to the pavement. Red and
white acolytes stood by the open doors. Out
pealed the bells. The Keys of St. Peter
seemed to clash in harmony on the yellow
and white Papal ensign floating from one
tower of the Cathedral, while Australia’s flag
waved proudly above the other. Presently
past the black leather doors stepped a com-
pany of bishops from the world over in their
wine-red soutanes and swinging capes.
Last of all, sweeping scarlet robes which
Richelieu himself could not have carried with
greater effect, came the Papal Legate. Up
the wide steps of the deep white marble Sanc-
tuary flashed the purple-, the black-, the
cream- and the scarlet-robed figures, each
moving to his appointed place in the rows of
chairs swathed in emerald green. The choir
sang “Behold the Great Priest!” Altar
boys, whose candles stabbed the twilight tap-
estry of the Cathedral like flickering rapiers,
preceded him, and four altar boys followed
to bear the weight of the flowing great-cape
of red watered silk; so the visitor took his
place on the throne within the Sanctuary.
Then came the Cardinal’s greeting to Aus-
tralia —the reading of the message from the
Pope, and the chanting of the “Te Deum”
and a “Magnificat,” a choral outpouring of
“Hallelujahs” that must have cleaved to Han-
ders cars through the very gates of Heaven.
Later, in the Cathedral grounds outside
St. Mary’s presbytery, the sun, blazing sud-
denly through the grey sky, shone on moving
clusters of rich robes. In one group were the
Bishop of Samoa, the Bishop of Namur, his
Grace of Westralia. There the Indian Bishop
from the see of Kottayam, in Travancore,
stood quiet and dignified, his robes of stiff
silk. Priceless Venetian lace, Carrickmacross
and Malines, swung on white surplices. Here
came a Spanish Knight of the Holy Sep-
ulchre, slight as Quixote, in light-blue
strapped trousers, heavy gold epaulettes,
long-tailed cream coat, a sword at his side,
his cocked and feathered hat crushed under
his arm. The entire surplice worn by one of
the Papal household was of richest silk Vene-
tian point. This super-surplice was made
more unusual with lace epaulettes, threaded
through with rich gold braid. Silver buckles
shimmered on red Morocco shoes; red sou-
tanes and birettas were so numerous as to
go unnoticed. Here rose a sleek black head
above a suit of thick black silk, knee-
breeched and swagger-coated, finished off
with beautiful lace cuffs and cravat; hi?
sword in an ivory scabbard. This was Pro
fessor Luigi Chiaserotti. There were bishops
from Mount Lebanon and Czecho-Slovakia,
and bishops from Spain. Knight of the
Church John Lane Mullins, dazzling with
his order, smiled all the time. There were
prelates from Tripoli. The air was vibrant
with every live and with some dead lan-
guages ; and there in legion, permeating the
changing groups, in his plain black clothes,
sometimes a little shabby, was the pick-and-
shovel worker of the Church, the one who
lays the foundations and keeps them solid,
who checks the white-ant of indifference, the
parish priest.
As at the reception to Cardinal Cerretti,
the whole Hierarchy of Australia and mem-
bers of the Hierarchy of the whole Catholic
world occupied the Sanctuary. Below the
Sanctuary the front-seaters were the repre-
sentatives of the Governors of the five
States, the Federal and State Governments,
Law and Order, the University; and in
the body of the church the great working
army of the congregation. Outside the thou-
sands who could not get in knelt or stood
on the Cathedral steps, in the roadways and
in Hyde Park, where amplifiers broadcast
the spoken and the chanted word.
From the keys on the yellow and white
Papal flag flowing out above the completed
Cathedral to the cunningly wrought grat-
ing of the Sanctuary (the thorn, the cord
and the cross in twisted brass), everything
in Sunday’s procession, at the opening of
St. Mary’s, had its meaning. Not only every
vestment, but the smallest detail of embroid-
ery thereon. And if the scarlet magnificence
of Cardinal Qerretti seemed a long, long
way from the humble robe Peter girded
about him to walk at Galilee to greet his
Master, still the great fisher of men
no doubt rejoices, looking over the bar of
Heaven, at the splendid draught that has
come to the net.
At ten o’clock the Pontifical High Mass
began, and to accommodate the anxious-to-
get-in thousands the new part of the Cath-
edral was in use. As early as half-past nine
the 400 members of the choir and the 32
members of the orchestra were in their
places on the floor of the Cathedral, below
the pulpit. As the Papal Legate took his
place on the glittering throne within the
Sanctuary, the “Tu es Petrus,” specially
composed by Dr. Pcttorelli, rose like a rain-
bow-wave of sound. Mitterer’s Mass was
the composition sung by the choir, and the
Responses and Proper of the Mass were
chanted by a liturgical choir of students
from Manly College. The Sanctuary itself
blazed with the color-of vestments and robes.
Tall candles and mists of incense were an
exultant accompaniment.
As early as one o’clock little trickles and
eddies of people started to leak in from the
suburbs; and after that each tram and train
that arrived brought a heavier burden of
sightseers and visitors to the vantage points
around St. Mary’s. Every race was in that
vast multitude, and every religion, for, after
all, any great building in a city must be a
source of pride to its citizens. Jews, be-
cause they love ritual and ceremonial and
fine architecture, made up a fair percentage
in various groups. By three, the hour of
the opening, Sydney seemed to have emptied
itself into the spaces about St. Mary’s. And
when the Congress choir massed on the main
steps the excitement became intense. Punc-
tually the ceremony began at the great door
facing the Museum. First came the unveiling
of the Mackennal statue of Cardinal Moran,
who will keep an eye on the city he loved
from the side of the main entrance to the
cathedral which he labored for so greatly.
“Exultate Deo!” sang the choir, and with
gold crosses throwing back the light;
sprinkled with jewels and gold lace, the pro-
cession of red robed and vestmented ecclesi-
astics moved, a stately pageant of color,
headed by the Papal Legate, to the main
door, which he opened with a gold key—the
crowning act towards which Father Therry,
Archbishop Folding, Archbishop Vaughan,
Cardinal Moran and Archbishop Kelly have
labored for over a century.
After that the procession of church and
civic dignitaries entered the newly-opened
doors, and addresses by six archbishops were
given. Archbishop Kelly had already made a
touching declaration of what it meant to him
to see the noble work completed. Premier
Bavin and John Lane Mullins were the
only laymen asked to raise their voices. And
nobody had a better right to do it than
John Mullins. He was baptised by Father
Therry, confirmed by Archbishop Polding,
and married by still another archbishop in
the cathedral.
Artist Syd Long’s wife gazes from this
Judith Fletcher picture. Mrs. Long is sec-
retary of the newly-formed Sydney League
for the Prohibition of Cruel Sports. This
league has its
headquarters
in London, and
its Sydney
office is in Cal-
laghan House.
The present
artillery of the
league in Syd-
ney is directed
against live-
hare coursing
But pigeon-
shooting, fox-
hunting and
such so-called
sports are
among the
things it wages
war against.
Mrs. Long has
collected over
1000 names on
her part of
the petition
the society lias got up; and as there are 100
forms out the movement against live-hare
coursing should present some staggering
figures to Premier Bavin’s gaze.
Mrs. Freehill has lent her Point Piper
home to the Papal Legate and his suite.
From attic to basement its owner has had
it painted and decorated; further, she has
established a chef from Rome. Mrs. Free-
hill herself.is staying at the Australia dur-
ing the Congress.
Now, for a
change from
cardinals and
archbishops,
please meet
Little Trouble.
You remember,
her, of course,
in “Madame
Butter fly.”
When she’s
just playing
with her dolls,
or listening to
mama singing
gloriously, her
name is Nellie
Melba Tor-
nari, and she
is the young-
est member of
the William-
son-Melba Co.
Mama is an
old friend of
Dame Nellie’s
—w hi c h ex-
plains the
quite un-Ital-
ian name.
Amid the crude clamor of Darlinghurst
stands a wayside inn whose service is not
for the eager of foot, the urgent of desire.
The name above it s gate might even strike
terror to these. But the Hospice for the
Dying is a haven that through many years
has proved its worth to those stricken mor-
tally. To keep the sign above the door is
the ambition of a body of devoted workers.
Last week this committee held its yearly ball
and over seven hundred danced at the Went-
worth. Mrs. William Macleod, who, as
usual, was the president, wrapped herself
in absinthe green chiffons, and wore her
brow banded in a Julius Caesarisli chaplet of
green leaves. Three secretaries, Mrs, G. W.
Durrell, Mrs. M. J. Slattery and Josephine
Marks, had shared the preliminary labors,
and treasurers Mrs. Harry Burrell and Mrs.
A. C. Cahill are still busy bagging the
harvest.
Seaweed-brown and red and pink and
coral atolls and cool sand are all suggested
by a silky rubber beach-cape seen at a
bathing-suit display last week. Another was
a dull slate-grey with white pipings and
turn-down collar. These are a square worn
corner-wise, and the peaky bits end in a
giddy little tassel. The three-piece bathing-
suit makes an urgent bid for favor. A
daffodil yellow one ; the skirt of which was
striped with white, had its hip-length
jacket of the plain yellow. A one-piece
bather had evidently been designed to re-
present a thunderstorm. From armpit to
thigh it was of a sulphur yellow; jazzed
stripes of electric blue, thundercloud black
and the green of storm waters formed the
symbolic pants and the shoulder-strap area.
The high-heeled beach-shoe has taken the
place of the sandal surf-shoe —at least in
the dress parades. Red, green, yellow, rose,
black, white or a combination of any two
or three colors, they look very dashing and
Nice-y. But they are really more suited to
the esplanade water-fronts of Europe and
the board walks of America than to the
shining sands the Sydney surf-girl knows.
Another knutty beach touch is the scarf
hanky of thin rubber to be knotted carelessly
about the shoulders of the mermaid. Match-
ing these are dainty surf-bags, though this
Letter doubts if any model beach could
countenance suits of the dimensions that
would pack into them.
Girls will be girls even when they are
90. Choosing her own present for her 90th
birthday, Mrs. Martha Drinkwater, of Chats-
wood, was taken on an air flight over
Sydney. Now she wants to do it again—
she found the sensations most pleasant.
A note drops in from Aid. Waugh, Mayor
of Albury, who left Australia with the
Scottish .“delegation,” and at time of writing
was in the south of France. Making a de-
tour from Monte Carlo to Nice, he turned
into an inn in a little village for a long
draught of iced Perrier. “The last thing I
expected to find there was a link with
Australia; yet on the table at which I sat
was a well-worn copy of The Bulletin of
May 16. I am travelling alone, unable to
speak French, and am not, I find, very
clever at making myself understood; so you
may understand how I pounced on that old
friend and nearly wrung his hand off.”
It doesn't seem to matter whether a
Sydney baby grows under an orange-tree or
in a bed of three-leaved shamrock; when
she becomes a deb: she looks just the sweetest
flower that blows. Nearly 100 buds shook
out white and silver finery and smiled over
early-Victorian posies when Mrs. Cecil
Brierley the other night welcomed them into
the world of grown-ups. This record-break-
ing presentation was staged in the midst of
the Grand Orange Ball at the Town Hall.
The youngsters swept forward buoyantly
under an arch of flashing blades and sway-
ing blossom to greet the wife of the society's
Grand Master. The Boyne Water was a
noted part of the musical programme, but
even Boyne Water can become so diluted
by time and distance that it fails to affect
happy young debs. The old civic fastness was
transformed into a chant to spring. Garlands
of peach-blossom rioted from gallery to
gallery. They linked the lights overhead,
and embraced the pillars. The stage, too,
was massed with the pretty blossom. The
decoration committee had made every petal
in the thousands of blooms, and only a
great enthusiasm for the Dill-Macky orphan-
ages, which the ball will aid, could have
sweetened that gigantic Mimi-like appren-
ticeship. No Rudolphs at these sewing bees
to sing in a cuddlesome way: “Your tiny
hand is frozen!” The latest thing in velvet
shoes was worn by Mrs. Cecil Brierley. They
were of Carmen red and were perched on
flashing silver heels. Pink and blue flowered
georgettes formed the raiment above them.
President of committee Mrs. J. Birr ell wore
sapphire-blue velvets electric with diamente.
Mrs. V. Kimber the tireless secretary, aired
silver-sprayed lilac georgettes, and treasurer
Mrs. G. Byrn wore ring velvet. Mrs. H. R.
Russell sponsored the debs.
Ann Hogan, of the happy eyes, walked
into St. Mary’s the other night in a wedding
garment that looked like a waterfall under
moonlight. It was of white georgette sprayed
with crystal, and about it billowed a tulle
veil as melting as a valley mist. Dr. George
Duncan, of Randwick, waited at the altar.
Arthur Mackins squired his pretty sister-in-
law up the aisle, and Marie Mackins and
Kathlyn Minalian floated after her in pink-
petalled frocks and wide pink hats. Toasts
at the Australia.
Ailsa Cullen, whose profile since she has
affected the short hair-trim is as clear-cut
as one on an old Roman coin, looked very
attractive the other day when she started
on her job as daughter of the Lieut.-Gover-
nor. Her first bit of work was the handing
over of a car for the use of the bush nurses
at Menindie. It was bought with half the
profits of the Extra Chukka Ball, the big
effort of the Country Women's Association
during Polo Week, and Dr. Clubbe took pos-
session of it in Government House grounds
last week. Minister for Health Dr. Arthur
and Chief Police Commissioner Mitchell gave
thanks and three cheers on the bush nurses’
behalf. Ailsa was attractively striped in
beige and chocolate for the- occasion; and
the C.W.A., with Mrs. Colin Venn fior
spokeswoman, presented her with a basket of
pink hyacinths.
Mary Cordeaux, the eldest of the three
young daughters of Arthur Cordeaux, of
Bowral, is adding to that old town’s illumi-
nations with a ring presented by “Top”
Ilassall. He’s the only son of the Rowland
Hassals, of Braidwood.
Bryam Mansell, the artist who combines
brush and batik work, undertook to be a
life-long shawl-provider to Alison Cameron,
an artist in her own right and a daughter of
Padre Ronald Cameron, of St. James’s, Tur-
ramurra. The Pitt-street Congregational
Church gave its blessing to the vows. Whits
Chantilly and tulle were allied in the bride's
frocking, and ethereal blues and pale gold
mingled in ’maid Mavis Parker’s outfit.
Clarice O’Connor, of Kensington, a young
worker for the Sydney Hospital Auxiliary,
linked up with Astley Harold Mahony, of
Adelaide, last week. Padre Micklem did the
job at the St. James matrimonial service-
station. The bride wore a white velvet coat
collared in arctic fox over a froth of white
and glittering georgettes. A small white
and gold hat was worn instead of the ortho-
dox veil and orange buds. Bride’s sister
Lucy ’maided in an old-rose outfit. Toast
drinkings at the Ambassadors; bride’s
mother in black velvet and sister Kathleen
in beige and silver.’ (
The story was told this Letter by a lady
fresh from Wicklow, and The Bulletin
passes it on to Queen Mary to enjoy with
her afternoon cup. In her parish was a
wild Don Juan of a lad named Terry who
caused heartburnings to husbands and
fathers and sweethearts. Never a pretty
gii'l (and all the girls in the parish were
pretty) but caught his eye and engaged his
fancy. The parish priest was sorely tried,
and exhorted Terry again and again to mend
his ways and settle down. At last came a
Sunday when Terry was missing from Mass,
and at sermon-time the padre turned to his
flock. “You will be wondering,” he said,
“what has become of that wild lad Terry.
Well, it’s myself can tell you. Last week 1
bade him come to see me, and I said:
‘Here’s forty pounds for you, and take your-
self off now to London, and cease being a
thorn in the side of my parish.’ So up to
London Terry’s gone.” His reverence paused.
Then he added: “Dearly beloved, you don’t
often hear me pray for the Royal Family,
but earnestly this morning I say, ‘God
Save the Queen!’ ”


A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
A. SAUNDERS’ Ladies’ 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist Band, £6/10/-, others £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-,
£5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ 9c-t.
Gold Links, 20/-,
heavier 25/-, 30/-
15ct. Gold £2,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDER'S’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum Set,
18et. Gold Ring,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Hexagon-shaped
Platinum Set,
Bct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Wedding Ring,
18ct., White Gold,
hand chased,
30/-
ALL GUARANTEED.
mm
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, Fancy
Platinum Set, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £2O.
/
%
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face
Keyless “Imperial” Lever Watch, 25/-
Higher Grades 30/-, 40/-
GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’
9ct. Gold Links, 25/'
Heavier, £2.
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Circle,
All Platinum
Wedding Ring,
£25, £3O,
£35, £4O.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
!rt ft mi 6
/ iia wSIB
a e Mil 6
4 0 Mj i
I&I'
&
&
9
In
l« «
*!»*»
WAIKIKI BEACH
HONOLULU
_ zm? m
HAW&II
W&s(ll&ci{icßrraJis£
In Hawaii, amidst surroundings of semi-tropical grandeur,
you will thrill with new experiences . . . enjoy glorious fun
out-of-doors. Honolulu, with its colorful social life centring
about luxurious hotels, will charm you. Nearby is the famous
Beach of Waikiki, where lithe surf-riders poise on the
incoming waves.
From Honolulu, over smooth motor roads you may circle the
Island of Oahu, visiting the; majestic gorge of the Pali,
Mount Tantalus, and the submarine gardens of Haleiwa.
Upon an inter-island cruise the traveller views awe-inspiring
Kilauea and the volcanic wonders of Hawaii National Park.
Matson-Oceanic liners will carry you to Honolulu in 13 days
by way of Suva (Fiji) and Pago Pago (Samoa), quaint island
ports of the South Seas. A week in Honolulu —visits to the
other Islands of the Group—or, if you plan a longer tour,
continue on to the mainland of the United States, via
Matson-Oceanic service.
Ordinary fares: Sydney to Honolulu, first class £55, single;
£95/10/- return, available for 12 months.
Excursion fares issued by all steamers Sydney to Honolulu through-
out the year, £75 first class, £55 second class return. Available
to return by any Matson Oceanic steamer within 3 months.
Illustrated travel leaflets, " A Holiday in Hawaii” free upon request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
iiiSHiP CO.
ATOQMLLICIE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. F —2B
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
The GO/y'A.RD Lire of Beauty
/j
'
...
m
m
m
Hu
*w
hat
INIMITABLE
SMARTNESS
* c
f~+j>zke CU St 0171-171 Cl d ti”j says one woman to
another, describing the appearance and feeling
of being GossARD-rarj-^J.
From fashion port to fashion port Gossard artist-
designers travel, studying the mode, women’s
activities and tastes, the needs of certain kinds
of supporting garments for certain kinds of wear.
No other foundation garments compare with
Gossards —their superb individual designing,
their perfect ability to blend figure and frock,
their remarkable supporting, caressing qualities.
They are truly inimitably smart.
Gossard Corsets
are made within the Empire
-4*
No matter what your type of figure, there
is a group of Gossards to fit you per-
fectly. Today go and see the new Autumn
girdles, step-ins, clasp-arounds, combinations,
Gossard Completes , and front-lacing corsets
particularly suited to your figure.
5-1-18
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd,
114 Castlereagh St., Sydney
New South Wades.


J-%
”0* Finc/t Inland Golf"
Link/ inAu/tralid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain I
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
is quickly conquered
with
FORMAMINT
Throat Tablets
3/6 per bottle
of ail chemists
Genatosan
Ltd
FRUIT
FOR GREAT BRITAIN
THE PORT OF HULL
is
Excellently Equipped for Rapid
Handling of Fruit Cargoes.
Nearly 7,000,000 Packages
Imported
during 1925.
SALES HELD THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.
QUICK DESPATCH
by the
London and North-Eastern Railway
TO ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY.
Further information gladlv given on applica-
tion to Messrs. BURNS. PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
Melbourne
Chatter
Just-arrived shipments of evening gowns
include a fair nroportion of glittering rai-
ment on which the designs are more intri-
cately woven than ever. An all-over pattern
in tiny bugles marks a new black robe
which goes with a bridge-coat to match.
The newly-opened assortment of spring day-
frocks shows a leaning towards the ensemble
mode—two- or three-piece suits in the coat-
and-cape or jumper short-coat modes. It
seems likely that all-matching attire will
invade the realm of evening wear, but it’s
going to be dashed expensive, judging by the
latest array of price tickets. Those little
models —the sales lady, with lofty disregard
of the price, always describes them as little
—seem to be sold on a basis of weight in
pound-notes.
Followers of hounds had a mid-week meet
at Moonee Valley racecourse!, when the
Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Club put on
its annual programme of races. The chief
event was the Cup Steeplechase. J. J. Carl-
son, who has been very successful this season,
won on Willangie. In addition to custody
of the cup he was given a gold tiepin for
keeps.
Bridge-tables for about forty were
arranged in the private reception-room of
the Lyceum Club during the week, when
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston called some of her
friends together for a rubber. The hostess
gave greeting wearing millinery of Lido
blue shadowing a two-piece costume of
golden brown tone, and her daughter Jean
topped her frock of russet-red georgette with
a black hat. Mayoress Morell, a symphony
in brown ; Mrs. Arthur Garrels, the Spencer
lady and Mrs. J. Gilrutli were among the
players.
The Maudsley lady summoned a few
women for bridge at the Victoria League
Club on Thursday, collecting £3O thereby
for the Austin Hospital. Some sympathetic
folk who disposed of flowers, eggs and fruit,
helped to make the afternoon profitable.
John Brownlee’s first concert here had
very little advance advertising and there were
several empty seats in the Town Hall when
he took the platform. He’ll have better
luck next time, for the audience was wildly
enthusiastic, and the baritone had to sing
a dozen encore numbers before his hearers
were satisfied. After his first operatic offer-
ing a laurel wreath, a gigantic horseshoe of
daffodils and pansies and a flower-decked
parcel or two were passed up. The attrac-
tive supporting singer, Elena Danieli, who
was heard here in grand opera—she’s a
Canadian protegee of Dame Nellie Melba —
was clad in a gown of ivory taffeta that had
bordering about the ankles of large flat pink
rosettes through which were slipped nattier-
blue ribbon. A basket of oranges decked
with narcissi was part of her reward.
William James, who was accompanist and
also played some solos, helped to round out
a satisfying evening. Lieutenant-Governor
Irvine and his lady were in the front row
with Mrs. E. H. Lascelles. Mrs. W. J.
T. Clarke was near by with daughter Wilma.
U. Consul-General Garrels and his wife
were in the centre d.-c. with Madame Turck
and Ninette, and the Fritz Harts and many
other musical folk helped to swell the
applause.
Melbourne will share a little of the glory
of the Eucharistic Congress, for Cardinal
Cerretti and some of the other visiting dig-
nitaries will abide in this city for awhile
after the congress is over. Among the events
planned for this visit will be the laying of
the foundation stone of the new wing of St.
Vincent’s Hospital.
The Institute for the Blind, though it has
just concluded a record year of activity, looks
out upon a vista of financial worries. Its
responsibilities are ever increasing, for not
only docs it look after the many children
and adult workers at the institute, but it
takes all the blind of the State under its
wing. Every blind child gets a chance of
following the vocation for which it shows
aptitude, and the kiddies who are housed at
the R.V.1.8. look happy and well-cared for.
Hostels for blind girl and boy workers who
have no parental home in this city have re-
cently been established, recreation grounds
have been acquired, and teachers are sent out
to train sightless folk in various occupations.
Vireless sets are also provided to lighten
the darkness of the afflicted. When the board
of management finds a blind man a job in a
factory it sees to it that he gets the full
award rate each week, though it has to pro-
vide perhaps two-thirds of the money itself.
Speaker Peacock, who presided at the annual
meeting, agreed with the member for the dis-
trict, A. R. Jackson, that it was up to the
Government to increase its yearly grant,
which in the last 30 years has not got beyond
£l9OO, an almost fixed subsidy. For 1928 the
expenditure of the institute was £25,065, and
the deficit was £6341.
One of his constituents, Lily Gibson, of
Warrnambool, became the bride of Harry
Bailey, Minister of Lands, at St. Pat.’s last
week. Only a few Cabinet colleagues were
supposed to know the church where vows
would be exchanged, but the news circulated
briskly, and there were many more witnesses
than the official ones. This is the third
occasion in 40 years on which a Victorian
State Minister lias faced the altar while in
office. To mark so rare an occurrence the
officers of the Lands Department mustered
£5O and presented Bailey with a hall clock
and a set of crystal ware. Fellow-Cabineteers
and Warrnambool constituents also sent
gifts. i
Ethel Tompkins and her co-worker Miss
Burrows, who turn out some of the finest
painted china in this city, are exhibiting a
beautiful collection at 225 Collins-street,
where they have set up their plant. Both
artists have made a study of Australian
flora, and their wares should be popular
as gifts to oversea friends. And Miss Tomp-
kins has succeeded in producing a fair imita-
tion of Satsuma ware.
Melbourne temperance people watched th<?
liquor poll at Canberra with quite as much
interest as they did the bigger vote in
N. S. Wales, and got as little comfort from
one as the other. Only the most hopeful of
them expected a large vote for “prohibition
of possession”; but they are frankly dis-
appointed that continuance of the present
law in the Federal territory should have
been able to muster less than half the votes
polled for “sale in licensed premises.”
It looks as if there were going to be a
run on starch. Spring and summer materials
spread on the counters of our rag-shops
include piles of cambrics and prints. While
these dressed cotton fabrics remained a back
number, laundering of house frocks was easy,
but it looks as if the return to the simpler
life will involve a lot more work. The devil
of it is that the patterns are so pretty
one can’t resist ’em.
Mary Turner and her cousin Grace, who
went abroad after the passing over of George
Turner’s widow, have decided to skip the
winter overseas and come home to summer
and sunshine. In London they paid a visit
to Bertram Mackennal’s studio and gave an
order for two busts of the late George Turner,
which, when finished, will be presented to
the nation. One will adorn the Federal
chamber at Canberra; the other will be
added to the collection in our local House of
Wisdom.
The Austral Salon ha 3 lost one of its
early members with the passing of Mrs. T.
F. Legge at her Sandringham home. Many
charitable organisations will miss her active
assistance. A member of the Hay Thompson
family, from Glasgow, her early years in thl:•»
country were spent in Bathurst, where she
embarked on a teaching career; later she
reigned as principal of Queen’s College, Bal-
larat, until domestic life claimed her atten-
tion.
Mrs. J. A. Graham, pictured here by
Lafayette, shared with Dorothy Merritt re-
sponsibility for the ticket sales of the ex-
tremely su e-
cessful matinee
for the Crip-
ples’ Home at
Fr ankston,
held at His
Majesty’s,
which pro-
duced £2500
for the fur-
nishing of the
institution. All
auxiliaries of
the Children’s
Hospital lent
a hand. An
infinitely
varied pro-
gramme of en-
tertainment in-
cluded J. M.
Barrie’s mys-
te r y play
“Shall We Join
the Ladies?” Mr. Boucicault was admir-
able as the host, Sam Smith, and Irene Van-
brugh looked attractive in draperies of lemon
yellow.
Annie Croft, May Beatty, Gus Bluett, Leo
Franklin and a quartette of Chinese maidens
were fun-makers who had two-pianoforte
backing from Henry Penn and Gordon
Rodder. Edith Harrhy, Walter Kirby,
Sydney Birchell and Cromwell Knox also
helped. Jennie and Eileen Brenan staged
a “Ballet of the Roses,” in which 50 small
girls flitted about on green-sliod toes in
petalled-silk skirts in the company of a
mauve fairy and a green elf, while Joyce
Munday, in early-Victorian attire, sang a
song about roses. A bunch of society girls
wearing spring-frilled frocks that blended iu
rainbow hues, with matching crinoline mil-
linery and tiny early-Victorian parasols,
tripped in unison to the tuneful singing of
Mrs. Kingsbury Baillieu, who had a huge
pink rose nestling at the waistline of a white
taffeta and net gown.
Waving coral-pink feather fans against
pale-green filmy vestments, Gwen Tait and
Jocelyn Purves Smith glided in a graceful
old-fashioned measure. Contrast was affor-
ded by the eccentric dancing of Mary and
Janet Winter Irving. In the centre d.c.
were the Irvine lady, knight James Elder,
the Chauvel lady (who was head of the
organising committee), Mrs. James Purves
and Valerie, Mrs. Leslie MacDonald, Mrs.
Rogers Thomson and Madame Kroef.
Here is Charles Emerson Robertshaw, a
journalist who has lately published his first
book, a series of pen-pictures of the Outback.
Under the pen-
name of “Coo-
libah” he has
many short
stories and
sketches scat-
tered through
the files of
Victorian jour-
nals for the
last 20 years.
He was born
m Cambridge,
M. 48 years
ago; spent
many years in
N. S.‘ Wales,
and got his
first impres-
sions of the
bush in
Orange. His
life since has
alternated be-
tween the city
and the countryside which he depicts so
well. Writing for trade papers is his daily
job.
Ethel Spowers is searching London for
a hand-printing press, which may presently
accompany her home. Besides writing and
illustrating fairy tales for the young, she
is thinking of becoming the printer of future
efforts, to eliminate publication anxieties.
Miss Spowers, who went oversea early this
year with her younger sister, is a student
at the Grosvenor School of Arts.
Mrs. Mary Waller, who did such excellent
work in this State for the Country iCare
Committee, which has just faded out to give
place to the Country Women’s Party Associ-
ation, has now an organising job in Eng-
land for the Conservative party. Those
Australians who have met her in present
associations declare that she is as cheery
as ever.
Paris audiences have been bestowing en-
couragement upon two Melbourne girls who
last month let loose their top notes from a
concert platform. One of them, Dorothy
Thomas, who has adopted Canberra as her
professional title, was a Melba Con.
student. In Europe her voice had been pol-
ished by Marchesi into extreme brilliance.
The other girl, Jessie Black, sailed over a
few years back to study and has since been
lost sight of, but last month she came into
the professional arena with a vastly im-
proved soprano voice of the coloratura type.
After having planned an oversea itinerary
the Douglas Boyds have been compelled to
alter their arrangements, owing to the con-
tinued ill-health of their youngest daughter.
Quiet care at home on their Riverina squat-
tage has been recommended by the doctors
as more helpful to a recovery than the
excitement of travel abroad. Mrs. Boyd is
therefore not likely to see much of our
social gaieties this season. She is a polo
enthusiast, keenly interested in her hus-
band’s game and the success of his team.
The George Dicksons, who recently de-
serted their Toorak home to prowl around
Europe, met with a pleasant surprise in Lon-
don when their daughter Viv dropped in to
keep them from feeling lonely. Since her
marriage to Percy Allen she has been settled
in Kenya Colony".
Having foregathered with her relatives and
friends in Melbourne, Mrs. N.. L. Gillespie
is planning a return to her home in Holly-
wood, where she has lived for the last 10
years. After a few days’ stay in Sydney she
sets sail for over there.
The hostess searching for a novelty might
consider the “flowers programme,” which can
serve several uses in a social gathering. Mrs.
Jimmy Dyer made a feature of them at her
reception at the Garden Club recently in
London. Each guest received a different
blossom, the stem being tied with ribbon
streamers and having a programme of musi-
cal numbers attached. When the bidden
hundreds were assembled in the reception-
room holding their flowers it looked like a
variegated garden. The hostess, who held a
lily, received in a berry-red gown embroidered
with silver.
J. M. Reid, of Adelaide, who has amassed
considerable wealth in the leather and tan-
nery business in South Australia, took his
third plunge into matrimony recently. His
bride was Lena Jacobi, of Ballarat, who has
been attached to the firm of E. Lucas and
Co. Pty., Ltd., for the last 16 years, in
a very responsible capacity. The ceremony
was quietly celebrated at Ballarat.
Mary Grant Bruce and her Major, who
left us to settle in Ireland, seem already to
have joined the ranks of the absentee land-
lords of Erin. After touring extensively in
Britain they rested awhile-in London, and
when the mail left were preparing to collect
their young sons for a motor-tour through
France.
Mrs. Robert McDonald, who with daughter
Meg went abroad in search of health, seems
to have recovered that precious possession in
Germany. The pair were having a happy
time at Wiesbaden, where cures are the order
of the day, and music mostly of the classical
order can be heard for a trifling sum each
evening. The wanderers, when last heard
from, were thinking of going to London.
Dr. Taylor Downie, who sailed abroad early
this year accompanied by his wife and
daughter Janet, is making the most of his
holiday. In London the family received a
fine welcome from Dr. and Mrs. Walker Sin-
clair, who were keen to hear all the home
news, and Dr. Sinclair, much improved in
health, assisted the travellers to sample the
city’s amusements. A motor tout through
England and Scotland followed, and they
will probably see something of French high-
ways before thinking of return.
It is rumored that Mrs. Kingsbury Bail-
lieu, who, as Gracie Lavers, lent brightness
to many a J.O.W. musical show of a few
years ago, is turning her bright eyes towards
the footlights again. The pretty young
widow, whose voice seems to have gained in
power during her retirement, will get a
warm welcome should the project materialise.
A cold, complicated by laryngitis, has kept
Dame Nellie Melba almost a prisoner in
Cooinbe Cottage for the last couple of weeks,
and she has had to postpone her departure to
London and her farewell concert, which was
planned for August.
The Hon. Mrs. Oscar Nevitt, daughter of
Lady Airedale, whose husband is one of the
Western District landowners, is visiting her
parents in England, and has been presented
at court by her mother. The young matron
will probably see the season out, but, accord-
ing to present plans, she intends sailing back
in time to spend Christmas in her Australian
homestead.
Dr. Isabella Younger and husband John
Ross, have settled themselves in a Kentish
manor-house, now let as flats, it being con-
venient to the college where their young son
is acquiring education. Mr. Ross, when last
heard of, was having a strenuous time organ-
ising at the London office which he had just
opened;
The energetic Mrs. I. H. Moss and her
husband are planning another trip abroad.
This time they intend to step ashore near
Turkey, where he hopes to add to his col-
lection of antique ornaments while she in-
vestigates the progressive feminine move-
ment in those parts. A caravan trip through
Syria followed by a survey of the unrestful
Balkan States is also in contemplation.
Mrs. Grace Mackay, widow of Bendigo’s
regretted Dr. Eric, and her daughter Molly
are enjoying a round of social gaieties in
London, where they find the Golden City
well represented. One of Bendigo’s daugh-
ters, Marion Jones, gave a party at her Chel-
sea studio to greet her old friends, and
gathered many home-town folk together. Miss
Jones is now well established in the Hub's
art world, several of her pictures having
been accepted by the Royal Academy and
the Paris Salon.
The only member of the medical profes-
sion who will represent Australia at the Pan-
Pacific Conference of Women at Honolulu
is Dr. Ethel Osborne, wife of Prof. Osborne
of the local shop. She has had considerable
experience of such corroborees, and will be
able to discuss subjects from all angles.
Apart from her attachment to numerous
women’s movements, she is head of the Emily
McPherson College of Domestic Economy, and
her brass plate is hung out at the top of
Collins-street.
Archie Menzies, at present in London with
his mother, has announced to friends at home
that he has had two of his comedies accepted
for production by a syndicate controlling a
chain of European theatres. Performing
rights have been bought and paid for out-
right, and he takes no risks. The young
playwright’s gift of catering for theatre audi-
ences is probably inherited from his mother,
who before marriage was Dorothy Vane, a
comic-opera star. Mrs. Menzies and her son
intend returning home towards the end of
the year.


EARNING PROFITS IN EIGHT WEEKS!
What is probably a record in Australian Company
flotation is that in only eight weeks after registration
National Mortgage and Discount Co., Ltd., has begun
to employ its capital and' earn profits.
Share capital is being freely subscribed by investors
throughout the whole of Australia, and as it is received
it is at once converted into dividend-earning securities.
There is, however, so much sound and profitable business
available to the Company that it is unable to take full
advantage of same until further capital is received.
A well-known Actuary has estimated that the Com-
pany is well able to earn three profits from its operations,
namely: 15 per cent, from Mercantile Discounting, 17
per cent, from Mortgage Discounting, and 24 per cent,
from Trade Discounting.
By using its capital over and over again many times
a year in hundreds of transactions the Company can earn
profits ranging between 20 and 40 per cent, per annum.
Thus the profits are sufficiently large not only to permit
of the payment of handsome dividends, but also to
enable the Company to build up strong reserves.
MANAGERS AND SECRETARIES, AND REGISTERED
OFFICE:
Messrs. Brooks and Deane, Incorporated Public Accoun-
tants, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ORGANISING BROKERS:
Miller s Investments, Limited, Executive Offices, Adyar
House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
NATIONAL MORTGAGE
& DISCOUNT CO. LTD.
(REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS, N.S.W., 1899-1918).
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £500,000
100,000 Eight Per Cent. Cumulative Preference Shares
of £ 1 each participating up to 10 per cent,
offered for public subscription, and payable on
subscription in the same manner as Ordinary
Shares.
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each offered for public
subscription, payable—
-2/6 per share on application. 2/6 per share on
allotment.
2/6 per share one month after allotment, and
the balance as and when required in calls not
exceeding one shilling per share, at intervals of
not less than one month.
200,000 Shares to be held in reserve.
CUT OUT AND POST.
I 10/- PER SHARE TO BE CALLED UP.
In the opinion of the Directors, it will not be necessary
to call up more than 10/- per share, the uncalled capital
being available as security for borrowing purposes, on
which the Company will make much more profit than it
could by trading entirely on its own capital.
NO FREE SHARES.
There are no vendor shares. Every share issued by the
Company will be paid for in cash, and no free shares have
been or will be given to Directors, Vendors, Promoters,
Brokers, nor anyone else.
OPTION SHARES.
100,000 Option shares are to be
issued to the holders of the first
100,000 shares, entitling them to
take up at par value within a
stated period further shares in the
proportion of share for share.
When these are applied for no
further Options will be issued.
PROSPECTUS COUPON.
To MILLER*S INVESTMENTS, LIMITED.
Organising Brokers for National Mort-
gage and Discount Co., Ltd.,
Adyar House, Bligh Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 2558 E.
Please send me a copy of Prospectus
of above Company, without any obliga-
tion whatever to me.
Name
Address
Mr. C. N. BAEYERTZ,
Author Baeyertz Self-training
Method.
DO
YOU SA Y:-
“l
“I
ain't 9 * “You was 99
“Between you and l"
seen" “Going to go"?
What are
YOUR Mistakes
in English?
You can see the errors above at a glance.
Perhaps, however, you make other mis-
takes which offend cultured people as
much as these would offend you. How
do you know that you do not mispro-
nounce certain words? Are you always
sure that your speech and writing are
grammatically correct? To you they may
seem correct; but others may know they
are wrong.
Unfortunately people will not correct you
when you make mistakes; all they do is
to make a mental reservation about you.
“He is ignorant and uneducated,” they
think.
You can now remove these obstacles to
your business and social advancement.
C. N. Baeyertz, a successful journalist
and man of affairs, a brilliant scholar and
teacher, has perfected a simple home-
training method, placing the results of
his thirty years' specialisation within the
reach of everybody of you I He will
show you how to make words the pass-
port to your progress, the Dlaythings of
your moods—the tools of your necessi-
ties. You will learn easily from him how to
weave words into speeches that sway men
to your will; stories that entertain; adver-
tisements that sell; letters that win. Yes,
you can increase your income and step
to leadership, for, no matter what your
calling in life, this new method will help
you. At last you can have the amazing
power of saying and writing the right
thing at the right time.
When the study of English is made so
simple, it becomes clear that wonderful
progress can be made in a very short
time. No more than 1 5 minutes a day is
required. Fifteen minutes of fascinating
yet simple effort—taken from time usually
spent profitless reading or amusement.
You learn at home, and the results are
really phenomenal.
“PURPOSE AND
ATTAINMENT”
gd
Mr. Baeyertz has published a booklet,
Purpose and Attainment,” which is most
instructive and intensely interesting. It
will show you how to acquire a mastery
of English and how to develop a melo-
dious speaking and singing voice, how to
become a forceful public speaker or
entertainer, and how to qualify for greater
advancement in life. Send NOW for
Purpose and Attainment.” Fill in and
post the coupon at once. This involves
no obligation to you, and it will be the
first step to greater personal and financial
progress.
The Recorder,
C. N. BAEYERTZ INSTITUTE,
Angus Chambers,
219 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me, without
cost or obligation, a copy of your
new booh. “PURPOSE AND
ATTAINMENT.” I enclose 3d. in
stamps for postage.
Name
Address
170


Your Skin Sore ,
& Outof-Condition?
WHATEVER your skin trouble you can rely upon
Zam-Buk to put you right. If you have any soreness,
irritation, itching or “breaking out,” anoint the place gently
with this splendid herbal balm. If it is an ulcer, scald or a
bad sore, spread Zam-Buk on a piece of lint and cover up.
So highly-refined is this herbal Zam-Buk that it readily
soaks through the tiny pores of the skin into underlying
tissues. Zam-Buk thus gets at the roots of eczema, psoriasis
and ulcers, where ordinary fatty ointments are ineffectual.
The regular use of Zam-Buk makes the whole skin healthy.
Zam-Buk soon stops pain and irritation, it subdues inflam-
mation, kills and excludes poisonous germs, and grows new,
healthy skin. For cuts, burns, scalds, chapped hands,
poisoned wounds, ulcers, scalp diseases, bad legs, piles, etc.,
Zam-Buk is unequalled. Rub it in for muscular rheumatism
and cold-on-the-chest.
amßuk
The Great Herbal Balm
For SKIN DISEASES & INJURIES
m
//
tv
rsi
o
r
's
Cet a box of the Zam-Buk soothing
and healing balm to-day. Price 1/6 or
3/6 family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap, 1/- a cake, 2/10 box of three.
Of all dealers and stores.
cncE TRIAI * Have V ou had y° ur Free Samples
rncs ■ n ini ■ fl y zam-Bulc Balm and Zam-Buk
Medicinal Soap? Ij not, send name and address to
Messrs. C._ E. Fuljord ( Aus.), Ltd., Sydney. (Mention
Bulletin ~5/9/’28.)
The World-famous CHERNIAVSKY TRIO praises
0
The wonderful money-saving family
remedy for
COUGHS
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS 8 ’FLU.
The goodness of Heenzo
as a medicine for chest
and throat ailments is
proved in the following
letter from the Cher-
niavsky Trio: “Dur-
ing the last nine years
we have never been
without a supply of
Heenzo on our world
tours, for under even
the severest climatic
conditions we have
found it an ideal remedy
for coughs, colds and
influenza.”
Over one million Australian citizens annually
prove that the best remedy for banishing ailments
of the chest and throat is the mixture so easily
made by adding sweetened water to a two-
shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO.
Each bottle of Heenzo makes a supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-
sized bottles of the usual ready-made-up cough
and influenza remedies that would cost up to £ 1.
Over 12,000 people have written letters express-
ing their delight at the speedy way Heenzo
soothes sore throats, eases the chest, and banishes
even the worst attacks of coughing and colds.
HEENZO should be used in every home.
FOR
SPRING TRIPPING NOVELTIES
VISIT
NORTH QUEENSLAND
BEST OF TROPICAL AUSTRALIA.
Railway Tours through Sugar Plantations and Tropical Fruit Region with
Famed BARRON GORGE FALLS. Ascent as Climax.
Voyage through WHITSUNDAY PASSAGE and Calm Coral Seas of a
Thousand Isles Sheltered by World’s Longest Coral Reefs.
HUGE WATERFALLS.
CRATER LAKES.
CHILLAGOE-MUNGANA CAVES.
CHOICE TROPICAL COLORS. *
UNIQUE FLORAL FOLIAGE.
CONSTANT SPRING SUNSHINE.
MULGRAVE RIVER FROM CAIRNS RANGE MOTOR ROAD,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
Has Largest Areas of Unde-
veloped Land. Offers most
openings in Rural Industries.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT
Projects include 2,000,000
acres in Central Queensland
suited for Stock-raising, Dairying and General Agriculture. Western Sheep-
lands for Grazing Selection will be available in future years.
LIBERAL LAND LAWS.
HEALTHY CLIMATE.
Pictorial Booklets and Full Information Free from.
GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE & TOURIST BUREAU,
BRISBANE.
Sydney Branch: 56 MARGARET STREET.


Amusements,
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
UMPIRE THEATRE,
■*“* Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Twice Daily, 2.15 and 8.
MONSTER DOUBLE BILL,
The Fox Motion Picture
MOTHER MACHREE
And the Tabloid Musical Comedy
MODELS.
Prices 1/6 to 4/6.
Reserves: MAIOOO, and all leading booking offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: GRAND OPERA.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
CRITERION: OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
PALACE: DEAR BRUTUS.
A LLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in Plays of SHAKSPEARE.
SUBURBAN TOUR:
Bankstown, Majestic Theatre: Wednesday, Sept. 6,
“Twelfth Night” ; Thursday, Sept. 6, “The Taming
of the Shrew.” Campsie, La Hood’s Hall: Friday,
Sept. 7, “The Merchant of Venice.” Parramatta
Town Hall: Saturday, Sept. 8, “Merchant of
Venice”; Monday, Sept. 10, matinGe, “Twelfth
Night”; Evening, “Henry VIII.”
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE PATSY.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE: BELINDA.
A THEN/EUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL presents
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley,
WHITE COLLARS.
Three acts of delicious comedy—with a ■ laugh
in every line.
UOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
EMIL JANNINGS in
THE LAST COMMAND.
ALSO
VIRGINIA VALLI in
THE ESCAPE.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
GEORGE JESSELL in
THE MASTER PICTURE,
SAILOR IZZY MURPHY.
Box Plan at Allan’s k Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
PING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
DONOVAN AFFAIR.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
QUEENSLAND
TURF CLUB.
September Race Meeting,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 8.
Prize Money: 1900 Sovs,
October Race Meeting,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13.
Prize Money: 2700 Sovs.
MAURICE S. BALDWIN,
Secretary.
rf any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
MARGARET MANN in the William Fox Production FOUR SONS.
The Motion Picture aimed straight at the heart of Humanity.
Also. WILLIAH HAINES in TELLING THE WORLD.
Missing Friends. _______
JTSTATE OF BURKE, deceased, near Ardfinnan Co.,
Tipperary, Ireland. About £12,000. Information
wanted immediately as to brother of deceased named
John Burke or his children. John Burke left Ireland
about 1883 and was employed for some years aboui
1903 as draper’s assistant at Anthony Hordern anc
Sons, Haymarket, Sydney, N.S.W. If alive his ag«
would be about 75 years. Apply at once with neces-
sary certificates to J. J. O’SHEE & CO., Solicitors
Clonmel, Ireland,
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
SYDNEY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
'J’HE Accommodation during this period will be
unprocurable. Intending visitors should at once
make provision for this. We have arrangements with
many hotels and boarding-houses in and around
Sydney at tariffs to suit all pockets. These are filling
fast. For further information write to
ADVANCE ACCOMMODATIONS,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALASIAN ACCOMMODATION SPECIALISTS.
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful “Addac” weighs less than 71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial.
Splendid for calculating. Suits the pocket,
too. £l6/10/-, on terms. Discount for cash.
Written Guarantee. Capacity with farthings,
£lO,OOO. Send for booklet.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND ST., SYDNEY. ’Phone 82279.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay .
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Beyond an H Si VPortable
you buy fupiiture /
<9
Specialising in H.M.V Portables.
£l2 cash or terms arranged
The TALK.E R.I ES
HAVE DRY
;/^?L WET weather
It’s possible if you have
a Marble’s Water-Proof Matchbox.
Holds enough matches for several
days. Thousands used by men
who say “it’s worth its weight in
gold.” Made of seamless brass with
water-tight cover, just the rightsize
for the pocket. Get one today and
have a light when you need it most.
Ask for our complete catalog.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY,
611 Delta Avenue, Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Molden, Weber & Co., Ltd.
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's holtel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Aero Club’s spectacular air pageant
at Eagle Farm was watched by Sir John
and Lady Goodwin and Bert Hinkler. A
Queenslander, L. J. Brain, won the principal
event, the Aerial Derby, in a held of four-
teen. Several lady pilots demonstrated that
flying isn’t a male monopoly. The club’s
chairman, Dr. F. A. Michod, and his wife
received the vice-regals, who had with them
Colonel and Mrs. Davidson and Mrs. N. A. H.
Campbell. Club president Col. Cameron
helped in the entertaining of the notables.
Coochin Coochin, the Bell homestead,
widely known for its hospitality, threw its
doors wide open to welcome Air-marshal
Salmond, Squadron-leader H. G. Smart and
Mrs. Smart, who visited us to take part in
the air pageant.
Summer is icumen in. At the Boyal
Queensland Golf Club’s associates’ open day,
the players—they were feminine—were all
clad in striped crgpe de Chines and the like.
Out of a very large field, president George
Brown’s younger daughter, Miriam, won the
cup presented by Mrs. Brown.
Bowlers from Victoria and the ladies
accompanying them have had many parties
given in their honor. Brisbane is proud of
the view from Mount Cootlia, and a pleasant
afternoon was spent there. Mrs. E. J. Shaw
(wife of the president of the Bowling Associa-
tion) was hostess.
A railway carriage of the latest type, com-
plete with buffets, draw-hooks and lights, was
placed prominently in Smellie’s Building for
the Railway Ball. Commissioner and Mrs.
Davidson received the guests. Mrs. Davidson
wore a black mariette frock, the skirt fash-
ioned with a flounce, and a silver lace corsage.
Bessie Inglis, a popular Longreach girl,
was the central figure at a wedding in her
home town with John King, whose parents
reside at Wahroonga, Sydney. White ring
velvet over a gold skirt was worn by the
bride, and her veil was a gift from cousins
in Glasgow. Kate Henderson ’maided in
floral georgette.
Count and Countess di San Marzano now
reside in Townsville. Before their departure
from this city several parties were given
in their honor, and always the decorations
were done in the Italian colors.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The races, the Perkolilli motor sports and
the Hannan’s Club Ball made the gayest
week of the year in Kalgoorlie. A crowd
of visitors who were attracted reminded old-
timers of the palmy days on the fields. Their
Exes, were there, also the Ernest Hockings,
Mrs. Cusack and her daughter Belle, Mary
Padbury, Maisie Mitchell and Olive Winter.
A civic reception was tendered Lord Stone-
haven in the Town Hall on the day of his
arrival, and the Grand Lodge of W.A. gave
him a formal welcome in the Masonic Temple.
Major Ken Nicholl, who accompanied him,
renewed old friendships.
One of the money-gatherers of Kinder-
garten Appeal Week is the citizens’ luncheon
in the Town Hall. This year, for the first
time, ladies were included in the invitations
to a gathering representative of every pro-
fession and trade. Children from the little
Citizens’ Kindergarten occupied one end of
the hall, where they demonstrated the correct
use of Montessori and Froebel material.
Pastel drawings by tiny fingers, musical
games and rhythmic exercises touched the
{esthetic spot in Mr. Business Man, and
emptied many pockets in aid of the charity.
Among the luncliers were the Mayor and
Mayoress, Padre Itiley, the H. P. Derby-
shires and the Walter Crosses.
The Repertory Club has reluctantly
accepted the resignation of this popular lass,
Joan Good, who has proved herself an ideal
secretary. Miss Good, who has a kinder-
gar ten certifi-
cate to her
credit, devel-
oped a talent
for the stage
in her school
days. The
part of Miss
Shoe in “At
Mrs. Beam’s”
was her clever-
est characteri-
sation, but she
has also done
well in “The
Younger Gen-
e r a t i o n,”
“Jack Straw”
and “Nothing
but the Truth”
as well as in
a host of one-
act plays. The
serious busi-
ness of trousseau-making and a date with
Iteg Meagher next February is her excuse
for resigning. Helen Ogden made the por-
trait.
The Repertory Club gave its resigning
secretary, Joan Good, a farewell spree in
the Karrakatta Club. Vice-president Rabbi
Freedman said pleasant things about the
lady, and Miss Good, despite the trembling
of her rosebud and fern posy, made a very
neat reply. The guest of honor wore white
satin and a fluff of tulle, and Mollie Ick,
the new secretary, who was officially wel-
comed, was in crimson. Marcia Hodges, who
was congratulated on her just-acquired
sang sweetly. Mrs. J. N. Thomson
gave some comic numbers and Mrs. Anderson
recited. Mary Meares and Keith Dougall
won prizes in a guessing competition, and
there was dancing to wind up with.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
An untimely attack of ’flu robbed the
Angas Parsons dance of one of its younger
hosts, their son Geoffrey, due to leave for
Cambridge this month and for whom it was
a farewell. However, his brother was there
to do the honors with his parents —his mother
in blue georgette, silver beaded ; and her sister-
in-law, Mrs. Lavington Bonython, a contrast
in black and rose and pink. The frivol was
at the Glenelg Palais—a very spring-like
Palais, with low bowls of sweet-peas and
sweet-scented stock and great branches of
flowering prunus and japonica. Frocking
honors went to one of the youngest set, not
long back from Europe, in draped pink satin,
and a charming little white and silver tissue.
The night before some of the dancers had
been mumming it at the Walkerville Hall —
an annual affair of amateur theatricals whose
proceeds are for Melanesian missions and
the actors the past or present pupils of
Creveen.
The Operatic Society, busy rehearsing “The
Quaker Girl,” was seized with the bright
idea of a Quaker Girl dance, plain or fancy
dress, at the Palais. For added measure
there were a Spanish dance by some of
Nora Stewart’s pupils—Betty Bonython,
Morna Dobbie, Margaret Smeaton, Brenda
Hill and some others —one or two “exhibi-
tion” dances, and a chorus or two from the
opera by the Society. Proceeds go to staging
the opera.
Girl Guides seem to have discovered a
secret of finance. For the fifth year they
have wound up with a credit balance without
falling back on either a Button Day or a
Government grant. All the official help
they’ve had is the loan by the Railways Com-
missioner of one of his disused huts, and a
very nice hut, too, at the station, for head-
quarters. Lady Hore-Ruthven was at the
annual meeting, with a special message from
the Governor, who is a keen supporter of
guides and scouts.
The Piper-Gillard wedding was at Marry-
attville—the bride, all white with a touch
of silver, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H.
W. Gillard. of Clarendon, and the bridegroom
the Justice Pipers’ son.
The Moldavia’s outward-bound passen-
gers include Gwen Richards, younger daugh-
ter of the Judge, bound for work at Guy’s
Hospital, and Kathleen O’Dea.
Returned voyagers include the H. S.
Iludds and their niece from England and
Audrey Morphett, who has been staying in
Ceylon and is coming home via Penang and
Westralia.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Parliament opened without much pomp
and ceremony. A fair crowd gathered to
watch the arrival of the O’Grady, who was
attended by Capt. Stoyles and Lieut. Strutt.
He was received by a guard of honor under
Capt. Bartley, and got to business without
delay. After the ceremony Speaker Evans
entertained his Ex. and Miss O’Grady, with
a host of Ministerial folk, their wives and
friends, at tea in the dining-room and bal-
cony of the House, where the tables were
decorated with spring blossoms. Miss Evans
did the honors, in the absence of her mother.
President’s Day at the Royal Hobart Golf
Links, Rosny, shed a tear or two on the
assembled guests, but not enough to inter-
fere with the enjoyment of anybody. Mr.
and Mrs. J. G. Mitchell received the guests
at the clubhouse, and the Governor and
Margaret O’Grady were there. Tea was
served at many tables, and almond blossom
and flowering peach cheered the big club-
room. Grace Barclay carried off the ladies’
championship cup. The throng included the
Elliott Lewises, the C.J. and his lady, the
Buchanans, John Gellibrand, Colonel and
Mrs. Cox Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Lewis,
Dr. and Mrs. Scott, the Alex. McGregors and
the Wilfrid Giblins.
Mrs. Norman Atkins and Helen Gray
engineered a skating carnival for the Girls’
Industrial School, and the Glideaway rink
was a pretty sight when the frolic was at
its height. J. M. Counsel, as m.c., arranged
a programme that included costume arid
skating competitions. Margaret O’Grady
took the floor in her pirate rig, boots and
all. Alison Atkinson, who was an Albanian
peasant, came first in the feminine costume
section. The Jones lady, Mrs. Shadforth and
Miss Mackay were judges.
Dr. Vere Franklin, formerly of Parra-
matta (N.S.W.), now of Hobart, and Aud-
rey, only chick of Mr. and Mrs. F. N. Stops,
were married at Devonport, the bride wear-
ing a white crepe-de-satin gown with
diamente on the bodice, and a large dia-
mente buckle defining the waist. A tulle
veil flowed from the head-dress and formed
the train. Joan Henry was the only ’maid,
and wore pink silk lace, with a capette head-
dress and streamers. The bride’s parents
held a reception afterwards at Elimatta.
Jane Reichenberg, organist at St. Joseph’s,
has a record seldom touched by a woman-
-60 years of unbroken service. Twenty-four
organists of the city met to entertain the
wonderful little woman at the Grotto, and
drank her health right heartily. Miss Reich-
enberg is 82, and is one of the last links
with the very early musical history of
Hobart. Her father (formerly bandmaster
of the Chasseurs Britanniques at Messina)
was one of the first teachers in the city.
Fred Packer, a good sound musician who
did a lot towards equipping the Hobart
of the ’sixties and ’seventies with a decent
musical standard, taught Miss Reichenberg
the organ.
The weather smiled on the annual Violet
Day effort on behalf of the mites at the
New Town Children’s Home, and the streets
were full of purple patches in baskets and
on the stalls. The harvest was good.
Tall and popular Rivers Oldmeadow, only
daughter of Mrs. and the late E. R. Old-
meadow, of Austin’s Ferry, has a sparkling
ring that celebrates her engagement to Bede
Reynolds, Pearson’s Point, Brown’s River.


Dear Reader:
Advance Australia
i c i * 5«? and what a wonderful country it is going to be—
Doubtless you fully realise what a wonderful country Aus r .
but are you doing your bit? ,
The popular slogan of everybody living in Australia should carried out to its full extent,
thus keeping the money circulating in Australia for investment, etc.
this country would leap ahead even faster than it is doing a presen
, . , i ran be keot in Australian for Investment.
There are many ways in which money spent by our own people can P
n , . . u „n,,r Insurances are placed with a Company that is not an Australian
Does it ever occur to you, Mr. Reader, that proba V J Companies only, who invest all their funds in Australia.
Company? Let me urge you to insure with wholly Australian companies u >,
r uxv, j " - . ,
If thi, open letter is a means of reminding you of your duty as a dto.to.
we will be pleased if you will give your Insurance Busmess, either hire, Accident
The Australian Federal Life & General Assurance Co. Ltd.
(A Member of the Fire and Accident Underwriters’ Association)
And its Associate Company—
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
(Established 1896.)
Yours for Australia,
• • • .
REMOVAL NOTICE
On and after
10th SEPTEMBER, 1928,
business will be conducted at our new premises,
Australian Federal Chambers, 21 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN FEDERAL LIFE AND GENERAL ASSURANCE CO., LTD.,
THE AUSTRALIAN PROBATE
AND GENERAL ASSURANCE CORP., LTD.
and its Associate Companies,
AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE
CO., LTD.
V. A. C. PARTRIDGE, F.A.1.5., Governing Director.
THE PEOPLE’S PRUDENTIAL
ASSURANCE CO., LIMITED.
Established 1896.
DON
Qo
with
hi
Bad
m
c
STOP
if at once "w^ifß
v
The Safest and Greatest
Headache Banisher on Earth.
Always carry a SITRUC with
you and be free from pain.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE
Obtainable at all Chemists at 1/6 and 3/- Box.
Wholesale Agent for N.S.W.:
R. CURTIS, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Consider the
Battery in the
“ DAGENITE 99 case
As a battery —a battery that WORKS—
the P. & R. is wonderful. Something
extra —something extraordinarily good—
you get in the P. & R. is its “Dagenite” case.
“ Dagenite ” is a patented, fireproof, acid-
proof, leak-proof, weather-proof, almost
unbreakable material. It looks like
ebonite. But it’s many times as strong.
You need no crate around it. It neither
rots nor corrodes. It will resist jolts, jars
and crashes which would reduce ebonite
to splinters.
And that is not all about the P. & R.
Every piece of it—plates, separators, lugs,
terminals, connectors, paste, the whole
thing —has been made to do its job. The
P. & R. is a BATTERY.
PR
PETO &. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
P. 5.
fgd
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
legreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES. LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.


“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £5OO PRIZE STORY.
COONARDOO.
By-Katharine susannah Prichard.
'lllustrations
ly
C. H. PERCIVAL.
CHAPTER I.
COONARDOO was singing. Sitting under
dark bushes overhung with curdy white
blossom, she was clicking two small
sticks together and singing over and over
again, in a thin reedy voice, away at the
back of her head-
‘‘Towera chimma poodinya,
Towera jinner mulbeena” ....
The melody flowed like water running over
smooth pebbles in a dry creek bed. Wind-
ing and falling, the words rattled together
and flew eerily, as if she were whispering
to herself, and in awe of the kangaroos that
came over the range and made a dance
with their little feet in the twilight before
they be°-an to feed.
® . ..
“Towera chimma poodinya,
Towera jinner mulbeena,
Poodinyoober mulbeena. «
It was no more than a twitter m the shadow
of _ the dark bushes near the verandah; a
twitter with the clicking of small sticks,
Coonardoo was not supposed to be there
at all. Everybody was asleep m the long
house of mud bricks and corrugated n-on,
and under the brushwood sheds beyond the
kala miah. But Coonardoo did not want
to sleep. ... .
A. _ little aboriginal girl about nine years
old m a faded blue gma-gina, she sat there,
part of the shadows, with her dark skm,
fair hair and brown eyes shadowed across
the cornea. Clicking and singing, she
watched the plains, the wide shallow pan of
red earth under ironstone pebbles which
spread out before her to the furry edge of
the mulga, grey-green, under a sky blue,
pale and fine.
1 ellow moths drifted down from the white
gum-blossom. Its fragrance of dry grass
and honey made Coonardoo feel sleepy.
And she had decided not to sleep, but to
watch the plains for the first sight of the
horses and buggy coming from Nuniewarra.
Her eyes fluttered after the moths. She
could see the low brown huts of her people
down there beside the well, a deep narrow
well the Gnarler had dug long ago, at a
little distance from the creek. Coonardoo
they called it, the dark well, or the well in
the shadows. Coonardoo had been named
after the well near which she was born.
Trunks of gum-trees were chalk-white all
along the dry bed of the creek and beyond
the creek, bare and red, soared the ridge of
dog-toothed hills, their lower slopes tawny
with spmifex Horses and a buggy from
Nuniewarra to-morrow they would be tak-
mg Youie across the creek and away over
the ridge. Away and away by the long
winding track across the plains, through
those stretches of country where mulga
was stariding stiff and shining as metal,
so long it had been dead and bleaching m
the sun. Away and away, further than
Coonardoo could think, beyond blue backs
of the hills, mulga scrub, and again away
and away to the sea.
“Towera chimma poodinya” ....
Coonardoo sang with sobbing little
breaths. It was so far that jl ome was
ing, and for so long. She wailed with fear
of it all. Her thought could not follow
where he was going.
“Poodinyoober mulbeena, mulbeena, mulbeena.”
She wailed while the yellow moths beat
the air before her, black markings of their
wings flickering, jiggling with the little
feet of the kangaroos and the white threads
of the blossom which were falling. Little
feet, fluttering wings, threads of falling blos-
som wreathed a cobwebby sleepiness over
her. Very drowsily the faint reedy voice
twanged. Coonardoo’s head drooped, the
fine silky jet of curled lashes swept her
che ? k -. Her singing ran out and started
again IB a flurry.
Coonardoo shook herself and sat up,
startled. She was determined not to go to
sleep- . .
But nothing was stirring on the wide
stretch of the plains before her except the
f; a d of the crested pigeon in that dead tree
down beside the garden gate. It tipped
backwards and forwards as he sat, red legs
clasping a slim branch.
“Towera jinner mulbeena” ....
Coonardoo’s fingers tightly grasped the
little sticks she was holding. They clicked
f as £ er and harder. She was very eager to
awak e and ready to play with Youie
w hen he ran out from the house,
Was he not going away to-morrow? Go-
j ng sc hool? And they would play no
more j n the garden down there near the
windmill. The garden with its rows of
cabbages, turnips, lettuces and onions', all
the bright green vegetables Mrs. Bessie was
s 0 p roud Q f. “Mumae” the blacks called her,
because Hughie had called her that as soon
ag he could talk. “Mumae” in their dialect
mean t a father. And was not Mrs. Bessie
f a ther and mother to her son, the woman
mas t e r of Wytaliba since Ted Watt had
d j ed s 0 i ong agQj before Hugh could speak!
g oon after he was born, indeed,
The pigeon flew by with a whirra of grey
gjiken wings. What had he seen? Yukki!
There was Youie running through the kit-
chen on to the verandah.
Coonardoo’s singing bubbled away as
jj ug h stood on the verandah, fresh from his
shower, a small boy of about her own age,
tucking blue trousers over a calico shirt,
torn and all the color washed out of it.
“Tani wali [Come quickly], Coonardoo!”
he called, sun-red legs wide apart, sun-
burnt chubby face and snub skinned nose
turned outwards. Blue-eyed, very assured
and bossy, he searched for Coonard,oo,
knowing she was somewhere near, and saw
her creeping from under the dark bushes,
« C omin’, You,” she called,
She started to run, and they raced to-
gether for the swing gate of the garden,
lifte d the wire hoop holding the gate to
th e fence of wire-netting which surrounded
Mrs. Bessie’s green plot, and let themselves
into the garden. Two other children trotted
up from the u loo, a tall loutish boy and
a little fat girl, younger than Coonardoo.
They pushed back the gate Hugh and Coon-
ardoo bad left swinging for them, and went
through
"Hullo, you fellers!” Sharp and scratchy,
Hugh’s voice rose. “You watch me!”
jj e ran and turned head over heels in
a pa tch of newly-turned red earth. The
black children shrieked and screamed their
applause
“Now you, Coonardoo! And then Wanna
and then the little fat grub,” Hugh ordered,
Coonardoo ran, her blue gina-gina wrap-
ping itself round the thin brown sticks of
her legs. Over she went, legs waving in
the air. Hugh shouted delightedly.
“Good man! Good man, Coonardoo!”
“Bardi? Bardi now?” cried the little fat
girl, jumping excitedly.
“No. Wanna next.”
Wanna, the big boy, ape-like with sore
eyes, a mop of dark dusty hair, calico
slacks—once white, now gingery grey with
grease and red dust —took his run, turned
and rolled clumsily.
“Now you, Bardi!”
Bardi, who was named after the fat white
grubs the blacks like to eat, could scarcely
run, she was gurgling and chuckling so. The
other children danced and screamed hilari-
ously as she tumbled over in the dust.
Hugh ran again to show how the thing
was done. Coonardoo followed him, light
and fleet; her legs waved in the air; she
jumped up, shaking red dust from her fair
hair.
Over and over again, with shrieks of joy
and clatter of laughter, eager gleeful chatter,
the children ran, threw themselves on their
hands, swung over and jumped up, till,
wearying of the game, Hugh dashed off
crying: “Narlu!” and the little girls fol-
lowed him, with Wanna in pursuit.
Round and round the garden they chased,
jumping the cabbages, in and out between
the beds of onions, turnips and lettuces,
under vines Mumae had trained against
the fence, and through the legs of the wind-
mill. Bardi played narlu [evil spirit], then
Coonardoo, and then Hugh; he was a
very fierce wild spirit of an eagle-hawk
chasing little birds whom the blacks fear
and flee in terror of.
Suddenly, in full flight, Coonardoo stood
still. “Sam cornin’,” she called.
Hugh, Bardi and Wanna looked out to
the horizon where, against misty clustering
trees beside the creek crossing, a puff of
dust had risen.
“Sam cornin’,” they chorused all together.
In the long, low house of whitewashed
mud bricks and corrugated iron, there was
a sleepy rustle and stir. Gins who had been
asleep in the shade of brushwood shelters
on tall sapling posts sat up and looked out
across the plains. Bandogera took a pipe
from the pocket of her gina-gina, bent over,
lifted a stick from smouldering embers of
the fire and put it in the bowl. Meenie
stood looking out to the crossing for a
moment; then she stalked over to the house,
a tall stately figure in her long dress of
dark blue dungaree.
Mumae stepped out of her room on to
the verandah and looked across at the
moving dust.
“Meenie,” she called sharply and walked
with short, quick steps along the verandah,
a clear-cut figure in her white dress and
low-heeled black shoes.
Dust of the approaching buggy and horses
swirled across the plain. The children ran
to open a gate in the fence below the
garden.
“Cock-eyed Bob with Sam,” Coonardoo
commented as horses and buggy jolted and
bounded towards them. “Arra other feller,
maybe.”
Strangers came so rarely to Wytaliba that
to see a buggy and horses arrive was a game
in itself. Not that Sam Geary was alto-
gether a strajnger to the children. They
knew him well enough and he knew them,
by name even.
As the old-fashioned high buggy rattled
and clashed-to a standstill before Wytaliba
homestead, he looked back at the gate and
at the children running after the buggy.
“Coonardoo, old Joey Koonarra’s kid,
isn’t she?” he asked the aboriginal boy be-
side Bob. “Maria her mother —the one
that died and there was all the fuss about
a couple of years ago?”
“Eeh-mm,” the boy replied, taking the
reins and glancing away as Mrs. Watt came
out to meet Geary.
Early next morning, Warieda and Chitali
had two fresh horses in Sam Geary’s buggy
and it was there before the verandah again.
Meenie carried out the little black tin
box which contained all the clothes Mrs.
Bessie had been making Hugh for months,
and put it in the buggy. Mrs. Bessie
came out, and Hughie, in a suit of navy
blue serge, a round felt hat and boots with
tabs which stuck out behind, strutted after
her. Very grand he looked in his boots
and new clothes, saying good-bye to every-
body.
Wanna, Mick, Bardi and Coonardoo were
there to see him drive away; Joey Koonarra,
as well as Bandogera, Bardi’s Polly, Pin; a
and old Gnardadu, grandmother of the tribe.
Sam Geary swaggered out from the
dining-room where he had been having
breakfast, Cock-eyed Bob beside him, Bob a
slight boyish figure in dust-stained mole-
skins, white shirt, and the Ashburton felt
and spurs he slept in, some folk said. Sam
carried himself jauntily, with an air of
being master of the situation. A tall man
of thirty or thereabouts, bullock-shouldered,
buff-colored shirt open half down its length,
and moleskins the same color tight on his
thighs, tin match-box, clasp-knife and pipe
on his belt, he slouched as he walked, bow-
kneed, in the way of a horseman.
Sun-scorched, almost raw, his face looked
under the felt hat he had slammed down
over his thin gingery hair; his eyes, bulbous,
pale blue, stared from under pink slatted
lids with straight fair eyelashes. A brush
of coarse gingery hair hid his mouth, ex-
cept the thick upper thrust of the lower
lip, and tufts of hair sprouted from the
nostrils of his big sun-burnt nose.
“Well, Mr. Geary, I’m very much obliged
to you,” Mrs. Bessie said.
“Don’t mention it, Missus,” Geary replied.
“Got to go south meself, and might as well
take the young shaver. Bob’ll look after
you until our horses are spelled a bit. Then
he’s going out prospectin’ in the To-morrow.
Reck’ns he can smell gold out there and’ll
be making our fortunes one of these days.”
“That’s right,” Bob murmured abstrac-
tedly, one shoulder swung over, his head
askew, as if already he were following a
gleam under the surface of those tumbled
hills north and east along Wytaliba boun-
daries.
Sam lit his pipe; Warieda and Chitali
stood at the horses’ heads. Sam undid the
reins knotted about the dash-board, gripped
them in his hard sun-flayed hands and
stepped carefully into the buggy. Mrs.
Bessie kissed Hugh and hoisted him over
the wheel to his seat beside Sam. Sam’s
boy climbed in over the other wheel.
“Let ’m go!” Sam shouted.
The horses swayed and tussled with the
traces; the big chestnut reared and plunged
and threw himself about. But Sam Geary
knew how-to handle horses. He let them
play; then they sprang forward and out, and
in a few moments buggy, horses, Hugh, Sam
Geary and Arra, were no more than a
feather of red dust on the plains, against
a sky mother-of-pearling in the early light.
Coonardoo, who had run down to shut
the gate in the fence below the garden and
windmill after the buggy had passed
through, stood to watch the last swirl of
dust through the trees at the creek cross-
ing. The sun, rising, burnished their green
and golden tips. White cockatoos flew out
screeching and floated to feed on the plains
as the buggy scuttled over stones in the bed
of the creek.
What was there in saying good-bye to a
small boy that should drive the light and
living out of a woman’s eyes, Cock-eyed
Bob w r ondered. Mrs. Bessie’s eyes were
hard and blue as the winter skies when
she stood staring over the plains at the
gap in the trees where the buggy had been.
“Oh, well,” she gasped sturdily, “they’ll
get the mail at Karrara all right, I sup-
pose, Bob. And I’ve warned Paddy Han-
son to look after Hughie if Sam does get
on a bender. Paddy’ll keep an eye on
Hughie and hand him over to Captain
Frenssen, who’s an old friend of mine. The
school people will meet the boat.”
“That’s right,” Bob murmured awkwardly.
Coonardoo had come to stand beside
Meenie and the rest of the gins. A frail
mist of red dust the buggy had stirred still
hung in clear air over there on the plains.
The blankness of the world about her
Mrs. Bessie saw in Coonardoo’s eyes.
“We’ll miss Hughie, won’t we, Coonar-
doo?” she said.
“Eeh-mm.”
(Continued on page 55.).


BRITON—MAKER OF MEN.
BEAMAN SHE’LL ADMIRE!
OU can tower above your friends,
1 like a mountain above hills.
Through excelling you can become a
real he-man —a' powerful, vigorous,
courageous fellow with real punch!
DOES SHE REALLY WANT YOU?
Make that girl admire you for what
you are. The real girl wants a he-man
for a husband or sweetheart; hone of
this shopman stuff for the real girl. She
wants someone she can be proud of,
someone to turn to in her moments of
weakness. She wants to be proud of
your physical make-up—but is she?
YOU CAN BE A HE-MAN!
You can command the respect due to a powerful fellow. I can so alter you
that she will hardly know you. The very first fortnight I’ll put inches of
rippling strength across your chest, a full inch of solid muscle on each bicep.
But that’s only the start; from then on your shoulders will broaden, your legs
and back will develop and in the shortest space of time you will be a fully-
developed athlete, possessing the strength of three men!
I WANT YOU NOW!
People don’t call me the “Man Maker” for nothing. My system scientifically
builds real muscle faster than you ever imagined.
WATCH THEM TURN AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow who carries himself with head up.
Notice how the broad-shouldered man always gets their eye. They want a
dependable he-man when they make their choice—one who can protect them.
AND YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember, I do not only promise it, I
GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it off a minute. Get going to new happi-
ness, and real manhood to-day!
Send for my new illustrated book—chockful of Pictures—it’s FREE!
“SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH”
I don’t ask you one penny for this great book, the book that has changed the
lives of hundreds of fellows. It’s the finest piece of reading you ever set eyes on.
I swear you’ll never blink an eyelash until you turn the last page. It’s crammed
full of pictures of athletes who have taken the course, pictures of myself; .it’ll
put that much kick into you you’ll feel like a mule—if it doesn’t you’d better
roll over —you’re dead. Come on then, take out the old pen or pencil and sign your
name and address on the coupon. But get to it. Do it NOW. To-morrow
you may forget. Remember it’s something for nothing, and no strings attached,
no obligation. Grab it!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. H, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. H,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE and with-
out any obligation on my part whatsoever, a copy of
your latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—
and How to Acquire It.” I enclose 6d. in Stamps for
postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
STATE
(Please Write or Print Very Plainly.)
df
The “MIKRON” Drawing Machine
enables draughtsmen to draw plans and designs in a vertical
position. It is the only precision drawing machine without
spiral springs, with a mathematical exact weight compensation
in any position of the drawing board.
It enables the person to increase his work by fully 100 per
cent. It saves bodily exertion and eye-strain.
W. ARNOLD,
Sole Agent for Australia and New Zealand,
448 Ann Street, Brisbane, Q.
The “MIKRON”
Precision Drawing
Machine for
Architects,
Engineers and all
Draughtsmen.
Price £22/10/-
with 2 Sets of Scales.
CHains—CHains—Chains—CHains
Australian Made better than Imported
Another Secondary Industry
1
I
<1
I
The following Chains are manufactured by this Company:—Ship Mooring, Anchor, Steering Gear, Ships’ Slings, Bullock, Snigging,
Cane Truck, Trace and Heading, Non-Skid for a Chevrolet Car to a 7-ton Motor Truck.
Conveyor Chains for Bottle-washing, Pasteurising, Quarry, Coal, Wheat, Gravel, Sand and Metal, complete with Transmission Gear
for every description of conveying.
Roller Chains for Motor Trucks, Machinery and Automatic Boiler Feed Gear of every description.
Silent Drive Chain for all purposes of transmission, including ail gears.
Australia imports £2,000,000 worth of chains and accessories every year. All these can be made here, and Bloomer’s works—the only
works in Australia that make any and every class of chain—have proved that they can be made of equal or superior standard,
answering every test, at equal price for the same quality.
High standards and exacting tests are insisted on. The machine-made chains are standardised to a 2000th part of an inch, and the
steel is tested to stand a tensile strain of 40 tons. The whole of the chain made by the company is guaranteed to be from 130 to
140 per cent, above the British Admiralty proof load. Bloomer’s Chains, Ltd., hold several world’s records for tensile strength.
Bloomer’s Chains Limited
Works & Office: WELLINGTON ROAD, SOUTH BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.


If ever mute devouring love lay in mortal
eyes, it lay in Coonardoo’s. Mrs. Bessie
realised a suffering and endurance as great
as her own. The child’s shadowy eyes, her
air of a faithful deserted animal, sprang
a train of thought which had been haunting
Mrs. Bessie, hovering in the background of
her mind for a long time.
She could see into the years before her,
years and years stretching mistily, filling
her with fear and illimitable anguish; years
which she could not touch or control, so
beyond her they stretched, with her son in
them, man-grown, herself unable to help,
reach or care for him, so distant she had
become. But the child beside her, she
would be there; she could be with Hugh.
A year older than Hugh, Coonardoo had
looked after and played with him when he
was little; soon to be dominated by and
obedient to him. Glad of a playmate for
her boy, Mrs. Bessie had taught Coonardoo
to read, write and count, as she had taught
Hugh.
A shy, graceful little creature of more
than usual intelligence, Mrs. Bessie had
thought Coonardoo. But now she looked
at the child as if she found something of
greater value in her. Mrs. Bessie prided
herself on treating her blacks kindly, and on
having a good working understanding with
them. She would stand no nonsense, and
refused to be sentimental, although it was
well known she had taken the affair of
Maria to heart. Ted Watt was as good-
natured a man as stepped until he got
drunk, everybody agreed. But he could
not stand liquor and went mad, running
amok like an Afghan or a black, when he
had “got a few drinks in.”
Few people knew what had happened
about Maria except Mrs. Bessie, and she
had held her tongue. The blacks said Ted
had shot Maria’s dog, and she was badgee
with him about it, back-answered and re-
fused to do something he told her when
he was drunk. He had flung himself at
her, and kicked her off the verandah. Mrs.
Bessie had tried to pull him away from the
gin, and he had knocked her down, too.
Maria died a few days afterwards; and as
Ted walked over the balcony of a hotel in
Karrara and was killed a month or so
later, the blacks believed justice had been
done. So no more was heard of it all.
After Ted’s death Mrs. Bessie continued
to run Wytaliba. As a matter of fact,
everybody knew she had been responsible
for the management and working of the
station ever since she and Ted had bought
out old Saul Hardy.
Sam Geary liked to think, and boasted,
that Mrs. Bessie consulted him upon occa-
sion. But he knew she was shrew r d enough
to manage her own affairs. He never
doubted that it was she, and not Ted, who
had snavelled Wytaliba under his nose, and
Geary was willing to admit he would swap
the million and a half acres of Nuniewarra
for Wytaliba any day in the week.
' Mrs. Bessie had her head screwed on
the right way, there was no denying it,
although why she had married Ted Watt
no one could imagine. A school-teacher
in Roebourne, she had taken up with Ted
and gone off droving with him. They had
knocked about the Nor’-West a.long time
together, droving and carting from the coast
to stations and scattered mining settle-
ments along the Ashburton, the Fortescue
and the De Grey.
“Ted was as rough as bags,” Geary said;
“a good-looking, good-natured bloke who
could neither read nor write. Mrs. Bessie
taught him to make pothooks. She had
an idea if they had a place of their own
she could keep him away from the pubs,
and used her eyes as they wandered up
and down the country. When she made
Ted give up droving, she planked down
all the money she had saved for years to
take over Saul Hardy’s lease of a million
acres between the Nungarra hills on the
west, To-morrow ranges on the east and
tributaries of the coastal rivers north and
south.”
Saul Hardy had lost three thousand head
of cattle, and was short of whisky when
Mrs. Bessie made her bargain, wrote a
cheque for a couple of hundred pounds,
took over his liabilities and promised an-
other couple of hundred when that was
done. She brought out her papers and
made Saul sign the contract before he had
time to change his mind.
Ted could never have worked out, and
brought off, a deal like that. The coun-
try was dead and dry for hundreds of
miles, even the mulga dying. The drought
had broken Saul Hardy, to be sure; but
Mrs. Bessie knew what she was doing. She
had seen those plains a flowing sea of
grass and herbage, and believed the good
seasons would come again. And they did,
bringing Saul with them. He could never
live anywhere else, he said. His roots were
in Wytaliba, and he wanted to die there.
Mrs. Bessie and Ted told him to make
himself at home, come and go as he
pleased. He took them at their word, and
spent most of his time camped on the ver-
andah or in a room Mrs. Bessie had ear-
marked for him.
Over eighty and deaf, Saul prowled about
the garden and yards doing little odd jobs
as he pleased. He had brought cattle west
from the Queensland border in the early
days, and tramped up and down the Nor’-
West, droving and loading stores. As a
young man he had spent all the money he
got on sprees in the coastal towns and gone
off into the back-country again when his
cheque gave out. Later he had taken up
that stretch of Wytaliba country and
started running cattle; but he was not cut
out for a squatter, Saul himself said. He
had been a rolling stone too long to sit
down in one place, breed cattle and waiu
for them to grow. “A rolling stone gathers
no moss,” he said, “but a sitting hen loses
feathers.” Now he was old and could roll
no more, he admitted his only desire was
to sit down on Wytaliba and moult peace-
fully.
A stiff, creaking figure, he mooched about
as if the place belonged to him still; and
everybody, Mrs. Bessie most of all, hum-
ored him and sought his advice. She was
glad enough to have him there after Ted’s
death—liked to tap old Saul’s knowledge
and experience of the country, and to get
him yarning in the evenings, as he did
sometimes, legs stretched along the ver-
andah, smoking.
CHAPTER 11.
But Coonardoo —Mrs. Bessie came back
from her far thinking to the child holding
Meenie’s hand, standing before her.
Meenie loved Coonardoo as Mrs. Bessie
loved Hugh, although Coonardoo was not
her child, but the little girl whom Warieda,
her husband, would one day take to be his
woman, as Meenie herself was. In the
meantime Meenie had taken the place of
mother to Coonardoo.
Coonardoo’s mother—they no longer
spoke her name in the uloo, which indi-
cated that she was dead. There was a
mound, with bark and a small close fence
of sticks round it, on the other side of the
creek, where they had laid Maria.
“We’ll take Coonardoo into the house,
Meenie, and teach her to be a good house-
girl,” Mrs. Bessie said.
Meenie’s dark eyes lighted with pleasure.
There was no better, more faithful woman
on Wytaliba than Meenie, and Mrs. Bessie
knew that Meenie would think it an honor
for Coonardoo to be taught to sweep and
wash dishes beside her so soon. Both were
fair-haired, full-blooded aboriginals of the
Gnarler tribe. Bandogera, Mrs. Bessie's
other house-girl, whose people came from
the other side of the To-Morrow Ranges,
had thick dark brown hair; but Meenie’s
hair was tow-colored and dark only at the
roots. Coonardoo’s hair, soft and wavy,
when it had just been washed grew dull
golden, like wind-grass out on the plains..
Mrs. Bessie had wondered at these fair-
headed aboriginal women when she first
came across them, thinking they were half-
castes or had some white blood. She
was satisfied after a while that, as far as
anybody knew, they were native; among
tribes which had no contact with white
people there were fair-haired women. She
had seen black babies with mops of golden
curls, though, to be sure, as a rule, the
hair darkened as the children grew older.
Coonardoo had been a baby like that—and
all aboriginal babies are honey-colored
when they are born. Their skins darken
with exposure to the air and sunshine, so
that by the time they are toddling the coo-
boos are as bronzed and gleaming a,s
pebbles lying on the red earth; but their
hair darkens more slowly. Mrs. Bessie
thought that when the women washed their
heads every day, as her house-girls did,
their hair remained fair longer.
Every morning after that Coonardoo
came up from the uloo at dawn with Meenie
and Bandogera, scrubbed her head with
the crude soap of fat and wood ashes Mrs.
Bessie made, “showered” in the shed be-
side the big windmill, put on a fresh blue
gina-gina, and went into the kitchen. Mrs.
Bessie herself taught her how to wash dishes
with boiling water, making the soap froth
and foam, sweep the verandah and bed-
rooms, dining-room and sitting-room. At
first Coonardoo laughed and gurgled, as if
it were great fun, this new game she was
playing. Then she missed the other child-
ren, ran off to play with them when they
came near the house, or chased- Mrs.
Bessie’s white hens, forgetting to finish
washing the dishes, or that there was a
room she should have swept out and dusted.
Mrs. Bessie spoke sharply: and when
Coonardoo soiled one of her new gina-
ginas turning somersaults in the garden with
Bardi and Wanna, she was really displeased.
Coonardoo was slow and lazy, there was
no doubt about it. She did not scrub the
tables quite clean, or sew as neatly as she
might have done.
“You’re a bad, wicked, naughty little girl,
Coonardoo,” Mrs. Bessie scolded. “If you
won’t do things properly, you had better
not do them at all.”
Coonardoo hung her head, scowling and
sulky, eyes averted.
“What’s the good of trying to teach you
if you don’t want to learn?” Mrs. Bessie
asked irritably. “And goodness knows
who’s to look after Hugh when I’m gone!”
At that Coonardoo’s eyes slanted in her
direction, and away.
“Of course,” Mrs. Bessie said, “that’s why
I want to train and teach you all I can.
Meenie and I can’t live for ever. And
who’s to look after Hugh then? He’ll
marry some day, I suppose; but, even so,
I’d like to think he had some good, faith-
ful soul to look after him. Meenie’s been
that to me. If you’re only half as good
to Hugh!”
As if they had made a new compact,
Coonardoo went steadily about her tasks
after that, no longer chasing the hens, or
sitting to sing under the white blossom tree,
or running off to play with Bardi and
Wanna in the morning when she should
have been busy in' the house.
All day she worked beside Mrs. Bessie,
down at the store, in the garden or up at
the sheds mending harness and saddles,
tanning skins, making soap; and at sunset
she went off to the uloo with Meenie and
Bandogera. Mrs. Bessie in the big, empty
white house worked at accounts, wrote let-
ters, read for a while, yarned with Saul
Hardy, or lay back to scheme and plan out
her manoeuvres for the station that year, for
years ahead. Coonardoo, sometimes as she
sat singing with her people beside their
fires in the uloo, saw the yellow eye of
Mumae’s light winking out into the night.
Coonardoo would not have cared to sleep
like that by herself, and every night she
looked up to the white house under the
starry night sky, fearful for Mumae, fear-
ful that a narlu, or unknown evil, might
swoop on her when no one was near. She
was always glad to find Mrs. Bessie safely
in bed in the morning; pleased to be there
with a cup of tea before she wakened.
And Mrs. Bessie was really fond of the
black girl. She confessed it to herself. Imper-
ceptibly on quiet, naked feet, with her
shadowy, steadfast eyes, Coonardoo had
come into a blank place in the other’s life,
a place of hunger and desolation. Mrs. Bessie
set her teeth and determined to go on with
the plan she had made; but for the first
time in her life the yearning and ache of
loneliness threatened her. She had been
glad to interest herself in the child; was
grateful for the eager, alert way Coonar-
doo tried to follow her will and interpret
her wishes.
After a while it was recognised that
wherever Mumae went Coonardoo went.
The first time she rode out on a muster,
after Hughie had gone to school, Mrs.
Bessie told Chitali to bring in Hera for
Coonardoo to ride, and Coonardoo went
with her.
By and bye Mumae read Coonardoo bits
from letters the schoolmasters at Strat-
ford wrote to her about Hugh. He was
quite smart at his lessons, but a bit home-
sick, it seemed. When Hugh’s letters came
a year or so later, she read from these
priceless epistles also. Once every three
months Mrs. Bessie sent Chitali or Warieda
into Nuniewarra with letters, and they
KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD [Mrs. Throssell), of Westralia, whose £500
prize serial opens to-day, is the author also oj “Working Bullocks,” “The Pioneers,”
“Black Opal” and other successful novels.
brought back any mail there was for
Wytaliba.
When the boys were expected in, Coon-
ardoo watched the track over the plains,
her eyes restless as birds.
“Boys cornin’,” she loved to cry, and
race out to bring in the bag with the let-
ters. The postmaster in Karrara plastered
the bags with red seals which Coonardoo
regarded as movins to protect Hugh’s let-
ters from floods, winning-arras [whirlwinds],
or evil spirits on their long journey over the
hills and plains.
While Mumae was reading her letter from
Hughie, Coonardoo would sit down on the
floor at a little distance and watch her face.
She read Mumae’s face as Mumae read
Hugh’s letter, and knew from it whether
Hugh was well and what he was doing.
Mumae would laugh and smile to herself,
say “Hughie kicked two goals in a match
against High School,” or “Hugh’s training
for the under 14 championship—whatever
that rihght be!” Something to do with
running, Mumae supposed. Coonardoo
agreed. Youie could run, and a long way!
Later Mrs. Bessie looked more concerned
over reports which came from the head-
master of Stratford. Hugh was not doing
as well at school as he might have. He
was not studious, Mr. Potter explained,
although strangely enough the subjects he
paid most attention to were Greek history
and Latin, which to most boys were diffi-
cult and unattractive. How Mrs. Bessie
laughed when Mr. Potter later wrote
to say he had asked Hugh why he
liked Greek history and Latin, and Hugh
had said: “Hector’s one of the horses up
on our place and there’s Hera, Pluto and
old Diana.”
Coonardoo echoed Mrs. Bessie’s laughter,
although she did not know why it was
funny that Hughie should like the names
of horses on Wytaliba. Mrs. Bessie tried
to explain that she had named Wytaliba
horses after the gods, nymphs and heroes
of Greek myth and history. Coonardoo
did not understand. There was a good deal
Mrs. Bessie talked of that Coonardoo did
not understand; but she liked to pretend
she understood very well, and Mrs. Bessie
liked to pretend that Coonardoo under-
stood. But happy as she was in the child’s
companionship, never in any way would she
attempt to interfere with or alter her native
faiths, or turn her from the customs of her
people.
Mrs. Bessie would not allow any Christian-
ising of the aborigines on Wytaliba. She
had never seen a native who was better
for breaking with his tribal laws and beliefs,
she said. And as long as she lived abo-
riginals on Wytaliba should remain abo-
riginal. For that reason, although all day
Coonardoo was Mrs. Bessie’s shadow and
learned to wait on and do everything for
her, bring her tools, make her baths and
her camp-fires, always at sunset she went
off with her people and slept with the dogs
by her father’s camp-fire.
The seasons were good, and Mrs. Bessie
was very busy all those years Hugh was
away at school. She planned w T ells and
stockyards with Charley Leigh. The Leighs
lived in a hut of corrugated iron Mrs.
Bessie had put up for them at a little
distance from the homestead; but most of
the time Charley was well-sinking his wife
camped with him out on the run.
Once a month Charley Leigh and his
wife drove in to the homestead for stores,
and Mrs. Bessie kept them there a day
or two, wore her white dresses and made
cakes for them, brought out her china cups
and saucers and spread a white cloth on
the table. She gossiped very happily with
Mrs. Leigh and sent her back to the camp
loaded up with magazines, newspapers, jam
and dried fruits.
Before Fanny Leigh’s first baby was born,
Mrs. Bessie brought her in to the homestead
and looked after her until the youngster, a
fine sturdy boy, was several weeks old. She
talked wells and well-sinking with Charley
half the night, costing and depths, and
worked out with him on a map she had
made of Wytaliba where wells ought to
be sunk, where they could best be sunk.
Mrs. Bessie had a bee in her bonnet about
wells, Charley said. It was the dream of
her life to have Wytaliba honeycombed
with wells. But her dream had to keep
pace with her purse. That was the worst
of it; and she would not borrow money for
developments. She was determined to pay
off the mortgage and hand the station over
to Hugh “without a monkey on it.” Mean-
while she worked with an energy and
obstinacy which never flagged.
A wiry, restless figure in a pair of trousers,
white shirt and an old hat of Ted’s, she
rode everywhere, inspecting the wells and
windmills Charley had made, mustering,
droving, working her blacks with skill and
wisdom. White stockmen she would not-
have on the place, because she said they
would only make trouble about the gins
with Warieda and Chitali, who were the
best stockmen in the country. Indefatig-
able, her resistless energy drove everything,
everybody.
Coonardoo rode and worked with her.
Wherever Mumae went Coonardoo went,
and Coonardoo was a good horse-girl in no
time. She loved the cattle camps. The
joy of her life was to ride out over the
plains like that.
Mumae always took two or three gins
with her when she went on a muster. Meenie
looked after the packs and cooked in the
camp while Wanna or one of the younger
(Continued on page 57.)


SPECIAL
ATTENTION
m
We desire to draw your special attention
to the fact that we are holders of complete
stocks of Engineers’ and Mill Supplies,
Pumps of every kind, Tanks and Troughing,
Machines for every purpose, Small Tools for
every trade, Lifting Gear, Electric Motors,
Lighting Sets, etc.
For this issue we have enumerated a list of
special lines, suitably priced, for which we
would appreciate your inquiries.
SPECIAL LINES.
Aluminium Ingot,, 1/4 lb.
Antimony (Cookston), 1/2 lb.
“Wearso” Hose, lin. Special Fire Hose,
1/3 ft.
Axes (Broad) —lllin. 12in. 124 in. 13in.
19/- 19/- 21/- 21/-
Mattocks (Gilpin’s)— 4 5 54 6 lb.
3/- 3/4 3/6 3/9
Oast Iron Gun Metal Mounted Globe Valves
Flanged—
-3 4 5 6 in.
110/- 150/- 200/- 210/-
Ball Bearing Monkey Carriages—
-12 3 tons
190/- 255/- 300/-
Millward Trifle Gear Blocks—-1 2 ton
' 180/- 315/-
Joyce Logging Jacks —10 ton
190/-
Haley Timber Jacks —4 6 ton
150/- 230/-
Should you be interested in any of these lines write for our illus-
trated catalogues post free, mentioning this newspaper.
(DM
INTERCOLONIAL BORING CO. LTD.
450-460 ANN STREET,
BRISBANE.
CENTRAL 2929.
IN THE
HEART
OF
ADELAIDE
r
-■m.'jijsiuuiNWlTß
cposs
HOTEL
(XJTHLWN
OIGHT in the heart of everything, pic-
tures, theatres, shops, the Southern
Cross Hotel has a character which has
brought it State prestige and recognition.
Large balconies, a delightful cuisine, hot
and cold water in each room. In
Noonan’s Southern Cross Hotel you will
find desirable accommodation at a pro-
nounced saving civility comfort
service and quietness.
NOONAN’S
SOUTHERN CROSS HOTEL,
KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
'PHONE: CENT. 564.
gd
CECIL MANN, one of the judges In
the competition, wrote in The
Bulletin” of 22/8/ 28:
That is what the Proprietors of 11 1 he Bulletin”
will pay for “ A House Is Built and Coonardoo
This does not include the Book Rights, the Picture Rights, and all other Rights!
AND REMEMBER! NEXT m YEAR— AND "tHE
YOUR LITERARY TALENT is worth nothing, commercially, until it is TRAINED!
“At least 80 out of every 100—maybe more —ARE CLEARLY NOVICES.
He sums up in this fashion: “‘Look at me!’ cries the poor writer, ‘I have
a story to tell, and I DON’T KNOW HOW to get going.’ ”
can Learn HOW to write CERTAIN-to-sell Stories!
STOTT’S MAIL COURSE WILL TEACH YOU HOW TO TURN YOUR THOUGHTS INTO CASH.
These unsolicited expressions of appreciation, together with hundreds of others on
fund of evidence as to the high standard of the STOTT LITERARY COURSES,
be gladly given to genuine inquirers.)
STOTT’S Files, provide a
(Names and addresses will
Stories from the
pens of Stott Stu-
dents have ap-
peared in practi-
cal 1 y every
periodical pub-
lished in the Com-
monwealth and
New Zealand. Note
just a few men-
tioned in students’
letters:
Argus
Age
Australasian
Australian Journal
Aussie .
Adam and Eve ,
Auckland Weekly
Auckland Month
Adelaide Saturday Journal
Bulletin
Christchurch Sun
Home
Leader (Vic.)
North Queensland Register
Otago Witness
Observer (S.A.)
Punch (Vic.)
Queenslander
Smith’s Weekly
Steele Rudd’s
Triad
Tasmanian Mirror
Tasmanian Mail
Woman’s Mirror
Weekly Times
Wentworth Magazine
Weekly Press (N.Z.)
I Youth
“The proprietors of the ‘Australian Journal’ paid
me the sum of £ 4 for a story published recently,
which sum to me, a beginner, seems very satisfac-
tory.”—Miss F.R. (Tas.).
“I am enclosing a cutting from a Hobart paper
because I feel sure you would like to hear of my
success. It is interesting to note that by the sale
of a story to the ‘Australasian’ and the prize money
from the Ballarat competitions I have more than half-
paid for my entire course —just with two stories. I
am ever so glad I commenced.” —Miss J.F.K. (Tas.)
“I think, the story writing lessons are perfect.”
—Mrs. D.M.W. (Q’land).
“Since I have started your course, I have had no
fewer than SIXTEEN short stories and articles
accepted. So you see the course has paid for itself,
and I feel that even still I am digging gold from
it and hope to continue for many days to come. I
thank you for all vour past attention and help.”
—Miss T.O. (Q’land*).
“You will be pleased to hear that ‘Smith’s Weekly’
accepted my first story, ‘The City Girl,’ and they
paid £4 7s. for 1500 words.” —Mr. E.D. (N.S.W.)-
“My first three efforts were accepted by the
‘Argus,’ ‘Leader’ and ‘Australian Journal’ respectively.
You have my best thanks for making this possible.”
—Miss E.N. (N.S.W.).
“ ‘The Leader’ and ‘Weekly Times’ have accepted
one each; ‘Aussie’ has accepted several short sketches
and has asked for more; and the ‘Bulletin’ is accept-
ing more than formerly. I have more than paid for
the course, and am well on the way to paying off
a typewriter.”—Mr. F.A.H. (Vie.).
“I have had twenty stories accepted to date.”
—Mr. L.T.S. (Vic.).
“I am quite confident that I knew nothing what-
ever about the art of story writing when I began
your course. I had two published last week, one of
1000 words in the ‘Woman’s Mirror.’ I can now
see that no editor under the sun would formerly have
even dreamt of accepting my stories. In my opinion,
the course is perfect.”—Miss A.M.M. (N.S.W.).
“I am very pleased about the acceptance of my
story, as it is the first time I have sent one in. I
received £3 for it. Your course teaches one in
a few months to avoid so many pitfalls for beginners,
knowledge which could only be gained otherwise
by long and hard experience.”—Mrs. H.L.C.(N.S.W.)
,“I am glad to tell you of my first acceptance. The
‘Woman’s Mirror’ purchased ‘Chester’s Migrant’ for
£3.”—Miss M.L.L. (Vic.).
“In the ‘Bulletin’ sth January (p. 43) there was
printed a 1000-word story entitled ‘Sweeter than
Life.’ How’s that? I am still in my teens.” —Mr.
W.E.W. (W.A.).
“I enjoyed my lessons very much. My story ‘Pete’
was sold to the ‘Woman’s Mirror’ for £3. I earned
more money while taking lessons from you than I
paid for them. I have sold stories to the ‘Month’
(Auckland), ‘The Auckland Weekly’ and
‘Mirror.’ ’’—Mrs. P.R.M. (N.Z.).
“I merely pottered along on my own
until 1 found you and Stott’s Corres-
pondence Course. I am glad to report
that the ‘Queenslander’ accepted and
paid for ‘The Man From the North.’
My story ‘Anne’ was printed in
the ‘Woman’s Mirror’ ; I was paid
£3 for it. I had another
little story accepted by the
‘Leader,’ for which I re-
ceived £2. lam very glad
that I began your course,
for otherwise I would
never have had any
real knowledge of
how to write
stories. It is be-
coming very
fascinating.”
—MissP.M.
(Vic.).
STOTT'S
Technical
Correspondence
COLLEGES
Pty.
Ltd.
HEAD COLLEGE IN EACH STATE:
100 Russell St.,
Melbourne.
70 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
452 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
49 Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
106 St- George’s Ter.,
Perth.
(LARGEST CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE)
O'
&
<0
A
0
&
k/
y
k
,4\>
o
0
❖
A
ft
*
A? 3?
W A'
v <¥ ,;/v^
'/4'
v"’
.\\^ v •• s.i 5 #
sJ$&
.■■Ms
//£/. /
/ a, ' ,a
■Jftt* /


boys tailed the night horses. But Coon-
ardoo would not stay in the camp; she
liked to ride off through the wild ragged
hills and pick up stray cattle. Warieda had
plaited a whip and given it to her because
Coonardoo was to be his woman as soon
as she was old enough. As a child she had
been promised to him and sent to sleep at
his fireside. In a year or so she would lie
there always with him and Meenie.
Meenie had told Coonardoo and talked
to her so that Coonardoo was filled with
pride and pleasant anticipation at the
thought of being the wife of Warieda. Was
he not a strong man, young fellow, good-
looking and powerful, the best horsebreaker
in the Nor’-West everybody said?
Coonardoo heard Mumae talking to
Meenie about it. “Do you mean to tell
me,” Mumae had said, “that child’s to be
Warieda’s wife soon?”
“Eeh-mm,” Meenie murmured in her
slow, tranquil fashion.
“And you don’t mind?”
Meenie did not understand.
“You’re not angry about it?”
“Wiah?” Meenie smiled, and talked away
in her own language.
“She’s a pretty, young girl and you’ve
taught her to be a good wife to Warieda?”
Meenie nodded.
“Well, it’s a new idea and not a bad
one, perhaps, Meenie,” Mrs. Bessie declared
crisply. “Better the devil you know than
the devil you don’t know, and you’ll
always rule the roost, I suppose?”
Meenie smiled, pleased to have made her-
self clear to Mumae.
“Eeh-mm,” she agreed placidly.
But Mumae was not pleased. She could
not accept Meenie’s point of view alto-
gether. She had been careful not to inter-
fere with her natives in any of their own
ways and customs. She tried, rather, to
leave them entirely to themselves in all
that did not concern her. But Coonardoo
—she could not accustom herself to the idea
of the little girl marrying “a great brute
like Warieda,” as she put it to herself.
“Well,” she said decisively, “I won’t have
it. You tell Warieda I won’t have it. Not
until she’s sixteen, at least.”
Meenie gasped; her eyes widened. She
looked disturbed, foreseeing trouble.
“Very well,” Mrs. Bessie said. “I’ll have
a word with him.”
And a word she had, several words, stand-
ing out there by the stockyards, a small
sturdy woman in her white dress and a
wide straw sun hat, having looked at a
mob of young horses Chitali, Warieda and
the boys had just turned into the yards.
“Warieda!” she called.
The tall, handsome aboriginal with his
dark and curling lashes swung over to her
and stood looking down on her shyly.
“They tell me you want Coonardoo. She’s
straight for you?
“Eeh-mm.”
Warieda’s brown eyes looked Mumae in
the face. Mrs. Bessie realised a depth
and strength in his wanting of Coonardoo.
Realised, too, that Coonardoo was a more
suitable wife l for the young man than
Meenie, who was so much older than he—
old enough to be his mother.
“You know, Warieda”—Mrs. Bessie found
it more difficult than she had expected to
say what she wished—“l am fond of Coon-
ardoo. She is my own girl. You are fond
of her, too, I can see. I will give her to
you. But the white people say it is not
good to give a girl to her husband before
she is fully grown.”
The dark face before her gloomed and
hung sullen and heavy.
“You are mulba, strong fellow, Warieda,”
Mrs. Bessie said. “Good man! I will give
you a horse and new blankets if you wait
until Coonardoo’s sixteen.”
Warieda’s eyes lighted; he grinned good-
humoredly. He was almost amused to see
Mumae, the woman who was like a man,
as he thought of her, so concerned and
making terms with him.
“And I will give Coonardoo a horse,”
Mumae said, “come three musters. She
held up her fingers. “Tarcoodee [three]
bullock-muster.”
So Warieda understood he was to wait
until after three bullock-musters—for three
years, that was—for Coonardoo. Then
Mumae would give him the horse and
blankets with Coonardoo. He grinned
obligingly.
Mrs. Bessie was well pleased to have got
her own way. She hurried back to the
house where the gins were waiting and
watching, having seen her talking to
Warieda up there by the stockyards. She
was not quite sure herself why she was so
opposed to Warieda taking the girl. She
did not object to Coonardoo being
Warieda’s woman, but she did object to
bis interfering with a plan she had made—
a plan attaching Coonardoo to herself and
Wytaliba. To take her away, give her
children just yet* would have disturbed
that.
But Mrs. Bessie had won the day; she
was satisfied for the time being. Her
shrewd busy brain went on with its schem-
ing.
CHAPTER 111.
Every year at midsummer, for as long as
Coonardoo could remember, the Tribes for
a hundred miles about had gathered for
pink-eye [feast] on Wytaliba.
The millimillis [letter sticks] passed from
Wytaliba to Nuniewarra, from Nuniewarra
to Illigoogee and Five Rivers; as far as
Britte-Britte, the Gap and along the To-
morrow Ranges. As often as not the boys
who carried letters from the Ry lands of Illi-
googee to the manager of Britte-Bntte,
asking him to spend Christmas on Illi-
googee, or from Britte to I ive Rivers,
passed on also the blacks’ sticks, with their
fire-marked lines and dotted hoops, crossed
in the end spaces.
On Illigoogee, Britte-Britte, Nuniewarra
and Five Rivers the white people feasted,
“While Mulnae was reading her letter from Hughie, Coonardoo would sit down
on the floor at a little distance and watch her face. She read Mumae’s face
as Mumae read Hugh’s letter, and knew from it whether Hugh teas well and
what he was doing.”
sang and went mad with the whisky they
drank at this time. It was Christmas they
called their pink-eye, Coonardoo knew. But
never since Ted Watt died had there been
a big party on Wytaliba. Mumae had
always put up green branches and lit lan-
terns along the verandah, to be sure, while
Charley Leigh and his wife were well-sink-
ing at Yallarang claypan; and once or twice
they had come in and spent a few days with
her at the homestead.
But most of the time Hugh was away at
school the Leighs went to the coast for
Christmas, and Mumae had only Saul
Hardy with her when the blacks gathered
for their summer celebrations and cere-
monies.
At the uloo they ate, sang and corrobo-
reed all day. Mrs. Bessie always gave her
people a beast and tuckerdoo to entertain
their relations, and the women cooked the
meat in great stone ovens under piles of
smouldering embers.
They pounded pipeclay and red ochre,
mixing them with grease for the men to
decorate themselves with before they cor-
roboreed. The men drew white lines, circles
and dots on their thighs and breasts, each
one displaying a different pattern of dots,
circles and latticed lines. After a day or
so, with masks painted on their faces, the
older men took the boys off into the mulga
thickets which stretched at the foot of the
ridge for the bucklegaroo [man-making]
ceremonies, which no woman was allowed
to see.
The women went singing, as they gathered
wood, or dug for coolyahs along the banks
of the creek; the air vibrated with their
excitement, the ululations of their thin,
quavering melodies.
“Neeroo-ran neeroo,” they sang, batching
the man’s song and singing it over and over.
As it died down, somebody set the refrain
going again in a higher key. The tune
faltered, worn threadbare, and rumbled
awajq to be plucked up and flayed alive
again by some harsh, eager voice. And so
it went on all day.
During pink-eye nobody wore clothes in
the uloo, wandering along the creek, or
hunting across the plains and through the
tussocky ' spinifex. Coonardoo lived with
her people, as they had done before white
men drove their great horned beasts in from
the distant rim of the earth where the
sun rose. Her gina-ginas were hung on
sticks in the shade shed beside Mumae’s
kala miah [wood-heap], although she
slipped into one every morning when she
ran up to the house to give Mumae her
early cup of tea.
Pink-eye or no pink-eye, Meenie always
put in a couple of hours doing her usual
jobs. She and Coonardoo washed and
dressed before they went into Mumae’s
house; they swept, put the kitchen in order
and went down to the uloo again.
Coonardoo loved to sit and sing with the
women at night, clicking her little sticks,
and to watch the men dancing with mea-
sured steps before the fire.
How terrified she had been when, a
cooboo, round-eyed and sleepy, she had
first seen the narlu corroboree! From the
darkness far out across the plain a squat
figure had come, crouched and hopping, all
his bones outlined with white, a huge
shield of white bark for a face. He had
hopped up to the fire, peering at the women
and children sitting singing in two rows
on the other side of the fire. On his
haunches he twisted and pranced, hovering
as if he intended to pounce suddenly and
drag some of them off into the darkness
with him.
Old Gnardadu, standing up at the end of
the women, had waved her stick at him,
her voice rising in anger and exultation as
she threatened him. The singing of the
women shrilled, thrilling and awe-stricken,
although they sang of their fearlessness and
defiance, until the narlu quailed, intimi-
dated, and hopped away backwards, dis-
appearing far out across the plain where
the stars dropped into the earth.
The women’s singing wavered, died away;
one after the other voices guttering and
murmuring, until the silence flowed again.
Coonardoo gurgled and smiled to herself
as she thought of it; but she was very
proud of being allowed to sing for corrobo-
rees. Her childish voice rose shrill and high
above the voices of the women.
She liked best of all the white-cockie
corroboree, and told Mumae about it.
“White cookie,' he blackfellow one time,
always singing, making corroboree,” she ex-
plained. “Other blackfellow movingar
[magician] steal ’em corroboree, change
blackfellow always singing and making cor-
roboree into white cockle. Now all black-
fellow make ’em white-cockie corroboree.”
Mrs. Bessie had seen the corroboree —
watched Chitali, who was always chief per-
former, come from a screen of bushes
and dance down to the fire, under his pipe-
clay drawings flecked with down. Graceful,
agile, stepping from one foot to the other,
coming down on both together, with knees
turned out, he played the young man
making his corroboree boldly, gaily. Old
Joey Koonarra, a tuft of emu feathers tied
on for a tail, strutted and pranced behind
Chitali, waving his arms and shaking him-
self with small jiggling steps, until Chitali
fled back to the screen of bushes. After
a few moments the rest of the men,
led by Chitali, came from the shelter, stuck
all over with down and wearing cockatoos’
feathers in their hair. They wheeled in
before the fire like a flock of white cock-
atoos alighting, making a rustling as of
wings, while the women’s song kept up a
refrain of the cockies’ harsh, grating cry:
“Pee-taerda! Pee-taerda!” The men
crouched, fluttering and hovering beyond
the firelight; then wheeled away, waving
their arms and making the stiff rustling
sound of wings. The women screeched:
“Pee-taerda! Pee-taerda!”
And how Coonardoo sang for the fire cor-
roboree! When Warieda gave the rhythm
and air of the song, in a low melodious alto,
clicking his kylies [light boomerangs] and
the women began to sing, Coonardoo’s voice
quivered with her excitement, stretched
shriller and higher to the strange magic
words, and fell, creaking, whispering, when
Chitali came from the screen of bushes be-
hind which the men were hiding.
A red mask painted along his brows and
under his eyes; rows of lines, with dots
between, patterned red on his middle and
in upright shields on his thighs, he sprang,
high-stepping, short-stepping, with knees
turned out, to the fire burning to ember,
snatched a stick with smouldering ends
from the fire and whirled it about his head.
He seized another stick, shot it like a
rocket to the sky; then, taking two sticks
from the fire, whirled them so that they
showered sparks. Dancing into the fire he
kicked out the embers.
The rest of the men, done up with red,
too, darted out from the dark bushes, and,
imitating their leader, sprang from one foot
to the other. Rhythmically and in unison
they shuffled, beating their feet against
the earth. Each seized sticks from the fire,
whirled them about his head, and kicked
out the cinders, so that red sparks flew
in every direction; while the women sang,
wrought to the highest pitch of admiration
and ecstasy by the grace, agility and daring
of their men.
A year or two after Hugh went to school
Coonardoo began to realise her growing
importance in the camp. She was ten years
old. Meenie told her that she would be
a woman soon, and Coonardoo had heard
the women exclaiming at the way her little
breasts began to thrust themselves out
from her slim upright body.
Then one morning, during a pmk-eye,
Warieda had told her he knew where there
were bardies in a tree not far from the
creek. Coonardoo went with him to find the
tree. Several men had streaked out from
the uloo after them and walked a little
distance over the plains.
Shy and a little afraid when she found
herself so far from the other women, Coon-
ardoo hung her head and turned to go back
to them. But Warieda commanded her to
sit down on the ground. He sat before her,
and all the rest of the men sat in a half-
circle round them.
Warieda put his hand on her breast, and
smoothed the round, pointed bulbs with
gentle fingers. He began to sing in a low,
far-away murmuring voice. He was talk-
ing and singing about her, Coonardoo
understood. She sat quivering and filled
with excitement and mystery. Her fair
head drooped, the round head cropped like
a boy’s, with little drake’s tails of curls
twisted and turned up all over it. _ She
knew very well that Warieda was singing
to make her a woman.
The rest of the men who were nuba
[possible husbands] to her, men to whom
her father might have given her had not
Warieda obtained his promise, repeated his
words and kept up an accompaniment to
his singing, clicking their kylies, swaying
and muttering rhythmically. Tense, in a
swooning fear of bewilderment and sen-
suous confusion, without raising the fringe
of her lashes Coonardoo could see the
fierce faces of her kinsmen in all the exul-
tation, lust and reverence of their excite-
ment.
“Goodness, what on earth have you been
doing to your gina-gina, Coonardoo?”
Mumae asked next day when she noticed
smudges of red ochre on the child’s blue
dress.
Coonardoo hung her head and did not
reply.
Mrs. Bessie looked at Meenie, who smiled,
nodded her head, covering Coonardoo with
a glance of tender affection.
Mrs. Bessie knew of this “singing-to-
make-a-woman business,” as she called it,
and did not like it. Wandering along the far
side of the creek once, she had come on a
half-circle of men squatted before a little
girl, and singing to her ripening breast. They
looked as if they were worshipping her,
squatted there on the wide plains under the
bare blue sky. And they were in their
own way, she imagined, venerating the
principle of creation, fertility, growth.
Mrs. Bessie had fits of loathing the blacks.
Although she had lived and worked like a
man so long in the Nor’-West, without the
least respect for conventions which ham-
pered her in anything she wanted to do,
her white-woman’s prejudices were still
intact. She was annoyed and irritated by
“goings-on” she disapproved of.
She knew that from her birth every girl
was destined to pass, within defined lines of
tarloo [totem] and descent, to mateship
with one of her kinsmen. Families on the
creek were Banniga, Burong, Baldgery and
Kurrimurra. A Banniga woman might be
given to a man who was Kurrimurra; their
ehild would be Burong, and could not, mate
with either a Banniga or a Kurrimurra.
Within these lines there was room for
choice. The men who were nuba, or noova,
to her might never touch her; but they
were permissible husbands in case of the
death or absence of the man to whom her
father had given her. Her husband, by
way of hospitality, might pass her to a
distinguished stranger, or visitor, to the
camp; but any children she might have
would be her husband’s children. The
blacks, unenlightened by white people, do
not associate the birth of children with any
casual sexual relationship.
Mrs. Bessie resented these pink-eye cour-
tesies when they touched, the women of
her own household. Meenie or Bapdogera.
After a while she began to see the abo-
riginal point of view. Their motive was
probably quite practical. A cooboo was pro-
perty, whether girl or boy, and added to
the man’s sense of power and importance.
And Mrs. Bessie hated the initiation cere-
monies which were performed during mid-
summer pink-eyes, sensing a sadism in
(Continued on page 61.)


7~m
1)W
%
A
V
Hi
gg<-
hrQsC*r^o
P
••
o S
s oflm
4[\(/ ~<s>
\-flSiWHfeigu
tfl
m
*eb
_ NEW stocking
by PRESTIGE
especially created
14ii
for the low
cut shoe.
titrstigf
FULLY FASHIONED


A ROAD IN FRANCE.
THERE’S a sunken road in France, fairest road of all to me;
/ There’s a narrow road in France that I walk in memory;
Just a battered, miry road, just a narrow, winding way;
But ’twas there we met the sun breaking through the winter’s grey.
And the winter we forgot, and the days of murk and mire,
And that sunken road to us was a highway of desire;
And again our laughter woke, and we bore a lighter load,
When the feeble sunrays played on that narrow, sunken road.
W.A.
There are highways rich in fame that adventuring kings have trod;
There’s a road of pain and tears that is sacred unto God;
There are roads that lure men on till at last their strength is done;
There’s a nameless road in France where we marched to meet the sun.
There are fairer roads perhaps, there are finer roads, and yet
There’s a sunken road in France that a man will ne’er forget.
It was there w« met the sun, it was there we dreamed of home,
On a narrow, sunken road east of poor shell-torn Bapaume.
OSCAR WALTERS.


EVERYWHERE people are talking of the great modern discovery—“ Cream of Yeast”
that will produce a wonderful change from weakness and ill-health to Glowing Youth
and Vigour with phenomenal rapidity — in a few minutes or hours, according to the nature of
the complaint! “Cream of Yeast” will stop aches, pains and depression almost instantly, giving an immediate feeling of fresh,
re-vitalised exhilaration! The discovery has produced numerous yeast products; but none of these can compare in any way
with genuine “Cream of Yeast,” which is at once the greatest tonic pick-me-up and revitaliser known, and, results considered, is
by far the cheapest, as well as the most effective available means of regaining healthy vigour and fresh, good looks.
dfg
16 Guaranteed Effects
Cream of Yeast —
Stops Headaches and Neu-
ralgia in 4 minutes.
Stops Influenza, Catarrh
Colds, Rheumatism, etc.,
within 15 hours.
Stops Acidity, Sourness and
Indigestion in 3 minutes.
Gives marked increase of
Forceful , Healthy Vigour in
15 minutes.
Stops Depression and Brain
Fag in 8 minutes.
Clears System of harmful ,
poisonous and acid wastes in
12 hours.
Stops Periodical Pains in 12
minutes.
Steadies Nerves in 10
minutes.
Clears Pimples and Erup-
tions usually within 2 days.
Sure Way to Thrilling Health
It has been proven that the brain, nerves and
blood need certain vital substances.
These substances, with vitamines, form the
foundations of Health and Strength — even of
Life itself! Without this combination, con-
tinuous perfect health is impossible! It is
proven that yeast contains an element of
amazing restorative and life-giving power—
but certain types of yeast are almost useless!
The value of the right kind of activated yeast
is clearly shown by “Cream of Yeast.” See,
when you take it, achps and pains vanish;
watch sickness disappear; see how quickly
the nerves become steady; how, instead of
being always weak and tired out, you regain
splendid zest, vitality, and youthful vim and
good looks!
The GREAT
Regulating Vitamine Tonic
“Cream of Yeast” is the result of consider-
able costly experimenting in the laboratories
of the greatest chemical organisation in the
world manufacturing any form of yeast tonic.
Before achieving its crowning triumph with
“Cream of Yeast,” this world-wide organisa-
tion made millions of yeast-vitamine tablets!
News of the great “Cream of Yeast” suc-
cess induced others to offer varied forms of
brewers’ yeast — quite different, and positively
inferior to “Cream of Yeast” No other
form of yeast equals “Cream of Yeast
“Cream of Yeast” is the concentrated yeast-
vitamine tonic; it gives the best and quickest
results, and is safe! “Cream .of Yeast” in-
vigorates and regulates. It makes aspirins,
purgatives and “anti-acids” old-fashioned in
its prompt, sure action in stopping aches,
pains and irregularities. It forms no habit!
IT IS SUPHEMELY HEALTHFUL.
QUICK Results —No Waiting
No matter what your sickness may be, no
matter how long you’ve suffered or how much
•faith you have in other remedies, try * ‘ Cream
of Yeast” just once! Better results are guar-
anteed, or the trial will cost you nothing.
A FIRM GUARANTEE!
You don’t risk a penny trying “Cream of
Yeast”! It will give you brighter eyes,
rosier cheeks, clearer complexion, more rest-
ful sleep, a firm elastic step, the fresh, lively
spirit of Youth. It will free you from head-
aches and stomach troubles, from rheumatic
pains and the results of faulty elimination.
It will make you a NEW man or woman.
Simply get a 1/11 or a 3/6 bottle of “Cream
of Yeast” from the nearest chemist, grocer,
or store. Take as directed, and if you don’t
feel rejuvenated in mind and body—if not
perfectly satisfied —the price will be refunded
on application to the Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Kembla Building, Sydney. Thus you
are guaranteed a new lease of life and happi-
ness —or no cost at all! Don’t delay! Get
your supply NOW!
THREE SIZES:
24 Tablets 1/11
48 Tablets 3/6
125 Tablets 5/9
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist, Grocer , or Storekeeper for Genuine
Qtie Super
(Yeast Clonic!
COMPRESSED TABLETS OF
CREAM
OF
YEAST'
... Perfect Yeast*
k Vitamine Tonic
Compound
IK. SURE. SAFE
STRIINGTU LIVER
The
sA
Aspirin. Car*
a and Ordinary
topping Pams,
i no Habit
c*
&
LABORATORIES
<vO c
>JV
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital
Issued Capital
Paid-up Capital
£lOO,OOO
49,161
30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq. •
R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
BAGSHAW’S
ASTHMA
POWDER
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Strec c.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander’ and
“Sports Referee.”


Australian Mutual Provident Society
ESTABLISHED 1849.
EVERY MAN SHOULD
Provide for his dependents.
Provide for himself.
A Life Policy with the A.M.P. is the surest, safest
and most economical way of ensuring such results.
Funds over £68,000,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
All Surplus divided amongst the participating members.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
Head Office,
8 7 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select “The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please apply to
ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 81522.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will cuote you price tor the original.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
(IN CO-OPERATION WITH WAGONS-LITS. CO.)
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assist snce to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
fg
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building
Queen Street.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Bnildici*
(Next G.P.0.).
them, a whipping-up of sexual excitement
m the cruelties practised by old men on
boys and girls.
On the hottest days of summer, under
bare, pale-blue skies, drifts of the men’s
singing came to her from grey, smoke-
misted thickets below the red, bare peaks
ot the ridge:
“Neero-ran, neeroo
Ora kaljee kaljee”....
She knew that was one of the bucklegarro
songs. And there was another:
“Choongoo choongoo pheriegoo,
Wannerjettie gnadegoo
Yeralger mundanie”
Whenever she heard those chants, and the
murmurous boom of a cooardie, Mrs. Bessie
knew what was happening. Old men of
the tribes away from the camp were pre-
paring the youths, by crude rites of circum-
cision and mutilation, to take their place as
men m the camp.
She was always restless and irritable while
that singing was going on, more particularly
*°ne of her own boys was with the men.
Devils! Old devils!” she muttered to her-
self, trying to read or sew, and was as re-
lieved as the women in the camp when the
men returned at sunset with, or without, the
lad. Sometimes he was left in the bush to
recover. It depended a good deal on the
stage of his initiation and whether he had
done his period of isolation from the
women.
Mrs. Bessie could see from her verandah
when the men brought a boy back to camp,
leaping about him and singing, while the
women ran out to meet them with wild
lamentations and gleeful, exulting cries.
Mrs. Bessie herself always made a fuss of
Wytahba boys when she saw them look-
ing wan and a little exhausted after their
ordeal. To the amusement of the gins
she had fed Wanna up with beef-tea and
large pieces of juicy steak as she rationed
the men and women on the strength of the
situation.
Lonely and curious, occasionally she went
down to the uloo to watch the corroborees.
Sitting on the far side of the fire, at a
little distance frorn Warieda and the rows
of women, children and dogs huddled to-
get her, she had marvelled at the beauty and
significance of these legendary dances done
on the vast plains, under blue, star-scattered
night skies.
After the fire corroboree one night, just
as she was going away, Warieda asked
Mumae to stay and see the corroboree his
people had never before peimitted a woman
to watch. Appreciating the honor implied,
Mumae sat down on the earth beyond the
fire again.
Part of the shadows, sitting there in the
dusk, she had glimpsed another world, the
world mystic, elusive, sensual and vital of
this primitive people’s imagination. A pre-
sentiment of being part of the shadows, of
the infinite spaces about her, and of the
ceremonial dance itself, she banished
peremptorily.
Coonardoo, crouching with the rest of
the women, her head in the dust, had for
a moment seen Mumae sitting there on the
far side of the fire in her white dress. But
not for worlds would Coonardoo look again
believing that if she caught any sight of
the forbidden dance she would be pursued
by evil spirits, haunted by bad dreams
until she died. She sang with the rest of
the women; Mumae could hear her childish
treble among the low throbbing voices under
the blankets Warieda had thrown over the
aromen.
Chitali danced before the fire in a head-
dress like a gigantic spider web with a
verandah out from it. The spider web,
bound with white down, stood high up and
jutted out from his forehead. His body
streaked and patterned white and red, Chi-
tali had gestured and danced, knees wide
over the fire.
“What was it all about?” Coonardoo had
i° ar< j Mumae say to Saul Hardy, although
she dared hardly confess the eavesdropping
to herself even.
I don’t know. It had some sex signifi-
cance, I suppose. Fire is male. They be-
lieve smoke made by the men in these
dances impregnates some female spirit of
things which dispenses life—for birds,
beasts, coolyahs, bardies. For the abos’
themselves, I think.”
Now and again during a pink-eye Coorv-
ardoo had seen the gins dancing in a long
fine behind girls from Britte-Britte and
JNumewarra. There was a mystery and
ominousness in it all which she did not
tathom, until she found herself dancing
scared and naked, at the head of a long
nn® °f women under a clear, starry sky.
The women danced and kept on singing
until Coonardoo was ready to drop; but
Pandogera, with hands on her hips, pushed
her on, giving her little smacks on the back.
V\ hen Bandogera let her go, Coonardoo had
1 alien asleep by her own fireside, to be
wakened again by that wailing song of the
women, and led out by them under the star-
lit sky to dance in a long line before the
smouldering fires again. Coonardoo was
awed and a little disturbed by it all; but
she would not show fear. She tried to
sing and dance as well as the other women.
A vague idea of what was happening had
flitted across her. She was being made a
woman and must not show herself weaker,
Jess worthy of her people than girls from
Pntte-Britte and Nuniewarra.
It seemed to Coonardoo she had been
cancing and singing all day and for days,
all night and for nights; she was worn out
and half-dead; but she knew it would soon
i m T mg ’ stars were so f a, 'nt in the
sky when the men sat round her in a
and she was snread out on the ground
before them. She remembered the time
when the men had sat round singing to her.
Then in a flash of pain she heard her own
cry, shrill and eerie like the note of a bird.
In the morning, when Coonardoo stood
beside Mumae’s bed with her cup of tea,
Mumae had exclaimed:
“IVe only just gone to sleep! They were
making a terrible hullabloo at the uloo last
night, Coonardoo. What was it all about?”
Coonardoo shook her head. It was for-
bidden her to speak of what had hap-
pened, And Mrs. Bessie knew her people
too well to press their reticences.
The child looked queer, she thought;
there was a new wide-awakeness, some-
thing sombre and wise and old, in her eyes.
“Oh, well, you were asleep, I suppose,”
Mumae said. “I’ll be glad when all this
pink-eye is over.”
From Meenie she heard what had hap-
pened.
“Make ’m Coonardoo woman,” Meenie
explained, smiling shyly. She was very
pleased and happy about Coonardoo being
a woman, it seemed.
Mrs. Bessie understood what that meant.
Girls of some of the Nor’-West tribes were
subject to a preparation for womanhood as
the boys were for manhood.
“But why, Meenie,” she asked, “why do
they do that?”
Meenie shook her head. Perhaps she did
not know, perhaps she was reluctant to
talk of what she sensed disapproval in
Mumae’s face.
Mrs. Bessie was clearly annoyed; her
white-woman’s prejudices inflamed. “I
think it’s perfectly disgusting,” she declared.
But her anger went deeper. Mrs. Bessie
realised that, however she might teach and
train Coonardoo in the ways of a white
woman, teach her to cook and sew, be clean
and tidy, she would always be an aboriginal
of the aboriginals. Not that Mrs. Bessie
wanted to take Coonardoo out of her ele-
ment. She did not, but she was jealous
of an influence on the child greater than
her own. She did not wish to lose Coonar-
doo. Her people did not wish to lose Coon-
ardoo either. She was theirs by blood and
bone, and they were weaving her to the
earth and to themselves, through all her
senses, appetites and instincts.
Before Coonardoo was sixteen Mrs. Bessie
realised that her people were right: Coon-
ardoo was marriageable. She ought to be
married.
But obstinately Mrs. Bessie kept to her
bargain with Warieda, and W arieda kept
his bargain with her, although it was not
easy. Wiry, well-fed, lithe and graceful, her
eyes as dark and velvety as a moth’s wing,
with glittering irises, Coonardoo swung
between the homestead and the uloo, dis-
turbing both by her youth and roguishness.
As handsome and spirited as an unbroken
filly, she tempted every man who saw her
to the breaking and handling, knowing
very well no one dared attempt it. Was
she not promised to Warieda, and had not
Mumae forbidden him to take her? Coonar-
doo swaggered with a light-hearted inde-
pendence and impudence very galling to her
own people. Meenie scolded; and Warieda
followed her with watchful eyes, his lust
glowing and blazing.
Mrs. Bessie herself saw what was hap-
pening. She watched Coonardoo swinging
down to the uloo one evening when she
had left her gina-gina in the shade miah.
Her slight brown body, straight-backed,
long-legged, with pointed breasts, was a
nymph’s cast in bronze against the twilight
sky. Coonardoo walked swaying and casting
sidelong glances with back-flung words at
the men as she passed.
“The minx I” Mrs. Bessie exclaimed to
herself.
Desirable, unattainable, Coonardoo en-
joyed herself very much in those years.
After pink-eye, when she was fourteen,
a young man from the hills had twisted a
slit stick in her hair and tried to run away
with her, and there had been a fight in the
uloo, about it. Coonardoo had held War-
ieda’s spears, as she was entitled* to do, when
the man from the hills stayed to fight him
for her. The spears had whistled and shied;
both men too clever and skilful to be caught
by each other’s. The man from the hills
was much younger and slighter than
Warieda. He had no woman and was eager
to fight for Coonardoo. She, thrilled and
impressed by the strength and vigor of
Warieda, had screamed and screeched
furiously at the stranger.
But he was clever on his feet, and smart
with the kylies. His first shied past War-
ieda’s temple; his second missed Warieda’s
left cheek. But Warieda’s third kylie
caught the young man’s forehead, gashing
and splitting it open, so that he lay bleed-
ing for a long time, and slunk away to the
hills next morning as soon as he could walk.
Not that the fight was over. He promised
to come again and steal Coonardoo when he
was stronger; Warieda growing fat and less
agile.
Meenie was angry about the whole busi-
ness. She blamed Coonardoo for it—said
that she had been naughty and mischievous;
a hussy, in fact. But she was sulky with
Mumae, too, and told her no good would
come of keeping Coonardoo unmated for so
long after she was ready to go to her man.
At the camp Warieda saw that nobody
interfered with Coonardoo, and he was keep-
ing his word to Mumae, the horse and
blankets looming for ever in his eyes.
Mumae laughed at Meenie’s objection,
pointing out what a fine, strong girl Coon-
ardoo had grown. But she was more con-
cerned than Meenie when a messenger came
from Sam Geary offering old Joey Koonarra.
Coonardoo’s father, a rifle, blankets and
tobacco for the girl.
(To le continued.)


IE S SEX Super Six
‘“Worlds
Greatest Va Iu e
altogether or part by part
The advantages we itemise here definitely indicate
the complete quality manner in which to-day s
Essex Super-Six is built parts seen or unseen
Th
e \
/
, he^ sex^el
,y Pe —« on
as sure th ° n c ost r re th es ° n
ty ’ a * -Vo;, e,na Wu ' e l r «rs
,r °lthar' as th e ,y »ra ke a "d
hi gb .* a 5 Vo„ ass l s ?ftn ess *? sa fe.
v,;!l * SOc 'at e „ ° f c„ o .
* tfte ;„ Cars - TZ 0 , nly "nh
* y Pif]
Is b *hZ COst iycS ney
cau t H'ay t V
r nt;J H this B *° Essex
L ns *d,
•and
fir* 4" nd o U ; a fc eta «
H ’ Jf A c a ,. co °tly c/ Com Pa r ,v
rs "> fAe/^"and f i SOn
SSe "«"ect°
/
/
/
Compare with
any car
©
The beautiful Essex instrument
board is of ebony finish, group-
ing under indirect light, motom-
eter, fuel gauge, oil gauge,
speedometer and ammeter.
Compare it with the costly car
instrument boards —which it is
like _and with instrument
boards in its price class—which
it is decidedly unlike.
-re.
w .a\v coto \
ptc s&v tS et
e*'
cVv>S ' V t be *»'
th e
° st rr ste e>-. o 0
V* 0 *! tot vi» teS V^ret>ce ’
sV?
A QO C^ V TVW '
d oo tVvV^
• v^ efv
jsta'*
e« ot '
%
\
\
\
/ .
TO-DAY’S Essex Super-Six is a delight to the eye
—in graceful line, in fine exterior appointment
and in careful finish that invites and repays the
closest examination.
At the slender, graceful wheelyOu look out over
the shining beauty of cowl, bonnet, saddle-type
lamps and heavy arching mudguards to the winged
radiator figure that expresses the spirit and fleetness
under your hand.
To see, to examine, to compare, to ride in today’s
Essex Super-Six can bring but one conclusion—the
World’s Greatest Value—altogether or part by part.
Visit your Hudson-Essex Dealer, to-day.
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body
Roadster ~ *>
Coach ~ »>
Coach, Imported Body
Coupe „ » (Rumble Seat)
Sedan, Australian Body
Sedan, Imported Body . . . . «. •
£270)
270
330
350 V
365
345
370,
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
, MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
El
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
ananftn J
The Whisky for Connoisseur"
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
VVM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm o} Scotch Whisky Distillers.
■for a good
/ night's rest
hake "
d
it will ensure
a good day 's
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
WILLOW PATTERN.
By - MARGARET FANE AND HUKARY LOFTING.
MARTY, cleaning the windows of the
shop, was conscious that the weather
had changed. For a week the early
mornings had been grey and heavy, as the
spring’mornings in the ’Loo often are. Or
perhaps the fact that Mary had a bit of a
cold had prevented him from noticing the
weather much. Anyhow, this morning it was
different—bright and sort of mellow, with
level sunshine. The streets being empty at
this time of the morning gave you a chance
to see it, too.
You got the strength of the ’Loo better
at this time of day than at any other. The
old ’Loo could remind you of so much that
seemed to be breaking your heart when you
were the odd-man and messenger, picking
up what you could. It was funny how all
those unhappy things took on a new light
now that Marty’s circumstances had changed.
The wistaria climbing all over the side of
Wang Lee’s house, for instance. There was
a time when that would only have reminded
him of the good days when, a whole man,
he’d be going off to work on the spring morn-
ings instead of shuffling past it with one arm,
and a bent, sometimes painful back.
The lilac-colored tiers of blossom-sprays
seemed to have all bloomed in the night; he
was certain there were only twisting branches
there yesterday. It reminded him of that
willow-pattern dish of Mary's that she’d
brought from the old country and thought
so much of —all stiff and studied, like time
picture Mary and he had seen up at King’s
Cross. That picture with its likeness to the
willow-pattern dish had made a great impres-
sion on him. There was one scene he’d
always remember.
His abstracted eyes on the wistaria-cov-
ered house on the diagonally opposite corner,
he recalled this scene. It was a Chinese
garden, all little ponds and water-lilies and
twisted, stunted trees. There was a summer-
house hung with a flower that looked like
wistaria —a summer-house built of some
black-looking wood carved' and shaped. It
was wonderful how peaceful and still they
made the garden seem on the pictures ; you
felt you were really in China among all the
stiff, solemn people. A beautiful Chinese
girl was in this summer-house, looking out
of the window; a real beauty she was. The
picture showed her quiet face with the big
slanting eyes watching from the window, and
then switched off to the other end of the
garden where a young Englishman in a
white uniform was just coming in at the
gate. You could see how he enjoyed and
admired the garden as he walked through
it to the summer-house; the stillness and
peace seemed to make him calmer and calmer
as he went along, until he came to the
summer-house and saw the girl watching
at the window. Marty would never forget
how his face lit up ; you’d think she was the
gates of Paradise.
The picture ended sadly, she being Chinese
and he white. But it was the garden and
Mary’s willow-pattern dish —and the young
man’s face —that had made that bit of it
stick in his memory. And the wistaria across
the corner reminded him of it all. At this
time of the morning the old ’Loo was still
and silent like that garden in China.
Watching the wistaria he saw the stillness
broken by- the soft sliding-up of a window-
sash. From the black square a girl’s head
looked out and down the street. That was
Lucy, Wang Lee’s eldest and his only
daughter. Very proud of her he was, and
rightly—she made a beautiful picture with
all the wistaria round her dark head.
The silence was broken, too, by a quick
footfall, and young Tom Hurst swung round
the corner with his tucker-tin, on liis way
to work. Marty could see that Tom’s eyes
were looking at Lucy in the window with all
the flowers round her head. Reaching the
house Tom stopped and greeted Lucy, who
smiled and murmured a greeting to him.
For a minute or two the low sound of their
voices came to Marty, until presently Tom
lifted his hat and strode on his way to work.
When he had turned the corner the sasli
came gently down again, and there was no
girl looking out of the sprays of flowers.
That was a funny thing, Marty thought.
Only a minute ago he had been thinking
of that picture and the girl looking out of the
summer-house window, and here was Lucy
Wang Lee, a half-Chinese, looking out of
her- window and having a word with Tom
Even the sprays and tiers of flowers were
the same. It just showed you how things
turned out sometimes.
Marty turned to his own window to give
the brass another rub up.
* * * *
You never knew in the ’Loo. Of course,
there had been some that looked down their
noses at the idea of a “Pong” married to a
white woman, but it had worked out all
right. And people mostly stopped looking
down their noses pretty soon in the ’Loo. It
was near twenty years ago now and —-well, it
had worn itself down. Wang Lee was a
good, straight, reliable man, who thought the
world of Mrs. Lee and the family—Lucy
and the four boys. The boys were regular
little Chows with yellow skins and narrow,
slanting eyes; naturally, as a Chinaman,
Wang Lee talked most of his sons. But
he was a good father to Lucy, devoted to her
and full of pet names for her, like Lotus and
Lily-bud and Morning-blossom. If you heard
him calling her these names, you’d know by
the sound of his voice how much he thought
of Lucy. And yet she didn’t look so much
like a Chinese—took after her mother more
than her father. She was very dark, like
Mrs. Lee, with black hair and eyes; but
the eyes were not narrow and they didn’t
slant. But that made no difference to wliac
her father thought of her; the sun and moon
shone out of her, so far as he was concerned.
As Marty reminded himself, you never
knew in the ’Loo. Wang Lee’s house seemed
happy—happier than most, in a way. The
boys were silent, solemn little fellows who
kept themselves to themselves in the Chinese
manner. So far as you could tell anything
about them, they had no complaints. Lucy
was a bit different—a bit freer: knew all
the ’Loo boys and passed the time of day
with them. As for Mrs. Lee —well, you
couldn’t tell what she thought. But some-
how you couldn’t help feeling that it was
she who made the house seem happier than
most.
All this having been started by Lucy’s dark
head in a frame of wistaria, Marty, cleaning
up the shop in his leisurely, careful way,
dug down into his memories of a ’Loo that
had gone now. A ’Loo that was in being
before the accident that had cost him an arm
and a back so badly wrenched that a real
day’s work might be the end of the section,
the doctor said. Nora Birrell had been the
beauty of that old ’Loo —the belle of the
’Loo, they used to call her—and it was a
question which of the boys would get her.
She seemed to have settled it herself, how-
ever; Jack Hastings, with that lift of the
chin he had and his fine black eyes, soon
cleaned them all out of the field. Jack was
a hard man, with a damn-your-cyes look
about him that all the girls liked, whether
they confessed it or not.
But nothing came of it. Jack cleared out
and went to Queensland, and, soon after,
Nora, to the astonishment of the ’Loo, mar-
ried Wang Lee. It was a funny business,
the belle of the ’Loo marrying a Chow and
settling down in the quiet, serious way that
Nora had. But there it was. Nothing more
was heard of Jack, and here was Nora
bringing up a family with a Chinese for its
father. Marty thoughtfully unpacked a case
of jelly-crystals and disposed them in an
appetising pile. If it hadn’t been for the
great good fortune of Mary marrying him
lie might have been dead and gone now, like
that ’Loo of twenty years ago.
Lucy coming into the shop these days was
herself not unlike the wistaria. Marty, re-
membering young Tom Hurst and the early
mornings, was able to account for this bloom
on her. But, much as the wistaria had
faded from her father’s house, leaving only
the thick leaves, the bloom suddenly vanished
from Lucy, leaving only a dark girl with
troubled, weary eyes.
Marty pushed her parcel across the counter
and looked at her. “Something gone wrong,
Lucy?” he asked gently.
The weary eyes looked startled. Suddenly
they filled with tears. “Everything,” she
said, with quivering lips, “and I can’t tell
anyone about it.”
“Why not?” he asked, still looking at her.
A long sigh seemed to open the flood-gates.
“It isn’t Tom’s fault, and it isn’t mine.
We didn’t mean anything—-anything serious.
But all of a sudden we knew that one of
us couldn’t live without the other”
Marty waited. You seemed to hear all the
sorrow that there was when you heard her
voice.
“And that started him thinking. And it’s
the babies, 1 the little slit-eyed yellow babies
.... That’s got him, he says; as a white
man he couldn’t go that, not if his heart
was breaking and he had to drown him-
self.” Abruptly her eyes were clear of tears
and a stiff smile hardened her lips. “Plenty
wrong, Marty,” she added, her voice cold
and empty even of sorrow.
And then the ’Loo became aware that
young Tom Hurst thought of going away.
Some said up north ; some said the Islands;
some said it was “all my foot,” pointing to
the good job he had. Young Tom himself
seemed to care least in the ’Loo ; going his
haggard, wild-eyed way, there didn’t seem to
be anything that could ever make him care
again.
“Things any better, Lucy?” Marty asked,
later, liis faith in miracles still alive.
The misery in her eyes half-scared him, as
a rough word used to in the old odd-job
days. But she laughed on a hard note, and
the fine black eyes flashed unexpectedly. “No
better, Marty,” she said, her chin lifting de-
fiantly, “and they won’t be unless I can
wake up one morning and find I haven’t got
a Chow for a father.”
A puzzled frown creased Marty’s forehead
as he watched the hard swagger with which
she crossed the street to the other corner.
That w r asn’t like Lucy. Of course, she
was nearly beside herself these days. Still, it
wasn’t like her, and you couldn’t say it was.
It was a minute or two before the frown
cleared from his forehead; even when it did
he still looked faintly puzzled.
* * * *
The still quiet in the room seemed to shut
out the ’Loo ; you might be a thousand miles
from the sound of the church-bells and the
trams. A perfume seemed to be lingering
there, too, faint but heavy, though it was an
ordinary fresh-looking room to look at. Marty
stood up as Mrs. Lee appeared in the door-
way.
“Yes, Marty?” she said, her serious smile
curving her lips.
“I believe, Nora,” Marty said gently, “that
Jack Hastings is Lucy’s father.”
Swift indignation lit up her face. “How
dare you, Marty!” she gasped. “To come into
my house, the house of a respectable married
woman with a family, and throw an insult
'ike that at her! Have you gone mad,
Marty ?”
“I believe it’s true, Nora,” he said steadily.
“I can’t believe my hearing’s right. If
you weren’t an old friend I wouldn’t stand
here a second talking to you. Who gave you
the right to come and throw a bomb like that
at me ?” Her voice was rising like a storm ;
she looked a picture of anger and indignation.
“Is it because my husband’s Chinese that
you think you can do as you like and say
what you like?” v
“Lucy isn’t Chinese,” Marty said, watch-
ing her.
“Why not? You're talking like a fool.
Her skin is dark and her hair is black”
“So are yours.”
“Her eyes are black”
“So were Jack’s.”
Mrs. Lee gasped and seemed to choke.
“You’d better go, Marty,” she said in a suffo-
cated voice, “before I burst or ring up the
police.”
“Yes, I’ll go.” Marty’s voice was full of
friendliness and sympathy. “But you know
what I say is true, Nora, and you know
why I had the hide to come and say it.”
“Oh !” Her face was suddenly purple and
contorted with fury. “Go, go !” she said in
that suffocated voice.
The ’Loo seemed to feel it in the air that
Tom Hurst was really going. To the Islands,
most said. Marty refused to believe it for a
day or two, but Lucy, on a tide of heart-
broken dismay, sobbed out a confirmation in
the shop. So Marty put on his hat and went
diagonally across the corner again. By
strength of personality he reached the motion-
less quietude of the room once more. And
once more Mrs. Lee stood in the doorway,
her grave eyes questioning his face.
“More insults, Marty?”
“If that’s what you must call it, Nora,”
he told her tranquilly. “You know what
you’re doing, don’t you, by holding out?”
Her eyes still on his face, she waited.
“Lucy and Tom Hurst are in love; fair
desperate for each other, they are. And
Tom can’t marry her because lie’s afraid
of Chinese babies. And that’s right, too,
however you look at it.”
“Wliat’s all that got to do with me?” she
burst out. “I’ve got Chinese babies, haven’t
I? Besides, it’s a lie.”
“Look, Nora.” Marty’s placidity was un-
ruffled. “It’s your daughter. Tom’ll clear
out, and you’ll force her 'to do wliat all
the half-Cliinese do—marry a Chinaman and
have a Chinese family.”
“What’s it got to do with me?” she
wailed. “I tell you it’s a lie, Marty. It’s
a lie.”
“There’s another thing you’re doing,
Nora.” His even voice seemed to caress
the stillness of the room. “You’re going to
watch Jack Hastings’s daughter with a
family of half-Chinese kids.
The stillness held its breath. Her eyes
looked away from him and to the window
and the old streets beyond it. Presently
a faint sigh brushed the silence and she
turned back to Marty.
“All right, Marty,” she said. “I’ll tell
Wang Lee before the lot. Will that satisfy
you, and put it right?”
“Yes, Nora. That’ll put it all right.”
“He’ll kick me out —he’s a Chinaman,
you know. And I’ll never see my children
again; yellow or white, they’re mine. But”
—the silence fell deeper than ever again—
“l’ll tell him to-night. Lucy can get Tom.
You’d better come 'too, Marty,” she added.
“I might lose my nerve at the last minute.”
H= * * *
Lucy’s scared' white face looked up as
Wang Lee entered and bowed gently in the
doorway. Over by the window young Tom
Hurst’s haggard eyes were staring at his
hands. Perhaps Wang Lee’s calm jusit in-
dicated that he was waiting for the reason
of this summons.
“There’s something I’ve got to tell you,
Wang Lee,” Mrs. Lee said.
He turned to her. bowing faintly again.
“Lucy is not your daughter.” Wang Lee’s
eyes flickered ever so little and returned to
their impenetrable quiet watching of Nora’s
face. “She’s Jack Hastings’s daughter. It
was because I was going to have her that
I married you.”
Marty heard Lucy catch her breath, saw
Tom’s hands go suddenly still. Wang Lee
continued to watch Nora expressionlessly.
“I’ve been a good wife to you and a good
mother to your children. And you’ve been
a real good husband to me. No woman could
ask a» better. But that’s the truth.”
The motionless quiet of the room seemed
to concentrate in Wang Lee’s face. His
head didn’t move, but liis gaze flashed once
from face to face, resting last on Lucy. He
walked softly across to her and patted her
shoulder. “Not your fault, Lotusbud,” he
murmured. “You good girl. Be happy now
all time.”
He turned to Nora, a smile benevolent
and full of pride lighting his impassive face.
“You welly good mother,” he said, his
clipped high voice vibrating with that pride.
“You make saclifice for your daughter’s
happiness. Welly good mother.”
He made the Chinese obeisance before
his wife, the half-bow, half-curtsey that is
full of reverence.
Mother of Soldiers.
O WINGERS from the tree-tops,
■ ) Fighters from the caves,
Make a nation’s g10ry ....
Made a nation’s graves.
With his hollow laughter,
With his merry tears,
Man, the planet’s master,
Marches down the years.
Marching!.... Marching
To an old sad tune;
Marching... .marching
To the same mad tune.
God He sits in Heaven
High above it all,
Watching over sparrows,
Counting how they jail.
VICTORIA.
God He sits above us
With a bitter smile;
God He sits in Heaven
Brooding all the while.
Doiun in France they laid it,
Body born oj mine,
When the World was marching,
Marching all aline.
Oh, the splendid music
Calling to my son!
Ah, the echoes jailing
As the Day is done!
All the World was marching,
Not so long agone;
All the world is marching....
I am living on.
E. J. BRADY.


Blinking', Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,96.>
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623/153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ££29,988
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. • • ••
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,609,655
Australia, New ;
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, ;
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS S,‘ ‘“ K ~ l lo '
_ fixed periods
md transacts all other usual Banking business.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
fgd
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
qA ballbearing
Brooni-on-Wlieds
yoith its own dustpans
A revolving broom of pure bristles on
ball-bearing wheels, and dust pans fol-
lowing along to receive and confine the
dust as it is swept up is just what a
Bissell sweeper is and does. No stoop-
ing or back-breaking work—-and a
thumb pressure empties it.. A'Bissell is
clearly the sweeping device for the
every-day, yes, many-times-a-day use
on carpets and rugs.
Costs but little —and nothing to run.
Begin the benefits of a Bissell now.
Play-size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere •
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
c^>
<35
720*0
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
An Unexcelled Chain of Ports
PICTURESQUE Auckland , favorite seaport of
Northern Neio Zealand; sparkling Suva, glow-
ing like a jewel in its setting of tropical beauty; far-
famed Honolulu , tvhere travellers bask in an endless
summer and a thousand novel sights: Such is the
route from Sydney to Vancouver of Canadian-
Australasian Liners.
c V.
>
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Aorangi or Niagara a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars jrom
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
S.S. AORANGI & NIAGARA
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
&
m
v mim'
I ■*!
IMP
nit
3HP
■.rnSr,
v ;
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
(SANK OF
NILW SOUTH
WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
gf
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors .
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated gnd collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - BRISBANE.
With offi cs at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
dfg
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
FHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulbum Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR! MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports.
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtor.
and North-West Ports).
FOR MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay)
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
KANOWNA
ORMISTON
BOMBALA
(Bris. only).
CANBERRA
ORUNGAL
Howard Smith,
Ltd.,Kemblaßlg.,
08 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kemblaßlg.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates-
Demostheme
11,500 tons, Sept. 11
Oct.
Oct.
15,000
11,500
10,000
10,000
Nestor. .... 15,000
Ceramic .. . 18,500
Ulysses ....
Themistocles
Anchises. . .
Ascanius...
Suevic 12,509
Euripides . . 15,000
Runic 12,500
First class only. tFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
lalgety 8 Co., Ltd. | joint
iilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.,] Agents
2
16
Nov. 13
Nov. 27
Dec. 10
Jan- 7
Jan. 23
Jan. 28
Feb. 19
». & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD.. 13,100
BARRABOOL. . 13,100
BALLARAT . . 13,100
BARADINE . . 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
Tons.
BELTANA .. 11,100
BENALLA .. 11,100
BORDA 11,100
BER'RIMA .. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
I from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
j AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON, LTD.,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
j Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONC.BAR —Every Tuesday evening,
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES .
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, tv/oft
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £i/0,-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, ° USE ’
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEI.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns Philp & Co., Ltd
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker Ll*
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between .Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily paper..
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER UMIT-&,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
- - should read the British Australia >
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an mm
trated paper containing mail and cable n _
from Australia and news of Australians
Europe and at home. Australians are
ally invited to visit the British Alstra -
AND New Zealander Reading-room at
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
London, W.C.2, where they can see the horn
papers, meet their friends, use the te P
and obtain information without chg •
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian A ‘
ing Agency. Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney,
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Safe and Sure - that’s what
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is for Coughs
and Colds
At the first sign of a Cold there is nothing
better to use immediately than repeated
doses every two hours of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. It reduces
the fever, alleviates inflammation, and has a
marvellous tendency to remove the unpleas-
ant condition. It is perfectly safe to use,
contains no narcotics or poisons of any kind
and can be given with the same security to
the youngest child as to the most aged per-
son. Beneficial results are almost immedi-
ately apparent, repeated doses during the
day at intervals of two hours followed by
a teaspoonful in half a cup of hot water at
night, often rids one of a “Common Cold”
which might develop into something more
serious. It is very sooth-
ing to the bronchial
tubes, and its benefi-
cial effects have been
proved times without
number.
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is obtain-
able practically every-
where throughout Aus-
tralia in regular size
bottles at 1/9; large
3/-
VMs/a
*
/j/m
>, w
-m
\
s'W
DtSheldons
New Discovery
1/9 /or COUGHS 3,
SCOLDS
TRADE
a
Fob
Coughs |
ANO
Colds
m
Sheldon drug C9L'
Mailed to you the !
day they ate made
famous Bed, Booc of
/ usb free lo any
address in (fastrah
(PATOU)
PR.ICE S
3/- 5/6,6/-, 10/-. 124,
304
HILL
S^r T
SEND. FOR. CATALOGUE lU.USTRATED_WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF OUR. CONFECTIONERY IN COLOUR-S
E $
Ben Hall’s Apprentice.
A STORY. OF THE BUSHRANGING DAYS BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON the Saturday evening in October,
1863, when that likeable young ex-
squatter, Ben Hall, and the crew of
boys whom he led in the Dance of Death
that was so brief and merry and notorious
while it lasted, invaded the sober and
respectable city of Bathurst in the light-
hearted fashion that gave a tone to their
raid, young Mr. Frederick Norton Bate-
man was an amazed spectator of their ex-
ploits—or, at least, of some of them. So
astounded was he, and so impressed, that the
episode came near to putting him in the
way of having his career terminated by the
big knot of the busy hangman—he had a
lot to do in those days—or by a big bullet
out of a policeman’s carbine. For it made
him very ardently desire to become a bush-
ranger.
The silly and childish name of “Pommy”
had not arrived in Australia in those days,
and Mr. Bateman was a “Newchum,” or
a “Johnny-come-lately,” who was very dis-
satisfied with his prospects in New South
Wales, and had come to a reluctant con-
clusion that it would have been better to
have continued as a shop-assistant in Little
King’s Scollop—the charming Kentish village
where he was bred —rather than to have
come to this Land of Gold where there wasn’t
any to be had. In Scollop there was at least
a comfortable bed, and an abundance of
what Mr. Bateman was wont to allude to
as “wittles.” Here, in these outlandish
Antipodes, he had not slept in a bed between
leaving Sydney and arriving in Bathurst,
and “wittles” were hard to get, and not
much good when you got them.
He had walked, from the railway terminus
at Parramatta, all the way to Bathurst,
and the impression of the country which
he had passed through during his passage
across the Blue Mountains was not one that
filled him with enthusiasm for it. The only
pleasant recollection he had of that night-
mare journey was of the kindness of the
three or four teamsters who had given him
lifts, at intervals, for a few miles at a time.
And the last one had obtained a job for him
in Bathurst. But it was not a very good
job, and he was not very good at it, and
felt morally certain that he would not con-
tinue in it long. Nor did he after that
October evening whose stirring events, as
seen through Mr. Bateman’s eyes, we will
presently come to.
It was a calm and pleasant evening, the
Saturday night when the bushrangers came
into town, at about tea-time. Just as it
was growing dark they came riding their
horses down William-street at a walk, and
nobody who say them seems to have sus-
pected that they were other than they
appeared to be,' five young fellows who had
ridden in from somewhere in the surround-
ing country to do a little shopping, have a
drink or two in the hotels, and then depart
peacefully for their homes in the later
evening. But the five innocent-looking horse-
men were Ben Hall, Johnny Gilbert, Vane,
O’Meally and Burke.
They left Vane as an outpost in a lane
leading off the main street, and the rest of
them crossed the road to Mr. Pedrotta’s
gunsmith’s shop, where two of them dis-
mounted and handed their reins to the two
who remained in their saddles at the edge
of the sidewalk.
“What can I do for you, gentlemen?”
asked the unsuspecting proprietor of the two
ordinary-looking customers who came into
his shop.
They wished to see some revolvers, and
very civilly requested Mr. Pedrotta to show
them one or two of the best sort he had.
He was glad to do so, and they examined
the firearms carefully, without, however,
finding anything that quite suited their
requirements. So they asked for revolving
rifles, a curious and somewhat clumsy
weapon that had just come on to the Aus-
tralian market. But Mr. Pedrotta had none.
“Well, then, show us some double-trigger
revolvers,” one of them said.
. But there was none of these in stock,
either; so, after carefully examining all the
weapons that the gunsmith had, they said
that there was nothing there quite of the
sort they wanted, bade him a polite good-
evening, and went out to their horses. They
climbed into the saddles again, and rode
away at a leisurely pace.
A little lower down the street was the
establishment of Mr. McMinn, watchmaker
and jeweller. The same two again went into
the shop, whilst the others held their horses
in the street outside. It was here that Mr.
Frederick Norton Bateman had found em-
ployment, on the recommendation of the
kindly teamster who had given him a lift
on the last stage of his tramp from Sydney
to Bathurst.
Mr. McMinn’s family were at tea in a
room behind the shop, and the unfortunate
newchum had been left temporarily in
charge. When the two quiet-looking cus-
tomers came in he stepped forward to attend
to their requirements, and, to his amaze-
ment, he found himself looking into the
ominous opening in the end of a revolver
barrel poked into his face. He was too
startled to do anything but obey orders
when he was quietly but peremptorily in-
structed to go into a side room, where he
was guarded by the anan who had covered
him, whilst the other proceeded to loot the
jewellery contained in a glass case standing
on the counter.
But the case was locked, and not wishing
to give the alarm by breaking the glass they
turned their attention to other articles more
easily to be got at. And then, suddenly,
Miss McMinn opened the door leading into
the shop from the back room, and stood in
the doorway, gaping with astonishment at
what she saw. For a moment or two her
vocal cords refused to respond to the alarm
her brain was telegraphing to them, but
when they did her screams brought the rest
of m, lle , famil y hurrying from the tea-table.
The bushrangers warned them that some-
thmg* nasty might happen if they persisted
in following them outside, hurried from the
shop, and mounted their horses. They rode
quietly away down the street. But Mrs
McMinn was a lady of mettle. She ran to
the street door and screamed an alarm.
“ Bushrangers /” she shrieked out into the
still street. “They’ve robbed us! They’ve
robbed us!” So the five bushrangers put
spurs to their horses.
Mr. McMinn clouted his unhappy assist-
ant’s ears, and sacked him on the spot.
* * * *
Johnny Gilbert and Jack Vane were walk-
ing their horses slowly up hill along the
Bathurst-Carcoar road when they became
aware of a strange figure coming over the
crest of the slight rise before them. It was
strange, at any rate, for that part of Aus-
tralia in 1863. It wore a top-hat, elastic-
sided boots, a short black frock coat, a
paper collar, and funny little fluffy blonde
side whiskers adorning a round pink face
that was somewhat suggestive of an apple
in shape and color. It was mounted upon
an old grey mare, who jogged along with
lowered head in a dejected fashion that gave
her an air of saying to herself “Heavens
above! That I should have come to this!”
The two bushrangers drew up by the side
of the road, and awaited its approach. Pre-
sently the queer cavalier drew rein in front
of them, and, extracting a large and formid-
able-looking revolver from somewhere beneath
its outer garment, pointed it uncertainly in
their direction, and said: “Chooms, ah’m
sorry for to trouble you. But I must have
a better horse. You can have this one o’
mine, but I want one o’ yours. Now, no
nonsense. I’m a bushranger. Ah’ll not
hurt ye, but I must have one o’ those horses
—or —or Ah'll have yer blood!”
To say that they were startled is to
describe the bushrangers’ state of mind with-
out exaggeration. They were themselves well
armed, with two revolvers apiece, but the
weapons were hidden beneath buttoned
jackets, and their appearance gave no indi-
cation that they were anything else than
what they seemed to be —two young bush-
men, mounted upon exceedingly good horses,
who might have been riding them to some
country race-meeting. They stared at this
strange apparition in momentary surprise,
and then the quick-witted Gilbert whispered
to his companion:
“H-s-h, Jack —don’t do anything. This
is a joke. I know who this fellow is. Look
here. Mister,” he addressed the strange-
looking highwayman in his slightly American
accent —he was a Canadian who had been
brought to Melbourne by his parents as a
boy, eleven years before —“I guess you’ve
got us scared. Put that gun away—it
frightens me—and we’ll do whatever you
want us to. For th’ Lord’s sake, put it
away*-—it might go off!”
The strangely-dressed young man lowered
his revolver, and in a moment Johnny
Gilbert had him covered.
“Now, then, sonny,” he said, sharply,
“drop it on the ground. Drop it at once.
We’re the real Mackay. Leggo that gun.
’Twon’t be healthy for you if you don’t.”
With a frightened look in his round face,
the young man did as he was told.
“Now ride into the bush ahead of us, and
remember I’ve got you covered. Come now,
no tommyrot. Get a move on. I’m not
fooling. It’s all right, Jack. This road’s
a bit too public. We’ll take him into the
scrub, and find out all about him. I don’t
think this covey’s too right in the head—
a sheet o’ bark loose, or something. But
we’ll soon find out all about him.”
For a quarter of a mile they followed their
queer captive through the trees, before Gil-
bert gave him the order to pull up and
dismount. The young man obeyed, and Gil-
bert and Vane sat on their horses grinning
at him. Presently the former began to
question him, sitting loosely in the saddle,
with his booted right leg thrown carelessly
across the pommel.
“Say, lad,” he said smilingly, “ain’t you
th’ young chap we bailed up the other night
in McMinn’s place in Bathurst?”
Mr. Frederick Norton Bateman nooded a
sheepish assent.
“Then what in the name of all that’s holy
are you doing here like this? What d’ye
mean by saying you’re a bushranger?
Dammit, man, you’re about as much like
one of us as that* old mare is. Come now,
what’s th’ little game?”
“If ’ee plaise, zur,” his fright made Mr.
Bateman’s accent a little thick, “I didn’t
mean no ’arm. ’Twas on’y fun, loike.”
“Fun! But you pointed a revolver at me,
sonny. You put th’ fear o’ God into me.
Th’ blamed thing might ha’ gone off. D’ye
call that being funny?”
“Couldn’, zur—l ain’t got no bullets for
’un. ’Twould ha done ’ee no ’arm, zur.
’Twas jest a joke, loike.”
“Now tell us the truth. Why have you
left McMinn’s and taken to bailing people
up like you tried to do to us? Do you
remember me and Ben Hall, when we came
into the shop the other night? Well, I’m
Johnny Gilbert, and, as sure as I am, if
you don’t tell us all about it we’ll tie you
up to one of these trees, and leave you here
for th’ goannas to eat. Out with it, now!”
The abashed Mr. Bateman hesitated for
a moment or two, and then gave his simple
explanation.
“Well, you see, Mister Gilbert, I ’aven’t
been very long in the coontry”-
“No! You astonish me!” Gilbert inter-
rupted him with a laugh. “Beg y’r pardon,
go on. Tell us what made you take to the
bush.’
‘‘Well, then, th’ first job I got was at
McMinn’s, but I don’t think he thought
much o me. An’ w’en you gentlemen come
along t’other noight, an’ I didn’t sing out
nor gi th’ alarm—whoi, Mr. McMinn he
gimme a clout an’ th’ sack, jes’s soon’s you’d
gone—whoile Mrs. McMinn was singin’ out
on th’ doorstep. I seen what brave deeds
you gentlemen did that noight, an’ it coom
into me ’ead I’d like for to be a bushranger.
A foine loife’t mus’ be”
“Oh, Hell, yes!” grunted Vane. “Dam’
fine!”
, Gilbert looked at him with a grin on his
face, whilst he winked at his mate. He
nodded for Mr. Bateman to go on.
So, seein’s ’ow ’e’d treated me rough-
(Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
The Second Instalment
of
“COONARDOO”
tells of what happened at
Wytaliba when Hughie
came home from school.
Milk Jag
*
Suq
Teapot
This Little Pig went to Market .
This little Pig stayed at home to have Nursery Tea out of
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s delightfully funny Shelley China. There
are Baby-plates (round and oval), cups and saucers, milk horns
and mugs, milk jugs, sugar basins and tea-pots—- all in this
artist’s inimitable style.
«t is fine and dainty, but built to stand nursery handling, and not dear
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W■ HEATH
& CO., LTD., 2} 2 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
CHINA
]flook foi' the name SheHetf on each piece of China'l
BS
d
'WMm
jjjSPCTfISI
/S'
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
LEMiTfc
•. ant
tibricarit''
“AIEMITE-ING” Stops
Big Repair Bills
As Mere “Qreasing” Can NEVER DO
HERE IS WHY: “Alemite-ing”
means using Alemite equipment to
force genuine Alemite Lubricant into
the bearings and gears of your car.
There is a vast difference between
“Alemite-ing” and ordinary “greas-
ing.” Because Genuine Alemite Lu-
bricants protect gears and bearings
as ordinary “grease” can never do.
Many “greases” are dangerously in-
efficient because heavy with “filler,”
soap and fatty acids. They break
down under pressure —literally melt
away!
A Pure Solidified Oil ‘‘Stands Up’*
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand, is a pure, solidified oil, that
will stand up under 3,000 pounds
pressure! (Average “grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.) It
resists heat up to 200°. And will lubri-
cate bearings properly at 30° below
zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and the rattles that
come from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricants (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricants
for your Alemite-ing. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
fgd
fgd
The Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
»
A lemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemlte Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The A lemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of hfhricatefl
bearing. Note how lubriean*
under pressure forces way en*
tirely through bearing.
No. 834.
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.B.M. Co. Beg U.S. Pat Off.
loike, says I to meself, ‘l’ll show th’ lot on
ye!’ So I took his old mare—Polly ; ere
—an’ ’is re-volver pistol wot ’e keeps i’ th
staable —afore daylight next mornin’, twas
—an* roides off. Mr. McMiiin ’e d paid mo
me waages, so I ’ad a little money for food,
an’ I been campin’ i’ th’ boosh. An’ so
’ere I be.”
Johnny Gilbert, laughing quietly to him-
self, said nothing for a little. After a while
he beckoned to Vane, and they drew their
horses aside, and consulted together. Pre-
sently Vane began to rock with laughter m
the saddle, as he nodded his agreement with
what Gilbert had been saying to him. They
walked their horses back to where Mr. Bate-
man had seated himself on a log, and dis-
mounted, tying their bridles to a couple ot
saplings. , ~ ,
“I say, old man,” Gilbert m*lressed the
quaint object before whom he stood —“do you
really want to be a bushranger?”
“I do that, zur—Mr. Gilbert. I don t care
wot ’appens now. I’ve done no good i’ this
’ere country, actin’ peaceable-loike, an Ive
seed wot can be done be fellies, loike you
gentlemen. So, if I moight, I’d like fine for
to join up wi’ ye—so be as ’ow ye d take me
as a ’prentice.” „ ,
“Very well, then, you will join us. You re
iust the sort of chap Ben Hall’s been looking
for. He’ll be glad to have you. But we 11
have to test you first.”
“Test me —how?”
“Well, you know, being a bushranger s not
all r’ding about on a good horse, and stick-
ing up places like Bathurst. It’s not all as
simple as that. A chap’s got to use. his
brains a bit. Do you think you’d have it m
you to carry a note into Bathurst to the
police-station and give it to Sir Frederick
Pottinger, the inspector? It’s a very private
note, that Ben Hall will give you. We’ll
take you to where he is now —its not five
miles from Bathurst —-and you can stay the
night with us, and go in on foot early in
the morning. Then you can come back, and
if we find you’ve done the job all right, well
make you one of us. But we must test you
first. Wliat d’ye think of it?”
“I thank ’ee koindly, Mr. Gilbert—l do
indeed. ’Twill be easy-loike, that there, lin
sure ou’t. I could do th loike o that
a’walkin’ i’ me sleep.”
“Oh, well, I don’t know about that, it
mightn’t be as easy as you think. What
about if Mr. McMinn sees you and charges
you with having nabbed his mare and taken
his revolver? It’d be chokey for you then.”
“Mister McMinn dunno I took em, Mr.
Gilbert. And, anyways, I’m clever enough
for to dodge un—that I be. You trust me,
zur I’ll do y’r test, Ido assure ’ee. ’
“All right. Get on the mare and come
along. We’ll take you to Ben Hall.”
**. * *
Sir Frederick Pottinger was sitting in
Superintendent Morrissett’s office at the
police-station in Bathurst, discussing with
that much-worried police-officer the elusive-
ness of their quarry—Ben Hall’s young men
and their leader —when a knock came to
the door and the superintendent’s orderly
entered the room.
“What is it, Simmons?” asked Mr. Morris-
sett —he was a son of the famous old-time
commandant at Newcastle.
“There’s a queer-looking fellow out here,
sir, who says he’s got a letter for Sir Fred-
erick, and he refuses to hand it over to any-
one else. Shall I show him in?”
“Oh, get the letter from him —I’m busy
just now. Well, as you were saying, Pot-
tinger?”
Probably in all New South Wales at this
time there were not two more worried and
harassed men than the two who were in
conference in that room that morning. They
were both of them capable officers, and both
unrelaxing in their efforts to cope with the
bushranging trouble in the western districts
of the colony. Yet the bushrangers seemed
to be able to come and go as they liked, and
to do as they liked, and to be able com-
pletely to outwit and hoodwink the police
whenever they liked. And all the country
was laughing at them. As an example of the
sort of thing they had to put up with —
something that would ruffle the tempers of
the most equable men in the world—the
famous “telegram” published in Bell’s Life
in Sydney, only a few months before, stands
out on its own. It was bitter sarcasm, with
a sting in it that hurt. This was how it
went:—
NARROW ESCAPE OP THE POLICE! !
Last evening three bushrangers espied a large
body of troopers, and immediately gave chase. The
darkness of the evening favored the escape of the
troopers and baffled the bushrangers. The appetites
of Captain McLerie and Sir F. Pottinger continue
in undiminished vigor.
And only a few days before had come the
raid on Bathurst. There was little wonder
that the two officers were both harassed
and worried.
They had continued their discussion for
some little while longer, when again the
knocking came, and the orderly cautiously
and a little fearfully put his head into the
room.
“If you please, sir. The man I spoke to
you about a little time ago absolutely re-
fuses to hand the letter over to anyone but
Sir Frederick. He says it’s most important.
and’s got to do with Hall and his gang.
What’ll I do about it, please sir?”
“Oh, send him in. Some infernal crank,
I suppose, Pottinger; but you'd better see
him, I expect. Yes, bring him in, Simmons.”
In a few seconds there was ushered into
the Superintendent’s office Mr. Frederick
Norton Bateman, still as curiously garbed as
when he had encountered Gilbert and Vane
on the previous day, though much more dusty
and dishevelled. He held the worn top-hat
respectfully in his hand, and the shabby
frock-coat was buttoned tightly about his
body. His red face shone with perspiration
that might have been induced therein by the
importance of his mission. He gaped from
one to the other of the two officers in an
undecided fashion, grinning vacuously.
“Well, my man, what is it you want?”
asked Superintendent Morrissett.
“Good mornin’, zur. I’ve a letter for Sir
Frederick Pottinger, and I was told to give
it to none but himself.”
The baronet held out his hand.
“I’m Sir Frederick Pottinger,” he said.
“Who is the letter from?”
“From Mr. Hall, zur —from Mr. Benjamin
Hall.”
Both officers sprang to their feet and
stared at the queer-looking fellow standing
near the door. Mr. Bateman fumbled in his
bosom, and drew forth a somewhat crumpled
envelope, which he handed to the officer to
whom it was addressed. Hastily Sir Fred-
erick tore it open, and glanced through it.
As he read his face reddened, and he swore
softly below his breath.
“Good God!” he exclaimed, when he had
finished his perusal of the document. “Look
at this, Morrissett. The infernal limit. If
I ever catch Mr. Ben Hall I'll punch his
d —d head for him. D—n him!”
The Superintendent took the letter and
read it. When he had finished he was almost
speechless with indignation.
“Simmons!” he shouted angrily, and when
the orderly again appeared he said: “Take
this fellow and boot him out into the street.
.Look here, my man, you can thank your
stars you look like what you are. If it were
not a manifest absurdity to do so I’d lock
you up. Get out of this.”
The dutiful Simmons took the bewildered
Mr. Bateman roughly by the shoulder, and
pushed him through the door, which he
closed with one hand after him. A moment
suosequently a muffled yelp sounded through
it from the outer office.
“Dear Sir Frederick,” the letter went,
“the bearer, a very respectable young man,
has applied to me for permission to join my
party. I do not feel, however, that I can
add to the advantages I already have over
the mounted police of New South Wales. It
would hardly be fair. So I am sending him
in with this letter to you in the hope that
you will be able to find him employment in
the police. A glance at him will convince
you that he is more suited for that than for
the work in which I and my friends are
engaged. I have no doubt that in time he
might easily become .an inspector, and do
the force great credit. I am very sorry that
we did not meet the other evening in Bat-
hurst. Better luck next time. With kind
regards to Mr. Morrissett and yourself.
—Y’rs truly, Benj. Hall.
“P.S. The young man has the same name
as yourself, and seems to be as good, a
bushman, so perhaps you can do something
for him.”
Summer Haze.
I love the smoky haze upon the hills
Because it is the mist that Summer brings.
A hint of warmth and light and happy
things,
Dust of her trail, the blue horizon fills,
As, in the runnels left by winter gales,
She drives her slow white oxen down the
vales. •
She walks beside her waggon, and her whip
Is made iof netted vine and folded bud;
It lashes quickness to the sluggish blood—
Perhaps there is a rose-thorn at the tip!
And all the wain is heaped with color, till
A rainbow seems to trundle o’er the hill.
And at the waggon’s rear the purple grape
Massed in dark bunches, or pale muscatel
Clear as Egyptian sard that, circling, fell
From a jade clasp against an ivory nape— ■
A rosy necklace that a Pharaoh gave
To make a jealous mistress of a slave.
Behind the waggon run small naked boys;
Boys whom no summers ever can make old!
Red-haired like Bacchus, and, as Bacchus,
bold; , .
Waking the leafy highways with their noise;
With open mouths, so greedy and so young,
Zealous for dripping juice to 000 l a tongue.
Of wattle-yellows is dear Summer’s gown;
A topaz girdle round her hips is set;
No banded ribbon those dusk locks shall fret;
To her bare knees the tresses ripple down,
And should they blow against a traveller’s
lips
Of brown boronia essences he sips.
As Rome once garlanded her sacred kine,
So Summer’s oxen wear wreathed blossom
yokes.
The wheels turn sprays of jasmine m their
spokes; # ...
And down the pole the blue convolvulus vine
Lifts trumpets: when the waggon creaks
along
These give their whisper-music to the song.
And Summer’s eyes are as a fringed lagoon,
Reflecting shadows of the swaying gums;
And hidden in her bosom as she comes
She keeps the copper crescent of the moon —
I think, somehow, her loving heart must
hate
To give it to the world when it grows great!
This morning there is haze about the town;
The scrambling hills, dawn-cleared, are
blurred agaiii; . .
And thus I know that Summer drives her
wain,
Printing green scrolls across the wintry
brown, .
Till hungrily I sniff the air, to find
The breath of her white oxen on the wind!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


.... f • 1
SM
m
m
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OWice—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH A CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
(i(i«a
150 AP
m
sin
Cuticura Shaving Stick
Medicated And Soothing
Keeps The Skin Healthy
It produces a creamy, lasting
lather which doubles razor efficien-
cy and makes shaving easy for ten-
der-faced men, while its delicate
medication keeps the skin clear
and healthy.
Soap 1 s. ,T alcum 1 s.3dOintment 1 s. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney .N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
StlAlß
spoil.
IT jf
\
■ -
tfvi:
m
ve®-
I'M
rW 5
ge£
\N'«W
IeVS
\> c
\V»
W c ?
9®*
*** 1
/c f
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
THE MERCURY.
Tasmania’s National Daily.
(ESTABLISHED 1854). Price lid.
Published at Hobart. The Mercury has
by far the largest circulation in Tas-
mania. Delivered by fast motor-cars it
reaches Launceston (121 miles), Delo-
raine (140 miles) and all intermediate
towns before breakfast.
Per inch, per thousand of circulation,
The Mercury advertising rates are the
lowest in the State.
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL.
ESTABLISHED 1877.
Published Wednesdays. Price 6d.
Everywhere—all over the State, in
Town and Country—this popular weekly
goes regularly into the homes of the
people, arid each issue is eagerly read
by over 70,000 men, women and children.
THE BRIGHTEST WEEKLY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
No Tasmanian advertising campaign
is complete without these publications
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep 1 ).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16 A pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
THE MARK OF ,
A GOOD RAZOR
Ask any man you know who uses a PLUM—
ask him if be doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer, "Why, rather l”
THE 1
plum)
7e
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
*
V,f>
When you’re “feeling fit” and “in the pink” you will have
noticed perhaps that your skin is free from all unsightly
blotches and pimples, and your eyes are bright and clear.
Dull eyes and discoloured complexion, betray bad health.
They tell others that you are constipated. Now con-
stipation is one of the evils of civilisation and is the source
of many ills from which you suffer. From it arise headaches,
biliousness, indigestion and if neglected, will probably lead to
much more serious trouble.
The finest thing you can do is to take Beecham’s Pills—the
favourite corrective medicine for these troubles. Purely veget-
able—they never fail to do what
they are asked, and bring back the
sparkle of health.
Start to-day—taking the pills as
directed. You will quickly feel th«
Beechams are the Pills that
conquer Constipation—they
are the remedy for Stomach
disorders and sluggish liver
—they relieve Headache,
Bilious ness. Dyspepsia,
Flatulence and Indigestion.
Worth a
.
Guinea a Box.
REMOVE
THE
CAUSE
“THE AGE.”
Established 185 h
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 74 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies throughout the
Commonwealth, or from
DAVID SYME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRRS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone $.13187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
... „„ (Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4% Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinners.
Delightful Zb minutes 1 trip from City by Ferry or Motor
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN ’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
r*
o
0°
6)
6
M'V
5®
<s 6
0
•0
tl® A?
»n\ s
v* v


q
■
If you say QUALITY
you must say AGE,
' v • ’ . • > "v -v' *c. .
and when you say
■’' f\ '■ */" y . . -
AGE you must say
QUANTITY.
DEWAR’S is backed by
millions of gallons of
the finest Whiskies pro-
duced at the leading
{ ~ ■ ■' , 'V/
Scotch Distilleries.
fWARDEgI
IOMEDAg
$ inpi 11
/_ Jo ~\
k Perth
f'
r v
P omtMENT r# f
■■
tmt
**
~
- «
0.
FINE
w^jt
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE
# WgBt6nD Clubs
JohaDewaro Soils Ii
Distillers PERTH,(Scotland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
UNDER The supervision of the commonwealth custo
Hi
ras-i
1
15
m
Bi
ri
