

mm
yr
□
ffi
JMLMmLJ.
OVAL - HEAVYWEIGHTS.
*»
«TO-
m
illjy ..
iN
: :
ipl
l~v
Jliliiaiill
i
hi
aaißS
m
■ \
Tins oF 25
Tins oF 50 2 f 9
The Bulletin
/flapAAXX*\ (/!\/ "ifu.S AA&iAJI
Vol. 49.—N0. 2549.
Wednesday, December 19, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Memorize with Ease.
Pass Examinations—-Speak without Notes
Send this advertisement for Free 32-pae;e Booklet
to STOTT'S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE, 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
\Y7RITE FOR THE v LIBRARY CATA-
, J; OGIJE AN l> MSTS on ail subjects,
and Illustrated . Christmas Catalogue of 70
pages, which will be forwarded on applica-
tion, post free, to y
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Learn
Story Writing
This BooK YOU*
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. *
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin; ' °
My Name
My Address
IL.YSAC3HT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Preece’s Catalogue
First Editions, Signed. Limited, and Private
Press Editions, Signed Bindings.
POST FREE.
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 King William Street, Adelaide.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPTDAUY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcrards, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
e
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Saves 100 Shove/s !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
e
;v'.
OH ALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
è
T
LIB
I
H
é
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF,
DISEASE AND
FILTH.
KILL THAT FLY.
MUSTDIE
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
The Red Page
A Fellowship of Writers
The Australian Fellowship of Writers has
been formed in fellowship, for the gather-
ing together of old friends, for the help of
the new and the young writer, and for
remembrance of all the dead who died in
fellowship (and out of it), provided they
left a lasting name behind them and were
fellows—even harsh fellows—while they
lived. Apart, from Gordon, Kendall and
Lawson, there were Frank Morton, John
Farrell, David McKee Wriaht, By-croft
Boake. Essex Evans, Mary Hannay Foott,
Jennings Carmichael, Bn inton Stephens and
a host. more.
The first president of the Fellowship is
that Brother of all Follows. Professor I
Le Gay Brercton; the secretary is Marjorie
Quinn, daughter of Patrick and niece .of
Roderic; and the senior vice-president is
Steele Rudd. Because few writers can be
named who have not had Bulletin within
their chrism, and Angus and Robertson as
their godfathers at the font of continuity
(otherwise publication), it is only natural
that the blessing of these goes with the
venture.
Now, I have a suggestion for the Fellow-
ship, which is that we make a new song
every year in remembrance of the past, or
in celebration of the-present; and that we
have it sung in whole or in part at our
re-unions for the following- year, even if we
have to steal a singer and commandeer a
tune to fit it till we can get it adequately
set. ‘A sub-committee would have to be
formed to consider anything sent in, and
to adjudge merit; perhaps even on occasion
to set the theme. But so that the verse may
be good, latitude would have to be given as
to form, aspect of subject and so on. And
in case I should not find, later on, all the
latitude I want, I present my “piece” be-
forehand. It is written in memory of
Gordon. Filgate and Cawker were friends
of his; he was a rider, and if there had
been a fox at Dingley Dell Kb could not
have helped hunting it. If there were no
fox, then that was the fault of the times
and not of Gordon. So I present my offer-
ing as the beginning of a Fellowship col-
lection of songs:
THE GORDON FOX!
W r e found the fox, we found the fox, -
We found the fox at Dingley Dell!
I heard the hounds tongue out their cry,
T heard the huntsmen pounding by,
I heard the heatlicock rise and fly,
As we went hunting the fox!
As we went hunting the fox!
The fox ! The fox !
Away! away! The fox!—away!
The fox we hunt at Dingley Dell!
The mare extends and pulls her head,
Her eyes are lit, her nostrils red,
She bites the bit, as it were bread—
As we go hunting- the fox !
Jack Filgate lifts, and cracks a fence,
And Cawker flings the brush aside;
While o’er the hill and down the dale
The hounds and huntsmen string and trail
Like wind behind the rusty tail,
As we go hunting the * fox!
liis pads he heats to save his mask,
The fox we hunt at Dingley Dell;
Four little pads to carry him'
O’er hill and scarp and valley rim
Beyond the hounds and huntsmen grim—
As we go hut-u-g the fox!
Hola! Hola ! Away! Away!....
If lost the fox at Dingley Dell,
The huntsman lifts his glass and cries,
“Here’s to the fox where’er he lies!
Here’s to the hope that never dies”— ‘
As we go hunting the fox!
As we go hunting the fox !
The fox! The fox!
MARY GILMORE.
Censorships
There are .periodical disturbances in
England over the censorship of books.
As a rule, one of the great libraries is the
offender. Mudie’s banned “Jude the
Obscure” a quarter of a century ago, and it
has been plitting equally innocuous works
on its index expur gatorius ever since. A
few weeks ago the British Home Office
ordered Jonathan Cape to withdraw Miss
Radclyffe Hall’s “The Well of Loneliness.”
The writer was naturally annoyed. “Must
there never be any new pastures for the
writer?” she inquired. “Never any new
aspects of social problems presented to the
adult and open-minded reader?”
The answer is in tire negative, so far as
England is concerned. Its outlook has a
partial resemblance to that of Rome, which
bans an enormous amount of modern litera-
ture—much of it harmless—but passes
•obscene classics of the pre-Christian era.
A book which deals with one of the for-
bidden topics is in danger in England dur-
ing its early years, but in later life it tends
to become respectabilised, however porno-
graphic. It is a variant on the legal prin-
ciple of longi temporis possessio, which
makes an appeal to every true conservative.
Hardy’s books, which shocked a generation
that had learned to maintain a stiff lip in
face of the improprieties of “Ouida ,” now
figure accessibly in every county squire’s
library, and modernists such as D. H.
Lawrence are gradually coming into the
open, having been purified by longevity.
The textbooks of Havelock Ellis and
Krafft-Ebing, which deal with the psycho-
logical abnormality presented in “The Well
of Loneliness,” used to be forbidden fruit
except to professional men, and there were
restrictions on the sale of works like Casa-
nova’s “Memoirs.” Nosv these books, and
others equally outspoken, may be seen on
salle in all the big London shops. It seems
to be only a question of time before Frank
Harris’s “Life" will make its appearance
in the Charing Cross-road.
The most rigid censorship in the world is
probably that exercised in the Irish Free
State. No Dublin shop stocks any work
liable to bring the blush of confusion to the
cheek of a mid-Victorian maiden aunt. The
new Censorship of Publications Bill, which
has' the. support of all sections m the Dail
and Senate, covers every type of book and
picture, as well as the press, which is for-
bidden to publish contraceptive or v.d.
advertisements. Judicial reports are also
to be censored by a board of five with the'
widest powers. It represents the will of
the people so far as can be judged.
When I was in Ireland recently the crowd
seized arid destroyed every copy they could
find of the London News of the World
(known in Dublin as the “Smut of the
World”), and, though President Cosgrave
protested in the Dail against such illegality,
he could not promise Lord Riddell, who
owns the paper, that similar demonstrations
would not occur again.
The reformers work on subtler lines in
the U.S.A. Accbrdirig to Hannen Swaffer,
of the London Express, the censorship in
many places is secret. In Boston, for
example, “there is an unofficial censorship
which makes booksellers’ assistants liable to
two years’ imprisonment for selling any
books to which exception is taken.” Some
of the banned volumes are Wells’s “Clis-
sold,” Gerhardi’s “Pretty Creatures” (but
not for some strange reason “The Poly-
glots”), Van Vechten’s “Nigger Heaven,”
and Dreiser’s “An American Tragedy.”
According to the Authors’ League Bul-
letin, the works are condemned anony-
mously: “No bookseller has ever produced
a complete list, but every bookseller knows
just what books are on it.”
Literature is censored in Australia in two
directions apart from Customs regulations
which exclude certain books and periodicals.
The big city bookshops, which are also
libraries as a rule, are reluctant to display
anything questionable; and reputation for
respectability is one of their chief assets.
The country is catered for mostly by
schools of arts. The so-called libraries of
these institutions arouse the scorn of
literature-lovers all over the Commonwealth.
A Bulletin reader wrote recently about
one of Queensland’s 221 Government-aided
schools of arts, and he claimed that it. was
representative. It had little or nothing by
the great masters of fiction, and no poetry,
drama or history. The shelves were packed
with ephemeral novels, most, of them Ameri-
can film-fiction. “It is common,” he
wrote, “for selection committees in Queens-
land to send £2O to a city bookseller with
a carte blanche order for new novels.” The
only stipulation is that none of them shall
be improper!
If a country gets the censorship it
deserves, then Australia’s sins must be
great. Everyone can understand a religious
censorship such as that of the Roman
Catholic Church. It is a disciplinary mea-
sure for those under ecclesiastical orders,
like the military order which forbade the
circulation of the London Nation in
Flanders in 1918. And there is nothing
really objectionable about England’s cen-
sorship methods, which are based on the
characteristically British theory that what
is wrong to-day may be right to-morrow.
America’s secret censorships are only
regional, and, anyhow, being against the
spirit of the race they are always liable to
disqualification, like the Ku Klux Klan,
But under our arrangement many good
books can never enter the Commonwealth
except amongst the luggage of a private
collector; and much of the best of the
world’s literature is withheld from those
who patronise schools of arts if only be-
cause, in the restricted space of a back-
blocks library, to include the works of
Shakspeare would be to leave no room for
those of Ethel Dell.
JOHN DALLEY.
“Strange Interlude”
The itch to be unlike the commercial
stage, to be daring and revolutionary, to
put on pieces that will make audiences sit
up, is supposed to be the prerogative of the
repertory movement in Australia. Actually,
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertisingthe basis of sound merchandising methods .
Anthony Horderns’
Sole Agents in N. S. Wales and Queensland for
ShanKs’s Lawn Mowers
The Machine for Efficiency and Service.
ê
ë
ē
ĕ
Shanks’s Triple Horse Mowers.
0 Weight, Bcwt.
A most reliable mower of complete construction.
By means of its three 30-inch machines, which
are coupled together, it can make a cut of 7ft.,
leaving a ./rail of smooth, velvety lawn in its
wake. Lexers by which all three machines can
be put in or out of action are fitted handy to
the driver. Price £2OO
Use Our “D.P.S.”
(Deposit-Purchase System).
This convenient modern shop-
ping method enables you to
secure your needs without the
inconvenience of a big outlay.
Simply leave a small deposit on
selection of your requirements,
and pay the balance in con-
venient instalments. When
payments are completed the
goods will be delivered in the
usual way. No interest charged.
ė
ę
ě
e
Anthony Horderns’ maintain a Lawn Mower Repair Department, fully equipped with all modern appliances
and a staff of expert men. Repairs of every kind promptly carried out at the smallest cost. Within the Suburban
area a carter will call for mower, and deliver same when finished without extra charge.
ORDERNS’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postat Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


1
fl
* *
v s r w
Often uwmdev what the
Vintners hit})
One half so precious
as the Goods
ikoy e^Q mZY J^hav^airn
m.t
k
A
ft
m
%
r
>
ii
m mm
4 «
C
\
?' • 11
\
\
a ■
S>s
m
mm
I
O'/
1
SI
»
231
In ".-
:#
I
1
■
m
$ *
tT«fc
J § I
■
* A 1• V
■P
Jgilf, m
?
p 4 ?
P
■
IM
e*
»
p
’/■
■i i
*WP*3tfM6*fc*W
OUR XMAS GREETINGS TO ALL
“At every stage of life’s high road
Good Luck and Pleasure meet you!


tn?:
-TV-vV'*
UALITY
FIN
O
iS\ o
No. 306—£25
.No. 301—£31/10/-
No. 302—£25
No. 308—£55
No. 300 —£20
No. 309—£30
No. 307—£65
No. 305—£40
No. 304—£25
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rinfcs illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring,
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND 6 €O.
DIAMOND-AND-PEARL'SPECIALISTS'-
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
gjfgggl
the people who supply the small local de
mand for intellectual drama are more care-
ful not to shock or puzzle their clientele
than are even the inestimable bulltr
brothers. A recent repertory sensation m
Melbourne was the first production ot
“Hindle Wakes,” a drama which, as tar as
I remember, caused a mild sensation m
England in 1911 or 1912, and has since been
easily forgotten. Judging by this examp y
of repertory enterprise, an Australian audi-
ence will sit down to a performance ot
Eugene O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude m
about 1949.
Strange Interlude (Boni and
Robertson and Mullens) is O’Neill s moso
compelling work to date. Strange it is m
technique, but that it will only prove an
interlude in the history of the drama I beg
leave to doubt. It is hard to believe that
an audience, once having savored the strong
meat of this dramatic tour de jorce, will evei
be able to sit down again with the old gusto
to a joint of Pirandello or a dessert of
Maeterlinck or Shaw.
There are only four people who matter
in “Strange Interlude” —a woman, pain-
fully neurotic; three lovers, each as neu-
rotic as the other. The woman sees her
man, an airman, off to the wars. He crashes
and is killed just before the Armistice.
In a passion of remorse at the malignancy
of Fate which has thus deprived her of her
lover’s kisses, she gives herself to one dis-
abled soldier after another. This mood
passes and she tries to assuage her body s
fever by a marriage with a perfectly normal
fellow. She learns that there have always
been madmen in the family, and takes steps
unsanctioned by law to avoid adding to
their number. The son she eventually pre-
sents to her husband in order to prevent
the disruption of their home is not his, but
he is sufficiently stupid never to be capable
of believing it. Between the claims of her
husband and of the father of her child she
tries to preserve the integrity of her spirit,
still wrapped up in the ideal of her unsullied
love for the dead airman. The husband dies
of an apoplectic seizure brought on by his
transports of parental pride in the athletic
triumphs of the boy he supposes to be his,
and the widow escapes from the. whirlpool
of her passions and delusions by marrying
an old friend afflicted with a mother-com-
plex. . .
The normal person will complain that
these are not normal people, but who ever
made a tragic drama out of normal people?
The same devastating charge could be
brought against “Hamlet,” “Macbeth,’
“King Lear” and “Coriolanus.” Where the
play differs from others whose creators
have endeavored to penetrate beneath the
surface of human conventionality of action
to human radicalness of motive is in the
extraordinary method of narration. Every
character —even the 11-year-old boy—
speaks with two voices. A piece of the sur-
face dialogue such as “I’ve got a job for
you, Charlie: make the salad dressing for
lunch. You know, the one I’m so crazy
about,” is succeeded or preceded by the
unbidden silent explosions of the speaker's
subconscious mind (but here actually
spoken):—
“These men make me sick!.... I hate all three
ot them!.... They disgust. me !.... The wife and
mistress in me has been killed by them !.... Thank
God, I am only a mother now!. ... Gordon is my
little man, my only man!”
How queer and incongruous this paral-
lelism may appear when acted it is im-
possible to judge. The average child-actor
would make a frightful hash of the part of
young Gordon, whose juvenile remarks are
strangely lighted by the subconscious out-
bursts of a furious CEdipus-complex. But
in the scrip the play is enormously effective,
and the fact that, put on in a New York
theatre, it proved a box-office attraction of
the first order, suggests that soon we will
have scores of hack dramatists rewriting
their bromides after the O’Neill model.
Written in the same vein, one can easily
imagine a farce comedy, for instance, being
screamingly funny.
M.G.S.
A Book of Stories
A notable tribute to the quality of Bul-
letin. short stories of the past year is con-
tained in The Best Short Stories of 1928,
English, edited by E. J. O’Brien (Cape;
Roy croft Library, Sydney). For the first
time Australia is represented in this annual
collection of short stories: the story is Mar-
garet Fane and Hilary Lofting’s “Poultry,
2/6,” from the 1927 Christmas number of
The Bulletin. In addition, the editor
selects for special commendation six other
Bulletin stories, which, in his opinion,
possess “the distinction of uniting genuine
substance and artistic form in a closely-
woven pattern with such sincerity that they
are worthy of being reprinted.” Those
stories are Arthur H. Adams’s “Affair of the
Lutai Forts (B. 8/2/’2B) and “Rendezvous”
(B. 12/l/’28); Charles S. Gilmour’s “lodine”
(B. 10/12/’27), and Steele Rudd’s “Dramatic
Evening” (B. 25/l/’2B), “Letter Under the
Mirror” (B. 21/3/’2B) and “School Treat”
(B. 11/4/’2B). The Bulletin takes suf-
ficient pride in the quality of the stories it
publishes to feel justified in acknowledging
the even greater compliment that it is the
only Australian publication mentioned.
“A year which produced one great story
would be an exceptional one,’” says Mr.
O’Brien. That stories have sufficient quality
to merit republication is the test to which he
subjects them. That test is surely severe
enough; and probably it is the only possible
one, for only, a fool would be positive of any
contemporary story’s real greatness. What a
process it is, that selecting of the really great!
Every week the world over thousands and
thousands of stories are published. Every
week thousands and thousands are read and
forgotten, and are no more. A comparative
few, though still enough to tally up to thou-
sands in a year, get into books; they are read,
and mostly they, too, are forgotten. Some
survive into the next year, a few into the
next decade, fewer still for twenty years, or
thirty, or forty. So the sifting goes on, till
the millions of a decade or more may go
utterly out of existence. Yet the writers
.keep at it; and the true artists among them
keep at it because, consciously or uncon-
sciously, they have half an eye cocked at
Posterity. Some manage never to lose sight
of the ideal, and in time become great, or
at least famous; others keep on, and become
good hacks; others again give up altogether,
or perhaps from their shattered hopes
springs up another sort of idealist—-the con-
scientious critic. It is an industrious and
hopeful old world.
Mr. O’Brien is of the number of hopeful
critics. That he is industrious, also, anyone
with a taste for statistics can prove for him-
self. For instance, he here commends as
having more than ordinary quality no fewer
than 263 short stories by 154 authors. Omit-
ting Sundays, when, let us hope, he gets
some of the rest he deserves; also bank
holidays, Good Fridays and days when his
old wounds are troubling him, he reads at
least one good story every day. The statis-
tician may now go ahead, set himself an
average of good to merely ordinary stories
and work out just how many he does read
every day. Then he might carelessly double
the figures, for Mr. O’Brien is also impli-
cated in the publication of an even fatter
annual volume containing selected Ameri-
can stories. Perhaps, like Mr. Punch, he
keeps a staff of learned clerks. However he
does it, he does it well, working upon the
following admirable lines: —
I have set myself the task of disengaging the
essential human qualities in our contemporary Action
which, when chronicled conscientiously by our literary
artists, may fairly be called a criticism of life. I
am not at all interested in formula, and organised
criticism at its best would be nothing more than
dead criticism, as all dogmatic interpretation of life
is always dead. What has interested me, to the
exclusion of other things, is the fresh, living current
which flows through the best British, Irish and
Colonial work, and the psychological and imaginative
reality which writers have conferred upon it. No
substance is of importance in fiction unless it is
organic substance; that is to say, substance in
which the pulse of life is beating.... The true
artist will seek to shape his living substance into
the most beautiful and satisfying form, by skilful
selection and arrangement of his materials, and by
the most direct and appealing presentation of it in
portrayal and characterisation.
In other words, the writing of a short story,
of a novel, of any sort of literature, is an
art. It is a curious fact that, while it is
universally recognised that a landscape
painter has to study his art in the beginning
and throughout life, no such preparation
and application is considered necessary by
nine out of ten mortals who commence
authorship. Life, of course, is the fundamen-
tal thing which the artist must study, but
the use of his materials has its own import-
ance. And where can he learn this but from
the masters of his art? It is not suggested
that he should learn to imitate them, but to
avoid doing so, and at the same time learn
how and why they succeed. There are scores
of technical books on short-story and novel
writing; there are correspondence classes,
and even wireless talks, and, though from
any one of these the novice might pick up
hints that he would stagger about blindly
looking for for years, it is undoubtedly from
the great writers of the sort of fiction he
himself wishes to write that he will gather
the verities.
Apart altogether from being useful to the
reader who wishes to write, the collection
of stories under review serves equally well
what, after all, is its direct purpose—the
entertainment of readers in general. It
includes stories by such writers as Arnold
Bennett, Ernest Bramah, A. E. Coppard
and other masters of the art, and, though
some examples are not as satisfactory as
might be wished, the general quality is high
indeed. But somebody ought to whisper in
the ear of Jonathan Cape that, aesthetically,
his washy-blue and skimmed-milk white
binding is an abomination before the Lord.
A Satchel of Books
Bad Girl, by Villa Delmar (Philip Allan;
Robertson and Mullens). Dot, a New York
stenographer, and Eddie, a mechanic, meet
on an excursion steamer. They coalesce as
inevitably as two raindrops on a telegraph
wire and marry in a casual sort of way.
The expected baby is not wanted by Eddie,
and Dot obediently visits the operator. How-
ever, her nerve fails her, and she joins the
ranks of happy mothers. For those who need
realism in their literature as well as in their
daily lives, here it is, and remarkably well
done.
Saki’s Bowl, by Robert Blatchford (Hod-
der and Stoughton; Dymock’s). In these
various essays the pen of the author of
“Merrie England” is as quick, and his per-
sonality is as glowing, as ever. If anything,
he improves, for the bitterness of his fighting
days has given place to a fine meekness, in
the old sense of that word. His essays, even
his sentences, are rich in thought and friend-
liness, and can anything more than that be
fairly asked of an essayist? Reading his
book is like having a night out with one’s
pleasantest memories.
Gift Books. Three fine additions to Thi
Bulletin list of gift books for children—
“ Tatters,” by Isabel M. Peacocke; “Golden
Fiddles,” by Mary Grant Bruce; and “,ludy
and Punch,” by Ethel Turner— have been
received from Ward Lock.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
A.D.: Verses read as if you had kicked
them together with your feet.. . . H.H.: All so true
that it’s not worth saying. .. .C.S.S. : String of anec-
dotes failed to tie up cheque.... Meridian: Go ahead
—write about Australia’s upper-erusters, if you can.
... . A.S.H.: Have too much white courtship, let
alone black R.1.G.: The girl doesn’t seem real
J.A.H.: Good situation, but you haven’t made it
credible —that business card, for instance Ben G.:
Not well enough done. .. .Theter: Get down off those
stilts and make your people talk like human beings.
C.H.S.: Afraid you’ll have to address the ques-
tion to Hazel personally... .C. A. T.: The wooing of
the squatter’s daughter: —-
I worked hard for a squatter chap,
And was often busy
At doing many fancy jobs
For his daughter Lizzie.
I’d saved enough to buy a ring,
So I got a notion
To ask her father if lie would
Put my scheme in motion.
“You crawling wretch,” he answered,
“I’ve half a mind to paste yer.
My daughter’s far too good for you.
Get off the run, you waster.”
. ...R.0.W.: Someone jumped in ahead of you'....
J.E.: Just so; but the other writer said all that. .. .
J.M.S.: Only room in the ring for the two who
started the brawl K.F.: Sorry ; they already find
good homes J.H.: No room for it.... Valentine:
Not our sort Sunny Hill: You’ll have to leave it
to them....lv.S.; A long way from what we seek.
Q. : Should be a market somewhere for it
H.S.: Not quite J.T.: Can’t carry the baby
R. : Acceptance also a dream; but idea ingenious.
Glamis: No use for city-made abos... .C.M.K.:
Too sketchy C.A.M.: Try it on Parliament
C.A.G.G.: You have a lot to learn about grammar,
composition and construction. Stamps not enclosed for
return R.T.: Can swallow most things, but not
your hypnosis-producing liquid. ..-W.T.C.: A wash-
cut Wade R.: Good for a first attempt, but not
convincing. .. .E.W.C.; No.. . .A.S.: Well told, but
a rather worn theme... .H.A.: Too thick. .. .D.W.K.:
Can’t interest sporting editor in your epitaph on a
horse W.K.: Considered and destroyed L.R.W. :
Two horrors returned promptly. .. .R.C.: You will
have to glean elsewhere H.8.L.: We’ve read
much worse.... C.N.: —
But bushmen now from place to place
Pass on so rapidly,
They heed not signs, nor see the things
Their fathers used to see.
Quite right—poor rum... .P.J.: Mulga card awarded
for “The breath that found a rose’s wonder seems
like that of a tired o*” T.F.: “The Bush” felled.
J.A.L.: Correct verse, but sadly uninspired and
archaic 8.C.: You mightn’t have deserved to go
to gaol before you wrote that verse about it; you
do n0w.... Reedbed: Has a swing with it, but
that’s all Blackboy: That fits you, too 8.A.:
Enclosed envelope doing its job... .P.R.: No bid
for “The Old Bullock Dray” J.F.M.: Funny as a
funeral.... A. S.: “It is naught, it is naught,” saith
the critic. . ..A.8.C.: Nearly M.S.: Sentiment
good ; verse otherwise. .. .N.C.A.: “You” and thee
won’t mix; but verse weak, anyway.-.. .T.W.: No
room for anything that isn’t original.. . .1.M.E.: This
is the time for goodwill to all men, so we’ll only
say it’s frightful F.A.: Passable prose idea slaugh-
tered in bad verse N.G.C.: You play a very shrill
tune W.J.T.H.: Spirit will have to go on wan-
dering J.D.: “The Bride” returned to her pa....
J.C.: Only chivalry prevents us from calling them
terrible... .Paspalum : Seedy... .H.R.: You write like
one expired... .P.J.1.: “Sunshine” is cheap....
J.F.E.: “When knights were bold” too often told. .. .
8.M.; “This pitiful yelp.” All right; we won’t
argue Z.Y.W.: An idea, but we don’t fancy the
treatment. .. .F.T.R.: Add one more to the editors
who do not approve of your work.. .. J.A.: Would
advise you to take a good tonic or a good comic....
L.H.P.: You have nothing to say, and say it....
E.L.: Read advice on choosing wife to son person-
ally. Too late to save us W. 8.: It didn’t click,
but try again S.E.A.: Nothing in it Gambo:
Yes, Loekyer was the first; he landed at King
George’s Sound on Christmas Day, 1826. Fremantle
hoisted the British flag at the mouth of the Swan
River on May 2, 1829 ; Stirling arrived as Lieut.-
Gov. on June 2 Surryills: A fragment of your
cricket ode: —
I think with Joey Darling
There isn’t any points
In picking tired old codgers
What’s rigid in the joints.
We’ve got young blokes like Nothlingf
And Alby Jackson —stacks.
A’Beckett, Morgan, Jordan
Can bend their blooming backs.
....Comp: Adult male suffrage arrived in N.S.W.
in 1858, one elector one vote in 1894 and adult
female suffrage in 1904.... S. Bris.: No, the London
County Council tramways don’t pay. In 1926-27
the loss was £275,000 E.F.M.: The Bulletin
pays for everything it prints, but an effusion beginning
“The sea was calm and the beach was destitute of
persons except for myself” is only likely to reach
the w.p.b.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Moates: Interesting theme; drawing not good
enough R.S. : Capital joke; pity you were antici-
pated in the last century C.W.: You scratch Pain-
fully and jest heavily P.P.: Getting nearer
A.T.D.; Sketch on a par with the spelling in the
covering letter... .G.C.: Burnt, like the boarding-
house blanket you mention... .J.H.R.: Too many
false starts in your penwork... . N. 8.: Juvenile
drawing; aged joke C.H.W.; Your cricketing ’roo
bowled first ball P.A.N.G.: Gag too gory
D.L.: Coarse. .. .W'.A.T.: Afraid your pencil won’t
earn you a living yet awhile. .. .V. 8.: Politician or
hairy ape?... .A.N.W.: All four miss.


9
■pgam
mm ■
am
■I
111
1111
■
ill Si
L, j
mm
jp» ''■
•
111 l
1
■iSiw
i
r ■
m
:
i
K
▲
■
■
iiii
.■
• '<%■■■■'
: 1
.
k
’T!?S
/z


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2549.
December 19, 1928.
BRINGING IN THE YULE LOG.
“A correspondent, who deplores the decadence of the generation, suggests a movement to establish in Australia the customs of an English Christmas.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street,
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.J
5 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji; 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4°z. to 10oz., lid. :
each additional 4oz„ Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
“Bringing in the Yule Log”
—A cartoon by Percival .. 7
EDITORIAL .. .. .. _ gg
“Life in 1928”
—A drawing by Scorfi'l '. . .. .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricat . . . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) XI x?
PERSONAL ’■ ’
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . IY, x 6
Queensland Insurance .. .. 14
Henry Jones Co-op. .. .'. .. 14
Amalgamated Textiles .. .. ..14
Gordon & Gotch .. .. 14
“The Economic Commission”
—A cartoon by Scorfleld.. .. .17
POVERTY POINT ; .'.17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19, 20
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT .. . 9 8
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
Prizes for Farmers .. .. ..22
SMOKE-OH ..... 28
“BRACKEN” .'.'3o, 49, 50
PEN AND PICTURE 33
New Movies 33
Sporting (illustrated) ..35, 37, 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 40
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
COMPLETE STORY—
“The New Recruit”
—By Alys Brown.. .. .. .. 44, 47
VERSE 47, 50
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1928.
A PEACE CONFERENCE.
Commissions and conferences grow up in
profusion under the present Federal Gov-
ernment, and it seems never so happy as
when it is incubating a new one, though it
occasionally finds a fearful joy in redistri-
buting a portfolio or two. It might not be
wholly responsible for the Industrial Peace
gathering which lately met and swapped
platitudes in Melbourne, and then adjourned
to meet later on for the same purpose in
Sydney, and which thinks of sending a
delegation to England to collect platitudes
there, but it was certainly present in spirit.
And part of its British Economic Mission,
or Big Four, was present in the flesh, thus
showing how one Commission or Conference
may help another. The proceedings, though
they, didn’t proceed much, were polite
almost to the extent of oiliness, but a dis-
turbing voice came from outside, “Jock”
Garden’s Labor Council sending instruc-
tions that nothing should be done until all
the new waterside workers who got industry
moving again when the stoppage engineered
by the old gang threatened to be eternal
are permanently victimised. His institution
also made other demands, and the difficulty
will probably develop till all unionists who
have taken a hand in the peace negotiations
are declared black.
* * * *
During a brief and uneventful session
James McDougall, leader of the employers’
representatives, made some cheerful
remarks about the desirability of manu-
facturing for export. If this country first
learned to make its own hanky in its own
factory out of its own flax or cotton,
and to blow its self-made horn on its
home-made motor-car, it would be more like
beginning at the right end. For his part,
W. J. Duggan, president of the Australasian
Council of Trades Unions and of the Vic-
torian Labor Party, said that they were
now “going to face the problems,” and
tabled this list of “subjects which must be
considered in relation to the attainment of
permanent peace in industry”:—
(1) The status and recognition of unions
and unionists in this country.
(2) Establishment of a maximum working
week.
(3) Establishment of a system of unem-
ployment insurance.
(4) Publication of the facts of industry
and statistics relating thereto.
(5) Workers’ participation in the manage-
ment of industry.
(6) Establishment of a scheme of child
endowment.
(7) Workers to enjoy a greater share in
the country’s wealth.
(8) Establishment of machinery to deal
with industrial disputes as they arise.
(9) Consideration of the repeal of any
industrial legislation which is a contributing
factor to industrial unrest.
(10) Position of women and children in
industry.
(11) Maintenance .and preservation of
standards in industry.
This is all as stereotyped as it is unsatis-
factory. No. 2 plainly means less work, for
no one imagines that an increase of work-
ing hours is intended; and No. 7 certainly
implies more pay. Nos. 3 and 6 involve
the finding of money for humanitarian pur-
poses whether it is available or not, and
there are a fair number of other humani-
tarian schemes which are absorbent of
money in .the same way. And No. 5 is
a proposition that employees shall have a
considerable share in the control of industry
without any direct interest in the success
of industry, partnership or profit-sharing
ideas being anathema as disturbing to the
even tenor of wage-slavery. On the other
hand, the employers’ delegates submitted a
list of subjects ranging from “a” to “j,”
most of them indefinite and nowhere getting
at grips with the facts.
* * * *
There is always a chance that the workers
would get, and doubtless enjoy, “a greater
share in the country’s wealth” if the country
had more wealth to share—not just largely
artificial land values and that sort of thing,
but fluid assets. They might get the big
share automatically and without all the
habitual fuss if it was there, and they might
get other benefits with a minimum of fuss
also. But no one can get more than there
is, and nothing whatever is gained or can
be gained by insensate blow about the
industry of a community which habitually
buys abroad millions’ worth more than it
sends abroad in payment (over £30,000,000
worth more in a year sometimes), and thus
keeps its own factories and its own people
short of work. If it won’t work cheaply
enough to command its own market, won’t
do without the goods, and fails to supply
itself with a tariff which will meet the case,
difficulties are inevitable. Australia has no
mass of savings invested abroad. It has
no fleets manned by Australian seamen job-
bing about the seven seas and bringing home
the cash of foreign nations for services
rendered. When it sends out a record cargo
of wool it pays £25,000 or so in freight to
some British or German or Dutch or Belgian
owner to do the haulage. In 1926-27 there
were 47 items of agricultural produce men-
tioned in the Commonwealth’s trading re-
turns, and as regards 31 of these the
Commonwealth was more of an importer
than an exporter. Portable wealth doesn’t
accumulate and become a drug and a
nuisance, because the gold output is sent
abroad towards meeting external liabilities
(goods and interest), and as a mere
£2,200,000 or so per annum doesn’t go far
when the amount to be paid is ten or more
times that sum, a new loan is always help-
ful. If some scribe propounded a fable
about an animal which fasted to skin and
bone in the midst of opportunity because
the wage it had to pay itself for the use
of its own teeth and stomach was beyond
its means, and, besides, its union didn’t
permit it to eat after hours, that might
help to illustrate the case in a collective
way. A conference or some such body
might approach the question, with the pos-
sible assistance of Treasurer Page, not only
from the point of the inequitable distribu-
tion of wealth but on the theory that the
amount of real wealth to be distributed may
be much over-estimated, and it is neces-
sary to think out a way of creating a
great deal more.
FEDERAL AID FOR GERRYMANDER.
Dr. Nott won Herbert (Q.) by a couple of
hundred votes in 1925 and lost it by about
the same number last month. Friends attri-
bute his defeat to the State Labor Govern-
ment’s zeal for sending road-workers, all
Labor-unionists, into his electorate to con-
tinue man’s conquests over nature; and they
may be right. These matters can be
arranged. State Labor Governments don’t
even need to spend their own funds in in-
dulging their passion for progress since the
Bruce-Pages started distributing £2,000,000
p.a. among the States for “Federal-aid”
roads in State territory, while neglecting
their own Northern Territory and cutting
down the Army vote to £1,500,000.
* * * *
It was remarked in Goulburn just before
the last N. S. Wales election that bands of
sturdy fellows, equipped with Government
tents and electoral transfer forms, had
arrived in the district to toil on the roads.
Goulburn was a doubtful Labor electorate,
and it was held. There was a similar in-
vasion in the doubtful Westralian Labor
electorate of Greenough when the Collier
Government, with 27 votes in a House of
50, was preparing to go to the country; and
Greenough was also held. A Select Com-
mittee of the Westralian Leg. Council has
collected some racy evidence about this
particular triumph of the Federal-aid prin-
ciple :
“R. A. Williams, sometime chairman of
the Northampton Roads Board, said that on
January 4, 1927, the day before the
State rolls closed, the secretary rang up to
say that a Main Roads Board engineer had
been inquiring where Ajana was, as he had
a hundred men on the train ready to go.
The Northampton board had not been con-
sulted about the work, and it was absolutely
the wrong time of the year to do it: further,
the men came practically unprovided, and
the engineer had to make hurried arrange-
ments for provisions, etc., and buy discarded
tools from the local board for £5 10s. It
was obviously a political move. The men
were sent up over the privately-owned Mid-
land railway; had they come by the Govern-
ment line they would not have been in
time to be put on the rolls.
“F. A. Porter, farmer and member of the
Northampton board, said that the job could
have been done for less than half the £BOOO
spent if it had been done in the winter. He
saw the men arrive ; they were mostly boozed,
and they used to joke about being fired up
there to get on the rolls before the closing
date.”
The standard of civilisation was also
planted some furlongs further into chaos in
another part of the electorate:—
“C. L. Duncan, chairman of the Green-
ough Roads Board, said liis board had re-
ceived no notification that work was to be
started until the workmen arrived. It could
have done the thing for about £4O a chain ;
the actual cost was about £75.
“According to J. M. Maley, the board sec-
retary, the estimate for the construction of
three miles was £7000; the actual cost was
£16,134.”
Nearly £5400 a mile for an ordinary
countiy road! The average capital cost of
the 3577 miles of Government railway open
for traffic is only £5565 a mile.
* * * *
W. C. Hill, then Federal Minister of
Works, was apprised of these splendid jokes
by Westralian Federal members, and be-
coming mildly annoyed he said there would
be no Federal money for them, if he could
help it, or for any other road works started
without his sanction. But his antioyance
did not last long, and the jokers and their
friends never feared that he would cut off
supplies. W. G. Gibson is now Minister
of Works, and the humorous gentry may
find him less confiding. It is glaringly
obvious, however, that the Bruce-Pages
should never have gone into the Federal-aid
road business, which, among its other de-
moralising results, has involved them in a
deficit; and the sooner they get out of it,
if they can do so without dishonor, the
better.
THE TYRANNY IN ITALY.
In Italy democracy has virtually ceased to
exist. Its decease is not a matter for great
wonder, for it has never been, one now feels,
more than a forced and exotic growth in the
land. The Roman example of the dictator-
ship imposes itself upon the political con-
sciousness and mind of this amalgam of
races. There is, however, a difference—the
Roman dictatorship was conferred, as a
rule, for a limited period, and was subject
to frequent revision by the people. In
modern Italy it has been conferred for
life, or at the will of the king. II primo
ministro is removable only by an edict of
the monarch. One wonders whether the
dynasty of Savoy will have the strength
to survive that Fascism upon which it now
leans, and with which its lot seems to be
bound up.
The restoration of order and discipline
in a community which threatened to fall to
pieces like a rotten fish is the acknowledged
work of Mussolini and his Fascismo organi-
sation. Instead of a tyranny which would
have been imposed from below there has
been fastened upon the people the stern
rule of an ex-socialist dictator and of a
new military caste which is his creation.
The policy of Fascismo is not without
very serious import for the British Empire
and the peace of the world. The new Italy
of ordered effort, of strict organisation,
and of assertive, aggressive nationalism may
provoke an outbreak, arising from a bitter
sense that she has received no adequate
share of the spoil as a recompense for her
sacrifices and sufferings during the Great
War, and has no colonies whither her sur-
plus population may emigrate to relieve the
pressure upon the limited national resources.
Since 1924 certain remarkable changes
have taken place in Italy. A free press no
longer exists. Every journal is a Govern-
ment organ. There is no dissentient voice
in the frog-like chorus of approbation of the
Fascist rule. In all public places and
restaurants the subject of politics is
eschewed. There is everywhere an atmo-
sphere of mistrust and suspicion such as
exists wherever and whenever secret police
and espionage have become instruments of
maintaining the power of a ruling caste or
autocrat.
There are some souls of a low spiritual
order to whom political power means end-
less opportunities of self-enrichment. To
these Mussolini does not belong. His pri-
vate life remains as simple as that of the
ancient Cato. Amongst his immediate en-
tourage, however, are men who have be-
come wealthy since 1919. There are men
who lust merely for power and its reten-
tion. It cannot be said with absolute truth
that Mussolini is even of the number of
these. The motives which actuate him are
those of a flamboyant patriot, with the
dramatic temperament natural to a country-
man of D’Annunzio, combined with the
practical genius of a great creative mind.
The directors of Fascism understand the
importance of intensive propaganda amongst
the young. The tenets of the creed have
become an integral part of the curriculum
in all schools and universities. It is as
if either the Nationalist or the Labor party
in Australia seized the opportunity to flood
all our educational institutions with its
doctrines and credos, and to compel all
teachers to impart them to their pupils.
Commerce, industry, literature and art are
being revivified and combined into one great
national force for the - restoration of Italy
to her place as mistress of the Mediter-
ranean. Under the new rules of Mussolini’s
practical policy Italians are to be kept in
Italy, emigration is to be controlled and
discouraged, so that the man-power of the
countiy may become a mighty explosive
force in the politics of Europe.
Italy’s jealousy and suspicion are directed
mainly against France and then against
England, whom she finds on all the seas
and in all climes where her surplus popula-
tion would migrate. There is a tension of
ill-feeling against her Latin sister due to the
fact that France is a refuge for the Italian
malcontents. Then Italy covets Tunisia,
whose inhabitants are 50 per cent. Italian.
She also feels that France is the malevolent
supporter of her enemies in Yugo-Slavia
and Greece, whom Italia regards as small,
semi-civilised powers standing in the way
of Italian expansion in the Mediterranean.
These were the springs of the recent bitter
outbursts in the Fascist press against the
tentative naval agreement between France
and Great Britain.
The Parliamentary constitution of Italy
to-day is a shell without a soul. The free
choice of a deputy is not left to any party
organisation. The choice is made by the
grand council of Fascismo dominated by
the formidable shadow of II Duce. Turati
is the general secretary of II Gran Con-
siglio, a man whose zeal for the present
regime is the expression of his ambition to
be recognised as Benito’s potential successor.
But there are other aspirants, amongst
whom looms the figure of the great journa-
list Farinacci.
Rome, October.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Will-o’-the-Wisp Finance.
December 17 was an important day in
N. S. Wales. The first sod of the Wyangala
dam was turned—the first loan job under-
taken in the State with money advanced by
the British Government under the migra-
tion agreement.
It is reckoned that the dam and a rail-
way from Hillston to Roto, which is in-
cluded in the project, will cost £2,000,000,
and will make a million acres available.
The work is to lead in -the end to the
settlement of 700 families at £3OOO per
family, allowing a very inconsiderable trifle
for excess of expenditure over the estimate.
But in consideration of getting the money
at reduced interest for a while, the State
is to receive from Britain direct and “satis-
factorily settle” 26,666 immigrants, and that
is one for each £75 of loan. If this means
5000 families it is quite obvious that an-
other dam or two and some more railway
will be necessary to accommodate them,
and the money to build these things wili
be outside the cheap-loan privilege.
In a cheery mood the S. M. Heraed gave
the great dam scheme a send-off: “It was
stated yesterday that it was probable the
sale of the land alone would more than
meet the expenditure on the scheme.” The
alleged remark shows every sign of having
been made at a banquet. If the land can
be sold for sovereigns, cash, down, and the
specie is shipped to England and used to
repay debt equal to the amount borrowed
for damming the Lachlan and the other
expenses, the Herald’s bright idea is
feasible, but not otherwise. If the big
daily will count how much gold coin is
passed over its counter among the day’s
takings, it can size up the chances.
The Bruce -Page £34,000,000 cheap-loan
scheme is one of the outstanding duds of
this generation.
♦
One Free Shot at the Law.
In a recent Victorian case in which four
young men were convicted of stealing wool
to the value of £4O, the presiding Judge took
occasion to comment on the practice of
releasing offenders on a bond to be of
good behavior. Said his Honor McArthur:
“I do not often release persons on a bond
to be of good behavior, as it is apt to
induce young men who are a little weak and
inclined to do wrong to commit offences.
They hope to be let out on a bond if they
happen to be caught. To use the expression
often used, they say T will give this a fly.
I may not be caught. If I am caught I
will be let out as a first offender.’ ”
It is unfortunately true; the freedom
with which Judges and magistrates have
in recent years used the first-offenders pro-
visions has had the effect of producing a
wide-spread impression that every criminal,
however gross his offence, should be given
one free shot at the law. In a N. S. Wales
case of criminal assault on a woman, the
man on conviction was, under the law of
that State, sentenced to death; yet the
principal witness afterwards said she thought
nothing worse would happen to the prisoner
than his release on a bond, so accustomed
has the public mind become to this “one
free shot” doctrine. That an impression
should be found in the public mind that
an offence is to be judged, not on its magni-
tude, but on the fact that it has been a
first one or otherwise, shows how far this
pernicious influence has extended.
Justice McArthur may state his own
practice in administering the law, but it is
not binding upon his fellow Judges, and
there need be no hesitation in saying that
through this loophole thqre has been, for
years past, an increasing leniency towards
crime which has so fostered its growth that
to-day we are face to face with a menace
that calls aloud for drastic remedy.


The Political Pot in Queensland.
With the Federal election hash cooked and
off the fire, the State pot should now be
engaging attention in Queensland. To some
extent it is. Labor, always with an eye
cocked to the main chance, has things well
ahead. The Opposition, moribund as usual,
seems to be waiting upon events; when it
should be attacking enthusiastically it is
waiting indolently by for policy speeches,
or something equally futile.
So far as the Labor party is concerned,
it has its candidates selected, which is an-
other way of saying that the old gang will
take the field again, with its sins heavy
upon it. Therein lies the opportunity of the
Opposition; and in anticipation of the battle
of the ballots, which is due early in the
New Year, it should be skirmishing all
along the fighting front. What can be done
has been demonstrated by Grosvenor
Francis, the elect of Kennedy. By the
methods that he used to hack huge hunks
of votes from the enemy in the Kennedy,
huge hunks of votes can be hacked from
the unequally distributed and gerryman-
dered block that maintains Bill McCor-
mack in unhallowed office.
Of course there are difficulties to be over-
come; three in particular—organisation,
money and men. The worst curse that
seems to have descended uoon the party is
its apparent inability to attract to its
standards a type of man with an appeal.
Individually and collectively it needs a
bit of that uplift which the hot-gospellers
talk about. Part of the process should be
the rooting out of the nondescripts who now
occupy safe seats to the exclusion of abler
men, and the inducement of a better type
generally to help in
the great work of sav-
ing the State.
But the reform of
the party will not be
achieved - till it exe-
cutes a species of poli-
tical hara-kiri that is
dreadfully overdue.
The existing organisa-
tion must be radically
altered. Only thus
will the party be able
to attract again the
fi n a n ci a 1 assistance
upon which it could
at one time rely.
People will not toss in
their cheques to see
them frittered away
by a paltering and in-
ept organisation to
support a party com-
posed in the main of
amiable nonentities.
Meanwhile the party
should be hitting out.
If it hasn’t got men
within Parliament
capable of sustaining
a protracted campaign
effectively, then it
should seek them out-
side. They are to be
had. That they are
not sought is one
reason why people
are more concerned
now about cricket
than public affairs.
But, frankly, Queens-
land cannot afford to
have public affairs
crowded out of the
picture. It is already
paying a heavy price
for past neglect. Its
capital, which, because
of the magnificent
wealth of the State,
should be abounding
in prosperity, is to-
day the poorest com-
mercial centre among
the mainland capitals of Australia; and its
manufacturing industries are for the most
part already bled white. If such things
can be in the days when the great loans
are being spent, what shall they be in the
days when the great loans have to be
’epaid?
Sham Economies.
The struggle for reform in the N. S. Wales
finances may be well meant, but in fact is
almost wholly a matter of book-entry and
make-believe. A sample operation was the
recent “funding” of the accumulated deficit;
this only meant in plain words that it was
added to the public debt. In brutal terms,
we didn’t raise quite enough to pay for our
own policeman, so we pass the bill for
yesterday’s John Hop on to to-morrow’s
citizen.
Another item of reform is that the rail-
ways are to be granted up to £BOO,OOO a year
to cover losses on “developmental” lines
which haven’t yet begun to pay. One
ancient sample of the tribe, has been trying
to begin to pay for over 60 years. The loss
on this and 48 other lines last year was
£1,553,626, and the amount had to be met
whether Bd. or any other amount was speci-
fically granted or not. The grant is, in
effect, so much window-dressing, leaving the
State not one farthing better off.
They are the sort of reforms one might
expect from an ex-Treasury official like the
Premier’s offsider Stevens.
♦
Missioners of Decentralisation.
R. Watson Pome, of the Mersey Docks and
Harbor Board, is in Australia appealing for
direct shipments of Commonwealth goods
to Liverpool. He points out that “large
sums are spent annually in railing Aus-
tralian produce from London to Liverpool
for redistribution,” and tha’t “direct ship-
ments to the Midlands port would save
much damage, through excessive handling,
to butter, cheese, meat and fruit.”
The voice is, of course, a Liverpudlian’s
but the hands are those of a patriotic Bri-
ton. It is as important for J. Bull, if the
long view is taken, that his colossal capital
should be protected from its selfish ten-
dency to bloat itself at the expense of rival
ports as it is for the Commonwealth that
Australian goods should be marketed under
favorable conditions.
After the general strike a great American
paper published an article on London which
contained some shrewd observations. “It
has poisoned England, and ruined English
stamina, degraded it until the hopeless
thousands have no spunk for a new try at
life on a frontier, but prefer to starve on
the dole.” These angry charges are largely
supported by Professor Richardson, of
London University College. “London,” he
wrote recently, “lias become an industrial
whirlpool which threatens to engulf the
vigor and vitality of the whole of Eng-
land.”
Because overseas shippers have got into
the habit “of categorising English ports as
‘London’ and ‘the outports’” London is
attracting more and more manufacturers
from every part of the U.K., from the Con-
tinent, and even from America. The amal-
gamation and centralisation of the banks
is having a similar effect on trade and com-
merce, and the public hears little or no-
LIFE IN 1928.
THE OLD MAN: “Well, young people, only another week or so of 1928 to run. Now, what can Ido for you in that time?"
THE YOUNG ONES: “Ooh, we can get all we want on t.-p., thanks; but you might send us good weather for the Third
Test. And close the door, old c hap, as you go out.”
thing on the subject, for control of most of i
Britain’s popular newspapers is now vested :
in a handful of men whose interests are
chiefly in London—Lord Rothermere, Lord
Beaverbrook and the Berry group. The :
great London factories which used to be
chiefly in the East End are moving west
to the embarrassment of “the City”—already
clogged with vast institutions like Smith-
field Markets, which should be on the other
side of the Thames. On top of it all Lon-
don is the centre of an elaborate court
and social life, and of all the functions of
a governmental system which girdles the
earth. Each new luxury and fashion is dis-
played in this area of a few square miles,
and in it is decided every event of import-
ance from overseas lawsuits to the fate
of a play, and from great financial deals
to every kind of sporting event. Its streets
are congested to bursting-point, and, as in
the case of Sydney and Melbourne, the
concentration is on one side of a water-
way.
Like Australia’s biggest cities, London
sees relief for some of its traffic problems
ahead (e.g., the projected 12-million-pound
Charing Cross scheme); but at the best
such relief can only be partial. The Lon-
don professor quoted above considers that
the London of the future will “carry the
seeds of its own destruction. Probably its
population would succumb to a terrible
epidemic caused by a breakdown in the
over-burdened drainage system.”
And not the least disturbing feature of
the situation is that missioners of decen-
tralisation rarely emanate from the afflicted
areas. Like drug addicts, the great
human wens do not realise their own
danger.
Rural Schools and Rural Conditions.
“Country Ped”: The lure of the big city
has been ascribed to many causes, but the
writer of “Rural Schools and Rural Con-
ditions” (B. 5/12/’2B) finds a new one when
he infers that the country child is given a
bias towards the city because the education
offered him is too good. He should work
on the farm one day (says the writer) and
go to school the next, as they do in Den-
mark, while the city child can attend school
every day.
The primary curriculum in Australia pro-
vides a broad base on which to build up
any specialised educational structure after-
wards. And why should the idea persist
that every farmer’s son should by rights
become a farmer? One might as well 'say
that all sons of doctors must become
doctors. In Denmark there is practically
no other outlet for a man’s energies than
work on the land.
It is useless for the purpose of argument
to drag in little Denmark, with its bleak,
six-months winter and its tiny farms of
five and ten acres, and say that because it
appears that its system of education has
prevented the drift to its city our rural-
school system must be wrong because it
hasn’t prevented the drift. The only coun-
try we can adequately compare with Aus-
tralia is the United States, and there the
people are resolutely trying to overcome the
half-time business in their rural schopls.
In many go-ahead States the education
authorities have closed all the little, waste-
ful, half-time rural schools and built
modern “consolidated” schools, which pro-
vide for both primary and secondary edu-
cation. All observers point to the gratifying
results achieved by consolidation.
We should do the same (varying the type,
of course, to our conditions), for it is
not by narrowing the means and type of
education, but by widening the scope and
opportunities for country boys and girls,
that we are going to keep people on the
land.
+
Bringing Disestablishment Nearer.
The appearance of “A New Commentary”
on the Scriptures, under the editorship of
Dr. Gore, leaves Anglicans who accept the
leadership of these “modern” ecclesiastics
very little to believe in. Dr. Gore’s publi-
cation rules out as “mythical” the Deluge,
the Garden of Eden, Methuselah, the story
of Moses on Mount Sinai, the Second Com-
mandment, Balaam’s ass, Jonah and Bel-
shazzar. Doubt is cast on -the slaying
of Goliath by David; Solomon’s “erotic
poetry” is held to be an interpolation by
some unauthorised materialist, and, speak-
ing generally, the Old Testament miracles
are attributed “to the Semitic habit of
exaggeration.”
Bishop Barnes, who succeeded Dr. Gore
in the important See of Birmingham, has
pointed out many times that the New
Testament, as well as the Old, must be
taken with reservations. Dean Inge not
only shares the religious doubts of his
friends, but even questions the value of
what he calls “institutionalism.” He wrote
recently: “The bane of the churches is just
that they are so churchy. Institutionalism
is the enemy Scorn, hatred and exclu-
. siveness have quenched every spark of
Christian charity in ecclesiastical politi-
cians.”
It is anomalous that all these critics of
the nation’s beliefs should not only be om-
cials of the national church, but should
have been enjoying its richest guts over
long periods. What it amounts to is that
the taxpayers are subsidising them
undermine the citadel from within. ar-
liament cannot silence them, but it ca
disestablish the Church, and, on present
appearances, that is the course which wi
be taken eventually.
4
The Taxi Tangle.
In Sydney one of the taxi-cab companies
has just sacked more than half its stan.
It is another example of the inter-play of
high wages and high prices, resulting m
loss of business by employers, loss ol jobs
by workers, discomfort to the public, ex-
pense to the Government, and all-round
disaster
The taxi-cab people say: “There are too
many cabs on the road for the amount of
business offering.” But the amount ol
business offering is conditioned by the prices
asked. Only the very rich, or the very
foolish, are going to pay close on 4s. 101
a taxi-drive that in London would cost.
Is. and in Paris less than 9d. There is
only one taxi company in Sydney which
does not debit the passenger with Is bd.
before the vehicle has moved a foot! A
glance at Sydney’s trams, suburban trains
and ’buses during the peak business hours,
and before and after theatrical entertain-
ments, race-meetings, cricket matches and
other sporting or social events, will provide
sufficient proof of the local demand for
taxis—at a reasonable price.
The outcome is a tram, ’bus and train
congestion which is
detrimental to the
citizens' health as
well as to their
comfort; tax i-
drivers added to the
tally of unem-
ployed; and taxi-
cabs cruising about
empty. In London
last year, when the
citizens jibbed at Is.
as a minimum fare,
the taxis took the
hint, came down to
6d„ and immedi-
ately filled up.
'• ♦
“Kokopo” : General
Wisdom, Adminis-
trator of New
Guinea, told a Can-
berra audience that
the exclusion of
Asiatics from New
Guinea by the Aus-
tralian Mandatory
was due to a desire
to carry out the
“Black New Guinea’’
policy with the
object of protecting
the natives from
Asiatic influences. A
problem that the
General and his
bosses in Canberra
might consider seri-
ously is how to get
rid of the consider-
able Chinese popu-
lation which Rabaul
and other New
Guinea centres
already hold. These
people came in
under the German
regime, as did a cer-
ta i n number of
Japanese. The Chi-
nese multiplied in
their usual mysteri-
ous fashion, and
now play a very considerable part in the
economic life of such places as Rabaul,
where they practically monopolise the store-
keeping, restaurant and boarding-house
businesses, in addition driving a thriving
trade as tailors, outfitters and money-
lenders (civil servants preferred). There
is no necessity for their continued exist-
ence in Rabaul, where their quarter has
assumed the familiar Chinatown characteris-
tics, with corresponding effects on the local
natives.
♦
Dear Bulletin, —To readers who so gener-
ously responded to our appeal for Bullies
for the Inlanders, we desire to convey our
sincere Christmas greetings. They have
helped, and I hope will go on helping, us
to bring brightness and cheer to many a
lonely man and woman pioneering in the
interior, who heartily join me in this greet-
ing.—Yours, W. E. Dorin, Australian In-
land Mission, Carnarvon (W.A.).
♦
“Elswick”: Germany proposes to go one
better than the Australia cruiser type in the
10,000-tonner which is to be added to her
navy shortly. The vessel will have a speed
of over 30 knots, and carry eight 14in.
Krupp guns with a range of 20 miles. The
cost is estimated at £4,000,000, of which the
guns and their mountings will account for
£1,750,000. Germany builds small ships—
the Versailles Treaty sees to that—but she
packs a lot into them. In the last four
years £18,500,000 has been spent on 19 ships,
ranging from 200 to 6000 tons, and the Reich-
stag recently authorised a further expendi-
ture of £11,500,000, including the cost of the
new “pocket battleship.”


lq
a eciAL • Resßgvi
ighlarvS WKisK/
:■■■*!'■ *
N£T IPIHT 6HJDO I%
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
rtPvEL/c
RES
tarvS
WK
UK
POLITICAL
POINTS
In the N.S.W. Assembly the other evening
the Bavin Government was. defeated on some
amendment or other; and instantly there was
the usual cackle from the Opposition—“ Why
don’t you do the decent thing and resign?”
It is only another illustration of the insanity
of the present party system. Because a few
members of a party insist that on one matter
a Government is wrong, the alleged “decent”
thing is for the Government to go out and
let in a Government which the same few
members believe to be wrong, not on one
matter, but on a thousand.
Considering that
Queensland Labor has
won five State general
elections in succession
and fully expects to
win another in a few
months, its defeat in
the recent contests for
the Senate was stag-
gering. H. S. Foil, for
insta n c e, beat the
nearest Labor man by
86,019, the voting
being 241,351 to
155,332;. in 1922 his
majority was only
8587. Foil and Cooper,
the Country-party
man, who will succeed
the late Givens, are
returned soldiers; Foil,
an artilleryman, was
in the landing at Gal-
lipoli, was wounded in
Shrapnel Gully, and
was invalided home at
the end of the cam-
paign.
Senator Foll.
The Federal Government’s decision to let
its big Cockatoo Dock, if some solvent and
enterprising tenderer can be found, was in-
evitable. The losses of the dock and of the
Commonwealth Shipping Line were all mixed
up, and the ships having been got rid of
the dock naturally follows. The High Court
has decided that a Government-run place
of the sort can’t legally tout for private
business, and when it had practically no
Government business left except the naval
sort the elephant became too spacious.
A number of Victorian Parliamentarians
wanted the McPherson Ministry to outline
its programme before, the recess, and being
an obliging creature it did so. It proposes
“to formulate a comprehensive policy for
the development of the country, to include
land settlement, railway and other transport
extensions and services, roads improvement
and extension of water schemes.” Some
items specially applicable to Melbourne
were added, among them “the prevision of
works designed to furnish employment.”
Three Loan Bills amounting to £4,840,000
were introduced. There are more to follow.
Labor politicians who want Australia to
revert to the outrageously undemocratic first-
past-the-post system will derive a gloomy
satisfaction from the results in Maoriland.
There the 76 European members represent a
minority of the electors, and two of the four
Maori members failed to secure an absolute
majority. The most farcical case was that
of Makitanara, who won a seat with 199
votes, although 621 were cast for opponents.
This mad importing policy of ours hits us
in'all sorts of ways. Just at present when
an Australian buyer takes £lOO to an Aus-
tralian bank it will pay a bill in London for
a fraction under £99 only.
Times have changed with Jack Scaddan,
Premier of Westralia from October, 1911.
till August, 1916,
since Low drew him
for The Bulletin.
In the years that the
locusts have eaten he
has lost his seat in
the Leg. Assembly, as
well as nearly all his
hair; and the other
day he failed of elec-
tion to the Perth City
Council. As a first
step towards regain-
ing his greatness, Jack
got on the local Roads
Board, becoming mem-
ber for the ward in
which Premier Collier,
formerly his lieuten-
ant, lives. That gen-
tleman has been heard
to complain that the
ward never had a
more torpid represen-
tative : “he isn’t spry
Jack Scaddan.
enough to get a loose paling nailed on a
tree-guard.
The Industrial Conference has one hopeful
admirer in Melbourne Age, which poses now
as something of a Labor paper. The con-
ference met for a day or two, and each party
stated its aims, which seemed vague and
also divergent. Then it dispensed for a
lengthy adjournment, but much is made of
the fact that proceedings were friendly.
Unfortunately there were no proceedings. It
is when the uncompromising force and the
immovable obstruction get down to details
that bottles are liable to fly.
Another of Lang’s chickens has just come
home to roost. “Occupational” diseases carry
compensation at Broken Hill, and under one
of Lang’s midnight measures the liability is
so vague that no insurance office will touch
the business; so the hard-up Junction North
Co., which hasn’t made a profit for donkey’s
years, has been called on to put up £38,000
to guarantee payment of future claims. On
the same basis, Broken Hill cos. will alto-
gether be required to put up £600,000. Sev-
eral of them will probably prefer to put up
the shutters.
Queensland’s output of cotton was worth
£91,858 in 1923, the first year when it was
worth mentioning. It rose to a maximum
of £379,731 in 1926, and next year it fell
by one-half. For five years Australia didn’t
require to import raw cotton for fluffy pur-
poses, but in 1926-27 it was again spending-
money (nearly £87,000) in this way. A
feeble attempt at growing flax pegged out
about 1924; the crop got down to six acres,
and then it ceased to be heard of. Aus-
tralia sometimes spends ten millions in a
year on cotton and linen piece goods alone,
and millions more on clothing made from
these materials. The discovery of sufficient
cotton and linen deposits to make the Com-
monwealth self-supporting would fill a far
bigger want than a similar find of petroleum.
The Vic. Labor party deceives no one by
pretending that it is keen on a dissolution.
If Hogan had motored up to Hopetoun to
see Baron Somers the morning after he was
defeated he would probably have come back
with a dissolution in his pocket, but he
hung on for six days. Then he invited the
Assembly to “clarify” the position, which
the House did so thoroughly that Labor was
left without an auxiliary. Only then did he
ask for a dissolution and was refused. Eight
of the 12 country Labor members don’t want
an election, and at least half of the 16 met-
ropolitan Laborites would rather wait till
1930. There have been four polls in the last
four years, and each has been indecisive.
The Dominions had their annual wine
show in London the- other day, and in class
after class the report was made that the
Australian article showed continued improve-
ment. Most times it was of high or very
high quality; but again and again—as in
the case of brandies —it was added that
the price put it out of the market. But we
simply can’t go out of all these markets; we
have borrowed over a thousand millions, more
than half of it abroad, and we have under-
taken to pay interest on this debt in gold.
We haven’t got the gold, so we must borrow
it (which only adds to our future troubles)
or we must sel-1 things for gold. If our prices
are too high, then we simply have to bring
down the cost of producing them. And all
the Piddingtons in the world can’t alter that
fact.
According to a cable summary: “The first
steps have been taken for a revision of the
U.SI tariff. The revision will be Upward.”
It generally is, and that helps to explain why
the struggle of the workers to get into the
U.S. is intense. Meanwhile the textile em-
ployers and employees of Bradford are talk-
ing of a joint application to have their job
brought under the Safeguarding of Industries
law. Safeguarding of Industries is really
Protection, but Protection applied by minute
instalments and approached cautiously as if
it was a wild animal. Bull hates to part from
his old idol even if wooden gods are out of
date.
Sir Ernest Clark, one of the Big Four,
looking at the Sydney Harbor bridge the
other day, said that he understood posterity
was to pay for it. But, he asked, suppose
posterity doesn’t want it? “Too much of
Australia’s development is carried on by loan
money.” said Australia’s economic adviser.
And The Bulletin can* tell Sir Ernest
something that is not quite so obvious —
that a vast deal of Australia’s lack of de-
velopment is due to loan money. That bridge
being there and unpaid for, it will be re-
quired to do the job whether it is obsolete or
not—just as our trams have to do the job
of city transport whether they are out of
date or not.
Scapegoats are among the necessaries of
civilisation, and the best course is for the
goat to take the situation philosophically,
When Babcock and Wilcox put in the lowest
tender for a big Sydney City Council con-
tract they certainly didn’t want to be black-
mailed of £10,600 for getting what was their
due, but being made to understand that they
wouldn’t get this or any other contract un-
less they were victimised, and that other
people were in the same boat, they con-
sented. The total cost to the firm will be
£22,200 and some law expenses, which is the
price of being on the spot when thieves were
about and being found there. It was a
clumsy pretence on the part of ex-Premier
Slang to be shocked at the idea of the
Government giving further contracts to the,
firm. Big contractors who haven’t been
looted by people like some of Slang’s politi-
cal admirers must be rather rare.
The long-dragged-out question of the pur-
chase of two U'.S. steel sleeping-cars, of no
special merit, for the Melbourne-Adelaide
train was formally ended the other day.
The McPherson Government moved the
closure, and the money (£19,500) was voted
through members who spoke against the
transaction voting for it. The purchase was
almost certainly illegal, and it was quite
unnecessary, for the making of steel railway
cars in this country is a commonplace. Pre-
sumably the car-sellers got their money long
ago, but it would have been an experience
if the McPhersons had refused to put it
on the estimates, as the Hogans did, or had
put it there as an exceptional item on which
the House could vote as it darned well
pleased without giving offence.
Harold Nelson, who has occupied the
Harold Nelson.
Northern Territory
seat in the House of
Reps, since Hughes put
it there, has been re-
elected. Nelson’s tongue
runs away with him at
times, but he _ has a
robust faith in the
Commonwealth’s mag-
nificent possession
which Government
after Government has
neglected; and the
faith is backed by
works. Two sons, Ter-
ritory bred, who
accompanied the
family to Melbourne
when dad got in, being
too young to fend for
themselves, have re-
turned north as set-
tlers, and the voteless
member says he will
settle there himself
when he has had
enough of Canberra or
his constituents have,
had enough of him.
To expedite the erection of taxation offices
in Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, opposite the
law courts, J. P. Jones, when Labor Min-
ister of Works, put the job in the hands
of private architects, and empowered them to
call for tenders. The McPhersons have
endorsed Jones’s procedure and sanctioned a
contract for £102,000. A staff of 400 will
be accommodated. There are to be a hot-
water system in the basement to heat the
building in winter, a big luncheon-room, and
a kitchen to warm up mid-day meals —con-
veniences to which Vic. public servants are
unaccustomed.
“Sol Malaprop”: When I read that Pre-
mier Ward, of Maoriland, proposes to bor-
row in England sufficient to “acquire land
for the settlement of 75,000 _ to 100,000
people” I was moved to recollections. I have
tramped across a good deal of that country
with a knapsack. On one occasion the jour-
ney began at a lake and ended a few days
later at a precipice and an ocean. At one
spot I looked down on three torrents at
once. At another I counted about a dozen
waterfalls, it being snow-melting time. I
made acquaintance with a promising aval-
anche, and I dropped through two or three de-
ceptive ice-crusts, which stuck out round my
waist like old-time ballet skirts. Everything
was very beautiful, but if lOUseph Ward
proposes to make any land thereabouts avail-
able for loan settlement I am not settling.
Old Parliamentary hands are so scarce in
Maoriland’s United party that Ward was
able to bestow port-
folios on every one of
the veterans who have
survived the long exile
of the Libs, from office.
Tom Wilford, who
entered the House in
1900, receives Justice
and Defence —he had
two years of Justice in
the National Govern-
ment. George Forbes,
with 20 years’ Parlia-
mentary experience,
gets Lands and Agri-
culture ; knight Api-
rana Ngata, who was
in Ward’s last Minis-
try, is to boss Native
Affairs; Harry Atmore
goes to the Education
Department; W. A.
Veitch is rewarded with
Labor and Mines; and
T. K. Sidey becomes
Premier Ward.
leader of the Leg. Council and Attorney-
General in his twenty-seventh year as Lib-
eral member. At that point the supply of
oldsters ran out. The six other Ministers
are infants in politics.
Of course the directors of Sydney Ferries
don’t agree with the accountants \v*ho were
called in by the State Government, and who
report that the concern is over-capitalised.
There are and always have been assets to
the full extent of the capital, they say. It’s
the old business of the State and the State’s
debts and the State’s assets over again. Some
hungry Treasurer or other great patriot is
always yelling that the assets are worth far
more than the total of the debts —just as the
directors of the Melbourne banks did in
the early ’nineties, and a few years later
some of them were paying a few pence in the
pound. We are always trying to pull our
own legs and make ourselves believe that
things are worth what they cost. And they
rarely are. Either we were fools to buy them,
or we have partly worn them out, or the
fashion has changed, or some other blessed
thing has happened.
The N.S.W Savings Bank has just been
shifting itself into its new Sydney quarters
of great magnificence, and the papers have
been full of the scores and scores of millions
of the people’s money that it holds on deposit
and of the tremendous growth of figures in the
last few years. It is all true —and it all
means just nothing at all. By the simple
process of raising the basic wage to £lO a
week, the deposits will be increased by
another £20,000,000 inside a couple of years
—and the community will be several millions
worse off. For this' reason, that the cost
of producing, say, wheat will be increased in
consequence of higher freights, etc., but the
product will have to be sold in competition
with countries which haven’t any basic
wage and where the woi-kpeople are as well
off on 6d. an Lour as they are here on 2s.
Australia is not the only country in which
the lure of the city drags a bold peasantry
from the soil. The Papuan Government is
disturbed at the tendency of rural youth to
abandon the sago swamps and mountain
jungles for the meretricious pomps of Port
Moresby. Outlanders in increasing numbers
and without visible means of support have
established colonies about Moresby. These
are now being called upon to show cause
why they should not be returned to the
primitive communal life which Government
decrees is the most desirable for its subjects.
“What has impressed me most,” said a
recent passing pilgrim, “is the wonderful de-
velopment and progress which have been
made by Australia during its comparatively
short life.” The pilgrim was partner and
son-in-law of Lord Glendyne, otherwise
Robert Nevison, whose firm has floated loans
for Australia and other self-governing
Dominions for many years. The gentleman,
who had been on this continent for five
weeks, said it was a very decent-continent,
but he refused to discuss Australian finances.
Yet an absolutely frank expression of his
opinion on that subject would have been
full of interest.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
BALLADE OF A BRIER PIPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
é
ils.w.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
YOU, TOO, MUMMY!
MUMMY: “Marjorie, that naughty word I heard you say just now is swearing!"
JOYCE ( shocked): “Oh, Mummy, do you know it, too?”
“C.Q.”: When the packed ’bus drew up at
the corner the thin woman with the thimble
nose gathered up her Christmas parcels, said
good-bye to the stout woman with the large
bosom, the painted cheeks and the heavily
pencilled eyebrows, and alighted. She still
clung to the vehicle,-however, as if waiting
for the germination of some pleasant thought
appropriate to this season of peace and good-
will. Then she stuck her head inside again,
“My dear,” she said, “you don’t look a day
older than you did forty years ago!”
* * * *
“St. Eel”; Of interest to Sydneysiders is
the opening of a bridge over the Tyne, in the
Old Dart, connecting Newcastle and Gates-
head. r ttbe bridge is practically a one-third
size replica of the Sydney Harbor Bridge—
a single-arch span of 531 ft. (the Sydney
bridge’s span is 1650 ft.) ; and it, too, has
been constructed by Dorman, Long and Co.
But whereas the Sydney bridge is the first
attempt to span an inland gulf, the Tyne
was bridged, at the same spot as has now
been chosen, eighteen centuries ago, when
Hadrian, Emperor of Rome, ruled Britain.
The Roman work was a thing of many
arches. The new bridge is the longest single-
span bridge in the U.K.
* * * *
“Runa”: Hospitals sometimes get a little
farther than merely putting the wrong person
to bed. Some years ago a woman came out
of the anaesthetic in a surgical ward, and as
soon as she could articulate began to make
what sounded like a bitter complaint against
somebody. Nurses spoke soothingly to her,
and as her pulse appeared to go up alarm-
ingly when anyone her she was
kept compulsorily silent. When, after a
week, she was allowed to make conversation,
it transpired that her grievance arose from
having been classed as an appendicitis case
and duly operated upon, when she had actu-
ally come from 400 miles up-country to
receive treatment for a hammer toe.
* '!• * *
“Smada”: London has many postal con-
veniences that Australia lacks. No matter
where you are in the city or the suburbs
you seldom have to walk a hundred yards to
find a red pillar-box. These are cleared
every few hours; and the collector on every
occasion alters a small enamel sign on the
pillar-box to indicate at what hour it will be
cleared again. If you run out of stamps
your need may be met by an automatic
device affixed to the nearest post office. All
you have to do is to drop your coppers into
the right slots and the goods are delivered.
If the strip of stamps runs out the coins
are returned by the machine. In the even-
ing delivery of letters every postman carries
a small flashlight torch that enables him to
decipher the, addresses.
* * * *
“Eliza”: The length of a woman’s hair
has nothing to do with her height (B.
28/11/’2B). When I was a child I had a
pretty little school-teacher who sometimes
yielded to our pleadings and let down her
hair for us to admire: the beautiful chest-
nut mane reached to her heels. Her
height was 4ft. lOin. I knew two other
women with equally good hair; they were
the same height, sft. 4in. In flat opposition
to “Trevdee’s” theory, there used to be a
belief that extremely long hair was found
only on the heads of short women, as the
production of such a fleece stunted the
growth!
6 * * * *
“Listeninsec-t” : Radio continues to perform
amazing freak feats, which will be common-
place things a few years hence. The other
night Fisk, of Amalgamated Wireless, was
conversing from the La Perouse station (Syd-
ney) with the manager of the station at Ban-
doeng (Java). The neighboring set was
receiving music broadcast from Melbourne.
Fisk put the music through to the listener
in Java, who employed his own transmitting
set to send it back. Three different wave-
lengths were thus involved, and yet the
melody arrived on the Java wave as sharp
and loud as the original Victoria transmis-
sion. Incidentally, these things are no longer
regarded as freaks in Java. A friend writes
me from Weltevreden that he has just been
listening-in to a conversation between a
Dutch woman in Batavia with her daughter
in Holland. These conversations are now
made available to the public at certain times
each day, and no formality is required except
to ring the radio _at Bandoeng,
* ,* _ . , , , \
“Ike Hollar : Persistent reports abou*
“ragging” at St. Pauls, the C. ot H. Col-
lege at Sydney University, have led to
a question in the State Parliament, which
gave the Minister for Education an oppor-
tunity to point out that the Government
couldn’t be expected to interfere in the Uni. s
domestic concerns. “Ragging is much the
same in educational institutions all over
the world, although the idea of holding testi-
val attired in feminine or
stripping newcomers and painting them
according to the decorative fancies of the
jazz school, may be innovations. Other
tricks, such as coating the inside of pyjamas
with a preparation which becomes a
gluey mixture under the heat of the body
and giving newcomers hair treatment with
varnish, are distinctly old-fashioned. The
Sydney trouble or the pother about it is
attributed to the indignation of two students
who left after undergoing treatment, always
more severe for those who fail to enter into
MAKING HIS MIND EASY.
“If I am a bit late coming home, Percy, don’t get it into your silly old head that some-
body has run away with me.”
the spirit of the joke. Apparently the
aggrieved persons imagined the University
to be a place for serious study rather than
one where infantile savagery gives its last
kick.
* * * *
“Globe” : Speaking as a telegraph-operator,
I have noticed that the less education the
sender of a message has, or strikes you as
having, the more pertinently he (or she)
is able to express himself (or herself). Here
is a sample, with nothing amended ) except
the spelling, which was awful: “Don’t write
any more letters sorry I ever met you
hubby going for divorce putting you m it.
How many educated persons could have com-
pressed all that into 18 words?
* * * *
“Trevdee” : One • would expect persistent
truants to be much below the educational
standard of tlieir classmates. But an
inspector at Bendigo recently told the Court
of an 11-year-old boy who had “wagged it
from school for six weeks on end-—and
immediately afterwards won his qualifying
certificate and headed the list in all subjects
at the examinations!
... -A-
“Der Jong”: Not since Dame
Margaret Greville escaped with her
life from these shores and told a
Colombo reporter of the horrors
from which a timely Orient liner
had snatched her has Australia
been so viciously, pilloried as by
one Egeland, an Afrikander, who
after a short stay in this country
has just returned to the land of
dop and biltong. Australia, he lias
been informing his countrymen, is
“a real rough house,” and the in-
quities of the “race-gang leaders
beggar description. _ The _ latter
statement seems a trifle ambiguous,
and one is left wondering whether
Egeland refers to the A.J.C. or just
the pony crowd. Bombs, the tra-
veller records, abound everywhere,
while the crackle of revolver shots
in the main streets of the leading
cities is a serious impediment to
polite conversation. A reign of
terror prevails in such towns as
Sydney, where one risks “a crack
on the head” if he ventures out at
night. Fortunately, howevhr, “the
aborigines do not drift into the
towns.” If they did, armed with
their gunyahs. goannas and willy-
willies, and shouting their war-cry of ‘ gib-
bittickspen,” Heaven only know? whht might
be the fate of the overseas visitor.
* * * *
“The Bat” : It was risky to light a fag
in the front line if any of the heads were
about, but Bight Horsemen in Upper Pales-
tine were introduced to a safe method by
Armenian refugees. Amongst other knick-
knacks these people made enclosed cigarette-
holders which allowed the smoker to have
a draw without the risk of a light showing.
The smoke was eliminated by blowing the
whiff into the rifle-magazine. Officers often
remarked on the strong smell of tobacco in
the trenches, but it was not long before they
also were utilising the safety holders.
* * * *
“F.C.”: A little four-masted schooner of
430 tons,’ the Fides. blew into Melbourne
the other day on her way to Adelaide. She
has come by a curiously roundabout way.
With a cargo of timber and a crew of half
a dozen nationalities, she left Gothenburg
on Aug. 31, 1927, bound for Adelaide via
the Cape, and she should sighted Kan-
garoo Island at least 12 months ago. But
a storm in the Bay of Biscay ami engine
trouble sent her to Las 1 almas. 7
there she was driven hundreds of miles out
of her course; then a typhoon spiun 0 h
masts, injured several of the ore . ‘
knocked her about so .that she was s
crawl into Para, Brazil. There most ot the
seamen deserted, and it took three months
to put the craft shipshape and scrape up
another crew. The skipper reckoned he was
nearer to Adelaide via Panama, but when
he got into the Pacific another cyclone blew
his sails to bits and sent him into Papeete
to repair the damage and, incidentally, to
lose most of his second crew. After that he
was nearly driven on to a piece of New
Caledonia, but ultimately made Brisbane,
where a big steamer rammed the dilapi-
dated little tub while she was lying at the
wharf, and a seaman who couldn’t get his
wages attacked the skipper with a knife.
Is it any wonder that sailors are sometimes
convinced that there is a hoodoo on a ship?
* * * *
“White Peak” : Next year Westralia cele-
brates the finish of a century of existence,
first as a “settlement.” then as a colony,
finally as a State. The pilgrim fathers of
this section of the continent arrived at Fre-
mantle, or, rather, Garden Island, on June
1, 1829. The “W. A. Year Book” used to make
a standing feature of the list of original
settlers, printing the names year after year.
Just prior to Federation there were two or
three of them still alive —of course, all of
these had arrived as children or infants. But
there are none left now. Present writer
saw one of the Parmelia’s original passengers
a trifle over 80 years ago. He was an octo-
genarian cockie —and was leaving the dock
after being acquitted of stealing a sheep.
$ H* H*
“P.M.”: The French chevrons were not
angular (B. 5/12/’2B), but a small straight
bar placed diagonally on the wrist. As for
the badge on the shoulder which, according
to “Detonator,” distinguished the volunteer
from the conscript, seeing that every French
lad had to come up for service at the age
of 17 or 18, and practically all the reser-
vists were called up early in the war, wiier.ee
came the French volunteers? My experi-
ence was that the poilu was as good a leg-
puller as the Digger; I once heard a French
Alpine Chasseur telling an American nurse
that the badge on his arm was that of a
gunner in the Swiss Marines. And that vol-
unteer yarn looks to be in the same class.
# * * *
“Mug” : Since week-end motor tours have
become the fashion in N.S.W. there has
sprung up a flourishing crop of roadside
stalls purporting to purvey the undiluted
products of the countryside, so to speak, free,
from the accretions of transport and middle-
men’s fees. At these stalls sturdy yeomen
and their wives and daughters sell butter,
eggs, fruit, vegetables and other primary
products at prices ranging from _2O to 40
per cent, above those prevailing in metro-
politan shops. The reason for this may lie
in an unguarded remark passed to the writer
the other day in answer to an inquiry for
some strawberries. “We ain’t got none list
now,” said the unsophisticated huckster, but
yer might stop as yer comes back; I’m
expecting a lot out from town.”
He * * *
“Pila”: Touching executioners’ salaries
(B. 28/11/’2B). Melbourne’s first public
hangman received 755. per week —a princely
wage 85 years ago. lie was also allowed
free housing at the gaol. For each job he
was paid a bonus of £2O. and the clothes of
his clients were regarded as his perquisites.
This particular Ketch rehearsed with a
dummy for weeks before operating on three
bushrangers; this was mainly on account of
his clumsiness in despatching two abos. some
months previously. The records tell of his
making a “clean” job of the white men —the
first to be executed in Vic.
THE MALIGNED SCOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ē
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Selma”: A novel way of disposing of an
unwelcome suitor occurred to an up-country
school-teacher the other day. Only one family
in the district would board her, and there
she soon found she had to suffer the atten-
tions of her landlady’s impossible brother.
No amount of chilly treatment seemed to dis-
courage the youth, and the young woman was
meditating sending in her resignation when
one washing-morning, the landlady being
occupied otherwhere, the suitor, in response
to an unsuspecting “Come in,” materialised
■with the teacher’s morning tea. The girl
took the cup without comment, and then
dashed the contents in the young man’s face.
Fifteen minutes later she was sitting on her
suitcase under a dripping tree waiting for any
passing conveyance that would give her a
life to the station.
* * * #
“Murkah”: South Australians have seen a
life-size wooden locomotive being given a ride
over the railways on a truck. The bulk of some
Yankee engines made the heads apprehensive
that the importations might burst the tun-
nels and spoil the brickwork on the plat-
forms. Accordingly a wooden replica was
constructed, built on to a waggon and tied
up (like an unwilling dog) behind a pas-
senger train; the timber arrived home safely,
and the engines were let off the chain. In
N. S. Wales they take fewer precautions.
Some departmental genius designed two out-
size passenger locos. It wasn’t till one was
practically finished and the .other nearing
completion that it occurred to someone to
measure them. Then it was found that they
were six inches too wide to pass each other
on the road !
**• * *
“O. Ba San”: I had it forcibly impressed
on me that no one must look on royalty from
above (B. 28/11/’2B) when I was in Japan
last year. It was a Sunday afternoon, and
an exhibition in a building opposite the
Oriental Hotel, Kobe, where I was staying,
was to be visited by the Crown Prince. I
opened my window on the second storey and,
after donning my latest bright-red kimono,
watched the cadets forming into line while
the road was cleared of all wheeled traffic.
ANOTHER VICTIM OF THE SURF.
“Stan doing much surfing lately?”
“Poor Stan!—he’s never out of it now; he’s fallen in love with a permanent wave.”
Thousands of Japanese of both sexes lined
the pavements. Presently an important-
looking policeman saw me watching, and
waved his hand furiously at me, while the
crowd followed suit. At first I thought my
kim. or its color was causing the trouble, but
when the hostile demonstration continued
and a second policeman began to roar what
were obviously orders at me I rang for my
boy, who tersely explained: “Must not look
down on royalty; please close window.”
Strangely enough, anyone can look through
the glass, but not the open window.
* * * *
“Hayes Kop” : Years ago that picturesque
journalist AA r . T. Stead wound up a character
sketch of Lloyd George by mentioning, a
little unkindly perhaps, that the AYelsh
AVizard was always a trifle nervous in a boat
or any small craft, because he couldn’t swim.
That a politician should never have learned
to propel himself through the water is under-
standable, but the latest published account
of the death of Captain Cook (from the
resurrected log of one Thomas Edgar, master
of the Discovery) throws some doubt upon
the swimming abilities of one of the greatest
navigators our race has produced. Writes the
eighteenth-century mariner:—
A man named Nooah came behind him [Cook]
and stabb’d him in the small of the back, which
threw him into the water, he not being able to
swim. The Rabble seeing this rushed in with great
eagerness to the Marines and kill’d 4.... The
Natives pulled Capt. Cooke’s body on the shore,
dashed his head against the Rocks and stabb’d him
in several places.
This may of course be construed as a state-
ment that Cook’s wound prevented him from
swimming, but it is not the first meaning
that would occur to the reader.
$
“Oxmead”: Surely the street beggar is
much less in evidence in Sydney to-day (B.
12/12/’2B) than-he was half
a dozen years ago. Then
you could hardly walk a
couple of blocks without en-
countering a bunch of ex-
soldiers, real or alleged, play-
ing some sort of musical in-
struments and basing their
appeal for alms less on their
dismal strains than their war
injuries. All of these have
gradually vanished, with the
exception of a couple who
still ply their mournful call-
ing o’ mornings on the North
Shore. Personally, I prefer
the pavement, dauber to the
melody-maker because I have
no ear for music—or it may
be because I have even less
eye for decorative art. Any-
how, you aren’t obliged to
look at the artist’s wares,
whereas you can hardly
avoid hearing the musician’s
blarings. And the former,
as has been pointed out,
generally has his back to his
possible patrons, whereby his
industry is stressed and his
mendicancy is less in evi-
dence.
“Mells”: It is hard to reconcile “Milano’s”
“indefatigable Mussolini,” who rules by sheer
terror (B. 12/12/’2B), with the wordy con-
tributor of articles about himself and his
achievements to publications like the Satur-
day Evening Post and the new London
periodical Britannia. The editors of these
magazines feature Benito, and presumably
pay him for the entertainment he provides,
as they might any other “amoosing little
cuss” in the literary menagerie. And the
articles must surely strike most people, even
when due allowance is made for the dUerence
between the Latin and the Anglo-Saxon
temperament, as the limit in hysterical slush.
Possibly, however, there are two Mussolinis
—the black-shirted Caesar who bestrides
Italy like a Colossus, and the excitable pos-
turer who, when he takes a pen in hand,
becomes a vain and rather tiresome word-
spinner.
* * #
“Hamer”: Ashburton (M.L.), after 25
years of nominal dryness, has once more
asserted its right to blow the froth off a
pintpot in public bars. I was in the fine
town on the night of the final closing of
the pubs—three months later I found the
cases of beer I had brought with me were
quite a superfluous precaution, for the AA’ork-
ingmen’s Club, where business went on as
usual, made honorary members of most visi-
tors, and its paid membership had soared
to 1600. But the night that preceded Ash-
burton’s embarkation on the water waggon
will never be effaced from my memory. The
orgie really lasted until the pubs had sold
out; having lost their licenses, the hotel-
keepers snapped their fingers at the law,
some of them remaining open until three
o’clock on the Sunday morning. About an
hour after that time the licensee of the Royal
Oak entered my room with a candle in one
hand and a revolver in the other to beg
me to help him look for a burglar, created
in his imagination by anxiety about his big
takings. After the search had proved fruit-
ipnrnhn J 1 ’ along with Other co-
1 P UP hIS last two bottles
isKy. *
,(t> -j . , ~ , *
Bad Australian : Many fortunes were
taken out of the Gympie (Q.) goldfield, but
, ori fl i pal discoverer did not get on to any
of the jewellers shops ’ for which the field
became famous. Nash told me that lie found
gold in the first dish of wash he panned from
a gully close to where the Town Hall now
ONE OR THE OTHER.
PRESS AGENT: “But Hamfat told me he was the rage of the town.”
MANAGER: “Rubbish! They chased him out of it.”
PRESS AGENT: “I see —perhaps he meant out-rage!”
stands. He cleaned up loz. 15dwt'. the same
day, but having broken his pick and being
short of provisions, he set out for Mary-
borough next morning, where he experienced
considerable difficulty in convincing people
that his gold was genuine. Eventually, after
hawking the metal around for some hours, he
struck a business man, who took a chance
and gave him £1 in cash, a small supply
of provisions and a new pick—for gold
worth about £7. Later on, when Nash
claimed the £3OOO reward offered by the
Government for the discovery of a payable
goldfield, he was forced to be content with
£lOOO. Years afterwards the Government
gave him a job as caretaker of the explosives
magazine at Traveston, a short distance from
Gympie, where, I believe, he died.
=!' * sH :!:
“Adelaide”: The Insolvency Court of S.A.
has taken an unusual step in sending two
women to gaol for reckless trading. One
had a husband who combined plastering with
bookmaking, allowed her from £l2 to £2O a
week, and apologised when he had to reduce
it to £B. She had got used to the higher scale,
however, and when both fell on evil days—
she did a bit of betting herself—went on
with what the Court called an “orgie of ex-
travagance,” even when there was a bill
of sale over the furniture. Under S.A. law
this can earn anything up to two years, with-
out any Criminal Court coming in; and the
Insolvency Judge seemed to think himself
lenient in giving her only a month. The
other reckless trader was a woman farmer,
who carried on although, the Court said, she
must have known the position was “des-
perate,” and finally raised a bit of cash
by selling a binder that she held only under
hire-agreement. Three months.
$ sfs $ $
“Dalguise”: “Detonator” (B. 5/12/’2B)
says “that while ‘gibbit’ may not be good
Arabic, it nevertheless does mean ‘give’ in
that language.” During my three years’ ser-
vice in Egypt and Palestine, a good part of
which was spent among Gyppo labor and
transport corps, I never heard “gibbit” used
except as slang. The Arabic word for “give”
was always “edeeni.” “Gibbit” is merely
an illustration of the white man’s habit of
treating all colored races as niggers and
assuming that the same “pidgin English” is
good enough for everyone with a dark skin.
* * * *
“Murkah”: The motor-driven lifeboat
which most passenger vessels carry should
certainly be equipped with wireless. A set
capable of reaching 100 miles can easily be
placed in a cigar-box; another would hold
receiving apparatus. The boat’s motor-engine
can supply power. A circle of 100 miles
radius contains over 30,000 square miles,
and it would be nothing short of a miracle
if the wandering waves of electricity didn’t
find a friendly aerial in that huge area.
Vision, at best, is restricted to a few miles;
in fog or at night to no miles at all. On
the other hand, night increases the range of
the radio howl. Further, the lifeboat set
could act as standby to the ship’s installa-
tion, which may be put out of action when
the smash arrives.
$ $ $ $
“The Bat”: The medical branch of the
aerial air mail is proving its worth. A
station-hand at Brunette Downs (N.T.) was
gored by a bull, and word was telephoned to
Cloncurry (N.Q.), nearly 500 miles away 1 .
Within four and a half hours an aeroplane
with a doctor and Iris kit had arrived at the
station and the sufferer was being attended
to.
>!: >!: * *
“Cito Pede”: The aerial carriage of ballot-
boxes has had much to do with speeding up
the declaration of election polls. Thirty
years ago the result of a contest for the
representation of the Central Province m
the W - A - Legislative Council was held up
for six weeks because the box from Carnar-
v°n (although there were less than a dozen
votes in it) couldn’t be brought to Geraldton
except by steamer, and there was a dislo-
cation in the steamship service. A decade
later the motor had arrived, and things
electoral began to move more rapidly in dis-
tricts where railways were unknown and
steamboat services were unreliable. Hast week
the Federal Senate votes from the pearling
seaport of Broome and the remote Kimberleys
were whirled down to Ivalgoorlie in two or
three days through the central blue. The old
bullock-waggon era begins to look a long way
off.
:<! * * *
“8.V.E.”: As a cook I warmly resent
“Feng-Shui’s” insinuation (B. 21/11/’2B)
that Australians are unable to compound
curry or even boil rice properly. I can, and
have made no fewer than 73 kinds of curries
and have found my dishes appreciated by
British officers who have lived for years in
India. As for the boiling of rice, let me tell
“Feng” that the sloppy cereal he complains
of is simply rice boiled naturally with all the
nutriment retained. If he insists on having
it in separate grains, the stuff must be
washed after boiling, by which means almost
every particle of nutriment is removed. It
is then steamed, and although it certainly
looks nice is of little, if any, value as a food.
* • * * sji
“Hamer”; Is there any transport organi-
sation in the world that can beat the Manly
Ferries _ record —the carriage and delivery of
50 million people without a single casualty?
On one occasion the engines of a Manly craft
broke dow T n dangerously near Middle Head,
but a tow from another of the co.’s steamers
saved the situation. In other matters be-
sides accidents the boats have been favored
by Providence. Sometimes a would-be suicide
jumps off a ferry, but, as far as is known,
only one man has done so from a Manly
boat, and he was picked up by a launch.
The nearest thing to a fatality the service
has ever experienced was when a passenger
collapsed and died a few seconds after step-
ping off the steamer. And even he had got
past the turnstiles.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide City Corporation has
once again “drunk in silence” the health of
William Light, who is responsible for the
city being where it is, instead of on Kan-
garoo Island, or somewhere at the Murray
mouth, or at Port Lincoln, all of which were
considered first. Light was an English mid-
shipman as a boy, next an officer of dragoons
in Wellington’s Spanish campaigns, and was
50 when appointed Surveyor-General of
South Aus.. then existing only on paper and
in the minds of Wakefield and other enthusi-
asts —including Wellington himself —in Lon-
don. He was dead by 1839, but he had done
his work. He is buried in Light-square,
Adelaide, but his statue stands outside the
G.P.0., with one hand pointing down in a
“Let-it-be-there!” gesture.
•* * * *
“Eureka”: Practised topers can easily
get rid of the crude tar which the AV.A.
law requires in methylated spirits (B.
28/11/’2B). They filter the stuff through
felt (an old hat will serve the purpose), and
this not only removes the crude tar but
any naphtha as well.
$ $
“Centurion”: Shirt-sleeves were united to
shirt-sleeves once more, in a manner of speak-
ing, when the King of Sweden’s nephew.
Count Bernadotte. was wedded in Noo Yark
to Estelle Manville, daughter of a Yankee
steel. magnate who was a furnace-hand 30
years ago. In the bridegroom’s case, the
shirt-sleeves are farther off. It is a hundred
and fifty years ago since the founder of the
royal house chucked his job of vine-dressing
and covered his shirt-sleeves with the blue
uniform of the French republican army, in
which he rose to become one of Napoleon’s
marshals. In the crash of 1814 he found it
wise to bark with the top dogs, and deserted
the maker of his fortunes. At the gorgeous
wedding of his descendant the £150,000 worth
of presents were enclosed in a glass cage
and guarded by detectives.
PLUMBERS' TOOLS.
ė
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


A MODERN XMAS GIFT
e
of Lifetime Service.
This handsome case of rustless
steel knives, by Joseph Rogers
and Son, is a gift of sound
worth that will evoke the appre-
ciation due to correct table
appointments.
The case contains 6 Dinner
Knives and 6 Dessert Knives.
Price 30/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES—CASH ONLY
Long Dependable Service
y
MANGROVITE
LEATHER OR
RAW-HIDE BELTING
■JHE certainty of consistent service with
Mangrovite Belting on all outdoor
work largely accounts for its widespread
use in primary production. The 40 years’
manufacturing experience behind it pro-
vides for you a thoroughly sound medium
for any power transmission work. Our
engineers will advise you.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Fred Flowers, president of the N.S.W.
Leg. Council, was one of the best political
engineers the Labor party has produced. A
house-painter by trade, his talents of the
other sort soon won him a high place in
the Trades Hall. He couldn’t get into the
Assembly, but Lyne. put into office to do the
Labor party’s bidding, nominated him ‘to
the Leg. Council in 1900. He has been there
ever since, most of the time having other
public jobs as well: he was the Labor Gov-
ernment’s rep. in 1910, and held to that
till the chair was empty. Then he settled
down to the most comfortable billet of his
busy, uncertain life. It closed at 64.
Losing the Her-
bert (Q.) seat has
the least of Dr.
Nott’s troubles.
Only a couple of
months before the
election he was
called from Can-
berra to the bed-
side of a dying
parent; last week
his only surviving
son, ten years old,
died from menin-
gitis on the third
anniversary of the
death of the other
Nott lad.
A. N. DAY.
general traffic-
manager of the
SA. Government
railways.
Canberra will shortly have a second Com-
missioner who has never seen the place. He
is B. Crosbie Goold, who has town-clerked
for Malvern (Vie.) for the past 17 years.
Goold is not in the least daunted by his
job. What he does not know about munici-
pal affairs cannot be found in books; and,
anyhow, if the Federal capital were dumped
down in populous Malvern it would hardly
be remarked.
Ben Chifley, the new M.H.R. for Mac-
quarie (N.SW.), is claimed to be the first
locomotive driver to enter the House, but
the late Charlie Frazer, M.H.R. for Kal-
goorlie (1903-13), belonged to the craft.
Until recent months Ben drove the mail tram
from- Bathurst to Dubbo; latterly he has
been appearing for his union in the Federal
Arbitration Court before Dethridge, .1. He
is a native of Bathurst, and says he will
continue to live there.
Katharine Susannah Prichard’s “Coonar-
doo,” having run its course in serial form,
will at once get into book-covers. Most of
the larger publishers asked for the completed
MS., and Jonathan Cape’s handsome offer
for it was accepted. Cape is one of the most
discerning of publishers, who strictly limits
his output of fiction, and his opinion of the
novel entirely agrees with that of the judges
who awarded it a £5OO prize in the first
‘Bulletin competition. A New work edition
will follow.
The world couldn't have seemed the same
for E. S. Cunningham, editor of the Argus,
after Schuler died. It was wonderful how
close the two kept together. Cunningham
joined the Bendigo Advertiser in ’72;
Schuler in '73. They worked together under
old Angus Mackay till ’7O; then Schuler
joined the Age, and a couple of years later
Cunningham joined the Argus. They did
much the same things in the two offices ; but
the way was open for Schuler to the chair
of the Age in 1900, six years before Cun-
ningham came to the throne of the Argus.
Yet they didn’t have much in common except
a sincere regard for one another. Even in
their hobbies they differed widely. After a
wearying day in the office, Cunningham has
turned to his carpenter’s bench ; Schuler was
more likely to throw himself into a chair
with a detective yarn.
S.A. has lost one of its leading pastoralists
and wealthiest men in Charles Angas. A
former Angas engineered the settlement of
Danes and Saxons that was to cover S.A.
war memorials with a host of German-
sounding names; another built up a cattle-
stud that has made the name famous all
over Australia. Charles Angas was edu-
cated at Oxford, and was a lifelong supporter
of coursing and of polo. His son Ronald,
a famous polo-player, succeeds him at Angas-
ton.
Richard Teece —Dick to three generations
of Sydney—died last week, aged St. lie joined
the A.M.P. in 1866, and only threw in his
working connection with it last year, when
he went off the board. Meantime he had
been most things, but will be best remem-
bered as general manager and actuary,
though he Was really never very strong on
the actuarial side; his. best assets were his
sound business sense and his large capacity
for making friends for himself and his
society. He passed on his brains and appli-
cation to four sons, vyho have spread out
over medicine, the law and the church. Dick’s
hobbies were cricket and the University; the
still-living David Carment, assistant-actuary
of the A.M.P. from days which go_ back
beyond the memory of man, is still an
enthusiastic yachtsman.
The Never-Never is not . the only place
where one may run the risk of dying of
thirst. G. W. Tranter, R. Mann and J. F.
Matthews, three experienced members of
Melbourne’s Walking Club, crossed the path-
less country between Mt. Riddell and Donna
Buang, about 30 miles from the metropolis,
on a recent tour, and for three days had to
subsist on the moisture obtained from chew-
ing nettles, several 1000-ft. descents failing in
locating any drink. A providential thunder-
storm helped the wayfarers to struggle home.
E. J. Polkinghorne, who died a few days
ago at Leeton, where he had been fruit-
farming, was one of the four Broken Hill
strike-leaders who were sent to gaol 38 years
ago for “conspiracy.” That was probably
the best-organised big strike Australia has
known. No strike pay was issued, but
butcheries, bakeries and stores were estab-
lished and manned by strikers, supplies being
exchanged for strike coupons. Afterwards an
attempt was made to maintain these co-
operative concerns, and Polkinghorne was
made manager of the stores; but they all
petered out.
Queensland Labor is distinctly pleased
with Frank Baker, who reduced Bayley s
majority in Oxley by one-half. Satisfied to
wait for another three years, the enterpris-
ing young man has resumed his place at the
typewriter as deposition clerk to magistrate
Pat Hishon. During the campaign Baker
was motoring from Toowong when the head-
lights of another car dazzled him as he was
crossing a bridge. In a trice his car was
taking the count in salt water and
mud 30 feet below, while the candidate was
hanging on to the water-main a few feet
from the bridge. A little thing like that
did not perturb Baker. He went home, to
bed and salvaged his car from its slimy
couch next morning.
At Mitiamo (Vic.) recently a soldier-
settlerriding home from the harvest field was
thrown from his horse and killed. The local
rector, the Rev. George Ruuting, mobilised
the district Diggers, told off the bearers and
led them into church. Not three weeks later
the Mitiamo Diggers lined up again, and the
same men carried out the little rector him-
self. He had been a sick man ever since he
was blown up by a shell 11 years ago.
Bert Vidgon, who has his headquarters at
Thursday Island, has helped to build up a
pearl-shelling venture that runs its own fleet.
In between times he launches across the
strait and down the coast to Somerset, old
home of the Jardines* one of whose daugh-
ters he married. When the old people
died and the family scattered, Vidgen
bought the cocoanut plantation, the largest
in Australia, and a thing which suggests that
nuts could he grown commercially along
the empty northern coastline from Somerset
down, to say nothing of Northern Terri-
tory and North Westralia. But Government
is not interested, and heavy steamship
charges are handicapping the pioneer.
C. M. McDONALD, who represents the
Northern Collieries (N.S.W. ) Associa-
tion at the. Peace-in-Industry Confer-
ence.
Bob Semple, just elected Labor member
for Wellington East (M.L.), is an Australian ;
lie was born at Sofala (N.S.W.) in 18711.
Robert lias had his ups and downs; for his
part in the M.L. waterside workers’ strike of
1913 he was imprisoned and bound over for
12 months. In 1908 he assisted to form the
first Maoriland Miners’ Federation, of which
he became president. The record of his
nephew, Hamilton Knight, reads much the
same; he, too, was born on the old goldfield,
and became president of the Western Miners’
Federation before going to Macquarie-street
as M.L.A. for Hartley last year.
Gilbert and Sullivan opera cos. visiting
Sydney and desiring to localise the “Captain
Shaw” ditty have been baffled by the fact
that the Fire Chief was called Jackson. Not
without outraging the memories of lyrist and
composer can it be suggested that a man with
a name like that is a “type of true love kept
under.” But Jackson is retiring, and lus
deputy is Nance. The old brigadier comes
from Shakspeare’s birthplace; he ran away
to sea in boyhood, and. after knocking about
the oceans, reached Sydney, to become a
fire-fighter for 40 years.
Arthur Renard, a foundation member of
the Vic. Automobile Association, claims the
distinction of being the first motorist to be
fined in that State. In 1903 he had the
temerity to outdistance a cable tram. A
police-inspector happened to be aboard, and
saw the awful sight. Renard had to pay
10s. for exceeding the hackney-carriage limit
of 12 m.p.h.
Dead in Portuguese East Africa, Dr.
Claude Fuller, one of the many Australians
whose talents have been appreciated abroad.
Born at Castle Hill in N.S.W., Claude Fuller
went from the State Agricultural Depart-
ment to a billet in South Africa after the
Boer War. He rose to be head of the
Union’s Entomological Department, a very
important one in that land of locusts, on
which pest he became one of the world's
authorities. He was engaged on special work
for the Government of Mozambique when a
motor accident closed the chapter.
Kyneton (Vic.) is scoring politically.
Argyle and Morley, Ministers in McPher-
son’s Cabinet, were born in the district, and
so was R. D. Elliott, the new Cocky Sena-
tor. Geoff. Hurry, re-elected M.H.R. for
Bendigo, is another native of Kyneton and
a solicitor there, as was his father before
him; and Willie Watt, Balaclava’s choice,
who was twice Premier of Vic. before be-
coming Treasurer under Hughes, saw the
light at Barfold, a few miles beyond Kyneton.
The district still talks of the public welcome
it gave Willie in 1911, when he was Acting-
Premier.
Michael Terry and James Keysen have
just dropped into Adelaide after six months
of out-back work. They drove about 5000
miles in two six-wheel British trucks, with
Australian-made tyres that saw the whole
journey through, rock and spinifex given m.
The- l’oute was from Port Hedland (W.A.)
to Broome, Tanami (N.T.), the Granites
where they pegged out an alluvial claim
and so to Stafford’s station—where native
murders took place lately—Mice Springs,
Marree, and south to Adelaide _ lerry _
going back to work the lease, and is wnti g
a travel-volume meanwhile.
W. F. Latimer has given up Sydney muni-
cipal politics after having been a W oollalira
alderman for 31 years, during 13 of which
he was mayor. Twenty-seven years ago
Latimer became M.L.A. for W oollahra, but,
losing his seat to a Labor man, he was sent
into the Council, to which he still belongs.
By trade he is a draper.
It will be 60 years on Friday since Arch-
deacon Boyce, father of the N.S.W. Attor-
ney-General, was ordained. The vigorous old
man was 84 last April. He belongs to a
Devonshire family, and came Sydney
when a small boy, going to work in the
Union Bank before the church called him.
He was one of the early products of the
Moore Theological College. „
Known to most Maorilanders was “Hun
Parker, the cabbie, who has died at Christ-
church ; he was one of the Cathedral City •>
institutions. Sporting a cream-colored
bowler, with a black patch over his sightless
eye, he took up a stand with his hansom-cab
—one of the few survivors in a town that
reeks with petrol—in front of the cathedral
at three o’clock each afternoon, and there ne
might be found, unless engaged, until two
the next morning. He fought in the Boer
War, and in S’Africa fell foul of a British
officer whom he failed to salute. No. 1 field
punishment was ordered, and Parker was
triced up to a gun-wheel, but there was a
tumultuous rush of Aussies and Fernlanders
who released him; and the matter was
dropped.
John Spence, chairman of the very-pro-
sperous Washington Soul-Pattinson chemist
firm of Sydney, who died last week, learned
his business with Eno, the fruit-salt man.
Outside business his chief occupation was
bowls.
It is nearly 30 years since Apirana
Ngata, Maoriland’s new Minister of Native
Affairs, threw up a law practice so
that he might teach his people how to
make use of their acres. His ambitions m
that respect have never faltered, and after
establishing several communal sheep-farms
he has turned his attention to dairying. At
Buaroria, Poverty Bay, he has under Ins
a>gis a number of Maori cow-cockies, who
are doing well. Recently the- Dairy Division
sent out an instructor who filled the minds
of Hori and Henare with visions of the wealth
to be obtained from keeping pigs. A deputa-
tion was sent to Ngata to get him to finance
them He made a few calculations and
said-’ “Go into the fern, catch as many pigs
as you can, and try to fatten them. If you
can make them pay we ll have another
korero.” There hasn’t been another korero.
Little Teddy Needham, Labor leader in
the Senate, has suffered his third experience
of the fickleness of
COHEN , M.L.C. ,
the new Vic.
Minister of
Education.
electors. Needham
first arrived in the
Westralian Le g.
Assembly in 1904
on the wave that
gave Groperland
its first Labor Gov-
ernment. He lost
his seat (for Fre-
mantle) a year
later, but was sent
to the Senate in
1906 and stayed
there until 1919.
Those were the
halcyon days for
Labor candidates in
Westralia; from
the first Federal
election till the
split on conscrip-
tion in 1916 no
anti-Labor Sena-
torial candidate
ever had a chance.
Things have
altered materially
since.
“Narac”: The late J. P. D. Laurie (B.
12/12/’2B) endeared himself to the S. Aus.
squatters of his district and generation by
getting the bill for the railway from Kingston
to Wolseley carried., after an impassioned
speech concluding with a line from Campbell’s
poem “Kosciusko” : “‘O Heaven!’ he cried,
‘my bleeding country save.’ ” Shortly after-
wards he was the guest of honor at a squat-
ter’s home, dinner being followed by a sing-
song. Tiring of this, the woolgrower announced
a change of programme. “Mi*. Laurie,” he
said, “will now favor us with a repetition
of that famous speech of his about his
blanky country.”
HOMELAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ě
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
Figures regarding the belts used ou every drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts wear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a source of trouble through faulty Belting
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
iffiil- SSpre ,° f ,U 1G luahty and serviceability of his belting equipment—of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep. . P ment—ot
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
SvONEfS
H
•nsHio
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND; Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Philp & Co -> Ltd -. Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton
Auckland. v ’
Patterson tfc Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HAVE YOU MADE YOUR WILL?
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (Limited) is specially qualified to act
TINUITY OF ai MANACF e MFNT mo r s advantages are—SECURITY, CON-
IINUIiY OF MANAGEMENT (it does not die), ACCESSIBILITY (it is
always available to its clients), EXPERIENCE (it ba® U an Ji A j i .
da,, of asset). It, CHARGES ARE MODERATE ' V " y
DIRECTORS
T. H. KELLY (Chairman).
Dr. R. L. FAITHFULL.
Sir SAMUEL HORDERN.
WALTER T. BRUNTON.
HERBERT R, LYSAGHT.
SIIEPHEARD E. LAIDLEY.
Managing Director; R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE
PERPETOAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Write For Booklet.
Manager; H. V. DOUGLASS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1918.. 90,571 12* p.c. = 75,625 14,946 104,590
1919.. 100,866 12i „ „ 75,625 25,241 129,831
Premiums on new shares, £6906 .. 136,737
1920.. 123,365 12J p.c. = 91,595 31,770 168,507
1921.. 92,109 122 „ „ 91,595 514 169,021
1922.. 103,948 12* „ „ 91,595 12,353 181,374
1923.. 135,395 13§ ~ ~100,754 34,641 216,015
1924.. 139,941 13f „ ~108,917 31,024 247,039
Premiums on new shares, £17,084 .. 264,123
1925.. 132,639 13J p.c. = 122,782 9,857 273,980
Premiums on new shares, £17,403.. 291,383
1926.. 139,796 132 p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 .. .. .. 761,503
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
1927.. 159,103 112 P-c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928.. 154,084 10 „ „ 139,578 14,506 346,978
The drop in the div. rate fits in with
market anticipations. Last year’s 10 p.c.,
equal to 15 p.c. on the face value of
old holdings, called for £14,410 more
than 13| p.c. did two years earlier. That
was because one bonus share was handed
out for every two shares held about 18
months ago. The gift, which called for
£455,492, was equal to an average of 5 p.c.
for 10 years on paid capital as it stood
immediately before, the distribution. It was
provided by writing up the book value of the
co.’s holdings in subsidiaries by that
amount, thus making the entry that
much nearer its real worth. In addition,
27,000 shares were issued at par to
employees. All that and 2305 shares issued
for other than cash last year made paid
capital £1,395,781 at Oct. 31. Following
the capitalisation there was a spring of
£19,307 in the declared net profits, which
reached the record figure of £159,103. Last
year’s visible result was £5019 short of that
total. The co.’s interests outside Australia
sent along £43,879 net, or £8674 more than
in the previous year, but Australian
investments brought in only £110,205, as
against £123,897 for the year to Oct. 31,1927.
The drop there was partly because of price-
cutting following unequal competition from
Government-assisted canneries in Victoria
and N. S. Wales, which are being run at a
heavy loss. One result of this is that the
Henry Jones organisation is liquidating
three of its manufacturing plants in Victoria.
It is nearly 20 years since the -late Henry
Jones and his able lieutenant, Arch. Palfrey-
man, formed the present co., which bought
all the, or a controlling number of, shares
in some of the leading jam cos. in Hobart,
Melbourne and Sydney, and thus put new
life into the industry. 'Since those days
there have been other local purchases and
extensions overseas. The co. stepped in
where there was waste in buying and selling,
and overlapping and inefficiency in organisa-
tion. and reduced the lot to a minimum.
It thus placed production on a better basis.
Also it has sought and won an export trade,
an example worth encouraging. Last year the
co.’s income from outside the Commonwealth
was nearly three times greater than it was
10 years ago, while the return from Austra-
lian investments was less than one-third
greater than the 1918 figure.
As usual all assets are lumped in one
entry and labelled “Investments in the Com-
monwealth of Australia. S. Africa, New Zea-
land and England.” The book value of the
lot at Oct. 31 was £2.081.722. up £60.889
during the year, notwithstanding the Vic-
torian liquidations. The increase over the
last 10 years amounts to no less than
£1,406,958. On the other side of the sheet
the amount due to associated cos. (£251,422)
moved up £43,904 during the last 12 months.
The figures suggest that the co.’s interests,
which include much more than jam-
and sauce-making and fruit-preserving,
are growing fast. Since the co. got out of
the San Francisco fruit-canning business'
about three years ago, it has bought an addi-
tional factory in S. Africa, taken over the
Stanmore Preserving Co.. Sydney, and ex-
tended its interests to Maoriland. In the
Dominion the jam business of Kirkpatrick
and Co., Nelson, was absorbed and a new
factory put up in the North Island. A year
ago timber mills disappeared from the
grouped assets without comment. Maybe
they were sold; if so, just what the result
was it is impossible to say, so completely
is the situation obscured. But the
market has been rewarded for its faith
in the management with a long run
of good divs. and the recent capi-
talisation. Visible reserves, £346,978 at
Oct. 31, ard all used in the business; the
real position, therefore, depends upon the
strength in the subsidiaries. On that point
the chairman gives his comforting assurance
that not only are assets, including premises,
plant, stocks, book debts, etc., very con-
servatively valued, but in addition the sub-
sidiary cos. have substantial unexpended re-
serves. In these circumstances the 10 p.c.
is probably safe enough, but it is doubtful
whether an early repetition of gift-giving
need be looked for.
On the market buyers offer 365. 6d. for the
pound shares. The return at that figure is
only 54 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. It is
very flattering to the management.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1915 \ 56 > 928 P - - = 18,750 38,178 241,907
( Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 141,907
1916.. 61,323 124 p.c. = 31,250 30,073 171,980
1917 i 76,328 124 „ „ 31,250 45,078 217,058
1 Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 117,058
1918.. 122,390 124 p.c. = 43,750 78,640 195,698
1919.. 127,596 12f „ „ 43,750 83,846 279,544
Transferred to capital, £150,000.. 129,544
1920.. 131,621 p.c. = 62,500 69,121 198,665
Transferred from contingency
reserve, £30,000 .. .. 228,665
1921.. 106,677 12J p.c. = 62,500 44,177 272,842
1922.. 97,772 124 „ „ 62,500 35,272 308,114
1923.. 100,552 124 „ „ 62,500 38,052 346,166
1924.. 102,266 124 „ „ 62,500 39,766 385,932
1925.. 104,560 124 „ ~ 62,500 42,060 427,992
1926.. 144,529 124 ~ ~ 62,500 82,029 510,021
1927.. 140,526 124 „ „ 62,500 78,026 588,047
1928.. 125,869 124 „ „ 62,500 63,369 651,416
Heavy losses, a general experience amongst
underwriters last year, were responsible for
the drop of £14,657 in net earnings. But
the co.’s wide-spread business continues to
expand; last year’s harvest, measured in net
premium income (£882,801), was £61,033
bigger than its immediate predecessor. How-
ever, the underwriting profit (£51,148) was
±21,011 poorer, but that fall was softened
by an extra £6353 received in interest and
rents (£74,721). What means more is
that these latter were £12,221 in excess of
the amount the 12£ p.c. div. called for. The
year’s total profit was actually 25.1 p.c. on
paid capital, or approximately 34 p.c. better
than the average net return over the preced-
ing seven years, and that despite the fact
that the loss rate was the heaviest since the
nineties of last century. Another thing that
catches the eye is that reserves at Sept. 30
were £151,416 in excess of the round half-
million of paid capital, of which £425,000
represents gift issues. And in addition to the
attractions on view there is something tucked
away for contingencies. This is locked up
with sundry creditors, reinsurances and
claims, in at £466,354.
Ever since the long-sighted James Burns
founded this business, about 42 years ago,
it has been blessed with energetic manage-
ment and a sound policy. The growth of the
undertaking is reflected in the expansion of
net premium incomes. Here are comparisons
of underwriting performances since 1895 :
_ Net „ _ Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £40,681 £28,703 £13,058 70.7 p.c. 32.1 p.c
1900. . 75,310 44,053 20,529 58 5 ”7 2
1905.. 74,118 43,129 26,020 58.2 35’l ”
1910.. 124,213 60,286 47,911 48 5 38 5 ”
1915.. 240,849 118,126 81 098 49.0 33 6 ”
1920.. 440,021 169,775 180,277 38.6 40'9
1922.. 430,118 201,785 177,377 46.9 41’2 ”
1923.. 462,607 219,161 193,665 47 4 ” 41’s ”
MJ24.. 509,200 269,970 191,929 53.0 37 7 ”
1925.. 556,191 289,791 219,851 52 1 ’ 39 5 ”
1926.. 727,923 403,605 239,867 55 4 32 9 ”
1927.. 821,768 472,646 276,963 57.5 ” 33'7 ”
1.928.. 882,801 532,457 299,196 60.3 ” 33)9 ”
The most profitable period in the co.’s his-
tory was the 10 years to 1920. During this
time net premiums aggregated almost double
those of the preceding 24 years, while total
net profits were almost four times greater.
But over the last eight years claims have
taken a heavier toll, the loss rate has climbed
steadily from 38.6 p.c. in 1920 to 60.3 p.c.
last year, and, of course, that lia s had its
effect upon profits, notwithstanding that net
premium income lias more than doubled and
that the expense ratio—33.9 p.c. last year
has been worked down by no less than 7 p.c.
i latter is a very creditable performance
considering that branches were opened at
Calcutta, New York and Montreal during
the period in question. Still, last year’s
underwriting result, which dropped to 5 8
5: C q P 2 f tlle nat income, was worth
£1367 more than. 10.8 p.c. was in 1923.
flSOODn' l^ i ar + 6 well P ro tected; the
±380,000 set aside to cover unexpired risks
is more than the 40 p.c. usually looked upon
ill vn'4i«°, d „r e - r ?° , p ' c i ot the S£
t±1,151,416) are m handy form: -
, 1927 ■>, , 1928— —^
Government securities. . £731 374 itj'o r-« r 1 P' c :
Municipal securities .. 45 115 ’ ’
Deposits, cash, sundry ’ 107,004 6.4
Premises*’ " TM 4 48 ’ 8 677,024 40.3
emises .. . . 131,764 8.2 133,491 7.9
The year’s surplus earnings and more went
into Government and municipal securities,
and that promises well for a further advance
in interest earnings, which, together with
rents, were equal to nearly 6.5 p.c. on total
visible funds at Sept. 30.
The market, eager in its anticipations of
benefits, pays 635. 3d. for the pound shares.
At that price the immediate return is a shade
under 4 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis. A gift
issue in the proportion of one for two would
make the return, on the same div. basis, a
whisper under 6 p.c., and would add £31,250
to last year’s div. requirements. And then
they would call for less than three-quarters
of the £125,869 netted last year.
Amalgamated Textiles (Australia), Ltd.
This co. operates mills at Albury and
Orange, N.S.W. It was registered in March,
1923, and after initial difficulties, which
threatened the co. with disaster, had been
overcome, the Albury mill—it supplies the
Orange plant with tops, etc. —began work
early in 1925, but the full plant there was
not eai-ning until September, 1926. At
Orange full production commenced early in
1927. Although trading conditions were
favorable, operations for the 12 months to
September 30, 1927. resulted in a loss of
£8829. The board blamed the management,
a change in the control was made, and the
trading position over the last half of that
term showed distinct improvement. Thus
the co.’s last fiscal year opened with bright
prospects of the final result being on the
right side of the ledger. But hopes have been
deferred by trade depression, which deepened
as the year advanced. The dulness put an
edge on competition, and that made business
more expensive to get; also, selling prices
were a bit finer. The orders won were suffi-
cient only to keep the plants running half-
time over the last six months of the term.
Moreover, the price of greasy wool was from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c. stronger than in the pre-
vious year; so from one cause and
another a loss of £5lOl showed up for
the 12 months to September 30. That it was
not greater was largely due to the manage-
ment’s commendable effort in making a cut
of £ll.OOO in manufacturing costs. The
year’s result was written after £10,778 had
been put by for depreciation, and that was
£2500 more than was set aside for that pur-
pose in the previous term. It made the total
provision £18.971, equal to 5.9 p.c. of the
book value of plant, etc., at September 30.
When the co. bought textile machinery
prices were much higher than they are to-
day, and in this kind of business plant calls
for a pretty heavy maintenance bill and de-
preciates rapidly; future results, therefore,
will partly depend upon whether allowances
have been sufficient. During the five and a
half years since registration, the co. has
made losses aggregating £52,513, of which
£46,464 have been capitalised, leaving £6049
on the wrong side of the p. and 1. account
when the books were last ruled off. In addi-
tion, formation and preliminary exes had
swallowed £34,629, largely the result of am-
bitious share-selling in the early stages. Thus
with only 16s. Id. of each £1 of paid capital
represented by tangible assets, the board has
a very difficult row to hoe.
Paid capital at September 30 was
£448,079, of which £5560 came in during the
year, and there was £36,775 of calls in
arrears, the residue of an unpaid £87,075
on the books two years earlier. It was the
outcome of the decision—sound in the cir-
cumstances—not to establish works at Tam-
worth. Here is the co.’s position, as far as
balance-sheet figures disclose it:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £291,990 £400,779 £442,519 £448,079
Overdraft .. 34,732 33,429 54 883
Sundry creditors 2,318 8,249 17,437 5,569
Freeholds .. 49,033 85,990 89,301 89 301
Plant, etc. . : . 139,436 200,332 210,566 211 065
Fittings .. 580 920 1,012 1,018
Stocks .. 20,573 65,410 85,615 99,735
Book debts .. 7,549 7,480 20,170 27,416
Shares in other
„ cos. • • 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
Cash, etc. .. 13,334 1,952 2,934 2 408
Intangibles .. 53,803 71,676 81,988 87,159
The year’s difficult trading is reflected in a
fuller storeroom and extended credits. Stocks
are up £14,120, and books debts are £7246
heavier. To finance these additions and
clip £11,868 off the amount coming to trade
creditors the board went to its bankers for
an extra £21,454. The net increase in the
debt was thus £9586, but stocks, book debts
and cash, etc., were up £20.840, so the more-
or-less liquid siirplus (£69,107) was £11,254
stronger than at the previous balance. No-
thing is said as to the basis on which stocks
have been valued, and much depends upon
that.
The co. is struggling hard to establish
itself, and its prospects are far from dis-
couraging. Provided costs can be kept back
the nature of future results will largely de-
pend upon the extent to which the plant can
be kept employed. It is claimed that the
co.’s products, mostly worsteds, have been
favorably received by the trade, and orders
are now coming along more freely. But
competition is keen, and before shareholders
can expect anything much in the way of
returns there are the intangibles calling for
reduction.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
, Dividends x Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
Sept.,’22. .15,324 2799 Nil 12,525 35,766
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c. = 12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4000 3 „ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „ „ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. = 16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 82,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 18,229110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8 „ ~ 20,000 15,422145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 400010 „ „ 25,000 9,580155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 400010 „ „ 25,000 13,142168,365
Mar., ’2B. .48,169 400010 ~ ~ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 400012 „ „ 30,000 13,085 200,619
Conditions were not all that they might
have been, yet for the 12 months to Sep-
tember 30 this old-established wholesale book,
newsagency and paper business was able to
write gross profits at £159,039, or £15,301
more than for the previous year. Most of
the improvement was in the March half,
which includes the Christmas trade. Gross
profits then reached their peak figure,
£80,872; they fell away £2705 during the last
half. But what means more is that the
year’s brisker trading was done at an extra
cost of only £769; thus the net result bene-
fited by £14,532. Shareholders joined in the
prosperity during the last half, when a bonus
at the rate of 2 p.c. p.a. was handed out
with the 10 p.c. div. That called for an
extra £5OOO, and then less than 60 p.c. of
the year’s net profit was distributed. After
handing the prefs. their £BOOO, the balance
of the year’s net earnings mounted to 17.6
p.c. on average ordinary capital. For the
preceding 12 months the ratio was 14.5 p.c.,
and then 15.7, 19 ) 13.3 and 12.3 p.c. back
to 1923. They are surprisingly good results
considering that the net tangible assets at
work amounted to only 225. 9d. for each 20s
of paid capital at September 30. Goodwill
still figures in the books at £118,074. Never-
theless, given normal conditions, and pro-
vided exes, can be kept in hand and adequate
provision, has been made for contingencies,
the 12 p.c. to shareholders should not be a
very difficult matter.
It is only nine years since the pre-
sent co. took over the Gordon and Gotch
businesses which were, and still are, scattered
throughout Australia and Maoriland. At
first progress was slow. Later a lot of money
was spent on premises; most of the £200,000
of new capital got in over the last half-
dozen years went into additions and altera-
froDs ,to the co.’s Brisbane, Sydney and
Adelaide warehouses. So until quite recently
there were considerable sums of money repre-
sented by "property that was not bringing in
much return. Also better trading conditions
111 Maoriland have assisted recent earnings
there —it is doubtful whether Maoriland
hitherto contributed much to the pool—and
all told there has been a marked improve-
ment in the figures.
This and other things are reflected in
balance-sheet movements:—
p.. .. , Mar.,’27. Sept.,’27. Sept.,’2B.
Raid capital . . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 69,000 66,357 45,009
Sundry creditors.. 127,050 147,941 132,532
Bank overdraft . . 79,880 108,389 84,151
Liabilities .. £275,930 £322,687 £261,692
Freeholds .. £199,230 £208,015 £209,494
Leaseholds . . 25,515 25,333 24,403
Riant, fixtures, etc. 46,595 52,655 52,284
Stock .. . 322,896 326,247 292,164
Book debts . . 353,249 390,158 386,927
Other assets . . 18,560 23,658 41,051
Tangible assets.. £966,045 £1,026,066 £1,006 323
During the year £21,348 was paid off the
moitgages (£45,009), the overdraft (£84,151)
was reduced £24,238, and the amount coming
L a SrZ dltot ?, (£132,532) was worked
ei W1 j £l°’4o9. Altogether the reduction in
the debt was £60,995. Stocks, book debts
cash, etc., were drawn upon fbr only £l9 921 •
TiSL moro-or-les.s liquid surplus
(£458,450) was £41,074 stronger than at
> eptember 30, 1927. Another pleasing move-
Ruction of £34,083 in stocks
lt suggests a speeding up in
turnover, and means, amongst other things
that there is less upon the shelves carrvin*
interest on overdraft. Nothing is said as tS
the basis on which stocks have been written
into the sheet, but taking the past as a
See “ S uulikely that they 1 are oler-
m£ ht 3s on fid surprised the market, which
Ef„ d , d3s - 6d - the ords. a month ago;
for tL S r 6S We ]'V at 36s - Aft er allowing
fio^urt h Vn ci an<l b ° nus the return at that
figure is 6.9 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
the prefs. 235. 6d. is paid, at which
?nnn t h< e return is 6.9 p.c. There are
fivod ooo them, and they are entitled to a
lxed cumulative 8 p.c., so their annual re-
quirements were covered over 13 times hv
last year’s net profit. But they are not ore
ferential as to capital. The net tangible
backing, therefore, is 225. 9d. for all shares
approximately 9s. 6d. of it is in fixed
assets, mostly freehold. a


■f
/
10
'rk‘ i
B
RLEXIhe Ideal‘Watch for the
‘Business Man!
ytiE “Rolex" is the smartest
wrist match on the market.
t]et for all its good looks “Rolex"
is built to stand hard knocks—a
silent ticker that neuer fails you—
always accurate and dependable.
.Tiny leading jeweller can show
you a full range of “Rolex "
both wrist and pocket watches. t,
Look for the name “Rolex” on the dial,
or the movement, or inside the case
Resolutely refuse substitutes.
K®LEX
'Wrist and Pocket Watckes
lor Men and 'Women
“The world’s best by Observatory testl
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
£ s| >:
N
AERTEX
«+
li.y -v ”*,*
sr
A
■n
s 'I
m
comfort
Sudden
APPY and cool on the
hottest tropical night is
the man who knows the
of AERTEX pyjamas.
changes of temperature
cannot affect him, for the cellular
AERTEX fabric keeps his skin cool
and fresh and insulates him from
heat and cold alike. Sound and re
freshing sleep is the boon bestowed
on the wearer of AERTEX pyjamas
In two popular qualities—the original 931
and the lower-priced 88 quality.
Obtainable from all Hosiers,Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., <who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
rs
54x»X*N»XW*!|tNHi***
,MX«\»!tSX«r«r«*N*s*®
/6x*n«\*xbx»x<Sn%nß'‘%>„
\*\»X«i\»X<fcXßXßX%\*%«\X
~ iV»X*XttX*XBNIit<«X*X*X«» , ' ii
/XBNSxeXttXßXfeXaxllgXßXaxftU
l [*x*x*\**%x'6tXSx*\«xttN.*M
B\*\»X*N«sC%*i»*«X«Sfc*»si«l
Vt»x«x«ixer<«x«x«x«x«x«i/i
„li*K%NSX*S*S«*K«l!i%%«S*w//
>»V<»N&X*.\».N«rKttXfc^
The famous AERTEX open weave.
A. 5
‘‘The Best Paying Life
Office in the World.”
Mr. George Crowley tells the Story
of a Great Ambition.
THE GOLDEN JUBILEE OF THE CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY.
THE City Mutual Life Assurance
Society will celebrate its Jubilee this
Christmas.
“It is going back a few years to 1878,”
said Mr. George Crowley during the week
at the Society’s Head Office in Bligh-street,
which has been the home of the institution
now for almost 40 years. “I was at school
then, and was not connected with the
society for years afterwards, The institu-
tion was founded by a kinsman of mine,
the late J. P. Garvan, and there were then
only, so far as I can recollect, two other
Mutual Life Offices in Australia. Sydney,
of course, was a very small place compared
with its present colossal size, and my first
recollection of the old office over Hunter’s
building in George street, opposite the
Markets, was that of a Sydney just begin-
ning to grow up.
“ ‘The Old Mutual,’ as the Australian
Mutual Provident Society was then gener-
ally known by, was really the only office
spoken of in connection with Life Assurance.
It had been then in existence for some-
thing like 30 years, and was capably
managed.
“We had the usual ups and downs of
beginners in business, but one experience
in the early ’nineties was one I shall never
forget. We had bought the land where this
office now stands, and we were erecting the
building, when, to our horror, the bank
troubles occurred and our bank closed its
doors.
“The day before the doors were closed
the architect for the building, the late G. A.
Mansfield, had given a certificate for a draw
to the contractor of something like £5OOO
or £6OOO, and, of course, we could not meet
it. The bank had closed its doors, so that
our cheque was temporarily valueless. We
hadn’t more than £4O or £5O in the cash-
box, so what were* we to do? The con-
tractor was very upset. He had to pay his
workmen and we were m a nice position.
Those few banks that did remain open were
too scared to open new accounts, and after
hunting round half the city, I was fortunate
enough to come across a Mr. Hellicar, who
was then running the Bank of Australasia
in Lower George Street.
“He listened to my suggestion, secured
the bank by taking over sundry assets
which the society had, and the difficulty
was temporary solved, but it was an anxious
time all the same. We never knew what
bank was going to close its doors next.
The assets were there all right, but there
was a run on gold, and one of my hap-
piest recollections is an interview I had one
afternoon going home up the Parramatta
River with the late Sir George Dibbs, who
was then the Premier.
“I suggested to him that the position
was quite solid enough and that the trouble
was only a transitory one, so I urged upon
him the wisdom of making bank-notes
legal tender for six months until the panic
had subsided. This was done, and, as soon
as confidence was restored again, business
went along the same as usual.
“Of course, property slumped badly for
some years afterwards. We paid £25,000
for the land on which this building stands.
Eight years afterwards the opposite corner
where Uhde’s Hotel stood (you might re-
member the hotel with the old Norfolk Pine
through the middle of the bar), with a
better frontage, a better depth and the
better side of the street, was offered to us
for £Booo—less than one-third of what we
paid for this comer.
“And that’s one of the reasons why we
are cautious now over our investments,
especially in city properties. There was a
boom in land prior to the burst up of the
building societies and banks, and prices
attained a peak in those far-off days which
they were not warranted in attaining.
“The progress of the old society, how-
ever, from that time onward was slow and
steady. Each year we endeavored to make
better than the last, with the result that the
funds of the society now stand at well over
£5,000,000, as compared with £50,000 in the
days of which I am speaking.
“After we had got along a few years I
conceived the idea of making the society
the best paying Life Office in the world, and
I can assure you that it was no easy task.
Our most formidable competitor was the
A.M.P. Society, which had the prestige of
many years to its credit. It was a house-
hold name in Life Assurance. It was able to
obtain its business at a much less rate than
a newer institution, and its bonuses were
the envy of us all.
“But a stern chase is a long chase,” said
Mr. Crowley, thinking of his old rowing
days. “There were many anxious hours
and days, aye, and years before we realised
our ideal, I saw, however, that the passport
to life-assurance prosperity was large
bonuses. The people then, as now, seemed
to like to get something for nothing, and,
although they were paying for these bonuses,
in a way, out of the premiums on their
policies, still, unquestionably, the public de-
mand was for bonus additions to the
policies.
“So we limited our new business, selected
it with care, paid no extravagant rates of
commission to get it, nursed the renewal
premiums, and invested the funds soundly
with ever-increasing yearly results.
“You may remember a big deal I did
once in connection with the purchase of a
New South Wales Stock. It was the time
of the See Government, and the Opposition,
consisting of our old friend, G. H. Reid,
Joe Carruthers and others, were doing their,
best, and did their best, to depreciate the
price of New South Wales Stock on the
London market.
“As a matter of fact, a section of the
New South Wales Stock was quoted in
London at £7l per cent., that was £29 under
par, and I remember that I advised the
Board one day to buy a large parcel of
£200,000 which was on the market. Well,
we bought it. It cost us something like
£140,000. The See Government went out of
power. The other side got in and duly
boosted the Stock, with the result that
within 18 months we sold the whole of our
holding at par and netted something like
£60,000 on the transaction.
“I was a much younger man then, and
I am afraid that I took risks which I
would not care to take now. But some-
how I had the idea in those days that city
properties were lower than their real value,
partly as a result of the 'doing’ we got
in the early ’nineties, and I advised my
directors to buy city properties which were
returning 6 per cent, and 7 per cent, interest,
and when the big rise came we sold and put
the profit in reserve for the benefit of the
policy-holders.
“That, I suppose, to a large extent ex-
plains the reason why the City Mutual
to-day is paying, and has paid for many
years past, higher bonuses than any other
life office in the world.
“But I am not quite satisfied with a lot
of things just now,” concluded Mr. Crowley,
“and we are going very, very slowly. I
don’t like the idea of the Government,
advancing 90 per cent, on mortgages, and I
certainly don’t like the idea of the very
heavy extra taxation which every life office
is called upon to pay. We can pay it, and,
of course, we shall pay it without complaint,
but at the same time it seems to me as if
it is high time attention was called to the
unwarranted extravagance of both Federal
and State Governments.- .
“It is a matter which deeply affects the
future of life offices, and it deeply affects
the future of every citizen in the com-
munity.”


(ff
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
nHunfe
E
[PREPARED,!
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON/"
1
si;
D
is
“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
DECEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -f- GF -4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Motor Body Builders. /‘The Arnold” Spray Equip-
ment gives perfect and economical finish. Write for
Booklet “C” to R. W. Cameron and Co. Inc., 24
Bond Street, Sydney. —Advt.
The simple installation involved with Pioneer Wood
Pipe has solved many problems of difficult fluid
conveyance. The additional advantages of low cost,
long life, maximum delivery, purity of contents and
imperviousness to corrosion, rust and foreign elements,
constitute it an ideal medium for any class of work.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventous. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * Hs «j:
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
r
&
L
BOORD^SO*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
DTi
-Swift & Company L,td.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney"
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
{The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients* interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A. LL-.D (Vice-Chairman)
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart,’ J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CTIAS. R. SMTBKRT. General Manager V. G. WATSON, Manager.
■ ■ rnTin
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 6,130 10 p.c. = 3720 2,410 3,099
1919.. 6,103 124 „ „ 4650 1,453 4,552
Added to goodwill. £2OO .. 4,352
Premium on new shares, £1792 6,144
1920.. 15,193 10 p.c. = 5811 9,382 15,526
1921.. 3,947 10 „ „ 7500 11,973
1922.. 12,632 10 „ „ 7500 5,132 17,105
1923.. 17,736 10 „ „ 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 „ „ 7500 6,623 33,964
1925.. 14,307 124 „ „ 9375 4,932 58.596
'1926.. 13,913 124 „ „ 9375 4,538 43 434
1927.. 12,980 124 „ „ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary, exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 124 p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
This Melbourne co., which makes counter-
salesbooks and other commercial stationery
and has factories at Sydney and Perth, re-
cently extended its activities to Brisbane,
where a property was bought and new plant
installed about a year ago. For the 12
months to Oct. 31 the new factory was run
at a loss, the amount of which has not been
disclosed. But the Brisbane business is now
reported to be well established, and is ex-
pected to make a better showing during the
current term. All the other factories are
claimed to be turning in satisfactory results,
though the 44-liour week, which became
operative in the printing trade in Victoria
during the year, must have helped overhead
along. Gross profits (£45,008) were only
£204 poorer, but exes. (£32,690) were £1762
heavier. The plant renewals reserve (£6059)
—it is included with the lay-by in the table,
hence movements therein affect profits—was
drawn upon for £941 as against £1303 in
the previous term, so the shrinkage in the
year’s net result was £1604.
Nevertheless the final figure (£11,376) was
a comfortable 15.1 p.c. on capital compared
with 17.3, 18.5, 19, 18.8 and 23.6 p.c. back
to 1923. The downward trend of the figures
is largely the result of mounting costs. Since
1923 £7219 has been added to exes., while the
expansion in gross trading profits was only
£1466. The difference has been partly offset
by profits from the sale of freehold and better
returns from the Westralian subsidiary
which paid 10 p.c. for the last four years
and 5 p.c. before that.
Recent activities are reflected in balance-
sheet movements:—
1923.- 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £75,000 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities . . 8,339 8,361 12,898 16,279
Premises .. . . 25,426 34,800 39,203 41,492
Plant, etc. .. 27,635 33,437 39,791 41,150
Stock . . . . 18,919 25,110 28,741 27,260
Book debts . . 20,602 20,824 23,580 23,289
Cash and sundries 9,514 8,915 912 2,143
Shares in other cos. 13,334 13,334 13,334 15,000
Over the last two years £6692 has been
added to the book value of freeholds, in at
valuation (£41,492 at Oct. 31, and worth a
lot more), and £7713 more has been spent on
plant than has been written off. To do this
and ehrry heavier stocks and book debts the
board lias added only £7918 to the debt. Thus
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£36,413) is
£10,075 lighter than it was at the close of
accounts in 1926.
Competition in the trade remains keen,
but the co. lias shown that it can win a good
share of the business offering; and to assist
each £1 of paid capital there are visible
reserves amounting to 12s. lid., most of
which has been accumulated in the last
decade. During that time shareholders have
averaged 11£ p.c. p.a. The market, which
has no doubts about the eo.'s ability to main-
tain a 121 p.c. div. offers 365. for the scrip,
at which figure the return is 6.7 p.c.
Broomfields, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 23.540 124 p.c. = 9,657 13,883 33,716
Reserves capitalised, £31,500 .. 2,216
1921.. 12,166 7* p.c. = 11,693 473 2,689
Loss. Deficit.
1922:. 45,644 Nil 42,955
Capital written down, £42,657 .. 298
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 3,740 24 p.c. = 3,165 575 277
Loss. Deficit.
1924.. 4,859 Nil 4,582
Assets written down, £38,340 .. 42,922
Profit.
1925.. 266 Nil 266 42,656
Capital written down, £42,656..
Reserves,
1926.. 15,894 3 p.c. = 2,544 13,350 13,350
1927.. 3,900 4 „ „ 3,399 501 13,851
1928.. 2,409 3 „ „ 2,551 13,709
This is the co. which took over the ship-
chandlery business of John Broomfield in
193 7; it recently added general hardware
to" its activities. For a few years it did
well. Conditions looked so rosy in 1920
that £31,500 of bonus scrip was handed out.
The post-war slump shattered values, which
have failed to recover, and in an effort to
right the position two cuts of ss. each were
made in capital. Of the £42,656 lopped off
in 3925, £23,105 represented a reduction in
the book value of stocks. This writing dowu
had its effect upon the following year’s
profits, which climbed to 18.7 p.c. on the
reduced capital. But slow-moving lines are
poor profit-earners, especially when com-
petition is keen and trading conditions are
dull ; hence last year’s net result, equal to
only 2.8 p.c. on capital, was little better
than half the previous year’s figure. Mainly
owing to shipping hold-ups gross profit
(£36,627) fell away £2801; exes. (£34,218)
were cut back only £7lO, and nothing was
visibly set aside for taxation. It is claimed
that, the co. got its fair proportion of the
business offering. Still £142 more was dis-
tributed than was earned, though a point
was clipped off the div., reducing it to 3 p.c.,
and making the average over the last seven
years approximately If p.c. With the return
of more favorable trading conditions better
results are expected, but there will need to
he radical changes before anything substan-
tial can be looked for.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1920. 1923. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £86,427 £126,590 £84,927 £85,037
Liabilities . . 29,255 22,703 33,436 33,140
Mortgage .. 25,000 25,060 25,000
Premises & plant 15,319 55,313 44,427 44,361
Stock.. .. 89,463 85,095 78,611 78,140
Book debts . . 52,020 37,058 38,016 36,833
Cash . . . . 1,689 269 158 248
Freehold, buildings, etc., which cost £47,015
are in at £41,650, but only £66 more was
written off than was spent upon plant
(£2711). The morc-or-less liquid surplus
£57,081). including stocks, was £1268
lighter than at the previous balance.
The market looks at earnings and prices
the fully-paid pound shares at 7s. 6d.
as against 11s. a year ago. The return
at the current figure is 8 p.c. on a 3 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 235. 3d.
in net tangibles.
The Queensland Government has decided
to build a railway to Texas, near the
N.S.W. border, and there is probably nobody
better pleased than the Edgar Hall G. M. Co.
at Silverspur. The favorable report of the
Chief Government Geologist as to the values
in the large residues of zinc tailings, as well
as the prospects of developing further silver-
lead-zinc deposits, was probably a big factor
in the decision. Preliminary work on the
line is to be started early in the New Year.
Before then it is hoped to have the restricted
metalliferous area round the mine geophysic-
ally tested with a view to locating further
shoots.
* * * *
The steady climb in copper prices has
again turned attention to the N.Q. copper-
fields. An option over the Ilampton-Clon-
citrry co.’s Queensland assets has been taken
up, and arrangements are being made to
transfer the property. When the deal is
complete about £42,000 is expected to he
available for division amongst vendor share-
holders.
❖ « * *
Mount Elliott, with £400,000 of new capi-
tal, is getting to work on the recommenda-
tion of C. Q. Schlereth, the London expert
who recently inspected and reported on the
properties. The electrolytic plant, designed
by IT. S. Mackay, is to be altered to enable
it to refine up to 3000 tons of blister
monthly. Schlereth has also recommended
that new plant be installed at a cost of
about £200,000 to deal with 200 tons of ore
daily from Mt. Oxide; and that the Con-
sols, Dobbyn and Orphan mines be reopened
and equipped. With the ores in sight, which
range from the 17 p.c. oxides of Mt. Oxide
to the 3 p.c. stuff at Mt.. Elliott, an
operating profit of £1,480,000 is hoped for
from a million tons of feed from mines other
than Mt. Elliott and Argylla, the two low-
grade members of the group. That is on the
basis of £65 a ton for electrolytic copper.
* * * *
The much-talked-of co. for developing the
New Guinea goldfields on a wholesale scale
has been floated in London under the title
of the Ellyou Goldfields Development Corp.
Capital is £300,000 in ss. shares. Leslie
Urquhart receives £54,678, the amount paid
by him for various options on the fields.
London is taking a keen interest in the float,
not only because of the standing of those
backing it, but because it is hoped that the
island field may turn out a genuine bonanza.
* * * *
New Guinea Oil has abandoned its first
bore owing to the difficulty of shutting out a
mud formation encountered. The Common-
wealth Government then intimated that the
subsidy granted the co. applied only to the
No. 1 bore site; it also was of the opinion
that no further bores should be sunk until
some means of overcoming the mud difficulty
had been devised. The Anglo-Persiau Co. s
bore, at Popo, is meeting with the same
trouble, and it has been thought advisable
to await development there. Meantime N. G.
Oil lias decided to mark time and conserve
its funds.
* ❖ *
Adelong Gold Estates gave up dredging in
June last, and set to work to realise some
of its assets. Operations for the half-year
to October 31 show a loss of £2062. Sur-
plus liquids amounted to £4490. Minor
items of the plant and the stores have been
sold, but the dredge, etc., remain intact. The
directors are hopeful of finding a suitable
dredging proposition elsewhere. One or two
properties are on offer, and may be tested
shortly.
One of the veteran mines of Victoria, the
Eldorado Gold Mines Co., Gaffney’s Creek,
shows a loss of £951 for its last six months.
Deadwork was confined to extending No. 2
level to lS4ft. in the hope of cutting the reefs
previously worked in the No. 1 level. The
directors believe that the mine can be suc-
cessfully worked by means of the No. 3 level,
and that ore worth Sdwt. a ton would yield
profits. It seems to be an optimistic view.
* * * *
A new London co. in search of asbestos
is butting in on the Pilbara field (W.A.).
It has £20,000 working capital, and if in-
ducements offer another £5OOO or more will
be found. The quality of Pilbara asbestos
is declared to be the highest in the world
and the possibilities of the field are reckoned
to be “immense.” Part of a recent trial
shipment to London realised £l6O per ton
of 20001 b. Claude de Bernales is off to
London early in the New Year to float a
group of shows which lid recently acquired.
* * :|c =f.
W. A. Manganese Co. has immense deposits
and a railway at its door, but is unable to
market any of its ore abroad owing to lack
of shipping facilities at Geraldton. Until
this is remedied there is little hope of the
co. doing much good for itself. Last year’s
outgoings, including £11,032 interest on de-
bentures, totalled £16,427, and net traffic
receipts and interest amounted to £650,
leaving a loss of £15,771.
* * * *
Paringas have been nibbled at in. London
lately on the strength of an improvement in
the. appearance of a Rhodesian goldmine, in
which the co. has a large holding. The co.’s
other assets include a ne’er-do-well show at
Ivalgoorlie, a share in a Bolivian rubber con-
cern and an alleged golden quarry some-
where else, so shareholders can’t complain on
the score of variety. Shares, however, are
rarely quoted above a shilling,
* * * *
Twin Hills was hailed In Adelaide recently
as a coming Westralian goldfield, but when
option-seekers ceased bidding for shows there
its boosters were speechless. Interest in the
field is so dead that something more than
glowing reports are needed to bring it back
to life.
❖ * *
Some weeks ago the “Wild Cat” suggested
that voluntary liquidation might follow the
sale of Alluvial Tin’s properties in Malaya
to Tin Investments of London. Steps are
now being taken in this direction, and share-
holders will be asked to appoint the present
directorate as liquidators. The co. received
£514,000 for its Lower Perak properties in
addition to 250,000 paids in Lower Perak
Tin Dredging, Ltd., which has an issued
capital of £1,125,000. Alluvial paid a divi-
dend of 20s. per share (£250,000) in Novem-
ber, leaving a cash balance of £264,000 still
in hand. A first liquidation distribution of
20s. per share is to be made early next vear.
* * * *
Director F. F. Munro, who recently
inspected the property of New Pliin Soon
Tin Mines, Ltd., says that one of the two
areas which are the pick of the leases is esti-
mated to contain 2,600,000 c.y. of dirt aver-
aging 1.661 b. t.o. The other consists of
649,000 c.y. going 3.281 b. per yard. It is
estimated that the total content, with tin at
£2OO (London), is worth £331,430. Costs
are not expected to exceed 43 cents —say, lid.
—a yard. The tin is there all right. It
was costs (around 2s. 6d. per yard) com-
bined with the slump in prices that finally
broke the old co.’s back.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spare Towkay”: Burma Malay’s nego-
tiations for mining rights over 1,000,000
acres in the F.M.S. appear to have suffered
a set-back. The option was acquired from
the J. H. Irving group, who held from a
local rajah, who, in turn, held from the Sul-
tan of Pahang. The British Raj, the final
authority in the matter, was supposed to be
favorable to the deal. Therefore there was
mild excitement when D. King, the engineer
employed by the Irving group, was arrested
by the acting-warden at Pahang after being
warned not to prospect in the district. The
engineer’s coolies were also arrested, but all
were released on bail, though some tin oxide
found in the party’s possession was de-
tained. The hearing has been postponed for
a month. The incident is generally re-
garded as a test-case as to British power
in such matters in semi-independent native
States.
sfc * :>! t-
Huey Yot’s turnover for November, 108,000
yards, was better than anything it has yet
achieved in that way, and the return, 38.4
tons of t. 0., was also a record. Costs were
brought down to 5.05 d. a yard. The per-
formance is regarded as a forecast of better
things. This co.’s dredge and that of its
mate. Haad Yai. have hitherto been unable
to dig anything like their nominal capacity.
* * * *
Deebook Tin, which used to work a small
dredge at Renong, sold it in 1917 to Ronpi-
bon Extended for 15.000 £1 shares; from
these it derives wliat income is coming to
it nowadays. The shares have a book value
of £24,450, that being the valuation figure
at the time the dredge was transferred. Dee-
book reports a loss of £BOl for the year to
May 31, which reduces the credit at p. and
1. to £l5ll.
For some time recoveries from the
Extended, which occupies an area adjacent
to Ronpibon, have been poor, and a lot of
trouble has been experienced with stiff clay.
The hard digging has tried the bucket band
severely, and repeated stoppages for repairs
have proved expensive. It is now a ques-
tion of putting in a new band —an expensive
job—or closing down as far as this property
is concerned.
Malim Nawar, whose dredge capsized
some months ago, is installing electric gravel-
pump methods to deal with difficult peaty
ground ahead. The new plant should be at
work about the middle of 1929. A loan of
£25,000 at 8 per cent., repayable at par in
cash or shares at lender’s option, was pro-
vided by the directorate to meet the addi-
tional expense. The loan is secured by
debentures over the co.’s undertakings, and
repayment, at the rate of £5OO per month,
commences in January.


"Look, it's only hauf-fuuu,
I WISH YOU COULD t ELI ME
HOW THAT COMES ABOUT,"
m lt might be solar evaporationV
*Or perhaps THE glass
is absorbent”
M \ have heard of cases vmhere ft flash
qf Lightning has emptied a pond.”
” Might \ suggest That sc>n/\e Rays v/hicia
I have HERE Written about and TENTATIVELY
CALLED XX* COULD BE RESPONSIBLE ? ”
" Didn't You DROP To IT ? IT'S
ONL'i'^HALF-FULL BECAUSE
D/\D ONL.V HA.I_F-FILL.ED IT » ,c
THE ECONOMIC COMMISSION.
“An Economic Commission is touring Australia to discover why Australia’s cup of prosperity is only half-full.”
The average time actually worked at Broken Hill is 32 hours per week The five-day week is the trade-daw in Sydney.. On the waterside in Australia
strikes have consumed one-sixth of the past two years.
Poverty
Point
Lever de Rideau”: When “Marriages Are
Made in Heaven,” a play in which the
Deity appears, was performed in Frankfort,
there was a riot among the German
audience, _ stink-bombs were thrown and
that portion of the audience which did not
escape into the street was nearly asphyxiated.
And yet the Supreme Being has been repre-
sented by an ordinary mummer on the Aus-
tralian stage without causing even mild
resentment. No amount of careful wording
could camouflage the fact that the Examiner
of ‘Outward Bound” was actually the God-
heaa. He heard evidence and delivered
nuagment like the senior Judge of a Celestial
High Court. It all depends on the degree
of taste displayed in handling a theme full
of controversial gelignite.
/-i "K-E.W.”; Australian composer Albert
Coates has been invited to conduct his first
opera, Samuel Pepys,” at Munich next Feb-
ruary, and his “Askburbamipul,” written
around a king of that name who sat on the
throne of Assyria considerably 8.C., is to be
produced at Dresden. Coates, who lately
returned from America, has a prehistoric
opera in mind: after seeing the collection of
ancient stone musical instruments housed at
the Metropolitan Museum, New York, he
thinks it quite possible to write a score for
«uch forerunners of the saxophone.
“Cine Ma”: Ex-Melbourne Herald press-
mah Dale Collins will find his way back to
Australia next year per medium of “Sal of
Singapore,” a screen version of his novel
“The Sentimentalists.” It will be the first
time that fiction by an Australian has found
the screen in New York before coming here.
“C.R,”: There will be no Fuller-Gonsalez
opera in 1929. One reason is the difficulty
of foretelling whether “Rio Rita” will occupy
the Melbourne Princess for ever; another is
the Changed position of the finances due
to the successful demands of the Musicians’
Union for more of the cash. So opera-goers
will have to be content with the silent but
no less voluptuous drama of Pavlova and
her troupe.
“Repat”: “0.R.” (B. 14/11/’2S) was
somewhat out in his dates in giving “When
Knights Were Bold” a life of a generation
or so. _ Originally produced in London in
1906, it was picked by the late Frank
Thornton as a possible winner for Australia,
and he opened his second Australian tour
with it at Melbourne, Princess in 1907.
“Goldilocks”: The cable has sent across
a complimentary comment from London
about the “Romance of Runnibede” film,
which Eva Novak helped to make on the
book of Steele Rudd. The company went
broke when local returns failed to reach the
amounts anticipated (although, actually, the
results were pretty good). At the winding-
up proceedings, Eva Novak had the rights
of the film abroad transferred to her, and
apparently the Australians who lost over the
venture—Steele Rudd included —will get no-
thing but patriotic satisfaction from any
success overseas.
“Hamfat” : Bert Bailey, having wound up
another nine-months’ tour of the evergreen
“On Our Selection,” is getting to work upon
Arthur H. Adams’s “Gallipoli Bill.” He
reckons it will be as much a winner as the
Steele Rudd play. The piece was performed
as Adams wrote it at Manly, but Bert, who
knows his public, has induced the author to
do a lot of reshaping.
“Dum Spiro”: Noticed that the Show-
man appreciated Rowena Ronald’s work in'
“On Approval” (B. 28/11/’2S). So did
Boucicault when he saw her in a Williamson
show in which she had a small part. It was
the same old story of the way of the Firm
with a maid, for, although she had done
well in the leading part in “Pompadour,”
they gave her only minor parts in “Girl
Friend” and “Hit the Deck.” After Bouci-
cault had secured her from the Firm, he
told Tait that he had taken the best feminine
juvenile in Australia, and that he would
make her a star in London inside 12 months.
Miss Ronald goes back with him to Fog-
town under a long contract. Besides her
acting ability, she is an accomplished pianist.
“L.H.P.” : Fred Wentworth, on whom the
last curtain has fallen at Bexley (N.S.W.),
was the original Sultan of the East in
Luscombe Searelle’s made-in-Australia comic
opera of “Bobadil,” which ran for 42 nights
at the old Sydney Opera House in 1884. He
did valuable work with Dunning’s comic
opera co._ as Scalza (“Boccaccio”). Pablo
(“Manola”) and in other comedy roles. In
the early part of this century lie played
WafHes to Johnny Sheridan’s Widow O’Brien,
and leading roles in other pieces in the Sheri-
dan repertoire. He was 76 at the end.
“Vil N.” : Mention of the latest breaking
of the Stiffy and Mo partnership (B.
5/12/’2S) reminded me that when I first
made their acquaintance they were the rob-
bers in t.he “Babes in the Wood” panto., and,
child-like, I was greatly disappointed be-
cause they weren’t hanged. I saw them again
just before the recent break, and was more
disappointed than ever.
“Hamfat” : Stan Foley, now putting a lot
of ginger into “Good News” at Sydney St.
James, is only 24. Born on a Bananaland
station, he was an engineer-apprentice, when
at 16 a comic-song competition lured him
on to the stage. The Fullers put him into a
juvenile team, and with weekly changes later
he kept the Cremorne Theatre, Brisbane,
going for more than a year. He is indirectly
connected with both Charlton and Borg-
his grandfather ran the Sydney Domain
baths for years.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: An old friend returned
to face Sydney audiences in the Empire bill,
‘ A Turf Secret”; Aleck Alves’s first appear-
ance near the Harbor was with George Rig-
nold in ‘Henry V.” 32 years ago. Since then
he has done well abroad, among his experi-
ences being long engagements with Mrs. Pat-
rick Campbell and Gertrude Elliot in Lon-
don.
“Pliaeus”: Australians seem to be clut-
tering the American stage doors. Bert
Archer writes that he held up a Broadway
verandah in company with Oliver McLennan,
Steve Brangrove, Alec Kelleway and Fred
Heider 1 . Also, Bob Chisholm is lead in “Good
Boy,” an excellent Hammerstein show.
“Modestine”: Man in his life plays many
parts and even in death has some queer roles
thrust upon him. Doing the side-shows at the
Poverty Bay (M.L.) show I wandered into
the waxworks, where the chief attraction was
a “Gorgeous Galaxy of World-famous Mur-
defers.” There, between Deeming and .Tack
the Ripper, sat my old friend Cecil Rhodes!
On his chin was pinned a ticket reading,
“Landru, the Murderer of 25 Innocent
Women.”
“R.R.F.”: Ben Fuller told Sydney Guard-
ian lately that Gregan McMahon’s produc-
tion of Drinkwater’s “Bird in Hand” was the
best cast-and-acted speaking play he had ever
seen in Australia. For the head of Fullers
to throw such a bouquet at one of the opposi-
tion’s shows is passing strange. Wliaffor?
“C. 8.”: Footscray (Yic.) has not bulked
large in the world of song as yet, but the
fact that Melba has pinned her faith to
Alban Whitehead, of that city, to the length
of offering him an introduction to Dinli Gilly.
the famous Parisian teacher, suggests that
Geelong may have a rival some day. White-
head, like Brownlee, is that rare creature, a
plausible actor as well as a singer. As Don
Alfonso, in Fritz Hart’s recent production of
Mozart’s “Cosi fan tutte,” lie gave a very
promising performance. He gets the usual
push-off for Europe at Melbourne Town Hall
on December 1.
“Jacques”: A New Yorker has devised an
apparatus which enables a movie actor to
have a vocal double —while the actor is act-
ing the other chap, who might not be able
to act for nuts but whose voice is better
adapted for the talkies, makes the vocal
noises from behind the camera. So once
again the public has its leg pulled.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Artlulr Greenaway, play-
ing the real monarch in “The Vagabond
King,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, is quite
used to the purple. It is liis tenth regal
job. He has ruled Denmark as Hamlet’s
King Claudius, Wales as Cymbeline, Scot-
land as Malcolm, France in “Richelieu” and
“The Three Musketeers,” and England on
the other occasions.
“S.W.H.”: The talkies have brought back
into action sundry good old soldiers of the
screen, over whom the Last Post was be-
ginning to sound. Pauline Frederick was
just about played out as a screen star, but
the talkies, with their demand for players
with speaking voices and stage deportment,
have helped her put her signature to the
biggest talking-picture contract yet signed
in U.S.A. Edward Everett Horton, one of
America’s leading stage-comedians but a
frost as a screen artist, is another example.
He is now a top-liner in the audible-screen
class, his voice being the sole reason for
liis sudden rise to celluloid glory.
“Amity”: Maorilander Shayle Gardner,
who has just returned to London after play-
ing lead in two films in Germany, started
work m Auckland as an architect, though
Maoriland knew him best as an amateur
actor of considerable ability. After the war
he left for the London stage.
THE PEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With sawing- arms he rends the air
To tell a simple tale and small;
He’ll screw his jaw or ruff his hair
To give expressiveness to all
Its points, and deck a bearded joke
With trappings worthy of its age:
That greatest of all pests—the bloke
Who ought to be upon the stage.
To social gatherings he goes
And talks down others till they’re mute.
Too well, within his heart, he knows
He is the jester absolute
To give a chance to others who
In conversation would engage;
And flappers squeal (he knows they do)
“He oughter be upon the stage!”'
He comes upon you in the bars
Where you would quietly chew your beer ;
With raucous voice himself he stars,
As if the whole pub wants to hear. . ..
And I agree with what they say
Of him, reflecting in my rage
How eagerly I’d stay away
If he were really on the stage.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Beeause of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
/o\ Tn the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
( > the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
... I th event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
( NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH. General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Belinda’’
Criterion “The Patey
Palace (com. Saturday) . . “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal (com. Saturday) “Other Men’s Wives’’
New Comedy (com. Saturday) “Scandal”
King’s (com. Saturday) Nicola
Athenaeum (com. Saturday) : “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
-♦
“Mis’ Nell o’ New Orleans,” the play by
Laurence Eyre which continued the Van-
boucicaults’ final farewell season at Sydney
Royal on Saturday night, is labelled a
“comedy of moonshine, madness and make-
believe,” and is the story of Nelly Daventry.
As a girl, she was to marry Georges Durand.
The engagement broken on the wedding-
day, she went abroad until middle-aged, when
news that her niece, Delphine, was likely
to become the wife of Felix, son of Georges,
brought her back to square accounts with
her old lover, who, she finds, also opposes
the impending alliance. A look at Felix
makes her side with the couple, and a
glimpse of Georges, now a widower, makes
her feel younger than she thought she was.
Felix, to humiliate his father, has been ont
on the tiles with a demi-moudaine; the father
hurls a bomb into the proceedings by an-
nouncing that the pair have married, and
the niece has a long bout of hysterics.
Nelly now plans an atmospheric dinner, and
acts the one-time Nelly so well that Felix
falls in love with her, Georges tells why he
broke off the engagement, and Pfere Clement,
who, before he joined the Church, was re-
sponsible for that breaking, explains that
he climbed up into Nelly’s room for no other
purpose than to enlist her aid over some
gambling debts he had contracted. It is
what has been called an “all-along” plot.
All along Georges had suspected an inno-
cent woman. The demi-mondaine proves to
be Nelly’s secretary, who all along has been
“pretending” as part of Nelly’s plan to bring
Georges to his senses. All _ along, in fact,
the audience has been having its leg stretched.
In the end it is compensated by the all-round
happiness which ought to have prevailed all
along.
$ *
It is precisely the sort of thing to make
those critics who consider that Life must be
mirrored on the stage arise and cry “Unbe-
MOLLY FISHER, helping the “Good News” on its blithesome
way at Sydney St. James.
lievable!” As it happens, there is reason
for that cry without the presence of any such
fallacious conception of dramatic art. That
is what a play is—art; a piece of art, not
a piece of life. In it only that is untrue
which rings false, not against life, but against
its own artistic environment. Whether or
not a play convinces as a play, is all that can
fairly be asked, and this one, which, judged
on the false principle of actual probability,
would be most unconvincing, is, as a whole,
artistically quite as convincing as the play
which openly attempts to transfer a slab ot
real life to the stage—indeed, it is much
more so than most essays in realism.
That, however, is viewing it as a
whole: in certain of its details ‘ unbelievable
is as true a description as it is an unfortunate
defect. The playwright has as a basis a
perfectly serious story. He recognises that
his plot is so sentimental that without a
rich leaven of humor it would be as cloying
as liquid sugar. So he decides to make
comedy of it, and so far remains an
artist. But as he begins to build he dis-
covers that the job is more difficult than he
thought it wad. Situations crop up that
take more getting over than his artistiy
is equal to. Eureka! He divorces aitistrj
and takes ingenuity to spouse—in-
troduces farce, and repeats it whenever he
finds himself in an awkward situation. In
the first act lie needs it only. once. 1 ere
('lenient has to discover Felix in the garden
with Delphine, so Felix is farcically
hidden behind a garden seat, and the
audience is asked to be highly amused
whilst Pere Clement, keeps on nearly discover-
ing him, and more amused than ever
when lie eventually does. But for the. rest
that act is all good, and some of it is
brilliant. It is in the two other acts
that the playwright’s weakness finds lam out.
Leaning more and more upon farce as dim-
culties fall thicker and thicker about him,
lie proceeds in a series of awkward hops to
liis last curtain’. Cheers! He has reached
it! But, beginning on the peak of high
drama, lie has gone with his hoppity-hops
down through passable drama to melodrama.
His characters, really alive in the first act,,
have changed under his eyes to puppets.
Not a very dignified progression, but still to
be condoned for what it was on the peak, and
for one better reason.
* * * *
That reason is the opportunity afforded
Irene Vanbrugh to prove, as Nelly Daventry,
just how truly great a comedy. actress she
is. It was not her charming playing through-
out the first act that impressed this Showman.
That act, as has been remarked, is good and
even brilliant, and, therefore, is no exacting
test for actor or actress. All who appear in
it—Dion Boucicault as . Pere Clement,
Rowena Ronald as Delphine, J. B. Rowe
as Georges Durand, Ronald Ward as Felix,
and a few others —do well enough. It is in
the other acts, when the playwright has
fallen down pn his job, that the Vanbrugh
triumphs. After all the others have carried
their sundry colored hairs in horror to the
grave, she continues to make Nelly Daventry
more and more
vital. If there is
one attribute of
comedy-acting that
she possesses above
all others, it is
that for every sec-
ond she is on the
stage she seems to
be enjoying herself
immensely. It is
not a selfish enjoy-
' ment: it is re-
freshingly inf e c-
tious. Unless you
are one of those
unfortunates who
go to the play to
find pleasure in
being miserable in
spite of everything,
it becomes a de-
light to feel that
anybody can be so
happy. That is
the illusion; and
avv actress who can
thus delight is—
well, she is an
actress.
* #
This Showman
hereby throws the
Manly Musical
Society, for the
evenness and sin-
cerity revealed in
its current produc-
tion, “Seven Keys
to Baldpate,” a bou-
quet of the finest
flowers in his gar-
den (only clover
and paspalum flow-
ers, but his all, and
well enough meant).
He had seen this
little band of play-
ers before, and the
visit confirmed an
impression that inferior acting —and produc-
ing—can be seen in the greater Harbor
metropolis two matinees and six nights a
week. A great deal of the Manly people’s
success undoubtedly lies in keeping the West-
inghouse hard down on ambition. They may
not despise those heights to which they can-
not rise, but, very sensibly, they avoid ’em.
The intense emotional demands of an “Em-
peror Jones” would probably remind most
of them of an appointment on the beach. But
in such surface-skimming things as “Seven
Keys” they provide entertainment that
would turn sundry professional troupes pale
pink and white with envy were it not that
those colors do not come readily through
hides proverbially thick. On the feminine
side, Eileen Hodgson, among other things she
does well, says “Go to Hell” exactly as that
expressive though too much ignored corn-
mand ought to be
said, and among
those of the surf-
boat-steering gen-
der the company
owns that rarity a
natural comedian,
one Reg Cobley.
J.C.W. producer
Tom Foster gets a
sprig of the above-
mentioned flowers
in season for him-
self alone.
One of the Har-
bor town’s most in-
teresting shows of
last week was that
which opened on
the Elizabeth-street
wall of the Even-
ing News building-
on Friday the
story of the Test
match told ball by
ball, with a green,
circular plate to
rep resent the
ground, white discs
to represent the
batsmen, and a
magnetically - con-
trolled ball. Watch-
ed by thousands
perched on tli e
grass of II yd e
Park, the show left
the impression that
a great many who
go to watch Test
.cricket do not go
to watch cricket at
all, but are simply
drawn there by
the drama of the
thing. To the
many, cricket is
not a sport, but
just a Punch-and-
Judy performance. Tlie science of the
game is caviare to the general. The play s
still the thing.
Sydney Tivoli is relying on Aronsoms
Syncopating Symphonists and Gautier s
Bricklayers to score most of the runs in
its present innings, and, after ’ a Saturday
afternoon’s drenching on the Cricket Ground,
this Showman is seriously praying tliat_ a
little of the brightness of these two parties
will spread elsewhere. Marcel and Minka
continue to twinkle through their steps, and
one Gil Decli goes on. tickling light-hearted
airs from his piano. Altogether, a tip-top
variety show.
* V *
At Newtown Majestic on Saturday Will
Kenny’s Entertainers introduced a public
sated with modern voddyveel to a taste of
the real oletime niggah show. Brudders
Bones and Banjo scored as of yore off Mista.li
Johnsing, the interlocutor, while Beauty
presented the old dances or sang the songs
of lang syne. It was affecting, and even
the riotous nigger farce that wound up the
Resurrection failed to entirely dry the tears
of some of the audience who had been wafted
back into the past on the wings of “Chiming
Bells of Long Ago.”
* * *
Though there is an all-round good bill at
Melbourne Tiv., intelligent interest concen-
trates on Jane Dillon, a broad, blonde Ameri-
caine and an animal impersonator, the ani-
mal being man. She can’t say it in
Australian, so her Digger is a Doughboy;
otherwise her turn is O.K. Garrett is a
rotten showman and a king of trick dancers
who should confine himself to the language
of the feet. That Tiv. audiences have not
been absolutely tone-deafened by jazz is
shown by the double-time now accorded to
those tuneful Australians, Tom Katz and
his Kittens, and their procession of “Flora-
dora” airs.. Ward and Long are two thor-
oughly English vocalists, and Arthur
McLaglen sculpts statues out of his own
beautiful flesh which are a melancholy com-
mentary on those the City Council has put
up in the streets. Comedienne Flo Lewis
continues to take Melbourne by storm, but
she has kindly consented to return the old
town in good condition before she leaves.
* *
10H2O speaking! The Hustle-street police
wish us to broadcast the following: Will any-
body knowing the whereabouts of Mo (M-o),
tall, dark, good-looking. 21, last seen in the
vicinity of Pitt-street, Sydney, please inform
him that he is urgently needed by small audi-
ences at Melbourne Bijou, where his estim-
able brother Stiffy (S-t-i-f-f-y) is endeavor-
ing with slight assistance from a mediocre
cast to make the Whirligigs Revue a shining
Yuletide success?
* *
This is the season when the only persons
who aren’t advising the public to do their
shopping early are the undertakers; but with
“Scandal!’ at Melbourne Royal. “The
Wrecker” at the Athenaeum, “Rio Rita” at
the Princess, “Beauty and the Beast” at
EVELYN WADE, one of “The Family Upstairs,” who will
domesticate Sydney Palace on Saturday.
the Palace and Professor Nicola at the
King’s, the Christmas buyer of theatrical
goods on Saturday will have plenty to choose
from. In addition “The Desert Song” goes
on its primrose way towards its second cen
tury at His Majesty’s.
Adelaide’s very strong amateurs have been
busy lately. The Repertory Theatre com-
memorated its 21st year —it is the oldest in
Australia —by giving an extra show, St.
John Ervine’s light “Mary Quite Contrary.
Catherine Neill revelled in the part of the
charming actress who takes control of a
country vicarage and of all the eligible males
in or about it. Jack Ham, as her manager,
and Hubert Sands, as a K.C.M.G. ex-
Governor, showed best among the men, and
Etlielwyn Robin, as a mature girl guide
made a lot out of a small part. The said
Jack Ham was just released from a suc-
cessful low-comedy week in “The Quaker
Girl,” where also Essie Brodziak was at
top form. The deity that watches over
players has sent Humphrey Bishop a spell
of roasting evenings that makes his out-door
theatre a 'uxury.
V # #
To-night (Wednesday) the Stephens-
Rutherford co. turns “Double or Quit on
for the last time at Sydney Palace. To-
morrow night it attempts the apparently
impossible—to tell “Nothing but the Truth.
That will be for a season of two nights only.
Then the E. J. Carrolls enter into possession
with “The Family Upstairs.” The same
night the Vanboucicaults • will proceed with
their good work of compensating the Harbor-
dwellers for the dry season, wet season, slacii
trade, tight money, or whatever the current
grouch is, with A. A. Milne’s three-act
comedy, “Belinda.” On Saturday also
Dick Whittington and his cat will parade
at the Grand Opera House, and at the Town
Hall Gerald Peacliell, the recently-imported
conductor of the Royal Philharmonics, will
guide his followers over the swell and roll
of “The Messiah,” On the same date five
or more new shows will break out in Mel-
bourne, and this Page hereby wishes them all
a Merry Christmas and crammed houses.
% v *
Fullers again presented Mo and his Merry-
makers on Saturday, the vehicle being this
time styled “Spanish Nights.” It is remi-
niscent of “Carmen,” but not so sticky, and
Mo, ably assisted by Charles Megan, sup-
plies most of the riot as a vaudeville edition
of Escamillo. Lulu Fanning, daughter of
old-time Sydney vaudeville star Maud Fan-
ning, made a welcome appearance, and the
established features of the show were well
up to average.


STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
ẁ
ẃ
Extra Comfort Boot
Ml 31. In Black High-grade Wal-
laby. Roomy Fitting, Welted Soles.
30/
BLACK CALF DERBY.
Stitched Soles .... 21/-
Stonehide Sole .... 23/6
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8
JACKSON'S II?
"STONEWALL’ STORES
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn Sydney
MARTELLS
BRANDY
A Household Word **
in Sichness&in Health
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“W.M.N.”: “Speero” (B. 7/11/’2B) asks
the whereabouts of “Terrible Hollow,” the
headquarters of Marston’s gang, in “Rob-
bery Under Arms.” It is not on the western
slopes of the Blue Mountains, but is in the
Carnarvon Range, in the Consuela country,
about 200 miles n.-w. from Taroom (Q.).
This secluded spot, which contains 2000
acres of well-grassed flat, is surrounded by
perpendicular cliffs that only an experienced
climber could ascend, and has only one
negotiable inlet. There are caves in the
cliffs in which are dozens of skeletons of
blacks, also some abo. rock-paintings.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: Along those Torres Strait
reefs where the edible octopus makes his
home the islander identifies the cubby-house
under the coral by the doormat of empty
shells. The crawler is expertly prodded out
of doors, despite his clinging resistance, and
the native grips him on a certain spot in the
back. Immediately the tentacles hang down
paralysed. Along those same reefs crawls a
shellfish humping a spiral shell. To touch
the tip of the shell means a slight yet quite-
distinct electric shock. Another queer crea-
ture that loafs about there grows whiskers.
These are really threadlike antennae that
inquiringly sway about under water. They
appear to register underwater vibration, for
when any fish approaches the whiskers are
tucked in under the shell. Occasionally the
porcupine-fish bloats here. It looks like a
nightmare, and its spines are very poisonous
at one season of the year.
ACCEPTED AT LAST.
THE POET: “Congratulate me, my boy! The Splurge has just taken a little thing
of mine!”
THE ARTIST: “Ah, good! What was it?”
THE POET: “A subscription!” .
COULDN’T BE EXPECTED TO DO IT.
WAITER: “If he could, get it off his stomach he’d be all right, sir."
FRIEND: “But, mom, it’s whusky an’ his name’s McPliairson.”
“C. Coral”: One of the pair of steam
trawlers which have just come from England
to try their luck in Australia, the Mary
Cam, managed to strike Ipile Iteef, near
Thursday Island, on the way down from
Singapore, but was pulled off again without
much damage. Those on board declared that
the light on Ilammond Rock was flashing
white instead of red, and as all hands seemed
positive about it, it is supposed that the
bright rays of the moon produced the effect.
At least two other ships have been wrecked
on Ipile Reef—the paddle-steamer Phoenix
hit it in 1855 on the way to Singapore, and
the Mecca piled up on almost the same spot
in 1878. According to native legend, the
rocks on Ipile represent the wives of Adi,
a giant of ole[timeoni[the first: man[created
Adi was fishing off Hammond. Island one
day, and was caught- by
drowned. On the site of the am-
mond Rock spian„ up. Ills ' fil j ,
watchmg him some distance off, and, filled
with sorrow, drowned themselves, their forms
being immediately changed into rocks on the
adjacent reef, named after them “Ipile” or
“The Wives ”
* ' * *
, .
: Three _ swagmen called at
Corncob s farm looking for a Job. He wanted
a cou P* e F? ea to / lg spuds, but the nay
offered wasnt tempting, and the travellers
went; on They don t want work he said
drsgustedly they ve all got good boots on.
( What s that got to do with it. I asked him.
Everything, said Corncob. A hen ,a man
comes here in wora-out boots he, 11 take any-
thing and do anything till he can buy a new
pair. Doesn t say a word about the tucker or
the accommodation But when he s well shod
, r ' V i I ;V- b T a& u- l u n ' - ,( V}L ! to fi lctat ®J.
Ye d think his flamm boots was the gold pass
to eiderdown quilts. *
,i \ k ll ,s blackboy tl t ug
the Q land bush Daley, our station manager
saw a big wild-looking sow with several
young poikers enter a cave. I resent y the
sow came out without her brood and slowly
disappeared among nearly scrub. Instruct-
ing Ins blackboy to stand beside the entrance
ot the cave and warn him if the sow returned,
Daley went in to investigate. As he was
about to seize one of the piglets the cave
suddenly grew darker. “What’s blocking the
light. Jacky?” he loudly demanded. Between
gasps Jacky replied. Mine ti lk t b ss y .
plurry soon find out what blockin the light
if him tail bi eak. Next instant the .o
burst into the cave and Daley, mimts his
hat, almost as sudde iy e t t P , y
greasy, panted Jacky, survey ng p
of his hands. Daley lode ome a -
headed.
, . . .
Shep : ihe fiance to the spirit of the
moon (B. 28/11/ 28) amongst some of the
abo. tribes was confined to the women. After
dusk the gins stole from their gunyahs to a
chosen spot on the outskirts of the camp,
after discreetly informing their menfolk of
the proposed performance, and in a clearing
in the scrub awaited the arrival of the moon.
’Neath its beams they danced on the turf,
slowly divesting themselves of their scanty
ciotlnng till by the time they were warmed
up they were in their birthday costumes,
Men were to boo at these gatherings. xet
the dancers knew that their camp during the
dance would be empty of bucks, and that it
would be difficult to walk around tli e sur-
rounding scrub without stepping on the
bocbes I J aen , , b ages .’ hiding it e
bushes as close to the swaying females as 1
?Y a . s Possible for them to get \ ithout ad -
£”!,“& & their nude
p i To t i.e vmin!rpr „i r i s the dance
was an opportunity to cut a dash before their
concea ] ed admirers, and they knew well that
their dancing would be the subject of well-
inf()rm(>(l male crit icism.
* * * *
£ , .
. rmgcrpoint : A favorite method adopted
by nort bern natives to get rid of white men
was by marooning. An instance was the
case of Toby Leonard and his soldier cobber,
w j lo years ago bought the lugger Young Aus-
engaged a native crew and set out
j rom Thursday Island to try their luck at
heche-de-mer fishing. Anchoring just off
the mouth of the Pascoe River , the two
w hite men wen t ashore to look for turtle eggs.
p j le crew w hipped up the anchor and sailed
away> leaving the two men stranded on a sand-
gpß a bare ]_g inches above water-level, in a
i one j y soa w ithout a drop of fresh water
d hj) tide coming . Providence sent
a]ong old f )auifi] Hodgers just in the nick
time. The crew sailed the lugger to the
ran her j n t 0 a creek in Temple Bay,
had glorious feasts until the provisions ran
out, and then scuttled the vessel and made
their way across bush to the Seven Rivers
comit - v to whic h they belonged. Constables
Pergl J s ’ on and Smith, of the T.I. water
po jj ce d ft er a long chase captured the rene-
£ ’ who were f mpri sonecr for six months
? n ho ’ mely Stewart’s Creek gaol/ They re-
turned a heroes to incite their tribesmen
t further aggressions against the foolish
w hites
* * * *
“Harold T-Tardnnn” • A ouaint summation
ma( gTy "a ETe ta Tf
j ndia jg that the plaguey tigers might be
thinned out more rapidly if the sporting
opportunities of India were advertised in
thig country< The idea scems to be that
the Australian is a bloodthirsty person who,
having no Germans or Turks to kill at the
prese)R mo ment, would be glad to take on
tigers. The striped beasts are recorded to
have killed 1033 natives in 1927; the number
tigers shot or trapped was 1368.
(Continued on next page.)
THE HARVEST.
[For The Bulletin.]
Along the Goulburn Valley—the valley of
my dreams —
The season’s wheat has ripened; they re
yoking up the teams.
The harvesters are droning round Finley and
Ganmain ;
If I were young and single I d take the track
again.
I’d go with swag a-shoulder o’er roads that
northward wind,
And leave “ignoble striving” and “madding
crowds” behind.
Big cheques await the drivers—there’s bags
galore to sew;
If I were young and single a-harvesting I’d
go.
A harvesting, a-harvesting,
Again I’d gaily go.
But I’m not young nor single, so home I’ll
have to stay,
And dream of harvests golden in youth s
departed day.
Dream paddocks rise before me, and I behold
in dreams
The wheat-fields undulating, the splendid
striding teams :
Six noble horses marching—a team a king
might own—
Four bays (necks proudly arching), a chest-
nut and a roan.
No more my hands shall guide them, no
more my voice they’ll know,
But were I young and single a-harvesting
I’d go,
A-harvesting, a-harvesting,
Up north again I’d go.
A grey galah, pink-breasted, droops in a yard
near by,
And we have much in common, that, lone,
caged bird and I.
He dreams of sunlit spaces where grey-box
ridges rise;
His mates above them wheeling with harsh
and grating cries.
While from the leafy shelter of drooping
river-gums
Cicadas’ ceaseless chirping in droning chorus
comes. ~ , .
Both he and I are exiles, no more the plains
we’ll know;
But were I free to-morrow up north again
I’d go,
A-harvesting, a-harvesting,
Once more I’d gladly go.
The city streets are prison to those who
know the plains,
But even for the rovers Love forges golden
chains. „ . ...
And tiny hands detain me, small voices bid
me stay, , ~
When harvest fields are calling from north
lands far away.
They’re stripping at Toolamba and locum-
wal again, .
And harvester and header are droning round
Ganmain.
I’m tired of city pavements, and buildings,
row on row.
If I were young and single a-harvesting I d
go,
A-harvesting, a-harvesting,
Up north again I’d go.
VICTORIA.
THOS. V. TIERNEY.


A Seasonable Visitor.
We hope his visit will be merry and bright. That
everyone will enjoy a cheery, festive season ana
bright, prosperous days during 1929.
Winchcombe, Carson,
Ltd.,
SYDNEY, BRISBANE, LONGREACH,
HUGHENDEN, CHARLEYILLE.
w
' T'he purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made e<c Uhe Greys” the
best Virginia Cigarette .
It’s the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
i® for 9<dh CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Essentially a House for men
and boys, Peapes’ is naturally
a source of inspiration in
the selection of appreciable
gifts to men or their sons.
To choose such a gift at
Peapes’ is to enjoy the assu-
rance that it will receive
the heartiest approval.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
MACALISTER’S LIBRARY.
[For The Bulletin.]
Macalister fossicked on Widgeree Flat,
A silent old digger with corks round his hat.
He had little to say—
Just a quiet “G’day”—
To' the people who happened to come in his
way. '
But ’twas rumored he yabbered when no one
was near,
And some called him crazy, and all thought
him queer.
So they left him alone
Where he delved “on his own,”
To return to his humpy when daylight had
f10wn....
No books graced his shelves, but in spite of
all that
His “lib’ry” was famous on Widgeree Flat.
For a pile of old “Bullys” he carefully cut,
And pasted them over the walls oE his hut.
With patience complete
And handiwork neat
He pressed out the wrinkles from every sheet.
In no haphazard fashion liis library ran ;
For he mapped out the work to a regular
plan:
In long slabs by the door
Was political lore,
And sporting and joke-blocks from window
to floor;
For a dado the lies of the wild Abo. pack
Took a tour round the hut like a wandering
track.
For callers by night at his hut in the bend
There was courteous welcome for stranger or
friend.
He would bid them come in
To his humpy of tin
And seat them on cases that once contained
gin.
He w r ould stir up the fire, and the billy he’d
set —
Then his visitors’ presence he seemed to for-
get.
With a faraway air
To the wall he’d repair
And enlighten his mind with bis lit’rary fare.
And outsiders could tell by the light’s rise
and fall
That old Mac in his humpy was “reading the
wall.”
Macalister died on the flat years ago ;
Of liis little tin home there is nothing to
show.
But his name does not rest;
For in cynical jest
His lib’ry has passed into legend out west.
And the stranger who goes to a shed further
out
With some news or a yarn that is open to
doubt
Is certain to find
A hearer unkind
With, a quizzical grin and a sceptical mind.
And the stranger is floored with: “Yer must
’ave read that
In Macalister’s lib’ry on Widgeree Flat!”
MAORILAND. RIVERINA.
TRADE MEASUREMENTS.
FIRST MILKO: “Nice shower, Joe.”
SECOND MILKO: “Yes; ought to get about 20 pints out of it.”
“Black Tracker”: Some naturalists still
refuse to concede that the kookaburra is
closely allied to the common kingfisher. They
argue that the one is purely a land bird that
only visits streams or water-courses for the
purpose of quenching its thirst, whereas the
other is almost entirely dependent on these
waters for its supply of food. After
careful observation, I am inclined to think
that in our Jack the habit of diving and
catching fish is lying dormant —just waiting
until its possibilities are called upon to be
put into practice. My attention was drawn
to a pair of pet Jacks sitting on the edge
of a fountain deeply interested in the little
goldfish swimming there. I suspected no-
thing until I noticed the number of fish
gradually declining. Then 1 kept watch
and caught a bird in the act. After re-
stocking the pond, I put a piece of wire-
netting over it, much to the disgust of the
birds. Out-back observers say that when
their natural food becomes scarce in a time
of drought the birds make for the water, and
live almost entirely on fish or frogs. They
have been known to have developed such a
liking for that class of food that when rain
came they continued to fish in preference to
going back to their old diet.
* * *!• *
“Delph” : Does any Abo. councillor know
anything about the little beasties that live
within the head of the sheep and appear
mostly in the months of spring? The but-
cher drew my attention to them the other day,
and said he had asked a sheep-breeder, who
knew nothing cf them. They are little grub-
lilie creatures, flattened and wrinkled, and
with very black tiny eyes in the front of
their heads, like motor-lamps. Sometimes
one comes across a whole family, one after
the other, in a canal of the head, the largest
at one end and a dark color, the others be-
coming smaller and paler until the furthest
from daddy is a mere speck. They are always
alive when the head is opened up.
s|: *
“Hamer” : Sydney’s “George-street swaggie”
is an artful old fraud. Equipped with well-
rolled swag, blackened billy, patched gar-
ments and cork-hung hat and followed by a
small, faithful mongrel, he has been patrolling
the city at intervals for the last eight
years to my knowledge, and his tale that
he wants money for his fare back to the
open spaces, where there is work waiting
for him, always awakens sympathy. The
wise old bird doesn’t overdo it. A couple
of days in the city is enough; then he works
the suburbs in systematic rotation —the com-
plete circuit gives George-street time to
forget him, or to remember him as one
returned from country labors.
* * * *
“Cleo” : My neighbor Wilkins is noted for
the frequency with which he changes his
hired helps; but there was an air of satis-
faction about the old chap when I greeted
him on a recent occasion. “Reckon I’ve
struck er dinkum bloke at larst. ’E’s takin’
ter farmin’ like er duck ter water. Milked
40 cows after two lessons, an’ gets up with-
out bein’ called. An’ tork erbout feedin’
pigs! W’y, ef ’e’d bin reared ermong ’em
’e couldn’t make er better fist of it!” But
a few days later I saw that Wilkins wore
an appearance of gloomy dissatisfaction, and
asked him the reason. “That noochum of
mine,” he explained, “is tli’ limit. W’en
I seed ’ow willin’ ’e was ter learn
farmin’, I interdooces ’ im ter th’ sheep-pen,
an’ trims orf one of th’ jumbucks for ’is
eddifercation. Jest as I’d finished shearin’
it, Dave rushes down an’ sez as one of ih’
’erd ’ad got bogged in tli’ dam, so I ’ad ter
leave orf. Was away er coupler er ’ours;
w’en I comes back, ’anged if Clioom
’adn’t shored one on’ ’is own! An’ fork
erbout close-elippin’! W’y, Dan the Ringer
couldn’t er done it better! ‘Cripes, Clioom,’
sez I. ‘it won’t be long afore you’ll be on
th’ minymum wage. ’Anged ef I don’t raise
NOT WHAT ’HE’D CALL FIRST-CLASS.
SILAS: “What dost think av un, Thomas Henry?”
THOMAS H ENRY: “Doan’t think anything ’t all av un.”
SILAS: “An’ I do think ’ee thinks too much av un. even then.”
yer ter seventeen bob come Christmas!’
•Thankee kindly, sir,’ ’e sez, ‘an’ ef ye loike
Oi’ll do another un fer yer.’ ‘Cut erhead,
young feller,’ I tells ’im. ‘I can see yer doin’
Dan the Ringer out uv ’is job!’ Then I
drags in er ’ogget fer ’im ’ter try is
skill on, an’ ’ands ’im th’ shears. But, strike
me flamin’ blue, pink and brindle, ef ’e don’t
grab that ’ogget an’ starts ter pluclc it!”
* * * *
“Kooragai” The oddest-looking feathered
midget that I know in the bush is
the emu wren, which has a body only
l|in. long and of tail. That
tail, consisting of six emu-like
feathers sticking straight up, and
separated, is the strangest part of
it. The general color is streaky
brown, the male being distinguished
by a blue throat. The emu wren
fossicks for its insect food among
tussocks in swampy situations,_ and
is not easily forced to take flight,
as it depends for safety on creep-
ing, running and hiding, mouse-like,
among the tussocks and rushes.
Being colored to resemble its sur-
roundings, it is not often seen.
* * *
“Wandi” : The Clarence is noted
for big fish, particularly groper;
one caught recently weighed 4491 b.
The authenticated record groper is
4941 b.. a monster that was landed
at Cape Hawke nearly 20 years
ago. Many huge groper have been
caught at Maclean, which is a
long way up from the mouth of the
Clarence River. Not long ago .7.
Buckley landed one near that town
that weighed 4101 b. and measured
6ft. 6in. Previously at the same
place Alf Pateman secured one
that was sft. llin. in length and
weighed 3cwt. cleaned. The groper
are always in pairs, and, angling
patiently for its mate, Alf caught
it two days later at the same spot.
The best pair was caught by C. J.
Folbigg. One weighed 4201 b. and
its mate 2981 b. One is always
much larger than the other, and
where one has been caught the
other can generally be secured by a fisher-
man who knows their habits. The big fel-
lows are worth £4 to £5 each.
* * * *
“Loob”: A swaggie who canvassed the
north-west Mallee (Vic.) some time ago was
an oleaginous cove. A farmer’s wife at
Underbool found him at her back door lost
in admiration of her two-year-old son. Hav-
ing extolled the child with the plausibility
of a politician, he threw the youngster a
nice bright half-crown, and commenced cadg-
ing. The woman, not to be outdone in
generosity, met all of his requests graciously,
supplying him with tea, sugar, bread ami
tobacco. Having treated her to a very polite
mixture of thanks and apology, he turned
to the child, and saying, “Now, little boy,
I think you have played with this l° n S
enough,” retrieved his well-worked bait and
departed.
“Bad Australian”: Catching turtles by
means of the sucker-fish (B. 28/11/’2B) is
not peculiar to the natives of North Queens-
land. The same method is used in the Carib-
bean Sea. where it appears to have been in
vogue for centuries, as Bartolome Las Casas,
in his “Historia de las Indias,” states that
Columbus, on his second voyage, saw the
natives of Cuba catching turtles by means
of a sucker-fish attached to a strong light
line. He adds that the Spanish sailors
caught a large number of “great, cruel, car-
nivorous beasts which eat men wherever they
find them” (sharks), and that many of
these “beasts” had suckers adhering to them
which could only be removed by tearing them
in pieces.
* * * *
“Finn”: The blackwood-tree has an in-
genious device for distributing its species.
It often overhangs a mountain stream, so
each heavy oval seed has a pink-frilled life-
buoy of some leathery substance round its
middle. The pods shoot the seeds into the
water, the lifebuoys bear them up until they
are swirled ashore at a bend in the creek
where, the hard shell having rotted with the
immersion, they readily take root.
* * * *
“H.IL”: Dr. Tillyard, of the Common-
wealth Scientific Research Bureau, is swing-
ing some new shock troops into the battle
with the blowfly. A flying ant with the
poetic name of Alysia has a particular fancy
for the blowfly larvae as an egg-repository,
and as each female Alysia lays 600 eggs and
each egg means the end of an embryo blowie
the havoc is considerable. In the insect-
house Tillyard has established at the back of
his residence in Canberra some of the flying
ants brought from the Cawthron Institute
at Nelson (M.L.) gOt to business as soon
as they arrived upon iarvae especially bred in
dead cats. Not a single blowfly was hatched out.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: Creepy Dick and Polly had
been recently married, and were mooching
along through the bush on a pleasure-hunting
jaunt. Dick was feeling rather proud of his
new property when an aeroplane came whir-
ring low overhead. Neither had seen the
winged monster before, and in sudden fright
Creepy Dick dashed for the nearest scrub
like a sprinting emu. Tolly stood as if
paralysed until he had disappeared, then
dropped her bundle of blankets and bolted
aimlessly through the bush. It was told
in the locality that she ran for two days.
A thunderstorm obliterated her tracks, and
Creepy Dick waited in vain for her to
return'. A couple of months afterwards he
came upon her accidentally; but the faith-
less female was married 10 another. On the
monster being explained to Dick by a stock-
man. lie said, “That feller yerroplane been
divorce me an’ Polly when we been walk
about—what you call um? —honeymoon.


I
n p i|,
>t\>>ni>uii‘tiii?tni) iiiTiiiiDi.'iiiniimiiiiiHiiji.iiiiiiiiiMni .I.i nIiTTVi i iii in in i nr,... ifi
&
-c
C'.
r
isr aas®:
r*i
s.Js
J
f
e
*
'll
•J
&
/
A
//
* i
mi
W!
%
35
2*5«^2
m
• ,k-
-\ .a
,'VV
Whm
m
m,
2
f
/A
\ "l
~, A
WM
mm
W/Mti. ‘
f
MXmfa,'.,
' H
'mmw
wA ymmy
f{b %%%/A
w
WMT,
aw
'\m
« ✓ «
///fe
IjHAL
MJt
«
a
r,l A*
fiiii
m
n
■mr
l«;i
/
niim^S»*£e!
?r'A
HIUIUTiTm^
{. ... ■'
W.JI
W
f'.
%
i
UUuv
MS
Mm,
H'.ltX
*
Ml!
"H/
=N
nui(
Wi(((
im
m.
*o
m
niß
1 -
*
&
a
VJ&
v
A
J
* /,/
£
i
5^
A
£
i^‘
i!M
Sl>
W//, '%'ZysW KV//.
✓
DUNLOP
wishes
all road users
A Happy
Christmas


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
ŵ
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
& 114-120 CASTLE RE AgM ST. SYDNEY q
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usberotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS HOTEL WINDSOR CH PARK & CASTLEREACH [?] SYDNEY
WHAT LIME DOES TO THE SOIL.
“Hatter” : Lime occurs in two forms, sul-
phate and carbonate. The sulphate (also
known as gypsum) forms about half the
bulk of superphosphate and is not soluble in
the soil acids. It has a certain value in
helping to fix nitrogen in the soil and it
tends, though very "slowly, to mitigate the
sticky condition of heavy clays, but it is
not to be compared as a fertilising agent
with the carbonate. Agricultural lime is in
the latter form and can be applied either
ground or burnt). When burnt in a kiln the
product is known as burnt lime, caustic
lime or quicklime. If slaked with water
when fresh it gives off heat and crumbles
to powder, which renders it easy for scat-
tering. When left exposed it re-absorbs car-
bonic acid and moisture, and becomes “air
slaked.”
Australian soils are for the most part
markedly deficient in lime. It lias been esti-
mated that whereas the minimum amount
present for fertility should be 17,0001 b. v,er
acre, the average content of our inland soils
is only 40001 b. per acre, and the deficiency
in the coastal districts is even greater. It
must be remembered, too, that the action of
rainwater, and the production of milk and
the bones of animals, especially young stock,
are constantly depleting the lime contents,
and where super, is the only manure used
nothing is done to replenish them. In Eng-
land it has been the custom for many
years to scatter lime on grazing land before
manuring with super. In Maoriland, where
second- and third-class land lias been con-
verted into rich pasture with so much suc-
cess that the practice of growing fodder
crops for dairy herds has been largely aban-
doned, the universal custom is to manure
with 2cwt. to 4cwt. of super, and basic
slag mixed.
While lime has a certain direct influence on
plant growth, as, for instance, in the straw
of cereals and the production of citrus fruits,
which are thick-skinned and deficient in
flavor when it is lacking, its chief value lies
in its chemical and mechanical action on
the soil. It binds sandy soil, breaks up
clays, neutralises acid or sour lands, is
a solvent of plant foods, particularly
potash, and helps to fix the water soluble
phosphates in the soil in a reverted
form. Unfortunately, while the rest of
the world lias accepted the principle
that soils poor in lime must in all circum-
stances be dressed with it to secure a normal
re-action in conjunction with superphos-
phate, the majority of Australian farmers,
though dealing with soils remarkably defi-
cient, ignore this axiom. Usually, both
granitic and clay soils, though rich in potash,
are poor in lime, and our black clay soils,
rich in humus, would respond to a heavy
dressing of two tons per acre. On average
soils Bcwt. or 9cwt. per acre would give
good results. This would last for many
years if a manure containing carbonate of
iime was annually supplied. All leguminous
crops require lime, and when it is applied
to pastures it promotes the growth of clovers
and fine grasses.
SOYA BEANS REPLACE WHEAT.
“Penfield”: Last winter the weather in
Central Illinois was very severe and a great
deal of the wheat crop was killed. Many
farmers were left to face the prospect of no
harvest at all. That was no good to the busi-
ness of the State, and as the result of
various conferences a course of action was
planned.
The American Milling Co. of Peoria and
allied interests offered to enter into a joint
agreement with Illinois farmers to buy
1,000,000 bushels of soya beans from this
year’s crop at a guaranteed price of ss.
for No. 2 beans, f.o.b. Peoria and Blooming-
ton. After deducting transportation and
handling charges, the net price to the farmer
should be about ss. 2Ad. a bushel. The unusual
feature of this plan is the guarantee of price
in advance of planting operations. Farmers
who see fit to take advantage of the offer
can proceed with the assurance that they
will receive at least the minimum price.
In Central Illinois soya beans yield from
18 to 30 bushels to the acre. Frequently the
crop is used as hay, furnishing feed elements
similar to those of clover and lucerne. Land
on which beans are grown is also improved,
owing to the nitrogen-gathering organisms
which inhabit the roots of the plant.
The American Milling Company for a num-
ber of years has been using large quantities
of bean oil meal in the manufacture of live-
stock feeds. A growing demand for the
mixed-feed product has necessitated the
importation of beans from Manchuria. An
adequate domestic supply of this protein feed,
however, is much desired, and by co-operating
with the farmers under a definite agree-
ment the milling co. hopes that a sufficient
supply of home-grown beans will be made
available.
A portion of the beans purchased under
the guarantee will be used whole for grind-
ing and mixing with other feeds. The others
will have the oil extracted and the bean oil
meal will be used in the feeds. The oil
will be used for various industrial purposes.
A PROPHYLACTIC FERTILISER.
“Burrum”; European experimenters with
green vitriol (sulphate of iron) as a ferti-
liser claim that, used with gypsum, it pre-
serves grain crops from rust and from lodg-
ing, hastens the decomposition of organic
matter, fixes ammonia in the soil, and, like
gypsum, exercises a solvent effect on other
soil constituents. An excess would hinder
the formation of grain in cereals, but 561 b.
per acre was found beueficial. If applied
as a top-dressing at that rate (when the
crop is six inches high, and after rain) the
sulphate is said to prevent rust and check
smut fungi. McAlpine states that an appli-
cation of 701 b. per acre will ward off take-
all. Plants other than cereals, peas, beans,
cabbages, potatoes and tobacco, are in almost
every case detrimentally affected by the
presence of sulphate of iron in the soil, so
that its use would restrict the character
of crop rotations. The sulphate can be
sown with the seed without injurious effects,
but a dressing after the crop is up is recom-
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
mended by the European investigators. It
is an efflorescent salt, and the price in Aus-
tralia is about £lO per ton.
TRACTORS AND THE WHEAT
MARKET.
“Lowan” : “If 1000 tractors in the Wimmera
displace 8000 working horses, plus stallions
and brood mares, which consumed one ton
of chaff per team per week, or 52,000 tons
a year, at £5 per ton, amounting to £260,000,
it represents to the farmers the loss of a
market of that value per annum on their own
doorstep. The cost of running 1000 tractors
for 11 months of the year, £396,000, practi-
cally all goes out of Australia'. Wheat sold
at 4s. per bushel from an area that would
produce the necessary fodder for the teams
(35,000 acres) will be worth only £149,722,
leaving the tractor owners in the position
of having to sell a further £246,178 worth
of wheat to pay their fuel bills. What effect
has it on the world’s wheat market if all
huge wheat-growing countries are doing the
same, and has it anything to do with the
present low price?” That was the ques-
tion put by a delegate at the Ouyen (Vic.)
convention, but he didn’t get an answer.
SAVING A BIG FLOCK.
“B-Gar” : Corona station, in the Longreach
district (W.Q.), has achieved wonderful
results from artificially feeding 76,000 sheep
and lambs. At a cost of about sd. per head
per week the whole flock was not only kept
alive but put on condition. Now that
rain has fallen the sheep are in a fit state
to stand up to any hard times; no losses
are likely to occur, as often happens with
weak sheep after heavy rain. The feed used
consisted of a mixture containing bran,
lucerne chaff, linseed meal, ground maize,
coarse salt and phosphates. Other graziers
are on the look-out for sheep to stock up
with after the rain, but Corona will not
need to buy. Through w'eaning the lambs
and artificially feeding them, Corona saved
26,000, whereas other stations in the district
have not a single lamb, and many no grown
sheep.
ROMNEYS AND ROMNEY CROSSES.
“W.P.D.” : There has been a marked im-
provement in the quality of the Romney
Marsh flocks of M.L. during the last few
years, and they are now superior both from
wool and mutton points of view to their
Kentish ancestors. The wool is of finer fibre
than it was five or six years ago, and much
finer than that of English Romney Marsh
sheep. Wool is not now, as it used to be,
a by-product to the Maoriland breeder, but
is just as important as mutton. A well-bred
Romney ram mated with merino ewes of
the Riverina lype will give a progeny yield-
ing 101 b. to 121 b. of good, lustrous, crimpy
wool of about 50’s quality which will sell at
satisfactory j rices'. The lambs fatten and
develop early and the mutton is of high
quality.
The points of a good Romney are: Head
wide, level between ears—which should be
large, thick and covered with fine hair or
preferably with a downy wool —good,
thick foretop, no horns, and the poll well
covered with wool. Eyes should be large,
bright and prominent. Face in ewes, full,
not too white; in rams, broad and masculine
in appearance. Noses should be coal-black,
with fair width between nostrils. Neck
should be well set in at the shoulders, strong
and thick. Shoulders, wide, well coupled
and level with the back. Chest, wide and
deep. There should be plenty of space for
heart and lungs, an indication of constitu-
tion. Back, straight, with wide, flat loin.
The ribs should be well sprung, especially
at the base, and the loin should be of good
length to provide a satisfactory quantity of
loin meat. Rump, wide, long and well turned.
A low-set ’ail is objectionable, as ewes with
that defect often fail as breeders. Thighs
should be well let down and developed. This
is one of the most important points in a
longwool. It shouldl be th e aim of every
breeder of Romneys to secure sheep with
full legs of mutton, so much in request by
butchers both in London and the home mar-
kets. Legs should be short, with big bone,
and large, shapely feet of black horn. They
must be well set apart and free from any
twist or
The fleece should be of dense, even quality
and of good, decided staple from foretop of
head to tip of tail, and be free from kemp.
The wool should be even in length all over
the body, and as far as possible of the same
character throughout. It should he of good
length, lustrous and soft, should open freely
and be crimpy from skin to tip, have a dense
feel and be free from cross fibres.
Much of the Queensland coastal country
where average annual rainfall is 40in. or
over is as well suited for Romney Marsh
a f«?.p aS w a e °? W havfS
three X shtf to^cre/'and' wS
rearing “catt™* Any
Australian firm o', stock -Vuts having
branches in Maorilandl knows where to l obtain
Romney Marsh rams for a cro
bred flock, which will be immune from foot-
rot and other diseases incidental to w t
country.
-rw-r-i A T-t
DEAD VV UUu
“Cuchulain”: Though “Bud-G’s” remarks
on the gathering of dead wool (B. 5/12/’2B)
are mostly correct, he slightly misses the
point in stating that the chief risk in stor-
ing dead wool in the woolshed is that it
may breed flies. A greater danger is that
newly-shorn sheep are liable to acute blood-
poisoning from germs in the dead wool 1 .
Though the business of gathering the wool
is usually referred to as plucking, the word
is a misnomer—only about one carcase in a
hundred can be struck at just the right ripe
stage for getting the wool off easily and
cleanly. I have found that the best way to
gather dead wool is to leave the body out
till the maggots have cleaned up all the
tissues and meat; then pick up the remains
and leave them on a log. You come along
a week or so later, shake out the bones, and
find the wool clean and ready to chuck into
the dray. It’s a time-saver to keep an eye
out for such sheep. Remember them when
you’re out with the salt dray—it saves an-
other trip out, and an otherwise empty dray
can be made useful.
CATTLE BLIGHT.
“Paul C.” : We are now entering the sea-
son of the year when the eye trouble usually
termed “blight” is most likely to break out
among dairy herds and other cattle. The
symptoms are at first a watery discharge
from the eye, after which the eyelid becomes
swollen and the inner lining red and inflamed.
White or yellow matter is exuded from the
eye, and this sometimes glues the eyelids
together. If the disease is not attended to
it may result in blindness, and even if this
does not occur a scum is left over the eye.
It is not a difficult disease to deal with if
taken in lianu as soon as it is noticed.
All matter should be cleaned away with
warm water and a sponge or _ cloth.
Then dissolve a dessertspoonful of zinc sul-
phate in a pint of rainwater. The cow’s
head should be held sideways, and the eye-
lid well opened, so that several drops of the
lotion can be dropped i’nto the eye. This
treatment should be persevered with every
day, and it will soon conquer the disease.
BRITISH MEAT IMPORT
REGULATIONS.
“A.J.8.”: “Almanac” (B. 21/11/’2B) is
very much astray as to the reason for “the
British ban” on our mutton. In the first
place there is no ban. The British
authorities are refusing to accept, not only
Australian, but Argentinian mutton unless
the prescapula, precrural and scrotal lym-
phatic glands are incised. The affection of
the lymphatic glands that is causing all the
trouble —lymphadenitis—is very pronounced
in well-bred merinos, especially from certain
areas in the Riverina; less so in comebacks
and rarer still in crossbreds; while Q’land
sheep, which, unfortunately, are not suitable
for export, are practically free from it.
Maorilanders have informed me they have
not seen it in their country. I think I am
correct in stating that no research has been
attempted here on the subject; consequently
opinion as to the origin of this affection is
purely speculative. Inoculation by grass
seeds is believed by many to be the cause.
THE JIBBING HORSE. .
“Bad Australian”: “Nota Bene” (B.
7/11/’2.8) is quite right in his contention
that jibbing in a horse can never be per-
manently overcome. Tapping the animal’s
feet, ligaturing various parts of his anatomy,
pouring water into his ears, lighting a bon-
fire under him, or belting him with a length
of barbed wire or a sapling will occasionally
shift him, but the application of any or all
of these methods is of no permanent value,
as once the jibbing habit has been acquired
the animal can never be depended on to start
when required.
Careless or ignorant breaking is the pri-
mary cause of jibbing, but I have met iso-
lated cases where the fault appeared to be
hereditary. Prevention is the only remedy.
After mouthing, the colt should be driven
with long lines until he is thoroughly accus-
tomed to the feel of the lines about his legs.
Then put the chains on him and hitch him
to a light log or sledge and drive him for
about half an hour, describing as many curves
and figures-of-eight as possible. A few' hours
later increase the load and give him another
turn, and continue at intervals until he
understands what is required of him. Put
him in the shafts and proceed in the same
way, but always keeping the load well within
his power.
When you are satisfied with his behavior
over a flat road, take him on to a long,
fairly-steep grade, stopping and starting him
at short intervals until the top is reached.
A young horse always has a tendency to
rush against steep ground, increasing his
speed as he goes, and this sometimes results
in his becoming winded and hung up on the
grade. In these circumstances it is difficult
to get him to start again. When starting
the colt should push steadily into the collar ;
he must on no account be allowed to rush
or jerk, as this method of starting is respon-
sible for the making of more jibs than all
other causes combined. Always see that
the collar fits properly, as an ill-fitting col-
lar, in addition to galling, has a tendency to
choke the animal down under a continued
strain. Above all, never overload, even with
an aged and thoroughly staunch horse.
BUSH-FIRE FIGHTING.
“N.M.L.” : The men who fight a bush-fire
need managementl When a carload of men
get to a fire there are always keen spirits
who want to rip their beater off the car,
(Continued on page 25.)


The most practical, efficient and simple
Electric Light and Power Plant on the market
Electolite” is British-made by Boulton and Paul, one of the
world s most famous and progressive engineering houses and
it has been equipped with certain wonderful additional features
which have made it admittedly
The most successful electric plant in
existence for Australian rural conditions
“ELECTOLITE” plants are built to last like the firm that makes
them—an organisation that has been established for
over a hundred and thirty years.
ELECT OLITE” is vibrationless, fool-proof and practically
noiseless.
ELECTOLITE” not only reduces first cost and maintenance
but gives immensely improved efficiency.
ELECTOLITE” is compact and clean and will supply power
for chaff-cutting, milking, separating, shearing, refrigera-
tion, fans, and vacuum-cleaning, etc., as well as for
lighting.
Cut out the hot, dreary drudgery of your women-folk and
Have Your Plant Installed Now
as a
Glorious Xmas Gift to the whole family
THE PRICES FOR “ ELECTOLITE ”
are no higher than those charged for
inferior and much less reliable plants
Easy Terms May Be Arranged
Edmunds Bros. & Co.
Offices:
31a Clarence Street
187 Flinders Lane
3a Gilbert Place
City Buildings, Edward Street
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
- BRISBANE
Resident Factory Representative for BOULTON & PAUL:
R. R. FOULSER, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney
The APEX Whip Makes a Fine Present
■
THE
APEX
WHIP
78/6
A BEAUTIFUL EXAMPLE OF
AUSTRALIAN WORKMANSHIP
The Two-color Swastika Design is
carried out on both handle and thong,
making a very artistic piece of work.
The thong is Bft. long, 20-plait with life-
like fall. Price 78/6
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to four
initials in the handle.
The “Gainsborough” Stockwhip is an
excellent piece of work with a 40-plait
handle with flower plait knob quite
unique and 6ft. 24-plait thong. Just
the present for a manager; Price, 82/-
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
FOR EVERYDAY HARD WEAR
WALTHER § STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LYMAN
ẁ
SIGHTS
for practically
ẃ
Price £3/2/6
More shooting at Less Cost.
Reloading your own ammu-
nition made easy with Ideal
Tools, standard for 35 years.
IDEAL Reloading Tools turn out accurate shooting
ammunition. No special skill required. See de-
scription of tools and accessories in Ideal Hand-
book, the most complete treatise on reloading.
Send 2/6 for copy, or Free Folder.
No. 1
Lubricator
and Sizer
for Bullets.
each.
ẅ
Ideal Lubricant made especi-
ally for greasing bullets.
Price per stick, 1/6.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our
exclusive representatives ,■
ASHER SMITH, LTD.,
P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP.,
West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
every gun made
SHELL RESIZING
TOOL
Best for resizing- expanded shells
entire length. Price 25/- each.
IDEAL N 2 4
Hand Reloaders No. 4 and No. 6.
No. 4 casts Standard lead bullet. For
C.F. Cartridges. Reloads .25-20, .32-
20, .38 S. & W. Special, .44-40, .38-
40, etc. Price 32/6 each. No. 6 for
C.F. Cartridges such as .25-35, .30-30,
.32-40, etc. Casts Standard bullets.
Price 37/6 each.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
f V
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr?
(Next G.P.0.).


totg
m
i
\
w/m
y/M
V//M.
v/M
m.
m
a,p
la^
Xect
, sl ,Vo>“ SC "'
pcU" ls
-jsScittve ' ...... ”
p,ii^ sS ’
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood .. . fishing ; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
The Wonderful Spectacular Sprinkler
The Watering Device that out-distances all others. For the thorough
watering of Golf Courses, Fairways and Putting Greens, Large Lawns
and Bowling Greens, Orchards, Lucerne Fields, etc. The Spectacular
is easily King of all Sprinklers it is the Brainiest Idea yet for thorough
watering, void of the many troubles belonging to other Sprinklers.
There’s no flooding in parts, nor puddling with the Spectacular, and
it carries on without excessive watching. The Travelling Spectacular
may be left working all through the night without the least fear or
trouble.
w
Price of Stationary Type, com-
plete with Stand and Hose Con-
nection,
£5/15/-
Price of Travelling Type complete
with Hose Connection,
£6/15/-
Descriptive Folder Post Free on
Request.
ŵ
Spectacular Stationary Type
Spectacular Travelling Type
aniiniiiimifm^
1 JOHN
iiiniiiiiiniiiia
&SON
riiiiiimmnimimi}
: IXB.
pry-
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY. -
' M/
1 H,
\f'L
\N
vVrf
\
TO
LONDON
IN 29 DAYS
If time is limited, and you wish to extend your stay in the British
Isles to the utmost, you will travel there and back by the shortest
route. It is a fortunate fact that this is likewise the most varied in
scenic attractions, most equable in climatic conditions.
On your passage across the Pacific aboard a Matson Oceanic liner,
you will call at Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii, each a quaint pictureland of
rare beauty. All day is spent at Honolulu for excursions ashore.
Then from San Francisco you span the continent in 4 days a
journey of thrilling interest, revealing matchless mountain scenery.
Crossing the Atlantic, you have wide choice of comfortable steam'
ship lines, including the popular cabin class. Matson Oceanic agents
will arrange your entire journey—you pay one fare, and travel
as if the trip across the world were under a single transportation
management. Stopover anywhere, if you desire.
Through fare: Sydney to London, via America, £125 first class, £92
second class steamer and first class rail. Round the World fare, £23 5 first
class, £176 second class steamer and first class rail. The illustrated travel
leaflet, “Across the United States," is free upon request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
Hill OiMli ©@
Mmsmm Uhe
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. B—2B
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
I feel so
tired ...”
yOU must conquer that state of weakened
health by torfing up your nerves and
restoring their power of resistance —
with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the ideal combination of
exactly those two dements phosphorus
and albumin which build up lasting
health in the body.
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will take
away that feeling of listlessness and
nervous debility.
Get your tin of Sanatogen to-day. Your nearest
Chemist sells it from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
GENATOSAN LTD., Loughborough, Engtand.


Double strength
Easily the most serviceable kind
of boot for wet weather wear, or
over rough going, this has a
double sole, while an inner
lining of soft leather doubles the
upper. Hard to beat for com-
fort.
INSTEP CURVE—The lacing
arches as shown in photo—fol-
lowing the foot’s natural shape.
THREE WIDTHS—Every size is
available in narrow, medium and
wide fittings.
POSTAL ORDERS State width
as well as size required. Ask
also for the correct Abbey Polish
(dark tan for the willow calf),
6d. per tin.
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue posted on request,
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
LlO 3. SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins .. 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Made in Australia.
Will give every
Satisfaction.
ASK FOR
w
RENOWN BINDER TWINE
Manufactured by J. SCOTT, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
ŵ
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FOR SALE
On the Beautiful Lane Cove River, at Northwood
30 Minutes' Trip to Circular Quay
A MAGNIFICENT MODERN BUNGALOW HOME
Built only 5 Years; and commanding beautiful River Views, with One Acre of Land. Fitted with
every device for comfort. Owner going abroad.
ACCOMMODATION: Four Bedrooms, each fitted with washbasin and robe closet; Maid’s Room;
splendid Lounge Room, 35 xl5 feet, with dome ceiling; Dining Room, 18 xl6 feet; small Billiard
Room; Model Kitchen; specially constructed upstairs Sleeping-out Room, 18 x 18 feet, enclosed
with drop glass windows; up-to-date tiled Bathroom, 10 x 10 feet, connected with hot water
service ; separate Shower Room; spacious Verandahs, 30 xl2 feet, etc.; Two Brick Garages and
Man’s Room ; excellent Tennis Court or Croquet Lawn, 80 x 120 feet ; elevated and commanding
position. Most suitable for a country man who desires a home to be proud of near Sydney.
Full particulars, from
PIERCY ETHELL & CO., 163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
( Phone 84384.)
6061
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
w
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
%
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
take a hasty swig of water and dive in-
That’s no good. If the fire is only in its
infancy that sort of thing is right enough.
But it’s a rare thing for men to get to a
fire less than several hours old.
First put the car on the burned country.
If it’s out in the grass you don’t know when
a swerving ribbon of flame mightn’t sweep
out from the main fire and destroy the car.
Having seen to the car, see to the men.
Put on the billy, make a drink of tea and
get a feed into them. They’ll work all the
better for it. And let them have as much
sugar as they can swallow. Fire beating is
hard work, and sugar is very sustaining.
When the team starts see that they work
as a team 1 . Five men working together will
do five times as much as ten men smacking
individually. Let one man follow 100 yards
or so behind the beaters. Ilis job is
to knock in lumps burning manure, smould-
ering logs and other things which would
start a fresh fire. Also, he carries the water
—-as much of it as he can hump. In his turn
he takes his place with the fighting gang
and lets another take the softer job which
was his. I have found the best order of
fire-fighting is: The leader knocks the top
off the flame; the second man keeps the fire
down about the leader’s feet; the third
finishes what the second left, and the fourth
and fifth, if they run to that number, do
what little is left and take things as easy as
they can in readiness to move up one when
the leader drops out and takes his place
at the tail of the line. And that isn’t going
to be too long! Ten, fifteen, twenty, _ thirty
strokes, whatever he can swing in with all
his might and quickly, is the leader’s limit.
When the froth has gone off his ambition let
him fall back to the tail.
That refers, of course, to the fire when
it’s at its hottest. Sometimes the team may
string along for half an hour or more with-
out a man changing his place or the leader
dropping out. That’s easy. But w r hen the
fight’s on in earnest, and when the head of
the fire has to be wheeled, then every man
wants to be at his best and give the best he
has to offer
PRUNING CITRUS TREES.
“Eleven”: Fumigation and spraying of
citrus trees is proceeding in those districts
where the orchards are not suffering through
the dry spell. But there is one operation
which is very necessary before control mea-
sures are commenced. That is to clean out
the centre of the trees and otherwise remove
all superfluous growth. It should always
be possible to pull a branch aside, and walk
inside any well-grown and -trained orange or
mandarin tree. From there the full length
of each lateral should be visible from the butt
until lost in a maze of healthy foliage. Where
spraying is practised it is most necessary to
ensure that the inside of the tree can be very
thoroughly inspected, as harmful insects, such
as the white louse, are likely to escape notice
in a maze of useless foliage.
Use sharp instruments when cutting back,
and cut close to the limb. Do not be afraid
to remove a whole limb if it is necessary, and
above all cut away completely any of those
water shoots which in a few weeks run right
through a tree and drain a large measure of
vitality before collapsing under their own
top-heaviness.
COOL-STORING FRUIT.
“XSA”: The most important operations
in connection with the cool-storing of fruit
take place before it enters the chamber. The
cool store merely preserves, and the fruit
should emerge in practically the same state
as on entry if it has suffered no injury prior
to storing. Decay will continue in store,
though slowly.
Fruit should be just under-ripe, and
should never be picked during the heat of
the day and never piled in bulk into a large
receptacle, such as a van. Old cases should
be used for transport. This guards against
sweating.
As the cool store must remain at an even
temperature, it is most unwise to place
therein any fruit which has not cooled down.
This is of great importance, as fruit not so
treated will increase the temperature for two
or three days, endangering the other contents
of the chamber.
Sound judgment as to the time for the
release of supplies from store is essential
to profitable marketing. Just one instance.
Small apples placed on the N.S.W. market
early in November were unsaleable. Those
released early in December sold at good
paying prices.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I make a resin and soda wash for
scale insects on fruit trees? —79lo.
Take 201 b. resin, 61b. caustic soda (70
p.c.), 3 pints fish oil, and water to make
80 gallons. Place the resin, caustic soda
and fish oil in a large boiler with 20 gallons
of water and boil for three hours; then add
hot water slowly and stir well till there
are at least 40 gallons of hot solution ; then
add cold water to make up to 80 gallons.
Never add cold water when cooking, or the
resin will be precipitated, and it will be
difficult to get it in solution. The foregoing
strength is suitable for use on citrus trees.
How can I preserve eggs in the shell by
using lime and water? —-7768.
Lime can be used for preserving eggs, but
is not as satisfactory as water-glass, which
can be bought ready to mix with water for
use, with full instructions on the tin. How-
ever, if it is desired to try lime, it can be
prepared by taking a few lumps of quick-
lime, which should be slaked in a gallon of
water, and when the lime has settled the
clear water should be poured over the eggs
in an earthenware or glass vessel. After a
few days a scum will form on the water ves-
sel, and this should not be broken. Salt can
be added to the limewater if desired.
What fertiliser should be used for rhubarb
in Q’land? —7912.
Apply 10 to 15 tons of stable manure per
acre, and supplement with 4cwt. nitrate of
soda, 4cwt. to 6cwt. Nauru phosphate (super-
phosphate mixture) and lewt. sulphate of
potash per acre.
(1) Has buckwheat ever been grown in
Victoria (2) If so, with what success? (3)
Could it be recommended to take the place
of other crops in the Gippsland district?
(4) How much rye is groicn in Victoriaj
what kind of cultivation is necessary, and
what results can be expected? —76o3.
(1) Buckwheat has not been grown in
Vic. except in a few small plots by poultry-
farmers who use the grain as fowl feed. (2)
No information is available as to the yields
obtained. (3) It is not considered that the
returns from this crop would be sufficiently
remunerative to warrant the growing of it in
preference tp the standard farm crops of
the Gippsland district. (4) Rye is grown
to a limited extent in Vic., mainly for green
feed. It is a hardy crop, but for best results
the land should receive the same preparation
as for wheat. Grown for grain, it won’t
give as profitable returns as other cereals.
Can you give me particulars concerning
the cabbage-bush, which is reputed to be a
good cattle fodder during the summer
months? —7925.
That is one of several popular names given
to H etcrodendron olewfolium, a tall shrub,
occasionally growing 20ft. high or more. It
is found in the interior of all the Australian
States, and is fairly plentiful on some areas.
Its drought-enduring qualities are remark-
able. The leaves are from two to four inches
long. In adverse seasons large quantities are
cut, and both cattle and sheep feed upon the
leaves with avidity and seem to do well on
them.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“B-Gar” : Bushmen who suffer from bad
eyes caused through flies should dissolve
a small portion of Epsom salts in water
and bathe the eyes twice a day. It will
clear out all foreign matter and give relief.
“Black Tracker”: If the owners of out-
back tanks and water-troughs were to place
boards or pieces of floating timber in them,
they would enable the thirsty birds that
flock there to drink in comfort. By so doing
the trouble caused by pollution, owing to the
birds falling in and being drowned, would be
avoided, and there would be fewer droppings
left by struggling birds.
“Yarri”: A thing that has impressed itself
on my notice at many a'farmer’s and selec-
tor’s place is the puddle-hole under the pad-
dock gate or sliprails. I have had to dis-
mount in mud and water at some of them,
and generally at such places the rails are
heavy and ill-fitting, or the gate is "skew-
whiff” and dragging. If they are left open,
as they deserve to be, the curses of the
owner can be heard all over the district. I
have seen him stuck there himself, or damag-
ing his gear and giving his horses a rough
time to get through. A couple of loads of
gravel or sandstone would remedy matters
and save a lot of time and unpleasantness.
“Salambo”: A cheap and simple method
of preparing bone dust is to pile in a pit
bones, straw ash and unslaked lime in suc-
cessive layers, finally covering with earth.
Let it lie for three or four months, sprinkling
with water occasionally to enable the live lime
to absorb the fat from the bones, which are
then dug out, dried in the sun and reduced
to dust in a mortar. A quicker method is to
burn the fresh bones with straw or firewood
for 10 minutes at least, when the bones will
have lost all their fats and become fragile
enough to reduce to powder.
“Claude W.” : Elephantiasis chiefly attacks
fowls which have large and coarse scales
on the shanks, and may be induced by sudden
exposure to cold and wet. It takes the form
of unsightly scurf and encrustation of legs
and feet, and is very contagious. It is
curable only in the onset stage, and the best
treatment is the application of carbolised
oil or glycerine ointment, after scrubbing
with soap and warm water. Weak sugar of
lead may be applied as a last resort. The
birds should be kept on dry ground, and given
stimulant foods.
“T.W.”: An essential precaution to guard
against flag smut in wheat is to select good
seed, and wash it carefully. Then, if there is
room for suspicion that the wheat is in-
fected, wet the grain thoroughly with a solu-
tion of sulphate of soda (Glauber’s salts).
Dry with quicklime, which combines with
the water to make sulphate of lime (gyp-
sum). This acts as a manure, while the
soda destroys the vegetative powers of the
spores.
“Biro”: It is more important to keep eggs
unmoved before setting than to set them
while perfectly fresh. Recently I set a clutch
of eggs that I had had in the house for a
fortnight and got 10 chicks out of 12 eggs.
I then purchased a setting from a neighbor,
who brought them in a gig over a rough
track. Each egg was wrapped in paper, and
they were packed in a tin. Although the
eggs were guaranteed to be fertile, only one
of the clutch proved to be so; the remainder
went off with a bang when tested! The
clutch had also been kept a fortnight before
setting.
“The Bat”: It pays to grow the better
class of pumpkins. Recent sales in Bris-
bane proved the superiority of Beaudesert
to Ironbark and other varieties. A consign-
ment forwarded from Ayr (N.Q.) and grown
by R. Tapiolas made up to £3l per ton, the
highest price for many years. As the yield
per acre is high, and they require little atten-
tion, pumpkins are a profitable side-line.
“Biro”: Many grain-growers seed too
heavily. Recently I counted 105 stems which
came from one grain of Algerian oats. One
of the heads contained 75 grains, and taking
that as the average the yield from one grain
was 7875 grains!
“Two Seas” : It is not an unusual thing
for a ewe to dock the tail of her new-born
lamb by chewing off the end of it. Whether
she does it to conform to fashion’s decree
or for some other reason it is hard to say.
But if the practice becomes more general, and
ewes can be trained to dip their lambs’ tails
into pots of tor distributed around the lamb-
ing paddock, it will save breeders a lot of
trouble and expen ste. So far, very few ewes
have learned to chew their kiddies’ tails
short enough, and so the poor little blighters
have to go through the painful process of
having their rudders shortened twice. If
some humaiw sheepman succeeds in
breeding a reliable strain of lamb-docking
ewes he will be sure of a rich reward.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By Q’land chemist, position in either
Q’land or N.S.W. Northern Rivers. Ex.
refs.-—7954.
By wireworker, suggestions as to novelties
and household utensils that could be made
from wire and meet with ready sale. —7863.
By young woman, Uni. graduate, Dip-
loma Household Science, position on station.
—7949.
By young man, good education, experienced
with sheep and cattle, can keep books, posi-
tion as jackeroo anywhere in Australia. —
7936.
By active man (27), single, nine years’
commercial experience, buyer, salesman and
traveller; knows foreign languages, position
any kind, anywhere.—7937.
By Englishman (23), good education, some
experience sheep and cultivation, position
as jackeroo on mixed farm or sheep station.
—7930.
By middle-aged widow (Scottish), light
domestic duties, sewing, etc., in exchange
board and small wages. Country preferred.
—7981.
By Maorilander (22), well educated, mat-
riculated N.Z. Uni., commercial opening with
firm or company, ex. refs.—792B.
By married couple, girl aged two, position
on station anywhere, husband six years’
Q’land stock and cotton experience; wife,
laundress and general domestic experience.—
7914..
To buy copies of Australian Life for
June, July and August, 1923. —7916.
To buy or exchange for others Papuan,
Fijian and other Pacific Island stamps.—
7918.
To buy secondhand Gaston wheeled-earth
scoop in good order. State price and where-
abouts. (To Walter Tronson, Pomona, N.-.O
line, Q’land.)
To buy “The Goldmines of the World,”
by J. H. Curie. (To Daniel Gavin, More-
liead-street, Townsville, Q.)
To buy “The Pastoral Directory,” 1890 or
1891, will pay £3. —7979.
To buy lOin. A.C.O. phonograph record,
“The Egg” and “People I Have Never Met.”
—7812.
Printed directions of old-time dances, the
Alberts and the Lancers. (To J. W. Flem-
ing, Attunga, Biloela, Q.)
Loan of four November issues of the
Cafricornian.—79ls.
To correspond with M.L. collector wishing
to exchange ivI.L. for Australian stamps.
(To Ray Nicholas, 45 Booth-street, Golden
Square, Bendigo. Vic.)
Whereabouts of William Blaanw, who left
Java for W.A. four or five years ago. (To
H. J. van Buren, 101 William-street, Mel-
bourne, Cl.)
Whereabouts of Thomas Medlam, of High
Green, near Barnsley (England) ; landed
Rockhampton 30 to 40 years ago, and was at
Charters Towers. (To Herbert Shires, care
W. O. Thomas, Malanda, N.Q.)
Words of verses “The Mining Town” and
“The Wreck of the Llyewn” (To R. F.
Kay, Rita Island, Ayr, N.Q.)
Words of comic song, “The Body in the
Bag.” (To R. Reynolds, Kenilworth, via
Brooloo, Q’land.)
Words of “When the Sands of the Desert
Grow Cold” and English words of “La Donna
e Mobile.” (To Miss N. Cunningham, Strath-
more, Collinsville, N.Q.)
Words of “If,” by Rudyard Kipling. (To
J. T. Donoghue, 101 a Church-street, Parra-
matta, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
How can I make a cooling wash or paint
for an iron roof? —7911.
Dissolve 81b. alum and 161 b. coarse salt in
boiling water. Add this to a whitewash made
with 501 b. of freshly-slaked, well-sieved lime.
The mixture should be made to the thickness
of ordinary thick paint and applied with
a whitewash brush. Two or three coats
should be given, with intervals of a day be-
tween each application. For small mixtures
use lime 6 parts, salt 2 parts, alum 1 part.
For what offences within the ring can an
amateur boxer be disqualified in Australia? —
7909.
For delivering a foul blow (i.e., a blow
given in any other way than with the back
of the gloves), or for flicking, charging,
butting with the head or shoulder, hitting in
clinches, hitting below the waist, holding
and hitting, wrestling, roughing at the
ropes, kicking or falling on an opponent,
using the knees to avoid a blow, striking an
opponent who is down, continual clinching
to avoid punishment, going down purposely
without being knocked down, or for acting
in any other manner which, in the opinion
of the referee, is foul.
Can you give me a recipe for glossing
prunes ? —7762.
When the drying of the prunes is com-
pleted they are loosely packed into wire
baskets and dipped in glycerine or glycerine
diluted with water. They are then set aside
to dry before packing. It is considered that
if prunes are well and carefully dried they
do not require glossing. The Department of
Agriculture, Sydney, will supply detailed in-
formation on application.
I insured a house and furniture for £2OO
about 23 years ago. The house did not
belong to me, but to my son. The insurance
co. knew that that was so all along, but now
the house is destroyed it refuses to pay.
Hare I any remedy? —7Bs7.
The insurance was one of indemnity, and
as you were not the owner of the property
you suffered no loss for which you could be
indemnified. You would probably find it diffi-
cult to prove your assertion that the co.
was aware of the situation and yet accepted
premiums from you.
What notice posted on the back gate of a
cottage of which the front gate is kept locked
absolves the owner of responsibility in case
his dog bites a tradesman or an intruder?
Is “Beware of the Dog” sufficient? —7926.
Warning notices do not absolve the owner
of a dangerous dog. Under N. S. Wales law
the owner of a dog which attacks any per-
son legitimately entering a private yard is
liable to a penalty, and the injured person
has a right to make a civil claim for dam-
ages.
How are inkstains removed from polished
w00d? —7774.
Soak raw linseed oil on the stains, and
after leaving for about 20 minutes remove
by gentle friction. If obstinate, apply a
second coating of oil containing a little
cloudy ammonia. Restore color of wood if
necessary with a drop of stain, and finish
off with any good furniture polish contain-
ing beeswax.
(1) Are there deposits of garnets in Aus-
tralia? (2) If so, what is the average size
of the stones? (3) What is their market
value? —776l.
(1) Garnets have been found in all States
of the Commonwealth. The most important
source is in the Macdonnell Ranges, Central
Australia. (2) They range from £-carat
to several carats. (3) There is no set price,
each stone or parcel of stones being bought
on its merits. There is little or no demand
at present.
I have been four years in occupation of a
rented flat and, the landlord notv makes a
demand for payment of water-meter rent for
three years. Am I liable? —7953.
Unless there is a written agreement that
you should pay meter-rent you are not
liable.
I have galvanised wash-tubs which are be-
ginning to rust. Would coating tvith hot
tar be feasible? —7931.
Practically impossible to repair these satis-
factorily, and it -would be cheaper to buy
new ones. A coating of tar would give end-
less trouble under the action of hot water
and soap.
Do the following trees exude gum ; white-
ivood, leopard, emu-apple and gidya? If
so, can you give me a brief description of the
gums and their commercial possibilities? —
7609.
White-wood renders a useful pale-colored
gum. Leopard-tree produces a gum which forms
a good adhesive mucilage. The emu-apple
gives no exudation. Gidya copiously yields
a gum, outwardly resembling pine resin; it
is remarkably light and clear, freely
soluble and as a result adhesive. It would
pay well to export if it could be obtained in
sufficiently large quantities.
(1) What is the attitude of the medical
profession towards palmistry? (2) Can you
quote any eminent medical man upon the
subject ? —7982.
(1) That it is all humbug. (2) Professor
Alexander Macalister, who was Prof, of Anat-
omy at Cambridge, writing in the “Encyclo-
paedia Britannica,” says: “That these purely
mechanical arrangements [speaking of the
lines and skin folds on the hands] have
any psychic, occult or predictive meaning
is a fantastic imagination which seems to
have a peculiar attraction for certain types
of mind, and as there can be no fundamental
hypothesis of correlation, its discussion does
not lie within the province of reason.”
Can you give me a recipe for a beer with-
out malt? —7947.
Take Boz. hops, 141 b. treacle, 2oz. whole
ginger, llgals. water, 2 large cups brewer’s
yeast. Mix all together except the yeast,
bring to the boil, and boil two hours. Re-
move to a wooden tub, and allow to partly
cool, then add the yeast and stir well. Let
stand for 16 hours, then remove to a barrel.
Cant the barrel slightly on its side, and let
stand for two days with the bung out. Then
close bung tightly and leave for a week.
How are whitebait preserved? —7BB9.
Wash the fish well in salted water, and
pack into glass jars, preferably with glass
tops. Fill the jars well, and add as much
lightly salted water as they will hold. Place
new rubbers in position and set the lids in
place, but do not screw down. Place the
jars in a large boiler, and put straw 7 below
and around them to prevent knocking to-
gether. Fill the boiler with water almost to
the rubbers of the jars, and bring the whole
to the boil. The contents of the jars must
boil for about five minutes to ensure com-
plete sterilisation. Then screw down the
lids tightly, and stand the jars upside down
for several hours. If any leakage takes place
the process must be repeated. Store in a
dark, cool place.
What results have been obtained from the
sulphuric and nitric acid method of destroy-
ing stumps, i.e., boring a hole in the stumps
and pouring the acids in? —77ll'.
In November, 1913, the chemist branch of
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department under-
took a series of experiments to test the pos-
sibility of destroying stumps (dry and green)
with acids, and demonstrated that the
method is of no practical value.
(1) How can I get to Lightning Ridge
(N.S.W.)? (2) What kit would be needed?
(3) Are supplies of food, etc., available
there? (4) What permits or licenses must
be obtained? (5) How far icould £lOO go
in getting me there and maintaining me
there?—' 7736.
(1) By train to Walgett, change at
Burren Junction (fare, £3 18s. 6d. first-
class ; £2 7s. 3d. second-class) and thence
by mail car (fare, £1 55.). (2) A tent,
cooking utensils, etc. Mining tools can be
obtained on the field at a cost of about
£2 10s. (3) There are four stores, a baker
and a butcher in the township. (4) A miner’s
right, which costs ss. for six months. (5)
A careful man should be able to live on
about 30s. per week. Life is hard, however,
and at present not much opal is being found.
Some of the miners have' found practically
nothing in 12 months.
What is the cause of sore hocks among
caged rabbits, and can they be cured? —7913.
The condition is due to the rabbits stamp-
ing their feet in filthy, wet hutches, thus
causing the legs to become irritated, infected
and sore. Very heavy rabbits are often sub-
ject to hock injuries. Clean up the hutches,
then thoroughly disinfect the floor and allow
it to become dry. Put in clean straw or
hay bedding. The sore hocks can be coated
with carbolised vaseline and bandaged.
lodoform has also been recommended. Re-
move the bandages as often as necessary co
keep the sores clean and to apply more
vaseline.
A man and wife holding a joint account in
the Commonwealth Savings Bank hold Com-
monwealth bonds joi'Aly. The bonds are
held by the bank, and the interest is placed
to the credit of the joint account. In case
of death of cither of them does the other
become entitled to the bonds as well as the
money at credit in the joint account? —7806
Yes. A joint account implies joint owner-
ship. In a joint ownership by two persons
the whole vests in the survivor on the death
of the other.
(1) What amount of burnt lime should be
put, in a 1000 -gallon tank of drinking water?
(2) If too much is put in a tank, would it
be injurious to the human system? —762l.
(1) It would be necessary to know the
hardness of the water before an estimate of
the amount of lime to be added can be given.
(2) An excess of lime would probably not be
injurious provided only the clear water was
used.
/ have a five-valve wireless receiver, but
very little space is available for the erection
of an aerial. (1) What aerial do you recom-
mend for both inter-State and local recep-
tion? Would a frame aerial be satisfactory?
(2) Directions for constructing a frame
aerial. (3) How can I send small amounts
of a fete pence to Maoriland? Would Aus-
tralian stamps be accepted there?— 7BBs.
(1) A frame aerial, while quite suitable
for local reception, cannot be recommended
for inter-State with the usual five-valve re-
ceiver. IF it Is impossible to elect a small
outdoor aerial, install an indoor aerial under
the roof. Use bell wire, obtainable from
8.G.E., of Clarence-street, Sydney. Employ
the whole length of the roof and keep the
wire, as far as possible, clear of any wood-
work, using insulators and cord for this
purpose where necessary. _ (3) Direction - ; for
constructing a frame aerial are to be found
in Wireless Weekly, vol. 7, No. 26. As
2FC is no longer on 1100 metres, wind iO
turns of wire only on the frame. Wireless
Weekly is obtainable from Wireless News-
papers, Ltd., 51 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
(3) Purchase an Imperial reply coupon from
the G.P.O. These are exchangeable for
stamps at any post office in the British
Empire.
How can I prevent my children getting
skinned and blistered by the sun every time
they spend a day on the beach? I’ve tried
daubing them, with zinc ointment.— 773o.
Smear calomine lotion on evenly with
cotton wool before they go out into the sun-
shine (salt water will not wash it off), and
remove afterwards with cold cream. Or mix
10 grains white precipitate powder, 15 grains
subnitrate bismuth. 10 grains oxide zinc and
lOoz. cold cream of roses, and rub into the
skin before they go out.
(1) Is there any hnown fence which will
keep a herd of, sag, 200 goats in a, large
paddock, short of 6 ft. wire-netting? (2)
Is there any publication dealing with goats?
—7633.
(1) A 4ft. 6in. barb-wire fence, with the
posts sunk 2ft. in ground is suggested. The
first wire, or ground wire, should be 3in.
above ground level, and going upwards the
following distances between the wires: 3in.,
4in., sin., 6in., 6in., 6in., 9in. and 10in.,
with 2in. on top of post; 14-gauge can be
used throughout, although 12-gauge would
be preferable. (2) The Goat World, Bald-
win Park. California (15s. 6d. per annum) ;
“Profitable Goat Keeping,” by Pearson (35.).
(1) Does the fact of a wife being con-
victed of bigamy constitute, sufficient grounds
for divorce, even though there may be ex-
tenuating circumstances? (2) What is the
usual cost of a divorce? —7B4B.
(1) Bigamy is not in itself a ground for
divorce, but there may be circumstances in
connection with it—such as “desertion with-
out reasonable excuse during three years and
upwards”-—that may provide the ground.
Only a solicitor acquainted with all the facts
could advise you. (2) There is no fixed fee.
(1) Is it legal to deduct 21 per cent, dis-
count off all cash transactions? (2) Arc
cheques dated on Sunday legal? —7B7o.
(1) The payee of an account has no statu-
tory legal right to deduct discount for pay-
ment in cash. If allowed it is by virtue
of a trade custom. (2) Yes.
Information Supplied.
7503. —To prevent swallows from build-
ing underneath verandah roofs, paint the
inside of the roof or portions around the
nests with whale oil. Swallows dislike the
odor and quit:—E..T.M.C.
7400.- —To find the north by means of the
sun and a watch, hold the watch face up-
wards, point the line from the centre of
its dial to 12 o’clock at the sum and bisect
the angle between this line and the hour
hand. The line so found will point approxi-
mately to north.—B.F.P.
Does Anybody Know?
How to make suspended heart-shaped
dingo trap?—7939.
Remedy for squeaky boots?—7Bs6.
Brief Answers.
F.0.C.: (1) Face value only. (2) No.
(3) Fred Hagen, 63 Hunter-street, Sydney....
D. : Call and see W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.,
19-21 O’Connell-street, Sydney... .A.L.C.: (1) A
novel can be copyrighted either in MS. or printed
form. (2) 50-60,000 words is below the usual length
for a novel. (3) It is considered more unbusiness-
like than undignified; usually authors have neither
the knowledge of the book trade nor the means for
distributing their work. .. . L.L.8.: Agatha Christie,
E. Phillips Oppenheim, G. K. Chesterton, A. J.
Rees, Ronald A. Knox, Chas. Barry, Annie Hayes,
William le Queux and Gaston Leroux are a few of
the best known. . . .L.A.D.: (1) Six. (2) North and
Central Australia and the Federal Capital Territory
are not classed as States, but as Federal Territories
under control of the Commonwealth Government....
H.J.M.: Applications for employment in the R.A.A.F.
should be made on the prescribed form to the
secretary, Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne,
the envelope being endorsed “Employment”....
Alice: Write to the secretary, Hibernian Australasian
Catholic Benefit Society of N.S.W., 342 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney... .T.A.: Robertson and Mullens, 107
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne T. 5.8.: The secretary
of the Sydney Henry Lawson Society is J. Vincent,
Phillip-street, Enmore C.L.: Australian authors
whose works are published in England are liable
to pay British income-tax on royalties received, it
being usual for the publisher to deduct the amount
of income-tax from royalties. .. .lt.T. : Queensland
Geophysical Surveys, Ltd., Courier Buildings, Queen-
street, Brisbane W.C.: (1) Varies according to
subject; a table of fees will be found in the
Calendar of Sydney Uni. (2) No. (3) On the
Monday after the first Sunday in Lent. (4) Yes,
the matriculation. (5) A complete list is given in
the calendar. (6) Depends upon the ability of the
pupil and the subject taken. (7) Do not know
the fund to which you refer. (8) No, though it
would have been better if you had started a few
years earlier M.H.C.: “Coonardoo” literally means
“rocky waterhole,” but Katharine Prichard has
translated it freely to signify “the well in the
shadow” ; “Wytaliba” means “the fire is all burnt
out”; and “Bandogera,” a “wild turkey”... .L.R.T.:
You evidently mean Bill Bowyang’s Magazine. If
so, it expired last year. .. . J.S.: Write to the
Registrar-General, Queen’s-square, Sydney, and supply
all the particulars you can. A certificate will cost
2s. 6d G.R.A. : (1) It is pronounced as it is
spelt. (2) Cannot recall a similar incident....
L. : (1) Apply to District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Edward-street, Brisbane. (2) Too oil
for the seaman branch, but there are many other
branches of the service for which recruits of your
age are accepted. .. .C.L : The question was replied
to in answer to No. 6774 (B. 7/11/’2B) . . . . A.C.M.:
The thorough cleansing of the ear with peroxide of
hydrogen is advised, followed by swabbing with a
solution of 3 grains nitrate of silver to loz. distilled
water. If possible, keep ears as dry as you can and
occasionally give a dose of laxative medicine. But
it would be safer to have a vet. .. .M.D.8.: Dr.
Kendal started the first veterinary school in Aus-
tralia over 30 years ago. The degree G.M.V.C.
(Graduate of Melbourne Veterinary College) was
conferred. The college was afterwards affiliated
with Melbourne Uni F.T.: If the posi-
tion as stated in the inquiry can be ' established,
no objection would be raised by the authorities to
the issue of a passport, but you are advised to
furnish full particulars to the Home and Territories
Department, Canberra, or to the Collector of Customs
in the State where you reside. .. .A.P.: Corriedale
sheep are good doers, and should be suitable for
the class of country you mention. They are no
harder to handle than other cross-bred sheep, and
if a Corriedale ram were mated with big-framed cross-
bred ewes, wool of the progeny would be of a
good type. The lambs would be just as good,
if not better than previously, for freezing... .W.P.T.:
The employer is under no onus to furnish a letter
of reference except in cases provided for by an
industrial award. .. .V.S.E.: Carbon tetrachloride
capsules are obtainable from Parke, Davis and Co.,
125 York-street, Sydney. .. .P.N.: The following
works by Miguel de Unamuno can be obtained from
Preece’s, Adelaide: “Soliloquios y Conversaciones”
(55.), “Tres Novelas Ejemplares y un Prologo”
(65.), “Recuerdos de Ninez de Mocedad” (4s. 6d.),
and “Rosario de Sonetos Liricos” (4s. 6d.)....
G.N.C.: “Some Useful Australian Birds” (10s. 9d.
posted), obtainable from N.S.W. Government Printer,
Phillip-street, Sydney.... W.H.: The troehus shell
is .a pyramidal sea-snail, of three to four inches in
diameter, striped with white and crimson bands and
richly nacreous within. The shells are gathered by
hand upon the coral reef; the contents are removed
by boiling and picking or by rotting out in the
sand. The shells are bagged and exported to Japan,
where they are cut by machinery into pearl-shell
shirt buttons. .. .H.L.: The Empire Theatre (Sydney)
was opened on February 28, 1927. “Sunny” was
the initial piece. “The Student Prince” was not
staged there until July 16, 1927. .. . J.8.G.: Chief
Railway Commissioner Fraser entered the N.S.W.
Government railway service as an engineering cadet
in 1878. He was born at Braidwood (N.S.W.) in
1861 W.P.: Write to the Lennon Plough and
Machine Co., Spotswood, Vic.... .R.J.P.: (1) The
Australian Inland Mission, 92b Pitt-street, Sydney.
(2) La Grange Bay is 1392 miles north of Perth.
Mails are only despatched there as occasion offers.
(3) Point Charles lighthouse is at Port Darwin,
Northern Territory- Mails to Darwin are conveyed
monthly by steamer.... M.S.: You should, person-
ally or through your solicitor, see that the necessary
endorsement is made. Inquiry at the Lands Titles
office, Queen’s-square, Sydney, will put you in the
way of making a search. .. .W.L.: (1) Old-Age Pen-
sions Office, Chalmers-street, Sydney. (2) £5O. (3
and 4) Provided you reside on the property you
own your pension rate would not be affected. (5) You
are permitted to earn 12s. 6d. per week.... J.E.S.:
(1) There is practically no scope for free-lance
writers of advertisements; such work is usually
done by staff men or agents. (2) You can approach
them direct, but your chances of success are remote.
(3) There would be no harm in taking a course. (4)
No set scale G.M.M.: It would not be difficult to
convert a 30ft. ship’s boat into a ketch, and, provided
that it was well rigged, decked and fitted by compe-
tent tradesmen, it would be capable of making deep-
sea voyages around the coast. You would have to pay,
however, at least six times as much as you state....
M. : The Bulletin does not supply the private
addresses of its contributors, but is always pleased
to forward letters addressed to them care of this
office. .. .E.V.S.: “Australian Short Stories,” selected
by George Mackaness, is obtainable from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney (price 7s. 6d.) ... .0.C.W.:
All leading Q’land booksellers probably stock volumes •
of Benn’s Library. If unobtainable, write to Benn’s
Australian agents, A. A. and H. B. Newman, 181
Clarence-street, Sydney... .H.A.K.: (1) A kangaroo
skin is not suitable for making a fur coat. (2) A
fur coat made from rabbit-skins will be found to be
lasting. (3) W. Perrers, 480 George-street, Sydney.
. .. .Manapouri; (1) Impossible to determine value of
pictures without personal inspection. (2) Send full
particulars to Lyster Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street, Sydney.
(Many others mailed.)


UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE
♦ ♦ ♦ IN THE FIELD OF
LOW PRICED -SIXES ♦
.
'• an.?..
■
V?
5 I
rmM
5
HB
1
v¥«»iliii
SSSiS&S
i .£*
1 §1
T!! e public presentation of the De Soto
Six will constitute, we believe, an event
of the greatest importance to the auto-
mobile-using public. The single fact that
the De Soto Six is a creation of the great
Chrysler organisation is alone enough to
make its public appearance a matter of
profound interest everywhere.
gut, in addition, it will be apparent to
you at once that nothing so surprisingly
beautiful and so unmistakably good as the
De Soto —calling for so moderate an invest-
ment on the part of the purchaser—has yet
appeared from any manufacturing source.
r jphe De Soto Six is so consummately new
in all respects, so radically in advance
of anything previously offered in its field,
that we enthusiastically invite your most
critical study upon its initial appearance
next month.
NEW Chrysler - designed ''Silver-
Dome” high - compression engine,
using any grade gasoline.
NEW smoothness and quietness of
operation at every speed.
NEW performance brilliancy, flash-
ing getaway, astonishing power and
pick-up with marked economy of
gas and oil.
NEW-type rubber insulation of
engine, new-type invar-strut pistons,
new-type crankcase ventilator, etc.
NEW-type four - wheel hydraulic
internal brakes with moulded brake
lining, giving instant and squeakless
stopping in any weather.
NEW slender-profile radiator, new
bowl-type lamps, with beautiful
cowl lamps and cowl bar, all
chromium plated.
i
I
i
i
i
ŵ
BUILT BY
CHRYSLER
DE SOTO SIX DISTRIBUTORS WILL BE ADVERTISED SHORTLY


ẃ
ẅ
w
SMOKE-OH!
ẃ
WHEN THE GODS WERE LOOSE.
MEDICO: "Gad, old chap, the family doctor had to be a
bit of a vet. in those days, sh?"
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
THE DESCENT OF MAN.
SCHOOLMASTER: "Now, boys, I want you to tell me the names of some of the lower
animals-begining with you, Johnson."
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
THE HORN OF PLENTY.
CRY OF TH EX-CHILDREN.
ŵ
10-2-4.
SUBURBAN NIGHTS.
ẅ
DORIC.
APTLY NAMED.
ẁ
ẃ
H.
w
ŵ
A.E.W.


ŵ


&S 8&
kFAci
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
A--
':: x -
-- v-^"‘iV
X
/T\
a x‘i
X.
sN
—■>
5..,
N V,—••
i
“Its Quality Never Changes. ”
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
BARCKEN
BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations % hy lyGciSOlt
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day of his
birth, and taken by his mother’s sister,
Ann Martin, to Music Ridge, a Qipps-
land selection owned by Ann’s hus-
band Hector, Jasper Leith by the time
lie is 13 is beginning to hate the farm
as he hates his uncle, who is a heavy
drinker and whose black temper scares
and subdues his ivife. Jasper slaves
among the cows, carts the, milk to the
factory and cuts the bracken that
encroaches more and more over the
paddocks. At the factory, ivherc, after
delivering the milk, the children who
drive the farm carts there are sup-
posed to line up in a queue for their
issue of whey for pig- and calf-feed,
Jasper has'a fight with Tod Harris,
a loutish boy ivlio had forced his way
into the line ahead of Lois Beaument,
a girl neighbor of Jasper’s. Jasper
accepts an invitation from Lois to go
to a party at her home.
HIS first sensation when next day he
arrived at Grasslands was one of be-
wildered delight. Lois had him by the
hand, and was leading him from place to
place, pointing out
this and that in-
dispensable aid to
parties worthy cf
the name. The
marquee some-
thing hitherto un-
known to Guruwa
—was a gorgeous
affair of red and
yellow stripes, with
an overl app i n g
border of yellow
canvas and two
Australian ensigns
flapping bravely
from either end, of
the ridge. This,
Lois was careful to
explain to Jasper,
was Grandma
Beaument’s contri-
bution.
The startling
color scheme of
the marquee gave
it, if anything,
added value in Jas-
per’s eyes. He
agreed with Lois
that the sudden
astonishment of Mr. Hume, on first con-
fronting this wonderful erection, could only
have been due to a profound satisfaction.
It was undoubtedly true, as the missioner
had presently gravely informed Lois’s
anxious look, that nothing so remarkable
had ever before been seen in the town-
ship.
“It’s beautiful,” Jasper said.
“It is,” Hume agreed. He smiled warmly.
“And, Lois, I’ve brought my young nephew
along. You’ve heard me speak of Ronald
lots of times. He’s my sister’s boy.”
“Ronald Braid? Yes, I remember.”
“He’s staying with us for the term holi-
days. I think you’ll like him. And you,
too, Jasper. He goes to Scotch, but he isn’t
in the least stuck-up about it. I’m an old
Scotch boy, and I can tell you I’m never
tired of boasting about it.”
“Albert put the swings up for me,” Lois
said. “He’s a dear. He worked after tea
nearly every night this week, with a lantern
to see by, ‘so that father wouldn’t grumble
about wasting farm time.”
“I like Albert,” Jasper said stoutly.
“Albert deserves to be liked,”
said Hume. He looked about
him. “I’m off to find Ronald.”
Lois suddenly tugged at Jasper’s
sleeve.
“Jasper, I forgot. Grandma wants to see
everybody as soon as they come. She gets
cross if people don’t notice her. You must
come.”
Jasper had rather a terror of Grandma
Beaument. She was so very old. He often
thought it must hurt to be as old as
Grandma Beaument was. Her face was all
shrivelled, and she had to hold on to things
lest she should fall over. And then she was
so nearly blind that she had to push her face
almost into yours before she could see you,
and you had to shout to make her hear.
And her voice was always sharp, especially
when she got into a temper, which was
quite often. Lois had told him that even
her father was scared of the old lady’s
tongue.
He was suddenly conscious, as they neared
the house, of his patched trousers and the
newly darned rent in the sleeve of his coat.
His linen collar, too, sat uncomfortably,
giving a stiffness to the movement of his
head. He felt shabby and ill at ease, and
a little ashamed and angry, particularly at
sight of the well-dressed boy whom he saw
moving at Mr. Hume’s elbow to meet them.
That would be Ronald Braid. Jasper had
already decided that he liked the name.
“Miss Sprott said gently: ‘Potatoes, Jasper.’
“‘Well, potatoes,’ said Jasper desperately.... ‘I’d grow potatoes, and I’d feed ’em,
to pigs. There’s money in that.’”
He heard Mr. Hume speak, and then
found himself shaking hands with the new-
comer. Somehow, as he did so, the sense
of inferiority vanished. Ronald was smiling
from Lois to himself. Jasper was sur-
prised at the friendliness of the smile. It
seemed to light up the whole of the boy’s
face. His hand clung to Jasper’s for a
hearty five seconds before releasipg it.
“Ronald tells me,” the missioner said,
somewhat irrelevantly, “that he’s going
to study art.”
“Uncle loves to make fun of me,” Ronald
told Lois, a tinge of color in his cheek.
“But it’s true. I do want to be an artist.”
“You mean paint things?” Jasper asked.
At the other boy’s nod he added: “But
artists don’t make much money, do
they?”
“Money?” Ronald echoed. His look was
mildly scornful. “No, I suppose not; except
the top-notchers, of course. But it’s what
I like best.”
While the other three talked, Jasper
studied Ronald with the frank curiosity of
youth. He saw a rather delicately-built boy
some two or three years older than him-
self, with a good-looking, fresh-complexioned,
sensitive face. Ronald Braid’s eyes and
mouth were clever and kindly, but hinted
at irresolution, as did also his chin, which
was as gently outlined as a girl’s. He had
a wide brow surmounted by a thick crop
of fair, glossy hair. His hands—Jasper
noted this with a little pang of wistful
jealousy—were long-fingered, smooth, with-
out blemish. His voice was pleasant, and
his manner easy.
Jasper frowned a little at the close of
his inspection. He was vaguely aware of
comparison with himself, and something at
the back of his mind was hurt and indignant.
He thought: “I could be like that, too
it’s only money that does it. But he
couldn’t do the work I do. He couldn’t
milk old Brindle.” But he was queerly
drawn to Ronald, in .spite of this.
Lois was laughing because he had not
heard her speak to him. She said again-
“ Jasper, what are you dreaming about? Come
and say good afternoon to grandma.”
Grasslands comprised 320 acres of black
soil flats, a iryle south of Guruwa town-
ship. Old Amos, in the days when he was
young Amos, had selected on the very day
that part of the country was thrown open.
He came from his father’s farm in the Omeo
district and settled himself single-handed
in the virgin bush. Within a twelvemonth
other settlers were in occupation all about
him. Amos Beaument’s holding was the
pick of them all. The country thereabouts
was named Blackbutt Creek on the loca-
tion maps. Five years after it was settled
a Minister for Lands with a penchant for
doing something introduced a number of
aboriginal words to various apathetic com-
munities throughout the Gippsland region.
Blackbutt Creek became Guruwa, which
means wind. However badly other settle-
ments may have fared from the exchange,
Guruwa had no cause for complaint. Wind
was the district’s outstanding eccentricity,
had the energetic Minister known it.
Grasslands was but lightly timbered.
When first scrubbed and burned off, it was
remarkably free from fern and fireweed.
These and other rubbish were speedily elimi-
nated altogether as the years progressed.
Amos worked and saved; and in the pro-
cess of time married the daughter of a
neighbor. In giving birth to Albert the
poor woman died. Nearly twenty years
later, when he was fifty, Amos married a
second time. Two years later he was once
more bereaved, though from less pitiful
cause. Lois was then a year old. In the
meantime the property prospered. Amos’s
father died; the Omeo farm was sold, and.
the widow came to live with her son at
Guruwa.
Grasslands homestead Was a rambling
structure, having wide verandahs on the
north and west sides. The front portion was
of sawn timber, with a corrugated-iron roof.
The rear portion represented the original
building to which Amos Beaument brought
his first bride. The walls were of hand-
dressed slabs, and the roof was made of
shingles. The interior was lined with palings,
covered with hessian and wallpaper. By
contrast with the two brick chimneys of the
new front, the old chimney of stone and clay
appeared ugly and
decrepit. From the
aspect of utility it
“drew” better than
either of them. It
rose above a typi-
cal bush hearth;
wide, deep and
roomy, and able to
contain a back-log
that would last an
all-day fire for a
fortnight or more.
The two portions
of the house were
joined by a short,
wide gangway with
an iron roof, the
sides open to the
weather.
The whole build-
ing was smothered
with creeper. In
the winter there
was the green and
pink of geranium,
the green and gold
of banksia leaf and
stem, and the russet
threads of Virginia. In the spring and
summer leaf and flower unfurled to a maze
of soft colors. The verandahs trailed long,
luscious pendules of mauve and white wis-
taria; the eaves became bordered with the
rainbow hues of rose, geranium and morning-
glory ; the walls and chimneys vanished
beneath a flood of olive-green vegetation.
Order and sequence could never have pro-
duced an effect at once so striking and so
immaculately toned.
Surrounding the house was a narrow
garden plot. To the side were a small
orchard and a vegetable garden. Sheds and
outhouses clustered at the rear; these
smothered in the prettily rank embraces of
dolichos-creeper. Beyond these was the
silver ribbon of water serving the Black-
butt Creek, which crossed Grasslands diagon-
ally from boundary to boundary.
CHAPTER VII.
Youth Tells Its Plans.
Grandma Beaument rested the arrogance
of her 87 years in a large cane chair upon
the verandah, a claw-like hand grasping
either arm of it. Her head was sunken into
her shoulders, about which was wrapped a
(Continued on page 49.)


cAJss rfrmeJJomer-S/he Popuhr Star
is ci Jiexonci oirl!
>
r :
#
Miss IRENE HOMER, # the
popular star now appearing with
such marked success in “The
Patsy,” at the Criterion Theatre,
Sydney, is a Rexona Girl and
writes as follows: “I find
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, ideal for the
complexion; especially during
the bathing season, when the
Australian sun makes havoc of
tender skins, Rexona Soap and
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, are
a boon, indeed.”
nexotid
(jirl,too?
Two charming
studies of Miss
IRENE HOMER,
a Beautiful Rexona
Girl.
w
ŵ
Rexona/Wot.
The Rexona Habit results in Health and Beauty, and once
formed will never be broken. There are two Rexona
Habits —that of using Rexona Ointment to heal all injuries
to the Skin, and the Rexona Soap Habit, which consists of
keeping oneself healthy and beautiful by the daily use of
Rexona Soap.
Rexona, the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Soap mean skin
health and beauty, comfort to the user, and immunity
from disease, so form the Rexona Habit. Start using
Rexona and Rexona Soap to-day. You will be delighted
with the results.
mm
■M
■
ill
«
mm
BBS
■■lll 1
■ i
fl
’ Cooling
Soothing -
Healing
Antiseptic Oinfmenl'
Purifies o Absolutely
* o HpaU Rpliahlp
■? /
xMimniiHiEs
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin. Eczema. Sores Cuts
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEPT SHELDON DRUG CP L TD SYDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
'K&xonci
Jha Rapid
flealer
'Rexona
Soap
~for yieatth'
J and
Beauty
m
m
I wmMiji,
hi.
fcs***.
B
hi
xi a
1
3\2
/////
1
3f^V
*o*
■X'l'*’
:£>
Mi
■ta him
m
Mi
ii/ii
iiii
w
m
ij ;*&
ii!


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, 1C.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE an/d WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
T)I? Oll Australia, New
1/1A iir 1 Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
uici, uinaiij and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS Side'S'.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Als(? FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies \n all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing niail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
GRANTS
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
%
£M
ẁ
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BERKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X-6187.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
ẃ
WC
iTB
KKflflO
vuVsttWwUW'
ẅ
IMI
RK
H
Klin
i
H
l
At
Attractive Trips of frovi 2 to 7 weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
&CO
fßlua
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors .*
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
Vessel.
CANBERRA
(Melb. only).
BOMBALA
(All Ports).
ORIJNGAL
(Melb. only)
KATOOMBA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
DIMBOOLA
(All Ports).
KANOWNA
(Melb. only)
KAROOLA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
ORMISTON
Leaves
Sydney
I Leaves
I Melbourne
Sat.,
Dec. 22.
Sat.,
Dec. 22.
Sat.,
Dec. 29.
Sat.,
Dec. 29.
Fri.,
Jan. 4.
Sat.,
Jan. 5.
Sat.,
Jan. 12.
(Sat.,
(Melb. only). Jan, 12.
Wed.,
Jan. 2.
Tues.,
Jan. 8.
Wed..
Jan. 16.
Sydney Agents.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraitb,
McEachnvn. Ltd.,
i o Rridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
.*ici 1 w i.mii,
McEacharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACRAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDABT PARKEIt.LI IVIITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CDUISS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World's Deeding
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1811.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
w
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; W. E. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office George Street, Sydney London Office—29 TiireadDeedle Street. E.C. 3.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
COOL OFF IN TASMANIA
A FORTNIGHT’S HOLIDAY IN TASMANIA
Including Fares, Accommodation, Local Sight-Seeing, etc., from
£24/1/-
XMAS SAILINGS TO HOBART
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA (7000 tons), DECEMBER 19 and 24,
JANUARY 2 and 9.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.


k/v ; N
I
X
A Practical
zsi
Christmas t" Sit I
/". ■ M£w j
Gift .
blad
one
e
THERE is but ont blade with a Rolls Razor
And hat one blade will give years
_( and years of smooth shaves That is
ml because it is made from tested steel—just as
ffl the old “ cut throat ’ was It is not stamped
W out in thousands bv machinery as *re wafer
F olades. Mass production could never produce
a Rolls Razor blade Only craftsmen can i
achieve such a masterpiece. And skilled M
engineers have devised a method by wmch t
this blade is kept keen by automatic honing f
and stropping in its case. Do not buy a holder I
for wafer blades Get a Rolls Razoi and be /
thrifty.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
mmsm
m
m
Ease
with
Elegance
m
[rnitlilii
THE ELGIN fits your wrist so com-
fortably and naturally that you scarcely
know it is there. But the ELGIN is
not merely an adornment —it is the master
of exactness, the ever ready servant at your
service at all times.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
Col gin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
flip Jrade Mark
o
in the Watch Cape
101
HEINZ
Cooked Spaghetti
From the recipe of a famous
Italian chef. Seasoned with
rich Tomato Sauce from Heinz
grown tomatoes and a special
cheese. Wholesome, nutritious,
appetizing.
1372
One of the
57
Varieties
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
How long ex-
actly is it going
to take the
movie-makers to
learn that farce
is to serious
drama as oil is
to water? Since
their beginnings
they have been trying in vain to get
them to mb;, and “Do Your Duty” (First
National) is evidence that they haven’t yet
given up hope. Good comedy, of course,
will mix with almost anything, and the first
half of this picture-—the rise of policeman
Maloney to lieutenant’s rank in the U.S.A.
foorce—is mostly tip-top comedy. The
laugh-making element mixes well with the
new pride within his home, the engagement
of his daughter, and then his sudden fall
from grace through being knocked on the
head and, while semi-conscious, given enough
bootleg to get him convicted of drunkenness
and returned to the ranks. It would go
well, too, with his taking of the crooks and
reinstatement; but here, where the drama
begins to show, farce is dragged in to the
detriment of a quite-passable sentimental
domestic story. The John Hop is Charles
Murray; his daughter is Doris Dawson. The
picture is only moderate.
“The Enemy” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) is
a movie calculated to make the ardent paci-
fist turn Catherine wheels, handsprings and
sugar-doodles in his bath. It is direct, undis-
guised anti-war propaganda, dealing particu-
larly with the feminine and other non-
fighting sides of the business of Mars. The
story is slight
as the shadow
of a barra-
couta’s skele-
ton. In Aus-
tria, on the
night of his
marriage, a
young reservist
receives march-
ing orders for
next morning.
While he is at
the front his
wife’s father
loses a univer-
sity job for
airing pacifist
principles, and
most of the
movie is given
to depicting the
sufferings of
these two and
others on the
borderland of
s t a r y a t ion.
The soldier
is posted
missing; the
LILLIAN GISH,
of “The Enemy.”
young wife’s child dies from under-nourish-
ment, and she herself is near madness when
the soldier, who had been a prisoner, returns.
There, of course, the movie-makers evade
using the full weight of their propaganda
bludgeon, which is very sensible of them, for,
though they love to preach—and preaching
of this kind might possibly do good—their
obvious business is to entertain; without
that concession to happiness, this picture
would be a dreadfully heavy entertainment.
It is heavy enough, anyhow, though it is
a cruelly true portrayal of the conditions
that did prevail in most combatant countries
in Europe during the war. Lillian Gish
represents womanhood. Her acting is first-
rate.
Just a little less hastiness in the produc-
ing, and “The Leopard Lady” (P.D.C.)
would have teen first-class. As it stands,
it is yards above the average—a good circus
and crime story, set on the Continent, excel-
lently photographed and acted, brisk in move-
ment and polished off with a fascinating
element of mystery. A lady leopard-tamer
is employed by the Vienna police to join a
circus and ferret out the doer of sundry
crimes, including murder, that shadow all
its touring. Always an old woman is seen some-
where in the vicin-
ity of the crime,
but, after showing
her in suspicious
circumstances once
or twice, the movie-
makers are in such
haste to get on
with the love-mak-
ing at the end
that they forget all
about her. In other
words, they take
hold of the leg of
the audience ille-
gitimately ; in yet
other words, they
are guilty of artis-
tic immorality.
Still, they manage
to make a picture
that is a good
entertainer, with an
a la Poe ape acting
a la Poe, and Jac-
queline Logan as
an alluring leopard
lady.
The fairly good
North-West Moun-
ted story that is
merely suggested in
the ■♦musical “Rose
Mar i e” is well
brought out in the
film of the same name (Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer) Throughout the winter that has sat
upon the northern outpost, Rose Marie has
divided her time between luring on Sergeant
Malone, of the Mounted, and rejecting him,
and_ she has toyed a little, too, with Etienne,
a rich young man. In the spring, when the
thoughts and canoes of the up-river trappers
lightly turn to the outpost, she finds her
affinity in Jim Kenyon, who has arrived with
a party of trappers in a murdered Indian’s
boat Malone-recognises the party as old
mends, but they escape. _ Kenyon, assisted
away by Rose Marie, hides within Indian
coo-ee of the outpost, until Rose Mane s
father discovers the little game and forces
her into marriage with Etienne. The couple
are going down the river for their honeymoon
when they are caught in flood waters and
rescued by Kenyon. Etienne is badly injured,
and the lovers’ troubles look like ending
themselves naturally with his death when
Malone, with one of the other fugitives in
tow, arrives at the hut. Things get badly
tangled again and the drama works up into
fairly oxciting suspense wh6n the prisoner
kills the sergeant and badly wounds Kenyon,
who, however, eventually uses a knife effect-
ually. Etienne then obliges by passing out,
and the other two leave lingeringly for
civilisation. Probability is rather strained
in places, but altogether the picture can be
marked “0.K.”
The Palette
An interesting lot of woodcuts and etch-
ings occupies the walls of the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney. Lionel Lindsay is repre-
sented by five etchings, all moderately
priced; they include “Sta Domenica Mag-
giore, Naples,” massive and full of life, and
“The Street of the Aqueduct,” still and
quiet in its light and shade. “Fort and
City,” an etching by E. S. Lumsden, is one
of the most purely delightful things in the
show. The fort, of worn stone, is on an
eminence to the left; beyond and below it
the dwarfed city stretches into'the barely-
visible distance. His “The Banyan Tree”
—still water and small sails, lying level
through the tree-arches —is another deli-
cately-fashioned etching. Three fine Muir-
head Bones, seven of Henry Rushburg's
architectural pieces and eight decorative
colors by Elizabeth Keith are other out-
standing contributions.
“F.S.” : Will' Longstaff’s latest effort in
the “Menin Gate” genre is a picture of a
ghostly army in war equipment marching
past the London Cenotaph. It measures
9ft. by sft., and the fact that the artist
painted it in 18 hours is pointed to as fresh
proof that he works under psychic influence,
though similar claims were never made for
the late Caton Woodville when he achieved
even greater feats on more prosaic subjects
for the Graphic,
“Loyola”: The Mitchell Library and the
Commonwealth Parliamentary Library have
bought copies of a portrait-study of Lachlan
Macquarie, by Mick Paul. This etching is
dedicated to J. H. M. Abbott; it is the first
of a series on which Paul is enthusiastically
engaged. The second is to be of the Rev.
Sam Marsden. Paul and his wife, Dorothy
Ellsmore, have been living for two years
on the foothills above Windsor and Penrith
and Parramatta, and saturating themselves
in the atmosphere of the Macquarie period.
The Inky Way
Pat Lawlor: It might be inferred from
“Lao-dah’s” par. (B. 21/11/’2B) that con-
tributors to the N.Z. Artists’ Annual may
or may not be paid. As a matter of fact, they
have been paid right from No. 1. Last
year they received rates equal to the best in
Maoriland; this year they should equal Aus-
tralian rates ; next year there is every hope
that they will be paid on publication at
best Australian rates. It is a fine tribute to
the loyalty of Maorilanders now famous in
other parts of the world that they have
been prepared to send work to the Annual
on the communal basis on which it has been
run. Harry Rountree, for example, has con-
tributed some of his best work.
“Pitman” : Though lOUseph Ward is the
most affable of men, his return to political
prominence will bring no joy to M.L. news-
paper reporters, for his speeches take a devil
of a lot of reconstructing. lOUseph’s ideas
run ahead of his words (and his words come
at the rate of 400 a minute when he warms
up), the result being whole nests of paren-
theses, packed one inside the other like
Chinese boxes. Ward’s habit of quoting
figures by the hour isn’t so trying as his
more colloquial passages; he hands out the
figures, neatly typewritten, in advance.
STRUCK HIM SPEECHLESS.
EDITOR: “But there’s no joke to it!”
ARTIST: “No — it’s just too funny for words!”
“Scrivener”: When the Westralian
Worker was published at Kalgoorlie—Wal-
,„„ -vr , ~ , . ..
aCe (^SOII y as in the c t* air it came out
one wee k with a few standing advertise-
ments plus the whole of the Rubaiyat of
Omar Khayyam, as a substitute for news,
Dusty toilers on the Golden Mile opened the
sheet and struggled bewildcredly with the
rolling quatrains which embody Omar’s
hedonistic views before coming to the con-
elusion that the whole thing was some sort
of joke on them. The paper returned to
normal in its next issue.


1 ‘ tM h'
'■ V
l A/
~x V^Vs§
\>
w
*\
•X ■ u
m
m
\
vxv
/
/ 3
if
w
X?
1
f \]V
y
. /// /VI
aCZ~~
9
\
■
.//
,y /
a k
*
»
X
1 U0 : l
; _x
HU
m
Hi ■
-m
U
\U
I
X
s
kv J
r.i
y
#
"tX/
A
Nn
&
\v
I
V
*
n ’A
m
\
A
A
yy
m
r,
m
m
Hi
A,i: ;
V.
//!
-A $> *5-u
y
a
x
/i xX ■ >.',»'
Ly;; x yy •>
»V,VI
5*
1 Aw
yy
i ,‘UUy
AM
■y
5 lPg|
m
m
~V~; 1 ') N '
m
m
v/.
A
x
~xt
xA
y
x>
y>
X
K
X.v
:ix
m
A/)
/A
HA
im
>:■
*
X
I
X
R
yyyx.
&A
;y A\
I
i
%
x
x
y
*6
8S x-Aa
Yf 5
*
s£B
/l
W/
> .•-•
mi:
M
W!
Sfi
AT
,y-
-\
ft
:Atf
/Z
52P;
X
. ■
• ♦
gg
A SPOT IN THE SHADE • * *
Away where the rolling road calls temptingly . . . luring you far from the city’s close confines . . .
there’s a cool green patch awaiting you at the foot of a spreading tree. So pack a bag with the fare
you need and fare you forth with friends to find that restful spot in the shade. With the where-
withal for the roadside lunch sandwiches, salads, and such-like fare—be sure to include the
indispensible bottle or two of Tooth’s K.B. With the luncheon over and pipes alight, you fill
your glass and enjoy to the full that welcome “spot” in the shade.
TOOTHS
KB
a true
LAGER
Brewed & bottled bv TOOTH & CO. LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney,


%fd Infernaiioncil
’Phones;
Fwim-s
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
ŵ
BEACH
Teleprams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
100 Bedrooms.
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Uining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
tl
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Loquacious, the sister to Windbag, opened
her account in the Maiden Tliree-year-old
Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday, and
Robert Miller must now be satisfied that he
made no mistake w 7 hen he gave 1200 guineas
for her as a yearling. Five to two early
in the betting, thanks to the backing of
Ducourt (7 to 4), the filly with the distin-
guished relative closed at 9 to 4. Munro had
her in a good position from the start, and
without being greatly exerted she came away
from Kala Moti (12 to 1) and the favorite, to
both of whom she was conceding a stone, over
the last furlongs of eight completed in lmin.
41fsec. Loquacious will have to be reckoned
with in the Adrian Knox Stakes.
Because an unknown youngster named
Kennedy had the mount on Don Moon (6
to 1) in the first division of the Flying Han-
dicap, many people with a liking for the
honest little horse wouldn’t back him even
when they saw the commissioners at work.
The truth is that any boy good enough to
ride work can ride Don Moon; when he
was trained by Bailie one stableboy after
another won on him. The 71b. allowance
reduced his weight to Bst. 41b., and, coming
fast in the straight, the Don Reynaldo—Full
Moon gelding won handily by a length from
the useful and improving Somnolent (8 to
1), unlucky Black Duchess (5 to 1) being
another three-quarters of a length away.
Beckwith, the favorite, was fourth, after
striking a bit of trouble. Don Moon has
Bst. 101 b. in the Villiers Stakes on Saturday.
Reonui 16 to 1) put up another good
Villiers trial in the second division. Get-
ting the best of a poor start, the
gelding from Maoriland was practically
always in front, and with Pike riding easily
was a length and a quarter ahead of Cave
Dweller (8 to 1), who was nearly liis own
length in front of Aorangi (2 to 1), at the
journey’s end. Reonui carried his Villiers
weight, Bst. 111 b., and cut |sec. off .Dou
Moon’s time for the seven furlongs, lmin.
26fsec. Aorangi’s showing rather dis-
appointed those who have backed him for
the mile handicap at Randwick next Satur-
day, but perhaps he was bustled overmuch
in the early part of the race.
The commission for Lovebox in the Parra-
matta Mile was so solid that she firmed from
tens to fours. Bartle judged her short-finish-
ing run nicely, and E. A. Haley’s mare
proved a bit too good for Bavacre (5 to 1)
and Leadight (2 to 1), who battled out the
finish with her. She has 7st. 21b. in the
Villiers. The distance, a mile, was evi-
dently not far enough for Leadight.
Runnymede’s performance in the Decem-
ber Handicap did not suggest a Summer Cup
victory for the ex-Maorilander, though the
bookmakers are keeping his price short.
Favorite at 5 to 2, he was well and truly
beaten by Ulenjoy (7 to 1), who is not in
the Summer Cup, and by old Donald (14
to 1), who was giving him 71b. Yet Runny-
mede had every chance. Octember was going
impressively in fourth place at the finish of
the 10 furlongs, which were left behind in
2min. 6|sec,
* * * *
For the first day at Randwick: —
Villiers Stakes: Don Moon, 1; Aorangi,
2; Karuma, 3.
Trial Handicap: Loquacious; next, Infla-
tion.
Holiday Handicap: Lucy Thrice; next,
Speechmaker.
Highweight Handicap: Royal Sun; next,
Ulah.
Saturday's racing should throw 7 light on
the Summer Cup ; for the present this Page
likes Speechmaker, Leadight and Tangible in
the order named.
jjc ;Jt :J:
With heads or less separating first and
second horses in five of the races at Moonee
Valley on Saturday there was nothing to
complain of on the score of excitement, but
winners were cruelly hard to pick. There
was certainly no inducement to follow S. A.
Rawdon’s horses, which had been right out
of luck lately. That owner, however, started
a good day—for him—when one of his
own breeding in Gravelines (6 to 1), a bay
IN ALL THE FABLES.
URGER: “I’m tellin' yer the ’orse is a moral.”
CLIENT: “Yeh; but don’t a moral always come last?"
son of imported Drake, got up in the
last stride of the youngsters’ race and beat
Caramant (10 to 1), a St. Anton filly; and
the grey and cardinal stripe went on to
further success in the Laluma Handicap,
wherein the Lanius filly Torlonia (12 to 1),
the outsider of the party, finished too reso-
lutely for Red Sea (4 to 1) and Tragedy
King (7 to 1).
The one favorite to win was Aga Khan (2
to 1), who. carrying the steadier of lOst. 71b.,
made one act of the Highweight Handicap.
A gelded son of Baverstock, who, with few 7
chances, has sired some really good horses,
he is in the A.J.C. Carrington Stakes, but
may be kept for Flemington. McShortodds
complained that money was tight, but he
got most of it, tight or not.
“Eagle Farm”: Queensland racing men
are bucking themselves over the fact that
High Syce’s win in the Stanley Plate has
brought his total winnings to five figures—
the first time that a horse’s earnings in the
northern State have reached that figure.
High Syce has completed his third season
on the turf, and his winnings (£10,325) are
the result of 20 firsts, 1 second and 3 thirds
in 28 starts. W. J. Noud, the doyen of
Queensland trainers, has had him in hand
throughout his racing career.
* s|c * *
“Knavesmire”: There is still some money
going in English racing. For the second year
in succession Lord Derby has headed the
list of wanning owners with £65,000 in stakes,
or £25,000 better than in the previous year.
Solly Joel was second with £25,000, and the
Aga Khan and Sir Hugh Cunliffe Owen, who
won the Derby with Felst.ed, tied for third
place with £20,000. Australian Stanley
Wootten trained mdst winners with 90, and
Gordon Richards, with 149 wins, headed the ■
winning jocks’ list for the third successive
yea r.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A poor .house watched the meeting of the
ancient Harry Stone and Maorilander Purdy
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. Each
man weighed 9st. 121 b., and after the full
15 rounds had gone by without any notable
incident Purdy was awarded the verdict on
points. Stone was but the shadow of the
Stcne who beat Johnny Summers and Fritz
Holland, though he occasionally puzzled the
M.L. puncher. The latter had all the best
of it after he had sized up his man.
* * * *
_ “Minto” : Boxing Day will mark the 20th
anniversary of the Burns-Johnson fight. Much
was written to the colored boxer’s dis-
credit, but perhaps his greatest crime m
the eyes of his detractors was his adminis-
tering a drubbing to a white man. Burns,
who "received £6500 of the spoil to Johnson’s
£l5OO, dismissed his corner men with the
remark that they were amply repaid for their
services by being behind a champion. John-
son paid his helpers handsomely. The darkie
was a physical wonder. During his train-
ing preparations one day he boxed four
rounds with each of four sparring partners,
skipped a couple of thousand, and w r ound UP
with a wrestling bout on the mat.
The Ins and Outs
Record crowds rolled up to Sydney Cricket
Ground (58,456 was the attendance on Satur-
day) to see the opening of the second Test.
The Australian team was considerably
strengthened by the inclusion of the youthful
Notliling, w r ho took the place of Kelleway,
invalided, but the advantage gained was more
than offset by an accident to Ponsford, who
had a bone in his left hand broken by a ball
from Larwood shortly _ after he opened his
innings. In spite of his failure to do any-
thing with the bat in big cricket this season,
his loss must be regarded as distinctly bad
luck for Australia.
Ryder won the toss and sent in Woodfull
and Victor Richardson. Against the capital
bawling of Larwood and White the pair
.played carefully but not unattractively till
Richardson went to a low one from Larwood
for 27. Ivippax w 7 as then bowled off his
pad by Geary, and after some discussion as
to whether he was out or not had the ver-
dict given against him. There was no doubt
about the correctness of the decision, but it
was given by the wrong umpire, who w r as
appealed to in the confusion, after the um-
pire at the bowler’s end had called the over
and left the < wicket; The crow 7 d took the
decision badly, but for once was wrong.
Ponsford retired hurt, and after Hendry
(37) had given his side a much needed lift
he was bowled by G eai 'y- Woodfull went
l.b.w. to the Leicester bowler for 68, an in-
valuable innings in which he repeated his
fine showing m Brisbane. Ryder had batted
promisingly for 25 when Geary got another
l.b.w. decision. Oldfield gave the most attrac-
tive batting exhibition of the innings for
41 n. 0., and all were out on Saturday morn-
ing for 253. White, though lie got no wickets,
was always dangerousl Larwood, well nursed
again by Chapman, bowled with great pace
and occasionally seemed to get something
out of the wicket. Geary provided the sen-
sation of the innings, taking 5 for 35. Tate
and Hammond bowled without success.
Hobbs and Sutcliffe then played slow T-
motion cricket. Grimmett, in his new role as
an opening bowler, repeatedly tied up the pair
of them, while they were equally careful
with Nothling’s more orthodox deliveries.
The hour before lunch produced 36 runs,
and immediately after Sutcliffe went, caught
by Hendry off Ironmonger for 11. After a
two hours’ adjournment on account of rain,
Grimmett at last got Hobbs caught by Old-
field for 40. Failing light caused the drawing
of stumps with 2 down for 113.
On Monday morning Jardine was run out
for 28, but, going blithely on, Hammond and
Hendren pasted the bowling. Shortly after
the luncheon interval they had taken the
score past the Australian total with three
wickets down—Hammond 125 and Hendren
75.
After getting rid of Victoria in Melbourne
for 259, Queensland collapsed before the
bowling of Ebcling (7 for 33, including
the hat trick) and a’Beckett (3 for 29),
the side going for 79. O’Connor (44)
was the only batsman to do anything,
and he caught five Victorians at the
wickets. Ebeling bowled with great pace,
while a’Beckett was also impressive. As
Thurlow, of Queensland, took 5 for 88 in the
Victorian innings, there are three good , per-
formances which may be considered by the
selectors -when the Australian Eleven for
1938 comes up for selection.
•i* v *!* V
“O. McKay M.”: Touring Australia in
Government trains not remarkable for
speed, the English cricketers might point
a reproachful moral by recalling the
star travelling turn of the last Test series
in England. A special train took the
Australian team from Paddington to catch
the Montrose at Liverpool. The Great
Western Railway surpassed itself with Pull-
mans, the famous King George V. engine,
and the completion of the 220-mile trip in
exactly four hours. I was in the press car
with 30 newspapermen, and Lovatt Fraser,
G.W.R. publicity Plan and brother of. the
war correspondent, did us proud with whisky,
cigars and meals de luxe.’ Top speed on the
run was 92 m.p.h
•if if * *
“Light Horse”: At a meeting of the
M.C.C. and county secretaries, it was
stated that, with a view to minimising the
high scoring so prevalent nowadays, two
“experimental pitches” had been laid down
and tried at Lord’s. Presumably these have
been designed to give the bowler a chance,
and the publication of further details will
be awaited with interest. If suggestions are
still invited, the writer would like to recom-
mend matting over gravel—good, lumpy
gravel. He played on such a wicket at Rafa
in Palestine once, and can recommend it
as a bowler’s type of pitch.
(Continued on, page 37.)
THE DEAD-GAME SPORT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A dead-game sport,”,he said, touching the
crape
Upon his hat. “He’d do his oscar in
On almost anything in equine shape
Or leggy hounds pursuing hares of tin.
To two-up schools persistently he’d go,
And when they lumbered him he'd never
snort;
Just pay his fine with careless grace, would
Joe.
A dead-game sport!
“A dead-game sport, wherever odds were laid
He’d have his dollar on or p’r’haps his
quid.
Albeit no games himself he ever played
’Struth! how he’d cheer and chyack those
who did!
Mid cricket cognoscenti, on the Hill,
Or where the football barrackers resort,
His voice would rise, the shrillest of the
shrill.
A dead-game sport.
“A dead-game sport, over a mug of beer
He’d tell you, out of his amazing head,
Who rode Blue Streak in Ballyhooley’s year
Or how Bill Bogan’s Bobadil was bred.
I'm doubtful if a leg he ever threw
Across a quadruped of any sort,
Yet he could talk on Horse till all was blue.
A dead-game sport!
“A dead-game sport,” he finished rev’rently
And wet his whistle from a pewter pot.
“I cannot tell you when again we’ll see
His dinkum equal—never, like as not.
But when he hammers at the Golden Gate
I’ll bet he finds he has a friend at court.
‘Pass in,’ I hear St. Peter tell him straight,
‘You dead-game sport!’ ”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


C] Tie Gift Ideal
for the Man/
ie \\ at a Man’s r
#|CK
a The “Open Sesame” Gift Catalogue opens up a thousand and
one suggestions for relative or friend. Ask for a copy to-day
The Personal Gift
—always pleases him
wwwvm
liii
Pure Silk Shirt
Smartest stripe designs, or plain Fuji, with
collar to match in presentation box, 18/11
—TVVWWVWWVWWWW'H
9 i
Tie Press
Keeps a man’s ties like new. Polished wood
with nickel fittings. A truly serviceable Gift
for any man 3/6
Broadway Ties
Newest designs in Poplins, Mogadore Silks,
Foulard Silks 3/6, 4/6, 5/6
r
i
“Pyramid” Handkerchiefs
Striped or Plain in presentation boxes of
Half-dozen 7/6
39
*****
Combination Set
Braces, Suspenders and Arm Bands Set in
presentation box 7/6, 8/6, 10/6
GIFTS
for Sportsmen
The Tennis Player
FIBRE TENNIS WEEK-END CASE
Holds Racket, Clothes, etc.
Size 29in. x 1 Oin 10/6
Leather Tennis Week-end Case . . . . 45/-
“BRITANNIC” RACKET
For quality, dependability and craftsmanship
this racket in its own particular class has no
equal in the tennis world to-day .... 55/-
“LEE MONOGRAM” RACKET
De Luxe Model.
The famous Racket with the slotted
throat 77/6
The Golfer
\<^fl
(\
WILLOW HIDE GOLF BAG
White, green lacing, 2 canes, highly polished
finish, 32/6
FAMOUS “WILL CORRY” CLUBS
Matched Woods 25^-
Genuine Rustless Graded Irons .... 25/-
Special Graded Irons .. . 20/-
HALF-DOZEN GOLF BALLS
"Silver King,” "Birdie,” “Dunlop,” "Spald-
ing’s,” in presentation box, 21/-
For Your Boy
JL
£7®
A
SPECIAL
CRICKET
SET
Complete
with Bats,
Wickets,
Ball and
Score Book,
5/-, 7/6,
11/6, 12/6
22/6, 40/-
{Carriage paid on all Goods listed above.)
Smokes—-
' for the Menfolk
3k
Cigarettes in Inkstand Cabinet
Contains 200 Craven A Cork-tipped
Virginia Cigarettes. A most appreciable
present 15/-
Pipes
Famous S.N.L. French Briar Pipe, silver-
mounted, in case 10/6
C. 8.8. Briar Pipe, in case 7/6
rs'
sjSO
“Manuel Garcia” Cigars
Of a rare and choice leaf, they are unique in
their excellence.
Castelares, Box of 25 . . . . 30/-
Perfectos Extra, Box of 25 24/-
Smoker’s Stand
The Ideal Gift for the man who smokes.
Greek Bronze-finish in distinctive designs,
with matchbox attachment. Height 3 5
inches 32/6
P.O. Box 188
Haymarket.
MICK JIMMON/ LTD
HEADQUARTERS: 72 0 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
'Phone: M 6311
(5 lines).


That Technical 600 K
You Want
Price. Postage.
Motor Bodywork—Design, Construction of Private, Commercial
and Passenger Types, by Herbert Butler 63/- 1/8.
Stainless Iron and Steel, by J. Monypenny 26/- -/10
Specifications in Detail, by Frank Macey 36/- 1/3
Coanes’ Australasian Roads—the Location, Design, Construction
and Maintenance of Roads and Pavements 36/- -/8
8.0. T. Steam, Oil and Marine Engineering Knowledge, by
W. C. Macgibbon 36/- 1/4
Glass Technology—Text Book, by F. Hodkin 42/- 1/4
Leather Manufacture—by H. Procter 42/- 1/6
Flour Milling Theoretical and Practical Handbook of Flour
Manufacture for Millers' 1 , Millwrights and Flour-milling
Engineers P. Kozmin 30/- 1/3
Saw-Mills—Their Management and Arrangement and the
Economical Conversion of Timber, by M. Bale 19/- -/9
Modern Woodworking Machinery S. Ransome 19/- -/9
Recipes for the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Dry-
saltery Trades Compiled by an Analytical Chemist 13/6 -/8
Dyeing and Cleaning of Textile Fabrics Handbook for the
■ Amateur and the Professional, by Owen 16/- -/5
Farm Engineering Vol. 1, Farm Mechanics, by Byron Robb . . 16/- -/8
Tin, Sheet-iron and Copper-plate Worker Practical Workshop
Companion, by L. Blinn 15/- -,/5
Domestic Sanitation and House Drainage, by Henry Adams . . 13/6 -/6
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others—J. Salwey . . 10/- -/5
Boat Sailing for Amateurs, by Davis 10/- -/6
Saws, Their Care and Treatment—H. Durham 7/6 -/4
Electrical Ignition, for Internal Combustion Engines—M. Codd 7/6 -/3
Pattern Making and Foundry Practice, by L. Hand 7/6 -,/4
Confectionery Science and Practice, by D. Ellis 6/6 -/6
Dynamo and Motor Attendants and Their Machines, by F.
Broadbent 6/- -/4
Carpentry and Cabinetmaking, for Amateurs; Practical Handbook
—J. Arkwright 5/6 -/6
Repousse Metalwork, by Horth 4/6 -/4
Painting Troubles and Their Remedy—A. Millar 5/- -/3
Petrol Engine Descriptive Handbook on Principles and Con-
struction of all Types of Petrol Engines 4/6 -/4
Details of Cabinet Construction 4/6 -/4
Woodwork Tools and How to Use Them 4/6 -/4
Practical Upholstery, by E. Boreham 4/6 -,/4
Staining and Polishing—lncluding Varnishing and Other Methods
of Finishing Wood—with Appendix and Recipes 4/6 -/4
Toy Making For Pleasure and Profit, by Hetherington 3/6 -/4
Decorator’s and Renovator’s Assistant (Six Hundred Receipts) 3/6 -/4
Machinery’s Handbook—For Machine Shop and Drafting Room.
Revised and Enlarged Edition, 1928 36/- -/U
Diesel and Oil Engineering Handbook—Land and Marine—
Practical Handbook, by J. Rosbloom 30/- -/6
Cements, Pastes, Glues and Gums—With upwards of Nine
Hundred Recipes and Formulae, by Standage 4/6 -/4
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP:
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
■V E
ill!
"18l
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.1‘,0.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Qhe Choicest Creations in
JTlen's Knitted Sports Wear
IX^4,,
'
>
X
M2O.
So bright, refreshing and
exclusive are this season’s
designs in “Merino-Knit”
Sweaters and Cardigans.
No matter whether you
prefer simplicity of design
for business wear, or the
bolder treatments render-
ed strikingly attractive by
rich color tones for sports
wear, you will be delighted
with the attractiveness of
“Merino - Knit” Men’s
Outer-Wear.
MERINO
KNlf
Men’s Sweaters
and Cardigans
“Merino-knit” Sports Garments fit snugly to the body, and at the same
time give freely to all movements of the limbs in play.
Made Exclusively by the Merino Woollen Mills Pty. Ltd.,
Specialists in Men’s High Grade Sweaters and Cardigans,
Half Hose and Golf Hose.
ASK I]OUR MERCER FOR "MERINO-KNIT" AND QET ITI
The Ins and Outs
“The Bat”: It’s only lack of opportunity
that prevents Lou Litster, the Townsville
(N.Q.) all-rounder, from becoming a power
in Australian sport. His recent effort for
Queensland against the Englishmen showed
his mettle. With practically no experience
of turf, he has always done well in southern
matches, but apparently selectors, seeing his
play only periodically, consider it in the
nature of a fluke. If Litster lived in Sydney,
State representation in both cricket and
League football teams would be certain.
* * * *
“Chiverton”: The Englishmen’s match
against a Queensland country eleven at War-
wick, on the Darling Downs, has some special
interest, since the town in its beginnings was
the cradle of cricket in Queensland. In the
late ’sixties many of the young Englishmen
on the surrounding stations formed a branch
of the famous English Zingari club, and
played matches against Toowoomba and Bris-
bane. W. B. Slade, of Glengallan, a world-
famous breeder of merino sheep, was one
of the early members of the club, and as
patron of the Warwick Cricket Association
welcomed the Englishmen on this occasion.
* -! : * .■!:
“Old Q”: I read so much in the Sydney
papers about the primitive methods prevail-
ing in Brisbane in connection with the Test
match there that I took a run out to Sydney
Cricket Ground the other afternoon to see
how things should be done. To my surprise
I found that not a single ground -bowler had
been supplied to give the Australian team
net practice, with the, result that all the
players had to take a hand with the ball,
several of the batsmen having to get batting
practice from men who have never been
known to bowl in a match. In out-of-date
Brisbane half a dozen competent bowlers
were on hand every afternoon to -give the
batsmen a decent knock.
* * *
“Bumpk”: A fine row is brewing in Yic.
over the, decision of the Y.G.A. to play the
match between Vic. and N. S. Wales on
Christmas Day. Pressure of time owing to
the third Test match is the cause of
the encroachment on the sacred day. Not
only must the association expect to be
deluged in an avalanche of opposition from
the clergy, but it is likely to have trouble
with the teams. One of the star performers
of the Vic. side has already declared that he
may not play. This is Woodfull, himself
the son of a padre.
G. HELE, the South Australian umpire, who
has figured with success in the first
[?] second Test matches in Brisbane
and Sydney.
“Tenth Slip”: The latest excuse by Syd-
ney press experts for the collapse of Aus-
tralia in the first Test is that it was due to
the lack of a manager. Without a chaperon,
so to speak, in the wilds of Brisbane, the
players—all imported to Queensland for the
occasion—were as Daniels in a den of lions,
and were, consequently, prevented from giv-
ing the best that was in them. It is true
that in the half-century during which Tests
have been played in Australia local teams
have done without a manager, and not badly,
either. But that was just their ignorance.
* * * *
“South Oss”: “Glenelg” errs (B< 7/11/’2S)
in saying that the. South Australian Cricket
Association is the only one of its kind
in Australia to control its own ground. The
Tassie C. A. is another. Its ground on the
Domain at Hobart is unequalled for pictur-
esque setting, situated as it is on the crest
of the Domain, with the towering Mt. Wel-
lington on the one hand and Derwent Harbor
on the other. But the revenue is small.
During the lean Avar years and after the
cricketers prepared their own wickets, and
some of them did the repairs, even to oainting
the pavilion. Old international Charlie Eady
is the president of this band of real sports-
men.
Racquet and Bawl
The English tennis-players gained the
easiest of victories over South Australia at
Adelaide, though the locals fielded their
strongest side, including Rowe and G. M.
Hone. The latter pair scored the only win-
ning point for S.A. on the third day of the
tourney, when they beat H. W. Austin and
E. Higgs by 3 sets to 2. The final scores
were: England, 11 rubbers 27 sets; S.A.,
1 rubber 8 sets.
* £ * $
“Cash Amateur”: The American tennis
authorities have notified Tilden that they
will consider his application for rein-
statement m February, provided he under-
takes to obey “the letter and spirit” of the
rules as to amateurism, particularly those
regarding player-writers. A new rule on
the subject is to fie voted on at the Asso-
ciation meeting in February; if carried, it
will make it impossible for any member of
an American tennis team to write or give
interviews or radio talks about tennis.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The first meeting between the
English tennis players and an Australian
combination will take place at Hobart during
the Christmas holidays, and it is expected
that the team to represent Australia will
include Ilassett, the Victorian who made
such a good showing in the match against
N.S.W in Melbourne. It is probable, too,
that one or two Tasmanian players will be
selected, as well as a contingent from South
Australia. F. Kalins is the only N.S.W.
player likely, to be available, the others hold-
ing back for <he first Test in Sydney, early
in January.
*
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Staggered, no doubt,
by the loss of many g'uid bawbees on the
tour of the last Davis Cup team and the
women’s all-star aggregation, the Australian
tennis heads are said to be hesitating as to
whether they will dispatch a team to the next
Davis Cup tourney. If Australia is not to
drop out of these contests altogether, it is
essential that teams should go across
regularly, until practice and experience
against better players again build up a
side comparable with those of a few years
ago. And why not cut the flash style of
travelling, which has come to be the general
rule on these tours? If the Olympic team
could travel second-class and stay at second-
rate caravanserais, the tennis. players should
be able to do the same.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: Some 20 of Victoria’s leading
professionals turned out last week at Chel-
tenham links in the tourney for a purse
offered by a firm trading in golf materials.
The event ended in a tie between Hugh
Thomson, of Kew, and J. Grace, of the
Peninsula Country Club, each totalling 145
for the 30 holes. Thomson’s morning round
of 70 is a record for the course. Arthur
Spence, late of Queensland, runner-up in the
recent N’.S.W. professional championship,
tied for third place.
* $ * *
“Back Spin”: Arthur Le Fevre, profes-
sional at Royal Melbourne (Vic.), moulded
a few freak elubs for a charity gymkhana
held a couple of months back. When Joe
Kirkwood played at the Victoria Club,
Le Fevre produced these and invited
the visiting magician to cast his spell over
them—one with a round knob in lieu of a
head, one with a face cut away at an acute
angle, and other departures from the nor-
mal. The laugh was with Joe. With the
knob-headed weapon he cracked a sweet one
about 200 yards, and by some uncanny means
propelled a long and perfectly straight one
with the angle-faced object. The trick-shot
artist pounced on the atrocities, which will
accompany him to U.S.A.
•J' 1 *?•
“Percy Piebald”: From a score of appli-
cants from all parts of the Commonwealth
the Royal Queensland Golf Club has selected
Alexander Denholm as professional in suc-
cession to Arthur Spence, who has lately
moved on to Melbourne. Bred and reared
on the heather, Denholm started at the game
right from his earliest youth. One of the
first to tee up in the big game in France
in 1914, he didn’t quite finish up with the
“Colonel,” but did attain his majority—and
this from scratch. He holds the Queensland
professional championship.
* * * *
“Iloylake”: There is a popular supersti-
tion in Australia that a cricketer can never
play golf. The truth is that many
famous cricketers in Britain, from W.
G. Grace and _A. E. Stoddart to Reggie
Spooner and Lionel Palairet, have been plus
players, though some, as in the case’ of the
Doctor, only took to the game late in life. The
calumny was again confounded in the tour-
ney for the Mosman A.I.F. Cup last weak,
when Rupert Minnett, a one-time member of
the N.S.W. XI and one of the Australian
side which went to England in 1912, won
with 76 off the stick.
* * * *
“Stymie” : The latest Sydney golf club at
moment of writing is Kogarah, which is
having a nine-hole course laid out on Moore-
field racecourse by D>. G. Soutar. One .
wonders how it will work if members of the
golf club want to play on race days. Writer
was once a member of a Brisbane district
team. Its ground was the Brisbane Cricket
Ground, which was leased on Wednesdays
to a pony racing show with the proviso that
the cricketers had right of entry to the
ground on racing days and also the right
to practise while the ponies were spinning
on the sand-track outside the cricket ground
fence. The scheme didn’t work smoothly.
The pony heads always swore that some
who came to practise free of charge re-
mained to punt, while the result of more
than one amicably arranged race was said
to have been upset by the lads at the nets
landing a sixer or a humming drive in among
the field, A cricket ball in the ribs is apt to
upset either horse or rider, and perhaps both.
* * * *
“Brassey”: Joe Kirkwood has acquired
other American traits in addition to his
manner of speech (B. 12/12/’2B). When he
left for America the other day he
handed a carefully typewritten statement to
each of the pressmen present on the ship.
This, consisting mostly of the assertion that
the management of golf in Australia is in
the hands of a group of aged barnacles, who
have been pottering along with the job for
a generation past, has aroused furious dis-
sent from those charged and joyous acclama-
tion from ihe younger generation. Years
ago. when only a few clubs; existed in Aus-
tralia, one or two prominent organisations in
Sydney and Melbourne arrogated to them-
selves the control of the game, and have
clung to it ever since, the hundreds of new
clubs which have sprung up in Australia
since those days having no say at all in the
matter. As Kirkwood says, this hasn’t made
for efficiency, and a change is urgently
needed.
(Continued on next page.)


O 'v
n
cw
4
£5
V
GIVE HIM
>K<
X
(v r. o'
r\
PLEASE HIM
Self Stropping in Seven Seconds
Simble as Simon ?
No. 99 Set
contains the es-
sentials for a
perfect “Valet”
Share the
razor, blade
and strop in
neat case. As
illustrated - 3/-
No. 55 Model “C” Set contains
self-stropping “Valet" Razor,
three blades and leather strop. In
highly polished nickelled case with
hinged strop container and nickel-
led blade sheath, lined velvet and
satin. As illustrated - * 8/6
No. 50 Nickel Set in highly pol-
ished nickel case with domed lid,
contains heavily silvered self-
stropping “Valet” Razor, 12
tested “Valet" blades, and strop
of selected horsehide in hinged
container. As illustrated 21/-
MANAGING AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA: PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMITED, 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY*
HP
The Varsities generally leave a mark on a man
which most of us admire.. And it is similar good
style in matters of attire which makes the well-
dressed Englishman set the fashions for men the
world over.
A good hat is essential. No man can look his
best in shabby head-gear. Battersby Hats are
known the world over for their style and finish
-—furthermore, they are all British.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
Sold by the Best Hatters
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
A.C.
Unit
PUT IT IN YOUR
PRESENT SET CABINET
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
RADI O
/PEAKED
It reproduces notes that
no other speaker can.
Radio Magazine calls it
"really astounding.” The
unit fits right
present cabinet.
For A Battery operation,
£7/15/-
For A.C. operation,
£lO/10/-
YOUR NEAREST RADIO
DEALER CAN SUPPLY .
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
Is baby thriving 1
ẁ
Food
Bee. Trade Mask.
In cases of difficult feed-
ing Benger’s gives valuable
help. A change to Benger’s
Food at three months has
proved the turning point to
many weakly infants.
Benger’s Food always is prepared
for use with fresh cows’ milk.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD. Ltd,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.


yhefyiti^&ea/mqi
that turned FRICTION,mFICTION'
RAM
MADE IN 5/ ENGLAND
BA LL and ROLLER
BEARINGS
THE success that has attended the
designers and manufacturers of
these British Bearings is
reflected in the constant improve-
ments in automobile engines.
Complete protection against friction,
thrust and shock has resulted in
smoother running, more economical
and longer-lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. & M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by
80 per cent, of British Motor-car Manu-
facturers.
Insist on R. 6c M. Bearings British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors :
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD.,
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive) : COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial): FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD.,
PERTH.
&/V
%
'yr
m
mm
'tfHNSTPN''"'^
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —J&mes Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
GIFT PIPES IN NEAT CASES
High-grade, London-made “Ensign” Pipes in all the latest shapes.
Natural finish.
Silver-mounted, each 5/6
Gold-mounted, in case, each .... 11/6
2 Gold-mounted Pipes, in case, 22/6
Si
7
Feather-light
balance.
Keen, smooth
shaving.
Plum Razors are guaranteed.
Kept in order for two years, free.
BLACK VULCANITE HANDLE—
-12/6 7-day Set (7 Razors) .. . £4/5/-
XYLO IVORY-GRAIN HANDLE—
-15/6 7-day Set (7 Razors) ... £5
REAL IVORY HANDLE-
-21- 7-day Set (7 Razors) .. . £7
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-razor sets in oak cases. Prices include
postage.
CLUB REIL CIGARS. Finest Havana leaf,
mild and mellow. Unsurpassed quality at
the price.
Box of 10 5/6; posted 6/-
„ 25 12/- „ 12/6
„ „ 50 23/- „ 23/9
.. 100 45/- „ 46/-
V,
□I
mm
r *:■
Complete Price List Posted on Request
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Aileron”: The British Aero Club has
decided to hold the Schneider Cup race for
seaplanes on the Solent, the landlocked strait
that separates Hampshire from the Isle of
AVight, it being the only available stretch of
smooth water suitable for planes to alight
upon at 300 m.p.h. Britain, France, America,
Germany and Italy are to compete in the
the race, which is listed for next June. It
is expected that 320 m.p.h. will be attained
at least, which ineaps six miles a minute
along the sides of the triangular course.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: It is not the motor-car but
the aeroplane which is putting the biggest
strain on the tyre-manufacturer’s ability and
inventiveness. The biggest set of rubbers
ever built have gone on to the wheels of
the Beardmore Inflexible, the world’s largest
flier. They are 7| feet in diameter by 16
inches wide, and the Dunlop firm had to
design a special testing-machine to submit
them to the 48 tons breaking load demandedi
Kingsford Smith’s Southern Cross is only
half the size of the Inflexible.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The mile dirt-track motor-cycle
championship of Australia for 2f-h.p.
machines, run at Brisbane Speedway, was
won by the Queensland rider Frank Pearce,
who did the four laps of the track in 7Ssec.,
beating the track record for this class of
machine by 3-ssec.
* * =!= *
“Bumpk”: These Melbourne-Sydney re-
cords are all very well, but the scribes who
hail each fresh lowering of a previous cham-
pion’s time invariably forget to mention how
much the roadmakers have had to do with
it. When E. A. Pearson put up his push-
bike record of 49 hours 18 years ago the
track was by no means the same that G.
McLeod, the Victorian crack, traversed
recently in much better time. Grades have
been softened and surfaces improved. Still,
the highway is by no means perfect, and it
is no wonder that McLeod weighed 91b.
lighter at Melbourne G.P.O. than he did when
he mounted the Ixion in Sydney. By some
freak of nature, Pearson reversed the process,
gaining 41b. of adipose tissue on the 5684-
mile journey.
* * * *
“Poppet”: Here is another entry for the
Methuselah car stakes (B. 28/U/’2B). Win-
ter and Taylor, of Geelong, own a 1906 Buick
which, after long service as a hire car, was
turned into a truck and used for towing dis-
MAX GROSSKREUTZ, the young North
Queensland motor-cyclist, who has put
up some sensational performances on
the Brisbane dirt tracks.
abled cars, odd carting jobs and as a gen-
eral-utility car. It lias never been dis-
mantled, and the engine and the chassis gen-
erally still run perfectly.
**. * *
“Streak”: Segrave’s new car shows a wel-
come return to sanity in design. The car in
which he first made a world record was a
huge monstrosity with two 500-h.p. aero-
engines, so placed as to make the thing use-
less save for sheer speed on a special course.
Malcolm Campbell followed with a car the
chassis of v;hich approached closely to the
design of an ordinary touring-car, while the
h.p. rating was under half that of Segrave’s
’bus. Then came the White-designed Tri-
plex, which won for America, another huge
and hideous production with three 450-h.p.
aero-engines transmitting power to one pair
of. wheels. The new Segrave car will be
driven by an engine similar to that used in
Campbell’s car, capable of developing 900
h.p. though nominally rated at 450. Captain
J. S. Irving, designer of Segrave’s firs',
successful car, is responsible for the latest,
and is confident that, with its perfect stream-
lining, it will cut out 240 m.p.li. To facili-
tate steering at such a high speed, the car
will be fitted with a front and rear sight
like those of a rifle. At the ends of the
course two bull’s-eye targets will be hung,
one over the starting line and one at the
finishing line. On these the driver will steer,
ignoring the track. His seat has been
enclosed in a strong steel cage calculated to
withstand the heaviest of shocks, in case of
a capsize.
“Gouger” : Thursday Island owns five cars.
As the one road is only half a mile long
and the remainder of the island all hills, the
machines are cramped for want of exercise.
Still, the cars and the local picture-show
give the Western Papua lugger crews a
chance to see the life of the great outside
world.
Miscellaneous
Hfttham : The high standard of countrv
rowing in Victoria—it is practicallv non-
existent in N.S.W.—was evidenced bv the
victory of the Ballarat crew in the State
champion eights rowed on the Yarra. The
building of the Snencer-street bridge neces-
sitated the curtailing of the course from
the. usual three miles to two miles and 4°.
chains. This is the first time Ballarat has
won since 1905. The crew was coached by
W. Dawson, a member of the 1905 crew, and
the boat was fitted with swivel rowlocks.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Stand Off”: The American game of foot-
ball received an outstanding advertisement
with the close of the High School and Uni-
versity season, which lasts only two months,
at the end of November. In that short time
19 players were killed and more than 100
seriously injured, the average age of those
killed being 19 years'. This is the highest
mortality since 1925, when 20 were killed.
The game resembles no code of football
known elsewhere. It is more like all-in
wrestling, with kicking and punching per-
mitted.
* :!: sS
“Swing die Boot” : When the Engish pro-
fessional footballers were in Australia last
season the manager protested bitterly at the
charge of professionalism against them, and
called on all the gods of Lancashire and
Yorkshire to bear witness that they were
amateurs. Recent English reports show
that the team made a profit of close on
£ll,OOO, the. 26 “amateurs” receiving £136
each. In addition, allowances to players and
dependants exceeded £2OOO. The total takings
for the tour were £23,193, Australia pro-
viding £19,105 of that.
* =1: * *
“Backwoodsman”.: There was great excite-
ment in Sydney last week when the Aus-
tralian bowls embassy, headed by James
Wall, v.-p. of the N.S.W. association, re-
turned in triumph with their mission accom-
plished. This was the inducing of the
International Bowling Board to admit dele-
gates from the Dominions to their councils.
Australian, M.L., .Canadian and South
African bowlers will now have a say
in all matters pertaining to the ancient
game, including the interchange of visits
between different parts of the Empire,
and the burning question of the standardisa-
tion of “woods.”
* * * *
Every bowler in Australia will hear with
the sincercst regret of the death in Sydney
last week of John Spence, for years presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Bowling Association and
later its patron. A Yorkshireman, he came
to Australia 42 years ago, and from the date
of his arrival to the day of his death never
failed to push the interests of the game
which he loved so well and for which he did
so much. In the mere world of business he
was managing director of Washington Soul’s,
of which firm he was one of the original mem-
bers'. A leader in patriotic -work during the
Great War, he was chiefly instrumental in
raising close on £30,000 from the bowlers
for the war funds'. A fine and generous per-
sonality, and Australia is the poorer for his
passing at 76.
❖ sjs t- *
“Splash”: The Sydney flapper press,
having recovered from its Olympic disappoint-
ments, went delirious with delight last week
when “little” Jean Cocks —all swimming-
flappers are “little,” just as all other females
referred to in these journals are “pretty”—
put up a new Australian woman’s record for
the 220 yards swim. In the Domain Baths,
with one turn, she cut out the distance in
2min. 47 l-10sec., 1 1-lOsec. better than the
previous best, held by Edna Davey and her-
self. The world’s best is 2min. 40 3-ssec.
* :!= % *
“Wooden Nutmeg” : The American genius
for bizarre “sports” is not confined to
marbles (B. 5/12/’2B). A highly popular
form of competition at country shows in
Uncle Sam’s country is rolling-pin throwing
for women. The sport has been standardised,
and the regulation rolling-pin must weigh
141 b. Lanes 6ft. wide are marked off with
white lines, and each competitor is given
three rolling-pins. Distance* and direction are
the objectives, and the present record stands
at 1024 feet —the lady, of course, is married.
* * * *
“Sprit”: The three ocean test races re-
cently held in Sydney waters to decide the
N. representative in the inter-State
race for the Sayonara Cup in January re-
sulted in P. S. Arnott’s new yacht Vanessa
being chosen. Norn, last year’s winner,
carried away some of her gear in the first
race and was becalmed in the second. In
the third, Vanessa won decisively. The Vic-
torian boat, which will have to come to
Sydney under her own sail, is the Eun-na-
mara, a Sydney-built craft which won the
cup in 1910.
H*
“Toowong”: The Royal St. Kilda Yacht
Club counted among its fleet until recently
what is probably the only craft of its kind
in Australia—a clinker-built deep-keel boat*.
Standing in the club yard among her more
modern sisters, she looked somewhat out of
tune, but her lines compared favorably with
the best of them. The Roslyn, as she is
called was built some 30 years ago by Blunt,
of Geelong. She is cutter-rigged and is about
30ft. over all. With her roomy cabin and
moderately high free-board, she locks just
the sort of hooker that one could cruise in
comfortably—which is more than can be said
for some of the latter-day craft built for
racing only.
* * * *
“Queen’s Pawn”: Not since the Rajputs
finalised the rules of chess several centuries
ago has anyone dared to suggest innovations.
But a heretic has arisen in Capablanca,
who says the game is too easy, and
should be gingered up by increasing the num-
ber of squares from 64 to 100 and introduc-
ing two new pieces. The newcomers are to
hybrids—a rook-knight and a bishop-knight.
They would stand next to king and
queen respectively, and in order to get
the pawns into the fray as quickly as ever
they would be allowed the option of a one-,
two- or three-square hop from their first
stance. Capablanca reckons that in 15 years
the game will have been reduced by the mem-
orists to an exact science. Some of the chess
pundits were saying that over half a century
ago, when up popped that amazing American
youngster Morphy, who did for chess what
O. Henry with his anti-climaxes did for the
short story and Bob Fitzsimmons with his
right foot forward shift did for boxing,
Morphy built up a position in which he
seemed to be losing dismally. Then he
castled, and the other chap found himself
checkmated a few moves later. Capablanca
himself added a few frills to the technique of
the game, and there will be others.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
Tom
Kin^
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
KHXXSS
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPAGHC
Giarleslleidsieo 5 -
REIMS
(i I =) I****
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Jatrt&tuih t
> ;sKoe Store* Cti.
THE
MAC NAUGHT
HARKNESS SHOE.
In Superfine Black
Glace Kid and
Black Patent
Pump Soles.
Leather
Heels.
45
L 473
POST PAID.
Write for Catalogue X
FOR LADIES AND CHILDREN
189 PITT ST 22 STRAND 105 KING ST
aMvasias
asicud 05
mm
tn /o/oos p^>”&'/3>P^yZr}
spuo/SUdiinQ jo do/uao <tyj_
w
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Cour.
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans m
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort o
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
HAF HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
The queue waiting to be among the first
to view the new Government Savings Bank
in Castlereagh-street . almost suggested a
run on the institution; it stretched from the
safe-deposit doorway nearly to the Prince
Edward. And it kept on stretching that far,
for just as the safe-deposit entrance swal-
lowed the head of the procession the tail was
made longer by ladies in petunia dresses
springing out of high-spirited yellow cabs,
ladies in red dresses skipping out of blue
cabs, ladies in green dresses, salad dresses
and black dresses popping out of Rolls
Royces, Vauxlialls, Sunbeams and Stude-
bakers. All these ladies, with their grey-,
navy- and brown-clad escorts, waved mauve
tickets under the gaze of a wliite-helmeted
policeman, but he said to everybody in
exactly the same tone “The other end of
the queue, please,” which caused some fret-
ting and grumbling. One man was heard to
say crossly to his wife, “My collar’s soaking
wet already and it will be a disgrace before
I can get my nose into the bank.” Whereat
a little girl in front piped, “Daddy, daddy,
that man’s going to save up his nose” ; and
she looked round curiously, and the man with
the wet collar seemed embarrassed. Then
a lady in yellow arrived with an old gentle-
man who said “God bless my soul!” just
like Mr. Pickwick. The lady said, “Oh,
father, this will do your gout no good,” and
they went away. A young man who was
wiping out the crown of his hat with a silk
handkerchief said he was dashed if lie knew
why he was there; and the policeman kept-
on telling people who hadn’t tickets and
wanted more than to be allowed into the
queue, “It’s no use; if you haven’t a ticket
you must come back at two.” But some of
them weren’t in Government jobs, and they
knew they couldn’t take another hour off.
And all the time the windows of the old
bank in Martin-place were crowded with
bright eyes watching the new house-warming.
Within, one of the largest banking cham-
bers in the world, glittering with marble,
with 43 jade-green columns and a satin-like
finish to its panelled ceiling, dazzled the eye.
Australian marble is everywhere, and the
light pours through great plate-glass win-
dows. Upstairs and downstairs the place
reeks of opulence. The bank was designed
by Australian architects, and built by Aus-
tralian workmen of materials 98 per cent,
of which are Australian. With gold scis-
sors the Premier’s wife cut a tricolored
ribbon which set in motion some hidden
spring, and immediately the imposing brass
door of the bank slid wide.
Wallace Alexander Carrutliers, the third
son of Joseph of Million Farms fame, has
just become engaged to a girl with the pretty
name of Belle Primrose Malcolm. She is of
Adelaide.
The Queen Victoria Club and the Arts
Club both indulged in Christmas parties dur-
ing the week, and at each a special pro-
gramme of music was provided. At the Arts
Club each member found a mysterious parcel
in tissue paper beside her plate. Christmas
bush bloomed on the tables, and artist Mabel
Barling was handed the cheque for the pic-
ture purchased for the blue-gold headquarters
from the recent Society of Women Painters’
show.
Dorothy, the elder of the lovely Edwin
Ryrie girls, whose mother was a Sydney
beauty in pre-war days, married Captain
Hanwell, a star polo-player of the Indian
cavalry, in London last month. A romantic
feature of the match is that the mothers of
the bride and bridegroom were sisters by
adoption. Actually, however, they were only
cousins. The parents of Ethel Osborne (who
married Colonel Hanwell, the polo-player’s
father) died early, and she was adopted by
the squatter-father of Queenie Osborne, who
was to become Queenie Ryrie. .
Betty, the younger Ryrie girl, was one of
the picturesque items of the wedding at St.
Stephen’s Church. She has a head of Titian
hair that is famous in half a dozen capitals.
Betty’s husband is Derrick Peachey, a
wealthy Life Guards subaltern, of Ouida-
esque appearance, who gave up his commis-
sion to marry her.
The brilliant marriages of these clever
Sydney girls are another proof of the pro-
found wisdom underlying the adjuration “Go
on the stage, young woman.” _ They had
both appeared in London, Paris and New
York before they were 20.
Economy may be the slogan of the Big
Four, but their wives don’t practise it in their
frocking. Rich and rare were the velvets,
brocades and laces they flashed before the
members of the Victoria League when that
group of ladies bi 1 them welcome to our
shores. The reception fluttered the dovecotes
of the Women’s Club in Beaumont House,
and Miss Macarthur Onslow came down from
Camden to do the honors. Iler raiment
seemed a sort of sartorial defiance to a thrift
campaign, or maybe it was. an argument in
favor of gold currency. It was of gold lace
and gold lame, and had a glittering cape, and
swung low in graceful fashion on one side
from a jade ornament. Lady Evelyn Malcolm
was an absentee, but Lady Hugo Hirst, Lady
Clarke and the Hon. Mrs. Archer arrived to
take over the posies plucked for them by the
reception committee. Lady Hirst, with her
fresh coloring enhanced by a beauty spot and
her pretty grey hair (which might have been
powdered) piled high with an escaping curl
or two over the ears, might have stepped out
of Thackeray. Her frock was of grass-green
ring velvet, eyeletted in diamente and gold
sequins. Against this the glowing red roses
of her bouquet made a Roy do Mestre rhap-
sody of color.' Black and silver brocade
enwrapped Lady Clarke, and she was neatly
but not gaudily jewelled. Flounced apricot
lace was worn by Mrs. Archer. Hugh
Denison’s lady walked, in plaited-silver
shoes, and Shirley Bavin was shod in red
morocco. The Premier’s lady wore impres-
sive black velvets; Miss Boulnois, who be-
longs to the Edinburgh branch, came in varie-
gated velvets; and Miss Minnie Hambjett,
from the heart of London’s Victoria
Leaguers, wove music into the rather sub-
dued proceedings.
The big tea-drinking of the week was in
honor of the wives of the Big Four. It was
held in the reception-rooms of the Women s
Club at Beaumont House, where all the
guests with the exception of Lady Evelyn
Malcolm, had been entertained on the previ-
ous evening by the Victorian Leaguers. The
National Council of Women was responsible
for the afternoon rally, and hither flocked
women in their mid-summer plumage. The
big reception-room, its windows framing
vistas of Ilvde Park and tantalising glimpses
of St. Mary’s and its square pillars, each
wearing a great sheaf of gladioli-like glow-
ing jewels against the whiteness, set the
party in quiet dignity. Lady Evelyn Mal-
colm. who is tall and fair, wore black and
white with grace, and told the company in
reply to Mrs. Muscio’s greeting how she and
her fellow-travellers marvelled at the amount
of work Australian women managed to get
through, combining household cares with
public duties. The warmheartedness and
friendliness of the Australian woman was
not to be met with anywhere else m the
world, the lady concluded. And then every-
body clapped and felt that the speaker had
well earned the posy of carnations and other
mixed vegetation the committee had given to
her Brown and blue harmonised m Lady
Clark’s attire. Lady Hirst bubbled over m
a rosy hat, her frock being quietness in beige
georgette bordered with soft fur, and Mrs.
Archer surmounted one of the ethereal blues
of the season by a sapphire hat. Navy pre-
dominated in the raiment of Miss Duckham,
who represented her mother, and the same
utilitarian shade enfolded Lady Malcolms
daughter. Mrs. Muscio, who received the
guests, looked like a slim piece of jade m
green chiffons. Every woman m the room
represented a Cause or a Movement, and the
National Council of Women of Dunedin in
Maoriland came in the person of its presi-
dent, Mrs. Aslfh. •
The lady with the shingle is Mrs. L. C.
Robson, the popular young wife of “bhore s
head master
and- former
Rhodes scho-
-1 a r. M r s.
Robson wa s
born in Vir-
gin ia, but
came to Aus-
tralia by way
of England,
where she was
educated.
Some of the
success of the
recent “Shore”
fete can be
claimed by
Mrs. Robson,
who, with Miss
Rhodes, wa s
responsible for
a huge amount
of secretarial
industry. The
North Sydney
branch of the District Nursing Association
is her particular good work. Time off is
spent in golfing and swimming.
The Premier’s lady housed her party to
the wives of the Economic Delegation in the
Queen’s Club. Pink roses adorned the tables,
and sand-colored lace and georgette garnished
the hostess, who was aided by daughter Shir-
ley in filmy black. Lady Hirst, who never
appears twice in the same frock, was coolly
green, both in hat and raiment. Lady
Clarke's opals looked good enough to he Aus-
tralian, and Lady Duckham wore an effec-
tive black turnout.
And talking about lions, the Feminist Club
was like a rival Taronga the other afternoon.
No fewer than six of them made. their bow and
behaved prettily before a gathering of Daniels
that might have alarmed even the king ot
the forest. There was Alderwoman howler,
there were Three flying women with the acco-
lade of pilot, there was Adela Pankhurst
Walsh and there was Mrs. Liddell, who has
just been appointed to the Film Censorship
Appeal Board. Each had a word to say about
her particular job—Mrs. Walsh s subject was
industrial peace—except Mrs. Liddell, who
at the last minute didn’t stand up because
of a sprained ankle. After everybody had
spoken, including Mrs. Kenneth Street, the
hostesses of the afternoon dispensed tea.
Sydney has at last achieved an aider-
woman in Mrs. Lilian Fowler, the pleasant-
faced lady in this Mason-Leighton photo-
graph Mrs. Fowler, who went in on the
Labor ticket for the Camden ward m the
Newtown municipality, was 103 votes ahead
of the male
Labor nomi-
nee and 300
votes ahead of
any opposition
candidate. She
is proud of he.r
victory, especi-
ally as it was
the result of
only two
weeks’ canvass.
At 15 years of
age she helped
a Labor can-
didate to vic-
tory by driv-
ing him from
homestead to
homestead
abo 'u t the
Monaro dis-
trict, where
she w'as born,
and she lias
been keenly interested in politics ever since.
Municipally Mrs. Fowler is out to obtain
breathing spaces for the children of the
crowded and busy suburb which she repre-
sents. She is a J.P. and was the first woman
magistrate to preside in a N.S.W. court (in
1921. at Cooma). She finds time for good
works, and is local secretary for the Picton
Lakes T.B. Settlement Fund, for which, by a
queen competition and a street fair, iSew-
town netted the comfortable sum of £4OOO.
Barrister Adrian Curlewis (liis mother is
Ethel Turner, of 4; Seven Little Australians
fame, and his father the Judge who wages
war for better English in our courts) took
to himself a bride last week. She was the
good-looking and upstanding Betty Carr,
second daughter of the S. H. Carijs, of Cre-
morne. St. Philip's Church was brave with
pink and blue hydrangea and pink roses for
the vows-exchange. the decorations being the
work of the popular bride’s girl friends. A
train of tambour lace, which had belonged
to her great-grandmother, was a striking
addendum to the white-brocaded satin frock,
and over this a tulld veil floated in beauty.
Marjorie Carr, Primrose Malcolm, Joan
Bobart and Marcia Pockley drifted along m
the procession in naiad-like greens. John
Mant best-manned. The reception at the
Ambassadors was under the direction of Mrs.
Carr, in ethereal-pink frocking, while Mrs.
Curlewis wore her favorite skyey blues. Dr.
Leonard Charlton and Mrs. Charlton—she
is authoress Jean Curlewis —came to the
toast-making. The bridegroom has two
prides—one surf-board riding and the
other being secretary of the Old Boys’ Union
of the S.C.E.G.S.
Althea Glasby and Paul Furniss are prov-
ing that, given a chance, North Sydneyites
don’t need to cross the Harbor for Saturday
night’s entertainment. Althea will be re-
membered as the good-looking Sydney girl
who returned to her native town last year
fresh from playing Sliakspearean parts at the
Old Vic. Mr. Furniss, who is a nephew of
the famous Punch cartoonist, arrived in Aus-
tralia with half a dozen plays from his
own pen. Lie has had considerable experi-
ence in acting and play-producing in Eng-
land. With Miss Glasby in the leading part
the two have produced a couple of Mr. Fur-
niss’s plays in the Mosman Town Hall. One,
a thriller, “Between Five and Seven,” drew
crowded houses last week. “The Refor-
mation of Anne Carey,” a twentieth-century
“Taming of the Shrew,” is this week’s bill
of fare at the same address.
All the she scribes of Sydney who are
banded in the fold of the Society of Women
Writers took time off one afternoon last
week to enjoy their own Christmas party.
This was held in the Lyceum Club in the
odor of the best perfume, face-powder and
lipstick. If tliore are still any benighted
males who imagine that the feminine ink-
slinger crams untidy hair under a last-year s
hat, a glimpse of the sleek shingles and ex-
pensive millinery in this gathering would
have disillusioned them. On the lowest pos-
sible estimate £lOO would scarcely have paid
for the stockings .that gathered around the
frosted plum-cake glittering under its three
candles—one for each birthday the society
has known. Ices and marzipan and bon-
bons consumed the rest of the revel cheque
handed out by secretary Miss Mole. Mrs.
Baverstock, who is again in office, welcomed
everybody—poetesses, social chroniclers for
dailies and weeklies, the writer of the occa-
sional article and the budding genius with
exactly the same shade of geniality. The
absence (through a recent bereavement) of
Mrs. Fred Aronson, the founder of the
society, was the only cloud on the otherwise
speckless horizon. Rolls-Royces, scooters and
trams were whistled up at live sharp.
Let us consider the ways of that gallant
little warrior, the Junior Red Crosser. There
are now forty circles of her, and by her
activities she'makes possible the good work
of Sliuna, the mountain rest-home for the
children of sick soldiers; Juong, another
mountain hospice for the delicate kiddies of
Diggers ; Cudgelo, the new seaside home ; and
the one at Ramsgate, which has already
supplied health and pleasure to over 300
children. Milk for the free kindergartens
and clothes for the children of former war-
riors are other contracts that absorb the
time of these good little girls- Secretary
Elsie Lorimer read the splendid report for
the year at the Adyar Hall last week, while
Mrs! R. R. S. Mackirinon, the Red Cross
chieftaineSs, listened with a smile of grati-
fication.
The little band of enthusiasts that
works so tirelessly for the Sailors’ and
Soldiers’ Fathers’ Association must have been
delighted with the roll-up to its cabaret
last week. The Wentworth was gay with
parties, all the happier because of the know-
ledge that their presence meant a brighter
Christmas for disabled soldiers and their
dependantd. The guessing competition for
the Christmas hamper alone netted over
£7O, so that meant a wiping out of expense.
Blue-eved little Mrs. Hammett, a slim five-
foot of kindness and energy, was the organiser
and president of the flutter. At her table
was Mr. Sydney Smith, the president of the
whole association. Treasurer Mrs. E. .Toils
was another who brought an outsize party;
and that good friend of all hurt Diggers,
Major R, M, Everett, who works for love
all the year round, was another of the
afternoon’s lionsf.
One of the brand-new engaged is Myra
Raven bright-eyed daughter of the John
Ravens, of Randwiek. Her young man is
Thomas Troy, only son of the Percy Troys,
of Tullera.
Presswoman Marie Irvine is off on her
travels again ; this time she is heading tor
Morocco and Algiers. Spain and Portugal
are to get a once-over, and the methods ot
Mussolini are to be carefully weighed on the
spot. Mrs. Murray Campbell and Anita
Onslow make up the company.
Chrystal Gilder, a sparkling brunette,
chose the right sort of wedding frock for
her particular type. The material was cream
and dull gold lame, and the square-cut bodice,
woven in rhinestones, flowed into a skirt
that was of the fashionable unevenness. A
large bustle boWj lined with gold tissue and
caught with a buckle of rhinestones, . was a
feature of the striking frock. The train too,
deserves a special mention. This fell from
the shoulder, and was of transparent tulle,
worked at the back and sides with an old
lace design in finest of gold thread, the de-
sign picked out in tiny rhinestones. A cas-
cade of tulle and a spray of Madonna lilies
finished the effect. Bridesmaid Marjorie
Nettleton turned on unusual raiment. Her
frock was a picturesque affair in two shades
of yellow chiffon. The skirt, was covered
with poppies of ragged-cut chiffon, and the
tight-fitting bodice was finished off with a
waist posy of the same floppy chiffon flowers.
Bride’s niece, Rosemary Gilder, looking like
a busy little daffodil in her yellow, organdie,
strewed flowers from an old-fashioned gdc
basket in the path of the bride and ’groom.
He was Charles Sydney Grear, of Welling-
ton (M.L.), and he was sustained during his
waiting at the altar of St. James’s by best-
man G. Hamparsum. The whole of the
Wentworth had been engaged for the wed-
ding reception, and here the bride’s parents,
the W. A. Gilders, of Pymble, did their only
daughter proud. Mrs. Gilder glittered in a
coat of black and powder-blue sequins which
covered her black chiffons.
They are coming on. A small .Tap car-
ried off his class prize for English at. a Mos-
man school break-up the other evening.
The Smith family is, as usual, busy seeing
that no kiddie in Sydney wakes up to an
empty stocking on Christmas morning, and
that no mother wakes up thinking she has no
dinner to cook. The Smiths want everybody
to have a happy Christmas with plenty ot
plum pudding, roast beef and toys. They
don’t mind loading the lorries if <s’°. u Wl '
help them buy the goods. Mr. Slnitli, at
81 Pitt-street, will attend to all donations.


m
m
■ ' y>
4 $$ fIjMgUM
m
•r
N,
'WSK/
-
v.~- - ••"
mm
m
-/
■ : ;
.as?*.:
/t
%
rl-
S:
’
.....
■
~>v•-
•-
•:'• :•••
€>*
SSfc
mm .. .
Christmas Joys
are never perfect without the lovable
fragrance of “4711” Eau de Cologne,
the crowning g,lory of feminine dainti-
ness and the most welcome Christmas g,ift
since the days of wi& and sedan-chair.
It is the standard of excellence, the
unrivalled commodity of an original
recipe. Only genuine with
the numerals “4711” on the
Blue and Gold Label.
Obtainable from all leading chemists
and departmental stores.
o
Caucfe
olo&ne
«jT ML ML %~s


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
m
e
in an Eastern Setting
CHRISTMAS
EVE DINNER
£l/V-
-TO 1 O’CLOCK
BOXING
NIGHT
DINNER, 15/-
TO 12 O’CLOCK.
ŵ
NEW YEAR’S
EVE DINNER
£ 2/2/-
TO 2 O’CLOCK
On Christmas and
New Year’s Eve a
Gorgeous Gift will
be presented to
each guest.
RING
BW 13 6 1.
FOR RESERVATIONS
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hote Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhvthm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Orient Company’s ball aboard the
11.M.5. Orford to aid the Lord Mayor’s Fund
was an outstanding example of generous hos-
pitality. The big liner was picked out from
end to end in electric lights, and draped flags
and grouped pot-plants trimmed the sports
deck, where the ship's band, augmented for
the occasion—so powerfully that no ampli-
fiers were required to reinforce the strains—
played for the dancers. In the white and
gold saloon pink carnations and delphiniums
decorated the tables, which were furnished
lavishly. Arnold Johnson, the Melbourne
manager, gave a dinner party as curtain-
raiser to the hop, the principal guests being
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton, she draped in
black Chantilly lace. Mrs. Johnson had
rhinestones sprayed over a pale green frock.
Mrs. E. Glanville Hicks, wife of the secre-
tary of the fund, was in blue, traced with a
beaded rose design. Colonel and Mrs. E. H.
Davidson represented Government House,
the lady in amber and gold with intervals
of glitter. Mrs. E. Pearse, who entertained
her friends with some anecdotes of her recent
travels in South America, was an outstand-
ing figure in a gown of oyster-white satin
with a gleam of brilliants about her hair.
Moonlight sequins rippled upon Mrs. Felix
Lloyd’s frock; Mrs. Harold Grimwade graced
the gathering in gold lame and lace; and
Mrs. Albion Walkley aired chiffon, fern-pat-
terned in bracken and russet tones. Mrs.
F. W. Hughes, of Sydney, kept up her repu-
tation as a smart dresser with a grey robe
softly shimmering with beads. Miss Sempf,
who accompanied Mayor and Mayoress Mac-
kay of Camberwell, sported soft pink and
paie green with a Medici-collar effect. Among
the younger set Sheila Mbrell’s rose-covered
floral ninon frock was charming, Viola Ram-
say halted the eye in black sprinkled with
diamente, and Kathleen Ahern’s Titian locks
were set off by an apple-green gown. The
Edgar Dyes, Mrs. Arthur Moore, Mrs. Fog-
arty, Dr. Esme Anderson, the W. Pulteney
Meins and the Ivan Gutmanns figured among
the SOO dancers.
The Artists’ Society indulged in what the
organisers called a “Party in the Loft” on
Friday night. The society’s building was
decorated for the occasion with agricultural
symbols—friezes of milk-buckets, dadoes of
farmyard fauna and mural displays of mar-
rows' and pumpkins tastefully interspersed
with sickles. The successes of the V.A.S.
farm were represented by a brave display
of red, blue and white award cards, which
on close scrutiny proved to be tributes to
various members for achievements that
hadn’t got much connection with farming.
In the northern gallery, which served as ball-
room for the occasion, the delights and rigors
of rural life were represented in the deco-
rative scheme by hams, vegetables, chains
and axes. Many of the dancers adopted the
garb of the Outback —or their notion of it
—and there was the usual quota of gipsies.,
buccaneers, Latin Quartier art students and
gollywogs.
The afternoon party given by Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Napier at Uardry was
intended as a garden affair, but the weather
was so unsettled that the many guests
were bidden indoors, and got no more
than a passing glimpse of the beautiful
grounds. The hostess was in pale iris
blue satin crepe, with sleeves and draperies
in lace of the same tone. She had as A.D.G.
her school-girl daughter Ruth. Among the
guests were Senator Glasgow and Lennon
Raws and their wives, and the Elder, Mauds-
ley, Allen, Best and Fraser ladies and many
other well-known society folk.
Before retiring to Portsea for the vacation
Mayoress Luxton served tea, with music, in
her suite at the Town Hall to the womenfolk
of aldermen and councillors and a few intimate
friends. It was her first civic party, and she
played hostess in a frock of biscuit georgette
that dapgled pleated frills, her baku hat
being inlet with lace. Huge bowls of gladioli,
delphiniums, foxgloves and hydrangea made
gay the rose and black upholstered room.
Between waves of chatter the rich contralto
notes of Jean Lewis, the pianistie ability
of Violet Mateer and the clever monologues
by Lucy Ahon gave pleasure to the guestst
Mrs. Luxton’s mother, Mrs. W. H. Lewis,
was present, a study in black and white;
so w r ere Mrs. .J. Kenneth Clark and her daugh-
ter Phyllis, Mrs. Tom Luxton and Mrs. Hig-
ginbotham. Mrs. D. F.. Sullivan, of Sydney,
who is a relation of the Mayor’s, came to say
good-bye before departing- on a trip to Cali-
fornia. She was well turned out in a beige
pink lace frock and harmonising crinoline
millinery. The Weedon lady, who after
several weeks of illness is taking an interest
in social happenings, was there in grey
topped by a cerise hat. The Morell lady,
arrayed in ensemble of honey-colored lace
with a nigger-brown hat; Sheila Morell; the
Cuscaden lady and her daughter Beatrice;
Mrs. Felix Lloyd; Molly Elliott, in delightful
flounced raiment of black and white spotted
silk, and Mrs. John Dale were guests.
The Mitchell lady was called upon the
other day to lay the foundation-stone for the
modernised Singleton Homes for Women at
Collingwood. Commenced by the late Dr.
John Singleton, whose wealth and medical
knowledge were mostly devoted to the poor,
these residences have sheltered 35 women
at a time for nearly 60 years. The place
is being rebuilt to accommodate 60 people,
and the cost, exclusive of furnishing, will
be £ll,OOO. Knight Edward Mitchell, chair-
man of the Edward Wilson Bequest, has pro-
mised a donation of £2OOO towards the cost.
The homes for the last four and a half years
have been under the care of the Melbourne
City Mission. Interested folk at the little
ceremony to mark the reconstruction were
the two daughters of Dr. Singleton.
The executive of the Victorian Women
Citizens’ Movement exchanged greetings and
views with Mrs. M. H. Arundel, a Banana-
land vice-president of the Women’s Non-
Party Association, over a cup of tea at the
E.S.U. rooms. The visitor, who has since
returned to the northern .State, gave an
account of the work of the association in
Brisbane. Mrs. Britomarto James, the
lately-elected president of the V.W.0.M., and
Miss Gilman Jones, the ex-president, were
speakers. Others in the gathering were Mrs.
J. Rapke, hon. sec., Miss Williamson and
Mrs. Lee Steere.
Mrs. Andrew Glencross ran a gauntlet
of hurriedly-arranged farewell tea-brews on
the eve of her departure for Sydney, where
she is to take her seat as a member of the
Film Censorship Board. There was a good
roll-up of members of the Housewives’ Asso-
ciation at an evening party at the Austral
Salon, and the National Council of Women
also rallied around their retiring president
to wish her good-bye and success.
The Wattle League gave Evelyn Scotney
a reception at the Lyceum Club rooms on
Friday night. Mrs. Britomarte James, pre-
sident of the league, attired in apricot crepe
georgette, handed the guest of honor a posy
of azaleas that chimed harmoniously with
the singer's gown, which was in a slightly
deeper shade embroidered with brilliants.
The affair was chatty and informal, with a
short musical programme, contributed to by
Madame Evelyn Ashley’s orchestra and a
few soloists.
Mrs. Wanda Harris, who, as Sister Scott,
has been in charge of the Samarai Hospi-
tal, where
tropic - worn
Europeans in
Papua resort
for repairs, is
pictured here
by Rusk in.
She has been
persuaded to
give up her
job in favor of
d o m esticity,
and is at pre-
sent enjoying
a honeymoon
trip in south-
ern Australia.
But the North
has not lost
her for long.
When the cool
season is due
she and her
husband will
return to Port
Moresby, where he holds office as District
Treasurer. The lady is a Bananalander by
birth, and the knot which made her Mrs.
E. C. Harris was slipped at Warwick re-
cently.
White and blue was the color scheme for
the wedding of Frances Ethel, daughter of
the late Mr. and Mrs. William Egerton
Bailey, Avondale, N.5.W.,. and Geoffrey
Charles, son of the late C. E. Coldhams, of
Penhurst, Western District. The youthful
bride’s long white crepe romaine robe was
girdled with rhinestones, and a Limerick lace
veil fell over a train of white georgette and
silver tissue. Her two ’maids and her small
trainbearers wore frocks of blue-bell hue.
The Willses of Lerderderg Park, Bacchus
Marsh, have parted with their good-looking
only daughter Lorna to Dr. lan McLean, of
Perth, son of the Rev. R. W. McLean Bac-
chus Marsh. The knot was tied by the bride-
groom’s father at Bacchus Marsh kirk. The
bridegroom graduated at Melbourne Uni.,
and was for a while resident surgeon and
registrar at Melbourne Hospital.
There was a time when bowlers spoke
a lingo which was to their womankind a
foreign tongue. But in these advanced days
women not only play bowls but send them
curving as sweetly and as featly as any
white-whiskered veteran of the greens. Our
Ladies’ Bowling Association has been occupy-
ing the St. Kilda greens all this week with
a pairs championship.
For those who like poor pussy the Cat
Club’s annual show of kittens is always a
delight. Blue Persians made the best show-
ing this year, honors being shared by Mrs.
E. Johnson’s Jack of Malabar . and Mrs.
Vreland’s Jean of Malabar—relations, seem-
inglv In the Chinchilla section Mrs. H. J.
Brown’s Undoona Donna Lucia, a recent
arrival from N.S.W., was considered the
best-bred she.
Christmas brings with it the usual appeals
for help The Melbourne City Mission an-
nounces'that the closing year has been one
of the worst in its 73 years’ experience. Iwo
thousand adults and over 2500 children de-
pend upon the Mission for a little Christ-
mas cheer, and donations will be hailed with
glee at headquarters, 280-82 Exhibition-
Evelyn Scotney, the operatic soprano, is pic-
tured here with her little son Brian Scotney
Russell. Mr. Russell, who 'is manager ot
tlie Ciinard line in London, is her second
husband; her first was Howard White, a
musician with whom she made a concert tour
of Australia in the days, when the shadow
of the Great War lay over all the world.
Mr. White fell a victim to the pneumonic
influenza epidemic. Madame Wiedermann,
as instructor, and Marshall Hall, as Con.
director, laid their impress on Mrs. Russell s
early training, and then Melba took her in
hand and sent her to Paris and Marchesi
Tosti, in London, put on the finishing touches,
and the young singer tried her luck in the
United States. Boston, home of American
culture, set the seal of its approval upon her,
and in a comparatively short space of time
she was a co-star with Canlso at New York
Metropolitan Opera House. Then she con-
quered London in opera and on the conceit
platform. Australia will shortly be given an
opportunity to hear her at the zenith or her
career.
Owing to severe illness in the children’s
ward at the Alfred Hospital, the usual
Christmas-tree and rejoicings will have to
be cut out this year. Instead, the enter-
tainments committee of the Alfred Hospital
Auxiliary, which has been responsible for
years for this function, will provide a high
tea for all patients and inmates of the hos-
pital on Christmas Day, and at Eastertide
a special Easter Egg Day will make up to
the kiddies for the cancelled Christmas feast.
Sydney, they say, was looking forward to
renewing acquaintance with clever Lorna
Helms, who. after trying her luck in London,
returned for “The Girl Friend,” and is now
in Melbourne with “The Desert Song.” Wed-
ding bells, however, will interfere; Lorna is
marrying at the end of the Melbourne sea-
son. and Billee Lockwood will play her part
in Sydney.
Diggers joined in the widespread regrets
at the passing of Captain Morgan, of the
Karoola. In war days, when the Karoola
sailed under the Red Cross flag, he seemed
to have two worries in life: keeping hjs craft
spick and span, and doing everything he
could to add to the comfort of his war-shat-
tered passengers. On one occasion there was
some trouble among the crew at Melbourne.
The skipper said bluntly that the passengers
comprised wounded Diggers bound for Syd-
ney and Brisbane, and that he’d get them
home even if he had to leave Melbourne with-
out the complainants; he’d see the job
through with volunteers from the convales-
cent patients. There was no strike.
A note from “Johanna”: —
A Bulletin correspondent the other day wondered
where the longest tresses in Australia are worn in
these days of shingles and crops, and whether they
crown tall women or short. If he will stroll along
the quiet beach at Sandy Bay (Tas.) in the early
morning he may chance on a glimpse of a little
lady tossing her hair after her morning swim. The
tips of her tresses actually brush the firm sands as
she walks wrapped in dainty dignity and a superb
Oriental kimono. She is the widow of **P ® ,n
Cameron, who traded with Chinese ports, an ei
home has its garden-gate opening on to the each.
It was in this artistic quiet that her children weie
born, though in the family’s heyday she figurec
brilliantly in the social life of Hongkong an
Shanghai. Of her three children the son is a vio-
linist, a daughter is a fine pianist, and the o ei
daughter uses her sensitive hands for engiossmg
documents in the office of the little island’s Solicitor-
General.
Presswomen don’t mind a joke against
themselves. With wicked joy one related
this story. A Melbourne lady said to a social
writer, “I didn’t see you at so-and-so s at-
home.” “Oh no; Miss —- went instead,
replied the scribe. “Oh, I wish I had known ;
I would have recognised her. Why, I always
bow to my maid when I meet her in the
street!”
Visiting this city on holiday is Mrs. F. O.
Nixon, whose husband is a member ot
Bananaland’s Forestry Board. The lady, a
pianist who has gained some recognition as
a composer, is now placing two just-pnb-
lished efforts on the market. One is “Butter-
fly Dance,” in popular vein, while of more
classical calibre is “Barron Waters. Both
are being well received. Mrs. Nixon is a
sister of Engineer-Commander .1. J. C.
Brand, R.A.N., who was stationed at Garden
Island, Sydney, with his wife for some
years. East week it was announced that
the Commander intended to retire, in order
to devote his time to the exploitation of the
powdered fuel he has invented.
Harry Beardmore, who, with the aid of
the McPherson following in the Leg. Assem-
bly, has been placed on the Railway Stand-
ing Committee, was formerly an Honorary
Minister. Member for < Benambra, winch
represents some of the most rugged country
in Victoria, he has an utter contempt for
the race suicide which Roosevelt used to
inveigh against. He is the father of 14
children.
The youthful-looking Roy Cnrthoys has
succeeded Edward Sheldon Cunningham as
editor of the Argus. Cnrthoys comes from
Perth, where he was grounded in journalism
on the Daily News, his mother being musi-
cal critic on the West Australian. Vic-
toria knew the lady in other years as the
brilliant pianist Ada Willetts.
Lady Margaret Macrae, who has come
with her husband to Australia, he being a
member of the St. .John Mission, has been
chosen by the Pope and the King of the Bel-
gians for special decorations in recognition
of her activities as an organiser of nursing
in times of disaster.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London :
Incense is the newest fashionable adjunct to smart
house parties. The desired fragrance is secured by
placing specially-prepared shavings of cedar wood on
a receptacle filled with glowing cinders. Immediately
before the arrival of the guests a maid carries this
receptacle all through the house, and a delightful
aroma pervades the rooms for hours afterwards.
Lady Bective—she who was Rupert Clarke’s widow
—has gone with her new husband to Headfort House,
the, family seat in Kells, where they are promised
excellent sport with the Meath hounds. Lord and
Lady Strickland have also left England in favor- of
the sun at Malta, where their Villa Bologna is one
of the finest residences.
Other familiar names cropping up at the moment
are those of Edward Cahill and George Brooke, whose
concert at the Stradbrokes’ house in Belgrave-square,
brought many well-known people together, includ-
ing Princess Helene Victoria, to whom Cahill has
dedicated several of the pieces he played. Lady
Stradbroke has since been placed on the sick list
—not on account of the music, of course.
Lady Loughborough had two unusual guests at
her wedding—the second venture —to Sir John Mil-
banke, V.C., amateur boxer and all-round sport;
his grandmother and her mother-in-law. Many of
the smart women present wore black, which now
seems a la mode for weddings. Several of the
guests, as well as the principals, had been through
the Divorce Court —Lady Juliet Duff, Major Metcalfe
and Mrs. Freddie Cripps (formerly Duchess of
Westminster), for example. Apart from those so
noted, there were the bride’s great friends, Lady Louis
Mourtbatten and Poppy Baring (Poppy is credited
with possessing the most beautiful eyes in London),
the Duke of Sutherland, Lord and Lady Denman, Lady
Morbyth Benson (daughter of Lord Dudley), Mrs.
Ohirnside, Mrs. Anthony Hordern, Lady Diana Cooper,
the Maharanee of Cooch Behar and the Maharajah
of Cashmir. Prior to the choral ceremony at the
Savoy Chapel, which was gay with flowers, there
was a formal union at the Paddington Registry
Office.
Years ago, when concerts were the fashion, and when
all youths and maidens felt impelled to express
their souls in song, the Melbourne boy George
Clutsam sold his lullaby “Ma Curly-headed Babby,”
for a ten-pound note. And very glad he was to get
it. Nowadays, it takes a star to draw or a machine-
gun to drive pe'ople to a concert, but the popularity
of mechanical music makes all the difference to
the song-maker. When Clutsam sold his little song
for ten pounds there were no mechanical rights,
and so they remained the property of the composer.
Last quarter’s gramophone royalties, though fixed
at the modest rate of a halfpenny a record, brought
him a cheque for £B2 10s.! By the way, Mrs.
Clutsam’s son, Leonard Flemming, is doing well with
Heinemann’s popular edition of his “Call of the
Veld,” for which Galsworthy- wrote a preface after
a visit to the author’s home in the Orange Free State.


AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
’HE Orient Liners follow a very attractive
route to England, calling at Colombo,
Suez, Port Said, Naples, Toulon and Gibraltar.
The many interesting features to be seen at
each of these places make the voyage a source
of continual enjoyment.
I NATIVE BOATS ON THE NILE j
ORIENT LINE
2-4*6 SPRING STREET - - SYDNEY
M
w
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (Germany),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G.. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: BELINDA.
COMMENCING SATURDAY.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
* SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, DECEMBER 22.
E. J. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY, author of
THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NONE BUT THE BRAVE.
With SALLY PHIPPS & CHARLES MORTON.
ALSO
THE ADVENTURER.
With TIM McCOY.
Amusements.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
NICOLA.
WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
JtyJAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY,
MYRNA LOY in the
Warner Bros.’ Melodrama,
THE CRIMSON CITY.
Glamorous Romance of the China Coast.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
Missing Friends.
WALTER MAZIERE SMYTH.
INFORMATION is desired with regard to
the whereabouts of the above gentleman,
whose last known address was c/o P.O. Box
155, Georgetown, Demerara, British Guiana.
Anyone able to supply any particulars which
may assist in locating him is requested to
communicate with
FAIRBRIDGE, ARDERNE & LAWTON,
Solicitors,
40 Burg Street,
Cape Town, South Africa.
DAINA LUIGI. —Any person who can fur-
*'• nisli the present whereabouts of Raina
Luigi, who left Lakeside, Western Australia,
about 17 years ago, is requested to communi-
cate with F. C. Cowle & Co., Solicitors,
Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Simplest Way to
Stop Indigestion
If you get pain after meals or are losing
interest in life through digestive upset, try
this simple plan: Eat three Para-Pepsin
tablets during meals, and notice results. No
pain! Just a hearty meal with a smile, and
a feeling of tackling anything afterwards.
No drowsiness! Para-Pepsin is a great
remedy for stomach and digestive troubles
—you can’t compare it with anti-acids or
bismutliated magnesia. And Para-Pepsin
costs very little at any chemist’s.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Q.T.C. races drew Sir John and Lady
Goodwin to the green lawns at Eagle Farm
—and they really are green, for we have been
blessed with refreshing showers this month.
Lady Goodwin’s royal blue silk muslin had
a lace bolero, and her blue toque was
trimmed with gros-grain ribbon. Mrs. J. 11.
S. Barnes wore navy and a gay Batik scarf;
Mrs. Arthur Clark, mist-grey; Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, a darker shade of grey with an ivory-
polished Ballibuntal hat; Mrs. Harry
L’Estrange, duck-egg blue; Mrs. Cecil
Palmer, navy mariette; Mrs. Whittingham,
mastic; Irma Deardon, pink and white dotted
silk; and Ella O’Shea, rose silk with rose
raffia-broidered hat.
St. Andrew’s Hall was the scene of the
Dickens Fellowship Christmas party. The
president, Dr. Cumbrae Stewart, and Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart, arrayed as Mr. and Mrs.
Dickens, received the guests, who were dressed
as Dickens characters. Barbara Sisley and
Mabel Ralston helped with a programme of
Dickens excerpts, and “Christmas Eve with
Charles Dickens” was produced by Nell
Douglas Graham. Marjorie Hollinshed
arranged a Morris dance, and there was
carol-singing.
Winifred Ferry gave a tea for Mary Stop-
ford, another bride-elect, at Rowes, where the
table in the banqueting-hall was set with
large baskets and silver bowls of Page
Roberts roses tied with amber tulle. Tim
guest-of-honor, who wore white crepe de
Chine and a pink hat, was presented with
a bouquet of blue hydrangeas veiled in pink
tulle. The hostess wore navy-blue satin,
beaded in red and mastic.
Brown-eyed Dorothy Hawthorn is the Girl
Guide Divisional Commissioner for Brisbane.
She is now a qualified trainer, having been
put to the test by Mrs. Michael Rogers. Mrs.
Rogers married Sir Matthew Nathan’s
A.D.C., and she and her husband have just
returned after a prolonged honeymoon in the
Chilly Isle.
Wedding bells rang at Longreach Metho-
dist Church the other day for Dorothy, daugh-
ter of the William Coades, of Dundee, Long-
reach, and Edwin Sedgwick, of Spoilbank,
C.Q. The bride wore oyster-white crepe,
satin over pink organdie, and large French
roses decorated bodice and skirt. The veil
was of Brussels applique lace. Ivy White,
in beige georgette with black hat, and Nancy
Coade, in lemon taffetas and black millinery,
were ’maifls.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A gentle breeze straight off the Indian
Ocean wafted energy into the spike heels
and patent-leather pumps of dancers at the
Ocean Beach Hotel. The dining-room was
transformed into a ballroom, a supper
marquee was spread on the lawn, and lounge
and verandah were prettily decorated. Among
the merry-makers were Mr. and Mrs. Sam
Grimwood, Mrs, Victor Harwood, Mrs.
Clarkson, the John Stodarts, Moyra Tivey
and Jacqueline Wright.
Here is a Helen Ogden picture of Molly
Ick, a young Westralian whose talents run
into many dif-
ferent chan-
nels, Miss Ick
gained her
arts degree at
Perth Uni.,
where as an
undergrad she
was one of the
bright lights of
the Dramatic
Society. Later
she joined the
Allan Wilkie
co., and for
two years the
six States and
Mao r i land
knew her as
Noel Seaton.
A great many
character-parts
came her way,
and she
achieved sue-
cess in such dissimilar roles as Titania and
Miranda. Since leaving the professional
stage, Miss Ick has been industrial secre-
tary of the Y.W.C.A. in Melbourne, and has
delighted the children who listened to 3LO’s
bedtime stories. Our Repertory Club com-
mandeered her to be its secretary a few’
months ago, and has been patting itself on
the back ever since.
Childish eyes, bright with excitement,
feasted on the decorations of Government
House supper-room and on the enticing array
of goodies on the tables during a longish
bunch of opening speeches at the Child Wel-
fare Christmas party. The Ladies’ Board-
ing-out Committee entertained the little
wards of the State in genero’us style. There
were a Santa Claus with a gift for each
child, a Punch-and-Judy show, games on the
lawn, a band, and a group of artists to sing
•and play.
Kindergarten graduates met at Mrs.
McGibbon’s home in Bellevue-terrace to
drink tea in honor of Rachel Evans. A pair
of crystal vases complete with flower-holders
was the club’s gift to the bride-to-be. Miss
Evans wore a suit of jade-green and beige,
contrasting her ensemble with a berry-red
Cisol straw. Mollie McGibbon chose ivory
crepe de Chine with a pleated skirt; Mrs.
Summers navy blue, and Mrs. Leake a filmv
hand-embroidered French voile. The tea-
takers included Peggy Kelsall, Athole Clif-
ton, Jean Wilson, Margaret Graham, Edith
Ryan, Elsie Saw, Miss Raynes and Miss
Pendred.
The Orama brought the Charles Nathans
back from England.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
At the T.A.J.C. races Margaret O’Grady,
in soft pale mushroom satin with hat of soft
blue Rallibuntal, came with Mrs. Stoyles and
N. E. Dr. Miller, the president,
entertained a big assembly at tea, and as
the day was gloriously fine sumnier frocks
bloomed like flowers on stand and lawn.
Launceston had a day out on the occasion
of the big aquatic carnival at Royal Park,
in which crews from five clubs competed. The
weather was perfect, and the big R.A.A.F.
flying boat, guided by Flight-Lieut. F. A.
Biggs, soared about over the heads of the
crowd. Speed-boat races provided thrills for
participants and onlookers.
The Old Launcestonians’ dinner was held
on the evening of Tamar Regatta Day. The
chief feature of this year’s reunion was the
presentation of a cheque and a testimonial
to Padre John Bethune, retiring headmaster
of Launceston C. of E. Grammar School.
When Hobart parted with the celebrated
J. W. Beattie collection of Port Arthur and
other relics, which went to Launceston, there
was weeping and wailing and gnashing, of
teeth. But we counted without our Beattie,
who has set to work on a second collection
which already makes an interesting show.
Those intrepid travellers Mabel and Dora
Hookey have returned after 11 months’ hard
going, their itinerary having included Spitz-
bergen, Cyprus, Damascus, Martinique, New
Caledonia, Jerusalem and Mt. Vesuvius.
This bright
face belongs
to Leigh Bell,
who is a bud-
ding—or per-
haps one should
say a blossom-
ing author-
ess ; she has
had two books
published b y
Angus and
Robertson. The
first, “Colin’s
Story Book,”
is a delightful
little collec-
tion of tales
for children ;
the second,
“Breakers on
the Beach,” is
a story for
older young-
sters. The set-
ting of both is the Speck’s East Coast.
An engagement which has caused a thrill
in social circles is that of Daisy Hawker (at
present in England on a trip with her
mother) to Henry Allport, one of Hobart’s
best-known bachelors. The marriage will
link up two very old Tasmanian families, the
prospective bride’s grandfather having been
the late Clias. Smith, of Beulah, Launceston,
while the name of Allport is closely con-
nected with many aspects of the early pro-
gress and development of the Speck.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The afternoon dance on the Spanish naval
training-ship was the climax of a giddy
week. Dresses were slight and brief. A
tliis-year’s debutante wore pink crepe do
Chine, and another was in cool blue and
white, with a touch of pink in her hat. One
of the MacMahon Glynn daughters was in
blue and white, too; and Margaret Holden
chose soft hanging mauve floral georgette.
On the previous day the ship had a visit
from the Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
in the morning, and an at-home, hostessed by
Mrs. Lavington Bonython, in the afternoon,
an'd there was an excursion to the A. E.
Brooks’ place, Buckland Park, as a final
frivol.
There has, been feasting in honor of the
delegates from the Order of St. John of
Jerusalem —a garden party at Undelcarra,
the A. A. Simpsons’ home at Burnside (he
is chairman of the local St. John Ambulance
Association) ; an afternoon tea-drinking at
the Lyceum Club, where the president, Mrs.
Charles Todd, did the honors; and another at
the Town Hall, where Mrs. Bonython, in
beflounced pink and white, was hostess, and
the Mayor and Sir John Hewett had nice
things to say about the good work done for
the Order by Mr. A. A. Simpson. At the
Undelcarra party Mrs. Simpson received the
guests in biege georgette and lace, topped
by a jade-green hat, with a trail of jade-green
flowers on her frock.
The Governor saw the opening of the polo
season at Ivirkalla, where the club’s captain,
Frank Downer, was host at a large tea.
On the same day Lady Hore-Ruthven
opened the Adelaide Hospital’s new radio
installation. She went on to a fete organised
by the Women’s Hospital Auxiliary, which
has raised f 12,000 and made 100,000 articles
in the few years of its existence, and then to
another fete at Bishop’s Court in aid of the
Caravan Mission.
Mrs. Engelliart, who died a few days ago,
was one of the last survivors of that small
German colony which, mostly because of
political troubles at home, came to South
Aus. in the ’forties, and did so much for
agriculture in the Central State. She, of
course, was only an infant —one of the Yon
Riebens—when she arrived, and was S 4 at
her death. Her husband, who died many
years ago, was Dr. Engelhart, whose
specialty outside his profession was ento-
mology.
The Comorin’s passengers included Mar-
jorie Ball, a Bachelor of Music of Edinburgh,
who came to marry John Horner, the Con.
organist. The wedding was in the Lady
Chapel at St. Peter’s Cathedral, and the
bridal party was afterwards entertained by
Dr. and Mrs. Harold Davies.
Other passengers by _ the Comorin were
the Barr Smiths and their son and daughter,
Mrs. Arthur Lewis, Mrs. Archie Price, the
Tostevins, the H. H. Duttons’ elder son, and
Miss Rivaz. Mrs 1 . Arthur Lungley. who
stays for only a little while and then rejoins
Mr. Lungley in England, and the Misses
Lungley will be here by the time this is in
print.


The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
VICHY
HMD
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Give Your Kiddies
This Chance!
If they are pale-faced, thin-limbed, or poor
eaters, give them Kama Vita Ox Liver Desic-
cated Substance, and watch the color come to
their cheeks; see them develop into sturdy,
happy youngsters.'
'karnaVite
LIVER EXTRACT
helps them to grow on a foundation of health
and strength by driving out every trace of
anaemia. From all chemists at 8/.- per 4oz.
jar, or direct from us at 8/9 post free.
Anaemia is dangerous. Don’t neglect it!
Write to-day for free literature.
KARNA VITA COMPANY,
(Dept. B.),
226 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE NEW RECRIT.
By-ALYS BROWN.
Rl’ tarn.”
“Lef’ tarn.”
Gay in print overall and flower-
decked hair, Evea, the young wife of Ser-
geant Siwaga, sat with her back propped
against the verandah post of the sergeant’s
quarters, staring with dreamy, unseeing eyes
across the sun-drenched parade ground,
where her stalwart husband was drilling a
batch of sweating recruits in the brazen,
blistering heat.
Her hot brown fingers idly fondled the
golden-brown furry bundle curled in her lap,
an orphan cuscus; whilst snuggled in the
crown of her fuzzy mop, half-hidden by a
scarlet poinciana blossom, was a tiny flying
squirrel, ,liis sleek mousey coat shewing like
a knot of fawn velvet amongst the crinkly,
ebon strands of her hair.
As the dull thud of rifle butts on the
hard-baked -ground and rising puffs of drab
dust told of “stand at ease,” she roused her-
self, the far-away look slowly vanishing; a
long-drawn, tremulous sigh escaping from
her full, red lips, to be checked abruptly as
a woman’s harsh voice greeted, “Is it thou,
Evea?”
Evea sat erect with a jerk, awakening
the sleeping squirrel, who chattered his
anger and peered from his bushy nest, a
fiery-eyed little gnome, spitting puny wrath
at the disturber of his peace'.
“Thou, Henau!” the girl exclaimed, hug-
ging the little cuscus close, with a startled
gesture; both dislike and dismay flashing
across her face. “What dost thou here, so
far from Marua?”
The old woman, a gaunt, lean hag, with
bleared, bloodshot eyes and torn, ragged ear
lobes —a time-worn mockery of womanhood
—narrowly eyed the furry pets, a malicious
grin splitting her nutcracker jaws. “Is that
a babe I see, Evea?” she questioned dryly.
Rich color flooded the girl’s dusky face
as she tenderly set the cuscus in a woven
pandanus-leaf basket and gently disengaged
the chattering squirrel from her hair, sooth-
ing his shrill treble displeasure with soft
crooning.
Henau, gnarled hands on bare, bony hips,
tossed straggling, grizzled witch-locks from
her deeply wrinkled forehead. “How many
moons have been born and died since the
sergeant took thee for his Government wife?”
she asked. “Dost thou chew i’i, desiring no
child, or doth thy husband not beat thee
enough?”
As Evea remained silent under her taunts
she went on harshly: “I will tell thee, girl!
Thou hast offended Kovave, the Lord of Life
and Death. When thou slighted Gimori of
Marua, servant to Kovave, and married thy
sergeant, what luck could come of it?”
Evea shivered. A transitory spasm, a grey
shadow of fear, shot over her sensitive brown
face, but quickly recovering she tossed her
head with a saucy gesture. “Kovave cannot
harm Government folk,” she said impudently.
“Get back to Marua, bushwoman ! What is
it to thee if I be childless?” and she flounced
into the hut.
Henau, stepping to the threshold after her,
looked in; her bleary eyes glinting greedily
as she watched Evea begin to set food on
a mat. Smacking her thin, betel-smeared
lips loudly, she grumbled: “What’s this? No
wonder tliou art as fat as thy father’s pig.
Rice, biscuits and bulamakau! What good
food the Government provides! ’Tis plain
why men prefer to serve such a master
rather than Kovave. They tell me since thou
art the sergeant’s wife thou dost naught all
day but eat and sleep. No sago to beat, no
garden to dig, no firewood to cut and carry!
Meat and fish in a tin, rice ready for the pot!
Ha. Evea ! Truly life goes easily with thee.”
Evea went on silently with her preparations
for the meal, taking no further notice of her.
“This is a poor welcome for an old neigh-
bor,” snivelled the hag at last. “At thy
father’s hut there was ever a stick of sago
for the visitor; but new food makes new
manners, I suppose.”
The girl reluctantly cut a slab of stodgy
rice from a steaming billycan on the hearth
and, slapping it on a broad green blade of
plantain leaf; gave it into the outstretched
claws. “A bit of bulamakau as a relish,”
whined Henau. “Ha, Evea, surely thou
art favored of the Spirits!”
“Thou hast just said I am out of luck,”
snapped Evea, as she spooned out boiled
beef from a newly-opened tin and dabbed a
chunk on the rice.
“An old woman’s foolish babble. I talk at
random in my old age. Truly thou hast -good
food, a fine house and a rich husband —what
more can woman want? A shred of suku
from thy store for an old friend,” she
wheedled. “Ah!” her pinched mouth slavered,
“suku! The solace of the aged!” tucking
away the stick of tobacco the girl sullenly
offered in the dirty wisp of grass which
girdled her waist and hung tail-wise in
front of her. “Yea, favored! But one
thing still lacking!” she cackled. “Always
one thing more to make life full.”
She cocked her grey head aside, her deep-
set, red-rimmed eyes fixed on the girl. “In
tliine eyes I see a hunger that neither rice
nor bulamakau can appeasd A babe, Evea!
Only that can still the craving. What wilt
thou give for that secret —the secret only we
old ones know?”
Evea glanced at her uneasily from under
her long, dark lashes; her tender mouth
quivering and her slumbrous eyes alight with
a misty, yearning eagerness.
Henau laughed cunningly, chuckling and
gurgling, laying a skinny finger against her
warty nose. “At a price, Evea! Only at
a price; nothing for 'nothing! Thou art
rich now, and for one pound-note I will
make thee a potion—strong as Kovave him-
self. Only one little pound-note; doubtless
thy box holds many such.”
Her covetous eyes busily roving the hut
fixed on a brass-bound camphorwood box and
glinted with cupidity as she saw Evea’s hand
slip inside her smock, slowly bringing out
a bright key strung on a chain round her
neck and flick it to and fro irresolutely.
From the parade ground the sergeant’s
stentorian voice came echoing into the hut.
He was dismissing the parade; soon he would
be coming to his food.
"They sat in the glancing red firelight like a flock of vultures gloating over the
coming death.”
“Bring me the potion,” said Evea hur-
riedly, a little catch in her voice, and,
unlocking the box, brought out a crumpled
pound-note, “and let it be a son,” she
breathed.
“A wisp of thy man’s hair, my pigeon; a
scraping from his heel; a little spittle from
his lips to strengthen the potion and a son
it shall be,” whispered the old woman, and
hurriedly departed with her treasures, mumb-
ling and chuckling as the sergeant—big and
brawny—strode under the barren mango-tree
to his hut.
Two days later Henau squatted beside old
Gimori at Marua village, banishing his three
indignant wives from the hut with an im-
perious wave of her skinny hand.
Taking the hau-bau from him, she luxuri-
ously inhaled the pungent fumes of strong
tobacco, the while he looked inquiringly at
her. ~
“The girl desires a child,” she said,, nod-
ding her head in triumph and blowing a
wreath of smoke from her nostrils. “Now
thou canst have revenge that she refused
thee. Make the drink of Death, the sloW
death that gnaws the vitals, and the poor
fool will give it to the sergeant for a love
She cackled and coughed, shaking with
ghoulish exultation. “The proud hussy dis-
dained both thee and my sister’s son, but
she will be ready enough to wed any man
when she becomes a widow. I have done
thy bidding, so give me my pay. Ah, one
armshell is a small price to pay for such
sweet revenge/. What other savor is so
good in an old mouth?”
Her rheumy' eyes filled and reddened, her
bony fingers clutched anxiously at Gimori. s
shrivelled, crooked arm. “A good tout this
time, without crack or flaw,” she croahed. .
Gimori reached for the bau-bau. “It is
thine,” he wheezed. “But first the hair tnat
I may add it to the brew.”
From her tattered bark bag the crone
took a small bunch of hair-combings, and,
unwrapping a leaf, showed a shreddy mass
of chewed sugar-cane and a wafer of yellow
clay. “Hair from his head ; cane from his
mouth; earth from his feet! What better
aid for thy magic, and for such small pay
too!”'
Gimori rose painfully to his feet, his ( de-
formed joints cracking and creaking. “To-
night is the dark o’ the moon —the very
hour to brew the drink. I will get thy pay
and send forth the word.”.
As the sun climbed to its zenith, making
the river a stream of boiling gold—a breath-
less, shadowdess inferno —-a one-man canoe
swiftly traversed its torrid waters. From
village to village it went; a whispered word,
the message of Gimori—the call of Kovave
—and the sweat-streaked paddler sped on.
By the time the sun had become a crim-
son memory in the west, a ruddy smear
fading to sullen purple behind banks of
darkling storm-clouds, that call was an-
swered.
When the gloaming fell the women, of
Marua cried hurriedly to their children, and
with their men retreated to hut fires, drop-
ping door-curtains on the outside world, for
dark, shrunken figures were seen to steal,
ghostlike and silent, from canoes at the land-
ing-place, through the shadowy palms to
the men’s meeting-place.
The stars hid their twinkling lights, and
as a soft, drizzling rain began to fall black
night settled down —a smothering wet pall
of heat. Thunder was rolling in the dis-
tant mountains; light pulses of. lightning
throbbed and stabbed the sky, flicking the
wet bosom of the world with vivid tongues
of light. The first harbinger of the voices
of the night, the harsh stridulation of the
giant grasshopper, broke the stillness of
the jungle, to be answered ] by the croaking,
gurgling chorus of the myriad frogs in the
swamp, the liquid glug-glugging of the night-
jar, the drumming of a distaut cassowary,
the hiss of the black scrub magani; peaceful
nightly sounds, soothing and sleep-compel-
ling, until, stealing over all, came a low
moaning roar.
Then mothers clasped their babes to pro-
tecting bosoms ; children clung close in scared
bewilderment; men cowered over the nres,
skins prickling, cold and shivering in spite
of the oppressive heat, as the dread call of
Kovave, Lord of the Spirits, Giver of Life
and Death, wailed and moaned through the
thick air from the innermost recess of his
temple—the sacred room of the dubu.
In that “holy of holies” a small fire burned
brightly, showing huge painted masks hang-
ing from the high thatched walls; fearsome
grinning faces shrouded in elfin locks .of
colored grass; alligators’ jaws; cruel, gaping
mouths filled with ferocious sharks’ teeth;
monstrous noses pierced with bristling, curv-
ing tusks; white-circled eyes of painted red
lust and blood-liunger; masks, strangely
human, yet with inhuman cruelty porttayed
in their grim visages, waking now to a sem-
blance of life as the flickering rays of fire-
light danced and quivered over them, half-
revealing, lialf-dispelling the gloom.
Round those leaping, dancing flames were
gathered the band of sorcerers—the servants
of Kovave —called to an unholy tryst by
Gimori of Mania.
Beneath those giant masks the shrunken,
withered bodies of the sorcerers looked puny
and feeble, mere bags of skin and bone; yet
all were quick with evil desire; furrowed
cases keen with wicked lust; skull-like heads
brimming with cunning brains, ever ripe
for mischief.
There were snake-men, alligator-men,
shark-men; the men of the Morning Star,
men of the East, the Sky, the Fire and the
Jungle; all endowed with a profound know-
ledge of enchantments; able to invoke ghosts
and devils from the unfathomed deeps and
brew the drinks of madness and death : a
loathsome band of suborners, blackmailers
and prisoners sworn to the cult of Kovave.
With sorcerer’s bag and pointing-bone
they squatted round the fire, dull eyes kind-
ling with the excitement of the coming rites,
sluggish blood stirring, feeble hearts pound-
ing under the stimulus of a forbidden orgy,
shuddering pleasurably at the knowledge
that some strong man was to be doomed to
die. ,
They sat in the glancing red firelight like
a flock of vultures gloating over the coming
death; listening to the weeping moan of the
tiparu, rising and falling, calling on the
Spirit of Kovave to attend their rites; mut-
tering spells; gibbering incantations, whilst
an earthen pot set on a tripod of stones over
the fire —a fire fed with twigs of the magic
laili wood —began to seethe and bubble.
As the first faint spiral of steam arose,
exhaling a pungent aroma, the bull-roarer
suddenly ceased; a pregnant wave of silence
made itself felt; then a voice splintered that
silence with a sibilant hiss, “Kovave is with
us. Name the name!”
“Name the name!” ran hoarsely round the
squatting circle and echoing, floated from
the masked walls, where painted lips seemed
to hiss, “Name the name!” until the words
died away to whispering sighs in the gloomy
arches of the high-canopied roof.
All eyes were fixed on the seething pot
and its rising, misty vapor.
When the last faint echo had faded to no-
thingness, from the shadowy corner, where
Gimori crouched like some evil, misshapen
toad, came the wheezy reply, “Listen, oh
Spirit of Kovave! I name the name—Ser-
geant Siwaga!”
There was a brief silence which the crack-
ling of the laili twigs in the fire lashed like
the cracks of a whip, and the spit and seethe
of the pot broke with the hiss of a nest of
serpents.
Gimori peered round with baleful eyes,
dark, turbulent pools of evil, watching his
neighbors.
“ ’Tis ill to meddle with Government
men,” rasped a harsh voice.
Gimori sneered. “Fear not, Genami .of
Kupiri! His wife will give him the potion
secretly. On her be the blame.”
“His wife was thy bride-to-be, Gimori;
but what is that to Kovave?” a thin voice
piped.
“The sergeant hath ever been a thorn, in
the flesh of the servants of Kovave, spying
out sorcery for the white man,” snarled
Gimori.
Murmurs of assent rippling round the
circle, Gimori rose to liis feet, and resting
one crippled, bony hand on his crooked knee,
tossed into the pot the bunch of hair, th r
wad of chewed cane and the wafer of clay
“May his hair fall out; his skin shrivel;
his hones crumble and turn to earth!” he
cursed.
His next neighbor took from his pouch, a
tiny, mummied finger, the little nail on its
tip shining in the firelight, as he cast it
into the pot, crying, “May his strength be-
come as a babe’s.”
Each wizard added his deadly quota with
a curse: the poison from an a-dder’s fang;
the skin of a toad ; the venom of a scorpion;
root of sueafusi; dried leaves of beai.
(Continued on page Jfi.)


v .«*» —
m
«r=H
feS
K
WShMI
BY APPOINTMENT
.f 3§viß& ar&'^sL?'
■m
V
S'"
\vf
-
:<
, i
f fi
3e
WB
M -
■ ■ ,
sri^rtsiiifi
Presents that
are appreciated
ym©TON
n
£
“Elkington” Plate is the world’s
best quality and has given com-
plete satisfaction wherever used
—there are numerous instances
where “Elkington” Plate has
been in constant use for 50 years
and still almost as good as the
day it was made.
By selecting “Elkington” Plate
for a gift or for home use you
are acting wisely—“Elkington”
Plate is the choice of connoisseurs
the world over.
ẁ
ẃ
Pit
Ltd.
MACLELLAN&fe
ẅ


Greetings.
IV/IR AND MRS. MILES and family send
hearty greetings to all the boys and
friends they met here during the Great
Doings. Happy days and love to everybody.
34 Great Queen Street, London, W.C.2.
Tenders.
Palmer River Gold Company N.L.
’“TENDERS will be received up to 1.2
* noon on Saturday, 22nd December, 1928,
for the conveyance and transportation of
about 300 tons (more or less) of dredging
machinery and plant from Laura Railway
Station to the above Company’s site of
operations at Strathieven, distance 80 miles.
Tenderers to contract to convey a stated
number of tons per fortnight, weather per-
mitting; the date they are prepared to start
carting; price per ton; agree to deposit it
where instructed.
The Company will provide lifting gear,
also one man at each end to assist loading
and unloading.
The lowest or any Tender not necessarily
accepted.
ARTHUR H. CLARKE,
P.O. Box 92, Cairns.
When Depressed
and “Out of Sorts”
Wljen you feel so depressed and irritated
you could smash something—just try a couple
of tablets of Cream of Yeast. These will
give you back your good spirits in surprisingly
quick time; they’re good for headaches,
sleeplessness, “tired feeling,” sour stomach
and skin troubles, too. Just get a package
of Cream of Yeast from the nearest chemist
—the cost is trifling, and the cheery smile
that will soon light up your mirror will show
the benefit you’ve gained.
Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled “Seeing England by Car” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved —en-
abling you to have your own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it.
Write for free copy of
this brochure to-day
HENLYI
England’s Leading
Motor Agents,
Devonshire House,
Piccadilly, W. I,
and 9 other Branches s
l in London and [
A Manchester. J
vW
Si
S
A. Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” -will be
sent free on application from the offices of this
paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
H-LPMANN 8. COS
HAVANA. CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:—
Hall Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
£
a-amar&s l™
352 CEORCE S T SYDNEY
♦ AND BRANCHES ♦
://
the short eutjo Europe
When the Homeland calls —when the wanderlust is felt
there’s a searching for travel information. Then does the
wise tourist show good judgment by sending for the beauti-
fully illustrated booklets of the famous Canadian Pacific
Railway.
By means of easily read maps and fascinating photos., the
wonder trip to England is planned with anticipated joy.
From Sydney to Vancouver on a sumptuous steamer, the "Aorangi”
or "Niagara” . . . into the comfortable luxury of a Canadian
Pacific Railway train . . . steadily carried to the giant barrier of
the incomparable Rocky Mountains. Through this wonderland of
magnificent mountain scenery you journey to the far-flung prairies
... to the historical atmosphere of old Quebec ... to the super
cabin Canadian Pacific Steamship awaiting to transport you to
England. And all in 31 days!
For the free attractive booklets, write to J. Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia and
New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Railway Company, Union House, 247 George St., Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
Business Connections Wanted
BRITISH house desires to get into connection with Australian
Merchants interested in
Anthracite Coal, Edible and Vegetable Tallow,
Hides, Skins, Furs, Horse Hair, Walnuts, Pea-
nuts, Gall Nuts, Almonds, Raw Cotton, Wool,
Brassware, Curios, Lamp Shades, Carpets, Rugs,
and for all other products of North China.
Send Replies to
THE INTERNATIONAL TRADING CO.lNorth China)
96 RUE DE TAKOU, TIENTSIN.
•Ask Your. Jewel ter
M''tor'"£*'• '
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WATCHES
Stop Dandruff
Grow New Hair
|
t Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40,
yet very few need be. The hair roots can
be stimulated to new life very quickly by a
new scalp-invigorating preparation known
as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the growth and
color cells much as rain acts on a parched
plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die),
“Vi-Glo” will show remarkable results, grow-
ing new, youthful hair and restoring color
to fading' hair*. Ask your chemist for
a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or send
3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla
Btiildings, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
"THE AGE”
Established 1854.
VICTORIA’S LEADING MORNING DAILY
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
Is the Great Creating
Force in Business.
For all advertising campaigns designed to
cover Victoria include “The Age.” It enters
the homes and offices of
123,533
Subscribers Daily
and publishes over
1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
“The Age” is the BUSINESS BUILDER that
discriminative advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
X
You cam Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect 3
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONXEER STREET. SYDNEY.
lhUa&
fcxMippvi!
When friends drop in for a
game of cards, or some music,
give them sandwiches made
with delicious Anchovette.
There’s nothing like it for a
dainty and appetising supper.
Get a jar from your grocer to-
day.
Try also Peck’s Salmon and
Shrimp Paste, or the new line,
Kippavette.
Peck’s
The
deliciotis
Fish Paste


For the Garage
“PRIMA”
PAINT
SPRAYER
Bp
X
CELLULOSE
PAINT
OUTFIT.
For the Car-owner and Home.
PRIMA CO., LTD., Birmingham
Details from Factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
as
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING."
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
w
GIFT TIME IS HERE
T
fytate % a
suHm
There is a Model for
Everyone You Know
The happiest solution of
the gift problem this year
is to send everyone a
“Swan” pen.
You cannot choose a gift
which will more surely
give such lasting pleasure
and satisfaction.
Its many fine qualities re-
flect your good judgment,
and pay a delicate com'
pliment to the recipient.
Self-Filling “Swans”
from 17/6 (Black or Mottled)
Also in Artistic Colours from 22/6
(Other “Swans” from 12/6)
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue ‘Post Free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.i.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD..
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
<&waN
pen
Ask to see the New Coloured “Swans. 9 *
The pot bubbled and the air became redo-
lent with an aromatic stench which hung
heavy and sickening as the steam came in
wispy clouds.
Heads craned forward, white-haired and
grizzled, shaven heads and bald; greedy
noses sniffed up the pungent vapor.
“The pot boils!” screamed Gimori, and
as the pot spat forth bubbles, which burst
and sputtered as the flames licked round it,
the circle took up the cry, “Sons of Kovave,
the pot boils! Now his belly cramps and
twists ! Now he writhes ! His death-sweat
gathers! His blood grows cold and clots!
The pot boils ! Hearken to his death-rattle !
Kovave, Lord of Death, hear thy servants!
Death in the pot! Death !”
The crackling twigs burned low; red
embers faded to white ash, and the bubbling
ceased, though the steam still rose, wafting
its odor of death.
A low moan broke forth. “His spirit de-
parts! Kovave hath claimed him! Ah-a-a-a!”
The sorcerers sat with hypnotic stare
fixed upon the pot until the last red eye of
fire closed; then, with a shivering groan,
one rose and, lighting a palm-leaf torch, took
a length of bamboo, carefully decanted into
it the syrupy liquid from the pot, and cork-
ing it with nipa pith handed it to Gimori,
saying solemnly, “May he die the Writhing
Death !”
“The Writhing Death he. will die,” rolled
the answer.
Then, death-dealing wizards no longer, the
vital flame that had blazed within them dying
to quiescence, the pinched, weary-eyed old
men with cramped limbs and chilled, shiver-
ing skins stumbled drearily to their sleeping-
mats.
Gimori limped away, out into the rain and
darkness of the village street, triumphantly
bearing off the poisoned potion.
In his hut a lazy fire drowsed on the clay
hearth of his first wife’s sleeping-place, and
for a while he crouched over it, drying and
warming his dripping body, absorbing the
grateful heat. He nursed the bamboo node
between his knobbly knees, mumbling to him-
self, gloating in anticipation, savoring the
joys of his coming vengeance.
“The love philtre of Kovave!” he chuckled
aloud. “A drop in his morning sago, a drip
in his evening’s rice—a lusty babe for Evea’s
bosom!” Ilis cracked, derisive laughter
broke the stillness, and, startled at the sound
of his own. mirth, lie glanced furtively
around, but, reassured by the sounds of
steady breathing from his sleeping wives, re-
newed his communing in a lower tone.
All unaware that keen ears were listening
and bright, beady eyes watching him through
the kip a partition, at last, with a stealthy
glance at his first wife’s sleeping form lying
prone on her mat in the corner, he secreted
the bamboo in the thatch and resumed his
seat at the fire.
His nodding head gradually sank between
his knees, and with long-drawn whistling
breaths he dropped into the easy slumber of
age as, without rustle or creak, a long, lean
arm stretched out .from the next sleeping-
compartment and a brown hand gently with-
drew the bamboo from under the dry leaves
ot its hiding-place.
“So this is the secret between Ilenau and
Gimori —a love potion for that proud wife
of the sergeant’s who can afford to pay a
heavy price for it! Well, other women need
that famous love philtre—that magic cure
for barrenness,” thought Paru, Gimori’s
youngest wife, hungering for denied mother-
hood. She carefully removed the nipa
stopper and poured the precious fluid into the
earthen pot where her lord and master's
breakfast sago was soaking.
“A drop in his morning sago, a drip in
his evening rice—all very well lor youth, but
old men like Gimori need stronger measures,”
she decided: so into the pot went the full
dose ; then, refilling the bamboo from a gourd
of water, Paru replaced it softly in the
thatch and lay down to await the coming of
the dawn.
Sweet with the juice of sugar-cane, thick
and white with the luscious cream of cocoa-
nut milk, richly flavored with sliced banana
and shreds of malio, the mess of sago that
his youngest wife set before him in the
morning delighted Gimori’s eye and tickled
his old palate; but as he gobbled and slob-
bered down the last morsel, scraping the bot-
tom of the pot with his 7cew>a-shell spoon, he
snarled, “Thou hast burnt the pot again,
Paru!”
Paru took no heed of his grumbles, and,
as Ilenau appeared at the door, discreetly
left the hut.
She smiled broadly as she saw the old
dame come out again, her bark bag bulging
with the bamboo, enter her canoe and paddle
leisurely up-river.
Not until the evening of the next day did
the old woman land on the bank below the
sergeant s house. A rest at the taro gar-
dens, a meal cadged here, a mouthful of
betel-nut there, a smoke and gleanings of
river gossip culled from the garden folk had
made it a pleasant journey.
The thought of that pottle of death, snug
in her bag with her lime gourd and betel-
nut, held an ever-recurring thrill. There
were still odd pleasures left for one’s old
age, if one had brains, and with luck another
pound-note might be added to her little
hoard!
As she moored her craft and stepped
ashore into the heavy shadow of the man-
groves, a strong hand gripped her throat,
and she was borne down to the soft, wet
earth without a chance to scream, and swiftly
tied hand and foot despite her futile struggles.
“Not a word, woman, or I choke thee,”
a savage voice whispered; and as strong
arms picked her up and set her with her
back against a tree-trunk, a shudder of fear
ran through her as she recognised Sergeant
Siwaga.
Henau had dallied overlong on her journey,
for Genami of Kupiri was a cautious man.
Old as he was, he loved life, and had no mind
to end it dangling in the air at the end of a
rope. By swift canoe and a portage across
the big bend he had slipped ahead, and with
a whispered word of warning had earned a
full month’s supply of tobacco.
Henau looked up into her captor’s face.
In the gloom of the mangroves his fierce eyes
showed relentless purpose as he explored her
bag and took out the bamboo.
“Sergeant,” she pleaded in a whisper, “you
would not kill an old woman? By Kovave I
swear it is but a love potion for thy wife's
sake.”
The sergeant laughed mockingly. “If that
be so, there is no harm in drinking it thy-
self. If the potion be strong, it may bring
youth back to thee, old bag; so drink and be
thankful for the chance.”
Uncorking the bamboo phial, lie held it to
her mouth. She wriggled and squirmed, but
with a strong hand he held her head back
and, pinching her nose, prised open her
mouth and poured in the fluid. She choked
and gasped, but remorselessly he held on,
until, eyes starting and lungs stifling, with
a sobbing gulp she swallowed. He released
her and flung her back into her canoe.
As she floated down the darkly-placid river,
grovelling in the bottom of the canoe, her
night was filled with terrors. The slapping
of the tiny wavelets became the clutching
of demon hands; the heavy beating of the
manuboi’s leathern wings was a flying witch
waiting to bear her to Banagam, the place
of the dead; the rustling leaves were a
myriad phantom voices jeering at her plight;
and the harsh booming of the brown bittern
sounded in her ears like the rolling drums of
doom. Her belly was wrenched; she was a
prey to the fiery pains of her own wicked
imagination. So she drifted on towards
Mania, where Gimori lay in his hut, scream-
ing and twisting in the convulsive agony of
the Writhing Death; tasting to the full the
fruits of his own evil; awaiting the death
he had planned for the victim of his .vindic-
tive hatred.
Through the gossamer dusk and on to the
deeper gloom of night Evea sat in her quar-
ters waiting and listening anxiously to every
passing footfall. It was full time Henau
returned. Would she fail her? The old
woman was a notorious hoi-hoi, but would
she dare cheat the sergeant’s wife? Evea
thought not.
The soft charms of her baby cuscus and the
pretty, playful antics of the little squirrel
had ceased to attract her. Her mind was
too full of the delightful joy to come, when
the love philtre had done its work and she
held a babe of her own in her arms.
Waiting and listening, still confident that
the late evening would bring the old woman
and her magic draught, hope was dashed
by the abrupt entrance of her grimly-smiling
husband.
“Listen no longer for Henau,” he said,
meeting her startled glance with sardonic
amusement. “The old witch hath drunk the
brew herself, and if it be as strong as folks
say. it should be worth the price thou hast
paid. Nay, pretty one,” at her look of alarm,
“I am not angry with thee, but Government
folk should not traffic in black magic. I
think thou art over-well fed. So as I go
‘walk-about’ with the taubada for two—may-
be three —moons thou shalt go down to the
swamp and beat sago with the flails, until
this gets a little leaner,” and he pinched her
plump arm. “Neither rice nor bulamakau
shalt thou eat at the swamp; no tobacco nor
betel-nut; and as I am a jealous husband do
thou don the widow’s veil, lest another man
look upon thee. Mateless for two moons;
then maybe Kovave will grant thy desire.
Come, my sweet dove.”
Whether the sergeant’s course was effective
or not may be judged from the following
entry made by his taubada in the Station
Journal a year later: “This day enrolled a
n<-w recruit on the police roster. Name,
Tolicimani’—-infant son of Sergeant Siwaga
and Evea. his wife.”
Thanksgiving.
Dear God, with frail old hands
stretched out to Thee,
I thank Thee that I have my own roof-
tree
Above my head; that,'humble though
it be,
I am content that it should shelter me;
And so I set my ivindow-cascments
wide.
To let the siceet ivinds in this Christ-
mastide.
Though I am old, I have so much, dear
Lord,
For which I still can grateful be—a
hoard
Of golden memories whose joys afford
Me happiness; and round my simple
board
Is cheery laughter, for ’tis not the least
That dear ones share with me the
Christmas feast.
’Tis good to have a Shady garden seat;
To hear a cheery whistle down the
street;
To catch the scent of rain-washed
roses sweet;
VICTORIA.
And there are little, eager ones to greet
At Christ mastide, each happy, childish
face
Alight with joy to he at Granny’s
place.
The cherries hang in clusters, plump
and red,
Quite ripe enough to eat, the children
said;
And I can see a little, curly head
In search of plunder in the strawberry-
bed;
While ’neath a shady laden apple-tree
In homely chat my daughter sits with
me.
For just such little joys of every-day,
Made up of simple tasks and children’s
play,
Of starry fields and scent of new-mown
hay,
Accept my grateful thanks, dear Lord,
I pray;
A mother’s love-filled heart could but
feel blest
With homing children back within the
nest.
LUCY HILL.


HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Happy Richard—" making hay ”
In his addlepated way,
Like a rough good-natured bear
Wrecking every rug and chair—
Anne holds most embittered views
Ever gleaning gloves and shoes.
'±=/ V
ABDULLA
"
O+rr* . jTi
THE UNTIDY HUSBAND.
When she hisses—" What amessf'
(Men have murdered wives for less!)
Richard, with instinctive tact,
Does the sweet, forgiving act;
Though his den be tempest-tossed
No ABDULLA’S ever lost.
—F. R. Holmbs.
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA
m
fa
m
m
J
Illustrates complete Stove
folded up, like a suitcase.
PRICE:
Stove with high collaps-
ible stand .... 102/6
Stove without collaps-
ible stand 84/-
For Your Next Trip!
We’ve got just the stove you’ll want
for your next camping, touring, fishing or
hunting trip! It’s the Coleman—the Camp
Stove years ahead! Makes camp cooking a
real pleasure instead of a hard job.
Coleman (amp Stove
The “Coleman” has many new features that
will interest you.. Everything built-in—Hot-
Blast Generator that gives full cooking heat in
2 minutes; Swinging Fuel Tank; Built-in Pump,
Oven, Wind Baffles, and Warming Cabinet.
Cooks anything you want, any style. Fuel is
common motor gasoline. Folds up like a suit-
case. Come in and see it.
Lights and cooks in any wind. This Stove can be
lit anywhere—on a ship, on a pier, in a tent, in a
home, in a gale, in the rain. Full cooking heat
can be obtained in one minute. Coleman Camp
Stove bakes, roasts, fries, boils, toasts and grills.
Easy to set up, easy to start, easy to cook when-
ever you want and whatever you want.
THE COLEMAN STOVE IS COMPLETE IN ITSELF.
Quick Hot-Blast Starter —Full cooking heat in one minute—any time, any
place. Uses common motor gasoline as fuel.
Built-In Pump —Right in end of tank; no chance to get lost or damaged.
Tank Always Connected —Swings on swivel hinge—outside for cooking,
inside when stove is packed for carrying.
Built-In Wind Baffle and Warming Cabinet —Makes cooking easy in any
weather. Keeps the scones warm while you fry the eggs and boil the
coffee.
Built-In Oven and Drum Heater —Just the thing for baking or broiling.
Built-In Funnel —Combined with fuel intake and hand-operated filler plug.
“LIGHT, HEAT AND COOK THE COLEMAN WAY”
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE
CO. OF AUSTRALIA
185 William Street, Mel-
bourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Illustrating Stove with oven


H
Case'
re
0
Hungry as a Bear
and Can’t Elat!
A great many people get angry when you tell them they’ve got dyspepsia, but ’way down
deep in their stomachs they know they’ve got it. '‘l’d love to eat it, but I can’t,” is one
kind of dyspepsia. “I hate to think of it,” is another kind. There are thousands of people
to-day who hate their meals and love them 'at the same time. They haven’t that fine, empty,
hungry, eat-everything-in-sight kind of feeling which goes with every good, healthy stomach.
And then there are others whose mouths don’t water at mealtime, or at any other
time. They sit at the table and go through the motions only because it’s time to eat.
These people, too, are dyspeptics. Poor appetite, loss of strength, nervousness, headache,
offensive breath, heartburn, indigestion and dyspepsia are among the results of a disordered
stomach.
Every possible kind of stomach-trouble can be remedied by taking Something which
digests what you eat and will just take right hold of all the food in your stomach and
digest it alone, without the help of the stomach, and let the stomach take a rest. UR.
SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES do this very thing. They are composed of the best
digestives known to science, and are absolutely safe. They do exactly the work that a good,
strong, healthy stomach does. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules relieve all cases of dyspepsia,
indigestion, burning or irritation, loss of appetite, bloat, brash, belching, aversion to food,
fermentation and gas in the stomach. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules will make you feel
“good” before and after each meal, and make your stomach strong and healthy again.
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive
Tabules
Small Size, 1/9;
Large Size, 2/9.
p O'flS
n
9
SR
<59
ear
♦•• iii
fO 1
/IP®
Di&i^
Co
sy
cHELO
j^s:
Chocolates this
we
I Christmas
iw- ,$
m
THREE POUNDS
NET WEIGHT
HI6H XR/J&EL
£XNFE£TIANERY
Sm^WJlk
s'j'%
'V '•••»>.
V NS
♦sffiH
is®
ft
w/p*&
m
&
vf
tv,
B>S
fw»:
fe
*>-■
e$
but be sure they’re
Hilliers
Ask to see Hillier s fine
range of Beautiful Fancy
Boxes, Baskets
and Caskets up to £5/5/-
E\*uz6t
762-166 PITT STREET.
\\ y
\s°
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/- and 37/6.
shawl of bright scarlet. A plaid rug rose
in woolly billows above her waist, and a
cap of some dark, veil-like material covered
her wisp of white hair. Immersed thus,
with her tiny beak-like face and rounded
posture, Grandma Beaument held an extra-
ordinary resemblance to a robin redbreast
brooding in its nest.
To this rather disturbing survival of the
years came Jasper presently, his hands
clutching nervously at his hat.
Lois said shrilly in Grandma Beaument’s
ear: “Grandma, here’s Jasper come to see
you. You remember Jasper?”
Grandma Beaument was understood to
ask who was Jasper. Her voice, although a
little indistinct as to meaning, was sur-
prisingly sharp sounding.
“Jasper Leith,” Lois explained. “Mr.
Martin’s nephew at Musk Ridge.”
“Ah,” the old lady said.
Jasper, taking the muffled exclamation
for a respite, looked about him. In the
group fresh from paying homage to Grand-
ma Beaument were Joe and Mrs. Joe, Mrs.
Hume, and the wife of the storekeeper,
Mrs. Borthwick. Miss Sprott was there
also. She was talking to Albert Beaument.
Jasper found time to wonder at the ani-
mation that was in the faces of both. Some-
thing rapt and girlish in the expression of
his teacher almost succeeded in making
her pretty. Albert, too, was somehow not
the Albert of everyday experience. His
brown, good-natured eyes were strangely
avoiding Miss Sprott. He appeared miser-
able and happy by turns.
A voice, acidulous and penetrating, tinged
with an ancient malice, reclaimed the boy’s
wandering attention. Grandma Beaument
was thrusting at him with a finger that was
as lean and hooked as a lizard’s tongue.
“They tell me Hector Martin drinks like
a fish,” said this terrible old lady. Her
jaws seemed to gibe at him. “He’s for-
gotten how to farm, eh?”
Jasper was dumb; crimson to the roots
of his hair. Lois cried in her grandmother’s
ear: “Grandmother! Please!”
But Grandma Beaument was not to be dis-
suaded. She asked, peering into Jasper’s
face: “Well, if it was your farm, what would
you do?”
Jasper said: “I wouldn’t milk for the fac-
tory, anyhow. I’d only milk for the house.”
“Wouldn’t what?”
“I wouldn’t milk cows,” Jasper shouted.
He was despairingly conscious of having
attracted the general attention. “I’d grow
spuds, that’s what I’d do. I’d grow spuds!”
“Would you?” said Grandma Beaument
abruptly. Her shawl ruffled itself like
feathers. “You’re less of a fool then than
your uncle.”
Miss Sprott said gently: “Potatoes,
Jasper.”
“Well, potatoes,” said Jasper desperately.
He felt that, now he was committed, it
didn’t matter what anybody thought. They
could laugh at him if they liked. “I’d
grow potatoes, and I’d feed ’em to pigs.
There’s money in that.”
“What does he say?” Grandma Beaument
demanded.
Lois told her.
“I knew it,” the old lady declared.
“Money. You’ll be a fine lad for the money,
Jasper. It’s in your voice. Potatoes and
pigs and money, eh ? Take him away, Lois.”
Lois said: “Oh Jasper, listen. Mr. Hume’s
brought his gramophone!”
Jasper wondered why her face was sud-
denly pale and her voice sounded hushed.
Mrs. Morton, following the direction of
Jasper’s gaze, said in reply to his un-
spoken thought: “She was always like that,
Jasper. Music seems to make the child
ill.”
Jasper told himself that this was silly.
How could music make you ill? It could
make you lively; make you want to sing,
perhaps, or try to dance. But it couldn’t
make you ill, as if it was something you
had eaten that disagreed with you.
The housekeeper, he thought, looked actu-
ally worried. She said to him: “Jasper, I
wish you’d persuade Lois to go out and
play. She might go with you.”
“I will if I can,” Jasper promised.
Most of the children were playing in
the paddock beyond. Lois had dragged him
into the marquee with the grown-ups nearly
an hour ago. She had sunk her small body
.into the slack of a canvas deck-chair,
sighing hugely as her limbs relaxed. She
seemed hardly to understand what Jasper
said to her; after a time he had left her
and talked with Ronald Braid, who had
taken charge of the gramophone. Ronald,
in the intervals of changing records, told
him a great deal that was interesting about
school life; about what they were expected
to do in class, and the sports that were
entered into. And then of his ambition
to attend the Art Class at the National
Museum. His enthusiasm brought a certain
stiltedness into his voice. He sounded to
Jasper as though he had suddenly doubled
his years, as though he were not a school-
boy at all. but some grave, discerning senior
who saw ahead of him both the pleasure and
the pain of some one thing which he could
only dimly perceive, but which he knew to
be both the goad and the goal of existence.
It might, in some respects, have been Mr
Hume himself that was talking: “Creative
fprt. To give life and form to what you
think, Jasper. If only it wasn’t so awfullv
hard, even to get a start at it.”
Jasper said frankly: “I don’t understand
what you mean.
“I don’t myself—not quite,” Ronald said
with his quick, disarming smile.
“I’m not clever at school,” said Jasper.
“And I hate sums.”
He didn't in the least know why he should
have made this confession.
“We’ve all got some one thing we want
to do,” Ronald said hastily.
In return Jasper told him of the work at
Musk Ridge. “You’d hate it, Ronald.”
“I’d like to come out and see you. May
I?” Ronald asked.
Jasper flushed with pleasure. “I can show
you a hollow tree with a whole family of
native bears. Nobody else knows of them.”
Mrs. Morton. had caught his eye then,
and beckoned, and he had left Ronald and
gone to see what she wanted of him. On
the way he had stood aside to let old Amos
Beaument pass. Lois’s father had made no
concessions to the occasion. It was his
boast that he had not worn a stiff collar
for twenty years. He was dressed now in
his ordinary week-end suit of ready-to.-wear
brown tweed, with a striped galatea shirt,
open at the throat, and thick, serviceable
boots. He was without either waistcoat
or tie; with a leather belt about the waist
of his trousers.
Had Jasper been asked to describe Lois’s
father, he would very likely have said
that the old man made him feel chilblainy;
meaning that he was chilled and irritated.
What little he knew of Amos Beaument he
distrusted. And these youthful perceptions
were not wholly unjustified, for all Guruwa
stood askance at the unnatural dislike of
Amos for his only son. There was appa-
rently no explanation of matters except
upon the assumption that Amos had allowed
his mind to become warped by the brand
of obstinacy which withholds for no other
reason than that it is expected to give. Amos
feared that his son would oust him, were
he allowed to lay even a finger of owner-
ship upon the reins of Grasslands. The un-
just thought had grown fat from feeding
upon itself.
Older, shrewder eyes than Jasper’s might
have traced this wormwood ravaging in
Amos Beaument’s face. The features were
pinched into an expression of perpetual
craftiness. The nose was thin, the brow
narrow. The sloping cheeks grew a stubble
of grey-shot beard that was rusted with
nicotine along the thin, dour line of the
mouth. Brows that bristled enormously,
like tufts of dry fern; eyes coldly question-
ing beneath their yellow, wrinkled lids; ears
flattened against an almost hairless skull.
His voice was high and querulous, and he
was a little hard of hearing. He walked
slowly, with body crabbed, and heavy, sus-
picious feet. Others than Jasper had
puzzled to find in the father of Lois so
complete a denial of both the inward and
outward comeliness that was hers. The
antithesis notwithstanding, one found it im-
possible to deny the bond of affection be-
tween Amos and his daughter. Lois was the
blood and bones of his thought. She gave
in return a love full of innocent unquestion-
ing.
. Jasper was conscious only of the old man’s
inimical intrusion into the pleasant atmo-
sphere of the party. He was childishly
resentful when Amos halted, and asked in
his creaking tones: “Enjoying yourself, eh?”
“Yes, Mr. Beaument.”
“Always, when you can,” Amos crackled,
moving on, “enjoy yourself upon other
people’s money.”
The gramophone was sounding a festival
of haunting harmonies. The effect upon
Jasper was a curious tightening at his
temples and a sort of sickish taste in his
mind. He thought it rather like the effect
of an overdose of sweetstuffs. Upon the
whole, being uncritical, he liked best the
syncopated craziness of the foxtrot which
had preceded this. He preferred that his feet
should be moved, rather than his mind.
Whereas Lois, it appeared, let her small self
drown in her emotions.
Jasper, a little impatiently, looked down
into a face wrung dry of color, with eyes
wherein the black pupils seemed to have
overrun themselves, like ink, and a mouth
trembling.
“Lois,” he said, “they want us to play
outside. Come on.”
“What is it, Jasper?”
“What’s what?”
“That—that music Ronald was playing.”
“Oh, that!” Jasper said. But he did not
say what he thought of it. After all, it
was Lois’s party. He added, a trifle alarmed
by the queer expression with which she
regarded him: “If I find out, will you come
out and play?”
“Yes,” Lois promised weakly.
He returned presently.
“Ronald says it’s Liszt’s Lieberstraum. I
think that was it.”
“What does it meanV’
Mrs. Hume, overhearing, called benignly:
“Lieberstraum is Love’s Dream. Plenty of
time for that yet, little lady.”
“I didn’t mean that meaning,” said Lois.
“The quaint, darling child,” said Mrs.
Hume, a little helplessly, to Mrs. Borth-
wick.
“It hurt me,” Lois explained simply.
“Come on, Lois,” Jasper said. “They
want us to play ‘Poor Mary.’ You pro-
mised.”
CHAPTER VIII.
Poor Mary Is A- Weeping.
Poor Mary is a-weeping, a-weeping, a-
weeping”....
Fiom his place in the human ring Jasper
gazed uneasily at Cora Harris, seated with
covered face at the centre of the circle
He was hotly uncomfortable lest she should
(Continued on next page.)


ss s5 *"
BY APPOINTMENT,
CtMfor
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded ior over
150. years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World ♦
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
I
r-9
amp
dry Gin
MSmiLIKY.
L©K]®@M.
/A
Ja
Obtainable
Everywhere
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
is the Largest and Most Attractive Christmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stones, Special
Articles etc. The usual weekly features are retained, making it A i Xir j-uari
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION. , . _
A. Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A PASTORAL SCENE,’ is
sented FREE with each copy. This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Obtainable from, any of the following JV.S.IV. Agents:—
Gordon and Gotch (Ausf.), Ltd. Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station ; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt btree ,
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
'‘Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the “Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.
choose himself. She always so frankly liked
boys, was so shamelessly prodigal of em-
braces. Jasper felt that she was already
eyeing his embarrassment through the thin
folds of her handkerchief.
“She’s weeping for her sweetheart”
He sang mechanically with the rest, with-
out enjoyment of the general laughter.
Even the spectacle of Mrs. Borthwick and
Joe and Mrs. Joe, with hands linked,
cumbersomely dancing with the juniors,
failed to dispel his premonition of disaster.
“Oh, pray stand up and choose one, and
choose 0ne” ....
Cora was standing now, flushed and mis-
chievous, her large blue eyes running
languorously over the list of her swains.
She was like some healthy young animal.
She came suddenly forward and dragged
Jasper from the circle.
Joe encouraged hoarsely: “Go on and
kiss her then, Jasper.”
The boy hated the whole business. Cora’s
face was smiling close against his own.
She was panting from her exertions.
Now she was kissing him greedily, with
abandon.
The circle alternated its singing with
bursts of merriment. This was one of the
games Guruwa simplicity thoroughly
approved.
“Now you’re married we wish you joy,
First a girl and then a boy”
He was free at last; standing scarlet be-
fore a huge, revolving grin. Joe, hairily en-
thusiastic, counselled loudly: “It’s you to
pick now, Jasper.”
They were back again at the commence-
ment, seeing no absurdity in labelling him
with a sex not his own.
“Poor Mary is a-weeping, a-weeping, a-
• weeping”....
Cora was staring at him from her new
ylace in the ring, waiting fulfilment of time-
honored precedent. Her eyes and mouth
invited. She was completely, lustily con-
fident that he must choose her as she had
chosen him.
Jasper rose slowly to his feet, his lips com-
pressed. He felt that he hated Cora; would
always hate her.
“Oh, pray stand up and choose 0ne ....
On this bright summer’s day” ....
Jasper caught Lois’s small wrist as she
danced opposite. She came laughingly,
protesting that he must take Cora.
“I sha’n’t,” Jasper told her, under cover
of the uproar of amusement.
He would not look in Cora’s direction.
He stood awkwardly, holding Lois by the
hand. But he made no attempt to kiss the
little uplifted, half-afraid face.
“Now you’re married we wish you joy,
First a girl and then a boy.”
He knew, somehow, that Cora was mut-
tering at him spitefully. His lips were
smarting, and he drew his hand over them
disgustedly. He felt that he couldn’t kiss
Lois after what Cora had somehow done to
him. Lois was like a brown fairy.
/
Trudging home through the frosting dusk,
behind the brown mare, he sighed con-
tentedly in retrospect. The glory of that
high tea—as Mrs. Morton termed it—still
crept seductively about his palate. This,
he thought, must be what was meant by
repletion.
The long, trestled tables had literally
groaned beneath the weight of unaccus-
tomed delicacies. There were great piles of
ham and corned-beef sandwiches; monu-
ments of hot, freshly buttered soda scones;
crockfuls of fruit and rock cakes; and little
cunning pyramids of home-made ice-cream.
The last were from the busy, kindly hands
of Mrs. Joe, fresh from the tiny freezing-
room at the factory. Ice-cream, Jasper had
overheard her declaring vigorously to Mrs.
Morton, was never out of season with young
stomachs, a dictum which Jasper had
heartily endorsed. And scattered about
within reach of everyone were saucers of
sweets and raisins and whatnot.
Jasper had sat between Mr. Hume and
Tod Harris. Tod’s behavior he had thought
to be even more piggish than usual. Tod
had secreted about his untidy person pretty
well as many things as he had eaten; and
that, Jasper decided now, had been equal
to about twice what he himself had, by
valiant striving, disposed of. Even Cora,
seated by Lois almost opposite to them, had
frowned and nodded at her brother’s sur-
reptitious greed. And Cora was greedy her-
self in some things. In kissing, for instance.
He frowned at the recollection, and
clucked at the brown mare. Girls were
silly, strange creatures. Even Lois was
queer when there was any music playing.
But she wasn’t always all hot and sticky
and and nasty... .somehow, like Cora
was. He was glad that he hadn’t cared
what she thought, what anyone thought.
Glad that he had chosen Lois when he was
“Poor Mary.” Lois never—Jasper groped
for the right word—never worried him.
She was shy and sweet and sensible.
The apple of sex ripens early to the
eyes of farm children.
Jasper’s thought returned comfortably to
Grasslands. Unconsciously his eyes nar-
rowed and his mouth became stern as there
passed in mental review all the little details
of comfort and enjoyment, so vastly re-
moved from life at Musk Ridge. Money, he
told himself, had done this. You had to
have money, somehow. Without money life
was, as he had so often heard it described
by his uncle Hector, like Hell. That was
to say, without money you had neither sub-
stance nor shadow; you were without in-
fluence for anything that mattered in the
eyes of your fellows; you merely existed.
This, too, was philosophy borrowed from his
uncle. Jasper recalled Hume’s reply that, j
so long as you held respect and a sense of j
humor, you weren’t altogether bankrupt of
opportunity, but. without approving it in *
the least. Nobody with a grain of sense, he j
was sure, would choose Musk Ridge in :
preference to Grasslands. If life offered a
Grasslands, or a better than Grasslands, j
you just had to go after it. That was j
where his uncle was to blame. He hadn’t
gone after the better things. He had sat
down and waited for them to come; and
when they didn’t come he had gone to
pieces with disappointment. He, Jasper,
meant to do anything—almost anything,
anyhow—rather than come to that.
The cows were waiting in the milking-
yard. His aunt seemed strangely glad to
greet his return, Jasper thought. Her face
was haggard, and she spoke in whispers.
“Aunt, you do look ill,” Jasper said, feel-
ing selfish.
Ann Martin said: “Jaspie, your uncle’s
home.”
His lip quivered as he stood watching her
drag her lameness into the house.
CHAPTER IX.
The Bush Takes Toll.
“It hasn’t been cut this end of the farm
since you were here last,” Jasper said in-
differently.
Ronald Braid was somehow depressed at
sight of the turgid brown sea of dried fern
in which they stood almost to the armpits.
Here and there broken stems thrust them-
selves like spears in ambush. The hot
air was full of the musty reek of decaying
fronds.
“Almost exactly a year ago to-day,
Jasper.”
“I know. I’ll be fourteen in a month
I’m leaving school then. Miss Sprott’s
wild.”
“What about?”
“Me leaving. She told uncle it was a
shame to take children from school as soon
as they reached the leaving age.”
“What about you?” Ronald asked.
“I don’t care much,” Jasper said. He
kicked viciously at the fern. “Except now
I’ll be put to cutting all day. We’ve got
to get more grass somehow.”
Ronald mopped his forehead with a spot-
less handkerchief.
“Have you? You mean for the cows.”
He tried to uproot a stem that was as
thick as his little finger, but suddenly de-
sisted with an exclamation. “Hang it, I’ve
run a splinter into my hand! I didn’t
know the stuff was so tough and woody.
Look here.”
“I’d get that out right away,” Jasper
advised, eyeing the tiny score in the soft,
white palm. “It’s rotten poisonous, that
fern splinter. I get them sometimes under
a nail, and they always fester. Aunt’ll
give you some hot water to wash your
hand.”
“What’s bracken good for at all?” Ronald
asked pettishly. His face had. gone a j
little white. He hated any kind of pain. ]
“Filthy weed!”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Jasper grinned. “It
makes fine bedding for stock. And you can
eat the young shoots; they taste almost as
good as spinach when aunt cooks them.
I’ve heard that city people carry bracken
back from the bush and put it in vases and
things. They must be hard up.”
“Well, some of it is pretty,” Ronald said.
His good temper was restored now that the
splinter was out. He said, in the intervals
of sucking at the tiny wound: “It really is
beautiful—the young frondules and the just
unfolded leaf, you know. I mean to try
my brush at a spray very soon. I’ve just
tackled still-life.”
“Fruit and flowers and things?”
“Yes. It isn’t as easy as you might think,
either.” He was smiling now, in the charm-
ing way that Jasper so well remembered.
“Or take a gum-tree—any gum-tree you
like. It’s the hardest thing in the world to
get the tones right, because their kind of
color scheme is so easily affected by light
and shade. It’s so elusive. I suppose that’s
why so few artists have succeeded with it.”
(To be continued.)
The Call.
“The geese are calling,” sighed Macqneen.
“Night long I heard them passing by,
The leader crying wild and high
Of lakes and valleys deep and green.”
He plucked the coverlet. “And so
’Tis time for me to rise and go.”
They soothed to p. ace his twitching hands,
And whispered, half afraid to speak,
“ ]Tis but the babble of the creek
Telling its stories to the sands.
That, or perhaps the rustling grass
That murmurs when the night winds pass.”
He said, and trembled as he spoke.
“I hear no sounds that I love well—
The jingle of a horse’s bell,
The winds among the quivering oak;
On earth a silence, but on high
’Ah, follow us!’ the wild geese cry.”
A terror crept into their eyes,
Averted each his stricken look;
Those restless hands they softly took.
“Old mate,” they said, “the fever dies,
Your eyes are clear and cool your brow—
See, try to sleep a little now.”
But through the. growing tide of grey
A sudden flame. Upon his breast
A hand that groped and fell to rest,
And dumb and stricken men stood they;
While, softly through the thinning gloom,
A sound of pinions filled the room.
QUEENSLAND.
KID McGRATH.


.TTirnagM
m
m
ft
-
-
■ V^ v
WEST! N G HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in Jtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTIMGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES * CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.SC. Of lice—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—-“ Chancery House/* 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agent's: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
the mercury
a CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “-Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds 'the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (! i miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: '‘Argus”
Bunding, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep’).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
164 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all iriter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
I® logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to: —*
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288*294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellei
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City bv Ferrv or
RESERVATIONS
Hotel
HOTEL
situated with Private
it Cuisine and Service.
Motor.
: Y 80.12 (4 lines).
Away, sad moods!
Away, all stomach ills!
Enjoy good health
By taking
w
ŵ
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Are you one of those who never
feel really well—always low-spirited,
nervous, languid, dyspeptic? That
is your sluggish liver. Be persuaded
to try Cockle’s Antibilious Pills. Get
a box to-day. Take two at bedtime
and see how amazingly bright and
well you feel to-morrow. Your
system will be cleared of all surplus
bile and your liver will be in good
working order.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1(6 a box,
JAMES COCKLE & CO,, LTD,, LONDON*
pm
More often than not the cause of
indigestion is faulty functioning of
the digestive organs, brought on by
constipation. Failure of the bowels
to act properly results in poison
accumulating in the system, which
upsets the stomach and give rise
to indigestion, headaches, bilious-
ness, loss of energy and appetite.
These are danger signals, and should
be followed by immediate action
before the complaint becomes
chronic and dangerous.
rake Beecham’s Pills—the remedy used
the world over to correct constipation,
sluggish liver and indigestion. They
tone and strengthen the stomach, liver
and bowels and bestow vitality, fitness
and health on all who take them.
Get a box and start a course to-day.
Fi.JIIJ.P-.1.i11U.k 1
ea a box
vuiiii.'i
To secure the best of health and to be free
from Constipation, Sicfy Headache, Biliousness,
Indigestion, Flatulence, Torpid Liver and Dis-
ordered Stomach — lal^e
BEECHAM’S PILLS.
CHOOSE
A KERMATH
A little care in choosing
your marine engine will
assure better and safer
boating performance. That
is why over 70% of the
world’s best boat-builders
install Kermath Marine
Engines. They demand
the best.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
I
3 to 150 H. P
I
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., LTD.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Addre»»— Kermath
MARINE ENGINES
siS
❖
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
o*.
&
0°
6>
*
s®
V' 6 >*
' *<<&#•
.4 .vc6_A.c e ’ .
~•’’ .•*’ &*&<+


I
STANDARD
v Jju
laE
3
'I
WE
2
At
■T- ■
«•
fcs
L
A Good Buying Method
Decide what you ws.nl in a motor car. Theii
compare carefully the cars you can afford
to buy.
If you do so conscientiously, there is a strong
probability that you will own a Standard Six 9
For the Standard is an exceptional value
made so by the economies of Dodge Brothers
successful experience and large scale operations.
It brings you in generous measure the qualities
that are most highly prized today comfort*
economy, good looks, speed and power,
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles include®
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane— Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles Ltd., Auckland, N.Z,
Amuri Motors Ltd Christchurch, N.Z,
Cossens and Black Ltd Dunedin, N.Z,
p. E. Vickery Ltd Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King Ltd New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors Ltd Wellington, N.Z.
Dddge Brothers
STANDARD SIX
ẁ
