

w
KODAK
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street,
Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, and 161
Swanston Street, Melbourne.
v- ; ■ * .
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane, and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
(Australasia) PTY., LTD.
*
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Townsville. East Street, Rockhampton.
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
(ZnxSttwv tej
Vol. 49.—N0. 2546.
Wednesday, November 28, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


XMAS GIFTS—BOOKS AND STATIONERY. Send
for our 24-page Xmas Catalogue. Post free.
Robertson & Mullens, Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
\Y7RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
TvOOTTE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will he forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOMDE
TKxs BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Nev.’ Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
\. I .rlfaa, *•”*■
iJ
Parker, OUOFOLD 5R u
DUD FOLD
z^
Wys3>Tl^
&ESm
GED.S.PABKEHSstvr,UHVf:IFDUNTAIN?PEN
jANEsviuLEm»^i^y=wjs.-=u.s.A:
«r «r ▼
Twice
Lucky
are those who receive
This “Parker Pair”
for Christmas
Genuine Parker Duofold Duette —Pen
and Pencil to match, 46/-, 50/- and 62/6
for the pair.
Twin-Gifts, these —showing just
a bit of extra nice appreciation —a
pretty compliment!
Pressureless Touch. Parker Per-
manite Non-Breakable material
28% lighter than rubber formerly
used.
14K Gold-and-Iridium pen point
will last your whole life long and
while yielding to any hand never
lose the shape you like.
In Parker Pencils, lead turns out
for writing, in for carrying.
See the gay, new, Mandarin Yel-
low colour or Lacquer-red, Lapis
Lazuli Blue, Green Jade, or Flash-
ing Black in both pen and pencil.
Look for “Geo. S. Parker Duo-
, fold” on the barrels to be sure you
have the genuine.
Parker Duofold Over-size Pen 35/-
Duofold Junior or Lady Duofold 25/
Pencils to match 21/-, 25/- and 27/6
Agents:
SLADE, ALLAN & COMPANY
Princeton House, 235 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
Duette
Parker
Duofold
46/-, 50/-, 62/6
Gift Box Free
‘Boxer
Duofold Duette
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - 3d.
w
Food
Beg. TRADE MARK.
I
With advancing years, the
need for food which is suit-
ably light yet strength-
giving and sustaining is
imperative. No food com-
bines these qualities so
happily as Benger’s Food,
as medical men agree.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free .
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY,
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
ŵ
A
:-y-
Vi
m
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price if-
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents?
MUSTbSE^
The Red Page
The Second Novel Competition.
At least one competitor will not be late
for the second Bulletin Novel Competition.
The conditions were announced on the Red
Page of November 7: an entry is already
in hand, rather forlorn-looking in the corner
where it awaits the opponents that will join
it before the last day of next year—the
closing date of the competition.
The first of these competitions was
directly successful beyond The Bulletin’s
most optimistic hopes. How successful it
may have been indirectly cannot very well
be estimated. It attracted 540 manuscripts,
averaging about 70,000 words to each, pro-
vided Bulletin readers with a year’s reading
of tip-top serials (the best work of Aus-
tralia’s best writers), and added several
really good novels to the Australian fiction
shelf.
Those are direct results; and The Bulle-
tin will be surprised if the indirect results
are not a good deal ro veil led in the entries
for the second competition. Many of the
entries in the first had no faults that, could
not be put down to inexperience. Nearly
every writer had a story to tell, and, though
some were '■utterly hopeless, most revealed
a latent narrative ability that the experience
gained in writing one'novel could not help
but improve for the writing of another.
At least a dozen complimentary letters
(they would make this page blush a rud-
dier hue if it saw them in print) have
commented upon the distribution of prizes
for this second Novel Competition, The
prizes are:
First £4OO
Second £250
Third £lOO
For the first competition the prizes were
£5OO, £125 and £75, but the £125 was
eventually raised to £5OO, so that £1075 was
actually distributed. In this second com-
petition an additional £5O has been added
to the original prize-money offered for the
first, and the ratio has been fixed to agree
better with the probable respective merits
of the novels that will be placed first,
second and third.
As has already been announced, there is
no difference in the general conditions,
except that serial merit will be considered
in judging the : entries. Put briefly, “serial
merit” means merely that the story and its
people need to live. There is no room for
dull chapters: a good, strong, convincing
human story—in fact, a good novel—is all
that is asked for.
Intending competitors still have a year
in which to write that story. A ye’ar for the
writing of a really good novel is not such
a long time.
Schubert
One of Schubert’s misfortunes was that
he happened to be living at the same time
as Beethoven, and he is still suffering from
that trouble. Last year the Beethoven cen-
tenary was enthusiastically celebrated. Cen-
tenaries are all right in their way, but you
have to get over one before you begin
on another, and so there is a pallidness
about the efforts to celebrate Schubert’s.
I like to think of Schubert as a child
among grown-up musicians, not because of
any immaturity in his work, but because of
the chikl-like eagerness with which he
dashed off endless compositions without
bothering to inquire whether their form or
structure was correct. The form and struc-
ture nearly always were correct, but that
was only because the genius of Schubert
made them so. He was a lovable, careless
fellow, whose only needs in life were a pen,
a manuscript book and sufficient daylight to
work in: he was probably the most prolific
worker the world has known. He died at the
age of 31, after having written symphonies,
overtures, operas, cantatas, church music,
piano pieces and about 630 songs. He often
Slept in his spectacles, so that he would not
have to lose time in the morning finding
them before he could begin work. He
wrote eight songs on a single day. In one
year (1815) he wrote two symphonies, eight
operas, sacred-music compositions for piano
and string quartet and 146 songs; among
the songs was the “Erl King,” which ate
less than an hour.
Not for him was the way of the composer
who thinks out his offering, writes it once,
twice and thrice, and then does it all over
again. Frans Peter rarely revised anything.
He just wrote down his thoughts of the
moment and put the manuscript in the first
convenient place, generally a drawer, after
which he promptly forgot it. The wonder-
ful fragments of the Unfinished Symphony
were seen for the first time 32 years after
his death. It is said that he wrote them
in return for the compliment of being made
a member of a local musical society, but
forgot all about the third movement because
of some other incident that intervened at
the moment. He wrote anywhere and every-
where. For instance, one morning, two
years before he died, he was walking
through the village and decided to join
some friends at breakfast. On the break-
fast table there lay open a copy of Shak-
speare’s “C3'mbeline.” His fell on the
lines “Hark, hark! the lark at Heaven’s
gate sings.” “Music paper, please,” he
said. His friend ruled some staves on the
back of a menu, and in a few moments a
wonderful gem was added to the w’orld’s
collection of songs.
What place has Schubert among the
great composers of the world? It is diffi-
cult to answer until one has thrashed out
the relationship of melody to music. He
rvas the greatest natural melodist that ever
lived, as well as the most careless composer.
As Dr. Hull says, he knew not
the torture of self-criticism and the endless
thrashing out of ideas aa did Beethoven. All his
life he was really an externporiser, the channel
through which music ran unceasingly. He loved
and caressed all he touched, not with a maundering
pity, but with a healthy sweetness. Beethoven was
the impassioned Stoic, Schubert the tender lover
making no demands, no claims.
Melody rushed out of Schubert. There was
no stopping it. If he went out to visit
friends in the evening it was about ten
chances to one t hat t hat persistent genius of
his would drive him to produce another
manuscript. It never let him alone for five
minutes at a time. It drove him on and on,
ever demanding fresh toll of his rather piti-
ful little physical frame. It seemed that
ho was doomed to produce in that very short
span of life sufficient work to prevent
nature being forced to apologise for his
early death.
The way of his dying is one’ of the most
tragically ironic things in history. He had
been instructed to go away to the mountains
in order that the health and strength, which
once before, had been regained there, might
be returned a second time. But Schubert,
the writer of 630 songs, had no money and
was not in a position to obey medical
instructions. As he lay dying, however, a
friend rushed into his room and, with a
cry of triumph, handed him five shillings,
the • price he had just managed to wring
from a publisher for six of the master’s
finest songs. It was too late.
Irving Berlin is.reputed to be a million-
aire.
KEITH BARRY.
“Middles”
It is some time since Cecil Mann made
a stiffish demand, on the Red Page, for
more, or indeed for any, Australian essayists.
Nobody has rushed forward with a reply.
Does that mean that a definite Australian
characteristic has been discovered, the
characteristic of not being able to write
essays? Well, that would be a -sort of
quality; but no, it is not universal. I have
known countless Australians who could not
write essays, but several who really could.
Most of their possible essays fail to get
written. An essay is a social form of writing.
It is written to a charmed circle or not at
all. Look at' the names of the English
essay-writers whom Cecil Mann names for
our imitation: Robert Lynd, J. B. Priestley,
A. A. Milne. Each of those men has known
that if once his work showed a certain degree
of attractiveness it had the reviews open to
receive it. Priestley, for instance, has just
published a new volume of variegated essays,
nearly all of which appeared in the Saturday
Review as “middle” articles. “Middles”
are articles published in a weekly review
and situated midway between “Notes of the
Week” and the reviews. There are often
several middles published in a single issue—
and how many weekly reviews are there in
England, to say nothing of monthlies and
quarterlies? There are, of course, very
many more writers to fill those reviews than
we have here for such a field, but the very
existence of a “middles” section in English
journalism must make many a possible
essayist’s pen begin to rattle eagerly in its
socket. I would not say that every middle
article is necessarily an essay fitted for
book form. What writer would be likely to
turn out a really creative, spontaneous piece
of literary prose every week! Sainte-Beuve
did something like that, in his “Causeries
de Lundi,” and did it for 20 years or so,
writing about eight thousand words to a
causerie. But, then, he was a miracle; again
he gave himself a topic, each time and was
willing to subordinate his personality to it.
The modern writer of middles, that are re-
printed as essays, usually takes no theme
except a most casual one; any old thing that
strikes the eye as he sits down to “middle”
will do for a beginning. He writes on for
a thousand words, mostly about himself.
The result, as often as not, is charming—or
hardly as often as not.
In Australia there are no pages of middles.
There are weekly magazine pages in many
(Continued on page 5.)


ẁ
ẃ
Anthony Horderns’ make special provision for
Christmas Shopping—therefore the values and the
service make it wise to shop at the mighty store on
Brickfield Hill. Selections are now complete, so those
who would choose what are undoubtedly Sydney s finest
stocks should do so at once. Compare quality for quality
and price for price, and you will realise the value we offer.
ẅ
?vTv. , !T?<rsff{gs!*
rAV"
y>r
Van Maurik Cigars.
Amicales Cigars will be an ideal
Christmas gift for the man who pre-
fers quality.
Boxes of Id ~ J
Prices .... 5/- 11/6
Van Maurik Six Crown Cigar!
Boxes of 10 25
Prices .... 5/- 12/-
50
22/6
50
23/6
s' ■ $$
-\
fc-V
&
Walter Hagen Golf Clubs.
Famous Getaway Clubs, including
Brassies, Drivers, Spoons, Mid Irons,
Mashies, Putters, Mashie Niblicks
Each club is beautifully finished, and
has good, well-balanced shafts.
Price, each I®/ ®
w
"* : i-y*. '-' -" ' ‘
»K
#
////
I?
Iti/trJ&pJaiS.
. jta -EXimzzi?.
Cashmere Socks,
from 5/6 Pair.
Men’s Fancy Half Hose in all-wool
English make. Full fashioned, best
finish. Colors include Browns, Greys,
Mole and Fawn effects.
Prices . . 5/6, 6/6 and 8/6 Pair.
*75
titt
Sfct
l>\V
6W
Tie and Handkerchief to
Match, 12/6.
Silk Crepe-de-Chine Handkerchief,
with Tie to Match, in very attractive
colorings and designs. A serviceab.e
gift that will be appreciated.
Price, each
12/6
‘V/vKr&r
|l/TTV'VT*s
*|V>
.■-• iP!
i-SSa
'si»
“Summit” Collars,
8/6 per
Obtainable only at Antbony Hor-
derns’, excellent quality, in all the
wanted shapes, Men’s English-made
Collars. Attractively boxed in fancy
shape boxes containing half-dozen.
Price, per box 8/6
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY
FRIDAY
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, 6.P.0.


ŵ
Here is value that stands at the very
pinnacle of the world’s most efficient
industry. Here are performance, beauty,
comfort and quality workmanship.
As you regard its handsome ensemble and
go over it detail by detail, you get the
same compelling conviction of complete-
ness and finish, of costly car quality and
construction.
To see, to examine, to ride in the
Essex Super-Six can bring only one con-
clusion —that it is a car unique in its
class and the world’s greatest value,
altogether or part by part.
"m
OKL.
Ya
11! 11111 fin
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body £270
Roadster „ „ , . .. , . 270
Coach „ ~ 330
Coach, Imported Body 350 |
Coupe „ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body 345
Sedan, Imported Body . . , , ~ 370-
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD., NEAL’S MOTORS PTY.. LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney. Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
MOTORS. LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD., H. C. lIEATIIORN & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


SMOKES—
for Gift Time
B
CAPSTAN Cigarettes—
grade packed in
Leatherette covered gift boxes.
Contains 200 cigarettes.
Price, box 8/9
VIRGINIAN Cigarettes —-
David Jones’ famous high-
grade. 50 in gift box. Price,
3/3- 75> 5/-i IOO > 6 /6; 15°.
9/9; 200,13/-.
COUNTRY CLUB Cigars—
special value! Box of io for
e/6; box of 2c, 12/6 and box
of 50 for .. .. 24/6
If it’s a Pipe you want to
give him —choose one of
David Jones’ Plus Four Briar
Pipes. Made from best quality
Corsianßruyere. Plain Pipes,
price, each 10/6. With 9ct.
gold mount. Price, each 15/6
w
DAVID JONES
Castlereagh, Market, Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Shop, Opposite G.P.O.
of the dailies, where some general articles
more or less informative, or more or less
like book-reviews, are usually included. t>\
nobody who writes for those pages ieels t la
he is writing for the discriminating iea eis
of a review. He is writing for the st l NP"
hanging public, the tired businessman -ie
newspaper reader, in fact. Again, some o
the family weeklies have a literary page
and here an occasional essay may just creep
in. Yet. again there is the Red Page, which
acts as a whole review— book-reviewing,
discussions (more or less consecutive),
philosophical and artistic pronouncement*.
But someone will say that I have not
shown that there are any essayists capable
of responding to a cry lor middles. v\ ell,
let me throw just a few T of my cards on
the table, by naming, as born essayists.
Dowell O’Reilly, Walter Murdoch, Donald
Macdonald, P. I. O’Leary and Hubert
Church. None of Ihesc names can lie really
well known to the majority of Bulletin
readers, but that is part of my case. Dowell
O’Reilly was a man whose letters, written
with endless zest, show that lie could have
responded brilliantly to a slight, steady in-
centive towards the production of a weekly
or monthly causerie. His talent was for
that rather than for anything lie ever wrote;
his short stories are most brilliant in their
digressions, and have the round-about unity
of an essay. Walter Murdoch writes usually
under a pen-name. His style and outlook
are unmistakable, and he has the quality that
makes it unfortunate for him to write any-
thing as definite as book-reviews. His
literary opinions are cautious rather than
inspiring, but his humor and observation
are a sheer delight. It is a great pity that
his articles hav r e not been collected for
many years. The last volume, “Loose
Leaves,” must be over a dozen years old.
It may be rather well known, though, since
one bookseller (accidentally?) advertised it
as “Loose Lives” and there was a liell-
for-leather rush after it. Donald Mac-
donald would perhaps have received more
recognition if he were less versatile. To
some he is known as the Boer War man, to
others as a brilliant veteran writer on
cricket and cricketers, to others again as
author of “The Bush Boy’s Book.” He
adorns what he touches, though, and none of
his work reads like the grind of a weary
journalist. His knowledge of bush-birds and
their bush makes only a part of his vast
material; but it is his form that is even
more unusual. Hardly one of his slight
notes but has the easy rise and fall of an
essay. A book of selected papers by Donald
Macdonald is something that one still hopes
to evoke by steady importunity. P. I.
O’Leary, a writer of sonority and wit, is
known only in a weekly literary page of his
own, where he is somewhat bound by the
books in hand. The name of Hubert Church
comes up, first, as that of a poet; but his
gently humorous zeal for what can be called
curiosities of literature lias lent gracious
curves to his prose. It was in one of his
pages that I read how Rose Aylmer, the im-
mortalised darling of Landor, had actually
died in India of “a surfeit of pineapples,
after being warned.” If you do not care for
that fact, Hubert Church has a treasury of
others, made for middles.
Poetry, they say’, is born in loneliness and
longing; prose needs an audience. And the
essay, above all, is practically written in
sight of the audience. Australia needs
reviews with room for middles.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Book of Poetry
I make a point of buying—whenever I
can afford it—any new collection of con-
temporary Australian verse that comes out.
It gives me a feeling of sportsmanship to
do so; and much in this spirit I paid out
my 3s. for “Songs of Sun and Shadow,” by
D. L. Waraker (Vidler). A couple of re-
views said the verses were charming and
delicate, which I could easily believe, having
met the author. The man in the shop said
these songs were “pretty,” and so I sighed,
and bought.
Pretty! 1 doubt if a more poignantly
tragic book of poetry has ever been printed
in Australia. It represents a feminine classic
of the war; the tragedy of youth that some
of us feel more acutely as time goes on.
I read the poems from beginning to end
without stopping (they cannot be sepa-
rated). I know nothing of the author’s
past: I only know that here is the heart
of one who was young:
A heart’s high courage beaten at the last
By broken things.
The war was all broken things.
‘•Lusette,” he said,
“A better soldier you than T, my dear,
You have held high your little shining head,
And challenged fear.
For France anil You ! llow well a man should fight
For eyes as clear as sunlight on the sea!
God, how I love you, warm and sweet and white.
Will you face life for me?”
This book is the facing of life, but under-
neath the song, like a sigh, runs the word
France in letters of world-pain. Like all
intensely personal things, it is strongly sym-
bolic. jt is not a question merely Qf some
grave m France. It is the arena where
youth was slain; youth in the hearts that
were then budding into life and sunlight
only to be seared and spoiled by the baffling
terror of it all.
Three epitomes in literature of this
“breaking” of war stand clear in my mind
a st<sfv in Stephan Zweig’s “Passion and
Pain.” a section of D. H. Lawrence’s
“Kangaroo” and now D. L. Waraker’s “Songs
of Sun and Shadow.” Viewed dispassion-
ately the book is sheer poetry; there is not
a jarring note. Kisses and roses run like
a sense-soothing embroidery on the golden
cloak of beauty that falls lightly about the
passionate main theme:
The song of the rain is a sobbing song,
A moaning mutter of fear and dread,
Of hearts grown old that have loved too long,
And women weeping above their dead ;
Of hands long listless and hearts grown numb
To life’s grey grief and its futile pain.
I hear its echo, but I am dumb —-
I dare not sing you the song of rain i
Instead she sings:
All is so fair that I raise my head
And laugh to think they have called you dead!
The only poem that can be viewed sepa-
rately is “When.” It is the best poem, per-
haps, with close-packed thought and fine
technique, but the book as a whole is tlxe
great and tragic thing for those who have
eyes to see. To those who haven’t, it will,
of course, be just “pretty.”
L. LUCASS.
Gift Books
From a big bunch of the kind of books
that are given (and often, alas, re-given)
about this generous time of the year, The
Bulletin marks off for its own stocking
the excellent Bodley Head production of
Anatole France’s “The Well of St. Clare,”
illustrated by Frank Pape. Pape’s drawing
of the Lord Bishop’s ape appearing to him
in a dream alone makes the book worthy
of some hunting around for a prima donna’s
stocking to accommodate it.
The latest, and one of the best, to hand
from Heinemann, is another of Judge Sir
Edward Parry’s whimsical books for
children, “The First Book of Krab,”
admirably got up, illustrated by Archie
MacGregor, and quite up to the standard of
the three other Parry books reviewed in
the Satchel recently. Heinemann also
sends “The Griffin,” a fine story of adven-
ture in a castle that holds a griffin, told by
E. M. Channon and illustrated by K. Jukes.
From Methuen come “The Christopher
Robin Calendar,” made from “When We
Were Very Young,” with Shepard’s draw-
ings; and another Milne-Shepard achieve-
ment, “The House at Pooh Corner,” where-
in, according to Milne, Christopher Robin
and his companions say good-bye. Regret-
fully, The Bulletin takes the author’s word
for it, but remembers hopefully that the
same word has been used more than once by
such illustrious mortals and immortals as
Dame Melba, Harry Lauder and Sherlock
Holmes.
Blackwell’s best offering is a book for
girls, and especially for Girl Guides, called
“The Second Trail,” sponsored by the
Duchess of York, of whom it holds a photo,
in color; “Patty, Who Believed in Fairies,”
by Deamer MacCormac (Dent), is another
fine gift book for girls. It crowds with
fairies, witches and princesses, and, like
the Blackwell volume, holds much of that
sort of excitement in which the wee folk
delight.
Additions to the Art in Australia gift
booklets include “Sydney Streets,” etch-
ings, etc., with letterpress by C. H. Bertie;
“Are Fowls People?” fables by D. Lindsay
Thompson, illustrated by Albert Collins;
“Sydney Harbor,” photographs by H. Caz-
neaux;’ “The Great Barrier Reef,” by
Randolph Bedford, with photographs;
“Inland Australia,” by Randolph Bedford,
with photographs; “Christmas in Australia,”
by Jean Curlewis, decorated by Adrian
Feint; “Glimpses of Victoria,” Vic. Gov-
ernment Tourist Bureau photographs; “Aus-
tralia,” photographs by H. Cazneaux. The
Barrier Reef booklet is one of the best in
the series.
“Little Australian Pioneers,” by R. M.
Fergus (Hutchinson), is a good adventure
book for boys or girls. The youngsters do
some Swiss Family pioneering on a large
island in a Victorian lake.
For the small boy two rollicking books
have been published in Sydney—“ The
Sunbeams Book, 1928,” Ginger Meggs’s
adventures as pictured by J. C. Bancks in
the Sunday Sun; and “The Fatty Finn
Book,” a collection of Syd. Nieholls’s
comics from the Sunday News, and as fine
an example of color work in children’s
books as has been done in Australia to
date. Both will be warmly appreciated by
any boy at the “comic” age.
A Satchel of Books
Bom’s Library. Further additions to this
handy series of booklets include “The Eliza-
bethan Dramatists” (except Shakspeare), C.
•T. Sisson ; “English Folklore,” A. R. Wright;
“Athens,” E. H. Warmington ; “Science and
Reality,” R. A. Sampson ; “The Legal System
of England,” J. E. G. de Montmorency; “A
History of the U.5.A.,” Robert McElroy.
A. Farm Smithy (Sunshine Harvester
Press). In this booklet is briefly told the
story of Hugh Victor McKay, who founded
the Sunshine Harvester works and whose
life “was devoted to the production of imple-
ments which aided agriculture and bene-
fited the farmers of Australia.” It is a
story of grand perseverance and achievement;
a great answer to those who try to foster
socialism in this country on an argument
that might apply elsewhere, but does not.
apply here —that individualism has no longer
any hope of lifting a poor man out of ob-
scurity. The father of H. V. McKay was
a poor man. He took up a piece of land
at Drummartin (Vie.) and split and adzed
the timber for his home. There in 1883
IT. V. McKay, then about 18, also did some
splitting, and with his brother's aid built a
smithy, in which, from some bits of worn-out
machinery, they fashioned the first stripper
harvester. The machine was patented, and
manufactured by different firms in Mel-
bourne and at Ballarat, until in 1900 the
works were moved to Sunshine, where to-day
there are 9000 employees, and where the
old smithy, removed from Drummartin,
stands very proudly beside the big works.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
D.E.P.: Many a perfectly good pair of
literary boots have been worn out on that track....
Laroth: Well, go “And live that grand and free
Bohemian life so gay”... .Henry L.: You’re the third
in a week to try to break into print with some
whiskery stuff about Whitman.... So and T.S.S.:
You’re the other tw0....G.U.: No; you haven’t
understood 8.G.L.; Desperately heavy.... Hus:
Hopeless and lonely, there his way he goes,
The old swaggie who at dusk will seek repose
Under a fragrapt gum—and, ah, I would
Be out there with him if 1 only c0u1d....
Oh, pity me in this city dark and blind
Shut in by walls. ...Oh, pity me —confined.
Too bad, too bad !... .Old Timer: Space not available.
.... Prospero: A bit too gushy.... Boomerang : Home
again. Try something less sketchy... .J. A. F.: Blind
to its merits—if any... .H.M.W.: Just short of good
enough... .P.H.: No home here for a ghost....
J.W.: Ancient and fish-like... .R.L.P.: Cupid’s arrow
9-carat g01d... .F.S.G.: End too obviously antici-
pated... .Trion: Sent to join the family... .G. 8.:
We are not as good as Adam at swallowing snake
yarns... .K.F.T.: Interesting sketch of Island char-
acter, but not suitable... .Survivor: Immature, and
reveals no sense of short-story construction....
Talo: Bright, but not quite the weight... .Geo. L.:
Beaten in the last 1ap....E.G.: Good idea; not
quite well enough done to make it seem true....
G.C.: Missed your chances.... E.M.E.: Calls for
hard sub-editing... .F.W.F.: You use too old a
device for getting the pot into the wrong hands.
See if you can’t do better there....M. David: All
but.... Soplius: So many words, so little said....
Nusreap: Your assertion that the American “hobo”
is a corruption of the French “hautbois,” originally
used because European tramps mostly played
musical instruments a few centuries ago, is ingenious,
but we doubt its philological soundness... .Emu:
Paragraphs quite unsuitable... .M.K:: “The Irish”
scotched... .V.G.W.: “Do You Remember?” We’d
like to forget ... .11.M.W.: Grand slam scored against
“Bridge”... .M.C.C.: Says nothing not very well.
....Chick: Scratchy... .J.H.L.: Fair, but not good
enough.... Bore-drain: No general interest in “The
Rouseabout’s Lament”.... Pax: A trifle, light as
lead. ...E.M. (and various others): Rhymed lists
make about the poorest sort of verse going....
Cinderella: Sorry, but our magic wand isn’t potent
enough to turn that verse into a cheque.... L.G.:
You know “very little about our customs.” Well,
they include the weird and savage practice of
basketing all verse about moths singeing their
hackneyed wings... .L.M.M.: We (hie) alsho very
fond nymphs and (hie) fauns tripping about on
terpsliicliorean feet.... E.W.: “Blood-red poppies,”
“rip’ning grain,” “slender spears.” You’re not
exactly an innovator, are you?.. . .L.H.: No improve-
ment on the quotation R.D.: Repetition in verse
can be beautiful or boring. Yours is not beautiful
L.B.: Rather forced. .. . J. 8.: Y'ou stand charged
with having murdered an idea. How do you plead ?
H.B.: Tiresome rhyming Red: Two touching
lines: —
So, bending on her old, old knees,
She scrubs away her memories.
. ...F.P.: Leave space between lines, and say what
you have to say without trying to be smart
C.E.P.: Sapient lyric... . A.J.-G.: Even old houses
need new treatment.... Ivan A. (India): Out of our
line J. 8.: Theme good; verse wretched
P.8.P.: When it reached the basket the other
rejects complained bitterly... .1.P.F.: Joins the
returned empties. .. .N.J.M.: Not much in yours,
either Courlan: All that’s been said before, and
better Roth: Thanks appreciated; can’t sav the
same of the verse. .. .T.S.S.: Not for u5....F.H.:
Your last try, is it? Very well: —
It was in the Riverina, where I secured my first
stand
At a shed called Cherryleary, and we started on rams.
It was in the days of bright swords, but it’s painful
to recall
What I went through on that shearing board.
I was praying for the boss to sack me, at last he
came along
And said “Y’ou are no shearer. You can take the
road, you mong.”
. ...Pensman: Y T oil’ll have to do better if you want
to get into this column.... J.W. : We’ll let you off
light, seeing that it’s “facts”.... Turnkey: It’s
going back. Lock it up E.F.W.: Immature
C.A.T.: Y T ou don’t make the bee robbing very
exciting W.D.W.: No improvement A.K.: “I
wish that I were thistledown.” So do we....
F.8.P.: Say your refrain, “As we sway, as we sway,
as we sway,” aloud, and see how you like it.. . .
Leamington: Rather bana1....J1.T.H.: Well, the
idea is g00d... .G.F.E.: Too much talk for the
little said T.S.G.: Conan Doyle might swallow
it G.A.8.: The “affinity of souls” went out with
the long skirt, ...R.E.8.: You’re wasting your time.
.. . . 8.W.: Has all the imaginative quality of a
fish yarn... .D.H.: Soap yarn washed 0ut.... E.M.:
Too dismal L.N.: We are weary of interviews
with St. Peter... .‘E.C.B.: Jonah’s whale couldn’t
have swallowed that yarn D.U.D.: Precisely
J.E.: No fatted calf for your prodigal F.AW.:
Remove your stone-age diplomat.... Budalea: Don’t
stable mules 8.A.: No charge for criticism. In-
teresting in its fashion, but. without form. Try
again Hen P.: “The words hissed through his thin,
determined, evil lips; his dark eyes flashed, and his
burnt, coppery skin paled somewhat with suppressed
fury.” And then the referee awarded the other
faker a fall E. J.S.: Reverie about a ram returned.
... .C.R.F.: Too creepy; anyway, creeps back....
E.G.: Graphic little sketch, but not in our line
A.E: No buns for the bears L.A.R.: Flopped
into the basket F. (Geelong) : Delicate' and
fanciful; can’t find a place for it, unfortunately.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.H.: You have an eye for decoration, but that’s
not enough C.F.L.: There’s a machine-made look
about those girls L. 8.: A fifth-rate pun and a
drawing that might have been hewn out of granite.
M.O.: The Major has been cashiered L.P.D.:
Not worth a place. .. .WAV'.: “The Lubra’s Elope-
ment” is one vast smudge... .F.A.: Sorry to have
to say no to the lovely ladies... .C.8.C.: Super-
annuated joke T.W.A.: Hot-headed stockrider is
cooling off in the w.p.b P.P.: Two crumpled
females snivelling over a third on her death-bed!
G.J.R.: Keep it for the smoke-room.


w
c £mit
O
i
r~-
-SJ
i«s
1
ss mm
Y\ ■
.. y . . ■
■ESKS
v '::s
■'
■
Hi
1 i*P
n
■ • ■■'
O \V
HU
HH
.
m
HI
| |
vC
f f f' :
■ u
m
Wk'iy'SJ'
■ H
WmM:
■
1
USUI
:
11
■A
if
BjjBBBMM
v.-
MS
H
.
l : ;-
1 m
fu> S!
■P
1
m
*
m
IBIiMIMSi
H
'
:
Hg|
■
:
. .
■
w pt,
i«!p^
i
ŵ


The Bulletin
_Vol. j49.—No v 2546.
November 28, 1928.
MACHINE POR GAUGING THE
Correct distance between
SEEDLINGS .
SFECIAX. FREE BUS To
induce housewives to 'visit the magnificent but rather.
out - of- the -way shopping centre .
MACHINE fOR
Stamping out Shrubs ami
TREES PLANTED AC-GORDINtCs
TO "FLAN but :n awkward
places .
Machine. '
KOR -PICKING UP CIGAR. BUTTS
'AROUND PARUAMENf HOUSE.
WHERE MONEY DOESN’T MATTER.
"The Federal Capital Commission is intent on employing at Canberra every possible labor-saving device.”
“The Bulletin” offers some suggestions that seem to match the rest.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
, HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any - address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. Cd.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS I 12 months, £1 10s. ',
o months, 16s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs .
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, Few Zealand and
l'iji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4°z. to 10oz., lid. :
each additional 4oz„ Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: }oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
A CARTOON BY REASON 7
EDITORIAL 8, 9
A Sinking Fund of Rags S
When Friends Grow Cold .. 8
Is Economy Practicable? 8
THE INGRATES
—A cartoon by Percival .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL 14
LAW AND DISORDER
—A Cartoon by Scorfield . . .. .. 15
POVERTY POINT 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Tooth’s .. .. .. 18
Southern Cross Assurance 1.8
Queensland Forests .. .. 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 2d
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOKE-OH > 32
PEN AND PICTURE 37
New Movies .. 37
Sportinsr (illustrated) . . 39. 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“COONARDOO” 34, 57, 58
STORIES—COMPLETE.
“Beauty in Brazier Street”
—-By Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting. . 51, 53
“THE DREAMER,” by H. Mellanby . . .. 55
VERSE 53, 55
“Bracken” starts next week.
77uf$u21e£i/n.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1928.
A SINKING FUND OF RAGS.
There is much cause for gratification in the
fact that Australia as a whole and all the
States individually have voted “Yes” on
the new Federal-State financial agreement.
It is a pleasant break in the dull monotony
of rejections. The result cannot fail to be
an improvement; how much of an improve-
ment rests wholly with the politicians. All
future loan-raising is to be decided on by
a council on which States and Common-
wealth will be represented. This will pos-
sibly limit borrowing. But The Bulletin
has little hope that the plan will limit
loan enterprise to works which will pay the
interest, or even 75 per cent, of the interest,
on their capital. All the seven borrowers
apply a lot of the money to dubious pur-
poses, and the pot can only comment in
moderation on the color of the saucepan.
* * * *
The striking departure is that all debts,
old and new, are to carry a sinking fund,
and such a thing has never happened before.
In this matter the Commonwealth acts
liberally. It will make an annual contribu-
tion to the State sinking fund of 2s. 6d. per
cent, on the old debts, which is a definite
liability, and of ss. per cent, on new debts,
which is quite indefinite, for no one knows
what the new debts are going to be. As
regards interest, the Commonwealth is to
pay directly between seven and eight mil-
lions in place of paying it to the States as
a per capita allowance. The rest of the
interest and their share of the sinking fund
are to be found by the States. It is earnestly
hoped that all the seven parties concerned
will so order their disordered finances that
the moneys required will be .forthcoming
without too much dependence on loans or
too much application for Federal subsidies.
If the Federation is regarded by creditors,
especially by external creditors, as the party
responsible, and its members begin to offer
it settlement partly in paper money and
largely in paper bonds, a difficulty may
arise for the present or future Earle Pages,
though it won’t be widely different from the
existing difficulty. Still, neither this possi-
bility nor any other possible possibility
should make anyone less glad that the
people voted “Yes” on November 17. It
merely lends a thrill to the situation.
* * * *
All through the campaign it was reiterated
that the combined sinking fund contribu-
tions (7s. 6d. and 10s. per cent, respectively)
will extinguish the whole existing loans in
58 years, and each new loan within 53 years
from its starting point. The theory is cor-
rect as a matter of figures so far as the
Australian share of the big aggregate burden
is concerned, and it will be absolutely cor-
rect if the parties concerned find the neces-
sary contributions out of their mostly-paper
revenue and don’t borrow them. And it is'
correct as a matter of figures so far as the
British-United States end of the burden is
concerned, and will be absolutely correct
if (this is the minor if) the parties find the
necessary contributions out of their mostly-
paper revenue, and if (this is the major if)
the nation as a whole makes its exports
exceed its imports by sufficient to cover
interest and sinking fund. At present it is
sometimes over £50,000,000 short of this
consummation. Failing some improvement a
curious problem may arise. Aggregate Aus-
tralia may, by unexpectedly capable finance,
get all the interest and sinking fund ready
in honestly-acquired currency, and divide it
into two tidy heaps. The Australian credi-
tor will take his heap and give a receipt.
The external one will say: “What is this
dashed substance? Take it away and give
me gold or goods which will sell for
gqld. Your sinking fund is only so much
rags.” The troublesome and disastrous half
of the problem will thus remain to be dealt
with in its entirety.
* * ? i : *
During the election campaign a certain
quantity of 'Freetrade and Protection of the
familiar sort was talked. Opposition-leader
Scullin awoke to the idea that something
was moving, or that a burglar was in the
house, and hurried to gum on to his banner
a promise that his party would do marvels
in the way of making Australia independent
of foreign loans and to a great extent of
imports. But Freetrade is as impossible in
this high-wage, short-hour and heavily-
indebted country as the frying of heretics,
and.the problem which sends Australia scut-
tling to the external pawnbrokery for so
many millions per annum calls for some-
thing beyond the kind of Protection which
it is the custom to talk about here. Yet
with all deficiencies the acceptance of the
financial agreement was a good thing—a
very good thing. If it leads to a better
realisation that gold liabilities can’t be met
with paper savings it will be more than
worth the trouble.
WHEN FRIENDS GROW COLD.
In N. S. Wales the Nationalists lost three
seats in the House of Representatives, and
their majorities were reduced, in most cases
substantially, in all the electorates they
held. They also failed to win a Senate seat.
For this result Neville Howse, who man-
aged the State campaign for his party,
blames “the apathy of our Supporters”—
“castigates the slackers,” as the S. M.
Herald puts it. In all his experience he
has never seen anything like it, he says.
Other indignant Nat.-Federationists have
taken up the parable, and middle-class elec-
tors who failed to show enthusiasm for “the
great National party” and certain dull pro-
ducts of its pre-selection system are invited
to be dashed well ashamed of themselves.
* * . ❖ ❖
The Howse-Bavin party gets its main
support from people who pay income-tax
on anything from £3Ol p.a. to £l2OO p.a.
Of these there are roughly 80,000 in N. S.
Wales, and at least 70,000 vote Nationalist.
If the 70,000 and their womenfolk withdrew
their support there would be no “great
National party” left. They are Nationalists
because they can’t stomach Labor-socialism,
but they see no reason why they should be
“earnest workers in the cause,” as demanded
by the good Howse. Why should they be?
They get nothing from Nationalist politi-
cians but thumping taxes and one-sided
legislation, together with insolent remarks
about their ingratitude. On the other hand,
they see Nationalist politicians rushing into
all sorts of fancy vote-catching schemes,
demoralising to the finances, for the benefit
of Labor-socialists who take the concessions
and refuse the votes.
# * * *
These middle-class electors are taxed by
the Nationalists to provide family endow-
ment, but their own wives can’t get it.
They read in the papers that Mr. Bruce
and Mr. Bavin propose to lend millions for
home-building on the basis of 60 p.c. of the
value, but find that the privilege is re-
stricted to wage-earners and men on small
salaries. It is the same with Mr. Bruce’s
“national” plan of insurance against sick-
ness, unemployment, old age and death.
They read also that friendly societies are
exempt' from income-tax, but not so the
mutual-insurance societies in which they
have life policies—Mr. Bruce taxes them,
and Mr. Bavin is going to hit them harder.
And those middle-class electors who invest
portion of their savings in companies, as
so many of them do, are to be charged
up to 3s. 3d. in the £ on their
dividends, and again on the dividends
plus their income from other sources, so
that the highest possible rate may be
exacted from them. This by the State
Nationalist Government—the Federal
Nationalist Government’s imposts are addi-
tional. Thousands of N. S. Wades middle-
class electors make sacrifices to send their
sons and daughters to college. Thereby
they save the Government heaps of money,
and they keep alive institutions which, in
many ways, are a splendid asset to the
State. But their bills for schooling are
not allowable deductions from their taxable
income.
ij: :!: $ *
It is bad enough to suffer these injuries,
and others of the kind, without having to
endure cheek from the Nat. Federation
when some of the very ordinary politicians
evolved by its “bob-in” method of pre-
selection lose their seats. The middle-class
elector is an uncomplaining animal, but
there is a limit to his patience, and—in
N. S. Wales especially—the limit has been
reached.
FLYING EFFICIENCY.
In these days of aero clubs and civilian
aviators it is well that prospective candi-
dates should appreciate the physical anti
psychical requirements for flying.
The first qualification for an air pilot is a
stable nervous system, and particularly im-
portant is the subconscious nervous control.
Eyesight is an important factor, and especi-
ally valuable is good binocular vision; this
is dependent upon good muscle balance,
and it is to be noted that defects in muscle
balance can be corrected by special ocular
muscle exercises.
Next to vision the most important sen-
sations are those due to impulses arising
from muscles, joints and tendons; upon
these the pilot relies largely for the forma-
tion of judgments about the “feel” of the
stick, rudder-bar and seat; through them
he is aware of his relative position to thf>
machine and the nature of the evolution
which it is executing; upon them also he
depends for harmonious and smooth func-
tioning of the muscle groups through which
he controls the aeroplane. The semi-circular
canals of the ear give us only a very little
information about our position in space, and
are more concerned with subconscious than
conscious neuro-muscular control.
General physical endurance is necessary,
especially for flying at high altitudes, and
particularly important is stability of the
nervous control of respiration and circula-
tion. Certain simple tests give a fairly accu-
rate idea of such stability, e.g., inability
to hold the breath beyond 45 seconds indi-
cates instability of the respiratory centre
and lack of respiratory efficiency, which may
or may not be associated with disease; lack
of circulatory stability is shown by quick
pulse, undue immediate increase in rate from
sitting to standing, undue increase after
exercise, and delayed return to normal
standing rate. More elaborate tests of cir-
culatory control may be made in a rotat-
ing chair; in good pilots, after what is
equivalent to a relatively fast spin, i.e., 10
rotations in 20 seconds, there is little change
in pulse rate or blood pressure, and ocular
muscle balance is not affected.
The state of the respiratory and circu-
latory centres in the brain is of great sig-
nificance, because physical efficiency for
flying is intimately related to stability of
these centres, and deterioration of this sta-
bility is the earliest sign of loss of true
physical fitness. It is found in those who are
out of condition, or who are stale, in those
suffering from mild infections, and in de-
bility following any illness.
During the medical examination of a
pilot other signs of unstable nervous control
are looked for, such as undue sweating, or
flushing, or raised body temperature. Higher
psychic control over the primitive emo-
tional reactions needs to be assessed; this
is done by studying the past history of the
subject and his demeanor and behavior
under examination. Bad signs are stammer,
tics, restlessness, nail-biting and tremor of
the fingers; history of previous nervous
illness or breakdown, such as shell-shock,
is evidence of unstable higher control. A
good test of the state of the higher nervous
centres is the “self-balancing” test. The
subject stands with heels and toes touching,
the arms being held at the sides. One knee
is then bent to a right angle, and the legs
held apart slightly. When he has obtained
his balance on the one leg he closes his
eyes and tries to maintain the position
steadily for 15 seconds. The degree of co-
ordination is estimated by the amount of
movement necessary to remain balanced.
These different tests enable one to make
a fairly accurate estimate of the suitability
or otherwise of the new candidate; but they
are also useful in anticipating or detecting
early psycho-neurosis due to flying stress.
This condition can be prevented altogether,
or cured, if diagnosed soon, simply by rest
from flying and adoption of healthy recrea-
tion and exercise.
M.P.S.
PLAIN ENGLISG.
The People's Verdict.
Considering the years it has been in office
and its obvious limitations, the Bruce-Page
Government fared pretty well in the con-
stituencies—much better than the earlier
reports suggested. It did not retain its
two-to-one majority in the House of Reps.,
but only a few rabid partisans expected that
it would.
It again scored heavily in Queensland,
helped as before by the Labor Govern-
ment’s electoral outrages. G. A. Francis’s
victory in Kennedy was indeed the most
striking individual achievement of the elec-
tion. Victoria also gave the Government
a tremendous vote. The 1925 majorities,
substantial as they were everywhere, were
practically equalled in most cases and ex-
ceeded in others, notably Fawkner and
Corio, both Labor electorates in former
Parliaments. Westralia and Tasmania like-
wise declared for the Brupages as against
the Scullidores. Only in N.S.W. and South
Aus. did the Government definitely lose
ground. And in each case the adverse vote
reflected the unpopularity of the State
Nationalist Government’s measures, particu-
larly its taxation measures.
During the first two or three days of the
slow scrutiny, triumphant shouts came from
the Scullidore camp, mingled with wild
cries that Bruce should resign. These bursts
of elation were premature. Including the
Indi fluke, Labor will have no more
than 31 House of Reps, seats out of 75,
and probably less. It gained three contested
seats definitely and four others were marked
“doubtful” at the beginning of the week;
on the other hand, the Bruce-Page majo-
rities ranged from 2000 to 22,000, 21 being
above 5000. Labor will have to wipe out
at least eight of these majorities, and hold
Indi as well, before it can regain what it
threw away during the war years.
The truth is that neither Ins nor Outs
have any warrant for bragging. Each crowd
has been told plainly enough to mend its
ways. The Bruce -Pages have been warned
to drop all specious schemes involving more
direct taxation and get on with their job
of financial reform and stimulation of indus-
try by the Tariff —the mandate for more
effective Tariff action is unmistakable. And
the Scullidores have been reminded once
more that they will never be entrusted with
power until they get rid of their disrepu-
table Communist and hooligan friends, and
drop all their silly talk about disarmament
and “the nationalisation of credit,” and go
back to the Fisher defence and financial
policies.
*
Is Economy Practicable?
“Fitzwilliam” gives his experience:—
About half of our governmental expendi-
ture is due to the habit of employing
elephants to pick up pins. They do it well,
but they are expensive beasts, and the pins
aren’t worth much, anyhow.
I live in a remote corner of the N. S.
Wales north-west. Before the Local Gov-
ernment Act was passed a roads engineer
attended to the roads and bridges outside
the municipality. The municipality was
bossed by a fatherly old gentleman on a half-
time job—he used to attend at his office on
three mornings a 'week, and was paid £2 per
week for doing so. Had he been able to use
a typewriter, one day a week would have
been ample. When fluids were running
short he would call personally on a few of
the larger ratepayers and remind them that
they hadn’t paid up for a year or two. Half
an hour’s stroll would take him all over the
inhabited part of the town, so that he could
see for himself whether the maintenance man
was doing his job. Now w'e have a town
clerk wffiose salary increases automatically
with the amount of rates raised. Pie has
an assistant town clerk, also a shorthand-
writer and a health inspector, all of whom
have to be paid award rates. The greater
part of their time is apparently consumed
in making returns and keeping books. As
a consequence, though our rates are a little
more than three times what they were 25
years ago, our streets are actually worse.
The organisation is eminently adapted
for a town of 50,000 inhabitants. It is top-
heavy, however, in our village of 2500.
Or take the shire. One time we had no
shire,, but only a share in a roads engineer.
Now we have a shire clerk and three assist-
ants and two engineers. The roads are no
better than they were 25 years ago.
Or take the electoral organisation. When
a State election comes alone - , the local
C.P.S. is made returning officer, with a fee
of £75. He still retains his proper job, and
draws full salary for that; but, as he has
no time to attend v to it, a relieving C.P.S.
is appointed, who draws £6OO a year, plus
allowances. Hence one man holds two jobs,
and is paid for both, and two men hold one
job and are both paid full rates for it. At
the same time the Commonwealth Electoral
Officer sits in his office almost idle for ten
months out of the year. Even if it were
beneath the dignity of the State to employ
him, there are half a dozen competent book-
keepers in the town who are quite capable
of taking on the election in their spare time
—and a few years ago used to do so.
Another little incident. Jones wants to
buy a small property. As he already has
one, it is necessary to get the consent of the
Minister for Lands before he can get another.
The Minister refers to the Local Land Board
the question as to whether .Tones holds a
home maintenance area or not. The Land
Board debates for a whole day as to whether
the land will carry 1860 sheep (the official
home-maintenance area) or more, and event-
ually decides that it will carry 2000. The
Minister disallows the transfer, and Jones
goes to the Land Appeal Court, which
returns the case to the Land Board to take
further evidence. The Land Board, three
surveyors, a barrister and two solicitors have
quite a good time discussing a point which
Jones knows more about than any of them,
but eventually, if the “Crown” does not
appeal in its turn, Jones gets his land.
I hate appearing to criticise a Heaven-sent
Nationalist Government, but in spite of its
protests I think I could suggest quite a
number of ways to economise.
*
More Chances for Corruption.
Despite a sea of financial troubles the
Bavin Government pursues its great house-
building loan project, under which £9OO is
to be advanced for the construction of a
£lOOO house, and there are hopes that
advances of £lOBO on £l2OO houses will Be
possible. It is anticipated that 3500 home-
seekers will be helped in the first year at a
cost of £2.600.000. and. taking the difference
between the borrowing and lending rates,


THE INGRATES.
“The National leaders are busy chiding their followers for not sticking to them.”
S. BRUTUS: “And, do you know, Bavinus, I believe a lot of those ungrateful dogs
we ran down didn’t vote for us."
the Government expects to have 15s. per
cent, to cover expenses, empties, bad debts
and emergencies.
N.S.W., it is said, is in an unwholesome
way, because at last census (1921) only 50£
per cent, of its inhabitants lived under their
own vine and roof-tree. But whether any
much greater proportion of people really
want to settle down in Mullins-street, or
some other modest locality, for a half-
lifetime’s struggle with the financial Face
at the Window, this paper doesn’t know,
and it has a mild suspicion that Mr. Bavin
doesn’t know either. Perhaps many of them
would prefer a more movable home like
that of the turtle, but are the victims of a
house-to-let shortage, mostly caused by the
so-called Fair Rents.
The whole business is full of uncertain-
ties. Possibly the enterprise may crack up
in some way like various closer-settlement
undertakings. This might happen through
a fall in values due partly to valuations
having been too high at starting. But the
bad risks are not all financial. If the
business grows to great dimensions, the
“oppressed” house-buyer will naturally be
made a political asset, and we shall have
another opportunity for political bribery
and corruption where there are far too many
opportunities already.
Before the purity of democratic govern-
ment can be established we shall have to
do one of two things, or probably both—-
either educate the people to a very much
higher standard or go far back on our tracks.
In this last Federal election, for example,
the cry went round, especially in N. S.
Wales, that “the Nationalists are knocking
11 bob off the basic wage,” and at least
three Labor Senators will owe their election
to that circumstance. The majority of the
people believe now that Governments cau
fix wages just as high or as' low as they
please; and they have been encouraged to
think so. That monstrous fraud the basic
wage has been so coddled by both sides in
politics that it has come to be regarded as
an established thing, about the propriety of
which there can be no two opinions.
The outlook is hopeless until there is
more sincerity in politics. At present there
are very few engaged in the murky business
who don’t seem prepared to sell their
immortal souls for a handful of votes —and
then probably not get them.
*
They Wo It Better in France.
Premier Bruce is back, with a reduced
majority, in the capacity of the lesser of two
evils; in France, Premier Poincare is back
because he has proved to be his country’s
outstanding benefactor.
Poincare has had to fight, in the Radical
Socialists, members of a party which re-
sembles our Labor party, and in the Com-
munist party the equivalent of our Reds.
A difference is that he has always fought.
Shortly before last May Day the “Red
Belt” of Paris announced through its leaders
that the city was to be paralysed by a
transport strike. Bruce, judging by his
inaction in the maritime trouble, would
have waited on events; Poincare antici-
pated them. The promised upheaval was
not given a chance to begin, and there has
been industrial peace in France ever since.
Early in 1926 the financial position of
France was desperate. In three months the
franc lost 50 per cent, of its value, halving
the incomes of millions, and ruining busi-
ness men with accounts to meet abroad. By
July the Government had almost exhausted
its gold in the Bank of France. Poincare
took charge, and his first demand was for
economy. In one morning he abolished all
the Under-Secretaryships of State, and began
a combing-out of superfluous Government
employees—a combing-out which has served
as an inspiration to other public and semi-
public bodies since. Then he began creating
in France a self-respecting national convic-
tion that, with the country’s wonderful
agricultural and industrial resources, it was
in a position to pay its debts. In six months
he has brought the franc from about 240 to
about 120 to the £, and though public ex-
travagance and tax-dodging had now
become things of the past, he and his
Government were more appreciated than
ever.
One of the explanations of these achieve-
ments is that Poincare has never been
afraid of strong colleagues. Five of those
whom he chose to help him put the country
on its feet had led Governments of their
own. One (Foreign-Minister Briand) had
been Prime Minister 10 times. Priminister
Bruce has some relatively strong men
behind him, but he has the weak man’s
fatal attachment to duds. He feels at home
with mediocrities and yes-men.
*
Education and the Basic Wage.
The most far-seeing mind cannot anticipate
all the results which, will flow from an
economic change. Thus it might be
thought that the establishment of a basic
wage would, if it affected education at all,
do so favorably: with a stabilised income
the parent should seemingly be able to
give a fuller education to his child. Other
factors, however, come into play, and experi-
ence, now extending over a number of
years, goes to prove that, so far from the
basic wage bettering a child’s education, it
in reality worsens it.
“We like to get our boys early,” one big
employer explains. “We prefer an inter-
mediate pass rather than that they should
wait for the leaving. The object is to
get them as fully trained as possible, so
that, when they reach the basic-wage line
and we have to pay them accordingly, they
will be fairly worth that wage.” The lad
who stays at school till he has reached the
age of 18 in order to secure a leaving pass
is thus at a distinct disadvantage compared
with the schoolfellow who has been con-
tent with the lower qualification but has
got into business two or more years before
him.
The net result is that the child’s period of
education in the schools is shortened; the
employer has the advantage of cheap labor;
and men and women over the basic-wage
line who fall out of employment find it
increasingly difficult to obtain it.
The recently-published report for 1927 by
the Chief Inspector of Factories in N. S.
Wales supports this contention. Last official
year there was a decrease of over 2000 in
the number of persons employed in the
metropolitan factories compared with the
number employed in the previous year.
Simultaneously there was an increase in the
proportion of boy and girl employees under
16 years of age. Ten years ago that pro-
portion was a little over 5 per cent, com-
pared with 7 per cent, to-day, a flow suf-
ficiently marked to indicate the current. Of
the total persons employed last year only 66
per cent, were over the age of 21 years.
It is another disability to be put to the
charge of the basic wage.
■ ♦
Migration and Manufactures.
On the subject of inter-Empire migration
the most intelligent remarks that have been
made in England for donkey’s years are con-
tained in the report of Canon Pughe, who
looks after the migrational activities of the
Church Army—the tribute paid by the
Anglicans to the success of Salv’army
methods. Above all, Pughe, just returned
from a visit to Australia, condemns as un-
fair, both to the victims and to Australia,
the notion so long cherished at the Colonial
Office that every inch of this country is
arable, and that it is only necessary to
ship inexperienced people here in bulk quan-
tities, and settle them on virgin soil, to
transform them into successful farmers.
Pughe tells J. Bull that to make the
reduction of unemployment in Britain the
first aim of migration is wrong. The main
aim should be to build up the Empire, and
that can’t be done, any more than unem-
ployment can be decreased, by exporting
farm-workers, who form only 6 per cent,
of John’s family. The Canon concludes
that the best cure for unemployment in
Britain is tariff protection for industries
which are being undercut by foreign com-
petition.. Not only that, but he suggests
that British manufacturers should be en-
couraged, by the grant of land for garden
cities, to set up big works in Australia,
where they would have their market at
their doors and adequate protection against
foreign competition.
That is a practical suggestion. Several
British firms have already found it profit-
able to establish works here without any
subsidy or inducement other than the tariff,
and probably Pughe is right when he claims
that many others would jump at the pro-
position if a bait were offered. As he puts
it, it costs £l5OO to £2OOO to settle a family
on the land. A subsidy worth £20,000 would
induce many a British manufacturer to
establish Australian works that would sup-
port more than 20 families.
Bull has shown that, he is prepared to
dip his hand deeper in his pocket to stimu-
late migration, and Bruce and Baldwin
might find it of mutual advantage to dis-
cuss the proposal of the only Englishman
who seems to fully understand the Austra-
lian end of the migration problem.
♦
Unrepresented Sections.
Manufactures employ just on half a mil-
lion Australians. They had a chance of
being spoken for in the coming three years
in the National Parliament by one “manu-
facturer” and one “local manufacturer."
In the House of Commons there is a per-
manent army of about 150 manufacturers,
general and textile. Banking, insurance,
coal, shipping, brewing will have no one to
speak for them with knowledge, and the
R.A.N. and the permanent land and air
forces are also completely unrepresented as
such.
As an example of how this works out,
when the Royal Oak trouble occurred a
few months ago the people of Britain
formed the opinion that there was some-
thing badly amiss with the discipline of
the Royal Navy. They would have gone
on cherishing this delusion, with damaging
effects on a service which means everything
to the Empire, if the newspapers had con-
tinued to be their only sources of infor-
mation. Fortunately the House of Com-
mons had plenty of ex-R.N. members, and
they were able to put the position right.
Certain Australian papers make a practice
of magnifying every petty grievance of the
R.A.N. lower deck into a near-mutiny, and,
as there is no one in the national or any
other Parliament who is equipped to* drive
home the whole truth on the subject, very
serious damage is being done.
Among the candidates were 11 solicitors,
11 journalists and 14 “secretaries.” In a
genuine House of Representatives there
would be at least as many manufacturers
as “secretaries,” as many bankers and
insurance men as solicitors or journalists,
and as many ex-service men as barristers.
That they are absent is the misfortune of
Australia.
♦
The Citizen as a Policeman.
“The legal right of everyone to arrest a
wrongdoer” was exercised a few days ago
by a Sydney hotelkeeper. A customer
offered a bad florin and was seized by the
publican. Coming, as the episode does, on
top of suggestions from the Bench that
those whose houses are entered by private
detectives should do something forcible
about it, there seems a chance of life be-
coming more exciting shortly for non-
criminals, as well as criminals, in Australia.
Not only may anyone arrest a wrongdoer,
but it is a citizen’s duty to do so. Yet
the rule has the usual catch in it. There
must be no “malice”; that is, no careless-
ness amounting to recklessness; in other
words, the arrester cannot afford to make
a mistake. With knowledge of this,
unscrupulous money-seekers often go about
trying to get themselves arrested. There
is the old story of the man who bought
an article from a jeweller and paid
for it by cheque, then walked across the
street and offered it at half-price for cash
to a rival firm. The second jeweller had
the stranger arrested, only to find that the
cheque given to the first jeweller had been
honored. The arresting firm paid heavily
to escape an action for false imprisonment.
Every other week the papers describe
how private detectives burst into a house
at midnight and discover the respondent
and co-re. of an impending divorce suit
in flagrante delicto. The detectives have
no right to do it. Though their intentions
may not be burglarious, their movements
are, and they are not entitled to expect
the co-re. to ascertain their state of mind
before taking action. A great English Judge
observed: “If a stranger broke into my
house after midnight I would get my gun,
I would load it in both barrels, I would
take careful aim at his heart, and I would
shoot him dead.” But what would be the
position of a co-re. who shot a detective
just like that? He would begin by having
to face a charge of murder or manslaughter.
Even the hangman is guilty of manslaughter
till the inquest on his victim establishes
that the latter has died by due process of
law. Suppose it appeared that the co-re.
knew, or suspected, that the iutruder was
not there with felonous intent? In that
case he might find himself wishing he had
paid no attention to Judges who are not
so much concerned to get detectives slain
as to see that they detect in an ordered
manner.
♦
The distributing agents’ demand for the
Christmas Bulletin has been so great that
the publishers have been obliged to issue
a circular letter regretting that in many
cases the increased orders cannot be sup-
plied in full. The Bulletin is commercial
enough to hate having to do this: the diffi-
culty is that the edition cannot be increased
beyond the figure originally decided upon,
because the Christmas Bulletin, calling
for high-class printing, has to go to press
in sections, and the plates of the early
section have been broken lip in the ordi-
nary course. Still there should be no dis-
appointment among regular readers if rea-
sonably early application is made. The
publishing date is Saturday, December 8.


[For matter which has to be signed,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
3. H. Prior,
2U George-
BALANCE ™ MOTOR SPIRIT
ẅ
Shell is the choice of the critical motorist who
must have a well-balanced Motor Spirit.
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
5.680
POLITICAL
POINTS
All the old members beaten at the Plouse
of Reps, election were Nationalists; the
other party to the alliance held all its
seats _ (in some cases by largely increased
majorities) except Indi; and Senate voting
shows that Bob Cook would have won Indi
with 5000 or 6000 votes to spare, had that
unhappy tow-farmer remembered to nomi-
nate. A lucky gain in Wakefield (S.A.)
Avail balance the loss of Indi, and McWil-
liams, who is once more M.H.R. for Franklin,
from which the loquacious Seabrook ousted
him in 1922, will probably sit with the
Cockies again, though the C.P. organisation
has gone to pieces in the Speck. He Avas
Page’s predecessor as group leader.
Though the amazing number of informal
votes (274,000, or upwards of 9 p.c.) has
introduced an element of uncertainty, it' is
clear that Federal Labor will lose some of
the 11 Senate seats it won in 1922 —and it
Avas beaten all along the line in 1925. In
the aggregate it is 87,000 votes behind in
Queensland, 23,000 in Tasmania and 10,000
in Westralia; and it is only a thousand or
so ahead in Victoria, though Forsyth’s death
deprived the other side of at least 10,000
primary votes. The Opposition is sure to
hold the three N: S. Wales and three S.
Aus. seats, but unless there has been wild
cross-voting, two in Westralia, one in Tas
mania and at least one in Victoria are gone.
And Needham, its leader in the Senate, is
one of the apparently doomed.
Though the elder
Riley held South Syd-
ney for the Scullidores,
he found it none•too
easy. In fact, his
majority was uncom-
fortably small consid-
ering that when redis-
tribution is tackled (it
should have preceded
the late election) the
industrial portions of
South Sydney will
almost certainly be
added to West Sydney,
which has 20.000
fewer electors. Son
Riley had a much
smoother time in Cook,
and the alteration of
boundaries Avill only
increase his majority.
Having missed the
political vehicle on
election-day, Labor
campaign -dire ctor
Theodore took refuge
in prophecy, and said
Dad Riley.
that Bruce’s hours are numbered. The same
misfortune happened to Methuselah in his
childhood, but someone lost the paper Avith
the figures on it. And poor old Elisha’s
hairs were numbered, which led to trouble
about 42 children and some bears, the chil-
dren being too slow in getting avvay.
The theory that the most conservative of
three parties has the best luck under the first-
past-the-post election system receives con-
firmation from the results in Maoriland. Of
27 Reform candidates returned on the first
count —magisterial recounts are still proceed-
ing in certain electorates —only nine had
absolute majorities. The Uniteds had 15
majority and 13 minority wins ; Labor had
13 majority and six minority successes,
and five out of six Independents returned had
majorities.
Harry Gullett’s promotion to the Trade
and Customs portfolio is another advertise-
ment for the virtues of aggressiveness. Gullett
had not been in the Reps, a year before he had
established himself as Nationalism’s most
effective Nationalist critic—with most of
Watt’s objections being lodged outside Par-
liament ; Avith W. M. Hughes more peevish
than patriotic and Avitli Massy Greene a
‘Voice off” in the Senate. Gullett started as
a Freetrade boy of the N.S.W. breed, but
he is claimed to be a good Prptectionist now,
though manufacturers have reasonable
doubts. He will certainly add to the debat-
ing strength of the Government, and in
Henty he holds the safest Nationalist seat in
the Commonwealth.
A Hayes and a Hays were among the three
Tas. Senators standing for re-election, and
Senator Hays.
evidently both have
been returned along
with Ogden, who got a
strong personal vote,
as in 1922, when he
came out as a Labor-
ite. Hayes and Hays
were members of the
same Tas. Ministry
from April,* 1916, till
June, 1922 ; then Hays
lost his seat. Two
months later Hayes
was Premier; in
December Hays was
elected Senator; when
July came Hays took
his seat in the Senate;
in September he was
joined by Hayes as
nominated successor
to Bakhap of the flow-
ing mo. They have
been together ever
since, Hayes having
•got in for three years
from July, 1926; and
apparently the association will continue for
another six years, health permitting.
It is to be laid down as a definite principle
of N.S.W. finance that the interest which
accumulates on the loan-cost of a new railway
while it is loafing towards completion is to
be charged to the public debt and added to
the capital cost. Thus the single-track line
which takes three years to build and costs
£21,000 per mile will try to earn interest
on about £23,500 per mile, and not fb.il much
worse for the extra load. And the longer it
is in building the longer it will be before the
Treasury has to shoulder the dead horse.
The S. Aus. Irrigation and Drainage
Commission states that “heavy losses con-
tinue to be made in settling returned soldiers
ons river Murray areas.” During the year
£454,184 was written off settlers’ debts, but as
it couldn’t be also written off the public debt
the result to the community at large is nil.
During the process of getting its Big Tax
Bill through its second reading in N.S.W.,
Upper House Attorney-General Boyce said
that his Government regretted the extortion,
but its dissipated predecessors created the
situation, and it has to do its best. There
is truth in this, but the Bavinshaw Govern-
ment can’t live always on the sins of its
predecessors. It requires to get away not
only from the McGowen-llolman-Storey-
Dooley-Lang past but from a considerable
past of its own, mostly due to Fuller. And
if it doesn’t give a r-est to the policy of
building railways which end at a stump, and
which are notoriously calculated to lose a
few thousand pounds per mile per annum,
Bavin will look as bad as Fuller in a few
years’ time.
An interjection from the press gallery
of Vic. Assembly was an unheard-of thing
till one day last week, when a man with a
foghorn voice interrupted Greenwood, the
Nationalist from Nunawading, calling him a
“rotter.” Before he was hustled out he was
recognised as a Trades-llall functionary who
had pushed his Avay in with others, the
public galleries being crowded, and had lost
his temper when it was made plain that
Hogan’s special effort to dish opponents
was about to result in his own dishing.
Hoping that the Rural Progs, would reverse
their vote on the no-confidence motion, the
Labor Premier divided the House again, and
was licked by six votes (34 to 28). So
McPherson '.s again in charge of Yic. Treasury,
with the Premiership added, and all Nation-
alists for colleagues. But out of a nominal
following of 34 only 18 acknowledge any
sort of loyalty, and it looks as if there
will have to be another election.
A feature of the Maoriland election results
•is the success of candidates, particularly
United-party men, who were new to the hust-
ings. The next House will include 16
Uniteds, three- Reformers, four Laborites and
two Independents who have never previously
sat in the Chamber —an influx of new hands
that has not been paralleled since the land-
slide in favor of Ballance in IS9O.
The Melbourne wharfies who stepped into
the broach when the Waterside Stopworkcrs’
Federation repudiated “the pernicious and
vicious Beeby award” are being herded to
and from their work like convicts. If one
of them tries to get to his job like an ordi-
nary citizen, he is regarded as lucky if he
escapes with a broken jaw. However, he
can’t sleep under lock and key, so he is
liable to have bombs thrown through his
bedroom window. Seven such outrages have
occurred to date, most of them connected
with a dark-colored sedan, and that a whole
family was not assassinated in the latest
explosion was only an accident. The mur-
derous ruffians in the dark-colored sedan are
blowing up more than the rooms in which
they fling their Cowardly bombs. They are
blowing up “militant” unionism.
Municipal Sydney, which lately raised
£2,000,000 in London with difficulty, will want
another £8,000,000 in three years. After that
it doesn’t quite know what it will want. If
the city garbage could be shipped to England
and sold there it would produce a trifle of
real money, which the saving up of paper-
money bonds in Sydney fails to do. The
need of the Australian financial system is
for two sinking funds —a gold one abroad
accumulating at compound interest in gold,
and another one here, for which paper money
would suffice. The first is the problem which
everybody shirks.
In 1 the course of the recent political scrap
in the U.S. President Goolidge and President-
elect Hoover and President-disappointed
Smith all talked about the necessity for a
big navy. The Navy Board has hastened
to demand a fleet “second to none,” and
there is much talk about reviving in its
entirety the Coolidge shipbuilding pro-
gramme, which aimed at much more than
that. Still there is always a chance that
attention may be diverted through the kid-
napping of another lady evangelist by oblig-
ing but imaginary brigands with big hats and
bell-bottomed pants.
Labor makes steady but slow progress in
Maoriland politics. At the late election it
had 61 candidates in the field. Twelve of
the 14 Labor seats were held, and eight new
ones were won—five from Reformers, two
from Liberals and one from an Independent
—so that the party will have one-fourth of
the representation in the new House. Twelve
of the Labor victories were in city con-
stituencies.
Returning J. H. Lister has become a habit
with Corio, which used to be rather notorious
for changing its M.H.R. Lister had a nar-
row sefueak in 1922.
beating Laborite
H amp son (since
dead) by a mere
400 votes, but his
majority went up
to 5860 in 1925,
and he has put
nearly 2000 on to
that. This consider-
able feat should
mean that the pub-
lic will be bored
with no more tosh
about “the Geelong
woollen-mill scan-
dal,” about which
Labor members —
Scullin is the most
persistent offender
Digger Lister.
—have been snivelling for years. The Gee-
long view is that, so far from being a
“scandal,” the sale of the Government mill
was'a dashed good thing for the place.
In the course of an address in Melbourne
an official of the National Bank mentioned
that his institution was prepared to issue
letters of credit available in every country
which possesses banks save one; and as there
is now even a Bank of Abyssinia the travel-
ler has a wide choice. The exception is
Russia. Possibly the Soviet is considered
capable of murdering a stranger for his letter
of credit, and the National doesn’t want to
facilitate any customer’s progress to an early
grave.
The Bavinshaw Government has been
beaten in the N.S.W. Leg. Council on its
proposal to make the income-tax retroactive
as regards profits on the sale of property, and
it looks like being licked —as it deserves to
be —on its equally reactionary proposal to
add taxed dividends to income from other
sources so as to punish the thrifty for the
offence of investing in companies. In Eng-
land, as the “Daily Mail Year Book” points
out, taxpayers are “entitled to recover income-
tax deducted at source of dividends should
the total amount deducted exceed the amount
due on their total income” ; and repayments
are made half-yearly'. Under the Bavinshaw
scheme of extortion a man drawing, say,
£5OO in salary and £5OO in dividends will pay
3s. 3d. in the £ on the dividends and Is. sd.
in the £ on divs. plus salary, instead of Is.
Id. in the £ on the salary. And, of course,
there is no provision for refunds.
The Maoriland election badly disturbed a
state of things which had lasted some 17
years, the Reform party, which had held
eleven-sixteenths of the seats in the House
of Reps., being reduced to six-sixteenths. For
some reason this result has been whooped up
as a notable anti-Proliibition victory, there
being a number of Dry politicians among the
defeated Government candidates, but the
reversal of form can hardly be explained in
that way. Prohibition had been a failing
cause for a long time, and the process
simply continued. Probably the astuteness
of old Baronet Ward, returned to party-
leadership, and the flare of his scheme for
a £70,000,000 loan, greatly affected the re-
sult, though not quite enough to be decisive.
The Mad Hatter may have arrived just before
the March Hare was ripe.
Federal Labor gained nothing by support-
ing a Country-party man against Malcolm
Cameron in Barker (S.A.) ; though the Mt.
Gambier and Bordertown boxes were unfavor-
able to the Nationalist,
he will finish with a
good majority. In
Wakefield, however,
the queer alliance was
too much for Richard
Witty Foster, so the
House which has
known the explosive
but warm-hearted old
Dicky for over 19
years will know him
no more. Maurice Col-
lins, the new member,
is a Cocky of the low-
tariff species. Quite
two-thirds of his votes
-—lie had about 6000 to
sp a r e—c am e from
Labor supporters, and
his success has left the
Scullidoros with the
uncomfortable feeling
that in trying to be
clever they threw away
the seat.
Malcolm Cameron.
The Four Big Men whom Bruce-Page
imported to glance at this continent and
advise generally emerged the other day from
the smoke of the elections. They had con-
ferred with Federal departments. Three of
them were going to Tasmania for a few days.
The fourth -was not feeling his bonny self
and wanted a rest. After a sniff at Tas-
mania there is to be a dash at Adelaide. In
the end the Four will probably take the
homeward boat without seeing the Central
Australian ranges, or Lake Eyre, or the head
waters of the Finke, or the Barkly Tableland,
or Boundary Dam. They may even miss the
Dargo High Plains, where there are snow-
poles to prevent, the winter traveller getting
lost and being eaten by dogs, and Godfrey’s
Tanks, with their commanding outlook on
the Great Desert of Blanky. In other
words, they will miss the best part of Aus-
tralia altogether.
Before the Hogan Ministry went under it
acknowledged the receipt of the Select Com-
mittee’s report on “the bill designed to pro-
hibit and restrain certain monopolies and
attempts to monopolise the trade in machines
and machinery and parts and accessories
thereof.” In other words, the remarkably
successful scheme to make the bootmaking
trade dependent on the renting of U.S.
machinery at the owners’ figure. The
owners won’t sell, and a Fair Rents law
is unknown. The committee was condemna-
tory, but it might have been more vigorous.
In this connection the American idea of
patenting a book is interesting. If an Aus-
tralian writes a book he can get the right
to his own book in Uncle Samuel’s republic,
provided he has it printed there and is
pretty quick about it; otherwise the work
is any G. Washington’s property. Applied
here to TJ.S. boot machinery that would
make a stir.
A difference in the point of view leads to
many difficulties. Turley, of the Waterside
Workers, has his point, and he lately declared
that unless the owners came round to it a
noise of great breakage must follow. There
is a surplus of watersiders sirfce a number
of new men were licensed in place of the old
men who refused to obey the award and
held up ships galore by job-control. Now
the old men promise to give up job-control-
ling, as they have often promised before, and
still some of them are out. The secretary
says these are being “victimised,” and that
it is the clear duty of the employers to vic-
timise the men who came to the rescue
instead. There would be plenty of food to
go round, it appears, provided those who
saved the situation are left to starve, in
addition, probably, to being declared “black."
The divine right of either kings or unionists
is always liable to lead to debate.
AS YOU WERE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ẃ
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“C.Q.” : Making voting compulsory is cer-
tainly driving more people to the polls, but
it isn’t driving them there in free motor-
cars. The politicians have made the dis-
covery that the fear of a fine is sufficient to
fetch the sovereign people out of their homes
on election day, so they are economising in
petrol. The sovereign people in their turn
are retaliating by deliberately marking their
ballot-papers wrongly. In some parts of Vic.
the informals in the Federal election
amounted to over 10 per cent. There was
one voter in Caulfield, however, who at least
THE WAY WE MOVE.
CHILD (spelling out letters on seat ): “Mother, what does t-r-a-m-w-a-y spell?”
MOTHER: “Tramway. It means that the seat is placed along the tramway so that tired
people can sit down and wait for their ’bus.”
gave a plausible reason for liis action by
inscribing bis Senate paper with this: —
With Labor under Unions’ sway,
I cannot vote for them to-day ;
And Bruce’s head has grown so large,
I really don’t want him in charge ;
So nothing else there’s to be done
But mark ’em all with number one.
;5c -!< -!* jJj
“Bill Bowyang”: A new parson recently
came to our township and started out to make
himself popular with all classes of the com-
munity. He even became friendly with the
leading publican, and the other morning he
asked the dispenser of liquors if he would
permit the posting of a church notice in front
of the hotel. Bung, an accommodating soul,
said he would raise uo objections. “Still,”
ho said, “you had better put it at the hack
door. That’s where most of your congre-
gation come in.”
“H.E.R.”: Melbourne’s submerged tenth
may pledge one another in “methylated
spirits with the acrid taste disguised by
strong oil of peppermint” (B. 31/10/’2B),
but it can’t be done in Perth. All meth. sold
in this city must contain a certain quantity
of crude tar, which makes it impossible to
swallow. I know, because I retail the stuff.
* * * =i=
“Playband”: I wonder what proportion
of marriages result from sheer accident.
About seven years ago a Sydney G.P.O. typist
lost her pay-envelope. It had her surname
written across it, and some printed remarks
showed that it was a postal worker’s salary.
She thought so little of her chance of recover-
ing it that she didn’t advertise her loss.
Next day she was wanted at the door. It
was a young fellow with the envelope. Seven
months later the lady “forfeited office on hef
marriage.” They have two children now.
* * *
“Hayband”: Behind-the-line fatalities (B.
21/11/’2S) were perhaps less rare than you
might think. One morning in France I
watched a cyclist tearing along. It was cold
but sunny; the grade was falling and the
wind behind. He bent to the pedals like
Plugger Bill of yore, and seemed to be
enjoying the rush. In a moment, he pitched
from the machine and lay still. Curiosity
impelled me to walk a half-mile to see what
had happened. A dud shell had taken his
head off as clean as a surgeon’s knife could
have done!
* * « *
“Sirloin”: The retirement of Charlie
Brown, the world-famous carver at Simp-
son’s restaurant in the Strand, after 50
years of carving “real English meals,” has
led to the disturbing discovery that English-
men do not prefer roast beef before all,
other viands. According to the eminent dis-
secter of joints, their weakness is for mutton ;
it is American and other tourists who concen-
trate on the roast beef which isn’t of Old
England. Of all the changes Charles has noted,
the fact that the ladies now cat more has
impressed him most. Once upon a time
woman was served with a “half portion” as
a matter of course. Now she insists on a
man’s-size helping, and backs her plate up
for more.
* * s': *
“Lex”: “A penniless barristers’ fund ought
to be opened,” said a legal authority to Lon-
don Evening News lately. “I would
benefit immediately, as would thousands of
others who are suffering from something
akin to starvation.” The London Bar
provides, of course, the world’s worst example
of an overcrowded profession (due chiefly to
its social cachet) ; but practically every Bar
in the Empire is m a bad way. In any Aus-
tralian State the leaders, senior and junior,
can be numbered on the fingers of a pair of
hands. They get the remunerative work.
Lower down are men who scratch along as
juniors till they are forced to take silk (upon
which, as a rule, they peter out altogether)
or their financial salvation arrives in the
form of a minor judgeship or a Crown Law
Office job. Below them are hundreds who
literally get no work at all except from chari-
tably-disposed relations or friends.. The Bar
is one of Australia’s two dead-end profes-
sions ; the other is politics.
“O. McKay M.” : Let me join “Pom” and
“Yenton” (B. 14/11/’2B) with a tribute to
tlie ’busmen of Cockaigne. But the drivers
of the big red L.G.O.C. rattlers aren’t
entitled to all the bouquets. Their offsiders,
as well as collecting the fares, provide the
comic relief. I still recall a Boatrace-Day gibe
at the expense of a sweating motorist, at the
head of a line of ’buses at Oxford Circus,
frantically trying to start his Baby Austin.
The conductor of the foremost ’bus looked
down from the top deck. “Row it, guv’ner;
row it!” he advised.
* * * *
“Morita” : Scraping up sufficient acquaint-
ance with a Digger to start a tender cor-
respondence was a fine art of the English
flapper during the war years. Addresses and
provocative “please write” slips were fre-
quent in the pockets of English-made A.I.F.
uniforms, and I remember a week at Poper-
inghe when, after taking over a brand-new
tent, we gazed from the blankets each morn-
ing at the printed names and addresses of
the girls who had made it, and assimilated
their gracious, wishes for our pleasant
dreams. A cobbler’s romance began with an
address in indelible pencil scribbled on an
LOOKING FOR THE MOORINGS.
“I can’t think, little girl, where I’ve met you before
“Neither can I. Tell me all the places you’ve been.”
egg dished up to him in hospital. Not all the
addresses came from the U.K. either.
Amongst a bundle of comforts socks one of
the mob struck an address in a neat feminine
hand from the backblocks of Canada, and,
scenting a new conquest, penned what he
regarded as a suitable reply. After weeks
of waiting, a reply came in shaky masculine
handwriting thanking the Digger for his let-
ter. and advising that, after censoring, it
had been read out from the pulpit at the pre-
vious Sunday’s church service. The writer,
who mentioned that he was an octogenarian,
added that he had knitted the socks, and
was delighted to have been of service to a
member of the A.I.F.
:f. * * *
“Manar”: All the larger gaols in Aus-
tralia have their bookmakers and punters,
the odds being laid and taken in tobacco
and other “inside” commodities, and nowhere
is keener interest manifested in the Mel-
bourne Cup. This year the results reached
Sydney via the city newspaper office at 3.32,
two minutes after the race was over. By
3.40 the placed horses and their prices were
knowm throughout the whole of the. State’s
biggest penitentiary. It would be interest-
ing to know how the information travelled.
* ❖ *
“Harold Hardupp” : The last of the meri-
torious tribe of Sydney Fire Brigade horses
vanishes with the pensioning off
of the equine veteran Samoa,
who will spend the evening of
his days in the Horses’ Home
at Tuttle Bay. In this sphere,
at all events, the motor has
pushed out the horse completely ;
the stories of old noddies who
used to fit themselves between
the shafts of the fire-engines at
the first clang of the bell are
only memories nowadays. But
the brigades keep many photo-
graphs of their pets of the past.
Perhaps the most celebrated of
them all and the pride of all
fire-fighters wms old Darkie, of
Paddington brigade, a veteran
who would get his engine to the
fire ahead of two-liorsed contrap-
tions with less distance to tra-
vel. The grand old hero, after
four calls in an afternoon, with-
out any sign of slacking at the
fourth, dropped dead from over-
strain at the end of his job.
The fire was a false alarm, too; it would
have gone ill with the indirect, cause of
Darkie’s death if the firemen had been able
to discover him.
'!• *!* -1* *!•
“Oxmead”: None of the ex-Diggers who
waged a desultory controversy a few months
ago over the dimensions, etc., of certain
Australian emblems cut in the white chalk
of the Wiltshire Downs mentioned that there
were four of these memorials. There
were —and are —two “rising suns,” one
carved on the hillside at Fovant, the other
near Codford. These it is proposed to pre-
serve, the Commonwealth Government hav-
ing undertaken to make an annual grant to
the occupiers of the land for freeing the
“carvings” from growth and cleaning them
annually. The other two designs were a
map of Australia and a kangaroo. These
artistic efforts, however, have already been
effaced by undergrowth, and it is not
intended to restore them.
* * ?! -f
“R. Volt”: The possibility of General
Bramwell Booth departing from this vale of
tears at any moment is agitating Army
circles. In the days when the Army’s
activities were principally collecting three-
peuces on windy street-corners and forward-
ing them to England to be expended on thc
poor of London, the original General was a
benevolent despot in the right place. Now
that the Army controls nearly £30,000,000
worth of real estate, missionary schools and
city buildings, the necessity for a more demo-
cratic form of control has become evident.
There is a grand council which is supposed to
advise the Czar of the movement, but its
members are scattered all over the world,
from Peckham Rye to. Peking, and they have
never been asked to sit together. When the
old General passed away the understrappers
inside the circle were much amused at the
tactics of the people who had decided that son
Bramwell was to ascend the vacant throne.
Telegrams were despatched to every corner of
the globe conveying the terms of a demand for
Bramwell, couched in the most pious phrases.
Each branch was instructed to wire the
message back again to headquarters. Bram-
well, like Richard the Hunched, was thus
able to point out that he was the. recipient
of hundreds of requests, nay, frantic exhorta-
tions, to place the crown on his own head.
This manoeuvre would hardly work to-day.
There are several capable administrators in
Australia alone who are confident that they
would make as good wearers of the imperial
purple as any othgr, and the suggestion that
the title should descend by divine right and
not by election to one of the family, and her
a woman, is driving them well nigh to frenzy.
# * *
“H.E.D.”: There is an interesting relic of
early-Australian history in the remains of a
never-completed building at Pitt Town, near
Windsor (N.S.W.). Here, on a level piece
of ground, facing the Hawkesbury, Governor
Bligh set convicts to work to build a country
mansion for him. The building hadn’t pro-
gressed far when the Governor had to make
a hurried departure from these parts. Sev-
eral half-built and crumbling walls and a
few scattered bricks remain to mark the site
of Bligh’s intended residence. A number of
oak-trees which were planted at the time are
now stalwart giants overlooking the fertile
flats.
The Office Wowser moralises:—-
There is a smashing sermon on the perils of
riches in the cabled failure of the Inverclyde marriage.
She comes of a typical London shopkeeping family.
Her grandparents were still actively interested in
the chain of shops which had grown out of their
original ham-and-beef stall when she married Lord
Inverclyde the year before last. The Inverclyde for-
tune comes from a Glasgow shipping business, and
it is as great as that of the Sainsburys. The
originator of the Inverclyde family was the son of
a parson, and old Sainsbury’s father was a local
preacher. Young Inverclyde and his bride were
good-looking, popular and jointly interested in several
sports. But they were both inordinately rich. Is it
too much to say that, if they had been as poor
as their early Victorian forebears, they would be
together still ?
* * * %
“Cooramin”: On a train run from Broken
Hill to Melbourne it was interesting to note
how conversation varied on the different sec-
tions of the line. From the Silver City
down to Petersburg, where the line branches
to the smelters, everyone seemed interested in
the fluctuations of lead and silver prices;
they talked about the dangers of the open cut;
of men being leaded, buried, entombed and
roasted in boiling slag; of creeps in Block
10 and falls of earth in the Big Mine. One
could hear the whole disaster history of the
Barrier if he cared to keep awake. When
we reached the Burra the conversation
drifted to copper intermixed with wells and
dams and saltbush. On nearing Gawler all
that the selfsame travellers seemed concerned
about was the weather, bush-fires and the
price of wheat, and they stripped and
threshed and harvested right on to Adelaide.
From Adelaide to midnight it was dried
fruits, vineyards, wine and haystacks, with a
seasoning of sawdust and spuds, while from
daybreak down to Bacchus Marsh it was
gold—gold and Eureka.
THAT'S THAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ẁ
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Oxmead”: Among Sydney’s quaintly- or
fantastically-named pubs nobody has so far
mentioned “The Rose of Denmark,” out
Waterloo way, which obtained some melan-
choly notoriety in the police court last week.
It would be a safe bet that the hostelry, or
its present name, dates back to the early
’sixties, when the Prince of Wales (later
Edward VII.) was about to bring home a
bride and Tennyson was loyally enthusing
over the “sea king’s daughter from over the
sea.” Unfortunately “The Rose of Denmark”
hardly appears to have lived up to its name,
for a police-officer deposed that it was known
locally as “The Bloodhouse,” and counsel
for an aboat-to-be-jfined licensee declared
moodily that it would take half a dozen pugi-
lists to run a drink dispensary properly in
these surroundings. Probably Waterloo was
far from being the industrial suburb it has
since become when the British nation was
taking Marie Alexandrovna to its heart'.
i'fi # ❖ #
“Jobber”: Touching the hiding-place of
the Marston gang as sketched in “Robbery
Under Arms” (B. 7/11/’2B), there is a
large tract of country in the Mittagong
High Range, about six miles west of Colo
Vale railway station, into which there is only
one entrance. I spent many school holidays
there, over 30 years ago, and remember
being assured by the oldest inhabitant that
the hollow was the dinkum spot. Down in
one corner, not far from the Nattai River,
were the remains of old stockyards.
* * * *
“Pila”: I take leave to doubt that the
infrequent bush criminal has a better chance
of dodging the law than the city crook (B.
31/10/’2B). The modern employer doesn’t
take men off the road nowadays; he goes to
the labor bureau, which may now. be found
in even small townships. Of course, a hunted
man may disguise himself, but in this clean-
shaven era any stranger with a beard is
liable to find himself looked on with suspicion,
especially when a serious crime has been
CONFESSIONS.
“My favorite role’s Louise. What’s yours?”
“The one I get on pay-day, I think.”
committed. Radio is another obstacle in the
path of the criminal who would go bush ;
most farmers have it installed. And it
becomes harder and harder to find hiding-
places in the bush, as the Kellys did, where-
as the late Squizzy Taylor and the vanished
Buckley showed that it was easy for a
wanted criminal to lie perdu in Melbourne
for months. Lesser celebrities doubtless find
fewer difficulties in dodging the police as
long as they stick to the shims. “We get
our men in the country easily enough,” a
city detective assured me.
“P.M.”: “The Bat” makes a very common
error in referring to the “crossed swords of
a general” (B. 14/11/’2B). The insignia
of all general ranks includes a crossed sword
and baton ; that of a field-marshal crossed
batons. There is no badge containing crossed
swords.
* * * *
“Q.S.T.”: “Murkah’s” theory that watch-
and clock-springs slow down (B. 7/11/’2B)
owing to demagnetisa-
tion by the power radi
ated from broadcasting
stations needs to be
taken with a lot of
salt. Radio currents
around the broadcast
ing wave-band are
oscillating at a very
high frequency, and
have no appreciable
effect on the small
steel that is in a clock.
Otherwise, ship and
shore radio stations
would be requiring
new clock springs
every few months. The
clocks in the wireless
room of a ship, owing
to lack of space, are
always surrounded by
transmitting and re-
ceiving gear; yet most
of them keep very good
time. During eight
years’ experience as a
wireless officer I have
never yet found a
clock adversely affected
by wireless transmis-
sions. unless it is put
direct in circuit for
use as volt or amme-
ter. It must be re-
membered that the
amount of power taken
into a wireless receiver
is so small as to re-
quire the most delicate
instruments to mea-
sure it; only a very
poor sort of spring
would have its molecular arrangement upset
by weak radio currents.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: We whites pack a city to the
housetops to see a Royal procession, but
during the Mikado’s coronation procession
the other day all upper-storeys along the
route were kept shuttered by order of the
police. Nobody was allowed to stand on
elevated positions, and wherever possible the
entire population was lowered beneath the
level of the Sovereign by being made to sit
on mats laid along the pavements. Being a
descendant of the Sun God. the Emperor is
sacred, and the most sacred portion of him,
as of all Asiatics, is the head. So great is
the dislike of even the lowborn Japanese to
have anybody walking over his skull that
two-storeyed buildings are still regarded
with disfavor. In Java the same prejudice
exists, and it is considered improper for
anyone to approach a person of higher caste
on the same level. Consequently the waiters
of the clubs to which high-caste natives are
admitted are expected to slide along the floor
like snakes while balancing a tray of whisky
stengahs in one hand and a box of cigars
in the other. A well-meaning Englishman
who presented the Sultan of Djogjakarta
with a replica of the Lord Mayor’s coach
gave the potentate, a serious problem. First
he tried seating liis native coachman on the
shafts, whereat the horses promptly bolted;
finally he had to engage a Dutch jehu, who,
being a white man, could sit on the driver’s
elevated perch without imperilling the Sul-
tan’s prestige.
* * * *
“Gregor”: The latest civil servant to com-
plain that his salary is inadequate is the
public executioner of Paris, one M. Deibler.
Time was when Deibler’s predecessors re-
garded themselves as artists, who accepted
payment for their services only because
HIS FIRST JOB.
“That’s Bernstein, the man who’s just been left quarter of a million. I wonder what
he’ll do with it?”
“Count it, judging by the looks of him.”
executioners, like other people, must live.
It is on record that some members of the
Sanson family, the hereditary executioners of
Paris from 1688 until 1840, received only
a few shillings for decapitations and about
eighteenpence for breakings on the wheel.
Henri Sanson, the last but one of the famous
clan, was a stickler for the proprieties of his
craft, and sometimes took as long as 15
minutes to arrange a subject in correct posi-
tion for the fall of the guillotine. The
French executioner numbers amongst his
privileges the right of free entry to any
theatre in Paris. He is also permitted to
contribute to the newspapers articles on
his various “cases,” in which 'respect he has
the advantage of lawn-tennis champions.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The motor may have driven
the horse off the road, but it certainly has
not vanquished the bicycle, as any driver
who has to thread his way through an indus-
trial district after knock-off time knows. The
lowly push-bike, however, has no attractions
for the modern girl. She will do lots of
things her mother wouldn’t do, but she draws
the iine—which her mother didn’t —at don-
ning bloomers and sweating over the handle-
bars. Two English domestic servants wanted
to see a bit of the country around Mel-
bourne the other day during their afternoon
off, but were unable to find a lady’s bike
for hire anywhere. So they put on stout
serge pants, tucked up their skirts and went
off on a pair of the masculine variety.
« * *
“Kerys”: My grocer seemed acutely
depressed. “Y’ can’t get a good boy now-
adays,” he complained; “they dunno what
tact is. I had a boy here last month, wrap-
pin’ up parcels something wonderful, but not
a bit o’ tact about him. When people came
in and asked fer wot we hadn’t got he never
up and ses we had somethin’ better—just let
’em go away without anything. No tact.”
A week later he was obviously in better
spirits. “See him ?” he said, indicating a
lanky youth weighing sugar. “Wonderful lad
he is. Never says we can’t give ’em wot
they want. Always tells ’em we have some-
thin’ that’ll suit ’em better. A born grocer.
Not much good at parcels, but full o’ tact.”
After this it rather surprised me when, the
other day, I missed the paragon from the
store. “Oh him !” said the grocer. “I had
to sack him. Old Mrs. Green come in the
other day when that boy had a cold in his
head, and, after a while, she says, ‘Have you
addernoids, me boy?’ And that young idjut
un and says, ‘l’m sorry, lady, but we’ll be
able to fix yer up next week—we’re getting a
new lot in.’ O’ course, she went crook. Seems
nowadays when the boys has tact they’ve got
no dam’ sense alongside it.”
* * * *
“Maunga”: Mention of corned breast of
mutton (Bi. 24/10/’2B) sets me recalling an
article of food that I haven’t encountered for
years. When I was a youngster, dad one day
was passing an auction-room at the moment
bids for smoked mutton hams were being
entreated. The old man had dined well, and
genially put in a bidi which caused the ham-
mer to fall. On being asked how many he re-
quired, dad loftily said he’d take the lot.
They arrived home in a lorry—scores of them
—and mum expressed her opinion of the deal
in no uncertain terms. They were hung up
on the rafters of a big shed, and dad after-
wards used to hand them out like nosegays
to all and sundry. He did it with great
liberality, for mum never allowed him to
forget his mad extravagance till the last one
was gone. All the same those smoked mutton
hams were first-class eating; I could do with
one of them now.
* * * *
“X.”: The reported marriasre of Lady
Loughborough to Sir John Milbanke. “the
boxing baronet” (B. 7/11/’2BI. recalls the
visit of the lady and her lord to Sydney
seven years ago. The “fascinating” Lough-
borough was accompanied by Prince Obolen-
sky, a refugee from Bolshevik Russia. The
good looks of the trio were confined to the
charming Lady Sheila and the Prince, the
fascination of the heir of Rosslyn being as
difficult to find as money in his. pockets, lhe
party had a scheme for exploiting, through
the movies, the beauty of the ChishQlm
daughter. The proposed filming of a novel
brought me in touch with them. Sheila
was to take the heroine’s part, and the
Prince, a handsome fellow with dreamy Slav
eyes, would go into the picture, but not even
the Lord himself could find a place for
Loughborough. There was much correspon-
dence, a dinner, a visit to the pictures,
smoke everywhere and vast talk about finance
—upon that rock came wreckage. The last
I saw of Loughborough, since divorced and
left by an irate parent to drift into bank-
ruptcy, was at the top of King-street one
afternoon. By way of relaxation, so he
informed me, he was doing a little gardening,
and he drew from a pocket a packet of seeds,
“D’you know, I’m awfully fond of radishes.
an’ I’m going to sow some, eh!” I wished
him luck; a man so successful with wild
oats should have been able to do something
with radishes.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Over 2,000,000 bricks have
already gone into Victoria’s Shrine of Re-
“embrance, but none of these will appear
the surface, Ihey are only the foun-
Ration, ilie actual edifice will be 119 feet
al » a • °f I^s four sides will look straight
Swanston-street and another down St.
f-iWa-road. It.will cover 4* acres, and there
'T 1 be four miles of granite steps leading to
?, irme P r °Per- There will be 16 carved
f ra , m £ e ur P s ’ 16 bronze lamps 10 feet high,
anc * * ol ! r large groups of statuary, as well
, as f gigantic esc -, 0 ’- - a * .?*- which the
Jp. ca * aa Montford[ is doing the modelling,
nnc room itself wnl be austerely
~P e ‘ Vic orian marble monoliths, 18 feet
a “ d n “ ada each ou ? of a . M le ston ?,’
F hd i Tv, y hic ; h . 11 there W 1
be a window so placed that at 11 a'.m. on
!fIT! I nl l N °^ mbei ; each year tke sun ’, if
$ “ a ray e , xactl y oa tlla
°v,aP.s n T m iv, ran^ e ’ a * JV aln
T ~^ e „Greater
ve Vlan. Otherwise the
ke unadorned except for the tablets
t le rrV iameS T, I ?T ria s dead
sO -T rs> , T 1? whole edifice will be faced
V 1 mar ble from Buchan Redesdale stone
rr om ne Kyneton and gramte from
iynong, Gippsland. The total cost is esti-
at .--50,000, of which £lBo,ooo has
al rea dy been subscribed,
’ 1 „ * *
lrevdee : In these days of shingles and
Eton crops it would be interesting to know
where the longest tresses in Australia are
worn . l know of a young woman in South _
ern victoria whose hair measures 4ft. 3in.
She is a tall woman< and insists that no
sh ort-statured female has ever been known
to grow exceptionally long hair. Is this so?
* * “
a ~ „
l( f voo ‘ ; °ug a • Gone are the days of cork,
emma, jug,” ‘quod” and all the other pecu-
liar phonetics of the army signalman. Aspir-
ing members of the inter-communication per-
sonnel must now learn to say “Edward” for
E, “nuts” for N, “monkey” for M and
“sugar” for S, to quote a few of the new
“phonetics.” Every letter has its new ex-
tension, though the chance of a “fog” through
confusing the letters under the old system-
in which less than half the alphabet needed
phonetics—was negligible,
* * * *
“3rd Light Horse”: Touching those chev-
rons and gold stripes (B. 14/11/’2B). Being
T * v* tt .\ „ '* ,
a . . . H° rseman with the Anzac Mounted
Division, I did not see any of such decora-
tions until they had been in vogue for two
or three years. They were seldom worn except
by combatants who were on leave in Blighty,
where it was considered proper to show the
public, your credentials, e.g., regimental and
battalion colors, chevrons for service, gold
stripes for. wounds and various other insig-
uia—anything to proclaim that you were
not a Base Wallah. And yet, strange to
say, the Base Wallahs were on the whole the
most decorated persons in the Allies’ forces,
In Palestine we hardly ever had a chance to
wear a decent uniform, let alone a deco-
ration, and the oldest campaigner would
wander down to Cairo or Alexandria as
plainly dressed as the very latest in rein-
forcements. The only thing to denote length
of service was a particularly ragged tunic.
IN RICHMOD TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ẅ
N.s.w.
HAMER.


%
We
Roma Alicker Limited
offers
the Safest, Sanest and Surest Oil Investment
in the Commonwealth.
CONTRACTS RELATING TO THE COMPANY.
Agreement dated 23rd October, 1928, between James Maurice Gray Buchanan and Charles William Stanton as trustee for the Company for the acquisition
of PP P 112-113.
Agreement dated 27th November, 1928, between the Company and Roma Brokers, Limited, for the sale of the Company’s shares and the supervision
of Field and Office work.
Drilling contract dated 7th November between the Company and Woodley, Ltd.
a
Roma Oil Corporation Bore
No. 1 is producing WET
GAS, which is expected to
yield from 3000 to 9000 gal-
lons of H I G H-G RA D E
PETROL per day when con-
nected to an absorption
plant of sufficient capacity
to handle the full output of
the Bore.
Roma Oil Corporation No. 2
Bore, which is located close
to No. 1 Bore, is now nearing
the OIL SANDS, and oil ex-
perts as well as geologists
are confident that this Bore
will produce an additional
supply of WET GAS, equal
to No. 1 Bore; and men
who are in a position to
know are TO-DAY buying
Roma Corporation shares on
the exchange at a premium.
THERE MUST BE A
REASON THERE IS
No. 2 BORE may be a
GUSHER.
Do you realise that approxi-
mately 10 per cent, of all
petrol used in the Common-
wealth comes from WET
GAS, and is paying large
profits to the producer in
countries where PETROL is
selling for less than a shil-
ling per gallon?
CAPITAL, £250,000
DIVIDED INTO 500,000 10/- SHARES
DIRECTORS:
JOHN C. JONES, Managing Director First National
Films, 305 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FRED. C. EMANUEL, Solicitor, 1 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. R. OSWALD SEALY, Managing Director Piccadilly
Theatre, Sydney.
J. T. WALL, Estate Agent, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dr. BEDE J. HARRISON, 235 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Major F. L. DAWSON, “Courier” Building, Brisbane.
(One additional director to be elected.)
GEOLOGISTS:
Dr. H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc.
E. C. SAINT SMITH, F.S.T.C.
SOLICITORS:
TIETYENS, McLACHLAN & CO.,
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
BANKERS:
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LTD.,
Head Office, George and King Streets, Sydney.
SECRETARY:
E. S. WOLFENDEN, F.C.P.A., A.I.A. (London),
56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
1 4 Martin Place, Sydney.
Shares may be purchased as follows:
One shilling per share with application,
one shilling per share on allotment, and
balance in calls not to exceed one
shilling per share per month.
The Geological Formations
of the MID-CONTINENTAL
Fields of America, which
have produced millions of
barrels of oil, and the
Geological Formations of
Petroleum Prospecting Per-
mits Numbers 112 and 113,
which are controlled by
ROMA ALICKER,
LIMITED, are almost identi-
cal—Reference Queensland
Government Survey Publica-
tion No. 277. Pages 80, 81,
82, 83.
WHY DID DR. JENSEN,
one of the best-known geolo-
gists in the Commonwealth,
after making a detailed geo-
logical survey of the Roma
district, select P.P.P. No. 60
for himself and associates?
BECAUSE he believed that
Permit No. 60 covered all
of ALICKER DOME, the
largest and most-clearly de-
fined Dome in the entire
Roma Orallo Field. How-
ever, when the final survey
was made, it was discovered
that Alicker Dome extended
south and east into P.P.P.
No. 112, which is controlled
byROMA ALICKER,
LIMITED.
The Oil and Gas Horizon
will be met on P.P.P. No. 112
at a depth of approximately
1400 to 1800 feet.
DRILLING CONTRACT HAS BEEN LET FOR NO. 1 BORE.
ww
Roma Alicker, Limited, is an issue of
shares to develop one of the most promis-
ing Oil Structures yet discovered'—in a
field which must be recognised as past the
experimental stage.
The articles of association of Roma
Alicker, Limited, have been drawn up by
our solicitors, Tietyens, McLachlan and
Co., in accordance with the requirements
of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
ROMA ALICKER, LIMITED
(Registered under the Companies Act of N.S.W.)
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Roma Alicker, Limited.
lJf Martin Place, Sydney.
1 hereby apply for (State in words') Shares of 10/- each in the capital ot the abovenamed Company
upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus.
And 1 hereby agree to accept the same or smaller number of Shares as mail be allotted to me, and I authorise you to
register me as the holder of such Shares.
1 enclose herewith , being 1/- per share on application, and I agree to nay 1/- per share on
allotment and to pay the balance in rails as and when required, such calls not to exceed 1/- per share per month and to be
bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company ..
Dated this day of 192
.V (line (in full)
(State Mr.. Mrs., or Miss)
Address (in full)
Profession or Occupation Signature
SPECIAL NOTE TO INVESTORS.
The following points are specially commended to the attention of investors for the mutual protection of themselves
and of the Company.
Payments may be made in Cash, Postal Notes, Money Orders or Cheques. All Cheques to be marked “Not
Negotiable,” and to be made payable to “Roma Alicker, Limited,” and the words “or Bearer” struck out. The
Company will not be responsible for the loss, misapplication or misappropriation of anv cheque which is not
so drawn. EXCHANGE MUST BE ADDED TO COUNTRY CHEQUES.


7h
“ft* Finc/t Inland Golf -
Link/inAu/tralia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
A
A BEAUTIFUL
ALARM CLOCK
Combining smart design
with real work-a-day use,
this dainty 8-day timepiece,
standing 2J inches high, is
of gilt metal, and is en-
closed in neat leather
travelling case. The hands
and dial are luminous, and
it is a thoroughly reliable
timekeeper.
Priced at 60/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney."
64-66 Castlercagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some December birthdays :
Prof. Griffith Taylor (late of Syd. Uni.), 48, and
Vic. artist Geo. Bell, 50, on Ist; Dr. R. W. Cilento,
35, on 2nd; Rev. Arthur H. Garnsey (St. Paul’s
Coll., ‘ Syd.), 56, on 3rd; Dr. Rivett, 43, artist
Janies Quinn, 58, Dr. Argyle, M.L.A. (Vic.), 61,
and Jas. D. Connolly (former W.A. Agent-Gen.),
59, on 4th; Major-Gen. Gellibrand, 56, and Dr.
Chas. Anderson (Syd. Museum), 51, on sth; Justice
Brennan (Q.), 44, and J. W. J. Denny (ex S. Aus.
Attorney-Gen.), 56, on 6th; Bishop Stephen, 68,
and John M. Higgins (Bawra), 66, on 9th; D’Arcy
AV. Addison (Speck’s Under-Sec.), 56, on 10th;
Bishop Nutter Thomas (Adel.), 59, on 11th; B. S.
Roach (S.A.), 64, on 12th; etcher John Shirlow,
59, H. A. Goddard (London Times representative),
58, and Dulcie Deamer, on 13th; Geo. Ritchie,
M.L.C. (formerly S. Aus. Treasurer), 64, on 14th ; W.
AVarren Kerr (Melb.), 64, on 15th; Senator Chapman
(S. Aus.), 49, Prof. Richards (Q.), 44, John Gunn
(Migration Commissioner), 43, Dr. Cecil Purseir (SycL.),
66, and artist Elioth Gruner, 46, on 16th; Llewelyn
Atkinson (M.H.R.), 61, on 18th; Keith Smith, 38,
on 20th; knight Joe Carruthers (former N.S.W.
Premier), 71, Major-Gen. J. W. McCay, 64, W.
E. Rogers (S. Aus. Auditor-Gen.), 64, and Jas.
H. Gosse (Adel.), 52, on 21st; Justice Harvey
(N.S.AV.), '63, on 22nd; Adelaide’s ex-Lud Mayor
Cohen, 79, on 23rd; 11. J. Sheehan (Commonwealth
Treasury), 45, and J. 11. M. Abbptt, 54, on 26th;
Prof. R. W. Chapman (Adel.), 62, on 27th; knight
Geo. M. Allard, 62, and Dr. E. E. Anderson (St.
AndreWs Coll., Sydney), 56, on 28th; Theodore,
M.H.R., 44, on 29th; Prof. Archibald Strong (Adel.),
52, and Rudyard Kipling, 63, on 30th.
It took the King months to recover from a
bout of influenza in 1925, and there was gen-
eral anxiety when he was reported to be
down with congestion of the lungs, though the
latest bulletins are favorable. George V. is
not of those royalties who cannot be seen
plainly through the haze of skilled propa-
ganda which surrounds them. The profes-
sors of the new science have agreed that the
best service they can do him is to let his
daily life tell its own tale. He has always
been regarded as the highest type of orderly,
respectable, duty-doing Briton. “He is the
sort of man,” said a friend, “whom anyone
would like to have, as a neighbor if he didn’t
happen to be a king.” This expresses the
public’s opinion, and accounts largely for the
friendliness felt for him by all classes.
As late as the beginning of last month
Senator David Andrew and Major-Gen. For-
syth figured with ex-Premier Lawson on the
Vic. Nat.-Cocky ticket for the Senate; and
now only Lawson survives. Forsyth went
over the hill five days before the election-
day ; Andrew joined him 16 hours after the
poll closed. Andrew, who retired in favor of
Bob Elliott when he realised he was dying, was
a Bendigo auctioneer, and was in most of its
public movements, being three times mayor.
Firemen throughout Australia knew him as
a whole-souled enthusiast, and the Caledo-
nians will miss him, as also will the Red
Cross. He is the seventh Federal politi-
cian to die since the move to Canberra:
Senators McHugh, Grant and Givens and
Representatives Corser, Pratten and Lam-
bert were the others.
J. T. Tully, winner of the engagement in
Barton (N.S.W.), is a master at the Hurst-
ville Technical High School, as was his
Labor predecessor McDonald, who dis-
appeared in mysterious circumstances after
his defeat by Ley, three years ago. A native
of Grafton, Tully sat in the same school-
room with Teasurer Earle Page. He went
farming for 10 or 11 years, during which
time he stood for New England and had
unsuccessful shots for the State Parliament,
but returned to the Education Department in
1923.
Harry Gullett, the new Minister for
Trade and Customs, has crowded plenty of
work into his 50 years. He began on the land ;
became a S. M. Hekald reporter under his
father’s editorship at 22; went to London
and did well as a free-lance; saw service in
the A.I.F. (which he returned to Australia
to join) as a gunner and as a war cor-
respondent ; wrote a first-rate history of the
Anzac campaign in Palestine ; was the first
director of the Australian War Museum and
a furiously-energetic chief of the Immigra-
tion Bureau ; joined the Melbourne Herald
under his friend Keith Murdoch as special
political-writer and associate-editor; and left
suddenly in 1924 to fight Henty, which he
won, with a smashing majority. He has been
a success in every job he has taken on, his
one weakness in the eyes of his admirers
being a disinclination to “stay put.” His
wife, only daughter of Lady Headley
(Barbara Baynton, the writer), has been a
big asset to him in his constituency, and she is
partly responsible for his unswerving loyalty
to the fallen monolith “Billy” Hughes. As
a public speaker Gullet has the sonorous and
measured, delivery of his old friend, and in
private life he gives about the best, imita-
tion extant of the Little Digger in verbal
action.
No tears were shed by Vic. public ser-
vants when Hogan threw in the Premiership
after Baron Somers had refused him a disso-
lution. Hogan has his good points, but the
service saw little of his human side and
voted him far too bossy. McPherson, when
Treasurer from 1917 to 1923, was regarded
in the departments as niggardly, but-he was
welcomed back as Premier and Treasurer as
a decided improvement upon the man from
Warrenheip)
BERN A RD CRONIN, whose “Bracken” was so highly commended "by the judges in THE
BULLETIN'S first Novel Competition that it was at once acquired for serial
publication, is English-born, but was brought to Victoria when he was six. Later,
being called upon to choose whether he would be a doctor or go on the land, he
decided for the land, and was sent to Dookie Agricultural College, where he was
dux and gold medallist in 1900. After that he went farming—mostly cattle-
raising—in Tasmania and Gippsland, and “ Bracken” embodies his study of
conditions mainly in the latter district. Fifteen years ago he began to contribute
to THE B ULLETIN; since then he has published 10 novels and very many short
stories. “Bracken” was chosen by the judges chiefly for its fine pictures of life
and struggle on a bracken-cursed farm; but it is essentially a love story, its
sentiment clean and wholesome.
The two most rapidly promoted members
of William McPhairson’s new team in Vic.
are Hon. Minister Menzies, who has been in
the Leg. Council exactly three months, and
Attorney-General Macfarlan, who made his
bow in the Leg. Assembly seven months ago.
Menzies succeeded the late George Swinburne
as M.L.C. for East Yarra, and Macfarlan
became M.L.A. for Brighton after Speaker
Snowball’s death. Among old Parliamentary
hands in the Ministry is Groves, member for
Dandenong. He embraces the portfolio of
Bailways, about the most disputatious of the
lot.'
There are only three barristers in the
Vic. Parliament—Cohen. Menzies and Mac-
farlan—and McPherson has bagged them all.
Of course, under the Amalgamation Act
every solicitor is a barrister and every bar-
rister a solicitor, but in practice the profes-
sion is as sharply divided into two branches
as ever it was. To hud a parallel instance of a
trinity of barristers in a Vic. Ministry it is
necessary to go back to 1874-75. when G. B.
Kerferd, afterwards a Supreme Court Judge,
was Premier and Attorney-General; he had
with him Townsend MacDermott as Solici-
tor-General and J. J. (“King”) Casey as
Lands Minister.
Captain Morin, of the New Caledonia
trader St. Joseph, has found two excellent
relics of La Perouse on Vanikoro Island;
one a bronze medal struck in honor of the
Dauphin of the period, and probably pre-
sented to the explorer by the reigning Louis,
and the other a Spanish silver dollar of the
early seventeenth century, accepted as cur-
rency in the Seven Seas. Giant land-crabs
unearthed the interesting finds, which are at
present in Sydney.
The ranks of the Diggers have dwindled
sadly this year—it is expected to be the
worst since 1919 for deaths from war wounds
and diseases. The Perth R.S.L. lately saw
Tom Lennon, one of its foundation members
and past presidents, to his long home.
Knocked while serving with the 28th Bat-
talion, Tom was operated on 29 times, but
contrived to be cheerful to the last. In
between operations he was a constant visitor
to the Repat. ward in Perth hospital to
brighten the lagging hours of old mates who,
as he explained, were “having a rougher
spin than me.”
Norman Parbury, one of the rising young
men of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
is on his way to England to put in two
years under Sir E. J. Russell at liothamsted.
Young Parbury’s bent for soil chemistry first
attracted attention at Sydney Uni., and he
was snapped up by the department after
passing his course with honors. The Roth-
amsted scientist met him when in Australia
and marked him down as a man to be encour-
aged.
Baden Fattinson, Mayor of Maitland
(S.A.), is only 28, and Maitland proudly
claims him as the youngest chief magistrate
in Australia. A law clerk in Josiah Symon’s
office at Adelaide, Fattinson was admitted
to the Bar at 21 (he had passed his final
examination two years before), was a J.P. at
24 and a councillor at 25. He has
founded a League of Landholders and a Fed-
eral Land-tax Protest Society. The enter-
prising young man is suspected of political
ambitions.
Sir Oswald Mosley, the Labor M.PI who
has been ignored in his father’s will, is not
likely to worry on the subject. The family
estates in Derbyshire, which include a couple
of valuable livings, devolve on him; and
his wife, whose mother was the first Lady
Curzon, has just won a law-suit which
gives her a big share of the Leiter (U.S.A.)
millions.
Leonard Keysor, who is suing a film-pro-
ducer for damages in London, was the only
full-blooded Jew to win a Y.C. in the A.I.F.
He did it on the Peninsula, but unlike some
of his heroic comrades-in-arms, such as Harry
Murray and Jacka, was not heard of to any
great extent in France. He settled in that
London home of Hebraism, Maida Yale, after
the war and has been a good deal in the
public eye since. His V'.C. was stolen a few
years ago and returned later with an
emotional apology.
A check-count of Maoriland election votes
has unseated a fourth Minister, George
Anderson, who held the portfolios of Labor
and Marine. So strong was his position in
the Mataura electorate considered that
instead of mounting the hustings he took a
holiday trip to Melbourne and Bendigo—
his birthplace. A printer by trade, and at
one time prominent in union circles, Ander-
son became proprietor and editor of the
Gore Ensign. He held Mataura for 20
yeai’s and was eight years in the Cabinet.
His successor as member is D. McDougall.
a United candidate not previously suspected
of political ambitions.
Raymond Leane, born soldier and S. Aus.
Chief of Police, has entered his two young
sons as mounted troopers. It is an example
as good as it is rare.
E. A. Hinrlmarsh Stephen* of Haberfield.
Sydney, is the only surviving grandson of
Rear-Admiral John Hindmarsh, hero of the
Bellerophon in the Battle of the Nile, with
Nelson on the Victory at Trafalgar, and the
S. Aus. first Governor, in 1836-38. Hind-
marsh Stephen’s father, GeoTge Milner Step-
hen—younger brother of Alfred Stephen.
Chief Justice of N.S.W. in 1846-73 and later
Lieut-Governor —married Governor Hind-
marsh’s youngest daughter.
£>ir William Macgregor spent a few years
of his splendid life, after founding what is
now the present administration of Papua, as
Governor of Queensland. Queensland appre-
ciated him so much that, years ago, it in-
augurated a fund to commemorate the man
himself and the fact that he was the first
Chancellor of its university. After paying
for a portrait there is £3OOO in hand ; this is
to be devoted to the subsidising of one or
other of medical chairs at the Uni. As
the old doctor would have said to the
organisers of the fund, in the characteristic
phrase which was the only reward that many
of his hard-working -British New Guinea
subordinates ever got from him, “Ye’ve no
dune thaat baad.”
Queensland’s Rhodes Scholar this year is
James Charles Mahoney, born at Marybor-
ough and grounded at the Christian Brothers’
School in South Brisbane. He is something
of a linguist and a debater, and Oxford will
find he can hold his own. at football, cricket
and swimming.
Though the ex-Archbishop of Canterbury
is the first English member of the episcopate
to be created a Lord Temporal—he is now
Baron Davidson of Lambeth —there have
been many precedents in the Irish peerage.
The original holders of the titles of Marquis
of Ely, Earl of Limerick, Earl of Normanton
and Lord Decies were highly placed in the
church; four were archbishops and one a
bishop. The Marquis of Normanby, Lord
Byron, the Earl of Devon, Lord de Maulay.
Lord Thurlow and Lord Wenlock, present-day
peers, are each entitled to wear a surplice
and take up a collection.
Harold Williams, foreign editor of the
Times, who passed out last week, was a
Maorilander whose passion for learning
languages led him early in life to the Inky
Way. Before he had a vote he had mastered
several South Pacific tongues, and he got
his Ph.D. from Munich Uni. for a thesis
on lingoes in the Philippines. His knowledge
of European languages led to an appoint-
ment as Times correspondent at Stuttgart,
where there was a colony of Russian exiles.
Later he went to St. Petersburg for the
Manchester Guardian, and there he mar-
ried a Russian girl. Williams followed the
fortunes of the Muscovite army in the Great
War, saw the two revolutions of 1017, and
was banished by the Bolshies. Then the
Times claimed him as a leader-writer, and he
took charge of the foreign department in
succession to Wickham Steed.
A successful piece of larceny was the chief
claim to distinction of Sir Henry Alexander
Wickham, who died in London recently at
84. In the days -when Brazil guarded the
seeds of the wild rubber-tree jealously,
Wickham was a planter in Brazil. Finding
that the seed propagated freely in captivity,
he organised an expedition into the in-
terior to get specimens of Hevea brnziliensis.
and smuggled them out of the country under
the guise of being ornamental plants for
Kew Gardens. From the 70,000 plants he
thus obtained grew an industry which has
placed the Empire first in the world in
rubber production.
IT LOOKED SO EASY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ŵŵ
AV.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


LAW AND DISORDER.
“Alderman Rogers said a sign should be erected warning residents against throwing rubbish on the land.” —Municipal council report.
Moved by simple faith in signs, “The Bulletin” has a look round.
Poverty
Point
“Adelaide”: The Ridgway circus is abso-
lutely stranded in Balaklava (S.A.). The
proprietors, after several weeks of poor
takings, were in a level-crossing smash on
Sept. 29. George was killed; Charles and
his wife are still in hospital, and the children
are being cared for by a grandmother. The
rest of the party, “without a shilling among
us,” were at latest advices camping under
the pavilion on the local show-ground.
“O. Kay” : The “Desert Song,” now in Mel-
bourne, might be credited with having raised
Lance Fairfax from semi-obscurity; certain
it is that it has made a star of Jack, former
cab-liorse of the Yarra town. Groomed to
perfection, his mane and tail things of beauty
that appear to have been marcelled, he is a
different steed from the down-at-lioof creature
that for quite a time, dozed between the
shafts outside the Temperance Hall in
Russell-street. On-stage, with carbines crack-
ing in his ears, he is a prad gallant and pic-
turesque.
“C.D.”: “L.H.P.” (B. 24/10/’2B) may be
right in stating that John L. Sullivan in-
vited the Sydney gallery to fight. On the
opening night of his Melbourne season he
certainly did so. He did not appear on that
occasion till the last act, having been under-
going a course of preparation under the tap
with intervals for bromide. It was necessary
for the Macmahons to show that the Cham-
pion was in Australia, so he was shoved on,
a very dazed and beery specimen, to the huge
delight of the boys of the village, who “got
to him” at once. J.L. suggested that if they
would come on the stage he would “put a
head on them.” Apparently they were satis-
fied with their own heads, as no one was
foolish enough to accept the invitation. But
he was a good boy all through the Melbourne
season, and when Ashton (also a pug), who
did the villainy, likewise the fight, got over
the fence, Sullivan trounced him soundly,
punctuating his blows with. “Understand”
(bang) “I’ll have no” (biff) “drunkards”
(bang) “in my show” (smash). John was
not absolutely teetotal in the Sydney season,
for one night when he was a bit blotto he
received from Ashton a bigger hiding than
Corbett gave him, Ashton giving him back
word for word and blow for blow with re-
gard to his non-toleration of drunkards. But
the show did not shut after a few nights.
It was the “Evangeline” burlesque and other
American importations that the Macs lost
on. Anyway, John L. was one of the best.
All in the cast loved him. and he had a
heart as big as an ox and a hand that was
never empty for cases of distress.
“C. 8.” : In the description of Percy Grain-
ger’s part in this year’s Hollywood Bowl
celebrations (B. 7/11/’2B) “A.G.M.” did not
mention the important place taken by the
Australian composer’s nuptials. According
to a local paper, following Grainger’s com-
position dedicated to his Swedish lady
the joyous bridegroom ran out and brought in the
future Mrs. Grainger and the Rev. J. Herman Osson,
of the Swedish Lutheran Church. The couple were
married on the stage, which w r as flanked on either
side with the Stars and Stripes and the Union Jack
(Mr. Grainger being an Australian). An A Capella
choir stood by, dressed in Spanish costumes. After
the ceremony they sang Swedish and Australian folk-
songs. The orchestra numbered 126 players and
22,000 persons packed the huge amphitheatre.
It must have been a great moment for the
composer when his country’s folksongs were
drifting over his country’s Union Jack (or
S. and S. —which is it V).
“C.D.”: Maoriland is not and never has
been a better show country than Australia,
in spite of “Goldilocks” (B. 24/10/’2B).
Why some towns are better at times (if
you have a good show) is because the
Shivery Islands never had such a doing from
“Mammoth Dramatic Aggregations of 20
Metropolitan Performers” as this side of the
Tasman has had. The worst show towns
in Australia are between Newcastle and
Munvillumbah (N.S.W.), not because they
are bad towns, but on account of the doing
they have had. Now, if you have anything
to show them, you’ll do all right—next time ;
but it’s no use saying, “Wait till you come
next year” if you have not the cash to stand
the strain. Billy Carroll, Lytton and George
Sorlie have played the country in Australia
for years; when Lytton drops money with
metropolitan ventures he picks it up again
in the provinces, but all named give fine
shows. Is there one company permanently
playing the M.L. smalls?
“Rigalt”: The Gong Theatre Club, Mel-
bourne, had an unfortunate selection of play-
titles. Starting with “The Lucky One,” it
went on to “Life’s a Dream,” followed by
“Danger” and “Broken Hearts,” which
capped the issue, and the Gong was then
muffled for aye. The record was five plays,
40 performances, one broadcast performance
and a substantial debit. v
“Dum Spiro”; I noticed that the Shadow
Showman (B. 14/11/’2S) considered the
scenario of “A Certain Young Man” was
“most likely stuck together by some poor
grub acting under orders to give Novarro and
Marceline Day most of the pie.” The picture
was made in 1026 and shelved, and there have
been numerous retakes and much cutting and
filling. It was probably thought that
Novarro’s rank in the srar list at the present
time would carry the crudity.
“Spokesliave” : If the producer of “Othello”
at the old VicToria in Sydney 90 years ago
(B. 14/11/’2B) added a few characters
unknown to Shakspeare, Allan Wilkie re-
verses the process. In the current produc-
tion at Melbourne Princess the clown dis-
appears from one act and the musicians make
no appearance whatever. In this respect
Wilkie, though much criticised by purists,
shows his sound stage sense. Except where
the humor is an integral part of the char-
acter. as in Falstaff, the Bard’s comedy is
mainly extraneous suggestion or punning of
the feeblest description. A perfect example
is the dialogue in Act iii, Scene 1, between
the musicians and the clown aforesaid. The
average Elizabethan playgoer demanded this
sort of thing from Shakspeare’s people.
“Blum”: Praising Cherkassky’s perform-
ance of the “Appassionata” Sonata, the Mel-
bourne Sundry Show critic says (B!
21/11/’2&) “the tremendous background to
the picture should be physically beyond the
powers of Shura’s small digits.” But long
fingers are not essential, ai’e not even help-
ful to rapid and forceful fingering. Karl
Tausig, credited by every music critic old
enough to have heard him with having been
the most brilliant executant the world has
seen, had small plump hands with fat short
lingers. He used to say that they were made
to exactly fit the keys, and that they played
scales, arpeggios and chords almost of their
own accord. Carreiio at the end of her mag-
nificently muscular arms has dumpy, dimpled
hands. Mark Ilambourg, master of percus-
sive fireworks, has short-fingered square-
shaped hands. Others of the short-fingered
virtuosi that I have heard are Friedman,
Backhaus and (per gramophone only) the
eccentric Chopin specialist De Pachmann.
“Hurdle”: In spite of the assertion that
the phonofilm has now reached perfection
and that the only difficulty is getting players
with an endurable enunciation (B.
21/11/’2B), there is still a lion in the gang-
way—the cutting out. of extraneous noises
during the preparation of the film. A
raucous sneeze from a super, for instance,
has a devastating effect on the hero-
whine’s murmured confession of her pre-
marital indiscretions, or vice versa, as the
case may be, and the necessity for suppress-
ing the customary language on the part of
producers is likely to fill the Californian
sanatoriums with sufferers from blood-pres-
sure.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Wrestling might easily
explain the extra characters east into Rig-
nold’s production of “Othello,” mentioned by
“L.14.P.” (B. 14/11/’2B). It is quite pro-
bable that a couple of trained maulers used
to be introduced as an extra attraction, just
as Rignold introduced Larry Foley as Charles
the Wrestler in “As You Like It.” High-
brows shudder at any interference with the
text nowadays, but interpolations of the sort
are traditionally allowable in Sliakspeare. It
was the practice, for instance, for the grave-
digger in “Hamlet” to turn up information
about each villager’s past identities, padding
out his lines with references to local char-
acters that hugely delighted audiences.
“Hamfat”: According to Leon Gordon,
“White Cargo” has had 22.000 performances,
and he has played it with 24 different casts.
Irene Homer, now playing “The Patsy” at
Sydney Cri., was one of the' American Ton-
deleyos, and, curiously enough, May Collins,
who has recently played the undressed lady
with Gordon, was the Patsy in the U.S.A.
“Mako”: “Prog” (B. 7/11/’2B) is entirely
correct when he stresses perfect synchroni-
sation of word and action as a stern
necessity of the talkies, an opinion that is
endorsed by a Sydney man who recently saw
an advance show in U.S.A. All went well
until there was a slight variation between
the voice and the action, the voice then fol-
lowed the actor round the film like an un-
happy echo trying to catch up. It seemed
impossible to adjust the instrument, and the
climax came when the hero, who was camp-
ing out in a forest, had to arise and greet
the morn with song. This time the song
was well ahead, and pealed forth while the
“singer” was still soundly slumbering; his
awakening later seemed to be due to the
noise of the song. On the other hand, a
couple of acts from opera were perfectly
timed.
THE BANJO'S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ẃ
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


V'
O>Z
Wk
£•*3s
~’-n^,
f*4f
va
res «*l ff
K?
ss
3. ~
Si
«£>
lL
■\f>v''
eg
if* 'I .V
L
7?
*3
ff
;'
Tv
?*s§sss=r
1
%%
. \ \VnN
as
w
5S
itp-
■
li
xf</
w£
d?r
:rL'
&
1
>S
SS
J
iss
'W \,
&4N
y j .-*■
7;
K
CL
E 3
E
'o ' y f7/i r I
1 il SllK’L
7/n
IIL
SA%/-s
U*" .=5
P!v
I-
v&wrw
m
m
c*
mriHi
iirhiuuYii!!!!: :
M
Y?\\
m
SK
st
4de
!!ji;
&
t)
P
m
€
\i
feHAMPION RESERVE
W PORT
i
A A,
F BOTTLED BY THE MAKERS
Thomas hardy &sons limited
i' e , AIDE MELBOURNE & S Y&k„
grAD SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WiUe NEy
{. • *«*'«»
net 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS
44
#
H£
h
2d
y 3
•>
fcs
Fortunate Tintara
GOLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
knew that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


’THERES *
NO THROAT HARM
IN A MILLION
333
s"
20 for 1/0
VA
%
%
ẅ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COAIING WEEK.
I- Tta
Cumsricii .7.7.7.7.7.7. ...7... - “The Patsy”
Empirf “ A Tur£ Secret
St James" “ Good News
Tivoli ....'.7.... Vaudeville
Palace "(com. Saturday) “Double or Quit ’
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song
Rri ,.. r “Interference’
“Within the Law”
Athenaeum “The Family Upstairs
Titoli Vaudeville
Majestic' 7.*..’.. f’ i £- ure?
Oivmpta Wirths Circus
Hoyt’s . .’.7.7.7. Moving Pictures
♦
“On Approval,” the Frederick -Lonsdale
farce (or comedy; each label fits it in dif-
ferent places) which brought tlie Vanbouci-
caults back to Sydney Royal on Saturday
night, is a play for four persons and an
audience. The audience is more necessary
than the four persons: without regular
gurgles to punctuate the lines, the piece
would be almost as effective told by a gramo-
phone. It is English to the nth degree. It
is an anthology of what might have appeared
under the drawings of a year’s numbers of
I’unch. There is no dramatic quality; no
stagey fireworks: no emotional trickery
except one outburst of hysterics, and it leaves
the impression that the playright momen-
tarily forgot himself. Nine companies out
of ten would flatten it by taking it seri-
ously : the Boucicault people succeed be-
cause only one of them regards it as any-
thing but a reasonable excuse for Lonsdale
to relieve himself of a few columns of mani-
cured wit. Lonsdale himself succeeds be-
cause he does not try to do anything else.
The Duke of Bristol (Dion Boucicault) is
not a satire on English aristocracy as a
Galsworthy would surely have had him. The
picklemaker’s daughter (Rowena Ronald),
who adores the Duke and wants him to share
her fortune, is not an assault upon the new-
rich. Mrs. Wislack (Irene Vanbrugh) is not
a take-off of wealthy widowhood, and Richard
(J. B. Rowe), the man who likes her, but
whose tongue is tied by her wealth, is not a
smack at the polished but penurious genteel.
They are all merely uncommon but not im-
possible human beings, actuated by human
motives; and Lonsdale is to be congratulated
bn withstanding the temptation to make
them preach for him: the insertion of “pur-
pose” into every little thing that is played
ROWENA RONALD, with the Vanboucicaults’ party of four at
Sydney Royal.
out behind the footlights wmars tiresome in
these times when the stage is cluttered with
the ventriloquial dummies of the moralists.
•\' iJC V iji
“On Approval,” in fact, hits at nothing.
It says that selfishness is a pretty common
human foible, but makes no plea for its
eradication- —merely laughs kindly at it.
Even the widow’s taking of the young man
to her Scottish home for a month to find out
what sort of husband he would make refrains
from being a hit at trial or companionate
marriage. It is without the shadow of a moral.
True, when she is left, without servants he
finds that she’s a selfish tyrant, and the girl
and the Duke, who also go there, discover
that they are not affinities, but that is all
natural enough. Perhaps a greater virtue
than this avoidance of preaching is the fact
that the piece fits the Vanbrugh with a per-
fect part. In comedy, what a charming act-
ress ! Nothing overdone ; nothing underdone.
Those our queens of comedy who can raise
a laugh only by raising their skirts and
doing risky things with their faces might
study her subtle methods with a little profit.
She does not live her part—she makes it.
Dialogue with her is dialogue no longer—it
is charming conversation. Femininity hangs
like a magic cloak about her. She does not
have to crink the side hair near her ears,
mince, or do twiddly things with her hands
to keep in touch with its. spirit. Every
action, every word is exquisitely feminine.
There is a certain unserious part which she
can play better than any other woman this
Showman wots of, and Lonsdale earns an-
other round of sincere thanks for giving it
to her in “On Approval.” To say that Bouci-
cault is good as the Duke is to utter a
redundancy. Certainly there is not a great
difference between his Duke and, say, his
bland Chinee of “The Letter,” but the fact
that Boucicault is always discernible under-
neath is not altogether disagreeable: he also
is blessed with a stage personality that is
likeable for itself alone. The other two per-
sons do very well, too, though Mis 3 Ronald
is inclined to take things a trifle too
seriously at times. Still, she looks very
young, and to do as very well as she does
in such accomplished company is a fine
feather in her strangely-cut tresses. The
play is a trifle too smart, too carefully
polished for laughter, but nearly every line
of it holds those refined images of the
ludicrous that titillate chuckles out of any-
one who does not demand his humor to he
as broad as the elegant Mo’s and as obvious
as rum and shrub. “You can leave your
door open,” says the Duke, who hates the
sight of her, to the widow, when the others
have deserted and left them snowbound to-
gether. “You can leave your door open—
only the snow will want to come in.” A neat
last curtain A ticklesome play.
* * *
The address of this Showman for police
investigation purposes is 214 George-street,
Sydney. He promises to go quiet, and this
is his confession in advance in case there is
anything doing in the way of razor blades
about the jugulars
of members of the
Sydney Prince
Edward Theatre
Beautiful orches-
tra, and especially
about the jugular
of the big drum-
mer. True, the
orchestra at the
change of pro-
gramme on Friday
night was better
than he had ever
before heard it. It
played “William
Tell,” and, apart
from the obliterat-
ing noise of the
bang-crash drum-
mer, it played it
with feeling and in-
telligence. But the
drummer deserves
to be scruffed, or
at least muffled, as
does anybody who
damns good work.
It was for the
accompaniment of
tenor Alfred
O’Shea that the
rest of the orches-
tra merited lethal
treatment. Poor
Alfred! He did
his best; but if his
voice were a world-
beater, which it
isn’t, it could not
have risen superior
to the bla-tla that
rose between it and
the audience. As
for the lad who sat
at a piano near
O’Shea, he appear-
ed to move his
digits verv grace-
fully. Apart from
. these trifles and
a color-picture of
a very stiffish brand, the entertainment is
tip-top. What could be heard of O'Snea’s
voice was smooth and attractive, and the
management deserves a thousand bouquets for
refusing to allow the hungry audience any
encores. The chief picture, “Two Lovers,”
is quite worth seeing, and, thank Heaven,
there is no scent this time. P.S.: There
Will be no razor attack; this Showman had
forgotten how * effectively the orchestra
subdued the Wurlitzer.
Whether “A Turf Secret,” let out of the
bag at Sydney Empire last Wednesday, will
be still running when this notice appears
ought to be doubtful, but so prone are the
Ilarborites and their daily-paper critics to
condone theatrical unmorality that this
Showman will not be surprised if the crudity
lasts for weeks. It was advertised as having
40 artists; perhaps, counting the orchestra
and the scene-shifters, it had. It _ was billed
as Australianised from an American play;
the Australianising
consisted in utter-
ing the words
Kelso, Statesman,
Strephon and
Randwick at inter-
vals ; for the rest
it was told in bla-
tant stage-Yank. It
ought to be a fair
thin g to expect
players to have at
least a rough idea
of their words;
Violet Elliott, a
better actress than
she is generally
given credit for
being, Alec Aves
and James Arthur
were about the only
ones that didn’t
stand like perpen-
dicular, pie trifled
corpses and shame-
lessly and belatedly
reiterate the aud-
ible words of the
prompter, wh o—
perhaps to make it
clear that it was
he who was doing
the job and not the
dull dummies: on
the stage—s to o d
with his book stick-
ing lialf a foot
beyond the wings.
This critic would
not protest in de-
tail, but would
merely say the
show was pretty
dreadful, if the
theatre was not one
of the best he has
the pleasure of rest-
ing in. It seems a
pity to see such a
good house being
treated in this
small fashion. Either of the two amateur
crowds that flourish unsung in the village of
Manly could give the Empire’s present bunch
of players 50 in a hundred and a licking any
night of the week. The piece, though unholy
melodrama unrelieved by any good humor, is
not so bad that a strong cast could not make
something of it. The three mentioned try
valiantly enough, but, like the neddie that
stands on the stage through the first act, they
are handicapped out of the race by weight.
* * H-
The industrious and red-thatched Mr.
Sorlie and his melodrama experts uncovered
“The Other Man’s Wife,” one of their best
offerings to-date, at Sydney Grand Opera
House on Saturday. The story moves briskly
from a place called Chelsea to gaol, and
thence to the inevitable ranch in Texas,
where everything is straightened out and
happiness stalks abroad. The piece is a fair
mixture of melodrama and the sort of
comedy that George Sorlie does well —crude,
broad, hearty stuff, without necessarily being-
suggestive.
* * *
Oh dear, oh dear ! If one had seen Leon
Gordon only in “White Cargo” and “The
Trial of Mary Duggan” one might have pre-
served the memory of a competent and some-
times even brilliant actor. But Lord! seeing
him in “Interference,” unveiled at Melbourne
Royal on Saturday, one could only come to
the conclusion that when the stage gained
Gordon the pulpit lost an admirable Bible-
thumper. Melodramatic though it is, a man
ought to be able to do more with the part of
Philip Voaze than rant it from curtain to
curtain. The scene between the gin-soaked,
death-sentenerd Philip and the pyjama-clad
light-lady Deborah Kane (Zillah Carter) is
the loudest histrionic uproar loosed in Mel-
bourne since Oscar Asche nightly lost his
half-hundredweight of flesh as Shylock; and
the Firm’s architects are hereby advised to
carefully examine the Royal after .the run of
“Interference” —which, judging by its recep-
tion, should be a long one—to see if the
structure has been permanently affected. May
Collins does well as the wife to the very ex-
cellent Sir John Marley of C. M. Hallard ;
the note of genuine feeling she throws into
her voice is in sharp contrast to the paste
pathos affected by Gordon. Improbabilities
are as plentiful as tinned salmon at Broken
Hill; but, apart from the above reservations,
it is well acted and as lively as a League
final, much of the liveliness being due to
the choice comedy of Frank Bradley as a
divisional police surgeon.
* * H-
A fresh outbreak of Fowlerii Beresfordis-
mus at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, last
week had its compensations in a performance
of the Grand Guignol farce “E. and 0.E.,”
the story of the man who on his death-bed
reveals to his sorrowing wife and devastated
mother-in-law that he has left all his for-
tune to them, subject to fines imposed on his
wife for infidelity and on his mother-in-law
for being a domestic nuisance, the deductions
almost exactly equalling the total amount of
the legacy. He dies, and the interested par-
ties substitute a relative in order that a
LEONA HOGARTH, the good girl of “The Family Upstairs ,"
now at Melbourne Athenreum.
bogus will may be made out in their favor.
The relative takes the opportunity of leaving
the dead man’s money to himself, whereupon
poetic justice is reasserted by the corpse fall-
ing very realistically out of a cupboard and
tearing a hole in the arrangement. The piece
is a brilliant sally of sardonic wdt, which
deserves a bigger theatre and better human
material than Fowler can afford to supply.
If Moscovitch had not preferred to sell his
artistic conscience to the Devil he might have
made theatrical history by producing it. Still,
Norman Blackler. Fowler, Beaumaie Lewis,
Marjorie McLeod and Ewan Macvean did
pretty well by it. Described as “a jest by
Anton Tchekov,” “The Boor” preceded the
Grand Guignol drama. “The Boor” was not
a jest; it was a faux pas, on which Thora
Coxhead threw away some clever facial ex-
pression and sincere emotion.
H- * *
Lovers of Shakspearean drama continue to
stream —in moderation —into Melbourne Prin-
cess. Last week “The Tempest” gave Allan
Wilkie another opportunity for a display of
insensate brutishness as Caliban, who ex-
presses the mentality of a Solomon Islands
cannibal in the purest blank verse. “Romeo
and Juliet” was largely an exhibition of the
scenic-artist’s skill and the grasp of historical
appropriateness possessed by the robes-mis-
tress of the co. Also Alexander Marsh was
an admirable Mercutio, and Dennis Barry
made Romeo a present of his ardent youth
and grace. But, truth to tell, even the her-
culean efforts of Wilkie are failing to make
this season a success equal to the last, and
the question arises whether the community
cannot be supersaturated with Shakspeare,
not to mention the gallant producer-actor
himself.
¥ # *
Moscovitch is replacing Frank Neil at
Adelaide Royal. Neil has played with suc-
cess a long season, through a spring other-
wise curiously lacking in shows. In his final
production Mary Gannon had a chance, and
rose to it well. The Humphrey Bishop co.’s
start at the open-air Garden Theatre proves
that summer has really arrived. The Regent
adds its organ and a ballet to screen attrac-
tions; the costly Australian-made “Adorable
Outcast” —fine pictures, but only a moderate
story—is having a deserved second innings
at the Pav. The York has a reckless air
drama, a sort of mixture of “Beau Geste”
and “Wings,” but Wondergraph relies on
familiar Follies’ girl stuff from N’York. „ An
odd item is at the Town. Hall, where woraen-
only matinee crowds are being told a lot
about Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes—
who professes to know.


INSURE WITH THE
STd
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
.An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
’Phones : L 2715. L 2716.
iSSSm
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company-
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co.
, Dividends N
Net Old. Pref. ToKe- Re-
Sept., Profits. (9 p.c.) (6 p.e.) serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 150,574 111,374 33,000 0,200 174,585
1919.. 145,007 111,374 33,000 633 175,218
(94 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1920.. 159,189 117,562 38,500 3,127 178,345
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
taken over.
(10 p.c.) (9 p.c.)
1921.. 213,949 160,215 49,500 4,234 182,579
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 235,175 169,167 55,000 11,008 193,587
1923.. 293,373 170,000 55,000 68,373 261,960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 84,988 346,948
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,998
1926.. 440,229 810,602 196 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776.975 .. 525,429
UUp.c.)
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(124 p.c.)
1928.. 590,134 485,622 104,512 740,817
For years this groat Sydney brewery co.
has been buying and improving properties
out of revenud. By these and other pur-
chases, including the territories taken over
with Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (New-
castle) in 1920 and Mahon (Wagga) and
Lincoln (Narrandera) in 1924, the co. has
tightened its grip on the trade over a large
and thirsty part of N. S. Wales. These and
other factors have produced the marked
expansion reflected in the table.
Shareholders were last rewarded a little
over a year ago, when £776,975 of bonus
scrip was handed out, one for four, making
paid capital £3,884,975, of which £1,664,475
represents gift issues. Of tli e last lot of
sweets no less than £736,975 was produced
from underneath tli e big blanket with the
tag “Breweries, plant and machinery, rolling
stocks and freehold properties, less depre-
ciation.” And it is highly improbable that
even then the full content of the inner re-
serves was disclosed. Moreover, the gift
was sweetened with an extra 24 pc. added
to the div., which is now equal ~to 15.6 p.c.
on capital as it stood at the close of accounts
in 1926. Enough disclosed net profit still
remained to pay another 2.6 p.c.
Net profits according to the published
figures are arrived at in this way:—
Profit on Management, Exes.
Brewings, Wages, p.c. Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. Gross. of Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 070,783 499,594 74.4 171,189
1922.. 848,723 613,549 72.2 235,175
1923.. 905,468 612,005 67.6 293,373
1924.. 955,987 644,281 67.4 311,706
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1926.. 1,032,200 591,971 57.3 440,229
1927.. 1,284,738 775,653 60.3 509,085
1928.. 1,387,934 797,800 57.3 590,134
Gross profits are those remaining after pro-
vision has been made for bad and doubtful
debts and depreciation, and there is no doubt
at all that some of the allowances under
those heads, and for other contingencies,
have been very substantial. Gross profits have
more than doubled since 1920; the spring
last year was £103,196 as against leaps of
£252,538 and £169,266 in the two preceding
yearsi. A surprising feature is that, despite
the expenditure in connection with the recent
liquor referendum in N. S. Wales, the result
of which was a rout of the Dry army so com-
plete thpt it surprised even the trade, exes,
moved up only £22,147 as against an increase
of £183,682 in the previous year.
With prohibition under the table the posi-
tion in that respect is less uncertain than
it was. Still the fight will certainly not be
abandoned, and there are other troublesome
possibilities lo be provided against. However,
the fact that the brewing business in N. S.
Wales is in so few hands, and that there is
practically no price-cutting in the trade,
means that, given normal conditions, the
maintenance of large profits is a relatively
easy matter.
How well equipped the co. really is to
meet contingencies is visible in this compari-
son of balance-sheet figures :
Ass et s — 1925. 1927 - 1928 -
Breweries, etc... £2,426,241 £3,072,627 £2,936.201
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,345,797 1,480,504
Stock . . . . 409,451 444,676 464,077
Liquid . . . . 182,522 472,171 567,763
£4,190,472 £5,335,271 £5,448,545
Liabilities. . . . 424,740 491,283 499,231
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £4,843,988 £4,949,314
During the year £136,426 more was written
off than was spent on fixed assets. The
more-or-loss liquid surplus (£2,013,113), in-
eluding stocks, was £241,752 stronger than
at the previous balance. The substantial
increase of £308,246 in book debts over the
last three years largely represents the pur-
chase of hotel freeholds, which competition
has made necessary in order to win and hold
business. Over the same period only £74,491
was tacked on to the debt, the composition
of which is not disclosed.
The market expresses its confidence in the
management and the future by paying 495.
3d. for the pound shares, which were at 395.
two years ago. The return at the higher
figure is 5.3 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis.
The visible backing amounts to 235. lOd. in
net tangibles.
Southern Cross Assurance.
This is the young life office promoted by
Thomas Confroy in 1921. He got £12,500
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, and
became managing director:—
Excess
Outgoings. Deficit.
Promoter’s consideration ' ..£13,500 £13,500
Other establishment charges .. 38,189 51,689
New share premiums, £31,250.. .. 20,439
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses.
1922*. . £56,720 £1,357 £87,749 32,380 52.819
Additional establishment charges 10,000 62,819
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,534 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
Surplus
Jane, Income.
1924 f.. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 76,994
1925 .. 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 55,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
Funds.
1927 . . 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 . . 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
*l9 months. flO months.
To begin with, the aim was a large share-
capital, sufficient to see the co. through
several years of hard and vigorous cam-
paigning. No sooner had the money been
got than it was made to fly: £202,616 of the
£300,000 of paid capital at June 30 (£31,250
of share-premiums was got in besides) was
swallowed up in establishment and other in-
tangibles. It represents the cost of setting up
branches, etc., in all the Australian States
and Maoriland, and includes £3OOO paid for
the goodwill of the A.P.A.’s S’African busi-
ness.
However, income overtook outgo four
years ago, and definite progress lias been
made since. The spring in last year’s pre-
mium income (£168,400) was £15,249, and
interest (£15,336) brought in an extra £llOB.
Of the total income exes, took 69.7 p.c., as
against 73.6 p.c. in the previous year. All
that and a very favorable claims experience
—it was only 42 p.c. of expectancy—helped
the year’s surplus along nicely.
But the improvement visible in the first
table needs to be considered in relation to
these figures:—
1925. 1927. 1928.
Proposals accepted 5,084 6,008 5,878
Total of policies. . £1,516,768 £1,696,697 £1,766,058
First premiums . . 49,683 • 57,385 58,294
Renewal premiums 67,014 95,766 110,106
Interest, rent, etc. 23,082 14,228 15,336
Total income .. 139,778 167,379 183,736
Acceptances have shown annual improve-
ment ; in seven and a half years of policy-
writing the co. has won £10,355,945 of
business. The average amount per policy
last year was £3OO as against £291 and £327
m the two preceding terms. Also, it is re-
ported that the co. continues to write a good
class of business, the proportion of whole-
of-life and long-term endowment policies
being well maintained. All this can be
accepted as quite satisfactory. But the posi-
tion in respect of lapses, which are a fruit-
ful source of waste in a young life office,
still appears to be unfavorable, though better
than it was a few years back. For 1927
the total premium income was £153,151 • last
year’s renewals were £110,106 ; premiums lost
through claims, of course, account for part,
though only a small part, of the difference.
An item that helps to hasten or retard
the day when bonuses can be paid to policy-
holders is the cost of putting new policies on
the books. Assuming that it takes p.c.
or the renewal premiums to handle old busi-
ness, and charging the balance of the year’s
exes, against first premiums, then last year’s
new business cost 205 p.c. compared with
2°° P-e-> 191 p.c., 212 p.c. and 256 p.c. back
to 1J24. Amongst other things those ratios
mean that new premiums do not begin to
contribute to funds until at least the third
year.
The office assumes that the life fund will
earn 4 p.c.; last year interest, rents, etc.,
turned in 6.9 p.c. on average funds in the
ordinary branch. The actuary reports that
the value of tangible assets is well in
excess of . the value of liabilities attaching
to all policies m force, presumably at June
00. He adds that, from an actuarial point
of view, the year’s results show a wcll-
marked improvement. Assuming that the
life fund (£239,784) exactly covered liabili-
ties under policies at June 30, then share-
holders could see 7s. Id. of every £1 of their
capital in tangible form.
The co.’s prospects largely depend upon the
management’s ability to cut costs sufficiently
to admit of bonuses to policy-holders. After
that there is the big pile of intangibles calling
tor reduction. Also there was over £31,000
coming to the 125,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. when
the books were last ruled off. So a lot of
money will need to be accumulated before
the ords. —there are 475,000 of them —can
expect to get into the picture. All shares
are fully paid to 10s. each.
In the Accident department last year’s
claims (£10,221) and exes. (£11,720) were
£B6 in excess of the net premium income
(£21,855). Interest brought in £386; thus
the Accident fund grew to £9806, or nearly
£lOOO more than the safety margin usually
looked for.
Victoria Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 45,428 18.2 p.c. = 25,000 20,428 310,398
Transferred to capital, £37,500 .. 272,898
1925.. 71,210 15.7 p.c. = 27,500 36,216 ( „ nQ ... .
Provident Fund, £7500 .. ..) duy ’ 111
1926.. 47,625 15.7 p.c. = 27,500 17,625 1 Q9R -, Q
Provident Fund, £2500 .. .. J
1927.. 45,141 15./ p.c. = 27,500 | g., 049 qqq
Provident Fund, £2OOO .. ) 15,641 ' 54 -”' 5BU
1928.. 61,659 17.1 p.c. = 30,000 \ OQ MQ 971 nao
Provident Fund, £3OOO . . f 28,659 ° 71,039
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 346,039
This co. has been in the business for just
on half a century; and there was a pro-
prietary office before that. It might have
become the leading fire office in Australia
had it been a little less hungry for dividends
and a good deal more vigorous in its quest
of policies.
Although last year was a difficult one for
most underwriters, particularly in Maori-
land, the Victoria was able to show an
underwriting profit (£33,816) more than
double the previous year’s figure. So an
extra 6d. was at once tacked on to the div.,
lifting it to 6s. per share; and then, after
sending £3OOO to the staff provident fund,
£25,000 of reserves was capitalised, making
the 100,000 issued shares fully, paid to £2
each.
Here are underwriting performances over
the last five years :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Expenses. Ratio. Ratio.
1924. . £231,317 £126,738 £84,170 54.7 p.c. 36.3 p.c.
1925. . 253,984 123,475 85,411 48.6 „ 33.6 „
1926.. 253,448 143,864 90,200 56.7 ~ 35.6 „
1927. . 256,102 150,440 88,937 58.7 „ 34.7 „
1928.. 252,241 128,028 90,397 50.7 ~ 35.8 „
Compared with the previous term gross pre-
miums (£426,291) were up £4438 last year,
net premiums were down £3921, exes, were
£1460 heavier, and claims were lighter by
£22,418. The underwriting profit mounted
to 13.4 p.c. of the net premium income com-
pared with 6.6, 7.7, 17.8 and 8.8 p.c. back
to 1924. The expense ratio, by the way,
probably looks better than it really is, be-
cause commissions are lumped with reinsur-
ances in the published figures.
What makes the position so attractive is
the corpulence of the reserves, which are
£146,039 in excess of the £200,000 of paid
capital. Last year investments brought in
£27.843, or enough to pay nearly 14 p.c. on
capital as it now stands.
The. oo.’s own funds and £84,528 of debt,
including £42,224 reserved for unadjusted
claims, are in this form:—
1926. 1928.
Public securities .. .. .. £357,875 £350,222
Cash and deposits .. .. .. 107,992 119,112
Loans on mortgage ■ .. .. 3,700 5,000
Book debts, etc. .. .. .. 22,413 19,727
Branch balances ~ .. .. 34,627 52,438
Premises and properties .. .. 83,043 104,567
There is nothing to cause anxiety in that
lot. Shareholders’ funds were over 216 p.c.
of last year’s net premium income, so the
protection for policy-holders was about 56
p.c. above what is usually considered safe.
The scrip, of course, is tightly held, largely
by the “Money” Miller family; buyers at
955. fail to attract sellers. The return at
that price is 6.3 p.c. as long as the 6s. dis-
tribution continues. The backing amounts
to £5 9s. 2d. per share in net tangibles.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
Managing-director 0. S. Moulton writes:
The “Wild Cat” (B. 14/11/’2B) implies that the
object of the co. is “afforestation.” Actually,
Queensland Forests, Ltd., is engaged in a wood-
goods production and trading business controlling
a complete forestry enterprise. It owns large areas
of heavily timbered country on which are maturing
rich stands of constructional and luxury woods.
Afforestation for several years to come will be but a
minor activity of the organisation, and will be
practised in small blank areas only, which require
filling, in order to consolidate the timber stands
of the whole property. Our business is that of
timberland factors, foresters, and traders in wood-
goods.
You state that the co.’s bondholders are “creditors
who appear to have had most of their teeth drawn.”
The facts are that great pains were taken by the
co. to protect the interests of bondholders before
submitting the investment for subscription. A
leading firm of Queensland solicitors was instructed
to prepare a contract between the co. and bond-
holders which would restrict the co. in the matter
of expenditure of bondholders’ moneys and ensure
to investors a square deal. After the bond had
been drafted it was submitted to counsel. The 1928
Bond Issue Prospectus, under the heading of “secu-
rity,” provides ample evidence that the co. must
act justly towards its bondholders. If it fails in any
of its obligations the bondholders have the right to
possession of the land, appurtenances and forest
stocks, and may seize the whole of the assets of
the co.
You say that bondholders have “no say in the
management of the co.” But is that unreasonable?
Do policy-holders control the insurance co., or the
clients of any other commercial undertaking direct
the management of industry? Bondholders are the
customers. of Queensland Forests, Ltd. They con-
tract with the co. to pay a sum of £5 (or multiples
thereof) over a, stated period, and stipulate that
90 per cent, of such money shall be applied to
purchase timber-lands, to afforest where necessary,
and maintain the growing crops; also to meet over-
head costs of sales, administration, milling and
marketing. It is further stipulated that 10 per
cent, only of the amount subscribed shall be avail-
able for the benefit of shareholders and to meet
unanticipated contingencies that may arise. (During
the year ended June, 1928, two-thirds of the
10 per cent, referred to above was reserved for con-
tingencies, find 3 per cent, only of each £5 sub-
scribed utilised for the benefit of shareholders.)
The co. contracts with bondholders to secure the
freehold title of all land upon which forestry opera-
tions are to be carried out, and to safeguard and
protect the growing trees until they are marketed
for the benefit of bondholders. (Though under the
contract the co. was not required to outlay capital
until 12 months after date of application for bonds
—or until bondholders had paid approximately one-
quarter of their bond money—the company actually
expended £28,854 in advance on this work during
the year ended June, 1928.) The net proceeds of
all sales, realisation, marketing and conversion must
be paid to the bondholders’ trustees, as received,
and the trustees must distribute these profits, and
continue to distribute future profits, pro rata, until
the full amount of £lOO per bond has been paid
to bondholders. Machinery exists which will enable
the co. to continue its service on behalf of bond-
holders until each bond has been paid in full.
Y r ou state that “the bondholders’ money might
be tied up for eternity while the company con-
tinued to reap rich rewards.” As the company can
only profit to the extent of a proportion of 10
per cent, on each bond sold until after its obli-
gations to bondholders have been duly fulfilled, the
co. cannot possibly “continue to reap rich rewards,”
and as the bondholders’ trustees will take possession
of the proceeds of all sales and distribute the pro-
ceeds pro rata among the bondholders as received,
bondholders will at a very early date secure profits
on account of their contract. The co.’s operating-
policy is built round that sound technical principle
of continuous and sustained wood-crop production,
controlled by an intelligent forest management plan.
Markets for its forest output in the building, cabinet-
wood and luxury-wood industries are already assured;
and arrangements are being completed for the
application of stocks to veneer and plywood manu-
facture. Destructive distillation for industrial oils
and acids has been provided for, and also for chemical
utilisation for wood pulp.
Because of a condition in the bond and trust
deed the co. must carry on the whole of its market-
ing operations with shareholders’ capital from the
commencement of activities until 1939. After thal
date trust funds will be available for the establish-
ment of mills, etc.
You state that the provisions of the trust deed
“were not published with the prospectus.” It is
not customary to print lengthy legal documents in
a prospectus; but the co. was careful to print the
conditions of the bond on a certificate which is
presented to bondholders at the time of making
application.
The co. does not “borrow” money from investors
Every bondholder, understanding the conditions as
published, enters into a contract which binds the
co. to complete a stated obligation at the earliest
date possible.
To which the “Wild Cat’’ replies:—
The “Wild Cat” said, amongst other things, that
the co. was formed for the purpose of carrying on
afforestation. That is precisely what the co. says
itself. It issues a “certificate of afforestation bond
purchase,” and the directors, in their first annual
report, referred to “the co.’s afforestation bond in-
vestment.”
What the co.’s “business” in the future may be
the “Wild Cat” doesn’t know, nor do the directors.
But it has their word for what the “business” has
been in the past. The directors say (first annual
report); “Within 10 months from the registration
of the co., bonds to the value of £247,175 had been
sold, and at, June 30 last this business had increased
in value to the very considerable total of £302,766.”
During the term some preliminary work was done
in connection with the forestry part of the enter-
prise; £28,854 was spent on administration, main-
tenance and development. But the part of the co.’s
“business” that obviously pleased the board most was
the sale of bonds. From the proceeds of these sales
£10,407 was claimed as net profit for the share-
holders, after writing £1697 off preliminary exes,
and putting aside £3600 for taxation. Shareholders
got an all-round 10 p.c. div. ( £4813). Apparently
not a stick of timber was sold to do it.
As to the rights, etc., of bondholders, a suave
assurance is given that the bond, after it had been
drafted, w T as submitted to counsel to be examined
and settled. Unfortunately this does not at all
ensure that the bondholders arc acquainted with the
terms and conditions on which they are asked to
invest their money. It is, in fact, admitted that
the full terms of the bond were not published with
the co.’s 1928 bond prospectus. But, it is pleaded,
the co. did print the terms of the bend on a “cer-
tificate of afforestation bond purchase”—which it
issues presumably after the applicant has been regis-


XMAS
1928
Announcement
Extraordinary 1
JffACNAVOX
DYNAMIC
SPEAKERS
REDUCED
PRICES
ALL MODELS
ON & FROM
DEC, Ist
Your Radio pleasure
depends on the Speaker
Improve an Old Set
Perfect the New
By using a M agnavox
Dynamic Speaker
OBTAINABLE
ALL RADIO
DEALERS
Wholesale Distributors in all States
Factory Representativei
D T. HINCHEN, Challis House, Sydney
ẁ
OLEX” IDatches
reflect gentility.
91
Each and even] "Rolex" is an
exquisite piece of artistry' *
the movement so perfect
that it mi l tell “ time on time ”
for generations.
‘Rolex” styles never become
Dbsolete because of their
sxclusiveness.
All leading jewellers
can show you a full
range of “ Rolex ”
Watches.
ẃ
ẅ
This is published for Information only.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
“Moseley, Eureka-Maytag,
Limited”
(Registered under the N.S.W. Companies Acts 1899-1918 .)
NOMINAL CAPITAL—£IOO,OOO
Divided into 40,000 Cumulative Preference
Shares of £1 each and 60,000 Ordinary Shares
of £1 each.
PRESENT ISSUE.
25,000 eight per cent. Cumulative Preference Shares, payable 2/6 on
Application, 2/6 on Allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding
1/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month. These shares
are entitled to participate in profits up to a maximum distribution of
a Ten per cent, dividend.
25,000 Ordinary Shares, payable 2/6 on Application, 2/6 on Allotment, and
the balance in calls not exceeding 1/6 per share at intervals of not less
than one month.
DIRECTORS:
W. P. MINELL, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Q.N.B. Chambers, 2 7 Hunter
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
A. M. POOLEY, The Astor, Macquarie Street; Sydney, N.S.W.
P. HARLEY MOSELEY, Managing Director, 301 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BANKERS:
In Australia: AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LTD.
In New Zealand: BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. DEANE, HASELHURST & HOWARD, Sydney.
Messrs. FINDLEY, HOGGARD, COUSINS & WRIGHT, Wellington, N.Z.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. THOMAS DAVIS, SHEEDY & CO., Martin Place, Sydney.
Messrs. WATKINS, HULL, HUNT & WHEELER, Wellington and
Auckland, N.Z.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
J. L. GROUSE, A.1.1.A., 301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Company has been formed to take over as a “going concern” the
business carried on by Mr. P. Harley Moseley as Agent and Indentor of
Electrical Appliances, etc. The Head Office of the business is at 301 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, with branches in Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth, Aus-
tralia; and Auckland, Wellington and Wanganui, New Zealand. In Queensland
and Tasmania the business is represented by local agents.
SCOPE OF THE BUSINESS.
The business of P. Harley Moseley has been developed on the sale of
the products of several American Factories. The principal Houses represented
are:—-
The Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Company Electric Vacuum Cleaners
(Approximately one in every three cleaners sold in America is a
Eureka, even though the public has seventy different makes and
“brands” from which to choose.)
The Maytag Company Electric and Petrol Washing Machines
(The Maytag Co. is building as many machines as its five nearest
competitors, and though there are over 80 makes of washing
machines on the American market, at least one in every three in use
is a Maytag.)
The Waters Genter Company .... Automatic Toasters and Waffle Bakers
The American Ironing Machine Co Gas and Electric Ironing Machines
Each of the Companies described above, in addition to being the largest
exclusive manufacturer of its kind in the world, produces only the best-quality
appliances.
BENEFITS TO CUSTOMER-SHAREHOLDERS.
- Shareholders will be entitled to the following special concessions, which
will not be allowed to anyone else:
(1 ) Service at cost on such appliances as they have already bought,
or may buy from our Company.
(2) A discount of 10% on all future purchases made direct from
our Company.
(3) A Commission of 5% on purchases made direct from our Com-
pany by anyone introduced to it.
These concessions, instead of decreasing, will increase earnings, owing to the
reduction affected in selling costs.
POINTS FOR INVESTORS.
1. An established business with an efficient sales organisation throughout
Australia and New Zealand, which has proved a profit-earning enterprise;
not a speculation.
2. The certified average loss by Bad Debts during the past three years is
under 1%.
3. The whole of the capital subscribed will go into the business.
4. The Vendor’s consideration is entirely in shares, more than half oir
which are deferred as to capital and dividend, and his remuneration as
Managing Director is principally by percentage on net profits.
5. No promotion shares are being, or will be, issued.
6. The Company is guaranteed by the Vendor against any deficiency in
assets acquired or excess of liabilities taken over.
7. Each of the exclusive agencies is covered by a satisfactory agency contract.
8. Application will be made to list the shares on all Stock Exchanges in
Australia and New Zealand.
9. The saving which the additional Capital would have effected in Interest
and other charges entailed for the last certified completed half-year trading
period, together with the net profit earned during that period, would
have assured a dividend at the rate of 10% per annum on the Preference
Shares, and 21 % per annum on the Ordinary Shares it is proposed to
issue at present.
INFORMATION.
The full Prospectus may be obtained from the Company’s Registered
Office, 301 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, where copies of the Memorandum
and Articles of Association and of all certificates and relevant contracts may
be seen; or from any of the Company’s Branch Offices.
SEND FOR A PROSPECTUS.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS— COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hacliields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1 Alexandria, Svdney, Ti.S.W.
Foundries \ Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q v
“THE WILD ‘CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
DECEMBER NUMBER
ON SALE FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/0.
Principal Newsagents, or True Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every, detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Any class of water system will function more
efficiently with Pioneer Wood Pipe. Corrosion, rust
and tubercles are unknown where these systems are
employed. Pioneer Wood Pipe being self-insulating
is likewise unaffected by climate change or electro-
lysis. Your job will show great savings with a
Pioneer installation. Write for book of detailed
information. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; and at Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * # *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patentu.gf
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * 9 *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * 9
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* 9 9 *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of- Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
* * * *
The Roma Orallo Oil, Ltd., announce registration
and allotment. Shares in this company are immedi-
ately available at par., Is. on application and
balance as usual. An important announcement in
regard to developments on this company’s permits
will shortly be made. Applications for shares to
Roma Orallo Oil, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* 9 * *
The Southern Cross Oil Corporation, Limited,
Ascot Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane, recently
registered, having as its objects the procuring for
its shareholders interests in oil companies whose
properties have been vouched for by expert geo-
logists, has created considerable interest in financial
circles. The directorate is composed of successful
business men, including the late manager for Queens-
land of the Bank of N.S.W. The company’s opera-
tions include, in addition to valuable permits at
Roma, interests in the Longreach (Q.) and Lakes
Entrance (Vic.) Oil Fields.— Advt.
/norms foMfPM
sapmppj^ojisodao
Comfortable
ftoteX!
tti
a
To meet you as you enter
Adelaide; to make your stay
one of unlimited pleasure;
to give the fullest measure of
“Service,” the Grosvenor is
the Best situated and finest
equipped hotel in Adelaide.
S'GROSVENOR
/* c Adelaides Finest Unlicensed JicteL
Opp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace,
tered on the books of the co. as a bond purchaser.
“Why should the bondholder have a say in the
control?” the “Wild Cat” is asked, and is told that
an insurance office doesn’t give its policy-holders
control. But an insurance co. sells policies, not bonds.
The point is that, although bondholders do not enjoy
the same privileges as shareholders, such as that
of appointing directors to protect their interests, they
apparently have not the right to demand their money
back unless the co. defaults. The trustee for the
bondholders, of course, can only act within the terms
of the trust deed. But assuming that the co. does
not default (and there is certainly no reason to
assume that it will), and suppose for any reason
the venture becomes unprofitable (and some of the
best of ventures have at times become unprofitable),
then, for all the “Wild Cat” has been able to ascer-
tain, not only might bondholders’ money be tied up
until sufficient net profits were earned from the
marketing of forest products, etc., to repay it, but
they might conceivably see their money dwindling
away and yet be utterly powerless to raise a finger
in protection of their own interests 1 Much, of
course, depends upon the provisions of the trust
deed, which has not been published with the bond
prospectus. The “Wild Cat,” therefore, does not
know what protection bondholders really have; and
it has never met a bondholder who had anything
but the vaguest notion about that most important
matter.
The managing director’s assurance that the co.
can only profit to the extent of portion of 10 p.c.
on each bond sold until bondholders are paid off
seems to be in violent conflict with the statements
made in the “conditions of bond” in the “C” series.
It is there provided that the co. is entitled to receive
from the trustee a commission of 5 p.c. of the gross
proceeds as they accrue or are ascertained. This
might mean that if the co. made a sale, which for
some reason or other subsequently became a bad
debt, it could collect 5 p.c. gross and leave the loss
to be shouldered by bondholders. However loath share-
holders may be to shoulder losses, they get in
bright and early for the plums.
If for any reason operations should result in a
gross profit and a net loss—and the “Wild Cat”
knows of trading concerns in which that has hap-
pened—then the shareholders could reap their har-
vest while actually a deficit accumulated in the
bondholders’ accounts. Moreover, if that kind of
thing was repeated a few times, it might take years
for bondholders to work off the dead horse.
The assurance that the co. must carry on the whole
of its marketing operations with shareholders’ capital
from the commencement of operations until 1939
might be taken to imply that the co. pays the entire
cost of marketing. Of course it does nothing of
the kind. Section seven of conditions of bond says:
“All costs, charges and expenses paid or incurred
by the co. in connection with the sale, realisation,
marketing and conversion of the timber produce
and any produce of any kind of the section shall
be paid or deducted from the gross proceeds
thereof....”
The “Wild Cat” does not know whether the con-
cern will succeed or fail. With favorable market
conditions it is quite possible that attractive results
might be won, although the present state of the
timber industry in Australia does not encourage
extravagant hopes. What chiefly concerns this paper
is that, so far as it can judge, not one in twenty of
those who have bought bonds knows anything worth
mentioning about his investment. And what he
thinks he knows is, as a rule, grotesquely wrong.
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co.
Writ-
„ , ~ „ . ten To lie- Re-
Uct., 1 roht. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ .11 £ £ £
1918.. 22,828 10 p.c. = 8,346 9,719 4763 30,927
1919.. 22,959 10 „ „ 8,346 8,338 6275 37,202
1920.. 22,631 11 „ „ 9,180 6,400 7051 44,263
1921.. 22,149 11 „ „ 9,180 10,500 2409 46,722
1922.. 14,945 11 „ „ 9,180 5,000 705 47,487
1923.. 21,318 11 ~ ~ 9,180 7,500 4638 52,125
Transferred to capital, £11,923 .. 40,202
1924.. 18,693 10 p.c. = 9,538 5,000 4155 44’,357
1925.. 15,358 10 „ „ 9,538 5,250 570 44,927
1920.. 20,065 10 „ „ 9,538 5,000 5527 50,454
1927.. 22,533 22* „ ~ 21,461 5,000 46,526
1928.. 22,963 10 „ „ 9,538 11,000 2425 48,951
Despite a substantial reduction in imports
and better prices for primary products, trad-
ing conditions in Maoriland were not good
last year. Nevertheless this co. was able
to do bigger business, though it asked a
trine more for its goods in order to offset a
rise m the price of wool. That it was able
t°. “° this is largely due to the extensive good-
will that it has built up through the qualitv
of its products. After allowing the usual
±5OOO for depreciation, £17,063 of profit re-
mained ; and this was a comfortable 18. S p.c.
on capital compared with 18.3, 15.8, 10 6 and
14.3 p.c. back to 1924. The other £6OOO
shown in the table as written off has gone
into a reserve for the extension of buildings
and plant.
. “J the year’s gross profit
(£45,498) was £2145, but exes. (£22,535)
were £3715 heavier. There is an apparent
increase on the 1927 figure: but, then, 1927
bore a special charge of £2OOO on account
of the employees’ benefit fund.
The very satisfactory position in which
shareholders find themselves is largely due
to the care with which the management has
preserved the earning capacity of the plant.
Over the last five years no less than £36 342
has been spent on replacements and renewals,
and all this and another £16,752 besides has
been written off out of earnings over the
same period; thus leaving the factory and
plant with a book value of £35.201 at Oct. 6.
In addition shareholders have had a steady
10 p.c., sweetened with £11,923 of bonus
scrip in 1923 and a special cash distri-
bution of 10s. (121 p.c.) per share at the
close of accounts in 1927. The latter was
because the co. had accumulated more liquid
funds than it could find use for iu the busi-
ness. Notwithstanding all this, visible
reserves at the close of last accounts were
only £3174 short of the 1923 figure ; and that
is not taking into account the £OOOO set
aside out of last year’s earnings as mentioned
above.
Owing to the rapid expansion of the wor-
sted section of the business the board has
decided to instal an extra two sets of caids,
two combs and the necessary drawing and
spinning machinery. How much all this is
expected to cost is not mentioned. Last
year’s special provision won’t anywhere near
cover it. but balance-sheet figures do not
suggest that shareholders are likely to be
called upon for any more:—
1914. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities.. . . £12,719 £34,867 £13,751 £12,163
Plant and fixed
property . . 66,391 53,970 42,807 41,201
Goods .. .. 44,407 68,201 44,999 51,445
Book debts, etc.. . 10,705 32,682 28,155 28,831
Cash and invest-
ments .. . . 35,705 70,491 60,404
The more or less liquid surplus, including
stocks, amounted to £128,517, or only £1377
less than at the previous balance, and £(50,404
of it was in cash or readily-realisable securi-
ties.
Paid capital is in 23,845 £5 shares paid
to £4. The market prices these at £7 Bs.,
the return at that figure being 5.4 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The backing figures out
at £6 Is. per share in net tangibles; only
355. 3d. of that is fixed assets.
Moseley, Eureka-Maytag, Ltd.
This is a Sydney float to take over the
electrical-goods business of Harley Moseley
in Australia and Maoriland. He holds
agencies for the Eureka vacuum cleaner,
Maytag washing machine and other Ameri-
can lines. The Maytag is an eight-year con-
tract, and the Eureka a three-year,, with an
option for a further five years. Nomina]
capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of which
40,000 are 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and the
balance ords. To provide for expansion of
the business, which was established in March,
1925. the public is offered 25.000 prefs. and
a like number of ords. The prefs. have
priority as to capital and advance with the
ords. to 10 p.c. The vendor takes £14,966
for goodwill, equal approximately to three
years’ purchase of the net profits for the 12
months to Dec. 31, 1927, and £8034 for net
tangible assets, which he guarantees to at
least that value. Payment is all in shares,
of which 10.000 are deferred as to capital
and dividend for three years, and 5000 are
to be issued only if the business makes good.
That is to say, if at the end of three years
net profits average at least 8 p.c. on the
prof, and 10 p.c. on the ord. capital'.
If and when the present issue is fully
subscribed and paid, the net tangible backing
for the prefs. will be approximately 465., and
net earnings for the year to Dec. 31, 1927,
were nearly 2i times their minimum require-
ments. Net profits of £lB,OOO are spoken
of for 1929. but if only half that amount is
earned it will be more than enough to pay
an all-round 10 p.c. on a paid capital of
£68,000. The board may go to allotment
when 16,000 shares have been subscribed. It
is proposed to list the scrip. The fact that
the agencies are for brief periods must be
kent in mind. Of course, renewals are pos-
sible; but unless an agent has stipulated for
a good stiff payment for any goodwill he
may create, it pretty often happens that
the principal decides to open up a branch
when the agreement runs out.
Every 10 years or so somebody decides
that the Euriowie tin lodes, in the Barrier
Ranges, are too good to waste. They are
threatened at present with an overhaul—
their third or fourth. Oswald I’ryor’s coun-
trymen say of tin “Where ’tis there ’tis,”
and past experience at Euriowie is that,
though the lenticular veins yield some fine
specimens, the lode isn’t in too many places
where it ought to be. But, again, luck with
a tin lode may change at any moment.
* * * *
“Nosac”: I for one am not going to accept
‘Tomac’s” statement (B. 21/11/'2S) regard-
ing the quantity of oil recovered by (he
absorption plant at the Roma bore. If tests
have been made in the. presence of Govern-
ment officials—and Minister Jones and geolo-
gist Ball were reported to have witnessed
one—quantity results should be announced
either by the company officials or the Govern-
ment department. They could then be
accepted. “Tomac” says those who are ask-
ing for officially-verified figures are poor pes-
simists. Not necessarily. All that may be
wrong with them is that they have met many
credulous fools and know the loss and harm
they cause.
* * * *
From Stewart’s oil permit No. 53 Roma,
owned by Archbishop Duhig and friends,
comes news of a fishing job for lost tools.
The drill had reached 1000 ft. when the acci-
dent occurred. Three showings of gas had
been passed through, the last at 800 ft. R.
Thorburn, the driller, says he expects to reach
the oil horizon between 1200 ft. and 1300 ft.
Queensland Roma Oil Go. is down to 400 ft„
and is awaiting new plant. Australian Roma
Oil Co. is erecting a plant on permit 110.
On permit 128, owned by the same co.,
gas was struck at 400 ft. The Ivayenta co.’s
bore near the Dividing Range, away to the
north-west from Roma, is down to 700 ft.
Water was shut off at 685 ft.
* * * *
A cable received in Brisbane last week
reported the purchase of the Ivoorboora, Gur-
rmnbah and Governor Norman mines (N.Q.)
by the Wentworth F. and M. Corporation,
which has a capital of £350,000. This is the
swag that Fred Brown hawked across
America unsuccessfully. The North is expect-
antly waiting for the promised windfall, but
to say that it is staggered at the estimated
annual profits of £282,000, with tin at £2OO
in London, is to put the position mildly.
All of the shows are reputedly low-grade, and
N.Q'. mining costs and freights are nothing
if not high-grade. The most important group,
the Koorboora, includes the Two Jacks,
Tennyson and a couple of lesser lights, and
they had a disastrous spin when last worked
some years ago. As a possible saver, the
V r ulcan has been obtained under option. Great
mine as it was, it is stoped out down to
something like 1400 ft., and now represents
nothing but a series of anastomosing holes in
the ground filled with water. It was ex-
haustively rooted over for years by breadline
tributors after the co. stopped, and they just
about extracted the last bunch of tinstone
showing.
* * * *
It is very bad luck that the Great North-
ern, Herberton (N.Q.), in rising on its pro-
mising shoot of tin, hit a face of granite, on
which the metal cut out. This probably put
an end to all the maiden country overhead
extending to the surface. The last stopings
have not been quite so good, and crushings
will probably average 8 to 10 p.c. as against
15 p.c. formerly.
$ sj* H* ’!■
“Let Go”: Irvinebark (N.Q.) is wonder-
ing why the Mines Department is adding
10 head at the State treatment -works when
the present 10 head can more than meet re-
quirements. If the Government gave con-
cessions on large quantities of ore, certainly
there would be more incentive to produce h.
? To vbe the Government has something in
view.
* * * -1=
New Moon, Eaglehawk (Vic.), proposes
to reopen the mine at the 310 ft. level, where
the vendors got 60oz. from 14dwt. stone.
The idea is to open up the spur belt near the
surface above the main level. In the Moon
group most of the gold was won from spurs.
Capital is in 50,000 ss. shares, of -which the
promoters take 16,000 paid to Is.; 33,400
are offered.
-j* ijt :J:
Pioneer (Tas.) netted £8662 in its last
12 months, or £2461 less than the previous
year. Output was 206 tons of tin; average,
.793 per cubic yard; working costs, 9.416 d.
The improvement in tin content was more
than offset by fall in price. Cecil Ryan,
the manager, has been searching for new r tin
properties without success. One 9d. dividend
was paid during the year.
* * # *
Star Emerald Co. (W.A.) has just been
advised by a been-and-gone expert to go
deeper. So far about 18,000 carats have
been unearthed, but with few exceptions the
stones have been poor in color and trans-
parency.
* * * *
To meet the increased cost of development
and equipment Ivramat and Ivampong Lan-
jut, two subsidiaries of Alluvial Tin, in the
Kinta Valley, are asking shareholders to put
up more money. Kramat’s capital is to be
raised to £165,000, by the issue of 32,500
new £1 shares. Lanjut’s capital is to be
lifted to £300,000 by the issue of 57,500 £1
shares. It has been figured that Kramat's
area contains 50,000.000 c,y. of fib. ground.
A steam dredge of 150,000 c.y. monthly capa-
city was ordered, but this has been changed
to an electric plant of greater capacity.
Lanjut’s area contains about 92,000,000 c.y.
of fib. dirt. Two big dredges are being put
in here, and again design has been altered
and improvements added. The power for
both cos.’ dredges will be supplied by the
Perak River Hydro-Electric Power Co. Kam-
pong Lanjut’s No. 1 dredge is expected to
start digging in April. The pontoon for No.
2 has been erected. Kramat has much
material on the site, and erection is to com-
mence at once. Recent quotes : Kramat, b.
235. 6d., s. 245.; Lanjut, s. 245.
* * * #
Ratrut Basin continues to have trouble
with boulders and heavy ground in its now
Sichon property. The recovery for October
was only 15 tons, but the average 1.201 b
was high. For the first half of November
31 tons were got from 10,000 yards; four
days were lost through repairs. Flood dam-
age to the railway from the mine to Sichon
port, some 15 miles, is being rapidly repaired.
The new dredge, which is to reinforce the
present re-erected plant by the end of the
year, should improve the outlook. But there
is mystery as to how the ground which was
rated as easy digging on the boring estimates
should have turned out so difficult. The
values seem to be there all right, and the
bad patch struck at the opening may not
be a fair sample.
d*
Much interest is being taken in Takuapa’s
No. 2 dredge, which began digging late in
October. Though 76 hours were lost through
adjustments, inevitable in a new plant, the
first half of November saw it recover 12.5
tons from 50,000 yards. This works out at
761 b., or only three points worse than No.
Ts average for October. The dredge is doing
very well on this showing. Takuapa’s out-
put (48.25 tons for October) should soon
greatly improve.


Forster’s Steel Products
$
$
m$ J
mm\
! UU *
iiikjfe-
i. ,
&>f* *OW< -O' l ®" '
~f c **»*»►
:■■
\
w
t
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
a-L' 7
iiiimmimmmm
1 NOS'Si
nmiiimmiiiii
NHOf
iimimmumir?
iiiiiiilif
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
ẅ


m.
mm
Amazing
Effect of Jm
Yeast Treatment
Remarkable medical discoveries have re-
cently been made. Great scientists, like
Voronoff and Steinach, have combatted
the problem of premature old age and the
decline of health and efficiency in the
human machine, with astonishing results.
Perhaps still more striking, from the view-point of every-
day utility, has been the success attending the introduction
of vitamines, through the medium of a special type of Yeast.
It is now established that these "vitamines” form the key-
stone of Life and Health—without them real
health (to say nothing of clear skin) becomes
impossible! Scientific experiments have proven
beyond doubt that active yeast contains an
element of amazing restorative, life - giving
power.
Rapid change from ill-health to
forceful Youth and Vigor
By means of a tiny proportion of this con-
centrated yeast substance (1/15 -thousandth of
an ounce ) paralysed pigeons have been cured
in a few hours! 200 lbs. of active yeast produce less than
an ounce of the super-active substance , which is the real
lif e-giver \ This is, as it were, the vital part or “Cream”
of the Yeast — quite different to brewers’ yeast —a super-
concentration that can bring about the rapid magic change
from ill-health to forceful Youth, Vitality and Vigor.
Yeast is Life
The Most
Effective
Form is
Cream of Yeast
A Phenomenon —Yet Scientifically proven
beyond doubt
Consider what the capturing of such a wonderful substance
means to weak, jaded, run-down men and women! And it
has been captured! In Cream of Yeast, active yeast is now
harnessed to other medicinal agents of known value, in a
form which makes it the ideal remedy for everyday ills!
The organisation manufacturing “Cream of Yeast” is the
largest in the world producing any form of activated yeast.
It has the largest staffs of scientific chemists; has the
greatest chemical and financial resources, and actually made
several millions of vitamine tablets in the course of work
leading up to the great triumph achieved in “Cream of
Yeast.”
Cream of Yeast a great advance o a
other forms of Yeast
Since only a tiny proportion of the yeast is
especially valuable, it will be understood why
“Cream of Yeast” is so superior to any other
kind of yeast available. “Cream of Yeast”
supplies, in handy tablet form, the most active
known concentration of effective yeast and
recuperative agents “Cream of Yeast” so
scientifically incorporates the vital active yeast
with other acknowledged restorative, energy-
giving and pain-quelling agents that the power
w
Some of the Remarkable Benefits available through Cream of Yeast
"CREAM OF YEAST” WILL STOP
Acidity, Heartburn, Indigestion, Dyspepsia in 3
Headaches, Dizziness, Neuralgia, etc., - - in 4
Depression, Irritability, Brain Fag, etc. - - in 8
mins.
mins.
mins.
Periodical Pains in 12 mins.
Influenza, Catarrh-Colds, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, etc., within 15 hours
Clears Boils, Pimples and Skin Eruptions, usually within 2 days.
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist, Grocer, or Storekeeper for Genuine
CThe Suver
(Yeast Gfonic!
Insist on having
v Cream oj
n. Yeast.
I"
COMPRESSED TABLETS OF
CREAM
OF
YEAST’
The Perfect Yea*t
*V/itamine Tonic
V\ Compound
SURE. SAFE
STRHNCI If OIVtK
”S^
Cap-
c*
r»<J GnJir.arjr
si
>p:»ng Pams.
Habit
SORATORia
s r «»M
«<e
~tp«
e,C' c
Three Sizes: 1/11, 3/6 and 5/9
If remote frovi Chemists or Stores, send your order by post to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
A quiet ATMOSPHERE of
leisurely order; a helpful un-
obtrusive staff; departments, per-
fectly illuminated, wherein are
displayed everything a man or boy
could desire as a gift, and many
suggestions for men’s gift-giving
to women—that is the pleasure
of Christmas shopping at Peapes’.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
&
nrhe purest tobacco only ,
Wrapped in snoTD-white
paper without any trimmings
has made <(C Uhe Qreys” the
best "Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for gd. CIGARETTES so for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. .’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Fingerpoint”: The recent shooting of
natives in the N.T. was probably their own
fault. The abo.’s law is strictly an eye
for an eye.” Whose eye it is doesn t much
matter. The lust for blood is born in the
AS MRS. GUBBINS SAW IT.
“Seems to me everything’s dearer this month, Mrs. Blimey. Boots has gone up now."
“Yes, and it’d he a nimprovement, to my way o' thinking, Mrs. Lummey, if dresses
come down and boots stayed where they was."
native, and when he murders it is invariably
treacherously. He then clears out, knowing
that in the near future relatives of the mur-
dered person will be after his hide. If they
cannot get him they will get some innocent
member of his tribe, a helpless old man or a
sleeping gin. No murder is left unavenged.
Hence, Binghi thinks the white man s law
foolish, for though it occasionally chases him
over the landscape when he has done some-
thing particularly atrocious, if it catches him
it merely sends him for a few moons to a
home wherein is plenty of tucker and Shelter
and even 'bacca, all for nothing. The further-
out abos. have got the idea into their heads
that they can murder isolated whites with
impunity, and they have acted on that idea
frequently in the last two years. To shoot
a suspected murderer who is endeavoring to
escape is as much the duty of the police
in the Outback as it is in Melbourne or
Sydney. .
* * •<= *
“6GY.” : Dynamiting fish is illegal in the
British Solomons, but recently when I saw
a 14-foot shark cruising round my planta-
tion wharf, and had had several fruitless
shots at it with a rifle, I decided to break the
law and risk the consequences. I took a
plug of dynamite, a detonator and six inches
of fuse, wrapped it up in a piece ot beef,
then set a match to the fuse and threw the
lot into the water. The monster swallowed
the beef in one gulp and swam round looking-
for more. His nibs finally took a dive
under my new whaleboat, which was
anchored off the wharf, and just as he got
under it the explosion occurred. A large
hole appeared in the bottom of the boat and
a piece of shark came up through it, while
other pieces came to the surface and were
eagerly collected by the yelling and delighted
natives. I was not so delighted.
* * * •••_
“Cooramin” : Australia has some big pas-
toralists who have never seen the runs
that they draw their incomes from, lue late
W. F. Buchanan was one. He owned the
much talked-of Wave Hill (N.A.), the
second-largest cattle ranch in the country,
its neighbor, Victoria Downs-
square miles—being the biggest. When it
was sold to Vestey Bros, it had 75,000
cattle and 1400 horses on it. Buchanan was
never anywhere near it and had owned it toi
15 years before he saw a beast that had
been bred there.
* * * *
“C Coral”: Rabbits were given an early
introduction to the far north of Australia.
The official records of Somerset (which
was the Government settlement before
Thursday Island was founded) state that
in 1870' Major Douglas landed a number
of the little beasts at Booby Island.
A year later they “appear to be thriving.
Booby Island was a depot for shipwrecked
sailors, and the stores placed periodically m
the cave there drew unprincipled white tre-
pang-fishers and covetous blacks to the little,
isolated island on periodic raids; so it is
probable that Bunny was exterminated by
these raiders. At any rate, none of the
descendants of Major Douglas’s batch are to
be found on Booby Island now.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE.
ISAAC (to fireman) : "Am I avake, or is id just a beaudiful dream?"
“Mulgo”: Muddy water can be cleared
with several substances. The best for home
use is copi (gypsum), which is found m
great quantities over the north-western parts
of N.S.WC Ferric chloride (steel drops m
solution) is handy for dams, as a couple of
ounces will clear about 50,000 _ gallons m a
few hours. Lemon juice and lime juice are
good for small quantities. While droving
in Queensland I made tea with muddy water
at two or three different places, and as soon
as brown sugar was dropped into the bucket
the tea became quite clear. As there are
many different minerals in waters in the
bush, I can’t say if brown sugar would
always act. Lime, alum and Epsom salts,
which some people use as clarifiers, are
injurious if much used, and wood ashes
often have a purging effect.
:]: * * . *
“Claude AY.”: The North Q’land natives
have an ingenious method of catching turtles
by means of the sucking-fish. The first fin
of this fish is modified to form a sucking
disc on the upper surface of the head, by
means of which they are able to attach them-
selves to anything. Having caught their
sucker the natives fasten a light but strong
cord round the slenderest part of the tail.
When going out turtle fishing they first
attach the sucker to the bottom of the boat,
where it remains until required. AA T hen the
hunters have located a floating turtle they
approach as closely as possible without dis-
turbing their quarry, and then detaching
the sucker from the canoe they fling it in
the direction of the turtle, to which more
congenial host it immediately attaches itself.
Securing the turtle is then just a matter ot
cautious handling.
“Pudden”: A recent par. about the cutting-
up of Mt. Cornish station reminds me that I
was there in ’95, when it carried one of the
finest shorthorn herds in Australia. R. E.
Edkins, the manager, was the daddy of them
all at yard work. I’ve seen the old man at
work, classing bullocks for shipment alive to
England. He was a handsome old chap, most
dignified and stately. He’d step into the
pound yard with not a speck of dust on his
clothing and with the air of a Beau Brummel.
Occasionally, when in doubt, he’d stroke his
long beard, and if a bullock charged him he
had two means of defence. He’d flick his
handkerchief in its face, and if that didn t
work he’d bring his lead-loaded dogger into
play. By the time that bullock scrambled
to its feet Edkins would have made up his
mind to which class it belonged.
“Tlayband” : An odd camp was that of two
bushmen who for two years lived in a vault
in the old Devonsliire-street cemetery, in Syd-
ney, now the site of the Central railway
station. A contractor going over the long-
disused burying-ground noticed a well-worn
path leading down. Investigating, he dis-
covered a roomy basement, so to put it, con-
taining evidences of long residence. There
were bunks (constructed of grave-railings),
storm lanterns, a galvanised bucket, shaving
gear and a primus stove. A near-by tap
furnished wmter. Returning that evening, lie
arrived just as the chops were done. The
tenants said they arrived in Sydney during
Easter. Beds were as hard to find as an
oyster’s toenails, so they scaled the cemetery
fence and camped for the night. Prospecting
next morning, they discovered the vault and
decided if beds remained infrequent they
would return there that night. They asked
for a week’s notice, which the amused con-
tractor, an old hushman, readily granted.
$ H* V
“Bad Australian”: The picture-show at
Darwin (N.T.) is roofless, and when it
rains the assembled multitude makes a rush
for the shelter of the Pong store verandahs
over the road or the pub around the corner.
When the rain ceases the congregation, with
the exception of those who have become
snugly anchored in the haven round the
corner, drifts hack, and the show goes on.
Music is provided by a piano sheltered m
a small shack in a corner of the enclosure.
Government officials, business people, more
or less opulent Chows 'and their families,
and flash half-castes occupy the front
seats —deck-chairs —and abos. and the rough
stuff roost on a skeleton staging at the
back of the pen. When a cowboy picture
is thrown on the screen Black Brother fairly
howls with excitement, and pandemonium
would sound like a Quakers’ meeting com-
pared with the row that arises. Mister Gub -
ment allows Jacky to see only such pictures
as have been approved by the Chief Protector
of Abos., and the titles of these pictures and
the dates on which Jacky will be permitted
to view them appear in the Government
Gazette.
* * * *
“Wingella”: As a rule new arrivals in
the N.T. find themselves putting on flesh,
and most of the old hands are at the least
pleasantly plum]). American scientists have
a theory that fat is a protection against
heat, the fat man being able to stand higher
temperatures than his thinner brother’. If
that is right the choice of the right type of
people for tropical Australia is a matter for
the doctor and not for the politician.
* * *
“Cuchulain”: One of the most extraordi-
nary accidents of the year happened near
Roma (Q.) when a man out with a ooupl-
of mates" hopped off his lorry with. a rifle
to have a shot at some emus. Tripping, the
gun went: off suddenly, the bullet killing one
man outright, and, passing through his body,
wounding the other mortally, before becom-
ing embedded in the seat of the lorry, which
at once caught fire, the' truck being reduced
to ashes.
(Continued on page 25 A
BLEATING SHEEP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
è
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Hou will like
this savoury*
-A-
& 1
m
m
An Easy Recipe.
e
Salmonelle Savoury.
Cut some tomatoes into rounds and fry
in a little butter; have ready some small
rounds of buttered toast or small toast
biscuits. Spread with Salmonelle, put a
slice of tomato on each and cover with
grated cheese. Decorate with a few capers.
Put in oven for a few minutes and serve
hot or cold.
Salmonelle is a choice REX fish paste with
a delightfully delicate flavour. It is delicious
for sandwiches.
In dainty glass jars.
Rex Salmonelle
li
V!
rvis.
37
mil)
(K«r. 'i
I
2&S
'*'>• -fflS
fetes
@OK2S*s limited
•'/a^c
ti
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
Luncheon Cheese, in 40z.& 2oz.
Rex-Pye, in lib and £lb tins
Ham Pate, 2oz. and 3ioz lins
Veal and Tongue Pate
Devilled Ham
tin. & porcelain jars
Ham and Tongue
Veal and Bacon
Anchovy Paste
Bloater Paste
FOGCITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists -
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, ltd.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
ê
always a Standby
mm
WS&
%
7*
E 3
r
v.
SutoMcw &r Q/Ueltb
DELICIOUS
PLUM PUDDINGS
fev' WHEREEVER YOU TRADE BUY AUSTRALIAN MADE
COUNTLESS housewives include
Swallow and Ariell’s Plum
Puddings in their menu once
a week at least. Their richness,
fruitiness and incomparable flavor
have made them first favorite in
Australian homes for over fifty
vears. They’re made from an
‘‘Olde Englishe” recipe, too! In-
valuable when unexpected guests
arrive.
Ask your Orocer, and Serve One
Every Sunday.
If You’re Ruptured,
Here is Ideal Support
Comfortable to
wear, never a
hindrance, yet
always hold-
ing the Rup-
ture in place—
Denyer’s Elas-
tic Truss is
the ideal treat-
ment from
QIMYe»
©
every point of view. Has a patent water-pad.
Write for Illustrated Rupture Pamphlet
To-day.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.
Dept. 1, 267 George Street, Sydney.
“Kiriwina”: As one much exposed over a
period of years to the company and conver-
sation of Nicholas the Greek (B. 7/11/’2B)
NOT THE CLOCK’S FAULT.
BOSS: “What you leaving for, Jacky? Hours too long?”
JACKY: “Not too long, boss. Too plurry many.”
and quite familiar with his appearance in
his favorite Trobriand costume of a “calico, ’
I suggest that the loquacious old ruffian was
leg-pulling when he explained his corporeal
decorations to “Gouger.” Apart from coral
and tropical ulcer scars on his legs and feet,
Nick's only marking was a pretty criss-cross
pattern on his arms and shoulders. This was
done by a party of East Cape natives who
had thrown him overboard from the deck of
his cutter, and then laid into him with long
trade knives as he climbed on board again
via the bobstay. Being trade knives, they
could do only superficial damage, and when
Nick battled on to the deck and drew the
revolver he had in his sling bag the opposi-
tion left. The row was caused, not by Nick
attempting to rescue a native girl, but because
he had abducted one, as was his genial cus-
tom. As to the piece bitten out of his leg
by a “sea-snake,” no snake in existence can
bite a piece out of anything.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: It is almost incredible the
stuff that is thrown to zoo-dwellers by adults
as well as children. The coroner who con-
ducted a post-mortem into the death of Adel-
aide’s hippo, the other day reckoned that a
handball had a lot to do with his demise.
Excepting the shark, no other creature gets
such meals as a. captive hippo. .Into Ins
yawning mouth is tossed everything from
beer-bottle caps to felt hats. I saw a youth-
ful drunkard pitch a lighted cigar into the
jaws of Melbourne’s big lumberer recently;
ie went down, together with a walnut (in
shell) and a couple of wrapped “minties. A
short time ago a crank tossed, him a broken
half-bottle; it was almost on its way to the
hippo’s digestive regions when it was re-
trieved. A monkey died in Daunceston some
time ago, some maniac having fed it wax
matches.
* * * *
“Percy P.”: When the first motor-cars
appeared in Sydney, about 30 years ago,
scared horses tried to climb into shop win-
dows, and there were numerous boltings. Now-
adays even young, unbroken horses are
indifferent to oars. A well-known studowner
told me that even young foals, seeing a motor-
car passing their paddocks for the first time,
view it more with curiosity than timidity,
wliich seems to establish
the evolutionary prin-
ciple that the progeny
shows no terror for the
things to which its
parents have become
accustomed. Something
of the same sort can be
seen amongst pigeons,
which when aeroplanes
tirst made their appearance used to
fly from them in agitated flocks. i\ow.
although there must be numerous young birds
to whom the ’planes are new, pigeons regard
their flights with total indifference.
* * * *
“G.T.”: Re “M. Brio” (P>. 7/11/’2B) on
the birth of the kangaroo. Thirty-five years
ago on Darr River Downs, Central Q., it was
my good luck to see, at about 60 yards, what
I have every reason to believe was a kan-
garoo giving birth to a young one. When I
came on to her she had her back to the butt
of a small tree, and her head was very busy
down about her poueli. With my rifle sighted
I watched for quite a long time, wondering
what the game was —never dreaming of a
birth. At last the job was finished, and she
began to come slowly towards me on all
fours. Then I shot her. The young one
was sucking at the teat, which was full and
firm, and I am quite satisfied that the mother
put the joey on the teat with her mouth.
The little one was in no. condition to crawl
up a steep grade, and its mother couldn t
have safely handled it with her clumsy claw.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A throwback almost precipi-
tated a divorce suit in Maoriland recently.
There was Maori blood
on the husband’s side, his
grandfather having mar-
ried a Maori girl, but the
man, although a quarter-
caste, shows not a trace
of color, whilst his wife,
a new arrival in Fern-
land, is pure blonde.
Their first child showed
almost pure Maori char-
acteristics, and the hus-
band, incredulous that his
own modicum of dark
blood could be respon-
sible, entertained suspi-
cions which were only
dispelled by authoritative
medical testimony that
such throwbacks are quite
possible.
THE CLOSING-TIME ALARM.
“Now yer ’usband’s on night shift I suppose yer gotta hang about ter wake him up?"
“’E’s all right, don’t worry. ’E wakes ’isself up at five ter six reg’lar.”
“Kooragai”: About the quickest-growing
product of the north-eastern scrubs is the
stinging-tree, which has a very soft wood
and broad leaves covered with tiny spines
that sting worse than nettles. Tiinber-getteis
and scrub-game are wary of this vegetable,
for it is only necessary to brush lightly
against the leaves to experience the sting-
pain, which shoots quickly to the arm-
pits. When the Mareeba-Atherton railway
line was being built, the clearing gang, cut-
ting through one deep stretch of scrub, had
to hang back on their job to allow the con-
struction gang to keep up. If they got too tar
ahead, the young stinging-trees sprang up
behind them, and the way had to be cleared
again as the other gang came along. Ihe
men had to work with gloved hands, and
with cheese-cloth over their faces.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Tell “Oxmead” (B. 14/11/’2B)
that the Andaman Islanders are accounted
by ethnologists the blackest race on earth.
I have never seen one of them, but if they
are any blacker than an Upper Nile Nubian
or a Kiwai from the Fly River mouth then
they would cast a gloom over an Undertakers
Union picnic—notoriously one of the most
lMit-liearted functions imaginable. Both the
Nubian and the Kiwai are blacker than any
breed of Australian abo. I have ever come
in contact with.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Under the ti-trees by the lily
lagoon the tribe were very busy. Quite naked,
many bucks and women lay stretched upon
the grass. Bending intently over them were
the artists of the tribe, each with a sharpened
prong of charcoal carefully draw-
ing delicate tracings across chest
and belly, longitudinal marks down
thighs, circles around breasts and
short marks following the shoulder
muscles. Some half-dozen experts
followed the artists, using flakes of
pointed glass sharper than a razor.
Carefully they traced ever the char-
coal markings, making an incision
su light that the -blood did not flow,
but welled slowly into the cut and stayed
there. Before it quite coagulated an old man
attended by a gin came and knelt by each
patient. The gin held a bark tray on which
were little mounds of feathers —green, white,
orange, scarlet, yellow, purple, blue and
black With a grass stem tweezer the old
man solemnly took piece after piece of down
and laid it in the thickening blood. He took
those colors which the person being orna-
mented was entitled to wear. That night
there was to be a dance to the spirit of the
moon.
“C. Coral” : Touching the “wild white man”
of Badu, generally known as Wini, mentioned
by “Sea Nomad” (B. 17/10/’2B), the
accepted theory is that he was an escaped
convict from Norfolk Island. Wini claimed
to have killed his four boat-companions be-
fore landing at Badu. By his ferocity and
dominating personality he became the most
important man in the island, and in addition
to owning canoes and land he also possessed
several wives. Hearing that there was a
castaway white woman, Mrs. Barbara Thom-
son, living with the natives on Prince of
Wales, lie sailed across to see if he could
induce her to share his fortunes, but was
unsuccessful. The murder of a boat s cre_w
from a Sydney bSche-de-meriyig vessel in
1846 has been' attributed to his influence.
Wini’s final history is obscure. In _ the
early days of Somerset a couple of men m a
canoe, thought to be Europeans, who had
been living with the natives at Badu and
were considered to be escaped convicts, were
shot by some men in another boat. Wini
may have been one of the victims.
=!: * * *
“Murkah” : In the Yic. north-west mallee
when the century was young the roads were
the wildest pieces of country in the district
Ranges of mountains and washouts, leaned
on each other turn about. To avoid some
of this abruptness a man of religion got
permission from Vie. Railways to use a
rail-bike —the oddest arrangement of water-
pipe I’ve see. To keep it on the rails a
flange was bolted to the spokes of both
wheels. An outrigger reached out to another
flanged wheel, which roosted on the far rail.
Its owner must have had pile-driver legs;
he used to get 12 m.p.h. out of it I bor-
rowed it once and have never felt really
well since. , .
* * * *
“Troophorse”: The oil-producing tree on
the Sepik River (N.G.), mentioned by ‘Sea
Nomad” (R. 20/6/’2B), is botanically known
as C ampnospermum b revip etiol a t u m , but
the Sepik River natives rarely call it that.
The oil taken from it is “guak.” The natives
use the guak oil for cuts and wounds,
also in the preparation for ceremonial events.
In some instances it has been known to have
cleaned up natives covered with tina imbri-
cata (grillae). A very slow and painful
period of blindness is experienced if any
guak oil comes in contact with the eye, and
in many cases such contact has proved fatal.
This tree is not very common, and so far
has no commercial value.
* * * *
“A.8.C.”: The best bit of first-aid dress-
ing that came under my notice during three
years in a big general hospital was done
by a Chinese for a fellow-countryman. A
broken leg had been put into place with
exactitude and splinted with gum-tree bark.
The splint had been applied over a bandage
of clean old sheeting, and was bound on to
the leg with a similar bandage, so white
that it would have been a priceless adver-
tisement for any laundry soap. Incidentally,
my patient was exquisitely clean.
THE ROAD TO COLERAINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
é
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
Service nythinS ’ includins int ’ormation, you are invited to write to the
mi«ieivir.i dr ' dCe 1S p e , ntire l, y lree - All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
«e back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
’Lae right of selection and rejection is reserved,
a time 7acidltate searc b it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
Engine-driver in Adelaide, experience min-
ing, brickmaking, other machinery, also gas
engines, seeks position.-—7613.
Youth, Sydney, out of work 12 months,
dependent invalid mother, wants job with
chance to learn motor assembling or mech-
anics.—7597.
Two youths (18), mustering and horse-
breaking experience, would like job on
N.S.W. or Queensland station. —7582.
Young lady, Sydney, wishes to buy large
wooden box, suitable for glory-box.—7507.
Married man (27) wants position on
Queensland sheep- or cattle-station. —7507.
Young man, five years’ experience chemi-
cal and bacteriological laboratory, wants
position in N.S.W—7605.
Young man (23), G.P.S. education, wants
position as overseer, six years’ experience
sheep.—7576.
Young lady would like to correspond with
oversea readers of Tiie Bulletin. (To
Miss A. M. Prior, New Moonta, via Bun-
daberg, QfQ
Man and wife (35) want work Queensland
station ; man used machinery; wife excellent
housekeeper.—7600.
Position wanted by experienced sheep-
property manager; keeps all books'.—7404.
Carpenter (38), can do brick and concrete
work, experienced sheds, dips and yards,
wants job station.—7638.
Farmer, 35 miles Dubbo (N.S.W.), 800
acres, iOO cleared, will sell plant, furniture
and let farm shares or lease. —7418.
Telephone engineer (32) desires position
anywhere; able handle native labor and talie
control of plant.—7656.
Business man wants management flats,
Sydney; wife will assist.—7244.
Young men (24 and 22) want jobs Queens-
land cattle station, one 18 months’ experi-
ence.—7250.
Young man. 7 years’ engineering experi-
ence, licensed car-driver, assistant draughts-
man, 3 years on dairy farm ; can ride, milk
or plough; wants position Australia oi‘
Islands.—7659.
Young man, educated, drive car, used to
land, estate, insurance work Victoria, desires
similar position N.S.W. or Queensland. —
t 667.
Victorian (17), leaving certificate, know-
ledge wool-classing, desires position as jack-
eroo.—7631.
By young Englishman, careful driver, good
mechanic, job as chauffeur to elderly lady
preferably Brisbane. —7643.
Scot (27), farming experience W.A.,
desirous learning Eastern States’ methods.
(To Thos. Fiddes, Billaricay, W.A.)
Young man (24), public school education,
experience S.A. saltbush country, wants job
as junior overseer on sheep station or jack-
eroo with prospects advancement.—7634.
Wanted for N.Q. station, lady-help, musi-
cal, able teach small boy.—7563.
Farm-hand (22) experienced machinery,
horses, sheep, wheat, lucerne, wants job
Queensland.—7558.
To buy copy of Norman Lindsay’s “Curate
in Bohemia,” Bookstall edition. (To Miss
Isabel Hassall, Noorama, Austinmer.)
To buy copy “Renald’s Guide” (deals with
steam-engines.) —7551.
To buy or exchange copies Argosy maga-
zine, in sequence, if possible. (To Miss B.
Haynes, Box 214, Toowoomba, Q.)
To buy book on physical exercises by
Larsen. —7666.
To buy, new or second-hand. “Life of
Lord Herbert of Cherbury.—7568.
To sell “Isle of San,” by Leon Gollert,
with five Norman Lindsay etchings.—7618.
To sell set of “Cassell’s Book of Know-
ledge,” eight volumes. —7627.
To sell books dealing with Australian bush
life. (To W. Palmer, 7 Park-avenue, Mos-
man, N.S.W.)
To sell medical and surgical books and
instruments, good order. —7660.
To sell or exchange my newsagency busi-
ness, also home with acre land. (To W
Vaughan, Ulverstone, Tas.)
To sell “The World’s Famous Paintings”
(complete parts), Kellog’s “Ladies’ Guide”
(with plates) and six bound vols. London
Punch (141 to 146). —7569.
Tenant wanted for comfortable furnished
home on fruit block, Mildtira (Vic.) district
low rent. —7580.
To rent, about middle January, for 3
weeks, plainly furnished cottage, handy to
seaside (N.S.W.). (To D. Stevenson. P.O.,
Charbon, N.S.W.)
, To exchange for city property or business,
beautiful home and orchard, close to Leeton
(N.S.W.).—7590.
To correspond with Bulletin readers who
will write regularly. (To Miss Freda Lewis,
35 Dickens-street, Moonee Ponds, Vic.)
Book or magazine giving particulars of
the Cornish floral dance. (To Albert E.
Farrell, Lilydale Station, via Yunta, S.A.)
Words of “Compris” and “Walk, You Big
Mug,” recited by Rupert Hazell.—7598.
Words of poem “Flying Kate.” (To W.
H. Jenkins, Tarawena-av„ Camberwell, Vic.)
Whereabouts of Thomas Patrick Donohue,
late of Bendigo. Mother ill. (To E. Dean,
Kerang, Vic.)
Information Sought.
A preparation for making a broicn-canvas
motor-hood black? —7546.
One pint raw linseed oil, quarter-pint
terebine, one tube black in oil. Turps may
be substituted for terebine, but it will take
the gloss out of the preparation. Lamp-
black would do, though it might give the
job a streaky appearance.
How to get a job as an actor in Sydney.
I am inexperienced. —7s47.
Except in rare cases, the commercial
theatres engage only experienced amateurs.
Your best plan would be to join one of the
repertory societies; if you showed any talent
you would get opportunities of developing
it and learning stagecraft.
A flux to use when soldering aluminium?
—7545.
The article must be subjected to intense
heat at the spot to be soldered. Apply ordi-
nary solder, and rub it vigorously, when
melted, into the aluminium with a steel
brush; this will “tin” the surface. Then
the spot to be soldered should again be
heated, though' not so intensely, and ordi-
nary soft solder applied.
As an Australian who served four years
with the R.A.F. as an officer, am 1 entitled
to the grant of £SO for each year served?
—7359.
No. The grant was not-payable' to com-
missioned officers; in any case, applications
had to be in by October 11, 1922.
In malting a claim under the N.S.W.
Family Endowment Act. must I include my
husband’s military pension as “family in-
come” ? —7292.
No ; pensions paid under the Repatriation
Acts 1920-22 are specifically excluded.
Where could I see a, list of officers of the
Royal Australian Navy (including na/val bri-
gades ashore) for the years 1901-03 ?—7102.
There is no printed list of officers, perma-
nent and volunteer, for the period mentioned,
but information regarding any particular offi-
cer or officers might be given by the Secre-
tary, Naval Board, Dept, of Defence, Mel-
bourne, from the records available.
(1) Where can I obtain Angora rabbits
in N.Z.? (2) Also textbook on the subject
and price ?■ —7218.
(1) Prom A. G. Sainsbury, Box 1489,
P. 0., Auckland ; or Russell and Smith. Kent’s
Buildings, Newmarket, Auckland. (2) A
G. Sainsbury publishes one; price 4s 3d
post free.
Method of removing old paint from a
motor-car ? —7403.
Coat the surface with Berger’s “Solvoid” ;
after two or three minutes take off with'a
scraper or chisel. Then wipe down freely
with benzine; when this is dry you can start
to repaint. “Solvoid” should be kept from
naked lights, being inflammable.
Where is Lake Frome? Area? Does it go
dry at certain periods ? —7295.
In South Aus., 82 miles east of Beltana.
Surface area is approximately 930 sq. miles;
greatest length is 60 miles, and greatest
breadth 28 miles. The lake is covered with
heavy saline efflorescence, and is generally
dry.
(1) Are real-estate agents registered in
1 ictoria? If so, to whom must application
f° r 7 registration be made? (2) Bond, if any?
Yes; apply to Court of Petty Sessions.
(2) Bond of £250; it can be arranged
through an insurance co.
Treatment for sheep suffering from “pink
eye” (infectious ophthalmia). —7327.
. (1) Immediate isolation of sheep with defi-
nite lesions of the eye, also those showing
watering eyes. Have a tin of disinfec-
tant ready and wash the hands frequently
to avoid carrying infection. (2) Examine
healthy sheep every 3 or 4 days and remove
affected cases. (3) Lotion; Formalin, 4
drams; tinct. opium, 14 drams; water
(boiled) 1 pint. Apply “once daily until
watering stops. Then apply lotion (b) :
equal parts of 1 per cent, solution atropine
sulphate and 4 per cent’, solution alum, also
once a day. (4) Do not return recovered
cases to healthy flock for 14 days after eye
has cleared up.
(1)11 hen the Southern Cross was in com-
munmeation with N.Z., could the sound of
engines and propellers have been) heard on a
wireless receive)'? (2) Did equipment in-
clude a phone transmitter? —7557.
(1) No, the system was interrupted con-
tinuous wave (IOW), and no microphone
was employed. (2) No: all signalling was
done by means of Morse characters.
Cure for greasy heels in hairy-legged
draught horses, heavy type?—- 7229.
Have the hair clipped at and about the
diseased spots l . Scales, crusts and secretions
should be removed from the skin. With
cotton-wool soaked in oil. or peroxide of
hydrogen, or poultices consisting of, say a
four p.c. solution of salicylic acid in oil.
Ihe surface may then be treated with a dry
dusting powder, equal parts of zinc oxide
bismuth subnitrate and tannic acid. In
severe cases it is advisable to retain the
thickly applied powder on the skin by means
of a bandage. Later the powder should be
removed in the same manner as are the
deposits on the skin, or a salve consisting
of 10 parts balsam of peru, 1 part
nitrate of silver and 100 parts vaseline
may be applied on a piece of gauze, which
should be covered with oakum and secured
with a bandage. Care should be taken to
keep the affected surfaces dry during treat-
ment. The skin should be protected from
external influences for some time after it
has become covered with fresh scales; for
this purpose boracic acid mixed with Vase-
line, two or three per cent., is useful.
Is it true that the first Ford cars were
manufactured by Dodge 8r05.? —7596.
Dodge Bros, never built a complete car
for Henry, but in the early days of the indus-
try they supplied him with a certain pro-
portion of motors and parts; other manu-
facturers also supplied parts. In time Ford
began to produce all liis own motors, after
which the Dodges commenced to manufacture
cars of their own.
(1) What soil is best for peanut culti-
vation in N.S.W.? (2) Is there much of a
demand? (3) When should planting he done
and how? (4) Name of buyers? (5) Liter-
ature? —7308.
(1) Well-drained sandy loam, especially on
the North and Central Coast. (2) Not in
N.S.W. (3) Peanuts should be planted in
spring when danger from frosts is passed;
251 b. to 301 b. of shelled nuts to the acre;
rows should be about 3ft. apart and seed
dropped every„B to 9 inches in the row. (4)
Nut Foods, Ltd., Edinburgh-road, Marrick-
vi He, might purchase. (5) A leaflet
on “Peanuts” can be obtained from the
Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney.
Is the grapefruit you buy in Melbourne the
same as the American grapefruit? How
should it be prepared, for eating? —7s44.
Yes: but there are many varieties. For
breakfast, slice the fruit across the middle,
slightly loosen the pulp with a spoon, sprinkle
with sugar and serve on a plate, half for
each person. For luncheon and dinner, the
halved fruits should be chilled for an hour,
loosened, sprinkled with sugar and a few
drops of any favorite liqueur, topped with a
maraschino cherry and served on a glass or
dessert plate with a small spoon.
What arc Q’land cedar, kauri and silky-
oak logs worth per 100 ft. landed in Sydney?
Any particulars regarding suitable girth,
length and condition of 10g5? —7447.
. Silky-oak, centre girth 6ft. to 7ft. llin.,
2Ss.; Bft. and upwards, 305., including
freight and exchange. Kauri, girth Bft. and
upwards, 355., c.i.f. and e.; cedar, Bft. and
up, 565.; these are for first-class logs. Oak
must have a minimum of gum veins, and
kauri be free from pinholes and borers ; even-
foot lengths from 12ft. and upwards are
required—logs under the girths quoted are
not of much use owing to the quantity of
sap. Cedar up to 30ft. long is sometimes
bought for boat planking, but for furniture
and the like the specifications are the same
as for kauri and silky-oak.
Contents in cub. yds. and gallons of circu-
lar tanks (1) 25 feet diameter «■ '4 16 feet
deep, (2) 16 feet diameter and 15 feet deep?
—7566
(1) 291 cub. yds. ; 48,957 gal. (2) 111#
cub. yds.; 18,890 gals.
What conditions have to be complied with
in lie. to get a title by adverse possession? —
7351.
You must be in a position to prove (1)
undisturbed and continuous possession for 30
years; (2) if the possessory title is for less
than that period, that the ousted owner was
in Victoria and under no disability at the
time possession commenced to run against
him ; (3) that the land has been enclosed and
kept enclosed by fences ; (4) that it lias been
occupied and used for some purpose during
possession; (5) and that rates have been
paid.
On applying paint to -wood I found it
would not run in the usual way, but took on
the appearance of a rubber solution. What's
wrong? —7s74.
It is impossible to say definitely without
more precise information. Apparently the
paint has lost some of the volatile spirit
through evaporation, and the oil has been
freely absorbed by the wood.
(1) Is it the law in Victoria that a person
under the age of IS may not drtbe a car
while sitting next to a licensed driver? (2)
What is the law in N.S.W.?
(1) A bona fide learner may drive a car
provided a licensed driver is seated beside
him, and for the purposes of the Victorian
Act the licensed driver is deemed to be the
person actually driving it. But after a
person under the age of 18 years has learned
to drive he must not do so until the full age
is attained and lie has procured a license.
(2) The N.S.W. Act prohibits the grant of
a driver’s license to any person under the
age of 17 years, or, in the case of motor-
cycles, 16 years. But permits are granted
to learners subject to conditions similar to
those stated.
llow. to prepare flax for painting on both
sides? —7610.
Buy Davis’s concentrated size in one-
pound packets. Mix lib. as directed on packet
and add 21b. of whiting; this should make
4 gallons of priming size ; . All scenery should
be painted with distemper color.
I have a business in a Sydney municipality
wherein it is proposed to install a “white-
way" lighting system and rate owners to
defray the cost. Is this legal, and what steps
may objectors take?—' 73l9.
It is legal enough ; the Local Government
Act empowers a council to light public places
without any express limitation as to the
number or strength of lights, and a rate may
also be struck. But under section 123 you
have a right of appeal. It says: “Any person
who will, if such lighting district be adopted,
be liable to pay any rate....may within
one month after service of rate notice appeal
to the nearest court of petty sessions against
the inclusion of his land therein.”
How to stain Queensland maple grey? —
7669.
The best result is obtained from the light:
est-colored maple it is possible to buy. Apply
weak ammonia first, then stain with sul-
phate of iron or water nigrosene, adding a
little lithopone. Stain to be papered when
applying in order to keep the grain from
rising. Then make a grey filler consisting
of whiting, a little ultramarine blue and
vegetable black, with goldsize as a binder;
then thin with vegetable turps. White polish
only to be used, this being more transparent.
- What type of ignition is preferable with, a
four-cylinder car for bush work? —7629.
Magneto ignition is more reliable than bat-
tery ignition; if the accumulator runs down
means will not always be available for start-
ing up the car.
(1) Could a woman take the pharmacy
course at Sydney Uni.? (2) If so ivould it.
be hard for her to get a city position? (3)
Could she practise on her own account? (4)
Is there any prejudice against lady chemists?
(5) From whom could I get a copy of the
award?—' 767o.
(1) Certainly; it is a three years’ course.
An information slip issued by the Pharmacy
Board, 7 liichmond-terrace, Sydney, gives
particulars; (2) Some difficulty might be
experienced in placing a female adult appren-
tice ; some pharmacists require a premium.
(3) Yes, provided she lias passed the final
examination, has attained the age of 21
years and has applied to the Pharmacy Board
to be registered. (4) Not in the opinion
of leading chemists. (5) From the Govern-
ment Printing Office, Phillip-street, Sydney.
Does Anybody Know?
Way of finding correct orientation by
means of the sun and a watch. —7400.
A preparation for oiling an earth tennis-
court ?—7393.
A black paint for painting croquet balls?
—7579.
How to clean a plaster model of head,
which has worn yellow and shiny?—7sßl.
Brief Answers.
V.D.: (1) Very doubtful. (2) Could no
more tell you than what marble’s going to draw the
next Tatt.’s. . . .F.C.L.: Not listed ; not known to any
broker interrogated C.G.M.: (I)'Not until posi-
tion is clarified. (2) Possible good increment.
(3) Sound. (4) Less certain of this, though profits
of kindred cos.- have been astonishingly g00d....
E.M.1.: Write Professor H. G. Chapman, Director oi
Cancer Research, Sydney Uni P.F.C.: (1) No.
(2) Subjeot to passing speoial examination in
English, dictation and arithmetic, may compete for
short-course scholarship. .. .J.E.S.: Call on Union
Bottle Cos., 461 Wattle-street, Ultimo, for rates and
advice. .. .C.C.: Sir Frederick Pottinger died at
Sydney on April 9, 1865, from the effects of a pistol
shot accidentally received at Lapstone Hill, near
Penrith. He had travelled from Forbes to Sydney
to explain a report that Hall, the bushranger, had
been a spectator at a race meeting at which Pot-
tinger was a competitor... .W.S.C.: No; deposits
are invested in securities which couldn’t be sold
quickly except at a great sacrifice M.A.G.: See
“Wild Cat” Nov. 14 XXX: (1) If you put
safety first, no. (2) Can’t say ; but it means nothing
even if it is true G.E.W.: Get Bulletin 141,
“Cheesemaking on the Farm” (Is.), from Govt.
Printer, Sydney S.C.S.: Under the N.S.W. Pure
Food Act the addition of any preservative or coloring
matter to milk is prohibited. .. .W. 8.: Education
Department states that refund of contributions will
be made after last day of service Rodoreda: Mel-
bourne Aero Club, Matthews Aviation Cos., and Pratt
Bros,, Geelong.... . J.K.M.D.: (1) Only vacancies in
the R.A.N. at present are for ordinary seamen from
17 to 21 years of age. (2) Apply to District Naval
Officer, Naval Staff Office, Edward-street, Brisbane.
... .A.F.M.D.: You don’t say. whether the safe is
locked or open. If open, remove casing at the
back of the door, extract- the lock and send to a
locksmith for a key to be made; if closed, you
would have to bring the locksmith. The makers do
not retain duplicate keys G.A.L.: Cape Argus,
Cape Times and Natal Mercury are three of the
largest; Gordon and Gotch could get you copies
G.C.: (1) and (2) Making a search. (3) Rix,
103 a Castlereagh-street; and Charles Villars, 19
Rowe-street—both of Sydney J.E.R.: (1) Station
bookkeeping can be learned at any good business
college, and postal instruction is given by Sydney
Technical College and correspondence schools. The
S.T.C. fee is £1 Is. per term; the course usually
lasts three terms... .J.A.F.H.: Communicate with
manager, Fiji Tourist Bureau, Suva C.F.S.: It
looks as if the money you paid had not been
applied to meet the p.-n.’s; If so, they will still
have to be met P.T.H.: Apply Lands Department,
Brisbane. .. .M.S.: Your daughter who wants to
learn millinery should become apprenticed and attend
the classes at the East Sydney Technical College;
the fees are small and reduced tram and train fares
are allowed to students... .W.M.Q.: At the out-
break of war he joined the Inns of Court Training
Corps and was drafted into the Worcesters. He
was severely wounded at Suvla Bay ; on recovery he
was transferred to the Royal Fusiliers with the rank
of captain. He was again wounded in France in
1916, and returned to Australia, invalided a year
later with the Military Cross and the Croix de
Guerre. . . .S.G. : Edison Blue Amberol records, 2s.
6d.[' each;; Madid. H 4-mimite reproducer 255.,
postage extra ; Electrical Inventions, 51 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. .. .J.H.: “0 Sole Mio” is the Italian
title; “Beneath Thy Window,” the English title.
First two lines in Italian: “Che bella cosa ’na
iurnata ’e sole, n’aria serena doppo ’na tempesta!”
. ...C.8.: (1) None in Queensland. Subject is
taught at East Sydney Technical College, Darling-
hurst. (2) Course extends over three years, neces-
sitating attendance on two evenings a week. In-
struction in all subjects costs £2 10s. p.a. (seniors)
and £1 ss. (juniors). (3) “International System
of Garment Cutting,” by J. P. Thornton; “Review
of London Fashions and Tailors’ Technical Instruc-
tor,” by Thornton’s Institute; “Minister’s Gazette
Fashions,” and “Twentieth Century of Ladies’ Garment
Cutting,” by J. C. Hopkins. (4) Prospects are
what you make them. '(5) Journeyman cutters get
£5 14s. 6d. p.w. in Brisbane. .. .W.R.R.: (1)
Mileage public railways at June 30, 1926:
N.S.W., 6072 miles; Victoria, 4687; Queens-
land, 7576; S.A., 3624 ; W.A., 5202; N. Territory,
198; Fed. Cap. Territory, 5; total, 28,439. (2, 3
and 4) See “Commonwealth Year Book,” chapter 7.
(5) January 1, 1911... .E.K.: Dept, of Agriculture,
Brisbane, may be able to supply you with list of
breeders. .. .F.L.H. : Recommend “Poultry Farming
in N.5.W.,” obtainable Govt. Printer, Sydney, 4s.
3d F. 8.8.: “The Constant Nymph” was written
by Margaret Kennedy, “Maurice Guest” by Henry
Handel Richardson, “The Egoist” by Meredith, “Nos-
tromo” by Conrad, and “The Man of Property” by
, Galsworthy; try Robertson and Mullens, 107 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne. .. .E.N.: Cannot trace a firm
stocking the record. In the song copy there is a
chorus with the last line “Don’t go near the water,
Bridget darlin’ ” ; there is another chorus with the
last line “That’s where I met your father, Bridget
darlin’.” Try to find out name of maker and number
of record.... J.A.B. (1) Radio, published Sydney 15th
of each month, Is. ; no programmes published. (2)
Wireless Weekly, every Friday, Sydney, 3d.; all
Australian programmes published week in advance.
H.P.: See “Wild Cat” column (B. 21/11/’2B).
... .F.Y.R.: We have no large hopes; it is doubtful
whether even Broken Hill could have been developed
had industrial conditions when it was found been
what they are to-day.... H.H.: Apply Lands Dept.,
Sydney... .H.C.S.: Yes. A similar deduction is
allowable in each of the cases mentioned.... M.H.:
You should be able to fill a clerical position in a
shipping co. or navigation department. Apply in
the usual way, setting forth your qualifications....
L.8.K.: (1) Fare by steamer from Sydney to Bris-
bane direct is £4 17s. 6d. first-class, £3 second-
class; by rail, £4 12s. first-class, £3 Is. 6d. second.
Sleeping berth (first-class only) £1; reserved seat
Sydney-—Wallangarra, Is. 3d., Wallangarra—Bris-
bane, Is. 3d. (2) A list of Sydney hotels and their
tariffs can be had from the Government Tourist
Bureau, Martin-place. .. .E.A.R.: It depends upon
the taste and fancy of the guesser. The basis of
money power is different to-day from what it was
in past ages, and even the assessed wealth of the
millionaires is subject to fluctuation.... (Many
others mailed.)


: ;.'t•. vV..
1 * v//:.
SO;:':
/JK :
i'ni
V-v>\
' m\\\
,\p.
'• j - ' / 1 1 !)(' ', U
W^’%WM 7W
l/Mh'h
•'''pjfi/tyW/i'X
It/ .
>
X;
:.v
iiMMi
•MvC ;■ j
~ !i i i
SA'' A A
'SS
•\s
o"\ «
/.V."'\
i/®!l
\\\ 's^
vvvvvwvwwvwvWWWWWWViV
ELECT a Mills-
try it on. In every
line and aspect its
appeal is so appar-
ent that no man
can afford to disregard its
merits.
flat that suits uourlersona
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD


SOME FEDERAL SEATS
&
This is
“The Gulf
Champion,”
£l5/15/-
Complete.
Posted any-
where in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
are Safe to-
day, but the
GENUINE
WIENEKE
SADDLE SEAT is
Safe every day, and
comfortable, too!
HOW IS THAT?
The Saddle is made
by an expert, that’s
why.
Have you had a copy of
my latest Saddle Book —
Posted Free.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
arc
'V/5 Quality Never Changes .
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
man news
wry, I
t' ,*■ - - a ./i
■/
The
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Lea/ Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
314 ms. wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
/
J\J / •*
p mt c „
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Sueen Street, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WESTRALIAN LAND PROSPECTS.
“R.R.R.”; “Westral'ia” (B. 24/10/’2B)
paints too dull a picture. Certainly the best
wheat lands of W.A. are not equal to the
nest in the Eastern States, but wheat-growing
on well-worked land is almost certain to be
profitable. The wheat bolt has no fixed
dimensions, nor i s it likely to have during
+ his generation or the next. The area settled,
partly settled, is over 800 miles long and
about 200 miles wide. In this huge area
there are about 8500 settlers. Each year the
eastern wheat belt is pushed farther east.
It has swallowed the nearer goldfields and
crept past Southern Cross, and a small crop,
averaging nine bushels, was harvested last
year in Ivalgoorlie.
The average wheat yield for the State is
low about 11 bushels, but a large extent of
rough-cleared and still rougher-farmed land
is seeded yearly. Land covered with scrub
is ploughed and seeded in one operation, more
to get a stubble burn, and so clear out the
rubbish, than for the wheat yield. In the
better farmed and comparatively old settled
districts the average yield is nearer 18
bushels.
This wheat belt consists of large expanses
ot open plain (misnamed sand plain) broken
by belts of first-class soil timbered with
gimlet, salmon-gum and mallee, and patches
of poorer land covered with thickets of high
.„ The country is undulating, without
nigh lulls or water-courses, and monotonous
because of its unchanging nature. Chains of
salt Jakes show the course of ancient rivers
and add the only variety to the endless suc-
cession of open plains and timber belts. With
the exception of these salt lakes and a few
granite outcrops the whole of this vast area
is arable, though a small portion, perhaps
o per cent, of the whole, would not be likely
to grow a payable crop of wheat until cleared
and stocked for some years. Land of this
kind is easily recognisable; it is either deep
yellow sand or ridges of gravel, and grows
the wodgil scrub.
The so-called sandplains which form over
halt the wheat belt are covered with low
bushes and tussocks. Under the light soil
in many parts is a subsoil of clay or con-
glomerate. These lands cleared by plough-
ing in the scrub. nlowed and worked,
live- and six-bag are produced at a
low cost, dhe soil is easily worked with
the largest implements.
When the land is cleared water is found,
lwenty-two years ago I selected on what
was then the edge of the wheat belt, in what
was called the dry area. The nearest water
supply was 30 miles away. To-day my farm
is in the centre of the wheat belt, in what
is known as the safest wheat-growing coun-
try m Australia. I have wells and soaks,
which supply water for the maximum num-
ber ot stock the farm can carry, and most
ot my neighbors are just as well supplied
wuth water The newly-settled areas have
water problems to solve; but I am certain
that only small portions of the wheat belt
Will have to depend on surface catchments.
, j w? stern State in a few years will
lead the Commonwealth in wheat production
and overtake Victoria as a wool-producer.
The goldseekers’ Land of Sin, Sand and Sor-
row has passed with the old-time “weight-
chaser. Wheatfields border the old Gold-
fields-road for 100 miles. Wool-laden trucks
rumble through the streets of Kalgoorlf \
h locks of sheep, with windmills and wells,
dot the country from Menzies to the Mur-
chison.
PRODUCTION COSTS.
r- /IT’/MCc cost of: growing wheat (B.
1/11/ 2b), or for that matter the cost of
growing any farm product at all, can be dis-
torted to any figure imaginable by over-valua-
tion and over-subdivision of land. Compare
the two following cases. One man bought
9GO acres of land in 1918 at £4 per acre.
Another, a few miles away from him, bought
,AO acres at £ll 15s. per acre during the
soldier-settlement boom three years later.
Each man has implements worth, new, about
±<!X), and each place produces about the same
yield of wheat. Allow 6i per cent, on land
and plant, 10 per cent, depreciation of plant
and £3OO a year salary, and it works out at
£604 10s. p.a. on the big farm, or 2s. Sid
per bushel on a yield of 12 bushels per acre
from 450 acres. On the small farm the
same items amount to £659 18s. p.a., or 7s. 4d.
bushel on a yield of 12 bushels from
100 acres.
/s the same with sheep. In one part
soldiers were settled on blocks of
1000 acres at £3 per acre, carrying 700
s P* another district they were put
on blocks of 500 acres at £6 per acre, carry-
ing 350 sheep. The rental for each class of
larin is £lBO per annum.
' If the sheep returned a net 12s. per head
Per annum the returns would be £420 p.a.
and £-A0 p.a. respectively, leaving a margin
over rent of £240 p.a. and £3O p.a. respec-
tively. Result? Nearly every soldier on the
larger blocks lias his own car, and every
man who took one of the smallet blocks went
out broke years ago.
WHAT DOES WHEAT COST?
• H.S>.T.”: The cost of wheat production
is largely dependent on yield. At Turrct-
hehl Demonstration Farm (S.A.) it has
varied from 3s. lOd. per bushel on a 25-
bushel crop to 7s. 6d. a bushel on a 9-
bushel crop, with an average cost over
six seasons of 4s. 9d. a bushel on an average
yield of 19.96 bushels. Asked recently
whether farming could be made to pay in the
Mallee with wheat at 4s. a bushel, the direc-
tor. Prof. Perkins, submitted estimates
(which he said were only estimates and
as such not to be relied on) which
showed production cost of 3s. 9d. a bushel
on a 20-bushel crop, and of 4s. Gd.
•J iY s * ie i on a 10-busliel crop. Experienced
Mallee farmers who have checked these esti-
mates testify to their correctness.
One thing the Turretfield analyses of
costs have proved is that haygrowing has
not paid for the last six or seven years.
Farmers in the S. A. Lower North have
specialised in hay production, and values of
land have been largely determined by capa-
city for hay production. There was formerly
a large export 0 f hay to NIS.W., but that
State now grows its own, and the increasing
use of tractors lias led to a greatly decreased
demand for hay in South Australia.
FLAG SMUT.
“Nitric” : Flag smut, a fungus growth, is
at present playing havoc with the wheat
crops on the Darling Downs (Q.) and other
wheat areas. The growth attacks the wheat
Plant at the time of germination and then
grows through the tissues as the plant
develops, causing a deformity and stunting of
the flag, so that the normal ear does not
develop. The diseased plant is easily picked
out by the contorted flag and the grey or
leaden color running up its length. The
streaks are really fungus spores.
A cure is out of the question, but the dis-
infecting of fresh seed with copper carbonate
or milestone and the destruction of all
stubble and straw after harvesting and fal-
lowing the land will prevent fresh contagion.
It is the host of the fungus parasite that
must be destroyed, and the planting of an
infected field for two years with a crop other
than wheat is recommended.
Growers free from infection should obtain
seed from a country where flag smut does not
exist, and treat the seed with fungicide,
liotate wheat with some other crops year
about to give the fungus a chance to die out,
in case the soil is infected. It may be
infected so lightly that the smut will not be
noticed the first year.
TO CURE THE JIBBING HORSE.
“Pick”: Despite the assertion of “Nota
Bene (B. 7/11/’2B), jibbing in a horse can
be overcome. When the prad in light har-
ness refuses to start, wind a strap around
one of his legs and buckle tightly. He will
at once start off. When after a time he jibs
again, remove the strap to another leg
Change the strap from leg to leg—all four
of them—in succession, and the horse will
be taught the habit of starting. When he
has acquired that he. will give no more
trouble.
The heavyweight fellow that declines to
pull should be taken some distance from
home and there hitched to a load that is
well within liis hauling capacity. Let him
stand until he manifests an inclination to
move. Then speak quietly to him and encour-
age him to pull. If he fails, sit down and
wait until he again becomes restive. It
may take hours, but eventually he will walk
off with the load. A few such lessons will
make him a ready and staunch puller for all
time.
CUTTING LUCERNE.
“Paul C.”: Farmers differ as to the stage
lucerne should reach before being cut for
hay. Some hold that it should not be cut
till about a third of the crop is in flower.
But if the crop is examined at this stage it
will be found that much of the lower leaf
has fallen, particularly in the first cut of
the season. Owing to the cool weather, this
cnt is late flowering, and the stems begin to
harden and the lower leaves to fall before
the flowers appear. Thus the cut loses in
weight and quality if not harvested before
the blossoms are seen. Cut the first crop
as soon as the lower leaves begin to change
color. In the subsequent cuts, which, in a
good season, should be ready every six weeks
if the weather is suitable, get to it when the
first flowers appear. The bulk of the crop
has by then reached full growth, and contains
a full quantity of nutriment. If the crop
is allowed to get too far advanced before it
is cut, the next crop is slower at shooting.
Besides this, if each cut is allowed to stand
even a week longer than it should, it not only
means that it has lost in weight and
quality, but one cut of the season will be lost
altogether, for one can expect only about 30
weeks’ growth.
RAPE AS PIG FEED.
The Vic. Department of Agriculture has
experimented with rape as an article of pig
diet, and has, incidentally, established the
iact that grunters turn a surprising amount
of their tucker into pork. The experiments
were made on a privately-owned farm at
Pakenham Upper. The pigs were given the
run of a rape patch and also were fed from
a self-feeder on a ration of 5S per cent, pol-
lard, 30 per cent, barley and oat-pollard,
10 per cent, meat meal and 2 per cent, bone
meal, at the rate of about 2|lb. a day.
This food cost Id. a lb. and the rape con-
sumed was estimated to be worth 9d a
week per pig. Nine large white pigs, 5
boars and 4 sows, all from one litter, Avere
thus fed, the experiment commencing when
they were 47 days old and continuing for
weeks. At the outset the pigs averaged
LS.OOIb., at the end of the experiment they
averaged 80.81 b. each. A second experi-
ment was with seven Middle York pigs 104
weeks old, which at the commencement of
the test weighed an average of 42.421 b. apiece.
After 94 Aveeks of the rape-cim-prepared
food regime they weighed an average of
1101 b. Three of the Large Whites and six
of the Middle Yorks were slaughtered and
marketed at 94d. per lb., the profit after
accounting for cost of pigs, prepared food,
rape and overhead expenses averaging 21s.
fid. per pig in the case of the Large Whites,
and 265. lid. per pig in the case of the
Middle Yorks.
ARSENIC AS A PIG TONIC.
Tanta Tyga” : As a tonic for young pigs I
have found nothing better or cheaper than
arsenic in the form known as FoAvler’s solu-
tion. The dose is from 5 to 20 drops three
times a day, according to the size of the pigs.
Start on the small dose and work up gradu-
ally to the larger one. If the pigs slioav
signs of purging, decrease the dose or dis-
continue for a few days. I have brought
1 amwortli-Berkshire cross to 1461 b. dressed
weight at five months old, using the arsenic
treatment, without special feeding or pen-
ning, and their coats shone like those of race-
horses. Arsenic in any form should be care-
lully measured and thoroughly mixed with the
food. Intelligently used, it is as safe as
Epsom salts.
A MAIZE HARVESTER.
One of the offsets to the very high yields
obtainable from maize in suitable localities
is the heavy cost of harvesting, as the cobs
have to be pulled and husked by hand. A
machine for the purpose has now been intro-
duced, and recently underwent a trial at
LindenoAV (Vic.), one of the few districts
in Australia where maize-groAving is prac-
tised, on a large scale.
.1 he machine, drawn by a tractor, worked
quite satisfactorily, missing very few cobs
and husking efficiently. The cost of labor
and fuel charges worked out at 3d. to 3fd.
per bag, or, allowing for depreciation on the
maize harvester and tractor, 51d. to 6d. per
bag. The harvester, of course, is too expen-
sive for the small grower, but its introduc-
tion seems likely to foster the cultivation
ot maize on a larger scale than at present
Maize is realising at present over 4s. a bushel,
and l at Orbost (Vic.), where experimental
tests have recently been made, yields of as
high as 109 bushels to the acre have been
obtained. It is only fair to add that this
result was attained on land so rich that fer-
tilisers were not required.
PINK-EYE.
“Valerin”: Pink-eye is prevalent in our
district tins season. It is a catarrhal trouble,
and it not dealt with quickly soon spreads
through the flock. The best remedy is the
isolation of the affected sheep and a washin«--
out of the eye with kerosene. If neglected °a
him grows over the eye which often bursts.
J o remove this film requires drastic treat-
inent, such as powdered bluestone, and this
blind fai S ’ leaving tlie shee P permanently
CROSSBREDS FOR THE COAST.
“W.P.D.”; For several years I have been
advocating putting crossbred sheep on the
Queensland coast lands and the highlands
behind, and am glad to find that at last there
is a move in this direction. Lincoln-merino
cross will do well, but the fleeces are of low
count and not soft in the handle until after
years of careful culling and grading. Corrie-
dales, which are descended from a Lincoln-
merino cross, are admirable, but it took a
quarter of a century to evolve the present
fine type.
I think Border Leicester rams mated with
merino ewes will give better results than
the Lincoln-merino cross, as the wool is
more of the type which the Brisbane market
favors. If ewes from this first cross are
mated with merino rams the progeny will be
of a good comeback type, carrying wool of
about a 56’s to 58’s quality, of good length
and spinning quality. The Bomney Marsh-
merino cross is preferable where average
rainfall exceeds 40 inches a year, but great
care must be taken that the Romney Marsh
ram is selected from a registered flock.
If early-maturing lambs are a prime
object, there is nothing better than a Dorset
Horn-merino cross. The Border Leicester is
also satisfactory from this point of view. I
would not recommend Shropshires or any
Downs breed. The lambs are on the small
side, and the wool is not very saleable.
It is advisable to put down good fodder
grasses and top-dress. The expense incurred
will be amply justified by the greatly-
increased carrying capacity of the land and
the improvement of the stock. The native
grasses on the coast are for the most part
lacking in nutriment and must be supple-
mented.
PUMPKINS.
“D.J.IL”: November is one of the best
months, in any State, to plant pumpkins, and
the man that gets them in now can allow
them to ripen on the vine, which is the
secret of good keeping. Some of the earlier
varieties will find a ready sale as soon as
they are fit, but the safe storage of the
main crop and sale later in the year will yield
a bigger cheque. Pumpkins do fairly well in
any soil, and generally fetch a good price,
while if the worst comes to the worst they
make fine pig-feed.
In sowing for market, consider local con-
ditions for a start; then select pumpkins that
will sell well. Don’t grow too many of the
crown sort. They won’t sell well, as there is
too much waste, the crown part being practi-
cally useless. The ground should be well
worked and liberally manured. Sow the seeds
in drills about four feet apart, and keep cul-
tivated until the runners cover the whole
area. Then the crop generally gets along
on its own. It is a good scheme to sow
maize in alternate rows for shade if a dry
or windy spot is chosen.
The greatest pest is the pumpkin beetle,
something like a ladybird; but it can gen-
erally be beaten by dusting the vines in the
early morning with arsenate of lead or a
mixture of equal parts of slaked lime and
wood ashes. Do this when the dew is on
the plants, and don’t forget to give another
application if a shower of rain washes it off.
Frequent inspection is advisable, as the
beetles can soon strip a vine of its leaves.
A small hard keeper is best for market and
home use, and the cattle variety for fodder.
The latter are easily grown up to SOlb. in
weight, and are excellent feed for any class
of stock.
BRITISH BAN ON OUR MUTTON.
“Almanac” : The embargo recently placed
on Australian mutton by English officials is
causing grave concern to exporters, and
although a temporary respite has been
granted to clear cargoes on the water,
immediate and concerted action by those
concerned is necessary if Australia is to
hold this trade. The trouble is supposed
to have arisen through the discovery of a
kernel or gland in the leg of a carcase, its
position being approximately central in the
joint close to the bone and exactly where
the three different grains of meat converge.
It is bean shaped, brownish in color and
covered with a selvedge of fat. By the
trade it has always been considered a
natural part of the beast’s anatomy. The
English authorities profess to have suddenly
discovered it after long years of inspecting
Australian importations. It doesn’t seem to
be suggested that this kernel is in any way
harmful to the consumer—we’d know all
about it this end it it were—and there’s
ground for the suspicion that Argentine in-
fluence has something to do with this edict.
Already some of our cargoes are a month
to six weeks behind time, and we risk losing
this season’s trade and perhaps the whole
of our mutton business with the United King-
dom, which takes about 40 per cent, of our
exportable carcases.
It is. many y ears since the oversea authori-
ties first compelled us to disfigure our export
beef by cutting away the brisket on account
of that portion containing nodules, and
many thousands of pounds have been and are
being lost because of this, but that is only
a circumstance compared with the loss that
faces us should this latest ban be main-
tained.
ECONOMICS OF BANANA-GROWING.
“C.0.G.”: “Cavendish” (B. 24/10/’2S) is
sadly astray in his panegyric on the profits
of banana-growing. He mentions average re-


SMililii®
, '■ '■ ■ • -*
A Brogue extra
Strong
Stoutly soled, but built to be as
light and flexible as possible.
This Abbey sporting brogue has
low-cut sides that set closely at
ankle, while allowing fullest
freedom.
Its lacing curves comfortably
over the instep arch, as with all
Abbey footwear. The toe is
roomy, the upper handsomely
finished.
Three Widths per Size.
Order by Post. Impossible
to get more exact fittings in any
ready-made shoes—you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
for every full and half size.
State which you need and ask
also for a supply of the correct
Abbey black or dark tan polish.
TAN CALF --- - 457-
BLACK CALF - - - 39/6
New, enlarged catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Estabiished over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
LlOO.
Made in Australia.
Will give every
Satisfaction.
ASK FOR
3SS«
RENOWN BINDER TWINE
Manufactured by J. SCOTT, LTD.,
163 Clarence Street, Sydney.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires, preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Nervy ?
Irritable? Dizzy?
Soon get Tired?
Do things get on your nerves so you can
hardly keep going? That’s bad! Try Cream
of Yeast! Feel your poor frayed nerves calm
up like magic; feel strength and energy return. In
a few minutes —it’s like lightning. Now then, make
the decision! Decide to have done with headaches,
“nerves” and run-down conditions. Get back your
old-time pep and sparkle with Cream of Yeast. This
fine pick-me-up costs very little at any chemist’s,
but you must insist on having genuine Cream of
Yeast, as brewers’ yeast is far too slow.
/y<
■Q
Cuticura Talcum Is
An Ideal Toilet Powder
It is pure, smooth and fragrant and
contains antiseptic properties which
help to allay excessive perspiration.
It imparts a pleasing fragrance and
leaves the skin refreshed and cool.
Soap Is., Talcum, 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Up#- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
e
o<v°
c*
Non Self-Filling
12/6
9/8
The Pencil
with
the Fluid Point
NEVER WEARS OUT
DOES EVERYTHING A PENCIL CAN DO AND
DOES IT BETTER
FROM ALL STATIONERS AND STORES
Thomas De La Rue & Co., Ltd., London
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
' Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
turns for the first two years of £lOO per
acre, with possible return of £BOO per acre.
The returns from a banana plantation in
the first tw r o years are negligible. A start
on the land is usually made in June, when
the scrub is felled. It is burnt off in the
following October, and planting is finished
about the end of December. Save for a few
odd stools, the plants begin to bunch in the
following December, but the major portion
bunches in January and February. The
main crop of fruit begins to be marketed in
June, two years after the scrub w r as felled,
and the first crop is not completely harvested
until four or five months later.
Nowadays with the beetle-borer and leaf-
spot disease rampant, the first crop is the
only crop that can be depended on. The
second and third “cuts” are never equal to the
first in quality, even if they are in quantity,
and they bring a lower price.
A study of production costs and market
returns made by the Queensland Banana
Committee, of which I am a member, shows
that the average Q’land banana-grower re-
ceives a return for his labor of £2 18s. 74d
per week. Gympie (Q.) is in the same boat as
the rest, for its annual production of bananas
per acre is well under 80 cases, whilst the
£2 18s. 74d. was calculated on the basis of
a first-class farm averaging 116 cases per
acre, and it’s a precious good plantation that
will average that. The cost of the produc-
tion of a case of bananas based on 116
cases to the acre is 14s. 2d. on the farm.
The average return hag been just on 15s.
f.0.r., or 12s. 3d. per case on the farm, so
that the grower lost on the average Is. lid.
per case. And yet he carries on ! Yes, by
living on starvation rations for the first two
years.
I do not deny that in a period of absolute
scarcity, when the majority of growers had
little, if any, fruit, a few growers who by
some entirely fortuitous circumstance had a
first crop and a good crop received some
wonderful returns and made good cheques.
But spread their returns over the five years’
life of their plantations, and I question if
even then they will have earned much over
the basic wage.
CARE OF GROWING PULLETS.
“Jack Point” : Do not be in a hurry to put
young pullets on to laying mash. , Some
writers recommend this ration at three
months, but this is too soon in most cases.
Where ample range is available the pullets
should be given the maximum amount of
space, and they will then require practically
no meat meal or other concentrate until
44 to 5 months old. If skim milk is avail-
able, plain bran and pollard mixed to a
crumbly mash will generally suffice. Where
range space is limited, it is better to keep
them on growing mash, with plenty of green
feed and grit and one feed of corn a day.
If you can build a big-bodied pullet before
she lays! her first egg, she will repay you by
laying for about 12 months, practically with-
out a break.
FRUIT-TREE PESTS.
“Hop Scrub”: Here’s a classification of
the ills that afflict the orchard
(1) Insects that devour plant tissues, such as the
pumpkin beetle, caterpillars and the larvae of such
moths as the codlin. Arsenate of lead, 2lb. to 50
gallons, will k.o. these fellows.
(2) Sucking insects, such as the aphides and
scales of deciduous and citrus-trees. These can only
be controlled by suffocation with hydrocyanic acid
gas, or by varnishing their bodies with such sprays
as miscible oils, lime sulphur or tobacco (Black
leaf 40).
(3) Fungi, which attack roots, wood, leaves or
fruit, such as brown rot in stone and citrus fruits,
brown spot in passions, black spot in apples and
pear, and subterranean foes such as armillaria. Control
is largely preventive and the sprays must be got on
early. Bordeaux and lime sulphur are standard
fungicides, though for mildews of the rose, vine
and apple, sulphur and its compounds have their uses.
When roots are attacked they must be exposed and
treated with Bordeaux paste or ferrous sulphate.
(4) Bacterial diseases, such as spotted wilt of
tomatoes and bunchy top of bananas. These cannot
be cured, as the virus works within the plant tissue
beyond the reach of sprays. The spread of the
disease may be checked by destroying affected plants
and in part by control of such insects as transmit
the disease.
Apart from the foregoing tribulations, trees
suffer from malnutrition, which manifests
itself -in the shape of the various diseases
such as gumming, silver leaf, sour sap, die
back, etc. Correct the poor conditions of
soil and drainage and these disease vanish.
Bacterial and physiological troubles affect
the whole tree, which exhibits stunted growth
and yellowing leaves. Where die-back is
due to borer injury only one limb or one
side of the tree is affected. Heavy infes-
tations of scale will cause yellowing, but
scales are easily identified and controlled. A
tree in good nick is better able than a poor
one to resist disease and insect pests. See
that your trees are always at their top.
SYMPTOMS OF RINDERPEST.
“T.W.”: Though it is not likely that
rinderpest will trouble Australia, it is well
to know the symptoms. r Hie first sign is a
mild elevation of the temperature. A
heightened color of the mucous membrane
of the mouth follows about two or three days
rafter, and a grained yellowish eruption
forms on the lips and gums. This soon
extends to the tongue and cheeks. The skin
becomes congested, and scales with blistery
eruptions develop. Finally, a slimy dis-
charge comes from the nose and eyes. The
only thing to do is to kill the diseased
animals and destroy their carcases.
QUEENSLAND SPINIFEX COUNTRY.
“Sandgoanna”: The so-called “desert”
spinifex country of Central Q’land, once
regarded as merely a supplement to the much-
boosted downs, is proving, under the test of
time and drought, as good or better. Though
of comparatively low carrying capacity
(about a sheep to five acres in its timbered
state), it carries a wealth of edible bush,
and quickly responds to light falls of rain
which would bring nothing but a few weeds
on the heavy plains. Burnt spinifex is very
succulent and practically evergreen. Heavy
stocking with sheep is killing the spinifex
and bringing finer grasses in its place. This
country, now r mostly dog-netted, comprises
perhaps the most pest-free part of Queens-
land. It has a future.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Boronia”: If “Emel's” theory (B.
10/10/’2B) that iron helps to combat woolly
aphis is correct there is no need to drive
nails into the trunks of infested trees. All
that is necessary is to dig in about half a
pound of sulphate of iron to each tree. This
is easily soluble and is speedily absorbed
into the tree’s system. The use of nails will
produce bark-tcracks and afford increased
lodgment for the pest.
" Who”: A convenient way of dosing a
sick horse is to put him in shaft harness
and get him between the shafts of the wag-
gon the wrong way, hooking a chain tightly
around the buttocks to keep him from back-
ing out. Have the medicine ready in a
large bottle. The one who administers the
dose stands on the table of the waggon, giving
a small portion at a time. A speculum is
not often necessary, as most farm horses
can be dosed easily without one.
“E.S.” : In making wire-cables out of fenc-
ing-wire for dam-scooping, etc., attach the
ends of each wire to a heavy fencing post,
the posts being of about the same weight.
Let the posts lie on the ground. Now thread
the wires through holes in a board, equally
spaced and arranged in a circle. Tie a drill
or dray lix-mly to a tree ; jack up a wheel
on the side away from the tree and attach
the wires to separate spokes. While one
man turns the wheel another keeps moving
the board slowly away, thus keeping the
twist equal. The logs, which gradually draw
towards the wheel, provide even tension.
“Paul C.”: When a cow gradually falls
away for no apparent reason, coughing when
hunted up suddenly and getting rough-coated,
it is time to call in a vet., for those are
symptoms of tuberculosis. It is possible
for a beast to show the symptoms and yet
not have the disease, but it is imperative to
make sure. Not only in the interests of
public health, but in his own interests the
stock-owner should not hesitate to destroy a
beast as soon as he is sure it has tuber-
culosis. Treatment is a waste of time, and
increases the danger of the disease spread-
ing.
"Biro”: Subterranean clover and lucerne
sown with wheat come along so slowly that
no harm is done to the main crop, even in
very dry seasons. An inexperienced person
might suppose the grasses had failed, so small
is their growth at harvest-time, but after
the wheat is stripped they make good head-
way and drop seed before the sheep are
turned into the stubble. Rye-grass is another
good seeder, and will spread like wild oats.
It can be mixed with the lucerne and clover.
The cost of planting grasses in large areas
is prohibitive to many settlers, but there is
no reason why a beginning should not be
made with small plots. Where wheat is
being sown the cost is not great, and the
trouble of weighing and mixing seed is well
repaid.
“Classer”; In many districts in Australia
wire-netting is eaten away by the minerals
in the ground. A good preventive is to dip
the bottom side of the netting in a bath of
boiling tar to a depth of about 18in. Immerse
for about two minutes, then hang up to dry.
“J. 8.”: In the big drought of 1902 the
manager of Ilfracombe scour (Q.) decided to
irrigate a paddock of 80 acres with bore water
so as to have feed for horses. After giving the
paddock a good watering it was found that
all the Mitchell-grass roots died clean out, and
for three years after the drought broke there
was not a sign of herbage or grass in this
paddock. Couch grass is the only sort that
will thrive with this bore water.
“The Bat”: The proposal to exterminate
the dingo by introducing distemper has been
rejected by the chief vet. of the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture as being impos-
sible. The present bonus system is a failure
and will always prove so, for whereas on
sheep country efforts are made to cope with
the pest, the majority of cattlemen do not
bother about it. The task of wiping out the
pest by means of poison baits or trapping
seems impossible, and the only hope remain-
ing is to try to keep the menace in check by
paying a smaller bonus for dogs and a larger
one for bitches. Doggers will not kill a
trapped bitch while there is a chance of later
on getting her pups. Cattlemen also should
-be forced to get busy.
“L’Fou”: The best customer for the small
farmer’s produce is his own household.
While he must take wholesale prices (less
freights, etc.) for most of his stuff, that
consumed at home may be reckoned to be
worth the retail prices they would have cost
if bought at the store. For instance, eggs,
which are now sold to the local store at Is.,
if purchased over the counter half an hour
later cost Is. 6d. The more self-contained
a farm is, the better is the chance of success.
Let the new settler get his home orchard
under way early. If he has timber land he
should make a reserve for fencing and other
requirements of the sort. If farm livestock
of whatever kind are dependent on outside
markets for foodstuffs, their owner is add-
ing much to his risk. “Buy only what you
can’t grow” is a good slogan.
“Dar” : The theory, often heard in the bush,
that the reason horses’ bones, when broken,
do not mend is that they contain no marrow,
is off the mark. All the long bones have
marrow, but it is thin, just as the fat of the
horse is not so solid as that of the ox. Mar-
row will escape from the bone of any animal
when there is a complete break. The trouble
in doctoring a horse is that you cannot keep
him from moving, even in the sling. A cow
with a broken leg will nurse the injured
limb, but a horse is always fretful and
impatient. If he could be kept as still as
a cow his broken bones would knit perfectly.
Broken face-bones mend, split pasterns knit,
broken ribs heal and even a broken pelvis
heals, because these are not subject to con-
tinual movement like leg-bones.
“Hanno”: Although Australia imports tre-
mendous quantities of fertilisers, it possesses
phosphate deposits of its own. Some of the
best of these are in the Q’land coastal area
around Rockhampton, where there are enor-
mous caves of limestone rock. Many of these
caves have been the haunts of bats and flying-
foxes for ages, with the result that in places
there are layers of droppings feet in thickness,
the phosphoric compounds in the dejecta
having combined with the lime in exactly the
same way as that in.which phosphates have
been formed from birds’ droppings in islands
of the Pacific. Some of these caves are
fairly remote from railway or road, but even
so it should be possible to work the stuff
and put it on the local market fairly cheaply


■
::
mmmm
WM
V'"'
11
SHI
WHATA
VALUE
ff You
Can't
Know the
Value
Till
You
Drive the
Car ”
Oldsmobile’s tremendous success is
the inevitable result of value. Every
comparison reveals beauty, luxury,
performance and engineering un-
equalled at Oldsmobile’s price.
Consider Its Appearance
Its voguish new bodies are the dis-
tinctive creations of artist-engineers.
Its low, sweeping, graceful lines
express smartness and luxury in every
detail. Rich upholsteries, panelings
and appointments complete its fine-
car beauty.
You enjoy costly car luxury and
comfort—and you get it at a lower
price!
Consider Its Performance
A great new engine develops power
for every need speed for every
desire. A new cylinder head of
General Motors Research design pro-
vides the brilliant pick-up and flexi-
bility of a high-compression engine,
without the use of special fuels.
And Oldsmobile offers the additional
advantages of exceptional handling
ease and finger-tip steering. It turns
completely in a 36-foot circle and
slips easily into parking spaces far
too small for the average car.
It possesses unusual stamina and long-
life—proved by more than a million
miles of testing at the General
OLDSMOB
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Metropolis
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Russell Street
Brisbane: Pacific Motors, Ltd., Ann and Wickham Street
Perth: E. D. Toe


■ ; : : :
'
V % /
■
:
K
mm
m
m
I
Hi
mm
H
mi
m
§1
:
m
Motors Proving Ground—and now
confirmed by millions of miles of
driving in the hands of enthusiastic
owners. You get infinitely finer
performance—and you get it at a
lower price!
Consider Its Equipment
This new Oldsmobile comes com-
pletely equipped, as a really fine car
should be,
Four hydraulic shock absorbers elim-
inate road shocks and provide a
smooth ride over even the roughest
highways. Deep - cushioned, form-
fitting seats complete the restful com-
fort.
Vertical radiator shutters are an im-
portant feature and both the petrol
gauge and water temperature gauge
are carried on the instrument panel.
Rubber cushioning, used wherever cush-
ioning should go, assures a silenced chassis.
And special sound deadening insulation
between body and chassis creates a silenced
interior, a wonderfully enjoyable feature.
You will find every fine car quality at its
best in this Fine Car of Low Price.
Come and take a drive. A half-hour at
the wheel will demonstrate why more
and more thousands are choosing this
new Oldsmobile.
The better they know it, the better they
like it. And when you know it as they
do, you too will say, "What a value
this is ! ”
THE TOURER
£330
The
Sports Roadster £3BO
The
Two-door Sedan £398
The
Four-door Sedan £450
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
ILE SIX
ributors:
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street.
Ltd., Hay Street
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR


HPhe first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS .Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
I?#,
&
m
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
è
JUST THE PLACE FOR PERCY.
“Aren't you in the Civil Service?”
“Yes, the Public Works, y’ know.”
“Yes, I know they do. Aren’t you lucky
to be in the Government!”
might get some notion, however inadequate,
of the scene upon which one directs astounded
eyes.
Oranges, Too.
Oranges also. Millions, billions, trillions
of them. Imagine a drought-stricken oasis
in the middle of the Sahara, on a summer
day which is unusually hot even for those
torrid parts. The inhabitants have had
neither food nor drink for several weeks.
Suddenly attendants in fancy dress appear,
bearing gifts which, though bilious, are
demonstrably far from Greek, and uttering
luscious cries of “ChokkerZerfs!” “Orun gizl”
These servitors of my frolic imagination
would be rushed, skittled, overwhelmed. You
know they would. And so here.
The Rag Goes Up.
Electricians got subtly to work, and the
lights are dimmed. Out of the gloom issues
a voice. And what a voice! It emits a
complaint, a ululation, a lugubrious howl,
or wail, of woe such as a thousand Jobs in
bitter competition with an army corps of
Rachels reinforced by a division of Niobes,
47 train whistles, and the same number of
defeated political candidates and high-
powered vacuum-cleaners, all going at their
top, would be hard put to it to emulate. A
brontosaurus crying for its lovely young, and
being supplied by a tactless Stone Age traffic
cop with a 300-hundred year old Giant
Lizard in an advanced state of intoxication,
might—but probably would not —measure
up to the standard.
“Down’t neglect your dear old mother,
You will never have another,
An’ reemember, boy, that Heav’n will clyme
’er soon.”
The Lachrymose Amusement-Seeker.
An aged man on my right is weeping.
Hopelessly. Explosively. His tears suggest
in their copiousness the storied waters of
Lodore. They spurt on to my shoes and
stream hotly, as from some miniature Etna,
on to my trousers. I feel sure he is much
too old to possess a mother, and that, if
he has one, the wretched woman dislikes him
intensely. Perhaps he' has murdered her, and,
for the first time in a mis-spent life, is regis-
tering remorse. Anyhow, I wish he would
stop. He is a blot on the orange-grove, a
skeleton at the chocolate feast. In addition,
he is rendering me far wetter than that
breaker on whose crest I swept shoreward,
a triumphant Leander —was it this gracious
morning, or a wet, sad seen agone?
The Acrobats.
Acrobats supersede the vocalist. My neigh-
bor dries his eyes, and in an uncultured voice
ejaculates, “Blimey!” It is as I suspected
when I first noticed his elastic-sided boots:
he has no right to the O.E. tie he is wear-
ing. I decide to ignore him. The acrobats
do incredible things. Throw handsprings,
leap, twist and gyrate with a trio, a zest, a
foie de vivre, a care-free conviction that all
is for the best in this best-possible world
which is displayed, one conjectures, by a
Darlinghurst gangster in good practice on
receipt of a birthday offering of a new case
of razors. Small boys lean down from the
gallery entranced, each bundle of immature
bliss a palpable sufferer from exophthalmic
goitre, the complaint which produces that
pop-eyed expression. They gibber with admi-
ration ; grow hysterical with reverence. Ah!
happy, happy striplings! Not for you the
cares and responsibilities of the toga virilis!
Not for you the greybeard’s searing lumbago
attacks which, despite advertisements to. the
contrary, fail, after the sufferer has attained
the age of 80, to yield to saline doses, how-
ever regularly taken in or out of the morn-
ing tea ! Not for you
10-2-4.
A Sydney policeman warned a motorist
that the road was not a garage. It was no
doubt his subtle way of answering the com-
mon query round Sydney, “Is this meant to
be a road?”
* ¥
From a South Island (M.L.) paper:—
Leaving mountain, forest and torrent behind, the
traveller debauches on the flat dotted with settlers’
homesteads.
M.L. travellers are expected to debauch in
several other places after Joe Ward has
borrowed that 70 millions.
* ¥
Diplomatic item :—Mussolini is virtually
King of Italy, where he aspires to be known
as His Castor Oilness.
Reported that “Captain Hurley is flying to
England in a bowler hat.” A more original
way of doing the trip than in an aeroplane.
* *
THE WEEK’S FABLE.
The Agitator and the Diviner.
An agitator in the Great Australian Desert
had agitated himself into a temperature of
130 degrees Fahr., and, as he was 2000 miles
from a bar, his thoughts turned to water.
At this stage a diviner appeared who was
at work in the interests of a transcontinental
underground ferryboat service. The agitator
at once accosted the miracle-worker and
asked him to locate fluidity. Nothing loath,
the scientist took off his coat, put on his
spurs, and stepped seven paces backwards,
elevating as he did so a kudgykudgekudjo
twig. Scarcely had this manoeuvre been
executed than the twig bent downwards with
such force that it snapped. Before the
diviner had dug down more than 30 feet he
reappeared at the top of the shaft with a
cask of beer which had been buried at that
particular spot owing to the prevalence of
wowsers. Having ascertained that the agi-
tator’s temperature had now reached the
fatal figure of 280 degrees Fahr., the diviner
SORRY!
“Have an accident?”
“No, thanks—just had one.”
interred the remains in the shaft and drank
the beer himself.
Moral: The vices of the wicked may be
the rewards of the virtuous.
Les.
A motor-cyclist who left Sydney last week
for Wiseman’s Ferry has not been heard of
since. We suggest a search in the punt
queue.
# *
Melbournites must be given credit for
having the courage of their opinions. At
any rate, Carlton and a few other suburbs
stick to their guns.
* *
The British Foreign Office is investiga-
ting charges of cruelty to an Australian
seaman in Belgium. A brutal estaminet-
keeper is alleged to have served the exile with
a plate of war-time ham and eggs.
# *
“Lack of punch at Anglican Congress.”
Melbourne Herald headline.
The clerics’ beverage is understood to be
cold tea.
* *
THE SPREAD OF INFORMATION.
Argument was raging in Bundaberg (Q.)
on the subject of a baffling paragraph in the
local News and Mail
The case for cure of cancer by one or other of
the lead preparations is not proved. The claim
made in 1925 by Gye and a barmaid of a specific
virus or parasite being the cause of cancer has
been disproved.
Suddenly the collector of celebrities made
his spring.
*‘l used to know her.”
“Who?”
“The barmaid.”
“Yer a li”
“I did —I can prove it. Peroxided hair
she had, an’ her name was Flo, She was
working at a Brisbane hotel at the time,
but her real gift was for doctoring. Should
have been in the profession, we all used to
say. She and this cove Gye—Bill was his
Christian name —were always experimenting
together, discovering parasites and then dis-
proving ’em, but the climax came when they
identified their so-called specific virus.
“ ‘There’s only one cure,’ said Flo in the
know-all way she had. ‘Beer.’
“ ‘I beg to differ,’ said Bill, sort of stiff-like.
‘Your professional enthusiasm is blinding
you to scientific facts.’
“ ‘Blind yerself!’ said Flo, who was rather
a quick-tempered girl. ‘I haven’t touched a
drop since breakfast.’ ”
“ ‘Barmaid’ is a misprint for ‘Barnard,’ ”
interposed a knowledgeable stranger.
“Quite correct,” agreed the barmaid’s
friend after a momentary pause to collect
himself. “Barnard was Flo’s name before
she left the hotel business and married Bill.
The medical heads are talking of putting up
a monument to the two of 'em in Brisbane.”
D.
A china cup dropped from a fifth-floor
window of a Sydney building was picked up
unbroken. A parlormaid we know has
offered to knock it off a table if the owner
cannot break it at the next attempt.
* *
A man was allowed to leave Sydney Cen-
tral Summons Court the other day because
of a heart attack. Yet the same complaint
constantly forces men into the Divorce
Court.
* ¥
Frenzied finance: Two Scotsmen strug-
gling to pay the tramfare.
¥ *
However good he is, it is impossible for a
Polish musician to be a pronounced success.
- ¥ *
FIGHTING THE MAN-PEST.
At the annual conference of mosquitoes,
held this month, it was resolved that:
Present measures for coping with the man-
pest were inadequate, and that a militant
policy was necessary.
Drinking-water enclosed in such a way
as to debar mosquitoes from inhabiting it
should be deluged with prussic acid, one
of the speediest and surest preventives
known.
A trial shipment of malaria-germs should
be obtained from the Islands and a few
million experienced malarial mosquitoes in-
vited to visit the Commonwealth on an
instructional tour.
Flies should be asked to co-operate. If
they were more assiduous 1 in surfing along
the foreshores of open drains as a prelimi-
nary to sun-baking on food their assistance
in stamping out the evil would be invalu-
able.
Venomous spiders should be circularised and
the genial secretary of the Fleas Friendly
Society be asked to communicate with the
Bubonic Plague Distribution Bureau with a
view to obtaining stocks of the virus for
local dissemination.
In the course of a brief address the presi-
dent, Mr. Myrmex Gigans, said that, unim-
peded by insect activity, manimals in-
creased alarmingly during the winter
months. The mortality—infantile especially
NEARLY AS BAD AS SYDNEY.
Society Miss (to returned Missionary ):
“And how do the natives — ah —manage
for clothes?’
R.M.: “Dreadful! Dreadful! Why, do you
know, one pocket handkerchief has to
do for 12 adults, and whatever is over
they make up into children’s garments.”
—from pestiferous causes was practically
nil at that season of the year. It was there-
fore necessary, if, as was hoped, insects
were to own the earth, that not a moment
of summer should be lost. The various tribes
should sink their differences and combine
in massed attacks on their formidable and
cunning foe. “Fill the cemeteries first”
should be their racial slogan.
L. R.
TRAGEDY.
As the Test was starting I wrote to the toss
To say I had got the 'flu.
I described my aches and my feverish shakes.
As I felt I ought to do.
But I had a feeling that all was in vain
As the words flowed from my pen.
I could almost hear his infidel sneer
Of “Hullo ! He’s sick agEN !
“He has caught the ’flu—he usually does —
As the Test is due to start.”
Then a cynic guffaw—a loud “Haw, haw!”
What grief to an honest heart!
No wonder I’m wild as a wounded snake
While the game I love’s played through.
The boss thinks I’m lying, but I feel like
dying,
For I really have the ’flu !
THE FAITHFUL HEART.
“It’s calf-love!” his relations said.
“The youngster knows no tetter.
He went and lost his silly head
The very night he met her.”
He’s sixty now, and far from green,
Yet one and all agree
His love of calves was not more keen
When he was twenty-three.
S.A.
A.E.W.
ALSATIANS BARRED.
Let dogs delight to hark and hite;
’Twixt them and wolves the diff. is slight,
In fact, ’tis obvious you might
Class them as blood relations.
Just as we men from apes are sprung,
So lupine attributes hove clung,
From days when all the world was young,
To ev'ry sort of tike and mong —
Except, of course, Alsatians.
H.
THE DREAM GIRL.
The dream of leauty sleeps in led,
A strap leneatli her double chin,
Her cheeks rolled of their daytime red,
Each curl supported ly a 'pin .
She snores the hours aioay till morn,
Her nose aglow with almond cream.
Greased cotton gloves her hands adorn —
When she walks out she’ll look a dream.
M.F.


Qo<xL
"Xcrix-
linu Mends
and-
IgSWARDEg
fOMEDAIS
toer !
S Perth h
f/,
, < \r
tows "fljfsrr </#
FINE
- . _ ■
• as exclusively supplied to the jUtr"
• - WBTT^a.-.- ■■■., .. .. .minri t n
& ZOcstSni) Clubs
Johi\l)ewaroSons i i
&
/V}
E
£
Distillers PERTmScoHa/vd)* LONDON
(O.
PRODUCE or SCOTLAND
■"Mo
UKOIH THt
thc common**
SUPERVISION
Iv
N /
*'/ \
ff'Mi) £:
&
LU
%
rssJ
fa
VI
n
ij
r\
§&
I
L
m
SCOTCH WHISKY
Qhe Best of Qood Spirits


HOTEL SYDNEY
Manager: HENRY S. PEISLEY.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 31% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO,
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
From one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
tomonwaltb Saving JBai of Australia
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing
Wu-nderlich “ Durabestod” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
COONARDOO.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
By- Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. 11. PERCIVAL.
"'How about it, Coonardoo." Geary held the bottle over a glass invitingly. He was
in a crazy good humor because of the rain.”
Synopsis : After the death of his
mother, Airs. Bessie Watt , Hugh man-
ages Wytaliba station, in the north-
west of W.A., allowing the aboriginal
station-workers to live their accus-
tomed life. His wife, Mollie, dissatis-
fied with station life, becomes
suspicious when Hugh reveals extra-
ordinary interest in Winning-arra, son
of Coonardoo, and forces him into an
admission of parentage. She. then
leaves the station, taking Phyllis and
her other four daughters with her, and
goes to Perth. Hugh announces that
Coonardoo is his woman, mainly to
prevent her going from the station, an
arrangement that- greatly amuses Sam
Ceary, a station-owner who keeps a
gin mistress. Hugh is seriously em-
barrassed■ by drought when Phyllis,
now a young woman, returns to Wytal-
iba and immediately takes an interest
in Billy dale, one of deary’s stock-
men. Gale, against Hugh’s strong
opposition, professes his love for Phyl-
lis. and one day, when Hugh is absent
and she is ill, rides up to the station.
y
SHE covered her face with her hands as
Billy came towards the verandah.
“You can’t look at me,” she said.
“I’ve got a bung eye and I’m too ugly.”
Billy had not swerved in his stride. Com-
ing straight on he took her in his arms with
a gesture as reckless as it was final.
“I’m no great shakes, God knows, and
your father’s right, Phyl,” he gasped. “But
I want you like hell. If you don’t want
me, then go to blazes. But if you do—and
I reck’n you do”
“Do you?” Phyllis tried to lift her head.
“I’m kidnapping you to-night,” Billy
said, “or”
“To-morrow, or the next day. Well,
Phyllis cried, “I don’t mind if you do,
Bill. I haven’t another kick in me.”
When Hugh came in, several days later,
he had done a lot of thinking.
“It’s no good, Phyl,” he said, the same
evening, when they had eaten their supper
and stretched yarning. “You’ve got to go
down and get a bit of color into your
cheeks again.”
He had said that before, and Phyllis
declared the sun would do all she needed,
or a little pot of rouge which still hid in
her suitcase. But this evening she was
silent for a moment. Then she said slowly:
“P’rhaps you’re right, Youie. I believe I’d
like to get into the sea for awhile.”
“That’s it,” Hugh declared—“sea bathing!
Just the thing; a loaf on the sands, tennis,
young life.”
“Will you come, too?” she asked. “Do.
It would be good for you and I’d love
you to.”
Hugh shook his head. “Everything
depends on me staying and doing what I
can to save any stock that’s left. You’ve
been a brick, Phyl. Don’t know what I’d
have done without you. If only we’d
switched on to sheep when everybody else
did! But I’ve been afraid of the dogs.
Now it looks as if somebody’ll be ‘carrying
the monkev’ before long.”
“I’m coming back,” Phyl said. “But I’ve
got to marry Billy, Dad. I’m sorry. It
can’t be helped. That’s the way I feel about
it. I’ve got to. Out here you can’t live
alone. You can’t live on yourself.”
“A slushie —a damned rouseabout!” Hugh
groaned.
“I have heard,” Phyllis murmured, “that
my grandfather couldn’t write his own name.
Anyhow, I’ll be quite near—on Catchy-
Catchy.” Her smile glimmered freakishly.
“We can see each other often.”
Hugh was not to be comforted, although
he tried to make the best of this last back-
hander Fate had dealt him.
In a few days Phyllis was standing on the
verandah in the silk dust coat she had worn
when she stepped on to it that evening two
years before. Winni had brought the car
to the gate, and Hugh took his seat beside
Phyllis. He was going down with her as
far as Karrara. Winni would follow with
horses, and Hugh intended to ride back
when he had seen Phyllis off.
Coming over the creek crossing a sense
of desolation oppressed him. There was
nothing to do but work it off, and work he
did. He worked as men drink, to gain
oblivion. Extraordinarily tough, he plugged
on through heat and dust storms, blazing
sunshine which sapped the source and force
of life in everything. Only Coonardoo
sensed the forlorn
obduracy of his conflict.
An old dog without a
bone to gnaw, he fought
on blindly, refusing to
recognise disaster, ulti-
mate defeat. Her face,
heavy and sombre, re-
flected his depression, the
dumb, unappeased
hunger, thrown back
upon itself.
Three months after
Phyllis had gone down,
Sam Geary brought a
mail from Nuniewarra
and a case of oranges
Phyllis had sent. He said
Billy Gale had gone
south for a holiday, too.
Hugh knew what they
meant.
He was scarcely pre-
pared, all the same, for
the letter which came
from Mollie, with a
newspaper describing the
wedding of Miss Phyllis
Watt, eldest daughter of
Hugh Watt, of Wytaliba
station, to William Gale,
of Nuniewarra and
Catchy-Catchy Downs.
"My God!” Hugh groaned, unable yet to
escape the weight and bitterness of his loss.
It was unreasonable, quite irrational, he
admitted. He could not explain it to him-
self. Phyllis had come to him out of the blue.
He had attached himself to her, and she had
been absorbed into the blue again. He was
left gazing at the place where she had been.
Mollie was well satisfied with Bill, it
seemed—pleased even. He had splashed
money around, giving Phyllis and the girls
a good time before the wedding.
“Bill is really a success,” she wrote,
“though where on earth did he spring from
and who is he? He seems to have money,
and that’s a comfort, besides taking Phyllis
off my hands. She was really a problem.
I could do nothing with her, and it’s prob-
ably the best thing that could have hap-
pened her marrying a back-country man like
this. Cora is very different and I daresay
will be engaged to George Nott, of the Nott
Proprietary, Ltd., before the year’s, out.”
“But really, my dear Hugh,” she con-
tinued, “you must increase the pittance you
have been expecting us to exist on. How
on earth you expect me to live, dress the
girls, and give them a chance in life on the
income you allow me, I don’t know. Of
course, the seasons are bad on Wytaliba.
They always are when I want money. But
you’ve only yourself to thank for staying
there, when you could have sold out at a
handsome profit years and years ago. How-
ever, now, for the children’s sake—of course
I know I don’t count in your affairs and
never have done—you might try to be
reasonable.”
Sam Geary was thoroughly pleased with
himself and the news he had brought. He
was looking upon Bill as a sort of protege,
the heir to Nuniewarra, and regarded it as
a feather in his cap that Bill should have
eloped with Hugh Watt’s daughter.
“Nuniewarra and Wytaliba running in
double harness after all!” he chortled. “Well.
I tried most ways—but I never dreamed
of this one, Youie.”
Geary looked little older than he had
done ten years ago, when he drove Mollie
•down to the coast. Tall and ruddy, at
sixty, he was as active and vigorous as he
had ever been.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Hugh was away mustering when the rain
came. He had been out a week, with all
the men from the uloo and twenty horses,
and with stores for three weeks.
Dust storms had swirled and inundated
the uloo and homestead, promising a
thunderstorm, and whirled off again. A
cloud floated over the sky at dawn, shredded
and drifted out in fluff. x\nd still there was
no rain, no crackling of thunder in the
far, dim hills.
Coonardoo, watching the plains and the
sky, knew rain was falling far away. She
could smell it in the air.
For a week or so the clouds were loose
and flowing, dingy and dirty as greasy wool.
Rain fell beyond the Dog-toothed Ridge.
Fine, slanting showers passed over the bluff
and beyond the purple-dark massed rocks
of the Koodgeeda Gap. Then the heat
broke suddenly, shattered and scattered by
a thunderstorm.
The storm played all round Wytaliba,
with thunder and lightning before rain
fell. Children ran up from the uloo to
the buggy-shed, shrieking, trying to catch
the great cool drops, which turned to hail-
stones, spitting and sizzling on the hot
earth.
Thunder cracked, rumbled, a great skyey
voice falling to earth among the ragged
distant ranges. Lightning flung its long bril-
liant spears across wide spaces of the sky,
flung them right into the eyes, blinding and
dazzling. And the rain fell quicker, splash-
ing and spindling; quicker and quicker,
streaming and sprawling it fell, blotting out
the hills.
In an hour or so the thick, thready veil
of the rain lifted and water was seen lying
everywhere on the plains. Wytaliba home-
stead, with all its houses, barns, sheds and
windmills, stood in the middle of a shallow
lagoon. The air was clear and cool, the
sky pale and shining, the hills newly
washed, now deep blue.
Down at the uloo, old Joey, Bandogera
and Bardi’s Polly were flooded out.. The
dogs prowled unhappily. Joey and his gins
hurried down to the creek to pick branches.
Coonardoo went with them, helping to patch
up and mend holes in the huts through
which rain had poured. But everybody was
gay and laughing about the bath they had
got, revivified and chattering joyously,
excitedly, because of the rain. Meenie
began to sing the song Warieda had made
when it rained like this long ago.
It had been raining all through the ranges
too, Coonardoo knew. She wondered
whether as much rain had fallen on the
far side of the hills, inland, and whether
Hugh would come in from the muster.
Towards evening, when rain water had
soaked into the earth, leaving shining pools
round the crab holes, a car came bucketing
and bumping, splashing through rain water
along the track from the Gap. Coonardoo’s
eyes darkened as she saw it.
The car was Sam Geary’s, and a tall, thin
man, a miner, who had been out to inspect
Cock-eyed Bob’s claim on the ridge, was
driving. Dick Crossley his name was. He
and Sam Geary had gone through Wytaliba
with Cock-eyed Bob and his camels before
Hugh went out. # _ ,
Geary drew up at the little gate in the
back fence and stamped on to the verandah.
“Hullo there!” he called. “Anybody at
home?”
Coonardoo came from the kitchen.
“Youie not in yet?” he asked.
“Wiah.” . .
Coonardoo stood stiff and majestic. Geary
knew her resentment and distaste of his
presence. He glowed with malicious en-
joyment at the sight of her.
“Oh well, we’re wet to the skin, me and
Dick Crossley, my girl. Fix up some tucker
for us. We’re stopping the night.”
“No meat. No killer.” Coonardoo spoke
flatly, with authority.
“Now look here, I’m not takm’ orders
from a blasted gin,” Geary said. “You do
as you’re told, damn you! Come along,
Crossley.” He stalked along the verandah
(Continued on page 57.)


m
A\(^f
V
lii>
afesSZ
«rlg
»rj
JP
:a, p^ sc -
Id*
Xea
pet^ lls
•jsS^ 6
eSS ■'"“
WHATEVER may be your holi-
day mood .. . fishing; game
hunting; alpine climbing;
sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
your mirror say:
Overworked?
%
u
WORRY, overwork, and the strain
of modern life have a weakening
influence on your nerves and digestion.
You must do something to counteract
these disturbing effects on your health, and
you can—with Sanatogen.
Regain your former health and energy by
taking Sanatogen, the true tonicTood.
“SANATOGEN goes to the core
of welbbeing, viz., the cells, and
builds these up into a solid and
permanent fabric of health,”
writes a well'known English physician.
000
Start using it to-day
SANATOGEN
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
ft
'ITT
a
a
All Models Porcelain
Lined.
Write for Prices
and Terms.
[S3
r ■'
rj'4> •’ r ti I
“Freeze with Ease
With the convenience of an
ElectrlCE Electric Refrigerator
week-ends are made so much
more pleasant.
ElectrlCE does away with the
annoyances attendant upon out-
side ice supply, eliminates the
ice-chest and provides an easy
way to preserve delicacies and
cooked foods prepared days in
advance.
ElectrlCE is quiet, dependable
and entirely automatic —it looks
after itself.
Supplied in various sizes,
finished in maple, oak or durable
white lacquer, with genuine
porcelain linings, ElectrlCE
holds the cold—indefinitely.
Don’t deny yourself this conve-
nience any longer. Call and see
one in operation.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Top of Barrack Street, near G.P.0.).
’Phone: BW 1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
PS*
AN EMMCO
PRODUCT
Made by
Electricity Meter Mfg. Co.,
Ltd.
F
A/j Fmmco Product Tele. B.W. 132 8
MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS PIT UP
137 CLARENCE ST SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRiCE RECIPE BOOK
TO
Name
Street
City State...
Ull.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
ë
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY;
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street-
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir-C
(Next G.P.0.).
GIFTS for
THE SMOKER’S XMAS
6k
G
ē
Exclusive Shapes in Torino Pipes
Every one of them guaranteed London-made of the finest
Italian Briar Root over 100 years old. They’re mounted in
hall-marked gold or silver. The bowls are warranted not to
burn out. Special presentation sets for Xmas.
Silver Mounted, each .. 7/6 Gold Mounted, each .. 12/6
One in Gift Case 15/- One in Gift Case 18/9
Two in Case 27/6 Two in Case 37/6
Include 6d. for registered postage on mail orders.
Write for. Price List of Tobacco, Cigars, Cigarettes, Plum
Razors, Strops, etc.
ARMY & NAVY
CIGARETTES
In Red and Gold Packages.
20 Cigarettes 1/6
Box of 50 3/9
„ „ 100 7/6
For postal delivery add 6d.
per 100 cigarettes.
CLUB REIL CIGARS
Box of 10, 5/6; posted 6/-
25, 12/- „ 12/6
50, 23/- „ 23/9
” „ 100, 45/- „ 46/-
m
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
ĕ
It will probably be news to many people that Ire-
land bad ber own Parliament over 150 years a&o
but witb very limited powers. It was Henry Grattan
wbo eventually secured legislative independence for
Ireland —tbou&b it was lost a&ain m
1800.
In 1780, when Grattan first intro-
duced his Declaration of Rights,
the Jameson family assumed control of the
famous Bow Street, Distillery, Dublin, and
from then until the present time the
essential quality of “J.J.” Whiskey has
never varied. Its purity and general ex-
cellence make it as popular to-day as it
was in the days of Henry Grattan.
JOHN
JAMESON
DU BLOW
WHISKEY
excellent and unchanged since 1780
Sole Agents for N.S.W.:
Tooth & Co. Limited, Sydney
X.T'P
r"\K
I 'MATi
*
L>
!a§li§
ij
iJAMES
*
*A
■ y
S
YOSEMITE
VALLEY
m
California
Americans
All year Playground
Only 19 days away is California, bright land of blue and gold
Peaks that tower 14,000 feet into cloudless skies; fruitful valleys
below; mirror-clear lakes and rivers; beaches where surf-bathing
is safe and exhilarating—all these scenic elements enter into
delightful combination in California. Giant Redwoods more
than 300 feet high, and thousands of years old, flourish in
primeval majesty. The deep-cleft gorge of Yosemite Valley;
Lake Tahoe, a mile-high inland sea; Mount Shasta; the coast-
land of Santa Barbara; Feather River Canyon . . • there is
endless diversity in the wonders to be visited. All are reached
in ease and comfort by motor or rail. •
San Francisco and Los Angeles are gay cities; and at the southern
metropolis you will view Hollywood, the heart of “Movieland.”
The thrill of a lifetime!
Visit California, either on a special tour, or on your trip to
Britain across the United States. Matson Oceanic liners will
carry you with speed and comfort, • calling at Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii on the way.
Fares: Sydney to San Francisco, first class, single, £TS/'/'i
£125/10/- return. Other “economy” fares.
Booklet on California, and the illustrated travel leaflet, Across
the United States,” are free upon request.
TbtK OCEANIC SIBAMMIIP Co»
S.S. SIERRA
S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURA
ė
Sailing every
third
Saturday
A—2B
Local Agents:
William St.,
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. 's JL| -
Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd.. 94-96 William St., Melbourne ; 117-119 King
Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited. Brisbane.


This Razor will
last a Lifetime
Kropp Razors are hand-forged from solid bars of special steel by the world's
most expert cutlers. They take a finer, keener edge than ordinary cast steel
or machine-stamped razors.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
It makes shaving a pleasure. Your face will be smoother, cleaner and more
comfortable when you use one of these wonderful razors.
!
>
...
-• ■
A LL
Sheffield made and world famous. Individually tested, and fully guaranteed.
From the usual dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite handles.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
GROCERS
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
OLD BACKS AND
JOINTS MADE YOUNG
From pain and weakness to healthy vigor
in quick time is the rule with Harrison’s
Pills, the signed l’emedy of a London doctor*.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism,
backache, painful urination, lost vitality
due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinary
and bladder troubles, or for aches and pains
generally. No matter how many things have
failed you, Harrison’s Pills should set you
right, for they remove the cause of the
trouble. One user says: “ Never known such,
quick relief. They soothe all the pain away,
and leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since
taking them I have felt years younger.'’ If
YOU want to feel and look ten to twenty
years younger— quicply —get a package of
Harrison’s Pills from the chemist’s, to-day—
2/- Trial Size; 3/- Standard Size; and 5/-
i Large Size, If not pleasantly surprised with
results — money hack! Amalgamated Labora-
tories. Kemhla Building, Sydney, or any
| good, Chemist or Storekeeper.
Alemite-ing”
A New Word with a
Vital New Meaning
to Every Car Ownerl
lubricant
MEANS: “Using Alemite equipment to force genuine
Alemite lubricants into the bearings and gears of your car.”
This makes new-running cars of middle-aged
cars: avoids 80 % of all repair bills and
does what ordinary “greasing” will NOT DO
"ALEMITE-ING” is of vital in-
A terest to most car owners for
two big reasons. First —it will keep
your car running as smoothly at
80,000 miles as it did at 8,000!
And more important, perhaps —it
will avoid 80 % of usual repair bills.
The amount garage and repair men
say is due solely to improper lubri-
cation.
NOT Ordinary “Greasing”
Don’t confuse Alemite-ing with or-
dinary “greasing.” For cheap greases
will never give you true Alemite pro-
tection. Many “greases” break down
under pressure—literally melt away.
They are dangerously inefficient, be-
cause heavy with “fillers,” soap and
fatty acids.
“ALEMITE-ING” Means Using
Genuine Alemite Lubricant
Alemite Lubricant, on the other
hand is a pure solidified oil that will
stand up under 3,000 pounds pres-
sure! (Average “grease” breaks
down under 200 pounds pressure.)
It resists heat up to 200°. And will
lubricate bearings properly at 30 ° be-
low zero. You must have all-weather
lubrication if you’d eliminate burnt
out bearings and rattles that come
from worn, corroded bearings.
Genuine Alemite Lubricant (for use
with both Alemite and Alemite-Zerk
Compressors) is on sale in handy 1
and 5 pound tins. Or, if your service
station does your lubricating—insist
they use genuine Alemite Lubricant
for your Alemite-ing.
Vital for GEARS, too
Insist that your service station use
trade-marked Alemite Gear Lubri-
cant —one grade for summer driving,
one for winter conditions. The
Bassick Manufacturing Company,
Division of Stewart-Warner, Chi-
cago, U. S. A.
ę
ě
T he Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
«ut —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
4>
A lemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemlte-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle —the Alemlte-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
e
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
No. 830
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
©1.8.U.C0. Eeg.U.S. Pat.OO.
Pen and Picture.
Shadow Shows
That merit which is traditionally shared
by the quality of mercy, and boarding-house
coffee is not conspicuously present in the
humor of “Oh, Kay” (First National). But
the face of Colleen Moore is whimsical enough
to carry a thread of good comedy through
even the strained foolery of the hasty person
who fabricated the piece. Her tricky face
is delightfully funny from the moment she
takes a small boat from England to escape a
forced marriage to a mere aristocrat until,
having been picked up by a sailing ship laden
with rum, she lands in America and finds
her ideal in the lad under whose house the
runners stow their hooch. In that house
she masquerades as a slavey whilst trying
to evade a detective, and, with the help of
the butler (a rum runner), succeeds in
smashing the pending marriage of the young
man who has captured her fancy. The meal
scene in which this smashing is partly done
is about as cheap a piece of farce as one
might dread to see, and yet Colleen knows
enough tricks of her trade to come out of
it fairly well. The picture holds quite
a passable surprise in its tail, and, apart
from the dismal foolery mentioned, is good
in a light and airy way.
To within a bare few feet of the end of
“Loves of Carmen” (Fox) Dolores del Rio
acts like the grand little artist she is. She
makes the piece human and convincing ; car-
ries interest up and up to a fine climax. And
then—flop! It all comes of a pair of shoes
DOLORES DEL RIO, of
“Loves of Carmen.”
that are too
tight—a little
thing, but
drama is made
on such trifles.
Carmen, a
Gipsy girl in
Spain, ruins
the soldier-
lover with
whom she had
been coquet-
ting by entic-
ing him to let
her smuggler
friends cross
in over the bor-
der. From her
share of the
smuggle she
buys clothes
and a pair of
shoes. The
shoes hurt her
un accustomed
feet, but that is passed lightly over. In the
absence of her soldier, she goes after a
gigantic toreador who had spurned her, wins
him, and has a box at the bullring where he
next performs. There the soldier-lover,
become crazy, finds her and stabs her. He
goes and she droops to the floor, and lying
there rubs off her pretty shoes. It is finis,
if ever the word applied to anything. And
then, one imagines, the director bellows to
her to get up, carry the wound in her breast
to the door and look through to where the
toreador is bowing to the crowd’s plaudits,
lest a mentally-deficient flapper somewhere
in the two-shilling seats should not under-
stand that he’s the chap Carmen is really
struck on. After that, of course, she
dies once more. All very well that sort
of thing in grand opera, for nobody who has
one takes a sense of the ridiculous with him
to opera. However, it is but a bare few feet
at the end, and the rest of the picture is
very good indeed. Victor McLaglen, as the
Spanish bullfighter, acts rather like a Briton,
but Dolores, who gives the piece the life that
lifts it from the common rut, is genuine
Spanish Gipsy.
Alas, poor Lauder ! We knew him well, and
rather liked his little jog-trot, his bandy legs,
the inimitable twists of his serpentine stick.
So, if we have to say unpleasant things about
him here, they are not prompted by malice,
but by sympathy, tinged with sadness.
“Huntingtower” (Welsh Pearson), the pic-
ture in which he makes his first screen
appearance, is unspeakable bilge. It would
be bad enough if the old man doddered (as
he does here) in some quiet, compatible
Scotch setting, but this atrocious picture is
merely anti-Bolshevist propaganda, and crude
and snobbish at that. Moreover, it is all
as insincere as a political compliment. The
group of precocious boys who take an import-
ant part in it are utterly impossible, and
the story itself is ten times more utterly so.
The plot is decrepit; Lauder is dragged into
the action in the most improbable way and
for no reason whatever. There is a Russian
princess, made orphan by the Bolshies, but
clinging still to the crown jewels. Escaping
from the nasty Russians, she meets in Poland
a nice Britisher, who tells her to go to a
village in Scotland. There she is met by
more nasty Russians, and, though they look
lousy enough and wear the clothes the mob
who persecuted her had worn, she is con-
vinced that they are friends, and lives content
in a castle with them until the nice Britisher
and his uncle and the boys climb up over the
walls, overpower the Russians and get her
and the jewels safely away. That is “Hunt-
ingtower.” That is the story in which Sir
Harry makes his first screen appearance.
Poor Sir Harry! Poor John Buchan, too—
for the movie-makers have taken the worst
qualities of a passable novel of his and
emphasised them with a terrible emph.
“Blake of Scotland Yard” (Paramount)
is the story of the scientific Lord Blanton,
who has discovered the secret of transmitting
the baser metals into gold, but who looks
the sort of person w T ho would give the secret
away to the first inquirer; of the Lady
Diana, who is pursued into the snows of
Canada by villains intent on obtaining the
prescription; of the faithful Jarvis, who
simultaneously takes on a dozen of the vil-
lains under Marquis of Hollywood rules; of
the Lady in White, who haunts Lady Diana’s
ancestral seat and baffles the Spider hiding in
the wainscoting thereof; of the .Clutching
Hand—in fact, of a forest of Clutching
hands. “Blake of Scotland Yard” is full of
the new earthquake photography which makes
the furniture and the architecture reel around
in sympathy with the fleeting characters and
to the detriment of a critic’s eyesight. It is
a serial story and this is the tenth instal-
ment. To be discontinued in our next.
The Palette
The annual display of the Australian
Art Association at Melbourne Athenaeum is
the usual mixture of good and bad. There
is nothing that makes this paper want to
shout for all the world, but there _ are
a few works that call for quiet thanksgivings.
E. Buckmaster has a solitary canvas, which
shows signs of struggle. In spite of coarse-
ness of treatment here and there, the study
of a mountain stabbed by a sudden ray of
sunlight is extraordinarily true in tone re-
lationships, as well as impressive in com-
position. Neither “Mrs. Norman Trenery,’
nor “J. M. Niall, Esq.,” is an outstanding
example of Mclnnes’s facile —sometimes too
facile —art, but “Frank Tate, C.M.G.,” is
a fine passage of bravura painting, marred
by uneasy handling of the robes. Bernard
Hall has lavished more love and care on
“The Giant Crab” than he does on the
large collections of inaccurately realised
women. 11. B. Harrison has a number of
honest landscapes, but his “Bride of 1925”
lacks interest, except as a social note on
costumes worn at the wedding. Mrs.
R. P. Greenshields” is better —a delightful
old lady. A. E. Newbury’s work, compressed
inside an arbitrarily limited range of color,
begins to get as monotonous as the conversa-
tion of a motor salesman in a seaside board-
ing-house. A still-life comprising a bottle of
Dom and two liqueur glasses as big as beer
mugs is one of J. D. Moore’s contributions.
Will Dyson has some brilliant bits of ner-
vous drawing in charcoal —mainly domestic
portraits. There is solidity in Daryl Lind-
say’s landscape No. 87, “Westernport,” but
W. D. Knox’s practised poetry tends to slip
over into sentimental versification. A. D.
Colqulioun has the strongest bit of direct
painting on the walls —the head of a man
apparently hastily chiselled but actually ren-
dered with great truth.
There is much bright paint and, pictur-
esque composition in Victor Zelman’s show
of oils at Melbourne New Gallery, but he
continues to pay such an obvious In Memo-
riam tribute to English schools of landscape
that some of his gums would not know them-
selves in Mr. Zelman’s mirror. One of the
best studies is No. 1, “Sun, Wind and Rain,”
which well illustrates its title. This artist
can draw, but he always seems to look at
the local bush through a veil of Old World
reminiscence.
J. Muir Auld’s 30 oils, to be seen at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, show a family
tendency to repeat themselves. Lumps of
blue sea squat down on solid foregrounds;
skies are thrown in as an afterthought;
level landscapes climb perpendicularly up the
canvas. Yet there are good things that
escape these defects. “Autumn Morning,
with its misty trees and its sky hazed over
above and to the left; “The Lagoon, Morn-
ing” and “Pastoral” are three beauties, and
there is the breath of life in the head of
a girl called “The Woollen Cap.”
The Inky Way
Hector Dinning, well known to Bulletin
readers, is returning to the proof and the
pencil again after several years as an
orchardist at Stanthorpe (Q.). Dinning has
joined the editorial staff of the Toowoomba
Chronicle.
Keith Murdoch is to be appointed manag-
ing director, instead of managing editor, of
Melbourne Herald, and Hugh Adam, asso-
ciate editor, will probably be made editor.
Three men who went to the Herald from
the Age have done very well by the change
—Adam, Taylor (news editor, Herald) and
Simmonds (editor, Sun-Pictorial).
ROLAND HILL, "Rip,” the well-known
London cricket cartoonist, who is
“doing” the tour with the Englishmen.
Emboldened by the success of the first
edition of “The Australian and New Zealand
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book,” the edi-
tors, C. V. Ringstad and W. E. Fitz Henry,
have added many pages to the second edition,
which is due to flaunt its blue cover on the
bookstalls before the end of December. Cecil
Mann, of The Bulletin’s Red Page, and
one of the judges in the 1928 Prize Novel
Competition, has contributed an instructive
article entitled “Building the Novel” that
should be read by all intending entrants to
the 1929 competition. A unique feature will
be the free-service bureau for the benefit of
readers seeking practical advice on literary
and artistic matters. The book, which has
been revised from cover to cover and brought
up to date in every respect, will cost two
shillings and sixpence.
Mrs. Forrest’s newest novel is “White
Witches” and is dedicated to Kingsford
Smith—he reached _ Brisbane in triumph
just as she was finishing it. Hutchinson’s
(London) will be the publishers.


è
LCHjB
The WONDERFUL
EYE REMEDY
Soothes and heals eyes
that are tired and sore.
Chemists, Opticians 8i
Stores. Price, 2/6.
Irite Laboratories, Box
1829 K, G.P.0., Sydney
Zbc IDomtnton.
Nezv Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion ' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Sunbeam
picri for
m s
...
f
/
/
For export all Sunbeam Cars have standard track, a ground clearance of 9in. at
the lowest point, special springing and a larger radiator with fan to ensure
perfect riding and adequate cooling under local conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS.' WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W. 1., England.
Cables: “Subeamoeo, London.” Codes: A.B.C. sth edit. Marconi International, Motor Trade and
Bentleys.
Head Office and Works: WOLVERHAMPTON, England.
Beauty
and
Fidelity
m
m
m
THE rich, exclusive appearance of ELGIN
watches is hut an indication of the internal
beauty of workmanship. The world’s finest
craftsmen are engaged upon the production of
these masters of time. ELGIN watches fulfil
their allotted task with a fidelity and exactness
that leave nothing to be desired.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
o’ylgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jhi? 'jrade Mark in the Watch Ca?e
102


LEFEVER NITRO-SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
LEFEVER NITBQ SPECIAL.
PRICE
£7 IS/-
WONDERFUL VALUE IN DOUBLE-BARREL GUNS.
O.K.’D AND PURCHASED IN QUANTITIES BY U.S. NAVY.
A Lefever Gun is made to shoot right, and throws a pattern superior to many guns much
Thfloek was CC 'designed by the best gumnakers in America, and gunsmiths the country over
say it is the best designed lock ever put in a gun. The first lock was snapped over ‘<,ooo
times and the first Lefever Nitro Special Gun was fired about 10,000 times without a break.
A Lefever Gun won the World’s Championship at the Olympic Games in London.
The name Lefever on a gun has stood for service and durability for 50 years.
The best gun ever offered for anything negr the price. Made in 12, 16, 20 and 410 gauge.
WHOEVER SAW A BROKEN LEFEVER?”
ė
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ę
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
F. T. Guy, the Newcastle trainer, has some
smart horses in his stable, and, barring acci-
dents, a profitable career should be in store
for Newsore, a three-year-old bay gelding by
Newmarket —Mysore. Guy brought his nag
down for the Varroville Handicap at War-
wick Farm on Saturday, got a nice price-
fives and better —thanks to the backing or
Anambah (5 to 2), Greenwich (5 to 1) and
Canberra Florin (6 to _1), and collected.
Greenwich looked like improving _on lus
Randwick second as they rushed into the
straight, but the effort to shake off Anambah
took too much out of him, and Newsore was
going away from him over the last ot)
yards.
Ulenjoy (3 to 1), another from Newcastle,
was reckoned the best of the poor lot in the
Homebush Handicap, at least by Novocas-
trians who had Newsore winnings to. play
up ; and he made a very interesting finish of
it with Orange Prince (5 to 1), but lost by
the length of his more or less noble head,
Speeehmaker (8 to 1) being a poor third.
Orange Prince is a bay gelding, rising seven,
by William the Silent-r The Dhow; he is
owned by Leslie Wallace, after whom John
“Baron” named a fretful flier that was
going to turn out a Derby colt and never did.
The Grindstone (Sands of the Orient-
Royal Tune) won so nicely at Canterbury
Park recently that, it was rather surprising
to see him go out at eights for the Farm
Stakes in very ordinary company; and tens
could have been got. Ridden coolly and
with judgment by young Hunter, lie showed
too much pace for the others, of whom the
most conspicuous were Gadsby (0 to 2) and
Hamurana (14 to 1). Deferential (7 to 1),
ridden by Toohey, also accounted for the
favorites, Somnolent (5 to 4) and Bawn-na-
glas (3 to 1), in the Macquarie Grove Han-
dicap, and the ringmen went home well
pleased, for in two races they were virtually
untroubled with wagers.
:\i Hi ❖ *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Trial Stakes: Loquacious.
Flying Handicap; Canberra Florin ; next,
Hazel Boy.
Canterbury Handicap: Tibbie; next, The
Grindstone.
Welter Handicap : Sarigue ; next, Flinders.
* * * *
A strong stern breeze made for fast times
at the Victoria Park Cup meeting on Satur-
day. In the Sir Herbert Maitland Stakes,
44 furlongs, the three division winners, Sea-
plane, Reminiscence and Royal Flower,
equalled the race record of 54jsec., but to
win the run-off from Seaplane Royal Flower
had to carve out the distance in 53|sec. The
J. D Gold Cup went to Southern Cross, a
fickle sort of steed by Absurd, who surprised
his erstwhile supporters by cantering home
in lmin. 25|sec. for the seven furlongs—also
a record for “the ponies” ; five lengths sepa-
rated him from Grand Total, the third horse,
Nugloam, being three lengths away. Me-
Shortodds, as usual, had the bigger end of
the stick, though some of the winners were
solidly backed.
The middle-distance horses racing about
Melbourne just now are a tired-looking lot.
Probably because he seemed the least jaded
of the bunch, the Lilyveil gelding Cobranveil
was made favorite, at 5-2, for the 10-furlongs
handicap at Epsom, unlucky little Reputed
King being at threes. Neither was prominent
at the finish, w r hich was confined to The
Tyrant (4 to 1) and Sacedon (7 to 1), who
did a bit of racing in Sydney last summer,;
the old ’un managed to poke his head in front
of the grey at the right moment, Coromandel
(9 to 2) being third. The Tyrant was a
good performer in his day, and has the 1925
Williamstown Cup to his credit. He was
patched up for Epsom by the former crack
horseman Ron Cameron, and was ridden by
Tomison.
Big bettor Darcy Eccles had a success in
the Two-year-old Handicap; his St. Anton
gelding Hilaris (9 to 4), who had shown
some form during the spring meetings, led
nearly all the way and beat the even-money
favorite Bifshranger by a length. The late
Claro, winner of the Epsom Handicap and the
Cantala Stakes, was represented by a couple
of winners : Claronga (7 to 1), a bay gelding,
landed the Plate, and Clarogale (7 to 4), a
chestnut colt, was awarded the Purse after
a protest against Air Scout (7 to 1), who
was placed second. Harry Gatell trains
Claronga for M. E. Coppel, and Clarogale is
one of Sid Ferguson’s string. They are
rather promising customers.
* * * *
“Fish and Flesh’’: The conviction of a
party of Westralian “sports” for conducting
a newspaper tipping competition, together
with the English decision that journals are
not lawfully entitled to bet their readers
£20,000 (or some such sum) to a penny that
they can’t predict the results of the football
matches, is a severe blow to circulation ex-
perts. The “sports” sold their sheet for a shil-
ling, the purchase including a form for the
competition. Defendants pleaded that the form
was only part of a paper for which the
public paid a shilling because it contained
matter useful to racegoers. The magistrate
GRACE BEFORE MEAT.
swept the plea aside and imposed a fine of
£SO and costs. In Sydney the offering of
cash prizes for picking winners has become
a regular feature of the new journalism.
SB
s*•“'Vto*. W
down form of newspaper enterprise anyway.
*
*
“Adelaide”: South Aus. racing clubs are
getting anxious over the general heavy drop
j n tote-money staked-—over £70,000 less
than in the same four months of last season,
All sorts of theories are advanced. (1)
Receipts in past years were abnormal, and
normality has been reached. (21 The lower
total comes from lower attendances, implying
a loss of public interest. (3) Bookmakers
(though illegal in S.A.) are getting the
money instead of the tote. (4) The new; halt-
crown machine, enormously popular, is re-
sponsible; people are betting as otten, but
not as much. Any’way. racing is admittedly
not overdone m S.A. But the clubs say tnat
stakes will certainly have to be reduced if the
loss of revenue goes on, and S. A. Jockey
Clubs has started with a £7OO cut for its next
meeting.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Harry Mason, now a middleweight,
who once held a European championship,
put up another poor showing on Saturday
night at Sydney Stadium, when he suc-
cumbed to the hard-hitting American Wesley
Ketchell in the opening round of their scrap.
Mason, whose weight was given as list.,
looked even less trained than heretofore. Ket-
chell was list. l|lb. Mason opened confi-
dently and landed a couple of lefts. A minute
before the end of the round the Englishman
slapped a right to the face and was coun-
tered with a stiff left over the heart. He
dropped on all fours, and could not rise to
the count. He was roundly hooted, but there
was no doubt about the solidity of the punch.
* : i : *
Although he fought a cool, heady battle,
veteran Dick Congress (Sst. 13Jib.) was
lucky to catch Val Quirk’s eye at the end of
15 strenuously-contested rounds with Bob
Delanev (Sst. 121 b.), a youthful “comer”
from Sydney, at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday. In the early stages the experienced
Richard seemed to take things easily. YV hen
he clapped on the pace in the fifth round
the Sydney youngster went with him, and
with pile-driving rights to the body had the
veteran worried and sick. In the eleventh
flurry, if the visitor had been more experi-
enced he might have won with a knockout.
Dick’s ringcraft came to his rescue. With a
few more fights Delaney should prove a very
attractive performer.
Racquet and Bawl
The English tennis team made a very
good impression in their three-days’ match
against N.S.W. in Sydney, though they were
defeated by 7 rubbers to 5. Of the eight
singles played the Englishmen won five, Aus-
tin defeating Hopman. Crawford was at his
best, beating Austin and Gregory, and show-
ing fine tennis in the doubles. Willard was
ê
ë
SERIOUS MOMENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ĕ
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Mick Simmons
are the exclusive Australian Distributors
of the incomparable
LEE MONOGRAM
DE LUXE MODEL
RACKET
The famous racket with the slotted
throat. This distinctive patented
feature is exclusive to the “Lee
Monogram” and cannot be had
in any other racket. The reason
for the slot is: It ensures absolutely
perfect balance; absorbs the
crashing, smashing jolts and
shocks which slit rackets at the
shoulder; imparts the very
slightest spring—unnoticeable to
the user, but lending extra power
to the service, drive and smash.
Strung with best English Gut.
Frame carries Six Months’
Guarantee. Gut carries
Three Months Guarantee.
"i L
Price
77/6
mm
mam
WM
s3s®»
v.vi'.tfy
iSS
>B
Other Famous Rackets
solely distributed by
MICK SIMMONS!
DUKES’ ROYAL ENSIGN. . §5/.
LOCKYER TROPICAL g 5/„
MASTERSTROKE 77/6
TORNADIC 75/.
BRITANNIC 55/.
LIGHTNING 45/.
COURT CRAFT 24/-
TENNIS
REPAIRS
A racket left for any kind,
of repair carries the com-
plete assurance that it will
be returned to the owner
as near to perfect as the
finest workmanship can
make it.
Lowest Charges.
A New Dependable
COTTAGE BILLIARD TABLE
at a remarkably low price!
e
Size, 6ft: x 3ft.
Complete with
Two Fancy Butt
Cues, One Set 1 f-
inch Dymondite
Balls, Score Board
and Chalk, at the
amazing price of
£22/10
May be purchased
on the
DEFERRED
PAYMENT
PLAN.
Manufactured from the finest obtainable in materials, conforming to the best and
correct standards of billiard table design, these tables will add distinction to any
home. Patent Unbreakable Composition Bed, ground to trueness, which cannot
be affected by climatic conditions. Covered with West of England Billiard Cloth.
Brings the World’s Most Fascinating Indoor Game within the reach of every one!
(Carriage paid on Tennis and Cricket Material, but not on Billiard Tables, Bicycles, Cameras, Air Rifles
or Meccano Sets.)
immons
TO
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney
AND AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
Practical Gift
Suggestions for
manly Boys.
✓ X
,-iS
Jar*
1
Naturally —
he is wondering
what his Dad is
going to give him
this Christmas.
Special Cricket Sets
"Vv?
f, :'
EJC3.
Complete with Bats,
Wickets, Ball and
Score Book.
5/-, 7/6,
11/6, 12/6,
22/6, 40/.
The “Saltley” Bicycle
£B/17/6
è
Famous English Model. Built of sterling
materials, 20in. Frame, Free Wheel, "Dunlop”
Warwick Tyres, Tool Bag Set.
“Scout” Magazine Cameras
€
A remarkable little
Camera that takes splen-
did pictures.
No. 2 takes Pictures
21-in. x 3 -4-in.
146
No. 2 a takes pictures
2-|in. x 4|-in.
18/6
Air Rifles
Where is the boy that doesn’t covet
an Air Rifle? Mick Simmons stock
all well-known makes.
“Daisy” or “King” 7/8
“Upton” 7/6
“King” New Model 13/9
“Daisy” 500-shot Repeater . . 157-
Daisy 1000-shot Repeater, 13/6
“Tell” 4i M.M. cal .42/6
■MECCANO
mm
l^s^uUiiiiiiTa
mm
Meccano
Sets
Complete Outfits at
5/-, 7/6, 15/6, 25/-
and upwards.
é


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caffe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
{Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 0 P.M.
SSiPI
r
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
The“ Mercury” 55/- Racket
m
m
I
-
for 22|6
390 Rackets were pur-
chased for spot cash to
enable us to make this
special offer.
The same Racket complete
with first-class Press and
Cover,
27/6
We Pay Post.
GUARANTEE ON
FRAME 6 Months
GUT 3 Months
NJS.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.
11-13 MARTIN PLACE.
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen scored their first victory
in Australia when they defeated an Aus-
tralian Eleven in Sydney last week by eight
wickets. Australia’s second innings of 243
(Jackson played in something like his real
form for 61) left the visitors 118 to get, and
this was accomplished with the loss of Sut-
cliffe (31) and Jardine (13). The latter
fell for the second time in the match to his
Oxford confrere Bettington. The outstand-
ing feature of the match was the failure of
the bat on either side to beat the ball. Credit
in this respect, as far as the Australian side
was concerned, must go to Nothling, of
Queensland, whose medium-paced spin bowl-
ing was an emphatic success, and to Betting-
ton, who, though he had little opportunity
of practice after a long sea voyage from
England, showed that he is quite as good
a slow-break bowler as his performance in
the Cold Country has led us to expect.
Hooker also maintained the reputation he
lias acquired this season in Queensland and
in the N.S.W. v. England game. Scott, in
spite of his tendency to erratic length, was
far more effective in the matter of getting
batsmen out than was Gregory in the N.S.W.
game against the visitors. Up to the end
of this match it does not appear that Aus-
tralia has much to fear from England in
the Tests. Outside Tate, the English bowl-
ing lias proved itself by no means paralysing.
It will be safe to set off Grimmett against
him as a potential match-winner, and though
Larwood will probably do better than Gre-
gory in the matter of getting wickets, the
rest of Australia’s bonding, headed by Oxen-
liarn and Ironmonger, seems to balance the
remainder of the English attack.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Q.”: Queenslanders are strongly re-
senting the set made by Sydney news-
papers against Queensland players in the
trial match in Melbourne, and in the
recent England v. Australia game in Sydney.
Though Ron Oxenham skittled the Rest of
Australia in Melbourne to the tune of 10
for 90 in the match, most of the Sydney press
critics had the hide to ask why he was picked
for the first Test on “one performance.” To
their credit, be it said, the leading Victorian
papers unanimously acquiesced in his selec-
tion, though it involved the dropping of
Blackie. Similarly, though Nothling bowled
finely in the England v. Australia match in
Sydney, and came out -with far and away
the best average, he was practically ignored
in the columns of slop devoted to the descrip-
tion of the game, though Scott and Betting-
ton, both N.S.W. players at one time or an-
other, got plenty of space. As regards Oxen-
ham’s alleged “one performance,” let us have
a look at his record since 1924, when he first
came into big cricket. Against the States,
Maoriland and England (Gilligan’s team) he
has taken 75 wickets for 1291 runs, an aver-
age of 17.21. A much-boomed bowler of
the past who is now one of Oxenham’s bit-
terest press critics cannot show anything
like that record over the same period. In
Sheffield Shield games alone, Oxenham has
played eight innings with a highest score of
134 n.o. and an average of 55.66.
* * * *
“Bails”: The news that Oxenham had
contemplated standing down from the
Queensland Eleven to meet England at
Brisbane in order to be fresh for
the first Test gave rise to a lot
of fatuous comment in a section of the press.
The Queensland all-rounder has “a knee,”
and his desire to figure in a Test was probably
behind his attitude, though that cannot be
commended from a sporting point of view.
One Sydney journal observed that the in-
cident was without precedent in Australia.
Not so. Three or four years ago a well-
advertised N.S.W. player refused to turn
out for his State unless he got more money
than was going, on the ground that he
couldn’t afford to neglect his garden and
would have to pay a man to mind it while
away. Nothing was done in the way of dis-
cipline, though he has often complained since
that the selectors were inclined to look coldly
on him.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The English cricket team
has sustained its second casualty. Staples,
the Notts bowler, has been incapacitated by
muscular rheumatism, and has returned to
England. It was a bitter disappointment to
the young professional, and he will probably
not be heartened by the gallons of guff spil t
over him on his departure by the Sydney
paper which depicted him as lonely and
sobbing his heart out in the corner of a
(lark railway carriage, with no friend or com-
forter but the representative of the Daily
Blah Blah to lighten his burden.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Arthur Mailey’s most
embarrassing experience came along when,
after toiling very unsuccessfully at the
bowling crease for a day and a half, and
knowing he would not be called upon to bat
that day, he wandered across to the ladies’
pavilion and was introduced to a gushing
young thing by a friend. “Oh, Mr. Mailey,”
said the G.Y.T., enthusiastically, “I must
congratulate you! How well you did! There
were 127 runs opposite your name—that
was the top score for the innings, wasn’t it? ’
* * * *
“Gabba”: The Brisbane Test is the 115th
of the series, and Chapman’s team is the
20th to visit Australia from England and
the 17th to take part in Tests. In this coun-
try Australia has won 36, lost 24 and drawn
2—the last against Shaw and Shrewsbury’s
team of 1881-82, both in Melbourne. In
England Australia has won 11 and lost 18,
while no fewer than 23 have been drawn.
* * * *
“Blither”: The pony press of Sydney cast
the elections and even the latest murder and
divorce cases out of its columns last week
to make room for a denunciation of the
Sydney Cricket Ground trustees and the
secretary. The secretary in particular
came in for bitter personal attacks, and all
because a little boy, the son of cricketer
Kelleway, was not allowed to accompany his
father on to the ground when the latter went
there to practise. The rules strictly forbid
the admission of children under 10, and
there seems no reason why Kelleway should
receive particular exemption from their pro-
visions. To create a precedent in his case
would open the gates to a flood of similar
applications from people who might consider
themselves equally entitled to the privilege
with the cricketer.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Misses Akhurst and
Bickerton returned from their tour of Africa,
Europe and Singapore last week, accom-
panied by their faithful chaperon. The
N.S.W. girls were welcomed by the State
Association, the fact that Daphne Akhurst
had won her way during the tour to the rank
GOOD CAUSE.
JAQUES: “But la-la, eef it vas so good a vat-you-call game, vy
deed you gee} up ze golf?”
DONALD: “A lost ma ba’!”
of the third-best woman player in the world
being a source of much self-congratulation to
he-officials of that body.
* » * *
“Top Spin”: The French Tennis Federa-
tion has thought better of its resolve to
transfer the Davis Cup finals to Brussels in
consequence of the Government’s increased
amusement tax proposals, and has also with-
drawn the ban on the holding of open tour-
naments by the leading French clubs. It is
expected that M. Pate, the new Under-
secretary for physical training, who is a
tennis addict, will succeed in inducing the
Treasury to lighten its taxation as originally
proposed. This means that the Frenchmen
will defend their title on their home courts,
an advantage always enjoyed in the past
by the Davis Cup holders.
* * * *
“Lakemba”: Isn’t it nearly time that “Top
Spin” (B. 14/11/’2B) discovered some word
other than “temperament” to hide his
prejudice and lack of tennis knowledge, and,
incidentally, gave Jack Crawford a little of
the praise which is his due for his extra-
ordinary tennis ability and good sportsman-
ship? This youth, while holding the junior
championship, has been ranked amongst the
world’s first ten. Where did Brookes rank
at 21? As for showing a slight petulance
at a faulty stroke occasionally—well, I don’t
except Brookes or Patterson in this respect.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The ethical aspects of throw-
ing away a point in tennis because an
umpire gives a decision with which the
player does not agree are again receiving
attention in Europe. In tennis alone this
sort of thing is thought to be fine sports-
manship. In any other game it would be
looked on as an illegality, and dealt with
accordingly. Cricket is admittedly one of
the cleanest and most sporting of games. Yet
Sutcliffe, when erroneously given not out in
a recent match in Sydney, did not imme-
diately throw away his wicket because the
umpire had made a slip for once. He would
have been regarded as a bumptious ass by the
public and his fellow-players had he at-
tempted the absurdity.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Fore”: Though as a showman Joe Kirk-
wood is supreme—some of his trick shots
must be seen to be believed —the general im-
pression derived from the games in which
he took part in Sydney is that he is by no
means too good for the first flight of present-
day golfers in Aus-
tralia, whatever he
may have been
wiien he won the
Australian open
some years ago.
Certainly, he has
not been long off
the boat, but he
played whenever
chance offered on
the way over, and
could not have been
too rusty.
* *
“Percy P.”: With
my friend Smithers
golf was more an
excuse than a re-
creation, but since
his wife caught the
fever he has had
some real use for
his clubs; still
occasionally he has
the opportunity of
carrying them no
further than the
club-house bar. One
of the other mem-
bers put it this
way: “W hen
Smithers’s wife
comes with him he
goes round the
links in about 100;
when he comes by
himself the links go
round him in about
20.”
“Harold Hard-
upp”: They tell
the tale about
Foozle, who has
pottered about the
links for several
years with such a
lack of improve-
ment in his game
that he is popu-
larly known as
“Dawn to Dusk.”
The other day he
struck a new caddy,
and managed to do
less badly than
usual. By way of
impressing the lad,
he said: “A bit off
my game to-day,
sonny.” The young-
ster smiled tolerantly. “Wot? You ’ave
played before then, mister?’’ he asked.
* * * *
“Statist”: Some enthusiast has lately been
inquiring into the matter of which British
city boasts the most golf clubs. London
takes pride of place, as might be expected,
with 129 clubs. Glasgow leads Scotland
with 51 clubs, and probably leads the
world in respect of one of them, which is
confined to local pawnbrokers. The irony of
fate has decreed that the aggregation of
Uncles should not possess a course of its
own; it has to borrow from other clubs.
* * * *
“Mid Iron” That municipal golf, so
neglected in Australia, can be made a popu-
lar and a paying proposition is seen in the
report of the London County Council on the
success of the various miniature courses it
has set up of late in some of London’s parks
and gardens. The fee for a game over the
little courses is 3d., and the summer just
over netted £lO,OOO for the council from
this source. At such courses as those at the
Embankment Gardens and Lincoln’s Inn
Fields, every lunch hour sees a queue of hun-
dreds waiting in hope of a round. Private
enterprise is not behind hand either. Skittle
alleys and bowling greens have vanished
from the pubs which once specialised in them,
and have been supplanted by the miniature
course or the putting green.
* * * *
“Rastus”: In America the nigger has to
darned well play golf by himself. There
are separate coon clubs, competitions and
championships. The cullud open champion-
ship of America was decided at Washington
(D.C.) recently, and was won by Mistah
Henry Porter, who put up the remarkably
fine figures of 75, 66, 74 and 71 —as near as
need be, an average of four strokes a hole.
* * * *
“Schenectady”: That Yorkshire golfer
cannot have heard of the vogue of the crack
professional in Yankeeland, or he would not
be lingering in the enjoyment of a paltry
£3OOO a year at Berlin (B. 21/11/’2B).
Walter Hagen till recently was contracted
to the Pasadena golf club in California for
£6OOO a year, retainer only, and gave up the
job because it prevented him making real
money. In retainers alone —'the Berlin
man’s actual retainer was merely £SOO a
year—many American . professionals draw
from £2OOO to £3OOO. In addition, there are
numerous big competitions all over the coun-
try for purses running into thousands of
pounds in the aggregate. In Britain, the
professional golfers who earn £lOOO a year
from all sources can be counted on the
fingers of one hand.
* * * *
“John B.” : When it is ready for the official
opening early in December the new Lithgow
(N.S.W.) golf course should be equal to if
not better than any country club in Aus-
tralia. And the “Nineteenth” will not have
a superior. The surroundings are delightful.
The club has taken over the late Charles
Hoskins’s fine home, and its grounds at Esk
roy Park, three miles out of the town. The
members reckon they got a bargain at £5OOO.
Fred Popplewell has laid out the course, and
most of the work has been done by voluntary
labor. And those Lithgowites can work when
they feel the weight of a pick.
* :J; * *
“Hoylake”: Any hope that Australian
golfers might have a chance of seeing Walter
Hagen in Australia next season has been
dashed by the announcement that he is to
lead the American professional team which is
to tackle the British representatives in the
Cold Country this coming spring. Hagen
will probably remain to defend his open
championship title, won last year just after
Archie Compston had raised the hopes of all
Britons by giving the Yankee wizard the
hiding of a lifetime in a challenge match.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: The average individual
is content to judge the resiliency of a golf
ball by the feel of its flight off the club, or
even by dropping it on a hard surface. That
rule-of-thumb method isn’t good enough for
the thorough-going American, who has in-
vented an apparatus for measuring resiliency
that is quite German in its elaboration. This
consists of a gun which fires a wooden pro-
jectile at a teed golf ball at the same velo-
city as that of a club head. On taking the
knock, the pill is shot through “a ballistic
pendulum” in front, and is caught by a
second one further on. The distance of each
pendulum’s swing is recorded, and the “co-
efficient of resilience” is then computed.
What happens after that is not recorded, but
it is probably the same old dive into the
club house to take further observations'.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The Americans have un-
doubtedly succeeded in reducing golf to a
system, and the regimentation achieved is
evident in the extraordinary averages of a
number of the leading amateurs and profes-
sionals. Bobby Jones, who heads the list,
has played 1164 holes during the season
under consideration. His best round was
66, and his average per round of 18 holes
was 72.5, or a trifle worse than 4 strokes a
hole for the season. J. Sweetzer is little
behind Jones, with 72.9, while Farrell is
third, with 73.4. Walter Hagen’s figures are
74, and they place him only ninth. Joe
Kirkwood, with a decimal point over 74 for
3063 holes played, is only 22nd. Average-
taking over a whole season has not caught
on as yet in Australia, but it is doubtful
whether any players in sight here to-day
could qualify for America's first twenty
over the distance.
(Continued on next page.)


0
□
BE
wswupi
Alex. Finlay recently broke the Melbourne-
Sydney Records on a B.S.A. machine equipped
with B.E.S. Plug. Australian made. Fully
guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6. Made by
AUSTRALIAN SPARK PLUGS PTY., LTD.,
Spencer Street, Melbohrne.
’Phones: F 5961, F 4947.
Pl&ctmtmlt t
Jr -sKoc -Store-s Ctd.
ê
ë
y*m
mm
J^eJfendal/
Write for Catalogue
TWO MEN’S SHOE STORES
135 KIMC STREET 316 GEORGE STREET
World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1925.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTGNE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representativesj
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdaie Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford”: Quite a patriarch the
motor-car industry is getting—the Buick
people have just produced a silver-anniver-
sary model. Twenty-five years ago Buick
rolled out of his workshop in Detroit
(U.S.A.) a single-cylinder horseless carriage.
In fulfilment of a wager, it coughed its way
to Flint, 68 miles away. That year there
were 25 orders. Since then the Buick
people have made 2,000,000 cars, and pretty
well each year their breeder-engineers have
improved on the previous year’s model. The
steady refinement of the motor thorough-
bred is reflected in what one might call the
draught-horses of the industry, and the firm
which produces the Buick also builds each
year a better Chevrolet. Yet while other
countries, by means of motor fairs, Derbys
and Marathons, stimulate a great living
industry, Australians continue to glorify with
their greatest festival the archaic industry of
breeding geegee^.
*** . *
“Trembler”: A remarkable long-distance
run for stock cars is reported from Atlantic
City (U.S.A.), where two Studebaker Pre-
sident eight roadsters completed a 24 hours’
continuous run, covering 2044 miles. This
works out at over S 5 m.p'.li., which is easily
a record for cars of the type. The run was
held on the famous Speedway, and was under
the official control of the American Auto-
mobile Association.
J ! : v : i- sjs
“Whizz”: Major Segrave, the English
motor-driver, has announced that lie will use
an aero-engined Napier car for his next
attempt on the world’s motor-speed record,
which he was the first to lift above 200
m.p.li. His figures of 203 m.p.h. have since
been beaten by Malcolm Campbell, with 206
m.p.h., and by the American driver Ray
Keech, with 207 m.p.h. A feature of
Segrave’s new car is a system of cooling by
ice in a special container attached to the
cooling system. This has been tried before,
but without much success.
“Sevenoaks”; Thirty-two years ago Eng-
lish motor-drivers marked the repeal of the
law requiring power-driven vehicles on the
highways to be preceded by a man with a
red flag by a run from London to Brighton.
Last week the anniversary was celebrated
by a similar run, none of the competitors
being less than 25 years old. The oldest
contestant was 35, and many of the starters
are still in daily use. Some had the original
sparking plugs, and few have required ex-
tensive repairs. One was using a tyre with
which it was fitted when it was bought 27
years ago !
* * * *
“Sprocket” : The time for the Melbourne-
Sydney push-bike run is shortening with such
rapidity that if the process continues at the
present rate the ultimate record-breaker may
achieve the feat of finding himself, like Sir
Boyle Roche’s bird, in two places at once.
A week or so ago Lcs Cecil, a Queenslander,
registered 48hr. 48-|min. Now a Victorian,
S. J. McLeod, has done the trip in 47hr.
464 min. The average for the journey was
12 m.p.h., and McLeod had only three hours’
sleep.
“Indoor”: Australia' is to have its first
covered cycling track, built of planking on
the American model and heavily banked at
the turns. Erection has been started in Syd-
ney. The track will be a furlong in circuit,
with two straight runs on each side of the
flattened oval, the banking being 40 degrees
at the turns. These tracks have been respon-
sible for the great vogue of professional
cycling in America, and the innovation may
do something to keep Australia’s fine riders
at home. Under present conditions they
have to go to America and Europe for recog-
nition and profit. The roofing-in of the track
will banish all bad-weather risks, and if
the management keep a strict control of the
game the new idea should receive public
support. Overseas riders will be invited to
compete, and other sports will be catered for
on occasion.
* * *
“C.Q.”: Add to the records put up by
Alex. Finlay, the Vie. motor-cyclist (B.
14/11/’2S), a remarkable performance he
has just achieved between Melbourne and
Sydney. Using B.E.S. spark plugs on a
B.S.A. sports model sealed on top gear he
did the 1130 miles there and back in 42
hours 51 minutes. The first leg of the trip
was a record with sidecar—s6s miles in
16 hours 38 minutes.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Whizz’s” story (Bt 14/11/’2S)
of the man who couldn’t stop the motor
reminds me of a similar incident. In the
early days of motor-paced racing the pacing-
machine carried two men—one steered while
the other drove the engine. One night, on
the Exhibition track, Melbourne, the driver
slipped from his perch. Portion of his cloth-
ing tugged the engine into full speed as he
fell. The man in front knew nothing about
the machinery; in any case, he couldn’t
reach it. Further, the speed was such that
he was all out to keep between the fence
and the grass. He was motioned to keep
well up near the fence, and the cycling events
were run off underneath, as it were. It
wasn’t till 1 a.m., when the “house” had
narrowed down to a yawning caretaker and
the club’s medical man. that the machine
slowed and stopped. The merry-go-round-
had started at 9 p.m.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: Dr. “Billy” Sheehan, one
of the finest Rugby Union five-eighths that
Sydney University and N.S.W. have turned
out, is making a big hit ir. England, where
lie is completing an advanced medical course.
Critics now rate him as the best stand-off half
in the United Kingdom, and tip him as a cer-
tainty for an English cap this year.
Last season, apart from his games with
Richmond Club, he represented London in
Germany and France, Middlesex County, and
the Rest of England in the trials v. England.
* * * *
“Everton”: That pari about the sale on
the hoof of professional footballers in
Britain (B. 24/10/’2B) takes added interest
from the publication of a “secret and confi-
dential” circular issued by Bolton Wanderers.
It was practically an advertisement of sale,
and concluded with the intimation:—
We are prepared to part with any of our for-
wards with the exception of Jack, and any half-
back with the exception of Kean, Seddon and Nut-
tall. If you are interested, kindly drop a line.
They so far relaxed as to part with Jack
to Woolwich Arsenal for £lO,OOO, but
whether a warranty went with him or the
other stock put up for sale was not stated.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Fred Lindrum seems to
have made a deep impression on the English
billiards cognoscenti, his “attractive and pol-
ished style” calling forth general approval.
Melbourne Inman likens him to Stevenson,
admittedly, the supreme stylist of professional
billiards since the days of the great John
Roberts. Melbourne is evidently finding that
Anno Domini wields too good a cue for him
nowadays, for the one-time champion is
taking 2000 points in 16,000 from Lindrum
and finding that it isn’t nearly enough.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Australian Swim-
ming Union, w T hich controls amateur
splashers in Australia, had intended inviting
Arne Borg to come on from Japan to Aus-
tralia. The invitation has been hung up
pending inquiry into a report that the Swede
had accepted “an honorarium” of £5OO from
the Nipponese swimming authorities for
showing there. If this is true, not only
will Arne automatically become a profes-
sional, but the Japanese body will take
rank as a professional organisation. In this
connection it is worth noting that Johnny
Weissmuller has offered to swim in Australia
this season, provided the “offer is attractive
enough.” Amateur sport has some confusing
aspects.
* "f * Ht
“Ride Off”: The Australian polo pony
continues in the boom. The other day C.
G. Skene, of N.S.W 1 ., who took a shipment
of ponies to Honolulu earlier in the year
JACK GREGORY who Australia fervently
hopes may return to his old-time bowl-
ing form in the first Test Match against
the Englishmen at Brisbane.
with satisfactory results, despatched another
shipment of 39 to the same destination.
With him went Messrs. Stuart Pearson and
F. Beveridge, both well-known players, and
they will be joined in Honolulu by another
in E. Baldin. The idea is to play for a
moqth in Honolulu to give the ponies tour-
nament practice and then go on to California
to compete in tournaments there. The
string of ponies is valued at £20,000. and
10 have already been sold to American
buyers. As good ponies are very scarce in
America, it is not likely that any of the
shipment will see Australia again, unless it
is as mounts for a visiting American team.
* * * *
“The Invalid”: After 20 years' successful
racing and breeding, Charlie Dickie, who, at
Bacchus Marsh . (Vic.) runs the largest grey-
hound kennels in Australia, is about to sell
his dogs and retire from the coursing game.
Before Charles was well established in the
business, a queer trick of fortune gave him
a useful boost. He had bought a black male
pup, the progeny of stipulated parents, which
was to be selected from a litter due to arrive
a few weeks later. By an oversight the
“ TORPEDO” BILLY MURPHY, once
world's featherweight champion, and
now spending the evening of his
days in Auckland ( M.L. ).
owner found himself left with only a brown
pup, but when he put the position to Dickie,
the latter decided to take the substitute. This
turned out the famous King Comedy—a
Waterloo Cup winner and a popular stud
dog.
* * * *
“Balloon” : The Victorians have challenged
again for Australia’s biggest yachting event,
the race for the Sayonara Cup, at present
held by the Sydney yacht Norm. To oblige
the Port Phillip folk, the N.S.W. clubs have
consented to alter the rules so as to permit
five races if necessary, the winner of three
events taking the cup. Last year the Sydney
winner was fortunate in striking light winds ;
the extra races will, it is hoped, give a chance
for a display of hard windward work, which
is the real test of sailing capacity. The Vic-
torians have nominated Eun-na-mara, a
famous participant in this event, and the
race will be sailed in Sydney in January, the
challenger having to sail from Melbourne.
* sis * sjs
“Backwoodsman”: Dismal lamentation has
been going up from Australian bowlers
because of the unrepresentative quality of
the team for Maoriland. There has been no
question of selection in the ordinary sense.
It was a question of who was willing to go
and could afford to pay his own way. That
is the crux of the trouble. Though every
other amateur game on earth permits the
payment of travelling and accommodation
expenses to its players, the tin gods of bowls
refuse to countenance the practice, declaring
it to savor of professionalism. The golfers,
who once assumed the same higli-and-mighty
attitude, are now climbing down, and the
bowlers should follow suit. The present sys-
tem gives the incompetent Moneybags’ a
monopoly of inter-State and inter-Dominion
trips, while skilled bowlers who haven’t
got the brass stacked on its edges have to be
content with club games’.
“Blade Sight”: The military allegation
that firing at nice black bull’s-eyes on large
white targets at known ranges is not rifle-
shooting from a service point of view re-
ceived some endorsement in Melbourne the
other day. A very prominent Australian
rifle-shot was competing in a tin-hat target
match, which is about as near to active-
service conditions as can be got on a range.
He shot with success over 3()0 and 500
yards, but when asked to take on the same
target at 600 yards withdrew from the con-
test in disgust. Still, it was a bit hot to ask
an expert equipped with telescope sights,
special barrel, clinometer, wind-pressure
gauge, thermometer, barometer and all the
other accessories of the pukka, rifle-club shot
to waste these and his energies to boot in
trying to hit a target that could hardly be
seen. The rifle range is distinctly not down
to the level of a beastly battlefield yet.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Esters”: The Agents-General in London
recommend an embargo on Australian ex-
port of immature wines. To this growers
are opposed; it is the custom of English
merchants to buy young wines and mature
them in bond, and Australia’s share of this
particular trade would go to the Portuguese
and the Levantines if the embargo were
imposed. Cheap sweet wines make up the
bulk of the popular demand in Britain. Time
and advertising will be necessary to develop
a profitable British market for our high-
class wines.
* * =i=
In reply to “Stellsby’s” statement (B.
31/10/’2S) that “all the door- and sash-
frames” in the Government High School, now
in course of erection in Melbourne, are “made
of imported pine,” ex-Works Minister Jones
tells The Bulletin that “yellow pine and
blackwood, both Australian timbers, _ are
specified and are being used on the job.”
* * * *
“Clerget”: “E.M.” (B. 31/10/’2B) is out
of date when he says that “in fuel value four
tons of wet megass is equal to one ton of
coal.” The mills that turned out wet megass
have long gone to the scrapheap, and the
Q’land sugar factory that cannot show a
final moisture figure of under 50 is hard to
find. The fuel value of 100 tons of such
megass is equal to 58 tons of coal.
* <!: * *
“Der Jong”: Talking to a N. S. Wales
orchardist, who complained that he couldn’t
sell his peach crop, I was reminded of what
I saw in S’Africa. There peaches are pared
into strips, sun-dried and plaited into long
ropes about the thickness of a man’s thumb.
These arc then coiled round a wooden frame
and sold either on the frame or by the yard.
The stuff keeps indefinitely, and is most
appetising, either raw or cooked. Thousands
of tons of peaches, which would otherwise
rot, are marketed in this guise in S. Africa
every year, and the idea seems worth a
trial in Australia.
* * * *
“Comeback”: Five years ago America
bought 186,000 bales of Australian wool.
East year purchases had sunk to 75,000 bales.
The drop is attributed to artificial heating,
odd as it may seem. With more warmth in
the house, the theatre, the shop, the train
and even the car, the need for “woollies” has
declined, with a corresponding drop in pur-
chases of the raw material. American
woollen mills are said to be feeling the
pinch for the same reason.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Australian Aerial Services
have flown 672,787 miles without misadven-
ture. Next year they propose to inaugurate
a service between Camooweal (Q.) and
Daly Waters. When the belated railway from
Darwin reaches the last-named township,
passengers taking flight from Brisbane will
be able to cut a whole week out of the
Singapore journey.
* Jit * *
“W.1.U.”: There’s money in stamps, if
you know how and when to buy them—
and are in a position to sell them. A
Broken Hill man bought £5O worth of
Canberra issue and put them aside for
his daughter’s dowry. On the latest cata-
logue prices he is showing a clear profit of
3Ad', on each stamp.
» $ * *
“Phil P.” : There will be busy times in the
Ross Sea this summer; Norwegians will
be operating six factory ships, with 30 atten-
dant steam chasers, in that area. Last
season the N. T. Neilson-Alonso “took” 753
whales, yielding 9500 tons of oil. In North
Westralian waters the Norsemen collected
36,000 barrels, valued at £lBO,OOO. Why
is Australian capital neglecting this field?
Time was when Tasmania ranked second to
the U.S.A. m blubber-hunting, and there are
plenty of men ready to take to the game
again. Witness the rush to ship as extra
hands in Scandinavian vessels calling at
Hobart.
* * * He
“Murkah”: Australia will never have a
really effective telegraph service till the
wires are underground. Recent windy
weather over N.S.W. literally blew the
branch out of existence; Sydney’s business
with the rest of the Commonwealth lagged
days astern. Flood and fire also play up
with the overhead wires, and white ants
enjoy the posts. Latter have an average
life of 15 years, and are becoming fewer and
dearer. The bill for a comparatively short
term of years w T ould cover the cost of under-
grounding where the biz flows thickest. In-
cidentally, a Maoriland invention of a year
or two ago is greatly helping to shove the
world’s telegraphs under the dirt.
* * $
“Tops”: Australia still continues to supply
intending competitors with the cream of its
merino flocks'. America, South Africa, Algeria
and Japan have all been buyers of late, and
now Russia has entered the field. Its first
purchase, destined for South Russia, com-
prises 2000 ewes and 100 rams.


Safety
in the palm
of your hand
Feel how this tread grips
when you press it down
I
s
l
'/
\
\
X
FOR safety In a tyre you need
positive gripping power in
the tread of a tyre
There is a very simple test by
which you can measure the
extra gripping power in the
famous All -Weather Tread,
The palm of your hand will
tell you.
Take an All-Weather Tread
Tyre just as it stands on
your Goodyear dealer’s floor —
unwrapped, uninflated.
Press down on its treaded
surface with the palm of your
hand.
Feel the responding grip and
pinch of those deep, thick,
sharp-edged diamond blocks!
In exactly the same way the
All-Weather T read grips
and holds the road surface.
Eliminates skidding and side-
slip. Transmits full power.
Steers easily, steers straightly.
Rides safely!
The result is you get surer, safer,
swifter, easier riding when you
fit Goodyear Tyres made
with the famous All-Weather
Tread.
GOOD
'S.
/


ade*»
.(oyal
Variant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsieck
nsii
Australasian Agonts
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CMAMPAGNC
Charfcslleidsieot
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Give Your Kiddies
This Chance!
If they are pale-faced, thin-limbed, or poor
eaters, give them Kama Vita Ox Liver Desic-
cated Substance, and watch the color come to
their cheeks; see them develop into sturdy,
happy youngsters.
'kantaVite
LIVER EXTRACT
helps them to grow on a foundation of health
and strength by driving out every trace of
anaemia. From all chemists at 8/- per 4oz.
jar, or direct from us at 8/9 post free.
Anaemia is dangerous. Don’t neglect it!
Write to-day for free literature.
KARNA VITA COMPANY,
(Dept. B.),
226 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
To Mark Linen
CASH’S NAMES are destinctive,
•yet neat fadeless and durable)
Actual Sue
Style No 6
£J3?WZ£licunA'
Prices ; 1 2 dor. 7/6, 6 dor. 5/-, 3 dor. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADING DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular t<>
J. & J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
85 Cubitt St.. Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES'
QsffD
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
The cen/ne of Queens/a nc/s
C cf/sftn£u/sf*6ct Soc/o/ l-ife .
e
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LEETER
Kaisser
SILK
GLOVES
Some wit, commenting on the smart set of
London, remarked: “The Prince of Wales
has got into society, but the King hasn’t.”
Yet if George V. hasn’t the freedom of the
smart West End night-clubs, he has a niche
of his ow r n in the hearts of the people, how-
ever far they live from Buckingham Palace.
When the cables about his illness came
through last week the news w'as the 'general
subject of discussion. Here the older genera-
tion drew out a store of personal reminis-
cences about liis visit to Australia ; Diggers
recalled how they had seen him in France
or in London; maid and matron who had
been presented lived their Boyal drawing-
room or garden party all over again.
Out of the mass of personal observation
George always emerges a small, rather shy
man with a warm smile. Like the child of
every brilliant father, lie suffered as a young-
man by comparison w T itli the more dashing
personality of Edward. In his older years
he has had to contend with the film-hero
smile of rhe irresistible Wales; yet the
nation, perhaps to its own surprise, finds that
the small, shy, sincere man without swank
has captured its affection just as securely as
the other two Boyal heroes.
“Everybody ate what he preferred. Some
sprinkled spices in their cups, or drank
coffee sweet with sugar and brandy; they
ate a great many little birds roasted with
bacon and red pepper; and they had straw-
berries from Passerianp and peaches from
Algiers. Brasclii Onesti had candied chest-
nuts and champagne.” That is how they
breakfasted in Venice in the seventeenth
century. Candied chestnuts and champagne!
It was something like starting the day with
a kick.
And then consider the vitamine-abounding
food, on which Minister for Health Dr.
Arthur and other grave gentlemen of Sydney
lunched before opening the Health Exhibi-
tion in the Town Hall. Here the good vita-
mines A, B and C smiled greenly from the
lettuce, or lurked in the rosy cheeks of
tomatoes. Brown bread and cheese and
unsweetened orange juice popped in jocund
mood from the table, eager to do their bit in
building up the punch of the banqueters.
Afterwards, positively brimming with dash,
the company moved off from David Jones’s
to the civic stronghold, and there Lieut-
Governor Cullen murmured “Sesame and
apples!” and lo! the first Health Exhibi-
tion in Australia was ready for use.
From the vestibule to the stage the main
hall was traversed by avenues of health.
Hygienic beds and septic tanks, fruit juice,
incinerators (not working), bath heaters,
dentist and chemist supplies, peanut-butter
sandwiches, baby-health centres and systems
of house-drainage obtrude alike on the naked
and the lensed eye. Death to the microbe, the
skeeter and the fly was preached with illus-
trations and complete discourse. On the plat-
form tiny ones from the City’s kindergartens
played health games or did physical jerks
in the. gaze of visiting hundreds. The" kid-
dies there at lunch time spread the table
and at e their brown bread and drank their
milk in all the solemnity of youth. Here, too,
were Grecian dancing, eurhytlimic displays
and Boy Scouts, and the Police Band took
a hand.
But candied chestnuts and champagne!
When he left the Bench Chief Justice
Cullen sold his fine old home overlooking
Balmoral, and went to live at Leura. His
were not the qualities that carry a young
barrister to quick success ; in fact, there was a
time when he felt that he might be happier
in a Chair of Law, and for a time he turned
his thoughts to University life. He was still
by no means a rich man when he took the
Chief Justiceship. On his retirement he fell
into a pension of £2OOO a year—comfortable,
of course, but totally inadequate if he was
expected to carry on the job of Governor now
and then. Yet to the post of Lieut.-Gov. no
salary attaches. Hitherto, when a Governor
has had leave prior to retirement, the prac-
tice has been to pay the deputy his own
salary and half the Governor’s. But no
arrangement was made before Viking de
Chair set sail for Europe to attend to some
family business; he is officially held entitled
to the full salary, while the Lieut.-Gov.
apparently has no existence so far as the pay
roll is concerned. Of course, somebody wiil
do the right thing; but the situation has
been embarrassing for the Lieut.-Governor.
With a man of another build it would not
have arisen: but Dr. Cullen always shrank
from asserting his own interests.
Sir Hugh Poynter and his lady are off to
spend their Christmas in Maoriland. They
leave Australia on December 1. The holiday
is mostly lor Lady Poynter’s health. If
Michael Arlen knew the Poynters he would
have to write another “Charming People.”
Certainly in this Letter’s chronicling of
Sydney’s affairs, no two people have caught
the imagination and held the affection in
quite the way of the Poynters. They have met
nearly everybody who counts in the politics
and arts of Europe, Africa and America, yet
they have the Heaven-born gift of listening
with such interest to each new friend as to
make the new friend feel the eighth wonder
of the world. Both of them write, paint and
talk well. Of trifles remembered, here is one
of Alma Tadema. Lady Poynter visited his
studio in London. She entered through a
green door set in a brick wall and found her-
self on a garden path leading to the artist’s
home. In a little niche in the wall was a
hand-bell of Eastern design. This was duly
rung, by the visitor. When she was leaving
Alma Tadema escorted her to the same
doorway. Taking down the bell, he called
her attention to the workmanship, and then
“What do you think we call it?” he asked.
Lady Poynter examined the workmanship
again, then said slowly: “I cannot imagine.”
The artist held the door wide as she stepped
through. Then, when the visitor was on
te outside, “Why, Isabel, of course,” lie
whispered and closed the garden door on a
warm chuckle.
Emanating an air of luxury that a cross-
examination of her justifies the new Orient
liner Orford arrived in Port Jackson last
Thursday. She comes of a family well known
to Sydney. Her sisters Orama and Oronsay
caused quite a stir during their first season.
Her third-class accommodation is what the
Orford is particularly proud of, the public
rooms being out of the ordinary spacious,
like the deck accommodation. Altogether there
are acres of deck space on this luxury boat,
and just to lend variety to the scene is an
open-air swimming-pool, all porcelain tiles
and grey stone. Ivory and blue lacquer
scrolled in gold and lush rugs in profusion
are the dominant note of the lounge. Every-
where there is gilded ease, bright chintzes
and plateglass. In fact, if you don’t care to
go to the side and look over you need never
know you are at sea. Her captain is A. L.
Owens, 8iN.11., and her surgeon Dr. J. E.
Mcllroy, who brought South Pole searcher
Shackleton back from the gates of death, and
later stayed beside him when Death called
a second time and would not be denied.
Several heads of the Orient Company
travelled to Australia by the Orford. Among
them was Dr. Louisa Anderson, who did
great -work at one of the military hospitals
in London during the war; she is the dis-
tinguished daughter of Eliabetli Garrett
Anderson, London’s first woman doctor. Also
came A. I. Anderson, the company’s manager
in London, and Mrs. Anderson. Dr. Louisa
goes on to Maoriland, but Mr. and Mrs.
Anderson return to London by the Orama in
January. Meantime 52 Macleay-street shel-
ters them all.
The lady in this picture is Mrs. Bichard
Arthur, and if
she had eaten
an apple a
day and kept
the doctor
away she
would not now
be the proud
wife of this
State’s Minis-
ter for Health.
Last week lit-
erally thou-
sands tramped
through the
Town Hall to
view the stalls
and alcoves
laden with
health - luring
and -retaining
devices. The
mainspring of
the great exhi-
bition was “the
little doctor,” and you can offer your con-
gratulations on its success to the subject
of this May Moore study.
Over £2OO is already in Town Clerk
Layton’s hand towards a memorial to the
late Civic Commissioner Fleming. With
great daring Ihe committee has resolved upon
a portrait in oils; afterwards, if funds run
to _ it, a Fleming cot will be endowed in a
children’s hospital; finally, very finally, if
any is left it will be used for the education
and benefit of Mr. Fleming’s only daughter 1 .
Really can’t something be done to these
always-male committees which do these silly
things?
W. J. Mcßride, one of the musical
Mcßrides of South Aus. —the Ivennedys and
they are inter-married—used to be chief
metallurgist at one of the big Broken Hill
mines, and made such fame in the pursuit
of elusive zinc that some great European
metal co. lured him away. These days he is
perhaps the most travelled Australian. His
job takes him into practically every country
of Europe, he has been working all over
the U.S.A., and has visions of making, from
this on, a yearly call on Australia. Last
week he was at Broken Hill and this week
he is in Sydney ; next week lie will be at
Port Pirie. and in the first days of January
he will sail again for England. “Australia is
best of them all,” he is still patriotic enough
to say—and then adds; “But I do wish it
would talk less of its glorious future and
make better use of its glorious present.”
May Moore
made this pic-
ture of Mrs.
Jack Hobbs
for The Bul-
letin. The
wife of the
world’s most
famous bats-
man bears her
reflected glory
modestly. She
is delighted to
be back in the
sunshine of
Australia, and
the wealth of
flowers on the
street-stalls is
a prolonged
joy; she takes
as keen an
interest in the
garden as her
husband does in the field.
Far-sighted William Tilley, managing
director of the Australia (a very sick man
nowadays, a thousands friends will regret
to learn), has long wanted to break through
into another street. With its eye on Pitt-
street, the co. bought up the Rowe-street
frontages behind the great Castlereagh-street
block; but the Commonwealth Bank barred
further progress that way. Now the Savings
Bank has moved into its new palace, and its
former premises in Martin-place, backing on
to the Australia, have been bought by the
latter. The price is guessed at £1,50.000.
For 115 years the Benevolent Society of
N. S. Wales has been working in the in-
terests of the poor and the sick. Before
Thackeray had written his “Vanity Fair,”
before Byron had talked of the “sound of
revelry by night,” when Napoleon was still
a menace to the peace of Europe, the Bene-
volent Society was stretching a helping hand
to the lame dog of Sydney, helping to bring
the spirit of Christmas into the'homes of
small boys and girls. The society wants your
help to do this Christmas what it has done
for 115 past ones, and that is to relieve
every citizen who comes in distress to its
doors. It shelters four institutions under its
wing: the Royal Hospital for Women at
Paddington, the Renwick Hospital for In-
fants, “Scarba” at-Bondi, and a department
of outdoor food relief.
A mile and a half outside the township of
Ceduna in South Australia the Bush Church
Aid Society has a hospital built of boulders.
Last year over 200 cases (some of them opera-
tions) were treated there, and in the three
years of its existence there hasn’t been
within its walls one death in childbirth.
Quite a lot of this success is due to the
devoted women who, leaving the comparative
ease of modernly-equipped institutions, spend
their lives in ministering to the women of
the Outback. Two splendid examples of such
unselfishness, Sister E. Elliott and Sister
Agnes McGregor, were farewelled at the
Chapter of St. Andrew’s last week; the one
will spend her Christmas at Ceduna, while
the other will be in the West Darling area,
probably driving her just-acquired car in
answer to an SOS from Nuntherungie or
Wonnaminta.
The great confetti event of last week was
the wedding of Jean Crowley and Graham
Pratten, the baby M.P. of Pymble. In his
wedding glad-rags he looked so handsome
that it’s safe to guess he’ll be returned to
his seat many times on face-value alone.
The bride is a Rose Bay bud of much charm
and athletic attainments. With the clashing
of bells the ceremonial started in St. Philip’s
under the direction of Padre Leo Charlton,
and was later continued in the Wentworth
across the road on Church Hill. Serene and
erect white gladioli and November lilies stared
down as the bride floated along the aisle, her
tulle veil like a foam-crested surf breaking
about her, then curling off to mingle with
the sheen of ivory satin into an imposing
backwash of train. A sheaf of white gladioli,
with long pendants of steplianotis, occupied
the hand not under the protection of brother
Brian, who handed the bride over to the
groom.. Shy-eyed sister Clare. Margaret
Murray, from Molong, arftl sylph-like Nell
Cobcroft stepped in the procession, their
frocks of frilled tulle, blue as the Nile lotus
blooming on the arch through which they
passed into the ballroom of the Wentworth.
This, with the help of towering palms, giant
lilies and golden plaques, had been cunningly
shrunk to the size of a private reception-
room. Here the bride’s sister, Mrs. A. P.
Quinn, of Queensland, hostessed in a pale
pink chiffon ensemble the e n at of 'which was
collared in soft fur. The bridegroom was not
bereft of all support. Dr. Bill Coyle, who
best-manned, and groomsmen Eric Pratten
and Kyle Kopsen stood by.
Mendelssohn and November lilies and tall
golden baskets brimming with color were the
decorative addenda when the gates of matri-
mony swung open and May Blazley stepped
through in company with Frederick Spring,
of Mosman. The bride, who is the eldest
daughter of the George Blazleys of Carcoar,
mixed ivory satin and Chantilly-lace in her
frock. This same lace aided by enveloping
tulle formed the veil. Two ’maids in pink
chiffon and tulle ruffled in the bride’s wake.
Ken Mackenzie held the bridegroom’s hand
during the 15 minutes’ suspense before the
arrival of the principal lady. St. Philip’s
shrined the vows, and the reception was at
Petty’s, under the direction of the bride’s
parents.
If suggestion counts for anything, a North
Shore wedding party nuist have had a gor-
geous celebration. Mr. Wines gave the bride
away, while Edwin Penfold was the groom’s
chief support. The bride was Hilda Samuels,
who was very attractive in the conventional
white satin, uneven as to hem and long as
to bodice. This was stiff with orange buds
worked in seed pearls and diamente. Iloni-
ton point and layers of tulle formed her veil
and train. Three ’maids like gold-lustre
figurines followed the bride ; and the man
who took possession of her was Norman Hill,
of Victoria, formerly of Belfast. .
Matrimony seems to be catching in the
Leon Gordon company. Last week Leslie
King and Dollie McKay were confirmed in
their preliminary symptoms by Father Col-
lender. A very efficient tailor-made and a
grey felt hat clothed the bride, who had sister
Jean in attendance. The Ambassadors housed
the congratulations.
Shipping-knight Owen Cox, not so far
having got his price for Oakhill, has closed
down that very delightful home at Castle
Hill, and sent its oak and cedar furniture
to Lyster Ormsby’s rooms. Oakhill is sur-
rounded by 150 acres of undulating land,
so it was quite easy for the shipping mag-
nate to imagine himself a country squire
over the week-ends. He intends shortly to
make another trip to Europe. His address
just now is the Australia.
Poet Hugh McCrae is threatening to be-
come the compleat father-in-law. Now
daughter Mahdi has announced the first lap
in ‘the rounding off of her romance with
Ronald MeWilliam, son of the Peter McWil-
liams of Elizabeth Bay. The ring was slipped
into position last week.
Word comes from Marseilles that Sydney
girl Berenice Vert, who went some years ago
to Hollywood in search of fame and fortune,
chose a French background for her wedding
with James Warner Bellah. The American
bridegroom is a novelist and a magazine-
writer. As Berenice Vert, the bride did
good work in a Carroll production, “The
Blue Mountain Mystery,” and made several
appearances in American films. Later she
was with the Sam Harris Stock Company in
New York. Mrs. Bellali’s only sister is Mrs.
Talbot, wife of the Dean of Sydney.
Here’s something like a re-union. David
LI. M. Elliott married his bride 50 years ago,
and at a golden-wedding party arrange! by
their daughter and son-in-law last week, Mrs.
James Devereaux, who was the bridesmaid,
was an honored guest.
Surfers who are swallowed by any shark
around the beaches of Port Jackson' will at
least know they are entering one of the
oldest families in Australia. Dr. Charles
Anderson, of the Sydney Museum, claims that
he can trace our shark forebears back
50 million years. And even then our Har-
bor’s oldest inhabitants are mere upstarts
beside the Queensland lung fish, whose origi-
nal ancestor commenced to breathe 350 mil-
lion years ago. Our best hope is that by
the time he’s added another 10 million years
to his tally, the shark will have become
exclusive and despise anyone under the rank
of h. duke for his interior decoration.
A large sphinx will propound its riddle
above the Wentworth cafe on Thursday (to-
morrow). The answer will be found within,
where the ballroom lias been changed to a
corner of Egypt—blue green of Nile, blue
of the lotus, classic friezes and exotic
coloring everywhere.
Tall, good-looking Llera Roberts, subject of
many paintings and unfinished sketches by
portrait-painter George Lambert and by Thea
Proctor, her cousin, is lying seriously ill in
Sydney Hospital. Hera was crossing George-
street North to her cousin’s studio last week,
when she was knocked down by a motor-car,
and for 24 hours her condition was a cause
of the gravest anxiety. Now, however, she
is slowly recovering. Miss Roberts, who was
for some time a partner in June, a fashion-
able hat firm, has now gone back to the art
from which trade lured her.
A cheque for £3lO was received by the
Sisters at ’he Mater Hospital, loot from the
Annual Ball held at the Wentworth in July.
The delay in finalising was due to the f;ict
that president Mrsf Leahy had. been in
hospital for eight weeks with a badly broken
leg.


i
t*
€
,t^ t£
a
4
pi*
1 / 1N...
I
***
«g
SSSS
IMM»
w
M
/*
11 w
#spssi
■
WS/B
ifv
H
P
PH
ft
fe
V
re
mz
€)V
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious—
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s—wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
FAULT LEX#*
FCCTWEAR
»
:/~T
y
i
%
L,
vy
B-Et
;: #3* +
Jf"'
.-jr
«ilfca
'Bill
iMm
ffli
'if»
;i|> i;i ; '■n
/<?m f I
v <\ .1
usu.^f,
*
s£/
'v-.. \
;/• j ; // /'
W *;Li />£*
?f7;
w
5
0„
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


24,837—9 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum Set-
ting, and 18ct Gold.
£lB
24,856 —Dainty Rings,
set with Diamonds
■and Emerald, Sapphire,
Pearl or Black Opal,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Setting, from
£lO
24,883 —Dainty 7-stone
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum-set,
£22
24,871 —Neat single-
stone Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum, Hexa-
gon Set, £5
24,853 —Dainty 6-stone
Ring, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Setting, set
with fine double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds,
£22/10/-
24,854 —Dainty 8-stone
Ring, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Setting, set
with fine quality,
double-cut Brilliant
Diamonds, £3O
Give Diamonds
for Xmas
Choose from Catanach’s magnificent range of Diamond Rings
and other Diamond Jewellery suitable for gift-giving.
Catanach’s. specialise in Diamonds, and offer incomparable
values.
Diamond Ring Catalog post free on request.
Cr. Royal Arcade & Little - Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
oOfo
24,867—3 Fine Dia-
monds, with Diamond
shoulders, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings,
£l6
24,858 —Fine 4-stone
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Hexagon Settings,
£25
24,880 —F i n e Dia-
monds, 12-stone Ring,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Setting, £2O
24,899 —3 Fine Dia-
monds, with Diamond-
set shoulders, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £lB
24,833 —3 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum Set-
ting, and 18ct. Gold,
£3O
24,847 All-platinum
Octagonal Cluster
close set centre, set
with fine quality,
double-cut Brilliant
Diamonds, £45
W-McF.
Melbourne
Chattar
There was a garden party at Stonington
on Thursday afternoon, when the guests were
delegates and associates of the National
Council of Women. Rain and sunshine alter-
nated, and tea-tables were laid on the veran-
dahs. After tea had been poured the sun peered
through the clouds, and the 400 womenfolk
were able to inspect the gay flower-beds, which
carried out a patriotic color scheme of red,
white and blue. Lord Somers for a while aided
Lady Somers in giving a greeting hand in
the drawing-room. Her Ex.’s natural kasha
ensemble suit was trimmed with bronze em-
broidery and a touch of faint green, and was
topped by a large straw hat banded with
russet-brown velvet. Lady Stonehaven, wear-
ing a cape wrap of dahlia red velvet and hat
to match, with her spotted crepe de Chine
frock, came on from the circus with Miss
Gillett. Lady Hillingdon, who is a guest
at Government House, wore a blue tuscan hat
with her plaid black and blue frock and
coat. A string band poured out; jazz melody,
and Elizabeth, the small daughter of Lord
and Lady Somers, with her ever faithful
dog, joined the informal gathering. The
local president of the W'.N.C., Mrs. Glen-
cross, was attired in a black velvet coat,
wheat-colored gown and a large straw hat;
Mrs. I). A. Skene, the Federal president,
was. as usual, an unobtrusive figure in grey.
Arthur Robinson’s lady, just returned from
England, covered her chanci-red frock with a
smart coat of gazelle ; Mayoress Luxton wa's
there: also Mrs. Ross Watt, from Gisborne;
Mrs. R. M. Weldon; Mrs. I. H. Moss; sculp-
tor Mrs'. Douglas Richardson; Mrs. Percy
Russell, in navy blue with pink georgette,
and a wreath of Virginia creeper on her
dark blue hat; Dr. Edith Barrett, Mrs.
Watts and Mi’s. Parnell'.
The Royal Mint—of all places ! —was the
scene of a fete to aid Queen Victoria Hos-
pital on Saturday afternoon. Mrs. W. M.
Robins, whose chief interest is this women’s
hospital, prevailed upon her husband, who is
master of the Mint, to allow the use oil
the quadrangle with its grassy lawn. Around
the covered verandahs were arranged numer-
ous stalls and tea tables,. and palmists
pitched their tents on the green sward. A
rosebud ballet was danced on the grass by
pupils of Jennie Brenan, and groups of girls
from Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Weber’s classes
gave eurliythmic exhibitions. A picturesque
interlude was a decorated parasol parade, the
winning brolly counterfeiting on the heroic
scale a blue and white satin powder-puff.
Mayor Luxton, who was accompanied by
Mrs. Luxton, said the opening words.
Amongst the workers were Mrs. Felix Lloyd,
Mrs. E. M. Davies and Mrs. R. M. Cutli-
bertson, the last-named the recipient of many
congratulations on her husband’s inclusion in
the new State Cabinet. Mrs. Richard
Fitcher ran a well-stocked millinery shop,
her husband having given her the run of his
Flinders-lane warehouse; and lots of people
got bargains in the latest of summer hats
and flowers.
The garden of Clydebank, the home of
the George Langridges, at Armadale, was the
setting of a fete organised by the Armadale-
Malvern Auxiliary of the Women’s Hospital.
Beneath huge umbrellas well-stocked stalls
were arranged upon the lawn. Tea tables
dotted the tennis courts, and the tea-maidens,
who included Edna and Pixie, daughters of
Mrs. T. A. Tabart, the president, wore pic-
turesque plaid check zephyr frocks, white
fichus and colored hats. Mayoress Luxton,
wearing an ensemble of black and beige tones,
made her first attempt at speech-making in
opening the function, receiving a bunch of
crimson roses from Mrs. Langridge. Lance
Fairfax, Stephanie Deste and other players
in “The Desert Song” ran a movie show
and gave concerts. Virginia Perry, clad in
reseda green, sold raffle tickets.
Many limousines were parked outside
Cliveden Mansions on a recent afternoon,
when Mrs. Cleve Kidd offered entertainment.
The hostess, who wore an ensemble of biscuit-
hued lace and georgette, with a largish hat,
gave greeting in the spacious reception-room
of the one-time Clarke mansion, which was
gay with bowls of Christmas lilies, del-
phiniums and other blooms. Tea was poured
in the dining-room, where water-lilies deco-
rated. Soprano Jessie Clarke and contralto
Eileen Pascoe Webb sang, a string band
made a background for chatter, and a palm-
ist read hands. Mrs. H. V. McKay, mother
of the hostess, was a guest, others being Mrs.
Clarence Marriott, in floral chiffon and a
fawn straw hat, the Mcßeath lady, the
Morell lady and daughter Sheila, and Mrs.
W. F. Weigall.
Alfred Hospital will have about £2OO to
spend on Christmas cheer as the result of
a bridge party and cafe cliantant held at
Myers’s last week. The firm and the helpers
did their parts bucksliee, and expenses were
nil. Mrs. Barry Thomson was president of
the committee, and Mrs. Maurice Patkin and
Mrs. P. H. Lock were the organisers, Mrs.
A. Paterson and Esme Allee being joint hon.
secs. Mrs. McCallum Neil, Mrs. Edgar Dye,
May Rimmington and others sold flowers,
sweets and raffle tickets. The Blind Orches-
tra and some singers provided musical fare.
The same afternoon an equally successful
game of cards was played at George’s Cot-
tage tearooms, having Christmas celebration
at the Caulfield Convalescent Hospital as the
excuse. Mrs. L. G. Sinnott headed the pro-
moters, Mrs. W. J. Wakeham being hon.
secretary.
At the annual garden-party of the Old
Collegians’ Association of the P.L.C. the
other day, Mrs. J. P. Bainbridge, pre-
sident, and the members of the committee
acted as hostesses. The weather was of the
very finest, and best frocks were worn with-
out fear and trembling. The principal, W.
Gray, and Moderator-General Crow described
proposed additions to the college, and enlisted
the association’s aid in raising the wind.
A guest of honor was Julia Flynn, lately
appointed chief inspector of secondary
schools. She is one of many brilliant ex-
students of the old college.
In honor of her cousin Enid Falkiner, of
Sydney, who is visiting her, Emily Falkiner
gave a gay luncheon party at the Golf House,
Macedon, where she is resting a damaged
ankle. To meet her young kinswoman the
hostess gathered a bunch of friends from
the surrounding district, including lan Cur-
rie’s wife, Mrs. Alan Macfarlane, Mrs. John
Carse, Jean Russell, Estelle Manifold, Peggy
Latham and Florence Cox.
The curtain was rung down on the annual
congress- of the National Council of Women
with a social gathering at the Allied Socie-
ties’ Hall on Friday. Music, elocutionary
efforts and chat formed the programme. The
Council in this State can claim the co-opera-
tion of 90 affiliated women’s societies. The only
changes of office recorded this year were the
election of Mrs. I. H. Moss as vice-president
in place of Mrs. It. M. Weldon, who has
moved on to the executive council, and the
appointment of Nest Malcolm in succession
to Mrs. W. Thomas as roll secretary.
The Free Kindergarteners struck rather
unfavorable weather for their Rose Day
street collection. Though the breeze blew
piercingly cold around cornel's, the collectors
stuck manfully to their posts, and met with
a generous response. Several bunches of
kindergarten youngsters were driven round
the city warbling their little school songs or
demonstrating in some sheltered spot the
nature of their training. A substantial
cheque was added to the proceeds by the
sale to hotels of roses and other flowers sent
by Dame Nellie Melba from Coombe Cottage.
Can you imagine a happier-looking bride-
elect than Olga Poletti, smiling out of this
window in
farewell to
A u s t rali an
friends ? She
left by the
Ma 1o j a to
keep an altar
tryst with an,
M.P., a sup-
porter of
Muss olini’s
Gov ernment.
They will be
married early
in the New
Year from her
father’s home
at Leghorn. As
soprano colora-
tura of the
Gonsalez opera
eo. she was
notable not
only for the
beauty of her
voice, but for her dramatic talent. In “Tra-
viata” she reminded older theatregoers of
Cora Brown-Potter.
When Leon Gordon, C. M. Hallard and
the new leading lady, May Collins, said
their thanks at the final curtain of “Inter-
ference” at the Theatre Royal on the open-
ing night, a full house had to wait until
someone realised it was time to hunt up a
record of “God Save” —the orchestra was
a gramophone. The outstanding scenic
effect of the new play is the Oriental room
of Deborah Kane, with its bois-de-rose and
gold hangings and quaint furniture. Zillah
Carter, as the sinful Deborah, wears a gor-
geous rose-red and gold tissue smoking-suit
with turbaned head-dress. May Collins’s
Eton crop surmounts on first entrance a
black satin frock; in the second act she wears
beneath a white fur coat a frilly white
evening gown that dips to the ground at one
side. A neglige of pink chiffofi, silk and lace
wraps the lady on her third appearance. Eve
Ormonde —that is the stage alias of pretty
Mrs. Leon Gordon—sports a girlish jumper
suit. Loads of flowers were handed over the
footlights after the premiere. In the well-
dressed audience were the Morell lady and
Sheila, Lady Hirst, the Robinson lady, Mrs.
W. Merry, the Hewletts, Mr. and Mrs. P.
Nunn and Mrs. Plunkett and her two sons.
On Saturday night the curtain fell on the
week’s season of “Cosi Fan Tutte,” by the
students of Albert-street Con., under the
direction of Fritz Hart. The well-staged
production, though it attracted good houses,
isn’t likely to show much of a profit when
accounts are balanced, as expenses were
heavy, but the promoters. Mr. and Mrs. Hart,
Mary Campbell and others, deserve credit
for their pluck in tackling so difficult an
undertaking and carrying it out so success-
fully.
The lady of the twinkling eyes pictured
here by Ruskin is Mrs. A. V. Kewney, wife
of the secretary
of the Y.R.C.
She hails
from England,
and since com-
ing to this city
from South
Australia with
he r husband
and sou has
made hosts of
friends. She is
a great worker
for the Child-
ren’s Hospital,
and during the
Great War, on
a return visit
to London, she
did her bit at
the cr belies.
She is a real
sport, knows a
good horse and
has a fondness
for dogs—especially stjiays.
Lady Stonehaven, accompanied by Miss
Gillett, made one of the big audience that
paid tribute to the genius of Shura Cher-
kassky at the Town Hall on Saturday after-
noon. Melbourne has been a bit slow to
recognise the youngster’s phenomenal gifts,
and the extra concert was put on in response
to an eleventh-hour demand. Cherkassky
will pick up the Ormonde in Adelaide.
A dance for the friends of their daughter
Nancy was given in the comfy, softly-lighted
Ormond Hall, by the F. W. Allans, East St.
Kilda, one evening last week. Mrs. Allan,
who wore a glittering black gown, aided the
youthful hostess, whose deep pink frock had
Frenchy touches of blue. Among the daintily-
clad misses invited were Sheila Buchan, Pat
Duigan, wearing pink and silver; Madge
Calder, of Maldon, with gleaming embroidery
upon an iris-blue gown ; and Denise Bussell,
from Geelong.
Mrs. Alex. Lilley, in Wedgwood blue with
a flower-decked hat, was hostess of a bridge
party at the Austral Salon last week'. Mrs.
Albion Walkley, Mrs. Clive Steele, Mrs.
A. E. Kimpton and Mrs. Frank Stogdale,
the last-named having a farewell game before
boarding the Maloja for a holiday in Europe,
were players.
At the invitation of Wirtli Bros, members
of the unions of soldiers’ and sailors’ wives
and mothers, to the number of about 4000,
including hordes of kiddies, went to the circus
on Thursday afternoon and thoroughly en-
joyed themselves. Council members of the
two unions provided ice-cream and mid-
afternoon refreshments. Accompanied by Miss
Gillett and Mrs. Lane Poole, Lady Stone-
haven was present, and was handed a bou-
quet by Mr Wirtli. Rear-Admiral and Mrs.
Napier, General Chauvel’s lady, Mrs. W. A.
Coxen and Mrs. N. G. Musther were other
leading lights in the big audience.
The charming and elaborate settings of
“The Tempest,” as produced by Allan Wil-
kie, deserved more than one showing, but
there was only one performance. Miss
Hunter Watts, whose auburn tresses flowed
over a silvery robe, was a fascinating
Miranda, and a large audience enjoyed the
fairy play.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Pulteney Mein gave a
younger-set dance at their St. Kilda-road
home last week for friends of their daugh-
ters Phyllis and Alison. A wealth of flowers
displayed under soft lights made a charming
setting for lovely frocks. Apricot-pink, beaded
slightly, was the attire of Phyllis, and her
sister had gold lace amid her pale pink
draperies. Mrs. Mein’s black gown was
asparkle with cut jet.
Though on the other side of the world,
Mrs. .Timmy Dyer was responsible for all the
expenses of a recital of modern Italian
music at the Assembly Hall, under B.MtS.
auspices, on Friday night. Admittance,
which was by invitation, was free, and even
the artistic rose-red programmes were gratis,
but the attendance was poor. All numbers
save one were heard for the first time in these
parts. Rita Coonan was heard m Shaks-
pearean songs set by Tedesca and a charm-
ing Pastorelle by Virgilio Mortari, and Eenie
Christie also sang. Elsie Fraser was solo
pianist, and joined violinist Connie Ziebell
in a sonata by Pizzetti. Jessie Dougall
accompanied the vocalists.
The Maloja is taking to a waiting fiance
in India Dorothy, a daughter of Major-Gen-
eral Bruche. The bride-elect is accompanied
by her mother, Mrs. Bruche, sister
Olga. On the same liner are Mrs. F. Stog-
dale and her daughter Lucy, who intend to
take part in the winter sports in Switzer-
land.
Lord Hillingdon, the banker, who, with his
wife and daughter, the Hon. Penelope Mills,
is making an inspection of this continent,
intends doing the job thoroughly. The north-
ern areas will be visited, and Broome, with
its pearl-fishing industries, is included in the
party’s itinerary. Lord Hillingdon’s interest
in Australia arises out of his connection with
the Union Bank, of which he is a director.
Bell Park, Geelong, lias regained Nesta
McKellar, after a spell of life abroad, and
friends have been busy showering social
welcomes on the returned traveller. Mrs.
McKellar and her other daughter, Catherine,
have decided to extend their stay in England.
The Barrett lady climbed aboard the
steamer which is to take her daughter Mrs.
B. H. Marks back to her Suva home after
an enjoyable stay at the old homestead. The
pair will first step ashore in Maoriland,
which is the mother’s destination, she having
promised a summer visit to her other daugh-
ter. Mrs. Jim Canning, now settled in the
land of ferns.
Mrs. McCutcheon, widow of R. G. McCut-
cheon, who used to be Assembly member for
St. Ivilda and was an Honorary Minister
under Peacock (1915-16), passed out the
other day. She was a forceful personality a
few years ago in the A.W.N.L. Though
proud of the tribute Labor politicians used
to pay her husband, the head of a big print-
ing firm, she had no time for the Labor party.
She was 81 when the call came.
Mrs. Gilfillan’s two-days’ show of pictures,
metal work and jewellery at the Lyceum
Club was a welcome aid to the seeker of
Christmas gifts. The painter specialises in
tiny oil and water-color landscapes and
flower pieces framed to stand upon table or
writing-desk, and these sold readily. The
artist got in step with fashion by exhibiting
quaint clasps of blister pearls and burnished
metal for fastening the latest neck kerchiefs
of apache mode.
Esine Allee makes plea for Christmas
presents for families on lighthouses. The
steamer which visits these outposts every
six months sets out in January. Last
year the January sailing was delayed for
many weeks by a strike, and only within
the last week has Miss Allee received
acknowledgment of the arrival of the gifts.
Parcels may be sent to Anzac House, or the
Lighthouse Service, 35 Wills-street, City.
Cheques should be sent to Miss Allee, 76
Orrong-road, Elsternwick, Those donating
sweets are asked to put them in tins.
Flags were half-masted at Williamstowi;
at the week-end as a tribute to Mrs. Liston,
a former popular mayoress, and as a mark
of sympathy with the widower, J. J. Liston,
who is a councillor of both Melbourne and
Williamstown. For many years Mr. Liston
has been the liquor trades’ bulwark, and he
has managed to organise effectively without
treading too heavily upon the toes of his
opponents.
The sinuous Stephanie Deste has been
tempted to write verse, and Stanley Parker’s
clever pern has supplied illustrations. If she
can write as well as she can recite, the soon-
to-be-published book ,is sure of a favorable
reception.
Dr. Georgina Sweet, president of this
State’s Y.W.C.A., is hack after a nine-
months’ sojourn in Europe. She attended a
Y.W.C.A. conference at Budapest and a con-
gress of university women in Spain, and
addressed a League of Nations’ offshoot —a
committee on migration—on the subject of
the White Australia policy. A welcoming
tea-brew was poured for Dr. Sweet by Mrs.
11. A. Woodruff at Queen’s College last week,
when the guests were personal friends of the
returned traveller.
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart Lewis have booked
their return passage in the Orsova. So the
New Year will see them again planted on
their Beaufort squattage. They have been
abroad since early in this year, renewing
European impressions, mostly by motor.
Stepped off the Orford on her way to
Maoriland, Dr. Louisa Garrett Anderson, who
was head of the Women’s Hospital Corps
in France during the first year of the Great
War, and who, with Dr. Flora Murray, con-
ducted the Endell-street Military Hospital of
London during the rest of the war period.
In Melbourne she renewed acquaintance with
two of her former medical staff. Dr. Vera
Scantlebury (Mrs. E. B. Brown) and Dr.
Ray Champion (Mrs. Gordon Shaw 7 ). Dr.
Scantlebury entertained the visitor at lun-
cheon, which was followed by a tea party
at the Toorak home of Mrs. Shaw.


è
// w
! er6s ■ 15
■f
'n-Vt
IB
llitlllllt
iiiii
Sypuniii
*
I
mini
riiiim
ISSf
mm
are**
, ,
-
. :
New Chrysler "65” 4-door Saloon
AT LAST—The Modem
Car Style for the Modem Age
HE NEW Chrysler Sixes
JL *‘6s” and “75” —are so far
ahead from every point of view
that Chrysler once more out-styles
everything else that runs.
For sheer artistry of design, for
luxury of grooming, for behaviour
that out - Chryslers even Chrysler,
for downright value at their lower
prices Chrysler has once more
wiped out every existing standard
by which motor cars have been
judged.
At a single bold stroke, it has
initiated the style that re-styles all
motor cars.
Qliripler
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTOR S.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attnood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,


W^ Kol,r
SJS” in SprJn^P
r I HE simplest way to get rid of pimples, rashes, eczema,
roughness and irritation, is to cleanse carefully and
anoint with Zam-Buk Balm.
Zam-Buk, being so highly refined, soaks into the pores and
purifies the underlying tissues. Eruptions and itching soon
subside under this natural treatment, and the skin is thereby
restored to a sound healthy state.
Nothing is so good for the skin as Zam-Buk, whether it be
a simple spot, or for eczema, ulcers or other grave disfigure-
ment. Being free from animal fat and insoluble mineral
drugs, Zam-Buk does good in serious cases where a fatty
ointment would be absolutely useless.
The outstanding success of Zam-Buk is due to its unique
herbal character, purity, high refinement and unusual pene-
trative power. A handy box of Zam-Buk is an excellent
first-aid for cuts, bruises, burns, etc., and a real insurance
against skin disease. 1/6 (§■ 3/6 all chemists .
é
ê
ë
ē
tate
For PIMPLES, RASHES, ECZEMA, BOILS & SORES.
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Wilfred is slaying the sewing-
machine,
While I sit and enjoy the view,
He runs each seam with a boyish
beam
As the handiest husbands do;
His helpful schemes and inventive
dreams
Have silvered my shingled hairs
Will he next succumb to the urge
to plumb ?
Or carpenter crazy chairs ?
ĕ
Wilfred has wrecked little Clara’s
' frock,
And puckered each silken pleat,
But I merely smile with true wifely
guile —
“ You clever Old Boy—how sweet! ”
He’s a handy way that is wise
and gay
Of producing ABDULLA’S Best,
So I calmly smoke while the Baby’s
cloak
Is bungled like all the rest.
-F. R. Holmes.
SUPERB
TURKISH
CIGARETTES
VIRGINIA
EGYPTIAN


1
jQueett Anne” Shape
Where can I huy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Coffee Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form—light, thin, elegant, strong—arc a
pleasure to use ; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
As\ to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
S 0&
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleij on each piece of China
ė
ę
ě
e
FOLLOW
SIGN FOR PROFITS
THIS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING
(GERMANY), MARCH, 1929.
Profitable to th“ Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
i * ti lo Pair is a. sietit worth seeinsr. Advice and Letters of Intro-
FAIR
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing,
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
Amusements.
I7MPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. MatinOes Wednesday and Saturday.
A TURF SECRET.
A Play in Three Acts with a Brilliant Cast of 40
Artists.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
Matin6e: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6. Children half-price.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J, C. WTT.I.IAMSON, T.TD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: ON APPROVAL.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
CT. JAMES THEATRE, SYDNEY.
•J “THE THEATRE PERFECT.”
Sir BENJAMIN and Mr. JOHN FULLER
present the Collegiate Musical love story,
GOOD NEWS
With ELSIE PRINCE and JIMMY GODDEN.
COMMONSENSE PRICES.
T-H E A T R E R OY a L, BRISBANE.
* SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: INTERFERENCE.
ATHFN/EUM THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
GARY COOPER in
LEGION OF THE CONDEMNED.
ALSO
WIN THAT GIRL.
With S. CARROL and D. ROLAND.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
IRENE RICH and CONWAY TEARLE
In the Master Picture
MY OFFICIAL WIFE.
A tale of Russia and Austria in the days of Czars
and Emperors.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
Amusements.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MURIEL STARR in
WITHIN THE LAW.
WIRTH BROS.' CIRCUS, LTD.,
OLYMPIA.
Record Business has been the rule at Wirth
Bros.’ Circus at Olympia for the paist week. Grand
Holiday Programme has been arranged for the rest
of season, when all the new artists will appear and
the large zoo, which includes the only Black Panthers
ever seen in Australia, also the Three Baby Leopards.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Legal Notices.
\Y/ILL the Widow, Child or Children of
W GEORGE LAKELAND MADDOX (or
anyone knowing their whereabous), who
died in the Royal North Shore Hospital on
the 16th November, 1925, kindly communi-
cate with the undersigned.
F. LYNNE ROLIN, Solicitor,
Castlereagh House,
Castlereagli Street, Sydney,
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF KIN
TDE ROBERT VANCE HUGHES, other-
wise known as ROBERT HUGHES,
late of South Johnstone, in the State of
Queensland, Sugar Boiler, deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the abovenamed
Robert Vance Hughes, otherwise known as
Robert Hughes, late of South Johnstone, in
the State of Queensland, Sugar Boiler, de-
ceased, who died on or about the twenty-
seventh day of September, 1928 A.D., at South
Johnstone, in the said State, are hereby re-
quired to forward proof of their relation-
ship to the Local Deputy Public Curator,
Cairns, on or before the thirty-first day _ of
May, 1929. And that after the expiration
of the last-mentioned date the Local Deputy
Public Curator will proceed to distribute the
assets of the said deceased amongst the par-
ties entitled thereto, having regard only to
the claims of which he shall then have had
notice.
DATED this 20tli dav of November. 1928.
JOHN O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator.
Cairns.
Public Notice.
Commercial and General
Investment Trust Pty., Ltd.,
405-407 Collins Street, Melbourne.
found for Business Develop-
ment and Reconstructions. Limited
Companies formed. Underwriting Ar-
ranged. Shares and Debentures placed
or purchased.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS.
Full particulars will be forwarded on
request.
FOB THAT UNEXPECTED VISITOR
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY
FREE'
COLOURED RECIPE-BOOK FROM YOUR GROCER
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin has been to Cairns to
investigate tropical diseases, an unofficial
visit dear to the professional heart of our
Governor —he’s an F.R.C.S.
Lady Goodwin attended the Arts and
Crafts’ show in the Empire Buildings, which
Prof. Stable had opened earlier in the week.
There were some very charming landscapes
by Lancaster and some nocturnes of Hob-
day's which were worth looking at. Enid
Dickson did a portrait of Gwendolyn Grant,
the painter, and Gwendolyn Grant did one
of her own little girl asleep, a pretty and
faithful picture. Pottery was exhibited by
Harvey’.
A tea at St. Luke’s Hall entertained the
members of the women’s committee who
helped with the Toe H fete at Government
House last month, when about a thousand
pounds were amassed for the Lamp. Sir
John and Lady Goodwin were there, also
Dean de Witt Batty and his wife, the Scott
Fletchers. Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. John
Flower and Barbara Sisley.
Edith Ruthning organised an entertain-
ment at the Bohemia Theatre for the purse
of the Prevention of Cruelty Society. Thelma
Robertson’s pupils danced ballets, Nell Doug-
las-Graham’s students contributed sketches
from drama and comedy, and Mrs. FI. Span-
jer, Nancy Muirhead arid Stanley Tamblyn
sang.
Rhoda Felgate and her pupils played Sheri-
dan’s “The Rivals” in All Saints’ Hall on
a windy night reecntly. Rhoda was Mrs.
Malaprop, dark-eyed maiden E. Jones made
a handsome Jack Absolute, Barbara Shield
was convincing as Faulkland, Mae Seal lan-
guished as Lydia, Beryl Andrewartha spoke
her lines clearly and broguily as Lucius
O’Trigger, Joan Sheilds was Lucy, Miss E.
Engler played Julia, and Beryl Brown made
a manly Bob Acres.
G. B. Eaton delighted some of the Commer-
cial High School past-pupils and their friends
with a recital of folk-songs of the Hebrides.
Miss E. Bradfield played harp and piano
alternately in accompaniment. Shasta daisies
and gumtips made the background.
The Austral Choir gave a recital of Schu-
bert’s music in All Saints’ Hall in connec-
tion with the centenary. E. li. B. Jordan
conducted and Jean Rigby was premier
vocalist. She sang in cherry mariette, with
full skirt, decked with silver and cherry
beads. Miss Adair, the second singer, was in
black velvet and swathed satin, a red flower
on her shoulder and a diamente and silver
tassel at her waist. Dr, Fowles and Prof,
and Mrs. I’riestly were amongst the listeners.
On behalf of the League of Nations the
co-ordination of health research throughout
Melanesia is to
receive atten-
tion, and Dr.
R. W. Cilento,
Commonwealth
Director of
Health for
Queensland,
has been
chosen to act
as an investi-
gator, his col-
league being
Dr. Paul Her-
man t, of
France. Dr.
Cilento will be
absent on this
mission for
about six
months. He
has had con-
siderable medi-
cal experience
in Melanesia,
where he resided for a number of years.
Regent Studio made the portrait.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The races gave us some excitement,
though fields were small and the attendance
was less than had been hoped for. Mrs. Wed-
dell, wife of the Administrator, decorated
Brother Jim, winner of the two principal
races, with a purple and silver sash, an
attention which caused him to bolt off wildly.
The race ball, given by the R.S.S.I.L.A.
at the Soldiers’ Hall, was a gay affair,
though not many accepted the committee’s
invitation to come in fancy dress. An orange
Pierrot, a belle of 1857, McShortodds, a
Dutch couple, and a penguin shared the
prizes, awarded by popular vote.
The Victoria League gave a Cinderella
dance and bridge party, which drew a goodiy
crowd, including the officers of the Capo
Leeuwin. The evening was cool enough to
make dancing enjoyable, and many bridge
tables were occupied.
W. Stanley, of the Administrator’s De-
partment. who left recently on 12 months’
leave, was farewelled by his friends and
fellow-employees at a smoke social in the
Soldiers’ Hall. His engagement to Billy
Reade, grand-daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E.
Copley Playford, was announced.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Orient Co. lent the Otranto for a
charity dance and did the thing handsomely
by paying all expenses, including pro-
grammes and chartering a special late train.
Tickets were limited and sold like hot cakes.
The mammoth ship was a blaze of lights to
the top of her tall masts. Festoons of
Chinese lanterns swung over two spacious
decks polished for dancing and protected
by awnings from the strong wind that cooled
the atmosphere after a boiling day'. The band
played amid a jungle of greenery, and ampli-
fiers carried its jazz all over the ship. A
buffet, bridge in the lounge and a marvel-
lous supper were features.
Commander Staunton included in his
supper party Lady Campion, the Mayoral
Franklins and Mrs. Shortland-Jones. There
was plenty of brass braid about and Joan
Norton, in diamond bracelets, pearls and
white satin, came out of her suite for a few
minutes with Miss Crichton Imrie to watch
the frolic. Mrs. Jacoby, who headed the
ladies’ committee, wore black sequined georg-
ette ; Kitty Gillies was handsome in tones
of geranium with a golden weave in the
corsage; Mrs. Guy McLeod was another tall
dancer in pointed flares of rose georgette;
Joan Gawler chose black; pretty Sandra
Chase soft pinks and Mrs. Lefroy a scintil-
lating gown of golden beads and sequins.
Helen Stuart was in flowered apricot taffetas;
Joan Hodge in black lace; Jean Wilson in
hydrangea-blue embroidered in silver. Mrs.
Warren wore black and Mrs, Dakin powder-
blue and crystal beads. Mary Padbury also
chose blue georgette and Mrs. Athol Hobbs
a flash of silver peach chiffons.
Herewith Mrs. Walter Mcßostie, an ex-
ponent of the art of speaking, producer of
plays and actress of no mean ability. Among
her greatest successes have been “Isabel,
Edward and Anne” and “Husbands Are a
Problem.” She produced both plays and took
leading parts in them. We also applauded
her acting in
club produc-
tions of “The
Pass p o r t,”
“The Younger
Generation,”
“O nr Miss
Gibbs,” “The
Amazons” and
a host of one-
acters. During
Mrs. Mcßos-
tie’s two years
o f secretary-
ship of the elo-
c u t i o n ary
branch of the
Eisteddfod en-
tries increased
from a bare
hundred to
nearly eight
hundred. The
energetic lady
is now abroad
on a well-earned holiday, the Minderoo hav-
ing taken her to Singapore, where she will
hand her daughter Rona into the safe keeping
of Bill Foster, of Rangoon.
The James lady opened an exhibition of
pen-and-inks by Heather Hammond of the
skilful eye and vivid imagination. The
artist, who in private life is Mrs. Rex Hamer,
is now in .Ceylon, and has added an Oriental
tinge to her work.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
For the T.T.C. meeting at Mowbray the
weather was in a spiteful mood and dark
tweeds and fur coats took the place of the
frilly chiffons that would have been sported
under sunnier skies. However, the second
day was a little brighter than the first, and
a few bold spirits risked summer frocks.
There were also some charming ensembles
and tailored suits in light colors, notably a
dove grey crepe de Chine worn under a coat
of dove-grey face-cloth with fur trimming in
the same shade, and a beige corduroy suit
with braided and furred cuffs and collar.
Vice-President’s Day at the Kingston
Beach Golf Links drew a crowd of players
and guests, the C. E. Websters doing; the
honors. The weather was fair—that is to
say, the sun did shine for a little while —the
rain forgot to fall, so everybody wore a smile.
R. Nettlefold and Molly won the
mixed foursome after some exciting play, by
one stroke, from P. T. Shadforth and Betty
Sale.
The Ouse district turned out in force to
a fete in aid of the local branch of the
Bush Nursing Association, when the Walter
Gellibrands lent the grounds of Lachlan
Vale for the day. It rained and it blew, and
some of the stalls and side-shows had to be
accommodated on the verandahs, but busi-
ness was good. Mrs. Beckley, _ sec. of the
Southern Division of the association, went
from Hobart to open the show.
The Rose Show at the City Hall was a
thing of beauty. Other summer flowers were
represented, antirrhinums and sweet-peas,
making masses of color, but the roses were
the chief attraction.
Lyndhurst Giblin’s appointment to the
Chair of Economics at Melbourne Uni. will
introduce to the Vic. capital something-
new in men’s wear. The Prof, affects a
loose grey flannel suit with the coat cut Car-
digan-wise (collarless) and a red tie, which
has caused many a misgiving in conservative
circles. Mrs. Giblin is just off on a trip to
England, and househunting will probably be
postponed till her return.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Clare has been the hub of our social uni-
verse lately, for that cheerful hamlet has been
having its Back-to-Clare week and has taxed
its famous hospitality to bursting point The
Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven were
there for three days as the guests of the
S. 11. Ayers, with a Masonic banquet (for
him), a' Caledonian Society concert and
dance, sports, a civic reception and a motor
tour of the district as some of their engage-
ments. For the rest, there have been racing
and polo, bowls and tennis, and the usual
day at school, for which old gentlemen
arrayed themselves in knickers and sailor
blouses and matronly ladies unearthed pina-
fores and sun-bonnets from long-locked
trunks and did their hair, if they hadn’t
shingled it, in pigtails.
Ivoo5 r onga golfers have had another house
dance, and there has been dancing at Mount
House,U:he Guy Makins’ home in North Adel-
aide —a farewell for his niece Betty, here on
a visit to her grandmother, Mrs. Frank
Makin, and homeward bound in the Maloja.
The Evan Ivyffin Thomases have returned
from England bringing with them for a
visit Phyllis Houdret, a grand-daugliter of
P. B. Burgoyne).
The Elder Scholarship for singing goes to
Ruth Naylor, who already has a couple of
piano scholarships and two other singing
scholarships to her credit. Clive Carey was
her teacher here for a time.


è


é
jii
(i
,c#°
0«
Cable, Wireless, Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
Magnificently illustrated booklet free, on request.
The Australia is the centre of
Sydney! Socially, of course,
and having as well a pleasing
proximity to all that counts —
to shops, banks, theatres and
business houses, to depart-
mental and public buildings.
And it has that atmosphere and
that air of completeness which
marks a hotel as worthy of your
patronage.
BEAUTY IN BRAZIER STREET.
By Margaret Fane & Hilary Lofting
MARTY! Marty!”
Marty looked up from tlie butter-
box in the little grocery store in the
'Loo. That was a voice that was certain of
his immediate affectionate attention. “Yes,
Mary my dear?” he said, thinking what a
comforting picture she was leaning against
the frame of the back door.
“Will ye take the shop for half an hour,
or maybe less? I have to go out.”
Marty exchanged his hammer for his coat,
which lie slipped on in his dexterous one-
armed way. "Of course, I will.” He smiled
gently at Mary. “And where are you going,
Mary my dear?”
“Well, then, you’d never guess,” she chuck-
led richly at him. “There’s a feeling in me
bones lately, Marty, that I need a new hat.
So I’m taking a half-hour off to buy me one.
At Miss Flint’s.”
“At Miss Flint’s?” Marty’s voice showed
his surprise. The small hatshop in Brazier-
street wasn’t of the type of Mary’s usual
shopping-places.
“Well, she’s a neighbor, and she’s just
started, and if we want her to buy her
butter from us I ought to be willing to buy
a hat from her. Though what a milliner’s
shop is doing at this end of the ’Loo, God
knows. ' Besides, there’s a sort of a quality
in the hats she has in the window sometimes.
And I like the hard look of the woman.”
Marty long since had accepted all caprices
of Mary’s as laws without need of explana-
tion. If she wished to buy a hat at the
queer woman’s small shop, that was the end
of it.
* * *
The little shop in Brazier-street upon whose
windows was written “Lebanon Flint, Mil-
liner,” was really a temple, and Lebanon
Flint its priestess. Years ago, in the harsh
township and the harsh household of her
Nonconformist father, she had felt that she
wasn’t really part of the world at all. Her
mother was dead, and she had no brothers
or sisters; no one worked on the farm but
herself and her father, Often the only voice
she heard in the week was her father’s lifted
in harsh prayer. And there was only work
in every week. Nothing from the world out-
side broke in ; no ties, even of words, were
made.
Her father died, leaving her a little money.
She came to Sydney, watchful and reticent,
nearly 50, Scotch, Nonconformist, silent,
unsatisfied that life was as barren as it
seemed. And on a spring day in Martin-place
what she sought was suddenly revealed to
her.
Beauty was what was lacking in her
father’s house, her father’s life, her own
barren heart. Not kindness nor softness;
not. neighbors’ voices nor the gentle ease that
other people took. But beauty, the chang-
ing face and voice and perfume of beauty.
It was that that would have righted every-
thing, made everything fruitful.
She became a haunter of picture-galleries;
gaunt and grey, she sat in concert-rooms and
theatres, her shocked conscience disregarded
in the glow and urgency of this creed. Pre-
sently she became a diffident, watchful unit
in a group of artistic folk who could tell
her the names and signs, the ceremonial of
the creed. They were exponents, whereas
she only watched and enjoyed—so fervently
that the world changed under her eyes, re-
vealing an undreamed warmth, a power to
comfort and glorify beyond words. Silent
and dour, she listened diffidently, learning
all that was possible to her ; but above all the
signs and ceremonial her hungry heart felt
the truth as well as the power of all this.
So urgently that a new, almost-physical
attribute was conferred upon her —the appre-
hension of beauty in ordinary, unbeautiful
things.
Y"et this was no more than enjoyment, and
a Scotch Nonconformist inheritance must do
more than that. It must endure and expound,
suffer under the banner of its creed. But
no life had ever been so barren as hers of
training in any part of this creed. She had
done nothing but work on a small farm and
sometimes for pocket-money make rough hats
for the chapel-women’s children.
More dour and silent than ever, she went
cannily about her plans. What she didn’t
know she could learn, this fire in her blood
told her. There were many ways in which
beauty could be forced into unbeautiful lives.
Having so much to learn herself, it would
be wise to find a school easy to teach; being
a fanatic, the more unpromising the school
the better. A milliner’s shop in the lower
end of the ’Loo seemed the best and most
devout setting for the temple.
As elsewhere, there are grades and differ-
ences in the ’Loo. Miss Lebanon Flint found
that she had three generations with which
to contend —generations that sometimes over-
lapped but were in the main quite sure that
they knew what they wanted and, more
importantly, how much they would stand.
The eldest of these generations held the
leading opinion that the hat should be ser-
viceable and cheap ; little else was expected
or tolerated. Very rarely Miss Flint’s zeal
added a wisp of imagination to these require-
ments ; generally she found it wiser to leave
this generation to make its perfunctory
choice among the strictly serviceable
examples in her stock.
The middle generation was her happiest
hunting-ground, though it came far short of
her first fiery hopes. These were the mothers
of families, sometimes youngish, sometimes
middle-aged; the eyes of some of them were
doubtful, of others definitely hopeless. Not
doubtful nor hopeless of life’s rewards—that
is not a ’Loo characteristic—-but of life’s
beauty or the strong happiness which seemed
so certain a year or two ago. Serving these,
Lebanon Flint was in truth a priestess. All
the magic filling her once empty heart was at
their disposal.
But tenderly. The twitching of a
ribbon, the careful addition of a small flower,
the diffident suggestion of another shade
were the details of the ceremonial, solemnised
with Scotch thoroughness.
To the expressive
artist throwing his
dreams on canvas or
on paper, or filling the
listening world with
music, Lebanon Flint’s
rewards would have
seemed meagre and not
worth the picking up.
There was no ap-
plause, there were no
honors or emoluments.
Sometimes going out
of the shop wearing
the new/ hat, Mum,
lifeworn and a bit
haggard, would glance
uncertainly at Dad,
who often came with
her to buy this hat.
Perhaps a fading light
would gleam for a
moment in his eyes
catching the cock of
the ribbon, the trim,
complacent flower, the
line of the brim. The
light would vanish at
onoo. but Lebanon Flint, busy at
tin 1 counter, would have seen it
iirst. And so would Mum, swag-
gering a trifle as she went out into
Brazier-street.
Or Dad. dull and slightly resent-
ful of his demanded presence at
this purchase, came to life and in-
terfered in the choice of colors and
shapes. Mum’s surprised laughter
was the only reward of Lebanon
Flint’s ritual. But to her it was
enough.
The youngest of these generations
was hopeless. Its work and its pleasure took it
beyond the temple's jurisdiction, where flashy
shops satisfied its flashy taste. Being youth,
it should have been the fairest of all fields;
but Lebanon Flint’s urgent heart ached when
she remembered her efforts at the beginning,
her hopeless dressing of the window for
youth that would so soon be middle-aged.
But the girls went blindly by on their way
to or from work: their silly, shoddy, gaudy
hats never turned in the temple’s direction.
Nor did their bright eyes sec the beauty Miss
Flint hoped endlessly would at last tempt
them.
Chiefest, in Miss Flint’s mind, of these
misguided vessels was Alma Braley, the
waitress at the Austral, the theatrical board-
ing-house. Officially in the ’Loo, the huge
Austral made it clear to all guests and pro-
spective guests that it was not of the ’Loo.
Its vast connection demanded a very large
house, and the most convenient large house
happened to be on the edge of the ’Loo—
that was all. Alma Braley roomed at the
lower end of Brazier-street and passed the
window >of Lebanon Flint, milliner, half a
dozen times a day. From the twilight of the
shop the hard eyes of Miss Flint had seen
Alma Braley pass the day after the temple’s
opening.
Through the clumsy make-up, the cheap
“tricky” hat, all the shoddy finery of glisten-
ing silk stockings and flimsy, too-colorful
frock, the priestess’s eyes could see the true
beauty of this girl. Woodland, elfin, that
beauty was stirring behind the vague, lack-
lustre eyes, the carriage of the cropped head,
the droop of the the long thin hands. Over-
loaded with the town’s tawdry frippery, here
was the woodland grace, its vivid charm wait-
ing to bless and inspire. The priestess
watched hungrily from the dim light.
But if Alma did glance at the window, it
was only to glance away again at once.
Most often she didn’t notice that the win-
dow was there. According to the Loo,
Alma was “a real good girl,’’ hardworking
and not a bit above herself because of her
looks; to Miss Flint’s fiery zeal she became
a most desirable convert. If only once the
chance might be granted her to dress the
girl as she should be dressed!
In a consignment of hats from a new
dealer one was like sunburnt corn drowsy
with the noon; a gracious droop in the brim
made the line tender and just: the hat was
like a crown for a queen of the fields, the
rivers, the deep shadows of the trees. Miss
Flint leaned back lost in thought, an eager-
ness gradually waking in her abstracted
eyes. Could it be done? Lima’s narrow
face under this crown !
In canny silence she went, dour and for-
bidding, about her plans. In the end she
found what she sought—a wreath of very
good French poppies with the sheen, the
metallic lustre of the true flower. Her
exultation giving no outward sign, she
trimmed the hat with this wreath round the
crown. No other decoration —just the sun-
burnt corn of the straw and these poppies.
“Miss Lebanon’s dream was fulfilled. The
queen of all the woodlands went out of
her shop, a flower of beauty.”
Her hand putting in the last stitch trembled
ever so little.
Again in silence she went about her plans,
and found what she sought. Like the green
of young corn, the strict and simple
linen frock would be the stem, the stalk
for the flower of the hat and Alma’s face.
One of Alma’s times for passing was about
three o’clock. The window was re-dressed
in a white fever of inspiration at two-thirty
—modislily dressed, with only one hat and only
one frock. In the twilight of the shop Miss
Flint waited.
Alma’s eyes glanced listlessly at the win-
dow in their i vacuous way, and she half
paused in her walk down Brazier-street.
That hat and frock, Miss Lebanon imagined
her saying to herself —before she walked
slowly on. But she paused again and came
back; she stared at the hat, a slow puzzle-
ment putting a faint life in her eyes. Miss
Lebanon’s hands twitched. Presently Alma
opened the door of the shop and came in.
Miss Lebanon’s hands fell still, and her hard,
strong eyes looked at Alma and Alma’s
shoddy frock and silly, gaudy hat.
“Yes, Miss Braley?”
“That get-up in the window, Miss
Flint”
Miss Lebanon’s dream was fulfilled. The
queen of all the woodlands went out of her shop
and walked down Brazier-street, a flower of
beauty that she, Lebanon Flint, had made 1
A real reward! She, hard and grey and
grim, was a mere nothing in her shop, serv-
ing her ’Loo customers’ unimaginative needs ;
yet walking these pavements was a dream
of radiant loveliness that this mere nothing
had made. Once she saw Alma with a com-
panion ; beside him she looked like a
being from another world, a being from a
dream-world. The man was flashy—coarsc-
looking, Miss Flint told herself; but Alma
was radiant in elusive, narrow-faced, half-
wistful, half-mocking woodland charm. Miss
Flint sighed in content. If all her thought
and trying came to no end in the ’Loo, at
least there was her one work of beauty.
The seed was planted and had bloomed that
once, at least..
“Did you hear about Alma Braley, Miss
Flint?” Mrs. Dennis asked her a fortnight
later.
“A shade to the left, I think, Mrs. Dennis
—that’s it. No. I heard nothing about
Miss Braley.”
Mrs. Dennis smiled at herself in the new
hat in the mirror. It wasn’t too bad. “She’s
gone—vanished. And nobody knows where to.”
“Gone?” Miss Flint was suddenly still.
“Yes. Just walked out without a word,
in a manner of speakin’,” Mrs. Dennis told
her reflection in the mirror. “If I
pull the brim down—like that—it throws a
shadow on my eyes.”
Mechanically Miss Flint pointed out that
this shadow was intended and becoming;
mechanically she satisfied Mrs. Dennis as
to the hat, received payment for it, and
wished her customer good morning.
Up and down the ’Loo she hunted—at the
Austral, at Alma’s room, at all her friends’
houses or rooms—for word of Alma. But
no word did she hear. Alma had walked
out —vanished.
Savagely Miss Flint concentrated. The
flashy man she had seen with Alma was an
actor who had for long been out of regular
engagement —the manageress of the Austral
was very bitter about him ; a married man
whose wife was acting in New York. He,
too, had vanished. Beyond this the man-
ageress had nothing pertinent'to say.
Miss Flint went further afield. Into
Castlereagh-street and strange, bare offices
where her description of the man would have
fitted any of the men lounging flashily about
—in her dour, implacable way she searched
and searched. At last she ran it to earth,
lie had gone to Africa —a sudden engage-
ment because another actor had fallen ill.
The company had wanted a sonbrette, too,
her informant remembered, showing her all liis
teeth, but whether they had got the lady or
not lie couldn’t tell her.
Miss Flint went back to Brazier-street.
Alma was in Africa with a married man,
in the very inferno of black sin. All the
sin was on Lebanon’s conscience for ever!
She looked round the shop, its bits of
tawdry color, its mirrors of shame. Beauty
....beauty.... On this carpet she , had
tempted feet from the path of salvation.
Generations of godly men and women now
at peace in their narrow everlasting beds
rose up and accused her. Traitress, they
cried; vdio knew the light and yet
did not bear witness, but wandered
in the soft lascivious ways of destruc-
tion and eternal death! Alma. Alma,
they; cried, the woodland queen, the
beauty brought to life —where is she now,
in what pestilence, in what irredeemable
shame?
For long days and nights Lebanon Flint
bore it. It was true, and nothing could
make it untrue. She and she alone had
driven Alma into sin, with her gauds to
catch the lazy wanton heart. She had
broken faith with an older and a truer
thing. Life was meant to be strict and
seemly, with eyes cast down and never a
hand lifted beyond the laws appointed. Here
was the proof in the fate of her one creation
of beauty. But for her Alma would be going,
tawdry and shoddy and safe, up and down
Brazier-street to and from, her work.
She bowed her head. It was written that,
they who fly in the face of the law and
seek their own false hearts should perish
by the law. Now nothing remained save to
make what peace it was granted her to
make'.
In a year or two Miss Lebanon had estab-
lished herself as a true part of the ’Loo.
She had aged a good deal, a characteristic
that the 'Loo understood, for one thing;
and there was no nonsense about her, for
another. There had been a time when she’d
had a knack of—well, of buying your own
hat for you, making up your mind for you
before you’d had time to think about it.
Sticking on a bit of a flower or what not
here and taking it off there; real fussy she
was, until —well, you didn’t know which
hat you did want, in the end.
(Continued on page 53 A


W. JNO. BAKER
Christmas Gifts
AT
THE HOUSE OF STEEL
W.JNO.BAKER K.NIFE CHEST
8863.— W. Jno. Baker Polished Wood
Knife Chest, containing 6 Dessert
Knives and 6 Table Knives, Stain-
less Steel.
45/ - Complete, post free.
mm
ngpijj
‘Bostonian,” Triple Silver-plated New
Improved Gillette Safety Razor,
with I 0 Blades in Nickel-plated Box.
21/* each, post free.
Wm
m
Twinplex Stropper for Gillette Blades,
automatically strops both sides of
blade; no skill required, just turn
the handle.
Complete, 17/6 each, post free.
Also made for Durham Duplex Blades.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
W. Jno. Baker
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
e
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Eegal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available
every weelz.
Price 4cL
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
N
b
>rA,
\
arth
.JONES
Choose well your water bottle when
you travel the desert
ne takes care in the choice of vital
equipment for perilous journeys.
For upon the service of that
equipment a great deal depends.
The journey through life is hardly less
perilous than the journey through the
desert. It is certainly longer. And upon
the faithful service of a watch a great
deal depends. May your choice fall
upon an Omega. For that is to choose a
timepiece that will not fail you, one that
will make the journey through life less
hazardous than it otherwise might be.
And Omega Watches are beautiful as
well as accurate. In design, in accurate
timekeeping, in long life and conse-
quently in economy, they have no rivals.
” Exact time for life”
iris*
■Aa
Sr
JS
m
Exceptional Stock Saddle Values
The “DANDALOO,”
£615/-
The “WALLAROO,”
£6 5 -
The “TANDAROO,”
£5/15/-
These three Saddles are exceptional
value for the price, and will give
good and lengthy service. The tree
in each is a good one, with plated
bars and steel stirrup bars.
The "DANDALOO” is made as illustrated, with a Pigskin Seat, Kip Flaps,
extended Leather Facings to back of panel, and Leather Points to side 3
of panel.
The “WALLAROO” is exactly the same in seat and flaps. The panel is full
stuffed without the extended facings, and the tail of skirt is carried round
seat.
The “TANDAROO” is also the same shape, but it has a short skirt tail and
full stuffed panel. The seat is of good Kip Leather.
Each Saddle is fitted with Leathers, Girth and N.P. Stirrups, and for Cash
with Order we will Pay Freight to any N.S.W. Railway Station.
è
The
DANDALOO
at
£6/IS/-
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“THE AGE”
Established 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
If your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long
esteemed and valued.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Advertising Rates on application to the princi-
pal Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


An Astounding
A^L£XAitoSlrop
Offer
for a strictly limited period
A genuine “VALET”
Auto Strop Shaving Set
regular price 3/ a together
with a full sized tube of
Auto Strop Shaving Cream
regular price 1/6
THE COMPLETE
OUTFIT IN
tii: i
?? .
S ,
wm
m
Via
mm
ii
ii(Hl)
iSS
/
fi
W
a ,iv -jq Wm
COMBINATION
PACKAGE
“VALET” AUTO
STROP RAZOR
The only Safety Razor
and Stropping machine
in one. Nothing to take
to pieces for either strop-
ping or cleaning.
“VALET”
STROP
of carefully selected lea-
ther tanned by a special
process to be most suit-
able for use with its own
Razor.
“VALET”
BLADE
—the blade that starts
good and stays good.
Tuned up to a perfect
shaving edge by skilled
engineers before it leaves
the factory.
AUTOSTROP
SHAVING CREAM
abundant in pearly
white lather it leaves the
face soft and smooth.
The best Shaving Cream
for the best Razor.
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & CO. LTD., 181 Clarence St., Sydney.
Get Rid of
Stomach Troubles
Here’s an Easy Way!
Eat what you like —but eat three tablets ot
Para-Pepsin with it! Result; no pain!
Just a smile, and a feeling of unaccustomed
comfort and energy. Para-Pepsin stops
excess acid, but does not destroy the vital
digestive fluid. So much better than harm-
ful anti-acids or bismuthated magnesia.
Try it! Costs little and never disappoints.
Any chemist will tell you why.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
DCmo/l)
Ask Your Jeweller
V f For, :
ROTHERHAMS
ENGLISH WATCHES
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will-
quote you price for the original.
But not now —not fo r three years or more
now. She was short and sharp and take-it-
or-leave-it; she never had a word to say
for herself; but you got the hat you wanted,
and that was the end of the matter. She
cut out all that flash junk she used to
have in the shop, too ; and a good riddance.
If you wanted that, you could go over to
Sydney for it; the ’Loo hadn’t any time for
it.
She did a lot of good round the ’Loo, too,
in her quiet way. Many a it was
Miss Lebby. who saw that the Kavanagh
kids got a Sunday dinner; many a time she
■’stood by” for groceries at Marty’s for one
or another. Never saying a word—just got
the job done and back home. She was a real
’Loo-ite was Miss Lebby.
Yet in the twilit shop sometimes a hint
of the dreams came back—to be crushed
into instant silence. The law, she told
herself, the law ! Stitching here, with only
serviceable hats and garments round her,
might be empty ; but it was safe.
The bell jangled, and she looked up. The
world seemed to fall still and silent.
A plump sunburnt woman came over to
the counter. She was well dressed; not
shoddy or gaudy, but quiet. Her harrow face
lit wholesomely as she smiled.
“I don’t suppose you remember me, do
you ?”
The words broke into the awful still
silence like thunder. “Yes, I remember you,”
Miss Lebby heard herself whispering.
“It seems funny to be back in the old
’Loo again. It doesn’t change much, does
it? But I was in Sydney for the day doing
a bit o’ shopping, and I thought I’d run over
and have a look at it. I’ve had some good
times in the ’Loo.”
She paused, looking round the shop.
“You’ve aged a bit, Miss Flint. But there
—we none of us get any younger, do we?”
She smiled again. But Miss Lebby could
only look at her in silence.
“I’m married now. It was really you I
came over to see. I took a fancy I’d like
to”——-
“Y'es?” Miss Lebby prompted.
"Do you remember that green linen dress
and the hat with the poppies—that rig-out
I bought here one afternoon?”
“Yes, I remember it.” Remember it!
“Well.” Alma paused and looked uncer-
tainly at Miss Lebby. “Don’t think I’m
silly, but there was something about that
rig-out that seemed to change me, if you
know what I mean. I seemed to feel all
wrong, somehow, wnen I had it on—l mean
wrong in myself. There was the Austral
and a bit of a walk up the street and back,
the pictures once m a while; and that
seemed to be the lot. It was all right, too,
till I got that ng-out of yours. And then it
was all wrong.” Alma looked diffidently at
Miss Lobby. “If you know what I mean,
she pleaded , , . o .....
AUss Lebby pushed the hat-shape a httle
farther along the counter, but she didn t
s PfAk- . ~
There was ° ne ® the fellows at t
Austral trying to get fresh. _I d been ou
with him once or twice, and lie seemed all
right. But suddenly he seemed afl wrong
too . i W as a n ends up, as you might say.”
, ~ . Ar . ,
Alma s eyes were waCclnng Miss Lebby
* 1 ,7 C , t ,,^^>.l,V.
lt: ’VLssk lint, oiwhcthei jou think
nilly. But I put it all down to the diess a
the bosker hat. It seemed *il y, m a w Y,
he wearing duds like that an kicking about
t ) ie ’j.x)o. An’ it got worse. Until one day
t was real fed up. I was going to the pic-
tureg w ith this fellow—he was an actor
an( j rca ] goo d company—and I’d changed
clothes and put my green dress and
poppy hat on. And all of a sudden I had
[ h £ t i ’ J fceling 1 couldn’t bear him, and I
couldn’t bear my job nor the Austral nor
no tM n g. So I walked out—never said a
W ord to anyone. Just sent off a wire to my
cousin'at Picton—she’s married to a farmer
there—that I was coming, and caught the
train ”
Al ina paused again at this dramatic point,
and Bm iled again into Miss Lobby’s waiting,
hungry eyes.
“It’s funny too, because I never was one
for the country before that. I was always
more f Ol . a bit of life round me, you know.
g u t it was the best day’s work I ever did;
j wouldn’t leave the country now for all
the tea in China'. And neither would my
husband. But the luck of it all came from
that green dress—that’s how I look at it.
So, being i n Sydney, doing my bit of shop-
ping, I thought I’d like to run over and ask
y oa if”
' Once more Alma paused, flushing faintly
through her tan.
“And ask me what?” Miss Lebby’s warm
voice seemed to gasp,
“If you ever make baby-clothes, Miss
Flint?”
The White Mist.
In a vision comes to me
A white mist upon the sea,
And in the white mist seen afar
A barque is shining like a star.
Though I know not where she goes,
As a ghost-thing, I suppose,
She within that misty light
Travels through the eerie night.
And her passengers must be
Done with Time’s mortality—-
Passengers and seamen, too,
But a disembodied crew;
As ’twere in another air
’Tis they breathe who voyage there,
As visioned in a dream they glide
On and on, whate’er betide ;
Knowing this —that Death no more
May touch them on any shore,
Since the dream-life they have got
Earthy mariners have not.
As if till the world was done
They still so would voyage on
In the star that seems to be
But a barque upon the sea!
N.S.W.
R. CEAWFORD.
Passion.
Three Loves the youth had, and they
bloomed and died.
He buried them with flowers, side by side,
And made a garden in the turf&d place,
Where yew-trees brushed the carvfed marble
lace
About the shrine, and purple iris grew,
Flecked by pale sunlight in perpetual dew.
Here might he walk in peace when day was
done,
And think upon them sweetly, one by one.
Then Passion came from out the riven skies
One night of storm: her kisses seared his
eyes;
He heard the voice of all man’s ancient
years
Throb like tormented music in his ears,
And all his house was most unholy lit
And shot with darkness through the length
of it
But when the lightnings were at last with-
drawn
False heaven sheeted him about till dawn.
When sickly day came through the broken
panes
He saw the spent leaves in the sodden lanes,
The tortured trees that bent and quivered
yet.
And tattered songbirds, draggled in the wet;
While Passion, unresponsive, lay within,
With sunken neck and lifeless eyes of sin
(Not so had looked the Loves, but bloomed
in death,
Those quiet evenings when they tired of
breath).
Then he remembered those three graves of
grace,
And bore dead Passion to the hallowed place:
Here would he bury, where the others slept,
The one. like Judas, earth would not accept.
At night he took her up again and strayed
Till morning, burdened with the corpse, and
prayed
That earth or water would receive liis dead.
That night she lay again upon his bed;
And fire would not befriend, or earth or sea :
He went always in grievous company
Through all the world, from land to distant
land,
Tho finger-bones of Passion in his hand,
Until the gods relented and forgave:
Passion; unknown, was buried in his grave.
N.B.W.
WINIFRED G. BIRKETT.
The Orchardist.
At times, when weary of body and mind,
From fret and tumult and toil set free,
The day’s work done and the town behind,
I sit at home in my balcony,
My thoughts go straying through years and
years
To an orchard under a timbered hill,
Where all the birds of the bushland thronged
At the fruiting season to feast their fill.
When cherries rubied the drooping trees,
Or apples, rounded and ripe and red,
Swayed to and fro in the morning breeze,
A merry host from the wild they sped.
While still bright dew on the leafage hung,
Each little drop like a shining gem,
There, there from hollow and hill they came
To take of the plunder that waited them.
There, there unhampered they fed their fill;
For well ’twas known through the country-
side
Who owned that orchard beneath the hill
Loved all the birds of the bushland wide —
Loved bright rosella and dazzling finch,
Loved thrush and magpie and lark and
wren.
That piped and warbled from dawn till dusk,
Not less than he loved his fellow-men.
I’d count a year-and-a-da_y well missed,
With all its promise of gain of gold,
To dwell once more with that orchardist.
That blithe bird-lover I knew of old;
To bide with him while on cherries sweet,
Or apples, red as fire’s red flame,
To feast while the feasting time was good,
The free wild birds of the bushland came.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
A Morning Walk.
From Frankston into Cranbourne
The road runs all along
Between green-golden stretches,
A lovely way of song,
With thrushes singing loud and gay
And blackbirds clear and strong.
From Frankston into Cranbourne
We went, and cared for none.
The pines along the wayside
Showed yellow shoots, each one;
And the bare old orchard trees were grey
As cobwebs in the sun.
Where the bracken’s frosted silver
Rimmed spikes of pearly heath
We saw the cream clematis
Weave lacy wreath on wreath
Above the jade-green fuchsia bells
And greenhoods underneath.
The purple sarsaparilla
Spread out a cloak of pride,
And flat-faced little sundews—
Each chalice opened wide—
Were white flotillas floating on
Some tangled, moveless tide.
We knelt beside still waters,
As dark as dark could be,
And plucked the strange swamp-lilies,
Their fretted ivory
Flung up in two black-dusted wings
With fairy symmetry.
We watched the fire-smoke rising '
Behind its dim, blue veil;
The shy young gum-trees dancing
In a vision sweet and frail,
And the far-off hills that lay in dream,
Pale as the dawn is pale.
From Frankston into Cranbourne
The road runs all along
Between green-golden stretches.
A lovely way of song.
With thrushes singing loud and gay
And blackbirds clear and strong.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


Uhe EIGHTH
DECEMBER
EVERY week 250 short stories and sets
of verse are offered to THE
BULLETIN—I3,OOO in the course
of a single year.
As these drop in a selection is made for
the CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.
Thus it comes about that the CHRIST-
MAS BULLETIN is the finest annual
collection of short stories and verse
published, not only in Australia, but in the
British Empire.
To this selection of stories and verse are
added 50 drawings, mostly humorous, by
the principal black-and-white artists of
Australia, living at home or abroad.
Notwithstanding the tremendously
increased cost of the production, it is still
sold for sixpence. THE BULLETIN is
almost the only paper in the English-
speaking world which continues to give
its readers the benefit of its Christmas
Annual without increase of price.
The annual, to be published this year
on Saturday, December 8, will include,
along with 20 good ones, half a dozen
of the best stories ever offered in
Australia.
It will be embellished by three full-page
drawings—by Minns, Leason and Jardine.
It will include a drawing by Norman
Lindsay.
No more gripping tale has been written
for years than “Thieves’ Gold,’’ by W.
Charnley, with which the short-story
section opens.
The humorous tale is numerous. “The
Dodger’s Aunt,’’ by Gordon Bennett, is
one of half a dozen that will stay in your
memory.
The semi-historical is represented by “Lost
—an Empire,’’ a graphic story by L. T.
Luxton.
Australia has been short of new bush
recitations. It will find what it has been
looking for in “The Cure.’*
Australia’s Greatest Annual,
68 pages, and published at the
old price—SIXPENCE.
DECEMBER 8.
At all Newsagents
and Bookstalls.
From China to Peru.
Slipped liis cable, in London, at 72, Cap-
tain Lewis A. Leslie, one of the old Howard
Smith skippers. He it was who commanded
the Boveric when she became disabled about
1000 miles cff the Leeuwin, and drifted help-
lessly for five weeks, being eventually picked
«P by a Blue Anchor ship and towed to
h remantle.. A lifeboat which had been sent
to seek assistance sailed over a zig-zag course
of 1500 miles and reached Fremantle a day
ahead of the Boveric. It happened in 1900.
Lord Banbury, who has just been offered
the vice-presidency of the R.S.P'.C.A., is
likely to respond with a resounding refusal.
He has been supplanted as chairman by Sir
Robert Gower, of the Cainine Defence
League. The English R.S.P.C.A., like most
of its offshoots all over the world, is torn
by dissension between the attackers and
defenders of blood-sports. Banbury has done
great work for horses—though 78 he recently
THE FACTS OF THE CASE.
HENNESSY: “Don’t talk silly, Constable. We wasn’t
scrappin’! We was on’y try in’ to separate our-
selves!”
grappled with a carter who was ill-treating
a horse and held him till a policeman arrived
—but he is a confirmed blood-sporter. The
younger lights of the R.S.P.C.A. are out to
end all blood-sports, and their activities in
the west of England threaten to kill stag-
hunting on Dartmoor before long. The
hatred between the two humanitarian sec-
tions attains an almost religious intensity at
times; and in a mixed It.S.P.C.A. gathering
Lord Banbury is usually howled down.
t “D.” : It is anomalous that Lord Byng of
Vimy should have made his first demonstra-
tion as head of the London police by raiding
night clubs. Their offence is that they
deprive the Treasury of money by refusing
to pay certain fees. Byng, for his part, re-
fused to pay tor the viscountcy to which he
was gazetted after his term as G.-G. in
Canada. Months of argument resulted in
the Treasury capitulating, and Byng got his
step in the peerage free, thus saving about
£7OO. Very few have brought off this coup
since Henry VIII.’s day, when “fees of
honor” were instituted. The pioneer was
Palmerston, who declined to weigh in with a
cheque for the Garter which he desired
“because there was no d —d merit about it.”
The Treasury warned him
that unless he paid his
banner would not go up in
St. George’s Chapel, to which
he replied that, as he never
went near any kind of
church, the threat carried no
weight. The Crown climbed
down.
“Q.Q.”: There is a minute
fragment of meat with a
curious history in an Aus-
tralian laboratory. Some 40
years ago a party of moun-
taineers perished on h Swiss
glacier. Twenty years passed,
and another party clamber-
ing over the same glacier
came on a luncheon basket
deeply embedded in the ice.
The sandwiches, neatly wrap-
ped in a napkin, were in
perfect preservation, and the
markings on the linen
showed that the basket had
belonged to the party lost 20
years before. An Oxford
professor who was with the
discoverers suspected some-
thing abnormal in a slice of
ox-tougue in one of the sand-
wiches, so he put it in spirit
and despatched it to the pro-
fessor of pathology at
Oxford. The latter found it
to be infected with the dis-
ease known as actinomycosis,
and accepted the exhibit
gladly, as he wanted speci-
mens of this disease for mak-
ing microscopic sections to
distribute among the students. One student
was an Australian who later returned home,
lie still uses this specimen every year to
demonstrate actinomycosis to medical stu-
dents in Australia.
“Mai Apropos” : Few men have had such an
upside-down form of greatness thrust upon
them as Dr. Spooner, late Warden of New Col-
lege, Oxford, whose alleged idiosyncrasy of
transposing the initial letters of two adjacent
or reasonably near words, with nonsensical
results, has added the word “Spoonerism”
to the English language. Many people had
come to look on the doctor as a myth or
an invention —as some Buxletin readers
insist on regarding “Bellerive”—but the
old don is real enough; at the age of 84
he has just celebrated his golden wedding
at Oxford, where he is now living in retire-
ment. Much less genuine are the verbal
coinages attributed to him, most of these
being the work of undergrads, who put more
hard graft into inventing them than they
ever did into the study of subjects for
which degrees are awarded. Similarly, the
press snatched up any outside “Spoonerism”
—and they are common enough—and credited
them to the college head. One in particular,
really mouthed by the old Duke of Cam-
bridge, the commander-in-chief in Queen
Victoria’s time, comes to mind. “Tons of
soil,” began the Duke (who had done
himself well at the mess luncheon) when
addressing a Yeomanry regiment on parade,
“nothing is more essential than that the
young manhood of the country should
learn to shout and scoot.”
“Rex”: Stewards on English liners should
take a leaf out of the book of the stewards
on the Dutch liner I recently travelled by.
The chief, instead of being a haughty nabob
whom you had to hunt up and beg for a
seat, looked me up, as he did the other pas-
sengers, and saw to it that we were seated
at tables where the company was to our
liking. Throughout the voyage he was con-
stantly going from table to table seeing that
things were as we wanted them to be, which
is in sharp contrast to the line followed by
the haughty chief I met on a recent trip by
an English liner, who seemed to expect the
passengers to tremble when they spoke to
him. The stewards take their cue from
the chief, and —well, on a long voyage, it
makes all the difference in the world.
“D.”: Samuel Wallrock, a
London specialist in West
End land values, is going to
turn Park-lane into a shop-
ping centre. He has already
bought several houses for
transformation into shops at
the Marble Arch end of what
used to be England’s most
expensive residential area,
and he prophesies that shops
will eventually stretch as far
in the direction of Picca-
dilly as Dorchester Home.
The natural site for luxury
shops picture palaces and
gre a t restaurants these
motoring days is near a
park. The development of
the Avenue des Champs Ely-
sees —once the Park-lane of
Paris, but now the city’s
chief motor-shop quarter—is
a case in point. Private homes cease to be
desirable when inotor-’buses start thundering
past them, and a near-by park solves one of
the main problems of those who wish to shop
by car at their leisure. The south end of
Sydney’s Hyde Park was a street of private
houses and doctors’ rooms in the pre-motor
period, and nothing is surer than that Mac-
quarie-street will be a shopping centre —
and particularly a car-selling centre—when
the Martin-place extension materialises.
“Ruggieri”: A variation on the monotony
of art shows and crafts exhibitions was re-
cently seen «t Budapest, in the shape of a
“Superstitions Exhibition.” Among the ex-
hibits were the remedies for various disorders
prescribed by medical practitioners of three
or four centuries ago. A mole’s heart was
highly recommended for epilepsy, while, aptly
enough, powdered snake was much in vogue
as a cure for liquor excess. Cats’ eyes* dried
bats, lizards and beetles were also highly
regarded. One wonders whether the word
superstition exactly fits these interesting pre-
scriptions, or if they are as out of date in
principle as modernity would have us believe.
Modern Macquarie-street prescribes the
GOOD CAUSE FOR NERVOUSNESS.
“Aren't you scared the boss might catch you in here?”
“Too right. A man would have to shout for him!”
administration of glands from sheep and even
monkeys, while recourse is had to calves’
sweetbreads and bullocks’ livers. The step
from the dried bats or the cats’ eyes to these
is not so very long.
Handsome Men Have
Well-groomed Hair
“Oh! I thought you were much older than that
I suppose your hair gives that impression.” Yot
very tactful, but that’s how women think of a man
whose hair is thin or grey. Keep your hair young
and you are young. Use “Vi-Clo,” and watch
lesults! See it grow new hair in quick time- see
tte rki, * back; the grey tinges ’ go?
Watch the ladies! You’ll know bv that w
successful “Vi-Glo” is. Don’t ‘‘Vi Glo”
a ? al o , wa „ s *» h’s a scientific scalp-invigorator Costs
only 3/- for the complete outfit at any chemist’s or
you can get it by post for 3/4 from VhGlorient
Company, Kembla Building, Sydney. Money back
if not surprised and delighted with the quick results


Hmduinamoment
always hade
e
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
K3O.
AN IDEAL FOOD-KRAFT CHEESE
KRAFT Cheese is the purest, the cleanest and the most flavorsome
cheese you can buy. It is wrapped in tinfoil, and there is no rind,
no waste —every morsel is eaten with zest.
Kraft Cheese has a mellow and
delectable flavor.
MADE Ilf
AUSTRALIA
krSI
chIP
Sold by weight
or in lib. cartons
by all grocers
and storekeepers.
£ af tCH e - is Ip i lde in AustraKa by Kraft Walker Cheese Co.
Jrtv., btd., Riverside-avenue, Melbourne, Victoria.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
The Dreamer.
A STORY THAT WILL KEEP YOU GUESSING, BY H. HELLANBY.
“X TOW for a decent sleep at last,” thought
West as he glanced around the hotel
bedroom. This audit of Keenly Bros.’
was the very devil. Why on earth couldn’t
they get their books in order in decent time
instead of leaving them until just before
their annual meeting, and then finding they
couldn’t strike a balance?
For the last week he had been ploughing
through their ponderous ledgers, sixteen
hours a day of checkings, postings and addi-
tions, until after midnight that night, when
he had found that infernal two-pound error
just when he was on the point of turning
the job in.
There was a queer sense of fulness in his
head, too; even as he walked through the
almost-deserted streets he caught himself vis-
ualising endless columns of figures, meaning-
less rows that had neither beginning nor
end, yet which somehow fluttered before him.
His room had been changed since the
morning, which vaguely annoyed him. Like
most people, he hated sleeping in a strange
room; but it would take more than that to
keep him awake to-night.
Peeling off his clothes and getting into his
pyjamas, he switched off the light and, throw-
ing open the lower part of the window, gazed
out into the courtyard. “Some drop,” lie
thought. He had forgotten to notice the floor
lie was on when he came up in the lift,
but the nearness of the flat roof of the
huge hotel told him it must have been about
the tenth or twelfth. The view was con-
fined to the rectangular well formed by cor-
responding blocks to the one he was in, and
was mostly in deep shadow. One or two win-
dows near the bottom dimly lit with their
rays what appeared to be some sort of a
glass roof of the ground-floor lounge or
entrance-hall.
“Hope the damned place doesn’t catch fire
in .the night!” he said to himself. “Can’t see
myself risking a scramble down those walls!”
It was moonlight and warm; the beauty
of the night would have engrossed him at
any other time.
Leaving the lower window wide open, he
flung himself down on the bed, relaxing every
muscle as the comfortable mattress received
him.
It was with a faint surprise that after a
while he realised that sleep was evading him.
“Over-tiredness,” he thought; “what I want
is a good stiff drink. Seems to be precious
little chance of getting it at this time of
night, though. I needn’t get up in the morn-
ing, that’s one mercy.”
Time dragged on; interminable rows of
figures, piles of ledgers and cash-books jum-
bled in a seething muddle through his over-
wrought brain. In a queer way they kept
on getting mixed up with a lake he knew
in the Otway forest; until at last they left
him, and he was standing in his bathing-
suit in the little rocky cliff that he knew
so well!
It was a quiet, out-of-the-way little spot,
miles from the nearest township and utterly
deserted during nine-tenths of the year. lie
and his wife had come across it by accident
tracking down towards the coast some years
ago on a summer holiday, and the delight
of the beauty of the lake, with its deep,
clear water overhung by the twenty-foot-high
rock, had attracted them, so that they had
since then often camped there for week-
ends. The pleasantest memories of his life
were associated with it, and every detail of
the view from the rock was indelibly stamped
on his memory. They never learned its name,
and did not like to make inquiries for fear
of attracting others, slight though the risk
was, as the nearest people, the toilers in a
timber-getters’ camp, five miles away towards
Colac, were not likely to penetrate so far
in their scanty leisure.
It was fine being back again after that
infernal job at Iveenly’s. The rays of the
golden early morning sun lit up the rippling,
pansy-blue water. On the far side a pearly
mist clung to the wooded slopes, turning into
whisks and whirls of faint silver as the sun
melted it away even while he watched. A
faint curl of blue smoke arose from the fire
he had just lit in the little hollow at the side
of the headland.
Not a sign of human endeavor marred the
outlook; it was as nature had made it, un-
spoilt and untouched since the beginning of
life itself.
“Out of it, Doreen!” he called to the
huddle, of blankets that hid his wife. “I’m
not going in alone, and, anyway, it’s too good
tor you to miss on a morning like this.”
She stirred, and waved a sleepy acknow-
ledgment ; then, throwing off the heap of
blankets, darted into the hollow of the rock,
where they had hidden their scanty luggage.
In a moment she was beside him on the
rock in her swimming-costume.
They stood there together, speechless with
the beauty of the scene.
At last, with a little laugh, she wrenched
herself free of the arm which encircled her
shoulders. Poising for an instant on the
smooth edge of the rock, she sprang forward
into a beautiful swallow dive, cutting the rip-
pling water with hardly a splash.
lie watched her with admiration ; a fine
diver himself, he was able to appreciate the
skill that so easily surpassed his own. He
took a few steps forward, and stood grip-
ping with his feet the sharp edge of the
rock. He raised his arms above his head,
upwards and backwards.
God! What was the matter with him?
The lake was going dark and black before his
eyes. Something had struck his outstretched
arms. He felt he was ill, dying; and he
fell in a sprawling heap, his right side on
the rock and his feet projecting over the
side....
A horrible feeling of nausea swept over
him as he clutched the window-sill and real-
ised his position. The sweat poured off
him as he dragged himself inside and fell
panting on the floor. It was a moment or
two before his shaking limbs and reeling
senses allowed him to struggle across to the
bed.
“My God, but that was a near thing!” he
muttered, as he lay panting on the bed, his
heart pounding like a steam hammer. He
ran over the dream again in his mind; even
wideawake as he now was it- seemed incre-
dibly real and material.
Gradually calmness crept over him. He
heard with a vague sense of comfort and
security the homely sound of a distant clock
and a far-away town whistle.
Al last he realised with a fresh shock that
he was beginning to doze once more. “Much
too dangerous lying here like this,” he told
himself. “I must get that window shut
first.” Jumping up, he walked to the open
THE ILLS OF FASHION.
MARIA LEGHORN: “Why is Adelaide Brahma always broody these days, I wonder?’
WINNIE WYANDOTTE: “Oh, she’s merely lying low till long skirts come in again.'
window, his legs still hardly able to support
him, so severe had been the shock.
Clutching the sill he looked out into the
black abyss. The lights of the lower
windows were out now and the moon had
sunk too low to light even the upper walls.
The bleak chill of early morning made him
shiver anew. Slamming down the window
he fastened the catch as tightly as his shak-
ing hands would allow.
Taking his watch from under the pillow he
saw it was three o’clock. “Thank God it will
soon be light, anyway,” he thought. “I
daren’t risk that bed again until it is.”
Dragging the only chair in the room from
its corner behind the waslistand, he sat
down, its hardness and straight-backed dis-
comfort bringing a wry smile to his lips.
He sat there gazing idly at the uninterest-
ing decorations and furniture of the prosaic
room. After an interminable time the grow-
ing light outside made him get up to switch
off the electric light. It was not until broad
daylight flooded the room that he once more,
with a sigh of relief, lay down on the bed.
* * * *
“Poor old boy, you do look ill,” said
Doreen as he got out of the Sydney train.
“Yes; had a devil of a time over that lasr
audit,” he replied. “Working sixteen hours
a day for a week or more. Still, it’s ripping
seeing you again.”
“What about taking a few days off at our
old camping-place?” said she.
West gave a little laugh, his heart beating
rather faster than before.
“Righto, darling. Jolly good idea,” he re-
plied. “As a matter of fact, I’ve got a
jolly queer yarn to tell you about that place;
but wait till we’re there —it will thrill you
far more when you get the whole scene before
you.”
Though he had been away for only a week
West felt strangely affected by the familiar
surroundings of his suburban home. “I feel
as if I’d been away for months,” he said as
he glanced affectionately round the little
house and garden. Opening the shed he got
out his motor-cycle and side-car.
“Let’s start directly,” said Doreen; “we
can have the whole week-end there and start
home early on Monday morning.”
Loading up their simple outfit they were
soon away, West’s spirits reviving with every
mile through the clear, invigorating sunshine.
Two hours’ steady running brought them
to Colac. From there onwards, the roads
getting gradually worse, slowed them down
until the final five miles through the forest
was only accomplished on foot. They were
both used to this, however; leaving the
machine with the foreman of the timber
camp, they shouldered their meagre equip-
ment. The last rays of the setting sun red-
dened the waters of the little lake as they
reached the camping-place; West thought he
had never seen it look more beautiful.
It was nearly a year since they had last
been there. They could still see traces of
their last camp; a few blackened stones in
the little hollow where they always made
their fire, sheltered from the south-west
breeze that blew so regularly during the
summer months. West got the fire going,
and with Doreen’s help rigged the little
tent they had brought with them. The night
closed in as they worked, but it was a
familiar task for both of them, and the
gathering darkness was but a small hin-
drance.
The gentle lap of the water at the base
of the rock, with the faint rustle of the trees
behind them, was all that broke the still-
ness as they sat near the fire eating their
meal. “Strange to think that one of the
great cities of the world is only about forty
miles away, isn’t it?” said West as they
lounged against a boulder, the glow of their
cigarettes making tiny fire-points.
“What was that yarn you were going to
cell me about the lake?” questioned Doreen
after a long silence.
He laughed uneasily; perhaps he had been
a fool to mention it to her at all. Looking
back on that night it seemed so neurotic; he
felt something very much akin to contempt
for himself as he thought of it. Of course
there was the excuse of overwork and all
that, but he could not help wondering how
she would take it. Home people, he knew,
had a morbid horror of sleep-walking, look-
ing on it as something perilously close to
madness—perhaps they were right too.
“Out with it, Joe, darling,” she insisted.
His obvious reluctance had not escaped her.
For a moment a wild thought raced
through his brain that he might describe
the experience as having happened to some-
body else, until he realised the instant later
how wildly improbable that would sound. It
was very unlikely that other people knew it
as a camping and bathing place, and still
more improbable that he should have met
them.
Doreen got up, and, stepping across the
few 7 intervening feet of space, snuggled her-
self down in the crackling twigs and dried
leaves beside him.
“Now I know you’re keeping something
back, Joe, darling,” she whispered, leaning
against him with one arm flung round his
shoulders.
West threw the stump of his cigarette
away and began his story.
It must have been very real to her. He
felt her quick gasp of horror and the tight-
ened clutch of her arm as he described his
awakening.
“So you stuck it out till morning in that
chair?” she said as he finished.
“Had to,” he replied. “I couldn’t lock
the window, and I might easily have got up
again and opened it. It was quite probable,
you know.”
They sat on in silence while the moon rose
and turned the mysterious blackness of the
void before them into a sheet of living silver,
rippling in the faint night breeze.
At last Doreen rose with a little shiver;
kissing her husband with more than usual
affection she withdrew into the little tent.
After a little while West joined her.
It was the warmth of the sun in the tent
that awakened them next morning. Looking
at his watch West saw with surprise that
it was nearly eight o’clock; it was not
their usual custom to sleep so late in camp.
Awakening his wife he climbed out on to
the top of the familiar little cliff. The sun
was quite high, and already the surface of
the rock was warm to his bare feet. He
stood looking at the familiar view, beautiful
as it had been in his dream, though the
hour was later and the breeze fresher. The
morning mist had cleared from the opposite
shore and its outline was clear and distinct
against the sky.
The feeling of inferiority that had so
oppressed him the night before when he was
confessing his strange adventure to Doreen
had left him. He caught a glimpse of her
climbing the rock towards him. Now was
the chance to show her that he was still
fit and strong!
Balancing on the edge he raised his arms
and dived.
It was higher than he had imagined, he
thought, as the cool stream of air whistled
in his ears.
* * * *
The thud and crash of splintered glass
awoke many sleepers in the hotel. Windows
rattled up and pyjama-clad figures peered
downwards. Cleaners at work on the ground
floor rushed into the glass-roofed lounge.
There horrified eyes surveyed a mass of
wreckage that covered the floor.
Even the hardened potman, who joined
them, was glad to turn away.
Nocturne.
The wind calls and the sea sighs,
And a bird croons low in the nest,
And it’s I must sleep with an old man,
With his bald head at my breast.
A tap drips and the clock ticks,
And a mouse squeaks high on the shelf,
And if I must lie with an old man
I’d as soon ’twere Death himself.
N.s.w.
VANESSA.
Miracle.
God went up in a quiet hour,
When the fields were still and the kine
asleep,
Putting aside His wrath and power,
To where the Son’s poor children keep
Their lonely watch in a starless place;
And there was pity upon His face.
And He went in by the open door,
And saw them standing and heard them
weep,
And He prayed for His mercy upon His poor,
And said: “My children, sleep.”
And they slept and woke, and it was day,
And the child had risen and run to play.
s.a.
D. P. McGIRE.


Bunking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th .Tune, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; 11. H. LYSACHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.,732,525
D 1? O,l Australia, New
DJAAi Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed -— t think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
è
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containiug mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. ‘550 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SAFE with GUYATT’S !
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered aud
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
é
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Agister
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by ali classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIUKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone 3v’t>:lB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
fill*
iv*
■
inmiO
UiU
Pacific Isles are Calling
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS
SPECIAL Excursions to Honolulu via Auckland and
Suva will be run from Sydney by the magni-
ficent ocean liners Aorangi and Niagara.
UXQUIBITE Hawaii, embowered in blos-
L ~ 4 som, offers fragrant welcome to her
Australian guests. A thousand sights
enchant, and fascinating contrasts extend
from the surfing beach of Waikiki to the
great precipice of the Pali.
Return Excursion Fares
From Sydney £75 (First), £55 (Second).
Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
Alternative Excursions
to Raratonga and Papeete are but
£55 First Saloon and £4O Second.
Particulars and literature from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
w
m
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. A.d all IWh OSic«.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
m
.. .. .. £7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Janies Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G'.H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C 2
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ê
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
rHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMAN 1 LI.
(Transhipping for outports).
Vessel.
KATOOMBA
(All Ports
inc. Albany)
ORUNGAL
(Melb. only)
DIMBOOLA
(All Ports).
Leaves
Sydney
Sat.,
Dec. 1.
Sat.,
Dec. 1.
Fn. f
Dec. 7.
Leaves 1
Melbourne]
Wed.,
Dec. 5.
KANOWNA Sat.,
(Melb. onlv) Dec. 8.
KAROOLA Sat.,
(All Ports Dec. 15.
inc. Albany)
ORMISTON I Sat.,
(Melb. only). Dec. 15.
CANBERRA Sat.,
(Melb. onlv). lOee. 22.
BOMBALA Sat.,
(All Ports). 1 Dec. 22.
Tues.,
Dec. 11.
Wed.,
Dec. If*.
Wed.,
Dec. 20.
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEacliarn, Ltd..
19 Bridge Street
A.U.S.N. Co., L' l.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Mcllwraith,
McEacliarn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
FOR BRISBANE, MAOKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
jThemistocles 11,500 tons, Nov. 27
*Anchises. . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 10
:|: Ascanius. . 10,048 ~ Jan. 7
JRunic 12,500 „ Jan. 22
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Feb. 5
* Nestor. .... 15,000 ~ Mar. 18
.. . 18,500 ~ March 26
-First class only. tFirst and Third class.
:f“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA" SOUTH AFRICA.
BALLARAT Sails Dec. 21
1929.
BENDIGO „ Jan. 18
BERK IMA .. Feb. 1
VIA SUEZ CANAL.
1929.
BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BENALLA „ April 1
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evenr.ig;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLisi
Magnificent
Faet Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITS,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.


@e Ppe tty!
fje ©a/irittj!
©eyj tractive!
fte a- tfexom,
0 Swtl
]f you would have a
perfect complexion, be a
Rexona Girl and use only
Rexona Soap. Millions of
Rexona Girls have multi-
plied their beauty by the
daily use of Rexona Soap.
Oily skin, blackheads and
large pores are quickly
overcome by Rexona Soap,
the aristocrat of Soaps.
Is. per tablet.
i 1
1
B
%
I
I
lit
■>' <* ■<
I . .
m
-;U
'
mm
Miss PHYLLIS NICHOLSON, the beautiful
young Australian actress now appearing in
“Rio Rita,’’ uses only Rexona Soap and writes
as follows; “I use Rexona Soap exclusively.
It is ideal for the hair and complexion
( live Chocolates this
Christmas
o'
m
SB
S 3
r.-*
MV
ftt
«MflH
rw
VV\J
-5-
\V«f
’* \\v®
l -'
*3°
0^
bV
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/-,
30/- and 37/6.
but be sure they’re ]
Hillier's
Ask to see Hillier’s fine
range of Beautiful Fancy
Boxes, Baskets
and Caskets up to £5/5/-
ClneStHillUA
162-166 PITT STREET.
to the room where Phyllis had slept, and
threw open the door. “You sleep here. I’ll
camp in Youie’s room.”
The tall man with the pale blue eyes and
fairish pointed beard smiled at Coonardoo
as she stood scowling and staring after
Geary.
Geary went on into Hugh’s room and re-
anpeared with a pair of trousers and shirt
of Hugh’s.
“Here you are, Dick,” he shouted. “See
if you can get into these.” He flung the
clothes at Crossley and walked back along
the verandah to Hugh’s room. “I’ll stick
the ’bus up in the buggy-shed. See you get
on a good fire, Coonardoo. And there’s
something to eat pretty quick, or I’ll know
the reason why.”
He went through the kitchen, down the
steps into the yard.
Coonardoo watched him driving the car
through the soft earth to the shed. The
car stuttered, rocked, shot out from the
oozing mud. Gcaiy steered her under the
high roof of the buggy shed, and swaggered
down to the house. He came into the
kitchen again. Coonardoo had gone to the
fire and was raking the embers together as
he came in.
“Great rain, eh Coonardoo? Youie’ll be
pleased, eh? By God, it did come down
out there by the Gap. We was nearly
drowned. Where’s the whisky? No, I’ll
get it myself.” Twisting the key from her
hand, he went into the sitting-room and
returned with a bottle under each arm.
When he had opened one of the bottles,
Geary poured himself a drink.
“Hi, Dick,” he called, “could you stop
one?”
“Too right,” the stranger’s voice sang out.
He slouched into the kitchen; his keen
hungry eyes travelled to Coonardoo.
“How about it, Coonardoo?” Geary held
the bottle over a glass invitingly. He was
in a crazy good humor because of the rain.
Coonardoo was flattered to be asked to
drink with a white man before a stranger.
She knew the taste of whisky; Warieda had
given her some to drink once. She could
still remember the fiery quiver and sensa-
tion the stuff had given her—how she had
laughed and sung, as the white men do
when they drink it, and then how stupid
and heavy she had been in the morning.
But whisky was forbidden. The white
people were not allowed to give this potent
drink of theirs to the blacks, she knew. It
was poison to them, Mumae said—made
them do things they did not want to. Hugh
had given Warieda whisky when he was
sick, to drive the bulya out of him; but
he had died all the same.
“Come on, Coonardoo. Come on.” Geary
had walked towards her and taken her by
the shoulder.
“Wiah.”
Coonardoo flung away from him, her eyes
fierce and afraid.
Bardi, standing in the doorway, watched
her. She had seen the car drive up and the
men walking about the verandah. That
they were going to stay the night she
guessed; and there would be a meal to get.
“Hullo, Bardi! Back again? Been vamp-
ing all the boys on the place, they tell me.
Bring those glasses and the bottles. Got
a thirst on ,ne like a wooden god.”
Geary led the way to the verandah and
the chairs there. He and Crossley stretched,
yarning, until Bardi said the meal Coon-
ardoo had made was ready for them.
Y ith a face of thunder, lowering and
overcast, Coonardoo had boiled a piece of
salt-beef and put some dried potatoes in
the pot. For the honor of the station, and
making the best of a bad bargain, she
opened a tin of peaches and set them on
the table in the kitchen. She did as Mrs.
Bessie or Hugh would have asked her to
do; but sulkily, distrusting Geary, resent-
ing his making free with Wytaliba like this
in Hugh’s absence. Disturbed and appre-
hensive, she moved out of the range of the
raw, slimy eyes Geary put over her. She
saw in them what she had always seen.
With that consciousness came the stirred
desire of her waiting for Hugh. Geary’s
grasp loosened instincts which flamed
greedily, clutching and swarming over her.
And Hugh did not want her. Coonardoo,
with all the strength and thirst of a female
animal, did not understand why Hugh did
not want her. Why he did not take her.
Bardi giggled and whispered how the tall
stranger had pulled her about. The men
sat drinking and smoking, stretched after
their food, before the fire in the kitchen.
Coonardoo could hear them laughing and
shouting drunkenly as they yarned.
She went out to the woodheap; but the
earth and wood were wet and cold. Creep-
ing into the room Hugh had given her at
the end of the verandah, she crouched there.
i j i men were drunk and quarrelling. She
could hear Geary’s voice. “No. No, you
have Bardi!”
“Coonardoo! Coonardoo!” It was the
stranger calling.
Coonardoo hung back against the wall.
, Geary’s voice, thick and insistent,
soared and foundered. “Coonardoo’s mine.”
the voices fell away, muttering and
laughing.
Coonardoo could hear the men lurching
nom the kitchen, coming along the veran-
dah, singing and swaying. They had got
Bardi.
Coonardoo heard her struggling, crying
out, giggling and exclaiming. She could
not move.
Geary’s voice bellowed: “Coonardoo!
Coonardoo! Where are you, Coonardoo?”
Geary came along the verandah. He
lurched against the door of the room she
was in and the door opened. Coonardoo
hung powerless before him.
Heavy and drunken in the doorway, his
eyes glazed, Geary stood there, swaying, an
old man with his hair on end, his face red,
swollen and ugly. Coonardoo could have
moved past and away from him in the
darkness. But she did not move. As weak
and fascinated as a bird before a snake, she
could not resist him.
The morning was calm, clear and quiet;
rain lay out across the plains in pools
beside the crabholes, full and glassy.
The sun climbed the lower sky in white
light, a plaque of brilliance which played
against the eyes. Mists, the color of those
mauve and magenta wildflowers, hung before
the bare red hills and tawny spinifex up-
lands. The rows of kurrajongs in front ol
the house shook their young bright green
leaves. A sky wadded with grey, floating
clouds promised more rain.
The gins were at work about the house
as early as usual. Geary and Dick Crossley
slept on. Coonardoo made porridge and
cooked meat for them. When Sam shouted
for tea she took it to him, scowling, refus-
ing to remember the night which had already
become a dream, and hating Geaiy as she
had always done.
Geary himself was sullen and bad-
tempered. Dick Crossley groaned about the
sore head he had got. He blamed Hugh’s
whisky, and Sam went for him—said he had
better drink his own whisky if he felt that
way about it.
By mid-day they were ready for the road
again. Geary was rather in a hurry to be
off before Hugh came in. He was uneasy
in his mind about how Hugh would regard
the french leav e he had taken with his house
and household—particularly Coonardoo.
Although over that he had got rather a
shock. Drunk he had been, but not so
drunk he did not hear and understand
Coonardoo when she cried to herself: “Youie
not want ’ml”
Sam was curious to know why she said
that. Coonardoo told him.
In the morning, before he left the ver-
andah, Geary called Coonardoo. She came
from the kitchen and stood before him.
“Come, Coonardoo,” lie said. “I’ll treat
you better than Youie does. Give you silk
gina-ginas, necklaces—a wristlet watch.”
Coonardoo’s eyes flashed to their anger
and loathing. Very straight and dignified,
her eyes took his. Then she turned her back
on him and walked away.
CHAPTER XXX.
Again and again it rained; late in the
afternoon and at night skies were still, pure
and calm. Frogs, awaking in the crabholes,
yawped through the long hours. An owl
moaned from the creek trees; mosquitoes,
tilling the air in clouds at dusk, kept their
thin small song going all through the night.
Faint, thymey fragrance of nydee drifted
out from bushes near the uloo, and the
aromatic tang of a shrub with stiff resinous
leaves Coonardoo called thada-thada; the
butcher bird’s notes before dawn were pure
and melodious; he had chaiited a stave or
two, and the sun climbed the lower sky
in white radiance. Serenity, unanimity, in-
finity in the clear sky and rain-drenched
earth.
All day children from the uloo played
in the crabholes, sailing an old square box
for a boat, toppled into the fresh water
a dozen times and raced out shrieking
delightedly, their bodies gleaming like the
wet ironstone pebbles, or henna-dj’ed by
the soft mud. The gins laughed, calling
to them; but everybody was happy and
good-tempered because of the rain.
Two days after Geary and the prospector
had passed through, Hugh and the boys
returned, straggling in from the ranges by
the Five-mile Gate. Rain had made it
waste of time to try to muster. Water was
lying everywhere. The men had been
soaked, through and through, over and over
again. Everything they carried and had on
was wet. But creeks were running and
overflowing. Hugh was jubilant. He came
in at the small gate, beyond the punti
bushes, with a jaunty bounce and spring in
his stride no one had seen for a long time.
Winni took his horse up to the yards to
unsaddle and hang saddle and bridle on
their pegs.
Hugh had not shaved for days; a coarse
grey scrub was thick on his jaws, and his
hair, when he took his hat off, showed rough
and unkempt. His boots were thick with
red mud, and his trousers held the dust,
which had caked with the rain on them.
But his eyes were as blue and young as
they had been years ago.
Coonardoo went from the kala miah to-
wards the house when he had walked with
that sharp tinkling of spurs along the ver-
andah. She stood in the doorway of the
kitchen looking at him, confounded with the
awe and joy of his presence. Youie had
come. It was as if the sun had risen on
a dark world again.
“Reek’n we’ll get three inches out of this
Coonardoo. You should’ve seen it come
down on the To-morrow. We were near
washed away. And you’ve had it in here,
too?”
Coonardoo nodded.
When he had changed and showered,
Hugh cut up bread and spit meat for the
blacks, put out a couple of tins of jam
measured liberal portions of tea and sugar
into their quartpots. Bandogera and
{.Continued on next page.)


PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
Are some of the advantages of a Life Policy with The
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
No Shareholders. All Surplus divided annually amongst the
participating members.
Policies effected to cover payment of Federal and State
Probate Duties.
Funds, £68,400,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
JUST WHAT YOU WANT
WHEN IT COMES TO THE POINT
A high-grade Pencil with a
very fine point, and a
“Blackbird ” Pen with
a durable point.
Of
•ime
v c
-Qbwl
“ Fyne-Poynt” is a
Pencil that is always
ready for use; its thin lead
never requires sharpening, and
it carries refills to last a twelve-
month. One quarter turn
either propels the lead for
writing or withdraws it for
protection. The lead is used
up to the last fraction.
The Pencil of
many fine points
Prices from 7/6
The “ Blackbird ” Self-filler is a
Pen of wonderful value; its iridium
tipped I4ct. gold nib is made for hard
work. Choose a point to suit your
handwriting, and the “ Blackbird ” will
serve you well for many years to come.
Try one at your nearest dealer’s.
Prices from 9/-
Made by the “SWAN” Pen People
©
in
BLACKBIRD
BLACKBIRD
SELF-FILLER
MABIE, TODD * CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135. Oxford St., London, • .
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing A seats and Repair Service Depot!
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELI.ER3
“SWAN” INK FOR ALL PtNS,
Meenie were there to carry the food over
to the kala miah. Coonardoo stood waiting
to move plates and pour fresh tea for Hugh
when he sat down to his own meal in the
kitchen.
“Met Cock-eyed Bob on the in,”
Hugh said. “Was bogged out by the Gap.”
“Eeh-mm!” Coonardoo murmured, a
shadow falling across her eyes.
She waited for Hugh to go on.
“They got proper wet out there,” Hugh
said, and laughed over a mouthful of food.
“Sam took the car out as far as the Fifty-
mile Well and left it there. He had that
long slab of prospector from the Bluff with
him, Bob says. And as soon as it set in
to rain good and proper, blessed il Sam and
Dick Crosslev didn’t beat it in. and left
Bob with the camels. You should’ve heard
him cursing. But they came in here?”
“Eeh-mm.”
“Winni picked up tracks of the car. Just
as well they did beat it while they could.
Car’d have bogged for a monte if they’d
waited. How long did they stay?”
“Camp here,” Coonardoo said.
Her face had all the scowling heaviness it
always wore at mention of Geary’s name.
“I suppose they boozed up and you gave
’em ail the food they wanted?”
“Eeh-mm.” , ,
Coonardoo took the plates and dishes he
had used to the bench beside the window,
and stood there washing and putting them
away on the dresser again.
“That’s right!” Hugh murmured, and
stretched his legs, smoking.
He could see the herbage and grass the
rains would bring; the plains under a flow-
ing covering of saltbush, smoke-blue, and
the emerald of wild spinach; the fat stock
he would be mustering in a few months’
time. His brain played over estimates of
calves and prices for fats, the figures he had
to juggle to bring the old, prosperous,
peaceful days to Wytaliba. Figuring and
counting, he contemplated the miraculous
recovery the station would make by means
of the raids and cattle on the road. Almost
he could count his shillings by the rain-
drops. It had been rainipg shillings—great,
heavy silver drops—and all those shillings
on Wytaliba sinking into the soil! He
fell asleep in his chair as he sat there
thinking of them.
Waking with a start, he laughed and went
off to bed.
Coonardoo had made a fire in a kerosene
bucket to burn beside his bed on the ver-
andah and keep off mosquitoes. It
smouldered all night; Hugh slept like a
log—slept, with relief and weariness.
He muttered in his sleep, turning over,
and smiled as he dreamed of Mollie and
the rain pelting her with shillings....
and the little girls, those queer, disappoint-
ing little girls of his, who turned a knife
in his heart.
So light a sleeper usually, he did not
hear Coonardoo move to put cowdung on
his fire during the night. Dark and silent
she stood beside him, then returned to the
other end of the verandah, and lay down
to sleep on the ground near by, writhing
against it, a prey to all the tugging and
vibrating instincts of her primordial hunger.
Coonardoo asked to go out on the muster
when Hugh and the boys went out again,
two or three months later.
It was a long time since she had ridden
after cattle. No longer young, the lithe
graceful girl who, as Phyllis said, “any
man would have fallen for,” Coonardoo
was still light and slender on a horse. In
a pair of Warieda’s old blue trousers and
a shirt of his, she rode bareheaded, her
short fairish hair blowing in the wind, her
eyes gazing out over the plains.
Winni was pleased and proud to have her
with the men. “Best. stockman on
Wytaliba!” Hugh said, after their first day’s
work. ♦
Coonardoo’s eyes lighted and filled with
sunshine as they used to long ago. She
had become gaunt and silent through the
long dry years. But she seemed happier out
on the run like this, Hugh told himself.
That scowling shadow had left her face.
She did not like the house, the room he
had given her; slept on the earth, unless
it was very wet, out from the verandah,
beside a small fire.
As he looked at Coonardoo riding before
him, her straight figure, head erect and hair
blown back by the wind, the steady face,
dark as rninnerichi wood or old bronze,
with the broad nose and shadowy eyes of
an aboriginal, Hugh wondered at the under-
tone of his feeling for her. Eyes hawk-
bright and dreamy, Coonardoo looked out
before her. Of wliat her small brown hands
on the reins were doing she was almost un-
conscious. Her bare feet on the stirrup
showed ivory bones through the dark skin.
No longer young, in the hard, spare way
of a woman of some older world she was
| still as attractive as she had ever been.
When they camped for the night Coon-
ardoo made Hugh’s fire and looked after
his food, brought him his tea and meat
boiled in a billy. She put it all down be-
side him and went off lo Ihe fire she had
made for herself and for Winni, while the
men watered, unsaddled and hobbled out
the horses.
Hugh stretched reading beside his fire
while the sky deepened from the blue of
basalt to purpli*' and indigo of berries on
the wild emu bushes. Beyond the glow of
his fire he could see Coonardoo sitting near
her fire, darkness and depths of the trees
before, behind and round about her, Y> ,nni
lying stretched beside her. Sometimes she
played with his hair, curling her fingers
through it; they talked and laughed, and
sometimes sang together. Rhythms and
winding phrases of corroboreee songs Hugn
had known as long as he could remember
swayed out and about them. Coonardoo
would click two little sticks, and the rest
of the boys would join and follow the air
of the songs she was singing.
A wave of loneliness inundated Hugh
sometimes when he could see and hear
Coonardoo with Winni beside her, talking
and singing together at their camp-fire.
He was lying like that beside his fire,
half-reading from the book before lnm,
and looking out to Coonardoo and Winni,
the night he heard a growing clamor at
the boys’ fire further away. Voices rose
shouting and screaming into the night.
Bardi and Chitali were having a row, it
seemed. Hugh heard a waddy descending,
Bardi screeching. Coonardoo’s name came
and went across the rattle of words. Coon-
ardoo Sam Geary. Bardi was wailing
and screaming. Was Chitali wringing her
neck? Good enough for her! Chitali had
been very patient, and she had played up
with every boy in the camp since she re-
turned. But still Hugh thought he had
better see what it was all about.
He strode over to the boys’ fire.
Chitali had Bardi by the hair, and was
belaboring her with a stick, while she
shrieked, complaining, explaining, excusing
herself, and squalling as each blow struck
her.
“Geary take Coonardoo! Long fellow
grab me,” was what Hugh made of her
babble to Chitali. The men had been drunk.
It was before the boys came in from the
muster after the rain.
The words crossed Hugh’s mind in swift
jagged streaks like lightning. He stalked
across to where Chitali was holding Bardi.
“What was that? What did you say?”
he demanded.
Bardi shrank from his blazing eyes.
“What did you say?” Hugh repeated.
“Geary took Coonardoo that night he
came into Wytaliba after the rain, and
Crossley, the long chap”
Bardi huddled herself together, mute
resistance enveloping her.
Hugh seized and shook her. “Did he?
Is it true?”
Coonardoo had crossed from her fire and
was standing there just beyond the glare,
statuesque, part, of the night, against the
high green starry sky, blue of her trousers
under the leaping firelight; pools of her
eyes still and deep.
“Coonardoo!” Hugh yelled, not seeing
her.
“Eeh-mm!” Her voice sounded near,
on the other side of the fire.
Hugh walked over and stood before her,
possessed by a rage, unreasoning and de-
vastating.
“Is it true what she says?”
“Eeh-mm.”
Coonardoo’s eyes had the same level
stare. There was no change in the steady
quiet of her voice as he had always known
it.
“It is, is it?” Hugh seized her by the
shoulders and shook her. “You let Geary
come into my house and”
He dashed her away in hi.s fury. Coonar-
doo scrambled to her feet crying out,
unable to understand the madness with
which Hughie had attacked her.
“You Youie!” she cried, stretching
out her hands imploringly.
The vilest language, the filthiest, harsh-
est, most bitterly cruel flood of language
poured in a torrent from Hugh as he stood
Ihere beside the fire. He bashed Coonardoo
across the face when she lifted her head
to look at him, cry out, beg wordlessly.
The boys stood gasping and exclaiming.
While it was understood that a black should
treat a gin who behaved badly like that,
they could not understand Hugh doing the
same sort of thing. He was beyond him-
self in fury with Coonardoo and what she
had done. He was within his rights, the
boys recognised. She was his, and had given
herself to Geary, whom Hugh hated. Eveiy-
body knew Hugh hated Sam Geary. Hugh
might give her to Geary or any other
man, and no harm would be done; but
everybody in the camp knew r Waricda him-
self would have punished Coonardoo for
consorting with a stranger without his per-
mission. Not as harshly as Hugh had done,
perhaps. But the boys would not interfere.
As Hugh swung off, Coonardoo clung to
him. She did not understand half he had
said, or why he was saying it.
“You Youie!” she pleaded, her eyes
streaming.
“Get away from me! Keep out of my
sight!” Hugh cried. “Never let me see
your face again. Go to Sam Geary. Be
one of his gins. I’m done with you.”
Still Coonardoo cried out, moaning and
clinging to him.
Hugh struggled with her, trying to wrench
the thin, strong arms from about him. To
escape her desperate grasp, he dragged her
across the fire. Screaming, as the fire bit
into her flesh, Coonardoo clung to him.
Flames squirted up from the dry rag of
the trousers wrapped round her legs. Hugh
twisted her wrists back, thrusting her away
from him. Coonardoo fell back into the
fire. He strode off among the trees.
Winni ran to Coonardoo, dragged her
from the fire, and rolled her on the ground
to put out the small flames slithering up
and down and over her limp body. She
lay moaning and unconscious for awhile.
(To be continued.)


. 1
.
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOL.UKs /£ CHtKCH, Brisbane.
N Z. Offiee—1)3-107 leatherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Ollice—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourlce Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs, ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide. S.A.
WEST, N. S. WALES
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
Tlie “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
nn<l typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Bel&raine (140 miles)* and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE; F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24-j inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
164 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price 1 Jd-
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. h. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved ’by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland's big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to: —
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone 81522.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Perry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Weak and depressed,
Assailed by stomach ills,
Recruit your strength
EH taking
e
è
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Do you feel weak, languid, despond-
ent, thoroughly out-of-sorts and fit
for nothing? Get a box of Cockle’s
Pills. As a tonic restorative they are
simply wonderful. Take two pills at
bedtime and in the morning you will
wake up keen for breakfast, with a
clear head, cheery spirits and more
life and energy than you have had
for a long time. Be sure to try them.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
constipation
Worth a
Guinea a Box .
When you’re “feeling fit” and “in the pink” you will have
noticed perhaps that your skin is free from all unsightly
blotches and pimples, and your eyes are bright and clear.
Dull eyes and discoloured complexion, betray bad health.
They tell others that you are constipated. Now con-
stipation is one of the evils of civilisation and is the source
of many ills from which you suffer. From it arise headaches,
biliousness, indigestion and if neglected, will probably to
much more serious trouble.
The finest thing you can do is to take Beecham’s Pills—the
favourite corrective medicine for these troubles. Purely veget-
able—they never fail to do what
they are asked, and bring back the
sparkle of health.
Start to-day—taking the pills as
directed. You will quickly feel th«
benefits.
Beechams are the Pills that
conquer Constipation—they
are the remedy for Stomach
disorders and sluggish liver
—they relieve Headache,
Biliousness, Dyspepsia,
Flatulence and Indigestion.
REMOVE
THE
CAUSE
THE CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF
“THE QUEENSLANDER”
(DATED DECEMBER 6, 1928)
Queensland’s Popular and’ Brightly Illustrated Weekly,
will be the Largest and Most Attractive Xmas Number ever published, contain-
ing Pictures in Colors and a big collection of illustrated Stories, Special
Articles, etc. The usual weekly features will be retained, making it A TYPICAL
QUEENSLAND PRODUCTION.
A Beautiful Colored Supplement, entitled “A. PASTORAL SCENE,” will be Pre-
sented FREE with each copy. . This picture is splendidly reproduced on Heavy
Art Paper, and should be extremely popular.
PRICE 1/-
including
Supplement
Book your order now at any of the following N.S.W. Agents ; —
Gordon and Gotch (Aust.), Ltd., Barrack and Clarence Streets; N.S.W. Bookstall Co., George
Street and Central Railway Station; Uneeda News Agency, Bond Street; Swains, Ltd., Pitt Street;
Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PUBLISHED BY THE
BRISBANE NEWSPAPER COMPANY, LIMITED,
“Courier” Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also Publishers of the ‘Brisbane Courier” and “Sports Referee.”
*
o
>
<3
*s
FOR 86 YEARS
“ The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty. Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
*
s®
%>
s e®
0°
6>
2s'
0, ftD 4
'
\ £ •
- s'sSZF'"*


STAMDAmi
\
- • \
■//
>, N
jsA
mam
'P*
/
i\\.
é
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Dodge* Brothers
Standard Six
2S/11/’2S.
