

D
D
true
m
-V. : :
'
!
\v :
IN
A €
(jKg|
w = r
K'vk.
f
,>4wJ
J* V
I ■m. .*>*,
I * j af?tJ
tmw' & ' -H
<p.V „ £ ' v7<^s'£
.
- Wm S ;
jjjgl <««*?:’ • ■
,:r
•m
#;
■
+ %
'
Mpn
R
.
r
m*«lfer !|§|^
. • ’ , jssr ~:
. •■■- .
Ji I m 1
< ■ y
■ ISi
f ? J
■Miimmm.
«■■■■■■
„
' ..
WMM
...W™/ .-..//» , „
.JBL
-
HHf ' wm&ma. -. v s&sssss^ss^sm . s
i §l# I
7'4aMM
■
m::m.
!?™«¥S¥
:
,!} ’,‘‘ '■, . ;- , ' t ,A s£/v ’/'
The Bulletin
'wOVKCUvgCoX) ha 4 Ccuxyhb 07V / OhbtyM' n&U&wq lb.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2537.
Wednesday, September 26, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HTHE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Don't be a freak in an out-of-date way!
Dress like the rest in the mode of to-day.
Don’t be a freak in the victuals you eat!
Living on nuts when your system needs meat.
Don’t be a freak with home fads when you’re ill!
Purchase the best for a cough or a chill.
Don’t be a freak! All crude treatments abjure—
Send for Woods’ Grmt Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
srau
imi
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
(LYSAGHT
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
f
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Saues 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
msz
ml
M, '
*U,
Old Way
9
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PRICE
£35
B.K.
sdfsd
BAGS HAWS
ASTHMA
W
POWDER
m-
i:
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Everyone agrees that the
Daily Newspaper is a
wonderful advertising medium,
And in the Great State of
QUEENSLAND
the morning daily that to-day stands out easily supreme is
THE DAILY MAIL
Whose net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
Manufacturers and business men who buy their advertising space in the
best market nowadays select “The Daily Mail” as the first medium in
Queensland to carry their advertising messages. For further particu-
lars, Advertising Rates, etc., please apply to
The Daily Mail, Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or ROBERT JACKSON, N.S.W. Branch Manager.
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
CLYNE HOUSE, 72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone 31522.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily.
For 74 years this influential household publi-
cation has enjoyed an envious period of pros-
perity, and is an institution firmly established
in the homes of over 123,000 daily subscribers.
“The Age” interprets humanity to humanity,
and reaches the great common heart of its
readers by providing a wealth of information
on all subjects having a genuine news value.
Become a Subscriber.'
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
THE AGE FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agencies of the Commonwealth, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Had
Yojir
Cream Yeast
To-day
Oteawi off- LjeaAt id LIFE!
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
KILL THE TYPHOID PLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. Price 1/-
- sV, *•
vlV£&
r-
BOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
“Bellerive,” Novelist
All those who have read with interest
the examples of his art that have fairly
regularly appeared in The Bulletin’s
Answers to
Correspon-
dents column
for many years
may have
noticed in the
list of competi-
t i o n entries
published a
month or two
ago that “Bel-
le rive” had
“c o m m enced
author” in the
wider, though
perhaps not the
greater, field of
the novel. By
far the greatest
of all the An-
swers to Cor-
r e s p ondents
writers, “Belle-
rive” has a
pride in his art
vv hi c h many
“ BELLERIVE .”
(From a recent photo).
of Australia’s younger authors might do
worse than emulate, and, unlike some of
these others, he has been writing quite long
enough not to be dispirited over not carry-
ing off the first prize. As he himself puts
it:—
Against uppercuts and solar plexus
Left hooks and the foul,
Yours Truly of the Answers col.
Still retains the towel.
Rightly, he speaks of constructing a novel
as a “difficult task”; and, in addition, he
experienced worry in the last three months
of his effort, with the result that he “wrote
at random.” “Nevertheless,” he adds, with
a courage that merits admiration, “I hope
by careful writing and my own literary in-
vention to write a book which will prove
more a surprise than a disgrace—a book
which [will] evade the influence and well-
raked trials of the Wide, Wide World,
famous old Uncle Tom’s Cabin, Lady Aud-
ley’s Secret and other old-timers of the in-
nocent days of my childhood when my dear
mother used to sing and rock me upon her
knee to hush me to bye-bye.”
There is in that professed intention a
lesson that also should not be lost upon the
younger generation of writers. We, how-
ever, deplore the touch of pessi-
mism which leads our esteemed con-
tributor to add that he “wouldn’t stake a
ham sandwich” on his chance in a Bulletin
competition. Without wishing to be a party
to any orgy of promiscuous gambling, The
Bulletin is prepared to bet half a dozen
ham sandwiches that the vision described in
“Bellerive’s” appended poem may yet come
true. The poem is entitled “Fame and
Glory”:—
In a novel competition
Your humble won first prize.
And gladly I did welcome
The sweet fiancil rise.
I received congratulations.
Relatives clasped my hand
Proud I was a member of the
Dear old household band.
By scribes of noted journals
I was carried shoulder high.
Methought that strains of music
Were descending from the sky.
An editor spoke of writers
Of the old years of the past,
How they wrote in dismal garrets
While moaned the winter blast.
He explained their awful ordeals
Before they achieved a name,
And how poor poets perished
On the threshold of their fame.
I was toasted, fed and jostled
Till my head was in a whirl,
Flattered, kissed and pampered
By a nice good-looking girl.
A critic gave a lecture,
When a huge and foolish lout
Spanked my back that Hearty
He knocked my false teeth out.
Of whisky, wine and biscuits
I’d partaken quite enough,
When ensued a cat encounter.
Which woke your humble up.
The Higher Vaudeville
Clowns belong to the circus. But for
those who wield the slap-stick of sarcasm,
who make mockeries on a mouth-organ,
tumble with nimble wit in an air of dis-
belief, make a pantomime of pessimism, and
with subtle buffoonery toss their • bright
bladders of banter and blasphemy across
the footlights at gaping Yahoo-manity,
there is the Higher Vaudeville. This insti-
tution was founded in France some 50 years
ago by Jules Laforgue; and though its
members are not numerous, each, in his
own way, possesses a certain interest and
attraction.
Meet, therefore, Mr. T. S. Eliot.
Mr. T. S. Eliot has discovered “the damp
souls of housemaids sprouting despondently
at area gates,” and a gentleman who laughs
“like an irresponsible fcetus.” He has per-
tinently noted that “a washed-out small-pox
cracks the face pf the moon,” that a certain
woman’s “friendly bust gives promise of
pneumatic bliss,” that the evening is “spread
out against the sky like a patient etherised
upon a table,” that the river “sweats oil
and tar,” and that one lady’s teeth are “only
accidental stars with a talent for squad
drill.” He has brought Oliver Goldsmith
up to date in this fashion:—
When lovely woman stoops to folly and
Paces about her room again, alone,
She smoothes her hair with automatic hand,
Arid puts a record on the gramophone.
A clever fellow, this Mr. T. S. Eliot; so
clever, in fact (he was M.A. of Harvard at
22), that he plays to almost empty houses.
Indeed, he writes, like most members of
his band, for the fastidious few in particular.
His intellectual insouciance is infinitely
precious. To the humbler of God’s block-
heads he will not even boW. His first book
of verse, “Prufrock,” appeared in 1917, and
since then he has published “Poems” (1920),
“The Waste Land” (1922) and “The Hollow
Men” (1925) —altogether about 100 pages
—and a critical work called “The Sacred
Wood.”- To-day he edits the New Cri-
terion, whose pages he has opened to Gert-
rude Stein and some other members of the
Higher Vaudeville.
The older poets who were out of tune
with their sordid world wrote beautiful
nonsense and dressed their dreams in the
shimmering millinery of metre or orches-
trated their ideas in rhyme, and thereby
persuaded themselves that they spoke the
truth. What their poetry lacked in intellect
it gained in music. But T. S. Eliot is far
too sophisticated to do this. He uses the
conventional idiom to present an anguished
view of ugliness, a sardonic starkness and
a spiritual drouth. He worships no gods;
he tells no lies; the characters he analyses
are “pinned and wriggling on the wall” while
he dissects with his pen “the thousand sor-
did images” of which their souls are con-
stituted.
Literary cleverness has to some extent
marked the spirit of this age; and the verse
of T. S. Eliot lends to it an attitude of
neo-Byronism. Only by comparison do we
see what stupid and ignorant fellows the
older poets were. To Mr. Eliot they must
seem a lot of hopeless nincompoops whose
intelligence quotients, if tested by Binet,
would to-day be vastly subnormal. But
they could write poetry; whereas the
Masters-of-Arts and intellectual giants of
the Higher Vaudeville can only snigger in
second-rate rhymes or register their disdain
in clever cynicism,
T. S. Eliot belongs to this Higher Vaude-
ville troupe not only by reason of his
eminent intellect, which one may see garbed
like an undertaker walking through the
graves of “The Sacred Wood,” but also on
account of his linguistic agility in verse.
Like the juggler who tosses up a meat-axe,
a cannonball, a wineglass, a feather and
an egg, and keeps these articles all spinning
together in space, T. S. Eliot juggles with
sensibility, irony, imagination, clairvoyance
and the whole province of knowledge. His
“turn” is much enjoyed by the enlightened,
who find therein an echo of their own van-
quished ideals, and laugh at the scorn with
which the puppet “spits out all the butt-ends
of his days and ways” when he finds that
The world revolves like ancient women
Gathering fuel in vacant lots.
The applause reached its height when Eliot
produced “The Waste Land,” an allegorical
act which won a prize of several hundred
dollars in the Benighted States, and which
outdoes “Sordello” in obscurity. Para-
phrased by one privy to the mystery, this
pretentious poem means that “Not only is
life sterile and futile, but men have tasted
'its sterility and futility a thousand times
before. T. S. Eliot, walking the streets of
Londoij, feels profoundly that the desert
has always been there. Like Tiresias, he
has sat below the w r alls of Thebes; like
Buddha, he has seen the world as an arid
conflagration; like the Sibyl, he has known
everything, and has known everything in
vain.” Surely our old friend Koheleth
come to light in a new motley!
But knowledge makes the pessimist, and
lack of it the poet. To know everything is
to know ennui, and that is lockjaw to the
singer. Cleverness has been the undoing
of T. S. Eliot. He is so wise that he cannot
dream. He can only draw the plaudits of
the Higher Vaudeville, where, unable to
carry his heart on his sleeve, he is forced to
turn sardonic somersaults with his tongue
in his cheek.
REG. S. ELLERY.
(Continued on page 5.)


•4 Truth in Advertising ** is our guarantee and your assurance.
Values for Men at
Anthony Horderns’
at “Famous Low Prices”
Wool Cashmere.
Each 10/6
Men’s Surfing Costumes, with low-
cut neck and armholes. Cashmere
all-wool one-piece, with skirt. The
colorings are Sky, Saxe, Blue, Blue
Marl and Black. Contrasting stripes
around chest. Sizes: Small, Medium
and Outsize Men’s, as
illustrated. Price each,
10/6
OPEN UNTIL 9 p.m.
EVERY FRIDAY.
Tennis Shirts from 5/3
Men’s Tennis or Cricketing Shirts, with collar and
pocket attached. Fulness and excellence of finish are
predominant features of these shirts, which are made in
our workrooms. In White Mercerised Twill, 5/3, 6/-,
6/9, 8/6 each. In White Matt, 8/-, 8/6 each. In
White Mercerised Drill, 9/- each. In White Striped
Matt, 7/6 each. In Cream Twill French Flannel, 27/6
each. Natural Fuji Silk, each 17/6
Sports Shirts from 6/9
The Sports Shirt, made with smart roll-back sports collar
and pocket attached. In White Mercerised Twill, 6/9
each. In White Poplin de Luxe, 7/6, 9/6 each. In
Natural Fuji Silk, 16/6, 17/6 each.
Surf Costumes. Each 12 6
Also in super quality All-wool Cashmere. Low-cut neck
and armholes, shaped to waist, and underarm straps.
The colorings are Sky Blue, Nattier, Saxe, Sand or
Black, with contrasting stripes round skirt. Sizes:
Small, Medium and Outsize Men s.
each
Price,
12/6
Ribbed Wool. Each 19/6
Men’s Surfing Costumes, in fine ribbed elastic knit all-
wool. This is a super-quality costume with skirt. Perfect
in fit and finish, with low-cut neck and armholes. The
colors are Royal Blue, Sand and Powder Blue with con-
trasting stripes around bottom of skirt. Sizes:
Price,
Small, Medium and Outsize Men’s,
each
19/6
“Palm Beach.” Each 12(6
Men’s Palm Beach Costumes. A two-piece costume with
belt. All-wool fine Ribbed Knit. Colored tops, black
knickers, white belt. Colorings of tops are Sky, Saxe,
Sand and White with' contrasting stripes around chest
and all black knickers. Chest
an'd 36 inches. Price, each .. . .
: 34
12/6
Chest size, 40 inches. Price, each
\
\V ' /
Cream Pullovers
Men’s Cream Pullovers. All-wool
ribbed knit, with club stripes around
V-neck. Almost every club collar
is represented in this year’s collec-
tion. Each 13/6
Cream Half Hose
Men’s Cream Cashmere Half Hose.
Viyella make, unshrinkable. A
durable make which retains its
original softness. Price, 3/11 pair.
Also I. and R. Morley’s make of
Cream All-wool Ribbed Knit, stout
make. A most durable half hose,
unshrinkable. For general sports
wear. Pair S/6
Sports Coats from 30/-
In All-wool Tweeds, specially selected for their
durability. Designed with patch pockets and
belted backs. VFith or without vents. Obtain-
able in the latest designs and colorings. Price
from 30/- to 75/-
Men’s Trousers from 22(6
Side and hip pockets, loops for belts, side
straps and cuff bottoms. Dark, Mid and Light
shades of Grey. Flannel used in the making of
these trousers has been specially selected to
ensure absolute satisfaction. Medium or wide
legs. Price, 22/6 per pair. Lovatt Flannel,
Price, 22/6 per pair. Mens Cream Gabardine
Trousers. All-wool cloth. Thoroughly shrunk.
Per pair 35/-
Dept., Ground Floor; Carnage Paid.
Use Our
“Deposit-Purchase” System
You buy at Sydney’s lowest prices,
and pay as it suits you. There
is no extra charge whatev&r. Benefit
by our “Deposit-Purchase System”—
you secure the same advantages, that
is, same service and value, as when
making Cash Purchases.
YOU PAY ONLY THE CASH PRICE.
, fcl
l7j i-A
If I>:
I; « • 1 ’
Men’s Combinations, in Natural Wool
and Cotton. Light weight with soft finish.
Half sleeves and Trunk-length Legs.
Sizes: 34 36 28 40 in. chest.
Prices: 10/- 10/6 11/6 12/6
Athletic Singlets
Men’s Athletic Singlets. In Cream All-
wool ’’Golden Fleece Material. No
sleeves. Athletic armholes.
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
6/- 6/3 6/9 7/3 7/9 8/6
Underwear
Cool, Light and Serviceable.
Men’s “Kookaburra” Summer Weight Under-
wear. Natural Wool and Cotton.
Undershirts.—Sleeveless.
Men’s “Golden Fleece” Underwear. Natural
all Pure Wool, guaranteed unshrinkable. In
Light Summer Weight.
Undershirts. Half Sleeves.
Dept., Ground Floor; Carriage Paid,
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


I
W
S
teatas-;
in
/ ..f:
i
£-==
V._
-v
k
r
r
r
jp
H
r
w
v
LJJ
F
\ \
w
: /
ATALANTA —The
Qreek personification
of beauty, speed
and endurance —has
been chosen to grace
the radiator of the
New Studebaker cars,
symbolic of the qual-
ities which they so
ideally embody
Df/ufl' outpaces the wind
rfl* on this NEW improved
ERSKINE ROYAL SEDAN
There is only one way to learn
the full story of Studebaker’s
New Erskine Six Royal Sedan
and that is by taking the wheel
and driving it yourself.
Before you start, note the new
custom design of the beautiful,
low-swung body, the richness of
the new colour harmonies, the
completeness of appointments
and equipment —which means
no extras to buy.
Then thrill to the power of its
new 43-horsepower engine as you
glide smoothly and swiftly away.
You can drive at forty miles
an hour from the outset. Due
to Studebaker’s advanced engine-
ering, there is no tedious break-
ing-in at twenty miles an hour.
Soar over hills in top gear!
Test the new positive amplificd-
action four-wheel brakes! Experi-
ence the comfort of the new
shock absorbers, long resilient
springs and deep, luxurious
cushioning! Consider also the
fact that the New Erskine Six
Royal Sedan needs a change of
oil and grease only at 2,500
miles intervals and you realise
how much more Studebaker offers
you for your money !
Erskine Models from £315 to £448
Director Models from £4lB to £568
Commander Models from £528 to £628
President Models from £698 to £B6O
All new models equipped with shock absorbers, bumper bars and four-wheel brakes.
‘ PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited,
4- 16 YURONG STREET, SYDNEY (just behind the Museum)
VICTORIA :
Tomer, Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WIST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at ail important toicns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street.
Christchurch.
During official tests a strictly Stock Model
Er shine raced 1,000 miles in 984 minutes.
Studebaker’s Neio
Erskine Six Royal
Sedav
Studebaker is the first car to hold every Australian and American speed and
endurance record for both closed and open cars regardless of power and price.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
fsd
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Ihe accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
J 69 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON;
Government Life Builtlir
(Next G.P.0.).
The Rare Literary Gift
Cecil Mann expresses wonder (R.P.
22/8/’2B) at. the lack of humor in the 540
entries for The Bulletin Prize Novel com-
petition. But isn’t humor the rarest quality
known in literature? It is easy to turn blood
and tears on to paper, to make people weep,
but humor is a sly, intimate, skittish thing,
hard and sometimes impossible io pin down
with words, since the essence of it depends
so much on detail, like the line ol an eye-
brow or some trick of gesture. For that
reason a nation’s humor will always be more
generally, though not better, interpreted by
its artists than by its authors. Another
thing—anyone who has the courage or per-
sistency to tackle writing seriously lets him-
self in for a lot, of hard, driving work, and
intensity of purpose rarely goes hand in
hand with laughter.
Mr. Mann says “humor is part of the
fibre of the man most of us mean when we
say Australian.” To most of us Irishman
means wit; but in Irish literature pathos
outweighs humor. The Australian is not
going to make humor a strong point in his
writing, for two reasons. The elemental side
of the true Australian, nature is wild
romance, a savagery bom of his bush back-
ground. It is stronger, though less articu-
late in his daily life, than his sense of
humor. Again, the Australian is diffident.
Humor may be part of his fibre, but he is
not going to make a fool of himself by
putting absurdities on paper for his critics
to ask: What’s this? Is he trying to be
funny?
There’s another point of view. For the
reader, as well as the writer, humor is an
elusive quality. The humor of Dickens
makes some people sad; the whimsicality of
Barrie is called by half the world sloppy
sentimentality; Chesterton’s determined
brightness and Arnold Bennett’s closely-
packed jollity may warm the Englishman,
but they leave the Australian cold.
To come home again: there are some who
deny Steele Rudd the gift of humor, but
I am very happy when The Bulletin turns
up with one of his sketches. For me he
has the rare literary gift. I credited Cecil
Mann with its possession, too. but after his
article on “Potiphar’s Wife”!....
J. M. EDWARDS.
Poets?
I regret having hurt the feelings of Mr.
Vidler (R.P. 5/9/’2B) by my error in con-
cluding he was the publisher of the books
of many of the writers he eulogised. How-
ever, if the stuff he admires is poetry, Shel-
ley and Keats have lived in vain, and I
had better be dead.
Mr. Broinowski is angry with me for
troubling the literary dovecots of Mel-
bourne and for recalling two pertinent pro-
nouncements of A. G. Stephens. As a lec-
turer on the Sydney University Extension
Board, Mr. Stephens worthily represents
Australian literature, and it is all too late
in the day for Mr. Broinowski to decry his
great service to Australian letters.
I would ask anyone interested in the
controversy to read Mrs. M. E. Pitt’s “Ode
to a Pallid Cuckoo” in Percival Serle’s
anthology. And as for Louis Lavater, read
in the same anthology his “Ballad of Cona’s
Daughter”:—
With tender ruth her white truth
Chose one among them all —
King Bazon slew the comely youth
And nailed him to a wall.
And, of course
Her heart, a frozen water,
Died on the cruel stones.
Is it any wonder that Mr. Vidler’s eulogy
of such pretenders made me utter a pro-
test? Poetry to me is a religion, the only
religion I have, and naturally I am zealous
in a holy cause. Mr. Broinowski is entitled
to his opinion of his rhyming friends, and
if they satisfy him, well and good. I know
none of them personally, and my remarks
apply solely to their output in print—from
which may the Lord preserve us!
R. CRAWFORD.
On the Barrier Reef
Some day, when the world has produced
another Rusk in, a man with a true sense
of color and a true love and eye for
beauty, the Great Barrier Reef will pass
into universal literature. Awaiting that
advent our journalists must do their best,
and if they achieve no more than keep
some interest pinned to this glorious thing
that nature has left at our doorstep, to be
appreciated or disregarded as we will, their
work shall not have been in vain.
S. Elliott Napier, a member of the liter-
ary staff of the Sydney Morning Herald,
has contributed his share to what may be
called our pioneer Reef literature in On
the Barrier Reef (Angus and Robertson).
He is not the genius, the later Ruskin, we
have in mind, but his book is bright and
it is earnest, and. to an extent, it does
what may be presumed was the writer’s
intention—convey to those who know it
not some idea of the luxuriant, the opulent
marine glories of the Reef.
The publishers, in the customary lauda-
tory comment upon the book, describe it
as “the best popular introduction to ‘The
Barrier,’ ” and perhaps they are right—if
only it will be accepted and read as an
introduction. It is, however, a business
of criticism to try to find out what is the
writer’s intention, what he is attempting
to do in writing his book, and to judge
his work accordingly. We give Mr. Napier
credit for attempting something more than
a mere introduction; otherwise a few lines
commending his book as good, popular
reading would have been enough lor it.
His publishers, however, go on to speak
of its “keen observation, humor, a pic-
turesque style,” and its “salt of wit.” But
the observation is not keen. It is all too
general. Green, blue and yellow, for in-
stance, are the most general of descriptive
tags; they convey no true sense of color,
no particular feeling for scene; and yet
Mr. Napier uses them to convey the inti-
mate shadings of the under-sea. This lack
of color sense is, of course, not peculiar
to the writer under review; it is a com-
mon defect even among those who might
be expected to have it—our poets—who
are mostly content to splash the more rudi-
mentary colors about and trust to the
reader to fix the shudes. Rusk in’s “bare
hedges and thickets, or tops of trees, in
subdued afternoon sunshine, are nearly per-
fect purple” conveys the grand sense of
color; reveals, in fact, that keenness of
observation which is not to be found in
“Blue, purple, green and yellow—all were
gleaming ’neatli a quickly westering sun.”
The “humor,” the “salt of wit” can also,
we find, be a defect in such a book as
this. We do not refer to such a passage as
“Then, again, these areas of reef and islet
are absolutely unequalled as the breeding-
ground for Australian seamen,” which is
a serious statement, and, if true, should
be immediately investigated by the Federal
Government. No; it is in a general way
that Mr. Napier seems too intent upon
making his book what the publishers call
it—“popular”; too intent upon appealing
to that probably fictitious audience, the
people who abhor science and all its terms
and works, however clearly, in whatever
beauty of English these are given to them,
but who will, it seems, absorb even balance-
sheets that- are flippantly treated. As
Robert Lynd has suggested, far too much
heed is paid by writers and others to
humanity’s inglorious ten per cent., the
people who really don’t care a straw about
the Reef or any other beautiful thing.
Mr. Napier went cruising about the Bar-
rier Reef, a layman in a party of scientists.
No one will read his account of that trip
without himself wishing to see at first hand
the wonders and beauties of what Mr.
Napier in one imaginative flight likens
to “a strip of hoop-iron which has
become loosened from its north-eastern
edge, and which, held almost to the
fence at Cairns and Cooktown by its
rusty nails, has swayed in distorted curves
farther and farther outward as it runs both
north and south.”
The book is excellently produced, and
freely illustrated with photos.
A Satchel of Books
■The First Bells for the Nativity, by R.
Frewen Boult (Walker). Built upon the
Biblical legend of the love of Claudius Lysias
for the daughter of a Jew, Judah Fulvius,
hater of all things Christian. A gentle, pious
romance of quiet power.
Seven Little Flays for Children, by Rose
Fyleman (Methuen). Though written for
the English nursery, these sparkling playlets
by one of the world’s best writers for child-
ren are sufficiently universal to appeal to all
youngsters between, say, 10 and 15. They
are the sort of plays that children every-
where joy to act, and, full of fun, pistols,
pirates, kings and princes, they are the sort
children delight to hear and see.
The Blessed Damosel, Rossetti, and the
Elegy, Gray (Bodley Head). The latest
additions to the “Helicon Scries” of great
poems of moderate length. The first is
eked out with “Love’s Nocturne” and son-
nets from “The House of Life”; the other
with the Eton ode, and that odd thing which
trembles so precariously on the brink of
absurdity without falling in, tile ode on the
cat drowned in a tub of gold fishes. Both
charmingly illustrated in line.
Do We A yree? Gliesterton-Shaw-Belloc
(Palmer). G. K. Chesterton and Bernard
Shaw debating the principles of the for-
mer’s Distributist League—Shaw very
bright; Chesterton for once serious. Quite
the best things are contributed by H. Belloe
iu the chair. Introducing the debate^:
"They are about to debate. Yon are about'to
listen. I am about to sneer.” After the
debate: “I was told I was to sum up. I
shall do nothing of the sort. I will now
recite you a poem.” He does so.
Fort Amity, I Saiv Three Ships and Mor-
tallone, by Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch (Dent).
Dent and Sons are performing a service to
all admirers of good writing, and more especi-
ally to all lovers of tales that really are
tales, in reprinting these books that delighted
what is now almost a past generation. “I
have chosen always,” says Quiller-Couch. “to
write on themes that interested me. Monkey-
houses do not, and psycho-analysis does not.
My stories simply treat men and women, with
their differences, as I have been allowed their
acquaintance in life.” “Fort Amity” is vol.
13, and the other stories vol. 14 in the
Duchy edition.
Some More Medical Vie tvs on Birth Con-
trol (Palmer) and Medical Help on Birth
Control (Putman). In these two volumes
more than a score of leading doctors, male
and female, have their say in support of con-
trolling birth. Neither of control’s greatest
advocates, Marie Stopes and Margaret San-
ger, contributes, and those who do have little
of the hearty gusto of that famous pair.
The question is dealt with quite profession-
ally; almost every article amounts to a pro-
fessional interview, and, as doctors’ charges
go, the advice, to those that need it, is
notably inexpensive. It is significant that the
most enthusiastic of the writers are women.
The Palmer volume is edited by an Aus-
tralian, Dr. Norman Haire, who used to be
chief resident medical officer at the Royal
Hospital for Women, Sydney, and is now
director of the Cromer Welfare Centre and
physician at the Saffron Hill Maternity
Centre, London.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the US. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.D.P.: “Trade seats with me,” “May-
me,” “sales-lady,” “sweetie” —your interlude at the
movies might have been lifted from a U.S.A. paper.
. ...T.P.: “The Search for Peace” ended in the
basket... .E.H.G.: Too transcendental... .E.L.S.:
“Stick to Your Mates” is a fine sentiment, but it
can’t make verse like that tolerable. . . .P.J.1.: Verse
has promise, but sadly lacks smoothness. Have
another try... .A.E.G.: Should be worth a few pars,
now and then... .G.0.L.: No sympathy for the
man who killed his wife. Anyway, she cooked for
him... .M.L.8.: Your “Malady” must be contagious.
It made us ill. .. .R.S.W.: Two heart-searching lines:
Only her teeth are left within my care,
For me to weep on when my sad tears fall.
....Peter J.: Isn’t there any ink in your part of
the world? The painful scrawl is bad enough
without the faint pencil.... Rose W.: Didn’t like
to reject it, but rejected it had to be.... Syd H.:
No surprise in the story. And why not write about
Australia ?... .R.1.P.: Just so.... Chas. B.: The un-
reality of the thing settled it... .Neptune: Good
idea; try it again, remembering that “pans—hands”
and “chafe—face” are not rhymes...-M.E.G.: No-
thing in it. ... Soames: Liked it a bit; but it is
(oo long.... Dub: Not quite.... Jane G.: Uncon-
vincing... .J.H.: So you had another shot? The
mystical discussion about dreams kills it.... Jack
Will: The one thing we liked was the spelling of
“kookaborougli” C.M.: Ancient melodrama....
R.S.C.: A weak 0ne....T.G. (N.G.) : You do make
the introduction long and. weary.. . .F. 0.: Doesn’t get
into its stride quickly enough... .Ben G.: They could
be made good stories, but need a lot more polishing.
....B. Mac: We don’t encourage the free-verse
habit. Most of it is more free than verse.. ■.
M.A.R.: Overwrought... .Koala: Crude. .. .L.A.L.:
Yes, there is no doubt about it —spring Ims come.
T.L.E.L.: “Life” isn’t anything like it.... Reg K.:
A noveletty flavor. ...Rob G.: Refrain good; rest
p00r.... L. 8.: That verse is a terrible thing to
pile upon the losers.... Bowbend: Your drunk stag-
gers home,.. .P.J.8.: Not a grain from it. ...
C.G.R.J.: Read three times before it was condemned.
....Amicus: Rattle of printing press will not dis-
turb its serenity.... H. Kay: The silent tear shall
not fall here... .G.T.: Too many arid patches....
F.S.G.: Faint stuff... .Alice M. M.: Merely a few
crumbs in the bread-platter item.... K.H.W.: Poor-
quality verse... .0. ILL.: No new light.... The S.S.:
We had to guess what you mean.... A.C.S.: Too
gloomy a theme... .Will G.: And you call it a
humorous sketch 1.... A.D.C.: Until we reached your
sob-stoiy we were wondering why the mail was
damp. .. . Y.R.R.: You try to be funny about the
corpses in the morgue. Merry fellow 1... .G.P. S.:
No; we have no intention of “making a feature of
cooking recipes done in verse.” Anyway, if the
recipes are as bad as the verse, you’re an incorrigible
food-poisoner... .C.R.T.: “Whither wilt thou go, my
fleeting thought?” Home.... Applee: Verbal assaults
on the traducer of Dickens have already been sub-
mitted by a score of contributors. It’s got to
stop somewhere... .R.S.Y.: No use for “Y0u”....
P.0.P.: It went off that way G.R.M.: No pro-
mise of flower in your “Seed”. .. .Oscar L.: You’re
in the third wave of the spring poets—the ones
who wake up at noon to And it’s morning....
N.T.S.: You, too! It’s the late worm that catches
“the bird”.... Sandy P.: “Peter” peters 0ut....
Platypus: Interesting, but no space for it unless
condensed into a par H.1.P.: Full of unreal
sentiment. .. .Pick: “Tell Us Not” is idle numbers.
. ...C.T.: Sorry; n 0... .Patch-pants: Very nearly.
... .N.E.M.R.: It has possibilities; see if
you can’t improve it.... Gable N.: So in-
stead of hanging Peters they let his wife
take him home. Poor wretch !... .H.A.H.: There’s
nothing intrinsically funny in an old man falling
down and breaking his neck. .. .S.R.F.: “Stew”
badly cooked F.E.H.: A new day is born every
day, and about a dozen poets want to tell us
about it. As if we didn’t know !. ... Kester B.:
In one of them heavy words encumber the track.
....Thor: Your stuff is hammered out... .D.M.C.:
“The Bottle” uncorked promisingly; it contained
only soft drink.... A.8.L.: Posted “The Ghost”
back ; we don’t want the dull thing to haunt these
premises... .Hands Up : Thumbs dowtfi.... J.8.C.:
“Self” fails.. . .Capabibar: Your verses to Red Ryan
almost made us see red. .. .1.0. P.: Dreary story.
.... Mark; The imagery is l ather grotesque. Can’t
suggest a market... .Judith B.: There’s no good
oil in it... .0.0. D.: No cash ; delivery refused....
Rupert L.: Forced out in a crush. .. .8.A.R.: “My
words express the fury of my soul like a game
rooster rushing to its goal.” Yes, they are some-
thing like that, whatever it means.... Lodger: “The
Ship” went clown with all its “ands”... .8.A.W.:
“Each shouted forth his oriflamme.” What do you
imagine an oriflamme to be?... .E.W.; Can’t get
conviction out of it.... Y.C.W.: It would have been
sufficient, to kill the old gentleman with a punch
over the heart. Why drag in “the slow flow of
blood upon the carpet?”... .R.W.H.: A nice appre-
ciation, but terrible verse.... Ba .AY.: “Bride” can’t
honeymoon here.... G.P.E.; Glad he remained faith-
ful even although he became a baronet... .M.J.T.:
Six pages to get your characters ready to talk and
listen; five pages for introduction and explanation;
two pages for the real story ! Learn what to leave
out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T. 8.; Not good enough yet; tuition would make
a lot of difference .K.L.L.: A broken-down
collection of inky daubs. .. .C. 8.: Both jokes
and drawings too slight... .A.M.8.; It was all the
rage in the 1920 comic papers... .M.S.: “Not at
home” to that... .S.P.: Why didn’t you stop at
the third stroke... .T.D.M.: They don’t fit in....
N.M.: Chorus girls didn’t get a second glance....
C.S.D.: Bumpy sketches, and humor too thin....
G.P.: Let that joke moulder in its grave... .E.V.H.:
Can’t distinguish the caddy from one of the golf
clubs or the ball from the setting sun... .8.0. F.:
Lifeless gag.


9
ffimrwlu
s
«
M
1 1111
.
i HHHi
*
. ;
fear' ** ' ‘'*' ' . ",'
<T ;;
■
&; • t
mMm
r T v'--- ' 4fil
«.' > ■' '!: *
:
L .
wmmz.
" : ;>*h
.
■ • •
'■
MB—P m
: " 1
:•?■■■■.
:■■';■•■
•• t- '
hW
IP
I
.
_• g 1
.
r. .-;*V -
fs


The Bulletin
Viol. 49. —No. 2537,
September 26, 1928.
FREE AIR, BUT NO OIL OR PETROL.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, ' 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 ntonths, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 4°z. to Iooz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: ltioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . .. 5
EDITORIAL 8, 9
“THE MUDTHROWERS”
(A cartoon by Percival) .. . . .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. .. lu
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) .. .. ..14
PAGE DRAWINGS, by Leason and Scorfield 7 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres etc.) . . . . .. 17
“WILD .CAT’* COLUMNS 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
SMOKE-OH . . 32
POVERTY POINT "34
POT AND PALETTE 37
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc ..42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. .. 41
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . 49
“COONARDOO” • • .. 61, 53, 58
SHORT STORIES—
“THE LICENSED VICTUALLER,” by J. H.
M. Abbott .. .. .. .. .. 54
“OTHER PEOPLE’S PIES,” by Margaret
Fane and Hilary Lofting . . . . .. 55
“WIMMIN,” by J. E. Philp ... .. .. 57
VERSE—
“THE SONGS,” by A. Smith 54
“THE NEW DAY,” by Roderic Quinn . . 55
“LINES,” by D. P. McGuire 57
“O’ NIGHTS,” by C. McEwen .. .. 58
“THE WIND THAT WAITS,” by Will Lawson 58
77ie' (^ulljeiz//i
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1028.
HANG THE EXPENSE!
Thanks to, among other things, a series
of trumpet-blasts from the Age, which
blows its bugle-horn hard when it does
blow, word has gone round that now is the
accepted time for altering Victoria’s 4627
miles of s£ft. railway to the 4ft. B£in. stand-
ard. The Hogan Ministry approves,
though it recognises financial problems in
the way, and the McPherson Opposition
approves whole-heartedly, and is quite will-
ing that the Hogan Ministry should tackle
the financial problems. As the Age puts
the case:—
“For seven years Victoria has had before
it a standing offer, addressed to all States,
under which the Commonwealth agrees to
pay one-fifth of the conversion costs, the
remainder being divided among the main-
land States on a per capita basis. While
Victoria hesitates timidly and South Aus-
tralia is evasive, the people of other parts
are asking whether it is necessary to have
their co-operation. South Australia, owing
to her geographical position, may feel secure,
but the alternative is aimed especially at
Victoria, and if adopted would deal this
State a staggering blow. A direct line from
Port Augusta to Hay would exclude Vic-
toria from the main stream of inter-State
traffic.”
It is a strangely and wonderfully inoppor-
tune business, suggestive of a nation which
is embroiled with three strong enemies,
and proposes to declare war on two or
three more, just to brighten things up and
round off the situation.
❖ * * *
If the Commonwealth’s generous offer
was made seven years ago it doesn’t follow
that it is as good now as it was then. Look-
ing seven years back, the series of adverse
trade balances was then just about to begin.
It began, and continued to such purpose
that this country has since borrowed
£70,000,000 abroad at high interest for the
sole purpose of buying imported notions
and frills and luxuries for which its own
means, or the means which it took the
trouble to produce, were as inadequate
as the revenues of Gastle Squander, in the
barony of Ballysmash and the parish of
Ballyruin, were to satisfy the needs of its
owner, the comic-opera Irish landlord. In
addition, it had to borrow abroad all the
money payable for external interest. Some
explanation may lie in the fact that the
Federal arbitration courts reversed a long-
standing policy when they assumed the
power to dictate wages and conditions in
State-owned industries. When well-mean-
ing persons who are neither industrial nor
financial experts take up the position that
if industry can’t pay the wages they fix
it must burst it is always liable to burst. *
It would be quite natural if Australia
regarded any blank cheque given seven
years ago as stale and questionable. The
interest on the State debts was in the vicin-
ity of only half as much then as it is now,
and taxation was lower. Still, if the in-
tense moment for unifying some of the
railway gauges has arrived, as is alleged,
the process is theoretically simple. The
States have no money, and the Common-
wealth has none either. The Common-
wealth can pay its fifth of the cost of con-
version if it is able to get the necessary
accommodation, but it can’t be got here. The
mainland States can pay their four-fifths
on a per capita basis if the Commonwealth
is able to get them the necessary accom-
modation, backed by its own guarantee.
It would be almost imperative to secure
positive assurance of a series of loans, for
a nervous breakdown in the middle of the
job would be a world’s joke. The matter
would be one of putting a second mort-
gage on a property which is over-mort-
gaged already, and that kind of finance costs
high.
* * ip *
There is so much to do and so little to
do it with that it seems certain Victoria’s
unsatisfactory position will have to last
a while longer—till some money is saved
up, in fact. If the construction of a Port
Augusta-Hay railway enables the train that
crosses Westralia to carry “the main stream
of inter-Stfite traffic” past Melbourne the
result would probably be the same even
if the new gauge was introduced regardless
of expense. The stream is no such over-
whelming affair, after all. It is character-
istic of the madness which has come on
Australia that there should be a sudden
and furious demand to reconstruct a whole
railway system in order to catch one train,
and that not even a daily train.
THE PERIL OF THE CHEAP JUDGE.
Just on 50 years ago, when most of the
States fixed the salaries of their Judges
—even a quarter of a century ago, when the
High Court began operations—a judgeship
was one of the prizes of the Bar. Offers
of seats on the Bench were accepted by
leaders of the profession as a matter of
course. To-day almost every State pos-
sesses prominent counsel who have been
sounded in the matter of Supreme Court
judgeships, and even Chief Justiceships, and
have regretfully but firmly asked to be
excused. In every case it has been a
matter of the remuneration. The best paid
of the State C.J.’s is, and always has been,
his Honor of N. S. Wales. He gets the
same salary as the Federal Chief Justice,
£3500 p.a. The Victorian C.J. draws £5OO
p.a. less; S. Aus. pays £2500; Queensland,
£2250; Westralia, £2000; Tasmania, £lBOO.
* * * *
These were adequate salaries when they
were fixed, and it is still easy to be humor-
ous at the idea of anyone being insulted
by an offer of £6O to £7O a week. The
economic aspect is, however, that a lawyer,
like any other worker, is worth what he
can earn. If litigants are prepared to pay
him £l2O to £l4O a week, or more, he is
not going to make the State a present of
the difference, as a rule, unless—as in the
rare case of the present Federal C.J.—he
happens to have private means. So
the tendency is for vacancies on the
Benches to be filled with second-raters, or
worse. As for acting-judgeships, a common
procedure is to pass on such jobs to
popular or influential seniors who have lost
the greater part of their practices by taking
“silk.” It is bad enough that the commu-
nity should have to put up temporarily
with Judges who have failed to hold their
own in the stern wit- and character-testing
struggle of the courts, but when an inferior
lawyer is foisted on the State for life in
the capacity of Judge it amounts to a
tragedy.
:|: ic.-lc.ie.
“British justice is never cheap,” remarked
Lord Sumner in the House of Lords re-
cently, and there was a wealth of social
philosophy behind the epigram. The
U.S.A. (outside the Supreme Court) and
many of the Continental countries have
gone in for the false economy of cheap
Judges, as a matter of policy, for years.
Some results have been slow and disorderly
trials, wrong directions and decisions, in-
numerable appeals, and even judicial cor-
ruption. Under such conditions there is
no certainty that crime will be punished,
or that civil wrongs will be redressed on
equitable lines. The British are presum-
ably no more moral or law-abiding than
other races, but their criminal statistics
are low, relatively, say, to those of the
U.S.A., and the nation’s reputation for busi-
ness probity stands high. It is recognised
pretty generally that the courts have a
lot to do with this. The Judges of the
U.K. are almost without exception first-
rate men, and they see to it that trials are
fairly, decently and expeditiously con-
ducted, on the whole.
* ❖ *
The experience of centuries has shown
that it is more or less immaterial how or
by whom a Judge is appointed, or what
political views he holds, provided he has
proved himself in his profession and is
adequately paid. With inadequate payment
the men of ability automatically cease to
come forward, and the Benches automati-
cally begin to lose in prestige. The judi-
ciaries of Australia, and particularly the
High Court, whose members, in addition to
being underpaid, get no pensions, bitterly
resent their position. Unfortunately, under
the party system they are of no concern
to the politicians; they have no union,
and if they had could hardly employ the
strike weapon. They can only hope silently
that the commonsense of the people will
eventually put an end to a state of affairs
which strikes at the root of democratic
government.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Political Razor-slashing.
When Municipal Labor was making the
Sydney Town Haul stink in the nostrils
of the Commonwealth not a word came
from J. T. Lang, then Labor Premier of
N. S. Wales, although three prominent
Labor aldermen were among his followers
in the Leg. Assembly. The Bavin Govern-
ment took action as soon as it reached
office, and last week Lang, who had been
blind for so long to corruption which stood
out like a dead horse on a main thorough-
fare, set out to prove that Bavin and a
Supreme Court Judge had been associated
in “a monstrous, immoral confidence trick”
designed by the Premier to save a guilty
person (“the fishing pal of the Premier,
the bosom friend of the Judge”)' from pun-
ishment.
Graft is the most difficult of offences to
prove—a reason why prosecutions under
Secret Commissions Acts are rarely heard
of, either here or in the U.K. The first re-
quirement, almost invariably, is a witness
who has given a bribe or taken one; and
in the nature of things it is hard to per-
suade an offender to give the necessary
evidence. The Bavin Government found
the rare exception in A. J. Arnot, who said
that he had submitted to a demand for
£10,600 presented by Silas Maling, then
acting general manager of the City Elec-
tricity Department, on behalf of himself
and corrupt Labor aldermen, to secure the
acceptance of a tender, and made his alle-
gations under oath.
It is open to question whether the briber
or* the bribee, the one who levies black-
mail or the one who pays it, is the more
deserving of punishment. Some will re-
gard Arnot as a corrupter of municipal
virtue; some will argue that association
with the Town. Haul corrupted him. But
no citizen with a seeing eye in his head
can question that the procedure of the
Bavin Government was correct, first and
lasst. A Royal Commission had to be
appointed, and Attorney-General Boyce,
on the advice of the Chief Justice, chose
Justice Harvey. Advice on evidence had
to be taken, and the Government went
to the leader of the Bar for it. It was
A. B. Shand, K.C., who advised that the
evidence of Arnot should be used to con-
vict his co-conspirators, and it was the same
authority who advised that Maling should
be proceeded against first. Arnot was the
principal witness against Maling, and a
certificate of immunity was granted to him
by the magistrate who heard the case.
The two features of Lang’s attack that
make it one of the dirtiest in the far-from-
savory history of N. S. Wales party poli-
tics were (1) his knowledge that Bavin
had nothing to do with the nomination of
Justice Harvey as Royal Commissioner,
the Premier being at that time in .danger
of his life as the result of a major opera-
tion; and (2) his knowledge that, in attack-
ing Justice Harvey, he was slinging mud at
an official of high repute who, by reason of
his position, has no right of reply. It is
the kind of strategy which stamps a poli-
tician as being, controversially speaking, in
the razor-gang class.
O
A Class-Peace Council.
The spirit of sweet reasonableness with
which ex-Speaker Whitley and his famous
committee sought to leaven the asperities
of industrial conflict found a congenial
resting-place in the bosom of at least one
important British industry. The Wallpaper
Makers’ Industrial Council is now 10 years
old, but its latest annual report is as cheery
and confident as any of its predecessors.
The keynote is given in a little excerpt
from a recent speech by Ramsay Mac-
Donald.
“My idea of a workman is a man who
regards his work with exactly the same
affection as he regards his wife. He sees
in it something that is lovely, something that
is attractive, something that gives his heart
and soul great satisfaction of being in affec-
tionate relation with him. That was the
old guild spirit. We are far removed from
those days when we made our beautiful Eng-
lish furniture, built our beautiful English
cottages, (designed our lovely old village
churches and our fine Gothic cathedrals.”
That is a sentiment calculated to stir the
Sydney Trades and Labor Council to a fine
frenzy; but there is worse to come. These
wallpaper people have decided to cut loose
from the basic-wage notion. As in Aus-
tralia, the C.O.L. index in Britain wavers
up and down. It has been noted that a cut
in wages causes a lot more resentment and
hardship than can be compensated for by
occasional rises, so the industry, under its
latest agreement, has resolved to give the
index a rest and sail along on a level keel
in future.
The makers of wallpaper regard their job
as an artistic craft, and they hold an exhibi-
tion each year in which members are
encouraged to develop their aesthetic ten-
dencies. Also, in Manchester, where many of
the leading firms have their factories, they
have created a library that covers not only
the whole technical literature of the wall-
paper trade but works on art of all sorts,
engineering and electrical practice, social
questions, foreign markets and books of
travel —in short, everything that bears, how-
ever remotely, upon the craft and its pros-
pects of advancement. Times have been
hard in Britain lately, but the wallpaper
folk record for the year ended June 30 last
that 98 per cent, of their membership was
kept in steady employment at satisfactory
wages. No Australian trade-union run on
the class-war principle can say as much.
Subsidising' Newcastle.
The apologetic compromise scheme for
putting a temporary patch on the perma-
nent Newcastle (N.S.W.) coal trouble
shows a liability to fail all round. It is
proposed that the State Government shall
pay a subsidy of 2s. per ton for one year,
which will be £700,000 if business doesn’t
improve, and an indefinite amount more
if it does. The State can’t afford the
£700,000, and still less will it be able to
continue the payment for a second or third
year, or for more years. Its Auditor-
General reports that it has an accumulated
debit balance of £4,341,181, last year’s con-
tribution being £1,094,995. Yet to stop the
payment after 12 months would be as bad
as not starting at. all.
The proposal to subsidise Newcastle be-
cause it made enough row, while leaving
the other two Cornstalk fields out because
they made insufficient row, seems rotten
policy. And there is a strong smell of
illegality about the idea of the Common-
wealth paying Is. per ton subsidy on coal
exported to other parts of the Common-
wealth or overseas from one field in one
State, even if it is only for one year.
Queensland and Westralia export a bit of
coal now and then, but they are not to
share in the Commonwealth subsidy.
If the Newcastle mineowners agree to
sacrifice Is. per ton, which some of them
apparently say they will, and if the miners
agree to sacrifice another Is., which most
of them apparently say they won’t, the
price of the Newcastle product will be re-
duced 4s. per ton inside N. S. Wales and
ss. per ton outside. This will be helpful
to South Australia, which has to buy all
its coal outside, and it is reckoned that
it may be just enough, but will certainly
be no more than enough, to keep that State
from dealing with the English market-
while the concession lasts. But Victoria
won’t get the same benefit unless it shuts
up its State mine at Wonthaggi, which it
isn’t likely to do for a very elusive advant-
age. Wonthaggi keeps 1740 men em-
ployed, which is something. The N. S.
Wales coal- and shale-mines employed an
average of 20,973 hands in 1921 and 24,125
in 1926, yet the output increased by the
most imperceptible fraction. The finding
of strike pay for that growing family is
a serious task, and there is lack of assur-
ance that it won’t continue to grow and
nullify the stupidest effort as well as any
other sort.
A fairly liberal reduction of price, reli-
able for one year (unless a big strike stops
the supply of cheap coal, just as it used
to do with dear coal), might encourage
manufacturers to enter into contracts which
they could complete within that period.
As regards anything beyond there would
be a tendency to wait and see.
♦
Maori land Vindicated at Geneva.
Some remarks by the appropriately-named-
Professor Rappard, director of the mandates
section of the League of Nations, on the
subject of the Mau trouble in Samoa are
of interest to Australians, who have man-
dates of their own to administer.
The Professor was inclined to blame the
Maoriland mandatory, not because it was
harsh and overbearing in its handling of
a difficult situation, but because it was too
considerate. Maoriland, M. Rappard said,
ordered its Administrator not to employ
force out of respect for the League. This
was most unfortunate, since the last thing
the League desired was to prevent a man-
datory maintaining order and governing.
If the mandatory’s ward were “naughty” it
must be taught to obey.
Senor Palacios, the Spanish representative,
supporting the Swiss professor, said it was
not only the right but the duty of the
mandatory to take steps to maintain order.
The whole trouble in Samoa, as the ML.
representative at Geneva pointed out, was
engineered by “a handful of half-caste agi-
tators.” Little would have been heard
of these dusky gentlemen and their now
exploded agitation but for the fatally
fluent Harry Holland (M.L.), the meddle-
some Joseph Carruthers (N.S.W.) and the
Sydney Labor Daily.
#
Where Sydney Lags Behind.
Dear Bulletin, —In Sydney during the
summer about the only reliable scavengers,
barring the sparrows, seem to be the nor-
easters. I watched a municipal employee
cleaning tram-tracks the other day. His
method was to stir up the dust with a broom
and allow the southerly, which happened to
be blowing, to distribute it over the faces
and garments of the citizens. But this
method, while sound for the purpose of
shifting refuse from one side of the street
to the other, is useless with heavier objects.


THE MUDTHROWERS.
“Apropos of the attack on the character of Charles
Dickens, his son says that ‘had it been made 58 years
ago, when my father died, a hundred people would have
given it the lie. Unhappily, they are dead, and their
evidence is not forthcoming.’ ”
THE SPIRIT OF FAME: “The world that knew them
honored these men. Why do you throw mud
at their memories?”
GUTTERSNIPE: “How else could we make the world
we know take notice of US?”
There are some abandoned banana-skins
near my suburban residence which have lain
undisturbed for over a week; and it takes
a 50 m.p.h. gale to move newspapers, as
any frequenter of our parks will testify.
The streets and parks of Dublin used to
be as untidy as those of Sydney still are.
The Free State Government, despairing of
getting the city suitably washed and
polished by a generation which had grown
up with a laissez-faire attitude towards sani-
tation, let out the job by contract to a
firm of French specialists. These experts
go over every street and park every night,
and by daybreak debris can only be dis-
covered with a microscope. London does
its own street-cleaning, and does , it
supremely well. I watched one of the great
State processions to the City from a window
in Fleet-street, early this year, and a more
impressive sight than the celebrities, the
guards, the troops of cavalry and the cheer-
ing thousands was the army of scavengers
which followed in the wake of the melting
crowd. The machines which they operated
consumed the paper bags, horse-droppings,
cigarette-ends, etc., with voracious speed,
and inside half an hour the street was as if
it had never been defiled.
Sydney’s health record, good as it is, all
things considered, would be better with an
effective anti-dust service. Measures against
dust, that busy distributor of catarrh
(much too prevalent in the Harbor City),
T. 8., the common cold and other diseases,
are more desirable in dry Australia than
they are in wet Britain.—Yours, etc., H. S.
Bruce’s Justification.
It seems to be a moot question whether the
minority of unionists who are continually
holding up transport in Australia are mis-
chievous fools or dangerous conspirators.
If their chief purpose is to annoy the hated
capitalist—if they are mere loutish “narks”
—then they are playing a futile part inas-
much as, however much international capi-
talism is prejudiced by periodical stoppages
of work on the waterside, it is safe to say
that local labor—and particularly the
casual labor of the wharves —is prejudiced
more. The capitalist can always export
his money, but the worker can rarely
export his labor.
The likelier alternative is that there is a
purpose behind it all. Accoiding to a
cable published in London Times last
week “delegates from Europe, Asia, Africa
and Australia solemnly swore an oath, with
raised fists, at the opening of the Young
Communists’ International a few days ago,
“to destroy the bourgeoisie, to accomplish
a world revolution, to prepare soldiers to
defend the Soviet and to mobilise the toiling
youth in all countries.” Different countries
offer different opportunities for the accom-
plishment of these aims. In a militarised
country such as France the policy is to
disaffect the army. In Britain the navy
is chiefly aimed at. In Australia, which de-
pends for its existence as a civilised State
on sea-transport, the obvious point of
attack is the mercantile marine.
In short, in Australia an effective mari-
time strike, which plainly is the ultimate
goal of many union leaders, would amount
to a general strike. No general strike has
succeeded yet in a free country, but that
has only been because, wherever one has
been attempted, the Government of the day
has been equipped with full powers to deal
with it. In London, a couple of years ago,
if the Baldwin Administration had not been
so equipped the milk supply would have
stopped and children would have begun to
die in thousands in a very few days, and
the food supply would have been held up,
by the sabotaging of oil. If any justifica-
tion is needed for the Bruce plan to de-
clare a “state, of siege,” when a state of
trade siege comes into operation, then it is
to be found in a plain array of facts. Aus-
tralia’s immunity from famine and anarchy
depends on uninterrupted sea-transport;
there are industrial leaders whose .entire
policy is directed towards the stoppage of
sea-transport; and it is not enough, in the
circumstances, to leave the community to
deal with the equivalent of a general strike
when it appears on impromptu lines. Civil
war is a calamity which must be guarded
against with all the strength that the com-
munity can display.
Railway and Other Shortages.
Every year it becomes easier to make a
deficit, in the railway accounts or the gen-
eral accounts or both, and N. S. Wales has
done the thing well. The railway money-
scarcity for the year to June 30 is
£1,609,267, which is the State’s record,
though far from being an Australian record.
This is the third consecutive railway short-
age for the Ma State, and the tenth in
13 years. All that can be said in a favor-
able spirit is that Queensland’s 13 succes-
sive shortages' are worse, and that there
have been three larger calamities than the
present affair—one in Queensland and two
in S. Australia.
A great deal is said about the year being
bad in an agricultural sense, but the pre-
ceding year was a good one, and still the
accounts didn’t balance by nearly half a
million. The situation would have been
regarded as rather a good one in any coun-
try where the lines were managed on some
semblance of business principles. The tak-
ings were the largest since the beginning
of things, being £122,969 more than for
1926-27, and they were roughly 2} millions
more than in 1924-25 when the .Ma State
had its 60-million-bushel harvest. But the
interest on borrowed capital was £320,144
greater than in the previous year, and work-
ing expenses were £960,474 greater, and this
chase after the dizzy limit in outgoings
spoiled the show.
It is inevitable for interest to increase,
both per cent, and in the gross, when the
railway system is mortgaged far beyond
its value, when a lot of the public debt
isn’t even represented by anything so tan-
gible as depreciated and over-valued rail-
way, and when the foreign financier has a
growing suspicion that it is only by grant-
ing new loans in gold that he gets the in-
terest on old ones. And it is apparently
inevitable that expenses will rise for all
time while Federal Judges grant conces-
sions at the State railways’ charge. The
position suggests something resembling a
crisis unless reformation on a heroic scale
is attempted.
Drys and Wets in M.L.
Maoriland’s Coates Government wishes
that prohibition had never been thought
of. At the last three elections three issues
—national continuance, State purchase and
control, and national prohibition—were
submitted, the arrangement being that pro-
hibition could not win unless it scored an
absolute majority of all votes cast. At
the last poll prohibition secured 319,450
adherents, continuance 299,590, and State
control 56,037, which meant that continu-
ance won by 36,177.
The prohibitionists, who have always
objected to the State-control issue, claimed
a moral victory, and, being a very consider-
able force in politics, induced Coates to
promise to further amend the licensing law
—it has already run the gamut of about
29 variations. Last session Coates brought
down a bill which he optimistically thought
would please everyone. It pleased no one,
and was so mutilated in committee by
members of his own party that he dropped
it out of the porthole. This session he
produced a simpler version—“yes” and
“no” the only issues, and prohibition to
secure 55 per cent, of the votes. The Drys
of his party again rebelled, and in alliance
with the Drys of the other factions cut the
majority down to a nude one..
Then the Prime Minister said he didn’t
care who steered the bill through its third
reading; but it certainly wouldn’t be
Gordon Coates. He voted against the
third reading, and the measure was' de-
feated.
A Capital Without a Court.
“Dommis”: The Federal Capital Territory
makes some of its own laws, but depends
on the courts of N. S. Wales to enforce
them. The result is far from ideal, for
many reasons. A magistrate presiding at
the hearing of a F.C.T. case and dealing
with a Ma State case the same day has
to administer two kinds of procedure.
Secondly, for the N. S. Wales case he
applies the existing court machinery of
N. S. Wales, but for the F.C.T. case he
must go back to the N. S. Wales court
machinery that obtained prior to 1911. In
the confusion of the present and the past,
the principles of both periods necessarily
suffer.
By the provisions of the Seat of Gov-
ernment Act, 1924-26, the laws of N. S.
Wales prior to January 1, 1911, are, until
replaced by Ordinance, in force in the
F.C.T. Thus the Small Debts Act, 1912,
does not apply; the Small Debts Act, 1898,
does. Take the Lifts Inspection Acts of N. 8.
Wales as another example. The 1912 Act
does not apply; the 1902-1908 Act does.
But the machinery of the older Act re-
quires the appointment of an inspector
under its provisions; and no inspectors are
appointed thereunder since its repeal by the
later Act.
A greater shame, however, is the appli-
cation of the 1900 Crimes Act to Territory
offences in lieu of the amended Act of
N. S. Wales. To quote only two undesir-
able features, a stealing case, involving
more than £2O, must be followed by a com-
mittal or dismissal; the defendant has no
option of requiring to be heard before the
Court of summary jurisdiction. Appa-
rently, too, a woman who commits a crime
in the presence of her husband in the
F.C.T. is still assumed, failing proof to the
contrary, to have acted under the coercion
of her spouse, despite the 1924 N. S. Wales
amendment in this regard.
Apart from these and other grievances, such
as the absence of a Probate Ordinance, the
lack of a court is productive of its own
evils. People in the Territory are left un-
desirably puzzled as to what they should
do to obtain a remedy for offences or debts.
Consequently smart wastrels commit petty
offences against persons, and incur debts
with impunity. Even where the law is
known, the cost of action under present
conditions is often prohibitive. A man
so poor that he finds it necessary to sue
for, say, two pounds, would have to pay
nearly that much to get to Queanbeyan
and back, first to take out his summons
and again for the hearing. If he needed
witnesses, it would cost more, and unless
he could serve his own summons, heavy
bailiff’s fees would be superimposed. An
execution for a mere small debt, of course,
with its risks of “no return” would not
be worth the candle.
No other town in Australia of the size
and population of Canberra lacks a court.
The establishment of a court of inferior
jurisdiction, at least, besides providing
access to F.C.T. residents to ascertain their
legal standing and prosecute actions at a
reasonable cost, would soon cause expedited
action in the repeal of antiquated N. S.
Wales laws in their application to the Ter-
ritory, and the substitution of Ordinances
in line with modern legislative develop-
ments.
♦
“The Listening-Insect”: It should soon
be possible for the Australian telephone
subscriber to call trunk lines and in due
course be put through to London, but it
isn’t likely that the stunt will be more than
an expensive curiosity for many a day.
Trans-Atlantic conversations at present cost
£ls for three minutes, and the fine for call-
ing up somebody who doesn’t happen to be
there is £2. To make, the system a little
less costly season-tickets have been made
available, and stockbrokers who have exten-
sive relations with trans-ocean ic clients are
fairly large subscribers. Worked out in
the same proportion, the Australian sched-
ule would be about £45 per call, and for
that sum one could cable 800 words or so
and get a reply in an hour or so. A more
feasible field for Mr. Gibson’s activities
would be the development of wireless
’phone services in Australia. Darwin,
Broome, Hobart, Central Australia and
North Queensland should have been linked
up with the larger centres long ago.
♦
“Silentio” : Why aren’t all postmasters
made Justices of the Peace? The local
P.M. is always on the job, and his position
warrants the trust —and you can’t say that
of many of the Toms and Bills who are
appointed because they happen to be friends
of the M.L.A. Here’s a N.S.W. instance of the
need for the reform I advocate. The recent
cards for enrolment for the municipal fran-
chise called for the applicant’s signature to
be witnessed by a J.P., and one family of
six new electors had to travel over six miles,
on three successive days, before they could
catch the only available Justice at home.


i
FOR HIGH PULLEY RATIO AND
DIFFICULT ANGLE DRIVES
Mangrovite Leather
or Rawhide Belting
HAS NO EQUAL.
The supple flexibility so necessary to
preserve full power flow on these types is
attained in Mangrovite by the careful preservation of the natural grain of
the leather in tanning. Practical knowledge gained in over forty years’
experience is applied to making Mangrovite.
Available in every grade—ordinary, stretchless, waterproof, etc., or manu-
factured to special specifications.
We guarantee Mangrovite quality, and service records prove it.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWTCI, Managing Director.
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IVonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fu9o
Detonators
Cartridges
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
It 3 experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A. LL.D (Vice-Chairman),
K. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart,’ J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
(HAS. R. SMTBF.RT. General M'-mnsrer. y (i WATSON Manasrer.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The emergency legis-
lation necessitated by
the latest of many
attempts to destroy
Australian industry by
refusal to work —or
to let others work —on
the waterfront imposed
extra duties on Man-
ning, the Federal Nat-
ionalist Whip. He will
need all his energy for
the election —he is
going to have another
hard fight in Mac-
quarie. Manning un-
seated the cheerfully
irresponsible Sam
Ni.cholls in 1922, his
margin being 85 votes.
This was increased to
903 three years ago,
but Lithgow Labor is
fairly confident that
the tables will be
turned in November.
Prime Minister Bruce
has retrieved some
of his reputation by
his Transport Workers’
Manning, M.H.R.
Act. There is an aspect of permanence about
it which is comforting. It begins by pro-
viding that wharf-laborers and their kind
shall be registered, and shall remain on the
register, so long as they are prepared to
labor, whether they are unionists or not.
In other words, the crowd which has held up
nearly 100 ships out of pure cussedness, and
done its utmost to bring the industry of
Australia to a full stop, won’t be allowed to
resume its position of preference merely by
resuming work in a languid way when the
stoppage game is up. And the Act goes on to
specify that the Commonwealth will set up
a police force of its own for the protection
of its registered workers when required. The
powers are wide enough ; the only fear is that
the Bruce Ministry may falter and flop by the
wayside.
The Canton Government has prepared a
report on the achievements of Communists
in the province during the past year. The
total damage done is estimated a't 50,000,000
dollars; 56,000 houses were wrecked or
burnt, 86,000 persons were murdered and
308,000 others were incommoded by loss of
their huts, sampans and private be-
longings generally. Unlike Australia, China
is a poor country, so the Red fury hadn’t
much to work on ; but it seems to have done
pretty well in the circumstances.
One of the objectors to the paltry in-
crease of a farthing per foot in the old
cinematograph film duty of per foot was
Westralian Senator Needham. He said he
wouldn’t support any
increase unless the im-
porting gentry (who,
of course, don’t want
any film duty at all)
guaranteed that it
would not be passed
on. If films were pro-
tected as, say, liarves-
ters are protected,
many thousands of
Australians would find
employment in making
them, but the Need-
hams of the Common-
wealth would let
Hollywood dominate
the Australian cinema
theatre for all time
rather than take tin;
risk of tenpence being
charged for front seats,
instead of ninepence,
during the transition
period. The West-
ralian Senator claims
to be a Protectionist,
but he is obviously
not going to alienate
Senator Needham.
any foreign-trade vote if he can help it.
As the sporadic Bolshevik insurrection
ebbed and flowed in its mad way round the
Australian coast from Fremantle to Cairns
unemployment naturally followed. About
2000 men became superfluous at the New-
castle steel works. It was no use making
goods when every inch of storage space wai
full of goods, and when things can’t be
shipped and sold there is lack of money to
pay wages with. Holden’s big factory, which
employs 2000 or 3000 men at Adelaide, struck
the same snag. Mourilyan, South Johnstone
and Goondi mills reached the point when
there wasn’t room for another ounce of sugar,
so closure became inevitable. The big Cad-
bury concern in Tasmania shut up indefi-
nitely, and many other concerns took pre-
liminary steps with a view to closing the
big front door.
It is the poorest sort of a joke that Prime
Minister Bruce’s Four Big Councillors
should arrive just at this time. According
to programme, the Four are to cruise around
the more-accessible parts of Australia for a
very few months, gather as much informa-
tioh as intelligent globe-trotters can do in
the time and amid a blither of industrial dis-
turbance have a glance at the Federal elec-
tion, and then give advice. The advice can’t
be original, because every kind of good advice
has been given already and not taken, often
not even read.
Deserted by the Country Progs., the
Hogan_ Government (Vic.) _ escaped defeat
by a single vote, on a question of extending
the time at which fresh business could be
called on late at night. There would have
been a tie only that Bowser was just too
late to join in the division, and the Hogans
would have been beaten for a certainty had
Old, Walter and Wettenhall, three Cockies,
been in their places. Hardly were Ministers
breathing freely again when Dunstan came
along with an. amendment to the Rural
Bank .Bill cutting out the Savings Bank
Commissioners as controllers. The debate
was adjourned and the bill put into cool
storage.
Vic. Uppish Chambah heaved out the tax
of 2d. a head on sheep and lambs, sent up
by the Assembly at the instance of tin
Hogans.. The philosophic way in which the
Opposition let some of the clauses go through
in the Assembly suggested that the killing
was to be left to the other place. Two other
Labor (though not Governmental) bills were
pitched out recently by the Plush House—
Kiernan’s Capital Punishment Abolition and
McNamara’s Compulsory Voting for the Leg.
Council.
Tasmania felt that it had struck something
good when the Cadbury-Fry-Pascall firm
built its great cocoa and confectionery factory
at Claremont, but the luck wasn’t durable.
The firm sells its products almost wholly on
the mainland, and if they can’t reach the
mainland it is no use making products;
they would simply accumulate and become
sticky. So when ships were reduced to carry-
ing the same old cargo backward and for-
ward. and were even denied coal by island
lunatics under instructions from Moscow, it
was decided to close up pending the estab-
lishment of a reliable service. That may
come when the Navigation Act is wiped off
the slate; at least its abolition would be
a move in the right direction.
Nearly a year ago the members of the
Seamen’s Union elected Walsh president
over Johnson, but the latter, supported by
the more violent Red elements, stayed on
and drew the salary. The law ordered a new
ballot, Johnson, with his visible minority,
being left in possession meanwhile. The
protracted election resulted in another victory
for Walsh, but the boss Communists at the
union office simply chased him off the pre-
mises. Johnson had re-elected • himself with
the aid of a few big men, and was staying
on.
Slang didn’t help the Labor candidate for
Coogee by rushing into the electorate and
throwing a lot more mud at Premier Bavin.
The late Goldstein’s majority at the general
election was 364 in excess of 2 to 1. J.
M. Dunningham, the new Nationalist mem-
ber, did relatively better; with 2000-odd
fewer electors voting, his majority was 935
in excess of 2 to 1. The clumsy and
venomous Slang is a Nationalist asset
Queensland is repairing to some extent
the clumsy outrage which Theodore commit-
ted when he. tore up the pastoral leases and
started a general, and often retrospective,
raising of rents on the State’s tenants. New
leases are being granted for 28 years, and
the maximum rental has been reduced from
9d. to 6d. Between 1917 and 1921 the State
pushed up its territorial revenue from
£962,953 to £1,640,624, which, in proportion
to population, was more than twice the
Commonwealth average. But revenue badly
failed to stay up, though Theodore shook his
fist at it and said it would dashed well come
down at its own risk. In fact, the unoccu-
pied area which “the Crown” had on its
hands increased so much that that antiquated
head-dress became worried.
Melbourne is apparently to be the head-
quarters of Bruce’s Big Four. This is the
draft programme so far as Victoria is con-
cerned :
October 13, arrive at Melbourne from Perth;
October 15, depart for Brisbane; November 3, arrive
back from Brisbane; November 16, leave for Tas-
mania ; November 25, get back from Tasmania;
November 26, hit the road again, for Adelaide this
time; December 5, turn up again from Adelaide;
same day, strike the wallaby track for Sydney, after
which the Four vanish officially from the Victorian
horizon.
But the chances are that another maritime
strike will leave the quartette stranded in
Tasmania. Then the Prime Minister may
have to lead a rescue party in person.
“Prendy.”
When Chief Sec.
Prendergast admitted
having granted per-
mits for 19 extra pony
and trotting meetings
on Ascot, Fitzroy and
Richmond racecourses
in 1927-28 Vic. Labor-
ites expected a row,
especially as Queens-
land Oppositionists had
just previously tackled
the predominant party
in that State on the
score of its relations
with John Wren. But
the Nat.-Cockies made
no fuss whatever. The
material provided could
have been worked up
into an effective de-
bate on Labor’s queer
regard for the more
sordid forms of pro-
prietary racing; but
when the opportunity
occurred the McPhair-
sons and Allans were
asleep again.
A significant claim has been made by the
widow of the late W. H. Lambert, M.H.R.
for West Sydney:—
My husband turned down a fortune. We could
have been well off, only he played the game straight.
Had he pushed the Park-street resumption through
during the latter part of his term as Lord Mayor
of Sydney, a sum running into nearly £40,000
would have been paid to him.
And she suggested that the Federal Govern-
ment should reward her with a pension, or
enough money to start a boarding-house. The
reasoning may appear defective to people in
other parts of Australia; but Sydneyites
will detect a certain rough justice in it.
All sorts of counsellors are rushing before
all sorts of Commissions with devices for
making a quartpot out of a sow’s ear or caus-
ing a silk purse to hold two gallons of strong
ale. The Victorian Royal Commission on
Railway Management was lately hailed by a
responsible Under-Treasurer with a device
for relieving the State railways of their
interest burden without paying off any of the
debt. He suggested an additional tax on
unimproved land values, and mentioned 3d.
in the £ as possibly sufficient. The gentle-
man overlooked one thing—the land wouldn't
pay the tax. The bill would go to the
man on the land, and he is often a small man
with a great many bills. That is why kind-
hiarted Hogans occasionally grant him a
moratorium, or write down the value of the
bit of earth he was planted on after the war.
After passing half a dozen bills, Tas
Assembly adjourned till Oct. 16, on which
date Treasurer McPhee
will introduce his
first Budget. One of
the bills put through
was a measure con-
firming the agreement
made between the
Lyons Governilient
and a London-born co.
for the sale of the
State carbide factory
for £104,000, subject
to certain rather for-
midable-looking Gov
ernment guarantees.
Though Leg. Council-
lors are demanding a
Royal Commission to
inquire into the cir-
cumstances in which
the Lyons Government
was allegedly compelled
to give the guarantees,
the Assembly was
unanimous in voting
for confirmation of the
agreement.
Ex-Premier Lyons.
The N.S.W. Railway and Tramway De-
partment claims the right to tear up Sydney
streets at its indiscretion, and it is alleged
that the spectacle of a nice new street fills
it with an irrepressible desire to go digging.
Other bodies, such as the Water and Sewer-
age Board, have separate street-destroying
rights, but for leaving a whale-backed ridge
down some pleasant suburban thoroughfare
the rail-tramways are said to be in a class
by themselves. There might be possibilities
about a supreme Diggers’ Board, which would
require six months’ notice of all foreseeable
holes and excavations, and have power to
cancel or postpone holes, and to make all
parties dig at the same time.
The _ Ottawa Jouenal points out that
while its own Canada House, London, costs
£16,750 per annum and requires a staff of
148, Australia House costs £150,000 and pro-
vides jobs for 34L What the Canadian
newspaper -doesn’t realise is that, with the
present lot of Australian politicians, if the
money wasn’t wasted on the London bauble
it would be frittered away somewhere else.
Maoriland is girding up its loins for a
general election at the end of the year. As
at present constituted, the House of Reps,
harbors 53 Reformers, 15 Laborites, 10
Uniteds, 3 Lib.-Labs., one Liberal (Joe
Ward) and one Independent (Charlie Stat-
ham, the Speaker) ; and already there are
167 candidates —64 Reformers, 52 Labor-
ites, 40 Uniteds (Liberals once), six
Independents, three Lib.-Labs, and two
Liberals. Probably there will be copious
additions to the list, a s in 20 electorates no
one has been found to oppose the sitting
member. The Reformers will probably go
back with a comfortable majority of mem-
bers, though in all the 16 years they have
been in the saddle they have never yet
secured an absolute majority of votes.
The old State Frights policy was extended
to the ether when the Listeners’ League in
Melbourne resolved that none of the money
collected from Victorian subscribers should
be used to improve services in other States.
Apart from its narrowness, one fault with
this doctrine, is that wireless waves don’t
stop at frontiers. Radio subscribers in Vic.
listen to programmes from other States; the
telegraph landlines, a Federal institution, are
constantly being put at the convenience of
the broadcasters, to the detriment of the
inter-State business traffic, so that State lis-
teners may hear music and so forth from over
their borders. It is the duty of the Com-
monwealth Government to see that the less
populous States like Westralia are given
more of the amenities of life, including better
broadcasting, despite protests from parochi-
ally-minded people; and even the Bruee-
Pages recognise it in their muddled fashion.
Maoriland railway finances for the year
ended March last show a deficit of £291,452
as against a deficit of £99,659 the previous
year • but that isn’t the wdiole story, since
certain lines are subsidised out of the Con-
solidated Fund. Ward laid it down, in times
when loan-money was a lot cheaper than it
is to-day, that if the railways earned 3f per
cent, on capital it wouldn’t hurt the country
to make up the balance —then under J per
cent. —required to pacify the pawnshop. In
the latest year the earnings were at the rate
of only 3.64 per cent, on capital.
ELECTRESSES.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
“The wooing of five and a quarter million new
women voters, who for the first time will exercise
their franchise in 1920, is already leading to intense
rivalry between the political organisers.’’ —London
cable.
Once was a legion of furies who fought for
it,
Right to be equals of man at the polls;
Once by the smashing of windows they
sought for it
And various other unfeminine rOles;
Shrieking and suffering and sticking at
naught for it,
Pinched and convicted and sentenced in
shoals,
Forcibly fed, too, before they were through
with it—
Now they have captured it what will they
do with it?
Laws, God’s and man’s, they defied for the
sake of it—
Methods infrequently practised before.
Now ’tis their portion to taste and to take
of it,
All they demanded—and possibly more.
What would Regina Victoria make of it
Could she return from the heavenly shofe?
She who held women who clattered and
clacked for it—
Right to the suffrage, that is—should be
smacked for it.
With what allurements will canvassers wait
for them
Now that the numbers are theirs, and the
hour!
1 low will the leaders of parties orate for
them,
Baldwin the stolid and Ramsay the dour!
How will the Wizard of Cambria bait for
them,
Slim though his chance of returning to
power!
Contests a-many had damsel or dame in
them;
Here there’ll be millions new to the game
in them.
Will they confound all that cynics have
wrote of them
As lacking in vision and sense, d’you sup-
pose?
What will our future historians note of
them,
What predilections their ballots disclose?
Whom, in a word, will it go for, the vote of
them.
Tory or Lib’ral or Liibor? Who knows?
This much at least in Australia we ken of
them :
Mostly they go the same way as the men of
them.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Cutter”: For the first time in legal his-
tory a Maori prisoner has elected to be tried
by a Maori jury, but it didn’t save him
from conviction. The trial took place at New
Plymouth, and at an early stage the weary
business of interpreting was dropped. My
friend Hori, who was gazing with jealous
HE WAS SOMEBODY’S HUSBAND HIMSELF.
DORA: “How do you know it was my husband’s lodge meeting last night?”
F REDDY: “He sat just behind a couple of us at the pictures.”
eyes on the selected 12, reckoned that the
reason was that some of the jury could not
understand Maori.
❖ ❖ Hs
“Stellsby”: Touching the R.N. rum issue
and the tiny monetary substitute therefor (B.
19/9/’2B). Many lower-deck teetotallers
regularly draw their tots and pass them on to
other members of the mess for some trifling
service rendered; thus one industrious mate-
lot may obtain half a dozen nips daily. To-
wards the end of the war there was great
disgust on the lower deck in the Mediter-
ranean ships. For the first time in history
the Malta base ran short of the real Mackay,
and soldiers’ “over-the-top” rum was issued'
Innumerable matelots swore off (and at)
what was regarded as an inferior tipple.
Naval rum is unprocurable outside the ser-
vice, although “receivers” in Devonport and
Portsmouth surreptitiously purvey it to
trusty customers. Warrant-officers are entit-
led to an issue—neat; so are c.p.o.’s. Petty-
offieers have theirs broken down to two in
one. while other ratings must content them-
selves with a three-in-one tot. But even then
the generous allowance surpasses the ordi-
nary pub rum in flavor and strength.
sjs ❖
“Sol M.”: In his paragraph about bulls
(B. 19/9/’2B) “D.” isn’t wholly fortunate.
He says that the three essentials of the
animal are that it “expresses an obvious
truth, is preposterous, and its author bears
an Irish name.” The “obvious truth” is
miles wide of the mark; it would be more
accurate to say that the bovine quip must
embody a double contradiction. The com-
monest form of the “classic” to which “D.”
alludes runs: “A man can’t be in two places
at once unless he’s a bird.” The duality of
the contradiction is more evident than the
obvious truth. The latter is wholly absent
from the alleged Irish farmer’s explanation
to a small girl, “If you see six cows lying
down in a field and one of them’s standing
up that’s a bull”; and from the obituary
notice of the gentleman “who came of a
family in which it had long been hereditary
to have no children” ; likewise from the tes-
timony of the witness who forgot his brief
and ascribed the fire to a blind man lighting
a match to look for his spectacles. And it
is quite unnecessary for the bull-maker to
have an Irish name. Even the bird which
was in two places at once, though Boyle
Roche may have used the figure, was the in-
vention of an English dramatist. But for
his death at the early age of 35 (in 1688)
he might have put many other valuable
specimens on the market.
:]: * * *
“C.Q.”: A Smith club is in process of for-
mation in Vic., and, unlike the N. S. Wales
organisation, it proposes to confine member-
ship to persons actually bearing the honored
and ancient surname. There should be no
lack of members, for there are 30 columns
of Smiths in the Victorian directory, not to
mention Smitts, Smittens, Smitherses, Smith-
sons and other obvious offshoots of the original
Smith. Furthermore, there is a column of
Smyths and Smythes, who are obviously camou-
flaged Smiths, and the hyphenated Smiths are
legion. Altogether, I should not be sur-
prised if the Smith family numbered over
10.000 in Victoria alone. As for their finan-
cial and social eminence, the possession of a
telephone is a fair indication of that, and
there are 9£ columns of Smiths and Smyths
in the ’phone-book for Melbourne alone.
* * * #
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide City Council has re-
solved to put up several reminders of the
past, on an urgent request by a Historical
Memorials committee. One will be an obelisk
in the park lands at the north-west corner
of the city, where Light, first Surveyor-Gen-
eral, and Hui’tle Fisher, first “Resident Com-
missioner,” camped at Christmas, 1836, to
lay out the city (which at the moment
seemed likely to be called “Wellington”).
Another small memorial near North-terrace
will mark the site of the first Government
House. A tablet in North Adelaide (on the
wall of Langdon Bonython, of the Adver-
tiser) will commemorate the setting-out of
McDouall Stuart’s transcontinental explor-
ing expedition. Also the Lands Department
of S.A. is going to re-erect the fence round
the marked Burke-and-Wills tree near Inna-
mincka, on the Cooper.
“R.Volt”: The fact that even bishops
listen-in came out in the course of the
Science v. Religion controversy now raging
in London. Dr. Winnington Ingram trounced
Professor Donnan, of London University, for
claiming that souls would presently be manu-
factured in chemical laboratories When it
was pointed out that Donnan said “cells,”
not “souls,” the Bishop frankly confessed
that he had not read the report of the Pro-
fessor’s words but had listened to the radio
broadcast.
* * * *
“Bloggs” : I mentioned that a walking-stick
was a useful defensive weapon, and now “Rob
P.” steps brightly forward (B. 10/9/’2B)
and seeks to discount my statement, by
describing an affray in which a sword-stick
failed him. Sword-sticks bear about the
same relation to walking-sticks as bottles do
to fists. They are rarely used except in parts
of France, and there they are usually found
in the hands of dangerous criminals. The
reason is that, while deadly in a premedi-
tated attack, they take too long to draw to
be any good for defensive work. In Australia
the wielder of one would certainly be half-
SHE KNEW WHAT SHE WANTED.
GRANNY (giving advice): “Now, then, you do thatand when you’re a big girl people
will look up to you.”
“But, Granny, I want them to look round at me.”
killed, if not killed, by any “pusliites” on
whom he was mad enough to try to use it;
and if by a miracle he damaged anyone
with so murderous a weapon it would be ten
to one on a Court convicting him of “grievous
bodily,” however great the provocation. And
the verdict of all but members of razor-gangs
would be “Serve him right.”
* * $
“Nakhoda”: The traffic in women, which
once more came up for inconclusive discus-
sion at the Genevan League the other day,
takes queer forms, and perhaps the queerest
of all was that extant until
recent years in Bali (Dutch
East Indies). In that hal-
cyon isle, where, until a
Dutch female missionary
objected, the women were so
unaware of shame that they
strode about the streets with
their magnificent torsos
naked to the breeze, the
organisation of ladies of
joy was the sole prerogative
of the royal house, and the
method of recruiting was
simplicity itself. Any wo-
man of nubile age found out
after dark without an
escort was automatically
enrolled in the rajah’s Ama-
zonian army of love. Flying-
squadrons were maintained
for export abroad, and the
Balinese Kampong was a
recognised feature of every
considerable town in the
archipelago. W hen the
Dutch put a stop to the
business, the last potentate
to draw revenues from this
peripatetic yosliiwara was
so scandalised that he had
an apoplectic seizure and
died.
* * *
“Let Go”: The shortage
of mosquito, nets, rather
tli an the Turks, began to
make the nights a torment
after our first couple of
months in the Jordan Val-
ley. To minimise the pest,
a fatigue party was put on clearing
away the weeds and water plants that inter-
fered with the flow of the numerous creeks
running from the hills into the Jordan. It
was “Bluey’s” first day on the “death-to-
mosquitoes” fatigue, and presently his dis-
content found expression. “Blime,” he
grumbled, “this is tough. A man signs on
ter come over here ter kill Turks, an’ he’s
put on killing mossies. I coulda stayed
out on ther Cooper an’ put in ther rest of me
life killin’ ’em, without cornin’ inter this hell
on earth.”
* * * #
“X.N.0.”: Some of the Sydney papers
. have been waxing hysterical over the
90 days’ imprisonment in Long Bay awarded
a stoker on the Brisbane for attaching a
piece of stale bread, a bit of red bunting
and a slab of doggerel rhyme to the ship’s
notice-board. Yet, apart from actions that
may be construed as incitements to mutiny,
(1) improperly interfering with the ship’s
notice-board, (2) promoting discontent and
• (3) making known a complaint or grievance
in an improper manner are all exceedingly
. serious'crimes from the Navy’s point of view,
which is based on the knowledge that in a
closely-packed community discontent and dis
affection, once started, can spread with
alarming rapidity. On the other side of the
slate the service provides effective machinery
for any man or boy to make any complaint
or grievance known immediately it occurs.
Within five minutes of being supplied with
stale bread for his tea stoker Smith could
have been on the quarter-deck or the bridge
reporting the matter to the officer _of the
watch, and certain of getting an immedi-
ate and searching inquiry. These things are
as well known on the lower-deck as in the
ward-room, and newspapers which magnify
into glaring injustices the penalties for using
other methods, however venial such may
appear by civilian standards, are doing the
R.A.N. a definite disservice.
#** . *
“Hamfat”: “D.’s” reference to George
Lambert as “Australia’s only other great
sculptor” besides Bertram Mackennal (B.
12/9/’2B) is surely too sweeping. For one
other there is Harold Parker, Queensland-
born, who has an established status in Eng-
land —his “Ariadne,” in the Tate Gallery, and
“The First Breath of Spring,” in the Brisbane
Gallery, are both in the first flight. He did
the groups in front of Australia House, Lon-
don. Poor Web-Gilbert is gone; but to take
his place is young Guy Lynch, who, although
he has not yet got amongst the big com
missions, is certainly heading that way. His
fine “Australian Venus,” for which nobody
has so far found the catalogued 1000 guineas,
is now on exhibition in the foyer of the
St. James Theatre, Sydney.
* * * *
“Old Bull”: The wharf-laborers’ strike
(latest edition) provided one humorous item,
at least. It was at Perth, where some gangs
were lumping wheat, - one of the hardest of
w.l. jobs. The stalwarts had “picked up”
under the old award, and when the time
came for them to take the “smoko” provided
by the new one, after two hours’ bullocking,
they scornfully declined it. The old award
did not provide for any rest interval, so the
perspiring martyrs to principle were informed
that they would get no extra pay for work-
ing through “smoko.” Even that did not
deter them, and they finished the full course
to lunch-hour, happy in the consciousness
that they had refused to bow down in the
house of Rimmon, so to speak.
“Aileron”: Melbourne has been lost in
admiration over the feat of an aeroplane
pilot who flew over the city carrying as
passenger a Shetland pony. The tiny prad
seems to have taken his new experience in
the most casual spirit, but he is by no
means a pioneer. For some time past horses
have been carried by ’plane from England
to France, and vice versa, for the big race
meetings in either country. Apart from the
time saved, it is claimed that there is less
risk than there is in sea and railway trans-
port. A specially-fitted ’plane has to be
used, and the expense is naturally heavy; but
in these days when a Derby or Grand Prix
winner may be worth anything up to £70.000
that is a minor consideration. Further,
even nervy thoroughbreds, always keenly
alive to their environment on train or boat,
seem to be absolutely .ignorant of the fact
that anything unusual is going on.
* * * *
“Cobar”: Amid the glitter of gorgeous
colors and the strains of stately music at
the Eucharistic procession through Sydney I
noticed one unobtrusive advertisement for
Australia. In full war-paint—one boot,
half a sock and a pair of old trousers
apiece—three La Perouse abos. were assid-
uously rendering native melodies on gum
leaves. Round the neck of one soloist was
a placard, “Dinkum aboriginal music.” The
spectacle will doubtless last in many minds,
and will be told of in many countries.
HATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The hard felt hat is slowly coming into its
own again.”—Akgus.
The panama’s gone to the pack;
Though you combed all our streets in a
motor
You’d hardly clap eyes
Upon one, I surmise,
And almost the same proposition applies
To the straw that was known as a
“boater.”
Right seldom you see
Nowadays a topee
Of the type that was designate solar.
But we’ll never be rid
Of one species of lid —
It always returns, does the bowler.
Opprobrious terms it defies,
Like the peas it allegedly dodges;
You shall notice anon
From Yarra to Swan
A steady increase in the dials whereon
It staidly or jauntily lodges.
Though some may revile
And disparage the tile
Contending there’s nothing unfitter
Or so sadly amiss
In a country like this,
You never can kill the hard-liitter.
There’s a sort of a curl in the rim
Looks rakish on Horace or Herbie,
But the lines seem to swerve
To a dignified curve
On a doctor or banker —the Yanks, I observe,
Refer to the gear as a Derby.
You can scarce say it chimes
With these suh-caressed climes;
Lands wintry if not semi-polar
Were its first habitat,
But what matter o’ that?
It always comes back, does the bowler.
It’s a link never loosed with the past;
Wide Woodrows discarded, we mingle
In fancy anew
With the Georgian crew
That Leebh and his fellow practitioners
drew,
Including Jos Sedley and Jingle.
A spell of neglect
It may sometimes expect
But never oblivion bitter.
And the pundits discern
That it’s due for return.
There’s nothing can kill the hard-hitter.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“F.S.”: Conan Doyle was badly let down
by Will Longstaff over the Gallipoli picture,
and artists generally will welcome the
painter’s stand for sanity and decency in a
craft where there are far too much cant and .
quackery. Longstaff has publicly denied that
he ever told Doyle that he painted the pic-
ture under the influence of the spirits. The
picture itself shows nothing to justify such
a claim. The theme is such as could have
been dredged out of any artist’s workaday
imagination. When the British fleet entered
the Dardanelles after the Armistice Norman
Lindsay had a cartoon in The Bulletin
with an equally effective idea behind it. The
originator was doubtless a hard-working
journalist with no time to go into a trance
and wait for spirit intervention. Reports
anent the execution of Longstaff’s painting
indicate technical qualities of no supernatural
excellence. At least, dozens have done as
well without claiming occult assistance.
An avidity for sensational publicity approach-
ing the morbid seems to be the trouble with
the creator of Sherlock Holmes.
* sic * *
“Oxmead”: Dickens worshippers who are
making explosive noises all over the world
because of the great author’s domestic in-
felicities being exhumed after 70 years may
PSYCHOLOGY AND PSOAP.
THE MERE MAID: “I’m sorry, but I would only marry a strong man—one who would
master me.”
THE ALMOST MALE: “Oh, I see —still keeping your schoolgirl complexes!”
have forgotten or never known that he him-
self was almost solely responsible for broad-
casting them during his own lifetime. In
his desperate fear, apparently, lest he should
be held to blame for his ultimate estrange-
ment from his wife, or his decision that they
were entirely unsuited to each other (after
she had borne him 10 children), he used
hi s position as editor of Household Words
to give his version of the trouble; in addi-
tion a letter of his was published charging
other persons with having spread false
rumors about the sorry business. Dickens
may have been absolutely blameless, but
his amazing lack of reticence or restraint
clearly disgusted some contemporary news-
papers, one of which very relevantly re-
marked : “In the name of commonsense
and manliness and self-respect let him keep
his private affairs to himself and his private
friends, and not trouble the public with
matters with which it has not the remotest
concern.” Dickens’s biographer Forster
took the advice, if Dickens himself didn’t;
if Forster had been as frank about his sub-
ject as Froude deemed it his duty to be
about the- Carlyles there would have been
little scope for a book like “This Side
Idolatry” in our time.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide is now running trans-
continental (south-to-north and back) pic-
nic tours. The choice is given of motoring
to the Flinders Range and wandering about
in Centralia, or using the rail at each end
and being motored across the central gap.
The latest “through” party wandered for 40
days, including a Saturday-to-Tuesday in
Darwin.
»{C Jjl 4*
“Weka”: The nomination system of
migration adopted by Maoriland may mini-
mise the risk of newcomers finding them-
selves stranded on arrival, but it doesn’t
eliminate it. Not long ago a duly nominated
family were discovered waiting on a city
station for something to turn up. They
had just disembarked from the ship, and the
seven of them had in ready cash the sum of
elevenpence. Their nominator, when finally
traced, was about as affluent. In a more
recent case the kind-hearted nominator of
five migrants was revealed as a recipient of
public benevolence. He had, however, taken
the precaution of obtaining blankets from
the Charitable Aid Board to make matters
a little more comfortable for his invited
guests.
* # -f-
-“ Morita”: When Fritz commenced his
strafe on Bailleul, a wine merchant there
hurriedly planted his large stock of cham-
pagne, picking an excellent hiding-place in
a dilapidated barn near Meteren. After the
merchant had been forced to continue his
retreat from Meteren, the good stuff re-
mained undetected for a few weeks, although
hundreds of thirsty Diggers on their way
to and from the line passed quite close to it.
It was some French artillerymen who finally
located the fizz, but they behaved as good
allies should, and our sector on the next
' afternoon looked as if a huge bargain sale
was in progress. All that could be seen
was troops humping cases to their temporary
homes. Our issue was hidden in the departed
barn-owner’s duckpond, and champagne
headed the menu for over a fortnight.
i'fi -!: •!'
“R. Volt”: Melbourne coroner Berriman
has had all Collins-street East up in arms
over his criticism of a lady doctor for not
persevering for more than an hour in restora-
tion measures on a man who had been killed
by an electric shock. In the first place,
unless she had assistance the feminine medico
was probably utterly exhausted after her 60
minutes. Producing artificial respiration is
a strenuous exercise even for a powerful man.
Secondly, the coroner merely voiced a popu-
lar delusion when he implied that a person
once dead can be restored to life even after
four hours have elapsed. The test of death
is the action of the heart. It is possible to
restore life if that organ is moving, how-
ever gently, but if it has stopped no power
on earth can get it in motion again. And
no amount of amateur coronial comment is
likely to keep doctors working at the impos
sible. Another test employed by a medico
of my acquaintance is to thrust a finger into
the subject’s eye. If there is no tension in
the cornea he makes out the death certificate,
* * * *
“H.S.”: The phenomenon, mentioned re-
cent]y tin pained surprise by the press, of
car-owning abos on Government reservations
is one that had to come. There seems to be
a subtle connection between the motoring
habit and the habit of being stone-broke.
I came across three youths in London who
had never worked in their lives, and were
proud of it. By devices which are well
understood amongst the work-shy of the U.K.
they had contrived for years to draw doles,
which they pooled. They owned a fairly pre-
sentable car, and used it, I was told, solely
for pleasure outings. There must be plenty
of Australian owner-drivers who are even
CONTAGIOUS?'
FIRST ONE: “I see the doctor’s gone to Freddie’s flat again—what’s he got?”
SECOND ONE: "They say about twenty thousand.”
less equipped financially to support cars
than the abos. or my English acquaintances,
for the mysterious passion for these vehicles
entertained by those who can’t afford them is
universal. Yet the very poor never kept
carriages before the motoring era, and it is
on record that a nineteenth-century Briton’s
respectability (and hence affluence) was
established if he “drove a gig.”
“Nakhoda”: The story about
the monkeys that reached the
Cornish coast after a ship-
wreck (B. 12/8/’2B) recalls an
occasion in Java when the
scared native population of the
coastal village where I was sta-
tioned excitedly reported that
evil sea spirits were arriving on
the beach in- droves. Going
down we duly discovered a herd
of water buffaloes assembled an
the sand, with more and more
emerging from the Java Sea and
joining them. It was the wet
monsoon, and a gale heavy with
moisture limited the visibility
to a hundred yards from shore.
The animals coming out of the
wall of mist and spume cer-
tainly looked uncanny enough,
especially as there was no land
in that direction for a hundred
miles. The natives, having
stifled their superstitious fears,
were calculating in guilders the
value of this windfall when a
damp and voluble explanation
arrived in the shape of a half-
caste Arab nakhoda of a tinpot
cattle steamer. Caught in the
monsoon the little craft had
polled the beasts clean out of
their stalls. In a few moments
they were a tangled mass of
beef, with legs breaking every
minute. The maddened skipper,
seeing the profits of the voyage
disappearing before his eyes,
eventually decided on heroic
measures. He let down the
cargo doors, and in a couple
of rolls the whole herd had
slipped overboard. Then he
put in to the nearest harbor
and hurried along to collect
them.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s firm conviction that
nobody but the dog should be expected to
sleep in a wooden house has been helped on
by the burning of one at Morphettville. This
was the last of three which came from
America half a century back, were bought
by Thomas Elder, and by him erected close
to the racecourse, where they were constantly
pointed out as curiosities. With unlimited
brick-clay on one side and building-stone on
the other, the city has from the very start
been solidly constructed.
* * *
“Topee” : A garnishee order isn’t the only-
legal process liable to miscarry (B. 5/9/’2B).
.At Victoria Barracks (Sydney) in the
’nineties were two officers of the same
(unusual) name and equal rank but, except
as brothers in chronic impecuniosity, unre-
lated. A well-known moneylender of the
period had sent a bailiff with a distress
warrant for one of the pair; walking through
the open door he served it on the wrong
officer. The latter, after offering his visitor
refreshment, slipped out and reported a writ-
ter in the offing to his comrade; returning
with a couple of witnesses, he dismissed the
intruder. Then he rode to the city and in-
structed his solicitor to issue a writ claiming
substantial damages for the outrage. Next
day the lawyer 1 suggested an easy settle-
ment, as he had been advised that if the
case went to court the financier intended to
plead that his bailiff had been so accus-
tomed to serve writs on the same officer at
the same quarters that his error in this in-
stance was natural and excusable! Case
settled out of court.
:«c
“Ena” : You never know where you won't
come across romance. Quoth the voluble
gesticulating Italian to the stout lady who
was sitting next to me in the suburban ’bus:
“I met-a Mr. Purse-a yesterday, and he say
‘Jeem, see that beeg box? Well all-a my
troubles would not-a fit into it!’ And I
say to him ‘Well-a, Mr. Purse-a, you ask-a
for trouble and you get it,’ I say.” “That’s
right, Jim,” interjected the large dame, and
thus encouraged Jim continued: “Yes, I
say to him, ‘Mr. Purse-a, you had a lovely
little wife-a and you go leave her for
another girl....you deserve-a trouble when
you leave-a your lovely lectle wife.’”
“That’s right, Jim,” the stout lady put in
again in a tone of entire agreement. Then
the ’bus stopped and she alighted with a
“Good-bye, Jim!” “Good-a-bye, Mrs.
Purse-a,” came the beaming reply.
* ss * *
“D.”: By what rule of journalistic eti-
quette is the ceremonial prefix “Mister"
granted or denied to those in legal trouble?
Take the case of Matthew Bigger, who was
“vagged” on his arrival in Sydney aboard
the Aorangi. The S. M. Herald “mistered”
him over nearly half a column. He is
wanted by the police in the U.S.A., was
“vagged” out of Sydney two years ago, and
his calling was adumbrated delicately in the
phrase:—
Mr. Bigger has visited many countries, and has-
been engaged in many speculative enterprises.
Amongst those whom I have seen “mistered"
in the London papers were a blackmailer
and a young man who made a practice of be-
traying elderly ladies and then robbing them;
and, of course, accused naval or military
officers practically always get their service
titles.
* * * *
“Cutter”: A farmer from the Backblocks.
when called upon at the New Plymouth
(M.L.) Police Court to explain why he had
parked his motor at one Of the busiest tram
stops, quoted the sign “All cars stop here."
If the municipal authorities meant trams,
he continued, why couldn’t they say so
instead of setting a trap for a law-abiding
cocky? The beak nodded sympathetically
and dismissed the case.
ATTABOY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a land where love is seldom men-
tioned ; they prefer
To say that she has “fall’n for him,” or he
mayhap for her.
Nor will the maiden jilt the swain she finds
inadequate;
She’ll give the hapless soul “the air” or, pos-
sibly, “the gate.”
But out of all the terms our Trans-Pacific
kin employ
The one whose origin intrigues me most is
“Attaboy.”
There is a land whereto there flows gold
from all earth, a land
Where, when you’ve “iron men” enough you
label them a “grand” ;
Where “got” and “over” they expand, and
“two-or-three” compress,
Where “sir” ’s a strengthening suffix, not a
method of address,
Where wild enthusiasm, partisanship, bub-
bling joy
And passionate encouragement unite in
“Attaboy!”
There is a land where few are ignorant of
what it means
To “pass the buck” and nobody can’t con-
strue “spill the beans” ;
Where “Howcome” somebody invites on
something light to throw,
Where cautious acquiescence is conveyed by
“seems as though.”
Some of these phrases “tickle me to death”
and some annoy.
I wonder who it was enriched the tongue
with “Attaboy”?
There is a land where politicians (same as
here) cabal
And Hoover’s fast in holts with Smith, fam-
iliarly Al.;
What points essential separate the estimable
twain
Or which will “put it over” which, “search
me !”—but ’twill be vain.
Yet there’s one picture in my mind that
nothing can destroy:
Some threescore millions behind each, all
yelling “Attaboy!”
N.S.W.
IFORD.
SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gaily the blackbird sings,
And sings the thrush;
And there is scent of wattle in the bush.
And Pan’s green pipe mellifluously rings
September echoes that will haunt the year.
The greenhoods wake and nod;
Unfold and send a spire
Of soft green scent to join the upward fire.
All the green earth is questioning for God.
But my heart only sings that you are here!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWEKYN LUCAS.


m
<53
m
m 1
m
Navy
Cut
i ■
..
r.
w&
Mrnmmm i ■ m mm • i
M •-. . - s ,«
■
ns i
•V V-' *-.-v
'
m #; W/y
OB' liF/it t.vcrfA'^'/r^s
i«gi
J>
*■
MEDIUM STRENGTH rag
l
S< vi
« * «
©
A
0
w .
7)
W.D.&H.U.WiLLS,
l
m
\
<
V> v ~*A
>7
r%
MU::
J
:: •'
©
ls~y
t
r
(V
V
Start
tAe
uwtttj&i


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L,,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Ueherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
OAK CABINET
containing very heavily silver-
plated Spoons and Forks,
Fairfax & Roberts A 1 Quality,
£l4
in Old English design and Harrison Bros,
and Howson Rustless Cutlery with white
handles, round or square, 47 pieces as
follows:
6 Stainless Dinner Knives
6 Stainless Dessert Knives
6 Dessert Forks
6 Table Forks
1 Pair Carvers
6 Dessert Spoons
6 Tea Spoons
2 Table Spoons
6 Soup Spoons
1 Steel
m
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
'Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Foriy Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ages this year of members of the House
of Representatives, according to Fred
Johns’s “Who’s .Who in Australia”:—
Abbott 42, Atkinson 61, Bayley 46, Col. Bell 56,
Blakeley 42, Bowden 56, Prime Minister Bruce 45,
Col. Cameron 49, Charlton 62, Coleman 36, Cook
59, Duncan-llughes 46, Forde 38, Foster 72, Gardner
44, Major-Gen. John Gellibrand 56, P.M.-Gen. Gibson
59, A. E. Green 59, Roland Green 43, Gregory 68,
Speaker Groom 61, Gullett 50, Minister Hill 62,
OTWAY FALKINER, Australia’s big
pastoralist and racing man.
Major-Gen. Neville Hovree, V.C., 64, “Billy” Hughes
64, Col. Hurry 60, Jackson 39, Elliot Johnson 66,
Attorney-Gen. Latham 51, Ley 49, Lister 53, Mackay
56, Makin 39, Dr. Maloney 74, Mann 54, Marks 53,
Major Marr 48, Dr. Earle Page 48, Parsons 47,
Prowse 57, E. C. Riley 36, Rodgers 53, Scullin 52,
Stewart 43, Theodore 44, Thompson 43, Watkins 63,
and Watt 57.
The regard in which L. A. Adamson, Wes-
ley College’s head, is held was shown by the
pomp and circumstance which surrounded
the presentation to the school of the por-
trait of him painted by Mclnnes. State
Governor Somers handed over the likeness.
It depicts the venerable pedagogue closely
associated with a tankard, which, however,
contained nothing more bacchanalian than
biscuits. Adamson joined Wesley as senior
resident master in 1887, and has remained
with the famous school ever since.
One of the most placid and pleasant of
politicians in Maoriland’s Parliament, David
Buddo, who has occupied the Kaiapoi seat,
with one interregnum (1919-22), for 30
years, has decided to take a rest, and de-
serves it. He was one of Seddon’s most
trusted supporters, and Joe Ward gave him
the portfolios of Internal Affairs, Health
and Commerce and Industries, which he
held for the last three years of the Liberal
regime. Homely of speech and thought, as
honest as the day and as dependable as the
compass, his broad, beaming face and grizzled
spade beard were about the most cheerful
things to be seen in the biggest wooden build-
ing in the world for many a long year. The
House got the shock of its life when he had
a clean shave half a dozen years ago.
Earle Page still has a good deal of doc-
toring to do. During the last election, for
instance, he paused in his campaigning to
give the necessary attention to a woman
whose bush home his car was passing and
who successfully brought a new Australian
into the world. His most recent patient was
Parker Moloney, who was seized suddenly
with appendicitis at Canberra. Only a
couple of days before they had been breathing
wrath at one another because Moloney
asserted that Page was trying to steal the
Hume seat by failing to provide sufficient
money to keep his electors employed on the
Hume reservoir.
J. W. Davidson, who has been reappointed
Commissioner for Railways in Bananaland
for a further five years, has held the job
during the most thankless period of the
State’s railway history; he has already occu-
pied the office for close on ten years. A
Glasgow lad, he began work in the Queens-
land traffic-manager’s office in 1890, and
when J. F. Thallon became general traffic-
manager and. later, Commissioner, the young-
ster rose w'tli him. Davidson succeeded his
old chief.
G. W. Mclntosh, one of the oldest and
best known bank managers in Maoriland, is
retiring from the general managership of
the National Bank after 53 years’ service.
J. T. Grose, inspector of the Bank of
N.S.W. in M.L., steps into his shoes. Grose,
a son of a Bananaland civil servant of the
’sixties, started adding figures in Townsville
(Q.) 40 years ago, and in 1909 was reliev-
ing inspector for the State. He was then
sub-inspector in Sydney and secretary under
John Russell French, later becoming in-
spector in Melbourne. He also worked in
the Speck, and during the war overhauled
the Commonwealth Defence Department’s
system of accountancy.
Although up against Victoria’s Chief Rail-
way Commissioner Clapp, the Hogans never
seem to say anything derogatory of Molomby
and Shannon, the other commissioners.
Molomby was appointed by the Prendergast
Government four years ago, when Hogan was
Minister for Railways. Shannon was re-
appointed by the present Government; in
fact, Hogan and co. found that the last
Government had forgotten to continue Shan-
non, and they had to get an Act passed to
hitch him on again.
J. B. Davison, dead in Adelaide at 91,
was one of the very last of the South Aus.
“pioneers”—arrivals before 1841). (He came
in 1839, at the age of two.) He was also
the last survivor of the 11 scholars present
on the opening day of St. Peter’s College in
1849. He was pastoralist and grazier, always
in S.A., except for a period in the Barrier’s
boom days, when he held a lease at Purna-
moota, out north from Broken Hill.
Zane Grey, due to return to Maoriland in
December, is transferring his camp from the
Bay of Islands to the Bay of Plenty, and
will probably make his headquarters at Mer-
cury Bay, instead of at the popular Mayor
Island. As Whitianga, the township of Mer-
cury Bay, is not over-run with tourists, Grey
will probably find there a solitude not to be
obtained at the much-boomed and patronised
northern fishing-grounds.
Christchurch (M.L.) loses the services
of its superintendent of parks and gardens
when Jimmy Young retires at the end of
the year. A Scot who learned his lore of
tree, bush and flower in the gardens of lords
and lairds, he got his first public job in the
Dominion as curator of the Ashburton
domain a quarter of a century ago. At
Christchurch they gave him 80 acres of park
and gardens to play with, and he created a
superb native garden, a huge rose garden,
and a winter garden that has no equal in the
Quavery Isles. A masterful little man, he
can relinquish his job with the' feeling that
no one could have done it better.
Adelaide-born artist Henry Lamb had to
marry Lady Margaret Pansy Felicia Paken-
ham, eldest daughter of the Earl (fifth) of
Longford, before the press agents considered
him worth mentioning in a cablegram. Lamb
created a sensation in London art circles a
few years ago when his portrait of Lytton
Strachey was exhibited at the Tate. It was
a masterly cartoon rather than a portrait,
and therefore far more truthful. It dis-
sected Stracliey as wittily as that eminent
Victorian had dissected Gladstone and Queen
Victoria. Lamb is 43 and was trained for
the medical profession. He might have be-
come a great newspaper caricaturist, but
made himself a painter instead. He is re-
garded as one of the most original and the
sanest of the modern school. His impressions
of the war. absorbed as a battalion medical
officer in Palestine, Macedonia and France,
are among the most brilliant pictures the
big fight produced.
Hunter (N.S.W.) will have to look for a
new representative for the Federal elections ;
MATTHEW
CHARLTON.
Matt Charlton, a
sick man, has sud-
denly decided to
drop out of politics.
Charlton began in
the N.S.W. Assem-
bly as member for
Waratah in 1903,
transferring to Fed-
eral politics seven
years later. A man
who takes life very
seriously, he has
been much worried
by the turbulence
in the Labor ranks
during the last few
years, and on sev-
eral occasions the
threat of resigna-
tion has been in his
voice. Although
not brilliant, he has
been a worthy suc-
cessor to such
Labor leaders as
Watson and Fisher.
II e has always
given dignity to his
job.
True philanthropist to the last, Aaron
Banks, hardware man, who died in Mel-
bourne in June, left a big lump of his
estate of nearly £200,000 to charity. A son
and _ daughter each get a quarter share.
During her lifetime his wife is to have the
income from a quarter share and the other
quarter is to go to charity. On her death
half of the estate is to be used in perpetuity
for charitable purposes—religious, educa-
tional and the relief of poverty.
Lately dead, at 66, S. M. Cummins, who
carved out the road from Mount Victoria to
the Jenolan Caves. In the ’nineties he
pitted with wells long stretches of the Wil-
cannia stock routes, for which job his name
is still blessed.
A fine old gardener -was J. E. Rowell,
lately dead in Adelaide at just on 80. At
one time lie was chairman of directors of
the East End Market Co. The family has
always been prominent in citizen-soldiering;
Colonel _ Rowell, a commander in South
Africa', is a brother, and “J.E.,” as he was
always called, was himself a captain in the
Lancers long ago. He lost a son on Galli-
poli. Another stayed in Capetown after the
Boer War, and is now near the top of the
S. African Railways and Harbors service.
William Bragg, the new president of the
British Science Association, has a close
connection with Australia. He came to
Adelaide University, fresh from a wrangler-
ship at Cambridge, at the beginning of
1886, _ held the chair of mathematics and
physics there till 1908. and married a
daughter of Charles Todd, Postmaster-Gen-
eral and Government Astronomer of S.A.
He was one of the earliest radium investi-
gators, and since returning to England has
been awarded a Nobel prize, jointly with his
son W.L., who was born in Adelaide. As
a side-line, he was one of the pioneers of
lacrosse in Australia.
It has always been reckoned that just-
dead Edward Randall Scott Stafford, of St.
Kilda, was the first white baby to see the
light in Melbourne. He was born on Feb.
28, 1837, near the corner of Collins and
Elizabeth streets, and the event was re-
garded as sufficiently important for the Pri-
mate of Australia to journey toilsomely
across from Sydney to christen the infant.
The commander and the surgeon of the
first British warship to enter Port Phillip
were the godparents; poet Gordon was a
cousin. The State was served by its first
baby quietly and unobtrusively; he was in
the Board of Works, retiring on a pension
25 years ago.
Gone west, at 84, Peter McCracken, of
Launceston, who was Hon. Minister in
the Earle Government, which gave the Speck
its first sample of Labor rule. For a num-
ber of years he ran a hardware business, and
when he retired in 1894 he became an aider-
man and was twice Mayor. For a few years
lie sat for Launceston in the Assembly, and
when he lost his seat to W. Batchelor he had
a walkover for a vacant seat in the other
House. The old chap was very disappointed
when lie was refused for war service on the
score of age; his brother Jack, only a few
years younger, actually did manage to get
away.
“Exdig”: J. P. Davis, who pegged out the
A.I.F. badge on the hillside at Fovant (B.
12/9/’2B), is now a commercial artist in Syd-
ney. In 1914 he and writer-artist Jack
Somers, finding things rather bad in Bris-
bane, tramped to Sydney, staying at various
towns on the way long enough to get out
an illustrated booklet of each place. They
arrived in the Harbor town full of cash and
good health in time to be amongst the earliest
entrants into the A.I.F. Both are old Bulle-
tin men.
Dr. Stan Argyle, Toorak’s choice, who
has been made deputy-leader of Yic. Oppo-
sition, did not get into politics till he
was just on 53. During liis eight years in
the Assembly lie was Chief Secretary and
Minister for Health with different Govern-
mcnts for a little more than three years. He
is aggressive, and is not easily shaken off
once he bites. An ex-president of the Vic.
branch of the 8.M.A., he specialises in
X-rays.
R. Steer Bowker, of Sydney, who has died
at 69, was a surgeon of the type of his
junior, the late Herbert Maitland, and his
senior, the still-living Alexander McCor-
mick. Tall, burly and energetic, he was
almost as much interested in. sea sport of
all kinds as he was in his profession. He
was also a well-known racing man, and one
of the habitual card-players of the Aus-
tralian Club. He had been associated with
the Sydney Hospital for nearly 40 years.
Harry Pollitt, whom the Trades Union
Congress refused to accept as a delegate at
Swansea the other day, is Britain’s most
energetic revolutionary. He is short, thick-
set, dark-haired and sallow-complexioned,
and he speechifies with persuasive gentle-
ness in a Midlands accent —in Australia he
would pass as a typical Choom. Ilis ability
is great, and when he was tried at the Old
Bailey early this year on a sedition charge
the Recorder complimented him. He de-
fended himself, and got an acquittal. He
attracts big crowds to his meetings, but the
peaceable and hard-headed English are not
prominent; his chief supporters are the Rus-
sians and Jews who live about Limehouse.
“R. 8.”: I nominate as one of the three
out of four who don’t read books (B.
12/9/’2B) a Castlereagh-street (Sydney)
bookseller of 30 years’ standing. He had to
go into hospital for a few months recently,
and I suggested that he must be glad of the
chance to do some reading without the inter-
ruption of customers. He assured me it
made no difference. “My boy, I’ve never read
a book in my life, and I’m not going to start
now.” And there’s not a man in Sydney
with a shrewder knowledge of his trade.
E. R. PEACOCK, governing director of
Peacock Bros., Melbourne, and Consul
for Czechoslovakia in Victoria. He
was a delegate to the Rotary Confer-
ence at Ostend.
Jack Thurston was the oldest living mem-
ber of the Launceston Stock Exchange until
he paid his last contribution to the specu-
lation of life at 81 the other day. A native
of Kent, he was interested in several early
discoveries on the Speck’s mining fields, not-
ably during the development of the Lefroy
and Beaconsfield areas.
THE NARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though I try to love my fellows, aud the
longer that I live
Finds me less and less resentful and more
ready to forgive,
To disturb my pleasant musings and arouse
my wrath again
Comes that, most unpleasant person with his
“Garn! I knew ’im when”
Let a fellow strike a winner after many
anxious days,
Let his hard toil be rewarded with a little
cash and praise,
Let the mob express its pleasure, or display
its interest,
There’ll be one, at least, among it who is
not the least impressed.
When upon a fellow’s darkness at long
last there breaks a light,
When his struggles and his strivings bring
the happy goal in sight,
There’ll be somebody who knew him, he will
eagerly declare,
When his pants were out of order and his
boots in disrepair.
For the nark is always with us, and his
tongue must evei> flap,
And depreciation trickle from his weak and
flabby trap,
He’s eternally contrasting someone’s past and
present lot
And descanting enviously on the “luck some
coves have got.”
When a fellow takes the ferry plying to the
Golden Shore,
When his merit is rewarded as it never was
before.
As he passes down the centre, past the
bowing cherubim,
He will hear above the cheering an incredu-
lous “Wot, ’Im?”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


LOVE ME, LOVE MY DOG.
“The N.S.W. wheatgrowers have negatived the compulsory wheat-pool proposal by a substantial majority. They were influenced more by past experience of
Government mismanagement than by objections to the pooling principle.”
THE OLD LADY: “Why kick him? He’s not a bad dog."
THE OLD FARMER: “I’ve got no time for his master.”


fs
‘My dear, you told me
REX-PYE is delicious.
And so it is.”
The reasons Z Only choicest raw materials;
clear, firm jelly; delicate spicing; en casserole
cooking to retain the natural juices and food
values; a perfect, hygienic, solderless can.
Recent visitors from the Australian Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures were
amazed at the up-to-dateness and cleanliness
of our huge canning room. “ I have seen
over 100 canning rooms in America, 5 ” said
one, “ and this surpasses them all'.”
Put quality before cheapness. Buy REX*
PYE, the finest meat in the world.
In 1 lb. and # lb. cans
ins
df
Mr.
IN JtUV
PURE FOODS
Other REX Pure Foods
lib, and }j lb. CANS
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans
and Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
lib. CANS ONLY
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice beef and
vegetables —a ready meal
FOCGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon


sd
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
(1)
(2)
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.;—
Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Heb Majesty's “The Student Prince”
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Palace “The Bird in Hand”
Empire “Annie Laurie” & “Eris”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Alajesty's “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “All the King’s Horses”
King's “The Donovan Affair”
Athenjsum “Saturday’s Children”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
“The Patsy,” introduced to Sydney at the
Criterion on Saturday, is merely another
member of the Cinderella family, but the
stereotyped theme is worked out with un-
usual freshness and a deal of humor. A
simple artistry helps Irene Homer 1 to set
the house bubbling even when she merely says
“Gosh!” or uses a sound which is nothing
but a vocal question mark; and though the
subdued shyness demanded by the part is
occasionally carried to excess the new lady
scored a triumph as the Patsy on the open-
ing night, and was taken to the bosom of
her public in demonstrative fashion. Eileen
Sparks, as the snappy and pampered elder
sister, Grace, excels all her previous work,
and Vera Gerald is admirably suited as
the neurotic mother; but it is A. S. Byson
as the protective but wife-bossed commercial
traveller who, next to Irene Homer,
gives the play its success. Brandon Peters
is a likeable young man who does not know
he is Prince Charming, or that he wants to
be, until the last act. Sam Wren gets
less opportunity as Billy Caldwell, scion
of a wealthy family, who is to have the
privilege of paying for the diamonds
and bridge debts of Grace —the comedy pro-
vides a happy ending even for the ugly-
spirited sister, if not for the unsuspecting
Billy.
* * *
“Interference” was unfolded at Sydney
Royal on Saturday. When the previous hus-
band of Faith, who believes herself to be
the wife of Sir John Marley, M.D., turns
up as a patient of the doctor, there are natu-
rally unpleasant developments, especially as
Deborah Kane, bitterly jealous of the dis-
sipated Philip Voaze, gets hold of the story
and some letters. Sir John, determined that
ELSIE PRINCE, who came to Australia for two years and
has stayed for four. When “Good News” is staged in
Sydney she will play the lead.
Faith shall not suffer, and unaware that she
knows her husband has been resurrected, is
beginning to consider whether the di struction
of the drug-soaked adventuress would be justi-
fiable, but Philip saves him the trouble.
The result is a tangle of cross purposes, the
doctor’s desire to shield his wife and Faith’s
desire to shield her husband helping to make
matters worse. The tangle gives Leon Gor-
don, as the cynical waster, an opportunity
to make the atonement expected in such a
part; but the main honors go to C. M.
Hallard, as the polished John Marley. May
Collins gets her first real opportunity as
Deborah, a woman of loose passions and drug-
frayed nerves, and utilises it to the full;
and Zillah Bateman shows herself a lady
with a nice sense of marital loyalty, at least
to her second husband. In addition there are
some pressmen of the strange type the stage
has developed, but the acting is sufficiently
good to keep the sword of Damocles hanging
over the heads of various. innocent persons
until it is time for it to fall upon the right
neck.
* * *
The English country inn persistently in-
trudes into modern fiction and drama ; “The
Bird in Hand,” which opened at Sydney
Palace on Saturday, is John Drinkwater’s
contribution. The Arcadian pub is kept
by Tom Greenleaf, the 65-year-old father of
a daughter who has absorbed modern ideas
and a liigh-school education. Joan flouts
parental authority by going a-moboring with
Gerald Arnwood, scion of a county family.
Results include some sparkling dialogue, in
which a strangely assorted group of inn-
guests become involved, a breaking down of
his daughter’s door by an enraged father
when Joan returns, and a considerable show
of night apparel while the situation is being
discussed; but, of course, there is the usual
pleasant ending. Gregan McMahon appears
as the obstinate innkeeper; Eardley Turner
as Godolphin, Iv.C.; Leonard Stephens as
the comical Blanquet, a traveller in sar-
dines; and John Burch as a young man who
dabbles in Fabian socialism on tin* wealth
provided by a rankly Tory dad who made
it out of yeast. Pearl Appleton is charm-
ing enough as the rather cold heroine usual
with the modern dramatists; and Edward
Ashley fits in as a likeable lover who owns,
in Arthur Greenaway, a capable stage father
suffering much less from a class-distinction
complex than the untravelled drawer of ale.
There are many of the recognised in-
gredients of the Australian play in ‘My
Pal Ginger,” which George Sorlie has in-
troduced at the Sydney Grand Opera House:
but it has up-to-date developments, and the
central character is a sort of Robin Hood
who makes a business of interfering bene-
ficently in other people’s affairs. George
Sorlie" has a robust singing voice to help
him in this popular role; and although the
cast has some palpable weaknesses, the piece
is well stage-managed and runs briskly.
At Ai
William Heugli-
an, who gave three
concerts last week
at the Sydney
Town Hall, has a
fine voice and genu-
ine dramatic talent;
in addition he is a
liberal entertainer
who responds gen-
erously to his audi-
ence’s demands.
Heughan wanders
from the folk-songs
of Scotland to those
of Russia ; anon he
soars into opera;
and to most of his
songs he prefaces
some explanatory
comment which
adds to their inter-
est.
sj;
“The Student
Prince” continues
to be torn by ro-
mantic anguish be-
tween the claims
of his throne and
the allure of Bep-
pie de Vries at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney,
whilst the robust
male chorus fills
the house with
melody; the untir-
ing “Rio Rita”
goes on at the St.
James with no sug-
gestion of a change;
and the Empire
Theatre is satisfied
with the “Eris” re-
vue and the “Annie
Laurie”' film.
* *
“Barb ell e” re-
mains the biggest
of several big noises
at Sydney Tivoli; not for ages have
such thrills been administered to occu-
pants of the stalls as when the performer,
swinging over their heads, hurls herself into
new positions on the swaying ropes. Jimmy
noisy shouts from back of scenes, have made
their riot of nonsense popular. Long Tack
Sam returns on Saturday.
* * *
“The Lady Buccaneers” are holding up
Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney, this week; in the
vaudeville section Renee Dixon is making
a solo appearance, and the Two Daleys pro-
vide an amusing contribution, “Topicalities.
The comedy sketch given by Charles Nor-
man and Heather Jones is amongst the new
programme’s choicest items.
* * *
“Rain” commenced to fall heavily at the
Regent Theatre (Sydney) on Saturday;
under the title of “Sadie Thompson,” Somer-
set Maugham’s tale of tropic atmosphere and
passion arrived in
its picture form.
More restraint than
might have been ex-
pected is used by
Gloria Swanson in
the part of the girl
who claimed that
she wasn’t bad but
“just crazy about
life.” “Diamond
Handcuff” provides
a stirring extra
film. It would be
hard for the Ger-
man makers of
“The Exploits of
the Emden” to re-
cognise the film
which has arrived
at the Prince Ed-
ward. The raider
keeps a moderately
accurate course un-
til its meeting with
the Austr ali a n
Navy. At that
stage the assistance
of the naval autho-
rities was sought to
correct some tech-
nical discrepancies,
and it was given so
whole - heartedly
that forthwith the
picture became
“The Exploit of the
Sydney.” The Aus-
tralian-made scenes
have been skilfully
welded into the pic-
ture, however; the
defects are an over-
dose of gunfire and
martial sounds and
songs. Another in-
sight into the dry-
ness of America is
given in “T h e
Road House,” screened at Hoyt s. It has
a remarkable amount of excitement per pint
of “hooch.” “Under the Black Eagle is
the companion film.
“Saturday’s Children,” at Melbourne
Athenaeum, ‘is an American middle-class com-
edy on a frankly Stopesian theme. All pre-
vious obstetrical drama has 'shared the
assumption of the Australian aboriginal that
the doctor brings the baby in a bag. As a
woman newly married to an indigent male,
Leona Hogarth makes no bones about the
matter. She holds the threat of deliberate
motherhood over her husband’s —Leonard
Doyle’s—head, a baby being a life sentence
which chains a man to his helpmate’s side.
“Saturday’s Children” is unlikely to be a
popular success; there is, however, an inter-
esting middle act, where the obstetrical in-
formation is divulged, and the snorts, gasps
and giggles amongst the audience suggest
that it is news to some. The landlady of
Elizabeth Mears is a sad waste of effort, the
farce manner being out of place; and Ray-
mond Van Sickle has a steam-rollered Ameri-
can voice. On the whole, however, the piece
is well enough done, and Evelyn Wade is
ail ornament to the cast.
# ¥ *
There is neither sense nor sensibility in
“The Silent House,” introduced by Maurice
Moscovitch on Saturday to Melb. Royal.
The business of the secret doorway and the
imprisoned female on the right of the fire-
place is only slightly less twaddlesome than
the business of the sliding panel and the
venomous serpent on the left. The crudity
of the exits and entrances made by the vari-
ous crooks, Chows and chumps would rouse
the derisive jeers of any intelligent infant.
As an unholy heathen terror the Chinaman
that Moscovitch impersonates is a dwarf
whale of melodrama, and the climax to the
evening’s folly is a sprat. Miss Riccardo
makes the best and Richard Fair the worst
of their long and idiotic parts. It is nearly
time Moscovitch omitted the inevitable
apology for staging rot.
In a prospectus which a rude person
might describe as cocky, the Gong Theatre
club (174 Queen-street, Melb.) announces
that it is not amateur but professional.
Nevertheless, its opening performance
started at ten to nine instead of eight, the
wait being enlivened by the famous "Ham-
mering and Sawing” overture from “Forty
Minutes Late.” The first offering was a
play by Tolstoi, a cloudy dramatisation of
the idiotic thesis the Russian wowser
advanced in “What Is Art?” The second
piece was “The Lucky One ’ —probably the
deftest thing A. A. Milne ever wrote, but
never produced commercially, no doubt be-
cause of its unhappy ending. Norman Hey-
manson, Golin Tapley and Nelly Dennes
were equal to the dramatic jjortions of the
play, but their fellow-Gongites trod on the
comedy parts with heavy, uninspiring feet.
The Gong Theatre accommodates its patrons
in elegant canegrass chairs. Evidently a
lot of money has been spent, though the
MAY COLLINS, who plays in “Interference,” by Leon Gordon,
at the Sydney Royal.
stage is the usual abbreviated affair. A
novelty is the banging of a gong before the
curtain goes up. Another is the proposal
to give 865 performances a year.
To-morrow afternoon Melba, Brownlee,
Mummery and others of the late grand-
opera troupe will be heard in excerpts' from
“BohCme” and “Otello.” This is by way
of compensation for a short opera season
and no return.
* * *
Bill Ayr and Co. will endeavor to succeed
where Miss Starr failed by staging “East
Lynne” at Melbourne Palace on Saturday.
* * *
In “Beware of Married Men,” Irene Rich
is at home to two daily housefuls of friends
at Melb. Majestic this week. Harold Lloyd
is appearing in “Speedy” at Hoyt’s. There
is nothing new or original in the latest
Harold, but lie is as funny as ever.
The movies making up the current pro-
gramme at Melb. Playhouse hail from three
countries, and all show infantile paralysis
in the reconstruction. Perhaps the worst is
“Mata Hari,” emanating from Germany, a
country hitherto remarkable for the intelli-
gence of its films. Mata Hari was a half-
caste Javanese who was shot as a spy by
the French. So as not to cause another
occupation of the Ruhr, presumably, the
producers have turned the shooting over to
the Russians; and so as not to offend the
lowest common denominator of stupidity in
their audiences, apparently, they have trans-
formed the spy into a second Nurse Cavell.
One of the minor inaccuracies of a foolish
film is the presentation of the Javanese as
Buddhists.
# * *
The Agricultural Show has pervaded all
shows in Adelaide, even the Bach Society
advertising (Register, 14/9/’2B) “Best
Pair of Sirens” as though it proposed to
start a stud of them. The opera season
at the Royal saw a brilliant house for the
new “Turandot,” with Puccini’s tremendous
orchestration. Quick changes have since
run through the older operas, from
“Lucia” to “Rigoletto.” All seem to score
equally well, and the public is rushing its
rare opportunity. Other entertainments are
the beautiful but sad war story of “Wings”
at the Pav.; a big German “Metropolis” of
the future at the Regent; “Uncle Tom,’
revived at the York; and the Eucharistic
Congress prominent on the programme of
Wondergraph.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
OIHSI
<2
a
H
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment—and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout your plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
<UTur f
o^s
Acquire Right Knowledge
and Win Business Success
Accounting to-day is a specialised art, and only those who have
been properly trained in its principles and practice can hope to succeed.
Take the first step towards high executive rank by determining to qualify as an Accountant
and Secretary.
The 8.1. A. course is the most modern and the most practical available in Australia. It is
not theoretical. It has been compiled by men of eminence in business life and epitomises actual
current business experience.
When you have graduated through 8.1. A. you will be practised in handling the actual
transactions and solving the actual problems that will face you in your future business career.
Success in the examinations is guaranteed, and the fee is moderate and inclusive.
Seize your opportunity and apply at once for full particulars.
BLENNERHASSETT’S INSTITUTE OF ACCOUNTANCY, LTD.,
Correspondence Coaches, Accountancy and Secretarial Specialists.
SYDNEY: Head Office, Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street. ’Phone B 5388.
NEWCASTLE: Commonwealth Bank Chambers, Newcomen Street. ’Phone,
Newcastle 1895-
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Exton House, Queen Street. ’Phone, Central 2320.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Holden’s Motor Body Builders, Ltd.
Towards
June, Profits.* Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 43,881
1921.. 12,634 8 p.c. = 10,400 2,234 41,647
1922.. 34,755 10 „ „ 13,000 21,755 19,892
Reserves.
1923.. 93,003 10 „ „ 13,000 80,003 60,111
1924 116 936 P re t 8 p.c. = 9,002
1 b ’ 1 Ord. 10 ~ „ 19,500 80,908 141,019
Pref. issue exes., £7626
Dropped out of reserves, £14,322 126,697
1925.. 185.506 j 259,640
1926.. 160.957 j j} 81 .338 340,978
Premiums on shares, £78,000.. 418,978
1927.. 180.688 ] BP-C-=16,000 8 P- C -=16,000 | 88>638 507,616
1928.. 186 jgf J } 1,851 508,867
♦lncludes net additions to depreciation and other
reserves.
(Approximate.
Hitherto circumstances have been kind; a
long run of good seasons, accompanied by
lavish borrowing, free spending and a boom
in the motor trade, helped the figures along
in fine style. But last year money was
tighter and the spending power of the public
was curtailed; this showed up in a marked
depression in the motor trade. One result
was that Holden’s turnover fell away
£681,165. It was the first visible falter in
the co.’s progress since the public became
interested eight years ago. The next com-
parison shows how turnover has behaved
since 1922: —
1922.. £357,645 1926.. £2,251,281
1923.. 775,474 1927.. 2,831,442
1924.. 1,404,650 1928.. 2,150,277
1925.. 1,945,825
Last year’s turnover was only 1.9 times the
average capital employed compared with 4,
3.6, 4.3, 4.5 and 5.9 back to 1923. The drop,
of course, was reflected in a sharp decline in
the net profit, which fell away £45,502 to
£135,186. But that is counting as profit net
additions to the depreciation and other re-
serves, all of which may not be true profit.
Here is a detailed view of the movements in
the various reserves since 1926: —
1926 1927 1928
Buildings, plant, etc... £141,396 £194,402 £263,005
Taxation .. .. 60,145 60,662 60,008
General .. .. 50,000 134,117 135,550
Insurance . . . . 10,000 10,000 10,000
Bad and doubtful debts 5,000 10,000 10,000
Undivided profit . . 74,437 98,435 30,304
Total .. .. £340,978 £507,616 £508,867
The possibilities are that opportunity has
been taken during a run of rich years to
protect asset values on a generous scale, and
that much, if not all, of the additions to the
depreciation reserve has been in excess of
actual current requirements. It is worth
noting that this reserve has not been visibly
affected by the constant scrapping of old
machines, long before they are worn out, on
account of the management’s vigorous war
against production costs. However, so many
factors enter into such accounts as these
that the declared profit is at best an esti-
mate, the accuracy or otherwise of which
may take years to discover. Last year the
accounts claimed as net profit £160,693, of
which £25,000 was earmarked for taxation,
and the net addition to the depreciation re-
serve was £68,603. Still, influenced by the
co.’s strong position, which is largely due to
the conservative policy followed in the past,
the board repeated the 15 p.c. to the ords.,
with a warning that future distributions
would be governed by trading results.
Recognising that the motor industry had
entered upon a period of readjustment, and
that sales, especially during the second half
of the term, would fall short of budget esti-
mates, the energetic board lost no time in
seeking a way out of the difficulty by further
reducing production costs. It was with this
object in view that the big plant was re-
organised and new machinery installed at
a total cost of £460,000. A certain amount
of disorganisation must have resulted from
this work, which was completed shortly be-
fore the close of accounts at June 30, and,
of course, that did not help the year’s profit.
To finance the work 100,000 £1 A prefs.
were offered in March. The issue was under-
written and the last of the money came in
shortly before the books were ruled off. That
followed an issue of 250,000 £1 B prefs.
early in the term; it made paid capital
£1,174,000 or over nine times more than
it was five years ago, and £500,000 of
the money was received during the last two
years. Here is a view of the expansion as
reflected in balance-sheet figures since
1923:
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. £130,000 £668,000 £824,000 £1,174,000
Liabilities.. 164,607 255,839 491,722 241,493
Freeholds .. 146,825 398,212 475,046 575,063
Plant and
machinery. 53,779 305,077 416,605 785,125
Stock . . 120,222 541,663 837,480 473,133
Book debts.. 38,228 54,994 133,973 152,707
Investments,
cash, etc... 2,164 7,970 9,184 6,133
The duller trading conditions at the close
of the year show up in a reduction of
£364,347 in stocks and work in progress.
This and the new capital that came in during
the year went mostly into plant, the book
value of which increased £368,520, and free-
hold, up £100,017. Also it enabled the board
to lop £250,229 off the amount .coming to
sundry creditors. As usual, the financial
position was very comfortable, though the
more or less liquid surplus (£390,480), in-
cluding stocks, was £98,435 lighter than it
was at the previous balance.
During the year the co. added to its list
of contracts one for the supply of bodies
for Hudson and Essex cars covering the
southern States. The co.’s chief contract is
with General Motors, Ltd., and the bulk of
the bodies turned out are for Chevrolet
cars. It is, of course, impossible to say
how the future is likely to pan out. All
that can be said definitely is that Holden’s
enterprise has solid foundations. Its house
is in order; it has never issued bonus scrip.
With its production and sales organisa-
tion readjusted, and, therefore, probably more
efficient and less costly, everything depends
upon turnover. The management has bud-
geted for approximately the same turnover as
last year. The production schedule to the
end of December shows an output equal to
that of the corresponding half of 1927, which
exceeded the production for the same period
of the previous year. However, there is
more capital calling for attention now than
there was at the close of accounts in 1927,
and profits will have to improve if the 15
p.c. to the ords. is to be maintained. The
pref. requirements and 10 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £106,400, or £28.786 less than
was netted last year including the addition
to the depreciation reserve.
The A and B prefs.—they rank in that
order and there are 300,000 of the former
and 250,000 of the latter —carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. Last year’s profit was over three
times their combined annual requirements
and the backing amounts to £5 12s. 4d. and
£5 10s. 7d. respectively in net tangibles.
For the A shares the market pays 225., and
for the B’s 20s. 6d.; the return being 7.2 p.c.
and 7.8 p.c. respectively. The ords., for
which 355. was paid a year ago, are at
28s. At the latter figure the return is 7.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 365. 3d. in net tangibles.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£> £* £>£,£,
1918.. 48,153 4,200 13 p.c. = 17,687 26,266 60,454
Provision for taxes, £7500 .. 52,954
Deficit.
Reserves capitalised, £73,750 .. 20,796
Additional goodwill item, £3958 .. 24,754
1919.. 32,686 6,114 8 p.c. = 14.526 12,046 12,708
10 p.c.
1920.. 41,716 14,615 10 ~ „ 22,125 4,976 7,732
Pref. Ord. Total.
1921.. 5,633 4 p.c. 4 p.c. 16,167 18,266
Loss.
1922.. 93.719 Nil Nil Nil 111,985
Capital written off, £89,736 .. 22,249
Profit.
1923.. 26,136 10 p.c. Nil 19,589 6,547 15,702
Loss.
1924.. 4,088 Nil Nil Nil 19,790
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 53,350 15 p.c. Nil 29,711 23,639 3,849
Profit on sale of asset, £18,539 .. 22,388
1926. .106,889 13 p.c. 8 p.c. = 54,356 52,533 74.921
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £90,000 .. 15,079
Premiums on new shares, £264 .. 14,815
Rgsgtvgs.
1927. .130,672 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 52,120 78,552 63,737
Premiums on new shares, £1479 .. 65,216
1928. .104,937 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 68,189 36,748101,964
The spring in the year’s gross profit
(£374,703) was £13,253, but exes.
(£269,766) were £38,988 heavier, due largely
to bigger turnover. Taken together the
figures mean that the co. did a brisker trade
on smaller margins of profit. The surprising
feature is that the management was able to
win such a satisfactory result considering
the difficulties in the path. The chief factor
affecting the year’s profits was the collapse
of prices in the raw-rubber market following
the announcement of the scrapping of
the SteVenson restriction scheme as from
Oct. 31 next. Between February and
April the fall amounted to Is. per lb., or
approximately 62 p.c. Of this the trade got
practically no warning, and heavy forward
buying is inevitable in big manufacturing
concerns of this kind; also raw mbber repre-
sents well over half the cost of the finished
article, so the co. is indeed fortunate to
have escaped without serious damage to
profits, which were a comfortable 15.3 p.c.
on the average capital employed compared
with 25, 26.4, 13.2, a loss and 6.4 p.c.
back to 1923. Other factors affecting the
year’s earnings were the depression in the
motor trade and keener competition for the
business offering.
When the bottom fell out of the rubber
market seven years ago the co. was caught
with practically no reserves and heavy stocks,
and it took nearly four years to nurse the
business back to health again. The recovery,
however, has been an excellent one. During
the last four years in addition to wiping
out the arrears of pref. divs. the 6s. per
share lopped off the ords. in 1922 has been
restored ; also the ords. have got back into
the dividend list, with more chance of stay-
ing jthere than hitherto, and a deficit of
£19,790 had been turned into reserves
£101.964 in excess of the £22,500 of goodwill
at June 30. Moreover the turnover became
so brisk that extensive additions had to
be made to the factory and plant, the cap-
acity of which was doubled within the last
12 months.
To complete this work and provide for
further expansion of the business £130,721
of new capital was issued during the year
—there was £12,787 of it still to come in
when the books were ruled off. This 'com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows what
has happened:—
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £491,598 £404,680 £616,776 £737,213
Liabilities .. 379,725 166,526 221,870 165,963
Freeholds 88,317 87,257 143,877 191,303
Plant, etc. .. 147,388 170,750 211,207 281,342
Book debts .. 107,578 175,963 254,419 200,637
Stock.. .. 490,843 230,054 300,649 374,892
Cash, etc. .. 18,932 16,650 21,802 17,985
The more or less liquid surplus (£427,551),
including stocks, was £72,491 stronger than
at the previous balance. The reduction in
the debt was on account of trade creditors
and the mortgage; the overdraft and de-
posits increased. Of the £47,426 added to
the book value of freeholds £34,288 repre-
sented extensions to the Footscray factory;
the new Adelaide depot and Brisbane ware-
house called for the balance. During the
year £96,165 was spent on plant and
£26,030 written off as against £55,900 spent
and £15,442 written off in the previous term.
The biggest and most important item in the
sheet is stocks, up £74,243. They are valued
on a replacement basis, and similar provision
has been made for commitments ahead, says
the chairman, who further adds that the
whole of the co.’s assets are upon conserva-
tive and safe foundations.
That and brisker trading are encouraging
features, in the co.’s outlook. However, con-
ditions in the trade are by no means normal.
Competition has not yet fully developed; the
Goodyear co, only recently commenced pro-
duction here, and the Rapson co. is shortly
expected to be on the market with its pro-
ducts. Also there is the pending merger
between the Perdriau and Dunlop interests,
and thus far the association of the English
and Australian Dunlop cos. has had
no visible effect upon market conditions.
. With the industry in another stage of tran-
sition the market takes a cautious view of
the value of the scrip. It prices the prefs.
at 255. 9d.; at which figure the return is
7.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. They carry
a cumulative 8 p.c. advance with the ords.
to 10 p.c. and have priority as to capital.
Last year’s net profit was over five times
their minimum annual requirements; and the
backing amounts to £4 3s. lid. in net tan-
gibles. For the ords., which have a net
tangible hacking of 235. 3d., the market pays
245. 9d. The return at that figure is 8.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. , Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 65,396 10 p.c. = 55,090 10,396 51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ „ 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ „ 55,000 1 _ ~ OQ _
Taxation Reserve, £15,236.. J 8,47 J 74,. 99
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95,000
The board of this Brisbane drapery co., which
does a big mail order business, wrote the
year’s net result at £94,800, or £3327
more than in the previous year. The
difference _ between that and the £75,001
shown in the table represents the
amount set aside (£16,911) for taxation.
Also the £15.236 so put by in the previous
term was £2BSB short of requirements. The
aim has been to build up a lively turnover on a
small margin of profit, and with keen man-
agement, including shrewd buying, some ex-
traordinarily good results have been shown,
although things are not so good as they
might be in the northern State. With 60 p.c.
of the capital represented by fixed assets
sales need to be brisk if satisfactory profits
are to be won. Last year the management
made a general reduction in the percentage
of “Mark up,” which means that the co. was
trading on smaller margins, yet gross profit
improved £7I6S. The next comparison shows
the expansion of p. and 1. figures since
1925: —
1925. 1927. 1928.
Gross profit .. .. £225,630 £254,212 £261,380
Exes 160.234 175.497 186,379
Net profit .. .. £65,396 £78,715 £75,001
A firm hold appears to have been kept upon
exes. Only £3842 of last year's increase
(£10,853) represented management charges;
the balance was on account of taxation. The
lot consumed 71.3 p.c. of the year’s gross
profit as against 69 p.c. and 71.1 p.c. in the
two preceding years The net result was a
satisfactory 13.6 p.c. on paid capital com-
pared with 14.3, 12.7 and 11.8 p.c. back to
1925. That more than double the amount
was sent to reserves last year the
previous term was because the 1927 earn-
ings bore a double charge for taxation. Pre-
vious to that each year’s tax was paid out
of the following year’s income; now pro-
vision is made out of each year’s earnings to
meet the bill when it arrives, and the real
position, therefore, is much clearer.
A pleasing feature of the accounts is the
substantial margin between earnings and dis-
tributions. Over the last four years only
76 p.c. of the total net profits has been
handed out in divs. Nevertheless conditions
are such that capital would be none the
worse for more support than it now has.
Balance-sheet movements compare as
follows:
1925. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital •• .. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. .. 17,633
Creditors .. .. 81,404 80,808 62,583
Freehold and plant .. 333,069 334,000 330,000
Stocks 272,282 246,740 270,117
Book debts . . .. 120,724 127,162 119,132
Cash, investments, etc... 1,655 40,641 32,746
The figures suggest that the increased trad-
ing was for cash. Also the small amount
coming to creditors (£62,583, down £18,225
during the year) may be taken as an indi-
cation that the management is alive to the
advantages of cash buying. The financial
position, as usual, is snug. The more or less
liquid surplus (£359,412), including stocks,
was £25,677 stronger than at the previous
balance. Stocks (£270,117, up £23,377 dur-
ing the year) are the most vulnerable point
in the co.’s armor. They are in at cost or less,
and much obviously depends upon that. Apart
from the drought-stricken portions of the
West the immediate outlook for retailers in
Queensland is brighter than it was a year
ago; unemployment has been eased by rural
activity, largely in the sugar districts, and
the turnover of most traders is beginning
to improve.
The market, impressed by the co.’s perfor-
mances, expresses its confidence in the man-
agement and the future by offering 275. for
the pound shares. The return at that price
is 7.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible backing amounts to 235. 6d., of
which 12s. is in fixed assets, 9s. lOd. in
stocks and the balance surplus book debts
and cash over liabilities.
Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
110,827
Surplus assets transferred 11,978 98,849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97,487
1921.. 19,986 5 p.c. = 12,094 7,892 89,595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 .. 90,809
Vendors’ adjustment, £Bl4 .. 91,623
1922.. 45,788 8 p.c. = 28,800 19,988 71,635
Additional goodwill items, £3681 .. 75,316
New shave costs, £9471 84,787
Flotation consideration (Singa-
pore C 0.).. .. 10,000 74,787
1923.. 53,977 10 p.c. = 43,375 10,602 64,185
Loss on Oobdogla plant, £23,583 .. 87,768
N.Z. establishment exes., £2038 .. 89,806
1924.. 17,556 Nil 17,556 72,250
Additional goodwill, £390 . . 72,640
1925.. 42,961 7 p.c. - 35,000 7,961 64,679
Additional goodwill, £257 .. 64,936
1926.. 40,209 8 p.c. = 40,000 209 64,727
Additional goodwill, £l2O .. 64,847
1927.. 47,884 8 p.c. = 40,000 7,884 56,963
1928.. 53,229 8 „ „ 40,000 15,229 43,734
Despite the general quietness of trade last
year, this co. was able to do" brisker busi-
ness and write better profits. That was
partly because earnings depend upon the
works programmes of Government and quasi-
Government bodies, which usually increase
their activities in that way during periods
of trade depression in order to relieve unem-
ployment. Recent technical improvements
affecting the quality of the co.’s products are
claimed to have helped sales along, too. In
addition the volume of business handled was
swelled by orders for the concrete lining of
pipes to fill contracts won by Hume Steel,
Ltd., from the S. Aus. Government. Then
the Singapore subsidiary, which is making
good progress, paid 10 p.c. as against 8 p.c.
in the previous term. To what extent the
respective sources contributed to the year's
earnings is not disclosed. The accounts
claim a net profit of £69,229, but £16.000 of
this has been set aside for taxation as
against £lO,OOO in the previous year, the bal-
ance (£53,229) being equal to 10.6 p.c. on
the half-million of paid capital compared
with 9.5, 8, 8.5, 3.7, 12.4, 13.5 and 6.1 p.c.
back to the beginning; an average of 9 p.c.
Over the same period shareholders have aver-
aged 6.7 p.c., and £67,093 of the £110,827 of


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of
The Australian Investment Trust Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £1,000,000
DIVIDED INTO 1,000,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH, OF WHICH
300,000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each are now being offered for public subscription,
payable 2/6 per share on application, 2/6 per share on allotment, the balance in
calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at intervals of not less than two months. Interest
at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum will be paid on calls paid in advance £300,000
10,000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each are to be allotted as fully paid up shares to the
Promoters, and a further sum of £3OOO in cash is to be paid to the Promoters upon the
fulfilment by them of the conditions embodied in an agreement between the Trust and
the said Promoters 10,000
690,000 SHARES of £1 each are to be held in reserve until such time as the Directors consider
it advisable to issue all or part of these Shares held in reserve either as Preference or
Ordinary Shares . . . . ... . . 690,000
1,000,000 £M)00,000
Applications have been made to the Directors for 100,000 Shares, which will be allotted in full.
Applications will be made for the listing of the Shares on the Stock Exchanges in Australia and New Zealand.
A brokerage of 6d. per Share will be paid on allotments made in respect of applications bearing the stamp of any member of the Stock
Exchanges of Australia or New Zealand.
APPLICATIONS MAY BE LODGED WITH ANY OF THE BRANCHES OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA, AND ALSO AT ANY OF THE BRANCHES OF THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THROUGHOUT
NEW ZEALAND, AND WITH THE COMPANY’S BROKERS.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
F. J. L. DUNLOP (Chairman and Managing Dii’ector),
late Head Office Manager Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited,
Sydney.
SIR HUGH E. POYNTER. Bart, F.R.G.S.,
O’Connell Street, Sydney, Chairman of Directors Baldwin’s and J.C.M.
(Aust.) Pty., Limited.
R. NEVILLE DANGAR,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, Director Norwich Union Fire Insurance Co., Sydney, and
Suburban Blue Metal Quarries, Limited.
W. H. SWANTON,
Collins Street, Melbourne, Managing Director William Crosby and Company,
Melbourne, Director of the Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, and
Chairman of Directors Fairymead Sugar Co., Limited.
THOMAS LYONS,
Sharebroker, Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
KEITH WILLIAMS, LL.B.,
Solicitor, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ADVISERS TO THE BOARD.
THE EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK, for United States of America.
ALFRED SMITH; Esq., Company Director, Wellington, N.Z., for New Zealand.
The Australian Investment Trust, Limited, has been formed for the purposes specified in its
Memorandum of Association, a copy whereof will be found in the appendix to the full prospectus, and,
in particular, to carry on the usual business of an investment Trust Company, having special regard to
certain principles of investment which are well recognised but have, as yet, not been generally adopted
in Australia.
The fundamental principle upon which the Trust operates is the “spreading” of investment risks
over a wide field by distributing the greater proportion of both its subscribed and borrowed capital in
a considerable number of carefully selected investments of a diversified character as to the type and
location of the industries concerned. This is similar to the principle underlying all insurance.
The Trust now being formed will be in a favorable position to take full advantage of the many
excellent opportunities for investment in Australia and overseas. It is felt that the Trust will perform
services of the highest value to the community and bring at the same time substantial reward to its
shareholders.
It is now recognised that the ordinary individual investor can secure a larger return with a greater
security by holding shares in a well-managed Trust Company than he can by attempting to spread his
capital over a number of small investments. Trusts have facilities for obtaining information and busi-
ness which are not open to the ordinary private investor. By holding shares in a Trust Company the
ordinary investor, at a small expense for administration, obtains the benefits arising from these facilities.
Reference to the official lists of Stock Exchanges in other countries reveals that Trusts of' this -character,
which have been prudently managed over a period of years, have been remarkably successful.
By the method of spreading the investments over a wide field the factor of security is developed to
the highest possible point.
Apart from the dividend return secured in the ordinary course of investment additional profits are
invariably earned by Trust Companies by reason of their organised capacity to buy and sell stocks and to
take advantage of the constant average appreciation in the value of these stocks and shares, which are
listed on the principal Stock Exchanges.
Trust Companies are also in a position to take advantage of many opportunities of subscribing at par
to initial issues of the best and most exclusive securities. By reason of their organisation and command
of capital Trusts can enter into negotiations for large blocks of shares in highly valuable issues, and
are thereby enabled to effect the purchase of such shares at very favorable rates. These opportunities
are usually not available to the small investor, nor in many instances even to the large investor acting
as an individual. Trusts also have frequent opportunities of joining the pools of big investors controlling
loans and well-sponsored issues of shares, thus participating in the profits gained from the subsequent rise
in the value of these securities.
OVERSEA ARRANGEMENTS.
By arrangement with The Equitable Trust Company of New York, The Australian Investment Trust,
Limited, has had placed at its disposal the services of this large international bank, with total resources
of over £108,000,000, for the purpose of advising it as to financial and investment matters in America.
Negotiations are proceeding with English financial houses and brokers, and the Trust has already
been advised by one of the leading firms of stockbrokers on the London Stock Exchange of their willingness
to co-operate and assist the Trust.
SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT TRUST ADVANTAGES.
The Investment Trust —as established in England, Scotland, Europe and America—has proved an
effective means of securing the following advantages:—
1. SAFETY OF CAPITAL by-
la) Spreading the risk of investment over a large number of securities on a plan which creates
investment insurance by automatically invoking the law of averages, in accordance with the
established practice of English and Scottish Trusts, extending over a period of 50 years.
(b) Diversification of investment by variation in the “location” and “type” of the many investments
included in the Trust’s holding.
(c) Ability of Trusts to thoroughly investigate securities before purchase.
2. HIGH AVERAGE DIVIDEND RETURNS ON ORDINARY SHARES, due to-
la) Reserve funds created from the profit from the sale of securities which have appreciated in value,
(b) Profits from participating in the underwriting of loans and sound industrial issues to the extent
permitted by the Memorandum of the Trust.
3. CONSTANT APPRECIATION IN MARKET VALUE OF TRUST SHARES owing to—
(a) Additions to Reserve Funds from annual profits and from capital gains secured by the sale of
appreciated stock.
(b) Steady increase in amount of annual dividends.
4.
NEGOTIABILITY OF TRUST SHARES.
Investment Trust Shares are practically always saleable at a steadily increasing price above par value
for the following reasons:— (d) Quotation on all important Stock Exchange
(a) Safety of capital.
(b) High average dividend returns.
(c) Constant increase in market value.
MARKET PRICE
OF
lists.
(e) Steady growth of reserve funds.
(f) Steady market demand by buyers.
TRUST SHARES.
A marked feature of recent financial history has been the great increase in the number of Investment
Trusts formed in England, Scotland and America —and in the capital of those Trusts already in
existence. This increase has been accompanied by- a steady rise in income earned and dividends paid by
most of the well-established Trusts; their market prosperity being naturally reflected in the prices of
Trusts’ securities on the Stock and Share Market, and the readiness with which the public subscribes to
new issues of old and new concerns alike.
There are over 100 Trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange alone, involving a paid-up capital of
£193,369,899. The average premium above par of the ordinary or deferred stock of these Trusts is
approximately 106 per centum. The shares of newly-formed Trusts, which are listed on the Stock
Exchange, are also standing at a premium in almost every case.
BANKERS
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED.
BANK OF NEW ZEALAND.
AMFRIPAN RANIfFR*?
THE EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK.
SOLICITORS
SLY & RUSSELL, 369 George Street, Sydney.
HEDDERWICK, FOOKES & ALSTON, William Street, Melbourne.
BAKER, McEWIN, LIGERTWOOD & MILLHOUSE, Victoria Square, Adelaide. S.A.
AUDITORS.
STARKEY & STARKEY, Barrack House, Sydney.
E. S. WOLFENDEN, A.LA. (Loud.), F.C.P.A., Hunter Street, Sydney.
BROKERS.
PHILIP PRING & DOCKER, corner Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
H. W. BAYLEY & CO.. Elizabeth Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
T. NEWBURGIi, Christchurch, New Zealand.
SECRETARIES.
F. I. W. HARRISON, SON & KNOX, Public Accountants and Auditors,
15 Bent Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE.
Brook House, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
The following extracts bearing on the above position of Trust Shares on the London Stock Exchange
are taken from a report furnished by Mr. E. S. Wolfenden, A.LA. (Lond.), F.C.P.A., Public Accountant
and Consulting Actuary, Hunter Street, Sydney.
“I have inspected the ‘Financial Trusts’ section of a copy of ‘The Stock Exchange Daily Official List’
(London), for Wednesday, Gth June, 1928, and certify that the total present Paid-up Capital of the
Trusts appearing in the section mentioned is one hundred and ninety-three million three hundred and
sixty-nine thousand eight hundred and ninety-nine pounds sterling ( £193,369,899).
“I have extracted from the section mentioned a list (of which tv'o copies are enclosed) of those
Trusts having Ordinary (including Deferred) Stock or shares, showing the amount of capital paid up
per centum, the Market price per centum, and the Premium per centum; and further certify:—
1. That the average Capital paid up per centum of all such Trusts having Ordinary or Quasi-
Ordinary Stock or Shares is £99 2s. 7d.
2. That the average Market Price per centum of such Stock or shares is £204 3s. 6d.
3. That such average Market Price represents a premium of £lO5 Os. lid. on the average Paid-up
Capital of £99 2s. 7d.
4. That such Premium represents an average premium per centum of Capital Paid-up o>f
£lO5 1&3. 4d.”
AVERAGE DIVIDENDS OF TRUSTS.
The average dividend of fifty-live British Companies for the period 1912-1914 inclusive was over 7
per cent. ; during the war period it was 64 per cent.; and has been over 8 per cent, in the period
following the war. Progressive improvement in earning power has been the general experience during the
recent years. Nearly all of the unusually successful companies, embracing those paying 10 per cent, or
over, have an outstanding share and debenture capital of well over £1,000,000 for each Trust. This
condition suggests the soundness of the general principles underlying Investment Trusts. The rates
of dividends since the Armistice have been higher as a whole than before August, 1914, and the
position of the British Trusts is to-day so strong that it is difficult to purchase their stock in the
open market.
Mr. W. E. Lagerquist, author of “Foreign Investment Trusts,” gives the following figures of the
earnings of 45 British Trusts between the years 1910-1920 :
AVERAGE EARNINGS PER YEAR.
6 Trusts less than 5 per cent.
12 Trusts 5 per cent, to 6 per cent.
16 Trusts 6 per cent, to 10 per cent.
11 Trusts 11 per cent, to 25 per cent.
Average 45' Trusts 7 per cent, to 9 per cent.
Two of the largest Trust organisations, the Metropolitan Trust and the British Investment Trust,
averaged 12 per cent, and 13 per cent, respectively during 1910-1920.
Examination of the inner history of each Trust under review revealed that large reserve funds have
been invariably built up by these companies, and in many cases issues of Bonus Shares have been
made apart from the average annual dividend referred to in the above schedule. The listed average
annual dividends are, therefore, in no way truly representative of the full record of the handsome
return made to stockholders on their original investments in these Trusts.
MANAGEMENT.
The Board of the Trust, recognising that management plays a most important part in the success
of an organisation such as this, has secured the services of Mr. F. J. L. Dunlop, who resigned from his
position as Head Office Manager of the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Limited, in order to
assume the duties of Chairman and Managing Director of the Trust.
Mr. Dunlop will bring to bear on the problems of the Trust a sound and mature judgment, the
result of 40 years’ experience in banking, and of the close association with other large financial
interests in Australia, with which his high position kept him constantly in touch.
PROMOTERS’ CONSIDERATION.
The Promoters’ consideration is for the work performed by the Promoters incidental to the forma-
tion of the Trust. Protracted and extensive investigations into the operations of similar Trusts in other
countries, as well as investigations covering the movements of securities in local Stock Exchange
markets, were necessary, while heavy expense was incurred in obtaining legal and other expert opinions
The Promoters have also instituted negotiations which should result in valuable connections being estab-
lished with similar institutions m England and America. Very considerable business -to the Trust
should ensue from these negotiations, principally in the investment of English and American capital
m Australian enterprises, and should ultimately influence the introduction of a large amount of oversea
capital into the Trust itself.
CONTRACTS.
The following Contracts, with the names of the parties thereto and the date and nature thereof
nave been entered into:—
1. AGREEMENT dated 27th June, 1927, between PHCENIX INVESTMENT COMPANY, LIMITED
and SAMUEL McIIUTCHISON, as Trustee for the Trust—then about to be formed—whereby in
consideration for the services performed and to be performed and obligations undertaken in
connection with the promotion of the Trust, the said Phamix Investment Company, Limited, is to
be allotted 10,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid, and to be paid £3OOO in cash bv
way of reimbursement for expenses incurred and otherwise.
2. AGREEMENT dated 10th November, 1927, between PHCENIX INVESTMENT COMPANY
LIMITED, and the Trust, adopting the last-mentioned agreement. ’
3. AGREEMENT dated 17th September, 1928, between THE AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT TRUST
LTD., and FREDERICK (JOHN LESLIE DUNLOP, to act as Managing Director of the' Trust
for a period of five years.


“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER.
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
No Investor, Trustee or Business
Man can afford to be without it.
SEPTEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -{- OF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Building-,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, Tin, etc
Address: Tatong, via Benalla, Vic. —Advt.
* * * *
Roma-Mooga Oil Fields, N.L.—50,000 Shares
applied for. Twelve companies boring or preparing
to bore in the vicinity-. Shares, 5/-, 6d. application,
(id. allotment. For Prospectus and Shares, Meudell,
Sharebroker, 135 William-street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* $ *
In 10, 20 years’ time Pioneer Wood Pipe will
be found giving the same good service as the day
it is installed. Full volume flow unimpaired by-
age is maintained, for no sediment nor algs can
And foothold on the smooth inner bore. No cor-
rosion nor tuberculation occur to choke down
capacity. Write for catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Boad (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street; Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
•<' *i £ v
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
GUIDE YOUR MONEY INTO THE
RIGHT CHANNELS OF REVENUE
New Power Shovel and Portable Washing Plant System
for winning alluvial tin.
STANNUM DRAGLINE TIN COMPANY, LIMITED,
Capital: £32,000 in 32,000 Shares of £1
ASSOCIATED WITII COMPANY—
J. C. SOLOMON, Contractor, Hunter’s Hill.
C R. MACKENZIE, Contractor, Clarence St.
C. G. CALMAN, of W. Adams & Co., Ltd.
P. W. MERFIELD, Metallurgist, Glen Innes.
W. E. LONGWORTH, A.M.1.E., Consulting
Engineer.
M. J. JOHN, A.M.1.E., etc., Con-
sulting Engineer.
Shows over 35% NET Profit annually, together with full return of capital
in 5 years, plus interest.
Public, Business and Technical Men have Invested.
Call at office for full explanation, or write for prospectus, press extracts, etc., to
THE SECRETARY,
Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
{SHARE LIST CLOSING END OF MONTH.)
c*
pOORD&SOM
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
£34,000,000
THE TRUST FUNDS UNDER THE CONTROL OF
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
EXCEED THIS FIGURE,
Thus Showing the Confidence in which it is held by the Public.
THIS COMPANY OFFERS MANY ADVANTAGES OVER THE
PRIVATE TRUSTEE.
Write jor Booklet setting out particulars of its methods and charges.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE, Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
capital originally represented by intangibles
has been replaced by solid assets.
Balance-sheet movements reflect the year’s
profitable trading:—
1921. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £322,515 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities .. .. 112,443 85,666 26,867
Freeholds .. .. 38,838 48,933 48,885
Buildings, plant, etc. .. 92,478 200,465 186,078
Stocks 80,187 76,393 69,925
Uncompleted work .. 39,132 36,146 4,308
Book debts .. .. 47,771 142,054 121,905
Cash, etc 17,178 14,176 60,959
Shares- in other cos. .. 46,825 54,077 55,096
There was nothing to worry about in the
financial position. The outside debt was
more than twice covered by cash and de-
posits alone. The reduction in stocks, book
debts and uncompleted work enabled the
board to wipe out the overdraft (£21,817),
repay depositors (£18,197) and clip £18,787
off the amount coming to trade creditors.
The co., which made a very promising
start eight years ago, was hit hard in 1921
by the decision of the S. Aus. Irrigation
Commission to abandon its programme on
the Murray. The co. had put up a big pipe-
making plant at Cobdogla, but, after hand-
ling a lone contract, this plant had to be
pulled down and the useful parts sent to
other working centres. Then the Maoriland
business, re-purchased in 1923, was expected
to show quick results, but progress there
was not so rapid as was anticipated. Also
little headway has been made with the sale
of Hume foreign patents, the rights of which
were sold to an English co. in 1920 for coun-
tries outside Australia. Maoidland, S. Africa
and India. The English concern lacked the
energy of the Australian co.; so the latter
secured an agency agreement under which
since 1925 it has sold foreign licenses on a
cash plus royalty basis. Last year the Eng-
lish co. cancelled the agreement because sales
failed to reach a specified figure. However,
the Australian co. is to get its share of the
royalties from the sales it has negotiated,
though what this is likely to amount to is
difficult to forecast, the chairman says.
Hume Steel, Ltd., in which the parent holds
165,000 ords. (in the books at £416, actual
cost) is having a stiff uphill climb. It made
its best showing last year with a profit of
£19,183. After paying the prefs. the ords.
were passed over, the balance of the year’s
profit reducing the deficit to £237,630.
The current term opened with the co.’s
factories in Australia and Maoriland fully
employed, and prospects are announced to
be bright. The value of the scrip largely
depends upon the management’s ability to
win sufficient orders to keep the plant fully
employed. A year ago the market paid 165.;
recently sales were marked at 18s. 3d. After
allowing for the final div. the return at that
price is 9.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div basis. The
backing amounts to 18s. 3d. in net tangibles.
The National Bank of New Zealand:—
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
4918.. 115,296 13 p.c. = 97,500 17,796 775,550
1919.. 136.882 13 „ „ 97,500 39.382 814.932
Premiums on new shares, £250,000.. 1,064,932
1920.. 156.299 14 p.c. = 131.658 24,641 1,089,573
1921.. 206,321 14 ~,,140.000 66,321 1,155,894
1922.. 176,226 14 ~,,140,000 36,226 1,192,120
Premiums on new shares, £200,000.-1,392,120
1923.. 14 p.c. = 172,700 13,447 1,405,567
1924.. 194,991 14 ~,, 175,000 19,991 1,425,558
Premiums on new shares, £200,000. . 1,625,558
1926. . 230,827 14 p.c. = 208,687 22,140 1,647.698
Premiums on new shares, £500,000.. 2,147,698
1926.. 303.087 14 p.c. = 277,741 25,346 2,173,044
1927.. 282,725 14 ~,,280,000 2,725 2,175,769
1928.. 269,803 14 „ „ 280,000 2,165,572
Maintenance of National’s 14 per cent,
div. necessitated a dip into reserves for
£lO,OOO last year, but chairman Pember
Reeves has promised shareholders a better
showing at the next accounting. The bank,
he said, had adopted a very conservative
policy in view of the trade depression in
Maoriland. It had curtailed advances and
increased deposits, and there was little profit
in the exchange business owing to the low
rates ruling in the earlier part of the term.
Maoriland is now in fine fettle from a trad-
ing standpoint, with an excess of exports
over imports of £12,000,000 for the year
ended June last. But the improvement did
not set in until November, so practically
only one prosperous quarter is included in
the last accounts. Maoriland’s export trade
in meat, wool and dairy produce has im-
proved largely both in regard to volume and
price, and the bank’s figures at next balance
should reflect this.
Balance-sheet items bear out the chair-
man’s story of cautious tactics: —
1914. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Notes.. £255,899 £943,847 £1,058,710 £1,173,483
Bills, etc. 899,674 2,328,415 2,013,963 1,384,646
Deposits 4,304,654 10,822,912 11,283,316 12,088,015
L i q uid
assets.. 2,527,394 7,164,821 7,056,632 8,221,384
Advances 4,362,893 9,804,215 11.145,420 10,188,180
Premises 85,756 402,836 499,256 572,152
Features are a marked reduction in bills
and advances, a buttressing of liquids and a
normal increase in the note issue. The posi-
tion from the point of view of the bank’s
customers is extremely sound, for in addition
to the brave array of liquid assets there is
£4.000,000 of capital that can be called. The
share-market’s estimate of National’s future
earning prospects is expressed by a rise in
the scrip value to £6 17s. 6d. as against
£6 16s. a year ago. On a 14 per cent. div.
basis this price means a return to the in-
vestor of £5 Is. lOd. per cent.—a very good
rate on such sound security. The £7 10s.
shares are paid to 50s. each.
Stannum Dragline Tin Co., Ltd., is a Syd
ney float to work about 200 acres of alluvial
tin deposits in the New England district.
Nominal capital is £32,000 in £1 shares, of
which 22.250 are offered; the vendor takes
4000 paids and £1750 for leases, etc.; the
balance (5750 shares) is in pickle. The
cost of plant, etc., is figured at £16,750; pre-
liminary exes., etc., £2000; thus leaving
£1750 for working capital. There are about
2,500.000 c.y. of dirt to be treated,
and bore values go 17oz. to 220 z. per
c.y. With tin at £2OO the prospectus
figures a net profit of £9650 p.a.,
rising to £17.100 when the metal reaches
£250 per ton. This is based on the treatment
of 10,000 c.y. per week at a cost of lOd.
(including 21d. depreciation) per yard, which
is much below present digging costs in
Australia. It is the result claimed for an
improved method of treating alluvial by a
portable dragline power shovel which strips
the overburden and, after depositing it be-
hind the plant, takes out the wash. Con-
sulting-engineers W. E. Longworth and M.
,T. John say that estimates should be real-
ised.
sis s|S * *
Westralian Mines Minister S. W. Munsie
writes: “Jalax” (B. 5/9/’2B). gives a
rather discouraging impression of the oil
bore in the Kimberleys. He says a few
hundred feet of porous sandstone as reported
from this bore would be the ideal formation
for the dissipation of oil and not for its con-
servation. Apparently he has been mis-
informed, and has not a correct knowledge
of the log of the bore. The lOin. casing
was cemented off in shale at 1683 feet,
having passed through alternating bands of
shale and sandstone to that depth. From
1683 to 1948 feet the strata were sand-
stones of an argillaceous nature, but
not porous. From 1950 ft. shales came
in, and to 2023 ft. the strata alternated
between shales, limestones and sand-
stones, all very hard and quite suit-
able for “cover” rocks. A few feet
below this point the rocks changed to fine-
grained sandstones, and it was in this porous
stratum that the oil was first detected. The
structural conditions at this point are not
ideal for the dissipation of oil; but the
reverse —they are quite suitable for its reten-
tion. The oil, though not of the highest
grade, would certainly be welcome if it could
be found in quantity.
# * # #
During 1927 Tasmania’s mineral production
amounted to £1,621,027, a drop of £187,817
on the previous year’s output. More tungs-
ten, nickel, cadmium, gold and zinc were pro-
duced, and less lead, tin and silver. Copper
and osmiridium both fell away, the first be-
cause of an engineers’ strike, and the latter
owing to a fall in price in London. The out-
put of shale, cement and limestone improved,
but that of carbide dropped. Since a market
has been found for nickel it is expected that
several old mines at North Dundas will be
re-opened. The Mines Department states
that Dr. Woolnough is to be sent to Tas-
mania to arrange preliminaries for a geo-
logical survey of the island. Next year it
is proposed to explore the tin resources of
the Blue Tier, the iron deposits of Hamp-
shire, the oil shale beyond Latrobe, at
iChesliunt and Osmaston, and the under-
ground water supplies of Oaklands.
# * * *
Chairman Percy Hart, M.L.C., of the
Mount Bischoff Co., declares that unless his
crowd gets all the tin produced in the Speck
to smelt the furnaces will cool down for all
time. At present there are three competitors
in the field —Bischoff, Lempriere and T. H.
Kelly. Kelly’s concern, the Tasmanian Smelt-
ing .Co., made an arrangement with its com-
petitors to treat the ore Kelly bought at cost.
This agreement expired on June 30 last. In
the meantime Kelly has improved his plant in
Sydney, apd can treat ore more cheaply than
the old Bischoff plant can. Lempriere also
is treating the metal on up-to-date lines, and
competing with Kelly, buying stuff from
the Queensland and Tasmanian fields. It
has been proposed that the Tassie rail freight
on tin ore should be bumped up 70 per cent.,
and a rebate of that amount made on org
consigned to the Bischoff smelters. Bischoffs
are getting out 14 to 16 tons of oxide a
fortnight at Waratah, but that is a fleabite
to what they need to feed the works in
Launceston. The company has dug into its
£40.000 of reserves to develop the North
Valley, the old mine having about petered
out and doesn’t like the prospect of a further
outlay on its smelters.
* * * *
Abcrfoyle Tin (Tas.) has stopped under-
ground work for several reasons, the chief
being that it 'would be too costly to convert
the prospecting shaft into a main working
shaft in order bo mine the ore in the shallow
workings. It has been decided to go ahead
with an adit which will give more than
200 ft. of backs at a cost of £5250. The
present plant is not suitable for treating
the ore, because stamping would cause slim-
ing of the tin oxide. The manager thinks
the veins of ore will go down to the granite,
and he assumes that a strong channel will
extend for a considerable length. He esti-
mates the average tin contents of the ore
at 2 p.c., and unless rich patches were found
the value would not exceed 3 p.c. The ore
is clean and suitable for milling.
* * * *
Sardine North, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.),
has struck its best prospects so far after
years of barren effort. It has always been
after the extension of the rich Sardine shoot.
No. 3 tunnel, which is driving on a foot-
wide formation with scattered tin, lias re-
cently made a 4in. vein carrying 4 to 8
p.c. tin oxide. It certainly encourages driving
on, as it is more than possible that it is
the thin wedge of a payable shoot. Lenses
in the open cut prospect from 2 to 3 p.c. tin,
and it is surprising that this mine has not
struck something better long before this.
* ❖ *
The Crystal Oak, near Balfe’s Creek,
is attracting attention in the Charters
Towers district. It has produced some rich
ore at a depth of 70ft. to 80ft., and W. H.
Shetland, the owner and prospector, asserts
the existence of a face 2ft. wide worth 30 to
40 per cent, copper and 2oz. gold. It seems
an exceptionally rich combination of copper-
gold ore; a picked lot of six tons assayed
9oz. gold, 330 z. silver and approximately 25
p.c. copper. These are high assay values, but
if the sampling of the six-ton lot was done
in a workmanlike manner backers can begin
to sit up and take notice. Cash is now
wanted to develop the show.
* * *
It looks as if dredging returns in the
Mareeba —Mt. Molloy (N.Q.) —new tin areas
will be slow in coming in. A dry spell is being
experienced, water is short in places and
the advent of the wet season is anxiously
awaited. At Return Creek intermittent opera-
tions have been in progress and 31,000
yards treated for 7 tons of concentrates, an
average of about Jib. dirt. Adjustments to
plant and shortage of water are reported
to be delaying operations there. Also
boulders are causing some trouble and fines
are in excess, making the installation of an
extra primary jig necessary. A clear run
is expected shortly.
* * =l= !|:
New Guinea Goldfields Exploration, the
English co which took over the leases of
N.G. Gold and Osmiridium, announces that
the sluicing plant for the property was
shipped from London about the middle of
July, also that additional claims have been
pegged extending the co.’s sluicing area.
Costeening is in progress on the Namie-
Creek G.M. leases, known as the Golden Peak,
samples from one costeen assaying from a
trace to Boz. 6dwt. fine gold per ton. The
average has not yet been determined. A
separate syndicate is being formed by the
co. to prospect the lodes, and shareholders
will be given a chance to come in on ground-
floor terms.
* * * *
Twin Hills, one of Westralia’s latest gold
finds, has just been inspected by a Govern-
ment expert. He found it to be a place of
small quartz veins with high values here
and there. Several small Adelaide cos. are
pottering about on the field, but so far their
efforts to interest the market have proved
abortive.
* * *
Almost-forgotten Hampton Plains (W.A.)
is again talked about. This time its import-
ance as a gold-bearing field is being stressed
on account of a few small but fairly rich
crushings from a shoot on what is known as
Block 49. Impressed by the returns, the
Hampton co., which has a freehold title to
the Plains, has started to do a little digging
on its own account. Since the adjoining Cool-
gardie was found, tons of money have been
sunk on this field; some rich strikes were
made in shallow ground, but not one per-
manent mine was discovered.
Prospects of Sand Queen Gladsome Co.
(W.A.), which Gordon Lyon and others
floated in Melbourne a year or two ago, now
appear hopeful. Work in progress indicates
that the show is all z’ight at depth,’ and
better results are looked for during the cur-
rent half-year; the June half showed a loss
of £4794. P. A. Moss, a well-known authority
on Westralian mining and ore treatment, has
been appointed managing director.
* X *
Claude de Bernales and a few friends have
resolved to ascertain the worth of the Fitz-
gerald River brown coal deposits, near
Albany (W.A.). Small shipments are being
sent to Britain and Germany for conversion
into briquettes, smokeless fuel, etc., and, if
found to be as valuable as anticipated min-
ing operations on a fairly large scale will
be started.
Burma Malay, a prospecting and holding
co., is offering shareholders 40,000 new £1
shares, at par, one for one. Tne idea is to
place the co. in a position to deal with
options on a cash basis should a suitable
area become available. While tin was at
a high figure Chinese owners Avere asking
prohibitive prices for dredging areas, but
now that the metal is at lower levels areas
that could not formerly be considered have
become available on option. In January the
co. decided to reconstruct and hand out 14
shares for every share held. Then it was
discovered that that meant liquidation and
the formation of a new co., so the idea was
abandoned. Much is expected of the co.'s
two subsidiaries, Renong Consolidated and
Katu. The latter is scheduled to reach the
producing stage next month and the former
early next year. There has been a very
active market for the parent co.’s scrip,
the rights to the new issue fluctuating from
9s. to 12s. 9d. For the paids buyers re-
cently offered 445., with sellers standing off
at 50s.
* * * *
Ilawang has declared a dividend of Is.,
payable September 29, which will just about
empty the cupboard. Its profits for the
last three months have been £5134, less
administration charges. The dividend will
take £12,000, leaving less than £lO,OOO in
hand.


TWENTY-FIFTH REPORT of
PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY, LIMITED
To be presented to the Members at the Ordinary General Meeting to be held on 2nd October, 1928.
The Directors submit to the Members a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Company on 30th June, 1928, and a
statement of Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30th June, 1928, and present the following report:—
The balance at the credit of Profit and Loss Account brought forward is
This, added to the Net Profit for the year, after Depreciation
£13,447 9 8
213,392 14 10
Makes a Total of
During the year the Directors paid to the Members holding Ordinary Shares in the Company’s capital
the sum of . . . . £48,392 15 10
And dividends on 50,000 First Preference Shares at the fixed rate of 7 per cent, per annum, and dividends
on 100,000 Second Preference Shares at the fixed rate of 8 per cent, per annum, amounting to . . 1 1,500 0 0
£226,840 4 6
Making a total of
59,892 15 10
Transfer to General Reserve
Leaving a balance available of
Out of which the Directors recommend the following:—
To Payment of a Dividend of 1/6 per share on Fully Paid Ordinary Shares £60,333 18 0
» Payment of a Dividend of 7.625 pence per share on Contributing Shares and payment in
accordance with the terms of issue of such shares of 1 per cent., equalling .65 pence per share
on the uncalled Capital, making the total payments on account of Contributing Shares 8.2 75
pence per share 1 7,335 10 1
Balance Carried Forward 1 7,220 9 2
£94,889 17 3
HENRY PERDRIAU, Chairman.
PERDRIAU RUBBER COMPANY, LIMITED.
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30th JUNE, 1928.
We hereby certify that we have examined the Books and Vouchers of Perdriau Rubber Company, Limited, and find that this Balance Sheet exhibits the true position of
their business affairs, as shown by the books, and is, in our opinion, a correct statement of the affairs of the Company. We have accepted the certificate of the General
Manager for the amount of stock on hand.
KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY, Public Accountants,
Sydney, 21st September, 1928. Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1928.
1928.
June 30 —To Balance
£94,889 17 3
£94.889 17 3
1927.
June 30 —By Balance
Less Appropriations:—
To General Reserve ..
To make the dividend for the year on the amount paid
up on Ordinary Shares equal to 12% p.c. per annum
£50,000
71,646
0
10
1928.
June 30 —By net profit for the year, less amount trans-
£l3s,o93 19 6
121,646 9 10
£13,447 9 8
ferred to General Reserve
Less Interim Dividends paid by the Directors during the
year ..
£141,335 3 5
59,892 15 10
51,442 7 7
£94,559 17 3
Sydney, 21st September, 1928.
Audited and found correct,
KENT, BRIERLEY & SULLY, Public Accountants,
Auditors.
WJ,
a
A Great Australian Industry
Perdriau Tyres and Rubber Goods.
TN the production of Perdriau Tyres, each manufacturing
** operation is scientifically controlled by instruments that
ensure absolute accuracy from commencement to finish.
With these appliances factory experts test the rubber for
elasticity and resistance, the cord for tensile strength, and
the compounding ingredients for purity—failure to reach a
very high standard of test means rejection.
With Sandshoes and general rubber goods, equally high standards rule through
the Perdriau Plant. Perdriau means utmost quality and service—whether your purchase
be Tyres, Rubber Footwear, Garden Hose, or any other Perdriau Rubber Product.
Perdriau Tyres are stocked by Leading Garages and Tyre Dealers in every Motoring
Centre throughout Australia. Perdriau Sandshoes for Men, Women and Children are
obtainable from Footwear Stores everywhere.
Production Capacity, 15,000 Tyres and 50,000 pairs of Sandshoes Weekly.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
270 George Street, and 59 William Street, Sydney.
And All States.


v-
/ y \
y /
- a " •*> - fr * V&c^&' v '
w ■«.
w
fa
y^ip
y'l\
d
f&
m
m
yz. f\
m
™r-- !- -'
‘gV'*;!; «£> v %“
•u
/A>l
■^^¥mm
I : t
-t?
// // •■
W;ii!; : ':"
©
W?
\ Mai 31
S? Ilfij l\\V.‘‘
rill/ / M
7\
m.M
%
m
J 2?
-7 J
. NNS
o\N\ /#=
-/«
s«=-
Os
JU
X J^
it
nX
s»
s
is
ns
2=i\s
:;////«
Nl
i! ‘%'lln V
) • \< »' > , ~
r km;
SAi
H
! i
1_
0\
1 . &\Q\&L\\
rl
U 5
t 3
Eg
zrn
K
npirr
ntfMT'y
'MWti
fe^r
.JpP,
#^r'cs
•3?
Tn’! ;
\
I »
t)
S&7;:
*
- u
hampion reserve
PORT
4*
i
F BOTTLED by the
Ehomas hardy &SONS limitedl
Cl AIDE MELBOURNE a, SYDncv- 7
AUSTRALIAN W, N e EV <
a#**
E
>jET 1 PINT 6 FLUID OZS.
NJT
V 5
O
rs
s£-
m
Fortunate Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own, were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


STONEWALL'
SHOES for MEN
Write Desk B jor Catalogue.
SMART WALKING SHOE
B 1 5 I.—Superior Black Calf,
Semi-broad Toe Last, Stone-
hide Soles.
25'
Post 1/-
Inter-State, 1/8
JACKSONS I?
"stonewall:* stores
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn S\ s Sydney.
e><
\©
o-
It is only the purest tobacco wrapped
in snow-white paper without any
trimmings that has made “The Greys”
the Best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters.
THE 100 % VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LTD., Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Sucker”: Out of what fairy-book did
“Gouger” (B. 15/8/’2B) get his description
of a bucking horse V There’s not one in
HIS MISTAKE.
CREAM COCKY: “Not up yet! Didn’t yer ’ear me banging the karrasene-tin?”
NEW FARMHAND: “Yairs, but I thought you wuz jazzing a bit late over at the home-
stead.”
several hundreds performs in any one of
the wmys “Gouger” describes, and the few
that do aren't seen on stations now—pro-
prietors of buckjumping shows snap them
up. The horse who, “after exhausting every
buck in his repertoire, crashes down in an
effort to roll upon his rider and is up in
a flash lashing out with his heels and snap-
ping with his teeth” is only to be encountered
in American periodicals. Out of many bad
horses the few I’ve ever seen mix rearing
and bucking used invariably to lead off with
the rear. They didn’t keep it up their sleeves.
Always when a horse rears over it gets up
every bit as dazed as the rider. Those grass-
skimming kicks of lightning swiftness which
deal death in large doses don’t happen after
a fall. If the horse snaps its teeth it is
merely trying to get some of the dirt out of
its mouth.
* * * *
“Neurone”: The fact that foxes can be
stalked on the windward side and dingoes
can’t (B. 5/9/’2B) is no evidence of the
dogs’ superior sense of smell. The fox is
far less timid than the dingo. I have ridden
past foxes asleep in trees and among sheep
without disturbing them, though they could
have smelt me easily. In fact, the fox is
so game, or careless, I don’t know which,
that he often gets his leg caught in fences
or is trapped in fowlliouses. In general, he’s
not shy of man like the dingo.
* :|: *
“N.M.L.”: “Cirrus” (B. 15/8/’2B) is off
the track when he says a two-days’ spell
will make a mule pretend lie’s an unbroken
colt. In W.Q. before the advent of the
motor-car mules were in regular service on
many mail routes. Roughly, they’d average
six hours’ work a week in two stretches of
three hours each. I handled a lot of them,
and I never saw any of the coltisliness to
which “Cirrus” refers. They’re queer cusses,
and as temperamental as a female movie
star ; but there’s no doubt about their work-
ing ability, though they’re not as good as
a well-bred horse for cut-aud-come-again
ability, and for the power to stand hard
knocks. In only one thing do I give them
the blue ribbon—as beasts of burden under
a pack-saddle. They’re peculiarly adapted
to that, and a horse isn’t.
* * *- *
“Detonator” : This fuss over the possibility
of the Alsatian dog - canoodling with lady
dingoes annoys me. There is no wolf strain
in the breed, as is commonly supposed. My
grandma’s Burgundy tenants used them as
sheep-dogs, and they killed a large number
of wolves yearly of both sexes; none of
these kills or litters showed the slightest
dog strain. Chiens-loups have been in use
in the Burgundy, Ardennes and Vosges forest
plateaux, in fact wherever wolves rove in
France, since pre-Revolution times. French
smugglers and their enemies, the police, find
them useful, and they proved invaluable dur-
ing the Great War searching for wounded,
carrying messages, and as the motive power
of light machine-guns and baggage-carriages.
“Sea Nomad”: Needing some shark oil,
we slung a chained hook overboard by the
Massig Reef, Torres Strait. The line
foamed out with a 15-footer in full fighting
fury attached. He lit out for the depths
and the surface in a series of wheeling dives
that circled him around and under the
lugger. In a very few minutes he was being
chased by a score of other sharks whose
fins clipped the water and dived in shivering
speed wherever the frantic capture Catherine-
HER CHANCE.
NICE OLD LADY: “Here’s sixpence, my man. And, remember, I'm not giving it to you
for charity, but merely because it gives me pleasure to do it.”
LOUNGING LIONEL: “Thank you, mum. You can make it a bob if you like, and have
a real good time.”
wheeled to escape. The boys were delighted,
cheering on the careering monsters from
the deck and rigging. Eventually a bullet
on the nose stunned the captive. Instantly
his whereabouts was a lather of foam. His
tail disappeared, his tailless body went
bouncing amongst glittering bodies that were
themselves flung out of the water by weight
of rushing numbers; then his head vanished.
Away swirled the line again amidst the
frantic cheering of the boys, for the mon-
ster that had swallowed the huge head had
swallowed the hook as well. The water be-
came a seething mass of sharks that sud-
denly darted off in a vanishing road of foam.
One had bitten the line through, and the
whole pack were after the hurrying escapee.
=S * *
“Yarri”: While droving down the Wilson
Riyer our cattle were disturbed one evening
just after sundown by an immense flock of
pigeons flying low over the camp. They
would pass over and settle on a clear patch
of ground a short distance away; then, rising
with a great clatter, would go whirring over
the mob again. At last an exasperated drover
got a single-barrelled gun from the waggon-
ette and fired into them. The charge dropped
32. A blackfellow in the same locality was
credited with dropping 80 with a single
throw of a boomerang, but I think Binghi
was a bit sketchy with the counting.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The prejudice against
porcupine flesh (B. 5/9/’2S) is based on
ignorance of its qualities and the uninviting
appearance of the animal. When a bush-
dweller can be persuaded to tackle it he
usually comes back for more. I have eaten
many portions of porcupine prepared in the
same way as other baked meats, but I
never detected the slightest flavor of ants.
In preparing a porcupine for the oven it
should always be scalded—the spines are
3p deeply embedded in the flesh that little
remains but a bony shell if the animal is
skinned. In order to retain its succulent
juices it should be placed in the oven back
downward, and on account of its oily nature
it should be thoroughly seasoned with vin-
egar as well as pepper and salt. With the,
addition of a hot potato or two it consti-
tutes a tasty dish.
“Keystring”: When we were helping old
Theodolite to survey the State forest which
extends from the headwaters of the lvic i-
mond (N.S.AV.) northwards he camped one
night on a nicely-cleared paddock, with an
old shed in the corner, about -A) miles
from Lismore. We had just let the horses
go when an irate cocky came along. “You’ll
no’ be camping here,” he said. Upon the
boss replying that he would camp where he
blanky well liked, Mac answered “Verra
weel” and left us to it. A few minutes
later we were running for our lives, chased
by an irate Ayrshire bull. When we had
scaled the fence the bull put in a joyful
half-hour tossing our tents and their con-
tents into the air. Theodolite capitulated,
and, with the aid of a dog, the Scot housed
the bull. It was dark when we got our
swags through the fence, and as all the tent*
were more or less torn none were erected
that night. When the surveyor threatened
proceedings, after telling old Mac he had a
permit to camp anywhere, the only satis-
faction he got was, Show it to the bull, ma
tnen • , SIOW lt tie bu ,„‘
* . * ..
‘Neurone”: The notion that rabbit-kittens
are never born in a crowded warren (B.
5/9/’2B) is a popular fallacy. Though most
bunnies are born away from the warren, a
good many first see light in it. This gener-
ally escapes notice unless Brusbtail has been
hunting; then heaps of fur in holes around
the margins of warrens, particularly those
in blackfellows’ ovens, leaves n 0 doubt about
the fact.
* * * *
“Unnamurra”: Apparently the Australian
tribes varied widely in their methods of
coun ting. “J.A.” (B. 25/7/’2B) describes
method of a NS AY tribe which had
Kames f or t wo numerals'only. ’The Central
Aus. tribes, according to “Larrapinta” (B.
29/8/’2B), had distinct words for the first
three numera i s . The Denia i Ray (S.A.)
na ti ves must be a less primitive strain,
rp be y use separate words for the first five
numerals: gooma, gootera, yalkita, weema
aru ] kaboo • an d the last word does not mean
“hand,” which is “mara.” Formerly, they
nse( j the hands to express larger numbers,
In English, of course, they can leave the
number 5 far behind, but in their own lan-
guage, AVeerung, the limit was quickly
reached with the term “mooga-mooga,” which
m ay be translated into Australian as “a
h—- of a lot.”
(Continued on page 25. A
WANTEGONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The river has its bridges
Where roads run many ways;
One track across the ridges
Was blazed in olden days.
Unmarked by chains or measures
Its winding miles are long,
But distance had its pleasures
For those at Wantegong.
’Twas there that young Con Streeter
A-courting used to ride;
No girl was ever sweeter
Than one he made his bride.
And now they lie together
Where the old track leads west,
And friends of fur and feather
Keep vigil where they rest.
No stone marks where they’re lying;
The grass is green and high
’Neath lofty she-oaks sighing
A peaceful lullaby,
Their spreading branches throwing
A shelter for the sheep
When summer suns are glowing
Or skies of winter weep.
Trim orchards now are growing
Where Streeter grazed his flock,
With water ever flowing
From dam and weir and lock,
And gardens neat and pretty
That make a pleasant show—-
And yet it seems a pity
The old ways had to go.
Where rambled Streeter’s cattle
Great fields of wheat wave high,
And there’s a din and rattle
As droning tractors ply.
And gum and oak are falling
By creek and billabong,
Their crash, like voices calling:
Good-bye to Wantegong!
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


STAHHARP
%
&
5 IX
1*
•TCw
n
n
mmsmmrn
S.
m
Fundamentally Sound
The speed, picK-up and get-away that distinguish
Dodge Brothers Standard Six would be meaning-
less were they not made safe and practical by the
staunchness of Standard Six construction.
The surplus power which this car places at your
disposal 1 horsepower to every 47 pounds of
weight —could not be utilized economically except
for the soundness of Standard Six design.
Performance based upon skillful engineering,
beauty founded upon sound principles of line, pro-
portion and color, make Dodge Brothers Standard
Six a car you can be proud to drive in any company.'
Investigate before you buy a motor car.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles include*
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne •
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z,
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. ~ Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Dodge- Brothers
Standard Six
26/9/28


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
To buy at Peapes’ is to select from
the most distinctive expressions
of the newest style and highest
! quality.
; Though Peapes’ prices maintain
jl an average low level because
|j Peapes do not conduct “sales,”
everything for men’s and boys’
j! wear may be obtained at Peapes’
with the assurance that every
j: purchase is distinguished by
j! quality, value, service.
George Street,
i Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Brisbane
cenfap of
Quponc/an do
Sic fn Puis hed
Social Life.
(•>
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
sd
Suites de Luxe—double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS A CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
7 TELEPHONE CENT. 5780 (lO LINES).
Top
Prices
SEND YOUR
SKINS
TO
WINCHCOMBE
CARSON
l- n
Item/,,
E&w.
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of skin make full values at
Wincbcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Salesmen, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
“W.D.C.”: “Quandmeme” (B. 29/8/’2B) is
not quite correct in his statement regarding
the gum-tree near the Nairne (S.A.) station.
The tree grew near the eastern bank, and
when cut off about three feet from the
ground fell across the creek. About fourteen
feet of the trunk was cut out, leaving the
upper portion of the tree on the western
bank. This carried several fairly heavy
limbs, about one foot in diameter, some of
which were driven into the soil by the force
of the fall. It must have at once r>ut down
roots, as it has been growing vigorously
for at least 40 years. The tree is about
half a mile on the east side of the Nairne
station, and can be seen by travellers on
the Melbourne express.
* * * *
“Waranbini” : A landmark on the Murray,
if it hasn’t recently disappeared, is a forest
giant that is known as the Bunyip Tree. For
HIS OWN WAY FOR ONCE.
THE PRIEST: “Look here, Mr. Naggs, I know you’re an Anglican, but your wife was
a Catholic. How is it you buried her in a Protestant cemetery?”
NAGGS: “Well, you see, Father, she was dead.”
60 years or more the dead white trunk stood
there, a monument to a steamer of that
name. The vessel was heading downstream
with passengers and cargo, when a fire broke
out on board. The flames spread so quickly
that the engine could not be stopped, and
as the wheelhouse had to be abandoned the
vessel took its own course and went round
and round. Passengers were removed in a
small boat, but the circling vessel collided
with it, and some of the occupants were
drowned. Shortly afterwards the Bunyip ran
ashore alongside the big tree, which was
killed by the heat of the flames as the boat
burnt to the water’s edge.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Animals expect praise when
they do something smart, just
as human beings do. Every
sheep-dog knbws when he has
succeeded in a tough job, and
looks forward to the rewarding
word from the boss. My mate
and I had a huge tyke that I
regret to say we trained especi-
ally for bailing-up a juicy poddy
when we were short of meat
far from the nearest homestead.
That dog often had a wild
chase over rough mountain
country, and an hour’s struggle
holding on to the ear of the
beast until we could locate him.
He would then lie down pant-
ing, completely exhausted, but
with his great eyes fairly shout-
ing “I’ve had a devil of a time.
He dragged me through the
scrub and over the rocks, but
I didn’t let go once. What do
you think about it?” As a rule,
we would tell him exactly what
we thought, and I believe he
understood every word. For a
joke, occasionally, we would
say nothing, but busily com-
mence to cut up the beast. All
the life would go out of the
eyes of the dog. Gradually his
head would 101 l on his forepaws
until he looked for all the world
like a disappointed child about
to howl. He would not touch
the juicy steak we cooked for
him. But immediately we
thumped his head and told him
what a great dog he was, he
changed completely, gobbled up
his dinner and asked for more.
“Blacklip”: I can cap “A.J.M.’s” bare
diving record. I had an abo. boy named
Charcoal who cleared a foul anchor at 22
fathoms. He wore no glasses and went
down hand over hand. He bled heavily on
coming up.
“B, Goode”: Black Brother’s medicine-
man isn’t very convincing, as a rule, but
I know one white man, an old Sydney Uni.
boy, who says it isn’t a good thing to monkey
with their mysteries. He was mate with
me in a schooner trading in the Solomons,
and we had as a passenger an abo. who had
a reputation as a doctor He
hfZdt °?as?t"?he “uK“.Mid rig-
ging. The mate and I were the only whites
“wS
making and we could lay our course, but
that there was a large waterspout dead
MAKING HIS HOBBY PAY.
“I believe your ’usband’s doing well in the Civil Service.”
ahead. Swirling round, some 300 yards in
diameter, it surged and swung and bore
down on us, with an angry hiss of water
and the roar and growl of the wind that
held in column millions of tons of fluid. We
eased the sheets to run, but, so intently had
we been watching the danger ahead, we
hadn’t noticed two more spouts forming
astern. The/ wind dropped suddenly, and
we were in a triangle of three spouts. We
could still hear the roaring of the wind
that encompassed the spouts, but our sails
hung like wet rags on a fence. There was
absolutely nothing to be done but wait.
Just then our mysterious passenger came
on deck and took in the position. Water-
spouts and wind didn’t worry that nig. a
bit, but when he saw that his bundle of
tricks had been moved his black skin turned
ash-grey. He promptly cut his bundle down
and replaced it in the starboard rigging.
Then lightning flashed, and I got a heavy
shock of electricity. When I managed to
crawl aft the wheel was swinging loose, the
mate, temporarily blind, was lying on the
deck, and the spouts had fallen. Ten minutes
later, when we were making sail and trim-
ming sheets to a fair wind, I found the wind
doctor standing beside me. He said I owed
him a tin of jam and a box of sardines. He
had brought a fair wind.
* * * *
“Pick”: I can’t swallow “Bad Austra-
lian’s” yarn (B. 5/9/’2B) about dogs keep-
ing off marsupial night-time forays when
linked to single wires stretched around the
plantation. At night kangaroos and their
kind will often oome right into camp and
forage around unmolested where sleeping
dogs are lying loose. At early morning
their fresh tracks within a few yards of the
dog kennels may be discovered, but never
have the hounds been known to voluntarily
undertake a nocturnal chase. Boundary-
riders on Gidleigh station (N.S.W.), after
a bush-fire had swept the fences, chained a
line of dogs along their boundary to keep
the stock from the burnt feed on Ingledow.
The pickets by day faithfully performed the
duties expected of them, but at night they
slept, and the cattle meandered through with-
out molestation.
* * * *
“Ceraps” : A dog bitten by a sea-snake on
the ocean beach near Fremantle the other
day died within the hour. The press tele-
gram recounting the incident naively refers
to this as “evidence in support of the belief
that these snakes are venomous.” There
is more evidence than the corpse of the Fre-
mantle pup. Indeed, the job would be the
sorting out of one of the many species of
sea-snakes that is not venomous. Ophiolo-
gists are unanimous that all known species
are '^ m ° aagtg 10 Qf Australia,
the coasts this
is no, gejra*, known to the ca*^reported
a boy amused himseif by throwing the snaKe
tt. N v S r
of ignorance. In the tropical seasofiNortn
era Australia and the .stands the brutes are
plentiful, and are given the widest of berths
by all the local inhabitants, except the
shark. He likes nothing better than mop-
ping them up when they are clustering on
the top of the water at breeding-time, as is
the habit with most of the species. Pre-
sumably he likes them all the better, as
some humans are said to like their whisky,
for having a “bite.”
=l= * * *
“Mick Q.” : I met a man in Brisbane who
told me that he had tramped from Taroom,
almost 350 miles away, and had carried a
swag weighing about ljcwt. all the way. I
saw the swag; it contained blankets, ground-
sheet, overcoat, tent-fly, cooking utensils and
spare clothing. And strapped to the swag was
a fair-sized tin trunk containing a good
assortment of literature. When on the tramp
the swaggie looked more like a camel than
a man. He must have been pretty near as
good as “Let Go’s” Italian farmer at Pro-
serpine (B. 15/8/’2B).
* * * *
“Soda”: “Cooramin’s” colored stock-
ladies of the Kimberley (B. 29/8/’2B) re-
mind me of an abo. equestrienne of the Daly
River country (N.T.), known as Galloping
Katie. Her husband was a stringy old
buck who’d ridden as police-boy for years.
Galloping Katie had not been espoused six
months before she was doing her husband’s
job. She could ride like the devil and had
the advantage of being able to lure erring
ones to justice. But it did not last. The
policeman set out to catch a dusky gentle-
man who was accused of having battered
his gin to pulp, and sent Katie ahead to re-
connoitre. Katie came back and said “No
lookim nowhere,” and the direction of the
chase was changed. About a week later
Katie disappeared. She was not heard of
until a year later, when it was reported that
she had been seen in the alligator country
with the murderer, walking meekly behind
him and carrying all his portable property,
including a piccaninny.
$ $ # *
“Gustave”: Apropos of abo. women taking
part in mustering (B. 29/8/’2B), I will never
forget a reproof I received from a young gin
in North Westralia. I was standing with
the owner of the station when she took her
nag over a fence at a terrific rate. “That
silly gin’ll break her neck if she isn’t more
careful,” I shouted. She heard me and came
over to us. “Please refrain in future from
using such language in front of a young
lady,” she said. “And as for breaking my
neck, I learned to sit a horse from the time
I was a child.” I found out later that she
had been educated in Perth, and after leav-
ing school had heard the call and gone bush.
BLOKES LIKE US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“But what’s the use of stuff like that to
blokes like us?” says Joe,
“For beer an’ work’s as much as we will
ever need to know.
It ain’t in them there kind of things that
blokes like us will shine.
An’ those ’ard ’eads can ’ave them all right
on their own for mine.
“You fellers want to take a pull. I bet
you’ll never see
Me worryin’ me ’ead with things of no con-
cern to me.
It's time enough to come in when you re
asked to take a hand.
It’s only mugs butt into things they fail to
understand.
“You blokes might know a flamin’ lot —we’ll
say you do for sake
Of argument—but tell me this: What dif-
ference will it make?
And after all your arguin’, an’ all your
ruddy fuss,
Who’s goin’ to take notice of what’s said
by blokes like us?
“Of course, I might be wrong; of course,
you fellers might know more
Than what I think —I say you might —but,
as I says before.
It’s beer an’ work, them are the things that
us blokes want to know.
So what’s the use of stuff like that to
blokes like us?” says Joe.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
• -jßhe service is entirely free. AH you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
4he right of selection and rejection is reserved.
4o facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
I>y refined young woman, position as
nurse-companion on station, S.-W. Queens-
land or N.S.W. Used to country life. Very
iond of children. Protestant.—6509.
By well-educated man (24), position as
jackeroo on sheep or cattle station (N.S.W.),
previous exp. wheat-growing.—6554.
By married man, farm on shares, 300 acres
or oyer in cultivation, with house and plant
provided, preferably within 50 miles of Bog-
gabri (N.S.W.). State terms and whether
there is feed for horses. —6547.
By young woman, well educated, position
as secretary, companion or children’s nurse
in return for fare to Canada, India or Japan.
Ex. refs.—6541.
By educated man, casual clerical work,
Sydney. .Can make out accounts, read proofs
and address envelopes. Neat writer.—6538.
By experienced Q’land sheep man, man-
agement of sheep property. Keep books.
Good refs.—6515.
By lad (18), work on N.S.W. mixed farm
or station, no previous experience.—6513.
By elderly trawling skipper, position,
Sydney, watchman, caretaker or handy man.
—6506.
By refined and educated couple, position
of trust on station. Both practical and
energetic. Q’land preferred.—6504.
By inventor of safety automatic coupling
tor railway and silent gramophone needle,
financial aid to exploit same. Liberal share
to backer. (To M. White, c/o G.P.O.,
Rockhampton, Q.)
. Sydney business girl interested in adver-
tising, publishing, etc., wishes to corres-
pond with American girl, preferably in
San Francisco, doing similar work.—6497.
By lady (46), R.C., Uni. education, good
at figures, position as clerk, secretary, libra-
rian or companion. Writes good hand ; not
typist.—6490.
Elderly man, small private income, com-
petent book-keeper, would give part- or full-
time services in return for board and resi-
dence. Must be handy to trout fishing.—•
6524.
By young man, Sydney, opportunity to
learn skilled trade.—6540.
By experienced jackeroo, understands
station book-keeping, position as overseer,
Queensland or N. S. Wales. Good refs.—
6594.
Pensioner (A.I.F.). accountant, ordered
open-air occupation. Will keep books, make
self generally useful on farm or station,
N.S.W. Can ride, drive ear and milk. —
6587.
By elderly, active seafaring man, work
on shares as handy man. Painting, reno-
vating, etc. Sober and industrious.—6610.
By ex-Scotland Yard detective (40) re-
turned soldier, position as inquiry officer.
Special ability in tracing leakages. Highest
di sell urges.—6621.
Offers for International University read-
ing course, 7 vols., perfect order, cost 12
guineas.—6493.
Whereabouts of Richard H. Holt, formerly
of Sutton, Surrey, England. (To F. M.
Jones, care Fleming Bros., Kyogle, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts of Alf James, formerly
tenant of Maedonell House, Sydney.—6523.
Whereabouts of Mrs. Arthur Malcolm,
(nee Euphemia Dent, of Bundaberg, Q.) —
6480.
Whereabouts of Jack Miller, buckjumper.
—6581.
To receive from Bulletin readers in
Great Britain, U.S.A. and Africa, match-
box brands for youngster’s collection. (To
R. Watson, 19 Winchester-street, St. Peters,
S.
To rent furnished flat or small furnished
cottage, waterside suburb, Sydney, for about
five weeks early December. Good refs.—
6606.
To exchange F.M.S., Kedah, Johore post-
age stamps for British Colonial issues, on
basis of Stanley Gibbons’s catalogue valua-
tion. (To M. Brooke, Kamunting, Federated
Malay States.)
To sell 3-ton Republic truck; 5- to 6-ton
trial. —-6529,
To sell “History of the War in South
Africa,” by James H. Birch and II. D.
Northrop.—6531.
To sell freehold section, Northbridge,
Sydney, 132ft. by 208ft. Council valuation,
£400. £250 cash.—6472.
To sell Hawaiian steel guitar, new, with
tutor; never used. Case. Cost £10 10s.
£6 6s.—6607.
To sell Copeland electric refrigerator,
used three months. Cost £95. £70. —6588.
To sell well improved freehold farm,
West Coast, S.A. 2368 acres, 2000 acres
cleared, boundary wirenetted ; 14in. rainfall.-
6625.
To sell block of land, 120ft. by 145ft.,
Blaekheath (N.S.W.), 5 minutes from sta-
tion ; £60 cash.—6627.
To buy “Australian and New Zealand
Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book.”—6573.
To buy “Hints About Investments,” by
Hartley Withers; “The Money Box.” by
Robert Lynd; and “The Rise of the House
of Rothschild,” by .Count Corti. —6563.
To buy etching “Desire,” by Norman Lind-
say. £20. State number. —6477.
To buy “Laughter and Tears,” “Verses
for Marjorie,” “The Secret Spring” and
“Man and the Devil,” by Frank Morton. —
6600.
To buy, second-hand, Duckworth’s ‘‘Studies
in Anthropology,” Worsnop’s “The Austra-
lian Aboriginal” and “Pakeha Maori’s” “Old
New Zealand.” Good price given.—6602.
To buy “The Red Blooded,” “Reminis-
cences of a Ranchman,” “The Vanguard”
and “Cowboy Life,” by E. B. Bronson. —
6482.
To buy “Rose-white Youth,” by Dolf
Wyllarde.—649s.
To buy correspondence course in jour-
nalism, or will exchange for complete adver-
tising course.—64S9.
To buy book giving details of construc-
tion of galvanised-iron tanks. —6425.
To buy photographs of emu life, suitable
for illustrating magazine article.—6s43.
Words of Clough’s “Qua Cursum Ventus,”
Meredith’s “Love in the Valley” and Chris-
tina Rossetti’s “The Lowest Room.” (Direct
to Miss M. L. Lane, Quantong, AGc.)
Words of song, “Cabby Knows His Fare,”
sung by Harry Rickards in the ’eighties.—
6548.
Words of verse, “The Great Australian
Adjective.” (To ,1. It. Lincoln, Young-street,
Gympie, Q’land.)
Words of Maori war-cry used by All Black
footballers about 15 years ago, commencing
“Koinate, komate, kitora.” (To Dr. W.
Macdonald, 270 Commonwealth-street, Bos-
ton, Mass, U.S.A.)
Words of verse entitled “The Australaise,”
published in the early years of the war.—•
6599.
Printed account of Norwegian whaling
expedition to the Antarctic seas a few years
ago and description of the lonely grave of
a woman on Campbell Island. —6565.
Words of recitation beginning “Once I
were a waiter—never again !” (To R. G.
Brice, Box 53, P. 0., Mt. Gambier, S.A.)
Woi-ds and music of French song “Made-
lon.” —6603.
Information Sought.
(1) / have a five-valve receiver with cry-
stal detector. Can I purchase a short-wave
adaptor which will enable rue to tune in
short-wave and long-wave stations? (2)
What are the wave lengths of the Indian and
Singapore stations? (3) When can they be
heard f—6520.
(1) Yes. The Colmovox short-wave adap-
tor, obtainable from Coleville-Moore, 10
Rowe-street, Sydney ; price, £7 10s. complete.
Send a wiring diagram of your receiver and
they will tell you how to fit it. For the
reception of long waves—looo metres up-
wards —a somewhat similar adaptor will be
required. (2) Calcutta (SAF), 425 metres,
and the power 1.5 k.w.; Bombay (2FV),
387 metres, 100 watts; Madras (2GR), 400
metres, 200 watts; Rangoon (2I1Z), 350
metres and 40 watts; Singapore (ISE), 330
metres and 100 watts. (3) Indian stations
from 11 p.m. to about 2.30 a.m. ; Singapore,
10 p.m. to 1 a.m.
(1) In what manner and at what age can
a lad secure a position in a wool store? (2)
What would he commence as? (3) To what
positions could he be promoted? (4) Is
previous experience necessary?— 6s3o.
(1) He should make application by letter,
but early in August is the best time.
Woolbrokers prefer boys under 16. (2) As
a messenger and “general useful” in the
office. (3) When a vacancy in any depart-
ment (corresponding, invoicing, cataloguing,
etc.) occurs a junior showing aptitude for
the work would be promoted. (4) No; on
the contrary brokers prefer to take a ’ lad
just leaving school rather than from any
other office, so that he may be trained from
the start to the methods of their own office.
How can I stain and polish maple? —64sß.
Smooth the wood to a fine surface with
sandpaper, and stain with a solution of per-
manganate of potash crystals dissolved in
hot water. Test the depth of the stain on
a spare piece of wood. When dry, rub in
raw linseed oil and dry off. Polish with any
good beeswax polish, or French polish with
shellac and methylated spirits.
If prohibition had been carried in N.S.W.
would the Government of the State have
had the power to en, force it? According to
the Federal Constitution there must be free
trade between all States. —6492.
Section 113 of the Federal Constitution
says: “All intoxicating liquids passing
into any State or remaining therein for use,
consumption, sale or storage shall be sub-
ject to the laws of the State, as if such
liquids had been produced in the State.”
But as _to what happens if the State says
the liquids mustn’t be used, consumed, sold
or stored, the Constitution is silent. That’s
all we know about it.
I take a lease of a property (W.A.) for
a number of years with option of purchase
at a certain figure. Can the owner rescind
the offer to sell at that figure? —63s3.
No, provided the option was embodied in
the lease unconditionally.
What is the cheapest way in which a wife
can transfer to her husband rights in land?
—6301.
Would suggest a deed of assignment.
(1) How should a fox be skinned? (2)
What is the cost of having the skins pre-
pared for wearing? (3) Could foxes be ob-
tained in the Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.) dis-
trict?— 6405.
(1) Make an incision from the throat
to the tail along the belly and down each
leg to the knee-joint. Draw the forefeet
through and cut off at the joints, work the
skin free right round the body at the shoul-
ders and prize the skin free down to the
hind legs, cutting off at the feet joints and
tail. Then draw the skin right over the
head to the base of the skull and cut off
at the jaws. The removal of flesh from
the head, claws and tail had better be left
to an expert. (2) Tanning, about ss. per
skin ; mounting and lining, from 15s. to 305.,
according to quality of silk required. (3)
Foxes have not frequented the district for
many years, except on Pulbar Island, which
is a sanctuary.
Does the Federal Income Tax Commis-
sioner allow as a deduction depreciation on
fencing, tanks and buildings (other than
residence) on farms, and if so how much
per cent, off eachf —6263.
Yes. Fences, 3 p.c.; dams, 5 p.c.; wool-
sheds, 2 p.c.; barns, stables, etc., 3 p.c. But
you cannot at the same time claim for wages
paid for construction or repairs on these
items.
I have a shearing shed the value of which
for some years I have estimated at about
£I6OO. It could not be erected at the present
time for less than £3OOO. Am I entitled to
re-value this shed, and show as depreciation
an 'increased amount? —6410.
For Federal income-tax purposes, de-
preciation on shearing sheds may be claimed
at 2 per cent, on the actual cost value. As
the N.S.W. Act at present stands, there is
no provision for allowances on account of
depreciation on such improvements.
(1) What is the award rate for station
book- and. store-keepers in Q’land? (2) And
in N.5.W.?— 6225.
(1) Sheep stations, £3 10s. per week;
cattle stations, £3 os. per week, in each case
with food and accommmodation up to a
specified standard. (2) There is no N.S.W.
award.
(1) What is the botanical name of the
spineless broad leaf species of prickly-pear?
(2) Where can seeds be obtained? I want to
try it as a fodder. —6374.
(1) Ficus indica. (2) The Q’land Prickly-
pear Land Commission states that the propa-
gation of this pear for 1 fodder purposes is
not encouraged in Q’land, as it is feared that
it may revert to a spiny type in the course
of time and thus become a pest.
(1) When should I cut back Bundaberg
mimosa? (2) Will it stand hard cutting
back? (3) For a position exposed to north-
east winds, what would be a suitable height
for a hedge? —642o.
(1) After the trees have finished flowering.
(2) They will stand a fair amount, of cutting-
back ; but sufficient stock and branches should
be left to provide new growth. (3) A useful
height would be between six and ten feet.
The best hedges are trimmed from their
earliest stages so as to encourage as dense
a bottom growth as possible.
(1) What is the virtue of tanbark as a
manure for flower and vegetable gardens?
(2) Would bark that has been used in a paint
factory be any g00d?—6 349.
(1) Well-rotted used tanbark from tan-
neries is useful as part of the compost for
growing soft-wooded plants and ferns when
grown in pots for easy transport. For vege-
table and flower culture in the open ground
it is not so good as manure, and is liable to
induce the growth of undesirable soil fungi.
(2) Have never heard of anyone trying it.
Who pays the artists and announcer in
connection with wireless broadcasting? —
6544.
The broadcasting station that employs
their services.
Information Supplied.
6111. —To cure a., horse that breaks his
bridle when tied up, tie him to a post that
cannot be uprooted with a strong halter,
first half-hitching the rein around his nose.
When he has had a pull and the tightening
rein induces him to come forward, immedi-
ately slacken it. Throw bags at him to
make him pull—stroke and pet him after
each attempt. When he will drag back no
more a thread will hold him ever after. —
“W.R.”
6206. —To drill holes in glass you re-
quire a brace, four three-cornered files and
some turpentine. Lay the glass on a flat
table over a couple of pieces of cloth. A
iin. file is fitted in the brace, and with its
sharp point placed over the position of the
hole, a slight pressure and a few turns of the
brace will make a surface indentation in the
glass ready for boring. The hole, irrespective
of its ultimate size, is drilled with the £in.
file first, and enlarged to the correct size
with a larger file later. Turpentine must be
applied freely throughout the boring pro-
cess. When about half-way through, turn
the glass over and finish from the other side.
To prepare the files, break them off at the
widest part and grind them on the three
sides to a point. Only lin. of the boring end
of the file needs thus sharpening. Both
point and the three tapering sides should
be kept sharp by means of a small car-
borundum wheel or stone.—-“R.C.V.H.”
6245. —To remove the inside canvas of a
motor-car tyre, find the joint of the inner
canvas, and on that point stand the tyre
perpendicularly against a wall. Fill the
lower portion with petrol and let it stand for
an hour or two. The canvas, as far as the
petrol has soaked, may then be peeled off.
Work round in sections until the whole has
been stripped.—“Rotom.”
6330. —To polish tortoise-shell, use the
finest emery paper to remove all scratches;
then, with a damp old linen dipped in God-
dard’s plate-powder, rub firmly and evenly
all over. Polish the inside and outside edges
by see-sawing with a damp, powdered strip
of the linen. Clean off with a damp cloth,
and polish by rubbing with the palm of the
hand slightly powdered.—“C.”
Does Anybody Know?
A method of making white paint, using
lime and boiled prickly-pear?—6so2.
Which is the better preservative for farm
buildings and gates, tar or wood oil? —6409.
How to prevent marking-ink used with
a rubber printing outfit from fading?—6467.
Meaning of the abo. name “Eunonyha-
reenylia”?—6sß2.
What to mix with coal tar to make a thin
solution for painting can sets, to keep ter-
mites and grubs away?—6633.
Weight and height and other measurements
of the Prince of Wales? —6500.
Brief Answers.
T.R.A.: Yes, that’s a very good selection.
But, remember, you can’t ko to sleep on it
—you can’t trust any stock to stay good indefi-
nitely. .. .L.D.R.: (l) One of the same group. (2)
Well, yes; but of course they are not in the same
class as No. 1....R.M.D.: A. G. Thompson and Sons,
165 Clarence-street, Sydney. .. .T.P.: There is no
satisfactory method of thinning out Taubman’s sol-
pah weatherproof oil that has become congealed.
The oil, having strong drying properties, should
always be well sealed and the air-space of the con-
tainer kept at a minimum. Should only a small
quantity be left in the container it is better to
decant into a smaller tin and seal up, thus reducing
air-space... .M.G.: T. Henderson and Sons, 313
George-street, Sydney... .G.W.: Probably inquiry
from or interview with the Public Curator would
make clear to you the reason for this demand.
On your statement it is not clear to us R.C.:
Leading Sydney gunmakers state that they have
never heard of such a pistol.... “Black and White”:
The late Sam McVea and Colin Bell met at the
Olympia, Newtown, Sydney, on Dec. 27, 1913. Bell
was knocked out in the second round....
Aussie: Colonel Murray has more military decorations
than Sir John Salmond; you should refer the other
questions to the official war historian. Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... .Ballet: There are thousands of
girls with all the qualifications you mention who
want to become film actresses. Opportunities in Aus-
tralia are few. First step is to get some stage
experience... .8.J.8.: Grant’s “Outlines of European
History,” Lodge’s “History of Modern Europe,” Emer-
ton’s “Beginnings of Modern Europe,” and Webster’s
“Early European History” (in three vols.) cover
the ground. Many volumes dealing with various
periods, nations and rulers might be read in con-
junction with the general surveys. .. .J.0.D.: Com-
municate direct with the Registrar of Co-operative
Societies, giving the facts on which you base your
opinion that the provisions have been broken....
Braidwood: If your condition is solely due to
smoking, nothing will do it any good except refrain-
ing from smoking. For your cough, ask your
chemist for eight ounces of syrup cociliana co
D. : Golden Casket prizes are not subject to
either Queensland State or Federal income-tax....
E. : (1) Buttonhole Fancy Costume Cos., Catton
Building, 189 Liverpool-street, Sydney. (2) Try
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Ground, Ltd., Rushcutters Bay.
and N.S.W. Golf Club Cos., Ltd., 9 Castlereagh-
street —both of Sydney... .A.R.W.: Get “Hints About
Investments” (Bs.) and “Stocks and Shares,” by-
Hartley Withers. Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
L.L.: Dean Inge’s address is the Deanery, St. Paul’s,
London, E.C.4 J.J.G.: If you write to Gaston
Bros. Pty., Ltd., Kensington, Victoria, they will tell
you how to steer their old type disc cultivator from
the seat... .M.B.F. : Prohibition has been tried in
eight countries, U.S.A., Finland, Canada, Russia,
Turkey, Norway, Sweden and Iceland, but with the
exception of U.S.A. and Finland it has been aban-
doned. Holland and Denmark also refused to have
anything to do with it, as the result of in-
quiries. .. .L.M.A.: (1) Figures not available.
Importations of tracing linen are not recorded sep-
arately. (2) Max Wurcker, Ltd., 99-101 York-street,
Sydney.... Bronc: Symptoms indicate that it is
more than bronchitis. You should consult a
medical man. . . .A.H.D.: State duty and court
fees are fixed. If you are doubtful as to the other
charges, ask the solicitor to supply you with details.
A.K.B.: If you can prove that yoilr employer
agreed to pay you £1 above Ahe award rate, he is
liable up to the time he told you he could no longer
afford to do so. .. .F.G.8.: There is no rule and you
could contest it if the matter went to court, but
probably if the account were long outstanding the
Court would allow the tradesman a reasonable rate
of interest... .E. 8.5.: You are still liable.,. ,R.IL:
(1) To eradicate bed-bugs, take soft soap 1 part,
hot water 5 parts. When soap is dissolved in hot
water, add 25 parts kerosene, stirring well. Do
this well away from any fire or flame. When made,
add I pint water to every 2 tablespoonfuls of the
mixture, and spray into every crack and crevice.
(2) To fumigate with sulphur, use 61b. to every
1000 cub. ft. of room. Seal all windows, fireplaces,
doors and other vents with strips of pasted paper.
Place sulphur in metal receptacles supported on a
brick or bricks in a tub containing water, and
sprinkle sulphur liberally with methylated spirits to
facilitate burning. After igniting sulphur, close
door, paste up paper all round and leave for eight
hours. .. .F.P.F-G.: (1) Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney; and E. A. Vidler, 178
Collins-street, and Lothian Publishing Cos., 497
Collins-street —both of Melbourne. (2) Not always,
but Australian publishers prefer novels with Aus-
tralian settings. (3) Inform the London firm that
it is under consideration, for serial publication, in
Australia, and that you will advise them as to the
editor’s decision. Australian serial publication
would not hamper the novel’s chance in London, but
publication in London would rob it of its serial
value in Australia. .. .J.S.M.: Inquire from W. R.
Carpenter and Cos., Ltd., 19 O’Connell-street; O'. F.
Nelson and Cos., Ltd., 318 George-street; Gibson
Islands, Ltd., 31 Macquarie-place; and New Guinea
Trading and Plantations Pty., Ltd., 17 Castlereagh-
street —all of Sydney F.P.: To ascertain the area
of triangular sections of land (not being right-angle
triangles) take a line at right angles to
the longest side, connecting with the point at which
the other two sides join. Ascertain the length of
this line, multiply it by the length of the long side,
and divide by two... .L.G.E.M.: (1) To make apple
cider', the apples must be crushed and the juice
strained and placed in a wooden vat for three weeks
to ferment. Then pour off the liquor, refine with
well-beaten white of egg, strain and bottle. But
you’ll be lucky if you are able to make a marketable
cider from the varieties of apples usually grown
here. (2) If you intend commercial production of
cider, you will have to have a license. Inquire at
the nearest police station... .A.K.8.: (1, 2 and 3)
Information obtainable from the British Phosphate
Commissioners, Henty House, Little Collins-street,
Melbourne. (4) The climate of Nauru is equable,
the temperature varying from 65 to 95 degree Fahr.
(5) Malaria is unknown. (6) Practically the whole
of the shipping calling at the island consists of
steamers under charter to the British Phosphate
Commission... .H.V.K.: The volume is an odd one,
and has only a very small value... .Norseman: It
is a matter of opinion as to what occupations are
parasitic. Our own view is that none of the cases
you mention comes within the definition... .H.P.J.:
The Education Department, which controls the ground,
might be asked to settle the dispute, if any, between
the rival committees... .A.R.W.: The Court should
be asked to make an order that adequate main-
tenance for the widow be provided out of the estate.
The son can act for his mother, if she consents to
his doing so, without a power of attorney.... Mick
C.: Your objections are frivolous... .(Many others
mailed.)


Dunlop Sells Mileage!
I
MV* I
v* i
•SSSS:
x<ss
syp
6
Vn
X
S»S&'I
SfS
sssfSss&t^
Vvwv^VWN
&
i
m
i
V.
ft
ri
■w
Li.
I«l |T>'" 45' iff / / / »L«
///$&
if / / / .»
Jl
§
ssfs>
i
&
f fMm '#
sV4,Vt jy
/
/ /
//
X/
L
yrii
SjSS
.// /
ssiv'.sss^:
%*
»■:
*£
tW«
iiXvFls.f
C>
j§C'.:
t
v a
Xv
W'
M-#
wmA %m
»*•■ ' 'X O ' iw
.X^x-S?
M
TO
XW
SXSXjN
/
x=
» S .x#. ;
X^.XX"'
**'>VM
#A<
x%
r*i
' /
r»-». 5
v>« #/
/
ss&ji
XxxxiXV .x^
/?
/Jr
&
»Mr /
A
.J
.x-r^ss
f
Some motorists buy tyres
without discrimination .♦„
Others ♦ ♦ ♦ more experienced * ♦ ♦
buy Dunlop, the tyres that
carry the maker's definite
promise of mileage that pays
and pleases*
*A tVv
Gt ea
C< S\c aS *
- , et ste^*tvcc
for enjoyable and economical
motoring fit
DUNLOP
5000 GARAGES STOCK THEM.


Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer’s
Attention.
For Particulars and Waybills write
The Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
R. C. Wilson,
Manager.
J, E.. Snape,
Wool Expert,
fsd
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
Qg PRODUCERS
s*. COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD._,
ll4 * 120 CASTLE REAQ H ST. SYDNEY rj=
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter § Son, Ltd
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
COASTAL SHEEP-FARMING.
“Coast Lands” : Growing interest is being
taken by coastal farmers in Southern
Queensland in the carrying of sheep in coun-
try that has for many' years been given over
to cattle-breeding and dairying. Coastal
sheep-growing has been advocated for some
years by the State Department of Agricul-
ture, and has been commented on freely in
The Bulletin during the past 12 months.
The merino is out of the question on this
type of country, where conditions arc often
damp and the grass coarse and seedy.
Several of the strong-wool types have been
tried, including Lincoln-merino crossbreds,
and though the trials have been on a small
scale, the results have so far justified the
experiment. Those who have tried it are
convinced that wool-growing and lamb-rais-
ing will be a success in conjunction with
dairying, the sheep eating the short grass
and improving the pastures. At the recent
Cooroy show, in the district between Mary-
borough and Brisbane, contests for sheep
breeders were included in the schedule for
the first time. E. W. Bourke, of West Cooroy,
showed a lot of Corriedales, the original
stock of which had been purchased a couple
of years ago, and stated that the sheep had
successfully withstood the wet seasons, and
showed no signs of worms or of foot troubles.
Last year’s clip averaged 10 3-51 b, per head,
the wool bringing Is. sd. per pound, even
though buyers did not favor small lots and
the wool was affected by cobbler-peg grass
seed. Other lots shown comprised merino-
Lincolns and Romney Marsh, and the same
story of success was repeated in each case.
In no instance was any attempt made at
sheep-raising on a large scale, the experi-
ments being a sideline to the dairying indus-
try which is the staple of the district, but a
profit was shown in all instances cited. Some
of the growers intend to put on Shropshires
with a view to lamb-raising, and the latest
departure will be watched with interest by
those who believe that sheep-raising can be
profitably pursued as an adjunct to dairying.
“B-Gar” : Experiments made recently with
Shropshire sheep on the Q’land coastal areas
have proved that these sheep do well, and, in
spite of the grass-seed and spear-grass
trouble, do not suffer as do the long-woolled
sheep. Wool in their case is a secondary
consideration, and, although the weight of the
carcase does not approach that of crossbreds,
the returns have been satisfactory from a
mutton point of view. In the low swampy
areas the Shrop. seems to escape footrot
and fluke. Then the lambs mature quickly,
and witli a ready market for young mutton
in the North, the possibilities of future suc-
cess appear to be good. The dingo menace is
a drawback, but in the smaller settled areas
the proposition seems to be a sound one.
CHOOSING A RAM.
“Lien”: The cocky is often confronted
with the task of picking a suitable merino
ram for cross-breeding or breeding his own
flock rams; so let us arrive at his desirable
characteristics. First, take a general look
at him and see if his appearance strikes you.
If he is hollow-backed or crippled discard
him. Now handle him and look at his mouth
and see if he is not too old, and if his mouth
and jaws are normal. Next see that he is
woolly-headed and that his wool is not too
strong; it needs to be bright, masculine and
bold, not too fine ftnd a good length. Now
see that the ram is entire, and not hairy
about the breech or neck. He must be well
covered, have a good belly, good arm and
thigh and must not be weak on the shoulder.
A _ good fine horn is desirable. Get these
points and a buyer should not go far wrong.
FORMALIN TREATMENT FOR
FOOTROT.
“K.M.C.”: The method adopted in this
simple and successful form of treatment is to
pare the hoof in the ordinary way, cutting
away the loose horn and affected parts (with-
out drawing blood, if possible), and removing
all dirt. The lioof thus prepared should then
be swabbed with a solution of half-and-half
formalin and water; a piece of cotton-waste
or wool tied to a short stick, or a dish-mop
trimmed down, does the trick. For second
and subsequent dressings, if found necessary,
the solution should be one part formalin and
three parts water. It is seldom, however, that
more than two dressings are needed.
I find it a good plan to break the formalin
down to fifty-fifty and have it ready for first
treatments; then, should a second dressing
be needed, I take a little out and add to it
the same quantity of water.
THE STOMACH WORM IN SHEEP.
“5.N.0.” : The latest curse to sheep men
in the north of N. S. Wales is a stomach
worm from i- to £-inch long, and finer than
a hair. The Ostcrtagi circumrincti is, so
far, practically unrecognised by graziers, the
mortality in their flocks being put down to
the common lung and intestinal worm.
The Ostertagi is found in the fourth stomach
and in the first 10 feet of the small intestine.
It swarms by the million in affected 1 sheep,
along the lines of the intestines. Being a
bloodsucker and flesh-colored, it is hard to
detect, but after an affected sheep has been
dead for a while, it changes color and
withers. Stock inspectors claim that this
worm has caused 1 more deaths among Bar-
raba sheep this year than did the 1927
drought. Preventive measures are to drench
the sufferer about every IX) days for six
months, and t<> burn off as much of the old
grass as possible, as the eggs and worms
remain active on the ground for several
months, the grass protecting them from the
sun’s rays.
“Brebis”: The following drench is re-
garded by the veterinary profession as the
best medicant for stomach worms, and has
no injurious effect if given to ewes with
lambs: lib. best bluestone dissolved ■ in
boiling water and cold water added to make
6 gallons; lib. best mustard, well mixed and
without lumps, to be poured into the blue-
stone water. The mustard must not be
mixed with the hot water or emptied into
hot water, as to do so will destroy the effects
of its oils. The dose is 2oz. for grown sheep
and loz. for hoggets and lambs. There is
no need to starve the sheep before drenching.
If a supply of this drench is carried on each
musterer’s saddle, any weak sheep or ewes
with small lambs not capable of being mus-
tered can be drenched in the paddock.
FLEECE WOOL.
“Breed” : For years past the name “Fleece”
has been to both brokers and buyers a sign
of tender • wool, and many buyers when
looking over a catalogue and noticing the
word take it for granted that the wool is
tender, and often therefore pass it by with-
out valuing it. It is a mistake to brand the
word on a bale. If the wool is tender, let
the buyers find it out for themselves.
The same remarks apply bo “Combing” and
“Clothing.” Don’t use these on the bales;
for what a grower may think is a combing
wool is not necessarily one in the eyes of
the buyers, and vice versa. Brand the bales
with letters, AAA, AA, A and so on, and
ledve the rest to the buyers.
HERD-TESTING IN MAORILAND.
“Salambo” ; Herd-testing in the Waikato,
South Auckland (M.L.) ; has proved a won-
derful boon to cow-cockies. It is estimated
that this district provided last year one-half
of the dairy cows in, the Dominion under
test. Surprising results have been attained.
One farmer, as the result of six years’ con-
sistent testing, has reached the remarkable
herd average, with 100 cows, of 3421 b. of
butter fat per cow. He has practically
doubled his herd and his returns without
extra cost.
The Government subsidy of £9500 granted
last year has been a great- help to this
system, which is good business, however
looked at.
STOCK SELECTION.
“Bad Australian”: Cattlemen in the tem-
perate parts of Australia can do no better
than stick to the Shorthorn, Hereford, Devon
and Polled Angus, but men in the tropical
tick-infested areas might possibly benefit by
an infusion of Zebu blood into their herds.
Zebu bulls were introduced into Brazil many
years ago in the hope that the progeny would
inherit their immunity from the attacks of
the cattle-tick and other insect pests. This
hope was fully realised. The results were so
satisfactory as regards the tick-resisting
qualities of the Zebu blood that the “estan-
cieros” of Northern Argentina followed the
example with equally satisfactory results.
The Northern herds included Shorthorns,
Herefords and Devons, as well as the scrubby
inbred native Longhorns. The Zebu-Short-
horn and the Zebu-Hereford crosses produced
the finest animals —big-framed, beefy beasts,
more or less equal in weight. In my opinion
however, the Hereford cross is better adapted
to tropical conditions ‘than is either the
Shorthorn or the Devon. As the climatic
conditions of our tropical areas are similar
to those of Southern Brazil and Northern
Argentina it might be that the introduction
of Zebu blood would prove equally success-
ful here.
THE RED POLL AND ABERDEEN-
ANGUS.
“Mick J.”: As “Hatter” says (B.
29/8/’2S), Red Polls are coming into their
own in Queensland, and so also are the Aber-
deen-Angus breed. Both types of cattle
thrive well under Queensland’s tropical con-
ditions. They do better, though, if crossed
with the Shorthorn or Hereford, the cross-
breds having on one side the size and beef
propensities of the Shorthorn or Hereford,
and on the other the small bones and good
cutting-up qualities of the Red Polls or
Aberdeen-Angus breeds. Several Queensland
breeders have tried this cross with success.
TWINS.
“E.V.S.: “Fred Rich” (B. 5/9/’2B) has
far from settled the question that the female
of bi-sexual twins trill breed. All he has
succeeded in doing is producing evidence <>f
what is already known, that she may breed.
There are two kinds of twins, ordinary
twins and identical twins. Identical twins
develop from a single ovum through a separa-
tion of the cells in the first process of divi-
sional growth. They live in the same chorion
and receive food and oxygen through the same
placenta, to which they are attached by
separate umbilical cords. They are always
the same sex.
Ordinary twins may be both of the same
sex or male and female. They develop inde-
pendently from two ova which happen to
mature at the same time. For each there is
a separate chorion and placenta, though the
two placentas often partially fuse. No
effects are noticeable from this fusing when
both are of the same sex. Should they be
male and female, however, the more potent
sex hormones of the male inhibit the
female’s development, sterilise her ovaries
and give her a male tendency. She is a free-
martin. These facts have been established
beyond reasonable doubt in cattle and infer-
entially apply to all vertebrate animal em-
bryos. Richard Allen’s mare, a bi-sexual
twin, is simply a case where the placentas
did not fuse.
NEWLY-BORN CALVES.
“Crimea”: How long can a newly-born
calf go without milk? I had a number of
cows wintering in a rough timber paddock
in Gippsland, and in early spring, when go-
ing around them, I noticed one close on
calving. Having something urgent to attend
to I decided to leave her till next day. On
going back the following morning I dis-
covered the cow; she had calved overnight,
but of the calf there was no trace. In the
evening I tried again and found the cow
roaming about, worried, and of the calf
still no sign. The country being very rough
and scrubby, I considered it a waste of time
to go on a search, probably to find it dead.
Exactly a week later, at evening milking, the
cow commenced to bellow and race about
the yard. Wondering what was wrong I
let her out, whereupon she tore off to where
a mob of yearlings were standing along a
fence about 300yds. away. On going down
to investigate I was staggered to find a week-
old calf amongst them. There was soon no
doubt about whose calf it was, though it
must have joined forces with the yearlings
on the day it was calved. The feed where
they had been running was rough native
grass—not too much of it, either —and that,
with unlimited water, was all that had sus-
tained it through seven days of bleak, wintry
weather.
CAPITAL IN CALVES.
“Salambo”: The veal-calf industry round
about the Hamilton (M.L.) district is attain-
ing large proportions. Between £7OOO and
£BOOO weekly is being paid out by the newly-
formed company for calves, wages, transport,
etc. Fully 30,000 “bobby” calves have already
been received at Auckland freezing works.
Formerly these unwanteds were given a
blow on the head, and a few pence was re-
ceived for the skin. Now the farmer gets
from 6s. to 12s. a head. The calves are
slaughtered by experts, the skins being left
on for a day and then removed at the rate
of 10 a minute by electric winches, which
preserve them from damage. The skins are
then washed by machinery, graded, salted and
packed in casks for export. The carcases
are boned, the flesh having a healthy appear-
ance owing to five days’ feeding away from
the mother, plus careful handling. The pelts
are cleaned, dried and sent to the Rennet
Company. Other by-products are converted
into fertilisers. Splendid markets have been
opened up in London and Liverpool, and a
large Continental demand is expected. The
new company has agents all over the place
who collect the calves at the farmers’ front
gates. Poor, thin, undersized or under-
five-days-old animals are promptly rejected.
INDIVIDUAL MILK RECORDS.
“H. J.G.”: Here are my eight reasons why
farmers should keep milk records: —
1. They form a basis upon which the
dairy herd may be continually improved.
No dairyman can afford to buy a herd bull
whose dam does not have an authentic record
of milk and butter-fat production.
2. They enable the farmer to feed each
cow according to the quantity of milk she
produces. Present high cost of concentrate
feeds makes it necessary that every cow shall
pay in milk-production for all she consumes.
3. They stimulate better feeding and breed-
ing. The use of a balanced ration is soon
evident in the way the cows respond at the
pail.
4. They sell cows. A cow with a record of
production is worth 25 per cent, to 50 per
cent, more than one without.
5. The weighing of the milk keeps the
owner in close touch with the daily condi-
tion of the cow. Serious illness has been
prevented on noting decrease of milk record.
6. They encourage better milking. They
serve as a check on “Choom” and induce
him to milk more thoroughly.
7. A knowledge of wlmt each animal is
doing gives the owner interest in his herd.
8. They make dairying a business propo-
sition.
It takes about a minute a day to weigh
and record the milk of each cow. Try it on
a few, and soon you will be doing it on all.
SEPARATING.
“P.M.”: Neither “Paul C.” nor I men-
tioned variation in cream test B.
S/9//28). We were discussing the causes
of high skim milk test; in other words, how
to prevent butterfat getting away in
the skim milk. “J.B.’s ' ten reasons for
the former state of affairs are all right, but
variation in the butterfat content of cream
is of no importance, provided you keep
within reasonable limits —say, between 40
per cent, and 50 per cent. A high skim milk
test, on the other hand, means pure waste
of butterfat.
HAND-FEEDING COWS.
“The Welkin”; Where hand-feeding of
cows is practised regularity is absolutely
essential. Irregularities in times of feeding
are followed by a marked diminution in the
yield. Further, the falling-off continues for
some time after regularity has been resumed.
Don’t feed dry stuff without plenty of
water. Keep it under their noses. A little
linseed-water should be added to the dry
fare; and don’t forget to throw in some
green stuff.
Prepare the chaff by pouring a little
boiling water on it and covering immediately
with a bag, so that the steam is retained.
Mix thoroughly, or you’ll have the cows
choking. It is better to have the food too
sloppy than too dry.
Give consideration to root food. This will
provide the cow with a wet cud, which she
needs. Mangolds make the butter hard and
crumbly but sweet. Generally, though, roots
do not impart a good flavor to the milk,
so they should be fed immediately after
milking.
The older the cow the poorer the milk.
The most profitable are the second and third
years. Say Strawberry drops her first calf
when three; she will be in her prime the two
years following. After that, for five years,
she will be from good to middling. To con-
tinue her longer in milk is bad business.
ADVANTAGES OF DEHORNING.
“Pomona”: One of the best, labor savers
on a dairy farm is having the cows de
horned. You get the cows home quieter and
save time at the yards, for you can put
double the number into the shed —it is
cheaper to build a large shed in a wet
district than everlastingly to keep the yards
clear of mud. Particularly with machines
are dehorned cows a saving, as there is no
chance of their horns becoming entangled
in the milk- and air-lines. Either dehorn
by prevention, when a few days old, with
caustic, or, later, use Keystone dehorners.
The operation is over in one snip. But be
sure and fill the cavities with oakum or
tarred teased rope. This keeps air and
flies away, and they soon heal up.
STABBING BLOWN BEASTS.
“Mick Q.”: Sometimes the cows coming
off dry grass and. getting into the lucerne
paddocks become badly blown, and the same
occasionally happens to a poddy. In such
cases many farmers dose the beasts with a
couple of pounds of coarse salt, but a much
better treatment is to stab them. Use a
sharp, clean, thin-bladed knife, and be sure
to make the stab equidistant between the
last rib, the hip-bone and the pelvis-bone.
When stabbing, direct the knife slightly
(Continued on page 31.)


1
■
&
m
m
*
%
m
TV!
=<
SB
*3
Si
LOOK INTO, AS WELL AS AT, THE IMPROVED 'FIVE-THREE’
When comparing any other players with the Improved'Five-Three’ insist
on seeing them dismantled. It’s the only way to compare finish for finish
There are two separate units in a
player-piano—the piano itself and
the player action. And in each of them
the real value lies in the internal struc-
ture. The only sure way to judge an
instrument is to see the inside. In our
showrooms you will
find one of our Im-
proved 'Five-Three’
Players dismantled.
Every detail of design,
material, workman-
ship, and finish is there
for you to examine.
Wh en comparing
other instruments with
the 'Five-Three,’ insist
on seeing them also
dismantled. Refuse to
buy where you are not
granted this opportunity. After all, you
are the most concerned in the purchase,
you are the best judge as to what you
are buying. To choose an instrument
on outward appearances only is buying
in the dark. You owe it to yourself,
In comparing other
instruments with the
Improved 'Five-Three’
only compare instru-
ments in the highest-
priced class. The 'Five-
Three’ was designed to
compete with this class
and this only, notwith-
standing the low price
for which it is sold.
to your purse, to your home, to insist
on facilities for inspection equal to
those afforded you in regard to the
'Five-Three.’ Among other features of
the improved model is the indestructible
lacquer finish, not the old time French
polish. It is guaranteed
not to crack, check, go
white, sink into the
wood or grow dull.
When visiting our
showroom, ask to see
the hot-water test. It
is the most amazing
proof of confidence.
The case-work is wal-
nut veneer, laid verti-
cally. Top and bottom
doors, new flush type.
The player action con-
tains every proved device for perfect
expression, and the tonal richness of
the Improved 'Five-Three’ equals that
of a concert piano of highest quality.
Full descriptive matter sent post
free anywhere. Terms, easiest possible.
The
Improved ‘Five-Three*
Player at the old price:
f 205
shows a saving of any-
thing up to £7O.
The Beale is also available in
combination with the Ampico
—the world’s most wonderful
reproducing medium. Ask to
hear the superb Beale-Ampico.
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms .
'34° George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories .♦
4 1 '47 Trafalgar St., Annandale,
Branches New South Wales : Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismove, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at Wagga and
c bUry .' T> . xctoria - \ Maples in all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania : Maples, Hobart and Launceston. South Australia:
oavery s Pianos, Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Thomson’s, Limited. Queensland : G. J. Grice, Limited, Bris-
bane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
ie.F.p.2B.


I feel so
tired...
■‘m
yOU. must conquer that state of weakened
health by toning up your nerves and
restoring their power of resistance —
with Sanatogen.
Sanatogen is the ideal combination of
exactly those two elements phosphorus
and albumin which build up lasting
health in the body.
A few weeks’ use of Sanatogen will take
away that feeling of listlessness and
nervous debility.
Get your tin of Sanatogen tO'day. Your nearest
Chemist sells it from 3/9 per tin.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-pood "
■ :^KB
GEN ATOSAN LTD., Loughborough, England.
NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
THERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
ITS majestic fiords and sounds, its uncanny thermal
wonders never fail to impress the keenest and most
critical observer. Its trout and deep-sea fishing, its
deer-stalking and native game provide the best of sport.
NEW is reached by palatial steamers,
i and the visitor on arrival is welcomed
and cared for by those whose duty it is to see that
he has a good time. He is taken care of from the time
he sets foot on shore until he steps on board his
steamer at the conclusion of his tour.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to be seen
The COST involved
may be had on
application to the
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free jor the Asking.
ours Booked.
Tours Planned.
Special
SAVIDGE VALVE LATHE.
- EEEO SCREW FOR LATHE CUT
HIGH SPEED STEEL CUTTER
GROUND READY FOR USE
Carriage set i
OR CUT ON 450 ,
VALVE HEADS J
SET CARRIAGE I
ALLOW EASY TURNING
k OROP OF OIL
I THESE HOLE*
turn in very
LIGHTLY TO
INCREASE CUT
UNIVERSAL
BENCH VALVE I.ATHE
patents' pending
THIS SCREW
THEN
TIGHTEN WITH
THIS SCREW
-TURNING CRANH
Avoid the usual drudgery by using this Valve Lathe for your
Valves It is self-centring and accurate.
Can be used on valves with 45 or 30 degree heads, up to
2-1 inches in diameter and with 7-16-inch stems.
Two features of this Lathe are its sturdiness and its simplicity
Anyone can use it. Just slip in valve, turn the handle and
operate the feed screw as required.
Will save you pounds. PRICE 40/- each.
We also stock the Junior Valve Lathe for Ford Valves and other
valves, having 5-16-inch stems and heads of 45 degrees, up to
1J inch in diameter.
This line is not, illustrated, but is of the same rugged construc-
tion as that shown, only smaller. PRICE 16/6.
Both Lathes are designed to produce quick results and to avoid
tedious work.
RENRUT
TYRE
GAUGE.
iC
10/6
A Tyre Pressure Gauge of outstanding quality.
Always dependable and accurate. Strongly made.
When fitted over the tyre valve the pressure is
shown on the dial. The hand is returned to zero
hy pressing button A. .....
This Gauge is especially suitable for balloon tyres.
Price, 10/6; postage, 6d.
“KEYSTONE” RATCHET WRENCH KIT.
A Keystone “Soc-Kit” Wrench Set is one of the most useful
tools of this machine age. Not only motorists, but all house-
holders and farmers have daily use for it.
Keystone “Soc-Kits” are made to withstand hard usage. All
sockets are made of case-hardened, heat-treated steel, tor
accuracy and resistance to wear.
The compactness and fine appearance of these kits will appeal
to all.
The Ratchet Kit, as illustrated, is a particularly fine set.
Sockets made of case-hardened, heat-treated steel.
Eight socket sizes: 7-16, A, 9-16, g, 11-16, -J, J, 15-16 in. and
screwdriver.
Ratchet Handle, Tin. drop forged steel, heat-treated pawl,
36deg. swing turns the nut.
Hexagon Handle, Bin. long, may be used with ratchet handle
as long adapter.
Channel top case, nickel-plated and highly polished. Price 8/6
postage.
Another handy kit (not illustrated) is the Keystone Box Kit
Heavy gauge-pressed steel box, nickel-plated and highly polished.
Sockets made of case-hardened steel, heat treated.
Six socket sizes: l, 9-16, f, 11-16, |, i in.
Handle, |in. hexagon steel, 7in. long, attaches to' socket with
spring and ball snap. Price 4/6 postage.
Proprietary limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
582-592 Collins Street, MELBOURNE, Vic.
116-130 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE, S.A.
PETROL STORAGE OUTFIT.
3C
HE
JL
J C
,?
3L
j:
as
JL
v ( >‘' &*j»• •••vstoo
la
.; •'■w
...•Vy >
MAKE YOUR PETROL SAFE.
The illustration shows the better, safer method of storing it.
The “Maeson” Petrol Storage Outfit is made for installation
in private, as well as in commercial, garages.
It is comprised of a strong, electrically-welded steel container,
to which a Semi-Rotary Pump, especially adapted for pumping
petrol, is connected by strong, suitable piping. A 10ft. length
of petrol hose with brass nozzle is supplied, also a
filler pipe. An air vent is fitted to the container.
The “Maeson” Outfit can be placed wherever con-
venient, but probably the best place is underground,
outside the garage.
Here it is safer from fire and theft than when in
tins. Another advantage is the saving of space in
the garage.
Capacity 100 gals. 200 gals. 300 gals.
Price £15 £17/10/- £20
With this outfit you are enabled to buy petrol in
bulk and SO EFFECT A CONSIDERABLE SAVING
PER GALLON.
This saving will soon cover the initial cost. Call
or write for particulars.


Jv/ Kyk&tiGn-s- l|SSw#V
** SH -T
r i«
03
A pliant light shoe
that eases foot-aches
Soft and restful to the foot,
this Abbey Shoe with capless
toe is made of tan or black
calf—the most comfortable
leather for footwear.
It has a flexible, welted sole of the
toughest kind of leather. And
there’s no stiffness in the upper,
save where it’s blocked at heel and
toe to protect the foot and preserve
a neat shape. The sides are cut
low at ankle for greater ease and
the instep arches where it laces.
3 WIDTHS, ALL SIZES.
ORDER BY POST.—Each full or
half-size is available in narrow,
medium 'or wide fitting. State width
needed and ask also for a supply
of the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin).
Tan Willow Calf .... 39/6
Black Box Calf 37/S
Caialoaue Post Free on Reouest
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
L9i. SYDNEY.
Beyond anHM VPortable
yon buy fugtiiture /
Specialising in H.M.V Portables,
£l2 cash or terms arranged
TheTALKERIES
,477 Q.V. Buildings/ Opposite Lowes,
Fluke and Stomach Worms
in Sheep.
SIX CURED FOR ONE PENNY with
SAYERS 51 REMEDY.
Contains 1 c.c. of Carbon Tetrachloride per dose.
Originally introduced to cure Fluke. Has been
proved by hundreds of users to be 100 per cent,
effective, and has been found equally effective for
STOMACH WORMS.
1-pint tin, treats 113 sheep, 4/6 each.
1-quart tin, treats 227 sheep, 6/6 each.
1-gallon tin, treats 909 sheep, 13/6 each.
4-gallon tin, 12/6 gallon.
To introduce it to various districts the Manufacturers,
on receipt of the above prices for pint and quart
tins, pay cost of postage to any part of N.S.W.,
provided the cutting from this newspaper is also
enclosed.
ON FIRST ORDER WE PAY THE POSTAGE.
Gallon and 4-gallon tins will also be forwarded,
freight paid, to any Railway Station in N.S.W., ii
order is accompanied by the newspaper cutting
Sayers’ Allport Propty. Ltd.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
f
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
,f you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
fiiticura
'-'SOAP
<■ •
LLU.
(uticuraSoap
MEDiCINAL&TOILET
Best For The Skin
Because it cleanses, invigor-
ates and preserves the skin,':
scalp and hair. Used daily,
assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, it prevents
pore-clogging, pimples, black-
heads, and other annoying
irritations.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“POWER FARMING.”
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE COPY.
“Power Farming’’ is a monthly newspaper, devoting the whole of its pages to power farming
and farm mechanics. x
It is the only paper which gives Free Telegraphic Service, answering all urgent questions on
mechanical troubles BY WIRE FREE. Experts are engaged in all departments, Tractors,
Stationary Engines, Pumping, Windmills, Building and Construction, Concrete Work, Country
Home Lighting and Refrigeration, Labor-saving Devices on the Farm, Farm Machinery, etc.
Every mail brings us appreciative letters from farmers all over Australia.
Send your Sub. to-day, or order through your nearest newsagent.
Five Shillings per year in advance, 5/6 booked.
FILL IN THIS COUPON AND MAIL TO-DAY.
POWER FARMING IN AUSTRALIA,
1 Bond Street, Sydney.
Please send me free of charge and without obligation sample copy
of your paper.
Name
Address
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
/ ?
XOJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
%
HEAD OFFICE 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
towards the forepart of the animal. Insert
a quill in the opening made by the knife
until all the gas lias escaped, and then
remove the quill. It is just as well to dab
some iodine on. After a few days the beast
will be quite right again.
SODA IN THE DAIRY.
"Tlieo”: The use of soda as a cleansing
agent for dairy utensils has been advocated.
My experience is that because of some
specific action it has on the surface of the
metal, soda is the cause of a metallic taint.
It is much better to wash all utensils in
warm water, using a brush vigorously, and
then plunge them into boiling water for a
while. When hung up they will immediately
dry. Pure water and free ventilation are
very important.
SELLING ON THE HOOF.
“Breed”: Although many buyers prefer to
have cattle delivered, selling on the hoof at
home is advantageous to the grazier. Many
cattle-growers are not prepared to accept a
little less on the ground but would rather
take pot luck and send to the market or meat-
works. By selling at liome, however, whether
for delivery on the station or at trucks, the
grazier is relieved of much responsibility, and
will not suffer if cattle are crippled or
killed on the train, whereas, were lie forward-
ing on his own account, such losses would
reduce his cheque. One chief objection by
buyers on the hoof is that unscrupulous
sellers sometimes take out a few of the
prime cattle and substitute inferior ones;
for unless a buyer has a keen memory he is
apt to forget a few of the better bullocks.
Buying on the hoof for delivery on trucks
used to be common with many meat-works
companies, but weights not panning out as
well as inspection anticipated, the method
was gradually dropped, and the general pro-
cedure now is to buy at so much a hundred
at the works. Graziers, if offered a fair mar-
ket price at home, should not hesitate to
accept it, and if tbe buyer is given a fair
go in the delivery he’ll come back again.
A COOL ROOF FOR DENNIS.
“Ivokeeno”: Bark makes a much cooler
roof for calf- or pig-pens than iron. Get
white box or stringybark, the latter pre-
ferred. Choose a time when the sap is run-
ning freely. Select straight trees with no
bulges on the barrels and cut through the
bark all round and well above the swell of
the butt. Then with the aid of your ladder
and a sharp “tommy” cut through the bark
about 6ft. up, girdling the tree with a cut
like a “herringbone” stitch. Cut the bark
in the same way down to the base cut. Be
certain that you cut through to the sap wood,
or you may spoil the sheet when levering it
off. Open up the cut with the axe r blade and
then run a sharp stick—a long-handled
shovel is better —up under the edges of the
vertical cut, doing both sides alternately.
While the sheets are still, wet with sap start
a small fire between a couple of logs, and
lay the sheets on the' logs until they are
steamed flat. When putting them on the
shed give the sheets plenty of lap to allow
for shrinkage.
WASTED PORK.
“Marloo”: A Richmond River (N.S.W.)
stock inspector has made the astounding
statement that less than 50 per cent, of
the pigs born are turned into food. I think
he under-estimated the loss.
Apart from swine-fever the most prevalent
diseases are tuberculosis, pneumonia and
kidney worm. To sidestep the first great
care should be exercised in introducing fresh
stock. To feed swine on the flesh of tuber-
culous animals or allow them to root among
the droppings is a sure way to transmit the
disease. Pneumonia is mostly due to de-
fective housing and drainage. The kidney
worm causes the animals to lose all power
of the hindquarters. Cleanliness of sties and
a regular sprinkling of lime are the pre-
ventive measures.
CURING PORK ON THE FARM.
“G.D.M.”: The following details will
usefully supplement what “Tlieo” (B.
29/8/’2B) has said with regard to bacon
curing. Be sure that the pigs to be killed
are healthy and are not excited at slaughter-
ing time. Allow the carcase to cool thoroughly
before it is cut up, and when the curing pro-
cess is complete do not expose tbe flesh to
flies. Immediately the shoulders, hams and
sides are smoked sufficiently, wrap them in
paper, then place them in bags and hang in
a cool, dry place until ready for use.
The brine process of curing is as follows:
Thoroughly rub with salt all the pieces to
be cured and then allow them to stand over
all night. A standard recipe for curing
1001 b. of pork consists of: Salt 101 b.; sugar
21b.; saltpetre 20z.; water 44 gallons. Boil
this mixture thoroughly, remove the scum
and then allow to cool. Pack the pork in
a barrel, weight it down and pour in the
brine. If the brine should become sour, re-
move the pork, wash it and then put it
back in a fresh brine mixture. Bacon from
2001 b. to 2501 b. pigs requires from 25 to 30
days in brine; shoulders 35 to 50 days and
hams 40 to 60 days. After removing from
the brine, soak the pork in fresh water for
several hours and hang up to dry before
smoking. The dry cure is effected thus:
Thoroughly mix 51b. of salt, 21b. brown
sugar, 2oz of saltpetre and pepper (to suit
taste). This will cure 1001 b. pork. Rub
one-third of the mixture into the meat and
pack it in a tight box. After three days,
remove it and rub in another third of the
mixture, and three days later rub in the
balance. Repack and leave for 12 to 15
days; then remove, wash, dry and smoke.
SALTING MEAT.
“Bad Australian”: To avoid loss when
salting meat during the hot or muggy months
cut the animal up immediately after killing.
Take a couple of clean well-damped corn-
sacks and spread on a bench or table. Rub
the meat well with salt with which the usual
quantity of saltpetre has been mixed, and
lay each piece on the bagging with its outer
side downwards and sprinkle a thin layer
of salt over all. In eight or ten hours the
meat will be as salt as if it had been four
or five days in pickle, after being allowed to
set in the ordinary way. This method gives
as good results with pork as with beef or
mutton, if the bones of the leg and shoulder
are taken out before salting.
Meat salted when freshly killed does not
look as well as when it has been allowed
to set, but as the salt takes almost immedi-
ately all risk of loss is eliminated, no matter
how hot or muggy the weather may be. I
have seen pig-meat, cured by this method,
smoked and sold as “bacon” within three
days of killing—to the entire satisfaction
of the buyer as well as the seller.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Milltrack”: The latest use kerosene-tins
have been put to by a settler in the North
Midlands (W.A.) district is in the building
of a neat machinery shed. A Gin. square was
cut out of the tops of the tins, which were
then filled with mud, rammed tight and left
for a week or so to set. Then they were laid
like bricks; crevices were stopped up with
pug, and the whole liberally coated with
whitewash. The result is a good solid shed,
cool in summer and warm in winter.
“Tuan”: Here is a good recipe for trouble
after dehorning. Use a swab, and apply the
following mixture not only where the horns
have been removed, but in the hair on the
forehead, and between the horns: Tincture
benzoin, 1 pint; tincture of iron chloride,
2 pints; coal oil, 1 gallon; crude carbolic
acid, 1 gallon; oil rieini, 14 gallon; pure
tar, 1-| gallon. This mixture has a good
many ingredients, but it will save the farmer
time and money to make it up.
“Tuan”: Mice can live through a summer
in hay without water, but if it is provided
they will drink, and by using a very weak
solution of arsenic and water placed in shallow
tins along each side and end of stack they can
be kept down. Another method I have used
is to mix about fib. of sulphur to the ton of
hay while the stack is being built, sprinkl-
ing it rather more freely round the first few
tiers, and round the eaves and the roof of
the stack. A surer but slower method is to
fence the stack when about half-built with
6ft. sheets of corrugated-iron about 3ft. in
the ground, and fasten them together with
small bolts. A coating of coal tar will give a
longer life to the iron in the ground.
“The Welkin” : Hay should pass through
the chaff-cutter before being given to stock.
The chaff makes the food more digestible,
permits it to be thoroughly mixed with the
nutritive food, and prevents the rejection
of any part of it. Stock will consume a
larger portion of the cut-up fodder, and time
be saved in feeding.
“T.W.”: Onion grass is good for stock,
and should not be eradicated where it Is
not occupying needed land. The weed grows
profusely during the cold weather, when it
is a welcome stand-by. Stock on the move
in Vic. have been subsisting almost solely,
yet remarkably well, on this grass growing
by the side of sandy roadways.
“Des”: An easy and effective way of get-
ting rid of lice on pigs is to soak a piece of
hessian, or a bag, in crude oil and kerosene
and tie it round a post or tree. The pig
speedily ascertains its whereabouts and the
comfort derived from rubbing against it, and
soon becomes covered in oil, to the destruc-
tion of the lice.
“Amicus”: I have found this quite the
best way of getting rid of thrips or aphis on
strong ferns, plants, etc.: Take about 141 b.
of dry, dusted tobacco-waste and soak it in
a kerosene-tin of water for about 48 hours,
add a teaspoonful of washing-soda and
strain well. It is good to add a little soap
solution to this, making the mixture more ad-
hesive. Apply with a spray.
“Poker” : A good way of supplying mois-
ture to incubated eggs is to wet a piece of
flannel and put it over them. This should
not be done often ; once a day is quite suf-
ficient.
“Blowfly”: For calves the best mixture
with separated milk is pollard, linseed meal
or maize meal; about half a pound of either
should be allowed for each calf daily. They
should be boiled or mixed with boiling water
to the consistency of a gruel, then cooled
and the milk added. Linseed or linseed meal
is indigestible only when fed without having
been boiled or steeped. A little salt should
be added to the gruel.
“The Pedaller” : Next time you have no-
thing but muddy water to drink, put a kero-
sene-tinful of it on the fire, and When it
boils sprinkle in half a teaspoonful of Epsom''
salts. Set the bucket, aside to cool, and the
sediment will settle on the bottom, leaving
the water clear. The clear water can then
be poured off into another bucket. I’ve
treated a good deal of water this way, and
now never travel without a few packets of
salts. They are easy to carry, and tbe small
proportion used doesn’t leave any taste in the
tea.
“N. 8.”; At times cows’ teats become hard,
the skin cracks and scabs appear. A good
remedy for this is to wash the teats with
Condy’s crystals (permanganate of potash)
dissolved in water. A little vaseline or lard
mixed with boracic powder should be gently
rubbed in before milking. Milk as dry as
• possible, and again use the ointment.
“Sucre”: When “Degilbo” (B. 5/9/’2B)
says that pear will not grow on poor land it
is evident he does not know much about the
question. Dulacca. Duaringa, Dalby and
dozens of other Queensland townships have
patches of exceedingly poor land growing
pear. Queensland practically gives its pear-
infested land away to would-be farmers, and
its Intelligence Bureau has a list of settlers
who, starting on nothing but “pear land,”
have had heavy balances after only three
years’ hard grind.
“B-Gar” : In spite of the drought in south-
western Queensland, fat cattle are still hold-
ing _ their condition, for Galway Downs
station, on the Cooper, is making arrange-
ments to send 2500 fat bullocks to the Syd-
ney market. The cattle will be fed on the
road to trucks at Quilpie, and spelled a
couple of days en route.
“Breed”: A North Queensland dairyman
has profited by his foresight. Prior to the
present dry spell, when milk thistles and
herbage were in profusion, he dug a large pit
and into it emptied several waggonloads of
the green feed. To-day his neighbors are
paying big prices for fodder, but the silo
man has enough green feed to last him a
month yet.


17.
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or out of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
banking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
Commonwealth Sank offlustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
L„j
y
K/
SJ
"..■'Xil fiA. ; ■''- .--' f
- / W : /£*
«') /£\ /mm\
M BS£ s,-.
J x *
IJ
y*
“Its Quality Never Changes
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Airmen starting on pioneering flights find
that there are always numbers of people to
cheer them up.
* *
The Mosman (N.S.W.) oval is being dug
up. Any footballer who lost an ear on the
ground during the past season is requested
to apply for it at the Town Hall.
* *
Worse things may happen to a man whose
wife runs away. She might come back.
* *
The difference between a taxidermist and
a taxi-driver is that one of them skins only
the lower animals.
* *
Judging by his sixth Budget, Page has no
intention of turning over a new leaf.
* *
“Griffith Moses”: It might be a good
idea to give each elector a free drink after
voting. Then his breath might be brought
up against him if he tried to vote again.
¥
Melbourne brain-specialists are baffled by
the case of an old-time footballer who re-
turned from a match and declared that the
players to-day are better than they were in
his time.
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“ And, thank you, ’Erb, for bringing it; and
’ow did you get on yourself down at
the Congress?”
“Aw, they musta took me fer a kangaroo.
Every loafer I met down in ’Yde Park
said, ‘Hey, mate, ’ow’s your pouch?’ ”
Our sympathy is extended to the actress
who, when informed that she would have to
wear pyjamas on the stage, objected to
appearing in public wearing so much cloth-
ing.
* *
The people he’d astound.
When covering the ground,
As round the Speedway track he used to
skim;
But, ah, it couldn’t last!
One day he went too fast,
And struck a post—the ground now covers
him.
n.s.w. Doric.
. * *
Complaints have been made about unices
on the Sydney water front. It is said that
there arc tyros so new to the game that
they have not yCt been in more than forty or
fifty strikes.
The Sydney papers recorded the other day
a case of a bishop being robbed ot his
steamer ticket to Africa and £lOO d> a
man whom he helped out of a fit. I hen, no
doubt, the bishop had one.
* *
A horse operated on by Dr. Voronoff won
the Grand Hurdle Race at Auteuil. Or was
it the Gland Hurdle Race?
According to the West Australian,
“Constantine Kwveravrivos Dicouolouou
(about 26), laborer,
was taken to the
Perth Hospital in
the St. John Ambu-
lance late last
night, suffering
from delusions.”
The unhappy man
thought it was pro-
nounced “Jones.”
The Coburg
(Vic.) Council is
to plant palms in
its municipality.
We understand that
some good examples
of one variety,
rather used, but
otherwise in fair
condition, are to bo
picked up cheap in
Sydney.
No woman in
her senses nowa-
days takes a broken
engagement to heart —she takes it to court.
¥ ¥
Correct this sentence: “I’m sorry, sir,”
said the taxi-driver, “but I cannot accbpt
tips from strangers.”
V ¥
When choosing a wife, in the days gone by,
To a good cook a man would aspire;
But. now he will ask, with an anxious eye,
“Is she able to change a tyre?”
* *
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY TALE.
“No.” said the Habitual Punter in the
race train, “I can’t give any tips. I know
absolutely nothing.”
%. *
“P.A.Q.”: From Wairarapa (M.L.) Age:
Lost.—On Monday, small leather purse. “Present
from Aberdeen” marked on it. Address Age Office.
“Present from Aberdeen”! Is this a mis-
print or a gross exaggeration?
By the use of hypnotism English doctors
have for some time been enabling people
who were previously unskilled to play musi-
cal instruments. It clears up the mystery
of saxophonists; they have evidently been
hypnotised into the belief that they are
musicians.
* *
When peace is declared in the tobacco
war next month citizens will soon learn, as
they did in 1918, that it would have been
cheaper to go on with the war.
# *
The kind-hearted man, well wrapped
against the storm, was disturbed to see the
overcoatless drunk clinging to the lamp-
post whilst the rain poured upon him.
“You ought to get home,” he advised.
“This is a terrible storm to be out in.”
“Shee th’ light in—hie —thatsh windosh?”
said the drunk. “Tha’s th’ wife —hie
ing upsh fer me! An’ you callsh thisli a
shtorm J”
* *
A shower of red mud fell at Moree. Cer-
tain Nationalist residents have petitioned the
Government to prohibit this impudent dis-
tribution of Communist propaganda.
* *
Mary had a little slam,
And not a soul perceived
Her luck was good simply because
Of aces she ■had sleeved.
Some wives look stunuing; it is their hus-
bands who look stunned.
With women, speech may be silver, but
silence is impossible.
* *
Sydney Sun quotes an American tourist
as saying that Australians “seem peace-
loving, law-abiding people.” It’s enough to
make any self-respecting maritime unionist
stand on his dignity and start another strike.
* *
The Hogan Government may deny the
Vic. Railway Commissioner applause, but
they can’t take away his name.
All income-tax statements had to be in
by September 1. Dir. Whiddon is still gloat-
ing over the many unhappy returns of the
day.
THE BULLETIN’S BIBLICAL PICTURES.
No. 1—The flight from Israel.
Our politicians are not bad as politicians
go, but the worst of it is they don’t go.
* *
Punters remain poor while bookmakers
become wealthy, as a matter of race-course.
* *
How many of these country, welcomes, to
members of Parliament are merely civi n
deceptions?
* *
They out a jockey for having a bit on his
mount; yet if he doesn’t he can’t possibly
win.
* #
As a man rips, so shall a woman sew.
* *
An anthem appointed to be sung at Pent-
ridge and Long Bay: “Oakum All Ye Faith-
ful.”
* *
Many a couple just suited to each other
spoil everything by going and getting mar-
ried.
* ¥
The Federal elections have been post-
poned until the third Saturday in November
to avoid clashing with the Melbourne Cup,
meeting. The Government tried to have the
Cup meeting postponed, but fortunately the
projected manoeuvres of the fleet prevented
this action being taken.
* #
“I have been ruined by a misunderstand-
ing,” said the Mug Punter. “My friend the
jockey said his mount would romp home, but
he didn’t explain that the brute was the
slowest romper in the field.”
* *
“Bloomers,” say the fashion writers, “will
soon be a thing of the past.” On their last
legs, so to speak.
* ¥
The man who has to pay the bills sees no
softness in the falling due.
* *
The man who gives in when he’s wrong, they
say,
With arguments ivill not he harried,
But the ones who give in when they’re right
— well, they
Are usually those who are married.
n.s.w. Doric.
THE WATCH-DOG.
Splinter, the non-worker, had steeled him-
self to part with a faithful friend. Tears
were in his eyes. “He’s the best watch-
dog in the world,” he said. “He wont let
a stranger in the yard.” The burglary busi-
ness was flourishing in the suburb, so Bloggs
bought the hound.
True to label, the dog wouldn t allow a
a stranger in the yard ; in fact, Bloggs had
to prove he was no stranger with offerings
of meat before he could venture into his own
sleep easy,” thought Bloggs. “Burg-
lars have no chance with that dog about. ’
The next night a burglar arrived, and
took all the valuables about the Bloggs
home When the late owner of the animal
inquired about it later, Bloggs almost hurled
the thing at him.
“He let a thief come in here the other
night and the place was ransacked. Take
him to h— out of this.”
Splinter took the hound and left. Two
streets away he found a nice home for the
dog. “He’s a wonderful watch-dog,” he said.
HOOKED.
Fifi: “When Jack proposed he was as
awkward as a fish out of water.”
Frank: “Well, he knew he was caught.”
“He won’t let any stranger in the yard—day
or night.”
“I'll take him,” said the householder.
“There’s a lot of burgling going on around
here. With a good dog in the yard one can
sleep easy.”
“Try him out, if you like,” said Splinter.
“Get one of your friends to try and enter
the yard. But whatever you do don’t let
them step inside. He’s a cow on strangers!”
And Splinter left, after carefully noting
the lay of the land.
•Leer.
RUBBING IT IN.
The Civic Father's chief defence
Had been that he was broke.
His tear-compelling eloquence,
Which made the soulful choke,
stressed from a hundred facets
His total lack of assets.
Five thousand pounds the Crown averred
The Father still possessed —
All pinched. Twelve jury men concurred.
Also a comp., who pressed
The point home to the hilt; he
Set up their verdict, “Gilty.”
N.S.W.
BLOGGS.
LUMINARIES.
The pert little ingenue
Got engaged to the second comedian;
Just three pounds a week was her screw:
He —no one could call him a greedy ’un—
Existed on four. As a maker of mirth,
So the managers said, it was all he was
worth.
The ingenue—good at the game —
Soon doubled and trebled her salary.
Her fianed did not do the same;
She’s an artist —he plays to the gallery.
How she’s “off' with the old love” —you know
what girls are!
Ho wonder he moons, for, you see, she’s a
star.
VICTORIA.
E. T.
COLD TRUTH.
I often feared he lied to me
When we were married first;
Full often feared he lied to me —
And guessed the very worst.
I often knew he lied to me
When love began to cool;
And often feigned believing when —•
I wasn’t such a fool!
But now he never lies to me
When I have found him out —
And so I know his love for me
Is dead without a doubt.
N.S.W.
BIRU.
THE SILENT LIAR.
“His Honor: ‘I have found it the usual rule that
when a person does not answer questions ne
telling the truth.’ ”
In a corner obscure of a populous bar
A mild-looking man sat and drank;
A beer-inflamed stranger observed him jro
And diagnosed sicagger or swank.
The name of the man in the corner w
His critic was Bill to the lads of the town.
“ What’s your name?” Bill demanded. And
where do you live?
And why are you wearing that hat.
Are you in with the Labor coves, oi a
y° u V ive , a Wn+9”
Support to the Bruce crowd and 1 at.
Brown gazed upon Bill with a lack-lustre
eye, ,
And made not the slightest attempt to reply.
“It’s no good yon sneering like that, blus-
tered Bill,
Annoyed at the manner of Brown.
“You’re a liar and skitef. If you weren t
sitting still „
I’d land you a smack on the crown.
Then someone said, “Cut out such profitless
strife
The bloke has been deaf—likewise dump-
all his life.”
For a moment Bill stood disconcerted, and
then
A skilful recovery made.
“I repeat he’s a■ liar,” he thundered, ana
when
I say it I mean it. I’ve paid
Attention to conduct which trickery spells.
The less a man argues the more lies he
tells.”
N.s.w.
QUODERAT.


The easiest way
to get at—
—the finest
Whisky
Pull the tape which rips
open the capsule, un-
screw the air-tight cap,
and you’re in the pre-
sence of the world’s
greatest whisky. In this
amber liquid you meet
so soon there’s a subtle
heathery tang that
passes description. No
other whisky has it.
It is found in White
Horse only the first
whisky in Scotland.
No corkscrew required
SE
Whisky


MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf 'lf}/
3 ! /iins. wide will
not sag; High Crown, p n . t c r „
will stand all weathers.
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
HEINZ
Cream of Tomato Soup
Made of rich, dairy cream and
fresh, red-ripe tomatoes. A
delicious soup that makes the
entire meal taste better.
Also, Heinz Cream of Green
Pea Soup, Heinz Cream of
Celery Soup.
1369
one of the
tz7
Varieties
o
’H'* Finc/t Inland Golf"
Link/ inAu/tralid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
Poverty
Point
Fanny Wiseman: We have had another
lacy Hamlet in Australia in addition to
those mentioned lately in The Bulletin.
Louise Crawford, in 1884, played the Dane
in a performance of “Hamlet” at the Parra-
matta Town Hall. Walter Baker, William
South, Jack Caesar, James Wilkinson, James
Hooker, James Welsh, Kate Douglas and
myself wei’e in the cast. We depended on
Kate Douglas to find the skull, as she always
carried one about with her. It duly arrived,
but it went astray, and there was terrific
confusion until Henry Douglas, our props,
(no relation of Kate Douglas), went into the
kitchen of the hotel next door and carved a
very fine skull out of a Swede turnip. Inci-
dentally, Miss Crawford also played Hamlet
for us when we were in Hobart in 1880-81.
“Feng-Shui”: The Malay producer has
none of Allan Wilkie’s absurd respect for
the sacredness of Shakspeare’s text. He
brings it up-to-date by every means suggested
to his fertile and eclectic mind. Listening
to a performance of “The Merchant of
Venice,” by the distinguished Bintang (All-
star) companv of Singapore, I was amused
to hear Shylock—a stout half-caste Malay,
with his sock suspenders outside his trou-
sei’s —demand his “pound of flesh,” adding
“cold-storage punyah.” It was probably
the first time a reference to Australian
frozen mutton had crept into a production
of the Bard.
Doris Champion (Lond.) : “P. 11.” is quite
incorrect in accusing me of carrying crepe-
paper gladiola when playing Desdemona.
Never at any pei’formance did I carry other
than real flowers. I had to send this note
in fairness to Mr. Asche, who was also in-
volved in “P.ll.’s” criticism, and who is a
great and artistic producer.
“Macann”: Does elaborate scenery play
a very important part in helping dramatic
cffoi’t over the footlights? I saw Wilkie
many times when his stage fittings were a
few brown curtains and when the forests
of the Bard and other such details were
indicated by a wave of the arm and appro-
priate quotation, which seemed to me to
serve the purpose admii-ably. Again, on
my first visit to the Playbox, Sydney, the
other night I found the amateurs playing
in the crudest of scenic settings and yet
giving a fine dramatic interpretation of the
piece.
“R.J.R.”: Eighteen months ago one Alex-
ander Wright left the Commonwealth in
search of opei-atic fame. He studied success-
fully in Mussoliniland ; then came the stage
appearance of Andre Navarre. The critics,
after his initial appearance, said that he was
one of the world’s best tenors —and the
critics were Italians. A touring engagement
to appear in 20 concerts in Italy’s chief
cities has now been accepted by Alexander
Wright. His Italian, it is said, is almost
natural.
J. Gavan Reilly: In reply to “Jacques”
(B. 22/8/’2B) anent the first Australian-
made film, I think the race lies between my-
self and the showman who filmed the “Kelly
Gang.” Twenty-one years ago I induced
some friends to put up the cash, and at
Ballarat filmed “The Eureka Stockade.”
Commenting upon the first exhibition of the
picture, at the Athenaeum Hall, Melbourne,
in 1907, The Bulletin’s representative
wrote:—
The “Eureka Stockade” biograph shown at the
Athenaeum impresses me very much. It begins with
immigrants for Australia at a London shipping office
in 1851. A placard announces the gold discoveries.
The people are quaintly dressed in costumes of the
time However short of possible the Eureka
scenes might be, they thrilled me to the core. What
tremendous possibilities there are in the biograph.
Prophetic indeed, but unfortunately my
friends could not see with my eyes then.
The film was sold for a song, and, I believe,
shown everywhere around the State until
it went to ribbons.
“Spool-Holder” : As far back as Melbourne
Cup Day, 1901. bred Murphy (brother of
“Dryblower”), then official racecourse photo-
grapher to tlie V.R.C., made a movie of the
finish of the big race. He filmed the nega-
tive. but had no printing machine by which
to make the positive, and the only one in
Melbourne belonged to the Salvation Army.
However, the Army took the cash for develop-
ing the negative and printing the positive.
Earlier still, in 1898, a movie was shown in
Perth by photographer Dease, still of the
Groperland capital. He threw it from the
balcony of the Perth Hotel to a sheet on the
opposite side of the l’oad, and attracted such
a multitude that the police came along and
told him to stop, which he didn’t. Dease
also showed “The Funeral of Queen Vic-
toria” at the end of 1901, and took the film
to the Nor’-West. A base calumny asserted
that as an encore to the “Funeral” in the
second part, Dease put the royal cort&ge on
backwards and megaphoned it to the squat-
ters, stockmen, .Taps and blacks as “Artillery
Going into Action in the Boer War” !
“Bloggs”: The Variety Artists’ Federa-
tion’s objection to Irene Savidge’s engage-
ment in vaudeville rests on the fact that she
is a youngster of 18, who has had no
stage experience, and would have remained
in the obscurity of a London factory if she
and the Liberal economist, Sir Leo Money,
had not been ai’rested for alleged philander-
“RIO RITA,” AT THE ST. JAMES, SYDNEY.
Chic Bean (Dave Mallen) and Ed. Lovett (Charlie Sylber) let themselves in for
trouble with the Kinkajou (Harry Burgess).
ing by a couple of Hyde Park policemen.
What happened since is history ; one conse-
quence is that Miss Savidge _ is just now
about the best-known flapper in the land—
she has been the indirect cause, inter alia,
of a cartoon in Punch itself —but the slap-
stick brigade decline to accept such pub-
licity as creditable, or even legitimate. It
is a fight that they share with the journalists
whose position is much worse than theirs.
In London journalism a man only has to
commit some crime that arouses general hor-
ror—preferably a murder —and memoirs
attributable to his pen, or reminiscences of
relations or friends, attain fantastic values.
Horatio Bottomley got £lOOO apiece for 15
of the dullest articles on record from the
Rothermere press for no better reason than
that he had done a stretch in gaol.
“Cauboy”: After saying that she would
ne’er consent, Melba consented, and Mel-
bourne is to hear the Dame in opera, after
all. A matinee performance of bits of “La
Boheme,” With segments of “Otello,” will be
further made into an occasion by the appear-
ance of Brownlee and Browning Mummery.
“Cine Ma”: Several actions have been
launched in U.S.A. against producers for
using the dialogue of plays or books in con-
nection with the speaking film. The trouble
has arisen largely out of the movie barons’
crude attitude toward the author’s rights in
the written word. One device of the master
minds of Hollywood is to buy up a story
because of its attractive title. Later the book
may be thrown into the discard and the title
affixed to a film play having no relation
whatever to the original work. The author’s
protests are treated with contempt. Didn’t
he get good money for his stuff? The Authors’
League is taking up the cudgels for the
writers and trying to instil a sense of lit-
erary decency into the more high-handed of
the producers. A curious circumstance is
tnat the Federal censorship laws don’t yet
apply to potted speech, and until they are
amended a period of general license will pro-
bably mark the inauguration of the chatting
film.
“Craiser” : The claim of Malvern (Vic.) to
being Australia’s most musical suburb does
not -only rest on the possession of William
Mallinson’s fine symphony orchestra, men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin. The Malvern
Choral Society, conducted by Herbert Davis,
is distinguished above most other choi’al
societies by its courage in tackling works
hitherto unheard in this country. Prof.
Aylmer Buesst was present at a recent con-
cert, and patted the organisation on its col-
lective back for its ambitious programme.
In addition, the Malvern 'City Band is
known wherever one or two are gathered
together for the purpose of listening-in to
3LO.
“Spokeshave”: The protest of English
variety artists against the offer of a stage
appearance made to Irene Savidge after the
recent stir in the courts reminds me that in
America such offers are part of the regular
routine. A recent example was Peaches
Browning, tile flapper whose connection with
a publicity-craving millionaire was the sub-
ject of endless litigation. From the box-
office point of view Peaches was a great
success.
“Ula”: Kindly Charlie Pope, corner-man
with his brother-negro Sayles at the Tivoli
years ago, is now being looked after in a
Melbourne institute. He went off suddenly,
for I noticed him in attendance when the
Yankee buffoons Olsen and Johnson were at
Melbourne Tiv. a short time ago. The old
chap was fit and jocose enough then. His
last big appearance was with Emelie Polini
in “De Luxe Annie.”
“Mako”: Maoriland is promised speaking
films in the near future, and is sitting up and
considering some of the possibilities. At pre-
sent the youth of the Dominion is familiar
with all the Yankee slang, hut uses it minus
the accent, and lovers of pure English fear
that with the advent of the talkies the local
juvenile will adopt the twang of U.S.A. The
prospect is not at all stimulating to a coun-,
try that prides itself on speaking English
passably well, and the innovation may have
unexpected results. However, if the talkies
do no more than silence the Wurlitzer they
will deserve some credit.
“Blah-Blah”: After Pola Negri’s spill from
her horse in Paris lately she lay at death’s
door in the cables and the publicity agents’
communiques for at least a week. Then, the
public interest falling very flat, she made a
complete recovery. The increasing difficulty
of getting publicity for these lovely creatures
is very disconcerting, and enough to urge
the average female film star to go back to
her original work of pasting pickle-labels
or scrubbing out offices. That would be a
novelty, anyway, and wouldn’t affect her
genius in the slightest when the inevitable
return to the films was made.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Various Aus-
tralian managers and agents are angling
for the services of Paul Boboson, the famous
negro bass, for a tour of the Commonwealth.
Robeson was specially brought over from
America to play the Emperor Jones in Eugene
O’Neil’s powerful play of that name. He
subsequently toured Great Britain as a
concert singer, and is at present appearing
in “Show Boat” at Drury-lane, w T here his
singing of “Ole Man River” and other num-
bers dominates the , whole performance.
Before taking to the stage Robeson was a
barrister. If he should visit the Common-
wealth his programmes will be composed
entirely of negro spirituals, and his masterly
way of singing them should raise the roof.
“C.R.”: Are there any other entrepreneurs
in the peculiar position of White and Edgley V
These two intrepid stage middlemen will
shortly be working in combination with the
Firm in the production of the Midnight
Follies in Brisbane, and with Ben Fuller
in a new comedy company at Melbourne
Princess. They are also interested in the
E. J. Carroll production of “White Collars”
at the Athemeum.
“R. Volt”: There are some bad spots in
Melbourne Town Hall concert chamber, but
nowhere is acoustic freakishness so manifest
as in St. Paul's Cathedral. There are areas
in that fane where the sermon is practi-
cally inaudible, the singing is 'queerly blurred
and the organ makes the weirdest of caco-
phonies. A visitor from 70 miles inland
recently made the interesting discovery that
lie could hear the service better at home
than he could sitting in the building.
“L.H.P.”: What a soft job visiting stars
have now compared to those of years ago!
Contrast, for instance, Margaret Bannerman,
who gets through a long season with only
three plays, with Mrs. Scott Siddons, who
starred at the Sydney Royal in 1879
and who appeared in the course of six
weeks as Juliet, Rosalind, Pauline, Lady
Macbeth, Lady Teazle, Viola, Beatrice and
the leads in “The Wife,” “The Hunchback,”
“Ingomar,” “King Rene’s Daughter” and
“The Stranger.” Meta Pelham, now at the
Palace, was a beginner in that co. In
a four-months’ season in IS7B, cut up be-
tween the Royal and the Queen’s, Mrs. Sid-
dons was lucky enough to get runs out of
“The Scarlet Letter,” “Uncle Tom’s Cabin”
(in which she doubled as Cassy and Eliza),
“Our Boys” and “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” She also appeared as Zoe (“The
Octoroon”),- Eily O’Connor (“The Colleen
Bawn”), Juliet, Rosalind, Galatea and Lady
Isabel (“East Lynne”).
“L. 0.”: Recent mention of real shooting
on the stage reminds me of some amateurs
at Temora (N.S.W.) who wei-e playing “The
Parson’s Oath.” The bullets were removed
from six cartridges and soap substituted.
The gun was not used at rehearsals, and
when the night of the play happened along
the soap was as hard as wood. The villain
fired the whole six bullets at the policeman
with great enthusiasm and scored a hit every
time. When the curtain dropped there was
something like a tragedy behind the scenes,
the policeman going after the villain’s blood.
To this day that stage bobby is convinced
that there was something more solid than
soap in that gun.
“Craiser”: It isn’t often that an Aus-
tralian city is the testing ground for the
London season of a New York play. This is
what has happened with regal’d to “The
Patsy” ; the Firm will put the piece on at a
London theatre shortly. It is on safe ground
in doing so, and will be on safer if it employs
Irene Plomer in the stellar role. While better
plays have come and gone, “The Patsy” has
played to good houses for 14 weeks in Mel-
bourne. And Miss Irene Mary Pickford
Homer is just the girl to put the heart-
throb in the gigolo.
“Cockpen”: Admirable in acting and
photography, “Annie Laurie,” just released
in Sydney, freezes the marrow of every con-
scientious Scot by the amazing hash made
of the story of the immortal Lowland beauty.
It is switched into the feud between the
Highland caterans of the North which ended
in the wiping out of the Macdonalds of
Glencoe by the Campbells. Maxwelton is in
Kirkcudbrightshire, in the very south of
Scotland, yet the perdoocer brings the de-
tested and breekless loons of fai*-northern
Invei*ness all the way down to the heroine’s
home in order that Laurie of Maxwelton
may fix up a ti’uce between them. The
meeting hastens the famous catastrophe,
Glencoe being shifted for the occasion
to a few miles from Maxwelton. In
one thing the perdoocer strikes a note
of truth. He makes the Highlanders,
upon whom the Lowland Scot of that day
looked with as much favor as he did on
water for a beverage, the hairy, half-naked
savages they really were, while presenting
such personages as their rulers Argyll,
Cameron of Locliiel —spelt “Lockiel” in the
captions—and others as moderately well bred
persons. But why does he call them “The
Campbell Chief,” “The Macdonald Chief”
and so on? The pictui'e will help to spread
the prevalent impression that all Scotland
is inhabited by Celts, and that the pliilabeg
was the national di’ess. In those spacious
days a Lowland Scot would sooner have worn
the muslin skirt of the ballei*ina than the
accursed garment which Albert the Good
popularised with the Sassenach of the South,
who later introduced it to the Lowlands.
OLD PALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Carnival poured out his noise
Above the clinging whirls
As dances viewed by modern boys
And just as modern girls.
Jazz bid his devotees rejoice
In blasts of fevered glee;
Then, lo! The hurdygurdy’s voice
Uplifted brokenly,
Recalling with its olden lays
The healing balm of other days.
I wandci’ed on where throbbing bands
Played strains of negroid birth
That stirred the hordes in distant lands
When black feet tapped the earth.
What though the dancers now are white
The hungry eyes remain,
But nxem’ry bans them from the night
When the old hurdy’s strain
Brings soft-flushed faces to my side
And twinkling feet so shyly ' glide.
The up-to-daters look with scorn,
Old pal, on you and me;
Your broken voice, my frame forlorn
But help to wake their glee.
But pity them! They do not know
Our store of treasured joy,
And leave them to the garisli flow
Of shams that soon will cloy.
Play on, old friend, the airs so dear
That weave the spell of yesteryear!
N.S.W.
LEAMINGTON.


r,,i
rt S
mi
OHjIS
j| ill y* > r> w> * y if C Ni 5
wiM
tew
i\fm 5f
•V’COl -4
*#'S/!I'
iff
H.v ' ‘flU * l i A) I
*i¥3w
m
WAIKIKI BEACH
HONOLULU
c3Lj
HAWAII
fylaCh
In Hawaii, amidst surroundings of semi-tropical grandeur,
you will thrill with new experiences . . . enjoy glorious fun
out-of-doors. Honolulu, with its colorful social life centring
about luxurious hotels, will charm you. Nearby is the famous
Beach of Waikiki, where lithe surf-riders poise on the
incoming waves.
From Honolulu, over smooth motor roads you may circle the
Island of Oahu, visiting the majestic gorge of the Pali,
Mount Tantalus, and the submarine gardens of Haleiwa.
Upon an inter-island cruise the traveller views awe-inspiring
Kilauea and the volcanic wonders of Hawaii National Park.
Matson-Oceanic liners will carry you to Honolulu in 13 days
by way of Suva (Fiji) and Pago Pago (Samoa), quaint island
ports of the South Seas. A week in Honolulu-—visits to the
other Islands of the Group—or, if you plan a longer tour, ;
continue on to the mainland of the United States, via ■
Matson-Oceanic service.
Ordinary fares: Sydney to Honolulu, first class £55, single:
£95/10/- return, available for 12 months.
Excursion fares issued by all steamers Sydney to Honolulu through-
out the year, £75 first class, £55 second class return. Available
to return by any Matson Oceanic steamer within 3 months. ;
Illustrated travel leaflets, " A Holiday in Hawaii” free upon request. \
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday. !;
fMg ©QEMM GO, \
fid ATI
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. F-— 2s
rocal Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 Kinp
william St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane
ROSE DAY
is on
FRIDAY,
October 5, 1928.
Come to Town and join in all the fun of
the fair—and be happy in the knowledge
that the cost of your gaiety goes to a
good cause.
Chocolate Wheels
Lucky Dips
Decorated Stalls
Dancing
Concerts
Bands
in
MARTIN PLACE—BATHURST STREET
-CUSTOMS HOUSE SQUARE
on
ROSE DAY
October 5, 1928.
Ninety-five of the State’s most deserving
Charities benefit from the proceeds of
Rose Day.
A _
Base
■ NSO:
f
mill
sum
m
k 'M
<■ m
PRICE FROM
£75.
Porcelain lined
throughout.
See ElectrlCE
before you decide.
“Sundaes for all days.”
“Perfect for Parties
’Dainty Desserts Daily.”
FTER the day’s outing or the
week-end trip, what is more
inviting than a tasty supper
and a cool drink?
Are you going to have an ideal
refrigerator this Summer?
With ElectrlCE, the modern
electric refrigerator, an
abundance of ice cubes,
dainty salads and bottled
drinks are ready waiting in
all their frosty freshness.
There’s no worry or fuss
with ElectrlCE; it is easily
installed, requires no atten-
tion, not even oiling—it looks
after itself.
Cooking becomes a pleasure.
Desserts are much easier to
prepare and they look ever so
much more attractive.
We have prepared a beauti-
fully illustrated 48-page Elec-
trlCE Recipe Book, contain-
ing 200 suggestions for Sum-
mer dishes and drinks. We
will be glad to send this to
you free on request.
But why not call yourself and,
without any obligation, see an
ElectrlCE working and at the
same time inspect our model
Electric Kitchen?
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 Clarence St. (top of Barrack St., near G.P.0.),
Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
PrSr
An EMMCO Product.
Manufactured by
ELECTRICITY METER MFC. CO., LTD.


BSS
HP
m
m&m
m
m
mm
m
sm
M
I
■m :
m-
m
m.
#
©
tM
k
m
Wm
■<:■■■■■■■
ii
i
■HI
lii
Remarkable medical discoveries have re-
cently been made. Great scientists, like
Voronoff and Steinach, have combatted
the problem of premature old age and the
decline of health and efficiency in the
human machine, with astonishing results.
Perhaps still more striking, from the view-point of every-
day utility, has been the success attending the introduction
of vitamines, through the medium of a special type of Yeast.
It is now established that these ”vitamines” form the key-
stone of Life and Health—without them real
health (to say nothing of clear skin) becomes
impossible! Scientific experiments have proven
beyond doubt that active yeast contains an
element of amazing restorative, life - giving
power.
Rapid change from ill-health to
forceful Youth and Vigor
By means of a tiny proportion of this con-
centrated yeast substance (1/IS -thousandth of
an ounce) paralysed pigeons have been cured
Yeast is Life
The Most
Effective
Form is
Cream of Yeast
in a few hours! 200 lbs. of active yeast produce less than
an ounce of the super-active substance, which is the real
life-giver ! This is, as it were, the vital part or “Cream”
of the Yeast— quite different to brewers’ yeast—a. super-
concentration that can hring about the rapid magic change
from ill-health to forceful Youth, Vitality and Vigor.
A Phenomenon—Yet Scientifically proven
beyond doubt
Consider what the capturing of such a wonderful substance
means to weak, jaded, run-down men and women! And it
has been captured! In Cream of Yeast, active yeast is novr
harnessed to other medicinal agents of known value, in a
form which makes it the ideal remedy for everyday ills!
The organisation manufacturing “Cream of least is the
largest in the world producing any form of activated yeast.
It has the largest staffs of scientific chemists; has t/ae
greatest chemical and financial resources, and actually made
several millions of vitamine tablets in the course of work
leading up to the great triumph achieved in Cream ol
Yeast.”
Cream of Yeast a great advance on
other forms of Yeast
Since only a tiny proportion of the yeast is
especially valuable, it will be understood why
“Cream of Yeast” is so superior to Oiy other
kind of yeast available. “Cream of Yeast’
supplies, in handy tablet form, the most active
known concentration of effective yeast anc *
recuperative agents “Cream of Yeast” so
scientifically incorporates the vital active yeast
with other acknowledged restorative, energy-
giving and pain-quelling agents that the power
of the yeast itself is vastly increased and the promptness ot
benefit greatly accelerated. Not only will Cream of Yeast
calm the nerves of the most hysterical; not only will it
bring sweet, refreshing sleep to the sleepless, but it will
quickly clear complexions, and will make anyoneYeel fresher
and brighter in a few minutes. Further-it offers the
following unrivalled advantages:
Some of the Remarkable Benefits available through Cream of Yeast
"CREAM OF YEAST ' WILL STOP
Acidity, Heartburn, Indigestion, Dyspepsia in 3 mins.
Headaches, Dizziness, Neuralgia, etc., - - in 4 mins.
Depression, Irritability, Brain Fag, etc. - - in 8 mins.
Periodical Pains - -- -- -- -in 12 mins.
Influenza, Catarrh-Colds, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, etc., within ------- 15 hours
Clears Boils, Pimples and Skin Eruptions, usually within 2 days.
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist, Grocer, or Storekeeper for Genuine
9
QT&ast y/g IQIIS* % [1T 1166 Sizes 1/1 l t 3/6 and 5/9
If remote from Chemists or Stores, send your order by post to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
Be sure to see your
Package looks
like this
COMPRESSED TABLETS OF
CREAM
OF
YEAST
The Perfect Yeast
VVitamine Tonic
Compound
SURE. SAFE
STRUNG! It GIVER
•s m
Aspirin. Car*
and Ordinary
>ppm* Pams
no Habit
fc*
&
LABORATORIES
y*.
yp.


QUEENSLAND OPPORTUNITIES.
THE Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-operative Association, Limited (an organisation owned
exclusively by Primary Producers and conducting the largest business in Pastoral Products
in Queensland), invites inquiries from Southern investors interested in Pastoral Propositions
—either sheep or cattle. First-class sheep properties, with long leases, are available on a basis of
approximately £2/12/6 to £2/17/6 per head FULLY STOCKED.
The Association has Branches at Rockhampton, Longreach and Charleville under the manage-
ment of men possessing a wide Pastoral Experience of a practical nature.
Head Office: Commercial Union Buildings, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address:
"PRIMARIES” —Brisbane, Rockhampton, Longreach and Charleville.
SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL
Abergeldie Estate. Abergeldie Estate. Abergeldie Estate.
The Choicest Subdivision of the Year. The Choicest Subdivision of the Year.
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
having frontages to
Old Canterbury Road, Dixson Avenue, Arlington Street, Hugh, Johnson
and Elizabeth Avenues.
ON THE BORDERS OF SOUTH ASHFIELD, HURLSTONE PARK AND DULWICH HILL.
Formerly the Grounds to the Residence of the late Sir Hugh Dixson.
This magnificent Subdivision has every facility for the making of a Model Garden Suburb.
The streets have been kerbed, guttered, metalled and tarred.
Electric light, gas, water and sewerage are available.
TERMS: 10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, BALANCE IN 12 EQUAL QUARTERLY PAYMENTS.
INTEREST G PER CENT.
BUILDING COVENANT TO PROTECT BUYERS.
TORRENS TITLE. TORRENS TITLE. TORRENS TITLE.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE. LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 20th OCTOBER, and on SATURDAY, 27th OCTOBER,
at 3 p.m.
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON and CO. are SOLICITORS TO ESTATE.
S. C. CALDERWOOD, SURVEYOR.
LOCAL AGENT: C. H. CRAMMOND, AT THE STATION, PETERSHAM.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, Limited, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS. (No. 663).
a
1
Ease
with
Elegance
sdf
THE ELGIN fits your wrist so com-
fortably and naturally that you scarcely
know it is there. But the ELGIN is
not merely an adornment—it is the master
of exactness, the ever ready servant at your
service at all times.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/lip Jrade Mark in tie Watcl Cape
101 A
PIONEER SADDLES—PARK or STOCK
m
M;
THE “PIONEER” PARK SADDLE, as
illustrated, is exceptionally good value
for the money, and is made on a
plated bar tree with steel stirrup-bars.
The re?>t is the right shape for comfort,
and the pads are in the right position
or security. The leather used is long-wearing Kip,
and included in the price are Nickel-Plated Stirrups,
Leathers and Girth. If you prefer the Stock Type
of kneepads, order the “Pioneer” Stock Saddle—
the price is the same.
£7/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER
TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION.
Write for our Catalogue of Australian and Texas
Saddlery, showing: —
The “Winton” and “Longreach” Stock Saddles, the
“Kemp,” “Cressbrook” and “Windorah” Park Saddles,
and the “Texas Ranger” Cowboy Saddle—all great
Favorites.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Guaranteed Kangaroo Leather right through with
inside plaited belly. Post free for cash with order.
THONGS
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-. LOADED HANDLES FOR 9ft. THONGS
are 1/6 more.
WALTHER § STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, &c.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
Pot and Palette.
“Bloggs”; Sydney is becoming American-
ised fast, and one of the many signs of it
is the supersession of British by Yankee
culture. I asked last week in a big estab-
lishment, which a few years ago stocked all
the best weeklies and monthlies of the U.K.,
for the London Nation. “Never heard of
it,” was the reply of the man behind the
counter. Idly curious, I asked for several
other weeklies which are household words,
outside the fastnesses of moronism, all over
the civilised world. He had not heard of
any of them, but brightened up when I got
to the monthlies and mentioned the Mer-
cury. However, instead of producing J. C.
Squires’s admirable paper, he handed me its
strident American namesake. Apropos of
which Sydney’s leading club no longer takes
either the Saturday Review or the Spec-
tator, though it remains faithful to the
Pink ’Un.
The sympathetic Fane-Lofting touch is to
have its first chance in book form—“ Thomas
Tucker, Vocalist,” will be issued by the Corn-
stalk Company this month. Tommy Tucker
is a sort of Gilbert-and-Sullivan beloved
vagabond who straightens out the tangles of
various characters in the glow of his camp-
fire in the bush. The book is happier and
lighter than most Australian yarns.
“R.J.R.”; Some people will have it that
the Melbourne Advertiser (Melbourne’s
first newspaper), two copies of which were
recently presented to the Public Library
trustees (B. 5/9/’2B), preserves the hand-
writing of Fawkner himself, but this is
doubtful. Of the nine handwritten numbers
some 30 copies were penned weekly; and I am
not going to believe that Fawkner, w T ho had
his fingers in most of the colony’s pies,
found time for such a tedious job. The
sheet appears to have been a free offering;
there are no prices marked on the Library
copies. Most of the ads. concerned Fawkner’®
interests.
“Casual”: Sydney Sun has made a strik-
ing success with the Daily Telegraph Pic-
torial, the circulation of which has passed
the six-figure mark. Presiding genius is
Campbell Jones, whose energy is boundless.
The old D.T.’s habit of sudden editorial
changes still clings, however. Since the pass-
ing of the old broadsheet last year the Sun-
day Pic. has had five editors: Farmer Whyte,
Maynard, L. L. Woolacott, 28-year-old Irvin
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN, formerly
Adelaide correspondent of The Bulle-
tin, now of London, where she has
written half a dozen successful novels.
Her latest book is called “The
Window.”
Douglas and now A. H. Chisholm. The reign
of news editors has also been brief; the
latest is 26-year-old J. G. Paton, who was
the Sun’s special rep. in China a year or so
ago.
“Oxmead”: Touching these mixed meta-
phors, how about the following by a literary
critic and reviewer :
Chronicles of very small beer indeed, compiled by
stars of a very low magnitude. But grazing through
them, etc.
More nonsense is talked about painting
than about any other form of human ac-
tivity, barring politics. It has been claimed
for a show of contemporary French painting
at the New Gallery, Melbourne, that the
artists have sacrificed craftsmanship for self-
expression. If the same claim were made for
any other art, such as music or motor-body
building, it would be recognised for the sham
it is. Beethoven didn’t express himself
better in his later works because he knew
less about music but because he knew more.
The main fact about this exhibition is that
Lucien Poignant, Louis Debolo and tnost
of the rest have painted some pictures
which show a wholesale ignorance of paint-
ing. Whether they have deliberately for-
gotten what they knew or never knew any-
thing to forget deponent wotteth not.
“P.M.”: I remember a rather historic
occasion on which The Bulletin’s red cover
came in useful. When the body of the
famous German Richthofen was recovered by
Flying Corps mechanics and brought to the
aerodrome for burial a cobber of mine photo-
graphed the dead airman, and the old red
rag was used for a red lamp. The photo-
graphs were mislaid when the ’flu epidemic
sent us to hospital (where the taker of
them died), but one thing I still remember
about them was the extraordinary resem-
blance of Richthofen to W. H. Irvine, then
M.H.R. for Flinders and now Victoria’s C.J.
The fourth centenary of the death of
Albrecht Dtirer has been marked by the direc-
tors of the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, with
an exhibition of Diirer engravings and wood-
cuts. The N.S.W. Gallery trustees snapped
up “Virgin and Child with Pear,” which cost
them 95 guineas ; and “Coat of Arms with
THE CRITIC.
ECCITED YOUTH: “What yer read, that paper
for? Can’t yer see the cow don’t like
the cover?”
Cock,” which took another 60 guineas. Both
are good examples of the artist’s work, but
it is a pity “Christ on the Mount of Olives”
wasn’t bought as well. There is wonderful
grouping in this picture, with the meek
dignity of the central figure standing amongst
the derision of the soldiery. It is altogether
a very interesting show, including some of
the most famous plates—“Melancolia” and
"St. Jerome,” for instance.
“Lip”: The old bush vulgarism “waiting
on,” that I thought dead and buried years
ago, has cropped up recently in at least
two Sydney dailies; one of them, even gave
it a place in its scare headings with, “Wait-
ing on Iceland —-the Soviet Prepares for War,”
or some such stuff. Whenever I hear it I
am reminded of the occasion when a Par-
liamentary troupe, led by John See and E. W.
O’Sullivan, visited our school at Taree
(N.S.W.). When the inspection was over
the party retired to the waiting buggies, all
but the great Owe, who tarried a while. Pre-
sently a groom appeared and announced:
“Mr. See’s waitin’ on yer, Mr. O’Sullivan.”
Owe perked himself. “Waitin’ on me, is he?”
he said. “Then tell him I’ll have a whisky
and soda first, and soup to follow.”
“Cuchulain” : My memory of the late T. W.
Heney as an editor is that of a singularly
considerate soul who always strove to let
the tyro down as lightly as possible. The
note he enclosed with my first rejected
“long ’un” breathed gentleness, and fin-
ished with the first valuable piece of in-
formation I received from an authoritative
source. “It is preferable,” he wrote, “to
attach your description to a very definite
locality, because otherwise a merely general
description of places is apt to be passed over
by the general reader.” I did not worry him
with the same type of sketch again.
“R.H.W.”: The “Life Story of the Prince
of Wales,” which has been appearing in the
S. M. Herald, is a dreadful example of the
loyal slush that was supposed to have -died
out in Victorian times, and does more harm
to the deigning house than the worst abuse of
any wild-eyed Communist. Evidently famous
singers are not the only people who think
that the proper fare for Australians is
“muck.”
“Lip”: Years ago I was weatherbound in
a settler’s cottage out from Dungog (N.S.W),
and- having exhausted my host’s scanty
supply of old newspapers asked him if he had
any other reading matter. From a locked
box he produced the inch-thick blue-covered
catalogue of a now defunct Sydney firm,, and
gave it to me with the air of one handling a
great treasure. I thought it was a joke, until
on opening the book I found pasted in it
upwards of a hundred clippings from old
Bulletins. At the other end of the book
was a collection of some 30 or 40 pars, all
under one or another of Edward Dyson’s
pen-names. When I asked the reason for
this arrangement the settler told me that
the larger collection was for his own reading:
Dyson’s pars, he had used to teach his kid-
dies to read. His education not being of thp
best, he found difficulty in pronouncing many
words, “but,” he said, “those ‘Eddyson’ bits
come so easily off your tongue that J r ou
simply can’t blunder over ’em.” Later, I
ran across a schoolteacher under whose
notice the settler’s youngsters had come, and
he told me that, knowing their limited oppor-
tunities of education, he had marvelled not
only at the ease with which they read
practically anything, but at their facility in
composition.
THE INTERPRETER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In golfing parlance, ‘he had to carry the baby.’
To the uninitiated this means that he had to retain
his lead, generally a difficult task when the strain
is on.”—S. M. Herald.
How few there be that understand
The idiom of their native land;
Can probe the deep intricacies
Of murky phrases such as these:
“I'm gone a million,” “Fairly up
“The blinkin’ pole,” “Been sold a pup,”
“He’s pulled my leg, but, anyhow,
I’ll bite his lug, the crimson cow,”
And many more with meanings fraught
That in the schools were never taught.
Yet there is hope for him who seeks
Translation of these verbal freaks,
If he repair, with flying feet,
To Sydney town and Hunter-street.
There, in the Herald, he will find
The balm to cool his fevered mind;
Be told how hopeless is his case ;
That a bad bargain he must face ;
That false pretence can evened be
By action eleemosynary.
All these to the untutored ear
The Herald can and will make clear.
N.S.W.
J. B. H.


How does he do it ? In four minutes he’s down,
smooth-chinned and smiling, the envy of all men
who don’t know the secret. He uses a “ Valet.”
The “rushed” shave has no terrors for the
“Valet” owner, because the razor’s always ready
for him. In ten seconds, with nothing to un-
screw, he can put a professional <*dge on the
blade ; after shaving a rinse under the tap leaves
the razor clean for the next time.
VALET”
A,
Safety Razor
£ 7&riXi*A/fCti(£q^~
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181. CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents :
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
V^l£
'h'o.s
sasp
VAiJ
No. 55 Set. Contains specially
designed razor, three blades
and strop in hinged container.
In highly polished q i f
nickelled case . .0 /
0/ a// dealers
•'!
zssSPM
k
rf,u ' i
mm
f'TI
il'"
67> c SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
'§mm
’*B*l
jv
Wm&M
Wa
■ . ■
*■“>%,:. ,f r,. j
wm^mwg:sv
mm Wm n
"spWrtmi
■
0&M Slli
■•*•"- 7 . : '^V v
■v*>;- v
m :
mi.
;
.'■,7
lip
«
HI
*c
■W
ms.
'&•
• '•V;
ffIHH
111
kv
mfmm
mm
';ir::
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10a cres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


NEW BROWNING F.N. 22CAL. RIFLE-
DE LUXE MODEL
SINGLE-SHOT Vfli
BOLT ACTION.
The greatest improvement in 22eal. Rifles yet produced by Browning F.N. Entirely new and
efficient type of bolt. Patent safety and automatic half cock. Large half-moon extractor, which
does away with the trouble of shells jamming in the breech. The “DE LUXE’’ Model has a 24in.
barrel fitted with an adjustable rear sight and bead front sight with protector. Checkered pistol
grip stock and fore-end. Perfect balance. Easily taken apart for carrying. Fires 22eal. short,
long and long-rifle cartridges. Accurate range with 22 long-rifle cartridges 200 yards.
DIRECT FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES:
Va
LTD
PTY
35/- Post Free.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILF & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
n
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
If the man who sorts out the weather
doesn’t turn the A.J.C. down, as he did on
Doncaster, Sydney Cup and Metropolitan
days last year, new attendance records may
be established during the round of meetings
beginning at Randwick on Saturday. Mol-
lison and Limerick alone will be great attrac-
tions. Then there will be Winalot and
Statesman, favorites for the Melbourne Cup ;
Spearfelt and Fourth Hand; Amounis and
Bacchus, and other good horses—in fact, the
best in Australia and Maoriland. The only
notable absentee will be Gothic, who is
being reserved for the Caulfield Cup.
The betting barometer points to Mollison
winning the A.J.C. Derby by a street, but
this Page, while admitting his brilliance, has
haunting doubts about his stamina. In both
liis races this season, and in most of those
last season, he insisted on making all, or
nearly ail, the running; and horses with tluu.
bent have failed time and again in the Derby.
Then the opposition is by no means to be
despised: Roscrea, the half-brother to Lim-
erick and Ballymena, has given indications
of staying-power; Ramulus is an improving
colt who was ridden with little judgment in
the Rosehill Guineas; Oatendale came home
promisingly in the same race; and Prince
Humphrey, Bob’s March, Yodellist and
Heroic’s balf-brother, Cimbrian, are others of
whom their parties have hopes. Heavy going
will help Mollison ; but the A.J.C. Derby is
noted for surprises, and The Bulletin can’t
get over the feeling, irrational as it may
be proved, that the Randwick crowd is going
to witness another on Saturday.
It may seem equally preposterous to sug-
gest that Limerick may meet his master in
the Spring Stakes. Yet in the race of that
name last year it took the Maoriland gelding
all his time to beat Pantheon, and at two
miles on the concluding day of the meeting
Pantheon beat him. At a difference of 131 b.
Winalot finished within a neck of Limerick
in the King’s Cup at Easter, and Winalot
was only a three-year-old then; moreover,
the stable thought he was going off. Nor
can Spearfelt, Statesman and Bacchus be
overlooked.
For the Epsom Amounis (9st. 71b.), Kil-
larney (Bst. 81b.), Don Moon (Bst. 81b.),
Black Duchess (Sst. 71b.), Reonui (Bst.
61b.), Valparaiso (Sst. 41b.), Sion (Bst. 41b.),
Royal Tune (Bst. lib.), Anambah (Bst.) and
Habashon (7st. 61b.) are in request. Don
Moon is a good wet-weather horse; Sion has
done as well as his brother Vaals did at the
same time last year; Valparaiso is a much-
improved brother to Fuji San; and Haba-
shon is a good honest four-year-old, lightly-
weighted, with a knack of getting away well.
Habashon may lack the necessary dash over
the last furlong, but on his form this season
he is worth backing both ways at the price.
Horses fancied for the Metropolitan are
Spearer (Bst. 121 b.). Bacchus (Bst. 101 b),
Tibbie (Sst. 91b.), Chariot (Bst. 91b.), Joce-
lyn (Bst. 41b.), Valparaiso (Bst. 31b.), In
the Shade (Bst. 21b.), Mountain Prince
(Bst.), Vallino (7st. 111 b.), Sharp Son (7st.
lib.) and Fondant (6st. 91b.). A lot will
depend on the going; but, wet or dry, Fon-
dant, Sharp Son and Jocelyn should be dan-
gerous, especially the two lightweights, who
would each get a good bit more “pudding”
if the liandicapper could do his. job over
again. This Page’s preference is for Fon-
dant. Fancies: —
Trial Stakes: Rionscup, with a start;
in his absence, Leadight or Lord Kenna-
quhair.
A.J.C. Derby: Roscrea, 1; Ramulus, 2 ;
Mollison, 3.
Epsom: Habashon, 1; Sion, 2 ; Don Moon,
3. Best outsider: Valparaiso.
Spring Stakes : Winalot, 1; Limerick, 2 ;
Statesman, 3.
Kensington Handicap : Rosso ; next, King
Val.
Metropolitan: Fondant, 1; Sharp Son,
2; Jocelyn, 3. Best outsider: Mountain
Prince.
Don Moon and Sharp Son were the only
Epsom and Metropolitan candidates of any
note at Hawkesbury on Saturday. Both
won their races with consummate ease, and
gained support for Randwick in consequence.
Don Moon (10 to 9 on) was never at his
top in the six-furlongs handicap, run in lmin.
14-4-sec., and the second horse, Lord Romeo
(5 to 1), is not at all bad—he was; runner-
up to Sion in the Three- and Four-Year-Old
Handicap at Rosehill recently. The 1927
Doncaster winner disappointed the public
in the Camellia Stakes at Rosehill, blit he
got away badly and then came in without a
shoe. Still only a six-year-old, he seems a
better weight-carrier than in earlier
years, and lie must be conceded a respectable
chance in the Epsom.
A CHAMPION IN HIS CLASS.
REV. ROUSER: “I couldn’t think of giving you money—you are nothing hut a heavy
drinker.”
POTTED PETE: “Not ’eavy, sir — middle. I strips a coupler pound under the ’eavy
limit.”
Sharp Son was* also favorite for his race,
the Spring Handicap—a few early backers
got 5 to 2, but the general quote at the
close of operations was 7 to 4—and his
superiority to the rest of the field was pro-
nounced. He dashed to the front when the
barrier rose, made all the running and came
home on the bit in 2min. 20jsec. for the
11 furlongs—very good time for the Claren-
don course. Second to the English horse at
an interval of six lengths was the Maori-
land mare Oratrix (9 to 2) ; Prince Colugo
(10 to 1) was a close third. There was
some cheering for the younger Pike, who
rode the winner, though the lad’s handling
of Rosso, runner-up to Giorgio (7 to 2) in
the Highweight Handicap, had been morosely
criticised. Sharp Son, who is owned by
Colonel Rutledge, Light Horseman. A.J.C.
committeeman and M.L.A. for Goulburn in
two Parliaments, is now strongly fancied for
the Metropolitan. He is a bay gelding, nomi-
nally “aged” but six years old really, by
Son-in-Law —Wist.
Kavalli (9 to 4) proved a class above his
opponents in the Three-Year-Old Handicap.
This son of Polycrates—Crimson and Black
has been backed at long prices for the Mel-
bourne Cup. He may not be up to that
standard, but he should win decent handi-
caps.
“Swing the Boot”: The N.S.W. Auditor-
General reports another heavy .falling-off in
totalisator receipts for the year 1927-28, and
the Government has resolved to return to
the former basis of distribution as from
Saturday next. In a three-dividends race this
was 60, 20 and 20 per cent; the alteration
last year made it 50, 30 and 20 per cent.
There is still room for improvement. The
amount deducted by the Government, 9 p.c.,
is excessive; then there should be a tote
for straight-out betting, in addition to the
1,2, 3 method; this is provided in many
countries where the machine is in operation.
The present system, while well enough for the
safety-first brigade, does not show as nearly
good returns as the win-and-a-place betting
so popular with the customers of s.p. mer-
chants.
$ ❖ ❖
McShortodds had a memorable day at
Mentone (Vic.) on Saturday. Two of the
winners, Apojetic and Nawallah, were com-
plete “skinners” ; nominally quoted at 50 to
j, they would have returned twice or three
times those odds on a straight-out tote with
a 10 p.c. deduction. And three of the other
successful steeds were at double figures in
the betting.
Interest centred in the Mentone Handicap,
in which Textile, Maple, Affirm, Burnaby,
Balmerino and Serbury, who are all
expected to do well this spring, were
G»«£M=p^.
saddled up. Despite Maple’s solid weight
—she had 11 lb. more than her Caulfield
Cup load of Sst. 71b. —Ernest Lee Steere’s
nice-looking brown mare was always a
warm favorite, 7 to 4 being her final quote ;
there was likewise good money for Serbury
at fours and for Textile (beginning to look
near his top) at 9 to 2. The three-year-old
Balmerino was the early leader, with Affirm
and Diamond Plume also taking turns at the
pace-makingbut Maple was in front at the
distance. The Westralian mare looked a
certain winner till Burnaby (15 to 1) came
into the picture; ridden in quite his old
style by Frank Dempsey, Burnaby passed
Maple, and the judge made it “a neck.”
Balmerino, who finished well after having
dropped back, was a length and a half away,
and Textile was fourth, Affirm following
him. Burnaby, a four-year-old bay gelding
by Spearhead—Your Majesty, is one of Ben
Chaffey’s string, and is trained by Frank
Godby. Winner of the Adelaide St. Leger
last season, he is in the Caulfield Cup with
Sst. 21b. and the Melbourne with 7st. 131 b.,
and he can be made a whole lot better in
the next few weeks. He carried Sst. 41b. on
this occasion ; the time was 2min. 6sec.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Coming in at list. 51b., Wesley Keteliell,
the Californian left-hander, gave George
Thompson 191 b. and a knockout punch in
the seventh round of a good fight at the
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. For two
or three rounds Thompson played mostly for
the face and head, and scored points enough,.
but Ketchell replied with wicked lefts to
the body which hurt the Australian. The
third and fourth rounds were viciously con-
tested ; in the fourth Thompson, getting in-
side the barrage, shot left and right to the
jaw and dropped the Yank. Ketchell only
just beat the “out,” and was very light-
headed and wobbly-legged when he did rise.
He’s a tough fellow, though, and he was in
heavy action during the next round, drawing
claret freely from Thompson’s nose and
mouth, and once dropping him to the canvas,
momentarily. The sixth was a fistic tor-
nado, and the Australian looked to have
more than an even chance of victory. But
it was not to be. The Californian came out
for the seventh full of bumps and bad inten-
tions. and after some resolute fighting got the
left home hard on the big man’s chin.
Thompson slid forward on face and chest
and lay there inert, till counted out.
Ad San tel confounded some of the critics
and certain members of the grappling frater-
nity by tipping the beam at 12st. 341 b. in
Melbourne on Saturday night; Mike Yokel
was 31b. heavier. Although he suffered de-
feat, Michael’s 50-50 share of the “gate” that
only Santel can draw in Melbourne these
nights must have healed the hurt that honor
felt, if any. Santel was so superior that he
was at. a loss to fill in time until the
first fall came in the third round. The ease
with which he scored then robbed the
match of all interest, but the crowd waited
patiently until the sixth round; then it called
on Santel to finish it. A figure-four scis-
sors on the head and a reverse double arm-
hold put Yokel down and out of the “cham-
pionship.”
“Rouragi’ 1 ’: The* peaceful path of the
pantomimists who put on “ferocious” wrest-
ling bouts at Sydney Stadium was slightly
obstructed recently by the fact that one of
the showmen had the bad luck to sustain a
fractured collar-bone. It was either shock-
ing carelessness on his part or misplaced
judgment on the part of liis opponent, who,
it is understood, has been called on to show
cause before the executive of the Knock-
about Comedians’ Union why he should not
be declared “black” for his disregard of
the fundamental principles of the organisa-
tion. The more hysterical section of the'
Sydney press made the most of the
occurrence. One journal asserted that the
lad whose luck was out ran about the
ring “screaming.” If this is a fact the
yelps probably expressed astonished indig-
nation, for there is nothing in a cracked or
dislocated collar-bone to make even an even-
ing paper scream more than usual. The
allegedly half-murdered person indignantly
denied that the happening was in the
slightest degree serious. That has not pre-
vented the outraged journals from demanding
in trombone tones the presence of extra
police at the weekly vaudeville, so many
worthy John Hops are being bereft of the
slumber that is their just due.
Footbrawl
Vic. League’s re-played semi-final between
Collingwood and Melbourne was almost a
replica of the drawn game of the previous
Saturday. Weather conditions were equally
unpleasant; the crowd was equally dense;
the Magpies were determined, steady, sys-
tematic ; the Fuchsias marked better and
were spasmodically brilliant. Slowly the
Magpies forged ahead, till, with but 15
minutes to play, they were 28 points to the
good. Then the Red Legs staged a repe-
tition of their previous feat and, driving
down the centre to tall Johnson, collected
live goals. But ’Wood was in no humor
for defeat, or even another draw, and
though Tymms and Warne Smith defended
magnificently, Libbis and “Jiggy” Harris put
the ball through twice. Johnson scored again
for Melbourne even as the bell rang, but
the ’Woodsmen were still four points ahead
—lO goals 8 behinds to Melbourne’s 9 goals
10 behinds. A fine game and a thrilling
finish. The issue now lies between ’Wood
and Richmond.
The challenge final for the premiership of
the N.S.W. Australian Football League re-
sulted in a hollow win for Newtown, which
beat Eastern Suburbs, victorious last year,
by 76 (10-16) to 29 (4-5).
(Continued on page 41.)
THE PUG PROTESTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Boxing is a brutal sport, but a boxer may be
quite as much of a gentleman as a politician.”
—Gene Tunney.
Though Tunney's boxing reign is past
And rivals claim succession,
It ill becomes him now to cast
A slur on the profession.
I know the coarse and brutal pug
Is viewed with deep suspicion;
The bruiser with his battered mug
Some folk may liken to a thug.
But cripes ! V politician!
What if I did “lie down” the night
I fought with Battling Kelly,
When in a dinkum go I might
Have pounded him to jelly?
Of crooked things I’ve done my share
For suitable commission ;
But, even so, I don’t see where
I’ve given reason to compare
Me with a politician.
Yes, Tunney, it’s a brutal game,
Its former glamors faded ;
Yet there are others, just the same,
As sordid and degraded.
And though ’tis little pride I can
Display in my position,
Though low my status in life’s plan,
I trust I’m more the gentleman
Than any politician !
N.S.W.
A. B. S.


SOCIAL PROBLEMS
£
CPs
/
TO
Ml
('C
ho
i in
\n
0
r/
Jou^a^oi
A, having just sent to the post, among other letters, an ardent declaration
of his passion to the one girl in the world, discovers the envelope in which
it should have been enclosed still upon his desk.
What should A do ?
Needless to say the answer is - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
Abdulla superb Cigarettes
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA
(oleman
Quick-Lite
J-JERE' S another new Coleman in-
vention —the Instant Lighting
Coleman Iron! You’ll like the way
this new iron Iights—INSTANTLY!
Just strike a match, turn a valve—
and it’s going right now! No more
pre-heating, no more generating with
methylated torches, no more burned
fingers from holding matches.
It is self-heating. Makes and burns its
own gas—use it anywhere, indoors or
out. It is perfectly balanced, weighs only
6-J pounds—just right for easy ironing.
A guiding, gliding motion is all you need
—no bearing down necessary.
You’ll like the way this new iron works.
It is a double-pointed iron—gives you
the same wrinkle-proof results on both
forward and backward strokes. Regu-
lates instantly for light and heavy ironing.
You’ll like the hot point, which makes it
easy to iron the hard-to-get-at places—
pleats and tucks and around buttons and
hooks.
You’ll like the COOL BLUE HANDLE.
Price 45/-
Instant Lighting
Coleman Iron
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle
PATENTS PENDING
W:
1
mil)'
"LIGHT. HEAT AND COOK. THE COLEMAN WAV"
Coleman
Quick-Lite
Lamp
and
Lantern
Coleman
Radiant
Heater
fsd
Coleman
Self-Heating Iron
Coleman
Air-O-Gas
Cook Stove
(oleman Quick-Lite
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.


IB il
ia a ■
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute 0.P.0.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney; 509 Collins Street, Melbourne.
NEW MEMBER
OF AN OLD FAMILY.
A worthy addition to a famous line of
Golf Balls, the new Henley “Black
Name” more than upholds the high
standard set by its predecessors. All
the good points of previous Henley
Balls, including the famous "Why Not”
and “Henley” Mesh Marking are em-
bodied and excelled in the new ball.
With its phenomenal accuracy, extreme
length and amazing toughness, the
Henley “Black Name” will set a new
and higher standard for Golf Balls.
W. T. HENLEY’S
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane.
o
UU
u^*o
GO;
0 0
o
00,1
o
jg o o O O
HENLEY
ffilacAyVcwne^
PRICE 3/6
Footbrawl
“Swing the Boot’’: A wave of stoush
seems to have Hooded football in Australia
this year. In N.S.W. and Queensland, Rugby
League matches have been full of flying fists,
especially where the Englishmen were in
evidence, and the season wound up with a
savage assault on a club secretary at Earl
I'ark in the course of a junior match. Mel-
bourne has experienced one of the most
pugilistic seasons in its football history. In
Adelaide much the same story has been re-
cited. In the semi-final at Perth between
South Fremantle and East Perth, fighting
raged throughout the game, and 10 of the 36
players required first aid. One man dis-
located a shoulder, one broke a wrist, one was
knocked unconscious, and others! suffered
such minor injuries as a sprained ankle and
a broken finger. As a press report puts it,
“the injured were gradually taken off the
field towards the finish.” That “gradually”
■s charming.
* * * *
“Bash” : It is pleasant to read of a break
in the monotony of protest against the con-
duet of opponents or the decisions of the
referee. Such an incident occurred in a
senior Soccer match in Sydney, when a
player ordered off the field produced a knife
from his pocket and stabbed the ball. As
there was no chance of replacing the bag
of wind without excessive delay, the match
came to an abrupt conclusion, but as the
side opposed to the offender was leading by
2 goals to 1 at the time of the stabbing, it
was awarded the match. The judiciary com-
mittee of the association, which numbers
in its ranks many Scots and North of Eng-
land men, disqualified the perpetrator for
the whole of next year. Footballs cost
money, ye ken.
“Everton”: In spite of the fact that none
of their international or inter-Dominion
tours have returned profits (Java reports
that the promoter of the jaunt to that part
of the world has gone broke), the Australian
Soccer authorities are looking for fresh
worlds to conquer. There is talk of bring-
ing a German team to Australia next sea-
son, and of sending an Australian side to
the IJ.S.A. and British Columbia. It is
suggested that the visit to America of the
“amateurs” from these parts should last
six months.
“Hooker”: Up to the middle of last week
the N.S.W. Rugby Union side in Maoriland
had played 8 matches and won 5. In
every game the tourists scored more tries
than their opponents. Failure to convert
tries was responsible for their narrow de-
feats in the first and second Test matches
(they won the third). In this respect
the absence of Caldwell, the side’s only
regular goal-kicker, after an injury in the
opening match in Auckland, was a bit of
bad luck. Including the Marlborough match,
won by 7 tries and three goals (27 points)
to 3 tries and 3 goals (15 points), N.S.W.
had scored 148 points to 105, 114 of their
total having come from tries. A feature
of the tour has been the success of practically
every man sent over. There has been no
“first fifteen,” as too often is the case on
these tours. Some of the reserves have
been among the outstanding successes of the
tour, notably Smairl, Bartley and the
country player Crofts, who scored four tries
against Marlborough.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The U.S. national tennis
singles practically ended the season on the
other side of the world; in the final Cocliet
beat Hunter: 4-6, 6-4, 3-6, 7-5, 6-3. The
French crack has had a wonderful year.
Australia’s last hope, Crawford, gave a char-
acteristically in-and-out display till he
reached the quarter-finals, where Hunter dis-
posed of him by 3 sets to 1.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Touching the “Rev.
Knucklebone’s” contention that a chaperone
should have been sent abroad with the Davis
Cup team (B. 19/9/’2B), I read that in one
of his matches in the IJ.S.A. singles Craw-
ford, after making a bad shot, hurled away
his racket, which caught one of the line
umpires on the shin. While no one can have
much sympathy for an umpire, it is to be
regretted that this particular one did not
resort to reprisals. Apparently, he did not
even give the ebullient youth “a. nasty look,”
probably remembering that this brutality is
now an offence under the American L.T.A.
rules.
* if S'
“Cash Amateur”: Even the hardshell Eng-
lish L.T.A. is showing susceptibility to
modern ideas. Hitherto it has looked upon
the professional in tennis as merely a person
to be endured as a coach for amateurs, and
as a player in matches against other pro-
fessionals; in future professional teams will
be permitted to play against amateurs, pro-
vided consent is first obtained. This is the
most revolutionary happening in British
sport since professional cricketers were
granted the boon of using the same gate
as amateurs to enter and leave the playing
area at Lords.
“Runa”: Godfrey Ollivier, the Maoriland
tennis champion, is the latest recruit to the
ranks of professionalism. After the visit
of the English team in October the veteran
Avill take up coaching.
;j; :j: : i :
“Baseline”: Wallis Myers lias wound up
the season by placing the first 10 men and
Avomen players. The men he ranks thus:
Oochet, Lacoste, Tilden, Hunter, Borotra,
Lott, Austin, Hennessey, De Morpugo and
HaAvkes. Some complimentary references to
Crawford and Hopman follow. Among the
women he places Daphne Akhurst third and
Esna Boyd tenth, both Australiennes being
gi\ r en credit for grit in a tight corner.
“Kooyonga” : South Australia, whose turn
it is to stage the Australian tennis champion-
ships, is to get them after all; the move,
engineered from N.S.W., to have them trans-
ferred to Melbourne on account of the bigger
gate prospects was definitely defeated at the
last meeting of the Australian Council. It
is to Victoria’s credit that the delegates from
that State upheld the original arrangement.
The matches are to rage at Adelaide from
Jan. 19 to Jan. 28.
The Ins and Outs
“W. G. Snort”: The decision of delegates
to the inter-State cricket conference in Syd-
ney to adhere to. the eight-ball OA 7 er in the
Sheffield games is not remarkable for com-
monsense. In the Test matches against the
Englishmen the six-ball over will be the rule,
and the change from one to the other in
the separate series of games will be con-
fusing to bowler and spectator alike. South
McTAYISH PREPARES FOR HIS FIRST GAME OF GOLF.
Australia was the only State to support the
uniform over. In the matter of covering the
wickets, the. haphazard methods hitherto pre-
vailing will be followed. Victoria and_ Queens-
land will continue to cover the wicket en-
tirely; N.S.W. and South Aus. will follow
the M.C.C. ruling and use only a partial
covering at night. Worst of all was the de-
cision that Avickets should be mowed, as well
as rolled, each morning of a match. Pre-
viously the grass, if any, Avas allowed to grow
during the match, Avith the result that the
unhappy bowler sometimes found the pitch
giving him a little assistance. Noav even
that mercy is taken from him.
* * * *
“Bowen Park”: Queensland intends to
celebrate its first Test match with due cere-
mony combined with a proper regard for the
cash. It having been alleged by Southron
opponents to Brisbane getting the match that
the place will be unable to furnish an
adequate “gate,” the Q.C.A. has arranged to
reserve 800 seats in the great grandstand
at Brisbane Exhibition Ground; for these
255. over and above regular admission charges
will be asked. The sum raised in that man-
ner alone will more than suffice for the
guarantee of £lOOO, plus half the ordinary
takings. In keeping with the sportsmanship
of the Brisbane public, not a whimper ot
objection to the reservation prices has b ei ‘ l i
heard. Ordinary prices of admission will be
the same as for the Sheffield Shield games.
“Sturt”: Yic Richardson and Bridgman
continue as selectors for S.A. cricket teams
this season. But Joe Travers, the old slow
left-handed bowler who once replaced
Saunders in a Test match, has been succeeded
by Dr. Dolling, the left-handed bat in whom,
just before the war, S.A. thought it had
found a successor to Clem Hill. Gordon
Campbell’s resignation from the ground ana
finance committee, the governing body ot
S.A. Cricket Association, left a vacancy that
has been filled by the election of Claude
Jennings, a member (resident in Queens-
land at the time) of the Australian XI of
1912. .
“Old Trafforil”: England is generally dis-
playing a spirit of calm confidence in the
cricket team for Australia, though there are
one or two aspects which are giving the more
conservative element cause for concern. Chief
of these is the M.C.C. decision to appoint a
selection committee of five—skipper Chap-
man, Jardinc, White, Hobbs and Tyldesley.
This is an abrupt departure from tradition,
for hitherto the amateur captain was sole
selector and arbiter; however, the idea must
be accounted to the M.C.C. for diplomacy.
Jardine was the newspaper favorite for the
captaincy, while White also had strong sup-
port. Hobbs will speak for the South-of-
England professional element, and its North-
country equivalent will be represented by
Tyldesley. The desire to please everyone
proverbially meets with all-round ingrati-
tude, but the latest experiment may prove
an exception.
“Aigburtli” : The
final trial of the
English Eleven,
playing as the Rest
of England against
the champion
county, saw the
tourists in a very
rosy light. With Mc-
Donald right out of
form, the Rest
scored heavily, win-
ning by an innings
and 91 runs after
Chap ma n had
closed the Rest’s
innings at 603 for
8 wickets. It is
pleasing to note
that the English
skipper told his
men to hit out or
get out after the
total of the first
Lancashire innings
had been passed,
ivith the result that
some of the old
hands at Lords
nearly went west
with shock at be-
holding staid pro-
fessionals slogging
sixes. Scoring at
one stage was at
the rate of 150
runs per hour, a
spectacle which has
not been seen in
big English cricket
—or Australian for
that matter —f o r
many a long day.
If Chapman can in-
duce his side to
adopt the same tac-
tics in Australia,
he will deserve a special, niche of his own
in international cricket. Freeman put up a
record for first-class cricket by taking 304
wickets for the season, the last, four in Lan-
cashire’s second innings. Hobbs scored his
158th century.
* * *
“Lansdowne”: The agitation for the
widening of the wickets has begun afresh in
England, as one result of last season’s mam-
moth scoring. It will be a fine thing when
it comes —as sooner or later it surely must
—not only for the bowler’s sake, the reduc-
tion of drawn games and the shortening of
marathon struggles, but because it will be
possible to scrap the huge mass of statistics
under which cricket is beginning to stagger
and start de novo under altered conditions.
Even batting averages and bowling analyses,
dished up every week, tend to become a
weariness, more harmful than helpful to
the game. At least one English public school
has recognised this and refuses to publish any
or supply them to the voluminous “Wisden.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: One of the outstanding fea-
tures of the final of the Australian amateur
golf championship was the speed at which
Nettlefold and Keane played their match.
They went round in an hour and three-
quarters in the morning, and the second cir-
cuit was done in even better time, allowing
for the fact that the full course was not
played. One of the most ghastly aspects ol
golf is the player who considers every
shot from all possible viewpoints and changes
his mind a dozen times before lie plays it,
regardless of the stifled fury of his opponent
or the open malevolence of those playing
behind him. He has his prototype in bil-
liards, and, like him, is usually well aware
that his irritating methods are as good as
a handicap in his favor unless his opponent
is of the same tortoise-like breed. Every
club has one or two players who should not
be allowed to go out on the links without
a time limit being imposed on them. The
rules committee which has the courage to
first take this particular cow by the tail
will have the heartfelt support of every
member with the slightest consideration toi
his fellows.
“Claypan”: The crows round Sydney may
have given golf-ball stealing a rest (B.
32/9/’2B), but their country cousins m
N.S.W. are still busy. The other day a
match between Molong and Blayney was
actually held up by a band of sooty looters.
Molong eventually won by one game, bit.,
not before the souveniring party had got
away with the best part of a dozen balls.
One player on each side lost three pills,
which at 3A 6d. each is costly; and several
others lost a ball during the match. Next
morning a party played a round of the links,
each player carrying a gun in his bag. Not
a crow was sighted the whole morning.
“Adelaide”: Is the fath'er-and-son golf
partnership a general thing? Kooyonga
club (S.A.) holds an annual competition
for the Acldand-Horman trophy, and nearly
40 families entered. Willoughby and son,
with 103 less 20, won the handicap. Fox
and son (07) and Wainwright and son (90)
were the only pairs to go round under three
figures.
* * * *
“Claypan” : Brisbane golfers are still ham-
mering away at the Mayor and council for
a municipal course, their city now being the
only Australian metropolis without one. Land
is available at Victoria Park, close to the
centre of the city, and when shrewd parties
induced tin' Mayor to join a golf club it was
expected that things would move. But so far
the poison has not worked.
“Koolonga”: “Colonel Damurize” would
have given his sticks to the nearest associate
if he had been present at a recent meeting of
the Brighton (Vic.) Council. Representa-
tives from the local golf club were appealing
for permission to play on Sundays, and the
secretary was speaking his piece. “Barrack-
ing can be heard a mile from a football
ground,” he said; “but with golf, if you were
on one side of a fence and golfers on the
other you might hear nothing.” “Not even
a swear-word?” a councillor asked.” “No,”
responded the secretary magnificently. “Golf
has a refining influence.”
sjs ❖ * *
“Rata”: Returning tourists from Fiji
have had a lot to say about the beauties
attendant on golf in the one-time Cannibal
Islands. Native caddies are to be had in
abundance at 3d. a round, and more than
one rdayer has been tempted into the osten-
tation of hiring one for every club. The
youths are excellent caddies in other re?
spects than cheapness, but one of their
customs seems unlikely to become any more
popular in Australian golfing circles than
their low fees. They strike up hymns during
the round.
“Iconoclast”: The old golfing buffers of
Britain who have been taking fits at the
spectacle of players turning out in cricket
flannels (B. 12/9/’2B) came near to expiring
altogether when two youths recently
attempted to go round one of the big South
of England seaside courses in bathing-suits.
Of course, they were immediately disposed
of, and it is tacitly understood that their
bodies are buried in one of the bunkers. A
lot of the clubs are revising their rules for
future emergencies, however. The Royal
Wimbledon, a very “posh” affair, will now
permit white or grey flannels, with belts, but
braces are barred—visible ones, that is to
say. The Blackheath club will permit flan-
nels, but shirt sleeves are not to be worn
under any consideration, a coat of some
sort being insisted on. It is curious that
no one has. apparently, attempted to turn
out in a kilt, the garment peculiar to the
country which has the temerity to claim the
invention of golf. The garment is said to
be as cool in summer as it is warm in winter,
though, perhaps not suitable to that type of
golf enthusiast who likes to go down on
his knees and “sight” the line of his putt on
the green before attempting to play the shot.
(Continued on next page.)


fs
df
SWTE fxPRfSS
333
CIGARETTES
Plain or IVORY Tipped.
777
Cork Tipped.
20 for 1/6
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
Car and Cycle
“Disc”: One of the string of sporting
events by which the Westralian centenary
will be marked is a motor-car race from the
Eastern States to Perth. It was proposed
at first that the Marathon should start at
Brisbane, but as this would not be convenient
for most of the likely competitors, it is prob-
able that Melbourne will be the jumping-off
place. The Westralian R.A.C. has the mat-
ter in hand, and is consulting as to details
with its sister bodies in the other States.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The 1908 Renault (B.
12/9/’2B) is not the oldest motor-car in
running order in Victoria by a long chalk.
There is a Vauxliall at Barlow’s show-
rooms, Melbourne, which was built in 1903.
It was landed from England only recently
and trundled to its present destination
under its own power.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Major Segrave is to make an
attempt to regain his world’s speed title at
Daytona Beach early next year. He is going
for a double, being after the hydroplane title as
well as that for dry-land speeding. He hopes
to get 260 m.p.h. with a car, the model of
which is now being tested. The hull is
cigar-shaped and the engine will be a 450-
h.p. Napier 12-cylinder, being of the same
type as that used by Lieut. Webster in the
Schneider Cup. The hydroplane will be a
30ft. single step, with a Napier engine and two
propellers to prevent sideways twisting. The
figures he will have to beat will be American
G. Wood’s 105 m.p.h., put up only a week
or so ago. The car record now standing is
207.55 m.p.h.
»: * *
“N.Q.” : A new item in the growing list
of long-distance motor excursions to remote
parts of Australia is the 6000-miles journey
from Melbourne to Cairns and back, re-
cently completed b.v Victorian Tourist Ser-
vices. The trip lasted the best part of
eight weeks, and the Packard car that car-
ried the party was equipped with wireless,
touch being maintained with Melbourne
throughout. The outward journey was by
way of Brisbane and thence by the coastal
routes to Cairns. Returning, the party struck
out into Central Queensland, reaching Mel-
bourne again via Roma, Armidale and
Sydney.
* * * *
"Garry”: Gottfried Daimler was not, as
“A.E.G.” (B. 19/9/’2B) points out, the in-
ventor of the internal combustion motor, but
neither was Otto. A Viennese named Hock
got the principle into the patent records in
1870 and produced the first practicable heavy-
oil motors; and Hock was preceded by a
whole host of gas and oil theorists, stretch-
ing back to the seventeenth century. But
Daimler was the man who made the auto-
mobile possible, and every petrol motor in
the world works on the basic principles he
laid down. As to A. V. Roe and the French
motor with which he made the first English
flight under power, my authority is a signed
article by A. V. Roe in the August number
of Airways. He says he experimented with
a 6-h.p. J.A.P. engine, but it was not power-
ful enough. After his experience with the
24-h.p. 8-cyl. Antoinette engine he greatly
improved the design of his machine, and in
1909 was able to undertake flights of con-
siderable duration in a tri-plane for which a
9-li.p. J.A.P. twin supplied motive power.
* * * *
“Whizz” : Dirt-track motor-cycling in Bris-
bane has acquired a new star from Towns-
ville, one Max Grossekreutz. At his first
appearance in the South Max chipped eight-
tenths of a second off Vic. Huxley’s time for
a mile from a standing start, which had stood
for a couple of years. The new figures
were 82 3-10 sec., and at a subsequent meet-
ing the young man from N.Q. won a mile
handicap off scratch in 82 4-ssec.
# * * *
“Ball Race”: Fired by the example of the
Tour de France, some of the big English
cycle firms are making arrangements for a
professional cycling race round England. It
is intended to hold the race in the early
summer of 1929, and already the promoters
are extending an invitation to an Australian
team or teams. The event would give the
proposed Australasian team for the next
Tour de France, headed by Opperman, a
first-class chance of getting into nick, since
it will precede the Continental race by a
month, at least.
* -Jr. * *
“Sprocket”: Maoriland cyclists are getting
ready for the big event of their sea-
son, the Timaru-to-Christchurch road race,
which is to be run on October 6. This wifi
be the twentieth race; fastest time was made
by P. O’Shea, shr. 14min. 58sec., and this
Christchurch rider won the prize for fastest
time on five other occasions. The race is
for professionals, and in addition to cash
prizes carries the Rudge Whitworth Chal-
lenge Cup, valued at 100 guineas.
Miscellaneous
“Colonel Damurize”: I am delighted to
note that no less an authority than Weight-
man Smith, the hurdler, lias denounced the
growing and absurd obsession of allowing
women to take part in track and field ath-
letics. At the most, he says, he would
permit them to compete at separate meetings,
where their tears and hysterics after losing
would not annoy male competitors. Another
thing: it is impossible for any manager to
please a team containing girls. Theatrical
managers found this out decades ago, and
there does not seem much difference to the
outsider between female athletes and ladies
of the chorus. The chief ambition of both
of them seems to be the seizing of every
opportunity to appear in public in the
scantiest attire permissible by the authori-
ties.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : According to the cables,
Canadian athletic circles are disturbed be-
cause most of the Canadian team which was
so successful at the Olympiad have re-
ceived “offers” from the United States. Four
young gentlemen in particular have been
admitted to one of the U.S. universities,
where they are now members of the ’Varsity
athletic team. This is a favorite practice
with Yankee institutions of the sort; the
alleged “students” do no work in the schools,
but arc supported from University funds as
long as their form makes it worth while.
The same practice extends to baseball and
football. Something of the sort has been
charged against Charles Paddock, the
sprinter, and before he went to Amsterdam
he was required to furnish proofs of his
bona fides as an amateur. He was able to
satisfy the Olympic Committee, but the
chances are he would have had more trouble
if he had been called upon to face the
Amateur Federation. Of course the joke is
not unknown among Britons. In Britain
and Australia there is always some sine-
cure awaiting the impecunious cricketer or
footballer who is of the first rank. He has
to make some show of carrying out his
duties as secretary or schoolmaster, however.
In America even that camouflage is con-
sidered superfluous.
* * * *
“Mount Arthur”: By winning the King’s
Prize at Perth, L. T. Hill gave Bangor, a
small farming centre in north-eastern Tas-
mania, a lift. Bangor has had a live, rifle
club for many years; one of its distinguished
members is Leslie Dadson, an original Anzac,
who collected a Military Cross and two bars
while serving with the 12th Battalion. The
district was named rYer Bangor in Wales,
whence miners were brought out many years
ago to work the slate quarries, long since
closed down.
* * *
“Splash” : The N.S.W. Amateur Swimming
Association announces that it is again hard
up this year, although huge crowds attended
last year’s championships at the Domain
baths. This year’s expenses are likely to be
heavy, since the Australian championships
are to be held at Adelaide and Perth, and the
State representation there will be a costly
matter. Endeavors have been made to induce
Johnny Weissmuller to come over and help
F. FOULSHAM, trainer of Mollison,
Avant Courier and Sans Culotte.
to fill the coffers, or, failing him, Kojac,
the backstroke man. Another who may be
invited is Crabbe, of Honolulu.
* # * *
“Murrungurry”: Nothing in these days of
swimming marathons, in Australia at least,
has equalled the wonderful feats performed
years ago by two lubras of South Australia.
One, who had been kidnapped from the main-
land by two sealers and hold captive on
Kangaroo Island escaped at night and swam
across Backstairs Passage. The strait is
over nine miles wide in the narrowest part,
has a strong current, and is infested with
sharks. But the lubra landed safely and
returned to her tribe. The other woman,
who was also held by white men on the
island, swam across on a dark, cold night
with a baby on her back. But both died from
exhaustion and exposure soon after landing.
When found, the infant was still clinging to
its mother’s back.
Hs Hs * *
“Tenakoe”: It is pleasant to note that
the controllers of sports other than tennis
(B. 22/8/’2S) have resolved to put down
displays of ruffianism with an unsparing
hand.' The Maoriland Bowling Association
in imposing heavy penalties for betting on
the result of any game. Punishment is also
to be inflicted on those so far forgetting
H. R. SINCLAIR, the N.S.W. golfer, who
defeated, the open champion, Fred
Popplewell, in the professionals’ match
at the Australian championships.
themselves as to use bad language on the
green. It only remains now for the croquet
authorities to take a similar firm stand, and
the public will have no need to stay away
from contests of the kind for fear of having
to witness some debasing outbreak.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Belisarius had to beg his
bread. What are we to think of the “seven
retired army captains,” recorded by the
cableman, who were engaged to give demon-
strations of polo on the vast stage of the
Coliseum in London? Imitation turf was
laid, and the management insured the ponies.
Nothing is said about the piasters, but,
then, good ponies are costly items, while
retired army captains are as thick as “heads”
in Market-street, Sydney. The front of the
stage was fenced off to prevent the ponies
falling on the band. This seems superfluous.
Who lovesi a band, anyway?
* * * *
“Blade” : N.S.W. oarsmen are loosening up
for the opening of the season, which is set
down for Mosman’s regatta on the Lane
Cove River on October 13. The Australian
championship races on the Nepean revived,
interest in the sport; one result has been
the formation of the Nepean Rowing Club
at Penrith, the first country club to be affi-
liated with the NiS.W. body for a long time.
So successful was the big Nepean meeting
that it has beeen virtually decided to hold
the Association regatta, which will include
the State champion eights, fours and sculls,
on the Penrith water on December 22. Maori-
land has been invited to send a crew and a
sculler to this regatta. Arrangements have
already been made for a Maoriland four to
figure in the Stewards’ Challenge Cup at
Henley-on-Yarra, and another club four may
represent M.L. on the Nepean. Maoriland
oarsmen have not been seen in Sydney since
1925. On that occasion they were successful
in both fours and eights.
* * * *
“Pot-the-White” : The English professional
billiards season opened with a match between
Tom Newman and Willie Smith. The series
of three matches between Smith and Fred
Lindrum will follow the English champion-
ship, which will be played under new rules
this year, the champion taking part in the
qualifying rounds. Smith then comes on to
Australia. He has announced his intention
of trying to persuade Walter Lindrum to
return to England with him. Walter is in
great form just now ; lie put up a break of
1273 in his match in Sydney against Maori-
lander McConachy.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Lamia"’ (Penang) : The Australian
housewife in Malaya can buy tinned fruits,
meats, vegetables and jams, put up either
in America or in England. But from her
own country, rich in all these commodities,
she can get nothing. Why is there no effort
made to export tinned goods to such a handy
market?
* * * *
“Iv.D.S.” : Saw a draper, in a Vie. shoji,
weighing Manchester goods. “We bought by
weight,” he explained, seeing my puzzled
look as he threw a bundle of towels on the
scales, “and we check the invoices by weigh-
ing the stuff, which is thrown out by English
makers for various reasons. These cretonnes
are ugly, and these towels, though good, are
marked by the machine oil. But, bought
by weight, we get them dirt-cheap.”
;Jc :J: * *
“Lapin”: The once despised and hated
bunny becomes every year a more valuable
product of Australia. The August export
returns for N.S.W. alone show that rabbit
skins worth £434,102 went overseas during
that month, when even the wool outgoings
were only £564,272. The figures represent
pretty well the peak period of winter skin
export, of course, while the wool rush had
not yet set in, but the comparison is inter-
esting. Other skin exports were kangaroo.
£18,496, and fox, £22,852.
* !|! * *
“M.G.” (Vancouver, 8.C.) : In Canada
and the U.S. I have encountered a perfume
labelled “Australian Violet.” The only Aus-
tralian violet that I know is the small
scentless Viptorian variety, and when I men-
tioned this to one of the vendors, a “beauty
specialist,” she frankly admitted, that the
flowers which formed the base of the per-
fume came from France, but were called
Australian —-why was not clear. She had
never heard of our beautifully-scented bor-
onia, and expressed her readiness to put it
on the market if it were available. Is it?
sis si: « *
“Uramao”: Maoriland, which has been
viewing with envy the good thing the Nor-
wegians have been making out of the whales
caught under her own nose, has now decided
to cut into the game herself. Wigg, Con-
sul for Norway at Bluff and a resident of
M.L. for 44 years, is interesting himself in
the enterprise. It is intended to raise the
money in M.L., make the base at Port
Chalmers, and obtain the services of experi-
enced Norwegian whalers until Maorilanders
are qualified to take leading parts.
“Lao-dali”: An Australian woman just
returned from Singapore relates a variant of
the opium-smuggling game. On a holiday
trip from Singapore to Batavia her Chinese
“boy,” who was being taken along with the
family, innocently asked her to look after a
suitcase which he was fearful might be
stolen from him. On disembarkation the
“boy” was nowhere to be found, so his mis-
tress passed his box through the Customs
along with her own belongings. A few
minutes later he turned up with a bland
apology. Subsequently she learnt that the
receptacle contained about £3OOO worth of
the precious drug.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : A purely Australian invention is
the electromatic phonograph perfected by
W. It. Oyston, a young engineer, born and
bred in Melbourne. As a labor-saving device
it should find favor in this tired world. You
can charge the instrument’s magazine, so to
speak, up to 36 rounds, and it will fire off
the whole lot in rotation without the opera-
tor having to pull the trigger more than
once. Also it will turn a record over and
play the reverse, discard a worn-out needle
and select a fresh one, and will provide an
encore if a switch is turned.
* * * *
“Stannum”: The Angora rabbit (B.
12/9/"28) has bitten some of the inhabitants
of Stanthorpe (Q.) badly. The district
once produced much tin, and is now a big
fruit-growing centre. It is on the backbone
of the Dividing Range, and has a winter
climate entirely suitable for the cultivation
of prime fur. An Angora Wool Committee
has been formed, and preparations are being
made to launch out on the cultivation of the
alleged money-spinners. To the local pas-
toralists, who have been raising objections,
the committee points out that the high-bred
bunny is far too expensive to be carelessly
supervised—-ordinary breeders cost at least
£3 3s.—while he can neither run nor burrow,
so that, if lie did escape from confinement
he would never get far. It is hoped to run
the industry as a subsidiary to the orchards.
♦ * *
“-Jim Crack”: You never can tell what
Melbourne burglars will lay predaceous hand -
on next. The other night some Sikeses broke
into the premises at St. Ivilda and got away
with 85 packets of medicinal pills, each
packet containing 1200 sugar-coated remedies
for some disease or other. I am still wonder-
ing what fence they went to with their
plunder.


yk'&utiAk Seo/unod
that turnedFRICTIOJfimFICTIO/T
R$M
MADE InV/ENGLAND
BALL and ROLLER
BEARINGS
'J’HE success that has attended the de-
signers and manufacturers of these
British Bearings is reflected in the constant
improvements in automobile engines.
Complete protection against friction,
thrust and shock has resulted in smoother
running, more economical and longer-
lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. & M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by
80 per cent, of British Motor-car Manu-
facturers.
The monster 1000-h.p. Sunbeam Car, now
in Australia, in which Major Segrave
attained the phenomenal speed of 203
m.p.h., is fitted throughout with R. &
M. British Bearings.
Insist on R. & M. Bearings—British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors:—•
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAIvIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive) :
COVENTRY MOTOR CO-
LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial) : FLOWER, DAVIES
AND JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
B.W
ST
S&:-
Bssr
fwjl
HNSTO
WORTH-WHILE TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR EVERY TRADE. Posle<J
Commercial Art Practice. Text Book for all who Produce, Buy, Sell
or Use Art in Commerce. Knights 20/-
The Human Figure. John Vanderpoel 20/8
The Art of Pen Drawing. Manual for Students, Illustrators and Com-
mercial Artists. Ellwood 16/2
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others. Jasper Salwey 11/-
How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Harry Furniss 6/6
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Furniss 6/6
Art of Shading. Complete and Graduated Guide. William Mann . . 6/6
First Steps in Water Color Painting. Gleeson 12/8
Metal Plate Workers’ Workshop Companion. Manual of Workshop
Practice. Turner 9/-
Educational Metalcraft. Treatise on Repousse, Fine Chasing,
Silversmithing, etc. Davidson 10/8
A.B.C. of Plastering. Telling 12/3
Practical Joinery and Carpentry. Greenhalgh ... . ; 8/-
Book of Lettering. J. K. Robertson 2/4
Decorative Writing and Arrangement of Lettering. A. Erdmann . . 14/2
Rotary and Motor Convertors. Handbook for Operators and
Attendants. E. Smith 10/6
Amateur Electrician’s Manual. Saunders 4/-
Electrical Equipment of Automobiles. Handbook for Motor Mechanics
and Motorists. Smith 6/-
Automobile, Carriage and Waggon Painting. Practical Instruction
Book. Vanderwalker 8/-
The Mixing of Colors and Paints, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated.
' (Description, Properties, Theory, Harmony and Management
of Colors.) 10/6
House Painting Methods, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated. (With
the Brush and Spray Gun, Industrial Painting on Steel, Iron,
Cement, Brick and Wood.) 10/6
Motor and Carriage Painting. A. Bates. A Practical Manual, New
Edition 7/10
Automobile Painting. F. N. Vanderwalker. Covers every detail of
latest and best methods for average painter and car-owner .... 7/10
Practical Cabinet-making. Henry N. Phillips 7/- ,
Paint and Color Mixing. A. O. Jennings. 1 7 Colored Plates. Con-
tains over 300 samples of actual oil and water paint 3 and various
colors, and upwards of 1500 different mixtures 16/-
Diesel Engines, by David Louis Jones 26/-
Modern Carpentry. Hodgson. 2 vols 16/-
Mayes’ Australian Builders & Contractors’ Price Book 15/3
Book of Australian Bungalows 5/4
Henley’s Twentieth-Century Book of Recipes, Formulas and Processes 21/-
Dykes’ Automobile Encyclopaedia. New 15 th Edition 31/6
A Dictionary of Modern English Usage • 11/3
Modern Practical Carpentry, by Ellis 37/5
Modern Joinery, Practical. A very comprehensive treatise on Practice
of Joiner’s Work by Hand and Machine. By Ellis 55/9
Complete Woodworker. By Jones 12/10
Audel’s Carpenters’ and Builders’ Guide, in 4 vols. Set 31/-
Practical Cabinet Maker and Furniture Designer. Hodgson 10/6
Commonsense Hand-Railing. Hodgson 8/-
Steel Square. Practical Treatise. Hodgson. 2 vols. Set 15/10
Woodworking Machinery. M. P. Bale 14/2
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
“HOME and BEAUTY.”
The only kind of beauty which is really
worth having is the “home-cultivated”
kind. Apart from artistic considerations it
is far too risky for any woman to depend
entirely on her coiffeur, her complexion
specialist, and her corsetiere for her looks.
At any moment circumstances may deprive
her of their services—and of her dearly-
bought looks! The simple treatments sug-
gested below will, it is hoped, supply a
long-felt want.
BEAUTIFULLY WAVY HAIR.
Too many women are the slaves of their
hairdresser. Are you one of the indepen-
dent souls who coax their hair into its
attractive waves with silmerine, instead of
bullying it with curling tongs? Silmerine
is a clear, harmless liquid; it doesn’t make
the hair at all greasy, and, if used regularly
the results are really wonderful.
WHAT CONSTITUTES A
GOOD COMPLEXION?
Pink-and-white cheeks, though charming
enough, are not necessarily more beautiful
than cream, olive, or even brown skins.
As long as the skin is clear, smooth, fine-
grained, and free from blemishes, the actual
color matters little. That is why it is use-
less to try to tone up a poor complexion
by applying cosmetics. The outer skin,
which has grown coarse and dirty with con-
stant exposure, is the main trouble, but
can easily be remedied.
Smear some pure mercolized wax over
the face at bedtime, wash it off in the
morning with warm water, rinsing finally
with cold. After a few days of this treat-
ment, the oxygen in the wax will have
absorbed the discolored outer skin, leaving
the clean, new skin beneath free to breathe.
This is the only scientifi'c way to obtain a j
really good natural complexion. Nothing
is better for the neck and arms, of course,
than to treat them in the same way!
A VERY UGLY THING,
and one that will ruin any' complexion, is
the obnoxious presence of blackheads. The
simplest and best way to remove them is
to bathe them in a little warm water in
which a tablet of stymol has been dis- i
solved. They will then come out, without
forcing, on the towel.
The texture of the skin depends on the
size of the pores. When the pores are
over-enlarged, the skin becomes coarse and
“shiny” and blackheads form on the face.
To keep the skin fine-grained an occa-
sional astringent is needed, and an excel-
lent one will be found in parsidium jelly.
BANISH GREY HAIRS NOW!
To those of us who know how easily it
can be remedied, the spectacle of an other-
wise attractive woman whose hair is marred
by ugly streaks of grey is terribly sadden-
ing. One wants to tell her, “Oh, it is so
easy to touch your hair from time to time
with tammalite; so easy and so marvel-
lously effective in banishing grey hairs.
Why don’t you do it?” Women, and men,
too, use tammalite who wouldn’t dream of
putting dye upon their hair. Dyes gener-
ally are so horrid to apply, so uncertain
of effect, so readily detected. And dyes
can injure hair. After all, all one needs
to do is to restore the natural color to grey
hair. A different color dyed into the hair
accentuates wrinkles and harsh lines. Let
your hair again possess the pretty, natural
tints alf your friends admired once. Banish
grey hairs now. . Get from any chemist
pure concentrated tammalite in bottles
carrying simple instructions. Begin to-
night to beautify your hair.
THE “LINE OF BEAUTY.”
Nowadays more than ever, a woman
must be slim to look well. The modern
straight frocks lose their beautiful “line”
at once if the figure below is too bulky.
Nevertheless, when trying to reduce super-
fluous fat, do not be too violent, or you
may do yourself more harm than good.
Have you tried taking a few clynol berries
after each meal? They have wonderful
digestive and absorbent properties, and are
quite pleasant to take, reducing super-
fluous fat in a quite harmless manner. You
can obtain them from most good chemists.
ONALITE FOR TIRED FEET.—
Buy from Your Chemist.—Advt.
Midi Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need!
II
Famous
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 15— WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
1904 MODEL, for .22 short,
long or long rifle rim-fire
cartridges; 2 1 in. heavy round
steel barrel, plain trigger,
bolt action, ladder rear
sight; length of rifle over all,
37^in.; plain front sight;
weight, about
41b
4216
Postage, 1/9 ; Other States, 3/2.
No. 35— BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE, 22in.
round steel barrel; handles
.22 short, long or long rifle
cartridges; screw rear and
open front sights; length
overall, 39in.
weight, 4flb. . .
70/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 37.— S A V A G E
SPORTER REPEATING
RIFLE, Model 23a, .22-
cal., 23in. round barrel;
handles short, long
or long-rifle cart-
ridges;
weight, 61b.
£411216
Carriage Paid.
No. 31.—
REMINGTON
HAMMER-
LESS REPEAT-
ING RIFLE,
Model 12a, .22-
cal., solid
breech, side
ejector, straight
grip, 2 2 in*,
round barrel;
handles 15
short, 12
long, or 1 1
long rifle
cartridges;
adjustable
rear and
open front
ghts; weight,
Carriage Paid.
£4/17/6
HUNTING
KNIVES
The “Bowie” English
Hunting Knife, made
of finest quality steel;
this is a genuine Bowie
pattern knife, having a
stag handle, and double
metal guard, with
sheath.
5in. blade .... 6/6
6in. blade .... 7/6
The “Boone” English
Hunting Knife, ideal for
sticking, skinning,
cleaning, slicing, etc.;
handle of bakelite,
leather and brass, alu-
minium tip, with sheath.
4fin. blade .... 7/6
6in. blade .... 8/6
The “Teddy” Stainless
English Hunting Knife,
an exceptionally well-
ground knife; with
sheath.
4fin. blade .... 10/6
mw
ms®
(Postage on any one Knife, 6d.)
THE SHOOTING CATALOGUE AND
GUIDE IS POST FREE ON REQUEST.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”


K. 32.
CHEESE AT ITS VERY BEST!
Mellow, delicious and appetising Kraft Cheese meets
with everyone’s approval. Kraft Cheese is absolutely
pure and particularly wholesome.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
chlPb
Sold by weight
or in ilb. cartons
by all grocers
and storekeepers.
All the good qualities of cheese—Vitamins,
Mineral Salts and Proteins—are retained in
Kraft Cheese, which keeps fresh, wrapped in
tinfoil, until you eat it.
Kraft Cheese is made in Australia by Kraft Walker Cheese Co.
Pty., Ltd., Riverside Avenue, Melbourne, Victoria.
"Hotel International
’Phones ;
F]V 1112-3
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
BEACH
Qu
BiS'l
JOB©®
Telegrams ;
Hotel International ,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
Hot Water in
Rooms.
100 Bedrooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne's Royal Show threw open its
gates on Thursday, and the world and his
wife and kids tripped in, and will continue
to do so until Saturday, when padlocks will
again be put on the big Flemington enclosure
for a twelvemonth. This year’s fixture is
like every other of the sort, but a little
bigger and better than its predecessors. The
cries of the sample-sellers mingle with the
wailing of gramophones, the pumped music of
player pianos and the cough and gobble of
radio loud speakers. There’s an enormous
display of lollies, and you can get orange
drink almost anywhere. Since last year a
fine two-storeyed pavilion has been added
to the buildings, with an arcade of shops
on the ground floor and administrative and
other offices above. The culinary efforts and
needlework have taken up their old positions
in the Women’s Industries pavilion. The
crochet on some of the traycloths and the
exquisite embroidery on bits of lingerie
demonstrate that machine-made finery cannot
yet equal the achievements of clever fingers.
Mrs. Vaughan, who carries off first honors
with her teacloth, and Miss L. Garrigan,
who comes second in the same section, have
done wonders with their crochet needles.
Those regular exhibitors Roma Field and
Olive Garden have collected several prizes
for their artistic exhibits.
In the annexe devoted to the technical
schools nice girls mix and bake cakes and
scones, or prepare a meal, while others cut
and fashion sports frocks and evening gowns.
Near by, before an admiring throng, small
boys fashion pots and jars on potter’s wheels.
Others put together a drawing-room suite;
others again show their skill as plumbers.
The schools’ horticultural exhibits make a
charming display in a bush house. And, of
course, there are bulls and cows and sheep
and pigs and horses innumerable.
The Uni. one day last week celebrated the
completion of the beautiful stained-glass
window which adorns the south end of the
Wilson Hall. State Governor Somers did
the unveiling, and a conferring of degrees
preceded the ceremony. The window, a
magnificent example of Australian art and
craft, was presented on his wife’s behalf by
Edward Stevens, of Henry Berry and Co. He
is a good friend to the Uni., having pre-
viously donated the clock in the tower over
the Arts building as a memorial to his son
and only child, who was killed in the Great
War. Chancellor MacFarland referred to
Mr. Stevens as a business man of literary
and artistic tastes, and to his gift as a bou-
quet each flower of which had been specially
selected by the giver. The design for the
window was begun by the late W. Mont-
gomerie • on his deatli artist Waller Napier
carried it on, and his wife, who has had a
good deal of experience with such work, lent
her aid. Miss Thatcher, an Englishwoman,
was responsible for most of the flesh tints,
and Brooks Robinson and Co. made and fitted
the panels. Four panels are devoted to
•Tames Cook and Matthew Flinders. Chaucer,
Spenser, Shakspeare and Milton are above,
and below Caxton at his printing press, and
the father of chemistry, Robert Boyle, are
featured. Four narrow panels, two on each
side of these figures, contain cameo portraits
of famous folk, and the arms of the uni-
versities of the Commonwealth and those
of the colleges of the local shop surmount the
whole. Lord Somers, who possesses a vein
of old-time gallantry, spotted the absence of
tribute to any woman, and suggested that if
there should be a beautification of other
windows the omission ought to be rectified.
The Arts and Crafts Society’s show in the
upper hall of the Town Hall was launchei
on its way by Mayor Morell. A room de-
voted to a loan collection of antiques—
furniture, china and silver—serves as a foil
to the efforts of the moderns, which are well
set out in the larger inner hall. Michael
(/Connell's garden-pottery and another ex-
hibitor’s beautiful samples of wrought-iron
work attract everyone’s attention. Feminine
eyes rove from the glass cases containing
Batik work, jewellery and leather and raffia
goeds to the array of rag rugs ingenious fin-
gers have fashioned. Hand-weaving entries
are so many that the end of the hall looks
like an Oriental bazaar. A bedspread woven
by Mrs. Stuart Murray, the society’s former
secretary, is arresting. An expert at the
loom gives a daily demonstration of weaving,
and makers of pottery also show how their
wheels go round. Church embroidery and a
good example of stained glass are other
features of the show. The secretary, Mrs.
Eleanor Moody, shows some clever pictorial
effects carried out in appliqued linen. Syd-
ney, Brisbane and Tasmanian members have
sent contributions. The art of the illumi-
nator is represented in the w T ork of J. S.
r orman, and Mr. Green is pre-eminent
among the bookbinders. On the way out visi-
tors must step into two little rooms. One
has been arranged as a nursery with two
“Alice in Wonderland” rabbits guarding the
door. Miss Noel Howard is responsible for
the delightful collection of furniture for
kiddies. Beyond this is another apartment
with some of Mrs. Fairlie’s stained wooden
tables and chairs and a screen. Black, with
gay flowers rioting all over them, these
pieces of furniture have a richness of effect
that is almost Oriental.
Wearing a mauve gown beneath a much
embroidered black coat, and sparkling adorn-
ment about her hair. Lady Furse hied to a
reception given in her honor by the National
Council of Women on Friday night. The
local president, Mrs. A. W. Glencross, spoke
the welcome, and handed over a posy dangl-
ing the Union Jack. Mrs. D. A. Skene,
wearing black, Mrs. G. G. Henderson, Dr.
Edith Barrett and Miss Gilman Jones were
among the evening’s speakers.
“Saturday’s Children” is the intriguing
title of the comedy which has replaced
“White Collars” at the Athenmum. .Much
proof is given that a shortage of income
makes for unhappiness and family friction,
but there isn't a woman in the audience
who doesn’t covet the kitchen-dining-room of
Act 2, with its blue-ribboned white curtains
and white furniture. Leona Hogarth, who
sheds a charming party frock of powder-blue
taffeta and val. lace frills for the workaday
attire of matrimony on a small salary,
smiled her thanks at the final curtain over
the floral barricade. Evelyn Wade, who
looked delightfully pretty in her first gown
of soft-pink, collected a garden, and Eve
Dawnay received an immense E in snap-
dragons and primroses. Elizabeth Mears,
entirely disguised as an acidulous lodging-
housekeeper, shared in the distribution of
tributes. The Russell Gabbs and their two
daughters, Mrs. Barry Thomson and the
W. Mitchells were r.s._ patrons on Satur-
day night. A party in the d.c. included
several members of the Arts and Crafts
Society, among whom were Mrs. Stuart
Murray, Evelyn Syme and the secretary,
Mrs. Eleanor Moody. Evelyn Lealiy was a
front-row spectator.
The lurking smile behind this pair of stead-
fast eyes, caught by Ruskin, belongs to
Dr. L. T. Currie’s wife, now up to her
eyes in money-getting on behalf of the Sol-
diers’ Memorial Club. On October 12 a
fete will burst
into being at
Fairfield Park,
and many
social drives
are being
arranged by
Mrs. Currie to
pave the way
for this big
event. Before
her marriage
she lived in
Gippsland. On
he r mother’s
side she comes
from the pas-
toral Evans
family, but
her soft dark
coloring
rightly sug-
gests Italy, for
she was Ellen
Gandini when
her doctor, a Sydney Uni. graduate, re-
turned from the war and decided to prac-
tise in Fairfield. Since her marriage she
has become an untiring worker in charitable
organisations, but the Austin Hospital has
the largest claim on her sympathy.
A packed house found the thrills of “The
Silent House,” which had a first tenantry
of the Theatre Royal on Saturday night,
to its liking. Maurice Moscovitcli, m
the black and gold robes of the Chinese
Dr. Chan Fu, announced, as lie nursed a
laurel wreath, that he found this part of
the world so congenial that he had
hung round now for four years. The only
lady of the cast, Bertha Riccardo, wears two
dainty bits of frocking—one of periwinkle
blue georgette, featuring tucks and pleats,
and the other a white evening-gown spark-
ling with crystal and floral embroideries.
She received many blossoms.
On Saturday night there was an unusual
amount of music. From the Town Hall
flowed snatches of the Tsehaikowsky Pathe-
tique Symphony, and the slow movement of
the Schubert Symphony in C major, played
by the Melbourne Symphony orchestra under
Fritz Hart’s baton. At the Exhibition, John
Brownlee gave the last concert of his series.
To-morrow, at the Melba operatic matinee,
when the diva will be heard in two acts of
“BoliSme” and one of “Otello,” the Geelong
baritone will bid Australia a long farewell.
He rushes off to catch the Narkunda in W.A.
and. join his Italian bride-elect. Donna Carla
Oddone di Felleto. who will be waiting at
the church in Paris.
The bright lass of the shingle is warbler
Mimi (once Agnes) Gressier, who has put
back to Australia after seven years’ study-
ing and singing her way along on the other
side. She was born at Bathurst (N.S.W.),
and before
going to Eng-
land made a
hit as soprano
soloist in a
performance of
“The Messiah”
given by the
Sydney Choral
Society. In
London sli e
worked with
Nellie Rowe,
and while
unde r that
teacher Dame
Melba hea r d
her, and cabled
to Sydney that
she was worth
giving a help-
ing hand finan-
cia 11 y. The
only practical
result of that recommendation was a gift
of £26 from an American enthusiast. Miss
Gressier pleased the critics immensely at a
private recital in Melbourne the other day.
The first of a series of musical events
to celebrate the centenary of Franz Schu-
bert was given at the Town Hall last week
by the Uni. Symphony Orchestra, under the
baton of Bernard Heinze. A large laurel-
wreathed portrait of the gifted melody-maker
occupied a place of honor. In the stalls was
Dame Nellie Melba in a. chinchilla-collared
blue and silver wrap, her locks secured be-
neath a gold net cap with a coronet of daisy-
like blooms of pearls and emeralds. John
MacFarland. the George Armstrongs, Dr.
Busing and his wife (she in violet velvet),
Italian Consul Carosi, General Monash,
Lizette Ben twitch and Elena Danieli were
gathered round the diva, and close by were
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes and the
Vanderkelens.
Proceeds of the recitals which constitute
the Schubert Festival, concluded this week,
will be devoted to a scholarship of the Uni.
Con., which will be awarded for outstanding
musical talent to a boy or girl not plenti-
fully endowed with cash.
The two-year-old trials of the V.A.T.C.
provide a very pleasant little early-morning
eutfrfg. Breakfast on the course is enjoy-
able, and the heath presents a charming pic-
ture at such an hour, with the lawns un-
smirched by discarded betting-tickets and
flocks of seagulls settled peacefully on the
ponds of the flat. Just at present the sward
is like a bowling-green, and the new fences,
roofs of buildings and even the protecting
palings around the just-planted trees border-
ing on the pavement of the public road have
all been painted green. About 4000 gathered
to watch the five heats of this season’s
trials. Mrs. Tabart and Edna, Mrs. -A. V.
Kewney, Mrs. Lort Smith and Marion Mont-
gomery were among the womenfolk who
arose early to see the debut of the young
gee-gees.
Hugh D. Mclntosh gave his arm to
Yvonne Banvard —lately appearing in musi-
cal comedy with the J.C.W. firm —when she
became Mrs. Ernest Hunter Broadhurst at
St. John’s, Toorak. The theatrical wedding-
packed the church. The leading lady dressed
the part in satin and lace of biscuit tone, and
defied superstition with a dash of green,
also repeated in her millinery. Muriel Starr,
who was matron of honor, was clad all in
green, but the two attending maids, Hilda
Lynne and Mona Potts, played their parts
in old-world frocks of mauve and pink.
Mrs. Banvard entertained the guests, includ-
ing many leading mummers, at Menzies’. The
newly-weds will make their home in Perth.
The J. C. W. Halls, of Mintara, Sun-
shine, brought daughter Lucy Evelyn to the
Collins-street kirk and handed her into tin
keeping of Dr. Reginald A. Sicree, whilst
the organ thundered approval. A gown of
ivory crepe satin, set with long side panels,
hung from the bride’s slim shoulders. The
veil was of old Honiton lace. The bride’s
sister Lorna and the bridegroom’s sister
Wenda ’maided in frocks of sunset hue, with
a froth of tulle frills.
Betty, elder daughter of the Phillip Shaws,
of Brighton, who was a bride of last week,
astonished society by eschewing tulle ana
orange blossoms. Her wedding with Dr.
Waldron Keith Davenport was on a very
modest scale in the matter of dressing and
celebration. Floral chiffon, blending pinks
and green, formed her frock, which was
worn with a harmonising hat and posy. Her
sister Barbara, who bridesmaided, was a
symphony in blue.
Amy, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. A. E.
Syme of Lilydale, murmured “I will” to
Reginald Johnston, of Warracknabeal, at
the Melbourne Grammar School chapel last
week. The bride, a keen follower of the
bounds, wore ivory georgette traced over
with gold thread, and her Limerick-lace veil
cascaded upon gold tulle. She carried a
seasonable posy of primroses. Her sister
Ursula ’maided in a frock of green, with
millinery to match, and a bouquet of pink
roses. The wedding feast was spread at No. 9.
Another theatrical alliance came to pass
on Saturday, when Roy Russell and Mary
McCrae, of the Muriel Starr co., were made
one. There was no fuss about the happening,
and the news sort of slipped out at the
matinee. After the evening performance
the newly-weds were toasted in approved
style.
Lorna Wood is flashing a sparkler tendered
by Captain T. D. Bairnsfather, M.C., brother
of the caricaturist and author who
invented “Old Bill,” and a son of Colonel
and Mrs. Bairnsfather, who live in Gloucester,
England. Lorna is the daughter of the late
G. Wood, whose widow is now Mrs. C.
Watson, of Malvern. It is to be a December
mating.
H.M.A.S. Australia is scheduled, as our
American friends would put it, to drop
anchor here on the first Tuesday in Novem-
ber, which means that our new cruiser will
maintain the time-honored tradition which
decrees that the Navy must be represented at
the Cup carnival.
Frank Clewlow, director of the Repertory
Society, was picked to open the annual
exhibition of the Twenty Melbourne Painters.
He was introduced by John Longstaff, who
is represented in the show by a painting of
a tree-lined avenue in Fitzroy Gardens.
Viewers were so many and stationary groups
of chatterers so numerous that it: was diffi-
cult to see the pictures. In the throng were
Dean Aicken, Mrs. James Purves and her
daughter Valerie, Mrs. Frank Clewlow —a
study in blue —the Rene Vanderkelens. and
numerous wielders of brush and pencil, in-
cluding Rupert Bunny.
Mrs. Fred D. Bird boiled the billy at her
South Yarra home for afternoon tea in honor
of our overseas visitor, Lady Furse. The
guests were mostly Victoria League members.
Beaded black raiment was favored by the
hostess, and the principal guest also chos«
black, with a dash of chanel red. Mrs.
Harold Brookes, daughter of Mrs. Bird,
topped a bright blue gown with a flowered
straw hat. Mrs. Henry Cave, the Miller,
Masson and Fairbairn ladies and Mrs. James
Alston were there.
The High Commissioner’s staff at Aus-
tralia House, London, is being shorn of
most of its old officers. The latest, to be
recalled is Jimmy Fox, who, »with his wife
and family, are on board the Aorangi. It
is four years since the Fox family left their
St. Ivilda home to settle in the Great Hub.
and they have enjoyed the experience.
The folk bidden to the first performance
by the Gong Theatre Club found carpenters
still in possession as they filed in, but
everything went off very well. A. A. Milne's
play “The Lucky One” was preceded by
Tolstoi’s sketch, “On Art.” Producer and
director Richard Garwyn spoke of the aims
and hopes of the club at the conclusion of
an anxious evening. Prof. Ernest Scott aud
his wife, the E. W. Robinsons, Dr. and Mrs.
James Booth, Mr. Justice Lukin and his
wife and Mrs. Alex. Gunn were in the
audience.
One of this city’s cleverest business women.
Mrs. T. Humphreys, has just slipped quietly
out of life’s arena. It is 20 years since
her name—she was Alice Mills then —went
up in Collins-street over a photographic
studio. She met with great success, and as
the money rolled in iL was converted into
real estate. Her only chick, Mollie, inherited
her mother’s intellect and took her medical
degree at 21. Dr. Humphreys became Dr.
Elliot True’s wife, and assists with his
practice. Since the death of her’ husband
Mrs. Humphreys had lived in partial retire-
ment.
President Dr. J. W. Springthorpe and the
committee of the Tweddle Baby Hospital
and School of Mothercraft arranged a fare-
well tea-drinking at the Wattle during the
week to wish a happy holiday to the hos-
: pital’s matron, Sister Moreland, who is off
for a jaunt to Cairns. Mrs. Springthorpe,
wearing sapphire blue frock and straw hat:
Mrs. J. T. Tweedle. Mayoress Mullins of
Footscray, and Mrs. Edgar Dye were among
the tea-drinkers.
Sixteen years ago the two younger girls
of the Hutchings family sailed over to Eng-
land, taking with them qualifications for the
profession of dentistry. A motor accident
| near Wagga, which smashed up their brother
Albert, has brought back one of the absen-
r tees, and she is staying at the St. Kilda
I home during his struggle back to health.
; Gerda Paulson, who came to this city
s about four years ago from Esthonia and
• who has done good w T ork with the Travellers
i Aid Society, is returning to her homeland
to become general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
at Parnu, known as “the town of lime-
, trees.”


Oriental Pearls
Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from. £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose 'Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for. Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Strin&in& of PEARL
Necklaces on
the premises.
Ijk #
Wm.DRUMMONDcCO
HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
TH
344
-fl HI
Pi*
w
T^~i
BRISBANE
Now again under the
personal supervision of
MRS . A. CAIN
i -A
A Corner of
the 'Eastern
1 Lounae
, jnr r f
Looking from Ihe FbhnCoort
J to the Ball room
Wire or write for
reservations NO IV.
Telegrams:
Lennon’s, Brisbane.
’Phone 5780.
A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
a. SAUNDERS’
3 diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Hexagpn-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18et. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS’
Wedding Ring,
18ct. White Gold,
Hand-chased, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
AVatch, Silk AA'ristband, £5/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set, 15et. Gold Bar Brooch, £4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
Set Platinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Diamond Cluster, Set Platinum,
15ct. Gold, Bar Brooch, £6/10/-
K
IO
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband, £7/10/-
14ct. Gold, £B/10/-
GUARANTEED.
ALL ORDERS BY MAIL
A. SAUNDERS’
3 diamonds,.
Hexagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cross-
over, Set Platinum,
ISct. Gold Ring,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
Four Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped,
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
15ct. Gold
Wedding Ring,
25/-
18et. Gold, 30/-
Receive the same care and attention as if you called personally.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS—WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS
W atchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
The New BILLABONG
CENTRIFUGAL FOR
HIGH LIFTS
THE centrifugal is an excellent pump for irrigation and
other purposes. For high elevations we have added a
new “Billabong” centrifugal to our list. It is high duty,
single stage, and is made in two sizes, 1 \ and 2 inch. We
supply it with fast and loose pulleys for use with petrol or
kerosene engines, or supply it direct coupled to an electric
motor, or with cast-iron bed-plate to take your own motor.
It possesses all the rugged power and long wearing qualities of
the older “Billabong.”
Made in two sizes, 1 and 2 inch, for elevations up to 11 Oft.
For elevations up to 60ft., use the ordinary “Billabong,” made
in sizes from 1 to 6 inches.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
JOHN MNRSsSON PTY.LTD.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY (NEAR LIVERPOOL ST.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
sdf
Kind
George V
Vintage 1917. t
CHAMPAGNE (
ChaifeMskk
mmwmm
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Li mite J
SYDNEY.
spaispwlisaiJßQ
3 MOVdWVHD
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
MY ADVICE
TO YOU I
TAKE
HiE
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
sgrtßf'coS^
TRADE MARK'
REGISTERF.ri'
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
UUk
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets Sydney
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth." ’ ;
Tasmania 1 Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
” ” ' ‘ 1 Ferguson & Co.. Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B, Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street. Melbourne Vic
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night,
you’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kaisser
SILK
GLOVES
Lucille Bruntnell, daughter of the N.S.W.
< 'hief Secretary, was welcomed home from
her travels by the Queen Victoria Club the
other afternoon. Lucille, in almond-green
coolness, struck just the right inflection of
pleased surprise when a silver basket brim-
ming with pink sweet-peas and stocks was
handed to her. Elocution and dramatic art
have been the Sydney girl’s special study in
London. Mr. and Mrs. Bruntnell shared
the party with tlicir clever daughter, and
aa unusually fine programme of music was
staged by the club for the occasion. Mrs.
Arthur Scott, the president of the Queen
Victorians, did the honors. The Queen Vic-
torians, having no fixed abode in Sydney,
at present have their headquarters in the
Women's Country Club rooms; these had
been turned by tender blooms and juicy
shoots into an ode to spring.
There is something imposing about the
entrance of the Royal Colonial Institute.
Perhaps it basks in reflected glory from its
aristocratic neighbor on the other side of
Bligh-street, the Union Club. Anyhow, the
guests who ruffle through the doorway keep
up the tradition by wearing sumptuous rai-
ment to the institute junketings. The Hugh
Denisons, back at the old presidential post,
were not the least well dressed of last week’s
gathering. Mrs. Hugh sported her pearls,
pure products of the Persian Gulf, where it is
the social ambition of every pearl to be
hatched. Their pedigree was not shamed by
the rest of the tall lady’s apparel, which was
black lace of noble lineage with which a
celadon-green shawl was worn. The knight
also was faultless as to outfit, and shook
hands wearing liis 100-per-cent, invigorating
smile. The rooms, as usual, were massed
with flowers, poppies and daffodils, a vibrant
singing gold in shadowy corners. Music by
Virginia Bassetti, Mabel Batchelor, Clement
Williams and Wilfred Thomas.
All gold and blue, like the day outside its
four walls, the Arts Club received into its
bosom the wife of Premier Bavin one after-
noon last week. The mercury was away up
in the eighties, so the guests had all worn
their flimsies, and these, coupled with new
hats and the bowls of glowing flowers upon
the tables, broadcast the arrival of summer.
Mrs. Bavin, who is a writer of verse and
stories for children, made an appeal for an
art club where the sub. would be nominal
enough to permit the poorest to join.
Composer May Summerbelle arranged the
music, Gladys Verona sang her sweetest,
Frank Hutchens supplied some of his own
works, and Clifford Lathlean, Warrington
Reynolds and Robert Miller furnished other
star turns.
Grey and aloof, amid stark, staring flats
and the raucous noises that are Darling-
hurst, St. John’s last Sunday celebrated its
seventieth birthday. In 1856 its foundation-
stone was laid by Bishop Barker, but the
church was 33 years old before it was pre-
sented with a clock and bells. There were
special services of thanksgiving last Sun-
day, and the pews were thronged by many
who had been christened or married, or both,
within its walls.
At “The Patsy” on Saturday, E. J. Tait,
sitting in one of the boxes, enjoyed his own
show without restraint. Also he obviously
enjoyed other people’s enjoyment. The quaint
methods employed by Irene Homer in secur-
ing herself a stage husband opened the hearts
of her entire audience to her; when, in a
moment of domestic disgrace, the lady plaiu-
tively announced that she felt “like a regular
crime-wave” there was a mighty demonstra-
tion of mirth. At the close there was insis-
tence on a speech from the latest decoration
to the local stage. It is a growing bad
habit, but, in justice to the lady, she made
it commendably short.
The Society of Artists of N.S.W., which
is inclined to bar the door against women
members, has opened it sufficiently to let
Adelaide Parry creep in. She is the fifth
woman to be admitted, the others btiing
Florence Rodway, Thca Proctor, Margaret
Preston and Mildred Lovett. The paintress
is one of the women who have made a
feminine monopoly of the Melbourne Gal-
lery’s travelling scholarship during the
last 18 years—the same scholarship that had
a distinguished first holder in John Long-
staff.
Before the Poynter lady had made her
opening speech, and in spite of the sulky
sky, Cranbrook fete was gaily on its way to
its four-figure goal. Barrie once wrote about
a £l2 look, but Cranbrook fete each year
puts on a £lOOO one. This year the stalls
and roundabouts turned the school oval into
a scene -of quick action, and secretary Mrs.
F. W. Allen and treasurers Gunther and
Spier, wore the becoming halo of pleased
content. Lady Poynter dressed her act
richly in an ensemble of beige lace arid
satin, the coat wearing a ruffling ostrich
feather collar’. A wide black hat, at the
side of which a pink rose bloomed, and a
Margaret Preston-like posy of tulips and
lilac were finishing touches. With her was
her cousin, Mrs. Thirkell, of Melbourne,
who was Angela Mackail, daughter of the
brilliant literary English professor and
cousin to humorist Denis Mackail. Justice
Harvey’s lady was president of the success.
Ben Lewin, who was the seriously in-
jured member of a party with Leon Gordon
which got involved in a motor smash to-
wards the close of Gordon’s last season in
Sydney, was helped into one of the boxes
to welcome his old chief back to the Royal
when “Interference” w r as produced on Satur-
day ; and the sympathetic gathering gave
the mummer a vociferous welcome on liis
own account. Lewin, who was introduced
to Sydney as the mysterious steward iu
“Outward Bound,” still looks shaky, but no
doubt feels that he is lucky to be alive.
The characters of “Interference” are
mainly Australian —a doctor who has brought
his lady from Australia to London, and the
lady’s worthless first husband, supposed to
have been dead before she wedded the doc-
tor “in a little place on the Blue Moun-
tains.” About that fictional marriage a
dowager in the d.c. became confidential in
the first interval. “I distinctly remember
that wedding taking place,” she told her
neighbor. “It was at Springwood.”
Hoary old St. Stephen’s almost took on a
medical aspect the other night. Four mem-
bers of one bridal party that sought its
blessing were doctors, and the reception was
to be staged at the home of still another.
The bride was Dr. Jean Healy, of McMahon’s
Point, and the groom Dr. T. W. Burgess,
of Lane Cove. Lace and ivory chiffon
foamed about Dr. Jean, and- a wash of soft
lace train supplemented the cool, surf-like
confection. Dr. Kathleen Winning and Nell
Healy ’maided in that latest fashion word,
macrame lace. This was in soft pink, and
was allied to pink satin. Matron-of-honor
Mrs. Alston Grant was similarly arrayed.
Groom’s brother Cliff best-manned, further
first-aiders being Dr. .T. M. Rainbow and
Neale Burgess. The reception was held at
the home of the groom’s father, Dr. Watkin
Burgess, at Vaucluse, and here Mrs. J. S.
Hungerford, the bride’s mother, took the
spotlight in black-sequinned brightness worn
with a rose-pink velvet coat and a posy of
pink and blue delphiniums.
II e re with
pretty Ails a
Cullen, who is
so capably
helping her
Lieutenant-
Governor
father do the
honors at Gov-
ernm e n t
House. Ailsa,
who has a
flexible speak-
ing voice as
well as her
share of the
family talent,
is an amateur
actress of
charm, as wit-
ness her per-
sonation of the
undergrad, of
the future in
the University
pageant. Since leaving the Bench William
Cullen lives at Leura with his family.
Skulls and crossbones and brass plates
hobnobbed when the budding Listers and
MacCormicks of Sydney Uni. staged tlieir
annual frolic at the Ambassadors last week.
Dr. G. Bohrsmann, jun., was president of
this year’s jollo, and a group of girls, each
distinguished by a brass plate wearing a
name not her own, helped to keep the night’s
full at bubbling point. Staring white skulls
that looked as though Time’s teeth had
picked them clean were sold with numbers
attached. Luck touched two or three, and
their holders won the prizes, tickets for
“Rio Rita.” Dr. x\. R. Duggan, superinten-
dent of Sydney Hospital, and Dr. Cecil
Purser, a former Vice-Chancellor of the Uni.,
who had the ovation of the evening, were
at Dr. Bohrsmann’s table. Mrs. Purser was
also in the party in artfully mingled black
and pink chiffons. Treasurer Don Sillar
(what better name could there be for a
money-gatherer?) entertained one of the
night’s bright parties, at a table lavish with
blooms. Peggy Carruthers, in rosy ninons,
was a charming piece of interior decoration,
as were Glory Bohrsmann and Carmen
O'Dea. Dr. R. J. Silvcrton and F. S.
Flynn, who had shared the secretarial labors,
rounded off their job by each bringing an
outsize party. Mrs. Silverton, in pale gold
georgettes, played hostess opposite her hus-
band.
W. A. Oldfield, the world-famous Aus-
tralian wicket-keeper, has drawn a prize
in the lottery
of love, to
wit, the attrac-
tive girl in the
picture along-
side. She is
Ruth Hunter,
eldest daughter
of the John
Hunters of
Randwick, and
the engage-
ment was an-
il o u n c e d on
Satu r d a y at
the Ambassa-
dors in the
midst of
mother's an d
father’s silver-
wedding party.
Miss Hunter
is an accom-
plished dancer
and skater;
her dexterity and grace on the ice are fea-
tures of Glaciarium festivities.
How envy would have rattled the teeth of
Richard 111. if he had looked in at the
Wentworth the other night and seen the
upstanding gallants of the United Service
Club enjoying their piping time of peace!
It’s a safe bet that the glass had been
worked overtime by many of the handsome
lads in scarlet and gold and navy and gold,
not to talk of those buccaneers of the sky,
the Air Force, heroes. A martial accom-
paniment of jingling spurs and a trumpeter
on the balcony to herald the approach of the
Governor-General were added glories of the
night. The Wentwqrth had its big caf6 door-
way swathed in the folds of two immense
Union Jacks. Down the wide stairway the
guests made murmurous descent to the palm
court, where more flags and the scents of
ten thousand and one flowers assailed them.
Here stood the president of the institution,
Colonel Alfred Spain, with his lady, to greet
one and all. For this was none of your
cash-and-carry-on dances, but a dignified
lona fide invitation affair. Furthermore,
every one of the bare sex, fair, dark or
merely mousey as to bob or shingle, was
presented with a shoulder-posy of real
flowers, tied with the red of the Army, the
blue of the Navy and the light blue of the
Air Force. The Spain couple were again
on deck when the G.-G. arrived, a.d.c.’d by
Lieutenant Nicholls. Of course, he didn’t
get off as easily as that. There was the
usual reception committee to swing the
necessary censers to the vice-regal dais.
Among the group were the Brigadier-Gen-
eral Gordon Bennetts, her primrose chiffons
toning in with the glowing daffodils carried
by Mrs. Spain. The male background was
strengthened by the debonair and much-deco-
rated Captain Cayley. Commander Garsia
and Air-Commander Williams. The amiable
Clifford Hays supped in company with the
Lieutenant F. Daniell couple. The Waley
lady was there with her gallant captain and
daughter Ceeilie, who wore chiffons that
mingled the pale yellow of the primrose and
the deep gold of the broom. Mrs. Brian
Windeyer, in spreading layers of white and
pink tulle, was another attractive frocker,
and a shell-case filled with glowing waratahs
was the gaze-compelling adornment of one
true Australian’s table.
The special social function of Race Week
—the Randwick Race Ball, to be held at the
Palais Royal on Tuesday, October 2—pro-
mises to eclipse all other shivoos. The com-
mittee is large in numbers and full of
energy, and its secretaries are the popular
Elsie Ccrry and Eileen Tier. Tickets can
be bought at Paling’s, and the Australia and
Carlton.
William Heuglian, of the Roderick Dhu
voice, the surging kilts and the Highland
bonnet, has been drawing his thousands to the
Sydney Town Hall. The rich and resonant
bass voice infuses romance into the songs,
particularly the old Scotch ballads, such as
Lock the Door, Larister” or “The Bonnets
of Bonnie Dundee.” And the threadbare
soldier of fortune behind the sand dunes
of Dunkirk hymning his “Annie Laurie”
becomes a very heart-breaking lover indeed
before Mr. Heughan has done with him. This
unusual artist is equally at home in operatic
arias, which he delivers with color, warmth
and authority. The explanatory notes with
which lie precedes his numbers are worth
hearing in themselves.
French circles will miss their old intimate
D. Iv. Inglis—“godfather” as he was known
to all his friends because of his amazing
knack of obtaining the job or gift they
longed for. He died last week of pneu-
monia at St. Kilda private hospital in Dar-
linghurst. Once an officer in the Blue
Guards, within the last 20 years he had be-
come so crippled by rheumatoid arthritis
that he could only creep along, bent double
over a stick. Yet he never complained
of his sufferings, and his life was devoted
as much to doing kindnesses to others as to
his own business. Mr. Inglis was well known’,
in mining circles, and was a director of
many companies. He spoke several languages
fluently, and took a keen interest in art
and literature.
Tall Clive .Toske brought his dark-eyed
bride from Fiji for a 10-days’ honeymoon,
and his mother, Mrs. Alec Joske, signalised
the meeting with her daughter-in-law by a
big kettledrum staged at the Queen’s Club.
This was a pale pink party, from the masses
of fruit blossom that decked the tables to the
last of the ices. There was a wedding cake,
too, over which the new Mrs. Joske presided
in a blue georgette outfit. Mrs. Clive Joske
was, before her marriage, Betty Pearson, of
Suva, daughter of \V. Pearson, Secretary for
Indian Affairs in Fiji.
To mark the centenary of the melodic
Franz Schubert’s death, the Con. orchestra
featured his Symphony in C and his overture
in E minor at its concert last week. The
just-returned-from-Europe Arundel Orchard
conducted with decision, and Cyril Monk led
the orchestra through the dancing light ana
mellow shade of this Schubert masterpiece.
Rich in harmonies resonant and brilliant,
the symphony held listeners entranced. Mous
sorgsky’s “A Night On Bare Mountain” was
introduced to Sydney on the same bill.
The tall, fair-haired widow of Australia's
baronet Rupert Clarke w r as married last week
in that most aristocratic of London Catholic
churches, the Broinpton Oratory, to the Earl
of Bective, son and heir of the Marquess of
Headfort. Titled guests thronged the front
pews, and side by side were those royalties
of the department stores, Gordon Selfridge
and Sydney’s own Tony Horderns. The
bride’s full and floating dress, designed by
Itevillc, was of pale pink with pearl-embroid-
ered lace. Joy Lindsay, daughter of the
bride’s sister-in-law, Mrs. Robert Lindsay,
’maided, and the reception was held at Mrs.
Lindsay’s house in Park-lane. The new
Countess of Bective was formerly a pretty
and popular Marrickville girl. She is now
a relation by marriage to WoRKER-editor
Foote; the Earl’s mother, the brilliant
actress Rosie Boote, and the Sydney man
are cousins.
A bride from the country who sought the
blessing of St. Mary’s was Gwen Brown,
daughter of the W. M. Browns of Belwarra,
Gladstone. Her appointment was with F.
W. Larkin, only son of the F. W. Larkins
of Melbourne and Sydney. This bride's
flowers, frock and veil were in the softest
tones of pink; and Mrs. A. C. Fry, her
matron of honor, wore a glittering peacock
gown of gold lace. Mr. and Mrs. Brown
were unable, through an illness in the family,
to be present, so Mr. A. C. Fry squired
their daughter to the altar, and Mrs. R. C.
Ilobden presided over the subsequent recep-
tion at the Carlton.
A man in the Sydney Divorce Court the
other day admitted to. having once been a
waiter at the Union Club, and to having been
dismissed because one day in exuberance he
hung the G.-G.’s hat on Shakspeare’s statue.
Did officialdom consider the act an imperti-
nence to the Governor-General or to Shak-
speare ?
Sydney’s newly-formed Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children discussed
plans over the usual afternoon brew in the
Nationalist Club last week. The president
of the society, Ben Fuller; stressing the
necessity for enlarging the circle of sup-
porters and increasing the funds, told of the
vast organisation in England and the
vigorous society in Victoria carrying on the
same work. Other speakers w y ere J. L.
Thompson and T. E. Rofe. Around one
riclily-beflowered table were Judge and Mrs.
Backhouse, the Fuller lady, Dr. Kate
Knowles and the Civic Commissioner Flem-
ings. Walter Kirby, over from Melbourne,
was to have sung, but the tuneful larynx
had gone on strike, so he brought the exotic-
looking Dorothy Mould to take his place on
the programme. Peggy Dunbar unleashed
the rich contralto so well known to lis-
teners-in, and her friend, Enid Hynes, also
known upon the air, supplied some charming
piano work. The main idea of this society
is to prevent the ill-treatment of children
reaching the point where police interference
becomes necessary.
A dress note from London
The Prince of Wales has been breaking more
sartorial conventions. His latest exploit before he
left on his trip to Africa was to drop in at the
Olympia Art Exhibition one evening, wearing a grey
flannel suit without a waistcoat. The tailors of
Savile-row are reeling under the blow, for it has
long been a tradition that all London clubmen should
wear dress suits on all occasions after 6 p.m., and
the trade is keenly alive to the difference' between
the cost of a grey flannel two-piece rig-out
and a perfectly-finished suit of dress clothes. One
fashion-arbiter tried, to let the heir to the throne
down lightly by conceding that a grey flannel suit
is correct so long as it is worn on the right occasion
(whatever that may be), and the trousers are held
by a waist line clever enough to make a belt
unnecessary-.


THOUSANDS
AND
THOUSANDS
ARE
WEARING
pond's
SY LMKTO
HOSIERY 0
J,
V
i 1
ft
L* /Y
(< ■>
11l
‘rb V
fci,
//,
<-T
4
&
C~ ,rnr 'H
F
r
' /
£
V.
*
r .
11
rr.
ft
<F
r
KJTV/
v . vfK /
/A i?/
nee
PER
I
• • s
q
$V X
•' ■:*;•
1111 l
PAIR
rf 'N
Because they have proved it
over and over again to be the
best wearing Silk Stocking in
Australia. The ankles are slim,
the colours fast, and the new
summer shades are gorgeous.
sd
fs


T5hQ
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA. LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
Ml
mm
- ;|||;
11 Kg 1
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,000,000
Total Assets
£45,622,056
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
■
mmm
?f4
mm
Ti
4
dfg
JOHN JAMESON
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully 1
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
VC. -
fa
are stocked in ten popular
Models:—
2| h.p. to 60 h.p.:
£3O to £3BO Complete.
An Engine for every type of Boat.
Write for 1929 Catalogues to-day.
More “Invincible” Engines
are sold \in Australia than
any other make on the market
4r O SHPNODEL K "
£4s'
COMPLETE
m
fmJ
invincible Motors
Limited
53
Norrh George 5r
Sydney
Ibhatb
iotAuppeif
When friends drop in for a
game of cards, or some music,
give them sandwiches made
with delicious Anchovette.
There’s nothing like it for a
dainty and appetising supper.
Get a jar from your grocer to-
day.
For a change try Peck’s
Salmon and Shrimp Paste.
Peck’s
$
4?
sM
The
delicious
Fish Paste
sdf
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and . effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Missing Friends.
IV/IcSWEENEY—WiIIiam, son of Thomas
McSweeney or Sweeney and Catherine
nee Sullivan, or anyone knowing ol ins
death or whereabouts (he having been last
heard of some twelve years ago m ixai-
goorlie) is requested to communicate witu
the Public Trustee, Box 7, G.P.0., Sydney,
in connection with the estate of his iate
sister Fanny McSweeney.
Legal Notices.
IN THE COURT OF INSOLVENCY
1 ADELAIDE SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IN THE MATTER of a Deed of Assign-
ment by JAMES HENRY BROWNE of
Happy Valley in the State of South Aus-
tralia Grazier dated 26tli October 1925.
TAKE NOTICE that the above Court
will be moved on Friday the 23rd day ot
November 3928 at 10.30 a.m. by Counsel on
behalf of the Trustees of the said Deed of
Assignment that the Proof of Debt lodged
by Joseph Nichols Hansen of Alice Springs
Grazier be disallowed when the said Josepa
Nichols Hansen will be heard if he appears
to support the admission of the said Proof
of Debt.
DATED this 12th day of September, 1928.
HERBERT SOLOMON,
Ware Chambers,
King William Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the said Trustees.
To Joseph Nichols Hansen,
Grazier, Alice Springs.
ir43
ss M©sre
VIGOUR
Baskaehe S
Get Rid of Ageing Bladder and
Urinary Trouble.
From pain and weakness to healthy vigor
within 48 hours is the rule with Harrison’s
Pills, the signed remedy of a London
doctor. Nothing like them for rheumatism,
backache, painful urinations, weakness due
to uric acid disorders, urinary and bladder
troubles, or for aches and pains generally.
No patter how many things have failed
you, Harrison’s Pills will set you right,
for they remove the cause of the trouble.
One user says, “Never known such quick
relief. They soothe all the pain away
and leave you entirely rejuvenated. Since
taking them I have felt years younger.”
If you want to feel and look 10 to 20
years younger —quickly—get a package of
Harrison’s Pills from the chemist to-day.
Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/- Satisfaction
certain.
Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE:—
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available on
and after September 15.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt St., Sydney.
62 Flinders St., Melbourne.
ONARCH
Cigai's
CRAIGfcAITKEN
Wholesale Distributors
Sydney N.S.W.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
5C
sS
V
V
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
"I]
m
n
5r
=■
r-
%
Amusements.
sd
THE voyage to Europe by the Orient
Line is in itself a holiday full of
interest and variety. After leaving
Australia the route touches Ceylon,
Egypt, Italy, France and Gibraltar,
and each of these places has unique
attractions for the visitor.
The Liners have beautifully-appointed
Public Rooms, the cabin accommodation
is excellent, and the spacious decks
afford ample room for sports, exercise,
and dancing.
ORIENT LINE
2*4-6 SPRING STREET - - SVDNEV
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
GLORIA SWANSON in SADIE THOMPSON, a United Artists’ Picture.
Also, DIAMOND HANDCUFFS, a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Picture.
J7MPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wed. and Thurs. at 2.15.
SECOND MONSTER DOUBLE BILL.
The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Super Production,
ANNIE LAURIE,
To be preceded by a 90-Minute Musical Comedy,
ERIS,
With an all-star cast and the Famous Empire
Pony Ballet.
Prices: 1/6, -2/6, 4/6. Reserves MAIOOO.
And all City Booking Offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: STUDENT PRINCE.
ROYAL :INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: THE RIRD IN HAND.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY'S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ALL THE KING’S HORSES.
ATHENjZEUM THEA TR E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
The Three-act Comedy,
SATURDAY’S CHILDREN.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
HAROLD LLOYD in
SPEEDY.
ALSO
RALPH SORBES and MARCELINE DAY in
UNDER THE BLACK EAGLE.
J£ING’S MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
jyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
RIN-TIN-TIN in
. The Warner Bros.’ Picture,
A RACE FOR LIFE.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
JHEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syneopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Legal Notice.
TO HENRY WILLIAM HILL formerly
of Hobart in Tasmania whose address
is now unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania in its
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction citing you
to appear and answer the Petition of your
wife Ella Hill praying for a dissolution of
her marrihge with you on the ground of
desertion TAKE NOTICE that unless
within Thirty days from the publication
hereof you cause, an appearance to be en-
tered in the Registry of the said Court at
Hobart to answer the said Petition the
Court will proceed to hear and determine
the said charge your absence notwithstand-
ing.
(Sgd.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania.
ALBERT G. OGILYIE,
Collins House, Collins Street,
Hobart, in Tasmania.
Proctor for the Petitioner.
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
TOWNSVILLE’S LEADING CAFE.
TJNEQUALLED position, splendidly fur-
nished and fully equipped, all in good
condition. Exceptional husiness.
Takings over £ll,OOO yearly. Owner
retiring.
Lease 10 years at reasonable rental.
Terms may be arranged up to eight years.
Can strongly recommend. \
Further particulars from
T. L. HEATLEY, LTD.,
Commission Agents,
Townsville.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Germans from the Berlin were
treated with every courtesy during their
stay, which created a mild social ripple.
Morning-tea spread on the verandah of
their South Perth home by Mrs. Le Souef
and her daughters Mildred and Nancy was
among the informal parties arranged for
the officers of the Berlin. Isobel McDonald,
Kay and Jean Smith, Joan Stowe, Betty
Simpson, Betty Sewell and Ethel Anthoness
were' among girls invited to help along
the conversation. Afterwards Colonel Le
Souef took his guests for a walk and an
introduction to his pets in the adjoining
Zoo.
Twenty-four girls were invited by Lady
Campion to tea at Government House, fol-
lowed by a dance with officers and cadets of
the Berlin. Captain Kolbe gave a return
afternoon on the ship, where the wonderful
band made dancing a special pleasure. Lady
Campion brought Jacqueline Wright to this
frivol.
Edith Pearce, who is an experienced or-
ganiser of St. Mary’s dances, took special
trouble to make 'the Pink Ball the most
successful jollo of the week. The decora-
tions varied from salmon-pink to deepest
rose, and proceeds went towards the church
fund.
Kath’leun Rocheford, who returns this
month to Melbourne, has been given many
farewell parties. Her hostess, Mrs. Frank
Strickland, arranged a large cabaret party
and an afternoon-tea, where Miss Rocheford
and Miss Gille.t sang sweetly. A bridge
party was given by Mrs. Bob Dickson, and a
dance by Dr. and Mrs. Golledge.
This is a Bartletto portrait of Mrs. Wil-
ford Mitchell, one of our most unselfish
gatherers o f
chari table
coin. Since
she came west
35 years ago
from her
home State of
N.S.W., he r
name has
figured con-
tinually
among the
workers in
welfare move-
nt c n t s and
societies. She
has done her
bit for the
Child ren’s
Hospital, the
Child ren’s
Protection So-
ciety, the Sil-
ver Chain, the
Found ling
Home, and the aged folk in the care of
the Little Sisters of the Poor. She is pre-
sident of the St. John of God’s Hospital
Ball committee, whose annual effort provides
medical and surgical treatment for needy
eases.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The theatre was very much in its party
clothes for the opening night of opera, with
bunting a-flutter from the circle railings and
a garden of red and blue a-blowing in front
of the boxes. The Government House party
was in the centre of the circle, the Laving-
ton Bonythons in one stage-box and mem
bers of the 60. in the other. Dal Monte, all
smiles and diamonds, pulled Seavizzi for-
ward to share the house’s greeting. Toti
was accompanied by her husband and Mr.
Tail. There was a wild welcome for Toti
and Lomanto in “Lucia” and “Rigoletto,”
and, in not much lower key, for Seavizzi in
"Manon Lescaut,” which there was again
a vice-regal party—their Exes., Capt. and
Mrs. Verney, Miss Daly and Capt. Gros-
venor.
By way of prelude to it all, the South
Australian Orchestra and the Bach Society
combined in one of the best concerts they
have given, and that’s saying a good deai.
Mendelssohn’s “Hymn of Praise.” Bach’s “O
Light Everlasting” and Parry’s setting of
“Blest Pair of Sirens” figured on the pro-
gramme. Dr. Harold Davies was conductor,
and the soloists were Hilda Barnes, Jov
w'atson. Walter Wood, Olive Basnett and
Arnold Matters. Sylvia Whitington, to whom
the orchestra’s debt is heavy, was, as usual,
leader.
Walford House’s one-time pupils have
given their annual dance —this year, for the
first time, at the school itself, an admirable
arrangement. The assembly-room, bedizened
with the school’s blue and gold, made an
excellent ballroom, and classrooms were tem-
porarily diverted from their graver uses for
supping and sitting out.. Miss Baker and
Jean Gordon did the honors, the latter,
who is the association’s president, in blue
taffeta that reached to her ankles and flut-
tered with cloudy trimmings of pink and
blue tulle.
School holidays induced the usual exodus
to Victor Harbor, in which the Newland dame
and Miss Gillen, the William Gilberts, Mrs.
D. H. Cudmore, who had a party of young
people at Adare, the Norman Jacksons and
Mrs. Donald Kerr took part. Arrangements
are already afoot for the usual golfing and
dancing there on Eight Plours day. The
committee is headed by Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward and Mrs. Kenneth Duffield, and includes
many of the younger dancing set.
Items of the entertainment furnished for
Sir Benjamin Morgan and his lady were a
luncheon at Government House, a tea given
by Mrs. Lavington Bonython and Wil-
liam Sowden’s garden party for members of
the Institutes’ Association at Glen Osmond.
Mr. Sowden boasts one of the crack views of
the foothills, his garden sloping from his
house in a riot of flowering shrubs and rib-
boned borders, with the blue rim of the sea
edging the plains beyond.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
We have had quite a holy week —Presby-
terian Assembly, Congregational Union and a
visitation from the Papal Legate. Cardinal
Cerretti laid the foundation-stone of the Holy
Name Cathedral; the Scots have soireed
all the week, and the Congregational Union
got nearly as much space in the newspapers
as the wharfies.
Over 500 guests attended Mrs. William
Davies’s garden party in honor of the Pres-
byterian delegates. The Moderator Sheriffs
of Queensland and Moderator-General Crow
welcomed the guests, who included Sir John
Goodwin and his lady, Miss Hine-Ilaycock,
Mayoress Jolly and Mrs. J. W. Blair. Lady
Goodwin wore midnight-blue mariette and a
black hat adorned with ostrich feathers ; Mrs.
Jolly’s frock was beige crepe de .Chine, worn
with a rose hat; and Mrs. Davies wore black
crepe satin and a black hat adorned with
an onyx buckle.
Pupils of the primary and secondary
Roman Catholic schools, numbering 3500,
entertained the Cardinal at the Exhibition
Ground' with a wonderfully-organised dis-
play of dancing. His Eminence’s chair on
the grandstand was draped with the Aus-
tralian and the Papal flags, and the tea-tables
were beautifully decked in gold and white.
All Hallows’ Convent grounds provided the
setting for the levee of the Papal Legate, at
which the girls of the convent boarding-
school served tea in simple white frocks and
pale blue sashes. Lady Goodwin wore a rose-
colored frock and hat to match. Mrs. A. E.
Moore was in moss-green crepe de Chine and
black hat, and Mrs. P. ,T. Kerwin was in
black and white and black hat.
The officers of the survey ship Moresby
cleared the decks the other night, and jazzed.
Commander B. A. Henderson received.
Among the dancers were the George Mocattas,
Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell, Nell Kerwin, Nancy
McCowan, Neara . Sampson and Eileen
Moore.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Public Hospital Ball was a very suc-
cessful affair, held at the Continental. His
Ex. put in an appearance, and Margaret
O’Grady danced in a charming frock of pale
blue romaine, with very full skirt and a
shoulder scarf caught on the hip with
jowelled brooch. Mrs. V. R. Ratten was
in blush pink, with gold-thread embroidery
and side panels edged with grey fur. Nurses,
in smart evening frocks, were hard to recog-
nise by those who knew them only in uni-
form.
At the Government House reception to
the Forestry Conference delegates about 300
guests arrived, and were received by the
O’Grady and daughter Margaret, and also
by Lord Clinton, the chairman. Margaret
wore pale-green georgette, with a girdle of
pink pearls and rhinestones. Spring flowers
made lovely masses of color everywhere, and
the ballroom’s three old crystal chandeliers
were in full blaze. Myra Gillon and Fred
Heraud made music between dances.
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall gave an at-
home at the Town Hall during the delegates’
one visit. The tourists said nice things about
the Speck, leavened with some home truths
about our carelessness and indifference to
the maintenance of our timber resources.
Brown-eyed Nancy Walch, elder chick of
the Percy Walches, defrauded her friends
of the pleasure of seeing her in bridal array,
for she slipped away with her mother to
Melbourne, and was there quietly married
to Harry Jones, who has taken up land in
West Australia, where the young pair will
make their home.
A more-or-less historic spot near Hobart
has changed hands. The G. R. Lucases,
who have lately settled here, have bought
St. Helena, once known as Dunkley’s Point,
the rocky spit which runs out into the
water from Sandy Bay-road. It is a lovely
situation for a home. The old house that
stands on the site is to be reconstructed and
brought up to date.
Mrs. Goddard, pictured here by a McGuffie
camera, is a well-known figure in many
circles in
Hobart, but
pre - eminently
in those con-
nected with
music. When
Percy Grain-
ger was here
lie gave a lec-
ture - recital
at the Town
Hall, and
Mrs. Goddard
was chosen to
sing his set-
ting of “The
Power of
Love.” She is
also a valued
member of the
Repertory So-
ciety. where
she lately in-
vested the
rather color-
less character of Mrs. Stockmann, in Ibsen’s
“Enemy of the People,” with life and sym-
pathy. Mrs. Goddard is a member of many
philanthropical committees, and has recently
been elected hon. sec. to the Victoria League.


WINS AGAIN!
Australasian 50-Mile Speed Championship and
West Australian 20-Mile State Championship
won by two-year-old CHRYSLER
AUSTRALASIAN 50-MILE
SPEED CHAMPIONSHIP
On September 2, 1928, at Lake Perkolilli,
W.A., Mr. A. Colliver created a new world’s
record for unbanked natural circular dirt track
at an average speed of 86 miles per hour. The
50 miles were covered in 35 mins. 30 secs. —
the last 25 miles being completed at 92.3 miles
per hour.
W.A. 20-MILE STATE
CHAMPIONSHIP
Chrysler, for the second consecutive year, was
the outright winner. At an average speed of
86 miles per hour the record of 14 minutes
18 1 /sth seconds was created. These events
were won by a Chrysler “70” against many
specially imported racing cars.
This same Chrysler “70” secured the Australasian
24-hour record at Maroubra Speedway in December,
1926, lowering it again at Lake Perkolilli in August,
1927. Chrysler holds the following road records:
BRISBANE TO SYDNEY
SYDNEY TO MELBOURNE
AUCKLAND TO WELLINGTON
CHRISTCHURCH TO BLUFF
POWER
Chrysler 9 s Standardised Quality means
SPEED
ENDURANCE
MADE TO PERFORM
BUILT TO ENDURE
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Larkc, Ncavc & Carter Ltd.. William Street. Sydney.
Vic.'. Collins Motors Pty- Ltd., Collins
Street, Melbourne
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited. Wickham
Street, Brisbane.
Sth Aust.: 0. T. Rodda Motors Ltd-
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
fs
West Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301
Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.'. Distributors Pty. Ltd.. 162 Collins
Street, Hobart.
U.Z. ■ Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay
Place, Wellington.


WE ARE THE AGENTS.
TH£ “ BULLDOG"
HAMMEALESS
rv *
GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4 & £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS, /
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
[if
WOT
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PxrER, Proprietor.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
COONARDOO.
By-Katharine susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PERCIVAL.
“‘We’ll rest here a bit,’ Hugh
said. ‘Then you can show me
the way into the camp
again, Cooriardoo.'"
Synopsis : After the return of her son,
Hugh, from school in Perth, with his
fiancee, Jessica, Mrs. Bessie Watt, who
has become ill, gives him the manage-
ment of Wytaliba station in the north-
west of W.A., which she bought from
Saul Hardy, ivho lives at the home-
stead. Mrs. Watt allows the aboriginal
station-workers to live their native
life, and resents efforts of Sam Geory,
a station-owner who includes gins in
his household, to buy Coonardoo, a
fine aboriginal girl, who has become
Warieda’s wife. Geary sees ulterior
motives when Hugh innocently pre-
sents Coonardoo with a horse, and
bets that Hugh will make a friend
of a gin eventually. Jessica, appalled
by station life, decides to return home,
and, though she arranged the visit to
discourage Jessica, whom she thinks
would make an unsuitable wife for
Hugh, Mrs. Watt, now sinking rapidly,
remembers Geary’s bet and is per-
turbed.
CHAPTER IX.
HIS mother was dying. Hugh had no
doubt of that when Meenie rode out
for him to the To-morrow Well
where he was .mustering. The gin had
been two days and two nights on
the way, and Hugh knew she would
never haVe dared the nights alone in
the bush unless there was need for
it. He knew how terrified she was alone
among the trees by dark and how des-
perately she must have picked up his tracks
and followed them. For a long time his
mother had been ailing, Hugh knew; but
he did not think she was seriously ill.
It was nearly a year since the Leighs and
Jessica went down, and Hugh had been
busy overhauling windmills and pumping
gear, away from the house a good deal.
Saul, too, was away from the homestead,
with Cock-eyed Bob, on the trail of colors,
near the head of Wytaliba Creek.
“Mumae sick feller. Tell’m yienda buck-
unma,” Meenie said.
Hugh knew from the gin’s eyes that she
was afraid; she could see further than be.
He told Warieda to carry on witn me
muster, mounted and was off in a few
moments. All the way back, across the
ranges, he had beaten in to Wytaliba,
riding all night and through the next day.
Catching a fresh horse at the , Half-way
Well, he came in through the Five-mile
Gate towards sunset.
Mrs. Bessie was lying on her bed, along
the shady side of the verandah, Bandogera
beside her, fanning the flies away. She had
made the gins carry her bed out of her
room, Hugh guessed. Scarcely conscious,
muttering, and calling out as spasms of
pain clutched and racked her, she lay with
her head turned towards the road by which
he would come in from the hills.
Very little, withered and worn she looked
as Hugh gazed down on her. She had taken
her false teeth out and her mouth fell in.
Wrung with grief for her suffering and what
was befalling them, Hugh stood beside her
unable to speak.
His mother’s eyes turned to him. Strange
ringed eyes, shallow and faded, almost phos-
phorescent they seemed with the fires of
her flickering spirit. Her lips moved to the
twist of a smile.
“Knew Meenie’d find you,” she gasped.
“I’ve been waiting for you, Hughie but
it’s damn bad have to go now. Been
hanging round me a long time. Cancer,
you know. Wouldn’t let Dr. Kairns tell
you when we were in Perth made up
my mind to see it out up here.”
Hugh was kneeling beside her.
“Mother,” he cried, “don’t leave me.”
“If you knew what the pain’s like you’d
take me out and shoot me as you would
a horse,” she said. “I’ve stood it as long
as I could for you, Hughie. But listen....
I want to go like this, out here. It might
be a day or two —don’t try to take me
away. I’d like to die, like an old gin,
under a tree.” \
“I’ll send one of the boys into Karrara
for McCarthy.”
Bessie Watt moved her head wearily.
“It couldn’t make any difference. Ask
Bandogera; she knows. Been howling for
me at dawn already, haven’t you, Bandi?
No, let me have peace in my time, Hughie.
And, afterwards, you can put me down there
near the creek, under one of the big gums.
I’ve shown Meenie and Bandogera the
place. I can watch all they’re doing from
there. If they steal the sugar or tea, when
you’re not looking and have nobody to
housekeep for you, I’ll haunt them, and
give them a pain like I’ve got when they
eat, and”
The sturdy spirit was battling with its
ultimate disaster; sweat dewing on her
forehead.
“Can’t I do anything?” Hugh gasped.
“There’s these.” She glanced at the hypo-
dermic syringe in a glass of water and phial
of morphia tablets on a chair beside her.
“The doctor in Perth gave me them when
we were down; but they’re not much good
now.”
“And you never told me!” Hugh was
aghast.
“What was the use? Water, Bandogera.”
Hugh moved to go for the water.
“No, you stay here.” The cold bony
hand clung to him. “I feel better while I
can look at you, Hugh. Joy of my life,
that’s what I’ve always called you to my-
self. Joy of my life and I wanted to
make this place for you.”
The old gin trotted back along the ver-
andah, carrying a glass and jug of water
on a tray.
“Dilute the pill in a little water and
draw it into the syringe,” Mumae directed.
Hugh filled the syringe. She held out her
arm; his eyes winced from sight of the
withered forearm freckled with tiny punc-
tures. Then he injected the morphia, laid
her arm gently beside her and put down the
syringe.
Mrs. Bessie lay back on the pillows for
a while with closed eyes. When they
opened to gaze at him, they were mild and
calm. “I’ve loved it, Hugh,” she said. “I’ve
wanted to be here and stay here. But if
you don’t like it I don’t want you to stay.”
“I like it all right,” Hugh said.
“It was a lie what I told Jessica,”
his mother went on, a smile, sly and whim-
sical, on her lips. “There’s no mortgage on
Wytaliba now, Hughie. You can sell out
if you want to.”
“I won’t sell out,” Hugh said.
“'But, I couldn’t ’ve borne you to marry
Jessica, Hugh. She’s all right in her way
....but not for here and not for keeps.
I’d rather you took a gin than a white
woman like that for keeps. White ants
are not in it with them. They suck a man
dry. Look at all the men up here, married
women down south who don’t like the Nor’-
West Won’t live in it. What sort of
a life have they got? If I could ’ve found
a woman for you before I left, Hughie—
a woman like Jim Ryland’s wife will face
hardship with a man, stand by and fight
through with him!”
“Don’t worry about me, Mum,” Hugh
begged.
“It’s a man’s country and you’re a
man, Hughie, not a boy any longer,” his
mother continued. “It’ll be lonely when
I’m gone. I don’t want you to go mucking
round with gins. But I’d rather a gin than
a Jessica. O my God!”
The lightning of pain passed. She went
on breathlessly, faintly: “It’s no good, a
man can’t live on himself. There’s H-e
drink, of course. You can fill up with that;
but it’s no good to you. Out here, in this
country, the blacks are right. Life’s got
to be straight and go on. You’ve got to
keep in tune. It’s no good stewing in your
own juice. You’ll go sour or mad. When
I’m gone, you go away for a bit. Take this
mob you’re after now to Midland your-
self, and keep your eyes open on the sGtions
and farms down south. There’s any amount
of good girls wanting a husband. See if
you can’t find one you like well enough
to bring back with you.”
“I think you’re right, Mum. I’ll do as
you say,” Hugh answered. “Don’t jmu think
you’d better rest a while now?”
Mrs. Bessie shook her head.
"There’s a letter over in my desk there
I asked Kairns to give me for you—
when we got as far as this just to assure
you it really is hopeless, and to tell you
how to help me over the last stages.”
Hugh went to the desk in her room, found
and read the letter from Archibald Kairns,
whom Mrs. Bessie had consulted when she
was in Perth.
Only a question of time, the letter said
—cancer of the stomach; and there were
instructions how to administer morphia
so that the agony of the last hours would
be diminished as much as possible. Dazed
and aghast, Hugh realised how long his
mother had suffered and defended him from
knowledge of the sorrow which must befall
him.
“There,” she smiled faintly, “that’s the
lot. Everything’s fixed up nice and tidy.
Henderson and Crowe ’re my lawyers....
and you won’t ever think your mother’s
been a bad woman, will you, Hugh?”
The weary, murmuring voice paused.
“Tell you what I’ve found out. Sex
hunger’s like any other. Satisfy it and you
don’t think about it. I mean it won’t
get, out of proportion. Work’s the thing,
not sex.”
She fell asleep, talking, hand in his. And
Hugh sat watching her frail, withered face
against the pillows, going over the long,
fighting trail of her life, as far as he knew
it. His feeling was very little a son’s for
his mother, but a man’s for his workmate,
comrade in arms. He had scarcely any
sentimental tendei’ness, any personal affec-
tion for her, but a passionate admiration
and sense of physical need. It was her
companionship he was going to miss, the
intimate association of interests in common,
Through all he did and said, the thought
of her was woven.
Windmills clanked as they turned slowlv
against the night sky.
In the sheening quiet Hugh could hear
a thunder of hoofs. A mob of horses were
coming in to drink at the troughs beyond
the stockyard fence. Hugh could hear
them long before there was any sign of
(Continued on page 58.)


Consider the
Battery in the
“DAGENITE” case
As a battery—a battery that WORKS—
the P. & R. is wonderful. Something
extra —something extraordinarily good—
you get in the P. & R. is its “Dagenite” case.
“Dagenite” is a patented, fireproof, acid-
proof, leak-proof, weather-proof, almost
unbreakable material. It looks like
ebonite. But it’s many times as strong.
You need no crate around it. It neither
rots nor corrodes. It will resist jolts, jars
and crashes which would reduce ebonite
to splinters.
And that is not all about the P. & R.
Every piece of it—plates, separators, lugs,
terminals, connectors, paste, the whole
ching—has been made to do its job. The
P. & R. is a BATTERY.
PR
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
7~Ac beginning and the end in
Poweß
p 5.
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below*
sd
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
Oegreaves Buildings.
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD ,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VKHICLKS, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS k CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
Crisp Toast!
p
* | ’HE perfect way
A to make toast
is right at the table,
and the only way
to make it is the
UNIVERSAL
ELECTRIC TOASTER
way. Universal Toast is crisp without being dried up, it s
fresh and hot—until you have tasted Universal Toast you
cannot realise what a wonderful difference there is.
Universal Electric Toasters are made in many designs—they
are all moderate in price and economical to use.
Take home a Universal Toaster to-day—you can get one at
any good Electrical Shop—and you will be thoroughly
satisfied with the result.
You can see the full range in our showroom.
W. G. Watson & Co. Ltd.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
The GQ//ARD Line of Beauty
“HOW SMARTbut
a
yy
XDW SMART —how marvelously it
fits” women say these things of
Gossard foundation garments because
Gossard designers are artists and stylists, and
because women who know Gqssards fit them to
your figure. The fashionable clear cut figure line
of the woman who is Gossard corseted comes
not only from the superb designing of Gossard
foundations, but from the developed knowl-
edge of the corsetiere's art. The corsetiere who
serves you, who chooses just the right garment
for your figure does so not by chance, but be-
cause she has been trained by schooled Gossard
experts. Thus the unequalled fashion attain-
ment made possible by Gossard materials,
designing, and workmanship, is brought to you
in perfect accord by the corsetiere trained in
Gossard corsetry.
Gossard Corsets
are made ivithin the Empire
Front-lacing corsets, clasp-arounds, step-
ins, Gossard Completes and combinations,
in the new Autumn designs are waiting for your
inspection at your favourite store. Let your cor-
setiere give you a trial fitting in the garments
particularly suited to your figure needs.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Etd.,
114 Castlereagh St., Sydney


/
i
i
/:
one blad e
THERE is but one blade with a Rolls Razor.
And thar one blade will give years
and years of smooth shaves. That is
because it is made from tested steel —jusi as
the old 'cu. throat' - was. It is not stamped
out in thousands by machinery as are wafer
blades. Mass production cou'd never produce
a Rolls Razoi blade Oniy craftsmen can
achieve such \ masterpiece. And skilled
engineers have devised a method by which
this blade is kept keen by automatic honing
and stropping in its case Do not buy a holdei
for wafer blade: Gei a Rolls Razor and be
thrifty.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & BUREAU LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne. Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
* .. .
HH
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under tlie Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE.
With offl es at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, • N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
If any illustratipn in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
fsd
Wherever Hats are Worn
Battersby Hats are recognised as
supreme in Style, Value and Finish.
THE well-dressed man pays special attention to
his hat. It is the most noticeable and distinctive
article he wears. For over 60 years Battersby
Hats have been known all over the world for their
smart style, fine finish and flawless material.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
Sold by the Best Hatters.
•£?
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport.
For jurther particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
movement on. the dim starlit plains. That
low, thudding thunder of horses in the dis-
tances, how familiar it was! How it had
always stirred him! And her; so' often, as
they sat on the verandah in the evening,
they had listened to it, coming nearer and
nearer; watched the mob swinging into
sight, bunched, then turn to the well, spread-
ing out, blowing and snorting after their
long gallop.
Hugh could not believe it would no longer
be part of her life to sit on the verandah
in the evening and hear the horses come in
to drink.
“Coonardoo, I’d like to have seen her,”
Mrs. Bessie once wakened to say. “But
she’s out on the To-morrow with the boys,
isn’t she?”
“I’ll send for her,” Hugh said.
Mrs. Bessie shook her head. “No, let her
get on with the muster, Hugh. Cattle’s
high just now, and we don’t want to lose
the market. I’ve said all I wanted to say
to her.”
“I don’t suppose anybody can live
long enough to do all they want to, Hughie.
There seems so much I haven’t done I
wanted to do. But Saul’ll stand by you—
and his advice’s worth having. Sam Geary
—don’t trust him further than you can see
him. He’s always wanted this place and
Coonardoo. I couldn’t bear him to have
either of ’em.”
Mrs. Bessie lay for two or three days
wrestling with her pain, crying out as it
clutched and wracked her. The drug had
lost'its power to give her rest or oblivion;
her pulse was a slow, thready knocking on
its arterial walls. Then one morning, while
a coolwenda was calling, and Hugh lay
asleep near her, she called him. He went
to her and caught the last flickering breath
of her sigh as she lay looking out to the
edge of the mulga under a grey sky-shell,
blistered by the first light.
CHAPTER X.
It was very quiet and lonely on Wytaliba
all day before the blacks Carried the wooden
box Mumae. had made Joey Koonarra put
together for her, and laid it in the grave
Hugh and Joey dug under a tall white-
barked creek-gum.
Very frail and light his mother’s body felt
as Hughie lifted it into the rough wooden
box still smelling of red gum.
There had been wailing in the uloo at
dawn. Hugh gathered all the flowers he
could find, punti and little green bird-
flowers, with trails of Nor’-West creeper—
little red and yellow lanterns to spread over
the box when he had nailed down the lid.
Cockatoos, scattered snow-white on the
ground, flew off with a rustle of stiff silken
wings, as Hugh, Bandogera, Meenie and
Joey Koonarra carried their burden towards
the creek gum and the place they had pre-
pared for it.
After the box was lowered, Hugh shovel-
led red earth over his mother. The blacks
wailed and howled, Meenie and Bandogera
cutting themselves with sharp stones, as
though it were one of their own people who
had died.
Hugh sent the blacks away, and stayed
himself under the tree. He lay there a
long time stretched out on the sand. People
in the uloo watched him, but were afraid
to go near. Then, towards sunset, Hugh
got up and walked across to the house. He
called Joey, Meenie and Bandogera, handed
out stores, and told them to keep the dogs
away from his mother’s grave. Doors
banged; keys were turned in flour- and
sugar-bins.
Then Hugh rode out and away along the
track back to th,e To-morrow where
Warieda, Chitali, Coonardoo, Bardi and the
rest of the boys were mustering. There was
no need to tell them what had happened.
In the morning before dawn a fierce wail-
ing went up. Hughie listened. Coonardoo
was wailing for his mother, he knew; and
all day, as he rode, the sorrow of her dark
eyes followed him. At night whenever he
wakened Hugh heard Coonardoo crying,
sobbing and beating her breast.
"Warieda’s fire glowed red through the
darkness at a little distance from where
Hugh himself lay watching the dead
branches of his fire smoulder and fall into
ashes.
“Coonardoo,” he called, when it was
morning and the camp astir again.
She came to him. Hugh had barely spoken
to anyone. Warieda and Chitali watched
him, staring away into distances of the hills,
forgetting to eat, starting suddenly and riding
off as if to escape some torturing thought.
Coonardoo went to him. She hung her head
as she stood before Hugh. Thin and sorrow-
ful as he, Coonardoo looked as she stood
there before him. Hughie went to her,
parted the shirt over her breast, saw the
raw red gashes the sharp stones had cut in
her brown skin.
“You know Mumae sick long time?”
“Eeh-mm.”
“Why didn’t you tell me?”
“Mumae say not.”
“If you had told me,” Hugh said harshly,
“we might have saved her. She might have
been here now.”
He knew he was unjust; that Coonardoo
had done as she was told. It gave him
some satisfaction to see her shrink away as
though he had kicked her. He turned his
back on her, picked up his saddle and went
over to the well where the boys were water-
ing the horses, saddled Demeter, the mare
Warieda had brought in for him, and, telling
the boys to meet at the Yallerang clay-
pan that afternoon, rode off into the ranges.
Next day, cut off from the rest of the
men while they were scouring the shelving
hillsides for strayed cattle, Hugh rode up
to Coonardoo as she went drooping over
her horse, scarcely looking in his direction.
She was like his own soul riding there,
dark, passionate and child-like. In all this
wide, empty world, Coonardoo was the
only living thing he could speak to, Hugh
knew; the only creature who understood
what he was feeling, and was feeling for
him. Yet he was afraid of her, resented
a secret understanding between them.
But Coonardoo the playmate—Coonar-
doo whom he had seen long ago under the
shower, young and slender, her lithe, brown
body wet and gleaming, brown eyes laugh-
ing at him, her hair wavy and sun-burn-
ished lying in wet streaks about her head!
Coonardoo? Why should he hurt her by
a harsh, indifferent manner he showed no
onei else?
It had been funny to find her one of
Warieda’s women, with a kid of her own,
when he came home from school. But
sentimental about a gin Hugh had pro-
mised himself never to be. His regard for
Coonardoo was a relic of their old play-
mateship—in part admiration of her horse-
manship. Every finer, less reasonable in-
stinct he had stamped on, kicked out of
his consciousness.
“What’s the matter with you?” he asked
roughly as he came up to her, leaning
against her horse. “Warieda beat you?”
“Wiah!” She looked at him with deep
beautiful eyes.
“Is it—about Mumae?”
The gesture and movement of her head
reproached Hugh.
As if he had forgotten how to sleep he
lay by the side of his camp-fire, throwing
wood on, watching the stars, listening to
the horses feeding with tinkle of hobbles
out over the plains, or wandered about
restlessly at night.
The blacks exclaimed among themselves
at his worn, wretched expression, his dis-
traught gaze. Hugh was liable to fits of
anger, of unfathomable dejection. There
was no pleasing him. He became gaunt,
almost unrecognisable under the rough
short beard and in the filthy clothes he
was wearing.
But wherever he wandered at night a
slight, dark shadow streaked after him.
Wherever Hugh went, Coonardoo followed,
terrified though she was in the darkness
of the gliding death which might strike
her feet at any moment; of the narlu,
flapping from tree to tree and fixing her
with ghost eyes. But Coonardoo was more
afraid of what might happen to Youie
while he roamed about at night only half-
conscious of what he was doing.
Hugh wore her and himself out. The
blacks were becoming afraid of him; afraid
that he was bewitched. “Baba!” they
cried to themselves when the£ saw him
streaking past their camp-fires at night.
The spirit of Mumae had come back to
pursue and possess him, it was said. She
intended to take Hugh with her whither
she had gone. Nobody doubted he was
becoming mad. He had been heard call-
ing and talking to Mumae as though she
were with him when no mortal eyes
could see anything but the air before him
and silver-writhen shapes of dead mulga m
the starlight. And Coonardoo —everybody
recognised it was her right to watch over
and look after Hugh as well as she could.
Had not Mumae commanded her to?
Warieda was as anxious as Coonardoo her-
self to save Hughie from the recklessness
of his misery and the evil threatening.
From an agony of fitful sleep Hugh
wakened one night to find Coonardoo
watching beside him. A still, dark figure
on the other side of the dying embers of
his fire, she sat looking towards him.
“What are you doing there?” he asked.
“Warieda send ’m,” she murmured
humbly.
“Well,” Hugh snarled angrily, “you go
back to Warieda and don’t come hanging
round my camp again. Do you under-
stand?”
Coonardoo stood uncertainly before him
a -moment, humbly, with prayerful eyes;
then moved away through the darkness of
the slender, low-growing trees.
It was a few nights later Coonardoo
found Hugh wandering so far from the
camp that he did not know where he was.
He had walked off restlessly, absent-
mindedly along the saddle of the ridge.
Scrub was thick there, low-growing trees
tufted sootily against the sky. Hugh
turned to go back the way he had come,
and after walking awhile sat down on the
earth near a clump of dead mulga whose
branches shone in the starlight. He recog-
nised the trees, so lustrous they were, like
giant candelabra in the gloom. He had
passed them several times, and knew he
was bushed.
“Show ’m track, Youie!” Coonardoo
said, moving from the shadow of the trees.
“Coonardoo!” Hugh started to his feet.
He understood what she had been doing
as she wavered there against the thronging
tree-stems, afraid to come near him.
“Do you mean to say you’ve been fol-
lowing me?” he asked.
“Eeh-mm.”
“All the time? Ever since Mumae—
went away?”
“Eeh-mm.”
Hugh sat down again. A trembling
seized him. He had a swift vision of the
passion and tenderness stalking him
(Continued on page 58.)


The Licensed Victualler.
J. U. M. ABBOTT TELLS THE AMAZING STORY OF JOHN HARTLEPOOL.
IN the year following the first British occu-
pation of Norfolk Island by Lieutenant
Philip Gidley King, R.N. —which event
had taken place in March, 17S8 —a prisoner
named John Hartlepool arrived there, with
a batch of others from Port Jackson, who
had come to New* South Wales with the First
Fleet.
Hartlepool had been a naval seaman, of
good character, who had been transported
for seven years because of an offence which
few modern police-courts would punish with
a severer sentence than seven days. On
leave from Chatham into Buckinghamshire,
he had indulged in a little mild poaching—
lie did not even catch the rabbit he was
after —close to his native village, with re-
sults that were to cloud liis whole life.
The original party of prisoners which had
accompanied King at the lirst settlement of
the island had consisted of fifteen persons,
of whom some half-dozen were women. They
had all been carefully selected from amongst
the best conducted of the seven hundred-odd
penal exiles who landed in Sydney Cove in
January, 1788. Their military guard was
composed of two marines and one seaman
from H.M.S. Sirius, and the whole of the
tiny colony numbered but twenty-two souls.
During the course of the ensuing twelve
months the settlement was augmented by
other drafts of prisoners, chosen as far as
possible from the best of the felon population
at Port Jackson, and by an increased mili-
tary garrison.
But Norfolk Island was still a very little
colony of Great Britain’s when John Hartle-
pool came there in 1789 —a beautiful speck
of land in the Pacific, overgrown with bush
and the great pine-trees which have adver-
tised it throughout the world. Very
lonely and desolate and distant did it seem
to the young prisoner when he first stepped
out of the boat that landed him on the beach
at Emily Bay, in the shadow of the tall pines
cresting the rugged skyline of the hills facing
southward towards Phillip Island.
“Lord!” he whispered to a fellow-prisoner
who stood beside him in the irregular rank
which the Commandant was presently to
inspect, “ ’Tis the last place in the world.
The Camp at Sydney Cove was London
Town compared to this!”
There was a little row of rough wooden
huts standing in the clearing on the flat to
the left of the landing-place—some of them
thatched with rushes and a few shingled—
two or three of a better and larger sort for
the accommodation of the military and the
officials, and a rather larger one for the
Commandant standing on a low knoll at the
eastern corner of Emily Bay. The bay was
merely a sandy cove behind the reef, through
a passage in which, hardly wide enough to
admit two boats, everything and everybody
came ashore from the ships. It was many
years before the present massive stone pier
was constructed further westward, at the end
of the reef close to Point Ross. There was a
tall flagstaff with a yard, used for signalling
purposes) in the open space before the settle-
ment, and another in front of Government
House, from which the Union Jack fluttered
out in the breeze that came from the nor’-
east, round the corner of the island. Then,
as now, the air was fragrant with the balsam
of the pines.
The afternoon was already late when Mr.
King came to make the acquaintance of his
new subjects, and to deliver to them the
customary address —half exhortation and
half warning—which every batch of recently-
arrived prisoners, both at Norfolk Island and
in New South Wales, was due to receive. As
the sun was already well down in the
western sky, he did not make this the occa-
sion of a very lengthy piece of oratory.
Good-looking was Lieutenant King—as
his descendants are to this day—and he had
not yet developed the cantankerousness and
arbitrariness which came with later years
and more exacting responsibilities. His plea-
sant, open countenance had something of re-
assurance in it to the line of ragged convicts
who came to a slouching attention when he
halted in front of them.
“Well, men,” he said, “so here ye are in
England’s fairest possession, if ’tis but the
smallest. Ye’ll be well treated here—but
ye’ll have to work hard. And ye’ll have to
behave yourselves. If ye do neither —all I
can say is, ye’ll have cause to repent of it.
We are all workers in Norfolk Island—we
have to be, so that we may live. I think
I can promise ye a better ration than I’m
told ye’ve lately been enjoying at Port Jack-
son. But I can also promise ye discipline
—Navy fashion —if your conduct calls for it.
You are not such an ill-looking lot, and I
have good reports of you from headquarters.
That is all I have to say—but I’ll take a
closer look at ye. and ask each one of ye
your name, so that I may remember ye.”
He walked down the line, peering into each
man’s face, and inquiring his name. The
third man, a loutish yokel, answered —“Will
Peabody.”
The Commandant halted in front of lnm.
“What?” lie demanded sharply.
“Peabody—Will.”
“What were you before you came to New
South Wales? Were you in the Navy or in
the Army?”
“Naiv. I wur a varmer’s boy—tew
Devizes.”
“Well, my man, you may thank God you
weren’t in either sarvice, for if you had
fieen I’d have ordered you two dozen for not
saying ‘sir’ when you replied to my question.
Bear in mind. as. l’ve just told ye all, ’tis
Navy-fashion here. When an officer speaks
to ye ye’ll say ‘sir’ and touch your hat, or
ye’ll have a sore back. Don’t forget again.”
John Hartlepool stood on the left flank
of the line. He gave his name and saluted
smartly when the Commandant addressed
iiim. King paused before him and scanned
bis features intently. It was not difficult to
clnss him ns the best m&n in the g9.ng, hut
it was something else that brought the
puzzled frown on to the Commandant s brow.
“Now, where have I seen you before, my
man?” he asked, wonderingly.
“In the cutter Anxiety, sir. and in the
Sirius. I was in the Anxiety when y r honor
was a midshipman aboard of her, along wi
Lootenant Smiley, sir. In Table Bay, sir,
you come aboard the Alexander, and picked
out six of us, pris’ners who’d been sailors*
to go aboard the Commodore’s ship for to do
duty as seamen. That’s where, y’r honor.
The Anxiety in ’SI an’ th’ Sirius year afore
Inst sir.”
“Oh Gad, yes, I remember you, Jack
Hartlepool—and a d—d good man ye were
in both of ’em. What was ye lagged for t'
“A bit of poaching, y’r honor—seven
year.”
King thought for a few moments, tapping
the grass with his malacca. Then lie struck
his calf with the cane.
“Yes, by George!” he exclaimed. “You re
the very man Tm looking for. I’ve, some
special work for ye. When these others are
marched off to their huts, follow me over
to Government House. I want to talk with
ye!”
“Very good, sir,” said John Hartlepool,
saluting again, as King turned away.
“A d—d good man!” muttered the Com-
mandant as he walked off. “He’ll do nicely
for the post.”
When the delighted John Hartlepool left
Government House that evening it was with
an order in his pocket, signed by the Com-
mandant, that he was at once to commence
duty as chief-constable of the night watch —a
position which Mr. King assured him would
not have been his had not his trustworthi-
ness and integrity been obvious and well
established.
*'# * *
But, as many others have found before
and since John Hartlepool’s day, it is not
always wise to put your trust in princes—-
or Kings. This was the petition which
he found it subsequently necessary to present
to Lord Hobart, Secretary of State for
THE WAY OF A MAID WITH A MAN.
“What would you say, little girl, if I offered you a little pearl
necklet?”
“I would sat ‘No, thank you ,' but I’d think you were very
mean if you took me at my word.”
the Colonies. It is dated “London, Novem-
ber, 1808”: —
The Memorial of John Hartlepool, a settler of
New South Wales,
Most respectfully and humbly sheweth:
That your Lordship’s unfortunate memorialist
was transported. from this country in the year 1787.
That in the year 1789 he was sent to Norfolk
Island, where he was employed by Governor King
(who was then Commandant of the Island) as an
officer of the police.
That your Lordship’s memorialist •discharged the
duties of that office with zeal and fidelity for
eight years.
That he then received from his Excellency Governor
Hunter an absolute and unconditional emancipation,
bearing date the 13th of Sept’r, 1790.
That the warrant of emancipation states it was
granted “in consideration of the good conduct and
services of John Hartlepool as a principal of the
nightwatch at Norfolk Island, and at the recommen-
dation and request of Lieu’t Governor King.”
That, after your memorialist received his eman-
cipation, as a reward of his integrity and diligent
discharge of his duty, he settled at Port Jackson,
and became a licensed victualler, in the exercise
of which trade he continued five years, and until
his Excellency Governor King had begun to officiate
as Governor of the colony.
That, in a few months after Governor King s
arrival, he sent for your memorialist and told him
he should be immediately employed at the head of
the police.
That your Lordship’s memorialist, having a large
family to support, was unwilling to abandon a
trade the profits of which afforded him and his
children a comfortable and decent subsistence, and
therefore humbly requested that he might be. excused
from accepting the office the Governor wished to
place him in.
That in eight or nine days after your. Lordship s
memorialist had expressed his humble wish not to
be engaged in the public service, he was suddenly
taken into custody and brought before Governor King,
who told your memorialist he should be immediately
tried before a Court of Criminal Judicature for pur-
chasing the rations of the convicts for spirituous
liquors. ~ ,
That your memorialist, being entirely innocent
of anv such offence, denied the charge, and requested
to be tried in any manner the Governor might think
proper.
That Governor King, disregarding your memorial-
ist’s protestations of innocence, demanded the key of
hl ThaMthe key was instantly given up, your Lord-
shiD’s memorialist well knowing that resistance was
in vain, and Governor King, attended by several
people went to your memorialist’s house, but finding
several large casks of wine and spirits that could
not be easily moved through the door he directed
one end of the house to be tom down; that all the
wine and spirits belonging to your memorialist
were then brought out into the streets, where every
cask was staved and every bottle emptied ; that the
value of what was then destroyed was more at prime
cost than £4OO, and comprised the whole of the
hard-earned reward of many years’ care, frugality
and industry.
That Governor King then caused your Lordship s
memorialist’s bureau to he opened, and took from
it his licence to sell wine and spirits.
That your memorialist was afterwards again
brought before Governor King, who told him that
lie might take possession of liis empty casks, and
that he was discharged from his confinement.
That your Lordship’s memorialist, when he re-
turned to his house, found it in a great degree
demolished, and all his property, the source of Ins
own and children’s support, destroyed.
That dreading worse persecutions, for worse were
threatened, your memorialist fled in terror from the
colony, taking with him his eldest child, and leaving
two behind, who were too young to accompany him.
That your Lordship’s memorialist has been since
shipwrecked and made a prisoner of at the Spanish
island of Guam, from whence he reached 1 this country
only a few days ago, in great pehury and distress.
That your memorialist can ■ appeal with confidence
to Capt’n Hunter, the predecessor of Governor King,
and to Captain Macavthur and Mr. Balmain, the
late principal surgeon to the settlement, for their
testimony of his honesty, industry and propriety
of conduct; and the two latter gentlemen can cor-
roborate and confirm the truth of what your Lord-
ship’s memorialist has now humbly submitted.
Your Lordship’s memorialist’ therefore humbly
prays that in consideration of the distress and misery
in which he and liis family are most innocently in-
volved, and of the great cruelty and oppression he
has suffered, your Lordship will be pleased to bestow
upon him such relief as your Lordship’s humanity
and regard to justice shall dictate.
And your memorialist will be ever bound in
gratitude to pray, etc., etc.
® > .Tohn Hautpbpooi..
It was a bitterly
2old night in Feb-
ruary, 180 t, with a
foot of snow on the
ground, and more
falling heavily,
when a lumbering
post-chaise drawn
by three horses,
with a postillion
astride of the
leader, drew up be-
fore a wayside inn
on the Portsmouth-
London road, whose
red-blinded w i ni-
dows seemed to
promise warmth
and good cheer to
travellers beset by
such inclement and
disagreeable
weather. For miles
the weary horses
had drawn the. pon-
derous vehicle
through deep ruts
and snowdrifts that
lay in every bot-
tom, until at last
the postillion, could
urge them on no
longer.
He dismounted
from his saddle,
and slushed through
the boggy snow to
the window of the
coach, upon the
glass of which he
knocked forcibly
with the butt of
li is whip. Pre-
sently it was let
down, and a stout
red face, crowned
by a three-cornered
hat, thrust itself:
out, and uttered
angry remon-
strance. Well muf-
fled up was the
owner of the red
face, with a heavily-
caped greatcoat,
and a woollen com-
forter wound round
his neck and tucked
into the capes.
“Well now, well now, well now—what’s
all this? What’s this delay, hey? Why
don’t you get along—hey? Why don’t you
get along? Damme, why don’t you keep
on?”
“If ’ee plaizes, Cap’n, me horses is done
up—fair done up they be. ’Tis loike as if
they’ve not got another half a mpile left in
un—noan of un. ’Tis a ter’ble night, Cap n
—an’ th’ roads is nigh impossible.”
“Good gad, man —good gad! The land-
lord of the George in Portsmouth assured
me ’twas the best team in his stables. And
here we are held up goodness knows where,
and ten o’clock at night! Where are we?
What arc we to do? God bless my soul —
hey!”
It wag evident that the passenger was m
a bad humor and that he chafed at the delay.
The post-boy was apologetic, conciliatory
and optimistic. He, at any rate, hoped to
make the best of a bad job. He pointed
with his whip to the red windows of the
long, low building, shining cheerfully through
the driving snow.
“ ’Tis no use, Cap’n. Cawn’t be done no-
how. This ’ere’s a good ’ouse, kep’ be a
good lan’lord, as knows ’ow th’ quality
expec’s for to be traited. An’ good stablin’
for th’ horses. They’re clean played liout,
y’r honor. Woan’t ye step down an’ see for
yourself? I’m doubtful if I could move un
a yard for’arder to-noight. Not nowhow,
Cap’n. Plaize for to see for yourself, zur.”
Grumblingly and gruntingly the passenger
bade the boy to open the door, and, when
he had done so, stepped out into the snow,
leaning heavily upon a stout stick.
“Ouch!” he grunted. “This infernal gout
—’tis the very devil.” He hobbled forward,
and surveyed the three horses standing droop-
ingly in the light of the carriage lamps, with
heaving flanks and steaming sides. It was
clear enough that they were quite played out.
He turned and looked towards the glowing
windows of the inn. The post-boy saw that
his optimism was justified.
“A fust-rate place, Cap’n. They’ll do ye
well,” he said ingratiatingly.
“Oh well, I suppose what must be must
be. Knock at the door and see whether
there’s accommodation to be had. A d —d
nuisance. No help, however. Rouse out the
people whilst I get my valise from the
chaise.”
The post-boy walked across to the door,
over which a dim oil-lamp burned flickeringly
in the cold gusts of wind that swirled the
snow into eddies. By the time it was
opened, sending a broad baud of yellow
light out on to the white surface of the
highway, the passenger had hobbled to his
side, a small portmanteau in his left hand.
A burly man stood in the open doorway,
peering out under his hand at the snow-
roofed chaise and the dejected horses.
“A wild night, sir,” he said civilly. “D’ye
seek accommodation? We can put you up.
Fortunately there’s no one here to-night. Bad
weather for travelling. Your horses seem
to have found it so, too. How far have you
come, may I ask?”
“From th’ George at Pompey, Guv’nor,”
responded the post-boy before the passenger
could make reply. “The road be ter’ble bad,
’Tis me, Lan’lord John —Jimmy Tomkins.
Can 1 put th’ horses in th’ stables, zur?
I knows me way well enough. Th’ chaise
can do where ’tis till marnin’. ’Twill take no
harm there on th’ roadside—no more’n
’twoukl i’ th’ yard. No one’s loike to run
away wi’ it on such a noight.”
“Yes, yes, Jimmy. You know" your way
well enough. You can sleep in Tom the
groom’s quarters i’ th' loft. Come to the
kitchen when ye’ve ’tended to th’ esses. No
doubt ye’ll like a bite of supper. Pray,
step inside, your honor. ’Tis poor weather
to be out o’ doors. Pray, come into the tire.
A glass o’ hot grog won’t hurt y’r honor, I’m
thinkin’.”
The traveller uttered a hasty exclamation
and put his valise down on the snow, as he
turned towards the coach.
“A moment, my good man,” lie mumbled
into the woollen comforter —“I’ve left my
despatch-box in the chaise. I’ll go and
get it.”
By the time he had hobbled to the coach,
the post-boy had the horses out, and was
leading them away, one of the lamps in his
hand. The other he had extinguished.
The burly traveller evidently had some
diliiculty in finding what he sought in the
dark interior of the vehicle, for it was a good
ten minutes before he returned to the door.
The landlord had lifted his portmanteau up
out of the snow, and it stood on the door-
step beside him. As the traveller came up
to the door he loosened the muffler from
about his mouth and announced, as he came
close up to the inviting, fire-lit entrance —
perhaps a little importantly:
“You must know, Mr. Landlord, I’m Cap-
tain King, of the Royal Navy, retired, and
lately Governor-in-Chief of his Majesty's
Territory of New South Wales.”
The effect of this proclamation upon the
landlord was instantaneous and electrical.
He emitted a yell of rage and hatred, the
roar of a wild man, and barred the door-
way, with arms and legs spread-eagled. He
kicked Captain King’s valise out into the
snow, almost in the same motion.
“Hell and jury!” he bellowed. “Then, by
God, ye’ll not find shelter here this night—
or any other, damn ye! Lookee, Cap’u
King, I’m that John Hartlepool who
served ye well at Norfolk Island, an’ whom
you served so ill at Sydney nigh seven
year ago. Begone from my door. sir. By
God, if I didn’t know I’d hang for it, I’d
take down my blunderbuss and shoot ye.
I’ll entertain Jimmy Tomkins and his osses.
But you! Not if ’twas a-snowing fire and
brimstone! Not, if th’ Lord J Lootenant o’
th’ County o’ Hampshire was to come an'
beg me for to do so. Not if Christ Him-
self came down from Heaven an’ give me
orders to. Sleep in your carriage, if you're
minded to. Ye’ll get nor bed nor bite nor
sup under John Hartlepool’s roof. And T
hope I’ll find ye stiff and dead wi’ cold
when daylight comes.”
“But, my good man,” expostulated the
astonished Captain King, “you can't do
this. ’Tis inhuman, on such a night. 1
command'■ you to admit me. .By heavens,
sir, I’ll”
“Go to Hell!” bellowed John Hartlepool,
as he slammed the door.
The Songs.
Oh. they are woven of pageantries!
Stars at dawn when the sky is green,
Waves that wander the seven seas.
The lovely shadowy houghs that lean
From trees at eve., and the honey gleam
Of the new young.moon in the Musk blue
deep
Of a tropic night that is still as dream
On hills and hollows of isles asleep.
Wings of birds are. in every song.
Urgent, lifting and sailing low
When the flames of the sunset burning long
Sink down at last to a saffron glow—
Blue of the swift kingfisher’s flight:
Silver of gulls o’er an emerald tide
Flash through the delicate songs and slight.
With the proud swan plumes that a
Valkyr hide.
And some are steeped in the South Sea
hues;
Hibiscus red is their blazonry.
Or glowing jade and the burning blues.
Translucent, glittering, flowing free
Over the coralline gardens grown
With shapes fantastic that branch and
twist, ,
And shadow glades of the sea unknown
Where long weed sways in a wavering mi.t.
Oh. they have been to my soul a shield.
A gate to dream, and a fire lit
On a cold hearthstone, and a lily field
With faery dancers to dance m it!
Yet strange are these songs low murmuring
In my heart unceasing, for though they
The skies of vision on surging wing.
They are songs unshaped that I can;,
make.
FIJI.
A. SMITH


Heady in a moment
always hade
• :
m the home
it is so handu
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
aoawK
FRANCE
SartSß
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
M artell’s comes from Cognac only .
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
‘Allenburvys*
Black Currant PASTILLES
Protect the mouth and |
|| throat against infections, J|
allay irritating coughs
and clear the voice. iHil
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1 /- arid 2/9
per hox
1
i
m
m
WmSS
W^^\\\\\N\\\\V
OTHER PEOPLE'S PIES.
BY- MAEGARE FNE AND HILARY LOFTING.
MARTY moved a tin of gooseberry-jam
an eighth of an inch and stood back to
judge the effect. Yes ; it was better.
You could see the line that way, the outside
line of the pyramid slanting up to the top
shelf. And a fine, rich sort of picture it
made, with all the colored labels running up
and down and across the triangle. It gave
you an appetite for the jam, and made you
think of orchards and fruit-trees in blossom
as well. Very rarely now, after six months
of married life, did Marty’s view of himself
as an old scared man trouble him ; and never
while he was about the job of fixing up the
shop for the day. If you could call it a job.
He flicked three specks of Woolloomooloo
dust from the counter and turned to the
gauze-enclosed coolness of the small-goods
cage. It was Mary that called it a cage.
.She had a way of hitting the nail on the
head and then chuckling at herself to show
that it was a joke, too. Marty liked the
cage effect. Looking through the wire-gauze
from the shop you saw shadowy pink-and-
white hams, bowls of eggs, fine scarlet
sausage-loops, brawn like marble, red globes
of cheese and primrose-colored butter in
piled pounds and half-pounds. Seen through
the gauze of the cage all this looked dim
and rich, like a sort of jewellery; Marty
always had a look at it first from the shop
before he opened the spring door to put the
cage to rights.
Marty had advised the spending of s»me of
the money Mary had won in the Helmet
lottery on the small-goods cage. People in
Brazier-street often wanted small goods, he
pointed out, and the main thing about small
goods was that they should be on the spot.
If you had to walk for them any distance you
might as well leave them out altogether and
get large goods at Mr. Bulstrode’s the
butcher’s. She had agreed with the sug-
gestion, and had had no cause to complain
of the results —no cause whatever, he re-
minded himself, taking in the coloi’-combina-
tion of a white bowl of pickled beetroot and
three Dutch cheeses in the half-light of the
shuttered shop.
He turned the cut side of one of the cheeses
away from the wall that got the sun, and ran
his shortened broom over the spotless floor.
He flicked his duster here and there, looked
round the savory dimness once more, and
with reluctance allowed the spring door to
fall gently shut behind him. Not much
in the way of cleaning up ever seemed to
be wanted in his own special department of
the small goods. One fly suffered swift anni-
hilation, and he turned to the shop again.
You’d wonder at all the ways they had of
making food and the ends of the earth it
came from. And the way it was bottled
and packed and put up; and the colors
they got into it all!
“And will you tell me, Marty,” Mary’s
voice asked him from the back room, “what
in the name of wonder you think you’re
doing?”
“Oh, just cleaning up, Mary, my dear,” he
told her airily, “before I take down the
shutters.”
“Just cleaning up !” Her comforting laugh
seemed to run through the words like a bit
of silk through a row of beads. “And the
place like a new pin every moment of the
day!”
The echo of her rich chuckle seemed to
sound softly as he heax-d the kitchen door
shut-to behind her. For a moment his duster,
draped over the shortened broom, hung idle
in bis hand. Like an old shadow he saw him-
self in the old days, before he and Mary mar-
ried, shuffling off on some message for Mr.
Bulstrode, or Mr. Peebles the newsagent, and
coming back wondering whether it would be
sixpence or a shilling he’d get, and if the
pain in his back would touch him to-day or
to-morrow or the next day.
The sun lit the top crack in the door and
threw a beam into the twilight of the shop.
Marty put the broom and duster carefully
away, opened the door, and took down the
shutters. The noises of the ’Loo came in,
the lazy dust, the sunshine.
One early customer darkened the open
doorway. The sunlight behind her head
made her glow as if sir? was part of the
morning; until she moved into the shop
Marty was not sure who it was. Nell —Nell
Clitheroe that used to be Nell Askins before
she married Bert last month.
“Got any eggs, Marty?”
He ignored the superfluous inquiry. “Two
dozen, Nell, three —four dozen? But they
come- expensive this time of year.”
“I know. It’s me own flamin’ fault. I for-
got ’em yestiddy arvo. Gimme three.”
That glow seemed still to be hovering
round Nell’s beautiful head —prettiest gii’l in
the ’Loo she was, and ten times prettier
since she married Bert—and it made her look
like one of Mary’s holy pictures. A real
beautiful girl she was, with those great eyes
and her fine pale skin.
“Shake it up, Marty, will you? They’re
fer ’is breakfast an’ ’e’ll be in any minute
now. That’s why I ’ad to run over soon as
I seen you open. 'E must ’ave ’is eggs.”
“I suppose it’d be the end of the world
if he had to have a chop or a bit of steak,
Nell, wouldn’t it?”
“No. Only eggs. A plate of porridge an’
three eggs,” Nell told him gravely, and as
if it were a law of God.
“Pity about him! I wonder what’d hap-
pen, now, if all the hens refused to lay him
his eggs one fine morning. Do you think
he’d faint, Nell? Or if”
“Ow, you!" she said, blushing radiantly
and hurrying out with her change and her
eggs.
Marty watched her running across the
street, saw her meet Bert at the gate of the
residential, saw the way she looked up at
Bert.
That was a thing you wouldn’t get the
strength of as an odd-job-man picking up a
living like he used to!
There was young Nell who used to live
with her aunt, Nell being an orphan, over
in Barge-street. Put to the dressmaking she
was as soon as she left school. Not that
school ever did her much good, after being
brought up by old Miss Askins in the rough
lot round Barge-street. Half the boys in the
’l.oo were after her as soon as she was old
enough to look at ’em once with her big
eyes like stars in her pale face. But she
didn’t seem to take to any of ’em —pictures
and ice-creams, perhaps, and an odd after-
noon in the surf, but nothing more. Along
comes young Bert Clitheroe, from Newcastle,
with his new job at the Clarion Works in
Riley-street, and picks her off without turn-
ing a hair, as you might say. Some sort of
a take-it-or-leave-it look about him caught
her fancy, and there they were, married and
over at Mrs. Garry’s residential before you
could turn round. And if you came to happy
-—well, you had only to look at ’em.
A little girl came in for a pennyworth of
boiled lollies; and Mrs. Kavanagh looked in
to explain about last week’s credit. He took
a basket of goods down to the hotel at the
corner, came back and had a cup of tea with
Mary, feeling the day warming up round
him.
The ’Loo noises came and went, the faint
cries and the blurred sound of the trams
down by the docks. The cage was busy at
dinner-time, and Mary came into the shop
to help. Mrs. Briggs, where he used to
room in the old days down at the bottom
end of Brazier-street, came in, looking not
too good, with a couple of the children ; and
he laughed and gave them lollies when they
called him “Old Marty.” He was still
“Marty”—he had almost forgotten that his
name was Martin Day--~but no one except
the children called him “Old Marty” now.
Soon the sleepy afternoon began, and he
was free to give the shop a bit of a clean-up.
He had been keeping it to rights all day as
well as he could ; but he always relied upon
the slack afternoons to make a good job of it.
He moved the pyramid of jam, tin by tin,
to the lower shelf. A delicate job this,
demanding a careful eye and judgment to
reproduce the exact slant of the line. But
it was worth it. It gave the sauces and the
biscuits a chance, and showed up the bottles
of lollies by keeping them all to themselves
at the end of the second shelf. He pointed
out this improvement to Mary, who laughed
and said she could see it before he had fin-
ished explaining it. That was only her
wholesome, light-hearted way; he knew that
she would really see it for herself before
long.
Young Bert Clitheroe came in as the
lights began to change before it faded to
dusk. Marty turned from three little Kav-
anaghs to Bert, whose overalls and the
smear of axle-grease across his mouth seemed
to intensify that cocky, take-it-or-leave-it air
he had.
“Six-penn’orth o’ bulls’-eyes, please,
Marty,” he said, spiiling.
“Going to give the kids a treat, Bert?”
Marty asked, winking at the little Kav-
anaghs.
“Kids!” Bert’s smile faded and his spare
young face went bleak and cold. “No fear
.... They’re for Nell. Fair dippy over
bulls’-eyes she is.” At the word “Nell’
Bert’s face lost abruptly its bleak chill and
became part of the gathering dusk, in a
manner of speaking—soft and glowing and
full of a sort of poetry. You wouldn’t have
believed it was the same Bert.
The Kavanaglis kicked up their heels and
vanished as Marty slipped the big bottle of
bulls’-eyes from the shelf to the counter, and
put the lollies into the scale.
“What have you got against kids, Bert?”
Marty asked. “You looked as if you hated
’em.”
“Had too much of ’em,” Bert told him sul-
lenly. “Look, me uncle in Newcastle had
eight, goin’ up in steps. And when I was a
kid of ten years old I was chucked into the
lot of ’em from being an only child up
country. Me dad died and Uncle’s was the
only place I’d got. I went near crazy.
Kids! I’ve ’ad enough of ’em to last me my
time, I give yer my word.” He stared out
of the doorway, a cold resentment narrowing
his eyes. Suddenly Marty saw this vanish
again and the glow come back. Bert left
his sixpence on the counter, grabbed the
bag of lollies and was gone without looking
at Marty again. Nell was standing at Mrs.
Garry’s gate across the street. She looked
like—like a pale saint; and in a flash Bert
was over there handing her the bag and iook-
iug down into her eyes. Marty smiled, but
thought it was a pity Bert had such a down
on kids. Kids—well, kids were kids, if it
came to that.
Nell didn’t seem to take to them much,
either, which was a funny thing for a ’Loo
girl. She came in one morning when Marty
was giving one of the Briggs boys a stick
of candy. Next to cleaning-up, Marty found
the custom of largesse in lollies the most
interesting part of the grocery business, lie
beamed at the departing Briggs boy and
turned to Nell.
“They make the world go round, don’t
they, Nell?”
“What do? Half a pound of rashers,
please, Marty—cut thick; lie likes to get
’is teeth into ’em. What makes the world
go round?”
‘‘Children—kids.” Marty’s eyes followed
the Briggs boy.
“Oh. kids!” Nell’s beautiful indifferent
eyes glanced at him. “Noisy, dirty little
devils, if you ask me. You want a few years
in Barge-street, Marty; tliat’d cure you of
kids. Shake it up with them rashers.”
* # * *
Going easily and comfortably on its happy-
go-lucky way, the ’Loo—or that part of
the ’Loo that cared or was interested—began
to realise that things were not too good with
Nell and Bert. It wasn’t that you could put
your linger on anything, as the saying was;
only you could tell without knowing any-
thing that things were not too good. It
happened often enough in the happy-go-
lucky ’Loo that a new household pretty soon
lost its holiday mood and became a worka-
day business of rent and tucker. Nobody
denied that. But these households didn’t
start like the Nell-and-Bert one. And that
made all the difference.
Marty wasn’t conscious of the exact day
on which that strong glow began to fade
out of Nell’s eyes. All lie knew now \yas
that it had gone, and that its going puzzled
and troubled him. He mentioned it to Mary ;
and her idea was that he should cease to let
it trouble or puzzle him.
“Don’t be poking your fingers into other
people’s pies, Marty,” she advised him. “It’s
the hard word you'll get from all directions
if you do.”
“I wouldn’t do it, Mary, my dear. But
it’s a great pity, isn't it?”
“There’s more than one pity in the world,
and ourselves not able to help it. They’ve
just got used to each other, as evei-yone
does.”
Marty privately refused to believe this.
He had never got used to Mary in that
sense; and, furthei’, he considered that Nell
and Bert liad no right to get used to each
other in that sense.
Bert coming in that Friday night, for
one thing; that wasn’t right. Bert had
stopped at Doolan’s on his way home and
lie had a few in. “I can't stand it,” he
told Marty with owlish solemnity. “And
what’s more I won’t stand it.”
“Stand what, Bert?”
“Her never lookin’ at me or givin’ me a
thought. What I mean, it ain’t right, Marty.”
Bert swayed gently towards the counter,
staring pathetically at Marty. “There was
a time”.... This seemed to conclude his
thought. A heavy silence fell.
“Want some bulls’-eyes, Bei’t?”
“Bulls’-eyes be damned! I’ll get it in
the neck for being late for tea, that’s what.”
Bert brooded over tliig logical sequence for
a moment. “Sitting there like a stuffed
image,” he went on, “night after night. It's
more like an icehouse than a bloke’s ’ome.
Only time she opens ’er mouth is to i-oar
me up. I won’t stand it. I’ll walk oul —
that’ll be the end of it.”
“I wouldn’t do that, Bert,” Marty sug-
gested gently. “I came within a touch of
doing that meself one time —just packin’
Matilda and walkin’ out.” He looked at
Bert, hoping that even in his present state
of indifference to any affairs but his own he
would appreciate the enormity of the averted
fate. Something in Marty’s voice or manner
did seem to impress Bert. “Yes. I came
as near as nothing to walkin’ out. And do
you know what would have been the end of
me if I had?”
“No. What would?”
“I’d have died alone, in a bark hut away
to Hell, of starvation and exposure. My
corpse would probably have been found by
some children on their way to school”. . . .
“Gawd!” said Bert staring at Marty.
“That’d have been a rough go all right.”
“Yes,” Marty went on, satisfied that Bert
had got the strength of it, “tlxere’d have been
no Mr. and Mrs. Martin Day with the snug
little business in the old ’Loo. Nothing
but a corpse in an advanced stage of decom-
position.”
“Gawd!” Bert said again.
“It’s just shows you, Bert, what happens
to those who pack Matilda when they don’t,
need to. So I’d try some other way if I
were you.”
But Bert’s other ways, if he tried any,
were not successful. Nell, with no life-and-
death interest in his meals, and shorn of
the glow that used to be hers, walked like
a dead thing about the ’Loo or sat unseen at
(Continued on page 57.)
The New Day.
A builder built upon “the Rocks"
A house long, long ago;
A house of size, a noble house,
His worth and wealth to show.
For years and years, seen by the town,
Its slate roof towered ta11....
Last week men tore that proud house
down —
Walls, stairway, roof and all!
Who dwelt beneath its roof and climbed
Its stairway, broad and curved,
Dreamt not (minds fixed upon their
times !)
A new day would be served.
Brought down to earth, poor wreckage is
That strong and storied house,
With all its tale of birth and death,
Gay revel and carouse.
Year after year its windows saw,
Like fixed and staring eyes,
Tracks turned to streets, a toivn take
shape,
A mighty city rise.
They saw washed rocks become long
wharves,
And tree and grass and flower
Where thrushes sang sweet songs, give
place
To steeple, house and tower.
Blue skies, unsoiled since time
began,.
They ivatched grow grey with
smoke,
That hovered o'er a swelling tide,
A tide of human folk.
Beheld by them, those watchful eyes,
Those windows on the heights,
Dark spaces round about became
Thick-starred ivith ichite night-
lights.
* * -e *
Time marching on, Time changing
all,
Works out his will unswerved:
No more those high-set windows
watch .. ..
The Netc Day has been served.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


n«nkin«r. Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital . . .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £3,360.905
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 102 S. . £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SIIELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD ; H. R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. : Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGE 11 ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. 11ULT..
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisluiiirgutc', E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ..
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares .. .. ..
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988 I
1,875,000
374,197
3,750,000
3,609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places,
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOU t H AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital £1,260,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
H’UPMAN'N & C O s
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES.—
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/-per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
1
W/t,
mm
m
wMmmMw
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
»ANO BRANCHES ♦
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians iu
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414 17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
Visit
Pacific
Isles!
SYDNEY SAILING DATES.
SYDNEY SAILING DATES
To Honolulu.
Aovangi, Nov. 15. Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aovangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
To Tahiti.
Tahiti, Nov. 29. Mukura, Dec*. 27.
Tahiti, Jan. 24. Makura, Feb. 21.
V
Special
Holiday
Excursions
Honolulu is brought within
easy reach of Sydney—at
the cost of a city holiday—by the
Canadian-Australasian Excursions,
£75 (First Return), £5 5 (Second)
The magnificent liners Aorangi,
1 7,490 tons, and Niagara, 1 3,41 5
tons, offer an ocean holiday, call-
ing at Auckland and Suva.
Tahiti, embracing Raratonga and
Papeete, is a delightful alternative,
the round trip costing only £55
and £4O. This holiday tour is
made by the favorite Union
Liners, Tahiti and Makura.
Literature of either excursion, frtfvi
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
tm-4
Attractive Trips of from 3% to 7 W eel's.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
TSE
rr nrr
r * /
-#■'
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
f
sdf
ds
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert E. Faitllfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
.Tames Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR UNEs.
Uea ,l office—George Street. Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E C. 2
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP ------- - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL -------- 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES.
M.L.C.: Hon. .TAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etca
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengn-
(l,„. lirisbane Monday afternoon.
S S WOI.T.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.— . ,
Steamer and Motor throughout. Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout. Return,
Steamer and First-class Rail, single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/5/-
£3/15
£3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Phi ip k Co., I-td„
Bryces Chambers, 134-30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLl
■ Maginflueiil
lilt fr rts t Passenger
Steamship]
from Svdney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STKAM PRS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and rice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDAUT PARKER LIMITit,
Collins Street. Melbourne; Bridge Street. Sir! •
fsd
Entirely British and a thoroughly genuine
product of the best Pen makers' art.
Handsome, strong and dependable. Made to
last a lifetime, and fitted with iridium tipped nib
for perfect writing qualities.
Of all Stationere and Jeweller a
From 15/- each
Thomas be La Rue & Co., LtcL,
□
m
m
the
u
ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
mtr
HAIR
WOULD
SPOIL
IT
sP
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
fs
df
Register
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X5J.87.
G. N. BEI)NALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.


ft
m
X
$
w
K
Miss MADGE ELLIOTT,
a beautiful Rexona Girl ,
writes: “Rexona Soap is
worth its weight in gold
for the shin and hair.”
sdf
Girls! Shampoo your Hair
With '3&WU3TI a S OG P
Makes The Hair Bright Soft & Silky
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, blit the results are start-
ling. It leaves the hair in such a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly clean and whole-
some. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face, in abundance,, as beautiful,
hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate perfume, invigorating the roots
of the hair, which prevents greyness. A few shampoos with Rexona Soap effectively removes
every trace of dandruff or loose and falling hair. Ladies who use it for the hair say that
Rexona Soap is far better than any of the so-called hair tonics.
'Rexona
§©ap
c?or f/ealtfi asu) f^CdlUy
vC\2
1
Say it
rosUd (Jie day they are ma de
zJfie famous
Red Bax of'
Chocolates
sd
CHOCOLATES
ADDft_£Ss -
162-166 Pitt Stileet
j s rr> n e y -1
3/ 5/6. 6/ 10/. 12/6.
20/ AndL 30/
(°ATON)
home. It wasn’t right, Marty told himself
repeatedly.
“And why wouldn’t it be anaemia?” Mary
asked him. “The girl’s as white as a sheet.
And me own sister’s eldest girl in Cashel
was just that same lackadaisical thing with
no interest. It’s the poor child’s health,
Marty.”
But Marty reverted to his original conten-
tion that it wasn’t right. Whatever it was,
that contention was static.
The ’Loo allowed its interest gradually to
fade. The Clitheroes no more than followed
tradition, and that was the end of the
section. Pretty soon the bridegroom started
to stop at Doolan’s for a couple; and pretty
soon sho started to tell him off about it. and
about anything else she might think of. It
was a law of life.
“I wonder if you’d do something for me,
Nell.”
Nell looked abstractedly at him. “If I
can I will, Marty. Spit it out.”
“You know Mrs. Briggs where I used to
room.”
“Down at the bottom end —yes, I know
'or.”
“Well she’s sick, and she's on me mind
a bit. I wQuldn’t care to ask anybody to
do it—l’m not too keen on most of the
people round here —but I can ask you. Mrs.
Briggs has got a bit of a family, you know,
and I fancy that one thing and another gets
on her nerves pretty well, especially towards
evening.”
Nell’s listless eyes watched him indif-
ferently. “Well, what about it?” she asked.
"I was wondering if you’d slip round there
sometimes towards evening, and see if you
could cheer her up a bit. It’d be a favor to
me if you could.”
“All right. I don’t mind. Bert's workin’
late all this month, so I can easy do it. Not
that ”m bein’ late 'd make any difference.
Righto, Marty.”
“Do you think you could slip round to-day
for a minute or two? Mrs. Briggs was good
to me in the old times"....
Her veiled gaze rested apathetically on
him. “Yes,” she said in that dead sort of
voice. “I’ll leave me things at 'ome and go
down now.”
Serving her with a half of butter on the
morrow, Marty felt a slight change. There
seemed to be a bit more of her there, as
you might say.
“Did you go down to Mrs. Briggs yester-
day. Nell?”
“Yes, I went.”
“That was kind of you. How is she?”
“Oh, all right. Site won’t be up for a
hit, though. She seems to me kind of tired,
if you know what I mean, Marty.” She
looked at him as if she had more in her
mind, but she didn’t say any more.
Watching her walk across the street he
was sure that there was a difference in her.
It wasn’t much, but it was there.
Marty considered the matter for a week
before he decided to ask Mary to look after
the shop, and himself took a walk round to
the Clarion Works in Biley-street, where
Bert was working late.
Bert was surprised to see him. “Anything
wrong?” he asked curtly.
“No. I want you to come out with me."
Bert stared sullenly at him. More than
ever take it or leave it lie looked. “What
for?”
“Particular business. You got to trust me.
it's particular and important. Half an hour
’ll do it.”
“Half an hour me foot!” Bert’s nark
against the world sounded in his voice.
"Won’t it do to-morrow, Marty?”
“No, it won’t. 1 told you you'd got to
trust me. You won’t be sorry.”
Finally with cold ill-grace Bert agreed to
trust him and come with him. Down
Brazier-street, past the shop and to the bot-
tom end Marty took him, and round to a
side-window of Mrs. Briggs’s house, next to
the open side-door. Marty touched Bert's
arm and put his linger on his lips.
Nell was in the room they looked into,
and she was putting a baby to bed, a very
young baby who smiled and gurgled and
dimpled up at Nell. Through the open door
of the room they could see into the kitchen,
where four clean and very prim young
Briggses were sitting at tea evidently on their
best behavior. The place was fresher and
quieter than Marty had ever known it in
all the years lie had lived there. The baby
crowed and kicked up its legs at Nell, who
laughed and kissed the baby's feet.
“Gawd!” Bert whispered, staring at Nell.
The glow, the deep impregnable radiance
had come back, but richer and fuller than
before. Watching her, Bert saw that there
was nothing dead about her now. Every
quick deft finger was as much alive as the
whole world. The room was nothing—just
a. place where she was putting a baby to
bed ; Nell, glowing and shining, towered over
it in beauty, her starry eyes caressing tlm
dimpling baby.
Marty felt Bert grow suddenly rigid be-
side him. “Gawd!" lie muttered again, and
was gone.
Watching, Marty saw him enter the room,
saw Nell’s abrupt gathering up of the baby
into her arms, her defiant eyes staring at
Bert over the baby’s laughing face. But
Bert softly crossed the room to her, touched
the baby with an awkward finger, and looked
at Nell. The defiance vanisned suddenly.
Presently Bert's arms were round Nell and
the baby.
Marty slipped into the shadows of Brazier-
street. The dusk had thickened to darkness,
and Mary would be wondering what was
keeping him.
Wimmin.
A COMPLETE SHORT STORY BY J. E. PHILP.
'TMIERE’S wimmin, other wimmin, and —
I worse,” said the burly and loquacious
skipper-owner of the ketch Saucy Maid
as lie settled himself comfortably on his
cabin top
‘ After a strenuous day handling timber
he had stowed away a hefty meal in full
keeping with his girth and capacity, and felt
that he was now entitled to some lingual
exercise by way of relaxation. The skipper
was a tireless talker, and on two subjects, at
least, had a master grip. When he eased up
on the vagaries of fore-and-aft sailing, he
ni H ed Sdte hTw Histories
His crew of three had heard h stones
often, but there was always the Prospect of
some new feature embellishing an old yarn,
and the half-dozen mil hands who squatto
along the rail, ever avid for something fresh
to break the monotony of sawdust and timber,
We «mis un > m ‘n t ■ ■ 1 1
There s maids and wives, w idows and
■worse, as I said before,” the skipper sailed
<,n - y° u think you ve got their
weather-gauge—well, you 11 find they ve more
left to outpoint you. When they get a
man properly moored, there s no error about
the way they set up his rigging, overhaul his
gear and point a course just as they want it.
Yes, there’s some good females—and others.
They sail in all kinds of rig, only you hear
more talk about the bad ’uns. They advertise
themselves.
"I know both sorts. Most men don’t stop to
think when a petticoat signals. There’s Harry
Malcolm—how did he manage to buy the (Jan-
net? I’ll tell you. His missus was one of the
best, and a grafter. She pushed Harry up to
the mark and kept a good home for him,
always aiming to a time when they’d get a
vessel of their own. Then she died sudden,
and Harry finds she had four hundred of the
best in the bank. So he buys the Gannet,
works hard, and catches more boodle. Then
he makes a terrible bloomer. lie didn’t stop
to think. He married again—a slip of a
wench who leads him a lovely life. Now’he
lms a monkey on his ship, and debts every-
where. What’s he always rushin’ his trips
for? Why, to get back to see what new
capers she’s been up to. Oh, she’s a lively
lady ! And yet he sticks to her !
“One time wimmin packed on all the canvas
they could carry. Now most of ’em are under
way with about a yard of bunting flying, and
they cruise with well-nigh bare poles. Olippiu’
their clobber seems to have made ’em faster,
It’s harder to outweather ’em—young or old.
“Every female is, at heart, a revenue
cutter once a man smuggles her affections.
Gettin’ married is like a game of cards. You
don’t know wliat’s goin’ to be dealt—that is,
if it’s a square go—and when you get ’em
you often have a queer hand to play. Sweet-
hearts don’t always turn up trumps. ’Minds
me of Barney Dunpliy, who was skipper of
“RJ Bill Smith’s new ship, the Matilda.
W hen they got spliced his wife and him
was like a double-block—the two sheaves
workin’ together and taking a fair strain. A
regular lovey-dovey couple. She kept her
nose hitched up. and lifted her shoes a bit
high because he had a sea-goin’ ticket. You’d
a thought he ran an ocean liner by the side
she carried. '
“Well, Barney takes charge of the
vessel, and loses her on her first trip :
loses all his gear and clothes, and lucky
he was lie didn’t lose himself, too. Mind you,
I don’t say ho was to blame. He had r 1
ten bad luck all round. When he came back
from the wreck, expectin a bit of sympathy
from his old dear, what did he get ? W in.
the key ot his house is handed to him, and
a kind neighbor tells him his lawful has
skipped away with a greasy, curly-polled,
lathenn son of a barber. Ilarber drops her in
Sydney or Brisbane or Melbourne, I forget
which. Anyhow she writes to Rainey and
says she wants to come home to a snug
anchorage and be good. What did Harney
<'o? Why,’ he says, Ive been well plucked
W Bn”i
4 him all the same , and he went
. ht t]ie ocks . Not a b ’ a d s6 rt, either.
*b Wimmin a craft . Hike the Portu
( ievil-when they’re good they are good:
% h bad > IIIIS are pilots to the port of
Misfortuno . j see they are takin’ to the sea
nowadays. There will be no dodgin’ them
anywhere soon. Even an airyplane has to
I)aye a foma j c j n j t .”
The sk jpp Pr slowly refilled his pipe as he
drew on his store of second wind, but a
] aik y melancholy, twice-married mi 11 hand
bl S p okc .
“What you bin savin’, skipper, is all true
_ e v’ry bit of it. It’s me that knows. If
a inau has a wife who is one of the best
S I IC fi sure to die. If she is one of the
others the elothes-prop will live for ever,
There’s only 01m way with wimmin—don’t
give way to ’em ! Keep ’em in their place.”
All interruption in a shrill key twanged
through space from the jetty
“Hey, Dad! Mum says come on ’ome at
once, and don’t be yarnin’ there ’alf the
night.”
There was a brief silence, then a tardy,
dispirited recognition. “Orright, blast ycr.
I’m just cornin’. Good-night, skipper. Blast
the woman—but anything for a quiet life,
that’s me.”
“Well, I’m jiggered,” said the skipper,
“You married, skip?” asked a timber man.
The skipper had some trouble with h fi-
pipe, and was slow in reply and curt,
“Yes, I was, once. Well, boys, I’m goin’
to turn in”; and he went below,
“Reft off short, didn’t he?” said the mill-
hand.
“You oughtn’t have asked him that,”
answered one of the crew. “He’s very
touchy about it. His missus left him for a
hg buck-digger minstrel. He knows a lot
about wimmin—my oath he does! And he’s
aid enough to forget ’em—but he won’t!”
Lines.
All night the silver censers of the stars
Were swung in Heaven, and the incense
rose
To God, who sits o’er Jupiter and Mars
And looks upon the way a sparrow goes.
All night the meadow daisies gladly sing
To God. where on a meadow stile He sits.
Laughing at some inconsequential thing
An errant angel tells Him as lie flits.
All night the seraphim about the throne
Sing to a sceptre and an empty crown:
For God has gone from Heaven and. alone.
Lies on His flowers and laughs at Michael’s
frown.
S.A..
D. P. McGUIRE.


Don’t hope for the best —
GET IT by taking
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
People suffering from nerves, neuritis, insomnia, fatigue, anaemia, loss of weight
and other ailments, caused by overwork, worry, exhausted nerves and poorness
of blood, can quickly regain their health and strength by taking a few boxes
of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, the finest health-restoring tonic known
to medical science. HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS give you plenty of “p e P i
they make you eat, sleep and be well. Start to-day on the road to health oy
taking NERVE NUTS. They cost only 3/- per box at all chemists and stores.
A change to Benger’s
has been the turning
point in the life of many
a backward baby.
Unsolicited testimony.
“ Baby weighed only 3% lbs. when a
fortnight old. We tried several foods
then we discovered ‘Benger’s.’ Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She gained 12
ozs. the first week. She is now 8 months old,
and weighs 16 lb 3. a happy, plump, and
healthy little girl.’’
Food
is always prepared for
use with fresh new milk.
Benners Food is sold by
Chemists and Stores every -
where.
Benger’s Booklet for Mothers,
post free from BENGER’S Food, Ltd , 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers : Better's Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester. England.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
'Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
"Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers. of the
"Queenslander and
through all the lonely misery of his wan-
dering. When he looked up he saw that
Coonardoo was still standing there in the
shadow.
“Sit down,” he said. And a moment
later: “You must be tired, too. We’ve
come a long way, Coonardoo?”
She nodded and sank down on the earth
at a little distance from him. Her fingers,
as a matter of course, went after the sticks
lying about; they piled leaves and twigs.
Hugh struck a match and set a flame spurt-
ing over the leaves and sticks. He saw
then how tired Coonardoo was; her body
sagged, and she was half-asleep already as
she sat beside the fire.
“We’ll rest here a bit.” Hugh said. “Then
you can show me the way into the
camp again, Coonardoo.”
She nodded, smiled and stretched to
sleep on the far side of the fire. Hugh
sat watching her. Years fell away between
them. She was Coonardoo the old play-
mate; he felt about her as he had when
they were children together. This was a
childish adventure they were on. A pas-
sion of gratitude shook him as he thought
of how she had followed and watched over
him during the last weeks. It yielded to
yearning and tenderness. Deep, inexplic-
able currents of his being flowed towards
her.
“Coonardoo! Coonardoo!” he mur-
mured.
Awakened, she came to kneel beside him,
her eyes the fathomless, shining eyes of a
well in the shadows.
They slept beside the fire near the clump
of dead mulga until it was morning.
Hugh started up to find Coonardoo stir-
ring the embers of the fire. They walked
back into the camp then.
“Lost my tracks. Was fair bushed when
Coonardoo found me,” Hugh told the boys,
and no more was said of the matter.
He was more like his old self that day,
quieter, saner, and for two or three weeks
went about his work of picking up and
cutting out cattle for the road much as
usual. He did not seem to be grieving in
the same way for Mumae. The boys be-
lieved Hugh’s fibres had been snatched at
arid attached to the earth, so that Mumae
could not draw them away.
Then suddenly he became sick, could
not eat,, rolled about with a pain in his
stomach; his eyes and hands blazed fever-
ishly. Hugh declared he had eaten or
drunk something which disagreed with him.
But Warieda, Chitali and the rest of the
boys were sure Mumae had come back,
entered into Youie and was struggling to
take his spirit away with her.
CHAPTER XI.
When Hugh became so ill that he could
not move as he lay by his camp-fire in the
morning, Coonardoo made the boys take
him into the homestead.
Warieda and Chitali slung Hugh’s ground-
sheet on two stout poles, and they and
the other two boys took it in turns to
carry him. Coonardoo watched, riding be-
side them. She would not let them travel
during the heat of the day, kept wet rags
laid across Hugh’s forehead, and hung
branches of green leaves over the pole to
keep flies away.
For days and nights Hugh raved and
talked incessantly. Coonardoo, who had
learnt the ways of the white people since
she was a child, cared for Hugh as she had
seen Mumae care for him when he was a
small boy and had a. touch of the sun.
At the homestead she used the keys Hugh
gave her to open closed doors and food
bins. She rationed her own people, and
slept on the verandah to watch over and
look after him.
People at the uloo said Mumae had been
there. They had seen her little figure, in
a white dress, trotting along the verandahs,
and a white cockatoo screeched about the
house every morning at dawn.
Coonardoo believed Mumae could see
and would know all she was doing. She
kept a fire burning beside the verandah at
night, and in the kitchen during the day.
She had made the boys go out and bring
in a cow with a young calf and milk her,
so that she could feed Hugh on milk and
water.
Warieda objected when she declared that
someone must go into Nuniewarra and tell
Saul Hardy that Hugh was ill. Saul and
Cock-eyed Bob had come into the home-
stead a few days after Hugh went back to
the mustering camp, Joey Koonarra said.
They had gone on to Nuniewarra. Saul
would know what was the matter and what
to do for Hugh better than she did, Coon-
ardoo explained. Warieda guessed Sam
Geary would return with Saul and Bob,
and did not want him on Wytaliba.
“Do you want Youie to go with her?”
Coonardoo asked angrily, and pointed out
that, if they did not drag Hugh from the
grip of this sickness, he would die as Mumae
had done. Then Sam Geary or some
stranger would come and take possession
of the uloo and Wytaliba.
Chitali rode over to Nuniewarra. Much
as she hated Geary, Coonardoo had realised
that a white man would know what to do
for Hugh better than she.
When Sam Geary, Saul and Cock-eyed
Bob appeared, driving out from the dust
of the creek trees, Hugh was better, con-
scious. but so weak that he could not sit
up in bed. Coonardoo was satisfied he was
not going to die. He could tell her what
to do for him now, look at her gratefully,
smiling and saying, as he used to, “Good
man! Good man, Coonardoo!”
She, worshipful and devout, smiled back,
scolding him: “Silly cowa-cowa yienda!
Nothing look-out, make ’m sick fellow.”
When the Nuniewarra bugg5" pulled up and
Warieda took the horses, Sam Geary
stamped along the verandah, full of bluster,
and proud of his own importance. Old Saul
and Bob followed when he walked into the
shaded room where Hugh was lying.
“Now, then, what’s all this about? he
roared, looking from Coonardoo in the door-
way to Hugh.
“Oh, I see!” His eyes hung on Coon-
ardoo.
Hugh half-raised himself, angry color
flaming, his eyes flashing. “You see a
damned sight more than there is to see,” he
gasped. . ,
“Seein’ double, am I?” Geary jeered.
“Well, I don’t blame you, Hughie.”
Hugh fell back weakly. Coonardoo’s eyes
flared their rage and loathing of Geary.
“By God!” Sam exclaimed, “he is bad,
isn’t he? What is it, Coonardoo?”
Hugh had closed his eyes, lost conscious-
ness for a moment.
“Here, get me some whisky!” Sam said.
Coonardoo went out of the room.
“Bad business this, Bob! What do you
think it is?” Geary glanced from Bob to
the gaunt, limp figure Hugh made on the
bed.
“From what the boys say, looks like sun
or typhoid, or both,” Bob said:
Coonardoo came into the room, a glass,
bottle of whisky and jug of water on a
tray. Geary took the bottle, poured whisky
into the glass and, stooping over Hugh, held
it to his mouth.
Hugh revived under the spirit. Geary
had helped himself, and was standing, glass
in hand, as Hugh looked up.
“Well, Youie,” he said, “looks to me as
if you was done for. You’re a dying man
if ever I saw one”
Hugh looked at Geary’s swaying figure,
and at Bob and old Saul beside him.
“You’re a liar, Sam,” he said quietly. “I’m
going down to the coast in a day or two —
I’ll see you out and half a dozen like you!”
“That’s right, Youie!” Bob said. “Course
you will!”
“What’s that? What does he say?” Saul
muttered.
Hugh was determined not to die and give
Geary the chance he had been waiting for to
mop-up Wytaliba. It roused every fighting
nerve in him to think of Geary on
Wytaliba; of what he would do with the
homestead, with those bare white rooms
and the long shady verandahs with their
screen of Nor’-West creeper; what he would
do with the blacks—and Coonardoo.
An instinct chivalrous and perverse sprang
to defend her. He had heard from his
mother how Geary had tried to take the
girl. Over and over again Geary had made
overtures for Coonardoo to Warieda and
her father, promising rugs, a horse and
goodness knows what not. But always Mrs.
Bessie had thwarted the bargain. Hugh
instinctively sprang into the breach. Not
as long as he lived and could help it would
Geary get either Wytaliba or Coonardoo.
(To be continued.)
O’ Nights.
I cannot sleep o’ winter nights
Since you are gone.
I cower from the dim, smooth place
You lay upon,
For all your brave, brown warmth is hid
Beneath the hill,
And my false mcm’ries left but this
Cold thing so still.
I cannot sleep o’ winter nights,
Since you are gone,
For gnarl&d fingers thrumming low
My wall upon.
’Tis naught, perhaps, but windy boughs
Against my sill —
The oaken boughs all twisted and a-tossed,
But still —but still—
N.S.W.
C. McEWEN.
The Wind That Waits.
The wind that comes by the harbor gates
Blows soft when the sun is low,
But a sweeter wind is the wind that waits
Where the China liners go;
Where ocean stretches beneath the stars
To the sea-line far and free,
And the funnels sway with the swinging
spars
To the roll of the China Sea.
A warm wind this, with a scent of spice
And the glamor of sunsets gone,
That never is singing the same song twice
From dawn to the grey of dawn.
When the coast lights flash and the cold
moon fills
The night with her magic rare,
And eyes are bright as the music thrills,
1 wish that I was there.
Our feet were light and our spirits gay,
And the warm wind sighed along.
“The seas are blue,” it seemed to say,
“From Sydney to Hongkong.
And care is gone and fear is past,
And the world is good to see,”
While the pistons quivered the steady mast
To the roll of the China Sea.
The wind that comes by the harbor gates
Sang low and soft last night,
But it’s not as sweet as the wind that waits
Off Zamboanga Light.
Do you wait, too, with your almond eyes
(That seemed too deep to glow)
Turned to the empty southern skies
Where the Sydney liners go?
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.
Capt. FRANK HURLEY
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN PAYS A
WONDERFUL TRIBUTE TO HEENZO
In the list of great Australians must be
included the name of Capt. Frank Hurley.
His photographic records, taken whilst on
exploration expeditions, and his work as
official photographer during the Great War
must surely be counted amongst the
nation’s treasures. That the world might
be enriched by such records, Capt. Hurley
has faced hardships and risked his life so
often that, were his biography written, it
would certainly prove that truth is
stranger than fiction. An illustrated book
of travel by this great explorer would cer-
tainly be an asset to our educational sys-
tem if used as a standard work in schools,
for it would fire in all privileged to read
it the wish to see and know more of this
great world. To converse with Captain
Hurley is certainly an inspiration.
When I paid a visit to Farmer’s Broad-
casting Studio recently I had the pleasure
of meeting Captain Hurley, who was just
about to deliver one of his popular adven-
ture narratives, which, by the way, are
amongst the most instructive and enter-
taining items yet heard by the medium of
broadcasting. By him was an open attache
case, filled with voluminous notes and
native sound-making ‘‘gadgets. “These are
my essentials,” he remarked, and, lifting
all from the case, I observed in the bottom
a tin of Heenzo Cough Diamonds and a
bottle of Heenzo. Opening the tin, he
offered rue a jube, saying at the time.
“Great stuff, these; they are my ‘prime
essentials’; they tone up the vocal instru-
ment, and clear the throat, and head. I
have to speak miles of words, not only by
broadcasting but also in the theatres. I
have tried everything, and that’s why you
see Heenzo with my essentials.”
“Do you mind if I tell this to the Heenzo
people?” I queried.
“Well,” he good-humoredly replied, “I'm
always shy of advertising patent medicines;
but I guess I’m no different to anybody
else, and, if Heenzo and Heenzo Cough
Diamonds are good for me, then they must
be good for other folk.”
At this moment the Studio Announcer
called the Captain to the microphone, so
I retired to the nearest loud-speaker, to
be thrilled, with countless thousands of
2FC’s listeners, by his wonderful talk on
the Head-hunters of Papua.


mmim
7
■ 5 "
mft
• • :
'
■ i J
■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— HOLMES « CHURCH Brisbane. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
N.Z. Office—»3-107 Featherston Street,'} mlington. . . ■ „
Victorian Office—“ Chancery H °use,4BaßourkeStreet, Melbourne. .
South Australian Agents: (Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, ..
$ uPZ
Ib*
M
l.\
mcy,. \
'-•‘i
SUNBEAM fame is wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
\
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD.,-111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, 91-97 Flinders Street,, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES. LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London.
THE MERCURY.
Tasmania’s National Daily.
(ESTABLISHED 1854). Price l|d.
Published at Hobart, The Mercury has
by far the largest circulation in Tas-
mania. Delivered by fast motor-cars it
reaches Launceston (121 miles), Delo-
raine (140 miles) and all intermediate
towns before breakfast.
Per inch, per thousand of circulation,
The Mercury advertising rates are the
lowest in the State.
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL.
ESTABLISHED 1877.
Published Wednesdays. Price 6d.
Everywhere—all over the State, in
Town and Country—this popular weekly
goes regularly into the homes of the
people, and each issue is eagerly read
by over 70,000 men, women and children.
THE BRIGHTEST WEEKLY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
No Tasmanian advertising campaign
is complete without these publications
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24£ inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
161 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.SAV. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
'A?
sv: e o
C y
£>
Guaranteed »Kept „
in order for two years free
CRAIG s, AITKEN.6S4 6EORGE 51. SHINE
300 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
3UYTHI5 RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
o r t that shave after shave of satin smooth-
. " brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR?
fsd
PMa
More often than not the cause of
indigestion is faulty functioning of
the digestive organs, brought on by
constipation. Failure of the bowels
to act properly results in poison
accumulating in the system, which
upsets the stomach and give rise
to indigestion, headaches, bilious-
ness, loss of energy and appetite.
These are danger signals, and should
be followed by immediate action
before the complaint becomes
chronic and dangerous.
fake Beecham’s Pills—the remedy used
the world over to correct constipation,
sluggish liver and indigestion. They
tone and strengthen the stomach, liver
and bowels and bestow vitality, fitness
and health on all who take them.
Get a box and start a course to-day.
Worth a Cuine
a box
f
To secure the best of health and to be free
from Constipation, Sic/f Headache, Biliousness,
Indigestion, Flatulence, Torpid Liver and Dis-
ordered Stomach — tal?e
BEECHAM'S PILLS.
CHOOSE
A KERMATH
A little care in choosing
your marine engine will
assure better and safer
boating performance. That
is why over 70% of the
world’s best boat-builders
install Kermath Marine
Engines. They demand
the best.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
I T 3 to ISO HP' TJ
\\ 1 to 6 cylinders It
It 4-cycle Engines J| «
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N.S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Cable Address— Kermath
MARINE ENGINES
Mmm
If any illustration in *‘The Bulletin * takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinner*.
Delightful fib-minutes J trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
P. RESERVATIONS: Y 3012, 4 Lines.
*
r
0
, 9fZ<f
\P ft 1
0°
6>
0
5 e
0*
%S?
••■ •'"V 1 '* s,J
%&+*


head
a
A.
'+H
1 -4 " n T wr -.r;vmeent»
■': „ _
■is
; w'
-v;..,
" / ;
*Tt
£\
y*
I ■■ ■
•■ $
*»*.;
: : ;:i
X.
Pn
::
■
OVER the hills the broad highway
unrolls its welcome to you to come
and enjoy summer. Away from the
heat of town or city it offers new sights and
experiences—promises recreation and rest.
October, November, December, January,
February and March —the best months of the
vear are all ahead! Too soon will they be gone.
Only with a motor-car can you enjoy this
out-of-door season to the full.
Week-ends, holidays, vacations, evenings
take on a new meaning when you have your
own car to take you where you want to go —
easily, quickly, economically!
It is now possible for almost anyone to possess
a modern car —for not only is the purchase
price of the perfected Whippet exceedingly
low —but convenient time-payments make it
easy to buy. Come in and we’ll give you
the facts.
Whippet
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 148 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
OVERLAND (VfC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, ADELAIDE.
ADAMS 5 MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, PERTH.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, HOBART.
