

kkkk k k I
« onnrxnnx a inn* innHng unnnywrc xe
i N
THE
award
SDMED/
£
n
E r i
a
X
N
X
X
Fiy n nor
rm
m
mmiiriiiiiimi^
"' s »«**»» ftc* w#
UUI
11111 1 * ‘ 1 * “
3
oshnitH
FINE
eur f§
*4MycujSIVELY SUPPLIED TO Tt l£
11 ‘roßj/i L INSI i* u 1
, f ClW* u
Sonsj-'
“liilers PERTHJScotlaA<l)«l® NDO ,
lilr> PtlAfVi AllD. -.i lllfl*
miners PERTHiScorland)*^' 1
PRODUCE or SCOTLAND
" tRr ”t SUP E Rv, S ,ONOfTH£CO«I« NWf *
The Bulletin
FIVE SPLENDID SHORT STORIES
Vol. 49.—N0. 2502.
Wednesday, January 25, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. *
TkeWorlds
Best Briar
costs 'IV-
Look for the LOEWE
J-JORSES without pedigrees
never become popular
favourites. The best always
wins m the long run. Choose
a Loewe Briar and you are
smoking the most perfect pipe
it is possible for skilled London
craftsmen to produce. For 70
years the Loewe has been re-
garded as “the best pipe of all ”
in the Mother Country. Made
throughout by hand from the
finest materials.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect.
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
•killed London craftsmen.
w
(L&§)
(Pastime *
ONE OF THE many
LOEWE SHAPES
kii loewe
sh apes
2 V-
SILVER
MOUNTED
Write for I
BOX 555, G.P.O.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
95:§
s
"Sk
<mm
* *■
s
a
-*5
*3
.s>
»
!Si
s
»
<3
&
7*m*i
s
B*2
?S
«sil
ŵ
Your grocer also stocks
Grape Nuts and Post
Toasties. Get to know
about them to-day!
Wholesale Agents:
LEWIS & CULL,
316 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
g,OME people prefer not to drink at
meals; others would like to, but
dare not, for caffein and other stimu-
lating but harmful drugs derange diges-
tion. Here’s a hot drink that’s healthful,
because it’s made from pure cereals and
nothing else but sweetening. It is
Instant Postum—as refreshingly de-
licious as it is pure. Try it to-rtight at
dinner and see if it doesn’t deserve a
daily place on your table! You’ll like it!
/Posfu
o
This year the bigger “Bulletin” wont print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
Typhoid Fly
KILL
MAT FLY
Showing thi
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adhere
The Red Page
In His Own Land
I Since the publication of “Ordeal” and
the Australian criticisms of it my feeling
has been that, in his own land, Dale Collins
has not received the fair go to which his
nationality traditionally entitles him. At
T u a . lam °* bricks, I say this is
a bad Australian habit. A similar reticence
was the spirit of our reception of Bolitho’s
Solemn Boy,” a charming story which got
its deserved high praise from the overseas
pundits and put Bolitho in a definite
literary place in London. Reticence as a
general principle is very well; but when
its corollary is loud English and American
praise of Australian work in the face of a
studied Australian indifference, I think we
3arry it too far. To glance at only one
ispeet, in nine cases out of ten we run the
ask of killing the Australian sales.
In the days of his piquant and vivid
Letches and stories in The Bulletin Col-
ms’s vision of character was evident as
he best quality of his equipment. The
natter was at times irritatingly over-roan-
lered and over-confident; but it forced
tself into one’s sympathy as the work of
n artist in character. The theme or inci-
k;nt was occasionally commonplace and
hin; but in three packed sentences the
rotagonist jumped into adventurous life
nd made the yarn a good story instead of
he tenuous, pretentious gesture it looked
ke being. This feeling for people, for
Dmehow getting life and truth into the
gures which are to convince the reader
efore they can entertain him, is, I take
, the ultimate test of fictional accomplish-
lent. It is ordinarily the final polish
Jhieved by the practised novelist, somc-
long after his definite place has been
on by other qualities. (Again I can save
le space instead of rubbing in instances
ke Hergesheimer, Somerset Maugham, C.
. Montague and so on.) It was Dale Col-
as s most noticeable gift when he was a
Jry young freelance journalist.
In Ordeal ’ it was the free rein given to
iis quality that made the book. The critics
lot in the author’s own land but in London
id New York) spoke of the “breathless
terest of the plot,” the “command of
nguage,’ “acute psychology,” and other
ittermg things; but what Collins saw was
G diabolical, iron-souled steward in
robbing completeness. The treatment of
nun necessitated a controlled economy of
diction, if he was to convince; and from
the vision of his strange, implacable charac-
ter came the breathlessness of the plot.
S llmlarly the shoddy pathetic hero of
the Haven,” the screen-actor who was
the ridiculously “handsomest man in the
world, stirred the flashy story into some-
times heroic life. I am not saying that
Collins s novels are literature. They are
I not not yet. But they have a bloom, an
adventurous inspiration in the bared hearts
0 11 ~e ir characters which much that we
call literature has not.
To date this rare sensitiveness to the
secrets of the human reaction to life
touches its apex in The Sentimentalists
(Hememann; Dymock’s), Collins’s latest
yarn. Cap’n Abel Whelan is a beastly
A _ gross, dishonest barbarity to
whom ordinary sin is the merest common-
place we see him first celebrating his 50th
birthday and an illegal £3OOO haul:—
„„ T ! lr “ square-faced gin bottles—two empty—stood
of the P fe k sUv^ar Se h®*"® k™' TheS ® Were the signs
Kfl t A ln iante f. n made a bright tent where he
\ he ste ™> the canvas chair bulging beneath
shnnf 2 rt° ne °! g ' r ? s^ ness - He was v ery hot, and
red r a w k fi a stra , nded w , hale - Sweat ran down his
J* L a ? d flowed into the heavy creases on
®"J? r Sld ® °t his mouth, finally converging at a
c.frfPd nl h ' S chln i, whence dripped. Streams cas-
,Wn ml ov f the folds of his neck and
»nd g a T- mS -, I rom time to time mechani-
wllh o nnavailingly he mopped his naked head
with a soaked colored handkerchief. His khaki
i rTV n ’- + Sl€eve , le f sin = riet were dark with mois-
ture and dirt, and his feet were bare. A pair of
black, elastic-sided slippers lay beside him.
An unconscionable swine of a man, for
Conrad or Stevenson or Maugham he would
be only the heavy background for some
straight-limbed, clear-souled hero. Even
by Conrad he would be touched-in a bit
loosely every now and again, being mainly
left sweltering and static in his sin and fa*.
But to young Dale Collins, who from one
® secs farther and more, clearly than
those other artists, he is the beloved hero
of this book. He is brought lovingly and
ever so gently and gradually to life and
sympathy. Pound by pound his grossness
falls away; his pre-occupation with illegal
hauls becomes a plaintive half-contempt
or them; his eyes lose their suffusion, and
ook at last with some measure of modesty
ind confidence at a realised picture of life.
A baby does this. Judging as far as we
:an the motives that direct us, we agree
vith Collins that only a baby could do
his. This white baby came out of the
da lay an night deserted and alone in his
Irifting canoe, which tapped softly at the
ide of Cap’n Whelan’s brig. The waif howled
a toothless misery when he was hauled
lit of the tropic night aboard the brig
lirondelle. There was nothing to do but
lake him a passenger and look after him.
r ou couldn’t chuck a baby back into the
anjermassa River; the situation was cast-
on—you could do nothing but take him
board and give him a bath. Presently
le baby is the only spot of light in a
rumbling, darkening world. When the
baby s work is done, Cap’n Whelan walks
as upright as 22 stone of evil living will
allow. 1 his rehabilitation is worked out,
not in baby-fingers, hand-that-rocks-the-
cradle sob-stuff, but in faithful, consistent
* rora the angle always of Cap’n
Whelan, never by the cheap and easy
short-cut of the baby as the leading charac-
ter.
The trimmings still make their capable
bid for sales. The shouting and champagne
of the rescue in “Ordeal” are here repeated
p+ a T ast-page buttoning-up of the plot.
*7 , -1 think the magnificence of Cap’n
Abel Whelan deserves more than mere
sales in Collins’s own land.
Hilary Lofting.
Prose v. Verse
*,r summing up the year's literary output,
Mrs. Nettie Palmer (R.P. 29/12/’27) queries
the assertion thafr Australian prose is
negligible compared with our verse. To
prove this she quotes a collection of dull
works, including a text-book on the platy-
pus and ignores the more significant poetry
productions. If proof be needed to show
the weakness of her argument, one has
merely to glance at the Christmas Bulletin
where, despite many fine literary efforts’
the verse eclipsed all else. And especially
Robert, D. Fitz Gerald’s “The Sea Fugles”
It is one ol the greatest poems yet given
us by an Australian, and, if for nothing else,
the Christmas Bulletin was well worth
the sixpence I trust we paid for it.
Ihe three novels on which Mrs. Palmer
lavs her stakes are Katharine Prichard’s
Working Bullocks,” Chester Cobb’s “Days
, Disillusion” and Hector Bolitho’s
bolemn Boy. I confess 1 have not yet
lead Chester Cobb, but Katharine Prich-
ards work I have long known as a cast-off
relation of D. H. Lawrence, and “Solemn
oy ciicln t even deserve the few reviews
It got. It was scarcely worth reading; it
bored me so that I could not finish it.
1 hen there is Francis Jackson’s book of
essays, which, Mrs. Palmer writes, was not
attacked, not even mentioned—which is
sheer nonsense.
i ßu u is one noti ces those book?
which Mrs. Palmer has relegated to “a few :
articles of value” that one sees the vast
superiority of Australia’s verse over its
prose. There is Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s
book of poems, “The Greater Apollo,” pri-
vately printed, to be sure, but nevertheless
a valuable asset to Australian literature.
And what of the Fanfrolico Press? This is
the gallant attempt of two young Aus-
tralians Jack Lindsay and John Kirtley, to
fight the British publisher on his own
ground. To their aid has now come the
young Queensland Rhodes Scholar whom
ul°f' „ Brisbane men will remember as
Inky Stephenson, one-time editor of the
Queensland University Magazine. Taking
this press s output back in 1926 as well as
1927, they have given us in admirable for-
mat and binding Kenneth Slessor’s book of
poems, “Earth’s Visitors,” Jack Lindsay’s
blank verse play “Marino Faliero,” Lind-
says translations of Propertius and Pet-
nnnuHi-and Hi ® mall P rose book, an essay
on William Blake. Mrs. Palmer ignores all
these brave attempts.
Most of the books I have mentioned are
verse, many of them possibly great verse.
Prose is as yet only in the embryo. Putting
aside Marcus Clarke, Australia has to date
produced only two really great prose writers,
Henry Lawson and Louis Stone; but their
following is small. It must rest now with
I w, •“ ULLETIN s novel competition to see
whether our young writers can be shaken
out of their sloth to challenge the brilliant
young men of England and America,
L. PHILLIPS.
New Australia’s Three Musketeers
Old memories were awakened and renewed
when, on Christmas Eve, St. Augustine’s
Anglican Church at Stanmore (Sydney)
saw the marriage of Miss Elsie Leek and
Mr J. Rogers. The bride was bom in
Colonia Cosine (New Australia) in Para-
guay. The three “prospectors” sent to South
America, when Australia and Maoriland
A.r U j a J°n atlon to the colony-to-be, were
Allred Walker a Brisbane journalist;
William Saunders, a Californian; and
Charles. Leek, of N. S. Wales. Witnesses
to the wedding were myself, also one of the
wn- of . the venture; and Mrs. Harold
Wallis, a niece of William Lane.
Associated with the three “prospectors”
was James Murdock, the celebrated
Japanese scholar and professor of later
years. First the original three prospectors
roomed together in Buenos Ayres, Alf
Walker providing the necessary funds bv
writing articles for the English dailies there,
these dealt chiefly with their travels in
the republics of the south, but well padded
out with stuff lifted from Hudin' Water-
ton and any other writer available. After
a time, experience being all used up the
trio was notified that the editors could do
their own lifting, and that what was wanted
was at least enough original matter to
make the articles look original. This sent
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising
V"-
;TF
GENUINE SAIF
ẁ
Now
f 95
£75
The “Palmer” Piano, which is noted for
its exquisite beauty of tone, is reduced
by £2O during the Sale period only. This
piano is strongly constructed from artisti-
cally figured polished Mahogany. It has
a compass of seven and one-third octaves,
overstrung action, stalwart gilded iron
frame, brass pedal feet and beautiful
ivory-grained keys.
The finest quality hammer felt is used
throughout.
The measurements are: Height, 4ft. 4in.;
Depth, 2ft. 2in.; Width, 4ft. 7in.
Price £95
Sale Price A, I V
We do not pay Carriaqe on above.
Send for a free copy of the
Summer Sale Booh.
Save £lO on each of these Phonographs
m
m **
h IMUti
ram
winimm
m&BM
MS^ssw-ia
! £S
The Pooley No. 230, £25.
The Pooley No. 230. A charming model. The
cabinet is finished Walnut or Mahogany and has
full table-top with receptacles for records. Size:
34in. high, 36in. wide, 21 in. deep. Fitted with
the new Rexophonic speaker, to play electrically
recorded records.
Price .. .
Sale Price
£35
£25
The “Deposit-Purchase” System
(D.P.S.)
Enables you to select now at Sale Prices and
pay later at your convenience.
ẃ
The Pooley No. 155. Upright
Cabinet. Walnut or Mahogany fin-
ish, record cupboard, double-spring
“Saal” motor. Fitted with the new
Rexophonic Speaker, to play elec-
trically recorded records.
Price.. £29/107-
Sale Price
£l9/10/-
SB
The Pooley No. 220, £22/10/-
This Phonograph is of Walnut or Mahogany. Size:
34 x 33 x 21 inches. Fitted with Pooley tone
ami, speed regulator and tone lntensiher. Kitted
with the new Rexophonic Speaker to play elec-
trically recorded records.
Price . . .
Sale Price
£32/10/-
£22/10|-
Open Every Friday Night
Until 9 o’clock.
Musical Department is situated on the Second Floor.
Anthony Hordern
Postal Address :
Box 2712 C, G.P.O,
and Sons Limited
SYDNEY.
'Phone M 2401
(40 lines).


Wanted
Well-Trained Young Business Men
to Qualify for Executive Positions
Young Business Men with ability who wish to turn
their skill and years of experience to better advan-
tage than is offered by their own present employ-
ment are invited to forward applications to the
undermentioned.
NAME OF FIRM AND PARTICULARS.—KaIa-
mazoo (Aust.), Ltd., was formed as a separate
Australian company in 1919. Its parent company
is an English company—(Messrs. Morland and
Impey, Ltd., of Northfield, Birmingham)—of over
20 years’ standing, with the largest factory in the
world, manufacturing loose-leaf binders.
Since the formation of the Australian Company an
organisation has been developed which is well and
favorably known in Commercial and Professional
circles and Government Departments through four
States. The growth of the company has been solid,
continuous, and progressive, and is due to the merits
of the goods we sell, the ideals of service behind
those goods, and the recognition of those merits
and ideals by thousands of business and profes-
sional men throughout Australia.
KIND OF EQUIPMENT HANDLED.—The major
lines of equipment which we handle are as follows:
KALAMAZOO LOOSE-LEAF BINDERS.—With high-
grade workmanship operating on the finest quality of
materials obtainable, we are able to produce loose-leaf
binders which give greater value and longer and better
service than any other kind of loose-leaf equipment.
The value of these goods has built up for us by far the
largest loose-leaf business in Australia, and.just so long
as most people like to get the greatest value for money
spent, so long should we continue to maintain this para-
mount position.
KALAMAZOO - ACME VISIBLE RECORDS.—Any
discerning man can see that Visible Records are the
records of the future. Just as loose-leaf books inevi-
tably took the place of bound books, so must visible
records inevitably take the place of blind card systems.
Kalamazoo-Acme Visible Records are far superior to
other kinds of visible records, and with a line of such
high quality and great utility, this branch of our busi-
ness is growing, and will continue to grow rapidly and
surely.
ELLIOTT-FISHER
ACCOUNTING, INVOICING AND ORDER-
WRITING MACHINES.
Elliott-Fisher Machines are destined to play a big part
in the development of office procedure in Australia.
The Elliott-Fisher Company is the largest exclusive
manufacturer of book-keeping machines in the world;
it has been making Elliott-Fisher machines for more
than thirty years. It was in 1927 that we put the New
Automatic Electric Elliott-Fisher machines on the
market, and since that time some of the largest con-
cerns in Australia have installed Elliott-Fisher—the
only machines in the world with a flat writing surface.
So far as we know every Public Accountant who has
investigated Elliott-Fisher machines has recommended
their installation to their clients, to the exclusion qf all
other machines. Some of these Public Accountants are
amongst the biggest in Australia, too. In one case last
year the investigation into all makes of machines by
a special committee of Accountants resulted in an
order being placed with us for many thousands of
pounds. A leading Public Accountant in Melbourne
recently wrote to the Costs Accountants’ Institute of
America asking them to name the best machine for
cost accounting records. They replied as follows:
“For Cost Accounting Records, there is only one
machine worth considering, and this is Elliott-Fisher.
In the States they stand alone on this work.”
As this matter was being written the news just arrived
that an order for Elliott-Fisher products to the value of
£2500 has been placed with us by a large concern. This
firm sent two of its staff from Adelaide to Melbourne to
investigate all makes of machines and incidentally to
visit Elliott-Fisher installations and obtain the opinions
of the users.
POWERS, PUNCHING, SORTING AND TABULAT-
ING MACHINES.—A battery of these machines and
three clerks will do the work of from twenty to twenty-
five clerks.
Round holes are punched in various positions in a card,
by means of the punching machine, using a separate
card for every separate business transaction; the cards
can then be sorted into any desired order by means of
the Sorting Machine, which does so at the rate of 18,000
cards per hour—automatically. After sorting, the cards
are placed in the tabulating machine, which reads its own
figures and puts back into figure form, on a sheet of
paper, all the holes which have been punched out in
each card. The tabulator runs automatically, and will
write up sheets of statistics 17 inches wide at the fate
of 3000 entries per hour, at the same time automatically
totalling any columns required. After tabulating, the
same cards can be put back into the Sorting Machines
time and again to obtain all manner of classified
information.
Powers machines are being profitably used in the Rail-
ways and other large Government institutions controlling
millions of pounds of revenue. There is continuous
scope for the growth of this further branch of our busi-
ness. There are £70,000 worth of these machines in
Government departments alone.
SCOPE FOR ADVANCEMENT
TO EXECUTIVE POSITIONS.
At the present time there are eight important
executive positions in our company, and seven of
them are being held by men who were Kalamazoo
travellers within the last five years and less.
We are now planning to add two or three more
large departments to our business in the near future.
We have now over thirty outside representatives,
and the addition of the proposed new departments
will mean that this number will probably be doubled'
later on. It will also mean that the scope for pro-
motion to managerial positions according to merit
will obviously be enlarged.
QUALIFICATIONS NECESSARY.
Applicants should be between the ages of twenty-
five and thirty-five, and be men of character, energy
and personality, so that they can give the high
standard of representation which we demand and
which our clients expect. A keen, alert systems
mind which thinks in terms of co-operation and
helpfulness towards his customers and prospects is
an essential, and a thorough knowledge of office
routine is almost as essential, but not quite.
PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING.
1. Write confidentially, stating age and fullest
particulars.
2. —Address your letters to the Australian Sales
Manager, Box 1066 H, G.P.0., Svdnev. and mark
the envelope “Application.”
3. —Mention the publication in which you see this
advertisement, An interview will then be arranged
with the Australian Sales Manager, who will keep a
list of persons interviewed. Those applicants who
impress will be communicated with as our staff
needs increasing.
A thorough training will be given, and a definite
career awaits successful applicants.
KALAMAZOO (AUST.) LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE


A few more days for double savings on
SUITS TO MEASURE
Only a few more days left to order your David
Jones’ quality suit to measure, at Sale Prices !
Suits from English or Australian all-wool Tweeds
or Worsteds, meticulously tailored to measure by
David Jones’, alpacca lined and hand finished.
Usual value, -£lO/io/-, now reduced to
£lO, and less further 10% for Cash - - dJs
Usual -£9/ 9/ - Suit now reduced to £}Q/'JI
fy, and less further 10% for Cash “
Sale Prices at both New Store
and Branch Men's Store , opposite 0.P.0.
DAVID JONES’ SALE
our three moving on. They went to Asun-
cion (Paraguay), where they were joined b>
Murdock. Murdock immediately set to
■work to learn Spanish with Leek for his
tutor. In two weeks he could talk m the
street, in six he was able to discourse
fluently with Cabinet Ministers and the
President on law, economics, history o
Paraguay, education, ethnology and any
other subject of a like kind. As he had left
Brisbane without immediate prospects, his
appointment to Japan not yet having been
decided on, he, too, needed funds. So he
wrote a series of articles for publication,
the Three Musketeers carefully refrain-
ing from saying they had covered the same
ground. Jubilant, he sent his copy away,
only to receive a reply which said that the
matter had already been done, and over-
done, by three Australians. What Murdock
said to Athos, Porthos and D’Artagnan is
not recorded. He went to New Australia
for a few weeks, and having given sugges-
tions for a routine of education, left for
London, and thence for Japan, having be-
come the greatest Japanese linguist foreign
history has recorded.
After the war Murdock came back to
Australia as Professor of Japanese to the
Sydney University. Three times on his re-
turn he called at my office (the Worker)
to see me, but I was at Goulburn. I ouched
that one so eminent, so busy, and so frail
in health should have lost so much time
for nothing, I went to see him instead of
asking him to come to see me. I caught
him in the midst of appointments. With
apologies he said, “I have only half an
hour and then must go.” We talked for
four solid hours, and I felt as if it were
only the half hour mentioned. The follow-
ing year he died.
Alf Walker went to a good position on
a paper in London, contracted pneumonia
almost at once, and died in a week, a bril-
liant journalist lost. William Saunders,
after becoming chairman of our Colony, left
and had a good position with Liebig’s
Meat Co. in Buenos Aires, retired from
that and had a business in Sydney. War
broke out and he returned to his home
State, California, his father having belonged
to “one of the old Southern families.” To-
day he is a member of the Chamber of
Commerce and I think on the Stock Ex-
change of San Francisco; his son, born in
Cosme (Paraguay), is legal adviser to
the State. Charles Leek lives in Sydney
and is a mine of information on New Aus-
tralia, the “New Unionism” (propounded by
William Lane, and on which our political
Labor party is based), and on the circum-
stances of Henry Lawson’s boyhood. Un-
fortunately he refuses to talk except con-
fidentially, so all his good matter is locked
up. On Christmas Eve his daughter was
married, and Ettie Lane and I signed the
register. The scattered had met once more.
MARY GILMORE.
Thomas Hardy
Thomas Hardy, the man who filled so
many of his pages, prose and poetry, with
meditations upon death, has died. It is the
time for us* now to praise him for all he
gave us in his 87 years. Leading a self-
contained life in his own Dorset village, he
wrote, and wrote in fresh and powerful
words, up to the last.
In a superficial moment, Chesterton once
said that Hardy was “the village atheist,
brooding over the village idiot."’ That
seems to be a good definition to reject at
almost every point. To begin with, Hardy
was not absorbed in the villager as idiot.
The simple, unlearned villagers up and
down his score of novels had a forthright
dignity, while in most of his villages there
appeared some brilliant young, struggling
student as a vital point in the book. And
can Hardy stand for the village atheist?
Chesterton meant, I suppose, a man who
would be self-taught and ignorantly scep-
tical. The figure of Atheist in “Pilgrim’s
Progress” was tawdry and ribald: at Chris-
tian’s words he “broke into a loud laugh”
and fell backward over a precipice. Hardy's
voice never broke into that kind of laugh.
First and last he was wistful, and if scep-
tical, that was against his desire. His well-
known poem about the legend that the
oxen kneel on Christmas Eve ends by de-
claring that if someone asked him to come
and see them kneeling,
I should go with him through the gloom,
Hoping it might be so.
One word in Chesterton’s phrase remains
true. Hardy “brooded.” So must every
creative artist. He brooded over that
southern England called his “Wessex,” re-
writing the names of cities so that Oxford,
with its dreaming spires, could live over
again as Christminster in the lives of his
characters. He brooded over every small
village as he knew it, until in his Mary-
green you feel your feet slip on the damp
grass, and when he sets Tess to work in
the turnip-fields of a bitter upland, you
share her wintry struggles. He knew how
the woodbirds sang in “Under the Green-
wood Tree.” When people say that art
should always be general, not local, and
complain, for instance, if some Australian
storywriters have, more or less, put one of
our countless landscapes on paper, how do
they dispose of Hardy w'ith his rich real-
ism? Would they forbid him to brood
over
the shapes of things, the colors, lights and shades,
that give his novels so deep a perspective?
Lewis Hind mentions that once in Dorches-
ter he found the bookshops had no copies
of Hardy’s novels. An acid young lady
behind a counter obliged with an explana-
tion. “Perhaps,” she said, “in Dorchestei
we don’t think as much of Mr. Hardy as
some other people do!” Well, Dorchester h.
made amends. It has even recently pro-
duced Hardy’s Tristan play on the spot,
developing a strong dramatic company tor
the purpose. Literary England as a whole
has made amends for Hardys lack of gen-
eral popularity, and during the last 10 or
20 years he has had the quiet kind ot
fame that would mean most to him. it is
nearly 30 years since he published his last
novel, which I think was “Jude the
Obscure,” that book with its odd coper ot
ghastly interest for Australians. \ou re-
member that little boy, born o. Eng is 1
parents temporarily in Australia, and going
to England at the age of eight or so:
Hardy says definitely that such a coloma
from the empty, new continent is bound
to be full of misery from the first —and lets
the poor child prove it by murder and
suicide. I think Hardy’s reasoning must
have been something like this: that he,
Hardy, living on English soil, and with an
architect’s and artist’s delight in ancient
and lovely monuments and in the outlines
of tilled ‘ landscapes, yet found life pro-
foundly sad; what then must be the spiri-
tual emptiness of “colonials” growing up
without all that made Wessex bearable:
What, indeed! ,
But Hardy’s novels were not his last word.
Next came his immense Napoleonic diama,
“The Dynasts,” having real power as a
play and also flooding high with sheer poetry
in its incidental choruses. People took the
Dynasts” as Hardy’s swan-song, a magmh-
C enfc on 6. But something, perhaps the
choruses in “The Dynasts,’ had roused him
to write poetrv again, an art he had dropped,
like his architectural studies, when his novel-
writing began. This poetry of Hardy s old
age has been no matter of occasional verse,
conventional but graceful. The amazing
thing is that Hardy’s poems, these last 20
years, have above all been rugged and
vigorous. . .
Any feeling like his, poignant In itselt
and in its expression, refreshes the heart as
no rose-colored cheeriness at second-hand
could ever do. When Hardy names a lost
loveliness, he shows the beauty of his own
dreams.
YULE-TIDE IN A YOUNGER WORLD.
We believed in highdays then
And could glimpse at night
On Christmas Eve
Imminent oncomings of radiant revel,
Doings of delight:
Now we have no such sight.
We had eyes for phantoms then,
And at bridge or stile
On Christmas Eve
Clear beheld those countless ones who had crossed it
Cross again in file:
Such has ceased longwhile.
We liked divination then,
And, as they homeward wound
On Christmas Eve,
"We could read men's thoughts within them spinning,
Even as wheels spin round:
Now we are blinker-bound.
We heard still small voices then,
And, in the dim serene
Of Christmas Eve,
Caught the far-time tones of fire-filled prophets
Long on earth unseen....
Can such ever have been?
Wistful, yet with a dimmed ecstasy, the
words come before us, an amazingly beauti-
ful utterance if made by a poet in the first
flush of youthful inspiration, a poet we
would be needing now. And this poem was
dated 1927.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Percival and I, by A. A. (Methuen). Thu
initial letters are those of Anthony Arm-
strong, a well-known contributor to London
Punch, from which source the contents of
the book have been drawn.
Lord Northcliffe, by It. Macnair Wilson
(Benn). In this volume classed as a
study but more precisely an appreciation,
the author lifts Northcliffe to a seat among
the gods. He does not, however, state how
far this elevation of the “Colossus of Modern
Journalism” was due to the push of the army
of “sedulous apes” he held in a thrall of
disciplined fear. To Mr. Wilson the fact
that he got there seems to be all sufficient.
The Breath of the Desert, by Ferdinand
Ossendowski (Allen and Unwin). Readers
of “Beasts, Men and Gods,” whatever
appraisement they may place upon the
author's reputation for a strict adhesion to
facts, will welcome the professor’s second
book on North Africa, which covers the
ground from Algeria and Tunisia to the
wind-swept sands of the Sahara. Travel
under Ossendowski’s pen puts on the glamor
of romance.
The First Trail (Basil Blackwell). This
is a venture in publication by the Girl
Guides’ Association of the Old Country,
but its interest and appeal extend to Girl
Guides over the Empire. After a foreword
by Princess Mary, follow contributions from
the Chief Guide and a number of such well-
known literary people as Kipling, De La
Mare, Ernest Thompson Seton and Boyd
Cable. The “smart, trim-uniformed” Guides
in Australia and New Zealand earn some
words of commendation.
Mr. Pickwick's Second Time on Earth , by
Charles G. Harper (Cecil Palmer). No
better guide to the footsteps of the deceased
Samuel —who just a century ago penned his
“Speculations on the Source of the Hamp-
stead Ponds, with some Observations on the
Theory of Tittlebats” —could be found.
Lovers of the “Pickwick Papers” will be glad
to revive old memories through the imitative
art of the writer, and will find a deal of
amusement in the doings and observations
not only of the immortal founder of the club,
but of such old friends as Sam Weller, Tup-
man, Snodgrass, Jingle and others.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice (~co pt „ « Mile otaroolcr) uill U >«*“ g TZ““ta
isg riisr s*‘«rE: zpvvl.s
F.E.W.: Both lightweights, but done pretty
well P.V.C.: There’s a yarn in the gargoyle; but
why tell it in that roundabout way? Sans: The
goats are hardly worth yarding R.C.H.: Doesn’t
read true A.S.: A wooer like Johnnie almost
deserved to have the girl accept him Reo: Oh,
do cheer up! Mildred B.: “The Kangaroo Hunt”
is about as exciting as a chess match by letter. . . .
R.M.0.: Lacks feeling P. 8.: Very thin indeed.
E.L.: “While —oil,” “yes—impious” —what an
ear! E.R.A.: We expected Stumpy to fight and
you merely let him strike. Still, we’ve had the same
experience at the stadium.... Bellerive: A good rous-
ing start for the New Year: —
I’m a Captain bold of the bygone school,
Of the days of the sailing ships;
I’ve faced the brunt upon battered tubs
On long and buffeteding trips.
My right arnis numbed from a bad old wound,
A blow from a darn jib sheet ;
Red my nose from too much rum,
And chills from the briny sleet.
The last to quit when my ship went down,
A few miles from the coast of Spain;
Shoreward tossed by the frothy waves
I lived to set sail again.
I’ve had to curse and bully like hell
When afloat with a skulking crew,
Among ’em skunks of the dangerous type,
Whom cause mutiny to ensue.
L.G.H.: Just miss P.G.W.: “Captive” a bit
artificial Fanuel: Even a dream must ring true.
. ...G.8.: There’s an idea in the “Old Suburban
Home,” but you’ll have to make it more attractive
before it will'sell C. St. C. B.: Uninteresting
J.H.: 0ut....J.5.: Whiddon’s income-tax demands
quite cheered us up after reading your dismal lines. ...
W.J.T.: We are overloaded with gloom. . . .C.A.J.T.:
Same to you, only yours is gruesome. And it’s a
pity, because the setting appealed to u5....N.G.:
You want to sell your poem to buy books. Afraid
you’ll have to stick to the school library for a
few more years A.D.: We thought the song the
worst ever written, but your parody beats it
8.W.: Sixty-six lines of verse, including quotations
from Brady. Quotations passable P.C.: We find
no reason for disbelieving that was your first attempt.
Bourgeois: On the way ’ome in the post....
W.T-W.: “The Armenian Slave” does not move our
unspeakable hearts H.C.: Even a picture hero
doesn’t deserve to have 14 lines as bad as those
written about him.... J.S.: Your “Roads ’ go in
too many directions for us to take them... .Philmul:
Since your “nerves are not too good,” we will keep
our opinion of your verse to ourselves. . . .L.P.A.:
“The Geology Class” doesn’t win an exhibition....
T.11.M.: Don’t think much of your verse, but we
like your typewriting... .J.E.C.: Enclosed stamp
used Enough: Quite 0.P.: Your “Street
Singers” are as unmusical as most of their kind....
Glen Twent: “Pumpkin” needs a lot of ripening.
J.H.: Wish Marie well and trust she may find
a home elsewhere... .L.P.: What is “an ecstatic
catalepsy of retrospect” ?... .C.N.: Admit nobility of
horse, but put no money on him T.J.: No need
for those warnings to wowsers.. . .L.G.H.: Your short
story is too short, and yet not short enough. The
pome would be a pretty trifle for a valentine....
N.L.: It’s really a character sketch, and a pretty
good one, but we can’t fit it in M.L.: No market
for dreams and dancing cobras Kenn: Abo feheik
died of a black humor... .C.A.J.T.: History of
“Kanaka Tommy” does not make a story....H. ••
Can’t place Jackeroo diary. .. .K.W.: “Cherry Tree
cut down with office axe....A.0.: Shot at dawn....
Amac: Good dog, but the not-so-good story needs
closer linking up....W.P.: The denouement is rather
striking; the yarn is otherwise commonplace....
E.A.A.: Too discursive and too much cocktail....
G.C.L.: It saves type and temper to write the
bottle was “empty” instead of “it was drained of
its last crystal drop of life’s sustaining blood ....
W.W.F.: We were enjoying a happy New Year till
we read your verse... .D.L.: Even if the Brownies
did “work for R. L. Stevenson at night,” your
verse is too severe a punishment... .D.F.P.: Pool.
... .R.C.: Wreath ordered for the swaggie:—
His halting footsteps feebly made,
As slowly from him life doth fade
Away „ .
His shoulders stooped, he fell and lay
Upon the track, and at the sunset of the day
He passed away, „ ,
. ...W.T-W.: All miss... .Philo: Verse well done,
but commonplace ideas.... Ula: Your rhymes ai e
almost too bad to be true Norman C.: What,
aren’t those hooks worn out yet ?... . Elingarah: Good
material wasted. .. .F.G.: The end telephoned to say
it was corning.... Calcite: Cheero. Wait till were
50 W.R.P. (Tas.) : Much obliged to you, too
F.E.J.: Good idea, but not well worked out. For
instance, we don’t believe the young man would
talk at all like that E. J.: Call to the sea falls on
deaf ears. Tide’s 0ut.... Leatherwood: Suitable for
local evening paper.—C.L.S.: Submitted to
Woman’s Mirror. .. .W.P.: Too long, too loose, too
green F.11.W.: Must purge your style of mere
words before you can write an acceptable story
Willie W.: Send it to the paper that pub-
lished the yarn. Nine-tenths of our readers
wouldn’t know what you were talking about
C. and others: The “Should the G.P. Do His Own
Surgery?” debate is finished, unless the Macquane-
street man wants another word... .R.L.P.: Promised
well, but the ending isn’t well enough worked out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Pimm: It was a good egg when it was new-laid.
. .C.F.A.: One of them scrapes through. .. .Stan L.:
Try something cooling for the blood. In fact, try
anything that will stop your scratching C. J.:
An atrocity in pale-blue ink... .M.E.F.: The joke
didn’t raise a laugh. .. .E. 0.8.: The gag is out of
tune with the drawing A.R.: Your fondness for
your work has made you blind to its defects. .. .
D. :We want something more than mere daintiness;
the legend is ancient. .. .R.M.E.: A very ordinary
drawing and the week’s worst pun 0.A.L.: The
joke is doing service in a Sydney panto E.P.8.:
You’ll need to study Binghi more; your abos. would
pass for Zulus....A.J.: A pity the lion didn’t escape
while you were perpetrating “Drawn at the Zoo.”
.... H.N.: The charlady is a tack number.... K.G.:
You wil have to do miles better than that.


9
a
■■ E
■
m?:
...
V,
m
i
VI
** ..- .' -•; /> - . •
m
.
■ ’s®P
; ’ *
:
&•** -
V
--.•V
Hi
:
.
;
1
■
v?
V;.: <: ’■•
■
Iltip ■%.
■
■
■,
.
H
■
3
■***'"' ** 'PlllllH
Bf: 1
1
j
llliililljjl
SlitlSlfiSf
||pi*
3:: z ’ ;;:
«g3i:l»i;
■n
; 3:
1 H
>.«■■
|
.
- ~;
fl
«n
r - : -;> •-•*&•!
„■. - •
V , ?P-i-
YWt.
■;
» ■
->'
'
*
IWlillillll
.
■ ■
.


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2502.
January 2 i, 1928.
THE EAGLE AND THE ’ROO.
“The distilling of whisky is becoming an important industry in Australia. In addition to the Australian company already established, a company in which leading
British whisky manufacturers are interested will expend £200,000 in a distillery at North Shore.”
THE EAGLE: “Gee! No wonder that guy bounds!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia l'or the White Alan.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly'.
12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.; 3 months. Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence lo be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyriyht by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, vihetlier in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with A ustralian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.'e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-7!) Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.Jj; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, K.C.h ;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; ‘‘The British Australian and New
Zealander,” )1)-Ti Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; p. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benom Men's
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley: and
others.
Canada.- — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: lirentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street , New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West l/lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News
Stand, 5)1) South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Booh and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking lload,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S.- — K. Abdul Itahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram, and Sons, )) Chatham Street, Fort Colombo ;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Mctropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to lOoz., lkd.; each
additional hoz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1928.
J. BULL’S UNAPPRECIATED
BENEFACTOR.
The Commonwealth’s amended tariff, mild
though it is, has aroused a frenzy of pro-
test in parts of Great Britain, notably in the
district where the dingy cotton mills are
thick. The idea that Australia meant to
make some cotton goods for itself excited
the local press to a point at which it prac-
tically forgot that this is a self-governing
community. When it had exhausted its own
efforts, Harold Cox, editor of the Edinburgh
Review, was enlisted to curse hard, and
after the maner of Balaam and his talkative
ass he did his best. Cox is a typical Cam-
bridge product, ex-Liberal member, ex-
secretary of the Cobden Club, whose
habitual starting point is that Freetrade is
infallible; and when one assumes that either
Freetrade or the account of Creation in
Genesis is infallible he makes a false start.
The great man headed his lucubration:
“Preference Pretence Exposed: How the
Australian Tariffs Penalise Our Trade.” He
declared that Australians didn’t “play the
game,” and summed up the position thus:
“In many cases the duty on British goods
is deliberately fixed at a figure high enough
to shut them out. A still higher duty is
then imposed on foreign goods, and the differ-
ence is called a British preference. .. . We
are not going to alter our commercial policy
to meet the wishes of a Dominion which is
persistently engaged in setting up tariff walls
against Great Britain.”
And much more to the same effect, though
why Australia should want Great Britain to
alter its commercial policy was left un-
explained.
*l* sjc HS
The external trade of the United King-
dom is large and varied, and some of the
latest annual figures have a special interest
while this controversy is afoot:—
J. Bull’s J. Bull’s Balance in J.
Purchases. Sales. Bull’s Favor.
Australia .. £61,548,000 £65,841,000 £4,293,000
Balance against
J. Bull.
South Africa 46,988,000 33,909,000 13,079,000
Maoriland . . 44,073,000 27,264,000 16,809,u00
Canada . . 64,193,000 28,750,000 35,443,000
United States 229,600,000 73,796,000 155,804,000
World . . 1,242,864,000 777,458,000 465,406,000
The Old Man in London pays for this
great excess of purchases over sales mostly
by miscellaneous earnings abroad, which
were recently estimated as follows:
Income from shipping . . . . £130,000,000
Net income from Oversea Investments 185,000,000
Commissions . . .. . . . . 40,000,000
Miscellaneous .. . . . . . . 15,000,000
£370,000,000
When he is short he presumably eats up
a bit of his capital, like any other prodigal.
But none of the Old Man’s surplus spend-
ings come Australia’s way, except when we
borrow them and pay interest on them, and
often buy more British goods with them,
which is a very different matter from getting
the money for keeps, free of interest, and
in the ordinary course of trade. Among
the countries of importance which have the
power to make their own tariffs Australia
is one which, on the bare figures, has treated
the Old Man with conspicuous liberality.
The results are in no sense encouraging.
The Commonwealth has two sets of news-
paper advisers in the United Kingdom, be-
sides neutral friends and acquaintances. The
financial press says it must borrow less
money even though it (inevitably) buys
less goods because it is on the way to
bankruptcy. The manufacturing press says
that it will be a brute and an ingrate if
it doesn’t buy more goods even if it has
to borrow more money, and dash the bank-
ruptcy. As the anti-borrowing counsel tends
towards increase of both solvency and
local employment, it is the one to follow,
without a shadow of doubt. On last year’s
figures exports were so far short of meet-
ing outside liabilities that a reduction of
imports by £52,000,000 would just about
have made the position sound. The Per-
fect Freetrader says this sort of. position
can’t come to pass because it isn’t in his
old Adam SMiTH-ian textbooks. But it has
come to pass, and the single State of N. S.
Wales owes £160.000,000 abroad as evidence.
* * * *
The position of Great Britain itself is a
poor recommendation for the gospel of R.
Cobden. It may be able to pay for its
surplus of imports out of the resources
which it laid up for itself in better days,
instead of paying out of foreign loans as
Australia does, but the inrush of foreign
goods has a bad effect on the factories
where its own goods are made. It seems
impossible to make any permanent reduc-
tion in the number of unemployed, which
the “Daily Mail Year Book” for 1928 sets
at nearly 11 per cent, of the working popu-
lation constantly out of employment, or 21
per cent, out including those on temporary
stoppage. Meanwhile the United States,
with its record Protectionist tariff, prospers
greatly. Uncle is investing the surplus wealth
which he extracts, by his one-sided mode of
trading, from Britain, Australia and other
places, at a great rate. His foreign lend-
ings were about £200,000,000 per annum five
years ago. Last year they were over
£300,000,000, and the £400,000,000 mark is
not far away. J. Bull is reduced to send-
ing some of his own customers across to
the prosperous rival establishment. Uncle
is planning a record navy, which may be
handy to protect his world-wide interests
and to bring pressure to bear on dubious
customers, who are unavoidable at times,
the supply of indubitable customers being
limited. Altogether the world is moving
fast, but not in the direction that Cobden
anticipated. That seer reckoned that the
human race, after a brief spell of speechless
admiration, would rush to adopt Freetrade
unanimously, and the Harold Coxes of
England still regard him as infallible de-
spite his blunder.
SCHOOL OR RAGTIME?
A New-Year problem. The problem of
the parent: Where shall I send my son to
school?
The ideal school varies according to the
tastes and temperaments of those who
dream of it. Its Utopian qualities flourish
only in the imagination. It is obviously
an institution without masters, and quite
as obviously without subject boys. It is
also, from the dominie’s point, of view, a
school of pupils whose parents are so well
trained that they never presume to inter-
fere in school methods; or, better still, of
pupils who have no parents (especially no
fond mothers of youthful prodigies) to
express idiotic opinions or unreasonable
desires.
To me the ideal school is an association
of comrades of all ages in the adventures
of knowledge, folly, wisdom and effort, and
the development of the qualities of com-
plete manhood. It is a place of no excesses
in sport or work, but of impartial progress
and achievement in both. In most actual
schools there is a spiritual abyss between
masters and boys, between those who drive
and those who are driven, the two irrecon-
cilable parties in any human society. This
will be bridged in the ideal school so
that each party can venture freely into the
domain of the other. There will be the
kindly, sympathetic, fallible elder comrade.
It will be a place where masters never lose
their tempers nor boys their manners.
The school buildings must be suitable to
the needs of the institution. There must
be plenty of light and air. They must be
clean and bright. Environment has a subtle
effect upon the mind of the adolescents.
Surround them with things of beauty, cre-
ate an atmosphere of cheerfulness, dignity
and culture, and there will be an answer
from the scholars themselves. I have
noticed that a room affects the morale and
conduct of a whole series of classes. If
it is dark, or drab in appearance, its in-
habitants develop the complex of the
school slum, are fractious, lazy, destructive
and careless. They feel themselves im-
prisoned in a dungeon, and play up like
rebellious prisoners. If, on the other hand,
a room is well lit, well ventilated, has good
pictures or emblems on its walls, good fur-
niture and a general air of brightness and
life, the response is immediate and persis-
tent. The pupils feel themselves in a con-
genial workroom. Parents should inspect
school buildings with great care.
It is better for a school to be outside a
town than in its very midst. To send young
boys across a great city is to subject them
to those dangers to mind and body which
are a very real menace to-day. The ideal
school will be built in its own playing
grounds, away from the distractions and
temptations of the city. The noise and
movement of urban life undoubtedly
increase the difficulties of teaching, and dis-
perse the attention of pupils when the class-
room abuts upon a public thoroughfare.
Modern youth needs to exercise consistent
effort upon the work in hand, and if the
site of the school is unfavorable to concen-
tration it cannot be regarded as suitable to
education. And it will have its gardens
and should also have its own library,
museum and theatre as well as a complete
athletic and sporting equipment, giving a
catholic attention to all the needs of soul
and body.
An educational programme of this gener-
ous nature requires two factors: ample
endowments in the first place (there is
plenty of wealth in Australia for the pur-
pose) ; and then parents who comprehend
that the future of this Commonwealth lies
not in tin hares and politics, but with the
youthful spirit that pushes out roots into
the soil for nourishment and growth. No
slavish imitation of English or foreign
methods will suffice. There must be a
deliberate calculation of the needs of this
community in basic ideas and ideals. It
is obvious that our schools and methods,
generally speaking, are inadequate to pro-
duce a thinking and cultured democracy.
After decades of education and the blow-
ing of trumpets we have an urban public
which is frankly pleasure-seeking, living
upon a sensationalism fostered by a press
whose main object is circulation by any
means. So long as the masses avoid men-
tal effort and greedily seek the titillation of
the senses and appetites, the purveyors of
amusement will naturally provide them
with what they want. Fortunes are being
made by those who corrupt youth and sap
the thinking powers of the democracy.
These are phenomena which those in con-
trol of education should come to estimate
and attempt to modify.
The soi-disant Great Public Schools have
pinned their faith to sport. In theory they
give equal attention to sport and study. In
fact, it is quite evident that, as these in-
stitutions in most of the States are with-
out effective endowment, and almost wholly
dependent upon the capricious favor of
adolescents who exert an extraordinary
influence upon parental choice and judg-
ment, sport must be the predominating
factor. Hardly a Great Public School in
Australia can afford to do badly in the com-
petitions upon which the eyes of the
public are directed. Endowment is the
only means which can substitute an educa-
tional scheme concerned with noble national
objects for what is now a ragtime melody of
sports and the Chinese idiocies of exami-
nations.
FRANCIS JACKSON.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tiger at Large.
The New York Times, one of the U.S.A.’s
(and the world’s) greatest newspapers,
lately reported:—
“Gangsters and their murderous operations
have secured such a firm grip upon various
large cities, notably New York. Chicago,
Philadelphia and St. Louis, that the Federal
Government is alarmed at the practically
complete breakdown of the law, and has de-
cided that it must take a hand in checking
the menace.”
Chicago is seeing unabashed murderers go
free every week, because witnesses are in-
timidated or “put away.” New York is “the
headquarters of a gang of criminals which
is collecting heavy tribute in all the prin-
cipal cities through liquor, vice and gam-
bling operations.” Even the chivalrous and
aristocratic South plays its part. In Ten-
nessee the county and sheriff’s police
fought a pitched battle on Christmas Day
on a question of status, several being
killed and wounded on each side. And m
the West things are so lively that Texas is
offering a standing reward of 1000 dollars
for every dead train- or bank-robber.
The mixed character of America’s popu-
lation may be the underlying cause of the
extraordinary welter of violent crime and
wholesale lawlessness before which even the
Federal Government finds itself helpless.
But the same tendency is evident among
other peoples, though not in quite the same
degree. It can even be observed in Australia,
whefe the increase of crimes of the more
murderous type has been out of all ratio
to the growth of population and the steady
decrease in general criminality. It cannot
escape notice that these manifestations
have become most alarming among peoples
who have been overdosed with “the sacred
right of the individual to liberty of con-
science,” with the implied patent to indulge
in anything on which his fancies seize,
from pitch and toss to manslaughter.
Where this doctrine has been upheld most
fervently the individual citizen has grown
most freely to confuse the liberty of the
subject with the liberty of the tiger.
The spirit is seen in the everyday claim
of the individual, or a combination of in-
dividuals, to hold up the activities of the
whole or part of the nation because of
slighted feelings or the imagined infringe-
ment of what he or they choose to regard
as an unalienable right. The same idea
shows its effects in vicious crime and in
studied rebellion against order and re-
straint.
Here, no less than in America, there is
an insistent need of a strict curtailment of
that alleged liberty in whose name so many
crimes and follies are being perpetrated.
National and social government ahd con-
trol needs to become more sternly paternal,
instead of rapidly becoming grandmotherly
to the limits of senility.
♦
This Broadcasting.
Last year saw enormous strides in wireless.
Whole concerts, performed in Britain, were
picked up by Australian stations and re-
layed to their subscribers. The results
were not altogether satisfactory because of
“fading”; but experiments have shown that
fading tends to be eliminated when broad-
casting occurs from several points at once.
It is pretty certain, therefore, that soon it
will be as easy to send a concert through
the air to this country as it is to send a
film play through the post. The so-called
isolation of the continent will be broken
down in a direction never contemplated a
dozen years ago.
Isolation is supposed to be a bad thing
and rubbing shoulders with other countries
is always alleged to be a good one. Isola-
tion is usually given as the reason why
the Australian aborigine remained what he
was through thousands of years, although
since he has rubbed shoulders with a civi-
lised race for over a century he hasn’t notice-
ably improved. The contact of one cul-
ture wdth another is also said to be the
cause of all the great renaissances in history.
But, despite these ancient platitudes, there
may be virtue in a certain degree of isolation,
and there may be evil in too close contact
with one’s neighbors. It can’t be said that
Australia has altogether profited by being
such an easy mark for the American film.
It isn’t altogether a matter for congratula-
tion that, owing to cheap and rapid com-
munication, out of 41 new plays presented
in this country last year, only one was
Australian-made.
And there will be small cause for rejoic-
ing if the radio-ear of the nation, about
the only organ not yet completely mono-
polised by people from overseas, is to be
captured by foreign voices. The golden age
of Greece is quoted as an example of the
beneficent effects of a clash of cultures.
But Greece did not import Egyptian archi-
tects to build her temples or Gyppo sculp-
tors to make her statues. There is no
record of syndicates of Egyptian capitalists
covering the land of the Hellenes with
chains of theatres for the exclusive use of
the playwrights of the Nile. What the
Greek did was to pass the ideas of the
occasional foreigner he came in contact
with through his own intelligence and pro-
duce something different—and usually better
—of his own. That is the Greek lesson
for Australia.
♦
What’s the Matter with Trotsky?
Leo Trotsky, the man who organised the
Soviet Red Army and for years held place
in the government of the new Russia
second only to Lenin, has fallen upon evil
times. He is always either to be banished,
being banished or refusing to be banished.
What is the matter with him?
He is the most inveterate, dyed-in-the-
wool, confirmed Communist that the world
has ever seen. He forgets nothing; learns
nothing; recants nothing. He knows that
Communists are the only folk who are fit
to be trusted with the business of govern-
ment. That is a principle which Lenin
and he imposed at the outset upon the
remarkable constitution of the Russian
Soviets. But, unfortunately for himself, he
is a Communist who sticks to Communism.


He subscribes to whatever it was that
Lenin taught in the first fine careless rap-
ture of the Revolution. He disapproved
entirely of the compromises between Com-
munism and Capitalism that Lenin deemed
necessary in order to save the nation from
starving to death, and he remains uncon-
verted. He has accused Stalin and
Rykoff of truckling to bourgeois senti-
ment. He hates the idea of democracy,
and heartily endorses the view that pre-
conceived notions of morals and ethics
must not be allowed to interfere with the
job of putting the proletariat under the
control and guidance of true Communists.
The only conclusion seems to be that
it isn’t popular in the Great Communist
State to be too much of a Communist. In
short, Communism is discovered to be a
medicine which makes people well by not
taking it.
The Right to Live.
“Man o’ Kent” : There is some excuse for
“Eromeno’s” outburst (B. 29/12/’27) if he,
as an out-back casual worker, has done only
17 weeks’ work out of a possible 52. Let
me, as a small employer of labor, or rather
a would-be employer, tell why he hasn't
had more.
On a very hot day, not many weeks ago,
I was trying to cart four acres of oaten-
hay single-handed, which means that I had
to pitch it on to the (Jray, get up and level
it, then throws up a few more forks full,
and up again. When loaded I had to pitch
it into a loft, and repeat the operation
there. A two-handed job if ever there was
one; and as I said before, it was a hot day,
and I am 61.
About mid-day a young fellow about 30
came to me and asked if I could give him
a job, if only for a couple of days. He
told me he was a returned soldier, four
years at the war, and had been on the road
four and a half months. He was no weak-
ling and certainly no waster, and he looked
100 per cent, efficient for any farm work,
and just the man to lend me the help that
I wanted. Yet I had to say: “1 am sorry.
I might give you a job to-day and next
week find myself in gaol,” and he agreed
that it was so. Not only that, but he said
he had been told the same at nearly every
place he had applied for work. To my
great regret, I had to let him go away,
simply because there are so many pitfalls
for an employer; and as ignorance is no
defence, the only way to avoid trouble is
to do your own work.
If I had given this man the two days’
work that he asked for, I should have paid
him 15s. a day and fed him. At night he
would have had the best room in the house
to sleep in, and generally the best treat-
ment I could give him, as a returned soldier
deserves. At the same time I should have
laid myself open to prosecution for:—
(a) Employing a workman without hav-
ing him insured (Workmen’s Compensation
Act). (b) Paying above or below award rate
for a casual worker (Rural Workers’
Award), (c) Employing a non-unionist
when a member of the A.W.TJ. was unem-
ployed. (He told me he’d been obliged to
let his ticket run out.) (d) Providing too
much or too little cubic feet of air for an
employee (Rural Housing Act).
I am a farmer, not a lawyer, and like thou-
sands of others I am afraid nowadays to
move where it is a question of employing
anybody.
If the object of Labor Governments has
been to hit at the employer, they have
only partly succeeded; but they have
wholly succeeded in robbing workmen of
their jobs.
♦
From Lambing Flat to Shanghai.
The “reformed” N.S.W. Labor party, from
which Mutch, Evatt, Loughlin, Cann,
Murphy and Conroy, sometime president
of the A.L.P. executive, have been cast
out, is to hold a Country Conference, “the
first under the new rules,” at Young on
January 26. Young has been chosen, it
seems, because it was “the birthplace of
the Labor movement in N. S. Wales and
of the White Australia policy,” and because
the new Labor executive, in the words of
the latest successor to the chucked-out
Conroy, is anxious “to maintain the tra-
ditions of the basic principles of freedom
on which the Labor movement is founded.”
The meaning of this is rather elusive, but
it sounds well.
Another conference in which the N.S.W.
Labor bosses are interested will be held
about the same time. But at this there
will be no fervid oratory in praise of the
Lambing Flat miners who raised the stan-
dard of revolt against cheap Chinese labor,
for the delegates will be nearly all Asiatics
and semi-Asiatics, and it is to take place
at Shanghai. It will be “the first meeting
of the Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secre-
tariat,” according to the Sydney Labor
Daily, and the Australian Labor delegate
is a certain Mr. J. Ryan. Mr. Ryan, who
left Sydney by the Mishima Maru, is de-
scribed as “secretary of the Labor Research
and Information Bureau.” In China he
will represent “the Australasian Council of
Trade Unions, which affiliated to the Pan-
Pacific Secretariat some time ago.” The
“purpose” of this “Secretariat” is “to organ-
ise the workers of all countries bordering
on the Pacific in order to raise their stan-
dard of living”—by Chinese emigration to
Australia perhaps?—“and to prevent war.”
If the conferences synchronise, as they pro-
bably will, the Shanghai crowd are sure to
send fraternal greetings to the comrades a..
Young. It will be one way of avenging
Lambing Flat-or rubbing it in, if the bec-
retariat” considers that Lambing Hat hao
been avenged already.
♦
Railless Trollies or Motor-’buses.
Dear Bulletin, —In setting out the advan-
tages of the railless trolly, as compared
with the tramcar or the motor- bus, 1 Ri-
ferric” (B. 5/1/’2B) naively informs us,
inter alia, that a railless trolly needs no
rails, and can pick up and set down passen-
gers at the kerb. But a motor-’bus needs
no rails, either, and also can handle its
passengers at the kerb. And if a roadway
happens to be “up”—a contingency by no
means rare—a motor service can easily be
diverted to another route.
It is true that railless trollies are oper-
ating in Leeds; but when “Triferric” tells
us they have “proved very successful
there, his assertion is contradicted by the
English “Municipal Year Book.” From that
source we gather that the Leeds corpora-
tion’s net loss last year, including interest
charges, totalled £5358. Leeds is, in fact,
gradually doing away with its railless trol-
lies and' putting motor-’buses in their place.
In the whole of the U.K. there are only
65 miles of route (split up among 17 muni-
cipalities) on which railless trollies are now
operating; whereas Birmingham alone has
covered more than 60 miles of route \\ ith-
THE EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCE.
THE LAW: “What! Knocked down an old lady while you were under the influence of
liquor! You deserve eighteen months at least!”
ACCUSED: “But, your Honor, I was driving a motor-car when it happened.”
THE LAW: “Oh, that’s different —you must he more careful. Fined thirty shillings.”
in the city boundaries with a fleet of 150
motor-’buses.
Traffic congestion is to a large extent a
question of flexibility, and the motor- bus is
flexible in every respect, and therefore pre-
ferable to either a tramcar or a railless
trolly-car.—Yours, etc., T.M.
Pin Money v. Meal Money.
Dear Bulletin,— “Conscripted Sister”
makes a very good plea for the woman who
works because she must. But there are
others. The firm I was with replaced me by
two girls. I am a married man rearing two
little Australians. I was out of work for
a long time and had to give up the house
I was buying on t.-p. My wife, going as a
single woman, got a part-of-the-day job
helping with work in a big house. Two of
the three daughters in this place went to
business. The mother told my wife
no need to do it, but wanted more “pin
money”! . , . . .
To the women in men’s jobs who are
keeping dependants I take off my lid, even
though I have had a bad spin. But how is
it that the majority of feminine office
workers are able to spend so much on fur
coats and other expensive dress? If em-
ployers paid women the same money as
men for the same class of work it would
be a different thing.
When I think of the bitter struggle my
wife and I have had, I am often inclined to
wish the present social system smashed.—
Yours, etc., G.M.
House-oivning as an Obsession.
Dear Bulletin,— There is a wonderful lot
of horse-sense in “J.E.’s” contribution (B.
12/l/’2B) on “House-owning Regarded as an
Obsession.” Take the case of my brother
and me. He has always had the obsession,
and when we each came into £5OO some
time ago, he put his into a deposit on a
house on the North Shore line, and
arranged mortgages for the balance. He
certainly has a very nice house, but it is
well in the white-elephant class. Forced
into horticulture by the public opinion of
his neighbors, he grows much of his own
food-stuff, and I am ready to admit that it
does not cost him more than twice as much
as he could buy it for. If he wants a day
at Manly, it costs him the best part ol a
quid to transport his family there and
back. It costs him a lot of money to keep
up with his suburban society. His week-
ends and holidays are all spent in his
garden or at odd jobs about the house.
And the rustle of the mortgages keeps him
awake at nights.
For me, I decided to spend my £5OO on
a car. It didn’t cost me that because I
touched the agent for £25 commission for
cash. I still pay rent for my house. It
belongs to a widow and some orphans, and
owing to the operation of a beneficent Fair
Rents Act, she has to take the same rent
as she was getting in 1915, and she can t
get me out so long as I do pay the rent,
and anyhow she is afraid to do anything
in the law line, having been well trimmed
by the solicitors to the estate. Conse-
quently, I am paying about half the pre-
sent market value of the place, which is
much cheaper than buying it. I don't
spend my week-ends grooming cabbages and
pruning snails—and it is much cheaper to
pick up what fruit we want along the road-
side when out with the car.
The car has improved my business, and
jmakes it easy to take a holiday whenever
an opportunity offers. lam not tied to the
one house or the one district: and if credi-
tors get pressing, it doesn’t keep me awake.
The car and furniture belong to my wife,
and I have no other assets to worry about.
And it is better both for me and the kids
to spend every week-end in the country or
at the sea than tied to one infernal sub-
urb. And being gypsies, no one expects us
to entertain.
No, thanks; you don’t leg-rope me to
bricks and mortar, even if the Government
advances 100 per cent, of the price.—Yours,
Fitzwilliam.
♦
A Yankee Navy and Mr. Bedford.
"Matt Lowe”: Randolph Bedford, to
whom may the gods grant vision, is almost
brilliant in his misquotation of history to
bolster up his Yankophile sentiments (B.
5/l/’2B). Britain has quite a lot of “inter-
national prestige” and one has no need to
go further than the nearest bank to see its
“outward and visible signs.”
So “democracies are the last to enter wars
of aggression.” If this refers to U.S.A.,
why include the words “of aggression”?
Their omission would make the statement
true of U.S.A. in respect to the late war, not
otherwise. Only in reference to France in
1870 and Germany since 1860 is Mr. Bedford
accurate. All of his pro-American refer-
ences are wrong. U.S.A. fought Spain to
protect Yankee lives and trade interests in
Cuba. When she had consolidated her
interests in Cuba and the Philippines and
set. up Governments that gave her all the
first preferences, then only did America
grant these islands a strictly supervised
autonomy. In this she has followed the
time-honored precedents of all European
nations. „ , ~ ,
When it is a matter of trade the Yank
is as much an imperialist as the German oi
the Briton. Has Mr. Bedford never heard
of Texas or the Mexican wars ? Ihe
acquisition of Texas and New Mexico were
as arrant steals as anything Britain ever
accomplished in Asia or Africa. What of
the Oregon and Venezuela affairs, hi the
former row the Yankee was just as jmgo-
istic” as the Briton has ever been, witness
the cry “Fifty-four forty or fight.
America has discovered in a scoie of dis-
putes that she can bluff John Bull and
that there is a very large body of pro-
American feeling in Britain, largei than
any pro-British sentiment in America.
Naturally she exploits the advantage and
does the same by Australia.
Certainly Australia could herself remedy
such ills as she suffers at America’s hands.
That she does not do so is probably due
to the unreasoning propaganda of our
Bedfords. Why any sensible Australian
should assume that America might, even
might, aid this country in any hour of trial
is quite beyond my conception. There is
nothing in history, American or otherwise,
to bear out such a charitable assumption.
As for that great, big, semi-manned
Yankee navy— with Canada in pawn to
U.S.A. and japan quite incapable of more
than a raid on California or a disturbance
of American trade in China, there is no-
thing to explain it but national egoism and
bluff.
+
The Slaughter of Billy Bluegum.
“Toonooba”: The official announcement of
the slaughter in Queensland of 597,985
koalas for skins valued at £139,595, sup-
posedly the result of an open season of one
month, came as a shock to those whose in-
difference was largely responsible for the
butchery. To those interested it had long
been obvious that, had the open period
been one week only, the half-million nguie
would still have been reached. Inevitably,
under the present loose administration of
the laws the whole of the winter months
were unofficially “open.” In this district
(Coastal Central), infringements of the laws
were legion. The sales of acetylene motor-
cycle lamps were phenomenal; the demand
for potassium cyanide resulted in disreput-
able traders retailing the commodity for as
much as 15s. per lb.; when it became known
that certain case-hardening products con-
tained a high percentage of cyanide, stocks
were rapidly depleted.
Considered dispassionately, it appears im-
probable that short spasmodic open periods
could effect the extinction of the koala.
The danger lies in the wholesale law-break-
ing, amounting to unrestricted slaughter
spread over a long period which unforfu-
nately comprises the breeding season, io
combat this there must be more severe
penalties and a more stringent enforcement
of the law.
“Sol. Malaprop”: I have just read the last
instalment of F. W. Peabody’s appeal to
President Caesar Coolidge and his Govern-
ment, about their remorseless efforts to col-
lect the last penny of debt from their ruined
colleagues of the war. One feature of it
should make even Coolidge feel bad. It is
a reminder that France, and in a minor
degree Spain, which came in with France
possibly because the two monarchies were
in the same family, saved the United States
in its much-boasted "W ar of Independence.
France sent ships, money and men— but it
didn’t send a bill. In addition to despatch-
ing aid across the Atlantic the two Powers
harried Britain in European waters. In
fact, France and Spain took the war oft
Uncle’s hands and out of his territory just
when it was going badly for Uncle, the
disastrous Gates having mislaid practically
a whole army at Camden, and the crop oi
disasters being fairly thick otherwise.
♦
To make Sydney harbor safer it has been
suggested that a system of leading lights
and beacons should be instituted. Nothing of
the sort should be done without the grav-
est consideration. In the opinion of some
most experienced mariners such a scheme
would make the navigation of the harbor a
nightmare. In a harbor where natural
topographical features are exceedingly well
defined and easy for a total stranger with
a chart to pick up, artificial beacons and
marks are totally unnecessary. They are
only wanted to lead clear of the edges of
shoals. The existing narrowness of the
harbor in various places is in danger of
being made narrower still under such a
plan.
“The Ringer”: “Sleeper” (B. 24/11/’27)
tells The Bulletin that its idea of laying
a third rail on the Transcontinental narrow-
gauge can’t be carried into effect because
there is nowhere to put a third rail. It is
“Sleeper” who doesn’t know. Having laid
down some miles of that line from Emun-
galan to Daly Waters, I can certify that
there is room enough. We used steel
sleepers on which the rails were clipped. On
one end was bored another hole to take a
clip for the rail of the standard gauge. Two
men would be able to alter some miles of
this line from 3ift. to 4ft. in a day.
It would only be necessary to unscrew a
length, bar it over and rescrew it down at
the standard length.


Holiday Motorists
V*
am
n » r
, i :
m
MX
'iWa
SP*
*5
s*.
Insist on SHELL
Be as safe and certain on tour as you are in the city.
The identical Shell Oils and Shell Spirit are available
wherever you go. Therefore, insist on SHELL—always 1
The Anti-Carbon Pair
Motor
Oils
ŵ
Motor
Spirit
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COMPANY LIMITED THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
5399
POLITICAL POINTS
A sharp point in the matter of wool felt
hats has put the Customs Department into
active motion. It is that hats are made in
Italy and elsewhere, trimmed in England, and
exported here under the tariff preference
clause as “75 per cent. British,” the excuse
being that the wool was grown in Australia.
The Customs decision is that there is no
proof of the wool being Australian, and as
this country grows only a quarter of the
world’s supply of sheep-fluff it probably
isn’t; and in any case Australian wool isn’t
British. As the bill for imported hats and
caps grew from £285,241 in 1921-22 to
£869,905 in 1926-27, there is something to be
suspicious about.
A few years ago the idea of Australia
growing enough rice for its own require-
ments, which are considerable, would have
been dismissed as fantastic. Last year, how-
ever, 5000 acres were planted with rice
on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Areas, and
the yield was worth £50,000. This season,
the Commonwealth Parliament having come
to light with a Protective duty, 13,000 acres
are under rice. What has been done in the
case of rice can be done in the case of
tobacco. And by dispensing with imports of
unmanufactured tobacco alone we would keep
in the country from £2,000,000 to £3,000,000
per year.
Vic. Labor was very scornful about gov-
ernment by commission when it was the
State Opposition, but office has made such
a difference that Bruce’s record is threatened.
Since the Hogans came in such troublesome
issues as freezing-works, dairying and the
price of bread and other foods have been
passed on to commissions and the like.
Another subject investigated for many days
was the strapping of a 14-year-old boy. Now
there is to be an inquiry into railway-
finance and management.
The manyth deputation called on the
N. S. Wales Government the other day to
ask it to start loan works to “absorb the
unemployed.” The reply was that all the
loan money which could be raised, including
the recent £7,000.000, was doing its darnedest,
and that all the unemployed who could
be absorbed were absorbed already. It is
a pity that “Jock” Garden’s crowd doesn’t
start some co-operative workshops and make
a few things. That might relieve the
pressure. When a country, inside seven
years, imports £60,000,000-worth more than
it exports it is pawning its soul and pos-
terity’s body and soul to keep itself out of
work.
Harvest reports are so good in Westralia
that the Labor Government —now almost an
agrarian Government —has hopes that the
35-million-bushel estimate will be exceeded.
Westralia will easily lead in wheat produc-
tion this year, and it aims at retaining
its supremacy when seasons are normal in
the other wheat-producing States. Compara-
tively cheap land, railways which cost little
more than £5OOO per mile to construct and
equip, and the advantage of being from four
to eight days nearer the African, European
and British markets are helping Agricultural
Minister Troy’s dream to come true.
Miss Eunice Hurst, a Sydney Conserva-
torium girl, made such a musical reputation
that a New York college of music offered her
a professorship. But because she would have
been “in excess of the quota” or something
like that (the quota is 273 Australians p.a.,
or thereabouts) she was prevented from land-
ing. A little reciprocity in the shutting-
out business might do Uncle a lot of good.
Five million feet of Follywood film could be
barred, for a beginning.
It is vaguely mooted that the people may
presently be invited to amend the Consti-
tution so that the Federal Parliament will
have power to subdivide over-large States
like Queensland, Westralia and N.S.W. by
its own act. In this connection it may be re-
called that the Queensland Assembly once
passed a motion for subdivision of its part
of Australia into three. It would be a pleas-
ing diversion if the Federal Parliament
passed a bill for such a subdivision, with some
arrangement attached for dealing with the
railway problem. Still, the best thing would
be to put a demon of energy into the work of
getting enough people into the N. Territory
to warrant the making there of one or two
new States.
Victoria’s Hogan Government hung behind
most of its contemporaries in the matter of
railway economies, but the next deficit pro-
mises to be a million at least, and slump
is a law unto itself. So there arose talk of
some dismissals or else reduced time. The
railway union offered no advice or sugges-
tion, but told the Ministry with the usual
vigor that the basic wage is too small,
that Government work must be found for
the unemployed, and that there must be no
retrenchment. The ejection of the Hogans was
also mooted. When a Cabinet which is a
good servant of Labor falls sick it may be
a wise plan to kick it to death in order to
promote its recovery—-or, again, it may not.
It is reported that Workman, Clark and
Co., of Belfast, who used to build about
72,000 tons of new shipping per annum, have
closed and turned 8000 men adrift. The last
order had been finished. Some time back it
was reported that there were 241,700 ship-
wrights in the United Kingdom, as shown by
the insurance registers, and 404 out of every
1000 were jobless. J. Bull had 1,295.000
tons under construction on New Year’s Day,
1925, and only 760,000 tons on the same glad
occasion, 1927. Freetrade and the dole work
wonders.
Before the Bruce-Pagss go to the country
electoral boundaries will have to be altered
in some of the States. The job should have
been done in N.S.W. before the last election,
when, taking electorates which adjoin, there
were 54,438 qualified people in Barton and
42,055 in Cook, 51,478 in South Sydney and
39,212 in West Sydney. Population is in-
creasing greatly in residential districts like
Barton and South Sydney, whereas in indus-
trial districts like Cook and West Sydney it
hardly increases at all.
The alterations which ought to be made
in electorates, on account of changes in popu-
lation, before next election will benefit
Ley, the Nationalist member for Barton,
since Tempe, his worst subdivision, adjoins
St. Peters, in Cook. And the elder Riley
will suffer if Redfern, or most of it, is
taken from South Sydney and tacked on to
Surry Hills in West Sydney. The veteran’s
majority last time was only 982.
For some reason or other the Freetrader
concentrates his most intense bitterness on
the Australian agricultural implement indus
try, and the tales to the farmer about the
cheap machinery he would have if all duties
were abolished are heartrending. Then how
is it that Freetrade England doesn’t supply
the Australian with most of the farm mach-
inery he does import? Last year Canada
supplied £361,591 worth ; the United States,
also a Protectionist country, sent us £251,263
worth. Britain, which is a Freetrade coun-
try and is in a poor way, weighed in to the
value of a humble £100,006.
W. H. Edgar, when occupying the chair
of Vic. Uppercut Chamber as Deputy-Presi-
dent, gave his casting vote for the third read-
ing of the Postponement of Payments Bill
just before Christmas, The Chamber of
Commerce, trustee cos. and others have now
discovered that the Act goes much further
than was intended —provision of 14 months’
respite for drought-stricken settlers and for
fruitgrowers whose crops were frost-bitten.
It is contended that almost anybody in about
one-fourtli of Vic. can avail himself of the
moratorium, however undeserving. This
interpretation of the measure is denied by its
authors, but the litigious possibilities are
delighting the lawyers.
Nobody hears nowadays anything of
the betterment-tax which early Labor men
were so keen about. Yet there has been
fine scope for it lately. Heaven only knows
how much the Sydney Harbor Bridge has
already added to the market value of pro-
perty around Wynyard-square, where, so to
speak, the bridge comes to earth. Less than
20 years ago Pfahlert’s Hotel was offered to
a little syndicate of lunchers there for under
£40,000. Later on J. N. Grace (Grace
Bros.) paid £47,000 for it. After he and
a couple of others had made big lumps of
profit it was sold last week for something
well over £lOO,OOO to the British Imperial
Oil people. No improvements have been
made on the premises; the added value is
all due (apart from the change in money
values) to public expenditure in the
neighborhood.
It is cabled that Uncle Sam has put
2000 of his Prohibition agents through an
intelligence test, and 1500 “proved to be men-
tally deficient.” They mostly fell on the ques-
tion, "If you, as a revenue agent, came on
a truckload of barrels of whisky which had
been deserted on a lonely road many miles
from the nearest source of help, what would
you do?” The obvious answer was that the
officer would anticipate a rescue by boring a
hole in each barrel and spilling the contents.
But the majority obviously had doubts
whether they wouldn't be regarded as men-
tal deficients if they missed the chance of
driving the truck furiously to the man wffio
bought the previous consignment. Anyway,
they declined to commit themselves.
Opponents of the Hogan Government keep
on asserting that Victoria is being deliber-
ately kept short of police. They ignore or
are unaware of the change brought about by
the development of motor patrols equipped
with wireless. A case in point is the policing
of the road round Port Phillip; the big
Lancias doing their 70 or 80 m.p.h. can
sweep from one end to the other of this
thoroughfare before the average village bobby
can walk a block. Still, some people who
pose as friends of the Government would
like to use the alleged shortage as a means
of pushing the dismissed strikers back into
their jobs.
The Bruce-Pages are beginning to pay (or
to make others pay) for their monumental
folly in undertaking to find £20,000,000,
spread over 10 years, for State road construc-
tion, which was none of their business. If
they hadn’t tied themselves up with that 10
years’ contract there would have been no
occasion for the questionable kind of econ-
omy they have been practising. There is room
for economy certainly, and the royal com-
mission business would be a good thing to
start on; but Australia gains nothing when
hundreds of skilled workers are turned adrift
from the Post and Telegraph Department
and operations are curtailed on the Northern
Territory railway while Federal money is
lavished on State roads which are more or
less political. It is notorious that the Bruee-
Page benevolence has been availed of to pack
doubtful electorates with Labor-unionists,
who were voters first and road-workers after-
wards, in at least two States.
John Bull in 1926 paid away to parties
abroad £11,510,000 for dishes and glassware;
£29,535,000 for manufactured goods of iron
and steel; £37,113,000 for manufactured
goods made from other metals; £6,571,000
for cutlery and hardware; £3,783,000 for
electrical goods and apparatus; and
£12,740.000 under the general head of mach-
inery. The labor in making these things re-
presented most of their cost; and still John
Bull wonders why he has so many unem-
ployed to either maintain or export—or bury.
Bruce is supposed to be keen on regaining
the services of Victor Wilson, as a Senator
if not as a Minister, but obstacles are
accumulating. The relations between the
S. Aus. Cocky and Liberal party organisa-
tions are not as good as they were, and there
may be no election agreement this year.
Then when the “economy campaign” was
launched S. Aus. was told that it would have
to do without the Port Augusta-Redhill rail-
way till conditions improved, that work on
the line to Daly Waters was to be stopped,
and that it would gratify the Government by
waiving its right to the early construction
of the line to Alice Springs, the Bruee-Gunn
agreement notwithstanding. This made it
appear that S. Aus. was expected to be
“the mug” in these affairs, as a matter of
course. And it has had enough of being “the
mug.”
When Industrious Busybody Piddington,
of N.S.W., handed out his rural workers’
basic wage without hearing evidence he cre-
ated an atmosphere of trouble. The average
farmer has no copy of the award, and doesn’t
know- -where to get it, and has doubts about
understanding its complications if he had it.
Safety lies in not employing the casual job-
seeker. and then if the travelling delegate
chances along he can’t object to the terms
of employment. So the workless are pretty
thick on the roads. Seventy of them lately
assembled at the little irrigation town of
Leeton, and the travelling delegate turned up,
but work didn’t materialise.
Bitter cry of the Sydney Labor Daily,
organ of Lang, Willis and Badly:—
The appalling spectre of unemployment is each
day swelling in its dimensions throughout N.S.W.
Almost every industrial union finds an increase in
its out-of-work list, which is a grave reflection on
the boasted prosperity of the State under a Nationalist
Government.
Well, Lang, Willis and Badly ran N.S.W
from the middle of June, 1925, to the end of
October, 1927. They passed heaps of Labor
legislation, including the Forty-four Hour
Week Act (one of the arguments for that
measure was that it would “make work” for
thousands), and conferred “Good Old Piddo”
on the workers, along with the tin hare,
night trotting and kindred blessings. They
started “a vigorous public works policy,”
and added £17,931,000 to the State debt last
year by way of keeping it going. Also, they
smote the “capitalist” with four lots of addi-
tional taxation, beginning with another six-
pence on the income-tax. No wonder unem-
ployment has become “appalling.” What
else could Lang-Willis-Badly expect?
For years Labor has made out a special
case for the protection of dairymen’s em-
ployees. It has been demonstrated that men
employed on the cow-farin work longer hours
and are worse paid than any other class.
Labor not only pointed out the disease but
was ready with the remedy—let the case
come to arbitration. The other day it came
to arbitration —the Queensland Board of
Trade dealt with rural-workers, and to the
astonishment of everybody an award was
given which expressly omitted dairying. The
truth is Labor is losing faith in its old nos-
trums, and its leading men know that the
award remedy is no remedy at all—that an
industry can't pay more than it earns, and
the chief effect of ordering it to pay more is
the wholesale sacking of hands.
Inter-State trading will continue to be
hamstrung until it is made easier to collect
the small debt owed by a buyer in one State
to, say, a manufacturer in another. The law
is fairly satisfactory so far as the collection
of large amounts is concerned ; it is in con-
nection with the small debts that the inter-
state trader slips. It is not a matter with
which the Bruce-Pages can deal; it is chiefly
a matter for Bavin and his legal offsider
Boyce.
Alfred Meeks, a man of great commercial
tonnage, recently returned from London in
an optimistic mood :
Business men in London expressed astonishment
that Australia did not make better known the fact
that her savings bank deposits showed greater pros-
perity than any other country. .. . Deposits aggregated
about £200,000,000.
It is pleasant to meet an optimist, and as a
matter of fact this country has over 204 mil-
lions on deposit in its savings banks and
over 343 millions in other banks. In 1925-26,
where the complete figures end, deposits of
all sorts grew by £29,000,000. But the public
debts increased by £48,0<X),000, of which
£39,000,000 is payable abroad in gold. If it
is thrift to borrow and spend 39 millions
in gold and put 29 millions of paper into the
bank, then the Australian community is a
shining example. When one thinks of it,
bank deposits reached their top about 1891.
The U.S. Secretary for the Navy came
out on January 12 with a dazzling pro-
gramme of warship construction, to run to
71 new ships, with the assurance that when
it was completed there would be another
programme to follow. Yet, according to the
“Daily Mail Year Book”
As the result of large war programmes and enorm-
ous naval expennditure since the war, the United
States navy is now superior to the British in numbers,
and far superior in naval aircraft, in which direction
itn recent development has been astonishing. The
estimates for 1926-27 provided for an expenditure
of £66,000,000, and for a force of about 110,000
officers and men.
It is added that in 1926 the United States
had 891 fighting airships against Britain’s
140, and that its coastal fortifications are
“the strongest in the world.” Those at the
Panama Canal are described as “the most
formidable works yet constructed by man.”
What Uncle wants all the new ships for is
a moot point. One object in view may be to
beguile Uncle’s chief industrial and commer-
cial rival into a naval competition which
Uncle can stand much better than the rival.
There are acres of space for conjecture.
J. Bull has distorted notions concerning
his overseas Dominions. At the opening of
the Imperial Research Conference in Octo-
ber, Guinness, Minister of Agriculture, told
the assembled delegates blandly that “in the
vast Dominions about 80 per cent, of the
population make their livelihood by culti-
vation of the soil.” If so, they do it sur-
reptitiously. In Australia the number of
workers in all primary industries is under
14 per cent, of the population. In Maori-
land at last census only 137,451 farm
workers could be discovered—under 10 per
cent, of the population, and sheepmen, as
well as cow-farmers, were included.
SAUL AMONG THE PROPHETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Labor Premier Hogan, whose administration was
hotly criticised at a mass meeting of the V.R.U.,
says that if dismissal of Victorian railway employees
is to be averted workers must bend their mental and
physical energies to arresting the railway slump by
giving the public better service than it receives
from private enterprise motor transport.”
Most Labor Premiers deem it biz
To promise him who yackers
The oerth and all therein that is.
Few would affront their backers
By intimating, square and straight,
To men of brawn and muscle
The sack will be their certain fate
Unless they do a hustle.
“But if you’d keep your jobs,” says Ned,
“And something in the larder,
I counsel you
The thing to do
Is graft a trifle harder.”
Just picture the result produced
Had such a course been pleaded
When Ryan ran the Queensland roost
Or Theodore succeeded.
Did ever Lang his record clog,
Or Collier court disaster,
By telling toilers they must bog
Into their labor faster?
“The bullet every day,” says Ned,
“For some of you draws nigher.
You’ll have to go
Unless you show
Yourselves a trifle spryer.”
So pull yourselves together, chaps:
By wholesouled zeal displaying
You yet may stem the drift, perhaps,
And keep the railways paying.
Make giving more for what you get
Your serviceable slogan,
Though backs may ache and brows may sweat
Think how ’twill gladden Hogan."
“The motors grab our meat,” says Ned,
“Poor Clapp grows sick and sicker;
His heart to move
You'll have to prove
Yourselves a trifle slicker.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tim Tiki” : Even modern transport some-
times has to admit that persons as remote as
Hannibal and Pyrrhus knew a thine: or two.
A loaded lorry in a Melbourne suburb got
well and thoroughly bogged the other day.
When a couple of sturdy draughts had failed
to shift it, Jumbo, from a near-by circus,
was requisitioned. The earth-shaking beast
ambled unconcernedly up to the rear of the
vehicle, put his head down and walked out
with the lorry before him.
* * * *
“Stellsby” : There is no doubt that sharks
occasionally cruise in the waters of Port
Phillip; hence fenced-in baths were erected
DANGERS AHEAD.
“I’ll be twenty-three very soon now.”
“Aren’t you ajraid if you keep going like this you’ll get infantile paralysis?
many years ago at the principal watering-
places along the coast. However, the present
generation of swimmers treat the shark
danger as non-existent, so much so that
point-to-point swimming races are now the
fashion. Recently two such races were held
from Mordialloc to Mentone, and the other
day a young man named Baldwin pioneered
the swim across the bay. He entered the
water at Middle Park beach and swam to
Williamstown on the opposite shore. I’m
doubtful if any person would be game to
swim across Port Jackson.
♦
“Penn”: Sydney’s City Commissioners
have been getting a lot of newspaper adver-
tisement. The public knows that they go
to work on tram or ferry just like ordinary
blokes; that they arrive punctually at nine
and that they have banished morning and
afternoon tea from the Town Hall. Rut
apparently they don’t know much about
modern office management or appliances llie
Chief Commissioner and the Town Clerk are
reported to be spending hours a day lab-
oriously signing debentures, one at a time.
For donkey’s years the accepted way ot
doing that sort of job has been to use a
pantograph-like affair in which up to bd
fountain-pens are actuated by the movement
of a master-pen. The banks used to sign
their note issues in that way, and now
that they have lost the right of note issue
in this country there must be several of the
appliances available.
* * * *
“H.W.A.”: The Germans have, as the
cables told us, made a film about Richt-
hoften, the airman whom a Canadian now
claims to have brought
down. With a view to
foreign business, the
producer has inter-
woven a story based
on the exploits of two
other airmen—a Ger-
man and a Frenchman.
It turns out that both
aces had a common
grandfather. The Ger-
man grandson takes
the name of Dewall
and the Frenchman
across the Rhine be-
longs to the family of
De Val. Despite the
outburst of Captain
Brown, the Canadian,
to the effect that lie
killed the baron and
that the Australian
claim is a deliberate
lie, the film gives the
credit to the Aus-
tralian corps. The final
scenes close with an
Australian firing-party
armed with short Lee-
Enfields and slouch
hats firing their last
tribute. This and the
Emden film should be
shown in Australia,
not only because they
have particular interest
for Australians, but
because they have been
accorded in Germany
“reduced taxation —a .
privilege (enjoyed by films selected by the
censors for “special artistic value.”
* * * *
“J E.” • A confused tale from New York
concerned Mrs. Ruth Snyder, the lady who
killed her husband with the assistance of the
male third party. After she had paid the
penalty a doctor wanted to experiment with
her body, having an idea that the electro-
cuted were only moderately dead though per-
haps immortally unconscious, and that if she
could be called back she might supply inter-
esting information about where she had
been. It was a tangled narrative and wholly
unsatisfactory, for if there is a Hereafter
and she went there she would be presumably
too dead to come back, and if she wasn't
dead she wouldn’t have been there and would
have nothing to tell. It is a simple propo-
sition that the man who comes out of an
anaesthetic has no information about the
lost interval, and the man who unluckily
doesn’t come out furnishes none. This re-
calls a matter which was made the subject
of an argument between a Roman Catholic
missionary cleric and an unbeliever, I act-
ing as bottle-holder. It was on board ship
in the Bay of Bengal, where people get hot
without argument. There are recorded in
the Scripture six cases of the raising of the
authentically dead, and it isn’t mentioned
in one instance that the returned individual
gave any account of his or her experiences
while away. The cleric said briefly that, it
being foreseen they would be raised from
the dead, they were naturally not sent any-
where, it being no part of the scheme of
things that they should retail the secrets of
another world to curious folk and scoffers.
The unbeliever said he didn’t call that being
dead at all. He added that it was a doubt-
ful kindness to recall Lazarus from Paradise
to a place like Bethany; it gave him a
chance to fall into evil ways, so that when
be went through the misery of dying again
he might not go to Heaven at all, but to the
other place. About here I contributed the
suggestion that a drink wouldn’t be a bad
thing.
* * * *
“Spike”: I remember one male-imperson-
ator who not only maintained the decep-
tion for 30 years but held an important
Government position throughout the entire
period. She had charge of the stud-flocks
at an experimental farm, and was considered
one of the best sheep-men employed by the
Department of Agriculture. “He” was well
into the forties when I knew “him" ; a six-
footer with straggly mo. and muscles well
developed from carrying bags and bales of
weighty sheep-fodder and salt-licks. There
were a few feminine characteristics that
peeped through, however, one of them being
an inordinate love for cats, which he
would nurse and croon over by the hour.
SHE’D WATCHED A FEW.
“Well, I think there’s something in this American idea of companionate marriage,
don’t you? After all, what is marriage?”
“Most times the shadow of coming events, my dear.”
After this curious person’s death it trans-
pired that her secret had not been altogether
a secret; there was a grizzled and reticent
farm blacksmith wdio as a lad had attended
the same school as “Willie” (then Fanny)
when she wore a pinny and a pigtail.
* * * *
“Gosmo”: The most audacious male imper-
sonator who ever operated in this part of
the world was the Maoriland adventuress,
Amy Bock. Under the name of Percy Red-
wood, this young woman carried her imposi-
tion to the point of going through the mar-
riage ceremony with a girl whose parents
kept the boarding-house Where the she-man
was staying. Before the wedding the mas-
querader visited Dunedin with the prospec-
tive bride and her mother, and by fraudulent
representations obtained jewellery to the
value of about £l3O. After the wedding some
sinister rumors about “Mr. Redwood” led
to her being haled before a family con-
ference, but it was merely financial resources
that were the subject of questions. Appa-
rently they were not answered satisfactorily,
for Redwood was given a week’s grace to
establish his solvency, with the proviso that
until he did so his wife would be such m
name only. The impostor was arrested
before the week was up.
* * * *
“Mako” : Not only is Maoriland sunshine
more brilliant than the Australian article
(B. 12/1/28), but it has much more burning
and tanning power. The Sydney sun merely
turns the picnicker a delicate brown; in
Maoriland the unwary one who stays too
long in its beams finds himself scorched a
violent crimson. This solar peculiarity
accounts for the fact that the liatless cult
has never made much progress in Maoriland,
where children particularly have their heads
well guarded, outbreaks of infantile paralysis
being attributed to the strength of the sun
on bare necks and heads. Another character-
istic of the Maoriland light is its golden hue,
which produces in the case of distant hills
the amazing lilac and purple tones that
make the overseas artist crumple up his
palette in despair at his inability to repro-
duce them. The Australian light, much
whiter than the Maoriland, gives a distant
effect of beautiful blueness.
•s # * *
“L. V. Remos” : During the agitation that
preceded the granting of womanhood suffrage
in N. S. Wales there was a crowded meeting
in the Town Hall, among the speakers being
several prominent Labor women of the
period. “Some people say women should
stay at home and mind the baby,” said the
most eloquent of them in ringing tones.
“But,” she went on, “there are many who
have no baby to mind, and they look to the
female vote and influence to bring about a
better state of things.” It is perhaps a tri-
bute to the lady’s oratory that the ambiguity
of the statement passed almost unnoticed till
it appeared in cold print next morning.
* * * *
“Murkah”: It isn’t very many years since
the idea of charging for the address and
signature in telegrams came from Britain to
Australia. Almost immediately lengthy sig-
natures were reduced to one word, or omitted
altogether, and addresses were chopped until
the department had to bar two-word ones,
as they occasioned too much trouble in de-
livery. In the U.S., however, the address
and a two-word signature are still trans-
mitted free, only the text of the message
being charged for. with a minimum of 10
words. The Yankee system makes things
much easier for the receiving telegraphist;
the most difficult part of his job in Australia
is “counting” the message, and most of the
difficulty is in the address. It simplifies
things for the counter-clerk, too, by enabling
him to handle far more messages in a given
period. * :|: * *
“Hanno”: The ruling passion was surely
well exemplified in the request of Mrs. Ruth
Snyder, recently executed in Sing Sing
Prison, New York, to be allowed to go to the
electric chair in a silk dress and silk under-
wear. The last three women to be hanged
in Australia have all been considerably exer-
cised over what they should wear on the scat-
fold • one of them, Martha Needles, who was
executed in Melbourne Gaol, threatened to
petition the Governor if she were not allowed
to make what she regarded as a fitting toiler
for her last appearance upon earth. In
England a few years ago Edith Thompson,
executed, like Mrs. Snyder, along with her
lover for the murder of her husband, was
in a state of utter prostration during most
of the time she spent in the condemned ceL.
Nevertheless, the day before she met her fate
she rallied sufficiently to decide what she would
be hanged in and how she would have her
hair dressed; after this she relapsed, into a
sort of coma again. Even when she is going
to her death the thought that seems to fill
a woman’s mind to the exclusion of everything
else is the matter of her personal appearance.
Few condemned men, on the other hand,
bother much about sartorial details; the one
notable exception I recall being a Sydney
murderer who begged permission to be
scragged in correct evening dress. Ihe
governor of the gaol humored him.
* * * *
“Venturino”: My butcher-boy, postie and
milko all show smiling and expectant faces
just prior to Christmas, but there is only
one class of service-renderers in our little
seaside suburb which breaks into verse to
remind householders of their seasonal obliga-
tions. This is how last month’s lyrical greet-
ing wound up:—
Our trade’s not one to bring us wealth,
It has no charm or beauty ;
We do it for the public health
And hope we do our duty.
I hesitated a while trying to decide whether
a flask of brandy or a little flagon of eau-de-
Cologne would be the more acceptable; but
finally compromised on a couple of bottles of
beer.
* * * *
“Cucliulain”: Travellers on the Grafton
(N.S.W-.) mail-train might have slept less
soundly on a recent trip had they known
what was going on overhead. Two lads
had stolen a ride on the roof of a carriage;
a little after midnight one of them rose to
stretch himself just as the train was passing
beneath an overhead bridge at Telarah
station. His head struck an iron girder with
fatal results. His mate held the dead body
in his arms until he became physically
exhausted, when it slipped overboard. After
an interval the survivor managed to crawl
the length of the carriage and tell the con-
ductor.
A HARBOR TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
“Forty-six barrels of French liqueur, valued at
£14,000, on which the duty was so high that the
consignee refused to take delivery, and 36 barrels of
French brandy, worth over £5OOO, were tipped by
Customs officials into a drain at West Circular Quay.
The barmaid measures out your ninep’ny
nip
(Two dozen to the bottle, I opine) :
The summer thirst has got you in its grip,
More precious in your eyes the hop and
vine;
Aye, beer, as ne’er before, is beer, and
wine
A thing to be more positively placed
High up among the list of gifts divine.
Alack for wistful want and wanton waste!
Up on the Rocks hard cases spit the chip;
They might have worshipped once at
Bacchus’ shrine
With just a modest tray, a nimble “thrip,
A coin for which the hungriest Bungs
decline
These piping times to slake my thirst or
thine
In any tack with foaming collar graced ;
Morose I watch them grow and saturnine.
Alack for wistful want and wanton waste!
The grey waves lap, the harbor currents lip
A “shout” that some might reckon super-
fine ;
Sufficient tanglefoot to float a ship
To Davy Jones’s locker they consign.
O lost liqueurs! O brandy drowned in
brine!
O rosy dreams indelibly effaced!
Though some exult there may be more
repine:
Alack for wistful want and wanton waste!
They broached the casks and let the contents
rip,
Five figures’ worth at that —the soulless
swine!
How many jags, how much good fellowship
And brightening eyes—and shoring forms
supine—
Were obviated thus one can’t outline,
But here’s to eighty barrels none may taste
Except the fish ! Another beer for mine!
Alack for wistful want and wanton waste!
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.
NOMENCLATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Sharkey’s Irish name did not deceive the crowd,
who regarded him more as a foreigner. His home
town is Boston, but his parents are Lithuanians.”
An Irish name he has, we know,
And though his pants perhaps were green
And he employed the shamrock blow,
They pierced the too transparent screen.
“No right has he to Gaelic fame,”
They commented in accents vexed.
“A Lett by any other name
Would be as alien as the next.”
Be sure it’s not an easy task
To camouflage a foreign face
B 1 ’ tacking oh an Irish mask—
There still remains the blood of race.
And easy ’tis to tell when Pat
Has come across from Erin’s Isle,
For there’s the emblem ’neath his hat —
You can’t mistake the Irish smile!
N.S.W.
EDWIN WALLEN.


“Murkah” : It isn’t only the younger gener-
ation that has no time for unfamiliar gold
coins (B. 12/l/’2B). Recently I asked a
booking-clerk at Spencer-street station to
change a five-pound note. He complied with
alacrity, ladling out four half-sovs. and three
sovereigns in the process. “Hate the sight
of them,” he went on; “too easily let slip
for shillings and sixpences.” Just previously
at Numurkali (Vic.) I saw an abo. reject
a lialf-sov. with “No good to me, boss. You
gibit paper money.“ He got it and was
satisfied.
❖ Jji Me
“Pfella”: Christmases that stick in the
memory (B. 29/12/’27) ? At the tail end of
1905 I found myself at the furthest inland
sheep-station on a Groperland nor’-western
river. It was owned and run by two
brothers, both the last word in out-back hos-
pitality. A piano, a well-stocked bookcase
and a fine big dining-room were outstanding
features. All the hatters, swaggies, boun-
dary-riders and fossickers within a radius of
30 miles turned up to put in their Christmas
with the boys, and a right jovial time we
had. At night we were smoking and yarn-
ing on the verandah when from the direction
of the river came the familiar sounds of
quarrelling natives. The yells grew louder,
and we all knew a battle was in progress. A
well-sinker suggested we load up a few guns
and disperse the belligerents, but the elder
brother of the station shook his head.
“They’re my niggers,” he reproved gently.
Away into the black night lie slipped alone,
and in about 15 minutes not an abo. was to
be heard. Presently a hig figure loomed up
from the darkness, and, throwing an armful
of native weapons on the verandah, resumed
his smoking.
* * * *
“Runa” : I place the new youth our baker
has acquired in the same class as “Mars’s”
Dago milkman (B. 12/l/’2B). I
heard a cheerful whistling at the
back door, and went out just in
time to find him nonchalantly stack-
ing the bread on the lid of the dust-
bin ! He seemed to think I was
over-fussy w-hen I ventured a pro-
test.
TIT FOR TAT.
“Percy has the very latest in cars.”
“Yes, I’ve noticed he always keeps you waiting.”
“Long Mac” : It is hardly correct to say
that all through the Mt. Gambier district
you can hear a horse trotting miles away
and that the earth-crust seems to be about
60 feet through (B. 29/12/’27). There is
limestone formation all through the South-
East, underlying or overlying the basalt in
many places, but the thickness of this lime-
stone and its distance from the surface vary
greatly. In most parts of the district the
permanent water-level is high up in the
porous limestone. There are many open
caves and “swallow-holes,” and on the roads
one may hear the hollow rumble of echoes
from underground caverns. Some of the
“swallow-holes” are of recent formation, the
heavy Clydesdale horses, for which the Mount
is famous, having holed through on more
than one occasion. As far as I know plough-
men and horses have always got off with
nothing worse than a bad scare. On Glencoe
and nearer to the Mount flood waters which
have covered paddocks fence-deep have after
a few days completely disappeared, to well
up and flood the lower country a few miles
away. The formation of the limestone is
not that of a thin shell, hollow underneath,
with a few supporting pillars; it is more
like the formation of bone in a skull, with
its air-spaces, cavities and so on. The hol-
low spaces in the limestone have been
formed, not by organic bodies,' but by the
chemical action of carbonic acid and the
mechanical action of the running water ’.n
which the gas is carried.
:|c
“M. de Paris”: I don’t know why there
should have been so much pother in America
over the recent execution of a woman mur-
derer, for the job seems to have been carried
out in tradesmanlike fashion and with a
proper regard for the conventions. Very dif-
ferent is the story, also referred to in the
cables, about an execution in one of the
German States the other day. The sword
was used in this instance, and no fault could
be found with the expert manner in which
it was employed. But the cable adds that
the spectators were roused to resentment by
the fact that, for the first time in modern
records, the operator failed to attend to his
duties in a frock coat. This callous flouting
of precedent cannot be too roundly con-
demned ; nothing is surely so inexcusable as
the lack of a good bedside manner, so to
speak, in an executioner.
* * *
“Lao-dah”: No other part of Australia
pi’esents such an extraordinary sight as Pori
Phillip beach during a heatwave (B.
19/l/’2B). A conservative estimate put the
number of people crowded on the long and
narrow strip of sand the other night at
100,000. On one section not more than two
miles in length at least 40,000 were congre-
gated, the facilities for bathers consisting
of three dressing-sheds with accommodation
for approximately 20 people each. And the
discomfort of the crowd isn’t mitigated when
it reads in next morning’s daily the usual
yell from some male hen on the subject of
its indecency.
* $ * *
“Aitchsce”: Speaking of quaint house-
names, the limit came my way recently. It
consisted of the w|ord “Garn” engraved
deeply in the red concrete path leading to the
domicile. My first thought was that here was
the abode of some confirmed misanthrope
who had adopted this mode of warning off
visitors and callers; but a small and friendly-
looking boy hanging over the front gate
dissipated this impression in answer to a
direct question from me. It was merely an
abbreviation of his grandma’s name, he
assured me, bestowed on the residence in
honor of that lady. So 1 suppose the en-
graver must have inadvertently transposed
the second and third letters.
ifc #
“Troophorse”: Travelled recently on one
of the B.P. island steamers to Rabaul. We
called at Samarai, and while cargo was being
discharged the trippers went ashore for a
run around, the natives of the picturesque
little port being a special item of interest.
One group of eager tourists were examining
a boy from head to foot when a flapper
spied the betel-nut coloring on the boy’s lips.
“Look,” she cried to her friends, “they use
lip-salve.” As the lad had a sprig of
hibiscus in his hair to match, the mistake
was perhaps not unnatural.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: At a recent country
social and dance in a North Queensland
town youngsters were seen to be
manifesting a certain aloofness.
“Hey, you kids,” exhorted the m.c.,
“why ain’t you dancing? This is
a children’s dance!” “Yairs, we
know,” came back one of the rising-
generation, “but this dance is black
unless we get less pedal an’ more
music. Us kids always get the
crook pianist.”
“Sam IJ. II.”: While we are on the sub-
ject of war records, I wonder if anyone
journeyed further than I did for the privi-
lege of being shot at. I was in Paraguay
when the call for men became insistent; I
left that country in July, 1915. and went to
England, only to be rejected. I had to wait
a couple of months for a steamer to my old
home town of Melbourne, which I reached in
December of tne same year. I landed on
Saturday and was accepted on Monday. P.S. —
Let me frankly admit that I would have
gone twice the distance afterwards to get
out again.
* * * *
“Wang” : A Melbourne constable recently
arrested a Maltese on a charge of insulting
behavior. The misconduct complained of,
he told the magistrate, lay in the fact that
when he sought to “move on” the new
arrival the latter had made a remark in his
own lingo to his companions, whereat the
whole party laughed uproariously. Still, the
witness admitted that he couldn’t define the
insult precisely, and the Bench thereupon
discharged the accused. The incident set me
recalling the days of my youth, when a big,
black-bearded Finn, working on the farm
next to ours, fell foul of a hefty young
Aussie and made use of some expression in
his own language that sounded like the re-
verse of endearment. Bill squared up threat-
eningly. “What’s that yer called me?” he
roared. But Finnish Jack played safe.
“Noding,” he answered, “I was yoost say
you fine feller.” Bill grinned. “Well, say
it in English next time,” he counselled, “it
don’t sound so much like something else
then.”
THE PESSIMIST.
“What you want, dear, is to be taken out of yourself.”
“Oh, but I’m so helpless — I’m sure I’d never be able to put the parts back.”
“Veronal”: The illustrious Ben Boyd of
Twofold Bay was a mean soul in many re-
spects, for all his splendid schemes. Ten
pounds a year, with meat and flour, but
neither tea nor sugar, was in his opinion an
adequate ration for a shepherd. “More than
£lO a year,” he said, “would only do shep-
herds harm, by sending them to the public-
house.” It is recorded of the same Boyd that
on one occasion, “as an act of charity,” he
gave a free passage from Sydney to Twofold
Bay to 100 laborers. On their arrival, how-
ever, those who would not accept £lO a
year as wages were refused a passage back
to Sydney for less than £5. Some preferred
to walk back, but the whole business evoked
such a bitter feeling against Boyd that
he was afraid to visit his sheep-stations
except in company with the policemiagis-
trate and his attendant guard.
* * * *
“Tilburina T.”: I have known two abo.
“queens” whose regal attributes were empha-
sised by name-plates (B. 5/l/’2B). One of
them has been dead for many years; her
brass plate, instead of bearing the usual
Australian coat of arms, had a full-length
etching of the lady herself and bore the
caption: “Kate, Queen of Welltown and
Tandawanna.” The other queen is still alive,
but she seldom sports her badge of distinc-
tion because, so she complained to me, the
rest of the camp refuse to take it seriously.
However, “Susan, Queen of Welltown,”
crowned in 1906, can always be induced to
dig up and don her regalia when there are
any cameras around.
* ❖ * *
“Hinemoa”: Unlike pahs, Maori forts
aren’t always near water (B. 29/12/’27) ; it
would be hardly too much to say that they
seldom are. The one overlooking Port Nichol-
son is 600-odd feet above sea-level, and water
is quite two miles away at the bottom of a
steep gully. One of Te
Rauparaha’s strongholds
is 450 feet up, with water
approximately two and a
half miles off. Most of
the forts in the Wanga-
nui-Taranaki districts sit
on a pinnacle, and slaves
must have been magicians
to arrive at the top of
them with water - filled
gourds. “Hori” Grey was
one of those who con-
fessed themselves beaten
by the problem of where
the garrisons got their
water supplies. One explanation is that the
old-time Maori had qualities in common
with the camel; if this is so his descendants
have long since lost them.
* * * *
“West Creek”: I have been reading a
copy of that rare work “The Felonry of New
South Wales,” by ex-magistrate James
Mudie, and can quite understand the enthu-
siasm with which almost the whole edition
was bought up and burned in Sydney as
soon as it arrived from London nearly a
century ago. The following is Mudie’s sum-
mary of a gentleman whom the Governor of
the time delighted to honor:—
He was at the time living in open contempt of a
colonial regulation whereby he was bound to attend
a general muster of all the ticket-of-leave men, at
stated periods, within the district of Sydney; he was
at the same time leading a life of profligacy; he
was known to be a liar in private, as he was a
traducer and a libeller in public; he was living in
open adultery with a female runaway convict, trans-
ported for life, and whom he had the audacity to
send to the factory, that her lyings-in might be de-
frayed at the public expense.
Evidently anticipating that some of the
persons pilloried might hit back, the author
obtained the written opinions of some two
dozen friends to the effect that liis own
character was as the undriven snow, and
included them at the end of his book. The
mere fact that copies of “The Felonry” still
survive suggest there must have been a rush
of private orders to the London house pub-
lishing the work from the friends of those
named in it.
* * * *
"Joy-Stick” : Isn’t it about time the pas-
time of diving into the Tasman in Yankee
aeroplanes was prohibited? Close on the
heels of the Moncrieff-Hood tragedy one of
the Qantas pilots, P. Moody, proposes to
bolt a pair of floats on a Ryan monoplane
and make the dash. That Lindbergh
brought off a 1000-to-l chance with the Ryan
over a 3500-miles course doesn’t prove
it’s the ideal ’bus for a 1500-miles go. A
far safer machine for the job would be one
of the British lightweights. Bert Hinkler,
the Australian airman, flew 1200 milles
across Europe the other day in an Avro-
Avian with a 30-80-h.p. Mark 11. Cirrus
engine. Time taken was 10£ hours; petrol
consumption, 40 gallons. His tank held 60
gallons. There are British two-seater amphi-
bians that could do 1500 miles on 100 gal-
lons, maintaining high speed; so why use a
tremendously heavy motor with phenomenal
petrol consumption like the Wright Whirl-
wind? It only lessens the safety margin.
sj: * * ❖
“Stellsby”: Melbourne medical men are
alleged to be casting around for a new type
of bag to replace the conventional small
leather attache-case. Formerly when a pro-
fessional-looking gentleman was seen stroll-
ing up Collins-street hill with one in his hand,
passers-by had no difficulty in scheduling
him as a doctor; but nowadays it is quite
as likely that the natty leather case carries
the lunch and newspaper of a Government
clerk. Moreover, the town knuts have taken
to using such cases extensively. I suggest
that the Sawbones cult should carry a small
carpet-bag. The flashies wouldn’t copy that.
* * # *
“Shed Hand” ; In our big goods-shed yard
every exit has a gatekeeper whose business
it is to see that employees and others retire
without contraband. One day the old barrow-
oiler brought in a huge pig-melon and gave it
to Benno, a porter, to take home to his
wife for jam-making. Benno was promptly
stopped by a gatekeeper and requested
to show what he had in the sugar-bag. II?
explained the circumstances of the gift, but
his questioner reported him to the head, and
the following morning Benno had to toe the
line. “You know,” said the boss, concluding
his lecture, “you could have saved all this
trouble by procuring a pass from the .fore-
man. You know perfectly well employees
must have a pass-out for everything they
take out of these yards.” Benno’s eyes
popped. “What, a pass-out for everything?
Even for what a man dinkum steals?” fie
asked amazedly.
* * * *
“Selma”: A Maorilander and his wife
had a unique experience while visiting Wales
last year. At the close of the Eisteddfod the
promoters returned ceremonious thanks to
those who had patronised the festival and
asked all overseas visitors to come to the
front. Out of the 10,000 present some 2000
responded, representatives of the different
countries standing up in turn, as requested.
Uncle Sam supplied the largest contingent,
with Canada second. Australia was well
represented, but when the call came for
Maoriland Mr. and Mrs. Humphrey Williams
found themselves absorbing all the limelight.
Wales, keenly interested in Maoriland as
the home of the “All Blacks,” rose and gave
them the reception of the night, and two
overcome Maorilanders were presently ac-
knowledging an ovation such as usually falls
only to the lot of royalty or some national
hero.
UNSEASONABLE.
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
custom calls us to repent
The dear, dead sins of other years,
Ere one day of the new be spent.
So January sees our tears
And all our high resolves it hears;
But summer pipes a tempting tune—
’Twere far, far better, it appears,
If January could be June.
Our vows we make with good intent
Of holding to them ’spite the jeers
Of summer sky and summer scent
And summer’s cool, unholy beers.
Ah, colder blood than this, one fears,
Were needed to be quite immune
When some pert summer damsel nears —
If January were but June!
From beach and bar temptation, bent
On our undoing, slyly peers;
Soft night has all its languor lent
To sparkling, brazen day, that fleers
At virtue falling in arrears;
Life dances to a pagan rune.
’Tis hard to keep from slipping gears,
Siuce January is not June.
Envoy.
The world’s so full of beers and dears
And I, while warm, am not immune;
’Twere far, far better, it appears,
If January could be June!
VICTORIA.
HASEN.
IN THE LANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Cherry-plums and peaches,
A penny each, they say!
“Good gracious me! No, thank you.
They’re much too dear to-day!”
And people, with their noses
To Heaven, walk away.
Cherry-plums and peaches!
They never understand
How cherry-plums and peaches
Can conjure up the land,
And smell of earth new-harrowed,
And orchards green and white,
While you forget the pesties
That once you had to fight!
O the happy fruit seducing
Greedy girls as they go by!
Six for sixpence !
Dreams for sixpence....
I have sixpence,
Wealthy I!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAR.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
SOft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from ....... 137-
Telegrams : “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Consistent- in Exce!lencesince7s7s
s
Old
Very
HOLLAN D GIN
ink
Ik
i-n'nrj
m
;!,!!!».i. JjJ
iii,
: «nuv
V / •
A SK for Bob Very Old Holland
Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
almißasti
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Dr. S. W. Pennycuiek, recently appointed
by the International Education Board of
N'York to. a fellowship in chemistry, the
first so far granted in Australia, is a Queens-
land native and a science graduate of Bris-
bane University, where he won a research
scholarship and Master of Science degree.
From the position of Senior Science Master
at Brisbane Grammar he went to Adelaide
University as lecturer, and there obtained
his Doctorate after carrying out numerous
researches. The fellowship just won is
financed by the Rockefeller Institute and is
open to scientists throughout the world who
have done important scientific research and
give promise of future scientific leadership.
Pennycuiek will work with Professor Lewis
of California.
“Birdy” : Recent references in The Bul-
letin to Tommy Solomon, of the Chatham
Islands, last of the Morioris, brings to my
mind Tommy mounting his steed. As he
weighs well over 20 stone and is only just
over sft. high, getting on board a 17-hands
prad presents some difficulty. But Tommy
manages with a ladder, which lie puts against
the neddy’s neck, and so climbs tip in ease
and comfort. He has ladders at all the
places where he makes frequent stops.
CHAS. WENMAN, Associate Director of
J.C. Williamson, Ltd., and Producer of
the Firm’s shows.
Pat Keenan, just dead in Melbourne at 69,
was an old postal official who for 32 con-
secutive New Year Eves strolled along: to
the Hawthorn Town Hall and at midnight
sang “The Holy City” on the municipal,
steps.
If form counts at all in such things, P.
H. Moody, who wants to take the hazardous
‘plane journey to M.L. next month, has im-
pressive qualifications. For a war term with
the Royal Air Force and later for ‘M years
chief pilot with the Bananaland and N.T.
aerial service, he has spent about 2600 hours
aloft and has never had a smash worth men-
tioning. He is linked up through his wife
with the country he aspires to reach by
’plane, his lady being a niece of Maoriland’s
ex-Prime Minister and High-Commissioner
Tom MacKenzie. Both Moody and his wife s
dad own stations near Cliarleville (Q-).
Thomas Hardy, the English poet and novel-
ist, who has just had a funeral in West-
minster Abbey, lived at Max Gate, Dorches-
ter. the site belonging by virtue of one of his
duchies to Edward Rex. Hardy s applica-
tion to purchase was answered by the gut
of the land. Edward P. visited him two or
three years ago, a tribute of Royalty to
letters possibly unparalleled. When the pro-
fessional critics have done with Hardy his
greatest personal friend might be asked to
say something. It is Ramsay Macdonald,
late Labor Premier of England. Macdonald s
holidays for years have been spent at Max
Gate. Hardy never wrote “politics,” but
the "little grey man,” grey in hair features
and clothes, nearly always sported the red
necktie of Labor. . , .
Prof. Hartung, lately appointed to overlook
chemistry at Melbourne ’ Varsity, has done
a considerable amount of work with the
Steele-Grant micro-balance, a little thing
invented 20 years ago by two Australians,
and which is still the most accurate appara-
tus for weighing minute particles of matter.
It will ascertain a difference in weight of
one-millionth of a gram—-something like a
thirty-millionth of an ounce. Incidentally,
the vacuum tube now being used to deter-
mine measurements of less than one hundred
millionth of an inch recently proved that an
oak table an inch and a half thick bends
under the weight of a penny.
As popular a man as ever backed a wrong
horse in Labor, William Carey, one of the
Lang 25 that were to wipe -out the N.S.W.
Upper House, has just closed his brief
innings at 44. The wrong horse lie backed
was named Conroy, and when in the turmoil
that occurred over the Red rules a year ago
his fancy was beaten by Seale, Bill Carey
joined the multitude debarred from holding
Labor office. He was a keen, youthful and
jolly member of the Leg. Council, where there
isn’t a great deal of any of those attributes.
John M. de ltobeck, Bart, and admiral,
who has just dipped his flag in London, had a
better possie than most for observing the
early promise, the check and the deadlock
of the Australian onslaught at Gallipoli.
He was in charge of the war boats that blew
chunks out of the hilltops by day, played
searchlights along the flank trenches by
night and otherwise tried to support both
ends of the scrap. When the war ended he
was given the Mediterraneon Fleet and a
baronetcy, and later had charge in the Atlan-
tic. Of his 65 years only a bare 52 were
lived on the deep.
One of the biggest and best scullers who
ever came from the Richmond River
(N.S.W.), where they breed ’em and train
’em in quantities, was Jack McLean, who
called it a lifetime at 73 on Saturday. His
first big win was against Perkins, the Eng-
lish champion, on the Parramatta River, in
1889, after which, on the same historic
course, he polished off Stevenson, holder of
the Maoriland title. He climbed into the
world’s-champion class by defeating N. Mat-
terson, who was matched against Peter Kemp
for the supreme title in the same year. Kemp
having licked Matterson, McLean became a
challenger. Kemp was too good for him,
but within a few months McLean challenged
again and won. Stanbury took the title from
him and held it for five years. Standing
78-Jin. in his socks and weighing 13st. 101 b.,
McLean was a man of magnificent physique.
His greatest achievements were accomplished
when he was well over 30.
Every year several little 100-per-cent.
Americans are christened George Washing-
ton, but the careers of lads thus equipped
don’t usually show airy resemblance to that
of the Father of his Country. A notable
exception, G. W. Goethals, passed out last
week. A military engineer by profession —he
joined the U.S. Army close on 50 years ago
and retired in 1916 with the rank of Major-
General —he was chosen to boss the con-
struction of the Panama Canal, the greatest
civil-engineering achievement of his nation.
Profiting by the disasters that befell De
Lesseps, he realised that his first job was
to make war—on mosquitoes—if he didn’t
want his working force wiped out by malarial
fevers. Men of science provided the ways
and means of tackling the pest, and the iron
discipline of Goethals did the rest.
Willie Watt is not going to offer himself
again for Balaclava or any other Reps,
constituency. He is getting out of politics
altogether after 30 years, State and Federal,
during which he has been Premier of Vic.
twice, Federal Treasurer, Acting Prime
Minister and Speaker of the Reps. He has
his faults, but he won and kept a place in
the front rank of politics and has stronger
claims than most of his contemporaries to be
regarded as a statesman. Among his bigger
speeches was his fine panegyric on Alfred
Dcakin, delivered in the Queen’s Hall,
Parliament House, Melbourne, with the
coffined body of the apostle of Federation in
front of him.
Allegedly on the score of economy, but m
reality as a sop to the Railways Union,
Minister for Railways Tunnecliffe' is hold-
ing up Roy Gollan’s appointment as manager
of the Vic. Government Tourist Bureau. The
difficulty is only a temporary one, as nothing
short of Clapp’s sudden death will dislodge
the new man. And, in any case, Gollan
himself has cultivated the habit of getting
on—hostility or support notwithstanding.
Years ago he “did” the Parliamentary lobbies
for the Argus. At the front, he rose from
private to captain, was Pompey Filiotts
brigade-major, collected the D.S.U. and M. 0.,
and was mentioned three times in despatches.
“Gallery”: Joe . Sternberg’s 37 years’
Parliamentary service (B. IJ/1/
beaten by Alec Peacock’s. On March 28 Alec
will complete 38 years of continuous service
in the Vic. Assem-
“TEXAS”
GREEN,
M.H.R. for
Kalgoorlie.
bly. He has been
Premier thrice, and
a member of 11
other Governments.
His aggregate ser-
vice as Minister
exceeds 21 years.
During the whole
of his long stretch
he has not been
further north than
Sydn e y, further
south than Queens-
cliff, or further
west than Adelaide.
He has dodged
trips abroad and
spurned missions.
Peacock made the
acquaintance of
Adelaide and Syd-
ney as a member of
the Federal Conven-
tion nearly 31 years
ago, when lie was
Chief Secretary
under George
Turner.
Leason was welcomed back by thousands
of readers of The Bulletin last week, and
from now on there will be a page of his
delightful humor in the paper weekly. He
was under contract to the United Press
and Melbourne Hekald ; and under the
arrangement lately made he will continue his
work for Table Talk, the United Press’s
illustrated paper.
A man who in his time played many parts
was George Taylor, of Sydney, whose busy
career was cut short by an accident on Fri-
day. He was born in King-street in 1872,
and died in Loftus-street. In his youth he
studied art and developed talent as a black-
and-white draughtsman, contributing a great
many amusing sketches to The Bulletin,
London Punch and other periodicals in the
’nineties. He was a writer of no small
ability, and has left a record of Sydney’s
real Bohemian society in “Those Were the
Days.” He foresaw possibilities for trade
journalism in Australia, and established
Building, which was most successful. At
the time of his death he was owner-editor
of six journals, each appealing to a special
circle of readers. Ilis enthusiasms were
many and keen, and included aviation, wire-
less," town-planning, engineering, astronomy,
exploration, the promotion of exhibitions and
soldiering. He did his bit in war-time as an
officer of the Intelligence Corps.
11. B. Lee, doctor, D. 5.0., M.C. and son
of Melbourne’s ex-chief fire officer, now
taking a spell in his home city, plies his
profession in Nigeria. His potential
patients number about 2,500,000 and are
crowded into 400 square miles.
“Warrigal”: Conrad Eitel, the Digger of
German descent who found that there is
something in a name, especially during a
war (B. 5/l/’2B), did not pass out on the
other side. He is in a Bananaland -city
working under the xinglicised name he
adopted.
Granville Ryrie has had a job after his
own heart added to his High Commissioner
billet. He has been elected to the council
of the Service League, which is a sort of
upper chamber of all the sailors’ and soldiers’
organisations in the Empire. This year the
league is concerning itself with the trans-
porting of British warriors who wish to
migrate to other climes. Another good soldier,
Victor Gordon, H.C. for Newfoundland, re-
presents his part of the world on the same
council.
“Coot”: Robert Knopwood, the Speck’s
first chaplain (B. 12/l/’2B), was a member
of Lieut. Collins’s party which attempted to
found a settlement at Sorrento (Vic.) in
1803. Whilst there he christened the first
white child born in Victoria, a son of Sergt.
Thorne, who was named William James
Hobart Thorne, and survived to reach a great
age. The same rev. gentleman also celebrated
the first white marriage in Victoria, the
happy couple being a convict and a free
woman It was lately announced from las-
mania that “Knoppie’s” diary is being taken
to London for publication. But it has been
published, a complete copy being contained
in .T. J Shillinglaw’s “Historical Records
of Port Phillip.” It is interesting m parts,
and particularly notable for its bad spelling.
Before lie designs the elaborate edifice
that is to arise from the ruins of Pole s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, architect Harry
Norris is going to U.B.A. to investigate the
latest Yankee ideas of construction. In
doing so he adopts a plan that has become
almost a matter of course with Australian
architects who have snared big jobs, America
being to the building designer what Paris
is to the society dame. The massive
Nicholas building in Swanston-street is one
of Norris’s jobs.
The oldest practising hand in the law
game in N.S.W. is G. Davidson, of Mudgee,
father of one of the State’s Judges. Though
he celebrated the 61st anniversary of his
admission into the cult the other day, he
still has enough youthfulness in him to
drive three miles to work six days a week.
Samuel Hinder Eaves, Queensland autho-
rity on botany and horticulture, has passed
on at 82. As far back as 1864 he established
the Breakfast Creek nursery, which has been
going solidly ever since. He held a stack of
medals awarded at various exhibitions for his
collections of the State’s fibres.
ICC. bishop of Auckland 11. W. Cleary,
who raced blithely by the 70tli milestone the
other day, was the first bishop of his church
to take to aviation. He has overlooked quite
a lot of land and ocean from a seaplane.
Author of several books, largely controver-
sial, he edits the Tablet, a Maoriland
church monthly. He was a priest at Bal-
larat before Auckland claimed him 17 years
ago.
In Melbourne after an absence of 30
years is J. 11. Porter, in his time one of the
cleverest engineers in Victoria. He now
holds a good job with the Metropolitan
Water Board in London. A member of the
Royal Aeronautical Society, his hobby is
designing ’planes, and he has invented a
new type of these craft.
Herbert W. Moffitt, whose signature lias
appeared at the -bottom of many drawings
in The Bulletin during the past 20 years,
spent most of his youthful years mustering
cattle with his dad around the Upper Shoal-
haven (N.S.W.), where he was born. There
he observed Binghi, swaggies and such odd
people, whom he portrayed for this and other
journals. As a youth he taught in a small
bush-school until Peter Board, then Director
of Education, transferred him to the city
to chalk blackboards for more than 20 years.
He collected 8.A., M.A. and LL.B. degrees as
HERBERT H. MORE ITT, M.A., LL.B.,
of Sydney.
an evening student at Sydney University,
his call to the Bar coming about five years
ago. For a while he was English master
at the Sydney Boys’ High School, where
he introduced Shakspearean plays with
students as actors, the first time anything of
that kind had been done to the .Bard in
N.S.W. Moffitt is firmly established in
Law now, and has many wins to liis credit.
Out of his wig he is a first-class raconteur
and amateur actor.
HARDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They buried his heart in Wessex soil,
And that's where it should be —
The leaf to the limb, and the limb to the tree.
They burnt his body and left his dust
In a worldly casket curled,
In a London tomb, to the eyes of the world.
The poet heart that sang his songs,
’Tis there where it should be,
In the land, the small land, that bound its
melody.
And tlie greater mind that wrote his prose,
In its worldly casket curled,
Is given up to its boundaries —to the world.
Heart to the Wessex soil; body and brain to
the world,
And that’s as it should be —
The leaf to the limb, and the limb to the tree.
N.S.W.
CEIL MANN.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Try,. Ltd.,
Edward Street, Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell and
Sons. Timpson Street. Port Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards £
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
& Co.. Christchurch.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ŵ
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest anti best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadfields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ) Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries S Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office i T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Australian Provincial assur-
ance Association, Ltd.: —
Towards
Re- Nominal
Deo., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 164,925 22,434 121,938 20,553 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s funds
transferred.. .. .. 5,896 16,408
1919.. 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
Premium on shares . . . . 100,000 166,755
1920.. 391,102 33,873 168,575 188,654 355,409
Premium on shares . . .. 65,438 420,847
1921.. 375,163 55,332 238,044 81,787 502,634
Written off Life funds and
general reserves, £158,356 . . . . 344,278
1922.. 389,266 74,112 231,092 84,062 428,340
1923.. 417,503 70,798 205,151 141,554 569,894
1924.. 448,628 54,055 214,970 179,603 749,497
1925.. 357,212 69,196 149,226 133,790 1 gB3 2g7
Superannuation Fund, £5OOO . . ) ’
Added to establishment, £174,340 . . 708,947
1926.. 382,789 66,728 129,313 186,748 895,695
Superannuation fund taken in, £5000.. 900,695
Sept.,
1927 f. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders ; 1920,
£9359; 1921, £49,918; 1924, £42,086; 1925,
£20,352. f 9 months.
Shareholders have composed their differences,
and a circular full of hope and good feeling
has been issued conjointly by the chairman
of tbs co. and the chairman of the old de-
fence committee. What is even more encour-
aging is the business-like way in which the
new board set to work to clean up the office.
To begin with, the accounts were combed and
an extra £174,340 of froth of one kind and
another, making a total of £368,942. was
exhibited at Dec. 31, 1926. The odd £68,942
was written off, thus leaving a round
£300,000. Then the organisation was over-
hauled ; changes were made in most of the
important executive posts, the services of 16
of the head-office staff were dispensed with
and greater efficiency now prevails. The
board claims this, and the “Wild Cat’s”
inquiries firmly support the claim.
In comparing the figures it has to be
remembered that those for 1926 cover a full
year, whereas the latest accounts, to Sept.
30, are for nine months only. The combined
results of the Life and Accident branches
are shown in the introductory table. Here is
a detailed picture of the life business at
the last three balancing dates; —
1925. 1926. 1927.*
Sum assured . . £1,272,750 £1,356,663 £783,882
First premiums .. 42,181 42,884 21,311
Renewal premiums.. 230,683 234,961 166,977
Interest, etc. .. 50,670 68,410 74.116
Claims .. .. 55,955 51,156 45,024
Exes. .. .. 112,270 111,628 61,724
*Nine months only.
Claims are proportionately heavier, and it is
obvious that lapses have taken a heavy toll.
The board appears to be going the right way
to remedy this latter unsatisfactory feature.
A much smaller amount of new business was
written, but it was put on the books at a
slightly lower cost. Assuming that it takes
10 times as much to obtain new premiums
as it does to collect renewals, then new busi-
ness for the last nine months cost 162 p.c.
compared wfith 168 p.c. and 172 p.c. in the
two preceding years. Exes, ate only 32.8 p.c.
of the premium income as against 40.1 p.c. in
1926. and the surplus (£155,656) amounted
to 59.3 p.c. compared with 53 p.c. in the
previous term. In the Accident branch there
is also distinct improvement; although
premium income (£25,227) was proportion-
ately £2898 lower, the surplus for the nine
months was £4992 as against a surplus of
£3276 in the preceding 12 months.
The ordinary growth in policy liabilities
called for £100,271 of the total surplus
(£160,648) and £1566 was added to the
reserve for unexpired risks, making it 40
p.c. That left £58,811 available for distri-
bution. Of it £17,500 was struck off estab-
lishment account, and £5OOO no longer re-
quired in the provident fund went the same
way, reducing the account to £277,500. All but
£4OB of the remaining surplus (£41,311) went
to policy-holders in the shape of bonuses —
£2 p.c. whole life ; £1 p.c. endowment; 10s.
p.c. child and other policies. The board can
see no reason now why bonuses should not be
declared annually. Further, the office has
altered its method of valuation from a 4 p.c.
modified-Sprague to a 4 p.c. net-premium basis.
The big mutual societies and the M.L.C. all
value on a net-premium basis. The change,
which was overdue, is a sound one and means
bigger reserves and, therefore, better protec-
tion for policy-holders. For the nine months
to Sept. 30 the total mean funds, including
capital, earned 4.6 p.c., equal to 6.1 p.c. p.a.
compared with 4.6 p.c. in 1!)26. The improve-
ment is due to a dividend of £9936 received
from the L.C.A., the first that that co. has
paid, and represents 14 p.c. on its snare
capital, which now stands in the A.P.A.
books at par (£70,920), having been written
down £141,840.
The protection for policy-holders and
shareholders is in this form: —
1925. 1926. 1927.
Public securities . . £G39,473 £039,474 £654,724
Properties .. . . 186,397 198,270 225,529
Mortgages .. . . 414,357 521,155 636,502
Shares in cos. .. . . 215,011 71,172 71,172
Loans on policies, etc. 16,303 35,234 38,412
Outstanding premiums. . 45,173 43,882 42,422
Book debts, etc. . . 73,642 34,531 28,322
Cash 26,977 24,498 1,261
Other assets .. . . 13,056 16,302 14,409
On the other side of the sheet sundry
creditor items, including premiums paid in
advance, etc. (£20,492), and the taxation
reserve (£4500), totalled £312,363 at Sept.
30. That left net tangibles of £1,400,390 to
cover £1,324,108 of liabilities under policies;
so only £76,282 —the figure takes in £13,744
reserved for unexpired accident risks-—re-
mained to represent £339,046 of paid capital.
However, the position is now clear; share-
holders at least know where they stand.
Policies, which are most amply protected, are
to be the board’s first care; and as the re-
duction of costs ought to follow automatically
from improved prestige, shareholders may be
surprised at the speed with which the finances
of a co. of this kind can right themselves.
Meantime the greatest help they can give
their directors is to refrain from clamoring
for early dividends.
* * * *
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.: —
f Dividends N
Pref. To Re-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1925.. 6,052 5,000 Nil 52 10,511
May,
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
Au g Added Preliminary Exes., £9647 .. 19,834
1927’. . 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
This co. has transformed itself from a motor-
trading agency into a holding co. A little
over four years back it took over the Mel-
bourne business —the agency for Cleveland
and Chandler motor-cars—of Marcus Clark
and Co., Sydney. A year or so ago the
energetic management of the big Sydney
parent, which had been on the lookout for
an opportunity to enter into business in
Victoria, was able to arrange the purchase
of Craig, Williamson, Pty., Melbourne,
which had a large mail-order connection.
The deal, however, was made by Marcus
Clark (Victoria), Ltd., and the price paid
was £400,000 for shares representing net
assets, including £150,000 for goodwill.
Thus 325. was paid for every £1 of tangibles.
That was in April, 1926, and the figure does
not include the freehold and a new nine-
storeyed building which have been bought by
the subsidiary on extended terms at a cost
said to be near £550,000. At July 31 last a
deposit of £8782 had been paid on the pro-
perty. In. February, 1927, a controlling
interest in Miller Anderson, Ltd., drapers,
etc., Adelaide, was secured by the purchase
of all that co.’s ord. shares (£75,000),
apparently at par; the balance of its capital
is in 50,000 £.l prefs., and goodwill figures
at £7OOO. That is to say 225. Id. was paid
for every £1 of tangible backing at Jan. 31,
1927.
Meantime the motor agencies were dropped
and the stock of cars sold, leaving only
book debts to collect. Despite the disturb-
ance of business due to alterations to the
old premises, Craig, Williamson, Pty., was
able to net £68,834, including a surplus of
£8955 on the sale of property and invest-
ments, for the year to July 31 last. In 1925
£68,335 was netted. The profits of Miller
Anderson, Ltd., are not stated, but they
were sufficient to pay the ords. a div. for
six months. This business is said to be
going along steadily, and the premises are
to be enlarged. Including dividends re-
ceived, the holding co.’s gross earnings for
15 months were £65,937; exes, consumed
£24,928 of it,- leaving £41,009 net, equal to
£32,800 p.a. or 7.7 on capital. But exes,
should be lighter in the current term, and
prospects for the subsidiaries look bright
enough; so, after satisfying the prefs., 8 p.c.
was handed to the ords., and the £1453 that
remained reduced the holding co.’s own
intangibles to £18,381.
To finance the share purchases (£479,000)
the holding co. issued 120,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs., making a total of £170,000. and
Marcus Clark, Sydney, has guaranteed the
div. till May next. In addition this co. sub-
scribed for 153,000 new ords., thus securing a
controlling interest with a total holding of
200,000 ords. Another 100,000 ords. were
subscribed outside; these were paid to 11s.
when the books were ruled off (Aug. 31),
and paid capital was then £425,000. In addi
tion to all that the board went to its bankers
for an extra £143,989, making the overdraft
£164,885. This comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows the movements: —
1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £97,000 £97,000 £425,000
Overdraft .. . . 8,800 20,896 164,885
Other liabilities . . 1,492 6,306 10,409
Plant, etc 2,958 3,303 1,100
Shares in other cos. .. 1,000 1,000 480,000
Stocks 40,349 39,015
Debtors 54,049 73,361 130,301
Cash, etc. . . . . 25 25 15
inabilities were £44,97S in excess of book
debts and cash, excluding the holdings m
the two subsidiaries. The Melbourne sub-
sidiary showed a more or less liquid surplus
of £239,084, including stocks (£253,781), but
in the Adelaide business the liabilities, includ-
ing mortgages (£110,000), were £27,910 in
excess of the more or less liquids.
After allowing for all intangibles, includ
ing those in the subsidiaries, the cover for
the prefs. was approximately 3ls. lOd. in
net tangibles, and Craig, Williamson’s pro-
fits alone were nearly times their annual
requirements. The market pays 225. 3d. for
them; the return at that figure is 6.8 p.c.
The ords,, for which the net tangible cover
amounts to only about Bs. per fully paid
share, are priced at 21s. At that figure the
return is 7i p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1918.. 29.553 8 p.e. = 16,000 7,500 6,053 45,616
1919.. 13.149 6* ~ „ 13,000 1,965 43,800
1920.. 20.198 74 „ ~ 14,958 3,907 1,333 45,133
1921. .37,326 10 ~ ~25,521 4,215 7,590 52,723
1922. .36,548 10 ~ ~31,038 4,391 1,119 53,842
1923.. 6 ~ ~ 25,770 4,557 32 53,874
1924.. 33.937 5 ~ ~24,412 5 028 4,497 58,371
1925.. 50.019 6 ~ ~30,000 9,332 10,687 69,058
1926.. 33.442 4 ~ „ 21,268 10,026 2,148 71,206
1927.. 53.809 54 ~ ~31,370 13,704 8,735 79,941
There was comparatively little industrial
trouble on the field during the year, so the
co. had a fair chance as far as output was
concerned. It added £135,603 to the previ-
ous year’s sales figures, making a total of
£463,870. The net gain after allowing for
depreciation, shown as written off in the
table, was £16,689, and that made the year’s
final result 7 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 4.4, 8.1, 5.9 and 6 p.c. back to
1923. Over the same period shareholders
have had an average of only 5.3 p.c. They
are disappointing results, yet the market
has persisted' in its hope that things were
not what they seemed. The hope was born
six or seven years ago when, with the end
of the two old collieries (East Greta and
Stanford Merthyr) in sight, a couple of
large properties near Cessnock were bought
and Merthyr No. 2, which is now working
a 12ft. seam of some of the best coal in the
State, was started. Adelaide Steam came in
and took up 235,000 £1 shares, with the
right to nominate three of the half-dozen
directors, and thus a market was assured
for at least part of the co.’s output. This
no doubt has been at the bottom of most
of the expectations. Despite the market’s
readiness to be credulous, there is nothing
in the. balance-sheet to suggest that profits
are being stowed away ; nor, considering the
uncomfortable contingencies to which the
industry is subject, is there much of a
prop for capital in the £79,941 of reserves.
Of course, costs do not become less as the
distances between working faces and bins
lengthen, and the steep incline of the old
workings does not help either. There is
also the possibility that marketing may be
at fault. Whatever the cause the co. is not
putting up the performances that have been
expected of it.
Balance-sheet movements compare thus
1922. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital. . £347,250 £500,000 £545,563 £576,069
Debentures . . 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000
Liabilities .. 33,944 62,593 50,937 61,762
Fixed assets. . 422,145 628,452 656,060 691,415
Liquid assqts. . 90,254 80,699 79,806 103,607
The £30,566 of capital that came in during
the year on the 100,000 contribs., now paid
to 155., was presumably used to further
develop Merthyr No. 2, although the position
in that and other respects is obscured by
the grouping of all fixed assets with invest-
ments, etc., at £691,415 (up £35,355). At
Sept. 30, 1924, £286,2’ 7 D had been spent on
the new 7 colliery, and £76,069 of new capital
has been got in since. Investments are
mostly the co.’s holding in South Maitland
Railways, Ltd., which took over the East
Greta Railway in 1918 for £149,798 in fully
paids. The future will largely depend upon
results from Merthyr 2, w T here construc-
tional work has been going on for two or
three years. While this suggests that too
much importance might easily be attached
to past performances, so far as the “Wild
Cat” can learn the new pit has not given
a very flattering account of itself.
The market’s present opinion is that the
scrip is worth 195.; a year ago there was
business at 21s. and two years back 235. 6d.
was paid. On latest sales the return is 5.8
p.e. on a 51 p.c. div. basis, and reserves
amount to 2s. lOd. per share.
s*s 3sc :|c a|e
James Marshall and Co., Ltd., drapers
etc., Adelaide: —
f— ——Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> & £ £ £
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,136 58,792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ ~ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 54 p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
The improvement is definite; yet the £39,409
netted still represented only 6.6 p.c. on
capital. But even that rate is better than any
year’s since 1924 (9 p.c.). The prosperity of
that period so dazzled the public that 100,000
A pref. shares were offered and promptly
over-subscribed. Together with the existing
297,000 B prefs. and 200,000 ords., that issue
made paid capital £597,000, including
£141,573 of reserves capitalised in 1923. The
new pref. money was used mostly to wipe out
the bank overdraft and lighten the trade
debt. Then alterations were made to the
Rundle-street property and a new building
was put up adjoining the furniture ware-
house in Stephens-place. While all this and
wage increases helped overhead along, gross
profits have been slow to respond. This
comparison shows what has happened:—
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Gross profit.. £216,683 £194,317 £193,977 £227,229
Expenses .. 162,591 155,906 163,443 187,820
Net profit.. £54,092 £38,411 £30,534 £39,409
The year’s turnover was a record, but exes,
—they include £24,000 put by for taxation
as against £14,000 in 1926 —consumed 82.6
p.e. of the gross earnings compared with
84.2, 80.2 and 75 p.c. in the three preceding
terms. The drop in the 1925 gross profit
was mainly the result of a decrease in the
output from the spring-mattress factory.
In the following year that section of the
business was formed into a separate co.,
but what the parent’s interest in the float
amounted to is not visible in the sheet.
To finance last year’s bigger turnover the
board went to its bankers for an extra
£15,394, making the overdraft £96,363, and
the trade debt (£81,070) was increased by
£10,696; but that includes £4271 in a provi-
dent fund. These and other movements are
seen in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures —•
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. £597,000 £597,000 £597,000 £597,000
Overdraft . . 70,054 70,374 96,363
Other lia-
bilities .. 86,375 45,981 80,969 81,070
Freeholds and
leaseholds . . 340,109 346,584 353,902 351,747
Furniture,
plant,, etc... 34,857 56,792 68,339 59,979
Stocks .. 256,420 265,961 278,564 256,882
Book debts .. 142,728 136,357 137,358 211,117
Cash .. . . 12,355 8,714 4,503 6,381
Stocks (£256,882), claimed to be in at a
conservative figure, were £21,682 lighter,
but £73,759 was added to the amount out-
standing in the books after providing for
bad and doubtful debts. The movements are
encouraging. The more or less liquid surplus
(£296,947), including stocks, improved
£27,865. Despite the new building and
alterations referred to above, the book value
of freeholds (£346,718) has increased only
£13,276 in the last three years, and the
properties are very well situated. Plant
(£59,979), which is in good order, is £8360
below the 1926 figure. Nevertheless, fixed
assets represent over 62 p.c. of shareholders’
funds, and that means a very lively turnover
if a satisfactory return on capital is to be
won. And a lively turnover is not easy to
accomplish in S. Australia at the moment.
The Btate falls into the dumps rather
easily, and has been a good deal too sorry
for itself for several months past.
Approximately two-thirds of the paid
capital of Marshall’s is preferential. The A
shares, which have priority as to capital,
carry a cumulative 7 p.c.; last year’s net
profit was over 51 times their annual re-
quirements, and the backing amounts to £6
11s. lid. in net tangibles. After that the
7 p.c. cum. B prefs. could see 375. Bd. in
net tangibles and over 1-| times their annual
requirements in the balance of the profit.
On the market the A’s are valued at about
par or a shade under, and the B’s at 18s.
9d.; the return at the latter figure is 7.4 p.c.
The ords. are not quoted on ’Change.
* # * *
Co-operative Breweries of Tasmania,
Ltd., was floated in 1926 to establish a
brewery at Hobart, and 50,000 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 89,880 ords., all £1 each, were
offered. The installations of plant, etc., and
organising work occupied most of the first
15 months ; the money came in slowly, and
that did not help the work along. When a
balance was struck at Oct. 31 paid capital
was £48,714 in 15,205 prefs. and 73,240
ords. less £37,855 uncalled, £2329 calls un-
paid. and there was £453 paid in advance.
Trading, which covered a period of only
5| weeks, resulted in a loss of £3198, which
with the £5OlO handed to the vendors in
shares, paid to 10s. each, was capitalised.
Preliminary exes., etc., ate up £4664 and


CHRYSLER!
AGAIN
w
Creates New Adelaide-Melbourne Record
On Thursday, January 11, a Chrysler 70, driven by A. H. Barnes, established
a new Adelaide-Melbourne road record of 1 Ihrs. 49mins., being an average speed
of over 50 miles per hour.
Chrysler also holds the following Records
Australian 24-hour Record:
1,607 miles at Lake Perkolilli,
W.A., and 1,000 miles in 875
mins.
Fremantle to Adelaide :
Time, 74 hrs. 12 mins.
Distance, 1,802 miles.
Auckland to Wellington
Time, 1 2 hrs. 4 mins.
Distance, 504 miles.
Christchurch to Bluff:
Time, 8 hrs. 50 mins.
Distance, 402 miles.
Brisbane to Sydney
Time, 16 hrs. 5 mins.
Distance, 650 miles.
This remarkable record of Chrysler achievements is only made possible by the
Quality, Engineering Design and Precision Manufacturing which goes into every
Chrysler Car.
Plume Spirit, Castrol Oil and Barnet Glass Tyres were used on this record run.
Designed to Perform—Built to Endure
Greater Comfort —Greater Beauty—Greater Economy
CHRYSLER
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave 6 Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic': Collins Motors Tty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Tty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.


TheCommonwealthPostmaster-GeneralSanctions
the Discontinuance of Postage Stamps on Letters
AND
HAS APPROVED OF
THE “NEOPOST”
METER MAILING MACHINE
A simple device enabling Business Houses to FRANK, DATE and
POST MARK their own letters.
A unique advertising feature is also embodied in the “NEOPOST.”
“NEOPOST” YOUR LETTERS.
Write or ’Phone for a demonstration to
“NEOPOST” (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
McKinney house, 10 o’connell street, Sydney.
’Phone 83511.
Insurance Policies.
IS YOURS SOUND?
This is among the very important
matters dealt with in the January
Number of
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney or Melbourne.
We stock -f- GF -j- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Berth. — Advt,
* * * *
Crystal clear water, free from taint of metal,
flows through Pioneer AVood Pipe to reach the con-
sumer as fresh as it leaves its source, for the clean,
smooth staves which form the inner bore afford no
lodgment for growths or sediment. It cannot corrode
or rust. There are many other advantages that recom-
mend Pioneer Wood Pipe to far-sighted engineers.
Get our data book. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree
Bridge), N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt,
* * * *
1 l)IC AS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
* # * *
Insley (U.S.A.) One-man Crawler-type Petrol
or Motor-driven Power Shovel. This one machine
does the work of six. Namely, Shovelling, Ditch-
ing, Skimmer Scooping, Crane work, Dragline, Back-
filler and Magnet. Sole Agents: Arthur Leplastrier
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sirius House, Macquarie Place,
Sydney; Collins House, Melbourne, 164 Edward
Street, Brisbane; and Morphett Street, Adelaide.
—Advt.
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance aim repairs ui au classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.—Advt.
As Showing the Popularity of the
“CURVILINEAR” in South Africa
'
S 3
Our Bulawayo Agents assure us that, although all well-known concentrators are
represented there, the only Tables sold in Rhodesia for quite a long time are
Curvilinears.
Our Agents ha\e just cabled us for another shipment to Durban.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Patentees and Manufacturers,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
£6157 Was paid away in brokerage and com-
missions. Thus the co. starts w'ith 39.8 p.c.
of its paid capital represented by things tnat
cannot be put into a cask or a bottle. But
the outlay was within the propspectus esti-
mate, and shareholders can be called upon
to dredge up another £39,731 if need be.
Freehold (£19,511), in at cost, is subject
to a mortgage of £lO,OOO. Buildings, plant,
etc., called for £53,171; stocks, £4778; book
debts, £5490 ; cash, etc., £427.
About 80 p.c. of the Speck’s hotelkeepers
have promised to stock the co.’s brew; out-
put is said to exceed the original estimate,
which was about 200 hogsheads per week,
approximately one-third of the Speck’s total
thirst. Six months back the management
bought the first year’s hops at a saving
of about £lOOO on the then current price.
Since the accounts closed the bottling plant
has been put into operation.
The co. has made a promising start. But
competition is very keen. The appearance of
the new concern was followed by a good deal
of activity, including the installation of new
plant, on the part of Tasmanian Breweries
Pty., Ltd. The Pty., which amalgamated the
beer-making interests of the Cascade Co. and
J. Boag and Son in 1922, has a capital of
£200,000. half prefs. and the other half ords.,
and a pretty good grip on the trade in the
south of the island. In the north Melbourne’s
big beer foundries collar a share of the
business.
* * * *
The Barrier Industrial Council threw out
with a bang the companies’ log, as was
expepted. There is no fever, however, as at the
same meeting a letter was read from Emery
(president of the managers’ association), say-
ing that the conference, adjourned on Decem-
ber 20, could not be resumed on January 20
as first arranged, and would the council agree
to a postponement until February 10. work
to be carried on under existing conditions?
The council said “Right oh,” and let it go
at that.
% * * *
Alluvial Gold and Platinum, Fifield
(N.S.W.), has a nominal capital of £50,000
in ss. shares, of which 80,000 f.p. have been
issued to the vendor, A. P. Egan, who is also
the manager. The co.’s area is in the middle
of a platinum field, which has been worked
as alluvial ground by small miners for many
years past. The ground has been sampled
by W. 11. Trewenack. One story was that
he bored the property; actually he appears
to have taken his samples from the
innumerable potholes sunk all over the
neighborhood and not from any system-
atised boring. He describes general aver-
age samples as going 24gr. platinum and
lOgr. gold to the cubic yard, and values the
wash, some 700,000 yards, at £1 7s. 6d. per
yard. He considers it imperative that a
modern dredging plant should be erected to
deal with the situation, the ground having
been worked by the co. with an old-fashioned
sluicing plant. Water has always been scarce
on the field, but the co. has a dam which is
now said to hold 12 months’ supply of water;
but on that point more information is needed.
A trial clean-up in November last is reported
to have returned lloz. platinum, 6 per cent,
iridium and Soz. gold, the total value being
£250. These figures are, however, hotly dis-
puted by a former employee who seems to
have been a sort of working manager. The
co. is admittedly in difficulties as to money.
The balance of the shapes, apart from the
80,000-f.p. issued to the vendor, namely
120,000, are for issue to the public. Recently
a big parcel of these were sold in Sydney at
auction, and, according to report, brought a
premium. An issue of 35,000 .is being
offered at par. So far the issue is not
being rushed, and work has been suspended.
The future of the co. depends on whether the
public will put up the money. Apparently
there are some few T debts outstanding.
* * * *
All productive and experimental operations
ceased at Mount Morgan and its subsidiaries
this week. Exemption from labor condi-
tions has been recommended to the Minister
for Mines for the period of liquidation. This
affects coal leases at Baralaba and Black-
water and the limestone leases at mount Mar-
mor as well as the original property. At
Baralaba alone £40,000 has been expended on
machinery, and this is likely to fetch scrap
prices only, as the coal there is locally un-
saleable, eminently suitable as it was for
Mount Morgan’s own purposes.
'A- %
The Russo-Asiatic Co.’s mining trium-
virate, Leslie Urquhart, D. P. Mitchell and
F. W. Draper, are on the Mount Isa field
this week collaborating with W. H. Corbould
on the further prospecting of the lodes to
considerable depths and the plan of treat-
ment in unit plants. The tentacles of their
inquiries stretch from the hinterland of Cairns
to the vast coalfields of the State. A scheme
of hydro-electrical metallurgy is under con-
sideration for near-coastal sites, and the Tully
and Barron waterfalls schemes come in for
examination. Failing these being satisfac-
torily cheap and feasible, the Collinsville
(Bowen) coalfield falls next in line for dis-
section. It is known this field contains
hundreds of millions of tons of available coal
at very shallow depths, and ever since Mount
Isa was a big possibility Corbould has had
his eyes on these deposits. There is no doubt
that proved reserves of silver-lead at the
present moment on Mount Isa are adequate
to justify immediate erection of the initial
2000-unit plant, provided treatment costs are
right: but the grandiose conception of 8000
tons daily with the completion of two addi-
tional units depends on the additional drilling
campaign, which envisages an extra 50,000 ft.
of diamond drill cores testing the major
lodes to depths of from 1500 ft. to 2000 ft.
So far the various lodes have not been
developed or bored beyond 100 ft. in some
cases, and 600 ft. at the most. In the latter
case the cores reveal sulphide ores, including
zinc, of considerable purity. It has been the
consensus of geological opinion that there
are no reasons evident which would suppose
an early termination of payable sulphide ore.
The width of mineralisation in lode channels
—up to an aggregate of 212 ft. in the Black
Star —is prirna facie evidence of great depth.
At 600 ft. the ore is primary galena with
blende and free from minerals which are
normally regarded as penalties. Carl Davis,
the American, had all the cards in his hand
and turned them down ; but it is well known
that his investigating engineers thought
highly of the field, and that he turned it
down from other considerations than that of
intrinsic value. He, however, did not impose
the extra test of deep drilling that Urquliart
has decreed for Mount Isa.
sj: :!: :|: *
After years of ups and downs one of the
old Warwick goldfields (Q.) looks like secur-
ing a float to test it under present-day con-
ditions. The reefs there have been small
but carried occasionally very rich shoots
which kept a fair mining population in
scattered districts at work 30 to 40 years
ago. Pratten is the field now to be tested,
and more particularly the Queenslander and
Cecilia lodes on, and adjacent to, the Big
Hill, a favorite spot with miners of rem-
iniscences. About £4OOO is asked from the
public, and most of this should be available
for plant and working capital, as the pro-
moters are taking their cut in p.u. shares.
The late A. B. .1. Skertchly, then Government
Geologist, considered over 30 years ago that
the fields, generally, warranted the judicious
expenditure of capital, but costs are not quite
the same to-day.
* * * :K
Westralia’s gold production was down
again last year, and there is the prospect
of a further fall this year. Meanwhile almost
every mineowner who has not been given
Government assistance is clamoring for it.
Something was said in the Development and
Migration Commission’s report about State
aid. The soundness of it in certain circum-
stances was affirmed. It was suggested, how-
ever, not that the State should take- all the
risks, but that such assistance as it might
render should be conditioned by the mine-
owners helping themselves. From judicious
assistance on these lines good may result, but
to treat individual mineowners or cos. as if
they were blind beggars is not to encourage
private investment. Of suggestions to this
end two seem to merit consideration. In
the past assistance rendered by subsidised
prospecting has not yielded commensurate re-
sults. Prospectors could advantageously be
helped to do better if provided with limited
cash and with portable plants, capable of
drilling to a depth of 50ft. to 100 ft., and if
geological advice were made more readily
available to them. Again, prospectors w T ould
be encouraged by a £l-for-£l subsidy on
capital actually subscribed by them for de-
velopment. At present investors may rely
only for assistance on an allocation from a
brovernment grant made available by way of
a loan advanced on the security of their
assets, generally when the investors’ capital
has been exhausted. The brightest spot on
the horizon is Wiluna. Already over a
quarter of a million sterling has gone into
development there, principally at depth, and
in metallurgical expenditure. . While, how-
ever, the development of the mine has demon-
strated the great extent and value of the
Wiluna deposits, experiments as to the best
means of ore treatment are still proceeding.
As soon as this best type of plant has been
decided on, the board will call shareholders
together and submit a resolution authorising
an increase in the co.’s capital to provide
funds for the necessary works.
* # * *
Oil is still being discovered in Westralia.
The latest find is on the slope of a big
limestone hill overlooking Fremantle, which
is declared to have a sea of petroleum at its
base. But Government experts are so scep-
tical that it is likely to stay there.
ij: % * %
Westralian Tin Syndicate is to be regis-
tered as the Oldshaw Tin Co. The property
is about 50 miles from Marble Bar (W.A.).
Instead of the puddling plant originally sug-
gested, an excavator, which includes a recovery
plant, will be installed, and the estimate is
tliat 40cwt. of tin a day will be recovered.
Costs are reckoned at £3O a day, and proceeds
at £300; net profit being £270. Some of the
ground goes 151 b. to the c.y. A tin lode has
also been discovered on the lease and will
be opened up later on. There is no question
about the richness of some of the wash. The
"Wild Cat’s” doubt is about the volume of
the very rich stuff. In nearly every case it
has investigated in the Far North values have
been very erratic.
* * # *
North Mount Farrell (Tas.) has closed
down temporarily. The co. is erecting a new
plant to cost £20,000, which should consider-
ably reduce costs. The fall in the price of
lead flattened the co. right out.
* * * ❖
Bux Tin Syndicate, a survivor of the
Bodak boom, is negotiating the purchase of
the Luca plantations, in the Portuguese
island of Timor, where the Timor Petroleum
Co. has got 12 tons of oil under lock and
key, and its oil well cemented down. The
estates cover 5000 acres, some of it planted
(cotton and rubber). G. H. Bryant, long
connected with Timor, has brought the
option to the Bux people. It is proposed
to form a co. with £60,000 capital in £lO
shares; 2000 to be offered to Bux share-
holders at £1 each and issued as paid up
to £10; 200 shares go for underwriting;
1200 are reserved and 600 fully-paids will
be allotted to Bryant and his friends. It
is stated the new co. will deal with tin and
oil propositions later. The Portuguese
Government in Lisbon offered a monopoly of
the tin and oil on Timor for public tender,
but apparently the terms were too onerous,
because a deal did not go through.
* * * *
Takuapa Valley reports the launching of
the pontoon of the second dredge, which was
built in Sydney. No. 1 turned over 150,000
yards in December and recovered 41 tons
of t. 0., which was not quite so good as Novem-
ber, when 40 tons came from 137,000 yards,
and the average was .701 b. December’s was
,651 b. and the quarter’s a little better than
.681 b. Average recoveries for 1926 were .731 b.
- Among other Malayan returns Bundi’s twin
dredges recovered 60 tons from 161,000 yards*
an average of well over .891 b. For 1926 the
average was 1.0391 b. per c.y. Larut’s dredges
won 90 tons from 362,000 yards, averaging
.601 b. This is the best since the last quarter
of 1926, for which the average return was
better than .511 b.
* * * *
Takuapa’s figures for the first half of
January are the best for the last three
months as far as yardage values go. The
turnover was 70,000 yards for 22 tons and
the average .751 b. per yard. The average
for the last quarter of 1927 was .681 b.
Austral Malay’s subsidiaries varied a little
on previous performances, Kampong Kam-
unting averaging .681 b. from 74,000 yards, a
long drop from the .791 b. of the last quarter
of 1927. Asam Kumbang also slipped, win-
ning 22 tons from 52,000 yards, an average
of I.ollb. to the yard, as against the pre-
vious 1.051 b. Ulu Yam took 13 tons from
48,000 yards, returning .671 b., decidedly
better than the quarter’s .521 b. Thabaw-
leik, with 17$ tons from 35,000. yards, also
bucked up, averaging 1.201 b. to the yard, an
improvement on the December figures, though
short of the quarterly average of 1.341 b.
Austral Malay, oldest of Australia’s
Malayan tin-flotation concerns, has published
its annual report. The co. has four pro-,
ductive subsidiaries, and during the past year
has been testing two other areas. One of these,
Klong Rah, in Siam, has been sold to the
Anglo-Australian Pangnga River Co.; an-
other, Pungah, has been floated and the
dredges ordered. Dividends aggregating 4s.
per £1 share were paid by Austral-Malay
last year, and next year’s little lot would,
it was thought, be ss. But that estimate was
based on tin at £265 per ton, and in view
of the heavy fall to under £250 during the
last few days it may have to be revised.
Kampong Ivamunting, the first subsidiary,
paid 7s. 6d. per share in 1927. The esti-
mate for this year is 55., and sellers were
asking 335. 9d. for the £1 shares at the
week end. A considerable reserve has been
built up, and this will be drawn upon for
divs. during the. removal of No. 1 dredge to
new ground at Karangang (F.M.S.), where
dredging is expected to begin about the
middle of 1929.
Asam Kumbang, which had a splendid year
in 1926, when Bs. per £1 share was paid,
struck a lot of trouble with buried timber,
and much time was lost. Six shillings was
paid in dividends during the year instead of
the estimated 7s. The current year’s divi-
dend is estimated at ss. Shares were offered
at 535. at the week end.
Ulu Yam had an excellent year, paying
Bs. A new magnetic separating plant for
ore dressing is expected to effect economies.
It is expected that 4s. will be handed out
this year. The market offers 41s. 6d. for
the pound shares.
Tliabawleik paid 2s. per share in October.
The co. started work in debt, mostly to its
fellow subsidiaries, but £26,000 was paid
off during 1927, leaving £14,000 owing.
Dredge recoveries were excellent during the
year, average return of t.o. being 1.521 b. It
is expected that 1928 divs. will total Bs.
and that the balance of the loan will be
paid off. Shares recently stood at 625. 6d.
(b) ; 655. (s).
Puchong Tin, formed in 1925, is not yet
in tire producing stage. The co. holds a
large area in the good Puchong district, and
bore values go .721 b. The dredge—delivery
expected to begin in June this year—is a very
large one, 190,000 c.y. per month, is to dig
to 70ft., and is electrically driven. An import-
ant feature of this dredge is a provision for
stripping the overburden —30ft. deep in parts
—and passing it over the back of the dredge,
without sending it through screens or sluice
boxes. Jigs and all the usual up-to-date tin-
saving gadgets are fitted.
Pungah is another non-producer. Siamese
holders of surface rights caused much delay,
but this trouble has been overcome. Instead
of the three electrically driven dredges origin-
ally proposed, it has been decided to sub-
stitute two steam-driven units, each 150,000
c.y. monthly. These are on order in Britain.
* * * *
Ratrut Basin, the old Malaya Tin Cor-
poration’s firstborn, is full of trouble. When
the original area near Renong in West Siam
showed signs of petering out, fresh country
was taken up at Sichon, also in Siam, and
the job of transfer was begun. A new
dredge of an improved type was also ordered
in Britain, and it was hoped to have this
digging on the new site by the end of Febru-
ary, while arrangements were made to con-
tinue the quarterly dividend till the first
dredge was giving returns. Shareholders’
have now been told that the early and ex-
ceptionally heavy monsoon season has delayed
the work and that the No. 1 dredge will
not be ready to dig till the end of May.
The contractors for No. 2 dredge were late
in deliveries, and the monsoon set in before
all. the parts had been landed, so it is un-
likely that this plant will be ready before
the end of September. As a consequence of
this delay and extra expense, the directors 1
have decided to withhold the div. due next
month, and distribute no others until the
position is clearer. Though it will come as
a shock to shareholders, all things considered
the co.’s action is wise, and might have
been taken earlier.


DISTURBING A GHOST.
“Avowed Freetraders, members of the Henry George Club, were addressed last night by Mr. W. O. Fairfax, on the ‘Decline of Freetrade ’ Mr Fairfax went
minutely into details to show that a Protective tariff not only saved the nation external expenditure, but also called into existence ,a specialised organisation and
productive power". —S. M. HERALD.
GHOST OF THE OLD “S.M. HERALD”: “Drat the boy! To think he should so mistreat the statue his dear old grandmother erected!”


Gable, Wireless
and Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraoiel,
Sydney.”
I
±1
m
in
T
39
m
G
ome
now
' SUMMER DAYS
IN SYDNEY.
ENCHANTING things to do and see
on every hand—sight-seeing, social
engagements, surfing. But do not miss
the pleasure of a stay at the “Hotel
Australia.” It is the hotel pre-eminent
of unchallenged excellence in cuisine,
service and appointments.
T |e /4ustralia
Capital Paid-up, £1)22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHuUS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “The Letter”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “Cornered”
Empire “The Film Girl”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELHQI'RNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
King’s “A Cuckoo in the Nest”
Royal “The Terror”
Athenjjuai Moving Pictures
Tivoli vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Mott’s Moving Pictures
«.
The Vanbrugh-Boucicaults opened “The
Letter” for a week’s season at Sydney Royal
on Saturday night. The play—the old tri-
angle with its corners slightly rounded and
a new twist in the base line—is built out
of a story of Somerset Maugham’s. In the
original a wife empties some shots into a
flame whose glimmer has waned, and goes
to gaol for it. In the play the shots —six
of them—are emptied while the curtain is
going up ; but the deluded husband’s lawyer
friend proves that there are still some prin-
ciples in his profession by sacrificing a
few, and saves the erring lady, buying back
through his Chinese clerk the letter in
which she has amorously invited the swain
to make haste to the bungalow while the
going is good. The play starts briskly
enough with the shooting, but after that
the interest is not recaptured until well into
the second act when the first hint of the
letter filters through to the lawyer from
his clerk. That scene and the following
one, when the lady is induced by her lawyer
to get a trifle closer to truth, are excellent
drama. But the standard is not sustained,
an inset of the shooting towards the end
being a particularly desperate revelation of
an author’s wrestling with a story that
wants to tell itself another way.
* * =i= *
Irene Vanbrugh does the only woman part
in the piece worth mentioning. It demands
a sex fascination which she fails to give it
and a flair for tragedy which is not her
strongest quality. She creates the impres-
sion that she is the sort of woman that a
younger lover would weary of, without
suggesting any good reason why she ever
attracted him. Only in odd spots does the
part allow her fine quality to gleam through.
She cannot be vivacious or make comedy of
it; it is the fact that she seems to be sup-
pressing a desire to be one and do the other
that promotes the secondary males over her
head. And so Norman McKinnel, as the
lawyer, and Boucicault, as his Chinese clerk,
carry the larger portions of the baby.
McKinnel puts some excellent acting into
what he refrains from saying; one might
say his’ reservations are so good that
they make a first-class part out of moderate
lines. His lawyer is no better than Bouci-
cault’s clerk; it is the little man who really
makes what would otherwise be a rather
dreary and hysterical procession an enter-
tainment worth seeing at least once. At the
end of the week the co. moves on to the
Criterion for a varied season, making way
for Leon Gordon and “The Trial of Mary
Dugan.”
si:***
From all parts of Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney continues to manifest unbounded ad-
miration for Annie Croft in “The Girl
Friend.” At the Palace “The Eternal
Magdalene” will have to wait at the stage
door for another week owing to a last-minute
rush to view Muriel Starr in “Cornered,”
which play has been extended to February 3.
“The Cuckoo in the Nest” will flap away
from the Criterion at the end of the week,
when the Vanbrugh-Boucicault company
shifts over from the Theatre Royal. The
latter house, from Saturday next, will be
the address of Leon Gordon and the scene
of “The Trial of Mary Dugan,” a play in
which the curtain will rise and fall only
once. Elsie Prince and Jimmy Godden are
brushing their memories in preparation for
a month’s revival of “Mercenary Mary,”
which follows “Archie,” now in its twelfth
week, at St. James. At the Grand Opera
House “Mother Goose” will lay her head on
the chopping block within a fortnight. The
panto, is to be replaced by “Up in Mabel’s
Room,” a spicy comedy in which it may be
reasonably assumed that ladies and lingerie
will predominate. “The Film Girl ’ is still
causing traffic jambs around the entrance of
the Empire.
sfc Ifc *
“Pantomime Revels” will disappear from
Sydney Fullers’ at the end of the week, and
Jim Gerald will revert to weekly revues,
the first of the coming series being “Don’t
Tell the Wife.” Meanwhile Jim has quali-
fied for a steady job as panto, dame, should
he ever desire one. His best male support
came from Harry Burgess as Baron Grumble ;
and Phyllis du Barry put in some* first-class
work as Principal Boy.
Sydney Tivoli programme is a study
in black and white this week. Half the pro-
gramme is given over to a dusky troupe from
America, who present “A Colored Idea.”
The Covans contribute some clever shuffle
dancing; Ivy Anderson, leading lady, is a
nimble-legged belle with a copious flow of
comic songs, and the Harmony Emperors
indulge in negro spirituals, garnished with
side-play. The most popular turn is supplied
by Sonny Clay’s Plantation Band, who show
themselves equally adept at classical stuff
and weird jazz airs. The remainder of the
bill is made up of left-overs from last week.
Hector St. Clair’s droll humor and the soft
shoe-tap dancing of Davy Jamieson being
commendable items.
At Sydney Lyceum and Lyric “Swim. Girl,
Swim” introduces Bebe Daniels as a simple-
minded spinster whose hobby is chasing
butterflies. “The Cat and the Canary,” at
the same houses, provides a sufficiently hectic
succession of tense situations to make the
heart of the most hardened movie fan miss a
beat or two. Scenes in connection with the
ill-fated attempt to fly the Tasman are also
on view at the Lyceum. California in the
’forties, with Spanish nobles and friars and
beauty and chivalry ad lib., is the setting of
“Rose of the Golden West,” which is draw-
ing appreciative coos from flappers at the
Haymarket. “The Million Dollar Mys-
tery,” which is baffling amateur Sherlock
Holmses at the Empress, still revolves
around a feud between a reformed crook and
a gang of his unregenerate ex-associates. At
Hoyt’s “Mockery” tells of the love of a dull-
witted Russian moujik for a patrician
charmer whom he has helped to rescue from
the clutches of the Reds. Lon Chaney
overacts his gruesome role. “Very Confiden-
tial,” with Madge Bellamy in the chief part,
is the support at the same house. A change
is due at the Prince Edward on Friday night,
when “The Scarlet Letter” will jostle out
“What Price Glory.”
The biggest show in Melbourne last week
was provided by that veteran producer
Nature, assisted by the celebrated basso
profundo Thunder, with scenic effects by
Lightning and Co. The performance opened
precisely at 7.30, so that thousands who were
bound for the city to see the pieces adver-
tised had a free outdoor entertainment in-
stead. A lightning flash such as Melbourne
hasn’t seen for years opened the first act,
striking a railway carriage and fusing some
of the overhead wires belonging to Mr.
Clapp. Amidst clouds of steam, blue flame
and sparks, the whole suburban railway
organisation came to an abrupt stop and re-
mained stationary for an hour or so—far
longer than it should. The force of the air
waves set up by the discharge smashed dozens
of windows hundreds of yards from the spot
where it smote the earth. During the second
act approx. 48,000 tons of water fell on the
metropolis in 13 minutes, eclipsing anything
Bland Holt did in that line in the whole of
his career. Gasoline-tins and fruitcases
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
Ann Suter, the girl from Dixie.
floated down Flinders-street in 2ft. of water
and motor-cars stalled in St. Kilda-road,
while their occupants made terms with
organised bodies of barefoot boys to push
them to the pavement. Comedy was pro-
vided by taximen standing on the roofs of
their vehicles until fellow taximen rescued
them, and romance and comedy were sup-
plied by the young man on a motor-cycle who
went to the succor of a distressed damsel
marooned in a single-seater and had to
be towed out in his turn by a horse lorry,
horses’ engines not being given to stalling
when their carburetters get under water.
Meteorological displays of this magnitude are
infrequent enough in Melbourne to consti-
tute a novelty. One reason given for the
fact that the storm did so much more damage
to shops and houses than previous down-
pours is the partial abolition of the cable
tram, whose tunnels used to supply an effi-
cient unofficial drainage system.
As far as The Bulletin can gather from
a bewildering series of rumors and reports,
Leon Gordon is temporarily postponed where
Melbourne King’s is concerned, the opulent
author-actor having failed to massage “The
Trial of Mary Dugan” into condition in
time for opening on the 28th. As some sort
of compensation there will be “A Cuckoo in
the Nest” at that small playhouse, and an
“THE FILM GIRL," AT SYDNEY
EMPIRE.
Van Lowe, as Jack Sterling, a movie star;
and Bobby Jarvis, as De Witt, his comic
press agent.
impressive array of first appearances will go
with the English comedy. At the Royal the
Barrett-Leonard-Kelleway dispute is timed to
end to-morrow night so that Maurice Mosco-
vitch can commence being “The Terror” on
Saturday. “The Terror,” according to re-
liable report, will be an even more thrilling
mystery drama than “The Ringer,” which, in
the present critic’s opinion, is not saying
very much. At the Athenaeum “The Alarm
Clock” goes off far the last time to-morrow
night, and on Saturday afternoon “Chang”
will commence to strut upon the screen.
“Crusoe” and “The Student Prince” are at
the Princess and His Majesty's respectively.
* * *
“The highest-salaried combination of
European instrumentalists ever brought to
Australia,” conducted by the appropriately-
named Signor Ivost, descended straight from
the mailboat upon Hoyt’s Melbourne h.-q. on
Saturday and played grand opera with re-
markable daintiness and charm between the
pictures. In addition to the music Lon
Chaney supplies the Soviet with another
bad advertisement in “Mockery,” a sombre
romance of the tattered Russian Revolution,
while Tom Mix is raging through “Silver
Valley” in an aeroplane, doing as much dam-
age to the landscape as a major cyclone.
There is a delightful children’s picture, too,
but a feeble comedy that extends a pro-
gramme already good and long enough could
be omitted. “Dearie.” at the Majestic, dis-
plays Irene Rich, all out and sparking in
every cylinder, endeavoring to attain to the
giddy heights of mother-love demanded by a
scenario that sends a woman to a night club
to earn the wherewithal to keep a worthless
son in cigarettes. In “Back to God’s Coun-
try” Renee Adoree is melting the landscape
of the frozen Nor’-West of America with the
warmth of her love emotions.
Murray, the Australian “escapologist” with
the un-Australian accent, arrived at Mel-
bourne Tivoli on Saturday and a committee
of self-conscious citizens proceeded to drape
him with handcuffs, legirons and other penal
ironmongery supplied by himself. The slim
young man was then stuffed into a strong
canvas bag, and the bag was rammed into
a stout portmanteau secured by two large
padlocks, also supplied by Murray. The box
was then enclosed in some more coverings of
durable canvas and the whole outfit made
fast by a gentleman with a seafaring know-
ledge of knots. Murray—-or at any rate
the box—then retired behind a curtain
guarded by two girls, whose duties demanded
that they should be dressed in tights and
blouses without backs. Needless to say,
Murray reappeared, smiling, with his fetters
in his hand just as his manager was running
out of topics with which to keep the audi-
ence in its seat. The man next to The
Bulletin had numerous theories to account
for the achievement, including doubles, trap-
doors in the stage and a false bottom to the
box, but none of them seemed to fit all the
facts.
The Stilly and Mo revues at Melbourne
Bijou continue to make 12 trips a week
over their permanent way.
At the Adelaide Theatre Royal Nellie
Bramley has been demonstrating her versa-
tility by switching from “Camille” to “The
W hite Rat,” a riotously impossible melo-
drama featuring the doings of the N’Yoik
underworld. Nellie Bramley, as Mickie, and
Ethel Bashford, as the Governor’s wife, shared
such laurels as can be awarded for such
preposterous stuff. Largely owing to the
seasonable Christmas weather Pat Hanna’s
Diggers have been doing excellent business at
the Garden Theatre. At the Majestic George
Story and his revue company are appearing
in “Orange Pips”—a potpourri of song,
dance and comedy which imposes no exces-
sive strain on the digestion. West’s Pictures
are offering “Seventh Heaven,” the love-story
of a French boy who cleans sewers and of a
girl waif of the street. At the York the
British production, “Tell Your Children,” is
a movie with more purpose than most; the
purport is obvious. Wondergraph is featur-
ing “A Million Bid” ; the story deals of an
Australian millionaire honeymooning on his
luxurious yacht. At the Grand, “Woman’s
Law” shows two men tossing a coin to de-
cide which is to have a lady who wants
neither, and “The Fame of the Argentine”
brings along some sob-stuff from the pampas.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Ernest Mayer, under
whose management several Australian singers
and musicians were made known to London,
left an estate worth more than £28,000. His
wife was selected to pocket the lot, but
she died soon after her husband.
“R.J.R.” : Tom Mclntosh, who has passed
on at Broken Hill, was a fair vaudevillain a
few years back. As a trick acrobat and
juggler he earned a living on the Rickard
circuit before he was 20, and later was
with Mclntosh’s and Fullers’ as “Scotty,
the Yodeller.” He deserted the stage t<j
become a miner at the Hill, and was only
40 when the final curtain fell.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Katie Towers sprints
across the road from the Sydney Palace
to do her little bit at Her Majesty’s; she
finishes as the keeper of a Noo Yark pleasure
house in “Cornered” in the first act, and so
is available to do the big-bosomed hotel maid
in “The Girl Friend.” The lady deserves her
Chances; after a few triumphs as a youthful
soubrette she struck a long road on which
she seldom got any better opportunity than
a line or so.
“Goldilocks”: Louis Bennison is suing the
Firm for salary he considers due on his
contract, an aftermath of the break-up of
the Margaret Laurence co. Bennison has
gone back to America, but solicitors are
handling his claim, which alleges that he has
some weeks at £lOO per coming to him. Mar-
garet Laurence got much more, the stage
being one of the few places where a woman
can earn more than a man. The unsuccess-
ful show must have been a pretty costly one.
“Flaming Youth”: The Firm struck bad
luck with two expensive actresses last year
—Judith Anderson and Margaret Lawrence,
both excellent artists. Unsuccessful opening
bills seem to explain both failures. It took
£4OO per week to induce Judith to visit her
native country, and her “Cobra” wasn’t a
success. “The Road to Rome,” which went
off into mere smart talkiness after the first
act, was the opening misfortune wished on
Margaret Lawrence, who afterwards appeared
in “Rain,” in which the other lady w r as to
lead, only she fell ill. Barbara Hoff made a
third actress that play hoodooed. After do-
ing very moderately in Sydney, Margaret
Lawrence —a remarkably clever lady—found
Melbourne so unkind that she finished up her
Australian experiences there, and returned to
America.
“Santander”: If the Firm persists in its
ambition to stage “The Squall,” a new
Spanish melodrama by one Jean Bart, the
respectable critics will be faced with situ-
ations that will drive all the assumed non-
chalance out of their prose. The play takes
its title from a storm assailing the placid
household of a typical Mendez, whose dear
son Luiz has just been betrothed. During
the evil weqther a gypsy female with meet-
me-after-midnight eyes sweeps into the
Mendez home for shelter. First she lures
the serving-man Pedro into her slimy em-
brace, then she worms herself into the de-
lighted arms of papa. Peace is restored
only when a violent gypsy heaves out of the
middle distance and drives home what he
calls his “woman” with the gentle menace
of a whip. A pretty play, full of Y.M.C.A.
slogans.


SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 57-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
ẁ
£23/10/-
SPLENDID VALUE:
The Luxor” Solid Oak Canteen
Containing
A 1 Old English Spoons, Forks
and Rustless Knives as follows:—-
9 Table Forks
9 Soup Spoons
4 Table Spoons
9 Rustless Table Knives
1 Pair Game Carvers
2 Sauce Ladles
1 Soup Li
9 Dessert Forks
9 Dessert Spoons
9 Tea Spoons
9 Rustless Dessert
Knives.
1 Pair Meat Carvers
1 Steel
We can offer a wonderful selection of cases, canteen, and cabinets of best-grade
cutlery. The spoons and forks are so heavily plated as to be practically sheaths
of silver. Our prices are undoubtedly the lowest for high-quality goods.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
Peapes always maintain an
average economical price,
which creates such excellent
values that no lower figures
are possible—hence it is a
good policy to buy at
Peapes’ throughout the year.
They stand behind their
goods. Write for catalogue.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
NOTHING TO WEAR.
TEACHER: “And what drove Adam and Eve out of the Garden of Eden?”
SCHOLAP: “Winter, Miss. Figs ain’t evergreen.”
“Rollenshaw” : One would think from the
way “Fana” writes (B. 5/l/’2B) that a scor
pion sting was something to worry about. I
have collected a few in my 20 years of
timber-getting in Bananaland. _ A dab of
nicotine from the stem of my pipe was all
I ever used, and I have felt no ill effects
whatever, except maybe a lump under the
armpit if stung on the arm, or in the groin
if on the foot. I would as soon be stung by
a scorpion as by the big “jumper” ant of
these parts.
* * * *
“J.H.S.”: While birds may occasionally
poison their young, I don’t think it’s done
with malice aforethought, as “Scran” (B.
29/12/’27) appears to think. When pestered
by their offspring for food some birds will
thrust anything into their babies’ beaks to
stop the noise; this is particularly true of
the butcher-bird. One dry Christmas I saw
a black-throated butcher-bird pack one of his
youngsters so full of watermelon, pinched
off the table on the. kitchen verandah, that
the young singer couldn’t squeak. Though
doubtless ravenously hungry himself, daddy
Butcher never took so much as a mouth-
ful for his own tucker-bag. Repeatedly
I’ve seen these birds give their youngsters
stuff they didn’t care about themselves. That
they didn’t want to kill the baby was proved
by the parents feeding it on dainties as soon
as such were available.
* * * *
“Up North” : After the actual catch there
is plenty of work in trochus-shelling. The
fish are shovelled into tanks and boiled,
either on the boat or at an island station.
Longer boiling than five minutes discolors
the shell, and the Chinese buyers are shy.
The “meat” is in the shape of a spiral, and
has to be coaxed out by tapping the shell
gently. A twisting pull completes the
business, but an inexperienced hand often
leaves the tail of the spiral within the
shell, and a week later the remains adver-
tise their presence. Exasperated “boys”
sometimes chip off the tip of the spiral,
but to this the Chinese object. In old days
the cleansing process was effected by a fort-
night’s burial, too slow and tedious for these
days. Dirty shell brings round the trochus
fly, a pestiferous insect; on this account all
shell has to be cleaned well away from Thurs-
day Island shores. Outside, should a clean
lugger anchor within sight of a trochus boat
carrying dirty shell, the flies rush the new-
comer.
. “Murrungurry”; The abo. messenger, par-
ticularly when the towris were mostly black,
was practically a travelling newsvendor, and
a “town crier” on a large scale. Besides
conveying messages from tribe to tribe hs
distributed and gathered news as he went.
Though no tribesman wandered into another’s
towri without being invited, unless he wanted
to commit suicide, they all desired to know
what was happening across the border and at
the back o’ beyond, consequently the new rs-
carrier was always welcomed and feasted on
the best the camps could produce. As nearly
every tribe spoke a different dialect he had
to be a good linguist, and, besides, his mes-
DISILLUSIONED.
FIRST BASSO: “I got tumble surprise when ’ee stopped singin’ in Chat last choorus,
’Siah.”
SECOND BASSO: Ow’s that, m’ son?’’
FIRST BASSO: “I been thinkin’ all ’long ’t was me that was takin’ them bottom notes,
an’ then I found out ’t wadden.”
sage-stick and passport generally bore some
distinguishing marks. On important occa-
sions. when there was to be a big gathering,
or when inter-tribal questions were to be dis-
cussed, the chief qualifications of the flying
courier were speed and stamina.
% *i* H*
“Pick”: With the bountiful summer of ’27
two foreigners arrive’d on the highlands of
Monaro. One was a thistle with a small
pink blossom, scarcely any leaf and a spidery
stalk presenting innumerable spines from
root to tip; the other was- an insect which
clusters in swarms like bees and which in
form and color resembles a half-bred Italian
bee, though smaller in body and with a larger
head and antennae—it is also minus the sting.
Settlers of the blue-nose region would like
to know the names of these latest visitants;
and, respecting the first, would be glad to
have it explained how the plants sprang up
to cover hundreds of acres like a wheatfield
when none of their species was previously
present to. seed the landscape.
He ❖ % %
“Old Timer”: “R.K.” (B. 5/l/’2B) wants
to know why the nest of the brush turkey
is free from the attentions of the dingo, It
isn’t really, but the mound is so large and
compact, with the eggs laid on the ground at
the bottom—so or 60 of them —that the
dingo is baffled, as a rule. The turkey keeps
a close watch on the nest, and as soon as
the marauder leaves the mound is carefully
built up again. I have tried the eggs and
find them too strong in flavor, but they will
do, at a pinch, in cakes.
* * * *
“L’Fou”: The bush still has a pathetic
faith in laundry blue’s power to alleviate
bee-stings. I have met bee-stung victims so
blue-bedaubed that one’s eyes were scared by
the apparitions, but for all the good the blue
did it might have been red, white or green.
The first thing in treating a bee-sting is to
extract the sting. The poison of a detached
sting is still largely in its hollow, so do not
squeeze but remove with a scraping motion.
Then apply ammonia or eucalyptus.
* * * *
“I’fella”: We were camped at a pool in
Groperland’s Nor’-West, and one night an
up-river teamster stayed with us. In the
morning before he went on he handed me
various articles of food and a few odd
luxuries. About midday Sammy, the black-
tracker, sidled up to me, a mixed expression
of gladness and sadness on his black dial.
“Boss,” he said, “it bin a rotten hot day.”
I agreed, and Sammy rested his hams on
his heels. “I ’member once,” Sammy went
on, “I bin nearly dead, by cripes, from that
hot pfella up in the sky; neck dry like
hollow log an’ no spit at all. Water in pool
bin stink, an’ hot—phew! Me bin walk
round tent, nearly dead, when I bin see
bottle belong beer on boss’s bunk. Yes, by
cripes ! Before I bin think properly I bin
grab ’im, knock ’is head off an’ drink ’im.
Yow! My life bin saved. But ever since
mine bin very sorry for boss.” I grinned at
Sammy’s contrition, but his repeated avowal
of sorrow flashed a suspicion in my mind.
That morning the teamster had given me a
bottle of ale, which I was reserving. “When
did this happen?” I asked. Sammy met my
gaze unflinchingly. “Day after yes’day,” he
said.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: To the Torres islanders
Babat, the turtle-stone, was sacred. It
rested within a gigantic clam shell, sheltered
by a grove of sacred trees; wherein were
stacked the bones of thousands of turtles.
As the season approached, the zogo-le with
much ceremony evoked the will of the divine
spirit to send them plentiful turtle. The
deity was brought into immanent touch
through the medium of the babat-stone,
which was anointed with oil. The invoca-
tion of the season followed the Zugabul
(Pleiades), which sheen the tropic skies in
early November. When they first appeared
a song was sung in their honor; sung by a
thousand voices throughout the night until
the stars faded.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The strangest animal
friendship I’ve known is that existing be-
tween a pig three months old and a calf
about the same age. When the pig was a
few days old it developed an unidentifiable
illness, and was taken from the mother and
hand-tended. It convalesced and vras put
in a little out-house and fed on milk from
the same dish as the calf, which had also
been taken from its mother, being a weak-
ling. Both animals, although now quite
well and strong, refuse to return to their
respective dams or to be separated. Attempts
at separation have resulted in moping and
hunger-striking, and capitulation by the
owner has been necessary to save their lives.
They eat, sleep and play together, and it is
amusing to see the pair after breakfast
gambolling and mock-fighting round the small
paddock in which they are enclosed.
(Continued on page 21.)
SEA LONGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bush is calm and peaceful and its plains
are wide and grand,
There are dwellers in the Backblocks good
and true,
But you’ll long for crowded places, for the
smiles of other faces,
For ths salt tang of the sea-wind when the
sea has called to you.
You will tire of lofty gum-trees, fringing lazy
rivers’ rims,
You will weary of the freedom of the
plains,
If your ancestors were sailors ere the world
had dreamed of steam
And their restless blood is coursing in your
veins.
The bush has been my lover for a score of
tranquil years,
But now comes a hungry longing for the
sea,
For the golden sandy beaches and the shady
Harbor reaches
And the ocean in the distance rolling free.
Where the big ships going thither pass their
sisters coming hither
While the ghosts of old-time sailors swing
with snowy sails unfurled,
With stately prows low dipping where the
restless tide is slipping
And their figureheads a-facing to the high-
ways of the world.
When the still bush nights are falling I can
hear the sea a-calling,
Smell the sweet refreshing ozone of the
deep,
While the wind that’s never-ending croons
a song that’s softly blending
With the booming of the breakers as I
sleep.
There are sunlit waters gleaming close
beside me as I’m dreaming,
And I see the billows lapping on the sand,
And just as day is breaking and the first
bush-birds are waking
I can hear the children’s laughter and the
music of a band.
I’ve a strong and mighty longing for the old
familiar haunts,
For the lights o’ nights upon the Harbor
craft,
And the sunny days of leisure on the ferry-
boats of pleasure
With the streamers and the bunting fore
and aft.
Though the bush is calm and peaceful and its
men have hearts of gold,
I’ve an urge to roll my biuey up and go
From the tracks through lonely places, from
the honest, homely faces,
To the beaches where the clean sea breezes
blow.
N.s.w.
JIM GRAHAME.


, H
; 1
: i
t
I
1
M
m
m
m
i
1
2§
m
m
I
1
M
3^
m
m
m
*
*2
m
m
r'Wm
i
a
*
m
a
i
•'S
w
*2
1
¥
m
✓
*
J
%
***
m
r*
2>
20
fl!
#p
%
i
pH
*g
s*
m
m
r
»r
A
i
vfl
*
cmA MwfefcttCANNOT
vc acadwnf
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Larke, Hoskins & Co. Ltd.,
177 to 185 William Street, Sydney,
VICTORIA,
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr. Elizabeth and Therry Streets,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Rasch Motors Ltd.,
69 V/aymouth Street, Adelaida,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Republic Truck Sales Co. Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND.
Canada Cyclo & Motor Agency
(Q’land.) Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND.
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh St,
Sydney.
No amount of suggestion in sales argument or
propaganda will hold if there is one point un-
decided in the final issue—actual test.
That is why Republic’s reputation has been
deliberately BUILT on facts. No accidental
springing up in favor —just a logical conse-
quence of continuous effort, a striving for
supremacy.
Republic will meet YOUR demands; solve your
transport problem, and save you money, too*
We will gladly demonstrate, without obligation*
ẃ


Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
oy Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
*Such a reputation is not won overnight”
nr*
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d .... 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin <& Co.. London. Branch of The United
AAA
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
Play Safe with
RU PTURE
Serious develop-
ments are in-
evitable if
Rupture i s
neglected.
Have sure
support with
comfort and
freedom b y
wearing
OCHYtH
©
Denyer’s Elastic Truss. Has a patent water-
pad. All sizes.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
Write to-day for Free Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Directly opposite Hunter Street.)
“Toonooba”: The pair of crystal-like sub-
stances found in the head of “Tesp’s” whit-
ing (B. 22/12/’27) are otoliths, or earstones.
They are units of the fish’s auditory organs.
Though otoliths occur generally in the heads of
the bony fishes (Telcostei), they vary greatly
in form, size and appearance in the various
families. Some years ago in the silts of the
Fitzroy River (Q.) I found what I assumed
to be several small fossil brachiopods. These
puzzled authorities to whom they were sub-
mitted, but through the Australian Museum
I learned that they were otoliths, probably
from a species of catfish. Earstones found
in the jewfish are called “pearls” or “jewels”
because of their pearly lustre; hence in cer-
tain localities this fish is known as the jewel-
fish.
NOT AN ENCORE, SURELY!
HOG: “Hey, why don’t you get off the road, you d n fool!”
SWAGGIE: “Strike me pink, you ain’t cornin’ back, are yer?”
“Bluey” : The bombardier-beetle mentioned
by “Cassidy” (B. 15/12/’27) is fairly
numerous on the Manning (N.S.W.). But
can anyone tell me the name of this fellow’/
He resembles the common slug somewhat and
is about l£in. in length. When he wants to
travel he ejects something—presumably his
stomach —about the length of himself. This
clings to the ground tightly enough to impart
motion to the body as he draws it in.
* * * *
“Shotacroc”: The yarn about a crocodile’s
hide being bullet-proof is all nonsense, as
“Toonooba” (B. 29/12/’27) says. A medium-
sized croc, was shot in a tidal stream in
my locality (C.Q.). Although a small calibre
rifle was used, every one of the six bullets
passed through the body and was caught by
the skin on the opposite side. The best kill-
ing instrument at short range is a shot-gun
loaded with heavy shot. Up to 10 or 12
yards one shot behind the shoulder will count
out the largest and most horny-coated croc.
❖ Hs & *
“Sea Nomad”: A fat starfish with fingers
two feet long thrives in. North Australian
waters. The Jap pearlers are particularly
fond of him, and with a pointed sticky stab
him among the reefs at low tide. Young
Nippon, when necklaced with a score of
these fish, whose twisting fingers flame in
every conceivable color, is a fan-
tastic sight. Around each starfish
hole lies an empty stack of shells,
which are its tucker tins. Poke
into this hole, and a head appears.
It may be white or blue, or may
change into red if dissatisfied with
your face. It sports a parrot’s
beak for mouth ; this strong beak
crushes the shellfish on which it
dines, and is the only portion re-
sembling a bone in the starfish’s
body. These fish have seven, eight
or nine legs. Those with seven and
nine are poisonous, but eight-legged
ones are luscious eating. The beche-
de-mer fishers boil them in kero-
sene tins, having first soaked them
in salt water or scrubbed them on
a rock to abstract a foaming liquid
they secrete. When well boiled
they make a delicious curry.
* * *
“AdeL.”: Within the last few
months in localities west of Burke-
town (N.Q.) many tortoises have
been noticed migrating in search
of permanent waters, their former
residences having dried up during
the drought. Travelling in parties
hundreds strong without apparent
leaders, they made straight for the
nearest water, in some instances
over 20 miles distant. Crocodiles,
too, have been seen lumbering over crab-
lioled. canegrass-covered ground, criss-crossed
by dried channels —always on the right road
to Jordan.
* * * *
“W.J.T.”: Those Indian snake-charmers
must have been pulling “G.V.H.’s” leg when
he saw them allow cobras to bite them about
the face with poison gland and fangs intact
(B. 5/l/’2B). In the Assam Province they
play the same trick. A snake-charmer will
attract the snake by playing a monotonous
tune on his three-holed flute, gradually in-
creasing the 3peed of the melody and sway-
ing with the rhythm. The cobra will then
glide out of cover and come within six feet
of the musician, erect itself in an attitude
to strike and sway to the movements of the
musician—not the music. When the sounds
cease the snake remains in a comatose state,
with its hood drooping. The snake-fakir
seizes it quickly behind the head and close
enough to the jaws to prevent it striking, and
then quickly puts it in a basket. He is too
wise to play with a freshly-caught cobra for
the amusement of his audience. After extract-
ing the fangs he will allow the reptile to do
anything except crawl down his throat. I
have yet to see any Indian who will allow
himself to be bitten by an undoctored cobra
to win the plaudits of the crowd.
“Cariad”: The mysterious fish of the Veri
Veri Islands has not been seen, as far as I
know, since August, 1910. The description
given by “Bihai” (B. 10/11/’27) does not
tally with that of the fish seen in the month
named by Butler and myself; that monster
came within 20 feet of our stationary launch.
SOMETHING IN THE SAME LINE.
BOSS COCKIE (to Coolem who has applied for employment): “Done any dam-sinkin’?”
Coolem ( perplexed ): “Baal do it dam-sinkin’ Boss, but do it plenty dom’ choppin’
tree.”
so that there was every opportunity for
noting visible details. The head and tail
being below water, no accurate estimate of
length could be made, but from the portion
seen it could not have been less than 50
feet. No dorsal fin of any shape or size was
seen and in color the creature was mottled
brown and dark yellow. As it lay basking, a
crowd of recruits being towed by us in a
big ship’s boat astern threw dunnage on the
fish’s back. It was in this neighborhood
that three Japanese divers were lost about 25
years ago, the life-lines and air-tubes of their
diving apparatus having been cut clean
through. I have often wondered if one of
these fish was the cause. I believe the Rev.
Uauncey, L.M.S.. still alive, was with
Chalmers when the fish was seen by him. I
compared notes with him two years ago, but
to my subsequent regret the matter of color
and the question whether a fin was or was not
seen were not discussed.
* Sj»
“Sea Speck” : I killed two tiger-snakes in
the Speck on one occasion. One taped
6ft. 3in. and the other 6ft. lin. “Bad Aus-
tralian’s” so-called black snakes (B.
22/12/’27) on the West Coast are not akin
to the copperhead variety, which is found in
high altitudes and especially in the vicinity
of the Lakes. The black snake is true to
name, being black as a piece of coal, with
the underpart of a deep red. It is a moot
point whether this variety runs true to type:
I have killed blacks, browns and marked
ones in the same brood.
*9 % %
“Phil P.”: The method adopted by
“V.H.R.” for identifying black- and tiger-
snakes (B. 29/12/’27) is untrustworthy.
Coloration is no guide, as in all Tassie snakes
there is much diversity. The species can.
only be definitely fixed by examination of
the central scale on the head; this, in the
case of the black, is about twice as long as
it is broad, the sides being concave, whilst
the tiger’s sign-plate is shield-shaped and
almost as broad as long. The color of the
belly or body must be disregarded in classifi-
cation. In the Speck, the tiger-snake is
much more common than the black, and is
often called the carpet, because of its yellow-
banded markings.
* * * *
“Pfella”: It took Hans Anderson two
months to bring the pearling lugger Karra-
katta from Broome to Fremantle. At one
stage of the voyage a willy-willy came tear-
ing after his craft and he had barely time
to slip into the lee of some islands before
the storm struck him. Night had fallen and
the anchor-chain snapped, leaving Hans to
steer his way in the dark through an inferno
of reefs to the open sea he had fled from.
The waves looked over his twin masts, which
played bo-peep 20ft. above his deck. That
wind-push tore his sails to ribbons, and Hans
had to repair them with cut-up dunnage-
bags. For close on a fortnight he lived on
water, tea, coffee and courage. It took
him three weeks to sail 300 miles, and then
he was blown 500 miles out of his course;
but he reached Fremantle in safety.
“Titun”: The cheerful white-shafted fan-
tail (or flycatcher) of the Gippsland scrubs
and gullies builds a perfect little nest. Its
home is about the diameter of a penny, and
stretching to a point beneath is a long woven
tail, the whole being like a wineglass with a
broken stem. It is hard to say what purpose
this tail serves. It may give the nest
balance or provide a channel for water to
drain from the thing, or the object may be
to bring the nest into protective harmony
with the slender upright stems among which
it is built. At any rate, the tiny bird’s
nest is one of the most difficult to find.
* * * *
“Toonooba”: Before the advent of civilisa-
tion, the helmet-shell was diligently sought
for by Torres Strait islanders. From it
large convex shields worn over the groin
were carved, and associated with the Fusus
shell it was used to decorate the various
zogos, which often were merely collections of
stones each surmounted by a large shell.
With portion of the whorl broken away, the
large gastropod mads a convenient water- or
cooking-pot. From it were carved once
fashionable cameos, for in certain varieties
the shell is composed of layers of different
colors.
* * * *
“AdeL.”: The 3ft. shark caught in ths
Flinders 300 miles from its mouth (B.
8/12/’27) was not a rare visitor of the
species I suppose it to have been. Sharks
with a lead-grey, sandpaper-like coat, up to
6ft. in length, infest the Gulf estuaries.
Though more frequently found in brackish
water, they are at home in fresh water, too,
and are relished by the abos. Specimens
up to 3ft. when boiled in salt-beef water
make a feast for an epicure. Two years ago
I found a sawfish stranded in a small
creek 120 miles as the crow flies from the
sea, and more than double that distance the
way it must have come. This specimen
taped more than Bft. from tip of tail to
tip of snout.
* * * *
“Eureka”: I doubt “Samuel's” statement
(B. 29/12/’27) that he saw a goanna suc-
cumb to the bite of a black snake. On the
far South Coast of N.S.W. I have seen
goannas in encounters with black, tiger and
other snakes, death-adders included, and in
no case was one fatally bitten. Once we
caught a black snake and a goanna and
placed them together in a large box. In
the vicious fight that followed, the go. was
bitten many times, but showed not the
slightest effects. After a few minutes each
combatant seemed content to avoid the other •
when released, the go. made straight for
the creek, and the snake was destroyed. There
is a bush belief that the goanna eats a
mysterious _ weed when bitten, but in my
opinion it is naturally immune.
THE TALE HE NEVER TELLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Jim is spinning his favorite yarn of the
time ivhen men were men,
And the old glad days and the mad, bad days
. are back on his screen again.
The present fades like a foolish dream, and
the years between are gone,
And youth and strength are again with him
as he drones steadily on.
Old Jim’s at the top of his form to-night,
he’s putting it over well;
Again we hear how he saved the day and
again we hear him tell
How courage came in the place of fear, and
hope in the place of doubt,
When he got there in the nick of time to
straighten the trouble out.
But there’s one yarn that Jim never tells, no
matter how long we stay,
And we’ve sat with Jim, and we’ve drunk
with Jim, till the dawn came chill and
grey.
Old Jim’s a liar, and Jim’s a skite, and
maybe some things besides,
But we like old Jim for the part he played
in the yarn that he always hides.
There’s a tale that no one has heard him tell,
there’s a scar that he shows to none;
There’s a memory that will stay with Jim
till his last long tale is done.
And it must tell in the final count when
they’re reckoning up his sins
That he played the game as it should be
played in the yarn that he never spins.
When Jim is reading his book, a boast is
ever upon his lips,
But there’s one leaf that he never turns, one
page that he always skips.
There’s a secret place where lie walks alone,
where a haunting memory dwells,
And Jim is playing the hero still —in the
tale that he never tells.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERB.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
Qf^te^xphess
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THAT NEW FERTILISER.
“Toiler”: “Yeoman” (B. 29/12/’27) was
more fortunate in his experience with the
new fertiliser than many other S.A. wheat-
growers. Here in Booleroo district, where
we produce up to 250,000 bags a year and
where soil ranges from heavy to light and
rainfall from 22in. to 12in., a number of
growers sowed plots with equal quantities of
the new manure and high-grade super., and
the results were equal. Others used 601 b. of
the new manure against lcwt. high-grade
super, with results 4 bushels to the acre
in favor of super.
“Tritici”: “Yeoman’s” wonderful new fer-
tiliser was quoted to me last year at £l7 10s.
per ton f.o.r. Adelaide. lam satisfied I can buy
a superphosphate of equal strength and solu-
bility of all constituents excepting the mys-
terious “nitrogenous bacteria” for £6 10s. per
ton, which means that “Yeoman” and others
pay £lO to £ll per ton for bacteria. Actual
dressings of a nitrogenous manure such as
sulphate of ammonia or nitrate of soda would
be far more economical for crops requiring
extra nitrogen. Cheaper still is the method
adopted by all modern cockies, who rely
on a well-worked fallow to conserve mois-
ture, providing a suitable medium for nitro-
gen-producing bacteria (which already exist
in 99.9 per cent, of soils) to work and store
nitrogen for the coming crop.
STOOK-BUILDING.
“Hornby”: Many farmers lose a good deal
of hay every season through incorrect stook -
building. A big percentage who so suffer
know the proper way to build a stook, but
neglect to supervise their workers.
Absolutely the worst kind of stook (and
the one most favored by lazy or careless
workers) is that known as the “soldier
stook.” It is made by first standing one
sheaf upright on its butt and then building
the others round it. The centre or “soldier”
sheaf prevents the passage of air and warmth
so necessary to adequate drying and mellow-
ing ; and the rain or dew which soaks
through from the apex of the stook, and
would otherwise fall on earth and be ab-
sorbed, penetrates the “soldier” sheaf, almost
invariably totally destroys it and very often
causes moisture and resultant mouldiness to
spread to a depth of three or four sheaves.
Another possible and by no means infrequent
disability of the “soldier” stook is sweating,
and this, too, generally sets up mould.
The correct way to build a stook is to lean
the heads of two sheaves together with the
butts two feet apart, and then place a sup-
porting sheaf similarly on each side, leaving
a circular cavity of about two feet in
diameter at the bottom;. then build the rest
of the sheaves round, taking care to distri-
bute them evenly to avoid possibility of sag-
ging and collapse. This method allows unim-
peded passage of air and sunlight, ensures
properly dried, mellowed and sweet-smelling
hay, and assists marketing.
Another practice of lazy workers from
which the farmer suffers is building big
stooks in order to avoid the trouble of
starting fresh ones. The result is that the
centre of the stook to a depth of several
sheaves never dries properly until the out-
side sheaves are totally ruined. Twenty-
five to 30 sheaves should be the maximum
number for a stook. One of this size will
dry evenly, and, if not cut too green, should
be ready for carting in four days after
stooking.
In many paddocks after even a slight
wind a big percentage of the stooks will be
found blown down. This is due to uneven
distribution of the sheaves, and is the mark
of carelessness or laziness in building.
GOULBURN AND WHEAT-GROWING.
“Jam”: Few crops of wheat have been
harvested around Goulburn, and it was not
thought possible that wheat could be grown
successfully in the district on a large scale.
But two farmers, Ben Diehm and Reg
Brown, in August, 1926, commenced fal-
lowing light, loamy land at Komungla, eight
miles from Goulburn. for a wheat crop.
Sheep had been raised on the land since it
was originally settled, almost a century ago,
and everyone thought that it could produce
nothing else. But Diehm judged the land
suitable for wheat-growing, and he and
Brown backed that idea by leasing and sow-
ing 400 acres of land each. The most modern
methods were used. For the fallowing 15-30-
h.p. tractors pulled the latest stump-jump
ploughs.
The Komungla farmers were the first in
the district to use the culti-packer for later
working of the soil. They commenced to
sow their crops on April 21, 1927, and
finished the job on May 3. Only Canberra
and Waratab were sown, and the quantity
was 601 b. of seed to the acre. Fertiliser
used was 561 b. of super, to the acre. Rain
came just when needed and hail and fires
were unknown. On December 30 the harvest
commenced. The yield averaged 10 bags to
the acre, and Goulburn farmers have reason
to thank the men who showed how it could
be done.
BABY BEEF AGAIN.
“Furphy”: “N.M.L.” (B. 22/12/’27)
accuses me and others of “prating of baby
beef,” and asks how it is to be produced on
and marketed from outback Q. cattle-stations.
It cannot be done profitably, and I did not
say it could. I made it clear that I think
baby-beef production is a closer-settlement
proposition.
However, country killing will eventually
remove the marketing difficulty, and the rest
is a matter of breed and feed. In a recently
completed experiment in England four
calves were chosen from a strain of early-
maturing characteristics. These were de-
horned and, after separation from their
mothers, received special attention in the
matter of feeding and housing. At 17 months
old they averaged 8961 b. live weight and
realised £24 per head in the open market,
but the experimenters, it is fair to say,
weren’t impressed with the profits. In
America, however, they have progressed far
beyond the experimental stage, and small
cattlemen are making big money with baby
beef. Australia can do it as well or better.
PRICKLY-PEAR AS CATTLE FODDER.
“Mei”: “Azac” (B. l/12/’27) does not
believe that prickly-pear will fatten cattle.
If, as “Azac” claims, their condition is due
to the grass and herbage sheltered by the
pear, how is it that they need no water when
feeding there? As for the theory that cattle
are not run on land so heavily infested that
there are no bare patches for grass to grow
on, let “Azac” take a look at some land near
Chinchilla, not far from the Q. prickly-pear
experimental station. It is really dense pear,
yet every drought prime bullocks are sold
from there. Another place badly infested
which yet sends fats to the Brisbane market
in dry spells is near Dirranbandi. Here the
pear is so thick that mustering is out of
the question. Stragglers are gathered in
wdien they are seen on the fringe of the
pear, or are waited for at the waterholes.
The record price at Dalby sales last October,
£l4, was realised for a bullock that had lived
for four years in just such dense pear.
CUTTING LUCERNE.
“Furphy”: “Biro” says (B. 22/12/’27)
that the best time for cutting lucerne is when
the plants are “about to flower.” The right
time to cut is when approximately 10 p.c. of
the paddock is in bloom. The Americans, how-
ever, who have made a very exhaustive study
of growing the stuff—they call it alfalfa—
contend that the grower should watch the
crown of the plant and, immediately the
second growth shows above the ground, cut
before the young shoots are high enough to
be damaged by the mower blade. Their
experiments show that the following crop
will much more than compensate for cutting
the standing crop when perhaps, by our
standards, it is not ready. When sowing
lucerne don’t stint the superphosphates; 2cwt.
per acre is little enough and will pay for
itself many times over.
SALTBUSH.
“W.P.D.”: My experience of saltbush
tallies with that of “Millie” (B. 5/l/’2B).
There is no better sheep feed for the pro-
duction of high-class wool and the building
up of robust frames. In the far south-west
of Queensland there used to be thousands of
square miles of saltbush country extending
from around Thargomindah to the S.A.
border, but not a shrub is left. In drought
times it survived any native grasses, but
stock were left to feed on it until they ate
it completely out, and new plants were
devoured before they had a chance to seed.
In northern South Australia, from north
and west of Port Augusta right across to
Hergott Springs, saltbush was plentiful 40
years ago, but the same careless neglect to
take off stock from the country has resulted in
its being eaten out as it has been in S.W.
Queensland.
It takes a long time to re-establish the
plant from seed, as it is a very slow grower,
but it would be worth while to plant saltbush
seed on the eaten-out country, keeping all
stock off until the roots have taken firm
hold. When the bushes become established
sheep could be put on the land, but not
allowed to eat the saltbush right off.
MILKING RECORDS.
“Longo”: “St. Rawberry” (B. 15/12/’27)
must live in a neighborhood of dilatory
milkers. He says the man who milks more
than eight cows in full milk within 60min.
is not doing his job propei'ly. It is true
that in the majority of herds even the most
capable of milkers would be unable at the
outset to clip much off the 7Mnin. tally,
because cows as a rule do not give their
milk any more rapidly than the rate that
they have become accustomed to. But in
herds where only fast and capable milkers
have been operating it is a different matter.
When in my teens, in the famous cow
country of the Richmond River (N.S.W.),
myself and two brothers (with a juvenile
bailer and legroper) for some years managed
a herd averaging around 50. When one of
the trio was away and the shades of night
were falling, the accelerator used to be
pushed hard down. My own best record,
clocked and authenticated, was 25 in 115 min.
—l3 cows an hour. And they gave milk,
too, as proved by the fact that our credit
notes from the factory frequently showed
upwards of 15001 b. of butter-fat per month.
BLOOD SCOURS IN CALVES.
“Fred Rich”: The main thing in treating
calves for blood scours is to catch them
within 36 hours of the scours coming on,
otherwise the case will have become too far
advanced and inUammation will have set in
too severely for a cure to be effected, even
if the beast is fat. The only remedy that
I have proved invariably successful is castor
oil, and I once saved 90 calves by giving them
each a quarter-pint of oil mixed with a little
milk. The best way to dose the animal is
to put the mixture in a small bottle and,
holding the calf’s head well back, insert the
bottle in the mouth, rubbing the neck of the
patient downwards to ensure its swallowing
the oil. If the first dose does not work blood
off, repeat it next day and, if necessary, again
on the following day. I have never had to
give more than three doses in the most stub-
born cases.
SHEEP ON THE QUEENSLAND COAST.
“Jabiru”: Concerning sheep for the
Queensland coast (B. 5/l/’2B). The rainy
season and the spear-grass settled the ques-
tion of fat lambs on a large scale 30 years
ago. In the ’seventies my dad was a shep-
herd in the Burdekin country. Blackfellows,
wild dogs, floods and disease all took their
toll of the flocks, but he says it was spear-
grass that settled the business. Grecnmount
was once a big sheep-station covering many
square miles in the Mackay district, but
there has not been a sheep on it for the last
half-century, with the possible exception of
a few stragglers.
MALFORMED LAMBS.
“Jabiru”: “Te Hipi's” sheep-farmer (B.
5/l/’2S) who had so many malformations
at his last lambing has very evidently been
introducing new and tainted blood, or rather
germ-plasm, into his flock. Has he bought
a new ram lately? If so, where did he get
him and what does he know of the history
of the flock he came from? It is no use
blaming it on to what the ewes ate. If my
small sons had white patches on their black
heads and six fingers on each hand I wouldn’t
accuse my wife of having indulged in too
many fingers of “Black and White” whisky,
but should blame myself or my father-in-law.
SHEEPDOG TRAINING.
“Dodder”: “Lucerne Flea’s” idea of break-
ing in a pup is well enough in its way, and
suitable for an animal of limited intelligence,
but if you have something worth a little
trouble train him with his own brains. If
he is forcibly broken in by an older dog
he will always lack confidence, will at once
pick up any bad habits the other dog may
have and, no matter how bright he may
prove, will be always mentally coupled with
the other dog.
When starting a pup’s training teach him
to come under your hand or to heel when
caned and to sit at command, and the battle
is three parts won. If the pup is worth any-
thing he will need checking only occasionally.
It is difficult to lay down hard-and-fast rules
for the training of a dog, but here are a few
points to remember: Don’t let him work
sheep until he has learned thoroughly the
three points mentioned above. Never strike
him in any circumstances. Don’t let him
work too often or continuously on one side
of you, and when crossing him over call
him to heel and then cast him out on the
other side. Always make him cross behind
you. If you have not an extra good steady
dog to work him with, take him out alone.
If he shows keenness and intelligence don’t
interfere too often with him at first. Some
of the best station workers trained them-
selves with only an occasional correction
from the owner.
BREEDING COMEBACKS.
“E-Gar” : Many farmers are satisfied with
a nondescript type of sheep, ranging from
merinos to Eincolns, with a few Shrops. and
Leicester's thrown in. They have probably
been bought at odd clearing sales, and as
long as they breed lambs and cut a bit of
wool the owner is satisfied. The most pay-
able class, other than the merino, is the come-
back, and an enterprising farmer can, by a
little trouble in culling each year, breed for
himself a flock of comebacks. Starting off
by mating Lincoln rams with merino ewes
the produce will be lialf-brods. Then by
mating the half-bred ewes with merino
rams quarter-breds will be the result. Come-
backs arc then obtained by mating the
quarter-bred ewes with merino rams. This
naturally takes some years, but comebacks,
if carefully culled, will breed true to type,
and the farmer will have a class of sheep
that have bigger frames than the merino,
bear a wool of nearly the same quality,
and are heavier cutters. In many cases
comeback wool has topped the southern
markets, for its spinning qualities rival those
of the merino.
WHO STARTS BUSH FIRES?
“P.M.”: In reply to “Homfrey Beale” (B.
l/12/’27) I did not suggest that men light
tires to get work fire-fighting. What I
know is that nearly all bush fires ai'e lit by
landowners to get their rough country
cleaned up cheaply.
Burning roots or sun on glass may cause
a few fires, but if twenty big fires start
in a timbered district in a dry spell, nine-
teen of them will start iu bush paddocks
that want cleaning up. Burning roots
aren’t there; they are in the open country
that is being cleared for the plough. All
the fires I have seen started in the windward
corner of a paddock. According to “Homfrey
Beale’s” theories, bottles must travel to the
tussock paddocks, and then go and lie in
the sun in the corner where the wind will
aid them best to start a big blaze.
I am now living in one of the driest parts
of Northern Victoria, where there are more
empty beer bottles lying about in one square
mile than I used to see in 20 miles in the
Gippsland hills, and I have not seen nor
heard of a fire in three dry summers, though
there are thousands of acres of dry crops.
Why are there no fires here? Simply
because it does not pay the cockies here to
light fires, and it does pay the Gippsland
cocky, so he lights them, and has cunning
devices to light them without being caught.
“Homfrey Beale’s” reference to “golden-
hearted bushmen, the last people on earth
to descend to mischievous incendiarism,” is
more poetical than accurate. My experience is
that the Outback contains just as big a pro-
portion of crooks and spielers as the big city.
MELON VINE AND BLINDNESS.
“Saaedi” : A peculiarity about the melon
vine mentioned by “Mullarula” (B. 8/12/‘27)
is that the pod frequently causes blindness
in horses.
Sometimes as a result of eating the fruit
of the melon vine, horses simply become
short-sighted for a term, complete vision be-
ing recovered after a pei'iod on good grass.
Sheep and cattle eat the melon vine with
impunity, though it has not got a very high
food value. Some horses display a ravenous
appetite for the melon pods, but it is largely
an acquired appetite, like that of human
beings for alcohol.
BANANAS AND PINEAPPLES.
“Black Heart”: “Jack Point” (B.
5/l/’2B) and “Cleveland” (B. l/12/’27) both
advise N.S.W. growers to be cautious about
replanting their bunchy-top scrub hillsides
with pineapples as suggested by “Cog” (B.
27/10/’27). I agree. Competition from
Queensland is far too strong. Successful
pineapple men in the North are now cultivat-
ing pines purely for cannery consumption,
and find it pays. Both summer and winter
crops are sent to the factory; cases back, no
packing, and a sure price of ss. 2d. a case
f.o.r. After the Beerburrum debacle so many
growers want out of pines that short crops
enabled the canners to stabilise the Aus-
tralian market, and now Queensland produc-
tion is up to its previous highest level. A
standardised canned crop is being success-
fully marketed through one firm of brokers,
each factory retaining its own label, and
southern merchants buy forward with con-
fidence. The old cut-throat competition
between factories is dead.
The result of all this has been a tremen-
dous fillip to pineapple-growing, and wise-
acres are again raising the over-production
spectre or selling their gardens. The price
of suckers (young plants) is up to £5 per
1000, and this proves the amount of planting
this season.
As to the intermediate crop, this is a snare
(Continued on page 25.)


fy
I
4
E
tn
A
r
i •
C *t
s O
* O
«c
3 <2
g »
3
P-
‘Refrigeration
ha wire
WHAT country housewife has not experienced the age-old
problem of the summer months—keeping perishables
fresh and serving dishes that are cold enough to be attractive.
Even where a regular ice-supply is available the problem is
not solved satisfactorily.
Now all trouble is over. Station homestead and town-
ship residence alike can have the same perfect refrigeration
as the finest city home or hotel. KELVINATOR Electric
Refrigeration keeps foods perfectly fresh and wholesome for
days, enables you to serve beverages and cold menus ice-cold
and gives you a plentiful supply of ice in addition.
KELVINATOR works off any power point and is auto-
matically on its job whether you are at home or away.
Use coupon on bottom corner to get quotation without
obligation from your State Agent.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.,
LTD.,
10-14 Young Street,
Sydney.
QUEENSLAND MACHINERY
CO., LTD.,
142-156 Aibert Street,
Brisbane.
DOMESTIC SUPPLIES &
ENGINEERING CO., LTD.,
383 Latrobe Street,
Melbourne.
MECHANICAL SUPPLIES,
LTD.,
79 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
MALLOCH BROS.,
50-54 William Street,
Perth.
USE THIS COUPON
Kindly jorward particulars of your
KELVINATOR models and instal-
lations suitable for a flat or private
residence. The average number of
people in the household is
I am also interested in a Kelvinator
5.8.25/l'/'2B.'
Address
Kelvir
The Oldest Domestic Electric!
tor
Refrigeration


By Appointment to H.M King George V.
•iioyirt “Q u
'»%. jo rtf Will Hint
13"i,0 J/ HoiilvJk
Q'/l .Hi .2—Q J
A
r
m
Speeding up Sales
EYLAND Lorries mean wider selling areas
and more customers on your books; they
mean better and quicker deliveries and larger
sales volume from each customer; they mean
lower delivery costs and larger profits per
sale.
These statements are endorsed by testi-
monials received both from Leyland owners
employing large fleets and single lorry
owners. They have proved the haulage
capacity, endurance, dependability and
economy of the British-built Leyland over
10, 12 and even 15 years.
Cut down
Repair
Bills.
“We have much pleasure in informing
you that the latest addition to our fleet
of Leyland Lorries has proved very
satisfactory to us.
“Having decided to standardise in
Leyland trucks, we have now disposed
of our other makes of lorries, and the
whole of our six (6) Leylands are giving
entire satisfaction.
“They are in work constantly every
day, and average 40 to 50 miles per day
in running, and have also cut down our
motor repair bill very considerably.”
M. GEARIN & SONS, LTD.,
TALLOW & FERTILISER MANUFACTURERS,
MASCOT, SYDNEY.
Write to Department S 5 jor descriptive Leyland literature.
Please state the type o) lorry in which you are interested.
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works.
2 Ton £720 4 Ton
3 Ton £B5O 5 Ton
CHASSIS
£1075
£llB5
JgXlandgMoigrs
rfcfib
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
•* SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951 -8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot:—>
270 City Road,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
Brisbane Depot:—
Grey Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.


The best leather
obtainable
Only leather recognised as of the
highest grade offering is used for
this special Abbey shoe. It is par-
ticularly trim and easy-polishing
without sacrifice of anything that
makes for long wear.
Note the smartly-squared flat toe,
the low-cut, close-fitting ankle, the
graceful lines of the whole shoe
easy-to-wear from the first time on.
Order by post
Exact fit is guaranteed each
full and half size being available in
three widths—narrow, medium and
wide. When ordering, specify
which you need and ask, also, for
a supply of the correct Abbey Pol-
ish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow or Glace Kid 50/-
Black Box Calf - - - 47/6
Patent Leather - - - - 57/6
Write for a copy of the new 40-page
catalogue in color.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
Lsc. SYDNEY
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
s^)
Relieve Irritations
By Using Cuticura
Bathe the affected parts freely
with Cuticura Soap and hot water,
dry without rubbing, then apply
Cuticura Ointment. For eczemas,
rashes, itchings, irritations, etc.,
they are wonderful. Use Cuticura
Soap daily to keep your skin clear.
Soap Is., Talcum Is. 3d..Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
Stte? Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
i
Sweet and full
°f tone it is easy
play because
you tequire no
musical know-
ledge at all.
Ideal for home
dances it not only adds to tbe value of the
harmony but quickly gives you a musical
‘ sense’I—so 1 —so that you will easily remember all
the latest song hits.
Made in two sizes—No. 5, 13" long, 12/6
post f"e, and No. 2,11 J" long.
Price, post free
7/6
Complete Instructions with every Instrument.
Write for descriptive List.
OBTAINABLE FROM ANY MUSIC.DEALER.
OR DIRECT FROM
A.P. SYKES
Z7Z Lit. Collins St.
cMelbourne .
men ordering pica ft mention Ihir pahcr.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
cJlade 27L Ouish’aliaJ
Cuclonc
w*w
GALVANISED OR BRONZE
Cyclone Fence &Gate Cb.PTY.LTD.
Sydney,Adelaide
iUBBTiaB
aaaans 3 n a n r
BSESBIIBBBBSRBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBIia
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBa
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWB«IIBBBIIBaBB*lBBBHBBBOBIIBBR«|
SB55aBBBBBBBBBBBB*BBBBBBiHfcBBBaBBBatjfflBB»BBBBB
888888888
::::
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBRBBBIBBBBBRBBBBBBBB
SBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBM<-J|fIBBIIBBBBMBBaBIIBBBBBB
BBiBBBBBBBBBBBR L l. Jc 9IBBRiBBBBRBBBBBBOBB
■ TjBBBBaBBBBMBBBiBaB
BiHIB
88818
■BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
■BBBfIBBBBBfIBBBBBBI
IBIIBIIfIIBIBIIHII
88181881
mmmuammm
IBBBfIBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
BBBBOBKBBBBMBBBBBB
BUHBBBBHBBBBfIBBfIBBi
BBBaBBBBBBBBBBBBni
E BBBBBBinaiBBBBaiBBBBB
Ibbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
88888888888888888 BB
■BBBBBBBBHBBBBBBIIB
88888888888888888 818
88888888888888888 tQ
bbbbbbbbbßbrbbbV'-^
jIWIBBBIB
Shk'Bbbbb
BBBtoBBBB
■■■■■■■a
E|I\MIfiBBBBBB
bbbibbbbbbbh
£■»■■■ MBBM
RNVfIBBBRBBBB
ibbibbbßmbb
iBBBBBBBBBBB
SSSSSSSSS3SSSSSS
BBSSSSBSSS
888888
KSSH
BBBBBBBDRBBBBBBB
BRBBBBBBII 8888888
BBBBBBBSGBBfIBBIB
BBBRBBHBBBBBBBBfI
■■■■BBBBBBBBBBir
bbbbbbbhbbbbbbbß
SiSISIKB
s
iBBBBBBBBBBB ■
iffIBBBBBBBBRB »
888888888
BBBBBBBAI
BBBBfIBBCTB
sssshss:
■BBBBIBI
8888888
8888888
BBBBBBBfI
BBBBBBB!
BBBBBBB?
KSKS
■BBBBBBBBB
■BBBBBBBBB
8888888
lIH
N
km
I
mm
" is/AV
OBTAINABLE
IRONMONGERS
AND
STOREKEEPERS
Babt/'s Shodis Sab?
from Germs of Disease
and delusion. I’ve been growing pines for
years and say that if any grower chn pro-
duce intermediates in the best month, in
quantity, he’d soon make a fortune. My
experience is that only 5 p.c. of the total
production is intermediate. Anyhow, heavy
supplies are now coming to Brisbane from
Redlynch and Cairns after the S. Queens-
land winter crop. This is followed by
Bowen and Yeppoon in November and Niken-
bah in early December. Last November there
was an oversupply of Cairns pines on the
Brisbane market. Pineapple production from
the North is going to increase to big figures,
judging by the large area planted last and
this season.
So the N.S.W. banana man can cut out any
idea, of making money from high-priced inter-
mediates if he does replant his patches with
pines. Hand-weeding would push his cost
of production up to about Bs. per case.
The Redland Bay and Cleveland (Q.)
growers are using paper-mulch extensively
to eliminate weeding, and by concentrating on
factory production are making money, but
you can’t use paper-mulch or even a horse-
scarifier among scrub stumps.
SUGAR-CANE DISEASES.
“Catalyst”: Gumming disease hit D. 1135
cane in South Queensland very hard this
year, and the loss through its ravages in the
Bundaberg district alone will amount to
about £50,000. The South African üba cane
is not affected by gumming, but it is subject
to leaf-blight. About 20 per cent, of the
Fairymead crop is of this variety. It is a
light cane, high in fibre and low in sugar,
and about 11 tons of it make a ton of sugar,
whereas the Queensland average is now
only about eight tons. It would not be
welcomed by millers, as extraction results
are poor, and even the heavy crops it yields
would not compensate the farmer for the
low price paid for it.
BIRDS AS SEED-SPREADERS.
“Silentio”: In answer to “Curlew” (B.
24/11/’27) about birds as seed-spreaders,
the hue-and-cry is generally over such seeds
as prickly-pear or African box-thorn. These
are seeds surrounded by a fleshy substance
containing a great deal of moisture, which
the bird is anxious to get. The fleshy portion
is digested and the hard, small seed passes
away. I have noticed a flock of starlings
feeding on a clump of box-thorn and then
settle on a wire-netting fence after feeding.
Along that fence dozens of young thorns
are appearing, which seems to prove the
theory. Another seed which passes through
without damage comes from the pepper-tree.
An emu can cat a prickly-pear whole, and
then after the separation in his interior can
beat any seed drill in scattering the seeds
far and wide.
HEAD-LICE IN FOWLS.
“Homby”: During the last couple of
months head-lice in fowls have been abnor-
mally numerous, and several poultry-farmers
have suffered severe losses. The pests appear
more partial to the throat than usual, and
are far more dangerous there than on the
head. They are of a greyish hue, and
resemble fine straws. Immediately drowsi-
ness (the first symptom) is noticed, the
affected bird should be segregated, and if
lice are visible the head and throat should
be painted (not too liberally) with kerosene
—a sure killer and quite harmless to the
bird. No time should be lost in the segre-
gation of affected birds from the remainder,
as the pest spreads with marvellous rapidity.
As a preventive measure, roosting sheds,
roosts, scratching pens and runs should be
kept scrupulously clean, dousing the ground
with strong soap-suds and sprinkling with
fresh ashes and kalsomining all woodwork
being most effective. Plenty of green, feed
and extra-liberal other rations should be
given all suspects. Affected birds should be
enticed to eat by offering whatever they
fancy most.
LIGHT FOR LAYING HENS.
“Benroy”: Contributors seem to regard
artificial lighting of hen-roosts as a purely
American innovation. But it has been given
careful trial in England. C. H. Dobbin,
poultry instructor of the Lancashire County
Council, made experiments, spread over six
years, with White Leghorns, 125 of which
were housed on either side in a hut 60ft. by
10ft. Two acetylene lamps were used on
one side of the partition, the other being
unlit. The lamps were lit at dusk and had
sufficient carbide to last three hours, the
cost being a penny per lamp per night. Dur-
ing the four winter months that make all
the difference to profits (in England Oct.,
Nov., Dec. and Jan.) the egg figures were:
Lit-up, 323, 1695, 1831 and 1953 compared
with unlit, 231, 1471, 1313 and 1669.
LANGSHANS v. ORPINGTONS AND
LEGHORNS.
Jack Point’: Whether or not the Lang-
shan will supplant the Black Orpington as
our most popular heavy breed as predicted
by XSA” is doubtful. Certainly the Lang-
shan i s a most useful breed, both for egg-
laying and table purposes, but egg-produc-
tion must be the chief consideration, and
this is where the White Leghorn scores.
White Leghorns are wonderfully consistent
all through, whereas all other breeds are
liable to be erratic. One has only to look
at the egg-laying, competition scores to see
this illustrated. It will nearly always be
seen that pens from the best farms in the
country contain their duds, but for every
dud W hite Leghorn there will be a dozen
Orps., Langshans, etc., in spite of the fact
that the Black Orps. will generally be
found at the top of the list as teams. If a
hundred White Leghorns and a similar
number of Black Orps. and Langshans were
taken at random from half a dozen of the
best poultry farms and tested for a year, the
result would probably be something like
thl f 25 P er cent, between 250
and 300 eggs, oO per cent. 200 to 250 35
per eent. below 200; Orpingtons, 25 per
cent. 250 to 300, 25 per cent. 200 to 250, 50
per cent, below 260. Langshans would
make a worse showing still.
The Leghorn is so old a breed that it is
reaLy hard to get bad layers, provided one
goes to a reputable breeder. With the
younger breeds this consistency is _ not so
easily obtained, and then it is maintained
only by the most rigid selection, testing,
mating and culling.
“XsA’s” suggestion that egg-laying com-
petitions should be continued for more than
a year is a good one. Under the present
system of replacing half the flock every
season the work involved in rearing such a
large number of pullets is apt to cause us
to neglect the old birds, which might prove
capable, with a little extra attention and
judicious feeding, of carrying on for a
further year’s laying. Experiments have
proved that an old hen will lay nearly
as well as a good pullet in the spring and
summmer months. I have already advocated
the use of electric or other lights in the lay-
ing house to bring the winter day as long as
the summer day, and believe that by this
method it will be proved that it is economical
to keep hens for three years’ laying.
Any good breed will supply hens capable
of accomplishing this, but if the Langshan
owners think their breed better equipped for
the job than others, let them go to it. I
am convinced that the next decade will see
poultrymen going after birds that can lay
through three seasons profitably. Too often
the nervous; highly-strung pullet that can
score 275 to 300 in her first year is not
worth a cuss in her second, and to breed
from her is a mistake.
FEEDING THE DUCKS.
“Jack Point"; Many people complain of
the “strong taste” of ducks’ eggs. It’s
what the ducks eat that gives the eggs their
flavor, and if they are fed on the same
ration as laying hens their eggs will be free
from taint. A flock of Indian Runners of
good-laying strain will lay as well as, if not
better than, an equal number of White
Leghorns, but ducks require more food than
Leghorns do, and the eggs can’t be produced
as economically.
The would-be duck farmer must look for
a breed which lays well and can be sold
for table purposes to advantage; he must
also have a fairly cheap food supply, as it is
better to stick to fowls than pay high prices
for the larger quantities of feed which ducks
demand. Undoubtedly ducks will do better
than fowls on second-class feed, but care
should be taken that too much protein is
not given, and that the balance of the ration
is maintained as far as possible.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“N.M.L.” : Cattle-blight, which comes each
year after the wet season, has as its first
symptom an iridescent scum over the eye.
If not checked it will destroy the eye, but a
dash of milk or boracic-acid will cure it if
taken in time. A couple of drops dashed in
the eye are as good as a bucketful.
' “L.M.” : The first day a hen stays on the
nest without laying make a movable coop of
slats and segregate her at once. Provide
regular feed and water, and she will be lay-
ing again in 14 days’ time. To keep food
and water clean it is preferable to place
them outside the coop, leaving room between
the slats for the hen to reach it without
trouble. By shifting the coop every three
or four days on a grassy plot sufficient natu-
ral green food will be supplied. The addition
of a tablsspoonful of Epsom salts to the
hen’s drinking-water once a week is useful
as a regulator.
“R. J.” ; The best method of applying mois-
ture to tomato plants is by sinking a kero-
sene-tin in the grou'nd about six inches from
the base of the plants. Make a few nail
holes on the sides nearest the plants, and
the moisture will find its way to the roots.
A tablespoonful of nitrate of soda in the
water once a week is helpful. Where this
sub-soil irrigation has been used there is a
minimum of trouble with wilt, and it also
keeps away snails and pests which follow r
in the trail of overhead watering. In a
recent experiment at Gosford (N.S.W.) it
was proved that this method produced the
best results and the plants were healthier.
It’s an easier way of watering than using
the hose.
“M.A.M.”: For paralysis in cows admin-
ister 1 teaspoon sulphide of iron and as
much nux vomica as will lie on the handle
of a teaspoon, mixed into a paste with water
(using a wooden spoon or peg to stir). With
this mixture make a dose by adding a bottle
of warm water. Give once daily if not
serious ; twice if so after a few days have
passed. Keep the cow in the shade and well
covered.
“Dai R.”: An efficacious mixture to keep
flies off horses’ eyes can be made by working
five or six drops of eucalyptus oil into a
dessertspoonful of ordinary axle grease.
Smeared round the eyes, this will keep the
pests away. Castor oil may be used instead
of axle grease with equally good results.
Many use the grease or oil alone, but that’3
not nearly as effective.
“Hornby”: “Homo’s” assertion (B.
5/l/’2B) that trees round which soapsuds
are emptied once a week will rarely be
affected by peach aphis is true of many
classes of soil, but there are many others
more favorable to the pest (the light choco-
late loamy sort and semi-sandy soil, for in-
stance) where it won’t act unaided. If,
however, a half-cup of kerosene is added to
every four gallons of suds there’ll be no mis-
fire. Be sure that the suds are cold. Ashes
are also an effective preventive—coal ashes
more so than wood. If the aphis have worked
up the trunk spray it with the suds-kero-
sene mixture, but don’t let it touch leaves or
buds.
“L’Fou” : From my study of tooth nurture
I haven’t much hope of improvement from
“Yufu’s” plan of throwing scrap-iron into the
water-tank (B. 5/l/’2B). Deficiency of lime
and phosphates, plus lack of exercise, is the
commonest cause of tooth wreck. If the iron
ration is short, raisins or spinach will supply
it abundantly and, more important still, in
a more assimilable form than any collection
of ironmongery.
“Kow Ivokky”: The cow on page 60 of
the Christmas Bulletin is not a milking
strain. It’s got its head on the wrong side
of the bail, too —in fact, it’s not bailed up
at all—and the cove in his Sunday suit who’s
supposed to be doing the. milking is on the
wrong side of Daisy. The only good part of
the picture is the cow’s eye, which hints
by its glaring and angry appearance that
there’ll be a row in that milking-shed soon.


Q'tialsMf Ct&at&d the dmumd
Q'ualiMf 'maintcutui tAe Sale
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVAPTDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
&
»*-
m
it
m
m
fmk
CORK-TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
It is to t,he discredit of this age of wonder-
ful inventions that no one has yet invented
a noiseless soup.
* *
Every country, it is said, gets the poli-
ticians it deserves. Well, according to fig-
ures presented to the Tariff Board, Austra-
lians consume 2750 tons of peanuts a year.
* *
After a stormy meeting of unemployed in
Melbourne two officials agreed to meet in a
ten-round bout at the Stadium. The cause
of the trouble appears to be that one offered
the other a job.
* *
A Swedish doctor states that knock-outs
arc likely to make a hoxer light-headed.
This must account for so many ex-boxers
taking to golf.
PASSING IT OFF AS HER OWN.
“Oh, Maud’s got a few tickets on herself. She told me yesterday
her face is her fortune.”
“Yes, the cat—and it’s a wonder she isn’t arrested for forgery.”
Married people always make one mistake.
What is it?
* *
A lion-tamer and a circus girl were
married inside a lion’s cage in Paris
recently. The idea that that was sufficient
preparation proves that the French are still
a nation of optimists.
* *
THE CONFLICT.
“A juror who admitted having ‘drunk the
evidence’ in a liquor violation case was
dismissed by the Los Angeles Court ‘for
betraying his sacred trust.’ ”
Ah, what of principles know they,
To banish him like one accurst?
“Betrayed his sacred trust,” they say—
The martyr who would not betray
His sacred thirst!
victoria. Macess.
❖ %
The girl who wouldn’t be seen in her
grandmother’s dresses is seen all right in
her own.
“Dame Nellie Melba,” says a newspaper
writer, “believes that black cats are lucky.”
Well, they have nine lives, if that’s what
he’s referring to.
*
Marriage bonds don’t supply interest for
more than a few months.
* *
In Scotland hundreds of years ago a man
was fined 6d. if he did not marry the girl
who proposed to him in leap year. To-day
we have the bagpipes to remind us of how
the victims took it.
* *
“One of the most fascinating women I
ever met,” says a newspaper writer, “was
stout.”
Now I, contrary soul, prefer
No stout, no heavy dear.
Give me a lighter sweetheart. .. .her
Whom men call beer.
n.s.w. XXX.
* *
Ah, w r ad some pow’r the giftie gie us to
be ourselves as ourselves see us!
* *
The flappers are certainly doing their
best to make this a happy nude year.
❖ *
In a South African Test match one bats-
man was dropped four times. Some of our
young batsmen complain that they are always
dropped.
* *
The punter has to face fearful odds.
* *
Poor man yet nibbles at the baits
With which Fate sets its snares;
He weds the girl w T ho cares for him,
And then she gives him cares.
n.s.w. Percy Pawnticket,
* *
A man arrested in Glasgow the other day
had on him £2 15s. in pennies. His ex-
planation was that lie intended making a
world tour, and had got in a supply of tips.
* *
“Soc”: Jim and I used to work in the
bush together before I came to the city. He
blew in the other
day and asked me
out, so I went. He
called for a pint,
and for old times
sake I had one, too.
After I’d drunk
half mine I put the
pot back on the
counter, puffing a
bit from the effort.
Jim lowered hi s
empty and looked
into mine. “Gripes,
that’s a good idea,’’
he said. “I never
thought of that be-
fore.” “W hat’s
that?” I asked.
“Makin’ two drinks
of it,” said Jim.
* *
To combat the
effects of bootleg
grog a New York
doctor says the
only thing to do is
to drink lots of
w-ater between
spots. Well, that’s
one way of making
some people take it.
* *
The 190 appli-
cants for the job of
public executioner
in France include a
vaudeviU-2 comed-
ian, a barber and
a trombone player.
If any of these gets the job we hope he’ll
give preference to members of his union.
* *
Everyone who wishes to send Christmas
greetings to friends over the trunk-line tele-
phones is advised that this is about the
right time to lodge calls.
* *
A cable states that after giving the world’s
heavyweight champion an audience, Presi-
dent Coolidge said that Tunney looked like
a motion-picture actor. It is assumed that
he must have backed Dempsey, or he
wouldn’t have been so nasty.
* *
One advantage in putting lectures over the
wireless is that it allows people to do their
sleeping at home.
* *
One good thing about trying to pick up
the other side of the world on your wire-
less set is that if you get nothing but
squeaks, static yells and atmospherics, you
can always console yourself with the thought
that it might be Highland sports in Scotland.
A car exhibited at the recent New York
motor show is reported to have four speeds
forward. The idea is that if they miss you
with the first three, they still have another
chance.
* *
“Why did the aviator land in the middle
of the Arabian Desert?”
“He w 7 as frae Aberdeen, and mistook a
pebble for a shilling.”
Constable Corncob (giving evidence) :
“Your Honor, the accused was reading some-
thing that looked like Comic Cuts, but
which I found on closer examination to be
the other afternoon paper.”
* *
Since half a dozen murderers have escaped
detection in recent months, the Sydney police
are taking steps to supply all intending
criminals with free cameras so that they can
leave their photographs behind.
A VOICE LIKE AN ANGEL.
Proud Father: “There yar. Bill, ain’t ’e got a snifter
screech? Sounds just like th’ knockin’-off whistle.”
“Most men, when really drunk, must go
to sleep,” says a medical man in a Sydney
paper. Sleeping slackness.
“The car-free man,” is the girls’ motto
of to-day. With their mothers it used to
be, “Handsome is as hansom cabs.”
Whenever a man takes a gun and shoots
himself the report appears in the papers.
•*'
A doctor has produced a powder which
he declares will absolutely cure the craving
for tobacco. A smoke-less powder.
* *
The husband of a woman who had quad-
ruplets in Perth is carrying on as well as
any of us could expect.
Some woodblocks, expanding, seriously
damaged a bridge in Melbourne. We’ve often
had our bridge spoilt the same way.
* *
On the string the strung man’s fancy
darkly burns at thoughts of love.
An Edinburgh millionaire has estimated
that with apples at one-and-ninepence a
dozen it is sixpence a year cheaper to have
the doctor.
* !*C
About the only man who considers himself
lucky to get the wind up is the chap who
goes to arrange an overdraft.
* $
Mrs. Jones: Mrs. Thompson is complain-
ing that that weight-reducer she was trying
is no good.
Mr. Jones: Oh, well, she always was a
poor loser,
* *
It seems only right that the record for
marriages should be held by Greenland.
* *
Love is like fruit: shortly after it ripens
it falls off.
* *
Before marriage a girl will often only sit
on the edge of her fellow’s knee. After mar-
riage, of course, she sits on him properly.
* %.
After everything is said about the risks
run in various occupations, we still think
there can be nothing much worse than the
city newsboy’s calling.
* *
“It certainly looks like rain,” as the bar-
maid said, pouring out a glass of whisky.
❖ #
When a man has a crushed look it’s prob-
ably because his wife has been putting him
through the mill.
She used to love him for his wealth
A generation past. ’Tis funny
How times have changed since then. To-day
She loves him for his alimony.
When a fat man goes travelling he should
be given a wide berth.
* *
The petitioner in a recent divorce case
stated that he had to cook the first meal lie
had after his marriage. Many other hus-
bands have wished they’d done the same.
* *
It’s not always a model motor-car that has
its driver screwed on the seat.
WITH THE BROADCASTERS.
“Hello, hello. This is Station SHO broad-
casting from Wallop’s stadium. The fighters
to-night are Spike Hudson and Hookei
Smith. You know 7, there is a good deal of
mistaken idea about box-
ing. The old days of
brutal bare-knuckles are
gone. To-day we have a
clean, fine scientific sport.
It would be better for
everyone if a lot of the
white-faced, spindly
youths that you see
lounging about were com-
pelled to take it up. Or
girls. It would do girls
a great deal of good, and
with the gloves that are
used nowadays they could
not do each other any
harm. It would help
build up their physique,
and without a good phy-
sique girls cannot have
that beauty which they
all crave for. The boys
are now getting into the
ring. Fine, clean-looking
lads, both of them. Even
mothers could take up
this sport. It is one of
the cleanest, finest and most scientific
of all. The lads have now shaken hands
and are sparring round. Like a pair
of ballet dancers. This chap Hudson has a
fine style, very beautiful indeed. Smith
is looking for an opening. He has a very
graceful style, too. Oh, a beauty! Hud-
son feinted . and hit Smith in the solar-
plexus. Smith comes back with a stinging
right to the ear. Another. They’re stand-
ing toe-to-toe now putting them over om
after the other. Hudson’s hit him in the
eye. _ Cut it. It’s bleeding. The blood’s
pouring down Smith’s face. He’s groggy.
Oh! did you hear that one? Smith made
a wonderful recovery. He hooked a lovely
left to Spike’s mouth and split his lip open.
He’s hit him in the eyes, too. Both Hud-
son’s eyes are bleeding now. It doesn’t look
as if he’ll see the round out. He’s hanging
over the ropes and Hooker’s smashing blows
into him. Hudson has staggered back into
the centre of the ring. He’s standing up to
terrible punishment. He must go down
soon. Nobody could stand the punish-
ment he’s getting. He’s down. No, the
THE OBLIGING WAITRESS.
Customer: “I want a cup of coffee, quickly,
without milk/’
Waitress: “There isn’t any milk; will you
have it without cream?”
bell’s saved him. His seconds are dragging
him to the corner. It was a splendid round.
There’s no doubt about boxing, it is a fine
sport. Everybody should be made to undergo
a course of it. For young girls, even for
middle-aged women, there could be nothing
so healthy.”
UNCLE BILLO.
THE REASON.
Drusilla she has no figure at all,
Her teeth are too big and her eyes are too
small;
Her hair is thin, and she turns in her toes,
And she always wears the wrong shade of
hose.
I suppose that’s right
Because, last night,
1 heard it all from the lips of Ruth,
Who never tells anything but the truth.
Drusilla she says that Ruth’s a pet—
The loveliest girl that she’s ever met,
So quiet and shy and intensely sincere—
Why don’t the boys rush her; now isn’t
it queer ?
That’s Drusilla’s sort;
She’s a darned good sport,
Some day we hope to share one address,
les, that’s the reason. Didn’t you guess?
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS.
GIFTS.
Gifts he bestowed most lavishly
Upon her from the very start,
And just as generously she
Gave him her heart.
And still in generosity
They deal, as when unwed and young;
He gives her a rough time, and she
Gives him her tongue!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


JOHN JAMESON
* * *
WHISKEY
John jameson ** * Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method —as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference !
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victory*
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q-
Milne & Co Perth, W.A(.
The
Battery you can
rely on—always
Fit a P. & R. Accumulator to your
car and you won’t find it lacking when
most you need it. The right P. &R.
will turn an engine over against the
stickiest oil or the highest compression.
The reason is simple. The P. &R.
is built to give a powerful and healthy
rush of current to the starter; It is
built with the knowledge that when
the starter button is first depressed the
battery is delivering current through an
almost complete short-circuit.
That is why inter-cell connectors on
the P. &R. are copper-cored. And
that, in turn, is one of the reasons
why the P. & R. lasts in service.
PLR
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
P.4*
w
Direct Factory-
Representative :
John Arnold,
Degreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD.,
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.,
Wellington, N.Z.
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP DISC CULTIVATOR
The best
implement
for
Summer
Fallowing
'ml
m
■
h
.
w
*
Si
iM
■
Alternate
discs of differ-
ent diameter,
set withunder-
cu t, lighten
draught.
AUSTRALIA’S MOST POPULAR DISC IMPLEMENT
Unequalled for cultivating stubble land, hard-set fallow, or fallow covered by heavy weed growth, paddymelon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Sizes supplied: 10 Discs, cutting 5 feet; 14 Discs, cutting 7 fedt.
MANUFACTURED BY— H. V. McKAY Pty., Ltd.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCHES:
664-666 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide; Corner Murray and King Streets, Perth.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
1 he Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Youth, strong, willing and trustworthy,
several years’ experience North and Western
Queensland bush, like to accompany any
persons about to sail for New Guinea or
Pacific Islands. Good refs. —30GT.
Wanted, some sort of a job, pick, shovel,
gardening, housework, secretary—-anything
so long as it is constant.—3o6B.
A young man, 21 (Sydney), seeks job
in the country; holds a driver’s license;
go anywhere, do anything' not afraid of
hard w0rk.—3049.
Young Australian, 30, requires six months’
work, manual or clerical, in order to com-
plete a course in engineering. Can any
reader accommodate ? —3109.
Young bushman (21), healthy, temperate,
not afraid of work, wants job with chance of
advancement. Good training and experience
as motor mechanic; fair business knowledge;
go anywhere.—3lo6.
By young Australian, 30, good general
knowledge stock, agriculture and bushcraft,
engine-driver, used to tropics, position in
Islands, or Malay States plantation overseer,
or assistant or engineer on trading craft.
Would go with prospecting party to Islands.
—3047.
Respectable boy (17) wants position as
jackeroo on sheep-station in N.S.W. Had
experience on W.-Q. cattle-station as
jackeroo.—3l39.
Young man (23) like position on planta-
tion in Islands as a learner; small wage.—
3083.
Single man, good refs., requires position
as station book-keeper.—3o97.
Elderly man for light service about house,
Tenterfield (N.S.W.) ; couple cows to milk.
—3096.
Salesmanship student, 22, holds Stott’s
Diploma Salesmanship and Sales Manage-
ment, no selling experience; good character,
appearance, address; can use typewriter;
keen to learn, wants position, with reliable
house.—3l24.
Fully qualified chemist, eight years’ ex-
perience, two years as manager, wishes posi-
tion in large country town. Any part Aus-
tralia. —3069.
Mechanic, holidays due any time, would
like accommodation on station, Western
N.5.W.—3116.
Capable man (30), returned soldier, good
physique, knowledge book-keeping and general
business principles, wants position in any
capacity in which hard work and study of
the job will lead to advancement. —3102.
Trained nurse (R. P. A. Hospital) wants
care invalid; job as companion or house-
keeper ; or position of trust; musical, excel-
lent reader. —3098.
Retired banker, 40 years’ experience, wants
to add to his income. Would give three or
four days per week, reasonable remuneration.
Clerical work of confidential nature pre-
ferreds —3110.
Married couple require board close to
Sydney, boating and fishing. Must be safe
and conveniences available for 18-months’-old
baby. (Direct to K. Giles, 63 Boulevard,
Dulwich Hill.)
Text of monologue “Walk. You Big Mug,
Walk,” “Rosa.” and “Night Watchman’s
Story.” (Reply to A. Wliitbourne, Kya-
bram, Yic.)
To sell, I.C.S. “Book-keeping and Business
Training” course or exchange for Holman
and Jacob’s “Mercantile Law.” —3045.
Wanted, people to join British Union for
Abolition of Vivisection. Donations grate-
fully acknowledged, treasurer, seventh floor,
Adyar House, Sydney.
Gentlewoman, without means to travel,
would like correspondence (only) with an
Australian or Britisher located in some “far
country.”—3lls.
For sale, rope-soled shoes, light and do not
draw the feet. By post 45.—3111.
Sell building block, about two acres, mile
from Frankston station (Vic.), Cranbourne-
road, adjacent golf links. —3117.
Words of verse beginning “I hunted for
g01d.”—3140.
To sell, pineapple and citrus farm, 38
miles rail Brisbane; income £9 weak. Sacri-
fice due to old age. Forty-one acres, fur-
nished house, motor-truck, irrigation.—3l3l.
To sell, course in drawing, cost £7 75.,
will sell for £2; or will exchange for camera
(postcard size) in good order.—3l2l.
Words of parody of “Father O’Flynn”
which mentions throughout Beecliam’s pills ;
will pay. (Direct to T. C. Bellamy, Glen-
garry, via Bowral, N.S.W.)
To get in touch with stamp collectors for
approval. (Direct to J. H. Smyth, Box
1660, G.P.0., Sydney.)
Will sell complete set of Sydney Mail
war issues, 1914 to 1918; excellent order;
£8 or offers. (Direct to Miss Eales, Berry
House, Morpeth, N.S.W.)
For disposal to men on the land, a few
seeds of Pittosporum nigrescens and tree
lucerne. (Direct to Frank Jaines, Merri-
vale, Wai-rnambool, Vic.)
For sale, property, 8 miles from Bowral,
N.S.W., 134 acres, solid stone bungalow,
permanent water, drainage, garage; plant.
Terms, £1650 cash.—3oB9.
To buy 7 copies of Pastoral Gazette for
1891-92-93, showing number of stock held on
stations in Australia and N.Z.—3150.
Will purchase courses in short-story writ-
ing or journalism from students of any cor-
respondence schools in Australia. —3151.
Information Sought.
How can I destroy nut-grass in a tennis
court without digging it up? —3ll4.
If it is a grass court apply sulphate of
ammonia (4oz. to 1 gallon of water), and
thus encourage growth, which may smother
the pest. If this fails, or if it is a dirt
court, the only thing to do is to dig.
(1) Where do I apply for registration in
iV.S.IU. as a money-lender? (2) Qualifica-
tion, if any? (3) Advantages of registration?
(4) Fees? —294B.
(1) The Registrar-General’s Department,
Queen’s-square, Sydney, by lodgment of a
statutory declaration on a form obtainable
on application. (2) See Money-lenders and
Infants’ Loan Act, 1905, obtainable from
Government Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney
(price Gd.). (3) No person can carry on
the business of a money-lender without
registration. (4) £2.
Arc warts on cattle contagious? The best
cure? —297l.
They may be parasitic in origin if situated
about the head or body, in which case they
are probably best treated by painting with
glacial acetic acid, care being taken that it
does not get into the eyes. If situated
about the udder they are not contagious and
can be treated by applying after milking an
ointment composed of lard and salt—as
much salt as can be incorporated in the
lard.
(1) Where in Queensland can one get a
partial analysis of water for stock and irri-
gation purposes? (2) What is the cost?
(3) How does one go about sending a
sample ?—-3104.
(1) Laboratory, Department of Agricul-
ture, Brisbane. (2) £1 10s. for the general
public, 10s. Gd. for those whose main source
of income is from agricultural, pastoral
and horticultural pursuits. (3) Best to
collect and forward samples in stoppered
glass bottles known as Winchester quarts.
Corks should be avoided, but if used must
be new and well washed with the water.
Water taken from taps, pumps and bores
must be allowed to run for a while first.
When sample is taken out of a well, pond
or river the bottle should be immsersed, but
care must be taken not to disturb mud or
sediment. Before sample is actually col-
lected, the bottle should be rinsed three
times with the water. Tie the stopper
securely with a clean piece of linen or calico.
Don’t fasten with sealing wax, paste, plaster
of Paris, etc. State for what purpose the
water is to be used.
(1) How is Kikuyu grass propagated and
where and at what cost are seeds or roots
obtainable? (2) What soil does it need and
what situation? (3) Is it drought resist-
ing?—2949.
(1) By cuttings, rooted runners or divi-
sions of the crown of the plant. Arthur
Yates and Co., Ltd., Sussex-street, Sydney
(100, 7s. 6d.; 1000 525. Gd.). (2) Almost
any class of soil, provided it is loose enough
to let the runners become well rooted.
Temperate situations with good rainfalls
most suitable. Stands frost fairly well and
is recommended for soil subject to erosion.
Should become well established before being-
fed off. (3) Reports from the drier por-
tions of N.S.W. have been fairly favorable ;
but as the grass does not form seed and
roots have to be planted, its use is likely
to be restricted. (Leaflets posted.)
(1) What causes bloat or hoven in cows?
(2) How treated? —3oo7.
(1) Due to succulent foods eaten under
certain conditions causing formation of
large quantities of gas. Often seen (a)
when cattle are turned hungry on to lucerne
and clover; (b) when cattle used to dry feed
are suddenly changed to green, soft food ; (e)
when travelling cattle are allowed access
to such food as variegated thistle; (d) when
cattle gorge themselves on wet grasses or
herbage; and (e) when cattle are fed on
roots or potatoes under certain conditions.
Some animals appear to be more subject to
hoven than others. (2) In mild cases keep
the mouth open with a gag or piece of wood
until the beast has belched most of the gas.
The administration of loz. bicarbonate of
soda and loz. ginger is sometimes useful,
and it may be repeated in a few hours, if
necessary. In a bad case the most effective
treatment is the puncture of the paunch.
Description of method of carrying out this
operation has been posted. In feeding lucerne
and clover, if the animals are not used to
it, they should be put on it gradually until
they become accustomed to it. If lucerne
is fed in a wet state, or after heavy rain—
when it is soft and juicy—it almost always
produces trouble.
(1) Are hawkers in N.S.W. prevented
from selling spirituous liquor on cattle-
stations and what are the penalties? (2)
What is the law as regards auctioneers who
provide liquor at an auction sale? —3o9l.
(1) Under the provisions of Sections 19
and 20 of the Hawkers and Pedlars’ Act,
1901, a hawker who (1) has in his posses-
sion spirituous liquors or (2) carries spiritu-
ous liquors is liable to a penalty in the
first case not exceeding £2O, and in the
second not exceeding £3O or imprisonment for
not exceeding six months. (2) Section 78a
of the Liquor Act, 1912, as amended, pro->
vides a penalty not exceeding £2O for first
and £5O for second offence in respect of
an auctioneer at any auction sale, or owner
of property to be submitted for auction at
such sale, who provides liquor upon the
premises at which such sale is to be held
for consumption by persons attending the
sale.
I placed my house in estate-agents’ hands
for sale at a certain price. They brought a
prospective buyer who did not close. I then
withdrew the house from sale. Should this
prospect again approach me personally, am
I liable for agents’ commission should a
sale result? —2os3.
If in writing you withdrew unconditionally
the property from sale, you will not be liable,
always assuming the withdrawal was bona
fide, and that any subsequent sale w T as not
due to an original introduction by the agent.
So?nc time ago my shop was broken into
and burgled. The thief was apprehended, and
he gave a written confession to the police.
This confession stated that he paid with
part of the money stolen from me his over-
due hotel-bill. Have I a claim against the
hotel-keeper for the amount he received from
the thief? —3040.
Unless you could identify the coins or
notes handed by the burglar to the hotel-
keeper as the identical ones stolen from yon,
you would have no claim, as their true
owner, against the hotel-keeper. You cannot
claim an equivalent in money; it must be
the identical thing stolen, as in the case of a
.iewol, piece of plate and so on.
(1) A batsman hits a ball and two runs
are made from it. The umpire at the wicket
calls “Short run.” The other umpire calls
on the striker to return to the bowler’s
end. Has the umpire at square-leg the
right to do so? (2) A book on umpiring
and where procurable? —3o6l.
(1) No law of cricket governs this, but a
note on one of the laws reads: “When a
short run is called it is not customary for the
batsman to cross over to the positions they
would have been in if the run had not been
attempted.” (2) “Laws of Cricket, with
Instructions to Umpires” (compiled and
published by the N.S.W. Cricket Associa-
tion, George-street, Sydney) ; 6d.
How can I test water for metallic impuri-
ties?— 3125.
Dissolve 10 grains crystalline silver nitrate
in lOoz. pure distilled water (no other must
be used). Add a few drops of the solution
to the water in a test-tube or small glass
vessel. The impurities which are most often
present are lead, copper, iron and other salts,
and these are precipitated in a milky-white
cloud.
Our field-spaniel dog has had for months a
sore ear which smdlls unpleasant and is
painful to the touch. What do you recom-
mend? —2913.
The trouble is apparently “canker,” a
catarrh of the lining membrane of the ear,
and may cause congestion or inflammation in
the region of the throat. It is a common
sequel of distemper, and water-dogs are
frequently affected. Peroxide of hydrogen is
useful in the early stages, and in the later
stages is advantageously used for cleansing
purposes. In this case a purgative should
be administered—one-half ounce Castor-oil
ond one-half ounce Syrup of Buckthorn. Give
a cooling diet—little meat and plenty of
vegetable, rice, etc. A thorough cleansing
of the ear is necessary, and this may be done
with a forceps and cotton-wool. Saturate
the wool with peroxide of hydrogen and
cleanse carefully all the inside of the ear.
A little scraping or clarification of the
membrane may be required. Afterwards use
a solution of Nargol (5 to 10 p.c.), which
may be applied on cotton-wool.
Have a valuable dog whose eye has been
injured by a blow. The sight is not impaired,
but a portion of the inner membrane of the
socket, about as big as a large pea, pro-
trudes between the eyeball and lotver lid,
at the inner corner. What can I do? —
2978.
Evidentally a tumor-like formation on the
membrane—probably a granuloma or epi •
thelioma —and an operation seems desirable.
An operation of this character should be
performed by a vet. If none is available in
the district consult the local stock inspector
or your own medical man. Discontinue hot
fomentations, and use Silvol ointment once
daily.
Is it possible to have tattoo marks re-
moved? —3092.
Dab lightly on the mark some 5 per cent,
solution of silver nitrate. The skin will
turn black and peel off in a few days, leaving
the mark still there but dimmer; then repeat.
Generally it requires about six applications.
Could rabbit-farming be made to pay?
Hole much land would be required? What
part is most suitable? Is there a special
fur-bearing variety? Could ’possums be
farmed at the same place? —3o46.
It has been made to pay in other parts of
the world. Area would vary with head of
rabbits to be carried. The special fur-bear-
ing rabbit is the Angora, tentatively intro-
duced in this country; but the export of
ordinary rabbit-skins suggests that these
might pay as well as the swankier kinds.
For ’possums plenty of gum-tree country and
good wmter is a desideratum. Fencing would
be your problem. Write Department of
Agriculture, N.S.W., which is interesting
itself in the matter.
What is the speed at which a .303 service
rifle bullet travels 100 and 500 feet from
muzzle and the striking force of same at
1000 yards? —29o6.
Quoting from the “Text Book of Small
Arms,” in the range table for the .303 Mark
VI cartridge, fired from the short-magazine
Lee Enfield rifle, we find that the remaining
velocity of the 2x5-grain bullet is: At 100
yards, 1876 feet per second; at 200 yards
1706 feet per second; at 1000 yards 961 feet
per second. The approximate striking energy
of a bullet of this weight travelling at 961
feet per second would be about 350 foot lb.
Information Supplied.
2833.—T0 restore leather coat. Chloride-
of-lime. solution 3.5 parts, spirit of sal-
ammoniac 0.5 parts, scraped soap 4.5 parts
water 6 parts. Mix chloride-of-lime solution
and spirit of sal-ammoniac, and then stir in
the soap dissolved in water. Apply the
pulpy mass with flannel.—“T.H.F.”
, 2 !??-~T To poison rabbits for skins. Mix
the lid of a match-box full of strychnine with
a 21b.-tin of jam that is not lumpy Rasp-
berry is a good economical kind. Make
small baits and place each on a turned-un
sod. If the sod comes up crumbly, place the
bait in the hollow instead. The rabbits will
be found close at hand. Where black
thistles abound cut them with a hoe and
place a very small bait of condensed milk
and strychnine (an ounce to a tin of milk)
in the centre of the thistle stump.—“ Ora.”
2856. —Covering for bathroom. Sift a
quantity of sawdust. Impregnate with hot
liquid glue and apply with trowel; smooth
or roll surface with hot. wet tool. Do only
3ft. square at a time. Before glue sets smear
surface of floor with rag damped in forma-
lin. Allow two days to harden. It is water-
proof.—“T.H.F.”
2932. —To make incinerator from 40 gall,
oil container. Punch one end—the bung
end—with prick punch all over, driving the
punch right home. Do the same right round
the side at same end, 9 or 10 inches up.
Cut an opening with sharp cold-chisel 10 x 8
inches flush with the bottom. This gives
bottom and side draft, with opening for re-
moval of ashes. Cut top end out neatly
like opening condensed-milk tin. Punch
two holes at edge and two holes in top
of the drum to match. Pass stout wire
through and twist up to form a pair of
hinges. To prevent lid falling through, fix
a couple of bolts a few inches apart on
the front edge. Set on bricks. —“5.G.8.”
2946. —The commercial method of crys-
tallising plums and prunes would take a
page to describe. Consult “A Complete
Course in Canning,” by the Canning Trade,
Baltimore, U.S.A., and “Art of Canning and
Preserving as an Industry,” by Dr. Jean
Pacrette; leading booksellers, or perhaps
may be consulted at public libraries.—
“Max.”
2824. —To get rid of greenhead-ants from
around a shrub without injuring it, make
sure that the drainage is good. Then empty
all the soapsuds used in the house around
it instead of wasting this valuable insecti-
cide. The ants will go in a few days.—
“Homo.”
2704.—T0 prevent a kelpie from killing
her pups it is necessary to be present at
their birth. Before the event evidence of
its approach is often given by whimpering
and a nest is usually prepared by the kelpie
in a quiet place. Watch at night to avoid
tragedy.—“ Homo.”
2638.—A recipe is wanted for making
small quantity of malt or substitute from
maize, wheat or barley. To attempt to malt
a small quantity of grain by recipe is not
worth while. Buy malt extract. That put
up in bottles or jars is mostly imported for
medicinal purposes. Colonial manufactured
pure malt extract put up in tins freshly made
is better, cheaper and will produce the
goods. A 71b. tin is a suitable size.—
“Puoho.”
2704. —A closely inbred bitch will often
kill and eat her own pups. Make a cosy
box nest for the pups and shield them from
the unnatural mother with a close-meshed
wire-netting front. Allow the bitch access
to them only at feeding-time, and while
someone is standing guard. When the pups
can run about test her inclinations by letting
her play with one of the family.—“ Pick.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a good starch paste that will
keep?— - 3130.
Recipe for home-made boot-polish?—3l33.
Name and address of agent for “Hervia,”
a reputed herb cure for rheumatism? —3016.
Brief Answers.
M.C.: Communicate with Advances for
Homes Department, Savings Bank of N.S.W., Martin-
place, Sydney. It is possible that they will be able to
meet your requirements. (Leaflets posted) ... .A. 8.:
A copy of a will lodged for probate in N.S.W. can
be had on application to Stamps Office, Phillip-
street, Sydney. The fee for looking at a will is 25.;
cost of a copy depends on length.... M.S.: Com-
municate with Dr. Phillips, Glenfield Special School,
Glenfield, N.S.W V. J.: Get in touch with Lyster
Ormsby, Hunter-street, Sydney, or Tyrrell’s, Martin-
place, Sydney... .G.A.F.: (1) “Official History”
covering the campaign in Flanders will be the most
reliable work to secure. (2) “Tales of Three Cam-
paigns” by Lieut Col. C. B. Brereton.... W.E.: (1)
Yes; impossible to say, but looks like being over
three shillings. (2) No. . . .Arthur L.: There are
too many unknown factors to allow anyone to make
a worth-while estimate... .R.N.C.: The “Cocarette”
camera can be got from Herbert Small Pty., 243
Pitt-street, Sydney... .W.C.T.F.: May be due to
several causes —rupture, hydrocaele, tuberculosis,
cancer, syphilis. Consult a medical man at once to
find whether the swelling is a serious matter or not.
....Crow: No; think it is due for a period of
depression. Others good and solid... .R.P.: (1)
Cavendish, 14 to 16 months; Gros Michel, 18 to
22 months. (2) Under most favorable conditions,
450 good bunches. Whether profitable would depend
chiefly on transport. (3) No; his terms are not liberal
enough. .. .8.M.8.: We prefer the coal co Doner-
dailie: The steams are quite good. If you want a
fair return and as much safety as you can get in
a man-made institution, consider, next, fire-insurance
(Queensland or Mercantile), a bank (National or
Adelaide) and any Trustee... .W.R.E.: No, if we
have a slump they’ll probably suffer badly....
Tomingly: Breweries, as a group, seem to us safe
enough. But of course that’s only a matter of
opinion. .. .H.E.D.: (1) The exam, referred to is
the N.S.W. Leaving Certificate Examination; proof
of passing equivalent exam, in the other States
would do as well. (2) In both. (3) Promotion is
fairly rapid, due to resignations; pay is good. (4)
Impossible to indicate. Get to know yourself, and
then decide the profession in which you should do
best... .F.A.8.: Unable to trace him. A question
concerning Kikuyu grass is answered this issue....
G.E.: Depends what you want the battery for.
Write electro-medical department of Gloria Light Co.,
127 Collins-street, Melbourne... .Despondent: No pills
can cure varicocele. The cure is effected by opera-
tion (permanent and satisfactory). If a person is
not suffering much pain, a simple suspensory bandage
will do. Consult your own doctor or the nearest
surgeon, and there is no reason why you should not
get instant relief.... R.N.: British Solomon Island
lid. stamp appears to be the only stamp of that
value existing or on issue. It was first sold in 1913.
It is not likely ever to be very valuable... .J.W.F.:
(1) A Queen Victoria jubilee sovereign, if in fine
condition, should bring 225. 6d. Not rare. (2)
Any large dealer in antiques... .E. 8.: Buyers offer
£lO2 17s. 6d. ex interest on Brisbane ’Change
P.P.: The Service Department is available for all
Bulletin readers and is entirely free.... (Many
others mailed.)


B.
A. popularity
and the reason
I
B.S.A. 4.93-h.p. O.H.V. Motor Cycle.
B.S.A. popularity is proved by the fact that to-day the
sales of B.S.A. Motor Cycles are the largest in the world.
Such world-wide popularity is due to the satisfaction of
B.S.A. riders in their choice. B.S.A. riders know from
experience the value and consistent reliability of B.S.A.
Motor Cycles. They know they will stand any amount
of real hard work under the most trying conditions.
The reason for B.S.A. popularity is B.S.A. reliability and
B.S.A. value.
Follow the popular choice and buy an all-British B.S.A.
There is a wide range of 13 models to choose from,
from 1.74 h.p. to 9.86 h.p., each model embodying every
modern feature of motor cycle design, and offering the
finest value obtainable in its class.
Lead the way on a BSA
Prices from £57/10/-
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W. 1
Q’LAND)
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
I 284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTOR! A- FI NLA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY.j LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUS.-J. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.,
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide a
WEST AUS.-/WO#?77.OCK BROS., LTD.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA-s//w king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston .
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia.
D. Y. RENNIE ( Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.


EVER-READY'
TORCHES 4
The Worlds Best S
fi* tfc* Tnd«lA I Agent* Ewiywhert.
Write for I l[ultra ted Catalogue
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
I J
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
MAN
w
NEWS
ŵ
£ 6’A«
‘Calcutta’
Indian Pith Helmet
Light and cool—well
ventilated—healthy-
and a real treat to
wear during the hot
siege of Summer. All
Sizes. White Drill
and White Puggaree
18/6
Tost-* ‘tfree;
Write Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen §>treet, (-Brisbane
Poverty
Point
“Ij. de R.”: Puccini's “Turandot” thor-
oughly conforms to the convention that
a gran’-opera theme should be so foolish
that if put in plain terms without music
even a schoolboy would guffaw at it. The
remorseless but lovely princess of the name-
part has sworn vengeance upon the trousered
sex because of a wrong done to a very
i*emote female ancestor, and she sets her
suitors the equivalent of three crossword
puzzles. Those who fail to solve them are
to die; the solver is to possess her beautiful
but taloned hand. Calaf, Prince of the Tar-
tars, who moves unknown among the glitter-
ing throng, becomes the final aspirant and
provides the answers easily. Turandot
promptly repudiates her bargain; where-
upon Calaf puts a poser to her. If she can
find out his name before morning he will
consent to die. The princess then proceeds
to torture Calaf’s servants, their cries of
anguish being very exquisitely harmonised.
Finally, in a scene of what the movie people
call tumultuous passion, he strips off her
veil and, the night being cold, consideratedly
covers her with kisses. She discovers that
his name is Love and that she has been
really very fond of him from the beginning.
When this story is draped in the ripest of
Puccini’s music and is staged with all the
Williamson magnificence, nobody is likely to
notice that it comes right out of Hans Ander-
sen’s fairy tales for the youngsters.
“Hamfat”: Recent reference to singers
being forced to adopt foreign names recalls
Fred Haines, who landed in Australia with
a good reputation as a Life Guards’ band-
master. but had to sign an application “Fritz
Heintz” before he could get a job. When
the war came, however, the crowd he con-
ducted was disbanded. A little later, hearing
that the band was being mobilised agaiii,
Fred tackled the brass-blowers’ sec. for his
old job. “We were more than satisfied with
your work, Herr Heintz,” said the embar-
rassed official, “but you will understand that,
with a war on, it would be impolitic—
well, as we know your loyalty—to re-engage
you.” Haines, an almost virulent Briton,
jumped on his hat and kicked it across the
bar. “Fifteen years in the Life Guards, and
to have that said to me!” he bellowed. Later
lie led the Police Band —a rattling good
leader, too.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Elise Steele’s recent
recital at the ASolian Hall paved the way for
wider publicity for this Australian fiddler.
She has a beautiful, sensitive tone and a
keen perception of niceties, qualities that
shone in some old music arranged by Harold
Craxton, an accompanist of note.
“S.W.H.” : “Rob I'.’s” mention of chances
for Australian composers (B. 12/l/’2B) re-
minds me that local song-writers have turned
out some very good jazz hits in the last few
years. A peculiar circumstance is that the
best of them were waltzes. There has not
been one fox-trot up to —or should it be
down to —the standard of the stuff which the
Yanks sell so well. One-steps have been
of good standard, but several jazz bandsmen
of my acquaintance are positive that any-
thing like a good fox-trot would be an
immediate success.
“Caesar's Ghost”: The theatric Herschell
Henlere (“Cauboy,” B. 12/l/’2B) carried his
stunting into his dressing-room, in which all
the furniture was draped with covers carry-
ing his embroidered monogram. He had
almost as much conceit as a really first-class
vaudeville artist.
“Spokeshave”: “Santanddr's” reference
to the Firm’s fondness for pugilistic stars
(B. 12/l/’2B) reminds me that The Bulle-
tin not long ago said of one of these new
beauty actors that he “will not be a satis-
factory lover until he suppresses the habit
of approaching his mistress as if he were a
pugilist expecting a smack in the eye.” The
actor referred to was actually an ex-amateur
lightweight champion of N.S.W.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Marie Lohr is
making her first appearance in variety work
at the Coliseum in “Richmond Park,” by
Gertrude Jennings. Edmund Gwenn, a popu-
lar comedian, plays the man’s part.
“L.H.P.”: Massenet’s lovely operas,
“Thais” and “Manon,” are listed as Fuller
novelties for the coming grand-opera cam-
paign. I saw an English version of “Manon”
at Drury Lane in 1886, with Marie Roze,
Marian Burton (Australia’s first Paul
Jones), Rita Presano (here in 1911 in
“The Chocolate Soldier”) and Barton Mc-
Guckin (here on a concert tour) in an
excellent Carl Rosa co.- cast. It is a delight-
PREPARING FOR THE SECOND
ACT.
The Leading Lady: “What’s the long
interval for, Julius?”
First Comedian: “To give the audi-
ence a chance to forget the jokes
I put over in the first act.”
ful opera with lovely scenic and costume
effects and a plot that is consistent and
dramatic. “Thais” is a clever setting of
An a to] e France’s romance, and dates from
1894. Ancient Egypt affords scope for regal
mounting.
“Goldilocks” : The visit of Madge Mclntosh
recalls Harcourt Beatty, who played with her
here in various classics. Harcourt did his bit
in France with distinction, and got so badly
knocked that one of his arms was saved only
by a bit of surgery that was regarded as some-
thing like a miracle. Starting at the outset
of hostilities, it was years before he was
done with the army—and he was in the
vicinity of 50 when lie began. He had a
long stay in Australia in the late ’nineties,
and came back in 1901 to be Charles in
“Sweet Nell.” In 1912 he was with Madge
Mclntosh in “Fedora” and “Camille.”
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Gerald du Maurier
has gone to the provinces for the leading
lady for his new play, “SOS,” by Walter
Ellis, to be produced at St. James in the
early spring. Grade Fields, once a Roch-
dale shopgirl, but now a star in revue in
provincial theatres, is little known in
London because she makes twice as much
on tour as the city has had to offer. She
is the wife of Archibald Pitt, a manager-
producer in the North, and Du Maurier
thinks she possesses unexploited gifts of
tragedy, which her part in “SOS”—a good
bad woman—will reveal.
“Frank Jay”: That virile, versatile and
sterling Australian actor, Cyril Keightley,
who for the past 20 years has loomed large
in the West End and Broadway, is at pre-
sent at the National Theatre, N’York, with
“The Trial of Mary Dugan,” a play that
will shortly make its bow in Australia.
Although it is nearly three decades since
“Iveet” left here, and he was then a seasoned
actor in big parts with Williamson's, to-day
his step is springy, his full-black hair hasn’t
the faintest tinge of silver, and he can put
as much life into a lead as a man half his
age.
“Clement R. d’Uppe”: The inclusion of
baritone Federici in the Gonsalez opera co.
which the Fullers are bringing to Australia
recalls the tragic death of a baritone name-
sake of his in the old Melbourne Princess
just over 40 years ago. That Federici was
playing Mepliisto in the Firm’s production
of “Faust,” and died in the arms of the
tenor Clarence Leumane after disappearing
down the trap.
“C. 8.”: Gilbert and Sullivan appears to
grow more popular every year. Four com-
panies are continually on tour in Britain,
and the excellent revivals of Winthrop Ames
in N’York run for six months at a time.
Canada has just had the D’Oyly Cartes,
and another co. is to fc»low this year. Our
own organisation has been running without
a break for 20 months.
“Hamfat”: “Yes,” said my ancient friend
Hamilton Roarer reminiscently, “I remem-
ber one occasion upon which a diabolical
printer’s error saved us, my boy. It was
in the old days, a per-i-od when the great
Shakspeare’s works were welcomed by the
people. The printer’s mistake was no-ticed,
but it was too late to in-sist upon an alter-
ation, and we let it pass. The result amazed
us. We had been doing wret-clied business;
sud-denly we had full houses. We could only
ascribe it to the ‘tV the printer had omit-
ted. He had made our bill, ‘Hamlet, the
most Immoral Play of the Immoral Bard.’ ”
"Retired Prompter”: Frank Benson, the
English Shakspearean purveyor, told a news-
paper reporter the other day that when
serving with a French regimenit in the
war, he gave the “Agincourt” speech of
Henry V. After it was over two Tommies
approached him. “Wot was that yer were
recitin’?” one of them asked. “Shakspeare!
Gawd love yer—it was just me an’ Bill at
ther battle er Wipers.” As Frank says
nothing about buying beer after that, or
even being requested to, I am constrained
to think the yarn comes within the category
of fiction, or else actors and the British army
have changed a lot since the writer could
claim some acquaintance with both.
“C. 0.8.” : Of recent months Adelaide has
been theatrically starved. There has not
been a really good show here since “Rose
Marie” in September. William Anderson has
Nellie Bramley in the Theatre Royal at rime
of writing but, though she is entertaining
the support—most of which has been S av’
mg Anderson stock drama for
hardly be termed first-class.
things are not too healthy financS !
Crowland, but there i s always a sect on of
any community that will pay to see a -00,
show. Margaret, J.awrence was to have 0 S
pied the Royal over Christmas snH w-j
advertised accordingly for some days but the
season was cancelled. y ’ DUt r “ e
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) • The
of Noel Coward’s “Sirocco” after '>9 Der
formanees at Daly’s establishes the record
shortest run for that theatre, and is a great
blow to all concerned. Basil Dean S
heavily over producing it. Another disan
pointed mana ger is Robert Loraine, who hw
had to v ithdraw Cyrano de Bergerac ” In
the music world, too, there is grumbling - the
song-writers complain that wireless has
killed their work. Whereas the life of a
song used to be 10 months with a royalty
on sheet music of 3d. to Gd. a copy it is now
only four months. On top of all this R
cliam says he does not know one rich man
x-io a!1a S i? au f e mus ‘ c at heart. The
£lO,OOO m hand for his national opera
scheme has been subscribed by the public.
“Adsum”: “The Ghost Train” has some
potency to draw when it could fill His
Majesty’s, Perth, for three weeks during a
scorching midsummer that just about broke
records. And it was rather a patchy com-
pany, too. But Betty Ross Clarke put a
few saving carats in the mixture, ami
at the same time reached her 445th per-
formance as the alluring wench.
“E.E.W.”: “Tall Timbers,” made from
Louis Esson’s story, has been sold by Aus-
tralasian Films after months of negotiating
for the meagre sum of £3OO. It is to be
distributed overseas. The more expensive
Term of Ilis Natural Life” is still awaiting
an otter, let both are infinitely better than
the average American films that are inflicted
on Australian audiences under the present
unfair system, which obviously does not in-
volve reciprocation.
Goldilocks” : Muriel Starr intended to
make fortnightly changes, to be sure of good
houses from her personal following but the
Sydney public treated “Cornered” so well
that it has been given a five-weeks’ run.
Muriel is more pleasing to listen to now than
she was two years ago; her voice has lost
that suggestion of weariness that became
tiresome. With her rejuvenated voice,
“Secrets,” one of the most artistic things
she lias done, should be worth seeing. Yet
somehow that play was not a success in
Melbourne.
“Hamfat”: There are no easy times for
actors in “The Trial of Mary Dugan,” with
which Leon Gordon opens his season in Mel-
bourne. Practically all the principals and
supers are on the stage throughout the piece.
The court-scene setting remains right
through; the curtain never falls, the inter-
vals representing adjournments in the hear-
ing of the case. Quite a lot of actors have
had an easy time in recent pieces. “The
Terror” let a batch of four off after the first
scene. Incidentally, one old Australian actor
reckons that he has been killed in the first
act in 25 distinct plays.
“L.H.P.”; “Resurrection” on the screen
recalls Bataille and Morton’s dramatised
version of Tolstoi’s novel in Australia in
1904, when Julius Knight played the Prince
and Maud Jeffries the unfortunate Ivatusha.
Arthur Wontner, Eardley Turner, E. A.
Warburton, Marie Dalton, Mrs. Walter Hill,
Hans Phillips, Olive Noble and Rose Pen-
den nis were in the cast. It was a gloomy
show.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : A girl rarely jumps
into prima donnaship at a bound, but Elsie
Boardman, a Manchester typist who makes
a very good Carmen with the 8.N.0.C. at
Golders Green, has practically done so. She
owes her introduction to Beecham, who chose
her for his own production in Manchester
and saw that she had the quality for hard
work.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Australian
Horace Stevens has distinguished himself as
Wotan in the 8.N.0.C.’s performance of
“The Valkyrie” at Golders Green, a sub-
urban theatre that is giving good financial
results. Aylmer Buesst gained his share
of glory as conductor. In another opera
company, the Carl Rosa, Kingsley Lark is
having his chance.
“Ctesar’s Ghost” : Usually children are not
greatly in evidence in stage matrimony, but
one lady, recently appearing in a Sydney
theatre, has managed to bring nine into the
world and look after them between and while
in engagements (at least one of the family
has already found a settled stage niche).
Her mother, a popular actress of her day,
also had a large family. By the way, some
of Australia’s touring actresses are hardy.
One who died recently at an old age brought
an infant into the world on a Tuesday and
played the exacting Isabel in “East
when the company opened in a mining town
four days later. The miners clubbed together
and presented the infant with £2OO.
DRAWING THE SHADOW LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Among objectionable features ■which U.S. film
producers have unanimously decided to prohibit on
the screen is ‘nudity or suggested nudity, even in
silhouette.’ ”
.1 Puritanic or a prudish place
Los _ Angeles assuredly is not;
All evidence we have suggests the chase
Of pleasure there is always hard and hot.
The city has a reputation got
For scandals singularly wild and wet.
Credit withal we must for this allot:
They bar the nude, even in silhouette.
At Hollywood the slieiks may make the pace
A cracker; amorous plot and counterplot
Exhibit men and maids in fierce embrace,
And various restraints be reckoned rot
And numerous conventions clean forgot
Such as in Kew or Clapham (say) are met;
Still, the dark picture has one silver spot:
They ban the nude, even in silhouette.
Doubt not the human form is full of grace
And symmetry in this delicious spot
As Isay) in Carcassonne —or Bouillabaisse—
Or Croajingalong—or Camelot.
Unclad, film heroines differ scarce a jot
From ordinary damosels, you bet.
But where the films at Hollywood are shot
The nude is off —even in silhouette.
Envoy.
Their art, ’tis said, fires passions cheap and
base,
And primal, too. It may be so—and yet
Remember that they rigidly efface
The naughty nude, even in silhouette.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


24/45 h.p, 6-Cyl. Tourer
THE
NVINCIBLE.
□
S 3
'CXTREME flexibility with top gear
performance of 3 to 60 m.p.h.
Four-speed gear box, right hand
change, low gear axle ratio necessi-
tating change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the Britisher
overseas, who wants a suitable high-
class British car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9 J in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
92 York Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
Holds 50$ More Fnk
ffIGOO
Make Onoto your Pen—lt is a great time*
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto,
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & LonghursJ
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pen*.
•w-x
m
* •y-S.j.jv
HP
xy<>.->>.
Gloom to Sunshine
“Feeling liverish this morning—head a bit heavy ■
going to be a muggy day—where are my slippers—
very late last night of course —must be bright and
early at the office though—The morning glass of
ENO, and a shower —Feel better now —Think I’m
going to eat some breakfast after all —Glorious day
—* Business as usual.”
By following the pleasant
health-giving practice of
taking ENO’S “Fruit Salt”
first thing every morning
feelings of depression are
banished, and the world
seems a brighter place.
EN O will at all times, and
and in every climate help
maintain the perfect func-
tional activity of the
bodily organs.
Prepared only by
J. C ENO, Limited.
I -ondoru England*
Sales Agents: The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
.•£NO>
si
IHE WORDS "FRUIT SALT” AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARKS,!
m
:
—at Murdoch 9 s
Rebuilding }Sale§
No, 1.
Surpassing every other Hat Bargain for value!
All fresh stock, featuring the latest “Snap
Brim” style (as illustrated), with cut-edge brim, in Light,
Mid, or Dark Grey, also Apricot and Beaver shades. The
stock also includes smart “Prince” or “Nail Curl styles, in
Light, Mid, or Dark Grey, also Beaver shades. Grease-proof
leathers. Each Hat made from selected quality Pure Fur/Felt.
Sizes, 61 to 7g.
First-class value at - - 22/6
Murdoch’s
SALE PRICE - - -
w
Sensational Purchase of English-made Pure Fur Felt Hats, of
superfine quality. New “Snap Brim” style, also “Prince”
shape- Light, Mid, or Dark Grey, also Fawn tones. Silk-
lined. Sizes, 6£ to 71.
Usually 32/6 'J A/Q
SALE PRICE - - - J
Buy Now and Save on Your
“Kookaburra Drover”
The one Hat of all for the “Man on the Land.” Big shelter-
ing 31 inch brim. Pure Fur Felt Hat, with plaited leather
band. Military Fawn. Sizes, 61 to 7\.
Remarkable value at the usual price of . . 21/-
1
Now Reduced
to
18/11
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR
When ordering by mail, kindly state size and shade re-
quired, and address your letter to Desk R.
MURDOCH ’S
In Park ST Sydney
7ke Ufoi'lds^Larges/ Men's z ßoys’ Wear Store


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Siikldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; H. R. Lvsaqht, 0.8. E.;
Georgb J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Turk.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at nil the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner QEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
374,197
3,750,000
3,609,655
on Australia, New
Great Britain and Ireland, and Samo a’
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking business' 1
GRANTS DRAFTS
Australian Mutual
Bj'mtst'sJd™, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
'lf you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
I J. y°« are Ruptured write at once for full particular!
Modern Invention. Light, cool and com-
fortable. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO., EBT 1868
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument anti Truss-Makers.
207 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYDNEY.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly*’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most.
Published by “The Bulletin,” 2/«
per single copy; 22/6 per annual,
Shipping, etc.
r
'° Can aoa=^"
LINIIED'SIATES
EUROPE
S 3
across ‘Pacific
mdJVorfftAmerica
TRAVEL BY THE
CANADIAN- AUSTRALASIAN LINE
TO VANCOUVER
*via Auckland, Suva and Honolulu),
Or by the
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE
TO SAN FRANCISCO
(via Wellington, Rarotonga and Tahiti).
Through bookings to and fro m Canada, United States and Europe
with the choice of any railway route across the American Continent
and of any steamship line across the Atlantic.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
j|oi#& URSIONS
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro.
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
Full Particulars from
h
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
w
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors,
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand. Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR"
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and ether
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtou
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
HAWAII
LOVELY holiday land.
All expenses of round trip to this Island Para-
dise land of melody—for about £lOO to £l5O
in eight weeks or less, including three to four
weeks in Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago
Pago. Balmy weather, tropical fruits and
flowers. Golf, tramping, outrigger canoeing,
surfboard riding, excellent motor roads. Inter-
island cruises; volcanic marvels. Quaint tea
gardens; good hotels with meals, 12/- to £3
per day. Ask steamship or travel agencies, or
write Hawaii Tourist Bureau, Department 26.
Box 241 D, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., for beauti-
fully-colored booklet.
STOP-OVER PRIVILEGE FREE
En Route to AMERICA or EUROPE
HAWAII
South Africa and England
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
ABERDEEN LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A. combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
sRunic 12,500 tons, Feb. 21
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Feb. 27
sMedic 12,000 „ March 6
*Nestor 15,000 „ March 20
:l:Ceramic. .. . 18,500 „ March 20
tThemistocles 11,500 ~ March 27
*Ulysses .... 15,000 „ April 13
tEuripides. . . 15,000 ~ April 21
*Anchises .. . 10,000 ~ June 4
+Suevic 12,500 ~ June 19
* First class only, tFirst and Third class.
I:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BALRANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINK .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13,100
BELTANA
BENALLA
BORDA
BERRIMA
Tons.
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT, SANDERSON.
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
•Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NOKTTT COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Go.. T.td.
Huddart ParkerL
ino Magnificent
“*** Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.'
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


FOR MEN
Look for Name on Sole
The Panhard —
Undeniably tbe smart-
est all-round shape for
the young and middle-
aged man. Possessing
anatomically correct
features, it can never
bulge or run over. The
full - fashioned ankles,
the specially treated
innersole, and Restan
Cushion Heel make it
a pleasure and satis-
faction to own.
Obtainable from all
"Marshall” dealers in a
variety of fine leathers.
Our 1928 Mahogany
Calf is very distinctive,
and . polishes like glass.
Price 39/6
POUSH"-PM
a[ a s with a \
C*
OLA
300 Shines in
every Jar for4 r 6
Also in Tubes and
Bottles Foi»-l'3
MS 127
£15,000 p.a. for an Idea
THE inventor of “Dancing Jim Crow” netted
£15,000 a year from his idea. The celluloid
Shoe eyelet brought a princely income to its originator.
If you have an idea which you think is marketable
get protection by patenting it. Send for free booklet
“Inventions” to H. H. RAYWARD, Me.E., Patent
Attorney, Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney, or
call upon him.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Mick Simmons’
Neu) Introduc-
tions to the
Radio World!
IK
I
m
The New
JIfAGNAYOX
Power C©aae Speaker
(Dynamic)
Price £55
MAGNAVOX matches the finest
with this new Power Sneaker.
Embracing the latest scientific
developments of the famous MAG-
NAVOX engineers, it is built on
electro-dynamic principles under pa-
tents controlled exclusively by the
MAGNAVOX Company.
All the Music in ALL its natural
beauty is possible only with this type
Speaker. Even extreme upper and
lower register fundamental notes can
come through with complete fidelity.
Volume ranges from pianissimo with-
out the slightest distortion.
Uses one 2168 and 210 Type Tube. For
connection with alternating house current, do-
ing away with B Batteries and B Eliminators.
Works directly from light socket.
Jt/AGJVAYOX
Dynamic Cone Speaker
The “Beverley” Model,
Price £l4/14/-
The “Beverley” is also made under
the electro-dynamic principle, but is
operated by direct current from the
A Battery off any Radio Set. Entirely
different from similarly-priced
speakers. Handsome Mahogany
Cabinet with curved sides.
These speakers will give very wonderful
results in “Electric Phonograph” combinations
using magnetic type pick-up phonograph heads
on electrically recorded phonograph records
operating through an audio amplifier unit of
proper design, or the audio system of a receiv-
ing set.
J^fAGNAYOX
Magnetic Cone Speaker
“Warwick” Model,
Price £7/10/-
Next to the Power Cone Speaker in
volume and purity of tone. Handles
full-power tube current without dis-
tortion. Exquisite burl walnut circle
mounted on enamel base.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.,
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney,
“The Premier House j or all Radio
SuppliesV
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The will of the late
Sir Clayton Pennington Freeling, eighth
baronet, of Smythesdale .(Vic.), lias been
admitted to probate here. He left £l9B.
“Snowhite”: Capt. Pearse, representative
of the Port of London in Australia, is a
more thorough globe-trotter than any I’ve
seen mentioned in The Bulletin. He
passed round the earth five times as an officer
on various windjammers, but since 1890 has
done most of his voyaging as a mere pas-
senger. Forty-six countries know the size
of his footprints.
“Poultice”: Another aspect of the t.p.
system. In Brisbane recently a youth admit-
ted embezzling £22 10s. from his employers,
explaining that he had taken the money to
keep up the payments on his motor-car. He
averaged £4 per week commission on orders
for the repair of tyres, and had over £ll
per month to pay in instalments on the car.
The balance, presumably, was expended in
petrol and riotous living.
WASTED.
“Wonderful breeze blowing.”
“Yes, and not a skirt in sight!”
“Hans Breitmann”: Another big Conti-
nental industrial combine is foreshadowed in
the announcement that the German Dye
Trust is to issue debentures for £12,500,000,
at 6 p.c., to extend the works for the pro-
duction of oils, motor fuel and ammonia from
the brown-coal deposits of Saxony. The trust
says it has signed an agreement with the
leaders of the French chemical industry and
is making advances to those in Britain, but
the latter are standing aloof.
“Homfrey Beale”: Harry Morant (“The
Breaker”) was very shy about showing his
compositions in manuscript form—to men,
that is; I believe he wasn’t so adamant with
the ladies. As far as my rather privileged
knowledge goes the only man who ever saw
any of Morant’s writings in manuscript
before the editor of The Bulletin was the
late A. M. Cameron, sometime editor of the
Walgett (N.S.W.) News. Although Cameron
never wrote a line of verse he was no mean
critic, and Morant highly valued his
opinion.
“Bookworm”: There are many causes
that prevent sales of Australian publications,
and lack of knowledge on the part of book-
sellers’ assistants is not the least of them.
Of “best imported” a series of catalogues are
available, and any one of the 10,000 titles
per year can be traced and price quoted to
the customer. But this is not the case
with the Australian book: there are no
records. In 1911 Messrs. Whitcombe and
Tomb published a “Reference Index of
Books and Periodicals Published and Still
Current,” by A. Foxcraft, but no later edi-
tion has been issued to my knowledge. If
it was compulsory to send a copy of each
publication to a central authority and that
authority issued a list arranged alphabeti-
cally, with author, publisher and price, then
the Australian bookseller would willingly
“lend his ear” to inquiries for Australian
books.
“Lexia”: At Christmas I received a very
welcome present, purveyed through one of the
biggest firms in Sydney, in the form of pack-
ages of nuts, dates, raisins and figs. The
peanuts, almonds and walnuts may or may
not have been imported, but the remaining
three varieties of nuts undoubtedly were, and
the same applies to the dates. The attractively
got-up packet of raisins bears the endorse-
ment “Turban Royal Muscatels. Sound,
clean and new. Produce of Spain.” The
figs are packed in a box labelled: “Invin-
cible Brand. Produce of Smyrna, Turkey.”
Before starting a scare about over-produc-
tion of certain dried fruits in Australia, as
the Development and Migration Commission
did last year, wouldn’t it be well to consider
the desirability of preventing importations of
foreign-grown products which our own
growers can and do supply in as good or
even better quality?
Francis Bell, leader of Maoriland’s Uppah
Chambah, in a discourse on the Constitu-
tion of the Shivery Isles, said that under
that instrument it was not competent for
either branch of the Legislature to abolish
the other. Of course, Geyserland doesn’t
possess a Constitution as Australians under-
stand the term. It has a charter of self-
government, and a number of Acts, includ-
ing the Charter Act, are bound up together
in a Government publication called “The
Constitution of New Zealand.” Among the
Acts thus collected is the Triennial Parlia-
ments Act. This was set aside in war-time
on the ground that Parliament can amend
or vary any of its own Acts. If Bell is
right, the position is paradoxical in view of
the new status of the Dominions. They
are not bound by their own Acts, but they
are bound by Acts of the Mother Parlia-
ment.
“Percy Pawnticket”: The time-payment
snowball was set rolling in Sydney by a
shopkeeper named Tremayne He started
a furniture-shop alongside the Congrega-
tional Church in Titt-strcct, and accepted
payment by instalments. He succeeded so
well that his business expanded to four
shops.
“Dot Dash”: Abusive epithets are not re-
ceivable by a telegraphist, even when camou-
flaged, but on one occasion the word
“sseretluda” got past me; I took it for a
trade term! After the reprimand I received
I became more cautious, and always spelt
strange words in reverse. So, I was quite
prepared for a beery person who tried to
incorporate “dratsab” in an otherwise in-
nocent-looking message.
“C.Q.” : The latest proposal for speeding
up Australian mails comes from France. A
Frenchman offers to build an overhead track
from Paris to Marseilles along which an
aerial torpedo could be fired at 250 m.p.h.,
the mail matter travelling at a cost of three-
farthings a pound. If this scheme proves
feasible it will only be necessary to fire the
local postman from a gun for our Christmas
letters to arrive the same year as they are
posted.
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne woman has found
a new way of collecting small sums —or a
new class to collect them from. Smartly
attired and with a pair of appealing eyes
under her .dark veil, she calls on Collins-
street specialists and breathlessly mentions
that her husband is a patient, explains that
she has lost her purse and asks for her fare
home. She is out of the door with the
money before the polite medico lias had time
to consult his card indexes.
“Alastor” : Morgan Jones, Rev. and M.A.,
of Brisbane, is a top-notch linguist. He
speaks Gaelic fluently, and gets a good hear-
ing at Irish and Welsh gatherings, where the
old tongue is used. He is an accomplished
orator in English, too, and stars at St.
George’s annual gatherings. This same
Welshman gets a solid reception annually at
St. Patrick banquets, and he also talks well
at Caledonian Society affairs. Taken all
round, he is the champion leveller of creeds
and nationalities in the North State.
The Commonwealth’s man of figures
reckons that in 1925-26 S. Australia’s aver-
age factory wages were the highest in the
six States, and that they made the most
sudden jump. The rise in 12 months was
from £193 10s. 9d. to £2Ol 16s. 9d. per
annum, while the average rise for the Com-
monwealth was from £192 15s. 7d. to £195
15s. sd. per annum. S.A. loan expenditure
was £6 10s. 9d. per head in 1924-25 and
£lO Is. 3d. per head in 1925-26, when the
local boom came to the top. The descent
was sudden like the rise, and there was a
long way to drop.
“Momokeni”: Seaside and country lodg-
ing-house keepers complain that their regular
clients of past years are being diverted from
them by the lure of the simple life, as lived
at motor-camps and municipal camping-
grounds. With water laid on and sanitary
accommodation provided, al fresco holidaying
grows more and more popular.. At one of
the big beach camps I visited this Christmas
one canny family from the country had
brought Strawberry with them. Another
party had a dozen Orpingtons snugly housed
under a tent with two of the sides partly
netted. If anyone feels disinclined to cook,
an adjacent marquee advertises “all meals. ’
The owners of big motor-pantechnicons are
the campers de luxe, with nohe of the tent-
dwellers’ worries about rain or wind.
EASILY EXPLAINED.
“No, I never kiss unless I’m engaged.”
“But I saw you kissing Tom the other
night.”
“Well, I was engaged to Norman then.”
“J.8.H.”: The best tobacco leaf in M.L.
is grown on the poor gum lands of the
northern districts and on the poor soils in
Nelson province. The growers are mostly
small holders whose cultivations run from
one to 10 acres. The returns from the
cured leaf have grown from £5O to £l5O
per acre, according to the quality of article
produced. Neither drought nor wet seasons
affect the crops, and so far there is freedom
from insect pests. The National Tobacco
Co., Ltd., of Napier, pays spot cash
for all of its requirements, and the
business of this thriving company is
fast increasing. Thrice in the last four
years it has had to enlarge its plant
and buildings, and all extensions have been
paid for out of profits. Tobacco is an estab-
lished primary industry in the Dominion,
and it looks as if it were an assured second-
ary one, too.


New
Energy
with Sanatogen
Energy, bodily health and nerve strength!
These are the secrets of those happy,
exceptional days when "everything seems
to go right,” when you have an unwonted
feeling of vigour.
With Sanatogen you will work better,
feel better, and be able to enjoy your
leisure hours to the full.
Start to-day with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic - Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
Keeping Time
asm
with Time
Since Time began, man
has searched ceaselessly
for tangible means of
measuring it.
The modern ELGIN per-
sonifies the achievement
of his labor. Wafer-like,
accurate and durable,
ELGIN is conceded to be
the world’s standard for
watch integrity.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>igin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/fer Jrade Mark in the Watch Cape
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ŵ
The only Firm in the World
with permanent offices in all
countries to give service and
assistance to Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at all
ports and stations in Europe assist their
patrons in passing Customs examina-
tions, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers* Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Australian Farmers* Tour to Europe.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinrf
(Next G.P.0.).
C.vc lists!
*1
m j&a
IF you wish your mount
to be a real source of
pleasure and delight you
will use the utmost care in.
the selection of the Hubs.
No bicycle can give you
real service unless these
component parts
are perfect.
Smooth and silky
running, long
wear and per-
fectly safe braking
arc insured by
the fitting of the
Perry Improved
Coaster in con-
junction with
the Perry front hub.
Behind both these articles
is a manufacturing experi-
ence extending over many
years, a close and intimate
acquaintance with the
Cyclist’s needs and a repu-
tation second to none in the
Cycle Component World.
Few, very few Cyclists, are
there who do not know of
Perry Productions, but only
ẁ
experience of
their actual ser-
vice will lead to
full appreciation
of their merits
and exclusive
features.
You may not'
have had that
experience,
therefore, for
your greater comfort and
enjoyment when awheel,
we suggest you put
yourself in touch with
our
factory Representative: <Jotltl - AltlOld)
DeGf&ves Street, Melbourne
Box 871., G.P.O.
Perry GCo.Ltd.Birmmg>ham.En£


REPAIRS—
“Our Hands Make Good Arms.”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
The Walther 22Cal. Automatic Pistol
is just the thing for Motor-car.
Shoot Rabbits and Crows without getting out.
Magazine holds 13 .22 Cal. Long Rifle Cart-
ridges. Adjustable sights. Press a button,
it is apart for cleaning. 71in. Barrel Model,
£7/5/-; 9jjin. Barrel Model, £7/15/-. Post
Free. For the 94in. Model, No License is
Required Vri'lte for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
’Phone: MA3540.
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The bookmakers will remember the first
day of the A.J.C. Anniversary Meeting with
pleasure. They won on every race, and had
paid out very little after the first three
events, which went to Really (10 to 1), King
Medallist (14 to 1) and Gipsy’s Land (12
to 1) respectively. It would have been
different had Sion (5 to 2) landed the
Three-year-old Handicap, for Vaals’s brother
was very substantially backed. Entering
the straight, he seemed to be going easily
behind the leader, Rozener, but when the
pressure was put on he very palpably refused
to do his best. No doubt he requires time,
as Yaals did, but he is far from being as
trustworthy as his brother. King Medallist
is a Newcastle-owned gelding by Shepherd
King-Queen Medallist. Black Duchess (15
to 1) gave him 311 b. and would have beaten
him could Bartle have got her out a bit
sooner.
Vaals redeemed the reputation of the
family by making a heroic attempt to add the
Challenge Stakes to his meritorious list.
Whitta (3 to 1) and Chrystal (4 to 1) were
the favorites of the field of 13 ; Vaals and
Greenline were at 7 to 1 (in each case better
was laid), Bavermaine at eights and Persua-
sion at tens. Whitta was noticeably fretful
when led round in the parade, and a long
delay at the barrier, for which Persuasion
and Justify were responsible, did not improve
her prospects. However, she jumped away
smartly and led into the straight from
Persuasion and Green'ine. A furlong from
home Greenline tackled her and got
the better of her; then Pike brought
Vaals along with a fine run. It was
a most exciting finish, with Bartle and
Pike riding all they knew ; the judge’s de-
cision was “Greenline, by half a head,” Whitta
being three parts of a length away and the
time lmin. 12fsec. Factor, a rank outsider,
was fourth, It was a splendid performance
on the three-year-old’s part to carry Bst. 12lb.
and beat a horse like Vaals at a difference of
151 b., and it show's what stuff the Greensteads
are made of. The brilliant and honest geld-
ing is trained by James Barden for Leslie T.
Barnett.
The January Handicap was a w'onderful
betting race, and wdiatever happened Mc-
Shortodds could not have lost. When they
lined up it was 4 to 1 Zuleika and Beau-
hania, 6 to 1 Vallino, 7 Honan, 8 Don Moon,
10 Resource and Don Panther and 12 Lady
Constance. Honan made the others look cheap
by being lengths ahead nearly all the way.
With a couple of furlongs to go Zuleika
and Lady Constance drove at him, but he
bounded away again and won very easily by
three lengths, Lady Constance and Don Moon
breaking even for second place; Obey, finish-
ing well, was fourth, just ahead of Tibbie
and Firefly. Honan galloped the 10 furlongs
in 2min. 4Jsec. He was ridden by the appren-
tice Williams, who seems to have mastered
his peculiarities, and it was certainly a
striking trial for the Anniversary Handicap.
IJlah and Irish Prince were the opening
favorites for the Welter Handicap, hut they
drifted to sevens (eights in places) with the
backing of Evelyn More (7 to 2). Evelyn
gratified the ring by dwelling at the post;
Ulah, on the other hand, gave Boss Poppy
(14 to 1) a good start from the entrance to
the straight and beat him by half a length,
Lovebox (12 to 1) being an unimpressive
third. Irish Prince, who had a very small
boy in the saddle, was finishing fast when
it was all over.
The Bulletin plumped for Green line for
the Challenge and Honan for the Anniver-
sary when each horse was at a fairly long
price, and, needless to say, it is not going
to desert the English horse for the second
leg of the double now that he has become
favorite. However, it may be wise to have a
saver on something else in case Saturday’s
race did him no good or he returns to his
former bad habits. Amusement (7st. 81b.)
has capital credentials, and looked at the
beginning of the month as if his condition
could be improved. Then Lady Constance
(fist.) and Tibbie (Sst. 91b.) are good mares
at the top of their form, and Resource
(7st. 111 b .) and Don Panther (7st. 101 b.)
may improve on Saturday’s running (Don
Panther got away badly), while Ulah (7st.
61b.) will be dangerous if he can stay the
distance. And there is nothing to show that
he can’t. Others sure of support are Don
THE INTELLECTUALS.
“A striking tribute to the value of Australian football, from the point of view of national welfare,
was paid by Dr. Colin Mackenzie, in a paper read before the Science Congress at Hobart. Probably
no game in the world, he declared, exercises the erect-posture functions more And on the erect pos-
ture depends man’s intellectual supremacy over all other forms of animal life.
Moon (Bst. 51b.), Wedding Eve (7st. Sib.)
Vallino (7st. 51b.), Obey (6st. 101 b.) and
Firefly (6st. 71b.) —this little fellow’s work
has been pleasing Marsden, and he came
home pretty well in Honan’s handicap on
Saturday. It should be a very interesting
race with the possibility of a surprise. In
fact, visitors to Randwick on Thursday
should see some excellent sport. Fancies: —
Flying Handicap : Whitta ; next, Chrystal.
Adrian Knox Stakes : Black Duchess.
Novice Handicap : Blather; next, Starpoi.
Anniversary Handicap: Honan; next,
Amusement. Firefly good outsider.
Highweight Handicap: Irish Prince ; next,
Bavermaine.
# He * *
For Roseliill on Saturday:—
Tliree-year-old Handicap : Rozener ; next,
Desdemona. , _ ~
Flying Handicap: Bunkum; next, Golden
Grist. . T ,
January Handicap: Dion; next, Lovebox.
Carlingford Mile: Astrologist; next, Bav-
acre.
* * * *
Racegoers remember Scarlet as a beautiful
mare, and her union with the late Valais
has given the turf a colt in her own class.
Stalden he is called. The promising colt was
produced in the Holiday Stakes at Lauifaeld
on Saturday, and was made favorite at 4 to
1. Getting the rails position at the turn,
he passed the leader, Margarethal (11 to -),
in a few strides and went on to win eiisily
by three lengths from Eric Connolly’s filly,
Martimah (5 to 1), being four lengths
further back. Stalden, who is the Sydney
Cup winner’s first foal, is owned by his
breeder, J. I. Winter Irving, and is trained
by Cecil Godby. His time for the 51 furlongs
was lmin. 7Jsec.
In spite of Spearset's good second in the
Bagot Handicap and his subsequent success
at Aspendale, plenty of 8 to 1 was obtainable
about his chance in the Anniversary Handi-
cap, for which he had 7st. 81b. merely.
The Hopetoun Handicap winner Sun Morn
was favorite at 9 to 4 ; Lady Tattler and Sea
Money (0 to 1), Chickling (8 to 1) and
Textile (10 to 1) were also backed. Spear-
set went to the front at the mile post or
thereabouts, and was never again headed;
he won well by a length and a half from the
favorite, who was three lengths in advance
of Lady Tattler. With so few decent handi-
cap horses about at the present time the
brother to Spearer is quite likely to score
again soon. He was ridden a clever race by
Daniels, and the time was 2min. 22Jsec.
For the Tooronga Handicap most punters
were keen on Sans Culotte, and she wound
up at 5 to 4. It proved the best thing of the
day, for once in the straight Woorak’s speedy
daughter went right away from the field, and
she won by lengths from Highland (6 to 1)
and Lady Thrill (7 to 2). It was her
fourth successive victory, and, like Stalden,
she was ridden by Ashley Reed, who is Cecil
Godby’s No. 1 horseman these days. “Should
have kept her for the Newmarket,” is now
the cry, but Godby only grins.
He He H* *
“Fitzcray”: Melbourne bookmakers have
been giving a lot of trouble lately by refusing
to obey the V.R.C. rule that odds must be
laid to 10s. for a win and a place, on demand.
Two instances occurred at Sandown Park
recently. In one case the bettor refused
to go on with the matter; in the other
the V.R.C. stipendiary stewards stepped
in, and the Tommy was fined £lO. Sydney
is afflicted with the same bumptious
type, but he works in a different manner.
His specialty is seeking cheap repute as a
“leviathan” by refusing to take 10s. bets in
the paddock, and sometimes he does it as
offensively as he can consistently with the
veto on bad language. This person is, as a rule,
a new recruit from the Leger or the Flat, and
the quicker his rise the more objectionable
he is apt to be. “Big” men like Matthews
and Baker take the small wagers without
question. The matter is one for the attention
of the stipendiary stewards. Their Mel-
bourne colleagues have set a salutary prece-
dent.
* * * *
“Minto” : Bob Skelton, owner of the Paper
Money flier Polly Flinders, who won a couple
of races at Victoria Park, Sydney, last
week, began his racing career in Queens-
land with a steed called Haco. Haco was as
good as a goldmine to him. On one occasion
the noble animal turned him in so much
money that Skelton arranged with the local
bank to keep open until after the protracted
settling. Since then Fortune has frowned,
as well as smiled, on Haco’s owner. Skelton
has visited India six times, and horses racing
in his colors have won almost every race
of note on the Indian calendar. Ilis greatest
Australian successes were gained with
Precious Dust, a really wonderful pony.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: Though the road-van for
moving racehorses from stable to course and
back has been used, in one form or another,
in England for a century or more it has
only recently made its appearance in this
country ; Sydney first introduced the motor-
float. A Brisbane syndicate, with thoughts
of the Government rail service in mind, lias
resolved to obtain one of the petrol-driven
caravans with a view to running a regular
service if the thing proves popular with
owners and trainers. As there is already a
threat of opposition, the syndicate is con-
fining its public issue of shares solely to
people interested in ’orses, who can natur-
ally be expected to patronise their own
show to the confusion of interlopers. The
proposal is to be laid before the Queensland
breeders, owners and trainers at the end of
this month, and if all goes well the prads
up that way will soon be riding in their
limousines.
* * * *
“Ivnavesmire”: Though Lord Derby col-
lected a comfortable cheque for the last
English racing season, his £47,000 was a
mere circumstance to the £73,858 received by
the Duke of Portland as long ago as 1889.
Donovan, who won the Derby and Leger of
that year, was the chief contributor. Stakes
were much smaller than they are to-day,
and the Duke had most of his large string
out, picking up the big stuff and the chicken
feed alike, wherever a chance offered.
* * * * «
“Thormanby”: Buying bloodstock is
always a gamble, but the individual who gave
11,500 guineas for Rosemead, a seven-year-
old brood mare in foal to Hurry On, at New-
market (Eng.) sales would seem to have been
chancing a long shot. Rosemead is by Ross-
endale, now in N.S.W., and her dam, Meadow
Rue, was valued at a mere 50 guineas when
her inglorious racing career was over. Rose-
mead herself brought 450 guineas as a year-
ling and won five races, just about paying
her keep. Her new owner probably expects
to get value for his money from the foal she
is carrying, but so many contingencies have
to be surmounted first that he must be rated
as an optimist, even for a buyer of blood-
stock.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Judging by his showing against George
Thompson (12st. Gib.) at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, Jack Elliott
(12st. 0?lb.) will never threaten Tunney’s
title. The fight was a wild scramble, with
the Westralian always ahead on points.
Both men infringed the rules by Hitting
questionably, butting and wrestling on
catch-as-catch-can principles, and “cautions”
were frequent and free. It was more like
a brawl between wharfies down Sussex-streoi
way than a glove match in a public ring,
except that there was very little devil in
the first six or seven rounds. So little, in
fact, that bored spectators implored them,
at intervals, to get in and fight. Elliott
kissed the canvas in the eighth, but rose
quickly and in the same round chopped a
cut in Thompson’s head, a punch that had
George groggy for several seconds. A mad
mix-up in the ninth ended in Thompson falling
over himself, and during the tenth George
knocked Elliott fairly off his pins. In
neither case was there a count. The crowd
was now interested, but in the eleventh the
Briton swung a heavy punch to the groin,
and the referee awarded the verdict to
Thompson. That warrior would probably
have won anyway, as lie was ahead on
points.
* % * *
The weights tell the story of what hap-
pened at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night. Reg Trowern scaled lOst. 3Jib.; Joe
Barnes, 9st. '9Jlb. Joe found the Maori-
lander altogether too strong., Round after
round he was punched from pillar to post,
but when he seemed to have reached the
limit of endurance he would unwind a rally
that made the small crowd roar encourage-
ment. In the 14th, however, after a heavy
right to the jaw had sent the game lad to
his knees, the towel fluttered in.
* * * *
“Cauliflower”: Billy Grime, fighting in
Philadelphia, went down on points to Albie
Gordon, a left-hander of some reputation,
who was heavier by 41b. It was Grime’s
second scrap within a week, and though he
was not satisfied with his form and with the
decision, which may have been no more
logical than that in the Heeney-Sharkey
affair, his friends ar.e pleased to read that he
has decided to box as often as he can get
matches. A mill every six months _or so
is no good to a man who is approaching the
age when a boxer needs whips of work to
keep him on his toes.
(Continued on page 37.)
THE DEJECTED ANGLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sitting on the ocean pier,
With my rod and empty creel,
Till the pitch-seams melt with heat
And my nose begins to peel.
Dead marines and waving weed
Showing clear through shimmering brine,
Silver bream and leather-jack
Nosing cockle-baited line.
“Fishing excellent,” they said.
Moodily I curse their guile
With three double-gutted hooks
Snarled and snapped upon a pile.
Only flathead seen all day.
Me, that’s winding up my reel,
Hooked and gaffed and landed here
By an agent’s lying spiel!
Hauls of schnapper I recall
When we baited up with cray,
And the well was topping full
Chugging homeward up the Bay.
And those days of wind and spume,
Anchored in the racing tide,
When the whiting cleaned the hooks
Soon as they w'ere overside.
And those nights with lamp and spear
When we waded, hand and eye
Sworn to promptest partnership,
As the flounder darted by.
Or that evening on the lake,
When the trout began to rise,
And a seven-pound Loch Leven
Took the flimsiest of flies,
Poke-liooked, too—the hungry brute!
Then I mind the golden week
Drowning worms beneath the gums
On the banks of Emu Creek.
Now I’m here —since, like a chump
Artificial bait I took —
In a place where fish are caught
Only with a silver hook.
YICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooow
39Wy7i737371X>7)V7}WW7)73737}73VW7JV&Z173V71V&7>7a73?3W10V73X>X7
■■■^■■■■■^^■^^■ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
OXISOSQftOXtoOBOaQBQDOaOaOBQSODOOOOOtOOQDQOOD
'OOO© OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQ
_^ c _ p> A A A A A A V. A A A
m p 2 ~ W| 'A A; 'A "'fy ■////, "/Z, v//| yyy/* yyy| yyy£ yy/$
OV«v.n W* * / / —- / ' ' ‘ •
L
ara»
2 © ©o
'/// '////. '/W w// yyyy/ 'yyyy AAAAA V///, V///. /////. AAA/,
•//, '//" y"' y // - '//" y" ///' y'" y /A y /A //" /'/■ /"/
a/aaa ■///, '///a. '/aaa a/aaa a/aaa ■////> y// y// y„, y/,. y„
Cfi 2
o CP
_ .»S*cs [2Z2Z;ZZ2Z22ZZI22i
j||!| 5 \ O O O O D O D 0 O O O 0 0 D O «$
< o ||| Z I'O O O O VA VA Va ***O VA O O
g£ U L ? 5
’//// A A//, -aaaa, -aaaa <///, v/// , ////, ,///. 'aaaa, 'AA/A ,/y/ y/AA, as A,, t,y,
/'// m A y/, A yy m m A A yy A yy yy, fly ;yy
c _. „ pooooo0 00 oGOOOOO
?m 3 rz Z 2 Z 2 2 2. Z Z 21 Z Z z 2
* H O 0.0.0 O O 0 00.0.0.0 O JO o
■Bk. y/// ///// •////.
0E>000»09Q00»09C0Q90B0B0D0»Q00B^O^^>
0-00000000000000000
if* «n 4/>. %f* v? ?r*
■yyyy- 'aaaa. '//// •////, 'aaaa. '////. asaa, ■////,
y//. y// y//, y//. a/a/a y", y//, y//.
'//". y// y//, y//. y// ys/* y//. y//.
r> r> a r> r> a a a a a
A A y\ y% yy yy yy yy yy
A y w w oo '"/fi ''*y '^y
yyyyy yyyy.
zz
A A
w.
vy
/////
/////.
/////
/////
///A
/////
///A
'///A '///A
'///A
'///A
y/AA
///.
s/yy/
yy/.
yyyy
NS
yy/y
yyyy
yyy/
V"
y'//
V'
////
r
r
w.
z
z
z
'/'■
vy
w.
vy
//sv,
"y'/.
/yy//
u
M
&
y
'/"a
V/a
//
',y
2
Av.
''/V '<:// -
vy
////.
////, yyy
yyyy //'/.
w/
A A v.
.vy.'//,//..'/..
///// 'Aaaa. yyyyyy a/ aa/ va/a. 'aaaa ’aaaa. -aaaa. •////. yyyyy. ///// 'aaaa.
22222222
aooooooo
O «/4 O
yyy|
yyyy yyyy* yyyy* 'yy* y*yy; aaaa a ■„/ •„/
a/'/a //a a/,/. //// /V /,/s
0000 0000,
ZZ2Z Z 'Z Z'"'
000.0^
yyy*J 'yy/^
Zi/
'/"/
fo r-
o
f)
y
a
at
a.
yyy
(i.
/
yy.
'"// y/AA
yy'A tv, a A
y*
y yyyy yyyy '////<
'/AAA 'J/AA. '/AAA
Y'", y\
■A. 'A ''A. 'a
ZOO
'//// '////
"'/A.
tt% A A (f A A
'yyyy 's//s. WBf, a/aaa WM, •"'/■ A/a//
a/a/a y//A peK j/yyy gw* *"yy *y/y-
-|yyy |W. | y'
A D
©Q
'//// 7///
00000
00000
■r 7///.
Z 'M »•
///// -yyyy
yyy/-, /<%,
-yy
ri
d
v
v
•JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Born 1820 ~ Still going Strong
It ’s easy to see why
JOHNNIE WALKER'
has the largest sale of
any whisky in the world
r
&


gps
ft
&
wm
a
:ir-
£
il
y.
/>
%e
07 S>tcwicr
The exceptionally full, rich,
sympathetic tone of the Wur-
litzer, its flexible and respon-
sive action and solid lasting
construction put it in a class
apart from ordinary piano-
players.
The exclusive Wurlitzer metal
action, a notable achievement,
ensures perfect performance
—proof against climatic varia-
tions.
Demonstrations will be gladly given or pur-
chase terms arranged by any of the following
agents:—
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Factory Representatives—Parker, Blau and
Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE :
M. Light & Son, Ltd., Newcastle and Cessnock.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
The Australian Implement and House Fur-
nishing Co., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Musgrove’s, Ltd., Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
J. H. Wilson & Co Pty., Ltd., 203 Charles St.,
Launceston; Findlay’s Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
VICTORIA:
Myer’s Emporium, Ltd., Melbourne.
Where any difficulty is experienced in
procuring a “Wurlitzer/ 1 communicate direct
with the factory representatives:
PARKER, BLAU & CO., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY;
308 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Footbrawl
Two Rugby internationals were played in
Europe at the week-end. Having overcome
clie Midi, a French provincial team, by 11 to
3, the Waratahs beat combined France at
Paris by 11 to 8. At Swansea, in heavy
rain, England won from Wales by 10 to 8.
Their success in the last of the five inter-
nationals leaves the Waratahs with three
victories as against two losses.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The luck of football is
proverbial, but it was never better illus-
trated than when the Waratahs were de-
feated, for the first time in England, by
Oxford, 3 to nil. The Dark Blues have
hardly played a decent game since. Strangely
enough, their finest showing was at the
close of the ’Varsity season, when they met
a practically All England side, brought up
by Major R. V. Stanley, the old Oxford
captain, and were beaten by two points only.
According to Stanley, they rose to great
heights, as they did against the Waratahs ;
usually they “have sunk to dismal depths.”
‘❖ ♦ *
“Sospan Each”: That curious observance
the match between “England and Wales”
under Rugby League rules came off the
other day: England, whose players are
drawn from Lancashire and Yorkshire, de-
feated Wales, represented by Welshmen
playing with the L. and Y. professional clubs,
by 20 points to 12. As usual, the match
was played in Lancashire, the prospects of
a decent gate in the Principality itself being
too remote. When Soccer began to make
such headway in Wales, the English League
had high hopes of invading the Welsh indus-
trial towns with its own brand of Rugby.
Much money was spent on propaganda and
the formation of clubs in some of the Rugby
Union centres. Ail this brass seems to have
been wasted.
The Ins and Outs
Queensland’s plucky fight against South
Aus. in Brisbane deserves recognition. The
South Australians increased their total to
505, and the home side, after another poor
start, ran to 351 in its second attempt,
O’Connor (133 n. 0.) and Thompson (92)
doing most of the scoring. With Ron
Oxenham able to bat, it might have set
South Aus. something substantial to make in
the second innings; as it was, the visitors
won by an innings and 11. During the
match Scott took six wickets for 98, Wall
5 for 103, and Grimmett 7 for 160. For
Queensland Amos got 3 for 127, Nothling
2 for 59, and Hornibrook 2 for 123. The
Queensland fielding was below par, and many
chances were dropped. It is a department
in which the State will have to improve.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: “Mid-Channel (B. 19/l/’2B)
is right out at sea with his story that Ilorni-
brook would never be considered for Eng-
land because the Queensland left-hander
bowls round the wicket (B. 19/l/’2B).
Having seen most of the great left-handers,
from Ferris, Briggs and Peel to Blythe,
Saunders and Rhodes, to name only a few, I
feel constrained to point out that the left-
hander who does not deliver round the
wicket habitually is a rare bird. A change
to the other side is, of course, made to a
special batsman, or as part of a fresh piece
of strategy, but round the wicket is the
mollyhander’s usual delivery. As to the
l.b.w. difficulty, if the ball pitches on the
wicket, and in the umpire’s opinion would
have hit the wicket but for the interference,
a leg-before verdict holds good, whether the
ball is delivered round, over or from the
foot of the pegs.
Hs * #
“Hotham”: Though the Victorians have
the Sheffield Shield in the bag, they have
not relaxed their efforts to scratch up new
talent for the days to come, as the inclusion
of A’Beckett in the team now in Sydney for
the Sheffield match evidences. It is being
strongly urged in Melbourne that some of
the old fellows should be dropped in favor
of new blood for the trip to Westralia. It
has even been suggested that ’keeper Ellis,
who has had an off season, should take a
permanent seat in the pavilion. This almost
amounts to sacrilege.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip” : K. ,T. Schneider, the diminu-
tive South Aus. left-hander, looks like suc-
ceeding to Warren BardsLey’s old “possie”
in the Australian XI. He has made three
centuries for his State this season, and no
other South Australian has made one. tie is
often wearisome to watch, and needs to
develop his stroke play, but he is, admittedly,
a teaser of an opening batsman. In this
capacity he has been aided and abetted by
Harris, who in his first Sheffied Shield season
has been consistency itself.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Gabba”: .Tack Scott, the N.S.W. fast
bowler, nowadays with the South Aus. XI,
played his first match against South Aus. in
1910; he is the only player of the 22 of
that day who is still in active service. Scott
bagged 4 for 48 in the South Australians’
first knock, but in the second Clem Hill got
to him and made a sensational century. The
fast bowler finished thut go with 108 runs
against him and nary a wicket.
* * * *
“Machete” : Following on the Marylebone
C.C’s. acceptance of Brisbane as the venue
of a Test match, T. Howard, who recently
paid a visit of inspection to the Queensland
capital, has informed the N.S.W.C.A. that
the wickets up that way are quite ht for
Test cricket. That being so, it may be pre-
sumed that the last has been heard of the
parochialists who were hoping against hope
that the lost Test game could be wangled
back to Sydney. At the association meeting
which heard Howard’s report another dele-
gate moved that “in view of the criticism
after the Brisbane match” N.S.W. players
be in future debarred from writing in news-
papers about tours in which they take part.
The recommendation was adopted and passed
on to the executive of the C.A., so someone’s
ears must be tingling.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally” : A fine cricketer of the old
school went out in Hobart when E. 11.
Butler finished his score, at 77. Butler
was a member of Tasmania’s first regular
cricket club, the Break o’ Day, to which
most prominent Tas. cricketers, including
C. J. Eady, have belonged at one time or
another. For years lie was president of
the T.C.A., and he represented the Speck
in many matches. One of his notable feats
was bowling G. F. Grace when that
dashing batsman came to Australia with
the team led by elder brother W.G. in
“GETTING THE DREADED PAIR.”
1873-74 ; another was the taking of 6 wickets
for no runs for South v. North in ISB2. A
free-hitting bat and a really good bowler,
he was a first-class slip field as well.
Racquet and Bawl
“Baseline” : Though just off the boat, the
French tennis players gave the Maoriland
cracks a taste of their quality which has
set everyone on this side wondering what
they will be like when they are fairly un-
corked, so to speak. They all take the fight
to the other fellow, rushing the net and
killing attempts at retaliation with ruthless
severity. Naturally, this forthright style cost
them points for errors, especially as they
were short of practice, and at Christchurch
Bartlett carried his match with Borotra to
four sets, the Basque winning by 24 games
to 19. Brugnon’s match with Ollivier also
saw the local player win one set, but the
games were 21 to 12 in the Frenchman’s
favor. Boussus, the infant of the party,
made an impressive showing in an exhibition
match with Malfroy, which he won easily.
The second day at Wellington saw the visi-
tors warmed up, and they did not lose a set,
though they were extended on occasion.
Borotra this time beat Ollivier, and Brug-
non Bartlett. The doubles match was
closer; Borotra and Boussus beat Knott and
Sturt, 9-7, 7-5, 6-1.
* * * *
“Antbed”: Interviewed in Maoriland, Bo-
rotra urged the general adoption of hard
courts instead of the medley of grass and
hard courts prevailing all over the world to-
day. A Bulletin contributor advocated this
some 12 months ago, pointing out, as Borotra
did on this occasion, that the speed and fire
of the French were attributable in some
measure to their learning the game on
the much faster hard courts. There is
no doubt it will come to the standard
hard court in time. Not one tennis-player
in a dozen, in town or country, save in well-
turfed Britain, ever gets a chance at grass
courts, which are difficult to prepare and ex-
pensive to maintain, especially in such coun-
tries as Australia.
* * * *
“Dropper”: The Frenchmen will find the
tennis programme set out for them, tough as
it is, easier to negotiate than the social one,
which is thick with dances and dinners. By
the time the Sydney end of the visit is over
on February 20 they should, literally, be
pretty well fed up. It is to be hoped that
the change from their national cooking will
not affect their play. One recalls how bit-
terly the Maori footballers in France coin-
plained that they could not do themselves
justice on French menus. They sighed for
the dried shark and steamed lcumuras ot
their native land.
* * * *
“Status”: The ranking-list for the Aus-
tralian championships begins with Borotra;
then follow Patterson, Brugnon, Crawford,
Boussus, Hopman, Hawkes and Moon. The
list for the doubles is Patterson and Hawkes,
Borotra and Brugnon, Crawford and Hop-
man, Boussus and Kalms. It is pretty safe
to say there will be changes if the job is done
again at the end of the tourney.
* * * *
“15-30” : Every good judge of tennis must
commend the wisdom of the Davis Cup
selectors in resolutely picking Hopman, re-
gardless of the possibility of dropping
Hawkes. The superior form of the Sydney
boy is not the only factor in the choice;
another is the probability of his pairing
better than Ilawkes with Patterson in.
doubles. Patterson and Ilawkes have won
several doubles championships in Australia,
but they have never done anything of moment
abroad, chiefly because both have vulnerable
backhands, especially against centre-court
volleying attacks. Again, Hawkes's service
is not a consistent winner of outright points.
Hopman’s service is more severe, and his
volleying, so necessary in the in-play of
doubles, has already a sureness and pace
that will make it a problem to the strongest
opposition.
In the Linton Cup contest for inter-State
juniors, played at Sydney, N.S.W. was again
successful, with South Aus. next best. Craw-
ford and Walker did well for the Ma State,
and S. Aus. had two able representatives in
Black and Turnbull; Turnbull beat Walker
in the singles, while the pair downed Craw-
ford and Ridley in the doubles. It was ques-
tionable wisdom to play Crawford in view
of his recent ill-health ; questionable sports-
manship, too —a player of his calibre is out
of place in any junior event. But queer
things are done at Rushcutter Bay.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ploughman”: Joe Kirkwood’s first-class
showing in the American open golf cham-
pionship—he finished third, only three
strokes behind the winner, ’Gene Sarazen —
suggests that he is settling down to serious
golf again. For years he has been renowned
as the master of all trick golfers. But trick
golf is like trick billiards in that it spoils
its most able exponents for higher flights,
though most good players in each can do
a bit of fancy showmanship when the occa-
sion calls for it.
•4! * * *
“Glenelg”: South Aus. is showing some
interest in the question of despatching the
Australian open champion Rufus Stewart to
Britain for the open golf championship there
(B. 19/l/’2B), but the other States are
apathetic. The South Australians reckon
they can raise £4OO, but that won’t be
enough; Tommy Howard’s journey in 1926
cost over £BOO. N.S.W. golf has benefited
from Tommy’s trip, and one or more profes-
sionals should be sent every year, instead
of relying on an occasional amateur to be
Australia’s only representative in the
greatest golf tourney in the world. The
event is to be held this year in May, instead
of June, so there is no time to be lost.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: A pleasant interlude in
the series of crow, goanna and other stories
related by golfers is one from Blacklieath
(N.S.W.) which introduces a snake and,
incidentally, displays the devotion of some
players to the rigor of the game. A man
found a brown snake coiled round his ball
in a hazard, and promptly clubbed it to
death, though possibly the unfortunate crea-
ture was under the impression that it was
sitting on one of its own eggs. However,
the slayer’s inconsiderate hastiness brought
its own penalty. His opponent claimed the
hole under rule 25, which forbids the ground-
ing of a club in a hazard.
4: * * *
“Brassey”: Sydney golfers are bucked to
hear that public links aj‘e to be laid out at
Kensington, close to the Australian Club’s
course. That Sydney should have remained
so long with only the municipal links at
Moore Park to cater for golfers who find
it impossible to get into the private clubs
is no credit to those responsible for the
city’s parks and recreation spaces. Apropos,
can anyone say what has become of the
late City Council’s scheme for laying out a
course somewhere at National Park?
* 4: * 4=
“Iconoclast”: I am glad to see that a
scientist at the Plobart conference of such
people has had the courage to denounce golf
as opposed to football. Football, he said —
the Australian variety, anyway —inculcates
an upright carriage; golf fails to do any-
thing of the sort, and may, in addition, prove
a dangerous irritant. No one will doubt the
latter postulate for a 'moment if he has been
at all exposed to golfers. But the professor
might have gone further and pointed out
that golf is distinctly antagonistic to the
upright position on the intellectual import-
ance of which he laid such stress —-I am not
glancing at the moral aspect, either. A
straddling, humped attitude and a scowling
face are the hallmarks of your golfer the
world over. He plays his appalling game
with his head bowed and his gaze fixed on
the ground, while his lips frame the words
“Slow back; don’t press; follow through”
and all the rest of the rigmarole. How can
this promote intellectuality? I ask any
barracker at Collingwood or Fitzroy?
Two notable swimming performances on
Saturday were those of Westralian “Brasher”
Jones in the 440yds. championship of Aus-
tralia at Brisbane and of Edna Davey in the
150yds. championship of N.S.W. at Sydney.
Edna’s time, lmin. 50 3-ssec., cut 3-ssec. off
Fanny Durack’s record, which had stood since
1918.
(Continued on page 38.)


ROMANOS
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
&r&7u&
liqueur
li? . /T\ !
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
W-U GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firrt. of Scotch Whisky Distillers
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burirlary, Live mock,
Public Bisk, Boiler Ex-
plosion. Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
2ar and Cycle
“Whizz”: Marchand, the French driver,
averaged 133.53 rn.p.h. in a 10-mile run on
the Montlilery track one day last week. His
previous best was 128.35 m.p.h. This was
accepted as a world’s record, outside Major
Segrave’s famous sprint over a mile.
“Whizz”: American attempts to evolve a
speed-car to beat Major Segrave’s 203 m.p.h.
are taking queer forms. One inventor has
weighed in with a plan for a two-engine
wonder, each unit developing 300 h.p. One
engine is to drive the car while the other
drives a vacuum fair placed in front of the
radiator; the fan is to suck up the air
ahead and throw it behind, so that the car
.vill run in an invisible vacuum tunnel.
Another designer, with a reputation to lose,
>s expei'imenting with a small car and an
unusually small engine, which, however, he
expects to turn at over 7000 revs, per minute.
And a car being built by J. M. White will
have three 12-cylinder aviation engines, each
developing 300 h.p. On top of that, the
designer of Segrave’s Sunbeam is building a
new mammoth of the same size and type.
Evidently a lot of people will stand a chance
of being killed very dead befoi’e long.
* * Hi *
“Monthlery” : More than one famous track
cyclist of other days has followed the game
right up the ladder into the motor-trade
until he has become a commercial magnate—
O. B. Kellow, to take only one Australian
instance, is a case in point. One of the most
famous and most successful was Albert
Champion, who has passed out in Paris,
where he was born. He was a push-bike
rider in France, both on tbe track and tin;
road, and, going to America, became a lead-
ing motor-cycle rider and later a racing-car
driver. Then he invented the sparking-plug
which bears his initials as a trade-mark
and is sold all over the world. That made
him a many-times millionaire. He did not
live long to enjoy his wealth, dying, like so
many great athletes, of heart disease, at 48.
* $ * *
“Plug”: Sydneysiders will be given a
chance to see Hubert Opperman in action
on January 30. He will appear at a night
meeting on Sydney Sports Ground by way
of helping to raise funds to send IT. W.
Moody to Europe as one of the riders who
will take part in the Tour de France. Opper-
man is to ride behind pace, where he is
almost as formidable as on the open road.
This will be his last appearance in Sydney
until his retux-n from abi'oad, for the team
leaves for Eui'ope at the end of February.
* * ••!= *
“Cut Out” : Malins and Oliver, who rode
through Australia in the course of their
tour round the world, reached their starting
point in England, as they had hoped, just
before Christmas —to be -exact, on December
7. In their ride of a year and 11 days they
covered 22,000 miles, traversed 24 countries
and four continents —Europe, Asia, Australia
and North America. They were mounted on
British-made O.E.C. motor-cycles with side-
cai’s, and the machines answered every call
on them.
* * * *
“Sti-eak”: Review of recent international
motor-cycle achievements reveals the Eng-
lish rider C. F. Temple in a class by him-
self. Riding an E.O.C. Temple machine in
the 1000-c.c. class, he has the fastest sprint
< one kilometre in 18.435ec. from a flying
start) and the greatest distance in one hour
(101 m. 1719yd5.) to his credit. He is the
only rider who has achieved a speed of over
120 m.p.h. on a motor-cycle, having covered
the kilometre at an average of 121.4 m.p.h.,
and the mile at 120.5 m.p.h. His time for
the mile on a genuine motor-cycle is
29.885ec., though Glen Curtis, the American,
has done the distance in 26 l-ssec. on a
cycle fitted with an 8-cylinder aeroplane
engine. Temple has also ridden 283 m.
1720yds. iu three hours, averaging 94.66
m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: The Commonwealth
Council of Rifle Associations is not super-
stitious, for it has decided to send 13 men
to Bisley. Colonel C. E. Merrett, xvho com-
manded the Bisley team of ill-omened 1914,
will be commandant again, with F. S.
Bleeclnnore, secretary of the South Aus.
R.A., as adjutant; and F. G. Harrison, of
Sydney, an old Bisley hand, has been asked
to go as coach.
* * * *
“Lav”: W. G. Downie, one of the crack
shots of Melbourne Gun Club, has been
causing a stir in Monte Carlo. He divided
the Prix de la Seine with two Frenchmen,
and is regarded as having a good chance
in the big-money handicaps which will be
decided soon. Not bad for a man with only
one arm and one eye.
* * * *
“Lying Shot”: In a desperate attempt to
drag order out of chaos, the president of
the N.S.W. Bowling Association has given
notice of motion that the N.S.W. standard
bowl be adopted for all the States. There is
Buckley’s chance of the thing going through,
for State rights are as rigorously guarded in
the bowling as in the political world.
Queensland would perhaps agree to the full-
drawing N.S.W. standard wood, but not so
Victoria and Westralia. who like ’em
“straight.” South Australia has no use for
standard sizes and weight; bowls in that
State are a law unto themselves. And
Tassy prefers a light bowl, since the heavier
ones are apt to run off the island.
* ?.! *
“Iticketty Kate” : One of the tribulations
besetting bowlers in the Ma State has been
the local practice of constructing the
“banks” of wooden planking. The result
of a firm shot often is that the bowl is
injured, or that the bowl or jack rebounds
from the boarding to the green again,
perhaps presenting a score to the opponent
in the process. In Victoria and Queens-
land no association fixture can be played
on a green unless the banks and ditches
are grass-covered. The Australian Bowl-
ing Council has now recommended that
grass be adopted by every bowling club
under its jurisdiction. It might have gone
further and laid down a rule that no games
under its jurisdiction or that of its affiliated
associations be played on greens not ditched
and banked with grass. The change-over
would be comparatively inexpensive, and
much 1 agony of mind and regrettable
language would be spared the unhappy
owner of a badly-battered “wood,” or one
who has lost a head because of a rebound-
ing bowl or jack which has made the other
fellow a present of the shot.
:|c * *
“Shrewsbury”: Australians will be repre-
sented, as usual, in the Oxford-Cambridge
boatraee, which is due for decision about
the end of March. Bell, of Geelong, will
make his third appearance for Cambridge,
while in the Oxford crew are included
an Adelaide youth in Morphett (he x-owed
bow in the Geelong Grammar boat) and the
ex-Sydney University captain, McCullough.
Morphett is l-owing stroke in place of
Llewellyn, who is suffering from strain, and
McCullough is No. 2.
* $ ❖ *
“Swivel” : The provisional selection of the
N.S.W. crew for the inter-State eight-oar
race includes the whole of the Mosrnan crew
that won the State championship and the
challenge eights at Henley-on-Yarra, together
with six Leichhardt oarsmen and tliree each
from Drummoyne and Sydney. W. Parker,
cox of the Leichhardt crew, has also been
added to the team. The race is to be rowed
this year, for the first time in its history, on
the Nepean at Penrith.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The Vic. Rowing Association
is in something of a quandary over its
annual championships, to be held on the
Yarra next month, it being probable that
thi’-ee of the leading clubs will not be able
to row in the “best” boats demanded for
championship races. Mercantile, Richmond
and Pootscray lost their best boats in the
fire last season, and have not yet replaced
them. Rather than restrict the entry the
association has decided to allow the clubs
W. B. WALKER, the Windsor (N.S.W. )
tennis player, who recently won the
country junior championship jor the
second time.
to row in clinker boats, though there were
some objections by the sticklers for correct
form. A proposal to hold the championship
eights downstream from Queen’s Bridge,
however, was defeated, as was a similar sug-
gestion with regard to the sculls; the old
upstream course is to be adhered to in both
cases.
“Brian Boru”: The Tailteann Games, at
which the Murray Bridge crew competed in
1924, will be held at Dublin in August,
being timed to catch the overflow from the
Amsterdam contests. In addition to a full
athletic programme, rowing is to be strongly
featured, and the committee states that
Australia, Maoriland and Canada propose
to send eights. This is doubtful as regards
Australia, at least, for the Commonwealth
authorities are not sending an eight to the
Olympiad. However, this country’s sculling
representative, R. Pearce, should be a cer-
tain starter at Dublin unless the rowing
events are relegated to Cork, where there
is a straight four-miles course on the river
Lee.
T.P. BOLGER, the Victorian middleweight
wrestler, who is considered a certain
selection jor the Olympiad, and to have
a good chance there.
“Splash” : Froelich, the German swimmer,
who arrived in Perth last week, turns out
to have been born in Samoa. He is an engi-
neer by trade, and figured as a boxer and gym-
nast before taking up swimming. He made a
big impression in Perth, and though chiefly
a backstroke swimmer is pretty handy in the
free-style department, as witness his times—
-50 yards in 23sec., 100 yards in 54sec. and
100 metres in 63sec., besides 100 yards back-
stroke in lmin. 7 2-ssec. His figures for 100
yards free-style are only l-ssec worse than
Duke Ivahanamoku’s Australian record,
which has stood since 1915.. Froelich will
swim in all the capitals, appearing at the
Australian championships at Sydney in
February.
* * * *
“That Long” : The fish-catching champion-
ship—or the fish-lying ditto, as it may be
regarded—has come back to the British
Empire. White Wickham, a visitor from the
Cold Country, where the fish run small if
the stories bulk big, has landed a broadbill
swordfish weighing 6731 b. off Cape Brett,
M.L. This blows out novelist Zane Grey’s
catching of a 582-pounder, round which and
a few 7 other sprats the American writer
recently built a book showing that he was
the world’s best game-fish angler. Zane
has threatened to come back to Maoriland
shortly, and will, of course, try to break the
new figures, but unless he goes south to
Solander Rock and hooks a sperm whale it
will take him all his time to do it. It is
curious that Australians do not hanker after
these big-fish records. A famous Murray cod
was caught in the Bunyip Hole on the
Balonne River, at Doondi station, S.-W.
Queensland, but no record w 7 as taken save
that when he was pulled out the “hole,” two
miles long and averaging 30ft. deep, dropped
two feet in the water level.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The desire of the Maoriland
athletic authorities to run their own show 7
(B. 5/l/’2B) is laudable in its way, but
it is doubtful if the change will benefit the
standard of track athletics in the Shivery
Isles. The Maorilanders had a chance under
the old system of testing their runners and
the like every four years against the pick
of the Australian States, and these men bene-
fited greatly by meeting new adversaries in
strange climates and under unaccustomed
conditions. In future, save for an occasional
challenge from one country to the other, Aus-
tralian and Maoriland athletes will get no
opportunity of improving their form at the
expense of each other, which is, after all, the
only way of finding out how good or bad you
are—or the other fellow is. And Maoriland’s
small “gates” will make it difficult to bring
teams from overseas, a matter in which Aus-
tralia helped very materially in the past.
Altogether it looks as if the Dominion’s
policy of splendid isolation wall be a losing
proposition from an athletic point of view.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hanno” : Some years ago the Queensland
Government sent to construction-camps, along
with the weekly paymaster, a savings bank
official with authority to open new accounts
on the spot. It was found that more than
half the men were willing to bank some por-
tion of their pay; but the innovation is said
to have been abandoned because the hotel-
keepers in the vicinity of several big Govern-
ment jobs forcibly protested against it. Such
protests, if made, might have been regarded
as the highest tribute payable to the scheme.
* * * *
“Bulantum”: In New Guinea there are
thousands of acres thick with kunei-grass.
It is regarded as a pest, but it contains a
high percentage of alcohol. This can b:
easily extracted, and the plant required is
not expensive.
* * * *
“Uramao” : A Westland (M.L.) syndicate
has engaged a chemical engineer possessed of
wide experience with Californian and London
paper mills to investigate the possibilities of
paper-making from M.L. woods, and the
manufacture of strawboard from waste
straw. Canterbury alone grows 227,455 tons
of wheat-straw, nearly all of which is wasted,
while the country imports 1000 tons of straw-
board from Holland yearly. The paper-pulp
expert says an entirely satisfactory pulp
can be produced by the soda process from
rimu and white pine sawmill refuse. As
M.L. imports paper goods to the tune of a
million annually, the M.L. Department of
Scientific Research is co-operating in the
investigation in the hope of keeping some of
the million in the country’s pocket.
* * * *
“Milltrack” : Touching this increasing use
of foreign timber (B. 5/l/’2B), the other day
in a Melbourne suburb where there is a mild
building boom, I found only eight out of
about 50 houses built of Australian hard-
wood. AH the others were oregon, and such
Oregon, too! I measured dozens of pieces
and found they were as much as fin. under
size besides being full of knots, sun-cracks
and shakes, faults that would have ensured
tlleir being condemned before they ever left
a Victorian mill. Sandringham has passed
a by-law insisting on all timber used iu
construction being up to size and free from
knots and other defects; it is high time other
metropolitan councils followed suit. The
fact that America’s third-grade timber is
bunged wholesale into all sorts of buildings,
to the detriment of our own sterling well-
milled hardwoods, makes one wonder with
whom the American timber interests are
linked up.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: “Jim Lynch’’ (B. 12/l/’2B)
says that “the volume of passenger traffic from
Broken Hill to Sydney during Christmas week
was a disagreeable surprise to S.A. and S. T.
Co. officials.” Here are the facts. For the first
excursion to Sydney, single fare for the
return journey, and w r ith all the attraction of
a novelty, there were only 282 passengers.
The same night 213 excursionists left by the
express to Adelaide, but they went to join
the 701 already there and to wait for the
1572 who had yet to come. The second and
only other excursion to Sydney took 47
holiday-makers. “ J.L.” also tells us that if
the mining companies should decide to go in
for oil the N.S.W. railways could “concede a
lower rate with less handling than the S.A.
and S. T. Co. combined.” But could they?
A statement of comparative charges drawn up
on October 26 for crude oil in owners’ tanks
showed the freight from Darling Harbor to
Broken Hill to be 375. lid., and from Adel-
aide 345. Bd. S.A. rates for some classes of
goods went up 20 per cent, in December, but
even if that were added the fact that from
Port Pirie the distance is shorter with no
break of gauge would leave the margin about
the same.
# * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland banking averages for
the December quarter show that the banks
have practically completed their move to dis-
courage importations and head off a bad
financial stringency. In comparison with the
same quarter in the previous year fixed deposits
were up £3,174,613, and free deposits were
down £1,710,206, a net increase of £856,192.
In the period advances have gone down
£1.308,651, the only bank that doesn’t show
evidence of having put the nippers in being
the ’Asia, which let the strap out a hole to
the tune of £41,505. Metallic backing of the
note issue increased by £56,391, and the note
issue shrank by £186,646. The banks at the
beginning of the year held about 245.-worth
of coin and bullion for .every 20s. of note
issue. Banks trading in Maoriland lost the
war-created right of refusing to redeem their
notes with gold on the 10th of this month,
and it will be interesting to observe, at the
end of this quarter, the effect of the change
on the metal holdings.


J
PLENTY
of
RUBBER
in
U.S. ROYAL
CORDS
ẅ
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
E. G. Crace, Esq. ; W. G. Woodger, Esq. ;
S. J. Goulston, Esq. ; R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
METAL CEILINGS
Obtain the benefit of low prices and ideal designs
by choosing Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings for
your rooms. They are unequalled for (a) moderate
cost, (b) ease of fixing; (c) tasteful appearance ;
(d) permanent freedom from blemishes. Stocked
by your local supplier of building materials.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED, Baptist St., Redfern, Sydney
Write to-day
for free
Catalogue
M. 27.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO
y man vou know who uses a PLUM—
uk him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
Why, rather!”
THE
PLU
2?
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT It
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
Post Free.
Everything Ready for
the DucK Season?
Sportsmen! Look to your guns. Order a sufficient supply of cartridges.
The Duck season opens February 15, and it will pay you to note Hartley’s
values in the following lines. Country Readers! Order Now. Prompt atten-
tion, prices you’ll like.
w
B 29 —SPECIAL D.B. 12GA. HAMMER GUN, 30in. steel
barrels, left choke, right modified, back action locks —
£3/15/-
B3O—SIMILAR ABOVE, treble crossbolt, snap fore-end —
£4/15/-
BI3—WILLIAMS D.B. 12GA. HAMMER; GUN, 30in. fine
steel barrels, left choke, right modified, nitro-proved, bar
locks, treble crossbolt £lO/10/-
BIO—HOLLIS D.B. 12GA. HAMMER GUN, special for
pigeon and duck shooting, chambered for 2-Jin. cases,
splendid steel barrels £l3/10/-
RJS—BAYARD D.B. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-bore,
Greener crossbolt, lock action, auto, safety, weight 7Jlb,
£lO
825—8.5. A. STANDARD DE LUXE HAMMERLESS, 12-
bore, 30in. plain steel barrels, nitro-proved, chambered
2fin. cases, blued action body, recommended, £l5/15/
BS—GREENER EMPIRE D.B. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12.
bore, special steel barrels, obtainable in both barrels full
choke or left choke and right modified, treble wedge,
fast action, side safety guaranteed £2l
ŵ
270 Flinders Street (opp. Station), and at
148 Swanston Street (n’r Town Hall), Melb.
ẁ
New Club, black . . 15/-
Ky black 15/-
Kley Diamond 17/-
Eley Amberite 17/-
Nile Ballistite 19/-
Remington 20/-
Repeater ... . 20/-
Nobel's Ballistite 24/-
Nitro Club 24/-
Arrow 26/-
Lender Oval 26/-
Call or write for
FREE SHOOTING
LIST. It catalogues
all shooting material,
contains useful infor-
mation, shows hoic to
save. GET A COSY
NOW.
SUNDRIES
Leather Cartridge Belts —
5/6, 7/6, 12/-
Patent Spring Clips, doz., 2/9
Canvas Game Bags—
-10/6, 12/6, 27/6
Gun Case, Leather, L.OfM., 27 / 6
Gun Covers, Canvas 5/-
Decoy Duck Calls 2/6
Waders, all sizes, 25/- to 85/-
This lather’s moisture
soaks the
beard soft.
If shaving is uncomfortable,
don’t be too quick to blame
your razor. Often the sha-
ving lather is to blame. A
free sample of Williams
Shaving Cream will convince
you that the right shaving
lather will end razor pull,
will actually leave your face
feeling better than it did
before shaving.
Williams lather softens the
beard completely because it
is saturated with moisture
that soaks the stubble soft
for easier, more comfortable
shaves. Furthermore, Wil-
liams lubricates the razor’s
path, eliminates the razor’s
tendency to nick the skin.
Williams leaves the skin
thoroughly conditioned,
smooth as a glove.
The Shave Perfect
with Aqua Velva.
The new after shaving liquid,
Aqua Velva, keeps the face
as comfortable all day as
Williams leaves it con-
serves the natural moisture
in the skin.
Williams Shaving Cream costs 2/-
per tube. Williams Holder Top
Shaving Stick 2/- and re-loads with
the threaded metal ring which fits
easily in the old holder, 1 /6.
Send 3d. to Frazer &
Best, Ltd., Dept. 5.8.3,
Box 26 2 1 G.P.0.,
Sydney, for samples
of Williams Shaving
Cream and Aqua
Velva, the new after-
shaving liquid.
Williams
Shaving Cream


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kino
Georg,e V
Vintage 1?17.
CHAIVIPAGIME
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Cmampagh*
'^arlesHcidsicat
HEIMS
wssasM&
PELUSSOM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OIvYS.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Wire Accommodation.
Wentwoi
tb
HCMEL
Cable Address: “Mum
THE pinnacle of Hotel per-
fection.
HOT and Cold running water
and Telephones in every
bedroom.
Private suites de luxe. A
haven of simple luxury.
THE HOTEL YOU HAVE
BEEN LOOKING FOR
Combining the best features of
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE.
Sydney’s most spacious and
lovely lounge.
TARIFF: Rooms with Breakfast from 17/-. Inclusive Board from 26/-
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The centre of Queens Zands
d/stmpu/sfed SoaoL Life.
tftßtuntß
motel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Liner
AWOMAN
LETTER
For once this season Randwick looked
like a bit of Sydney instead of a North
Pole expedition. Flimsies fluttered every-
where on the first day of the A.J.C. Anni-
versary Meeting, and voiles, embroidered
linens and organdies were first favorites.
The return of the embroidered voile has
been predicted for two summers, but up till
now Sydney Iras been shy of it, as of the
colored shoe that once more pops up, star-
scattered on the grass, so to speak. A pair
of royal-blue twos worn with a royal-blue
hat, the distance between bridged by palest
primrose silk stockings and a voile dress,
struck this Letter as a happy choice. Spots
and dots broke out on every second woman,
and newly-returned horsewoman Una Clift
wore the Morse code patterned in beige on
navy crepe de Chine. Dr. McKelvey’s lady
wore black georgettes draped in the latest
fashion ; and Mrs. Guy Belisario looked cool
and collected (collected several times in
fact) in sand-colored georgette. There were
no vice-regals, and numbers of Sydney’s
best dressed and always present had not
yet returned from Bong Bong.
All the noisiest fans in Sydney swished,
clinked and clattered at the Royal on Satur-
day night. The offering, Somerset Maugham’s
“The Letter,” has ti’opic Malaya for
setting, and some convincing scenery con-
firmed the impression gathered before the
curtain rose that the night was going to
have its moments of mugginess. According
to programme the play is tremendously
dramatic, with “remarkable woman inter-
est,” which, of course, refers to the old, old
trHangle. But there was another sort of
triangle very much in evidence —a dark-
brown triangle wfith freckles on it and
bordered by the white margin which repre-
sents the difference between the amount of
back that is bared in bathers and ditto in
evening apparel. Irene Vanbrugh is the bad
lady of the piece—a very bad lady, indeed.
She has to be a murderess, an unbelievable
liar, and other unpleasant things, the single
possibly-good quality the author permits her
to own being a supposedly typical feminine
capacity for still loving the man she has fired
six revolver shots into, and who has told
her that lie much prefers a Chinese lady.
Marjorie Playfair and Gwynne Whitby,
good-looking English girls, make their first
appearance here in this Boucicault piece.
Grey skies that afterwards dissolved into
rain greeted the opening day of the Bong
Bong races. But, wise from the sodden
meetings of previous years, woman arrived
at the pretty picnic course costumed, top-
coated and in some instances even fur-
coated. Umbrellas, too, sprouted like magic
about half-past two when the rain fell in
earnest, and the zinc shed which is the
architectural pride of the course was rushed
with a splendid oneness of purpose. There
the leaks leaked on Welsh and mere Aus-
tralian alike. Sir Dudley and Lady de
Chair, with the family, arrived in time for
the first race, and with Eyre Hutson, Gover-
nor of Fiji—strangely enough the only man
with spats and a cane —-and Mrs. Brooke
Francis, whose husband is Attorney-General
of Zanzibar, they shared Tony Hordern’s
hospitality in his gladioli-decked tent. Lady
de Chair’s black and white suit flew smart
shepherd’s plaid revers that matched the
plaid in the skirt. Sheila Watson, who took
the place of daughter Elaine in the v.-r.
party (Elaine is travelling), matched hat
and jumper suit in melting horizon blues;
while galah-grey and pinks enhanced the
sparkling eyes of Mrs. Brooke Francis.
All Bowral and Moss Vale turns up at
these picnic races, with as much of Sydney
as can get invited to join the big house-
parties or can cram themselves into the
hotels and superidr guestries around Bow-
ral ; so the dressing is always of the swag-
gah variety. The Elwyn Blomfields (he’s
the club’s secretary) help not a little to
Bong Bong’s popularity.
The racing excitement of last Thursday
•was provided by the Bong Bong Cup, which
was won by W. D. Gordon’s Bequest, ridden
by .Tack.- Melville. This same horse p,nd
rider plucked the trophy in the Tirranna
Cup the previous week. Another coincidence
was that second, third and fourth places
went to Rummi, Two Diamonds and Bright
Sea, as they did in the Tirranna Cup. Over
the lu'ck of her Two Diamonds Rosemary
Osborne had a look of pleasure that wenc
well with her navy and dull-gold suit. A
young thing who sported in the sun and
shade and made her social entry in this
Arcadian setting was Peggy Halloran. Mrs.
W. Anderson showed the smartness of navy-
blue and grey, and emphasised it with a hat
of featherweight grey felt banded with navy.
Philippa Stephen’s frock was the blue the
sky should have been, and her hat the color
it was. Gordons, Osbornes, and Ivaters were
present in force, and Cordeaux, Campbells,
Camerons and McLeislies were numerous.
The Governor and Lady de Chair, the Dr.
Norman Katers, the Elwyn Blomfields, Miss
Philippa Friend, Peter Tate and Tony Hor-
dern sheltered house-parties.
The Agricultural pavilion at the Moss Vale
Showground harbored the ball given by the
local Golf Club to round off the first day of
Bong Bong. Here the decorations were a
triumph in green and gold, and were the
work of Ethel Campbell and Molly McLeish,
the secretaries of the dance. The vice-regals
came with their house party. Lady de Chair's
terra-cotta and gold georgettes were hand-
somely effective against the diamente black
worn by Mrs. T. McCarthy, the wife of the
club’s president, who received her. Ann
Maher, from Sydney, was one of the night’s
belles, Marjorie Lindetnan was striking in
pale golds, and Betty Clarke’s sea-green rai-
ment was very pictorial.
The Race Club ball was the froth on
Bong Bong’s yearly pint o’ fun. It was held
on Friday night at the safiie address and
amid the same decorations as the Golf Club
flutter the night before. The important
people of the celebration were four debs.—
Peggy Halloran in a Naiad-like confection
of white lace and water lilies; and Philippa
Friend, Betty McCarthy and Leila Manning,
also in fluttering white. Marjorie Osborne,
whose Two Diamonds had again pushed his
nose first into the Bachelors’ Bag, rejoiced
in black with green splashes. Came the vice-
regals—Lady de Chair in terracotta arid
gold brocades. Mrs. Elwyn Blomfiold was
wrapped in soft black lace, and George
Fuller’s upstanding lady made her farewells
to Bong Bong in sea-green chiffons heavy
with crystal.
Herewith Mrs. Haskell E. Coates, the
young wife of a settled-in-Sydney American
who is asking the other women of the Ameri-
can Circle
“What do we
know of Aus-
tralia who only
Syd n e y
know?” With
Mrs, Beverley
she has worked
out a plan for
an Australian
study circle
among the
U.S.A. men
and women.
Our geography,
history, litera-
ture and art
are to be sub-
jects for dis-
cussion. Lec-
t u r e s, of
course, will be
numerous; for
lectures are as
sacred to the
American mind
as cricket to the English—or two-up to the
Australian. Already a list of men and women
who really know their Continent is being
prepared, and these in due time will be
asked to pour out knowledge and enthusiasm
to help these settlers in our midst to enter
more fully into our national life.
It is just 107 years since the first baby was
born under the protecting wing of the Royal
Hospital for Women at Paddington, though,
of course, it wasn’t the Royal Hospital then.
It, too, was in its infancy, and was begin-
ning district nursing in a modest way as an
offshoot of the Benevolent Society. That was
in 1820, and one of the first donations
towards the good work was a present of five
guineas from Governor Macquarie’s lady.
As the colony grew the need for the
maternity work became greater, and presently
the Benevolent Society brought to N. S.
Wales, under special engagement, the first
five trained nurises in Australia. One of
these had been trained by Florence Nightin-
gale and was the foremost light of her
day in hospital work. The engagement of
these nurses and the training of a £cav
midwives were the first deliberate steps
towards care for mother and baby taken by
this continent. On the site of the present
Central Railway Station rose the old “lying-
in” hospital, and that was where the medical
student received his schooling in obstetrics,
still one of the Royal’s most important
works ; and there, too, a fine school of mid-
wifery was maintained. In 1005 the foun-
dation of the present building at Paddington,
in its seven acres of ground, was laid by Lord
Northcote, and here on Friday, the 27th,
Governor-General Lord Stonehaven will lay
the foundation-stone of a new block. This
addition will mean accommodation for a
further 100 patients, making a fine total
of 277. New nurses’ quarters and lecture-
rooms and every known device for making the
new citizen’s entry into Australia a pleasant
one will also find a roof-tree in the new
building. Young Australia will not even be
bereft of an introductory glimpse of greenly-
blowing trees and plants, for much of the old
gardens will remain untouched.
Australian novelist and playwright Arthur
Adams left Australia last week to seek his
fortune in London with another batch of
comedies. The last play of his produced in
Europe was in
the early days
of the war—
“ Mrs. Pretty
and the Pre
mier.” It had
exhilarating
notices, and
tli e bookings
were fine. Then
Fritz chose to
bomb the par-
ticular corner
of Londo n
where the play
was being
staged ! An d
there was not
anothertheatre
obtainable foi
over 12 months.
Iu his early
youth Adams
was a poet,
and for years
looked after
the Red Page of The Bulletin. Shipping
knight Owen Cox, who sailed with his niede,
Miss Bonsor, on the Naldera, was lucky to
secure him as his personal secretary for the
voyage. This picture is one taken by May
Moore for the collection of Australian writers
she has been commissioned to do for the
Mitchell Library.
In the grounds at the side of St. Mary’s
Cathedral is an office specially built for the
staff that will have to cope with the affairs
of the Eucharistic Congress. The big prob-
lem to be faced is the housing of the 200,000
faithful who will pour in—from Czecho-
slovakia, from China, from Russia; from
every country the world over —to attend the
Eucharistic devotions that will fling a
tapestry rich with ritual, purple with the
memories of heroic martyrdoms, blue as the
cloak of Mary, about the Palace at Manly,
the harbor and even the ring at the Show-
ground. The great subject of the inter-
national discussion is the Eucharist and Our
Lady. It was selected by the Pope, and will
be dealt with in 15 discourses. There will
be simultaneous discussions in the Palais
Royal, the Town Hall, St. Mary’s:, (the
ChUrch of Mary Immaculate at Waverley
and the Australian Hall. But only at the
five International discussions will English
be spoken; the others will be held in as
divers tongues as the Apostles spake after
the Holy Ghost had descended upon them.
Cardinal Cerretti, the Papal Legate, who was
Australia’s Apostolic Delegate from 1914 to
1917, will be one of the most striking figures
among the Congress visitors. It is even pos-
sible that Hilaire Belloc and his convert
Gilbert Keith Chesterton will be among the
voyagers.
Newington College Chapel was invaded by
a swirling sea of tulle and georgette the
other niglif when Kathleen Burns, of Con-
cord, became Mrs. Archibald Law. The
bride’s frock was a Period affair, the ankle-
length skirt being entirely composed of tiny
tulle frills opening over a silver lace panel.
A voluminous tulle veil fell like a mist over
the satin train with its blaze of diamente
embroideries. May Law and Ella Buttel,
the bride’s attendants, were a mass of petal
pink frills topped by pink Ballybuntal hats,
and were embellished with bouquets of blue
and mauve hydrangea.
Ethel Hart, a St. Mary’s bride of last
week, was enveloped in a Brussels lace veil
of unusual beauty and size when she whis-
pered the usual vows to Syd Lawrence
Lawson. The veil flowed away behind the
white and silver wedding garment like a
track of foam in the moonlight.
St. Philip’s, on Church Hill, bloomed with
stately pink and white gladioli and cactus
dahlias linked by white satin streamers one
night last week when Joan Blocksidge, of
Brisbane, murmured the “I wills” she had
rehearsed for Eric Rowley. Joan wore her
ivory georgettes and satins swirling about
her ankles, and her train veil was mixed
Chantilly and tulle, served with orange
blossom to taste. The two ’maids contrasted
satin of skyey blues and rose pinks in their
ankle-length frocks, and each carried an
armful of garden glory in pink and blue.
Petty’s, the staid old Church Hill hostelry,
echoed to the customary revels under the
direction of Mr. and Mrs. G. H. Blocksidge.
The groom is a barrister whose home address
is Manly.
Statesman William Bede Dailey is not to
be left lonely on his pedestal in Hyde Park,
after all. His daughter, Mrs. Lachlan Bea-
ton, with her husband and son and Ruby
Adams, had planned to settle in Europe
for some years. Mrs. Beaton's property in
Macquarie-street, the Albany, had been re-
sumed as one of the preliminaries to the
Martin-place extension. So the family de-
cided to sell off all the lovely old furniture,
and migrate to the south of France for a
few years. But Mr. Beaton’s ill health
caused them to leave the boat at Melbourne,
where they will stay for the rest of the sum-
mer.
Soon those who toil up Church Hill by
way of Margaret-street will miss the famil-
iar old Pfahlert’s Hotel. There used to be
two real old-timers in that block, the Imper-
ial, so long kept by the mother of Oscar
Asche, and Pfahlert’s. The former, with its
back entrance known to all Bohemia as Syd-
ney's original Hole in the Wall, was years
ago swallowed by the big-building monster;
Pfahlert’s is to be swept away to make room
for a great office building for the British
Imperial Oil Co. A queer, rambling old
place, it used to serve the best counter-
lunch in Sydney, so Bohemia said ; and you
could meet almost anybody in the grill-room.
Then, in keeping with its reputation, and after
having had unpronounceable names over the
door for a generation, up went that of
Andrew Black, the singer, who had married
the inheritor of the license.
The Wallace Horsley couple of Yabtrec,
Gundagai way, are rejoicing in the advent
of a son and heir. Mrs. Horsley, better
known as “Tootles,” the attractive daughter
of the late J. C. Williamson, was married
early last year in Sydney.
George Fuller’s lady was given fair
speeches, glowing flowers and a dish of tea
at the Australia last week to mark her
passing as president of Furlough House.
This is the holiday home for soldiers’ wives
and kiddies at Narrabeen, and for nine years
the new Agent-General’s lady has been presi-
dent of the association responsible for its
being. Mrs. Cooper Day, the first secretary
of the association, and a group of the
original members were seated at the official
table about the guest of honor. To her was
given for remembrance a leather-bound
book filled with snapshots of Furlough
House, with bush flowers and charming
little scenes in water colors.
It is declared of pretty well every musician
that he stirred the public’s soul at an age
no greater than Ludwig Mozart’s when audi-
ences swooned before the ecstasy of his play-
ing. Of every first novelist it is claimed that
he or she is just 19 —the age of the immortal
Dickens when h.e made his mark. But Con-
rad and Hardy have proved that the giants
may be silent even at 30 and still have a
tale worth telling. E. J. Carroll’s trump-
card for the coming musical season is Erici
Morini, a violinist from Vienna, for whonl
is claimed a supreme brilliancy. Stress is la.l
on the fact that her genius was recognised
by the art centres of Europe before she was
out of her ’teens. All of which is probably
true. But suppose the lady had reached the
advanced age of 22 before the connoisseurs
of Vienna had been permitted to pour out
their libations to her, would that have made
her playing any the less filled with magic?
Kreisler’s rise was not meteoric ; yet audien-
ces cannot detect any flaws in his music
on that count. Rather is there added suavity,
the sobbing sympathy of one who has known
sorrow and disappointment, and has drowned
both in the flood of achievement.
The Royal Life-savers have definitely
fixed their “week”— February 18-25. Dur-
ing those days a sale of buttons, a picnic to
Rodd Island, a treasure hunt at Castle Crag,
a bridge tournament and a dance at Manly
will be a few of the money-raisers. Percy
Hunter is the big sheik among the life-
savers, and he’s jollying things along at the
meetings. The R.L.S. rooms were caught
in a big fire in Carrington-street last week,
and a gollywog is about the only thing saved.
A fireman rescued the mascot, _ and with an
almost human air it now sits in the Volun-
tary Workers’ rooms at 310 George-street.
The Australian Art Society is organising
its second annual exhibition, which will be
opened at the Education Galleries on Mon-
day, February 20. Sending-in day is Satur-
day, the 11th. A list of the rules relating
to this little show for the coming-on artist
can be obtained from secretary W. M.
Whitney, Dugald-road, Mosman. That
kindly wizard of the brush, Syd Long, is
giving the society the benefit of his knowledg
and experience in the organising and judging.
Gwynneth WAterhouse, elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. G. Waterhouse, of Stanhope-
road, lias announced her engagement to
Jack, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. M. Cas-
sidy, of Burwood. Gwynneth is a grand-
daughter of the late Ebenezer Vickery who
built a fortune on leather and coal and was
a stout pillar of the Methodist church.
Not all are bucolics who gather at Tir-
ranna, by the way. Said a Sydney fair to
a Goulburn youth the first day: "I hope .you
boys will not be too dull at the ball to-
night—you know I have read all about youi
desperate doings, and I want to see t.ie
fun.” The boy drawled: “You may be sure
we won’t be there in mourning, though we
may be mourning the morning after.


JlAßjjr BRQTHER§
MOTOR LUNCHEON CASES
d
81301.
Ideal for Picnicking, Travelling and Motoring, this particularly fine
Luncheon Ca3e is made Suit-case style from 3pecially-selected
leather. It is fitted for six persons and contains the following
articles:
6 stainless knives; forks, teaspoons, enamel plates,
china cups and saucers, 2 aluminium tumblers,
aluminium salt and pepper-boxes, wicker-covered
bottle, two 2-pint Thermos flasks and 2 metal food
containers. Size 25 x 15x7.
£l6.
Smaller Motor Luncheon Cases from £B/10/-
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent post free , to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
< 3ie < 7fousc of*&GGluswcUeu*lUty
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
1 16-118
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
Study your Hair Appearance
/y\;i
■
mMM
A
I wmr ft ~ .'«
Ary* 'immm -
J uoux friends qauqe your
aqe by qtey hair
GREY HAIR, however, can easily be brought back
to its natural color by applying a little Allen s
Mexican Walnut Stain. This stain is perfectly harm-
less, is easy to apply and tints the hair to any
required shade.
Moreover, it may be applied in the privacy of your
own house. You can obtain a bottle at your chemist
or store.
S?AHerA Mexican
WALNUT STAIN
WHOLESALE TROM DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
A Quarterly Journal Dealing with Australia's Animal and Bird Life.
JANUARY-MARCH NUMBER NOW AVAILABLE.
CONTENTS:
CONTROL OE PESTS. Editorial by Dr. Chas. Anderson, M.A.
HATCHING SHARKS FOR PROFIT. A concise sketch by T. C. Rough ley.
HHE IRISH DEER. A record of the extinct Megaceros hibernicus, by G. Anderson, M.A., u.sc.
3 EEPS INTO SEA-BIRD HOME LIFE, by P. A. Gilbert.
SOME DWELLERS OF THE BUSH. Observations by H. C. Barry,
VMBER. An interesting article by Dr. Eugen Neumann.
N THE MACPHERSON RANGE, by A. Musgrave, F.E.S.
3NE HUNDRED YEARS. An article recording the Museum’s Centenary.
PHE LATE W. E. J. PARADICE. ILis work and interest in the Museum, by G. P. Whitley.
Obtainable from Leading Booksellers,
VOLUME 111. PART 5. Price One Shilling quarterly. ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION 4/4 posted.
As necessary as a spare tyre
Supplied complete with
easily-fixed bracket
and charge.
Bad enough is a puncture when you are miles from any-
where and have no spare tyre on board. Far worse is a
carburettor fire and no appliance at hand with which to
extinguish it.
Fit a Fire-Gun because
(a) It can be operated in any posi-
tion.
(b) Denting of the case does not
affect its efficiency.
(c) Leaking is eliminated.
(d) No solder, which tends to
cause corrosion, is used inter-
nally in its manufacture.
(e) The double-acting pump is of
special design to ensure quick
delivery of extinguishing fluid
with less effort.
(f) It is approved by the Fire
Underwriters’ Associations of
Australia.
(g) The price is competitive.
AGENTS WITH STOCKS.
BELDAM PACKING AGENCY (AUSTRALIA), LTD., 37 Sussex Street, Sydney.
GEORGE DOWNER & CO., Henty House, 499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., 849 Hay Street, Perth.
MATTHEWS FIRE ALARM, LTD., City Buildings, Edward Street, Brisbane, Q.
CLAUDE H. SMITH & CO., 189 Gawler Place, Adelaide, S.A.
Foamite Fire Protection
A COMPLETE ENGINEERING SERVICE,


ẃ
For Q\es tS Puddings, use
these LiijfJeJusciousrfyisins-
-4
*tp
i/fe
'm
Swuiiou) (pCLneiEs
SEEDED
RAISINS
stemmed
Cleaned
Reeded
READY FOR USE
Legal Notice.
TX THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO VIOLET MYRTLE GONIXON for-
merly of Zeelian and Hobart in Tasmania
but now of parts unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation lias issued out of
this Court citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of Redvers Buller Goninon for
dissolution of his marriage with you on the
grounds of desertion TAKE NOTICE that
unless within thirty days from the publica-
tion of this notice you cause an appear-
ance to be entered in the Registry of th<
said Court Macquarie Street Hobart to
answer the said Petition the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the charge proved and pro-
nounce sentence your absence notwithstand-
ing.
Dated this 18th day of January, 1925.
(Sd.) A. G. BRAMMALL.
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
A. G. OMANT, Proctor for the Petitioner,
Devonport, Tasmania.
Melbourne
Chatter
Our hot spell continued into last week, and
an ironing-day atmosphere prevailed. City-
dwellers sought the beaches to cool down
and enjoy the fitful evening breeze. St.
Kilda sands at times were so thickly dotted
with humanity that it was difficult for a new-
comer to find an unoccupied spot to rest
upon. The continued heat and scorching
winds have played havoc with the trees in
St. Kilda-road, Melbourne’s pride, and the
famous avenue wears a wilted expression.
Dead and fallen foliage is piling up in
prematurely autumnal fashion, but the crim-
son gum is in bloom, and with the blue
agapanthus strikes a cheery note amid the
dry vegetation.
The idea of segregating the sexes at lun-
cheon —for the purposes of domestic peace it
might be better if breakfast were chosen —
was given a trial at the V.A.T.C. meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday, when Lady Stone-
haven ate with the wives of committee-men
while the G.-G. absorbed some vitamines and
proteins in the company of the chairman and
his male associates. It was a day that
either was or seemed cold, after the heat-
wave, and feminine attire was chosen
accordingly. Lady Stonehaven was wrapped
in a navy coat with silver fox fur topped
by a pearl-grey felt hat adorned with black
felt flowers. Lady Somers wore a kasha
jumper suit, sable choker and a reseda-
green hat. The State Governor and his wife
gave a few guests a midday snack in the v.-r.
suite, where the tables „ had central group-
ings of roseate-hued cactus-dahlias mixed
with water-lilies of the same shade. Primin-
ister Bruce lunched with the Somerses,
accompanied by Mrs. Bruce, whose black
attire had a squirrel fur collar. Among
those who lunched with the committee-
men’s wives were James Grice’s lady, in black,
and her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Claude Grice,
wearing coat and felt millinery of beige
pink; Mrs. E. M. Pearce and Mrs. Mersoo
Cooper, with a posy of yellow water-lilies
on her mink coat and a hat covered with
shimmering jet. Secretary T. A. Tabart’s
wife, tailored in navy with a touch of pink,
was with Mrs. Charles Campbell, of the
Speck, whose red hat topped a suit of, rust
blendings. The J. I. Winter Irvings, their
daughter . Mrs. Geoffrey Mead and their
youngest lass formed a family party that re-
joiced over the win of Stalden in the Holi-
day Stakes. Meta Power’s black costume
and hat were relieved by an apple-green
vest. Mrs. Warwick Armstrong, whose grey
coat was allied to a black hat; Ella Guthrie,
the Norman Bayles couple, Mrs. E. A.
Spowers and James Purves and his wife
were on the lawn, and Mi’s. Albert Dunne
was in evidence to show that the Western
District still takes an interest in racing.
Federal Government House established a
new record in large-scale hospitality on Fri-
day afternoon, when the Stonehavens had as
their guests 500 adults and 300 children
collected by the Friendly Union of Soldiers’
Wives and Mothers and the Junior Legacy
Club, and including convalescent patients
from Caulfield Military Hospital. Everyone
had a good time, especially the kiddies, who
ran races on the lawns, rode on a merry-go-
round, had coekshies at Aunt Sally, made the
acquaintance of Punch and Judy, and stalked
joyfully around on stilts. The young folk
and the invalided Diggers lunched in the big
dining-room, Lady Stonehaven and aides
helping the domestic staff to serve ices, cakes
and other dainties. Mothers, wives and
widows had their lunch in the ballroom
annexe. Later a trouple of clowns made merry
in the ballroom to the delight of the young-
sters. Lady Stonehaven’s little daughters,
Ava and Ariel, appeared to enjoy the party
as heartily as anybody.
Their Exes, personally welcomed all their
guests. Lady Stonehaven wearing a simple
Wedgwood-blue jumper suit and navy hat.
In running the party she had the assistance
of Mrs. N. G. Musther, hon. sec. of the
F.U.S.W.M., and president P. E. Potts, hon.
sec. Peters, J. W. Barr, Dr. Mark Gardner,
J. M. Semmens and other members of the
Legacy Club. Miss Gillett, Lady Stone-
haven’s secretary, and Miss Chamberlain also
helped to see that no guest was neglected.
So successful was the party that it has been
decided to make it an annual affair.
Young Australians to the number of 335,
collected from neighboring States by the
Y\A.L., invaded the city last week, ripe for
another week of sight-seeing. The boys were
given quarters in the Exhibition Building, and
paraded the city daily headed by their own
band, in the forefront of which strode a dimi-
nutive drum-major arrayed in cream and gold.
The purple-capped visitors attracted a lot of
attention. The G.-G. spread morning-tea for
the lads at Government House on Thursday,
and later in the day Mayor Morell showed
them over the Town Hall and gave them
refreshment.
Nita, youngest daughter of the J- Jolin-
stones, of Prahran, became Mrs. Robert
Chappell at St. Mary’s, East St. Kilda, a
few days ago. Her frock was showered with
pink petals on georgette foundation,
and clouds of pink tulle fell from the head,
veiling a tight bodice sloped down under one
arm and held in position by a shoulder strap
of orange blossoms. Two maids in rose-pink
taffeta and silver tissue millinery attended
her.
Canon Sutton forged the link between
his second son, Dr. Selwyn B. Sutton, and
Oenid Constance Archer, daughter of Mrs.
W. C. Archer, of Auburn, at Holy Trinity
Church, Kew. The bride’s lace veil floated
over a train of silver tissue attached to
a white fluffy frock a-sparkle with dewdrops,
and her supporting maid, Audrey Sutton,
wore a taffeta gown that gleamed blue and
lilac, topped by a silver lace hat.
Young Viscount Hastings and his runaway
bride have been reconciled to the family m
London, and the entire clan has feted the
couple in the public gaze. Those of our
elect who believed that the cloud hanging
over them was permanent, and received the
pair coolly, are now regretting lost oppor-
tunities. Lady Hastings, who is a sensible,
pleasant young woman, made many friends
outside Toorak, among those who thought it
to her credit rather than otherwise that she
took a job in a Collins-street emporium to
keep the pot boiling. Since leaving Aus-
tralia the pair ljave been housekeeping on a
South Sea island, and though the family
insists that the heir must make his home in
Foglarul, the young people are said to be
still hankering for the Sunny South and tiie
simple life.
Eric Parbury, the young Australian whose
mountaineering experience in Switzerland
was one of the cable sensations of the week,
had a desire to settle in his own country
when he finished with Cambridge, and
acquired a wine-growing estate at Nagambie,
but the owner is still an absentee. Before
the family moved to Fogtown, the Parburys
dispensed lavish hospitality at their Toorak
home. Eric Parbury is the eldest of three
sons.
This is a Dayne picture of Molly Raynor,
a vivacious young Miss who hails from Maori-
land. After playing a part in “Gum-tree
Gully” with the Kate Howard co. for a
season she
made a hit in
“The Alarm
Clock” at the
Athenamm, as
the country
lass Mary who
develops into
a n alluring
city flapper.
Her folk have
lived for some
years in Syd-
ney, where she
got a ground-
ing in stage-
craft with the
Cheer-oh girls
and as a mem-
ber of the
Players’ Club.
Her dad is
Fred Rayner,
well known in
Maoriland a s
a black-and-white artist. His daughter has
changed the “e” into an “o” for stage pur-
poses. Her sisters, Elspeth and Joan, who
are attempting to raise the dramatic tastes
of Londoners at the Greenleaf Theatre, re-
tain the family name intact. The elder of
the two came here a couple of years ago
in the interests of the repertory movement.
Lord Grimthorpe, who is now visiting
Sydney, is a grand-nephew of Edmund
Beckett, the first Lord Grimthorpe, who in
his day was leader of the Parliamentary
Bar, and who died in 1905. In addition
to being an eminent lawyer he was the
world’s greatest authority on clocks and
bells and president of * the Horological
Society and Chancellor of the Archdiocese of
York. After restoring St, Alban’s Abbey
at a cost of over £200,000, he managed to
leave a fortune of £3,000,000, most of which
went to his widow, who was a daughter of
the Bishop of Litchfield. The present
baron, who was born in 1897, is married
and has several children. He likes Aus-
tralia so well that he intends to re-visit us.
He and his lady were the guests of the
Fred McMasters, of Dalkeith, during their
stay, and they are reported to have gone
far more crazy over their taste of station
life than over their visit to our impressive
G.-G.
Mrs. Du Pre, wife of the croqueting colo-
nel, found us so much to her liking that
before leaving she definitely decided to make
the voyage again in a year; but next time
she will dodge our heat-wave. Our nicest
people fairly rushed the lady towards the
end of her stay, when the fact had leaked
out that she owned some high-sounding rela-
tives in the Cold Country.
A visitor to this city from Asia is Mollie
Hearn, whose parents have gone to the West
fey a stay with their s'fin Denis on his wheat
farm near Katanning. In Mesopotamia
Denis Hearn developed a love for wide spaces
and determined to seek them in his mother’s
country. Mrs. Hearn left Australia 25 years
ago, and this is her first return visit. The
family lives in the Punjaub.
The bobbed hair and bright eyes depicted
here by Lafayette belong to Mrs. Eleanor
Moody, who has been chosen secretary of
the Arts and Crafts Society. She came
from England
five years ago,
and her know-
ledge of art
was gained as
a student of
the Heatherley
School, Lon-
don, where a
pupil has to
show special
talent to gain
ad m i 11 anc e.
She has had
business ex-
perience, too,
and the combi-
nation admir-
ably fits her
for her new
job. Lately
she took up
craft work, and
had a great
deal of success
in designing and executing what might be
termed “rag” pictures upon portieres and
other hangings.
An interesting olfl lady is Mrs. Charles
Brown, before marriage Agnes Carlyle, a niece
of the famous Thomas. Now entering on her
92nd year, she is still blessed with health
and is a prodigious reader. Her father,
William Carlyle, brought his family to Vic-
toria in the days when the port, then called
Sandridge, had but one resident, and the
newcomers camped three days on the beach
before a bullock-waggon could be hired to
take them and their belongings to a wattle-
and-daub hut in the settlement. Agnes grew
up, married W. 11. Wharton and settled with
her husband in the Dunolly district, where
she earned fame for her prize produce. Left
a widow while quite young she became Mrs.
Charles Brown and went to live on the
Hunter River. Throughout a busy life the
family gift of letters has struggled for ex-
pression, and she has written for many
periodicals.
Though those in the game say the rag
trade is badly overcrowded, new frockeries
spring into existence daily. The latest
recruits to the business are Leigh Russell and
Una Ryan, who have formed a partnership
and gone abroad to seek exclusive novelties,
which will be displayed at the Russells’
Cliveden flat. Una Ryan learned the ropes
of the business in the employ of a city firm,
and Leigh Russeil, who is lawyer Percy
Russell’s only son, has a flair for dress-
designing.
Mrs. Mellion is welcoming her friends these
days in an artistic Bond-street frockery
labelled Georgette. The little lady, who has
fine discrimination in dress, was everyone’s
favorite when, with her sister Harriet Bur-
bridge, she established the business still bear-
ing the Burbridge name.
Everyone is speculating whether the cap-
tain of the new flagship Australia, now get-
ting into commission oversea, will be an
Australian. Appointments to her staff already
gazetted include two Royal Navy men, Com-
mander F. J. Carslake and Commander R. G.
Drake, but the captaincy is still unfilled.
George Denis Wall, the Tasmanian naval
cadet who lias just completed his training
course here, is going to the London Naval Col-
lege. His cousin, Brigadier-General Maclagan,
a former Duntroon student, has just lost his
mother, Mrs. Howe-Gunter, who made many
friends in Australia during her husband’s
term as commandant in the northern State.
Mrs. Stanley Hammond is making ready
for a European sailing. She will bring
back her daughter Joyce, who has received
the finishing touches tb her educational polish
in France. They will return in time for the
social season, after a frock-buying orgy.
Next month this city will possess a replica
of the famous London theatrical costume and
prop, shop, Clarkson’s. Premises have been
secured in the grease-paint area of Bourke-
street, and Joseph Cunningham is at the
head of the enterprise. The difficulty lie
experienced in fitting out his own stage pro-
ductions gave rise to the idea. The affair
will be under expert management, and at a
studio in the rear the aspiring novice will
be tutored, advised and even ma-de-up for a
performance. The Melbourne Operatic
society is first in the field with an order
for dresses for the coming production of
“The Quaker Girl.”
The committee of the Yooralla Free Kinder-
garten and Hospital School is mourning the
sudden passing of Mrs. Annie Lister Watson,
wife of Philip S. Watson, of Studley Park,
Ivaw, who had been president of the institu-
tion since its inception. Mrs. Watson, who
was a Graduate in Arts of Melbourne Uni.,
was interested in many social movements,
and was the first secretary of the National
.Council of Women in this State. She was
also lion, treasurer of the Professional and
Business Women’s Club.
Ida Bourne, who teaches mathematics at
the Maryborough (Q.) Girls’ Grammar
School, is spending her vacation with her
brother, Dr. Harold Bourne, and his wife
at Ivew. Miss Bourne’s sister Eleanor, who
it attached to a hospital in England, was
one of the first women to qualify as a medi-
cal practitioner at Brisbane Uni.
On holiday in this city is Dr. N. M. Gut-
teridge, of the Commonwealth health labora-
tories at Toowoomba, Queensland. lie is
one of the tall and clever brothers of Miss
M. V. Gutteridge, principal of our Kinder-
garten. Training College, who is at present
on her way to Europe on a year’s furlough.
The Runic brought back to his job Com-
mander 11. M. Ramsay, Director of Naval
Stores, who has been in England on special
duty for over a year, llis wife and family
returned with him.
Cowes, on Phillip Island, is attracting
more than its usual complement of holiday-
makers this summer. The new golf links is
the magnet. Priminister Bruce said the
opening words the other day, and Mrs. Bruce
had the first putt. The island is a sanctuary
for native-bears, which can be seen in num-
bers and are not at all afraid of humans.
Mutton-birds and pengiuns are other
denizens, and within easy distance are the
Seal Rocks, where thousands of seals bask.
An Adelaide correspondent writes backing
up this. Chatterer’s suggestion (B. 5/l/’2S)
that an Australian substitute for Santa Claus
ought to be invented. She thinks the old-
time swagman would fill the bill; his flow-
ing ziffs would facilitate parental disguise,
and Matilda could be made to hold a lot of
toys, with overflow accommodation in
tucker-bag and billy. He might be known
as the Christmas Swaggie, and his exist-
ence could be explained by some simple
legend. Certainly his attire would be better
suited to Australian Yuletide temperatures
than the arctic outfit of the German Santa.
Lace is becoming very popular with brides,
with special preference for Brussels. The
veil is usually of still rarer texture, resur-
rected to do duty again after perhaps half
a century or more—the “something old
and “something borrowed” of the coupler
that specifies the array. The Queen and
Duchess Betty are said to favor Nottingham
lace, but the English make hasn’t made
headway in fashionable circles here.
Blanche Iveays, of Geelong, has just re-
turned, by way of Panama, from a leisurely
wander through Europe, and is inspiring her
circle with envy over her experiences.
“A.G.M.” writes from Nice: —
During a short stay in Paris a fellow guest at a
hotel near the Madeleine was Professor Tucker, who
had lately had the company there of his daughter
and her three children from England. The genial
professor is slowly gaining strength. Italy has lost
some of its charm for this savant, and the attitude
of the French to Britishers continues so dour that
he is almost prepared to face the rigors of an English
winter rather than prolong his stay on Gallic territory.
But he reckons that in the matter of manners few
places have deteriorated more than London, where the
traffic problem daily leads to scenes of pushing and
crushing which no Londoner would have tolerated
before the war.
The E. J. Carrolls had a lively scamper through
Europe before Pauline Frederick took her departure
for America. No part of their travels afforded such
pleasure as their stay in Berlin, where Kreisler and
hia wife laid themselves out to give the violinist's
Australian manager the time of his life.
Adrian Brunei, son of Adey, who used to throw
the poets at the heads of Melbourne’s intelligentsia,
is now a figure in Filmland. The showing of Margaret
Kennedy’s “The Constant Nymph,” for the screening
cf which he is responsible, caused the experts to
applaud.
The season on the French Riviera has opened in
a very unpromising way, the number of visitors for
November being well below the average. The first
Australians to attract any notice were Phyllis von
Allwyn, of Tasmania, and her mother, who durinr
their stay at the Westminster Hotel got all the
attention that was available on the Promenade de<
Anglaises.
Wilma Berkeley very- easily took first honors in the
recent Coliseum programme. Although the other
artists were good, none of them could come within
coo-ee of the Melbourne soprano. The pity is that
so fine a singer should be heard in any but the mem
classical surroundings. If Beecham’s new scheme for
grand opera should materialise —a most unlikely con-
tingency—there would be few better qualified leads
available than Miss Berkeley.


A. SAUNDERS’
GIFT SUGGESTIONS
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Set
containing Half-Dozen each
Stainless Knives and Forks,
Dessert size, 27/6
Table size, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Leather
Collar Box, cloth lined.
6 inch, 8/6
7 inch, 10/6
8 inch, 12/6
A. Saunders’ Cigarette Case, en-
graved ribbon design, Solid Silver,
35/-
Others,
30/-, 37/6, 42/-, 50/-
Write
for
FREE
Catalogue
-y
SMSS
A. Saunders’ Xylonite Manicure Set, finest
quality instruments. In Xylonite Case, 30/-
m
% rLtnf. J
A. Saunders’ Eng-
lish Cut Glass Vase,
Two Sizes,
13/6, 15/-
W ! \\" xi '7 s -
*
i.z
A. Saunders’ Shell Bedroom Clock,
Accurate timekeeper, 30 hour time,
157-
Other designs,
20/-, 25/-, 30/-
'■■■*'ll
A. Saunders’ Cut Glass Salad Bowl, silver-
plated mounts and servers, 25/-
Others, 20/-, 21/-, 30/-, 35/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
m'
*
JERTEXg
iPNDO'i
V
'ss
f&t
35
1
A
A
i
a y
/f
- -:•*
u
The wonderful cellular we^ e of AERTEX will
insulate your body against all extremes of tempera-
ture, for AERTEX contains millions of tiny air cells,
which form a protective air-circulating system.
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and Drapers: or in case of
difficulty apply to
The CELLULAR CLOTHING Co. Ltd., 313 Flinders
Lane, MELBOURNE, Victoria, Australia*
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
This year the bigger Bulletin won t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good 01
better, and they will be Australian. Buy The Bulletin’’—bigger and better.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Back from a country tour, the Governor
and his lady gave a dinner-party at Govern-
ment House on Friday, when politicians and
their wives were the principal guests.
On Saturday the Goodwins were among the
large crowd that watched the Sheffield Shield
match against Adelaide at the Exhibition
Oval. President Hutcheon and secretary
Stephens did the honors.
Pretty little Mrs. Campbell, wife of the
Government House aide, who has been holi-
daying with a trio of girl friends at the
surfers’ paradise, came back in time to see
‘ The Ringer” as a member of the v.-r. party.
A posy of golden rosebuds, the gift of the
management, lent fragrance to Lady Good-
win’s evening.
A link between two of the State’s oldest
families is promised by the engagement of
Adele, elder daughter of the A. A. Donald-
sons, to Stephen, youngest son of the Reg
Kings. The flaxen-haired Adele is a descen-
deiit of the well-known squatting clan of
Crombie, and her fiance’s dad is a light in
legal and political circles. Mrs. Donaldson
gave a dinner-dance at the family home,
Oriel, to a few friends recently, when the
table shimmered softly ’neath the glow of
pink candles, and rose-tinted zinnias sup-
plied the floral effects.
In white mariette and silver, with a mist
of Brussels net, the elder Beardmore chick
said “I will” to Horace MacPlierson at the
pretty little red brick churdh of St. Paul’s,
East Brisbane, one evening last week. Sister
Lilia and Dulcie Jensen, in hyacinth blue
and silver, were ’maids, and the National,
decked with pink bougainvillaea and per-
manent stock, formed the setting for a party
afterwards.
Bright and comfy are the new rooms for
girls opened by the Catholic Women’s Associ-
ation in Hempenstall’s buildings. A bathroom
hung with gay chintz curtains, forms a
feature of the suite. Press representatives
were given a private view during the week.
,Eva Novak, wearing cherry and mastic,
Hooked in and told of similar club premises
at Hollywood. Tea was served in yellow
cups at a table laden with appetising samples
of the club members’ cookery and decked
with mauve and silver bonbons.
The Philip Frankels took Moscovitch and
his wife joy riding to Sandgate, where the
Freemans entertained them. Several parties
have been given in honor of the actor and
his wife.
Count di San Marzano goes south shortly
to meet his countess, who, with their infant
son, returns from Rome by the Ormonde.
The Italian Consul and his wife have made
themselves very popular with members of
our younger set.
A winter visitor will be Mrs. lan Macdon-
. aid, formerly Gertrude Dix of Melbourne.
During her husband’s absence with the Medi-
terranean Fleet the youthful matron will pay
a flying visit to her own and his relatives.
The latter are the A. R. Macdonalds, of
Greenslopes, who have two sons in the Navy.
Mrs. Hamilton Lewis is here organising a
cancer campaign, and has already enlisted
the sympathy of a number of women. Two
other interesting visitors are Hilda Boyle,
:operatic soprano, and Daphne Deane, a
member of Sydney Uni. Con. staff and ex-
ponent of classical dancing. They promise to
return later in the year and give a recital.
After a long service Matron Bourne, a
cousin of Dr. Eleanor Bourne, one of the
State’s first women medicoes, retires from the
General Hospital. She will in future con-
trol a well-known private hospital.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
We have been giving the Science Congress
delegates a taste of our quality in summer
weather, to the surprise of many of them,
who declared it was hotter than the main-
land. Even the West Coast withheld it i
usual downpour during the visitors’ tour,
which delighted those who undertook it.
The Science Congressers gave themselves
a day off to attend the garden party at Gov-
ernment House, and a big crowd of them
rolled up. A marked cool change had set in,
and those of the powdered sex who appeared
in dainty chiffons wished they had followed
Margaret O'Grady’s example. She received
her guests in a fur coat over her red georg-
ette frock. The Massons, Davids and Cam-
bages, General Monash, the McCallum lady
and Dr. Constance Darcy were a few of the
guests. The Allan Wilkies were also among
the throng. Tea was served on small tables
on the lawn, and a band played in the shrub-
bery. We reckon our beautiful old Govern-
ment House is the most attractive in the
Commonwealth, but its surroundings just
now show the ravages of the heat-wmve and
are not looking their best.
Mrs. Arndell Lewis entertained the women-
folk of the scientists at Holebrook on a
sunny afternoon tempered by a mild sea-
breeze, and the lawn and reception-rooms
were gay with summer frocks. The young
hostess received in black georgette with floral
design in rose and gold and a big black picture
hat. Among the throng of local and visiting
folk were the Masson, Lewis, McCallum and
Edgeworth David ladies, Dr. Georgina Sw T cet.
Mrs. Vonwiller, Mrs. 11. Hamilton, Mrs.
Ilungerford, Mrs. R. C. Patterson, Dr. Con-
stance . Darcy, Miss Curnow, Miss Gilman
and Miss Pollock. An orchestra made plea-
sant sounds in the verandah, and tea and ices
were served in the dining-room, where tables
and mantelpiece were gay with carnations.
The Amateur J. C.’s meeting at Elwick
was a very successful affair. The president
and Mrs. L. Miller entertained the O’Gradys
and a host of guests at tea. Tom Lyons’s
winning of the Cup, which was presented to
him by his Ex., was loudly cheered. The
weather was perfect, and everybody seemed
in holiday mood. Many of the Science Con-
gress folk had a little flutter, and the main-
land generally was well represented. Frock-
ing was summery, and many capes and shoul-
der drapings in lace or georgette were worn.
Margaret O’Grady spotted printed crepe de
Chine in bronze and dark blue, with blue
horsehair-straw hat. Mrs. Lindsay Miller
Avas in black cloth, severe and smart in cpt,
with a high collar to the narrow silver vest,
and a small black hat. Mrs. T. Lyons chose
black georgette Avith a touch of calfskin and
a black erin. hat. The Ashbolt lady had
with her Miss McWhae, of Melbourne* and
ampng others on the lawn Avere the Walter
Gellibrands, De Bavays, General Monash, Dr.
Harvey Sutton, Mrs. Garsia, Miss Wren
and Misp Pat Wood.
Mrs. Fred Grant was hostess at a big tea-
party at the Continental in honor of her
niece, Carrie Grant, who is shortly to become
Mrs. Dugald McDougall. The place was
decorated with pihk and red hollyhocks. Mar-
garet O’Grady and Mrs. Kerr Cameron were
among the guests. Mrs. Grant’s singing and
violin playing were charmiug enough to silence
the chatter.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Lunches and lectures in plenty Averc
arranged for the CoAvans during their stay.
Plush-Chamber President Curwin Avelcomed
the guests at Parliament House, and Lady
Cowan "spoke at the Karrakatta Club about
British goods and why we ought to buy ’em
in cases where we don’t make such things
ourselves. The couple, Avith their daughter
are on their way home in the Orama.
Dot and Sheila Ilayes left by the Narkunda
for a holiday in M.L., and the same day the
Orama took their cousin Kathleen Quinlan
and her trousseau to keep a marriage tryst
with Dr. Fred Bourke ih London. Her
home will be in Dublin, Avhere her future
husband exhibits a brass plate.
Our musical palate, has been tickled by
the visit of Dr. Edgar Ford, the organist, who
has been giving recitals in St. George’s and
St. Mary’s Cathedrals. He rhade a big hit
with the “Marche des Rois Mages” of Dubois,
through which a high note (kept down by
a lead ingot) sings continually to represent
the guiding star. At St. Mary’s the choir
and Albert Lynch’s violin were heard
between outbursts from the myriad pipes, and
the building fund benefited. Dr. Ford had
the good taste to marry a Perth girl, and
his wife —one of the Keane clan, whose old
home, now the Anzac Hostel, is at Keane’s
Point—is busy visiting- relatives and girl-
hood friends.
This is a Bardwell Clarke picture of
Dorothy Dunckley, now playing with the
Betty Ross Clarke co. in Perth. Known here
before her- marriage as Dorothy Fraser, she
did her bit of
war work by
producing the
“Black Butter-
flies” show for
the benefit of
wound? d
soldiers, and
later was or-
ganising secre-
tary of the
Repertory
Club. After
the death of
her husband
she was associ-
ated with 3L'O,
the Melbourne
radio - station.
She won third
pla c '3 in a
compe t i t i o n
for plays suit-
able for broad-
casting, and
has, in addition, produced two successful
revueS.
Jimmy Bancks, whose talents as a car-
toonist were discovered by The Bulletin,
has taken to the stage as a hobby. The Betty
Boss Clarke co. enticed him here for their
season, and he has played small parts in
“~'he Witness for the Defence” and “The
Ghost Train” and showed quite a lot of pro-
mise as the ancient in “The Bride.” As far as
his present intentions go, however, this is
only a holiday interlude, and Ginger Meggs
will continue to disport himself in the pri-
mary hues of Sydney Sunday Sun’s colored
supplement.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Socially there is nothing doing, but the
weather is spicing life with variety. The
meeting of the Licensed Victuallers’ R. C.,
held on a roasting das7 was remarkable for
the number of habitual racegoers not pre-
sent. There was a good attendance, but
mainly of those who seldom are seen on race-
courses. Everyone sheltered beneath the
trees, just running out to put their money
on and dodging back again. Chairman H.
Duncan and his wife entertained at luncheon
and afternoon tea. Lucky Day lived up to
his name by providing a £75 dividend.
The following day the mercury climbed to
108.7°, and it was estimated that the number
of motor-cars parked at thfe' beaches put up
a record. Two days later a rainstorm that
yielded 65 points in 20 minutes engendered
fears of floods among the timorous, but fears
and floods alike soon subsided.
Lewis Cohen and his sailed in the
Naldera for Colombo, possibly London. The
rest of the family are such bad sailors that
they gave the jaunt a miss, content to
journey no further than the Outer Harbor to
see their parents off.
Sidney Kidman and his lady returned by
the Orsova after a nine months’ absence.
They visited their daughter, Mrs. Nelson
Clover, at Torquay. Commander Clover had
just returned from China. The Kidmans
covered a great deal of ground, the call made
on South Africa on the out-going journey
being most interesting.
Clifford Latlilean, the Australian basso, is
returning from England and probably will
settle down in Sydney, where lie will resume
teaching. During a visit to his parents, who
live here, he will give a recital in conjunc-
tion with Helene Taylor, who is one of his
mother's proteges.


HULL,
The Natural Port for importation of
Wool to Britain’s
Great Manufacturing Towns.
Docks specially equipped with
Electrical Machinery for the
handling of large quantities.
Warehouse Acres
Holds 140,000 Bales.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are in-
vited to inquire for further information
at the offices of Messrs BURNS.
PHILP & CO., LTD.. 7 Bridge
Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
Largest Dock-Owning Railway in the
World.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor. ,
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly ’ to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from ‘The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney and Melbourne.
T or a good
I night's rest
%J lake
it will ensure
a good days
work
!n 4 sizes
ofali Chemists
and Stores
THE SUBMARINE'S MISSUS.
BY GORDON TROLLOPE.
THE relentless screech of an embittered
gramophone burst out from one of the
terrace-houses opposite. It screamed
across the street and, unsubdued by the clat-
ter of traffic, forced itself vociferously into
the windows of our store. At 11 a.m. it
started and at 4 p.m. it was still going. An
awful phenomenon truly, soul-stunning in its
persistence! Nor was it the less crushing
to be joined with the din of human hilarity.
Most certainly it needed explanation. And
who better to explain it than Googy, the fore-
man? Googy knew so much. His simple
statement was that Submarine was out of the
clink again and his missus was giving a
party to celebrate the fact.
Submarine was one of the personalities of
the neighborhood. I don’t quite know how
he got his name unless it was his adapta-
bility for getting under the influence of any-
thing except water.
Now, there was nothing very rare about
Submarine getting either in or out of clink,
hut this case seemed to have special features.
Besides, it was really a shame that he should
have been in this time at all. He had been
a good boy since he was married, had
chucked the booze, and, if he did a little
occasional sandbagging, it was only to add
to the comforts of his wife. He had taken a
steady job with the City Council, and he
watered the dusty streets now as assiduously
as he had once wetted his own dry throat.
What wonder that, being on the water-cart
both figuratively and actually, he should avert
his head when he was passing one of his
old alcoholic haunts? But the trouble was
that be was so concerned with averting his
head that he forgot to take any care as to
where the water was going, so that he thor-
oughly washed the boots of an old-time enemy
of his. The enemy was very angry, and
hurled out a lurid appraisement of Sub-
marine which was not soothing. Submarine
launched himself from the platform of the
water-cart straight into the stomach of his
enemy. And then, having knocked him down,
he jumped on the poor devil. Truly he won
the day up to that point; but it was more
than unlucky for Submarine that a couple of
policemen happened along. His language
and resistance were epic but unavailing.
So his six months in the clink.
Submarine’s missus was inconsolable for
a while. Then Dutchy Lootens came along
to offer her comfort and she accepted it.
Dutchy’s face and whole make-up would be
best described as indescribable. He possessed
all the villainies that his foreign extraction
could possibly account for, and a few home
ones as well. As Googy said: “’E 'ad a dial
wot’d break the nerves of a draught-’orse.’’
And dials which have a destroying effect on
the nervous system of our other beasts of
burden sometimes have devastating effects on
the hearts of our women.
Mind you, there was nothing assured
about the relations of these two, though, to
quote Googy again, “the nights wot Sub-
marine’s missus slept cold would have damned
near made old Nick take his coat off.” The
which remark may have a sort of figurative
meaning.
But it was a mistake for the Whistling
Fireman to accept conjecture for fact. Tin?
Whistling Fireman was Mrs. Submarine's
brother-in-law, and he took upon himself
to be the custodian of the frail lady’s morals
during the period when her husband was
boarded out to the Government. And it was
a still more shocking indiscretion for him to
let his tongue wag. All that he said came
back to the ears of the lady, and when she
met him in the street a couple of days later
she had something to say about it.
“Hi, you. Whistler,” she said. “Wot’s this
yuv bin sayin’ about me at the Serpent's
Feather?”
In between the purple veins on his face
the Whistling Fireman’s face went pale. His
eyes wavered and rolled about the landscape
—several rows of terraces and a few wool-
stores.
“Wot’ve I bin sayin’?”
“Yes. wot’ve yer bin sayin’?”
“Nothink!”
“Yer a stinkin’ liar.”
The Whistling Fireman chose high dignity
as a line of defence.
“Nice langwidge, I must say, from a lady!”
He essayed to move away. Such a pro-
ceeding. however, was not to the purpose
of Mrs. Submarine. She grabbed his coat-
lapels.
“H o, no yer
don’t! That’s no
good ter me. I want
ter know what yer
goin’ ter do about
it.”
“Do about it?”
"Yes, do about it! That’s what I want
ter know. Yuv uttered scand’lus an’ liber-
lus _ statements about me—that’s wot me
serliciter says, an’ we’re goin’ ter soo fer
damiges—’eavy damiges, bet yer life.”
The effect on the Whistling Fireman was
devastating. His concertina-ing trousers
quivered so that they threatened to play .a
tune. Yet„ with an outward show of bravery,
he almost smiled.
“Yer don’t mean yer gittin’ serious about
it?”
“Don’t I! That fat roll yuv got tucked
away somewheres ’ll stand a bit o’ thinnin’.
I’ll give it a go, anyway.”
And then it was her turn to move away.
Nor was the Whistling Fireman in sufficient
command of himself to call her back. He
sat down on the edge of the pavement to
think it out. “It’ll be dead hard luck to
part out to a slut like that,” he mused to
himself uncharitably; and, as he mused, he
rose to see to it. He followed up the woman
and found her at her own door.
“Go yer hardest!” he challenged her to her
face.
“Bet yer life !”
“O’ course! What else would I expect
from a loosevious shyster like you?”
“Now then. Whistler, steady on that.”
But the Whistling Fireman reckoned the
incident was going to cost him something in
any case, and he was going to have his
money’s worth while he was about it.
Besides, he was proud of his word “lascivi-
DREAMS.
ous.” He meant to work it in again before
he was finished.
“Steady be damned!” he answered bravely.
“Steady to you, you dirty loos •”
The stream of his invective coagulated on
his tongue and, staying there, nearly choked
him. The door at the back of Mrs. Sub-
marine had opened and into the doorway
there was borne the inhuman-looking struc-
ture that was the face of Dutchy Lootens.
The Whistling Fireman stood immovably
fixed to the pavement, his whole frame seem-
ingly coagulated like his speech. Neighbors
who" had foregathered to witness a first-rate
argument started to disperse. They were
afraid of a second-class killing, and it is
always awkward to be a witness to such
events. One is asked such embarrassing
questions.
But the leading lady in the piece was
enjoying herself immensely. “Wot was ycr
goin’ ter say, Whistler?” she mocked.
But Whistler did not move. It was almost
a pity that Dutchy failed to appreciate dra-
matic possibilities. He absolutely let the
situation down when he said :
“Oh, Whistler ain’t got much ter say
except that he’s cornin’ over with five ’undred
quid fer slanderin’ a woman.”
It was the mention of money that restored
the Firemen’s senses. “I ain’t got five
hundred quid,” he declared.
“Oh, ain’t yer?” sang the lady. “We’ll see
all about that.”
But Dutchy lyas an inferior being for all
his semblance of ferocity. “Well,” he said,
“if he can’t cough up the five ’undred, what
can he do?”
It was a question. All eyes were fixed on
the man who was fixed with the responsi-
bility.
“I’ll give yer me gramophone,” he said.
A shriek of derision went up. It was
known that the Whistling Fireman had a
gramophone, one which he had taken over for
a debt. The Fireman did a bit of dealing and
financing, and a variety of goods went
through fiis hands. The gramophone he had
retained for his own private use, but he did
not enjoy it. He had found that the pur-
chase of records was a drain on his very
carefully-guarded purse.
“My Gawd, if he ain’t a scream !” loudly
laughed the lady. “A schemin’ old swine. I
call him,” said Dutchy. And others, who had
come back, seeing that there was going to be
no tragedy, said other things.
But Whistler knew where he was now; he
was a judge of human nature. Mrs. Sub-
marine under the protection of Dutchy was
worse off than by herself. Sure money was
the thing which counted with the foreigner.
“Of course,” he said, “there’ll be a bit o’
cash to go with it: but that’s a matter fer
discussion an’ I ain’t discuss me
private business in public.”
“Well, come in then an’ let's hear wot yer
got ter say.”
And the Whistling Fireman went in, which
onlookers thought was pretty game of him,
or damn silly, considering Dutchy’s repu-
tation. But the Whistler had no fear. He
had come to understand that Dutchy was
made of poor stuff and was very easily
bought.
Exactly what sum the Fireman agreed
to hand over was never known to outsiders.
Dutchy and Submarine’s missus quoted it
pretty high, but as they did not always agree
with each other —or with themselves, for
that matter —there was naturally some doubt
about it. The Whistling Fireman was too
wily to give anything away. But Googy, who
measured such people’s receipts by their
spendings, said that fifteen or twenty quid
would have covered it easily.
But then, of course, there was the gramo-
phone. With that and the cash they gave
Submarine his welcome home. A fine party
it was, too —plenty of beer and plenty of
gramophone. Yes, plenty of gramophone.
Liquor gave out several times and trips had
to be made up to the Serpent’s Feather to
replenish stocks. Still the demand overtook
supply, and at last, close to five o’clock, a
concerted cry went up that the party
adjourn to the source of the liquor. Babel
burst through the opened .doors. On the
tail of the pack staggered Submarine him-
self.
“Come on, Submarine!” tvaid someone.
“You’ve got to shout.”
“Orl right! I’m cornin’.”
And he went.
Googy, watching proceedings through one
of our windows, became interested.
“I don’t see Dutchy,” he said.
At that moment the Whistling Fireman,
who of course was not at the party, passed
by on the other side of the road.
“Where’s the missus, Submarine?” he
called.
“Gone on ahead!” replied Submarine.
But Googy had different ideas. “She
ain’t gone ahead,” he remarked. “Look
upstairs.”
Our windows looked almost directly into
the front room of the terrace-house opposite;
and what we saw led us to believe that, as
well as giving her husband a welcome home,
Submarine’s missus was giving Dutchy a
send-off.
The Little Princess.
THEY dressed me up in a samite sheath,
With a silken cloak as grey as rain,
With a shimmering mist of gold beneath.
And around my neck a thin-looped chain.
There were pearls that hid my coarse, blonde
hair ;
There were amber ear-drops perfumed
sweet—
But what did I care
That I looked so fair
For they put gold shoes on my wild youm
feet!
Little gold shoes on my aching feet
That would fain be dancing over the
sand ;
Skimming the rock-pools, white and fleet,
In the mazy steps of a saraband;
When I would be plucking the sea-blooms—
Spray in my lifted face—
Threading the lustred sea-shells
Into a gown of grace,
And spinning a hooded mantle
Out of the foam’s white lace!
This is my song of sorrow, this that they
did to me —
I, who’m a king's white daughter, with my
green eyes like the sea!
They laid me deep in a bed of silk,
With tasselled posts of ebony,
With perfumed pillows white as milk,
And a rose-red canopy.
And seven tall candles stiffly stood,
Like lilies lapped in gloom ;
And the scent was good
Of the sandalwood —
But I wept me there in that fragrant room:
For I would sleep where the tide-race
creams,
Where the lonely pee-wit cries—
I, with my longings and mad sea-dreams;
I. with my sea-green eyes—
Close in the sand’s cool hollow,
Under a round white moon ;
Smelling the sun-dried seaweed ;
Breathing the sea-pink’s boon;
Hearing the gulls’ thin calling:
“Princess, the day breaks soon 1”
Cold is my silken pillow, and no lover lies
with me.
I have drunk the salt-soured milk from the
breasts of the crooning sea!
A dark-haired page with a voice of gold
Reads me tales from a printed book
Of maiden-hearts and of lovers bold —
But I take no heed of his languished look.
And one with a cheek of rose and curds
Bends low on his velvet knee;
But his honeyed words
Wing past like birds —
I am not for such as he!
For far, far down in the dim sea-caves,
With their carven, coral gates.
And their echoing sounds of distant waves.
My pale sea-lover waits!
And his sea-drowned eyes are staring,
While his polished fingers strum
On a harp of orange kelp-strings.
Where the fish glide cold and dumb.
And his wavering voice rings upward:
“Frincess, when will you come?”
Prom the high, white castle-walls some dairu
they shall seek and seek for me —
But I with my sea-green eyes shall lie deep,
deep in the depths of the sea!
VICTORIA.
Myra Morris.


Amusements.
F M P I R E THEATRE,
Railway Square, adjoining Saunders’ Corner,
in Quay Street, Sydney.
RUFE NAYLOR has the honor to present
1/6 2/6 THE FILM GIRL. 3/6 5/6
NIGHTLY AT 7.55.
Reserves at Theatre (MA1000), Nicholsons, Palings,
Samuels, and leading Hotels.
Matinees Thursdays and Saturdays at 2.15.
Theatre Box Office Hours: 9 to 3, 4 to 9.
53 1D A E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE LETTER.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARl r DUGAN.
PALACE: CORNERED.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and .SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEIWMTY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. W ILL! A MS O N, LTD.,
U ' MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
KING’S THEATRE:
A CUCKOO IN THE NEST.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A T II E N A<] U M T H E A T R E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
COMMENCING, SATURDAY, JANUARY 28,
E. .T. CARROLL PRESENTS
CHANG,
A PARAMOUNT PICTURE.
Plans at Allan’s.
Ho Y T’S DE LU X E THEATRE,
1 B MELBOURNE.
LON CHANEY in
MOCKERY.
A [/SO
SILAER VALLEY
With TOM MIX.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
HOBART BOSWORTft
in
THE BLOOD SHIP.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard
II.” In Season Launceston to February 3.
Sydney Representative: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229,
Sydney.
/p-
-i*-*:
£6/6/- Men’s Sac Suits, 99/9
at Murdoch’s Great Rebuild-
ing Sale.
All-Wool Navy Blue Serge S.B. Sac
Suits. Perfect fitting guaranteed. Coat,
Yest and Trousers. Ready to wear.
Post Free 99/9. Write to Desk R.
Murdoch’s in Park St. Ltd. Sydney
Lovely Bellevue Hill
Home for Sale
Fine position, glorious views. The home
is of Georgian design, very true to type.
Planned and built under the super-
vision of a leading firm of architects.
Every modern convenience has been
provided without impairing fidelity to
type. Good accommodations, fine Turf
Tennis Court, Garage. Full particulars
gladly furnished to those interested in
acquiring a beautiful home. Price £9OOO.
W. H. ANDERSON & CO.,
26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New’ Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
DINNINGS, Edward, who left Middles-
-0 borough, England, in 1905 with his
family, is sought by his sister. Any informa-
tion as to their whereabouts would be
gratefully received.
LOTTIE BINNINGS,
43 Vaughan Street, Pwllgwaun
Pontypridd, S. Wales.
Public Giving
Greater
Support to
Bond’s
FANCY PURE SILK STOCKINGS
MUCH IN VOGUE.
The remarkable sales recorded by Bond’s
Hosiery Mills, over the Christmas period
and since the commencement of the New
Year, certainly indicate that the people of
Australia are determined that this Com-
pany shall continue in business.
There is no question as to the popularity
of ;their well-known Sylk-Arto Hosiery, that
has now served the public needs faithfully
for over five years.
Australia regarded this Company’s diffi-
culties as most regrettable, without reflec-
tion on the wonderfully uniform standards of
quality in all their lines.
For the Christmas trading Bond’s intro-
duced a new Pure Silk Stocking in four
different styles, all according to the latest
demands of fashion. Sales have been phe-
nomenal. The Fashion Marking has been
so successfully carried out that leaders of
fashion have declared that the fit and snug-
ness round the ankle quite resembles that
of the true Full-fashioned Hosiery.
The Embroidered and Lace Clox designs
usually found in much higher-priced hosiery
make this line particularly attractive.
It is indeed gratifying to see that when
an Australian Company such as Bond’s
succeeds in manufacturing really first-class
goods, using Australian labor entirely, the
people of Australia appreciate it. When
the public became aware of this Company’s
difficulties, thousands rallied to their assist-
ance, and the increased demand for the Com-
pany’s products bear proof of this. It is
evident that the women of Australia are
determined that if sales can help Bond’s
through their trying period, then that sup-
port will be. given wholeheartedly.
Such happenings as these only go to prove
again and again that the True Australian
Sentiment and Spirit is deep in the hearts
of most of our people, and _ that it only
needs rousing from time to time.
There is not an employee in Bond’s organi-
sation to-day that is not happy and striving
to supply the demands of the storekeepers,
who have so splendidly stuck to the firm dur-
ing its hour of trial.
The prices of the New Sylk-Arto Hosiery
will still remain fixed at 6/11 in spite of
the additional Pure Silk that has been added
to it, and the increasing of the Silk Leg to
26 inches.
Mon-O-Sylk is selling during this year for
7/6, which is a remarkable achievement for
a Pure Silk Sheer Stocking.
UNDERWEAR MILL REPORTS BIG
SALES.
It is pleasing to see the happy faces
engaged in the manufacture of the Com-
pany’s Nu-Ra-On Underwear.
At any time there is really no more truth-
ful evidence of a firm’s success than in the
demeanor of the employees themselves.
The interest and keenness displayed by
Bond’s employees in this department speak
volumes for the confidence they have in the
Company’s ultimate success.
The Nu-Ra-On Bloomers, Singlets and
Princess Slips, so cleverly designed by this
Department, are gaining favor every day. For
summer wear they are ideal, being light,
airy and cool; yet the daintiness and charm
is maintained to a degree hitherto only
found in Pure Silk Underwear. The prices
of these garments are so exceptionally reason-
able that they are within the reach of almost
every girl desiring pretty undies; the
Bloomers sell at 5/11, and the Vests are 4/11.
Practically every first-class store features
these lines in their displays. With such a
satisfactory report, Bond's Hosiery and
Underwear continues to take pride of place
in the stores throughout Australia, and the
public will continue to stipulate Bond's
when purchasing.
—Advt.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street. Sydney.
To Let.
A TTRACTIVE well-furnished Bungalow,
with bushland attached, 12 miles from
Sydney. Seven rooms, 2 bathrooms with gas-
heaters. Garages, septic tank. One, two or
three years from February. Woodlands,
Ray Road, Epping.
The Red-Gum Country.
I WISH I were back in the red-gum
country,
I'm weary of cliffs and of sand and sea,
And the tang of sea wind over the dunes,
In the thin, dry grasses piping its tunes,
And of opal shallow and ruffling reach and
rush of the spring-tides running free.
I’m sick in my heart for the timbered
hollows;
For shimmering distance of gold and blue;
For the grey old hills, and the roads of
red,
Where the Wannon sings on its sandy
bed;
And I’d like to ride over the Gap again
through summer night when the noon
is new.
All day in the hills, in the sand-hills yellow,
Birds wheel from the sea, and the grey
scrub blows,
And the tides creep in to the fringing
shores,
And the tides go out by their secret doors;
And the floor of morning’s a sparkling bowl,
the arch of evening a dying rose.
But yet is my heart for the old things
sighing;
For murmuring eves and a gloaming grey;
For the leafy columns and lifting spires
That are climbing, piercing the sunset
fires;
For a night bird’s call in the gathered dusk,
and glittei'ed slopes of the starry way.
This shore to my heart is alien ever;
My heart that is wedded to quiet hills,
That is wearied long of the misery
And the loud unrest of the ancient sea;
That is one with gold of the dusty miles
where minted treasure of summer
spills.
I wish I were back in the red-gum country.
The scent of the morn and the smell of
loam!
When the autumn yellows where summer
ends,
If an exile heart might away to its
fi’iends;
If an exile weai’y so long, so long, one April
evening were going home!
There still, as of old, are the bush birds
calling;
And still is earth beautiful after rain....
And still in the slow, grey midnight hours,
When the curved waves crash into starry
showers,
Does my heart go back to the leafy lands
... .and the red-gum country is mine
again.
VICTORIA.
KATILLERN DALZIEL.
The Creator’s Hands.
LONG before the critics singled it out
from the rest of his pictures, Gaunt
knew “The Creator” was the best
thing he had ever done.
The afternoon he finished it he rolled the
blinds back from the studio skylight and
sat before the canvas, fascinated. He had
done the same before when a picture turned
out well, but then he had always been sur-
prised, vaguely, at its merit. And although
the name of Bernard Gaunt could be found
on some very good pictures, as well as some
very bad ones, the critics had always ex-
pressed surprise, too.
As he stared at the strong fingers and
delicate, capable hands of “The Creator,”
it seemed to him that they lived in the dying
light of late afternoon —lived, and worked
on the half-modelled figure that shared the
high-lights of the picture.
He knew then the weeks he had spent on
the work had not been wasted; knew the
determination with which he had fought the
growing lassitude and fits of sickness and
the dull, indefinite pain that stiffened his
fingers had been rewarded, and he could
rest.
For two days after the picture had been
finished he did not notice the pain. Then it
came back with throbbing insistence —was
worse, indeed, than ever before. Of course, he
needed a holiday. For nearly 12 months
now he had felt “off color.” After a spell of
work he would feel a strange weakness in
the arms, and there were those recurring
attacks of fever. And that pain he couldn’t
place tore at his beautiful hands.
It was the pain that had put the theme
for “The Creator” into his head. He had
portrayed a sculptor absorbed on the figure
of a boy. The worker’s face was old —old
and shadowed; but the light from a small
window struck full on the hands, so that
they seemed pale, almost transparent. The
eye centred on those hands at once, and
hardly saw the dingy attic in which “The
Creator” worked, or the rough table over
which the old body bent. They were the
hands of a creator —an artist. They were
Gaunt’s own hands.
It was sheer egotism that led him to
take his own hands as the model for the pic-
ture : he was strangely proud of his hands,
was Gaunt. They seemed to be the sort of
hands an artist should possess; He had
always thought so ; even before he left home
to take a job in the Islands he had done a
bit of painting, determined that some day
his hands should belong to an artist.
He was a hard worker, and in the long
spells between trips to other islands to trade
with the natives he slaved at his painting.
For ten years he’d been tied there. Gad!
how terrible those ten years had been. Ten
years of heat and loneliness and haggling
with natives; ten years in which he’d seen
things he would never forget.
It was the pictures he’d done there and
sent down by the little schooner that had
brought him to notice. It was there he had
acquired his faculty for detail.. . .detail such
as he’d worked into those creative hands—
his hands.
It was his study of the leper that enabled
him to leave all that behind seven years ago.
Just as he knew “The Creator" was above
the ordinary, so had he known “Unclean
would attract attention. He had escorted
it to Sydney himself, to be present at the
exhibition.
What a stir it had raised! A ghastly thing
in all its detail. In the Islands, where one
saw that sort of thing, it had not seemed
so bad.
The papers had called him a realist; cen-
sured him for the horrible detail in which
he had shown the man; greeted him as a
benefactor of the lepers; said all sorts of
things about him and his picture. But they
couldn’t deny it was striking, and all the
argument over it had put his name well
before the public.
But he’d been glad enough to get rid of
“Unclean” —glad enough when it was bought
and packed away to Melbourne. He’d seen
enough of leprosy in his ten years’ exile.
Meika, whom he had painted, had been lus
servant for the first four years lie spent in
the Islands. Then the disease got Meika. and
lie went away to the compound. In five
years he’d degenerated into the repulsive,
apathetic object
Suppose he himself had been infected in
his ten years up there! They said the dis-
ease wasn’t infectious—some of them. But
what if it were! He’d been exposed often
enough. Suppose his white, delicate hands
should become mis-shapen and scarfed like
those leprous stumps “Unclean” raised in his
prayer for pity! Suppose his face were
marked with the hideous discblorations of
the leper!
Standing there before his second great
picture, lie looked at the artist’s capable
hands —his hands —and thanked God he had
left the Islands in time.
* * * *
Gaunt disliked exhibitions. They showed
him with uncomfortable clearness there
were artists capable of doing work equally
as good as his own. But on the afternoon
the Christmas Gallery exhibition opened he
had been unable to stay away.
Sitting on a carefully-chosen couch, lie
read the press criticisms with an air of bore-
dom, just carefully enough concealed to be
evident.
About him the public, which had read the
criticisms with its morning egg, surged and
gaped at the Creature and “The Creator’s”
creator, and echoed in its mind pieces of the
criticisms it remembered. When it had gazed
its fill it went away, repeating aloud points
of the criticisms it thought its companions
might have missed.
Gaunt read, and changed his opinion of
two papers lie had regarded with disfavor
as “yellow rags.” They were very kind:
“. . .. Outstanding in the exhibition is Mr.
Bernard Gaixnt’s picture, ‘The Creator.’ In
conception and execution it is far above
anything else shown —far above anything,
with the exception perhaps of ‘Unclean,’ that
Mr. Gaunt lias done. One welcomes the
opportunity that will be given later in the
exhibition to compare the two pictures.”
“. . . . ‘The Creator’ is a masterpiece. It
ranks with Mr. Gaunt’s earlier picture, the
terrible leper picture, ‘Unclean’... .those
expressive hands. . . .A few more works of
this standard will establish Mr. Gaunt’s
reputation throughout the world.”
That was the sort of thing they were
saying. A shrewd move to bring “Unclean”
back again. What a contrast it would be to
“The Creator” —the well-formed, white
hands that personified art, and the terrible
black claws of disease and suffering.
Comforted in mind he rose, with a care-
ful carelessness becoming in an artist on his
way to fame, and strolled home to be
comforted in body, for the pain was tearing
hotly at his hands.
Steadfastly he refused to see a doctor.
Doctors had unpleasant ways of ordering one
about. After the exhibition, he promised
himself, he would take a holiday. But he
was too ill to visit the exhibition again for
a week.
Then “Unclean” was there, sharing the
best position with “The Creator.” And round
the two, curious, but a little afraid of what
they might see, crowded a murmuring group
of patrons.
From his position near the door Gaunt
regarded the leper study that had meant
release from the Islands, and release from the
fear of infection of the disease it por-
trayed ; and the evil marks on the clawlike
hands seemed to grow and dance before his
eyes, so that when he turned to “The
Creator” his fancy showed those beautiful
hands marred by leprous spots.
In sudden panic he crushed down, away
from his mind, the fear that was grow-
ing in him—crushed it down and, donning
his careful air of boredom, strolled to the
table where a young lady with red hair
dispensed souvenir catalogues with six illus-
trations for Is. 6d. each....
Yes, Mr. Gaunt, they did seem interested.
Why, they hardly looked at anything else.
But had he seen that ridiculous criticism in
the medical paper? As if they knew anything
about pictures, the cold-blooded creatures!
Why—yes, perhaps he’d better read it!
“. .. . The remarkable detail in Mr. Ber-
nard Gaunt’s picture, ‘Unclean,’ which
shows a native inflicted with an advanced
degree of leprosy (Bacillus leprae), makes it
worth inspection. Mr. Gaunt spent some
years in the Islands, and his study is from
life. It is interesting to note that Mr. Gaunt
has, through the hands of his figure in the
picture ‘The Creator,’ managed to convey
the impression that ‘The Creator,’ too, is in-
fected with the disease. In certain lights
the faintly disclored discrete. patches associ-
ated with the early stages of the disease in
the fair races are noticeable in the worker’s
hands.”
“The Creator’s” hands —his hands —lep-
rous ! The fear he had been beating off for
weeks surged to certainty. Pain shot
through his hands, his brain burning the
knowledge into him ; and over the heads of
the hesitant crowd the raised hands of the
leper seemed to beckon
What was the matter? Was Mr. Gaunt
ill? Could they do anything?
No, they could not do anything. And,
carefully careless again, Gaunt left them
admiring the perfection of “The Creator’s”
hands.
D.W. BAILEY.


ẅ
~§niorfine
\
Quality
at Moderate Cost
Quality distinguishes every particular of Senior con-
struction and equipment.
In the rugged frame, in the sturdy axles and steering
gear —in the heavy fenders there is conclusive
evidence of the quality of construction which features
all Dodge Brothers Motor Cars.
In the body—all panels are padded completely with
felt —creating greater interior quiet —a comfort here-
tofore considered by only the most exclusive of custom
body builders.
In the motor —the cooling system —oiling system —
brake equipment —there are basic merits that make
this car unrivaled and unapproached—fundamentals
of value in this Senior that surpass any other motor
car in this price class.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
25/l/’2S.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. ,
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. IV. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Svdney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
This year the bigger Bulletin won t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
w
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MEMORIALIST
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT.
EARLY in February, 1810, his Excellency
Lieut.-Colonel Macquarie, C. 8., the
newly-arrived Governor of New South
Wales, received at Government House in
Sydney a visit from a clergyman who con-
siderably impressed him. All manner of
people had been coming to see him since
he had landed at the end of the previous
year, and he had arrived at a regretful con-
clusion that a great many of them were
liars. Those who had supported Governor
Bligh in the recent rebellion, when he had
been deposed by the officers of the New
South Wales Corps, ware anxious to demon-
strate as fully as possible what suffering
martyrs they had been in the two years of
misrule that had elapsed since January 26,
180 S, and those who had profited by the
ill conduct of the Corps were even more
anxious to plead compulsion. There were
good liars and weak liars on both sides, but
not many who were entirely truthful.
So it was a pleasure to meet a gentleman
such as the Rev. Henry Fulton —a man with
a sense of justice, and obviously honest.
He had been something of a rebel himself
in former days—or had been reputed such —
but the honesty of his outlook on the recent
crisis was clearly apparent. It was grati-
fying to find such a man, and to have him
to turn to for an opinion.'
“Write, if you please, Mr. Campbell,’’.the
Governor had said to his secretary, “and
ask him to come to see me again some even-
ing soon. There is much, I think, that
may be learned from him.”
“Indeed, your Excellency, I think there
is, too,” replied that shrewd Scot. “He’s
no’ a knave, and I don’t think he’s a
fule.’
The subject of these remarks was an
Irish Protestant clergyman who had held
a living in the diocese of Killaloe. He had
taken some part in the rebellion of 1798,
and, according to the Bishop of Derry, had
confessed his complicity in it under pres-
HE HAS TO WATCH HIS STEP.
Dot: “So one drink makes you dizzy?”
Mac: “Yes, usually about the seventh.”
sure, and had “agreed to transport himself
for life to Botany Bay.” There was a curi-
ous haphazardness in securing legal
authority to send captured rebels over sea,
and many of them were merely court-
martialled, sentenced to death, and respited
on condition that they took themselves out
of Ireland for the rest of their lives. In
his “History of Ireland,” O’Connor Morris,
discussing the rebellion, says: “After a few
severe examples had been made, the con-
spirators who had fallen into the hands of
the Irish Government were amnestied under
not unfair conditions; their lives were
spared, but they had to leave the country.
They were none of them men of marked
powers; but some won honor in foreign
lands; two or three gallantly followed
Napoleon’s eagles; more than one made a
name for himself in America.” Many of
these men were given passage to New South
Wales in 1800 and 1801, and some came here
even as late as
1806. Among them
were “G enera 1”
Joseph Holt, the
Rev. Henry Ful-
ton, James Meehan
(who was afterwards Deputy Surveyor-Gen-
eral), Father Harold and Father O’Neil,
Michael Dwyer and William Davis, the pike-
maker.
Fulton was a well-educated man, with the
reputation of being zealous and painstaking
in the discharge of his duties, tie arrived
in Port Jackson in the transport Minerva
at the beginning of 1800, with Joseph Holt
as a shipmate, and on November 8 in the
same year Governor Hunter granted him a
conditional pardop, and presently sent him to
the Hawkesbury to act as chaplain to that
district. In the following February lie was
sent in the same capacity to Norfolk Island,
and carried out his duties there so well that
Governor King recommended him to the
home authorities for full pay as a chaplain
on the establishment, granting him a free
pardon i n 1805. Be returned to New
South Wales in 1806 to relieve the Rev.
Samuel Marsden as senior chaplain to the
colony whilst the latter was on leave in
England. Governor Bligh took him into
favor, and appointed him a member of the
Civil Court in 1806. When the rebellion
broke out, Fulton fearlessly protested
against the deposition of Bligh, and was
immediately suspended from his chaplaincy
by Colonel Johnston. Very soon after his
arrival Macquarie reinstated him. But, as
did many others who failed to bow the
knee to the officers of the Corps, he endured
a good deal of persecution.
When Mr. Fulton, in obedience to the
Governor’s request through the secretary that
he should do so, presented himself again
at Government House, he found Macquarie
eager to learn all he could of the incidents
of the rebellion.
“You see, Mr. Fulton,” explained his
Excellency, “I am here without any know-
ledge at all, from anyone upon whom I care
to rely, concerning what has taken place in
the colony during this interregnum, and I
would be vastly obliged to you, sir, could
you privately enlighten me as to one or two
matters, ignorance of the true bearings of
which leaves me a little in the dark. I am
anxious to get at the truth, and know of no
one from whom I would be better pleased to
receive some real insight into the events of
the last two years than yourself.”
Mr. Fulton bowed his acknowledgment of
this flattering compliment.
“Indeed, then, your Excellency,” he said,
“ ’twill give ms pleasure to tell you any-
thing I can. I can assure you that I have
endeavored to take as dispassionate a view
as possible of all that has happened, though
maybe a natural indignation as to the ill-
treatment Captain Bligh has received at the
hands of the faction opposed to him may
have colored my views a little. Pray, what
is it that your Excellency wishes to know in
particular?”
Macquarie considered for a little while,
pacing up and down the drawing-room
where he had received the chaplain.
“Tell me,” he said presently, “what were
the circumstances of Captain Bligh’s close
arrest —I mean, when he was taken from this
house and confined in a barrack. It seems
to me that that incident constitutes —apart
from the actual act of deposing him from
his government—one of the most arbitrary
and unjustifiable measures taken by the
officers of the New South Wales Corps
against my predecessor. Quite inexcusable
—altogether without justification. It looks
to me as if that alone might have justified
Captain Bligh in not keeping faith with
the rebels when they permitted him to
embark on his Majesty’s ship Porpoise on a
condition that he should sail to England in
that vessel. I should like to hear your ver-
sion of it.”
Mr. Fulton nodded his head, and his face
lit up eagerly.
“I’m glad you’ve asked me that, Colonel
Macquarie. Indeed, ’twas the most tyran-
nical thing they did to Captain Bligh—
wholly wrong and indefensible; and I’d like
to observe that in the circumstances leading
up to it he had very poor support from the
officers of his own service. Very poor
indeed! From Captain Porteus, that is to
say, and the officers of the Porpoise. Short
of actual insubordination, they couldn’t have
treated him much worse than they did.”
“Yes, so I’ve understood. Pray proceed,
Mr. Fulton.”
“There’s no doubt, then, your Excel-
lency, that had Captain Porteus acted prop-
erly he would have used his ship’s guns to
enforce the authority of his superior officer,
Captain Bligh. Instead of that, he allowed
himself to become hand-in-glove with his
opponents. Colonel Paterson, when he re-
turned from Van Diemen’s Land and took
over the government of the colony from
Colonel Foveaux, was an easy tool in the
hands of the leaders of the rebels. They were
afraid that, despite the sympathy of Captain
Porteus with their aspirations, Captain
Bligh might succeed in making some use
of the Porpoise against their interests, and
wished to get her out of the way. So they
persuaded Colonel Paterson that the ship
should be sent to Norfolk Island to remove
its inhabitants —a step which had been con-
templated for some time. He requested
her commander to make the ship available
for this service, and he wrote to Captain
Bligh about it. Of course, the Governor
refused to permit the Porpoise to leave Syd-
ney, and instructed Captain Porteus, in
writing, that he must on no account sail
from Port Jackson.”
“Of course, of course,” Macquarie nodded
his agreement.
“Well, then, Porteus sent this letter to
the rebels, and it enraged them exceedingly.
Immediately they put the Governor under
strict confinement in this house, under a
sergeant and seven soldiers, and gave posi-
tive orders that no friend should be per-
mitted to see him, except by their leave. I
myself was allowed to come here on the fol-
lowing Sunday in order to conduct divine
service—as I was
wont to do —but to
stay no longer than
for this purpose.
And then, on the
M o n d a y, they
played what they
supposed to be their
trump card.”
“And what was
that, pray, Mr.
Fulton?”
“That morning
Colonel Johnston
and Major Abbott
drove up here in a
one - horse chaise,
and informed Cap-
tain Bligh that he
must sign an order,
which they had
with them, for Cap-
tain Porteus to sail
in the Porpoise for
Norfolk Island.
They threatened, at
the same time, that
if he refused they
would carry him to
a subaltern’s bar-
rack and shut him up there with one servant,
who would be refused permission to go in and
out, but must receive supplies and necessaries
from other servants who would bring them
there. They further told him that no one
would be allowed to visit him, or speak with
him, until he signed the order. The Governor
wouldn’t hear of doing so, naturally, so
they actually forced him into the chaise and
drove him over to the barracks. And then
his daughter, poor Mrs. Tutland, whose not-
very-long-dead husband had commanded the
Porpoise—how different ’twould have been,
your Excellency, had Captain Putland been
alive at this juncture!—she ran after the
chaise, under a blazing sun, and accom-
panied him to his new prison. Do you know,
sir, they actually denied her —panting and
almost fainting—any admission unless she
would promise to submit to the same sort
of rigorous confinement they were inflicting
on her father.”
“Too bad! Quite indefensible,” said Mac-
quarie, frowning.
“Was it not? Well, they kept Captain
Bligh there from the Monday morning until
the following Saturday evening, and when
they found that they could not weaken his
resolution not t.o consent to the departure
of the Porpoise they told him to prepare
to be put on board the Admiral Gambier for
his passage to England. He objected to the
accommodations proposed for him on that
ship, and so, finally, they offered him the
Porpoise as an alternative, under the con-
ditions your Excellency knows of.”
“Conditions which Captain Bligh did not
fulfil. I hardly know how to regard his
breach of faith,” said Macquarie, “but I
think he has some excuses for it.”
Mr. Fulton became a little warm.
“Consider the circumstances, your Excel-
lency. Think of the situation of which he
was the victim —and of the class of men
who were opposed to him, and were perse-
cuting him. They had been playing the
trickiest of games—indulging in the wiliest
of subterfuges, both to deceive his Majesty’s
Government and to obtain their own ends.
And why? Because he would not grant
them leave to have spirits at will to sell
and barter. He would not allow them,
by fictitious sales of ships to Americans
and Portuguese, to carry on a smuggling
trade to China by bartering for tea
the sandalwood which they were obtaining
in large quantities in the islands of the
Pacific. He would not permit them almost
unlimited grants of land for their own
advancement, irrespective of the interests of
the colony at large. He would not let them
treat him with contempt, nor use the courts
of justice for their own ends, nor permit the
New South Wales Corps to constitute the
actual government of the country in the
interests of them and their creatures. These
have been Governor Bligh’s offences, sir—
and these only.”
“Ah, well, Mr. Fulton, newcomer as I
am, I have acquired enough insight into the
state of things in the Territory during the
few weeks I have been in Sydney to incline
me to an opinion that possibly you are
right. There have been great abuses in the
past, but I hope to combat them in some
measure in the immediate future. Well, I
thank you for what you have told me. I
hope you will remember always that if I
can be of any service, you only have to call
upon me.”
Mr. Fulton rose to take his leave.
Macquarie accompanied him to the front
door, shook hands with him heartily as he
bade him good-bye, and then turned back
KEEPING UP WITH THE TIMES.
“Why were you absent yesterday—grandmother dead, I sup-
pose?”
“No, sir. Grandmother married.”
into the house. He had but gone a yard
or two down the hall, when he stopped to
listen, arrested by the sound of an angry
voice outside.
Mr. Fulton had just stepped off the ver-
andah when he came face to face wi.th Major
Abbott, one of the leaders in opposition to
Governor Bligh.
“Ha!” said the major, a little loudly and
aggressively. “Mr. Fulton, is it? I would
like a word with you, Mr. Fulton.”
The clergyman halted, and turned towards
the officer. “I am at your service, Major
Abbott,” he said. “Pray, what can I do
for you?”
Major Abbott sneered.
“Do for me— you!” he said, and Macquarie
from the interior of the house heard every
word. “It has come to a pretty pass when
a fellow who was lagged—who was sent
here as a convict —presumes to imagine that
he can do aught for an officer of his Majesty’s
service. I’d have you to know, sir, that I
stand in no need of your assistance in any
respect, and count it confoundedly impu-
dent of you to ask such a question. You
do not know your place. You are extremely
lucky, sir, that your conduct during the
past two years has not landed you yonder in
the gaol in George-street, or at the Coal
River. I can see that Colonel Paterson’s
Government made a grave mistake in not
restricting your infernal mischief-making,
Mr. Fulton.”
Mr. Fulton permitted the ghost of a smile
to flicker across his face.
“Colonel Paterson’s Government, Major!”
he remarked ironically. “I was not aware
that there had been any legally constituted
that there had been any government in New
South Wales since the 26th of January in
1808.”
The major reddened. Such a taunt was
intolerable. He lost his temper.
“Damme, sir, ’tis but your cloth that saves
you from being made to eat your words.
That and the fact that the source w’hence
they emanate is as contemptible as the words
themselves. Now, lookee, Mr. Fulton—l
have it on good authority that you have
more than once had the temerity to address
memorials to the Secretary of State for the
Colonies, complaining of the conduct of your
superiors, and presuming to present a dis-
torted, malicious and biassed account of
events to Lord Castlereagh. You, sir, to be
(Continued on page If 9.)


THE BEST BANK ON EARTH
For Every £5 You Invest
Queensland Forests Ltd. Will Pay You £lOO
Read These Facts
The Directors of Queensland Forests, Ltd., a company incor-
porated in the State of Queensland (Capital £100,000) are
prepared to enter into a binding undertaking to return £lOO
for every £5 Bond that is purchased.
The Company has purchased select areas of timber lands
within the far-famed “rain belt” of North Queensland, all of
which are convenient to ports and have ideal
transport facilities. Under the supervision of Mr. W.
R. Petrie (late Experimental and Investigation Officer in the
Queensland Forest Service) expert foresters will cultivate,
nurture and regenerate existing timber stand’s of maple, silky-
oak, hoop and bunya pines, walnut bean and many other
varieties of valuable indigenous timbers. Large areas will
also be planted with seedlings. There is no fire risk owing to
the high moisture content of this rain belt
It is estimated that the marketing of trees will commence
within five or six years from the date of bond
purchase and that bondholders will receive
from the Trustees progressive payments,
from time to time, until the full amount
stated on each bond has been paid. The fact
that the Company must continue to meet the costs of
Forest cultivation, all necessary future re-afforestation and
maintenance until the amount stated on each bond has been
fully paid is itself a guarantee that final payments will be made
at the earliest date possible. The Trustee will lock up one-
third of all moneys paid by investors (in a special trust
fund) to ensure the maintenance and protection of the forest
from the fifth year onward; also to establish pulp mills, timber
mills or such other machinery as may be necessary to ensure
the marketing of the produce under conditions most favorable
to bondholders.
The Company*s offer is unique in that it assured to
investors a cash return of a definite net amount
which is clearly stated on every bond.
DEATH BENEFIT.
In the event of the death of the bond purchaser after the
expiration of six months from the date of application, such
purchaser having paid all instalments as they become due,
all further payments in respect of from five
to fifty Bonds that the purchaser may have
contracted to acquire shall be waived and the
personal representatives of the deceased purchaser shall be
entitled to all the benefits in respect of such Bonds without
further payments.
FORESTS FOR PULP.
Forty million acres of forests feed pulp mills every year. There
are 22,000 newspapers in North America alone, and thousands
in many other parts of the world which are responsible for
the wholesale depletion of forests. The pulp requirements of
artificial silk and wool, plus the growing demand for timber
as population increases and' the ever-shrinking supply all over
the world furnish striking proof of the value of trees as an
investment. Bond-purchasers must look beyond the timber
merchant and sawnpller, who contemplate the value of a
forest in relation to the price of boards. They must estimate
the enhanced value of the same forest when utilised for paper,
clothing and the many other manufacturers allied to the
pulping industry.
During the past six months the public of Queensland (the
State in which the Company’s enterprise has been established)
has purchased bonds to the value of £150,000.
A letter addressed to any office of the Company will receive
prompt attention, and a free, illustrated* booklet will be sent,
furnishing fuller particulars of this wonderful investment.
YOU CAN BUY BONDS ON TERMS.
To enable the humblest wage-earner to invest his savings in
trees, the Company accepts a nominal deposit on Bonds, and
the balance by monthly instalments over a period of years.
£1 Deposit will cover 5 Bonds Returning £5OO
(10/- Monthly until Bonds are Paid).
£2 Deposit will cover 10 Bonds Returning £lOOO
(£1 Monthly until Bonds are Paid).
QUEENSLAND FORESTS LTD.
E. S. & R. C. MOULTON, LTD., FINANCIAL MANAGERS.
BRISBANE . . Rowe’s Central Buildings, Edward Street.
SYDNEY. . . . Wingello House, Angel Place, off Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE National Bank Chambers, Collins Street.
ADELAIDE Epworth Building, Pirie Street.
ROCKHAMPTON United Party Rooms, Alma Street.
SINGAPORE.... Union Building, Collyer Street
AGENCIES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
ŵ
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
6d.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25,
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9)
(posted 46/-).
12/- (posted
; 100, 45/-
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post nrce.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors flor Club Reil Cigar Factory,
Ji
CASH'S NAMtMor E They
or any Fabric are r at j e l eS 9, and are
are distinctive an household.
&.gS'WZU*an<*
\ Sold by o,l De beeT
■ 6 H ltd.
PRICES
| 12 doe. 7^6
6 s^
r/u
3 do?. 3^
I


&
w
a
¥
tt«
W*
TaO
ih
AOXOTUI
If you wish to preserve the freshness and beauty
of your complexion, you will find there is no sub-
stitute for Rexona Soap and water. Rexona
Soap cleanses the skin and beautifies it because
it contains all the soothing properties of Rexona
itself.
Rexona is the greatest Skin Remedy of the
Age, and Rexona Soap is medicated with
Rexona. This is what gives it that pure, fresh,
out-of-door fragrance that appeals to so many
thousands of fastidious men and women who
want and insist on having only the very best
and purest soap and one which is free of harsh
alkali.
If you would have a natural complexion,
a clear, faultless skin which will stand the
closest inspection, you can never obtain this
quicker or more surely than by the daily use
of Rexona Soap.
MISS MADGE WHITE,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: —“I find Rexona
Soap incomparable for the
skin and hair and always
use it.”
c7or Wealth
a/it^eauty
Soap
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
ẁ
HlliUA
162-166 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE cV KING STREETS,
CASTLE RE AGH STREET
(NEXT THEATRE ROYAL),
SYDNEY .
• V'
..Vi
m
si :\
• .■?
m
mk
W
What a lovely
Gift! ”
■
wa
\
:-z
O
a memoiualist to his lordship ! Why, damme,
'tis the grossest impudence I’ve ever heard
of. What do you mean by it, sir—what the
devil do you mean by it?”
Mr. Fulton laughed outright, as lie raised
his hat again politely.
“I will give myself the honor of wishing
you Good-morning, Major Abbott. I think
that you hardly seem to be aware that you
are talking nonsense.”
The major stepped towards him angrily,
raising his open hand in a threatening ges-
ture. What lie was about to say the object
of his wrath never learned —for at that
moment, from the open front door of Gov-
ernment House, Governor Macquarie’s voice,
stern and cold, made an interruption.
“Major Abbott,” he said, “pray be so good
as to remain silent. Mr. Fulton, sir, I must
express my regret that any officer wearing
his Majesty’s uniform should see fit to address
you so discourteously. Major, I am ashamed
of you, and I trust that you will yourself
see the propriety of apologising to the
Reverend Mr. Fulton for swearing in his
presence—nay, for swearing at him. That
is what you have done, sir—and it ill be-
comes you. Now listen to me, Major
Abbott.”
The angry major, a little appalled by
this unexpected interlude, turned to face the
Governor, raising his hand to his shako as
he did so.
“I did not know, your Excellency,” he
began, when Macquarie interrupted him
with uplifted hand.
“I do not wish to hear any explanation,
Major Abbott, of your very unseemly atti-
tude towards this reverend gentleman. I
have heard everything that has been said, and
can only observe, sir, that Mr. Fulton has
my entire support. Let me tell you, sir, that
I have myself sent for Mr. Fulton, as a per-
son in whom I have confidence, to give me
some account of the recent troubles in the
colony—which he has been good enough to
do. It affords me the extremest gratifica-
tion to learn, from what you have just said,
that Mr. Fulton has thought fit to inform
Lord Castlereagh of these matters, and I
am sure that his lordship will find Mr. Ful-
ton quite as trustworthy as I have. I
strongly resent your animadversions upon Mr.
Fulton, sir—most strongly.”
“But, your Excellency”
“Not a word, sir—not a word, Major
Abbott. I am about to tell you something
for your own information, and for that of
your brother officers of the Corps. It is
this—that I myself am about to address a
memorial to Lord Castlereagh, and you may
believe me when I tell you that it will be
a very much stronger memorial than anything
that Mr. Fulton can have written. As for
yourself, sir, I had sent for you this morning
to inform you that I intend sending you to
England—possibly to stand your trial. But
whatever the War Office may decide to do
about that, I am also going to address an-
other memorial to the Secretary of State for
War, which will not be very favorable to
the continuance of your further career in the
army. Good morning, Major Abbott. Any-
thing further I may have to communicate
will be sent to you in writing, through Mr.
Campbell. Again, Mr. Fulton, allow me to
offer apologies, and to express a hope that
Major Abbott will himself do so.”
He turned on his heel and stalked in-
doors ; and that was the beginning of the
end for Edward Abbott as a soldier.
A Dramatic Evening.
THERE’LL be nights at the little grey
homestead when you’ll sit smoking
and meditating and planning for the
future. The cat will be coiled up contented
at your feet before the fire, and thoughts
that come to a man when married life begins
to call to him will be passing through your
brain.
You’ll be disturbed by hearing footsteps on
the verandah and voices making friends with
Rover. And Rover will be rapping his toe-
nails on the hardwood boards and franti-
cally whimpering a welcome, instead of
raising Cain as he does when someone
arrives without the password. You’ll know
at once it’s young Bob McCleverty and his
brother, little Artie, coming for a yarn,
and you’ll return to life again. You’ll feel
glad, too, for you’ve got to like those two
quiet, drawling homestead lads, though at
first you were slow to admit them to your
circle. And they’ve got a liking for you that's
uncommon. There’s a novelty or something
about the solitude of your little homestead —
an air of romance of some kind—that's
absent from their own abode. Perhaps it’s
because there’s no restraint and no “old
man” to consider. The furniture is more
comfortable, and there’s more light and com-
pany in their own home, yet they’ll leave it
all, no matter how cold or dark the night,
to prowl and fossick across paddocks, helping
each other through barb-wire fences, bound-
ing high over grass patches likely to harbor
snakes —so as not to disturb the vermin—
to go to yours. If your light isn’t visible
when they come over the last ridge and you
seem to be in darkness, they’ll pause to
consider; and if young Bob reckons you’ve
turned in—little Artie never reckons any-
thing; he’s a silent, faithful follower of the
other—they’ll retrace their steps and make
the most of whatever’s going on at home.
So you’ll give young Bob and little Artie
a royal welcome, pointing to seats and telling
them not to be bashful and to make them-
selves at home. Perhaps you’ll hop up and
drag the seats across to the fire for them —
that’s if you haven’t twisted your ankle, or
chopped your toe half-off, or jambed your
hand in something during the day. And
soon as they’ve taken a look round to see
what changes have happened to the scenery
since they visited you last, and addressed
a few words to the cat, you’ll ask if there’s
anything fresh over their way, or what’s
doing. And young Bob will drawl: “On'y
the’ same ol’ thing.” But you know' it isn't
the harvest, or the weather, or the cows
they’ve come to yarn about. They’re sick to
death of such things and hate the sight
and sound and smell of them.
You retailed to them on their last visit
some of your adventures when droving way
out back and doing horsebreaking and stock-
riding at Wonggongera and Pickenjinnie,
and the thrills you put into it all s-educed
the minds of young Bob and little Artie,
fired their imaginations and left them with a
desire for more. But a fight that you men-
tioned in particular and didn’t finish got a
grip of them, and they’ve been burning ever
since to hear all about it and to hear you
tell it all again from the beginning. And
soon as young Bob reminds yon of it, little
Artie will draw close to the table, rest his
•elbows on it, wedge his chin between his
palms, and fix his eyes on you as if you
were the Almighty. Young Bob himself will
lean back and pull out a pipe in anticipa-
tion of something unusual.
“Oh, yairs,” you’ll chuckle, “it was all
over an argument about a horse.” And
when you pause a moment to refresh your
memory, young Bob, thinking you mightn’t
be going to proceed further, will echo en-
couragingly : “A argument about a ’orse?”
And little Artie’s twinkling eyes will be
riveted on yours like a snake contemplating
murder, and not a hair of him will move.
A city boob he looked like, you’ll remem-
ber ; one of them cranks who spends their
time working out cross-word puzzles—-a
spare, wiry cove, medium tall, stooped in
the shoulders; might have been a shade past
20. You forget whose horse it was, hut
because you just happened to mention that
its brand was blotched this city coot pulled
out a quid and wanted to make a bet about
it. You knew you’d be betting on a cer-
tainty, and told him you didn’t want to
take his money. But, spare your days, if he
didn’t stick his nose into your face and tell
you he had met swags of mugs like you who
didn’t want to take money ; so you asked
him quiet what it was he was trying to get
at.
“Don’t y’ understand King’s English?
Didn’t y’ ever go to school?” And he pokes
Ins nose in a bit closer to you. There was
only one answer to that stuff; so you gave
it to him ; peeled off your coat and started
rolling up your sleeves.
“You did?”
Young Bob will put dow’n his pipe and
leave his mouth open, and little Artie’s
bulging eves will shine and twinkle. But
you’re not concerned about them; you’re
thinking now seven years back. And in
your mind is a close-up of a cleared patch
among some myall-trees; several horses with
saddles on and four or five phantom forms in
whiskers So off went his coat, too, and
it became a dramatic moment. Then off
went his shirt. Gripes ! When he stripped
you saw he was a different cove; his .muscles
stood out, and he had a chest on him. A
suspicion went through you that you had
struck a pug—one of the crowd that travel
round on the lookout for boobs. You veri-
fied your suspicions when his mate chipped
in offering to back him for a fiver an’ fight
to a finish.
“Moses!” from young Bob, but not a
sound from little Artie.
Of course, you didn’t want your mates
to go taking bets on you; you weren’t look-
ing for fight—only defending yourself from
insult. All j T ou knew about fighting, any-
way, was what you learned at old Condamine
school, where you were king, and along the
droving routes in years after. But mates
are mates out back, and they out with their
money, and brought it to a head. Then the
backers all started kicking the dead sticks
and leaves and things away to clear a ring.
Well, darn him, you thought, if he is a
blasted pug, he’s only got two hands and
two eyes; and so you squared up to him.
No hand-shaking—none o’ that make-believe
business —and he started putting on frill,
crouching, working round you, moving his
fists like pendulums, and glaring at you like
a wild dog watching his chance to spring.
You never had a cove face you like that
before, and you began to feel a burden on your
mind. All the same, you decided to give him
all you had. Behind, you could hear your
mates kicking away more dead leaves and
stuff, otherwise they were silent as if it was
all a burial service. So he kept on crouch-
ing and side-stepping, and you made up your
mind to let him break the ice and whatever
move he made you’d swing the right at him
and put every ounce of punch you could into
it. All at onee he made a feint at you and
you let go the right at his head and got it!
Cripes, it was a sensation! Like hitting a
cricket ball fair and hard when you couldn’t
see it coming and expected to hear the
wickets rattling. The sensation it gave him
was different. His head went back so far
that he must have seen his backer, who was
behind him, throw up his hands in astonish-
ment.
“Holy!” from young Bob, but little Artie
is dumb and his eyes won’t leave yours.
You didn’t get over the surprise you got
soon enough to give him the other, and an-
other, and another; and, like a roped bull
with its head down, he came at you, shoot-
ing both hands into your body, you catching
them on your ribs and forearms, and a final
one shaving the down off the point of your
chin. Ghost! And the cow all the time was
hissing and calling you a bum, and scum,
till he landed one on your nose that made
you feel it was decapitated. The blood
trickled into the corners of your mouth and
in your fury kept you busy blowing it out.
.... Stars! how you remembered he could
hit, and when he saw' how the fluid was flow-
ing from you, it maddened him more, and
he came at you again. Gee! But somehow
or other his head got under your arm, and
you squeezed down hard on it. holding him
like a cow in a bail. Out of it he couldn’t
get, and you jabbed and punched and bashed
his face and mouth and eyes, while your
mates yelled for you to stick to him and give
him hell, and his mate danced round, dis-
tracted, shouting “Break! Break! Break!”
But only when your arms got aching and
you thought you’d broke him into mince
did you break, and then he danced away
sniffing and spitting and slandering you
more. But you grinned at the mess you
made of him and asked him how he was
liking it.
And by the living Moses you went after
the crawler with the fury of Jack Dempsev.
But he was clever. He ducked and side-
(Continued on next page.)


00G/
am
Buk
rF "»*M
I
\ \ c. -rv itching
the marvellously-
Rashes and bore
OUTS, Bums, S«W*' by
°“/ kW and P' rfec jL aUev.ates
ring
smarting p w s uin.
and gto'« " e *
L£ OS,VlcecsandCh t ° n 'o
all " ee< ! a " i 0
out all tissue to
“'^"'oo^dSsues
10
. it is mvaiuav-
and. iciilaniniatina*
/
;
PET. Chafing,
>tc. Zam-Bnk
lisonous secre-
of the pores,
the P al ” tul
nd heals ten-
HE manner in which Zam-Buk
*■ expels disease and grows
new healthy skin is a revelation.
The balm is splendidly soothing
because of its pure herbal origin.
Zam-Buk combines the principles
of modern antiseptic and aseptic
treatment. It kills as well as
excludes poisonous germs, and
prevents and stops infection of
wounds and sores. Whether liv-
ing in the city or on an up-
country station you need a box of
this ever-ready healing balm
always at hand.
PRICKLY HEAT.
“Last summer I had an-
other severe attack of
prickly heat and it was
impossible to keep my
hands off th e burning,
irritated patches. On a
friend’s advice I tried a
box of Zam-Buk. Its
soothing, cooling influ-
ence on my skin was really
amazing. Zam-Buk quickly
healed all trace of the
violent eruption with a
splendid growth of smooth
clear skin.” —Mrs. E. Cook,
Kennedy Terrace, Brisbane.
ULCERATED LEG.
“As the result of neglect-
ing a knock a terrible
ulcer formed on my hus-
band’s leg. He suffered
night and day from burn-
ing irritation, but Zam-
Buk took out all pain and
“fire” immediately it was
applied. I kept on with
Zam-Buk until the leg
had perfectly healed.” —
Mrs. H. Hunt, 626 Harris
Street, Sydney.
SCALP SORES.
“Thick crusted sores covered my boy’s head, and his hair
had to be removed. The constant irritation was dreadful.
I spread Zam-Buk liberally on strips of clean linen and
bound these over Clyde's head. Zam-Buk soothed splen-
didly, dried up all discharge and caused the crusts to fall
away. The hair has grown beautifully.”—Mr. S. J. Rankin,
Green Terrace, Swan Hill, Brisbane.
INSECT BITES.
“An insect bit me, and the sore place on my leg became so
swollen, inflamed and ulcerated as to be unbearable. After
trying several useless preparations I was recommended to
get Zam-Buk. The first application brought ease. Inflam-
mation subsided and all poisonous matter was quickly
drawn out of the skin by Zam-Buk. It healed perfectly.
—Miss Ada Fulton, 215 Caxton Street, Brisbane.
FIERY ECZEMA.
“My husband had a bad
attack of fiery, itching
eczema on his neck. Zam-
Bult relieved the pain and
burning irritation in a
remarkable way. It rooted
out the disease completely
and healed the angry
patches with new healthy
skin.’’ Mrs. K. Arm-
strong, 1 Regent Street,
Prahran, Victoria.
POISONED FOOT.
“My little boy gashed his
foot, causing a deep
wound. The place got
worse and I was afraid
that an operation would be
needed. But Zam-Buk soon
soothed the pain, drew out
all bad matter, and healed
with healthy, new skin.
The boy’s leg has remained
thoroughly sound and
strong ever since.’’ —Mrs.
Ida Gould, Anniversary
Road, Botany, Sydney.
Jy
1
\'
o«“
u‘>
FREE!
Trial samples of Zam-Buk Balm and Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap on request from C. E. Fulford ( Aus .), Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney. Regular size boxes at chemists and stores, 1/6 or
3/6. Medicinal Soap, 1/- tablet.
THE SPEEDY ANTISEPTIC HEALER,
stepped, then swung a right and left at
your jaAV as if they Avere fired from a can-
non. If it wasn’t instinct, you don’t knoAV
what it Avas; but you saw them both com-
ing, got your head out of the Avay, and
uppercut him under the chin just when he
slipped toward you, and, mother o’ mike!
his head went up and his
“Here, cripes, look at this cove!” young
Bob interrupts, calling attention to little
Artie, who has gradually risen to his feet
and is leaning across the table , still gazing
at you, but trembling, showing his teeth,
crunching them, as if he had got tetanus or
had taken poison. In a second the fight
Avill go out of your mind. But young Bob
is disgusted at the behaA'ior of his young
brother for spoiling the finish.
“Sit down, y’ goat!” he’ll protest, “and
don’t make an ass of yourself.”
But you can see the little chap can’t help
himself, and you’ll reach for a grip of him,
talking kindly to him, asking him what’s
the matter, telling him not to be excited,
and calling to young Bob to bring a panni-
kin of water and to be quick about it. And
young Bob will see there’s something the
matter, too, and in his hurry to bring the
water will tramp on the cat, who’ll make a
startling noise under his feet. And pale
as a ghost he’ll stand staring Avhile you’re
administering the water; but instead of tak-
ing a drink little Artie’s jaws will suddenly
spring open and a yell will come from him
that Avill out-do the cat and start Rover
rushing round outside trying to get in to
investigate. After a while his yells will tail
off into Aveeping and sobbing, and you and
young Bob will feel a lot easier in your
minds. But in the end you’ll be putting on
the kettle to make some hot tea for him.
before letting him go home, and all the time
you’ll be helping young Bob to think of
things that will make the kid laugh.
STEELE RUDD.
A Fisher of Maubiag.
MISI, strolling happily along the beach
with spear in hand, felt that life was
beautiful, like the sunlight upon the
sea and the scented air about the woods of
Maubiag—though sometimes, he reflected, the
flower-blue sky became overcast when the
gods rumbled angrily and frightened the
hearts of men.
Smiling at the pretty thoughts born to him
this day, he stepped into the water and waded
out chest-deep. Then he swam with the
slow, easy stroke that makes the Islander
master of the water from sun-up to sun-
down. He swam a quarter-mile from shore,
to the wall of deep water which white men
called Shark Passage. Here he trod water,
treating it as if it were the land at command
of his tireless feet, while lie gazed upon the
sea. It was as calm as the face of his little
wife, crooning over baby Misi in the brown
thatch house under the palms.
Deeply filling his lungs, Misi rolled like a
porpoise and swam down, down—an eerie
and heroic figure in that queer underworld.
His brown arms shot straight ahead, then
swept to his sides —not fast —while his hands
moved with the twisted motion of fins.
Almost simultaneously, his legs spread side-
ways and back; then he shot straight down
for quite a long time before his limbs moved
again. He was really moving very fast, while
nursing his strength and air.
Big-eyed fish darted from his approach;
inquisitive ones circled and flashed up again
behind him, their snouts coldly expressive of
ctfriosity.
But these open-water fish were not his
prey; they were too elusive. He sought the
fish that lived in the reef, which here went
down clifflike to unknown depth; a Avail of
coral festooned with plants and grasses, trees
and flowers, and things indescribable of shape
and sex, but all of riotous life and color.
His trained eyes spied within a crack in
some purple coral a Avisp gently panting like
a butterfly’s wing. Easily, he kicked and
turned on his side, his spear-arm poised with
a grace unattainable in the Avorld of light
and loud sounds and jerky movement.
He jabbed at the butterfly wing, and imme-
diately the bamboo haft vibrated with the
quivering of a pierced body. He pressed hard
and felt the crunch as the prongs went
through the fish and grated on the coral;
then he kicked out and shot surfacewards,
his spear held prongs uppermost, for thus
every kick of the impaled fish planted it
deeper on the prongs. When his head broke
through the surface he drew deep breaths,
keeping afloat without exertion.
Methodically he snapped the fish’s neck
between thumb and forefinger and threaded
it on a strand of lawyer-cane twisted around
his waist.
Then down he went again, and fish-eyes
like vivid yellow pennies gazed out from a
pulsing cabbage-plant as he shadowed past.
This time he spied, jutting from under a
ledge, the dreamily-moving tail of a red cod.
He manoeuvred his spear; under water a
bamboo haft unceasingly buoys upward and
demands knack to trim it into position. He
jabbed hard, and felt the prongs pierce
through thick, firm flesh. The cod hardly
flapped; its breed often will not struggle
until they see the blue sky broadening above
the water surface.
Again Misi darted up, quickly, yet with
little apparent effort. He threaded his fish
and gazed lazily at the sky. Avhile a porpoise-
like movement carried him further along the
reef.
He flashed down this time on top of a
giant coral-head enmeshed by jellylike suckers
of purple which coiled sloAvly upwards to
suck him in.
But Misi Avas no scaly prey, and he con-
temptuously glided past the suckers and
impaled an unwary parrot fish. The fish was
utterly beautiful; its scales an intense blue.
It struggled violently as Misi shot upwards
and the water it thrashed flashed blue and
green. So Misi dived and jabbed ; and the
Spirit of the Sea was kind. His string
became threaded Avith fish. It would hold
one more. Proudly he surveyed the catch
gleaming around his body. He would get
the last one, and throw the full string at
his girl-wife's feet. Once again the men
of Mau, who already envied him his wife,
would envy his fishing prowess.
He sped down, a splendid child of Nature,
and seemed to melt as the deeper waters
received him within a coral garden walled
by gigantic gnomelike things, whose squat
bodies housed drooping antenna;, and among
crimson bunches of fleshy life quivering with
a million cells, and flowers of the sea of
purple and white and orange and gold. Out
from cracks in the gnome-things waved
slender feelers. A thousand diamond eyes
watched him piercingly, and then blinked
disconcertingly and shone again. One of the
things kicked, like a misfiring torpedo, and
its painted body shot back into the gloom.
Misi rose quickly. He had dived down
into a colony of crayfish, beautifully marked
creatures as large as lobsters and with
a powerful backward propelling motion of
the tail. The smack of this tail, which
vibrates the water for long distances, is a
signal eagerly listened for by sharks; should
any be within hearing they swarm to the
spot. For the shark loves crayfish as the
flapper loves ice-cream.
Misi breathed in the sweet air and deliber-
ated. The island was quite a distance away ;
it was risky to venture below again ; he had
one more fish to get. But very likely no
shark was within hearing of that tail-flip.
He felt strong and brave, and the world was
good. He would be a great sport in Mau
if he secured a full string of fish from Shark
Passage.
Breathing deeply, he dived and speared
his fish far down within a coral chasm.
Then something closed upon his leg. He
felt the tingling of pins and needles as the
teeth points pierced his skin. Without the
slightest struggle he went down with the
shark. At the merest tremble, he knew his
leg would have been swept off.
Gently lie upended his spear, flicked it,
and the impaled fish flashed slantingly down
into the gloom, a wispy trail of blood mark-
ing its going. Instantly the shark released
his leg, and he glimpsed the baleful green of
its phosphorescent eyes as it sped into the
depths.
In that same moment Misi lost his spear.
He shot upward, and when he reached the
surface the hunting weapon was nowhere
to be seen. He could not hesitate. His
straining lungs gasped in air. He whinged
with joy as with lightning strokes he swam
for Maubiag, making little splash or sound.
For the language of the sea is sound; water
carries its vibratory messages as does the air.
Misi cast backward glances at each swing
of his arms. His exertions pumped blood
from his leg. He could not see the tell-
tale trail, but he knew it was spreading,
and that the wonderful smell organs of the
shark would pick up the faintest traces.
Then, two hundred yards behind, Misi
saw the ripples and the fearful black fin-
tip. He swam with maniacal strength, but
the fin creamed the water as the shark
sighted its prey.
He had just time to turn as the monster
caught up with him. He faced it, swimming
in a sitting position.
Like all its kind, ever uneasy of man, the
shark wavered before the steady eyes and
glided past with an awful suggestion of
strength. Misi turned his face with it and
swam on. It swerved between him and the
land, but he swam straight at it, and it
glided around him. Again he faced about;
again the shark charged, and again it slipped
off sideways in face of his glaring opposition.
Once more it circled, and this time Misi knew
the coming charge meant the snatch of
Death.
A quick writhe, and it came at him. He
whisked a fish before the gleaming snout as
a boy flips a stone on a pool. The fish
splashed and skidded across the surface in
sparkling leaps. The shark wheeled and
shot straight back; and Misi turned and
swam for all he loved.
Quickly the shark came again. It circled
only once; then it charged. Again, Misi
threw the offering, and the shark wheeled
back as if it had fully expected the fish.
Misi swam now with ebbing strength.
His leg was bleeding fast. Maubiag was
very close. It seemed that the little hills
were reaching out their shadows to befriend
him. He could see the shells upon the
shore.
The shark returned. He knew it would
circle no more. The fish he threw it gulped
on the bounce, and kept charging. He
threw another, and plunged frantically, his
eyes bulging and pain stabbing at heart
and lungs.
The next fish he flung skidded sideways,
and thus he gained one God-sent second on
the momentarily puzzled shark. The next
fish he threw at an opposite angle.
The shark, enjoying the play, speeded up
its eager rushes. Misi whimpered like a
baby as he threw the last fish, and he wailed
the name of his little girl-wife.
Then, miraculously, he staggered ashore;
and though a crimson steak was ripped from
his thigh, lie felt strongly alive.
ION L. IDRIESS.
Aftermath.
We strayed ’mid love’s roses unbidden,
And their rapturous sweetness we stole.
Your name was a melody hidden
In the innermost depths of my 50u1....
Despoiled arc the blossoms and broken,
No perfume their petals impart,
And never I hear your name spoken
But a dagger is turned in my heart.
You walked in the strength of your manhood.
I walked in the pride of your strength.
You strove for all things that a man should.
I strove but to serve you. At length,
For your honor you trampled desire
(Oh, dead heart that dares not repine!)
And you snatched your own soul from the
fire —
But what have you done unto mine?
N.S.W.
CLARE THOMESON.


f.
V*-' • . **" t . : ‘
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland agend—uOLMUS X CHCItCH, Brisbane. fflNf ODII luifC'r M C
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. CUIH/UKU WLOI, H. 0.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EIDER, SMITH & CO., I/Tl>., Adelaide. S.A
RAY'D'VAC
The Mark of Superior Quality
I? A HTA
IVAU
BATTERIES
“A”
fRINtH
B
“C”
r^HO-A'CIOCUj
►OUS OHS Mi 1
9Z&
RADIO |T|
Ssrnis
3
S 3
BATTERY
S?tL»
r.;
: ; :s
Longer Life Better Reception
Their Longer Life is due to their
patented construction, whichin-
sulates the cells from each other
and provides for possible ex-
pansion of the electrolyte.
No hot pitch is poured
into the batteries, and
thereby many hours’
service are added.
Ray-0-Vac batteries give tin-
distorted tone, because of their
low internal resistance which
is only from 1/3 to 1/6 of
that found in other batter-
ies. And because of their
greater staying power,
the cost of radio upkeep
is greatly lessened.
Write our distributor for the name of your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
D£>
He mixes with the
engine oil, wears away
the piston rings and
scores the cylinder walls
Trap the Dust and Grit Fiend in
Zenith Air Cleaner ! It simply fits
on the intake of your carburetter. It
means longer life for your engine
and smoother, better, faster running.
Reduce the amount of air entering your
engine and you reduce the amount of
carbon formed and thus avoid the
expense of frequent decarbonisation.
Send a postcard for full
particulars of the Zenith’s
latest achievement to —
Bennett & Wood. Ltd., Syd-
ney ; Alexander Mair & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne;
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane; A. G. Healing and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Adelaide;
Harris Searfe & Sandover
Ltd., Perth.
7ENim
AIR CLEANER
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO., LTD, 40, Newman Street, LONDON. W l.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, >/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
W.. ■»«» (« to.)- Adult., 1/fi. Cliildren, 6d. ***
Dili
iOUS?
When you suffer
From biliousness take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Biliousness arises
From disordered
Stomach and bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Tone and cleanse
Stomach, liver, bowels
And the entire system.
Banish biliousness
Relieve constipation
Dispel dyspepsia
@clto
A dose at night
will keep you right
Sold in
Boxes
1/- & 2/6.
=fl =J=S=C||:
r
Q
-=*i
=0
>55
/
Jcs
ter
W
«
S 3
P
?*
»?«*«
:?!*
.-/
“RING 10
:,” THE LOCK THAT WILL NOT SHIFT.
This Fence is made from the finest open hearth galvanised steel, in our own Factory
by Australian Workmen, and is now available for the first time to the Australian Farmer.
Th ° £ en ? e throughout (both Laterals and Droppers) is heavy 10-gauge, thus producing
a stiff stay fence, requiring less posts than usual.
Made for the present in two styles only.
No. 1 An ideal sheep fence, five lines spaced, Sin., Bin., 7in., and Bin. apart, 26in.
high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 6/9 per Chain, or £23/10/ per mile.
No 2 A fine sheep or cattle fence, six lines spaced sin., 6in., 7in., Bin., and IQin.
apart, 36in. high. Droppers spaced 12in. apart.
PRICE:—In 5-chain Rolls, 8/3 per chain, or £29/10/ per mile.
SEND FOR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. POST FREE.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS,
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
276 to 294 Brunswick St., FITZROY. ’Phone J 4145.
And at
234 to 236 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE. ’Phone F 4175.
ESTABLISHED 1876.
0
o
0°
e
6>
:
s®
*>o
8
»>
>\' s '
A’-
#*
.•••' ..•">*!
’** .•**a
■,s?<*!>
*


/ New Low Priced
Studebaker Tourers
Owift get-away, high speed long sustained,
easy conquest of winding mountain
roads— no matter what your demands—
The New Studebaker Tourer responds in-
stantly, silently, without effort.
You also enjoy the sense of confidence
and dependability which results from
Studebaker’s advanced design—tested and
proved—and the expert craftsmanship
engendered by 76 years of experience
and experiment.
Only because of Studebaker’s vast manu-
facturing facilities and tremendous output
can such smart, high-quality, six cylinder
touring models be offered at such low
prices—and include so many extras' with-
out extra charge.
Th
?*V»
Of
T
fo
on*
Pa s
©J*
s en
ser«
s<*?a
Th
Pas
y en
Serf
ep
a, Po
°Ur
d £
tn g
O dy
ar
0
Th
r esid
P.ls
setj
e tlf
Set
'Ppo
°Ur
rt edQ
lTl g
Ody
ar
(C
ete
e <lHip
font
V'res
isc
"Pud
s
scr e
h *lb
a utc.
‘ter
r ak
e h
’Vatin
'ear
°f ioc/t
.‘Uci.
'>cn
and
rni r
Wr
n 'a
e *tr,
sure
as.)
otf.
up
se e ,i
e*
ni ° del
u ° e hk
f’v
arid
, Pen
PnA,
ed
r ar
ca r
»Wj
car
e e c /
cn
Pror
xoo
e C f
need
on
Prices F*C)*R* Sydney
ẃ
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
(Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
1,009 Studebakers have been driven 100,000 to 500,000 miles,
@L
WMB76
vaa a ms
