

!3/ V/^hUZ/tytov 1 ii‘i" 1" 7
I 'I
H
k 'I J
A
I, K
'A
/ ' VV \
(1 KH
>r
?r
B*
N-,
A>
5S***'
ii
«*
m
i
/SS
#5
,’**
Zm >•
ft
e *
* Iff
\
«
h
y
NK
>fin7WOttt_
~
//
<JohnnielValker
busy meeting old
edustralian friends
rnn<-> u GMOu r
rj&htfc
::
FL 01S
PINT
NET
More than a century’s
experience in the care-
ful blending of selected
old Scotch whiskies has
evolved Johnnie Walker
—with a reputation for
consistent excellence
which increases with each
generation.
" They’re the finest sheep in the country—the re-
sult of years of scientific selection and breeding.”
"Ah! Then sheep are like whisky—the careful
sele&ion and blending of fine qualities produces
the superfine?”
" Quite right! And talking about the superfine,
we always recognise Johnnie Walker as the ' pure merino ’ —
consistently true to type.”
u Sir, you honour me. May I present pra&ical proof?”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
Born 1820 -- Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock.
The Bulletin
FIVE WORLD’S BEST SHORT STORIES—Pages Sl-SB.
Vol. 49. No. 2515.
Wednesday, April 25, 1928.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ê
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Rooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address
OLYSAGHT
O
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Real Cream Soup
HEIN*
made in U.S.AjiV
J-heinz co>.
‘•‘TTSBUBOH.I'*' '
REAL cream and big, juicy,
. vine-ripened tomatoes—
that’s the secret of the flavour
and the goodness of Heinz
Cream of Tomato Soup. Pre-
pared to please you, in Heinz
spotless kitchens. Healthful,
delicious, appetizing—it starts
any meal perfectly.
Heinz Cream of Green Pea
and Heinz Cream of Celery
Soups are just as delightful.
Heat in the tin, serve, and
enjoy.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh., Pa. Toronto, CaO»
me of the
HEINZ
1495
ë
Every Jeweller will tell you
of the unquestionable
quality that makes Omega
a life time watch.
m
7ZK
19
r
D<£>
m
m
He mixes with the
engine oil, wears away
the piston rings and
scores the cylinder walls!
Trap the Dust and Grit Fiend in
Zenith Air Cleaner! It simply fits
on the intake of your carburetter.
It means longer life for your engine
and smoother, better, faster running.
Reduce the amount of dirt entering
your engine and you reduce the
amount of carbon formed, and thus
avoid the expense of frequent
decarbonisation.
Send a postcard for full
particulars of the Zenith’s
latest achievement to—
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Syd-
ney ; Alexander Mair & Co.
Pty., Ltd., Melbourne;
Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane; A. G. Healing and
Co. Pty., Ltd., Adelaide;
Harris Scarfe & Sandover,
Ltd., Perth,
7enith>
AIR CLEANER
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO., LTD, 40, Newman Street, LONDON, W l.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
tbe powder is distributed
-/I
XOng
xrou
•OUJ
re 3 vmm otm iiawaHi
H3QMU OXMDSOU MOM
aiaxsnw
more effectively, and yrt
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. p
The Red Page
Plain English for Plain Minds
To depose the slipshod and shapeless
prose which to-day is tending to disfigure
modern literature is like holding an indig-
nation meeting because women smoke and
the barn dance has been displaced by the
black-bottom. But to follow this up with
a plea for “plain English” after the manner
of Daniel Defoe, as does Lucille M. Bloink
(R.P. 14/3/’2B), is like asking for the initia-
tion of a women’s dress reform and citing
Queen Victoria as a model.
If “plain English” is to become the sole
criterion of good prose writing, then De
Quineey, Meredith and Charles Lamb must
be set down as second-rate writers. They
need* not. be lonely, however, as Sir Thomas
Browne and old Jeremy Taylor both fell to
the lure of the phrase and succumbed to the
blandishments of the purple patfch. They
had little use for “plain English”; nor had
Ruskin and Carlyle. Walter Pater evidently
reserved his “plain English” for his business
correspondence, which has not survived; and
Max Beerbohm, who apparently was never
taught it, is now happily too old to learn.
“Plain English” is certainly better than no
English at all; but while there are many
writing at the present who with profit might
attend some University Extension lectures
on the subject, may Heaven preserve Aldous
Huxley, Carl van Vechten and James
Branch Cabell from sacrificing their alluring
and personal gifts of expression for the un-
profitable practice of “plain English”!
The wise Joubert has said that “the man
of dull brain and common ideas should
make use of the first words that come.
Brilliant phrases are the natural expression
of an adorned memory, a stirred heart, an
enlightened mind and a keen eye.” The
coward sees no virtue in heroism; the poor
man affects a scorn of riches; the ugly
woman is intolerant of beauty. So, likewise
—such is the ambivalence of the human
mind—the unimaginative writer demands
“plain English.”
The fashions in prose change; the creative
spirit of each generation not only adds new
words to the literary currency, but brings
fresh subtleties and new delicacies to the
adornment of style. Modern prose may lack
the robuster qualities 6f that which is now
called “plain English”; but it is futile to
plead for the return to a style which is
merely the utilitarian vehicle of ideas. The
present age demands subtlety and glamor.
“Plain English” has neither secrets nor
adornments. It captivates the common-
place; but, being without magic, it lights
no reflections and strikes no echoes in the
imagination. It is without overtones.
“Plain English” is intended for plain
minds as plain soap is intended for plain
washing. The work of the world is con-
ducted in plain English, as the cleansing of
the sink is accomplished with Bath brick.
Nor is this lowly commodity without virtue.
But it is not the only agent which removes
dirt, as “plain English” is not the only
vehicle which expresses ideas. It is possible
that Lucille M. Bloink employs Bath brick
to scour her pots and pans, but when she
aspires to a more personal toilet it is, I
have no doubt, the subtle and perfumed
cleansing cream to which she has recourse.
Literature, likewise, welcomes the delicate
witchery of style.
REG S. ELLERY.
A Society of Authors
There is a vague idea that writers are, in
practical affairs, flimsy and inept. Bernard
Cronin is doing more than his share in dis-
pelling it. Since, some months ago, he
stepped back into “The Derelicts,” a small
wirters’ club which, with Gertrude Hart, he
founded seven years back, the club has
changed its name; it is now the Society of
Australian Authors, has adopted a con-
stitution, has taken to itself a symbol
designed by Will Dyson, has acquired some
2° new members, and is moving this month
into much larger Melbourne quarters.
Its object is to bring the Australian author
to the notice of his own public, and to pro-
vide a port of call for visiting authors.
Already the vitality of the new club is
attracting attention. Authors no longer
need to be coerced; they are voluntarily
joining. Their most prized capture to date
is John Quick, ‘who is undertaking a work
which aims to be a selective bibliography
of Australian literary enterprise.
The syllabus of the association enjoins
an ambitious programme which, if carried
out, will definitely assert the author as an
integral part of Australian endeavor.
LEN NORTH.
Dots and Dashes
Lucille M. Bloink (R.P. 14/3/’2B) ex-
presses horror of the “dot and dash” disease
of certain modern writers. But let me sug-
gest that the dot and dash are as much
part of plain English as the letters L.M.B.
I speak of dot-and-dash when it is not a
disease; when it is an acquisition, as it can
be in days of rapid travel—through reading
as through other forms of real living. It may
be regarded as inferential writing, but what
is wrong with that if the reader has a
modicum of intelligence? After all, the
thought is what counts, and if it can be
conveyed quickly, graphically and tersely
in short space it loses nothing in value and
becomes more dramatic; also one is spared
the reading through unnecessary sentences
the purport of which is seen well in advance.
“She crouched with terror-stricken face
against the table; he stood over her with
hate and drink-sodden eyes, his lips twitch-
ing with beastly satisfaction. His purpose
was plain. His hand rose and the bright
light was reflected along the keen blade that
he held. A moment it paused there and
then ” I want to cover my eyes for a
moment. I want to know what happened,
but I do not want to read it to the bitter
and gory end.
Keats did come to write better things than
his “Sleep and Poetry” and one of them
was :
Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are
sweeter....
The decorative dots and dashes of the
silent urn spoke more eloquently to • him
than all the elaborate hieroglyphics of an
Egyptian monument.
Still Lucille M. Bloink is a tonic.
VICTOR KENNEDY.
Smith
Having recently been entertained by ex-
positions on the- Red Page of the affinity
of certain letter-sounds to the expression of
ideas, I beg leave to go further and air
my belief that there is a distinct association
between persons and their names. To pre-
vent this theory being taken up by some
Neo- or -ist and foisted upon the community
as a cult, I hasten to add that I know of
no logical evidence to support it.
I can, however, tender some illogical evi-
dence. This evidence concerns a person
who bears the honorable—and shall we say
euphonious?—name of Smith. He is a poet,
and his book, Lost Address, was recently
published by Benn. Notwithstanding this
English association, Mr. Smith is an Ameri-
can writer, and, as Smith, he writes in
the following exalted Vein:—•
Success is waiting, is he?
Send him in. Glad you’ve come,
Emeralds and platinum.
What’s the dope? Yes, always busy.
What you got ? A crown ? Let’s see—
Marked “King of the World”—for me?
Not to me you’re going to give it?
Not the whole world in my pocket?
Now I’ve got it—Now I’ve got it—
Now—mw—what do I do with it?
That, and another piece in which Smith
searches for Respectability, and, finding it,
gives utterance to the beautiful line
Go to Hell with your stuffed shirts and fears and wires,
.are, I suppose, offered as satire. I shall
not .suggest, that what they really are is flat
ire, or even flat tyre, but shall assert
roundly that they are satire; fine satire,
too—of Mr. Smith (and sundry other good
poets) being lured away from a decent and
clear-headed muse by the blithering and
gibbering of the sorry tipplers who, having
drunk a little of the light beer of literature,
are staggering about in a quasi-tanked con-
dition, gabbling incoherencies, fopperies and
platitudes, and waiting only for the com-
mand of the policeman who is Time to sober
up like the respectable suburbanites they
are and skedaddle to the oblivion of their
arty suburb.
So much for Smith. Much, perhaps half,
of this book is Smith. But, luckily for my
illogical theory, Smith has two other names.
The first is Chard, and Chard, despite its
relationship to “charred” and, through it, to
fake bargain sales, is a noble-sounding name,
and one, I cheerfully advance, that is re-
sponsible for half the other half of this
book, including some thoughtful, and even
beautiful, sonnets, a pure lyric or two, and
such stuff as the following:—
Enough if in the darkness come to me
Some glimpses from beyond the night of pain,
Till in the nocturne of the rafter rain
And the wet bells upon the living ground
I hear a rumor of the unheard sound
Of waves that break unseen, far out at sea.
Here I might pause to drive home the
logic of my illogical belief, but I shall press
on to state that Chard Smith has a middle
name which is Powers. To that name. I
sheet home the other half of the other half
of the book, the note of it being:—
When the darkness heard the luminous word
Of the maker of things to come,
And the spindrift hours and the planet showers
Spun out like pinwheel spume,
I was the pith it was quickened with
In the welter of its womb.
I felt the stir of my twin brother,
And loved him. and made him room.
Chard Powers Smith has been writing stuff
such as that, and the strong, compact things
that quoting spoils, for several years, and
there is enough of their quality in his latest
book to make it worthy of the house that
publishes Humbert Wolfe; and also there
is enough of the other sort to make unneces-
sary any further pursuit of my illogical
remarks in re Smith.
CECIL GRIDIRON MANN.
(Continued on pags 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING,” OUR GUARANTEE AND YOUR ASSURANCE
Anthony Horderns’
Men’s Mercery and Clothing Needs
....are unequalled for Distinctive Style and Value
e
Men’s Fur
Felt Hats
Men’s Soft Fur Felt Flats. Bound or plain edge
brims, 21 inches wide. Smart, distinctive styles
to select from. In the new season s shades of
Slate, Steel, Zinc, Light Grey and Beaver Fawn.
Available in all sizes. Only the best quality Fur
Felt has been used in these hats. Out-
standing value at
( Department, Ground Floor —Carriage Paid.)
25/-
Men’s “Tree”
Brand Shoes
è
“Tree” Brand Shoes are obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’. Careful workmanship and
excellent finish are embodied in every pair of
these shoes. Extended, Medium or Round
lasts. Available in half sizes to ensure perfect
fitting. Select from Box Calf, Tan Willow or
Patent Leather. Genuine welted soles.
Remarkable value at
27/6
(Shoes, Second Floor--Sent Carriage Paid.)
Tailored - to -
Measure Suits
£7|l7/6
Our Tailored-to-Measure
Suits are individually
styled, correctly cut and
neatly finished by expert
tailors. Available in high-
grade Australian and
English Plain and Fancy
Worsteds in newest
weaves. Fawn, Blue,
Grey, Brown and Fancy
Shades. Also available in
Navy Serge, guaranteed
Indigo Dye. Although
moderately priced, quality
and value are paramount.
Self-measurement forms
and patterns post free on
request. Price, Per Suit,
£7/17/6.
{Tailoring, Ground Floor-
Carriage Paid.)
Men’s Smart Sweaters
in new designs and shades.
«8|
I Xr.
■i!
Men’s Knitted Coat Sweaters. All-Wool,
V-neck, Drop-stitch knit. Warm weight.
In shades of Heather, Grey, Fawn or
Navy. Sizes, S.M., M., O.S.
Ilustrated on left. Each
14/6
Extra O.S.
Each
16/6
Men’s Fancy Knitted Coat Sweaters, V-
neck. All-Wool in Smart Jacquard
Chequer Design. In shades of Grey,
Fawn and Blue effects. Sizes, S.M., M.,
O.S. Illustrated on right.
Each
17/6
Extra O.S. Each
19/6
( Department, Ground Floor —Sent Carriage Paid.)
Men’s Overcoats
in new styles
105|-
M e n’s Smart Double-
Breasted “Pinchback”
Overcoats, with half belt
at back and flap pockets.
In a warm quality Navy
Nap.
Each
105/-
Men’s Raglan Overcoats.
Having Button-through
front and vertical
pockets. In Grey, Fawn,
Brown and Fancy
Velours.
Each .
105/-
Men’s Gabardine Rain-
coats. Styled with Rag-
lan sleeves, vertical
pockets, and belts all
round; check linings.
Fawn, Smoke
shades. Each,
1051-
(Department, Ground Floor —
Sent Carriage Paid.)
Men’s Wolsey Underwear
Made Expressly for Anthony Horderns’.
Men’s Winter Weight.
Sizes 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 48 in.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves
Each 17/3 17/6 18/3 19/- 19/9 20/3 21/6
Undershirts, Long Sleeves—
Each 18/- 18/3 19/- 19/9 20/6 21/- 22/3
Underpants—
Each 18/9 19/3 19/6 20/3 21/- 21/9 22/6 24/6
Underpants, Three-quarter Leg
Each 18/9 19/- 19/9 20/6 21/3 21/9 23/-
Wolsey De Luxe, Heavy Weight.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves
Each 19/- 20/- 21/- 22/- 23/- 24/- 25/3
Underpants—
Each 21/- 22/- 22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 26/6 27/S
( Mercery, Ground Floor—Sent Carriage Paid.)
Men’s Wolsey Underwear
Natural All Wool. Guaranteed Unshrinkable
Wolsey De Luxe, Medium Weight.
Sizes....- 32 34 36 38 40 42 44 48 in.
Undershirts, Half Sleeves
Each 23/9 24/3 25/- 25/9 26/- 27/6 29/-
Undershirts, Long Sleeves—
Each 24/9 25/3 26/- 26/9 27/- 28/6 30/-
Underpants—
Each 25/6 26/3 26/9 27/6 28/3 29/- 30/- 31/6
Wolsey Combinations, Winter Weight.
Half Sleeves, Full Length Leg
Sizes 34 36 38 40 in.
Each 30/6 31/3 32/6 33/9
Long Sleeves, Full Length Leg
Each 31/6 32/3 33/6 34/9
( Mercery, Ground Floor—Sent Carriage Paid.)
Anthony Hordern
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
and Sons, Limited,
SYDNEY.
Phone No.:
M 2401 (40 lines)
THE DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM IS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE—WHY NOT USE IT? YOU PAY NO INTEREST.


CYLINDER
TWO-TON TRUCK
speed WHEEL BRAKES
TRANSMISSION ASSES’«
INCREASED power in the new Graham
Brothers 6-cylinder 2-ton Truck means
more speed, more trips per day, more goods
or people hauled—more profits.
And the new truck, like all Dodge and
Graham products, is exceptionally econ-
omical to operate.
The 4-speed transmission affords an unusual
flexibility and smoothness. The 4-wheel
brakes (Lockheed Hydraulic) make the
maximum use of the added speed and power
entirely safe.
Engineers proclaim it the most advanced motor
truck. . . .See it. . . .Compare it with any other
truck ever made.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
FS9I.
25/4/28


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
é
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers* Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers* Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinff
(Next G.P.0.).
Help for the Free-lance
In their preface the editors of the Aus-
tralian and New Zealand Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book 1928 state that they
“are keenly anxious to be of the fullest
assistance to free-lances,” and add that they
“are at all times ready to assist readers seek-
ing information and advice not contained
herein.” There is quite a lot of information
I want and quite a few quarrels I wish
to pick with Messrs. Fitz Henry and Ring-
stad, the editors. Their book is certainly a
gallant little attempt, but it falls far short
of its aim. It is not courageous enough.
Reading it, one would conceive Australia to
be a land overflowing with journalistic milk
and honey; dire experience has taught me
that most of these splendid promises, like
the apples of Gomorrah, are sweet only on
the rind. •Once bitten they are ashes. And
one cannot live on ashes.
The free-lance’s is a hard life. To begin
with, he has to fight all his own battles.
If he is treated badly he can, of course,
call in the aid of the A.J.A., but that is
equivalent to suicide as far as the default-
ing paper is concerned; it will earn him a
bad name, and the persistent contributor
who worries editors about lost MSS. soon
finds himself on that firm’s black books.
Then there are the careless editors who
have an exasperating habit of mislaying
copy. Recently I posted two short stories
to a Melbourne journal; I might have
just as easily, and with less expense,
dropped them down the nearest sink. Plain-
tive requests as to the fate of my MSS. re-
ceive not a word in reply. This is a most in-
furiating state to be in; if I retype the yarns
and send them on to another paper the first
editor will probably suddenly take it into
his head to publish my efforts simul-
taneously with the second, with the result
that I’ll have two naturally enraged editors
after me with an axe. I can merely wait
and hope ; if nothing happens I have wasted
time which I can ill afford in writing up
two ideas for nothing. This, let me add,
is no rare occurrence. It has often hap-
pened.
The Year Book but rarely mentions the
individual paper’s date of payment. Some
journals keep your MSS. for months and
even years, until you give up all hop'e of
ever hearing of it again, and then sud-
denly publish it. Joyously you request pay-
ment, only to be coldly informed that you
have to wait until the end of the month.
The Bulletin and the Woman’s Mirror
are two of the very few papers that pay
for most of their work on acceptance. If
a free-lance wants to live (and seemingly
nobody wants him to) he has to earn
enough to buy his weekly rations of beer
and prawns. Most of his life, however, is
spent in wandering disconsolately from
office to office, gathering rejects, and growl-
ing over mugs of beer with other free-lances,
and cursing editors. I often wonder how
many editors have ears like hot chestnuts
on a Friday afternoon. A good many of
my efforts have been accepted but never
published; they decay in secret pigeonholes,
while I haven’t received a brass farthing for
them and probably never will. Then I have
to buy their wretched journals to see if
they have published anything, in which
event I shall probably have to wait a month
before I receive my half a crown or five
shillings. The Bulletin is one of the few
papers to my knowledge that have heart
enough to inform the misanthropical free-
lance that his work has been accepted, then
to pay him on the nail. But, according
to the Year Book, all the papers are uni-
formly benevolent; I would like to make
Messrs. Fitz Henry and Ringstad do the
free-lance rounds for a month and then see
what their second edition would have to
say.
But perhaps I should not cavil at a piece
of bread and butter because there is no
jam on it. To a starving man anything
should be eatable, and the Year Book has
filled a long-felt want; no aspiring journalist
(or, in fact, even no full-fledged journalist)
should be without a copy. It gives one a
satisfactory feeling to know that the down-
trodden free-lance is not fighting an utterly
lonely battle, that he has at least one bene-
ficent friend to help him on the thorny way
of journalism. That this friend carries a
toothpick instead of a bludgeon is natu-
rally disappointing, but one must not be
bad-mannered enough to reject the weakest
aid. I tender Messrs. Fitz Henry and
Ringstad a bouquet for their effort; I hope
it is not any the less acceptable because the
flowers conceal a brick.
L. PHILLIPS.
Fiction in Politics
Herman Bernstein, the American jour-
nalist who. after being in Europe as repre-
sentative of a great newspaper group,
made public in 1917 the compromising
correspondence between the Kaiser and
the Czar, has written a book to trace the
history of a tale which passed gradually
from mere sensational fiction to accept-
ance as a political verity. The History of a
Lie deals with the origin of “The Protocols
of the Wise Men of Zion,” which are still
accepted in some parts of Europe as
authentic documents showing the plans for
Jewish world-domination. It supplies an
interesting example of how pure fiction
can be twisted into political “fact.”
The “Protocols,” upon their publica-
tion as genuine documents, were accepted
even in some of the chancelleries of
Europe; amongst a larger public in many
countries, impregnated with Anti-Jewish
sentiments, they were an excuse for agita-
tions that had many political effects, even
an effect on the Great War. They still,
although discredited by Jewish rebuttals,
are useful as propaganda in countries
where the “Jewish question” is a poli-
tical chopping-block.
From the British point of view the
matter of most concern is the way in
which these “Protocols,” so plainly fraudu-
lent to a mind not clouded by anti-
Semitic hatred, have been used to stir up
anti-British sentiment. In the introduc-
tion to the various editions of the “Proto-
cols” the British have been depicted as a
race kin to the Jews—using the British-
Israelite theory for much more than it is
worth—and as their protectors and allies.
That is enough to cause big sections of
the population of some of the European
States to cordially hate the British. The
“Protocols” have been translated into every
European language, Arabic and Chinese;
and they are still being distributed, especi-
ally in places like Egypt, Palestine and
S)’ria.
Bernstein traces the story back to a
chapter in a sensational novel, “To Sedan,”
published in 1866 in Germany. The
author was described as “Sir John Ret-
cliffe”; his real name was Herman Goed-
sche, and his very use of an English name
was sinister. Goedsche, who had had some
unsavory adventures, notably in his con-
nection with a big forgery case, played to
a gallery which liked anti-Jewish fiction;
but, he did not pretend that it was any-
thing more than fiction. One of the
chapters deals with a meeting of mys-
terious figures in the Jewish cemetery of
Prague—representatives of the twelve
tribes of Israel who meet every hundred
years to decide how to proceed with the
centuries-old plan for the domination of
the world by the Jews. Briefly it is a
white-anting process, using the power of
money, learning and letters. Although
full of hocus-pocus; this chapter was con-
sidered good enough propaganda to be re-
published by the Obschestvenaya Polza
in St. Petersburg in 1872; and in 1905 the
story, shorn of its fictional surroundings,
leaving only the declarations of the steps
to be taken to subjugate the Christian
world, was produced in a book published
in several editions by Sergius Nilus, al-
ways with the hint that the papers had
been stolen from the secret archives of a
Caballa which controlled the underground
movement for Jewish world-domination.
In the troubled Europe of 1905 the
alleged “Protocols” were widely accepted
as truth, and were used in stirring the
hatred against England. In one of the
prefaces it is asserted: “The Sanhedrin
.... entered into a league with united
England, with whom it co-operates to
the present day, helping out England in
her exploits over the whole world with its
capital and concessions, in which respect
the Sanhedrin was never penurious.”
Curiously, considering the origin of the
Soviets, the “Protocols” seem to be par-
ticularly beloved by the ruling agencies of
modern Russia. Probably it is because of
this affection of the Soviets for these
fraudulent papers that they have cropped
up in political arguments in Palestine; and
more than possibly they have had a bear-
ing on the trouble in Iraq. The apparent
documentary evidence of an alliance be-
tween Britain and the Jews, which the
Arabs would easily believe, would be
calculated to drive any self-respecting
Arab or Bedouin into a condition com-
pared with which the frenzy of a dancing
Dervish would be icy calm.
SCHNORRER.
A Satchel of Books
AH for the Golden Age, by George Fred-
erick Wates (Allen and Unwin). The outlook
of an optimistic evolutionist, covering a
wide range of subjects—historical, religious,
economic.
Unaddressed Letters, by Frank Swetten-
ham (John Lane). A reprint in “The
“Week-end Library” series of letters or brief
essays and sketches on subjects so diverse
as “Tigers and Crocodiles” and “A Love-
philtre.” All marked by a grace of style.
I Know a Secret, by Christopher Morley
(Heinemann). The author of the widely-
read “Thunder on the Left” has here em-
ployed a lively and fantastic imagination in
writing a group of stories for children.
New Yorl; Nights, by Stephen Graham
(Bonn). The author’s graphic style gives the
glamor of romance to midnight adventures
in the city’s resorts of pleasure. “In our
taut modern life,” he says, “we shall not
grudge men and women the escapes that
they make. A great deal of New York
night life is purely escape from New York.”
The impression left by the book is one of
mental and moral exhaustion.
A Son of Australia, by Harry C. Perry
(Watson, Ferguson Co.). Under this title
are compiled memories of the late W. E.
Parry-Okeden, so closely associated with
the pioneering days and later with the
government of Queensland. His life covered
a span of 86 years, and these pages present
a fascinating panorama. Born in N. S.
Wales not far from the present Federal Ter-
ritory of Canberra, he studied law. aban-
doned a professional life, and for 10 years
was a pastoralist in Queensland. Fighting
against odds, his virile personality drew
attention, and he was offered the post of
head of the Border Patrol, a body of
mounted police whose duty it was to stop
the smuggling of dutiable goods into Queens-
land. Subsequently he became a country
P.M., State Immigration Agent. Under-
Colonial Secretary, Principal Under-Secre-
tary and (1895) Commissioner of Police.
These are the bare bones of a notable life;
their clothing by a sympathetic pen presents
a story full of romance and color.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Bitson: You say that we don’t make
things because of the high cost of labor; in other
words, because we can’t get high enough prices for
the products. Then you suggest that prices of every
thing Australian should be reduced 1 p.c. quarterly.
How’s that going to increase production?. .. .Nota
Bene: Disqualified; see Punch Feb 15....M.K.: Two
murdered babies, a suicide and a shipwreck in which
all but two perish. You are a cheerful writer!....
Myra E.: Some humor in it, but not enough... .F.T.
(Walcha) : Not keen on your cannibal... .8.J.W.: We
swatted “The F1y”.... Tor D.: Wait fifty years, and
then perhaps you may rhyme “penchant” and “tren-
chant”. .. .Nina L.: Trivial... .James D. G.: If you
do things like making it “Calderon” to pad out the
line you’ll lose your poet’s license...-8.J.A.: “My
Collie” is merely short barks running over 24 stanzas.
... .F.R.F.: Sensational humor ; doesn’t convince....
Guy M.: Even the office-boy shed tears; but it’s
rough work as well as dismal.... Toatast: We hate
the trick story.... Snowy: Liked the part where the
swaggie, after thinking of it for five stanzas, destroyed
himself in the pool. That was the end of it, any-
way .... Scientia : This cursed lack of space !....
G.8.N.: Can’t you tell it better? It is worth the
effort... .F.D.P. (Q.) : A little gravy in your offer-
ing, but far too much gristle... .C.R.R.: Offers will
be made for any yarns which, though not prize-
winners, are considered worth publishing serially.
....D. Greed: As a matter of fact, the lady has a
very high opinion of Queensland teachers.... Star
Delta (and more than a hundred others): Thanks;
“Ces” should have known better than to write “pelt-
ing wheel” for “pelton” ditto, and we should have
known better than to print it....J.G.L. (Vic.):
Fair idea, but too many old tags used in the telling.
. ...A.P.D.: There are two men in this office who
could do it better.... Talmat: The point was dis-
cussed only a few months ago. .. .F.W.T.: You seem
more interested in America than in Australia. .
Herschel G.: We got as far as “bloody hand of
scourge” and then gave it up. .. .L.F.M.: You say
you have “studied the wild.” Had not a reader inter-
posed between your story and him, you might
have been able to study the editor... .E.K.P.: Dingo
yarn hounded out... .M.Y.8.: You make your
“Drover” do a long wander; and there’s no pub
in sight even at the end... .Longreaeh: No kicks from
this quarter for your town’s No-Party Democratic
League. The smallest revolt against machine politics
is to be respected... .J.M.: Naughty girl! But we
don’t believe you’ve been as naughty as you suggest.
....Charles D.: It failed; but you might dispose
of it elsewhere. Advice on slip with returned
MSS Lalla S.: Not. suitable for either....
S.C.M.: Overwrought... .Nellie to.: They fail to give
force to Uieir ideas. .. .Agatha M Th" habit of
letting some of the lines bolt may have its
points; but it does not make good verse.
....Jean i. D.: Very juvenile... .Roy C.: Mere
trickle of humor... .W.J.McV.: So the lady was
drowned? Too bad!.... Bis M.: Your typewriter
is a gem. “He had his wife to consider] ! ? Wait,,
he cried *Neve] mind that now Twenty pages
of that is like an adventure.... Kester B.: stopped
reading at “the Hbur for our depart”... .F.D.:
Weary yarn... .M.A.R.: Shakspeare’s ghost should be
grateful to us for declining to print it. .. .M. 5.8.:
“Soap” won’t wash... .Wanderer: Crude... .F.McC.:
Blank verse is usually ineffective... .F. J.C.: A good
yarn—but for its facts. For instance, managements
don’t leave the takings in theatre office safes....
V.G.W.: Belated. Do you set out on Tuesday to
catch Monday’s boat?... .Gladys S.: It’s not a story ;
merely an incident... .Rover: Liked your Abdul; but
a brief character-sketch 0n1y... .G.N.8.: The end is
certainly a surprise. Just as certainly it is an
absurdity... .E. 8.: Very faulty. .. .W.E.: Too long.
. ...C.L.R.: “The Shell” proved a dud... .F.T.R.:
All through them are marks of saw and plane and
hammer and gimlet. . . .W.P.: Misses... . A.G.L.
(M.L.) : Wanders too much. .. .E.E.W.: Think over
it —especially in regard to maintenance of form —
and try again. .. .N.0.T.: The bushman slept—
that’s all it says.... Will C.: “Good-night”—it was.
. ...M.J.T.: Something between a scanned yell and
a rhymed moan... .Alice F. O’D.: Labored....
P. J.C.: Not quite the idea.... Bob L.: Verses are
full of redundances... .Peter P.: Would have to be
very much better to run that length... .W.T.-W.: No
need to shackle thoughts on Omar to a pub....
H.8.L.: The red ink was more endurable than the
rhymeless verse.... Trooper: Frankly, it’s awful,
although it may answer the purpose you state....
Jim B.: The “Call of the Bush” is a raw shout.
... ,D. Macf.: If only the point (if any) had been as
clear as the handwriting!.... Awani: It’s “Tally -
Ho”-meward for it.... Pensive Penguin: Not wide
enough in interest... .J.A.8.H.: We made quick
work of both A.T.S.: It’s pretty dreary being
shut in by floods, but why inflict the dreariness on
u 5?.... Percy L. N.: One striking stanza: —
We must weep, and we must shudder
And the wherefore doth us flumax,
That the cows beneficent udder
No milk gives these kiddies’ stomachs;
Nay! Each kiddy, son and daughter
Of cow-cockies, drinks but water.
. ...8.G.A.: “Cold Hands, Cold Heart” got the cold
shoulder... .Wowser: Story hasn’t enough in it.
. ...E.J.C.: It’s the black border this time....
M.L.L.: If you packed the good lines into very
much fewer verses “Commonplace” might g 0....
C.V.N.: Don’t wonder “their interest had waned.”
Our own w T as never touched... .Jack K.: Too prosy.
....Peter H.: Why not keep to your form?....
Bendigo: Humor trite, and telling p00r....C.H.
(Wellington) : Are you apprenticed to the man who
writes the copybooks ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.N.K.: Noted your instructions not to destroy
drawings, although the temptation was great....
C.H.W.: The gag has been gnawed at too often.
. ...A.G.C.: “Rivals at Bandwick” left at the post.
. ...L.L.: Try it on a Sunday paper with a juvenile
section. .. .A.G.F.: It’s not your trade... .Skefta:
Persistency alone is not sufficient; lessons would be
useful. .. .J.W.R.: We have never seen a girl like
your heroine and you can see a lot of girl nowadays.
. ...E.H.L.: Rough-and-tumble w0rk....5.: Tnsipid
humor; painful sketches. .. .L.T.: Very like a gag
we heard at a music-hall show before Federation.
. ...R.P.: Drawings no good; jokes reserved for
another reading... .J.A.P.: Knocked out in the
first round. .. .G.D.: Visit us again—after .you have
learned to use a pen. .. .E.L.C.: The awing is
pardonable if a first offence, but the gag has been
up before... .L.T.: Don’t want to see any more unless
you can improve greatly.


9
L
\ t
v
;;
■ \.
:
%
f
in
8
>?
■
3
$ V \
! ’ 4 N
I
1
M;
U
■ R
\ % / \
:.,-V.
■
/
i 8«
§5
»
\
i m
m
~ \
■
■§§l®®
BwmMHn si
m
m
' * * V/
.... I.; HI 8 >... 1 ....
m
mm
r 'f at Western
■ a-:
*
•S-, .
m It
Wi:
S
e
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
e


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2515.
April 25, 1928.
Shrapnel Green
DO you remember on Shrapnel Green,
On that far-off bitter November day,
When the snow lay thick, and the wind blew keen,
And the blanketed dead in a long row lay,
When your gaze went over the tideless sea
Where rode the monitors grey and grim,
The words you said when you turned to me
With voice grown husky, and eyes grown dim.
You watched for a moment a ’plane’s swift climb,
And you said, as a great gun belched its flame:
“Surely to God there will be a time
When men won’t come at this devilish game!
Have you forgotten the words you spoke
When the dead in their blankets lay very still,
The words you said in a voice that broke,
With a monitor searching for Beachy Bill,
And Imbros rising across the sea,
And a fast ’plane sliding across the sky—
To the left a rattle of musketry,
And we poor fools in a world awry,
Pausing awhile in our bitter task
To wonder vainly what it could mean?
Have you forgotten, old mate, I ask
The prayer you uttered on Shrapnel Green?
Did you catch a gleam from a vanished age ?
Did you hear an echo from other years?
Did you catch a murmur of ancient rage
And see sad eyes that were dim with tears?
Did you see men figHt for an ancient wrong
As men would fight in the years to come?
Did you see the galleys and hear the song
Of victors homing from Ilium?
What had you seen when you turned to me?
Whence came the prayer that I heard you say
When your gaze went over the old, old sea
On that far-off bitter November day?
To Shrapnel Green there has come once more
The quiet dreams that the great guns broke;
Men have returned to the ways of yore.
But one remembers the words you spoke
With a monitor shelling along the right,
And shrapnel bursting above Lone Pine,
And the shell-torn Green ’neath its pall of white,
And the blanketed dead in a long still line.
I know not whither your path has led,
Your name’s forgotten, but this I know.
The world has need of the prayer you said
On Shrapnel Green in the long ago.
Westralia. OSCAR WALTERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
°rinted and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for ihe
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of trie
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly *
12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. (id.; 3 month*,™-
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas : 12 months, A J los.,
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs. ,
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, anil
all Business Communications to be addressed to tne
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to he addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
C.P.0., Sydney. ,
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
r^T h 6 f'contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political , Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable Mo. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. 1 er-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission ol MS.
To Amateurs In Black and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
dikect reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions undgr which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
In the Main Mall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. (Jordon and Gotch, 75-19 harrmgdon
Street, London, E.C.b; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.b;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” J,11,-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3. ’
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
llhodesia News Agency, Salisoury ; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
—Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A .—Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde ; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street . New York City; II o titling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70!, Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace The New Orleans Neivs Man, 105 Royal
Street, 'New Orleans. La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 51,1 b South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros/ News Co., Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Kg Yl’T.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Bonk and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilnng Kong. „ , . ~ ,
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atwaram and Sons, 1,1, Chatham Street, Fort Colombo ;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole.
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. — Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.b.
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional boz.. Id. ,All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: boz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
’lZelvTi.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 1928.
THE FUTILITY OF MR. SCULLIN.
Scullin, as the Acting-Voice of
Federal Labor, arose, the other day at Box
Hill (Vic.) and denounced the financial
methods of the Bruce-Page Ministry with
an intensity of scorn which suggested an
archangel delivering an address at the
funeral of a cockroach. No one having yet
given Scullin an opportunity to reveal his
own financial incapacity as Theodore did,
it is impossible to judge how he would
shape as a Treasurer, but as a critic he was
poor enough. This was the gist of . his
narrative:
“The present Federal Government has in-
creased our indebtedness to Britain and
America by £28,000,000, and so has given
an impulse to importation. Loans floated
abroad come here as imported goods, and that
£28,000,000 has come to Australia in the
form of textiles, metals, motor-cars and
other articles... .Australian manufacturers
and workers lost the opportunity of pro-
ducing these articles in Australia The
remedy was to return a Government that
would be more concerned in the welfare of
Australian people and the development of
Australian industries, and less' anxious to
placate importers, or to advance commercial
interests abroad.”
But before the country rushes to put the
untried Scullin and the disastrous Theodore
in office, where they may develop the same
remarkable and questionable sticking capa-
city as Theodore’s old pals in Queensland,
it is a matter of the first importance that
the pair should explain how they propose
to manifest their concern for Australia s
people and industries. If they don’t in the
least know how to do it, as Scullin’s reti-
cence would indicate, they had better stay
out until ideas come to them.
* * * *
The Bruce-Page crowd has raised a lot
of money abroad, but a great deal of it
has been raised for the States which came
into the Loan Council, and they were quite
willing to borrow for themselves if the
Commonwealth didn’t do it for them.
Scullin’s political friend Lang did his own
loan-raising in N.S.W., and as a horrible
example of Labor finance he was dis-
couraging. It is a pity Scullin didn’t
promise to be even more different from
Lang, not to mention Theodore, than from
Bruce-Page. The new external loans didn’t
all “come here as imported goods.” The
bulk of them (in 1924-25 the whole of
them) arrived in the shape of receipts for
the interest on old loans, including the
State liabilities of Lang and Theodore.
If Australia had paid its way and kept off
the external loan market, there would cer-
tainly have been much more work avail-
able in the way of making goods. But if
the work wasn’t done it wouldn’t have mat-
tered if it was available. And, besides, it
is hard to see how Australia could have kept
off the outside loan market in the circum-
stances except by stopping payment. The
whole policy of the men who really run
Scullin’s party is to keep work at a mini-
mum, and to prevent ships going to sea, and
to avoid in every way the mortal sin of
“speeding up.”
* * * *
So The Bulletin wants to know how
Scullin and Theodore, and possibly Lang
if he could be induced to shift into Federal
affairs, propose to improve the loan situa-
tion. Scullin might do some good, or on
the other hand he might get himself dis-
qualified for life, if he organised a More
Hard Work campaign with, of course,
More Money attached. Then there are
courses which a Bismarckian Prime Minis-
ter might attempt, amid the shouts of an
astonished world, without any direct men-
tion of More Work. One is to permit im-
portation by license only, so that this year’s
export of goods would be so far ahead of
the influx of goods that the difference
would settle last year’s external interest
bill. Another is to have a long list of
prohibited imports, and to make it longer
if it proves too short. Much customs
revenue would be lost either way, but that
drawback, if it is a drawback, attaches to
any scheme which would meet the case. If
a great increase of local productiop didn’t
ensue, despite the worst efforts of strike-
makers, job-controllers and Red revolu-
tionaries, the case might be set down as
hopeless.
* * * *
Australia is heading straight for great
national trouble for no visible reason ex-
cept that it apparently decided, in 1920
as nearly as the date can be located, to
cease doing nearly enough work to support
its style of living. The position can’t be
charged to the war. That was mostly paid
for out of taxation and the proceeds of
Australian paper loans; and, besides, Aus-
tralia paid its external interest bills
honestly with its own earnings during the
war. It was afterwards that the madness
commenced. The disastrous external loans
are not represented in any adequate way
by land-settlement; the area under crop and
the number of persons engaged in agricul-
ture were both less in 1926 than 10 years
previously. The Empty North remains in
its old condition, though the five State
capitals in the South have grown marvel-
lously. And the public works policy
threatens to come to a dead end as being
too expensive a luxury.
* * * *
The inexperienced Scullin has pasted
un the advertisement that he and' Theo-
dore, who had a 10 years’ run in Queensland
and then left, are the men to put right
the foreign-loan trouble in particular. It
is a pity that he missed everlasting fame
by not giving a hint as to how he and
Theodore would set about the business.
DEATH IN THE WIRE.
Correspondents have given various hints
on the best methods of rescuing victims
from what is usually spoken of as “electric
shock,” but so far no one has drawn atten-
tion to the great value of prompt and con-
tinuous artificial respiration in these cases.
Here the primary signs of death—absence
of consciousness, of pulse and of respira-
tion—are quite insufficient indications
that a person is dead.
Formerly it was held that death from elec-
tricity was due to its effects upon the heart;
but while it is admitted that in a few cases
this may be so, in the great majority of
cases it is now considered that death is due
to paralysis of the respiratory centre, and
that to restore the victim artificial respira-
tion should be resorted to at once and con-
tinued till either the victim recovers or cool-
ing of the body or rigor mortis (death stiff-
ness) sets in. Nothing short of this should
be accepted as real death.
One of the first to put forward this view
was Professor Stefan Jellinek, of the
Vienna University, whose observations cover
thousands of cases; it is to be regretted
that his work “On Electrical Accidents,’
published in 1925, has not yet been trans-
lated into English. Lecturing before the
Royal Society of Medicine at London in
1912 and again in 1922-23, he reported a
series of successful cases after artificial
respiration, and he followed these up by
reporting another lot in the Medizinsche
Klinik of September 23 last. Support has
been given him by a number of experiments
carried out by Dr. Urquhart on behalf of
the Hydro-Electric Power Commission, On-
tario, and reported in the Journal of Indus-
trial Hygiene of April last year. Urquhart,
using rabbits and giving them a shock suffi-
cient to cause death, found that, by using
artificial respiration within five to six min-
utes after the current had been switched off,
he obtained 25 recoveries out of 30. Various
English authorities, such as Sir Bernard
Spilsbury and Dr. Elkin Cumberbatch,
have endorsed Jellinek’s view.
Dr. Hope, of Liverpool, has reported a
case in which a doctor, after 30 minutes of
artificial respiration, pronounced a man dead;
but the man’s mates, refusing to accept the
verdict, kept their efforts up for one hour
longer and the man recovered. In this case
the doctor relied on the fact that the man
had 'received a shock of over 1,000 volts;
but since then cases have occurred of recov-
ery from over 2,500 volts, and in one in-
stance quoted by the chief electrical in-
spector of factories for the Home Office, a
victim recovered consciousness after 11,000
volts, though he died later. Professors
Peterson and Webster, in their American
work on “Legal Medicine and Toxicology,”
state that artificial respiration should not
be given up under three to six hours. Often
no signs of life are seen for from one to two
hours, but they may be manifested later.
One cannot over-emphasise the necessity
for early and, still more important, con-
tinuous artificial respiration. Better start
it at once than wait till the doctor
arrives; and time should not be lost by re-
moving the body, which should be placed
on an insulating material, such as a dry
rug, sack or board without nails or metal.
Yet it must not be assumed that artificial
respiration is useless unless started at once.
Dr. D’Arsonval, of Paris, has reported a
successful case to which he was called two
hours after the accident, and since then
there has been an increasing number of
successes where a considerable time has
elapsed between the shock and treatment.
Schaefer’s method of respiration is per-
haps the best to use. If no heartbeat is de-
tected, the rescuer should immediately
Stimulate the surface of the chest-wall over
the heart by rubbing (if possible with hot
and cold towels alternately) or slapping
the chest with a wet towel, or even striking
the neighborhood of the heart with the fist.
The treatment may be varied by stimu-
lation of the soles of the feet, by cold irri-
gation of the bowels, or by alternately
pouring hot and cold water over the
chest and abdomen. In no case, how-
ever, should the subsidiary treatment
be allowed to interfere with the continuance
of artificial respiration. The victim should
not be rubbed till he begins to breathe, but
he may be wrapped up warmly, hot bottles
or buckets being placed at the extremities,
between the thighs and under the armpit.
When consciousness returns, still watch the
victim and don’t leave him alone; if breath-
ing fails, re-start artificial respiration. On
return of consciousness he may have warm
drinks, tea, coffee or a little alcohol, to any
of which sugar should be added, and he
should remain for some time in a semi-
recumbent position.
For some years past the writer has been
obtaining particulars of fatal cases in Aus-
tralia, and he has found that, in the majority,
either artificial respiration has not been
used, or, if used, has been employed for only
a short time.
GENERAL PRACTITIONER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Good Example of Brighton.
The bosses of the Vic. National Federation
have had to reckon with a revolt against
their pre-selection system in Brighton,
where an Assembly by-election will be held
on Saturday, and their annoyance has found
copious expression in the Argus. They
were looking forward to a comfortable little
contest of the orthodox type between some
protege of theirs—the more obsequious the
better —and the nominee of a Labor clique
equally obscure and insignificant in num-
bers. Instead of that, seven candidates
have come out as Nationalists, and they
are all persons of sortie consequence —H. A.
Abbott, Mayor of Brighton; H. E. Hall, a
former Mayor; J. M. Ramsay, barrister and
sometime Mayor of Sandringham; Alured
Kelly, president of the Automobile Club;
lan Macfarlan, barrister; Tommy Ryan,
formerly M.L.A. for Essendon, and Mrs.
Glencross, of the Housewives’ League.
Among the other aspirants (there are 11
altogether) is Martin Hannah, who was
Labor M.L.A. for Collingwood till he in-
curred the enmity of a powerful boss, and
whose work in the cause of forestry has
been eminently useful. „ _
The Labor candidate is W. F. Finlay-
son, once M.H.R. for Brisbane and nov
secretary of the “Temperance Reform
League.” In their chagrin the Nat.-Feds.
affect to believe that the presence of sc
many Nationalists in the field may
result in his fluking a non-Labor seat,
although voting and the exercise of pre-
ferences are alike obligatory. The sugges-
tion is that the Nationalist candidates can-
not be trusted to play the game or the
electors (there are 22,653 of them) to make
an honest, and intelligent distribution ot
their preferences. Rather has the Labor
party placed itself under a disadvantage by
offering Labor sympathisers (many of
whom must necessarily be interested in the
making or selling of beer, wine, whisky and
gin), no alternative to a Prohibitionist, and
a stranger to the district at that. Pre-selec-
tion, because of the rascality associated
with ballots and the unsuitable candidates
so often put forward even where fas in the
present instance) there is no rascality, is
really a handicap to the Labor Party, and
more and more Laborites are saying so ; but
the pre-selecticn variety of Nationalist, is
too fatheaded to perceive it. His idea is
that the way to beat Labor is to imitate
its pre-selection methods, and his imitation
is as bad as the original, if not worse.
Meddlesome little groups, claiming to
speak for* the party, have “endorsed” five
Nationalist candidates, and some mischief
has been done by this impertinence. It
is pretty sure, however, that the Nation-
alist vote will be greater on Saturday than
if the machine had had its way in the first
place, and that one of the Nationalists will
be elected; and the sense of being responsible
to the constituency instead of to a presump-
tuous cabal will make him all the better
member. The Bulletin hopes that the
Brighton example will spread to other elec-
torates and parties, so that there may be
healthier competition and a deeper regard
for Parliamentary positions, and greater
public interest in elections. Only in that
way will we get abler and honester repre-
sentation in Australia, and God knows we
need it.
. $
Seven Weary Ships.
The Commonwealth shipping line con-
tinues to be a source of trouble, and it
might be imagined that the melancholy
Bruce was in search of the article. On a
recent day two pronouncements were made,
the first being by the secretary of the Sea-
men’s Union in Victoria:—
“From the moment the ships are taken
over and crews signed on at the English
rates of pay they will be declared ‘black’ at
all Australian ports. Not a stick of cargo
will be handled, and not even a line will be
touched when they are berthing.”
Then the press rushed to see llruce about
the matter, and evolved this:—
“The Navigation Act stipulates that over-
seas vessels must pay Australian rates of
wages while engaged in inter-State services.
The Prime Minister explained that the new
owners would not be obliged to carry on inter-
state trade. It was only stipulated that the
service between Australia and England would
be maintained for a period of ten years. ’
The melancholy gentleman should really
explain this craving to buy an expensive
shindy with public money when rows and
scuffles can be had gratis at any time.
No one pays as much for a horse which
has to stick to one road for 10 years as be
does for the animal in a free state. The
fleet will be shut out of the inter-State
trade. Overseas trade is expected to
diminish; the very sufficient reason why
imports, at all events, must be less is that
Australia can’t keep buying at the rate of
recent years. Only a little over two-fifths
of the Commonwealth’s trade both ways
is with the United Kingdom now, and the
position is worse than this with respect to
flour, wheat and greasy wool—all heavy
articles. The fleet is hardly large enough
to keep up much of a trade except with a
single port, and commerce- isn’t all bound
for London.
Further, an obligation on one side to
trade with Australia for 10 years implies
an obligation on the other side not to let
the law be knocked into so many smither-
eens that trade will be impossible. _ If
that isn’t done some Court may decide that
that part of the contract is null and void.
There is hardly a fraction of doubt that the
unions will try to make things superlatively
unpleasant for any owners who buy the
Commonwealth ships and man them with
labor paid at British rates, provided these
owners frequent Australian waters. A more
promising casus belli couldn’t be imagined.
Such a shindy will be bad, and if it spreads
and becomes general it will be worse.
Considering his past record in dealing
with industrial troubles, it is reasonable to
ask Bruce if he thinks he is the sort of
man who should go seeking trouble. If «
man goes to Galway for the purpose of
cursing the Pope he should first size up
his qualifications for engaging Galway in
single combat afterwards. Australia isn't
likely to get rid of its marine incubus with-
out a disturbance, but every effort should
be made to ensure that it will be a brief
disturbance.
*
Labor and the Landholder.
The cause of the recent cleavage in the
South Aus. Country party, which resulted
in four resigning and leaving one to carry
on, is long-windedly set down as a disagree-


ment over the pact with the Liberals.
The real question is whether the C.P. is pre-
pared to present with the Liberals a united
front to Labor.
In the days before Gunn reached place
and power, Perpetual Lease, under which
huge areas of land in S.A. are held, was re-
garded as a sound title. But Comrade
Butterfield, who was Minister for Lands,
dispelled that idea. Smith owned a
Perpetual Lease in the so-called Ninety
Mile desert. He died. For eighteen months
the property just existed, and then a buyer
came along. This buyer, with several sons
to settle on the land, sold out interests in
Victoria to take up and develop the prop-
erty. For the first eight months all work
was suspended through Butterfield’s re-
fusal to grant a transfer;' and relief only
came with the Butler Government. Butter-
field even refused or failed to transfer a
Perpetual Lease property that a deceased
father had bequeathed to his son; and again
only the arrival of the Butler Government
eased the situation.
•One of the aforementioned parties ap-
proached his bank manager, who shrugged
his shoulders. “We used to advance
on Perpetual Lease titles,” he said. “We
regarded them as a very safe security, until
Mr. Butterfield came along and taught us
that they are not.” Yet there still are land-
holders and their Parliamentary representa-
tives in South Aus. who are prepared to
run the risk of having Mr. Butterfield
back at the Lands Department.
♦
The Ghost of Sahara.
The N.S.W. Liquor Referendum, which is
to be held on the first Saturday in Sep-
tember if not postponed, is a subject of
growing uneasiness. The State used to be
entitled to a liquor poll once each three
years, but in 1919 it suspended the business
for 18 months, then left it suspended, and
in 1923 hung it up again till 1928. If Pro-
hibition is tarried by a simple majority
(which would be grotesque if it chanced to
be a majority of five) the State is to dry
up in July, 1930, though it may do so earlier
if the Governor-in-Council says so. This
will allow time to size up the difficulties,
such as loss of license fees, loss of the tax
on drink sales (which has just been in-
creased), loss of rates through depreciation
in the value of the pub when it is turned
into a steam laundry or something, a cer-
tain diminution of income-tax, cost of en-
forcing an anti-bootlegging law on three
land borders, one sea border and internally,
and the price of compensation, which
applies to every possible aspect of the case.
This last is vaguely estimated at £10,000,000,
and the Government is authorised to
borrow money for the purpose if neces-
sary. It will certainly be necessary, but it
may be neither cheap nor easy. It may
even be impossible.
The loss of customs and excise duties, so
far as N.S.W. is concerned, will be the
Federal Government’s funeral, and how (if
anyhow) it will deal with the loss is a
matter of some interest. The Dry Baby
must be carried by someone.
It will be an unfortunate happening if
Prohibition is accepted by a very small and
insecure majority, with the result that the
decision is reversed after the compensation
has been paid, and when the amount has
been comfortably added to the Public
Debt. In various countries any disastrous
reversal of form is guarded against to some
extent by requiring that 60 per cent, of
the vote recorded must be Dry before
Drouth sets in, but the Ma State goes the
whole hog. It is a logical hog, but the
most logical hog may be loaded. Should
N.S.W. go Dry, there arises the possibility
that the Federal Parliament, which doesn’t
look a reliably drought-stricken body, may
make the Canberra territory and its almost-
forgotten port at Jervis Bay and the right-
of-way between them Wet, and as Can-
berra is surrounded by N.S.W. there will
be more frontiers to guard. A brewery
and a distillery at Canberra might do
wonders in the way of attracting visitors
and settlers if the place was an oasis in
Sahara.
When an easy-going Government in
1923 plunged for a bare-majority referen-
dum, with lavish compensation, to come
off in 1928, it doubtless argued that 1928
was some distance off. The idea was all
right then, but dates are shifting landmarks.
There is no doubt that the abolition of
drink confers moral and material benefits
provided there isn’t too fierce a rush to
drugs, “moonshine” whisky, motor spirit
and other substitutes. But a Treasurer
finds it difficult to levy a duty on the
benefits.
+
Mythical Wrongs and Unconsidered
Rights.
The “wrongs” of Westralia got another
airing at the Nationalist (ex-United, ex-
Liberal) conference in Perth, and certain
Foreign-trade Ms.H.R., whose croakings
empty the House at Canberra, rejoiced in
their melancholy fashion. There are West-
ralians with real grievances, but they fail to
interest the exploiters of imaginary evils,
perhaps because “the Federal oppressor”
and “the crushing tariff” cannot be held
responsible. They are people who are trying
to establish Westralian industries, and their
grievances are against fellow-Westralians.
One case was mentioned recently by
Labor Senator Graham, who has some
healthy Australian sentiment in his make-
up. “At Albany,” he said, “there is a
worsted woollen mill, the only one in the
State. It is as well equipped as any similar
enterprise in Australia. And yet 75 per
cent, of its product is sold in South
Australia because people in Westralia
will not demand the local article.” Ihe
Federal octopus is certainly not to blame
for that.
In another instance a deputation of West-
ralian wine-growers attended a meeting of
the Licensed Victuallers’ Association and
implored the publicans to sell Westralian
bottled wine in their bars. They said—
quite truly—that they were producing an
excellent article, but owing to circumstances
beyond their control their industry was
making little or no progress. The L.V.A.
president promised all the help his associa-
tion could give, “but the main trouble,” he
added, “is that the Westralian populace
will persist in asking for imported wines.”
Really, the Westralians should struggle
out of the Foreign-trade habit of mind and
support industries which mean so much to
them. There ought to be room in the
Western State for half a dozen woollen
mills. As for wine, the Swan Valley and
the Darling Range country could accommo-
date thousands of growers if a proper
measure of patronage were forthcoming.
There are not only considerable local
markets, but obvious possibilities of work-
ing up an export trade in these and other
products (fruits, jams and jellies, for in-
stance) with the Spice Islands and the
mainland of Asia.
There is too much talk about “wrongs
in Collier’s State and too little attention
to fine industrial opportunities.
»
The Troubles of J. G. Coates.
Dear Bulletin,—ln M.L., where the bulk of
the press is pro-CoATES, it is always difficult
to learn anything authoritative of the inner
THE SURRENDER.
“The Commonwealth Line is understood to have been sold; and the unions whose actions have
forced the sale are carrying resolutions protesting against it as an unpatriotic abrogation of the will
of the Australian people.”
THE UNION SPOKESMAN: “Here, don’t haul down the Southern Cross!”
AUSTRALIA: “I’m sorrier about it than you are, but you would fly your own red rag
above it.”
troubles of the Government party, but it
is common knowledge, nevertheless, that
the much-boosted Premier had difficulty
last session in keeping his cumbersome
party together. The strength of the Re-
formers proved their weakness, and hitherto
docile members displayed a frequent in-
clination to express an opinion of their own.
The Licensing Amendment debate almost
led to a dissolution, an event which, coming
at a time when most farmers were suffering
severely from the depression, would pro-
bably have finished the career of the
“Reform” Government.
Not content with the troubles forced on
him, Coates, with the aid (and probably
at the dictation) of his Finance Minister,
Downie Stewart, forced through the
House recently an amendment of the Land
and Income Tax Act whereby considerable
increases were made in the tax on incomes
from £5OO to £2OOO p.a.—in the case of an
income of £l5OO, the increase was over
25 p.c. A tired House and a dutiful party
accepted the Bill on the strength of
Downie Stewart’s assertion that the
amendments were necessary “to remove
anomalies in the taxation scale.” The
obvious result has been, of course, that
Coates has antagonised the smaller profes-
sional man and the “great middle class,”
from both of whom his party drew a very
large number of votes. Realising that
trouble was afoot, Downie Stewart pro-
ceeded to Dunedin to deliver an address
to the guid Scotch folk, who considered
themselves most unjustly treated. The
Wellington Dominion, always an obedient
servant of Coates's party, was the only
daily paper that could muster up sufficient
loyalty to commend the Minister’s apologia.
The real growl, however, springs from the
fact that, on Downie Stewart’s own admis-
sion, of 55,000 farmers in M.L. 35,000 pay
neither land- nor income-tax, and farmers,
being the especial care of Coates and Co.,
are exempt from all income-tax in respect
of their farming operations. This anomaly,
which Downie Stewart makes no threat
or promise to remove, is the real cause
of complaint and will cost the Reformers
many thousands of votes in November.
A. D. McLeod (who, incidentally, is still
Minister of Lands, Hawken being merely
Minister for Agriculture) is going to have a
hard job as chairman of the Reform
organisation between now and November,
and Coates’s Cabinet is much too ordinary
to help him. The middle class feels that it
is being squashed between the wealth of
the squatter and the unions of labor, and
is starting to spill over in the process. —
Yours, etc., H. R.B.
4_, ■
The Back Country’s Medicine Chest.
The back-country household is very largely
dependent upon proprietary medicines for
the cure of its ills; and, though this may be
less inevitable, thousands of city and sub-
urban households turn to well-known reme -
dies of the same class. Not once in a dozen
times is it necessary that a doctor should
be consulted even if one is available;
and if a chemist is available and prescribes
a remedy, it is generally a proprietary
line.
Nowhere in Australia is the public health
left unguarded. Long ago, and very pro-
perly, schedules of harmful drugs were
prepared, and it is an offence to include
them in a proprietary remedy without
setting out the fact on the bottle or the
package. Now, however, in Victoria, it is
proposed to go much further than that; and
unless the Government can be persuaded
that the regulation is unnecessary and likely
to do a great deal more harm than good,
it will come into force on January 1 next.
This regulation is, in effect, that every pro-
prietary remedy shall set out on every
packet or bottle the formula used in it's
preparation. Why should it? Why should
a chemist who has, after long and expen-
sive research, produced an article, put his
competitors on exactly the same footing as
himself? Some of the articles may be
valueless. If they are they will very soon
go out of use, if they ever get into use.
If they contain harmful substances, they
can be promptly suppressed; indeed, no
manufacturer would dare to break the law
by puttiner them on the market. -
The immediate result of the new regula-
tion, if put into force, would be the with-
drawal from sale in Victoria of world-
known English and other remedies that at
present are to be found in almost every
home, in the back-country at any rate;
for the proprietors would certainly not dis-
close their formulas to the world for the
sake of the comparatively little trade they
do in one small State. If there are harm-
ful articles on sale they can and should
be dealt with; to go further is merely
mischievous.
+
Another Compulsory Pool.
Compulsory wheat pools have always
been a hobby of Hogan’s, and when he was
Minister for Agriculture in Prendergast’s
Ministry in 1924 he strove to put one
through. It was a dead certainty that if he
got back to power he would have another
shot, and the stage is now being set for it.
For a start, a deputation of representatives
from the Vic. Chamber of Agriculture, the
Country party, the voluntary pool and two
co-operative companies has told him as
much about the business as it is good for
him to know.
What was biting the voluntary pool and
the co-operative concer'ns was the fact
that on the audited figures of 1924-25 and
1925-26 the “Big Four” among the wheat
merchants— Darling, Dreyfus, Dalgety and
Bunce —paid in 1924-25 as much as Is. 6d.
per bushel more than the pools,landjn 1925-26
4.375 d. per bushel in excess of the farmers’
own organisations. The fact was beginning
to soak into the bucolic intellect, and it
was necessary to do something. If these
private buyers could be shanghaied out
of business by a compulsory pool, which
would use the co-operative cos. as collec-
tion agents, what a profit the co-operatives
would show! The average Vic. wheat crop
between 1922-23 and 1926-27 inclusive was
39,399,800 bushels. What a rake-off! And
there were others who licked their chops as
they thought of the cushy jobs to be
apportioned.
But there were others still who remem-
bered the N. S. Wales compulsory pool,
when 20 per cent, of the crop was eaten by
elephants or something, and the boodlers
revelled in a chaos for eight long years.
If the Victorian price is raised, surely
wheat will pour in from South Australia and
N.S.W. Moreover, when the trades unions
wake up to what is going on there will be
the father of a row. The farmers, if they
don’t look out, will get their pool, the co-
operative cos. will get their thumping com-
mission, a board will get fine salaries and
motor-cars, and London selling agents will
collect another commission on the sale of
the exported wheat—all paid for out of the
farmers’ receipts for the grain. And when
the farmers ask for a high price for wheat
to make up for it all, a Ministry controlled
by the trades unions will not dare to do a
thing that will put up the price of bread.
So the farmer will be crushed, as he .gen-
erally is, between two millstones.
The Country Town Infant.
Melbourne City Council controls 20
children’s playgrounds, with, it is estimated,
over half a million attendances last year.
And the council is still going on with the
good work of making lawns, erecting
swings and slides in order to bring joy and
happiness to its budding citizens herded
together in the crowded areas of the met-
ropolis.
But what of the children of the country
towns? The prevailing impression is that
they have plenty of room to play; but
country towns have their crowded areas too.
In fact, many a country town is a whole
crowded area on its own, as if the town
planners were afraid the town might push
a cow or two off the map. As a rule there
are gardens, tennis courts, bowling green,
and sports recreation ground—for adults.
But there are, in proportion, just as many
children forced to play in the streets of the
towns as there are in the cities. They can’t
play in the school ground because the very
place that should be open to children after
school hours must be kept locked.
When a couple of hundred children play-
ing in the streets are knocked over by the
swarming car, instead of just a dozen or so
per annum, town councils and citizens will
begin to ponder their responsibilities in
this direction.
♦
An interesting contribution to the sociology
of Australia was contained in a recent an-
nouncement that a family party of eight
Russians had arrived in Sydney from the
China Coast. The leader announced that
his name would be Harris- in future, and
that he had been living for a long time in
Moscow. More than that he declined to
say. The Harrises may be the last rem-*
nant of the Czarist White Army ; on the
other hand they may not. One thing seems
clear—it is a simple matter for gentlemen
of Russian extraction to land on these
shores under a self-confessed alias without
the authorities bothering their heads much
as to what they really are. It may—or
again it may not—be significant that indi-
viduals who never miss the opportunity of
lifting up their voices in protest against the
generally industrious and law-abiding
Italian have nothing to say when a Rus-
sian contingent arrives from China or Man-
churia, as it not infrequently does. They*
may not know, but evidently they have
hopes.
“Ped-ess”: Every teacher (and ex-
teacher) will thank The Bulletin
(14/3/’2B) for the article advocating a retir-
ing-room to be attached to each school;
but a lavatory for lady teachers is a more
urgent necessity. In a small school of
which I v.as teacher in charge the parsi-
monious Education Department had pro-
vided such an outbuilding, but could not
afford a door! In a larger school with two
female assistants, the only accommodation
was that provided by three small lavatories
used by the girl pupils. Doors were pro-
vided, but the structures were so narrow
that—l can’t tell you the rest. This little
piece of i eglect is, I believe, largely re-
sponsible for many ladies in the service
suffering a break-down in health.


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Caffi de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
SILVER
EDGE
Sfaykotlb*
BRAKE LINING
REPRESENTATIVE: —
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71 , Melb.
BRITISH
The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys.
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; or
in London at the L.N.E.R. West End Offices,
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
POLITICAL
POINTS
With nearly 10 months of the financial
year gone the N.S.W. estimates for the year
to June 30, 1928, have come to light. The
Slang-Whang Ministry bequeathed to its
startled successor a batch of financial pro-
positions which would have made a deficit of
about £4,000,000, and Bavin and Co. have
been busy ever since compiling a very dif-
ferent lot. The prospective shortage has
been reduced to £1,597,107, which is good
work yet dismal enough. It is proposed to
dump the whole accumulated shortage of
about £5,000,000 into the Public Debt, where
it will have lots of bad company to prevent
it feeling lonesome, and to start afresh.
There are 11 candidates for the Brighton
(Vic.) Assembly seat —the greatest number
around a single honeypot since Watt had
preferential voting passed about 16 years ago.
It is expected that after the sixth count
Abbott, Ramsay, McFarlan and Kelly
(Nationalists) will be left in with Finlayson
(Labor), and the fact of Abbott’s name being
first on the ballot-paper will, his friends con-
sider, give him an advantage in the distribu-
tion of preferences, though it doesn’t always
work out that way.
When A. W. Robinson, ex-M.L.A., takes
his seat in the Senate in succession to Bar-
well, who was appointed when J. V.
O’Loghlin died, S. Aus. will have had three
nominee Senators in the one Parliament —
ex-Premier Jack Verran succeeded the late
Charles McHugh. There is only one parallel
case in the history of the Senate: N. S.
Wales had three nominees (Massy Greene,
J. M. Power and W. A. Gibbs) in the 1922-
25 Parliament. The Butler Government
made a rush job of Robinson’s selection so
as to get another vote against the reduc-
tion of the wine export bounty should that
proposal reach the Senate.
The leaders of the maritime unions have
missed the ’bus again. They might have pre-
vented the sale of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment line by jointly and severally under-
taking to drop the job-control madness and
giving guarantees; but the only “argument”
they could think of when the fate of the
line was in the balance was to threaten a
boycott of the purchasers, if any. And two
of the Cockatoo Island unions, which expect
to get orders for warship construction, are
parties to the proposed boycott. Just to make
the menacing fist more obvious one of the
maritime unions has boycotted the Iluddart
Parker steamers and curtailed the Maoriland
and Tasmanian shipping services in a man-
ner so wantonly provocative that the Federal
Arbitration Court, most patient and timorous
of tribunals, is talking about suspending
“the award.”
A deputation representing the ’bus interest
called on Victoria’s harassed Hogan to pro-
test against the injustice involved in the
non-renewal of a great number of ’bus
licenses, long-distance ones especially. The
Premier didn’t worry much about the justice
or injustice of the case. He said it w T as a
case of scrapping the ’buses or the trains.
The ’bus-men shouted to him to scrap the
trains, but he didn’t respond—probably
because they represent, however feebly,
£44 17s. sd. per cent, of the visible security
against the public debt, the rest being odd-
ments, and the closure of a railway system
would excite comment.
It looks as if the Commonwealth Govern-
ment will have the best of the recent row
with Canada over the spending of fresh mil-
lions on the Pacific cables. The Ottawa
Government’s idea was that the Beam would
render the Pacific cable useless, but after
months of experiment at Ballan (Vic.) the
engineers have failed to establish workable
wireless communication with Canada. Fad-
ing due to daylight seems to be the cause.
The Beam to London gets over the trouble
by working both ways round the planet, but
the Canadian section is built to beam in one
direction only.
Westralian Labor objectors to the South-
ern European invasion of the sleeper-cutting
industry made a good point when they
accused the aliens of being notorious wasters
of valuable timber. Very few of these people
have much skill with the broad-axe, and it is
not uncommon for from 30 to 40 per cent,
of their sleepers to be rejected. But there
are so many of them in the jarrah and karri
country that one of the newspapers is com-
mencing to print advertisements in Italian.
One of the by-products of wine-making is
argol, an incrustation that forms in the
vats. It is the source of cream of tartar
and tartaric acid and the active principle in
most baking-powders and self-raising flours.
Hitherto Australia has imported nearly
£300,000 worth of cream of tartar and tar-
taric acid p.a., blit before long it will be
unnecessary to buy a shilling’s worth of
either commodity abroad. Protection having
been furnished, a £150,000 factory has been
set up at Granville (Sydney), and will turn
out 100 tons each of the cream and the
acid every month.
During the Easter vacation there was, It
is said, only one member of Parliament in
Canberra (presumably Dr. Nott, who hangs
out his medical shingle there) and no Min-
ister at all. It is much the same at week-
ends. Wild tales are related concerning
departmental heads who lock up their girl
typists and leg-rope their secretaries at night
lest they should be missing in the morning.
The spectacle of herds of secretaries in
hobbles grazing among the paddocks on moon-
light nights is described as remarkable. Very
little legislation has been done since Parlia-
ment moved to ’Berra, partly because Par-
liament is seldom there. It has been pro-
posed as an expensive remedy that each
electorate should return a double supply of
members, so that there may be a duplicate
or relieving Legislature. A drawback is that
the two half-Parliaments might quarrel
fiercely.
What is described by the leading Govern-
ment journal as “a highly important stage
in the development of aerial defence” has
been reached in Maoriland. The Government
has spent £5840 on eight D.H. “Moth
planes, and offers to lend them in pairs to
flying clubs if these will accept full re-
sponsibility for cost of maintenance, repairs
and replacements. A subsidy of £25 is pro-
mised for every pilot trained, up to 20 per
club, in a year. Previously it was reckoned
that an Air Force of 30, with half a dozen
machines, was sufficient for all emergencies.
Baron Somers is unlikely to be called
upon to open next session of Vic. Parliament
till June 27. The Leg. Council elections
will be held on June 2, and the writs are not
returnable until June 16. The Labor Minis-
try, notwithstanding a direction from its own
conference, is not keen on an early meeting
of the Legislature in case, of accidents. All
the same it has nothing to dread from a
Parliament in session, as the non-Labor
fragments show no sign of consolidating.
By way of a brilliant reform the new
N.S.W. Treasurer now shows separately the
interest payable on loans invested in business
(and often unbusinesslike) undertakings
which yield more or less revenue, and the
interest on loans which are not represented
by undertakings and are just dead weight
and defunct horse. The latter is estimated for
the year at £3,413,572, which is £436,000
more than the annual dead horse of two years
ago. This, of course, is entirely apart from
war debt, which is a purely Federal affair.
The railways are expected to yield
£19,363,000, which is £440,000 more than
last year, and the railway deficit is expected
to be £1,329,318, which is £692,143 more
than last year. This is due to various'causes,
one being the careless handing out of bene-
fits by gentlemen who passed examinations
in law when young, and distinguished them-
selves more or less in divorce and other pro-
ceedings in subsequent years.
A recent arrival from New York told an
interviewer of his surprise to find “a definite
anti-American feeling” in these parts,
especially as “the United States is indirectly
a large purchaser of Australian goods.” The
gentleman didn’t mention how our Uncle
makes his surreptitious purchases. The
official figures say that Australia has to pay
or owe him about £24,000,000 per annum to
balance trade accounts. As it can’t afford to
keep up the process, there is a desire in many
quarters to risk damaging Uncle’s feelings
and those of other people where necessary for
the sake of self-preservation. A corresponding
desire was felt by Uncle when he was in a
corresponding situation as regards Britain.
The no-confidence debate in the N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly made it dismally plain what
a poor old thing the State Parliamentary
Labor party has become since “the move-
ment” was “cleaned up.” Lang ranted
ridiculously about the duty of finding jobs
for all and sundry, strikers and unemploy-
ables included, on “urgent” loan works.
Driven to admit that there were 10,000 un-
employed in his last month of office (and
that was before the crisis arrived in the coal
industry and after he had borrowed 18 mil-
lions in one hectic twelvemonth), he
attributed the fact to the dissolution. And
the oratorical support he got from Bad-
deley, Davidson, Mick Burke, Murray
and other would-be statesmen was contemp-
tible. Evidently all the brains were shot out
of the party with Loughlin, McTiernan,
Evatt and Mutch.
The Vic. Hogan Government has drifted
into the bad habit of referring nearly every
question that crops up to a commission,
board or somebody for inquiry and report.
Railway finances, dairying, land-settlement
conditions, freezing works, advisability of a
board of education, the price of various com-
modities (wheat, bread, condensed milk,
boots, gas, tyres), a public square for the
city, the strapping of an unruly boy, employ-
ment of women in agricultural-implement
factories, settlement of Anglo-Indian officers
on Western District lands, and motor-’bus
competition with the railways—all these have,
been or are the subjects of investigation.
And the Hogans were so scornful about gov-
ernment by commission before they got into
office.
An interesting pronouncement has been
made before the N.S.W. Economic Society by
deputy-manager Armitage of the Common-
wealth Bank. The gentleman recently re-
turned from abroad with one leg, it was
rumored, a fathom longer than the other
through being pulled by polite financiers —
though his leg has no direct bearing on the
story. He appeared as a confirmed and op-
timistic runner into debt, and announced
that Australia’s absolutely staggering pro-
gress would have been “quite impossible
without a rapid expansion of the public
debt for developmental purposes.” It makes
one wonder how Assyria, Greece, Rome, Car-
thage and even England staggered along
before foreign loans were invented.
Uncle Sam’s ambassadors have served on
the other four non-Bolshevik Great Powers
notice of a proposed pact to “outlaw war.”
A number of questions are involved. Is it
proposed to outlaw the surreptitious habit
of making war without declaring war—the
habit by which a big State occupies the
territory of a small one? Will war be out-
lawed only among nations which show their
non-aggressiveness by signing the pact (if
any do), or will the plan include the squash-
ing of disorders fomented by nations which
don’t sign ? And if war is outlawed, is that
to mean that the signatory Powers (if there
are any) will, when a campaign starts,
proceed to end it by licking the aggressor,
and, if so, what force will the U.S. furnish
for the good work? For it may happen that
after a Ned Kelly is outlawed he is as bad as
before, or perhaps worse.
There is a sad paragraph in the Repatria-
tion Commission’s latest report:—
Many returned soldiers of good type have made
desperate efforts to re-establish themselves in civil
life though fighting against chest disability. They
have continued to work when unfit and have not ap-
plied to the Department of Repatriation for treat-
ment or pension until actually in a very advanced
stage of phthisis. Mortality in these cases has been
severe.
Elsewhere it is mentioned that 1047 tuber-
cular soldiers are getting pensions of £8 a
fortnight, 322 are paid £5 a fortnight and
1306 are in receipt of “lesser amounts.” No
Australian worthy of the name would be-
grudge the cost of making life brighter for
these Diggers, nor would there be any cavil-
ling if it were taken for granted that everv
soldier suffering from tuberculosis got it at
the War and is entitled to full pension
rights. The commission is doing its best
according to its lights, but the quoted infor-
mation leaves haunting doubts as to whether
its best is sufficient.
Scullin, who hopes to be a Labor Prime
Minister, said this the other day : : —
Loans floated abroad come here as imported goods
.... and workers lose the opportunity of producing
these articles in Australia.
McCormack. Labor Premier of Queensland,
glanced at the same subject:—
it sounds all very well for the Government to
borrow money for the sake of keeping a man in work.
It certainly would bring to the man himself a certain
amount of immediate relief, but eventually it could
only result in his own and several other persons’
dismissal.
Then Lang, who was Labor Premier of N. S.
Wales, came with his contribution :
If all those works which have been approved by
Parliament were put in hand, they would be more
than adequate to absorb all the unemployed at present
in N.S.W. Why are they not gone on with? The
Labor Government could get 'money, and always
could. A vigorous works policy means, in Australia,
a vigorous loan policy; the two things go together.
Wouldn’t it be better for the gentlemen to
meet and arrange to say the same thing?
In Sydney nowadays candidates for A.L.r.
nominations advertise themselves (with por-
trait) in the Labor Daily —it is one of the
charming features of the New Laborism.
There is a sameness about most of these
announcements, inspiration failing the
writers when they have described themselves
as “fearless fighters” (their “fighting,” it
seems, was done in the 1917 strike or some-
thing *>f the sort), but some of the young
lions have introduced embellishments. One
such confided to the voting body that he
would be a thorn in Bruce’s side, being one
of the nation’s coming men. Another
took half a column to explain that he was
“a sparkling speaker” (“his Parliamentary
efforts were gems of neat phraseology and
well-expressed diction”), “a man of real
ability and impeccable character,” “one of
the most popular citizens in the electorate”
and “a brilliant young Australian.” These
geniuses can’t understand why unionists per-
sist in dropping them with a dreadful thud
in favor of old-style Laborites like Edward
Riley and Jack West, Ms.H.R.
Like the Scotsman in the story, the Rus-
sian Soviet sees the Deil behind every dyke,
and lives in continuous apprehension of reap-
ing what it has sown. This explains why
already it has borrowed £110,000,000, though
it was only the other day it had no use for
the capitalist except to stick him through the
stomach. After “Arcos” was raided in Lon-
don there had to be a great loan to buy
aeroplanes as an “answer to Chamberlain.”
Now the plans for the mechanisation of
Britain’s little standing army have set the
anti-militarist Russian Minister for War to
work mechanising his vast army—72o,ooo
men, the largest standing army in the world.
It will cost another hundred millions; and
Russia will ask the blessed capitalist to oblige
again. “I hate you,” Mr. Vorisholov, the War
Minister, says, “oh, how I hate you! But
come, you are my best friend—how could I
do without you!”
A deputation which selected its time badly
called on N.S.W. Chief Secretary Bruntnell
to ask that Port Stephens, which is close
to a railway and to Australia’s greatest
coalfield, should be made available for big
ships. The S. M. Herald threw in a descrip-
tion of the place :
A deep water entrance perpetually free from
shoaling or silting, a length of about 12 miles of
deep water from the entrance, a navigable length
for river boats of over 40 miles, and a great harbor
within the port, offering four square miles of water
from 32 to over 72 feet in depth.... Protecting the
entrance are three islands to the east and north-east
and Point Stephens with its lighthouse to the south.
.... The sweep of enclosed water is larger than in
Port Jackson, and the wooded islands studding the
harbor and estuaries add to its beauties.
Bruntnell froze the deputation with the
statement that to render this ready-made
harbor available would cost from £8,000,000
to £10,000,000; and if he was thinking of
paving the roads with marble and building
wharves of precious metals it might. He
added that “works were required in almost
every part of the State.” But N.S.W. Min-
isters never notice that they are required
where there is a harbor like Twofold Bay
or Port Stephens to be made available.
“F.S.M.”: The Bulletin based its re-
marks about a recent land-subdivision con-
ference at Wagga (11/4/’2B) on inaccurate
daily-paper reports. Wagga people have
seen great strides made in local production
during the past few years. When wheat
growing was started on a large scale it was
said that sheep would be wiped off the map;
actually the sheep handled last year at the
local yards mustered 415,659 against
59.621 in 1915. The recent extension of
electric light and power from Burrinjuck to
this area makes a vast difference; and the
conference, representing over 100 centres and
largely influenced by The Bulletin, re-
solved that it was a good time to do a bit
more for decentralisation. The general idea
is subdivision of the Murrumbidgee Valley
flats under committees, with subsequent
operations advised and assisted by sub-com-
mittees. Those behind the scheme know far
too much to expect a great deal of financial
help from the Government; only the other
day the town had to put up the money to
continue its sewerage scheme!
IF.
[For The Bulletin.]
“The Federal Government will introduce a bill
this session for the taking of a liquor referendum in
the Federal territory. Canberra is expected to ‘go
wet’ after its disheartening experiences of the last
year or two, and it is suggested that an interesting
situation will arise in the improbable event of
N. S. Wales deciding to ‘go dry’ at the State
referendum in September.”
A drouthy place, our Capital,
There’s no one can deny.
’Tig hard to make the hostels pay,
In fact, impossible, they say;
The civil servants growl all day,
The politicians sigh.
The air is full of fume and fret.
Lord! what a boost the place would get
Supposing Canberra were wet
And New South Wales were dry.
Where Private Enterprise is now
Unconscionably shy,
Picture the frantic, frenzied race
There’d be toward the favored place
From those who deal in cask and case
And malt and hops and rye,
If here alone were Tiddley Ground
And all the parent State around
In Prohibition chains were bound,
Chip-parched and cinder-dry.
Slow grows our Capital, they say;
’Twould do a sprint, I’ll bet,
Were it the sole oasis shown
Amid a desert dry as bone,
Where froth from pots might still be blown
And bars be breasted yet,
If Bavin’s realm abjured its tot
And on the water-waggon got
While Canberra’s indicator shot
As sharp from dry to wet.
If New South Wales went dry, there’s lots
Would feel a bit upset;
But I suspect the fiercest ban
Upon the pussyfooting clan
Would split the sky at Queanbeyan,
The blackest frowns be met,
The loudest lamentations burst
From Bungs that quench the week-end thirst.
For pubward trails would be reversed
If Canberra were wet.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Subtendo”: It was at the ante-Eastev
scramble in a city emporium that I found
myself waiting while my wife made her pur-
chases. A little girl whose mother was
doubtless similarly occupied had wandered
unthinkingly through the turnstiles with a
suitcase and as unsuspiciously sauntered
towards them again. Someone in authority
pounced on her like a hawk. “Little girl, '
lie demanded sternly, “did you bring that
case in with you?” “Yes, sir” (wide-eyed).
“Have you anything in the case?” “Yes!”
TRADE-MARK.
OLDUN : “What makes you think they’re telephone girls?”
YOUNGUN: “Well, I said ‘Hullo,’ and they didn’t answer.”
(wonder deepening). “What is it?”
“Mummy’s new nightdress.” Put it to the
inquisitor’s credit that he joined in the laugh.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The war between the buses
and the Vic. railways is providing some
comic relief. One of the banned buses en-
deavors to evade breaking the law by selling
apples to its clients. The cost of an apple
is from ss. to 10s., according to the length
of the route to be traversed, and the recipient
is supposed to occupy himself with the fruit
all the way, whereby the conveyance ceases
to be an omnibus and becomes a restaurant
on wheels. Another line sells its passengers
lollies. The person who can keep a boiled
s iveet going from Melbourne to Bendigo must
be a wonder.
* * * *
“Sobk” : Queer drinks (B. 4/4/’2S) ? Its
only a few years ago since shanty-keepers on
Ivurrawang (W.A.) woodline used to impait
a piquancy to their home-brewed sugai-
beer by the addition to each cask of a
pound of plug tobacco (to give it a color)
and a box of English Epsom salts (to give
it a taste). It sold at threepence the full
pint and the flavor and the effects lingered
even unto the third day.
* * * *
“Runa”: Speaking of faked antiques (B
11/4/’2B), there is a Sydney expert on Per-
sian rugs who relates how, many years ago,
he was sent by his London firm to
Omar Khayyam’s country to study
the subject on the spot. In one
small village noted for the produc-
tion of beautiful rugs and the dis-
covery of carpets of unquestioned
antiquity, the visitor found himself
interestedly watching the com-
pletion of a fabric that had been
several years in the making.
Crowds had gathered to view the
finished article, when suddenly the
makers seized it and threw it into
the village street. For nearly a
week it lay there, guarded all the
time, while the traffic of the village
passed over it and the rain anil
dust did their work. Then it was
taken up to have some further
marks of age impressed upon it,
prior to being shipped abroad as a
genuine antique.
* # * *
“Mullarula” : There is something
almost pathetic in the unshakable
belief old residents retain in the
possibilities of decayed mining
fields. At Nundle, on the almost-
forgotten goldfield in the hills above
Tamworth, I found several in-
domitable ancients still working
with pick and shovel to discover
the lost reef which dipped out of
sight somewhere in the long ago.
The town once had 15,000 people
and about a dozen pubs. Its popu-
lation has shrunk to about 400 and
the pubs to two, but when I spoke
of Nundle’s lost glory to a 70-year-
old prospector, he snorted and as-
sured me: “It was never more than
a village ’longside what it’ll be
when we strike the lost reef.” And
with that he returned vigorously to
the quest.
“Murrungurry”: Black brother has an
occasional tombstone in what were once his
native wilds. One of these near Kameruka
squattage (N.S.W.) marks the resting-place
of Doolan, one-time King of the Kameruka
and Bemboka blacks, who died in 1575. It was
erected by Robert Lucas-Tooth, though what
claim King Doolan had on him I don’t
know. In the long ago the native who is
thus honored acted as huntsman for a gentle-
man named Walker, who kept a pack of fox-
hounds on the Tantawanglo River. Another
abo. memorial stands in the bush some miles
away from Butterbone homestead. This
stone was erected by some neighboring
squatters “To the memory of Natty Brown,
aborigine. A fellow of infinite jest.” Natty
died at Regenbah in 1911 when he was about
70 years old; his place of sepulture is an
old aboriginal burial ground.
* * * *
“X.N.0.”: In my paragraph about the
Gibraltar courts-martial I made no attempt
whatever to defend Admiral Collard, who ap-
pears to have behaved disgracefully (B.
11/4/’2S). My criticism was directed
against Daniel and Dewar for putting their
own personal grievances before the good of
the service and pursuing them to the extent
of forcing the hauling down of an Admiral’s
flag and all the subsequent proceedings. All
of us in the service have been before now
in positions very similar to that of Daniel,
the obvious driving force in the concern, but
we haven’t blazoned our personal grouch
from the masthead, to be the sport of the
yellow and Continental press. The service
has standards of its own for these matters ;
Daniel and Dewar forgot those standards, a
thing which thev had no business to do what-
ever Collard called them or the ship or the
bandmaster.
OLDER STILL.
WIFEY: “.But, dear, no woman wants to look as though her dress came out of the Ark!”
HUBBY: “H’m, no, but if you women go on much further you’ll look as if you came
out of the Garden of Eden.”
“Graeme”: My youngster returned from
school full of a sense of injustice. “When
the explorers ran short of food,” he related,
“and when they had killed all the sheep,
they killed the horses” (here his voice
faltered), “and then they ate the poor dogs
(downright sobs). “But,” I asked, “why
don’t you cry about the sheep, too ?” “Oh,
them?” he rejoined. “They’re used to being
eaten.”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I can confirm “C.Q.'s” state-
ment (B. 11/4/’2B) that the last place to
get genuine antiques is on the spot where
they are supposed to have originated. From
Port Said to Peking the traveller is offered
scarabs, krises, Benares ware and batik as
the real native article and each “Oriental”
store is as like the next as so many muni-
cipal garbage tins. Most of this stuff is
made in England, though Japan is butting
more and more into the mass-production
business. The more canny tourist avoids
these things, but by going further he fares no
better. I thought I was safe in buying a
parang or head-hunter’s sword tufted with
real human hair, rusted with blood, and with
half-a-dozen of the brass pellets knocked out
of the hilt to indicate the number of top-
knots that had been separated from their
owners, especially as I purchased it 50 miles
in the interior of Sarawak and from a loin-
clothed and gibbering savage. Underneath
the blood-stains I found a well known Shef-
field trade mark.
* * * *
“Cooramin”: The strangest case of “didn’t
know it was loaded” that I have come across
occurred on a selection near Casino (N.S.W.)
while two men were having dinner together in
a small slab hut. One of them had picked up
the barrels of an old gun, and before sitting
down had put them in the fire, at the opposite
end of the hut, to separate them for maul
handles. A few minutes afterwards there was
a tremendous explosion, and a bullet whizzed
between the two men’s legs and lodged
in the wall under the table. A second ex-
plosion followed, but not until the pair were
half-way down the gully and an old argu-
ment as to which of the two was the better
runner had been definitely settled. The gun,
ball-loaded in both barrels, had apparently
been left or lost by a former resident.
* * * *
“Detonator”: “P.X.” (B. 4/4/’2B) says he
doesn’t know an Italian in Aussie who
doesn’t call himself a “Dago.” Is he
serious? I’ve always found.it the best way
to buy a fight in North Queensland. The
Italian, especially if he be from Northern
Italy, resents the word not only as a British
term of disparagement but because it has an
objectionable meaning in Italian slang. On
the other hand, he doesn’t mind being called
a “Wop,” the Yankee coinage for the race.
* * * *
“Hanno”: 111-gotten gains aren’t always
dissipated as rapidly as copybook headlines
would suggest. A lady passed out in Sydney
a few months ago, and left an estate valued
at £15,000. She began her profitable career
as a petty thief, gaining her sobriquet wheu
she was convicted of stealing wood from a
house in course of erection, but she soon
developed into one of the most skilful and
proficient of pickpockets. Living frugally,
every penny that she made or stole was
invested in real-estate, and to her tenants
she was known as the hardest sort of land-
lady. She put in several terms at Long 3ay,
but her activities were resumed the moment
she was released and her investments con-
sistently prospered. She died intestate, and
though she is known at one time to have
possessed a husband, all efforts 'to locate
him have failed, and it is probable that some
highly respectable relatives will inherit the
fortune.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui” : I wonder if the Commonwealth
Government, in selecting recruits- for its
tropical territories, takes into consideration
the color of their hair. From observation
on the spot I long ago came to the conclusion
tli at when the tropic sun is selecting its
victims it shows an ungentlemanly preference
for blondes. The small brunette type of
white man is successfully resistant to equa-
torial conditions where the Nietzcliean big
blonde beast goes under. I knew one fair-
haired Englishman who, recognising this,
tried to correct the paleness of his skin by
exposing it to the sun on every occasion, but
he gave it up when he found that it resulted
only in blisters and never in permanent
tan. On the other hand, the planter who
starts by being a brunette ends by being
darker than ever, the same being due to the
pigment in the blood, Nature’s screen against
excessive sunlight which the negro lias in
fullest measure. Even the red-head is more
resistant to tropical diseases than the. brown.
Scientific confirmation of this opinion has
lately been provided by the French Govern-
ment, after careful investigation. It selects
only dark hairs for its colonial officials.
* * * *
“Minto”: “Simon’s” half-caste Chinaman
who was flogged as well as imprisoned for
fiendish cruelty to a horse (B. 4/4/’2B) re-
minds me of another atrocity in which a half-
breed figured. It was in the Longreach (Q.)
district. The horse was a jibber, and his
rider, half-Chow, half-abo., tied the animal
up, lit a fire under it, and then flogged it
with the heaviest whip he could find. The
horse had to be destroyed. The other men
on the station didn’t invoke the Law to
punish the offender; they did the flogging
themselves and made a very effective job
of it. Most full-blooded Chows, by the way,
are kind to their horses, as far as my ex-
perience goes.
*.* * *
“Max”: William Blake’s duplicated illus-
trations of the Book of Job, recently dis-
covered in an Auckland suburb (B.
11/4/’2B), are not the only precious relics
in possession of the Martin sisters. Their
other treasures are Blake’s “Wise and
Foolish Virgins,” alluded to by Gilchrist
in his life of the poet-artist, four portraits
by Linnell, and a portrait by John Opie—
a collection liable to attract a horde of
Yankee cognoscenti at any moment.
* * * *
“Arthur R.”: Touching these unpleasant
potentialities of electricity (B. 18/4/’2B).
One evening recently my radio-receiver sud-
denly went silent, and, after cutting off its
batteries, I began to investigate with a screw-
driver. As soon as it touched , the metal I
received a shock which threw me to the other
side of the room, jarring every joint of my
body. My luck w r as in, however. A day-
light examination showed that my aerial had
blown free and fallen across a “live” electric
wire. I now wear rubber gloves when muck-
ing about with my wireless.
* * * *
“Poseidon”: The Drawin beercot is over,
and the color line, it is claimed, drawn for
good against Binghi as an adjunct to the
liquor trade. But if it takes 1000 unionists
six weeks to get rid of three abos. from the
local hotels, how long will it take them to
enforce the dismissal of nearly 300 of the
same race employed at the restaurants.,
bakers and carriers, or in household service?
The union announces its determination to
put every nigger round about .Darwin out
of a job; it will begin by blacklisting offend-
ing carriers and restaurants, ai\d later
threatens to start on private employers of
the original owners of the country.
MARCHIN’ IN THE RAIN.
[For Thk Bulletin.]
Slobs of mud and water,
Sound of guns again ;
Roars of drivers: “Watch yer feet!”
“Think you’re back in Flinders-strcet?”
“Let a blanky soldier pass.”
“Watch yer mules and not the grass.”
“Damn footsloggers any time.”
“Here they come again,”
While the column’s marchin’,
Marchin’ through the rain.
Marchin’, marchin’, marchin’ in the rain.
Up the line from Dickiebuseh
Down to Fleurs again.
Swappin’ hopes an’ swappin’ fears:
War might last a hundred years,
Get yer column movin’ on
While yer boots are squelchiu’.
Listen to the thunder.
Those are guns a-belehin’.
Never mind a little noise,
Think of all the Aussie boys
Growlin’ just like you are.
Keep yer blanky nose in front,
This is what they call a “stunt.”
Wliat’s a little pain
When yer on the Menin-road
Marchin’ in the rain ?
Marchin’, marchin’, marchin’ in the rain.
Fritz has gone clean through Bayule;
Chase him back again.
Never mind the slobs of mud.
That damn shell was just a dud.
Dream you’re in the Brighton train,
Dream you’re back at home again,
Dream you’re dead, but keep your head
Marchin’ in the rain.
*.* * *
There are days of sunshine here
While I sit on Brighton pier,
But my thoughts go wandering back
Out along the grimmest track,
And a column brown I see,
Shades of men who used to be,
Faces twisted up with pain.
Still they tramp the road again,
Marchin’ on the heels of Fate
Up the road to Menin Gate,
Evermore they’re marchin’,
Marchin’ in the rain.
VICTOKIA.
THE WOWSER.


“T. 8.”: An extraordinary tale comes from
the Government Sanatorium for Consump-
tives at Heatherton (Vic.). It appears that
the place has no medical superintendent, and
the 250 patients were looked at occasionally
by an official doctor from another hospital.
A new director of tuberculosis matters sent
along an X-ray apparatus and a medical man
to examine the inmates. Thirty of them
were found not to be suffering from tuber-
culosis at all, although some had been in the
sanatorium for years, and it was estimated
that one of them had cost the State and the
municipal councils £llOO. These victims of
almost incredible bungling are to be drafted
to the benevolent asylum in the same district
and their places filled by lona fide sufferers.
* * * *
“Toheroa” : The tranquillity of a Lyttleton
(M.L.) restaurant was furiously disturbed
recently when Henare brought in two damsels
of his own race for luncheon and chose a
table next to that occupied by three seamen
from an oversea liner. When the scornful
word “Niggers!” floated across, the Maori,
a huge specimen of his race, paused to con-
vince himself that he had heard aright and
the insult was intentional; having satisfied
EXPLAINED.
“I always thought he was your best customer. How ever did he come to run away with
your wife?”
“Oh, got into the habit of taking my latest pot-boiler off my hands, I suppose.”
himself on both points he hurled himself at
the offenders. Tables, chairs, glass, cutlery,
crockery flew all ways as the aggrieved native
flung one sailor across the table, jammed the
second against the wall, and, in the intervals
of pommelling both, aimed a sufficiency of
side-blows to preclude the third from taking
an active part in the fray. The uproar was
deafening, and it looked as if there would
be some cases for the coroner, when other
patrons took a hand, and between force and
persuasion managed to get Henare to suspend
operations. Amid the debris of food, wood-
work and crockery three chastened foreigners
assessed their damages and reconstructed
their views of the Maori race.
# * * *
“X.D.” : The release from Pentridge of a
prisoner who has served 154 years recalls the
sensational crime of 1912. when a burglar
entered the house of Geoffrey Syme, a pro-
prietor of the Age, and, unfortunately for
himself, awoke that householder before he
could proceed with the work in hand. Syme
tackled the man, who tired a fusillade of
shots. The children’s governess then burst
upon the scene and bravely flung herself on
the retreating battery. Syme seized the
desperado’s revolver and clubbed him on the
head with it. Although the police main-
tained that this particular Sikes had an un-
savory record, the jury brought in the usual
recommendation to mercy, which the late
Justice a’Beckett disregarded, sentencing the
prisoner to death —a penalty subsequently
reduced to imprisonment for the term of his
natural life and three floggings, In Pent-
ridge he learnt to be an excellent cabinet-
maker, French polisher and bootmaker; and
the Hogan Ministry regards him as a re-
formed character.
* * * *
“Borom”: The most ingenious faker of
old furniture (B. 11/4/’2B) fails when he
seeks to imitate the one thing which is the
hall-mark of the genuine antique, viz., the
tiny holes made by boring insects. The
genuine holes have a smooth, clear edge;
in the synthetic product the same edge
is broken and irregular in outline. The
reason, of course, is that the insects
work with almost inconceivable slowness,
and there is no comparison between their
methods and firing small shot into the wood-
work or boring with a minute gimlet. In
the faked antique the splintering and ragged-
ness can be easily distinguished with an or-
dinary magnifying glass and no amount of
care will disguise it.
* * * *
“Adamascus”; I disagree with “Nurse C.’s”
statement (B. 4/4/"28) that “unless the
young quack has enough money to buy a prac-
tice it takes him longer to get on his feet
than any other professional man.” A
doctor’s services are so indispensable to man-
kind that, regardless of youth and inexper-
ience, he is bound to get a certain amount of
work soon after he starts practice. The
newly-qualified solicitor is far less fortun-
ately situated, simply because in law, where
urgency is not so necessary as in medicine,
clients prefer the more experienced man.
In the matter of equipment also the doctor
has the advantage. Instruments and text-
books he certainly needs, but his initial out-
lay is very much less than the lawyer’s.
I’m firmly convinced that the young solicitor,
if he starts without influence, lias the hardest
struggle of any professional man to get on
'his feet, except, of course, the newly-admitted
barrister, who may have to wait months or
years for his first brief unless he has some
pull with solicitors.
* * * *
“Centurion”: There will be weeping in
the stately (servants’ ) halls of England at
the tidings that the 11th Hussars are to be
dismounted and formed into a mechanised
unit. In pre-war days the troopers of the
lltli commanded the highest fee for wmlking
out with house- and nurse-maids of any
regiment outside the Household
cavalry. Their value as escorts
lay in their beautiful crimson
breeks with two yellow stripes
down the sides which were unique
in the service, and brought them
their famous nickname of the
“Cherubims”—for army use, two
letters were always transposed.
Two Queensland cousins, Claude
and Charles Rome, were officers in
the 11th—one of them rose to command the
regiment. Both were in Australia as vice-
regal aides, and their uniform was wont to
attract as much admiring attention here as
in the homeland. Another “Cherubim,” Cap-
tain Curtis, was till recently on the Governor-
General s staff.
* * * *
“Verri”: A Sydney business man who has
fits of absent-mindedness left his office in a
city building the other evening without
having locked either the door or the safe,
though the latter contained nearly £lOO in
cash. In the night he suddenly remembered
his negligence, and left for business next
morning in a thoroughly uneasy frame of
mind. Ascending the stairs he was met by
a tenant on the same floor who reported ex-
pitedly that burglars had been in the build-
lag during the night and forced a number
of doors. Corroboration came from several
quarters, and the absent-minded one had
almost given up hope of seeing his cash again
before he reached his own door. To his
amazement and relief his room presented no
evidence of burglary, and in the half-open
safe the cash box reposed undisturbed. As
most of the offices on the same floor had been
entered, and several of them despoiled of
COULD HAVE IT ALL HIS OWN WAY.
“I wish some brainless idiot had proposed, to you before we were married.”
“He did, darling.”
“Well, then, I wish you had married him.”
“I did, darling.”
anything of value lying round, the only in-
ference was that the thief had decided that
a man who didn’t bother to lock his door
couldn’t possibly have anything inside worth
annexing.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : My friend Bluey is as
good a toiler as the next man but also as
fond of his bunk as a sleeping lizard. He
had been out of a job for some time, but
when I met him recently he told me that
he had got a start as night-watchman at a
wine and spirit store. When I suggested
that it would be hard to find a job less
suited to his temperament, he grinned
amiably. “A bloke’ll come at anythink ter
git outer the queue,” was the way he put
it. “It’d be a good enough cop if it wiizn't
fer havin’ ter thump the bundy every ’our;
but I gotter dinky little buzzer an’ I sets
’er at 10 minits to. So yer see I gets erbout
49 minits outer every ’our anyhow.”
sjs * *
“Gregor”: To assign a French derivation
to the word “pommy” is surely grotesque,
but I have heard it seriously argued that the
older-established and (to most people) dis-
tinctively Australian term “cobber” is a
corruption of the French “copain.” The
latter is Parisian argot for a mate or close
friend —literally, “one with whom one shares
bread.” The word is pronounced as though
it were spelt “ko-pay,” with just the faint
suggestion of nasality in the second syllable,
and the letters “p” and “b” being easily
interchangeable it is an easy transition to our
“cobber.” Nine-tenths of Australian slang
really has a foreign origin, Cockney and Yid-
dish words being especially frequent in a
garbled form.
* * ❖
“Midford”: “She brought forth butter in a
lordly dish,” the Bible used to tell us of
Jael, preparing for the assassination of Sis-
cra; a recent Bulletin contributor, versi-
fying that famous breach of hospitality, fol-
lows the original to the very words. But
I wonder what the treacherous if patriotic
lady really did give her victim, and what the
Revised Version makes of it. Strange as it
may seem to us who have made butter one
of the first necessities of life, the ancients
knew nothing of it. There is no word in
Greek or Latin for butter, nor, for aught I
know, is there one in Hebrew, simply because
such a thing didn’t exist. Cheese they had,
of course, and possibly in some forms un-
known to-day. Personally I like to feature
the Kenite’s wife as regaling her guest with
something on the lines of a Welsh-rabbit,
served in a silver chafing-dish. Butter, even
had it been available, would have been poor
fare for a defeated warrior fleeing for his
life.
* * * *
“P.M.” : The Post. Office does the obvious
thing occasionally, but seldom until it has
exhausted other alternatives. Some time ago
I sent a card notifying change of address to
the local electoral registrar, and he sent back
the usual notice to me, but absent-mindedly
omitted the name of the street, so that
my occupation, “hutter-maker,” was all the
department had to go on. For seven weeks
the letter travelled around to various
addresses, drawing blanks at every one.
Finally somebody endorsed it: “Try local
butter-factory.” I got it next morning.
* * * *
“Deadeye”: Norwegian whalers are not
the only seafarers who have a grievance
against the Maoriland charts (B. 11/4/’2S).
In January, 1910, the s.s. Waikare struck
an uncharted rock in Dusky Sound and_ be-
came a wreck. At the inquiry in Dunedin a
seasoned master-mariner was asked if he con-
sidered the West Coast fiords were properly
surveyed ; he replied, with Scottish caution,
that they were as well surveyed as t
of the M.L. coast. The press took up t e
matter, and the Government was prevailed
upon to obtain the services of a marine sur-
veyor from India, where good work of the
sort is done. The expert duly arrived, but
when he found that the only surveying ship
placed at his disposal was the lighthouse
steamer Hinemoa —a craft totally unfitted for
the work —he threw up the job and returned
to India. It may still be said that the coast
of Maoriland remains as well surveyed as
the West ,Coast sounds.
* * * -f
“Belaying Pin” : “Ferrochie” is all at sea
about the antecedents of the Tristan da
Cunha islander who came to Melbourne with
his family (B. 11/4/’2B). The aforesaid
Capt. Cartwright was the second mate of a
British sailing ship which was wrecked on
Inaccessible Island about 35 years ago. The
crew reached Tristan in boats, and Cart-
wright spent some years there and married
a widow by whom he had two sons. Finally
he got a passage to Capetown with his family
in a warship and, after some trawling ex-
periences there, came on to Melbourne, where
for a time he was skipper of the Common-
wealth trawler Endeavor. A son and a step-
son served in the war; Cartwright himself,
when I last heard of him, was captain of
a small steamer trading between Melbourne
and the Speck.
* * * *
“Wang”: Speaking of pub names, how is
it that the most democratic centres furnish
the hotels with the most high-sounding titles?
In the Melbourne suburb of Richmond are
the Prince Alfred, the Royal Saxon, the
Prince of Wales, the Earl of Lincoln, the
Duke of Albany, Lord Raglan, Sir Henry
Barkly and the Royal Oak. A stranger
might conclude that Richmond had an in-
tense regard for aristocracy, whereas it
votes about as solidly for Labor as any
place in Australia.
❖ sis * -fi
“Lost Pibroch”: There are few pipers on
the North Queensland coast now, but in pre-
war days, before Cairns was connected by
rail, they were numerous on our then
splendid steamer service. On one well-known
coaster the chief officer and the bos’n were
both players of sorts. On one occasion, after
a pleasant evening at Cairns, they played
themselves down to the boat about midnight.
However invigorating their performance may
have been to music-lovers, it annoyed the
police, who summoned them. However, their
luck was in. A patriotic Highlander was on
the Bench, and he not only dismissed the case
as frivolous but snubbed the constable who
had laid the complaint. Some weeks later the
pipers repeated their serenade in a southern
port, and were again haled to court. This time
the occupant of the Bench was neither Scotch
nor musical, and the disgusted Gaels were
fined a guinea apiece and costs for creating
a disturbance.
* * * *
“Mephisto”: Bank depositors’ eccentri-
cities? In a Queensland town there is an
old fellow who wanders into the savings
bank every Monday morning with 255. in
silver. On every succeeding day of the week
he waits on the step till the bank opens,
when he withdraws ss. By Saturday, of
course, the sum is exhausted, but a surplus
shilling in the book keeps the account open.
He has been doing this for nearly seven
years.
* * * *
“Gregor”: The ancient barn built at the
head of Mosman Bay (Sydney) by Archibald
Mosman as a storehouse for the oil brought
in by his whaling vessels, and recently con-
verted into a club-house for the local Boy
Scouts, is a tribute to the solidness with
which builders did their work a century ago.
Although the structure required a good deal
of renovation to make it habitable, its mas-
sive walls and foundations were found to be
as sound as ever. The building, which has
been used for a variety of purposes since it
outlived the original one, is one of the last
of its period surviving in Sydney.
ONLY HUMAN.
r Pn „ Thp Riiii _ tlkl
“At the Ipswich (Q.) Eisteddfod the adjudi-
S’v.X'-oi-.SThon’irt"
skirts that came half-way between the knee and the
ankle gave a more dignified appearance... .would,
for instance, enable a competitor to place one of her
feet on the rung of a chair with much more graceful
results.’
Like some stern judge of mortal destinies,
He weighs their worth upon that fatal
stage
Where songsters wrestle with the higher C’s
And elocutionists sedately rage.
No common frailty, it would seem, could
toucli
Aloofness such as this, no mote impair
That cold, keen vision, yet—it proves too
much
When Phyllis put her foot up on a chair.
The warmth of the most ardent acting leaves
Him cool, detached, dispassionate, serene;
The wildest notes the willing singer heaves
1< rom out a lab ring chest might well have
kf. 01 '
The undisturbing murmur of a dove.
Nor pity moves, nor anger makes him
„ glare;
H® sits upon Olympian heights above— — .
Till Phyllis puts her foot up on a chair.
We lesser mortals in our lesser groove
Who aim, maybe, at philosophic calm
May feel uneasiness within us move,
May know a far from philosophic qualm,
And yet not realise (so dull and base
Our uiiadjudicating instincts there)
That what disturbs us is—the lack of grace
When Phyllis puts her foot up on a chair!
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


GUARANTEED MADE BY
EASTMAN KODAK C°.Y
m
'*
a
II ,
!
Important Announcement!
FREE TO SMOKERS
of
“Vice Regal” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s Flat Tins
“Three Castles” Cigarettes, 15’s Packets and 50’s Flat Tins
“ Capstan n (Ooal) Cigarettes, 25’s and 50’s Flat Tins
“ Player’s ” Cigarettes, 18’s Packets
A No. 2 Cartridge Hawk-Eye Model “C ”
CAMERA
(Guaranteed made by the Kodak Company)
This Camera is finished in handsome black leatherette, fitted with view finder, is daylight loading, and
takes excellent pictures l/i inches. TO OBTAIN THE CAMERA coiled! the Coupons now
enclosed in any of the above well-known brands of Cigarettes, and when you have collected 100, write
your name and address plainly on a piece of paper and enclose with Coupons and bring or forward to
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Australia) LTD.
KENT & BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY.
Or 411-423 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
who in return will present' you with the Camera as advertised.
COUPONS NOT REDEEMABLE AFTER 31st DECEMBER, 1928
START COLLECTING NOW!
and forward as soon as you have the requisite number.


V
n
nllim
L
me
v
Every West-East Record
Broken on
Plume & Mobiloil
World’s Car Endurance Record
Continuous run of 1005 hours
by Whippet Car (Tasmania) on
PLUME MOTOR SPIRIT
N.S.W. Aerial Derby
Ist and 2nd places (and
fastest time) secured on
Mobiloil
Australasian Tourist Trophy
MOTOR CYCLE RACES,
Phillip Island Victoria.
All the winners used
Mobiloil
Mr. Norman {“Wizard”)
Smith t the famous Speed
King, who in a Studebaker
car established these new
records.
Mins.
Days.
Perth to Adelaide - 2
Perth to Melbourne 3
Perth to Sydney - - 4
Perth to Brisbane - 6
Hrs.
15 3
10 55
10 43
3 32
This wonderful new trans-continental series of
records has just been established by Messrs.
Norman (“Wizard”) Smith and E. Poole in a stock
model STUDEBAKER Car.
Plume and Mobiloil were used throughout.
Achievement after achievement in Australian and
New Zealand motoring and aviation has been
accomplished on this famous combination of spirit
and' lubricating oil.
On 15th March, Mr. Smith broke the 24-hour
Australian Track Record at Lake Perkolilli,
W.A., covering 1701 miles in 24 hours,
averaging the remarkable mileage of 71
miles per hour.
He paid the following great tribute to Plume
and Mobiloil: —
“Plume developed wonderful power and
Mobiloil was the cause of the engine running
better at completion of record than at the
word ‘Go’”
pLUME
and
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.


PILGRIMS’ PROGRESS.
“Legislation is proposed to remedy,” etc., etc.—Any newspaper, any day.


The Great Australian Novel
£l7OO
Prize Competition
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., having succeeded in establishing the short story in
Australia, is now out to produce the great. Australian novel.
To this end it offers £l7OO in prizes spread over three years.
The first competition will close on June 30, 1 928.
First Prize - - - - £5OO
Second Prize - - - - £125
Third Prize - - - - £75
The winners will retain all rights except those of first serial publication in Australia
and Maoriland.
Serial Publication of the £5OO
Prize Story will commence in
“The Bulletin” in August or
September.
THE GREATEST LITERARY EVENT IN AUSTRALIAN JOURNALISM
The Competition is open to all persons bom in Australia, New Zealand or the
islands of the South Pacific, and to persons bona fide resident therein.
PENDING THE PUBLICATION OF THE PRIZE NOVELS “THE BULLETIN”
WILL PRINT A SERIES OF THE GREATEST SHORT STORIES YET
PRODUCED IN AUSTRALIA.
The First of this New Series will appear on May 9.
“WHITE KID GLOVES”
By KATHARINE SUSANNAH PRICHARD,
Author of “Working Bullocks,’’ “The Pioneers,’’ “Black Opal,’’ etc., etc., and
winner of Hodder and Stoughton’s £lOOO Prize.
In addition to these illustrated stories “The Bulletin’’ will contain all those features
which have made it known the world over.
Obtainable from all newsagents and bookstalls; or direct from the Bulletin
Newspaper Co., Ltd., 214 George Street, Sydney; 1 14 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
For 24/- in advance The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., will send you, post free,
52 numbers containing this new series of short stories and the three prize stories
in the Great Australian Novel Competition.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
Bsßti
€2O
£2O
Ec;)isciJ
£2O t2O £2O
Some of our newest diamond designs.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS L TD
23 ~25 HUNTER ST.
OLoL&st JoweJJLe/vii Flouuse tn Sydsvay
“The Successor to the
Outboard Motor”
«
0
fell
m m
2fh.p. INVINCIBLE Inboard Motors
for Row-boats, Canoes, Dinghies and Light
Launches. They weigh only 601 b. and the
price of £3O includes everything necessary
for the Installation in your Boat with Free
Clutch, Bosch Magneto, Kingston Carburettor,
Three-blade Polished Propeller, Brass Benzine
Tank, Bronze Shaft, Muffler, etc. :
We pay freight to any port in Australasia.
Other Invincible Motors in sizes from 4 to
60 h.p. Ask for Catalogue.
Invincible Motors Limited
53 North George Street, Sydney
(near Harbor Bridge).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Same May birthdays :
C. H. Book (Vic. Crown Prosecutor), 33, on Ist;
Senator Major-Gen. Charlie Cox, 65, and Brig.-Gen.
G. M. Macarthur-Onslow, 53, on 2nd; Justice Rich
(High Court), 65, and Prof. Laby (Melb.), 48, on
3rd; Dave Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), 63, and Prof.
MeKellar Stewart (Adel.), 50, on 4th; N.S.W. Pre-
mier Bavin, 54, on sth; Vic. Chief Sec. Prendergast,
74, on 6th; Federal Minister Pratten, 63, and J. T.
Heathershaw, 57, on 7th; G. S. Browne (Melb.
Teachers’ Coll.), 38, on Bth; H. G. Hampton (W.
Aus. Under Sec. for Law), 58, on 10th; Prof.
Perkins (S. Aus. Director of Agric.), 57 on 11th;
Canon E. S. Hughes (Melb.), 68, on 12th; Bishop
James (St. Arnaud), 51, and F. A. Coghlan (N.S.W.
Auditor-Gen.), 69, on 13th; N.S.W. Senator Colonel
Abbott, 59, on 14th; Chief Justice Blair (Q.), 57,
on 16th; Bishop Langley (late of Bendigo), 92,
poet Leon Gellert, 36, and Chas. A. Hunt (Under-
Sec. for Works, W.A.), 56, on 17th; Dr. C. A.
Fenner (S. Aus. Education Dept.), 44, and Dr. Percy
R. Cole (Sydney Teachers’ Coll.), 49, on 18th;
Dame Nellie Melba, on 19th; Federal P.M.G. Gibson,
59, and F. J. Rae (Director of Melb. Botanic Gar-
dens), 45, on 20th; W. R. Bayly (Prince Alfred
Coll., Adelaide), 61, and M. S. Sharman. (Melb. Uni.
High School), 52, on 21st; ex-Justioe Gordon
(N.S.W.), 70, on 22nd; Justice Angas Parsons (S.
Aus.), 56, on 23rd; Lieut.-Gen. Governor Goodwin
(Q.), 57, W. J. Colebatch (S. Aus. Irrigation Commis-
sioner), 51, and Ivor MacGillivray (formerly M.P,
for Port Adelaide), 88, on i4th; Jas. It. Fowler,
M.A. (Adel, merchant), 63, on 25th; Archgaiters
Riley (Perth), 74, on 26th; Dr. Fred. Bird (Melb.),
70, ICnight Arthur Cocks (N.S.W.), 66, Jvnignt
Capt. Fred. Waley, 68, and Colonel J. W. Castine
(S. Aus.), 82, on 27th; ex-Chief Justice Cullen, 73,
Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 77, and Fred. Robert-
son (Adel. Advertiser), 70, on 28th; Prof. Berry
(Melb.), 61, on 30th; and Q’land Senator Foil, 38,
on 31st.
Australia has been put on the top of the
world again, by Captain George Wilkins, who
did not press-agent his flight across the
North Pole; the world scarcely heard of it
till he and his American companion, Carl B.
Eielson, were safe in Spitsbergen. Wilkins’s
life has been crowded with adventure since
the Adelaide boy, at the age of 22, distin-
guished himself by taking amazing photo-
graphs of the Balkan War in the thick of the
fighting. He was with the Stefannson Polar
expedition when the war started, but directly
he heard of the scrap—which was not until
11)16 —he plunged in, and towards the end,
as official photographer for the A.1.P., took
more amazing pictures. His over-the-Pole
flight has involved patience as well as daring,
lie started out in February, 192 G, but had
his ’plane smashed.
Alex. Gordon takes away Australia’s best
crop of judicial whiskers ; it has waved on
the N.S.VV. Supreme Court Bench for over
18 years. He wasn’t a recluse before hs
took to the Bench, and he went to the theatre
for his wife—Margaret Thomas, who came
to Australia as a concert singer and re-
mained to play in musical comedy. For most
of his years on the Bench he was in Divorce,
where he got more praise than he deserved —
he was too ready to cynically assume the
worst.
Prof. Colin MacKenzie, whose classifica-
tion of the Cohuna skull caused world-wide
interest, has brought another sort of collec-
tion back to Melbourne. It consists of death
masks of famous people which that conserva-
tive body, the London Royal College of Sur-
geons, delivered up only out of compliment to
the Australian Government. They include
Oliver Cromwell, complete with wart; Robes-
pierre, with the mark of the guillotine on
his neck; Lord Lister, the founder of anti-
septic surgery; Sir James Simpson, the es-
tablisher of anaesthetics; Burns, Huxley,
Darwin; and John Hunter, the famous bone-
sawyer. The last named is the only duplicate
ever permitted to be taken. The mask of
Robert Bruce, taken from his well-authenti-
cated skeleton, goes furthest back. The col-
lection will mark time at Melbourne Museum
until it goes to Canberra.
Frank Tate, about to retire from the Vic.
Directorship of Education, is the doyen of
the State’s departmental heads. Appointed
26 years ago, he is more than 10 years ahead
of the next bunch —Cameron (Agriculture),
Robertson (Health) and Mclver (Lands).
Heathershaw (Chief Sec.’s), Lewis (Law),
Merrin (Public Works and Mines), Pitt
(Treasury) and Stevens (Labor) are com-
paratively recent creations.
The first chaplain appointed to a Maori-
land yacht club is sporting parson Jasper
Calder, of Auckland, who recently received
the church pennant of the Akarana Yacht
Club. For some time past the parson has
cruised in his own yacht round the various
Auckland bays, holding informal beach ser-
vices. ' The popularity of these gatherings
prompted the yachtsmen to adopt the parson
as a permanency and give him an official
standing in the club.
A pretty good performance has been put
up by pressman H. Bruce Lewin. Finding
himself in Cairns at 65 without job or coin,
he set out and trudged from there to Mel-
bourne. Unable to find the sanctuary he
sought in the Vic. capital, he tramped to
Sydney, doing the trip in 15 days. He
hailed originally from Mudgee.
From a large field Miss C. M. Ashworth
has been chosen as head of the Methodist
Ladies’ College, Adelaide. She took all sorts
of honors as a girl in Sydney, at High
School, T.T.C. and University (B.A. 1916).
Then she had four years establishing mission
schools in Fiji. Latterly she has been head
of the M.L.C. at Ravenswood (N.S.W.).
After a trial that provided the flapper
press with reams of what it considers prime
news. Ronald Geeves Griggs, the ex-Metho-
dist 'probationer of Omeo, was found not
guilty of wife-murder at his second trial in
Melbourne last week. The trial attracted the
customary crowds of morbid-minded beings.
together with several actresses appearing in
crime plays, present, no doubt, for profes-
sional reasons. The traditional woman appa-
rently not being present to do the graceful
deed' of fainting when the verdict was
announced, a parson friend of the acquitted
duly obliged, amid silent but grateful
applause from the press gallery. Griggs was
defended by the brilliant blind K.C., Max-
well.
George Judah Cohen, of the bulging money
bags, is S 6 on Friday, and still manages to
fill his chair at innumerable board meetings
in Sydney. He and his wife celebrated the
diamond jubilee of their wedding only re-
cently.
D.L. McNAMARA, M.L.C. (Vic.), general
secretary of the A.L.P., who was hauled
over the coals for taking a seat on the
Constitutional Commission.
Ralph Thomas Gore, who succeeds Judge
Herbert in the judicial office for Papua, is
well known in Queensland law. AN. S.
Welshman by birth (Glen Innes 39 years
ago), he was privately coached on law, and
became associate to Samuel Griffith. After
a spell off duty at the war, he practised at
the Brisbane Bar. He went to Papua four
years ago as Crown Law Officer.
Richard Beck, who died the other day,
claimed to be 110; but The Bulletin has
never inspected the proofs. He was alleged
to be 40 when, having seen Australia
as a seaman, he resolved to make it
his home. The Catherine Adamson, on which
he came, crashed on the rocks at North Head
(Sydney), and, bundling the ship’s boy into
a boat with him, Beck had a desperate
struggle to get ashore. He worked on the
construction of the railway between Sydney
and Parramatta, did some gold seeking and
ultimately became a farmer :at Adelong.
South Aus. has lost a fine old engineer, at
83, in A. B. Moncrieff, who became a
Government draughtsman in that State in
1875, engineered the line from Port Augusta
to Oodnadatta, and became engineer-in-ehief
in Adelaide in 18S8. He succeeded John
Hill as one of the three Railways Commis-
sioners and. was the first chairman of Adel-
aide Tramways Trust. When he retired in
1916, it was after 42 years’ work without
any leave of absence.
Passed on in Melbourne at 65, James
Mason, former deputy P.M.G., who had
been attached to the department from boy-
hood. A wound he received from a revolver
fired by an insane postal hand in Adelaide
two years ago broke him down.
Victoria has had five Anglican Bishops—
Perry, Moorhouse, Goe, Clarke and Lees —
and the lately-retired Archdeacon Bindley has
served under four of them. The old man, who
has been very sick, is only a few months
off his clerical jubilee. That event will mark
a record period of service for the Established
Church of Victoria. Hindley owns a soft
and plaintive voice, which even in health
derides the fact that he started out in life
as a commercial traveller.
Francis Davison, of Mt. Gambier (S.A.),
reputed to be the Commonwealth’s oldest
practising solicitor, has just passed his 89tli
birthday. Landing in the State with his
parents in 1839, he was admitted to the Bar
in 1862, and, settling in Mt. Gambier in
1868, has practised there continually ever
since. A few decades ago he was mayor of
the town for four terms.
Reafforestation of the Upper Murray, to
ensure an adequate watershed for the Hume
dam, is a pet project of Beckett, V ic.
Minister for Forests; and while he was
in Sydney lately he got N.S.W. Minister
Chaffey to see things in the same light.
Beckett is having a skeleton plan prepared
for his side of the river, and is keen on in-
ducing Gepp’s Development Commission to
have half a million or so allocated from the
£32,000,000 J. Bull made available for
development and migration projects.
With a gait still showing remarkable
energy, John Gale, of Queanbeyau
(N.S.W.), walked past his 97tli milestone
last week. The old man continues, to do his
work as a magistrate, a journalist and a
public man of various capacities, including
that of Methodist lay-preacher. He thinks
he may retire a few years hence —when he
is 100.
Oliver Mewhinney, who died lately in
Maoriland, kept the bagful of pabulum up
to date for Premier Seddon and Duncan and
McNab, Ministers of Lands. Before becom-
ing a private sec. Oliver was an Inky Way-
farer, and on one occasion demonstrated that
a journalist may have the courage literally
to beard the lion in his den by stepping into
a cage with one, for which he received a
gold medal. Whenever Duncan, as Minister
of Lands, got a bit mixed in driving home
an argument, he would always point to his
private sec.’s black bag and say: “It’s all
in the bag there, if you want more proof.”
Lord Ivylsant, whose reported purchase
of the Commonwealth steamers has been
causing a commotion, is one of three capable
Philipps brothers distinguished as much by
their inches as for their brains. All have
sat in the Commons, and at the same time,
and were its tallest members. The eldest, Lord
St. Davids, is a country magnate and Lord
Lieutenant of Pembroke. The next is Major-
General Sir Ivo Philipps, who, in addition
to other labels, carries the D. 5.0., and is
M.P. for Southampton. .Kylsant, who sat
in the Commons as Sir Owen Cosby Philipps,
member for Chester, before his peerage
descended upon him, is a G.C.M.G., and in
addition to his multitudinous shipping con-
nections, is vice-chairman of The Port of
London Authority.
British naval discipline demanded its
pound of flesh from the . subordinates who
kicked against their admiral in the Royal
Oak affair, but British fairplay has put mat-
ters right. Captain Dewar and Commander
Daniel, having been formally punished, are
to receive new appointments, while Rear-
Admiral Collard goes on the retired list,
losing a fair slice of £1715 per annum and
the chance of becoming a full admiral at
£2401, with allowances that sometimes go as
high as £l5OO extra.
The legal aristocracy of Sydney has lost
a distinguished member in Alfred E. Jaques,
who was born 80 years ago, the son of a
grazier who pioneered the Narrabri district.
Jaques made an alliance with the Stephen
family, which brought the firm of Stephen
Jaques and Stephen into existence.. One
of his sons is the member for Bondi, who
sits in the N.S.W. Assembly minus a leg
that was left in France
M.J. MacNALLY, the water-colorist, one
of whose exhibits at the recent Aus-
tralian Water-color Institute exhibition
in Sydney was purchased for the
National Gallery.
Father Michael Quinn, who got the call
aloft from Essendon (Vic.) at 70 the other
day, had been shepherding in the Melbourne
archdiocese for 45 years. A notable pulpit
orator who could fill the church any time,
he was one of three brothers who took
orders. The survivor, Father T., is in com-
mand at St. George’s, Carlton—a front-rank
job.
ON NIGHTS LIKE THIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
é
NORMAN FALKINER, grazier and race-
horse owner, who has been persuaded
that it is the duty of young men of
means to take more interest in politics,
and therefore has announced his candi-
dature for the Vic. Upper House (Mel-
bourne South province).
He’d see a “reo” on his own and sitting still
among the crowd,
And knowing ’twas his first time in, he’d
hear himself say clear and loud:
“This won’t be anything at all, it’s only just
the usual kid !
And, if it isn’t, anyhow Fritz isn’t fighting
like he did.”
A man recalls on nights like these more
than the mud and battle’s din;
He knows the hardest fights were fought
before the batt. was moving in.
A memory shall stay with him until he.
hears the last “Dismiss !”
The mateship and the cheering word —they
all come back on nights like this.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


ê
When you face a problem
outside your personal experience,—•
that’s where the Alexander Hamilton
Institute comes in!
We invite you to send for this
little booklet, which will tell you all
the details regarding the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. It will cost you
nothing and may mean a great deal
to you in the months to come.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
« CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w. b 4
WHICH COUNTS MOST?
First Cost or Cost of Upkeep?
Buying exactly the right belt for its purpose may cost a little more in the first place, but
it is genuine economy in the long run.
We make a type of Leather Belt for every purpose —each the finest in its class.
PIONEER ..... CHROMOL
COMBINA PLATYPUS
Every belt bearing one of these Ludowici trade-marks is fully guaranteed—and backed by
70 years of belt manufacturing experience.
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers Since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell & Sons,
Simpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland ;
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
Arthur Rickard and Co. Extended.
Ltd., Sydney:—
, Dividends-. „
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Proflt. p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1918. v 17,179 9,438 6 p.c.= 7,500 241 10,976
1919.. 23,640 10,154 6 „ „ 9,000 4,486 15,462
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves, £19,944 .. 35.406
1920.. 43,467 12,281 74 p.c.= 11,250 19,936 55,342
1921.. 39,073 14,582 8 ~ „ 12,000 12,491 67,833
1922.. 34,264 14,781 8 ~ ~ 12,000 7,483 75,316
Subsidiary cos.’ assets written up
and bonus shares issued . . 37,428 112,744
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 62,744
8 p.c.
1923.. 38,849 19,169 8 p.c.= 12,000 7,680 70,424
1924.. 34,007 20,642 6 „ „ 12,090 1,275 71,699
1925.. 34,499 22,339 6 „ „ 12,000 160 71,859
Subsidiary cos.’ reserves £5OOO . . 76,859
1926.. 40,842 24,000 6 p.c. = 12,000 4,842 81,701
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 31,701
Subsidiaries’ reserves, £5658 •• 37,359
1927.. 42,002 26,233*5 p.c. = 11,641 4,128 41,48/
■"lncludes 8J p.c. on 3rd. prefs.
Early in the term £50,000 of bonus scrip
was handed to the ords. Later 100,000 new
£1 8$ p.c. “D” cum. prefs. were offered, and
75,000 of them had been taken up when the
books closed, Dec. 31. That made capital
£625,000 in 100,000 8 p.c. first “C” prefs.,
200,000 8 p.c. second “A” prefs., 75,000 8£
p.c. third 4 'D” prefs. and 250,000 “B” ords.
The scrip ranks in the order stated and the
“D” class participates with the ords. up to
10 p.c. Over the last decade the ords. have
averaged only 6.6 p.c.; but last year’s gift,
together with that of 1922, makes a 5 p.c.
div. to them worth a shade over 8 p.c. to old
holders. About 16,500 of the “D” shares
were exchanged for scrip in the Northern
Suburbs Building and Investment Co., Ltd.,
which was added to the list of subsidiaries
during the year. Thus the parent’s princi-
pal holdings are as follows -
Amount held
Paid by A.R.
Capital. Extended.
Arthur Rickard and Co., Ltd... £450,000 £450,000
Haymarket Permanent Building
Co. 100,000 99,988
Northern Suburbs Building Co. .. 20,060 20,000
Five years ago £100,874 of scrip was held in
Hotel Sydney, which emerged out of the
Central Railway Palace Buildings, Ltd., but
the holding had been worked down to £9OOO
at the close of last accounts ; 7200 shares
were sold in< the 12 months.
The proceeds of that sale, a special divi-
dend, of £17,500 from the Haymarket co.,
and the money that came in on the new share
issue, together with a reduction of £18,422
in the amount advanced (£49,471 at Dec. 31)
to the Arthur Rickard co. by the parent,
enabled the latter to add a further £IOO,OOO
to its share holding in the chief subsidiary.
It had such a busy time during the year that
it went outside for a further £72,320, making
mortgages and balances owing on properties,
etc.. £224,873. Unsold land (£204,985) was
£93,802 heavier; balances owing on sales
(£218,505) —these are interest-bearing—in-
creased by £44,863. The latter is satis-
factory, because it ensures, under fair con-
ditions, a revenue for some years to come.
Gross profit (£70,826) was nearly £lO,OOO
better than in 1926, but there is nothing very
attractive in the net result (£31,974), though
it shows an improvement of £3790. And the
result is all the poorer in view of the fact
that the co. had 10s. 3d. of outside money
at risk, apart from the amount owing to
the parent, for every £1 of shareholders’
funds.
Unlike most holding cos., A. R. Extended
does not put the accounts of its subsidiaries
into hiding. Here is the position as dis-
closed at Dec. 31 :
Arthur Hay- Northern
Rickard market Suburbs
Co. Co. Co. Total.
Mortgages, etc.. £224,873 £32,097 £6,946 £256,970
Deposits .. 6,244 6,244
Other debts . . 82,993* 238 209 83,440
City property .. 90,000 37,089 127,089
Unsold land .. 204,985 30,943 5,010 240,938
Balances owing,
etc 218,505 34,385 20,508 273,398
Other book debts 90,295 5,438 9,079 104,812
Debentures .. 79,696 40,000 119,696
Shares in other cos. 117,371 1,075 118,446
Govt, securities
and cash .. 8,989 1,817 477 11,283
includes £49,471 owing to parent co.
In addition the parent owed depositors
£18,487 and sundry creditors £3647. Also
there was its holding in Hotel Sydney and
£llB of book debts. The position will look
more attractive when the heavy outside debt
is reduced. Whether .shares and debentures
in other cos., totalling £238,142, are worth
their book value is something the investor
can only guess at. City properties include
Rickard House, in at £90,000, and said . to
be worth at least £30,000 more. But w-ith
£240,938 in unsold land it will be necessary
to do some brisk selling before the partici-
pating rights attached to the “D” shares are
likely to be worth anything.
The Ilaymarket co. netted 6.7 p.c. on its
capital, or £702 more than was necessary to
repeat the 6 p.c. div., which has been an
annual event since 1920. At Dec. 31 the
Ilaymarket co. had 6s. lid. of outside money
at risk for every £1 of its own funds. The
Northern Suburbs co. netted £696 for the
half-year to Dec. 31, equal to 8 p.c. p.a. on
its average capital, and distributions were
at the same rate. Its finances were comfort-
able enough.
At Dec. 31 there were net assets with a
book value of £6 13s. 3d. for every “C
pref., of £2 16s. Bd. for the “A’s” and
£4 17s. 9d. for the “D’s.” Last year’s net
profit was over 11 times the total pref.
requirements. On the market the “C” shares
are valued at par, and the “A’s” at 175.;
the return at the latter figure is 9.4 p.c. The
“D” and “B” shares are not quoted on
’Change.
j\i V *
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
To
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. Reserves: Reserves.
£ £ L L
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43,32-5
1919.. 29,833 S ~,,17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,406
Premiums on new shares.. 1,509 45,975
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10 ~ „ 26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 ) 44 934
Tax thereon, £95..
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22.302 7 ~ ~ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 3} „ ~ 9,660 24,106
19?5 24,948 8 „ ~ 22,080 2,868 26,974
1926. : 23 898 8 „ ” 22)079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Last year sales dropped £31,000 below the
1926 figure, the shrinkage in gross profit
(£167,208) was £12,706, and the cut in exes,
only £752. Thus the fall in net earnings
was £11,954, and for the first time since
the public became interested 23 years ago
shareholders went hungry. Tim board blames
(1) the Sept, strike, which is said to be
responsible for about one-third of the de-
crease in turnover, (2) continued drought
and (3) unemployment. But profits have not
been moving right for some time : in 1924
only 3.3 p.c. was netted on paid capital,
followed by 9, 8.6, 7.3 and then 3 p.c. last
year, or an average of 6.2 p.c. Stocks are
said to be clean and faithfully valued, and
it is claimed that the co. is not beaten in
prices and that the management has made
strenuous efforts to stimulate trade.
In addition to its city trade the co. has
a strong connection in the back country, and
the effects of drought there are reflected in
the last two years’ figures. Apart from tha*-
gross earnings have been moving up all
right:—
1918. . £134,312 | 1925. . £174,251 | 1927.. £179,914
1922.. 141,388 | 1926. . 186,031 | 1928. . 167,208
But -exes. —they ate 94.9 p.c. of last year's
gross profit compared with 88.7, 87.1 and
85.7 p.c. back to 1925 —have been so heavy
that the co. has not managed to get much out
of the larger trading. Taxation is an annu-
ally increasing burden, and what makes it
more so is that part of the co.’s city freehold
carries only one-storeyed shops. A new
building might provide a way out, but that
would call for a good deal of money and it
may not be easily got. The freehold, in at
£128,037, is carrying a mortgage of £39,969,
and the co.’s scrip is at 13s. on the market,
which means that the response to a new
issue would be doubtful. Thus, far the
board has refrained from offering pref.
capital. Results at the co.’s Maryborough
branch have not been satisfactory of recent
years, and it is to be closed. The decision to
shut down there enabled the management to
reduce stocks (£191,586) by £28,460 and to
lighten the debt (£173,032) by £29,380 last
year. Further, a country branch usually
means double handling of stocks, so exes,
should benefit, too. At Jan. 31 there was
I Is. Id. of outside money at risk in the
business for every £1 of shareholders’ funds,
as against 13s. 4d. a year earlier, and that is
a healthy movement.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows the changes : —•
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £250,000 £275,993 £275,993 £275,993
Liabilities .. 215,787 190,137 202,412 173,032
Stocks .. 242,847 217,293 220,046 191,586
Property .. 138,327 127,870 127,935 128,037
Plant, etc. .. 23,571 28,362 27,895 31,529
Book debts, etc. 111,418 134,171 137,849 126,828
Cash and in-
vestments. . 21,934 3,266 5,247 6,431
The financial position was comfortable
enough. But the more or less liquid surplus
(£151,813), including stocks, slipped back
£8917 last year. Reserves, equal to 2s. 7d.
per share at the close of accounts, need to
be a good deal more robust before the co.
can face lean times without anxiety. The
management is grappling with its problems,
and conditions, especially in the back
country, promise to be less unkind duryig the
current term than they were last year.
* * =* *
Provident Life Assurance Co., of
Dunedin (M.L.), which is also doing busi-
ness in the Commonwealth :
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 25,564 11,494 4,484 9,586 68.598
1919.. 28,985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1921.. 38,176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,136 160.018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,780 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548.. 219,214
1925.. 58.583 11,294 10,380 36,909 256,123
1926.. 65,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,579 38,305 331,748
The Provident, which started as an Indus-
trial office, first gave its friends an oppor-
tunity to take out Ordinary policies in 1008.
The Maoriland State Office and the big
Australian mutual and co-operative con-
cerns have been strenuous competitors; and
mainly because of that and the conservative
policy of the management, progress in this
branch has been languid. Nevertheless it has
been along sound lines. Last year £249,000
of additional cover was taken out under
1034 policies, or £3397 more than was writ-
ten under 1062 policies in 1926. Thus the
average per policy was about £241 compared
with £231, £239 and £237 in the three pre-
ceding years. The cost of putting the new
business on the books was in the neighbor-
hood of 100 p.c., about the same as in the
previous year. That is assuming that it took
7 p.c. of the renewal premiums to handle
the old business, and the balance of the
year’s exes, to get new premiums. The cost
of conducting the whole department was
15 p.c. of its total income; the rate has been
worked down from 18 p.c. in 1919, and that
is satisfactory. Another pleasing feature
was the improvement of nearly 2s. in the
rate of interest realised (£5 12s. 9d. p.c.) on
average funds last year. Valuations are on
a 3J p.c. basis, aad 90 p.c. of the total profits
belongs to policy-holders. Actuarial investi-
gations are made every five years, and the
next will take place at the close of the cur-
rent accounts. In 1924 surpluses were dis-
closed, and everything appears to have moved
in the co.’s favor since then. In the Accident
branch, owing to heavy claims a small loss
,(£133) showed up for the first time last
year—the surplus in the previous term was
£733.
The progress in the Industrial branch is
seen in these figures :
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dee., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 68,701 17,793 33,142 1050 120,485
1919.. 75 200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1921'. . 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.e.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3648 .. .. 279,872
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 . . . . 325,910
1926.. 137,552 35,365 55,157 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,105 63,673 1470 422,159
Of last year’s record increase of £11,385 in
income, premiums accounted for £10,241; in-
terest, etc., for the balance. The £632,358 of
new business written was £22,261 more than
was put on the books in 1926, and the ave-
rage policy was £46 compared with £59, £47
and £44 back to 1924. But exes, are climb-
ing; they ate 50.7 p.c. of the year’s premium
income compared with 47.8, 46.8 and 44.7 p.c.
in the three previous years. However, after
meeting claims, paying exes, and handing the
usual 7 p.c. to shareholders, funds benefited
by £50,659 as against £45,560 in 1926. The
return on average funds, including £21,000 of
paid capital, was £5 10s. 4d. p.e.-—an in-
crease of nearly Is. on the rate realised in
1926, and nearly 2 p.c. above the valuation
rate. The improvement is due mainly to a
levelling up of the rate charged for loans on
policies.
Combining the figures of all branches we
get this picture of the co.’s progress:
Total Expenses
Income. Claims, (inc. divs.).
1899 .. .. £9,177 £2,835 £6,462
1909 .. .. 30,785 8,369 20,650
1919 .. .. 104,185 29,075 41,721
1923 .. .. 156,716 45,398 54,103
1924 .. .. 173,757 50,809 57,379
1925 .. .. 186,627 40,044 63,000
1926 .. . . 202,690 51,914 67,896
1927 .. . - 218j968 52,252 76,252
Thus since 1919 income has more than
doubled, the div. has been lifted from 6 p.c.
to 7 p.c. and exes., including divs., have
dropped from 40 p.c. to 34.8 p.c. of income.
Investments are a solid lot. Of funds total-
ling £774,906 there was £656,799 in Govern-
ment securities at Dec. 31. The co. took up
£38,600 of Farmer’s (Sydney) 6 p.c. first
mortgage debentures during the year, and
that should further help the margin between
the assumed and actual return on funds.
* * * *
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pro- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Loss on Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Business, dends. Assets).
£ £ £ £
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil) 12n41(;
Renewals written off, £10,750.. )
1919.. 295.000 244,212 7,785 Nil ( 138 200
Renewals written off, £10,000.. J
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 260.263 887 Nil) 146,213
Renewals written off, £B9OO. . J
Loss.
1921.. 296,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158.994
1922.. 296,000 282,816 10,703 Nil 169,697
1923.. 295,000 293,693 10,849 Nil 180,046
Asset reinstatement £2546 .. 1(8,000
Capital written down, £78,000 •• 100,000
Profit,
1924.. 300,571 397,964 11,310 Nil 99,921
1925.. 300,571 397,574 11,150 Nil 99,996
1926.. 300,571 397,574 13,568 Nil 99,985
1927.. 300,571 397,574 12,885 Nil 99,990
That is the second-best result since the co.
leased the Emu Bay and Mt. Bischoff co. s
Burnie-Waratah line and connected it with
the mines on the Tas. West Coast 30 years
ago. What a sick business it has been may
be judged from the fact that last years
£12,885 of profit represented only 1.8 p.c.
on the total share and debenture capital
(£698,145) now on the books. The latter
figure, by the way. still includes a loading of
£lOO,OOO, which was collared by the pro-
moters for rights and concessions. For a
long time prior to 1924 insufficient was
earned to pay interest and rent. The position
was then tidied up, in a way, by the issue
of irredeemable debentures; £266,674 5 p.c.
stock replaced the co.’s own debentures and
interest arrears, and £130,900 p.c. stock
was handed out to debenture holders in the
Emu Bay-Mt. Bischoff co. in place of
the lease, which carried a rental of £lO,OOO
p.a. This latter arrangement represented a
saving of £4llO p.a. in outgo. The books
were balanced by striking 6s. per share off
the ords., reducing them to 9s. each.
These figures show the position at the
close of last accounts compared with what
it was four years earlier: —
1923. 1927.
Debentures ~ .. •• £172,000 £397,574
Pref. capital 100,000 183,571
Ordinary capital .. .. . • 195,000 117,000
Deferred rent and interest .. 41,100
Deferred debenture interest .. 55,964
Interest and unpresented coupons 2,487 10,055
Funded div. certificates and
interest .. • • .. • • 22,142
Arrears of pref. divs. .. .. 40,000
Sundry creditors .. .. 2,571 7,738
Accumulated losses .. .. 80,545
The 5 p.c. debentures were non-cumulative
for two years from Jan. 1, 1924. The prefs.—
there are 61,500 7 per cents, and 122,071 6
per cents; —are non-cumulative, but that does
not matter much, for they have had no div.
since before the war, nor does there appear
to be any prospect of one. After attending
to the 41 p.c. debentures only .enough of last
year’s profit remained to give the 5 p.c.
debs. 2 5-8 p.c. compared with 2 7-8, 2
and 2 p.c. back to 1924. Thus has the co.
limped along since the'funding and writing
down; and now the debenture debt is start-
ing to pile up again. As for the ords.. the
only thing that looks certain is that little
short of a miracle can give them any return.
Apart from the debenture debt, liabilities at
Dec. 31 amounted to £17,794, and there was
£23,425 in cash to meet them. The railway,
etc., including the goodwill item, is in at
£673,354, or £lll3 less than the figure at
which it stood a year ago. Stores and book
debts amount to £21,342 f odds and ends,
£327. The track is reported to be in fair to
good condition and the culverts and bridges
in good repair.
The immediate outlook is that little, if
anything, more than debenture interest is
likely to emerge out of the business. Be-
cause the Electrolytic co. is going to treat
the Reid-Rosebery ores on the field, there will
be less traffic to Zeehan than was, perhaps,
originally hoped for. The erection of the
now treatment mill is scheduled for the cur-
rent year, and preliminary work is well in
hand. Last year the railway co.’s revenue
from passenger traffic increased by £4600,
but that from ore, etc., fell off £2BOO.
Traffic receipts for the first quarter of the
current term (£14,136) are about £lOOO less
than for the corresponding period of - last
year. The drop is due to the smaller quantity
of goods and minerals handled; passenger
traffic increased.
* * » *
Australia’s gold production continues to
shrink steadily, mainly because of higher
costs. For 1927. the production was
504,7070 z., valued at £2,143.855, as
against 520,0060 z. valued at £2,208,843 in
1926. Westralia still maintains pride of
place as a producer, the 1927 figures being
408,3500 z., or close on four-fifths of the


/
A
Australian records
STUDERAKER,
1
holds them sill
Every Australian Speed and Endurance Record
from 1 to 24 hours, also from 100 to 1700 miles
[I7OIJ miles in 24 hours]
FREMANTLE -ADEL AIDE,
1777 miles in 63 hours 12
minutes. Lowered previous
record by 6 hours 45 minutes.
FREMANTLE-MELBOURNE,
2336 miles in 82 hours 55 min-
utes. Lowered previous record
by 15 hours 20 minutes.
FREMANTLE - SYDNEY,
2958 miles in 106 hours 43
minutes. Lowered previous
record by 12 hours 22 min.
FREMANTLE-BRISBANE, 3711 miles
in 147 hours 32 minutes. Established
new record.
ADELAIDE-BRISBANE, 1934 miles in
82 hours 2 minutes. Established new
record.
When a strictly STOCK car can
travel so far so fast under the worst
possible conditions, it must possess
superabundant POWER,
STAMINA and STRENGTH.
Thus does Studebaker perform
eagerly, easily, smoothly—with no
Erskine Models from £298 to £445
Director Models from £378 to £550
ADELAIDE-SYDNEY, 1181 mile* in
41 hours 13 minutes. Established
new record.
MELBOURNE-BRISBANE, 1325 miles
in 62 hours 37 minutes. Established
new record.
labour or effort—any and all tasks
placed upon it. But you must drive
a New Studebaker yourself
to realise how far it outsteps com-
petition. Get behind the wheel
yourself to-day and draw your own
conclusions.
Commander Models from £560 to £665
President Models from £665 to £Bl2
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and TSiew Zealand Distributors ;
rj if Cm. J f 1 NEW SOUTH WALES:
Ihe Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited, Sydney
VICTORIA: ottffmct *Mn. * *
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
, Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street
Christchurch.
WRB3,


DontLoseYourMoney
CONSULT
“The Wild Cat’ Monthly"
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MAY NUMBER
NEXT WEEK.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The "M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
pOORD&SOiy p
' FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
DT
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
year’s total. Queensland's output jumped
from 90860 z. in 1926 to 33,8330 z. last year,
but much of the increase was due to Mount
Morgan’s final clean-up. Victoria took second
place with 38,5380 z., just a little over
10,000 oz. short of the previous year’s
figures. N.S.W. cleaned up only 18,0370 z.,
as against 19,4350 z. in the previous year.
South Australia collected 7500 z., or Boz. less
than in 1926. Tasmania put on nearly
IOOOoz., the year’s total being 51040 z., and
with Queensland was the only State to show
an increase. The Northern Territory scored
an even century, compared with l4ooz. in
1926. The Territory’s transport difficulties
have been its greatest handicap to date, but
the transcontinental railway, plus the
modern motor-lorry, may help to put a
different complexion on matters in the near
future.
* * * *
“M.E.”: Brandeis, Goldschmidt and Co,
one of the largest firms dealing in the indus-
trial metals, have let drop a significant hint
in relation to the copper market. Referring
to the recent crash in rubber, which the out-
put-restriction scheme could not avert, they
remark that in the long run any combina-
tion made with the idea of artificially regu-
lating production must ultimately fail, since
such attempts usually end in benefiting those
who have had the sense to keep out of them,
and further add that “one of these days” we
may see “a repetition in copper of what
has happened in rubber.” America, which
has gathered most of the big copper-produc-
ing interests into a price-controlling com-
bination, is the party most interested.
American production figures for January
show a refined output of 123.000 short tons.
Domestic shipments were 65,000 tons ; export,
57,000 tons ; stocks, 96,000 tons. Germany
took 9140 tons, Britain coming second on
the list with 8182 tons. There is no immedi-
ate indication of a slackening in the demand
for the metal; but as against that there is a
strong likelihood of increased production
in the near future, especially within the
British Empire.
* * <■
Queensland’s mineral production for 1927
has just been officially declared. It shows
an increase of £37,250 over 1926. The value
is £1,645,991, but if Mt. Morgan gold out-
put is deducted the production has dropped
something like £BO,OOO for minerals other
than gold. The most likely source of in-
creases for 1928 appear to be dredging re-
turns from Stanthorpe and the virgin fields
of North Queensland. Failing these, the
State will probably have to wait till Mt. Isa
starts producing before any appreciable in-
crease will arrive.
* ❖ *
Return Creek, near Mt. Garnet (N.Q.),
will have a modern bucket dredge operating
in a couple of months. Its capacity is
80,000 yards per month, and it will operate
on 50ft. ground, with values estimated at
l:}lb. Values look low for a North Queens-
land proposition, but the manager reckons
costs will Rave something solid on the right
side. It is practically the inauguration
of a new industry up there, and anxious eyes
are fixed on it—ai d the market.
* * >:= *
Development work is being actively con-
tinued at A ft. Isa (Q.), more particularly
on the Black Star and Rio Grande lodes.
Prospecting work by diamond drilling keeps
pace, and on the Star alone three drills are
being used. The deepest has bottomed at
750 ft., and supports previous evidence that
the Isa lodes will be largely, if not princi-
pally, zinc producers in depth. No. 1a bore
passed through the lode from 630 ft. to
685 ft., and for the whole distance assayed
9.3 p.c. lead, 11.3 p.c. zinc and Boz. silver.
A well-equipped metallurgical assay plant is
now being erected at the mines and will be
completed within a few weeks.
if if if if
Another New Guinea proposition has re-
solved to put up the shutters. This is
Salamoa Goldfields, whose directors have
issued a report forecasting the funeral. The
properties that were acquired by the co. are
on the Watut River, a tributary of the Bu-
lolo, and lan Archibald was sent up to
report on the two leases, the Gwladys and
Thunderbolt. His report was definite and,
though the shareholders will have the final
decision, it is not likely anything more will
be heard of the co. beyond the division of the
fragments—if any. Creditors are owed £751,
while assets comprise £BB5 in cash and £296
owing. As a measure of consolation to share-
ln ’ders, presumably, it is pointed out in the
directors’ report that the co. is “only one
of many on the field which have so far been
unable to obtain payable properties.” In
other words, “I’m not the only fool in the
family.”
if Us ie if
Things are very dull at Roma (Q.), and
there are a good many unemployed. Twelve
boring plants are idle. At Roma No. 1 bore
only one shift is employed, and it is unlikely
that any new holes will “spud in” before
about the end of May. Dr. Kralimann, of
the Elbof geophysical survey, which is now
operating in Maoriland, told the press, after
examining the Roma bore, that he was con-
fident oil would be got in the district. The
plant at the No. 1 hole he declares to be the
most up-to-date he had seen in Australia. He
left for Java and Sumatra last week, but
will probably return next year.
* * * *
From Gunnewin (Q.), a report states that
in a scout bore put down by the Kayento
Oil Syndicate no fewer than six gas "wells”
were met in clays and sands. There was oil
in each stratum, and samples of gas were
collected and sent to Sydney for analysis.
The hole is down over 400 ft. and a second
scout bore has been started. Preparations
are being made to begin a deep well directly
the casing arrives.
* * * *
The little Brisbane co. which is stabbing
the Vogel Peninsula (Papua) in the hope
of finding a gusher is pulling through on
occasional new share-issues; and though it
has managed to keep things going in that
way so far, it is a precarious plan. Just
at present, with only a few hundreds in
hand and a new issue before shareholders,
the directors have great hopes of getting a
cut of the Commonwealth’s £50,000 subsidy.
The site is not easy to reach, and, all things
considered, costs have been kept very low.
Judging by the logs, prospects are at least
encouraging. The Commonwealth’s oil-survey
party was at latest advices camped on the.
concession, and its report should either
result in aid or blow the thing out.
* * * *
Director Mortlock, an Adelaide investor
in the Brilliant Co., has paid a visit to the
Gnow’s Nest mine (W.A.), and found the
position there much what the “Wild Cat”
was sure it would be if the co. persisted in
buying the property. Since then, however,
Brilliant shareholders have put thousands into
the show, plus some thousands borrowed from
the We6tralian Mines Department. Share-
holders have good reason to kick. On receiv-
ing an adverse report on the mine, one Board
resigned, but the succeeding Board was so
perverse or optimistic as to buy the show.
# * * *
Having bled call-paying shareholders white,
Monte Carlo Co. (W.A.) has put up the
shutters on its Glenelg Hills show and applied
for exemption. There is a big lot of fairly
high-grade stuff opened up and the. bottom
workings look well; but until water is found
for crushing purposes the co., like other
on the field, can’t do much good.
* * * *
McCalion’s Great Hope, Mt. Monger
(W.A.), continues to furnish rich patches
and do well in a small way. Gold to the
value of over £60,000 has been extracted
during the past seven years, and, judging by
the appearance of the shoot at depth, the
show’s career as an occasional spectacular
producer is far from finished. Several of its
neighbors were puffed in Adelaide and Perth
during the Hampton boom of 1920-21, but
the acid settled most of them and the rest
are rarely heard of nowadays.
>ic ’ * * V
Associated Northern (W.A.) has again
shut down its Ore Banda mine, this time on
account of shortage of water. Years ago
the co. acquired this show from a working
party, and, while values were good and mill
supplies could be picked, it made money.
Deeper development, poorer ore and higher
costs, however, mopped up the surplus and
made profitable mining impossible. Latterly
a new make of stone has been opening up
well, and the property’s possibilities are not
by any means exhausted.
* * * *
The returns for the first half of April in-
dicate that the Malayan dredges are holding
fairly to the March averages. In the Allu-
vial group Rawang took 10 tons from 47,000
yards, the output for the whole of March
being 21 tons from 122,000 yards; average
about .411 b. Malim Nawar South recovered
15 tons from 61,000 yards, just under .601 b.
per c.y. Kundang’s 11 tons were won from
42,000 yards and the average .621 b
M. N. South’s an improvement on the March
figure. Kuala Kampar’s 10 tons averaged
.521 b., as against .531 b. the month before;
while Tanjong again scored well with an
average of just under ,821 b., March averages
being .741 b. The two foregoing shows are
shortly to be joined with M. N. South in
Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd., and on the above
figures the combine should average .671 b. if
its constituents live up to present perform-
ance. Changkat did well with a 15-ton re-
covery from 44,000 yards, averaging about
.811 b. as against .671 b. for March, its first
regular run. The dredge is designed to dig
180,000 yards per month and has not yet
played itself in. Jelapang’s 11 tons from
38,000 yards meant a trifle under .701 b. as
against 1.021 b. the month before.
The Larut dredges won 38 tons from
353,000 yards; average just under .601 b.,
compared with .541 b. in March. Bundi
dropped on the March figures of 1.201 b.,
turning over 91,000 yards for slightly better
than lib. Takuapa reported 10.25 tons from
45.000 yards, the dredge losing 55 hours from
machinery troubles. The average was just
over .54ib. compared with March’s ,661 b.
Unexpected delays have postponed the start
of No. 2 dredge; it won’t commence till some
time in August. Tongkah Compound’s
Setul dredge dug 67,700 yards for 20.4 tons
—over ,721 b. March showed ,781 b. The
Mantin plant turned over 80,700 yards for
17.9 tons —.501 b. as against ,421 b. for March.
Kuala Lumpur took 10 tons from 31,000
yards with No. 1 dredge, and 11 from 30,000
with No. 2. Averages, .771 b. and .881 b.
March showed .891 b. for No. 1, while yardage
figures were not supplied for No. 2, the
ground treated including 15,000 yards tail-
ings. Tin Bentong’s return was 12.6 tons
from 39,500 yards, or better than .771 b., as
against .681 b. for the month before. Ronpi-
bon’s four tons from 40,000 yards, averaging
,241 b., is a bit behind the last month’s figure
of .311 b. Ronpibon Extended won six tons;
yardage not giv-en.
The Austral Malay stable returns shows
Kampong Kamunting No. 1 dredge as win-
ning 21.5 tons from 61,000 yards—over .841 b.,
a big improvement on March’s .501 b.
No. 2 dredge worked 180 hours up to time of
sinking; it has been raised and docked for
repair. Asam turned over 51,000 yards for
18.5 tons, or .871 b., as against 1.121 b. in
March. Ulu Yam’s recovery of 12 tons from
49,000 yards averaged .571 b., a drop from the
,601 b. of the previous month. Tliabawleik
worked only 152 hours owing to water short-
age, but rains have remedied this. The
return, 12 tons from 27,000 yards, shows an
average of 1.061 b. to the yard as against
March’s 1.91 b.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin’s shareholders will meet on
April 30 to consider and, if approved, author-
ise the directors to carry out the amalgama-
tion proposals outlined in the circular of
March 23 last regarding the amalgamation
of the three contiguous properties of Malim
Nawar South, Kuala Kampar and Tanjong
Tualong, in the F.M.S. It is proposed that
the trio, all of which are producing, be
amalgamated to form Kuala Kampar Tin
Fields, Ltd., with a nominal capital of
£1,000,000 in 2,000,000 shares of 10s. each.
Shareholders in Alluvial are to get 170,000
of these, f.p.—3 to 1 in the parent co. The
remaining 830,000 shares are to be held in
reserve for the present. The amalgamation,
as making for lower production costs, is a
wise one, and in view of the present condition
of the metal market should be welcomed, if
for that reason alone, by shareholders.
* * * *
“W.P.D.”: Reference (B. 18/4/’2B) to
the possibility of using electric power at
Broken Hill, and of introducing it at great
expense even at this late hour, suggests that
large chances exist for Mt. Isa (Q.) to get
in much earlier. It is said that the smelters
•will put through 200,000 tons a year. Much
of the lead ore also carries zinc and will re-
quire electrolytic treatment somewhere. The
Queensland Government lias been talking for
long enough of making a complete survey
of the water power supplied by the Barron,
Tully, Herbert and other falls; and the
opportunities of profitably utilising them by
treating Mount Isa ores should hasten
matters. A scheme of linking up the power
from all the available falls has been sug-
gested by A. F. Partridge and other engineers
and should be examined.
* * * *
Morning Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.), looks
like o-u-t. Twenty head of stamps added
to the old battery have never been started,
and it is very doubtful whether the machin-
ery can be sold for removal. This was the
last of the cos. to get a big loan from a
previous Government—cos., most of them,
with a brilliant past and not much present.
* * * *
Timor Petroleum Company, working in the
Portuguese half of Timor, 250 miles north-
west of Darwin (N.T.), has had lashins of
trouble. After collecting 12 tons of oil from
seepages near the bore hole, field superin-
tendent Leonard Wrathall cemented the hole
and cabled for explosives to help the drill
through a very hard band of rock. While
waiting in Dilly he fell sick and died. Now
an expert driller from Roumania has been
engaged, and Mr. A. J. Staughton, the
original owner of the concession, is going
north with the chairman of directors to see
how matters stand.
* * * *
The Carpatliia (N.S.W.) is expected to
resume its dividend-paying habits next
month.
* * * *
Guinea Gold’s subsidiary, Guinea Airways,
Ltd., has got its new Junker ’plane at Lae,
and it is now being made ready for the Bulolo
service. Its builders were the people who
produced the Bremen, which has just flown
east to west across the Atlantic. Of course
the Airways machine isn’t another Bremen,
but it lifted a load of nearly 3001 b. a height
of 16,000 ft. before it was shipped from
Europe, and is expected to give four times
the service of the co.’s first ’bus.
* * * *
Silaya Tin, a Sydney prospecting and
holding co., has announced that its proposed
flotation of Kazat Tin to work an area in
Burma has been abandoned. The area was
small and comparatively shallow, and values
were not up to expectation. The co.’s field
engineer, John Marshall, has resigned; and
P. R. Kemp, late of the Siamese survey de-
partment, will look after Silaya’s interests,
G. M. Yetts acting as consulting engineer.
Silaya is hunting up and prospecting new
areas and the directors announce that the
financial position is satisfactory. Autho-
rised capital is £70,6,00 in £1 shares and the
original issue was 50,000 paid up to 2s.
# * * *
The Waipa Railway and Collieries, Ltd.,
a Waikato (M.L.) proposition, has the
great advantage of being moderately capital-
ised (£59,929) ; so it lias been able, while
paying a steady 8 p.c., to pile up net liquid
assets totalling £29,201. Still it has its
troubles, among them an apparently growing
percentage of soft coal, which means waste,
so last year’s net profit (to Jan. 31) was only
£4633, or £l6l less than the 8 p.c. div.
Competition, too, is keen, and there were
times when the mine was idle. About six-
sevenths of the material assets are in the
railway, the other seventh in plant and
rolling stock. A mining co. which has writ-
ten its mine down to nothing is a blessed
rarity. And over £2OOO was written off the
railway account last year.
* * * *
Many miners from Blackball on the West
Coast of Maoriland who lost their jobs
through the shoaling of the Greymouth bar
are now gold-fossicking in the crevices of
the creek beds, the streams being abnormally
low. Payable wash, showing 2|oz. coarse
gold from two dishes of dirt, has been re-
covered ; and one nugget of loz. 4-Jdwt. was
unearthed; but generally there is bare tucker
in the job.
* * * *
We stock + GP 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe has a wide range of usefulness.
It will safely carry any kind of fluid, its non-corroding
qualities adapting it for use in mining, industrial,
hydro-electric, or irrigation projects as well as for
water and sewerage systems. It offers economy on
every point—purchase, transport, installation and
service. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove (Ferry to Figtree Bridge),
N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-Oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the re-equipment of
your plant for the next season.— Advt.


I
m
Will'd
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery* A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use*
, \
that’s
Quality
ë
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


1
m
m
m
m
m
m
iiiuri
'"iLO
£g§
wm
MW
%
-O
"to
WVii
*
%
@35
mil
iM
w
sss
... &
§»
r**
§
’sSgs
VSJ
UX'\\\
%J
:^3
®Ss
$
\
1
§X
I
i
O-TV^ 5
d
ssss
ll.ll'J
mTTrrn
srcr
'V r
nr,Mr
1m
rr?
<- -
§PS
li|l\lUli<«n«>“ #M ""
m
m
-r%
lH
s
// I
!Ml.— ' ✓r.“T
I
*»P
SifiSiU' /*"
? r.T-
-i sr i
— '
II
\\\V
i*
-
V#
:#'i
muni
s^-
&2
lIW
mm
Kv
tkC^
: 53?
'JvS
'm
TrffrTu liiijilulii.'
f>*
In Autumn Mood!
Always correct —approved in the more exclusive
circles of Society—the footwear creations of J. H.
Sharwood represent all that is good in shoemaking. The
new Autumn styles are entirely satisfying. You will
need a pair to set off your new frock.
The men s shoes, too, are of the same high standard
—splendidly built, dignified, good to look at, comfort-
able and enduring. There’s an exact fitting for every
foot.
Note carefully how the name is spelt—SHAß-
WOOD—and look for it on every pair.
Ijo£s of fUfntmwnt.
If you have any difficulty in procuring Sharwood Shoes
you are invited to communicate with offices, Abbotsford
Melbourne.


*Such a reputation is not won overnight”
■
:
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d. ..♦ 20 for 1/6
Major Draphin <5 Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
uf> y
&
TO
:
VICHY
wm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Mac-Ropus”: Mention by “Manuka” (B.
28/3/’2B) of that old identity of the Speck’s
West Coast reminds me of my first and only
meeting with him in his native haunts. I
GOOD FELLER, MY WORD!
JACKY: “You love me, Minnie?”
MINNIE: “My word! Mine tinkit Jacky best prickly-pear I ever tasted.”
was out on the overgrown foot-track that
winds along the W T est Coast, and was nego-
tiating a small flat where fires had left only
a few stunted acacias and rotten logs. _lt
was broad daylight and I was looking
straight ahead when with a quiet movement
one of the logs within. 10 yards of my nose
transformed itself into the old man and his
two gaunt dogs. The effect was quite un-
canny. His many years in the silent bush
had resurrected the primitive instinct of
merging himself into his surroundings, and
the shock he gave me was quite uninten-
tional. We camped on the spot, and he sat
down upon his pack—no one who battles
through the clinging wet jungle of these
parts carries the traditional rolled swag
and burst the bonds of months of silence
with a yarn. It ran on uninterruptedly
for many hours, and continued, I suspect,
even after I snored in my blanket.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Apropos of abo. shaves
(“Moe,” B. 21/3/’2B). Years ago a drover
who brought down a mob of cattle to
Adelaide had as offsiders a couple of abos.
of the Arunta tribe. He turned them loose
to wander around the city and see the sights.
They had enormous beards, and some enter-
prising shopkeeper sold each of them a cheap
German razor. The two bucks wandered
down Rundle-street till they came to a
mirror outside a shop. For a few minutes
they amused themselves by making faces
into it; then out came the razors, and they
started to try their hands at shaving. It
was a gory business, for they sliced their
cheeks repeatedly, roaring with laughJflcr
every time they cut themselves. At last,
when shirts, mirror and pavement
spattered with blood and their beards looked
as if a goat had been chewing them, a
policeman came along and spoilt the show.
* * *
“M.L.”: “Neuron” (B. 7/3/’2B) asks if
it is true that ducks feed only at night and
geese by day. I have lived for years in the
heart of the Maoriland duck country at the
confluence of three rivers, and I’ve never
seen grey ducks or teal feeding by day. _ I
have often come on them in the daytime
resting in swamps and down by the river-side
with their heads under wing. Paradise ducks,
which spend a great deal of their time in
paddocks, I have noticed on the stooks
feeding by day. As for geese, I have observed
flocks of" them flying V-sliape late in the
afternoon and at dusk towards the sea,
which suggests that they feed in the daytime.
* * * *
“Up Top”: “Carisbrook, Jun.” (B.
14/3/’2B) slips badly when he insinuates
that the abo. is satisfied with one wife only.
One is the general rule in N.Q., but a man
will get as many as he can, not for love, but
because they come in handy for keeping the
home fires burning. Many young men posspss
no missus at all, because custom ordains
that the old men can claim all the maidens
and hand over the old women to the young
bucks should they feel so inclined. Hence
in camps there may be several greybeards
with half a dozen wives, and a dozen young
Romeos languishing. When such a harem-
owner dies the youths rejoice, for there is
then a chance of the wives being parcelled
out. The youths are getting more assertive
nowadays, and, backed up by the missionary,
are demanding a more equal distribution of
female goods. Needless to add, the young
gins are backing them up.
* * * *
“p m” • Talking of droving m
0 . /T drovln S (B
21/3/28), before the railway went through
from Bairnsdale to Orbost (Vic.) pigs were
driven sixty miles from the rich maize-
growing flats. The settlers mustered their
fat pigs together and filled a covered waggon
with maize cobs. The waggon led the way,
the grunters following and scrambling for the
cobs, which were dropped one at a time over
the back of the waggon; men and dogs
brought up the rear, keeping the mob to-
gether. The trip occupied four to five days,
NOT RIGHT TO START WITH.
HOTEL MANAGER: “You’re a helluvatime blacking these shoes.”
NEW BOOTS: “Well, I can’t help it—some of ’em was brown when I got ’em.”
“Motuku”: “Sea Nomad” (B. 21/3/’2B)
says that stonefish vary in size and breed.
The two Synanceja beauties, verrucosa and
horrida, and Scorpcenopsis gihhosa, a relative
of the red rock-cod, are all known as nofu
for short in the Polynesian groups, and are
treated, when alive, with great
deference. The native fisherman
lias, however, a more intimate
regard for them when they have
been baked in the nmu. Are
there any others besides the
three mentioned?
* # *
“Mei”: If fish do not come
up bores (B. 21/3/’2B) what
are the six-inch-long creatures,
having fins and covered with
scales, that do come up the 3000
feet bore on Weeallah station, 50
miles from St. George (Q.) ? They
are goggle-eyed, and are prob-
ably blind, though I never tried
regulation eye-tests on them.
Their home waters have a tem-
perature of 153 deg., and they die
on being placed in cold water. I
have eaten them and found them
rather tasteless, though certainly
I thought them to be fish.
“B-Gar”: I must shatter
“John W.’s” delusion that fish
do not come up bores. Blind fish
from underground come up the
flow at Mt. Gason bore on the
stock route from Birdsville (Q.)
to Hergott Springs (S.A.). The water is not
far from boiling point, and the blind fish can
be seen moving about in the pool into which
they have been released.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: Even island natives, who
spend one-third of their lives on the water,
have never thought of the rudder for steer-
ing their craft. The canoe people steer
with the paddle as they go along; a well-
manned vessel is manoeuvred with perfect
accuracy, every man /working in harmony
with the whole to the exact flick of the
wrist. Women handle their canoes almost
as well as the men. The great sailing
canoes of Boigu, Sibai and Dauan are
steered by a long board manipulated in a
heavy sea with marvellous dexterity by one
man. Various Papuan tribes in tiie island
rivers and swamps never use a paddle, but
pole their craft, steering it thus with
wonderful ease in waterways where reeds
and creepers and trailing branches brush
the sides of the dugout. These craft travel
noiselessly and can disappear in an instant
should the occupant so desire.
“Ke Laepa”: In parts of the Solomons
mosquitoes are almost as bad as “Gouger”
says they are in N.Q. (B. 28/3/’2B). In
some places I have been asked for my left-
off shirts for the sole purpose of protecting
the skins of some natives. I have also seen
natives sit in the sea for nearly an hour to
keep the tormentors away. At Lord Howe,
Northern Solomons, smoke-fires are kept con-
stantly burning in the house during the rainy
season, and the smoke is certainly the lesser
evil of the two. In my own house on that
island I have two smoke-fires going. all day
long, and even then have to keep my socks
stuffed full of paper towels to hold the
’skeeters off the tender ankles. Short sleeves
are out of the question.
“Bill Bowyang”: “Yairs,” drawled Long
Tom, as he spat in the dying fire, “the
skeeters are pretty bad 'bout here, but you
should have been camped near the Norman
River, in the Gulf, when I was there in ’94.
Cripes, they were bad that year. We were
shootin’ ’gaters for a German firm that
wanted the teeth for makin’ fancy match-
boxes an’ watch pendants. The insects got
so bad that we were about to shift, when
Danny Googan, me mate, made a sort of con-
traption out of a kerosene-tin an’ hung it to
a tree about a quarter of a mile from our
camp. When the wind blew through that
tin it sounded like a thousand million
skeeters an’ it attracted all the other skeeters
for miles around. I suppose they thought
their cobbers had congregated there because
there was something good to eat an’ they
weren’t going to miss any of it. After that
we used to lie in our bunks at night with
only our Jacky Howeses on an’ not a
bloomin’ skeeter worried us.”
* * * *
“Mundowie’ / : On the evening of his arrival
at the squattage he had talked voluminously
of foxes, hounds and hunting fields; so it
was assumed that he knew something about
horses. Next morning he was sent to the
yard with a saddle that had been newly
counterlined, and was instructed particularly
to get a saddlecloth from the harness-room
to keep it clean. Half an hour afterwards
the boss was staggered to see him wriggling
and twisting to keep the cloth straight as he
came riding up to the house. He had spread
it over the top of the saddle and was sitting
on it.
* * * *
“John Quill”: I have seen a hare frighten
the devil out of a kangaroo-pup (B.
21/3/’2B). Out shooting years ago we ran
a buck into a little patch of scrub in the
corner of a cultivation paddock. When we
arrived on the spot the hare was hugging
the pup in a tight embrace with his fore-
paws round the dog’s neck, the two squeal-
ing and scratching. When released the pup
made a bee-line for home, which he reached
in a weak condition from loss of blood, the
hare having inflicted some nasty gashes with
his liind-leg claws.
(Continued on page 25A
THE NATIVE WREN.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Mrs. Daisy Bates, of Ooldea, who has compiled a
vocabulary of aboriginal words, records that the fairy
or blue-cap wren and his mate, familiar in so many of
our parks and gardens, are known to many tribes of
natives by the euphonious names of Miril Yiril Yiri
and Minning Minning.”
Jaunty little blue-cap,
To our garden welcome !
Whither hast been roving?
From what secret dell come?
Miril Yiril Yiri,
All thy ways are winning;
Welcome with thy brown mate,
Modest Minning Minning.
If in early summer
Through the wild we ramble
There’s thy nest of grasses,
Hidden in a bramble.
Miril Yiril Yiri,
When the brushwood’s thinning,
Seek ye then our hedges—
Thou and Minning Minning.
Darting through the bushes ;
Over green sward hopping;
Chirping cheery chanties;
Scarcely ever stopping,
Miril Yiril Yiri,
What the tales tliou’rt spinning
All day to thy dainty
Mistress, Minning Minning?
’Mong all wrens the fairy,
Dainty blue of bonnet,
Elf or sprite of birdland,
Theme for song and sonnet;
Miril Yiril Yiri,
When the spring’s beginning,
Time to rear a russet
Brood with Minning Minning.
N.S.W.
LEX.


N3*
New “52”—52 and
more smooth miles an
hour —full-sized, long,
low bodies of wood
"and steel for adult passengers—
adjustable steering wheel—saddle
spring seat cushions—fine mohair
upholstering indirectly-lighted
instrument panel*
JL
gives you
S*>2"
Qreat New “62 ” 62
and more exceptional miles
an hour —b-cylinder engine
—7-bearing crankshaft —in*
var-strut pistons ventilated crank*
case 4-wheel hydraulic brakes
road levelisers front and rear-body
features unequaled for hundreds of
dollars more.
ĕ
Illustrious New “72” —*
72 and more miles an hour
-counter-weighted 7-bear*
ing crankshaft —spring ends
anchored in blocks of live rubber, in*
stead of metal shackles—longer, lower*
roomier than the original “70,” with
beautiful bodies tastefully appointed.
\lo'
Imperial
“60”
r —92 horsepower
and speed ability
of 80 miles and more an
hour infingertip leash —ameasure
of performance and comfort absolute*
ly unequaled by any other fine car at
its price. Because it shares in the ad*
vantages of Chrysler’B tremendous
production facilities it offers, at prices
remarkably low, the luxury and dis-
tinction of the very costliest cars.
more for your money in
the four great price classes
CHRYSLER engineering, which never rests its
efforts, has maintained its product as fresh and
as new as it was at the very outset four years ago.
This spirit of progressiveness has been responsible for
the pioneering and development of every significant
improvement in motor cars since the first Chrysler.
And through the Chrysler plan of Standardised
Quality these refinements have been made available
to all Chryslers.
Thus Chrysler has set up entirely new standards of
motor car value and has given new meaning to “price”
and “price classes” in the industry.
Chrysler cars can be compared only with others far
above them in price in every field. For they represent
not only far more than money could buy in thepast,but
more than the same money will buy elsewhere today.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave ti Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
CHRYSLER
MODEL NUMBERS MEAN MILES PER
HOUR
WB


Children
enjoy
it makes them
Wellandstrong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
V
\
m,
/
vm
€%
n
tn
£
n
AH :
vmy
s
t
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
NRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £1 00,000.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 1871
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“Bilby”: Will fresh milk attract snakes?
A woman residing on a farm near Cooktown
(N.Q.) recently gave a. dinner in honor of
a daughter’s 21st birthday. In the midst of
the meal many of those present were
surprised to hear the hostess order her
daughter to place a basin of milk on the
floor near her feet. Some thought it was
for a pet cat, but, although no one moved,
all peered apprehensively about. Presently
a large brown snake was seen to glide from
under the table and go to the basin of milk.
The hostess then fainted. The snake had
been coiled about her ankle. Later on she
stated that she had read in a newspaper
that fresh milk was an irresistible bait for
snakes.
* >!! * *
“The Rumpus”: The plan of driving an
iron nail into the taproots of fruit-trees to
make them more prolific had an unexpected
result in a pawpaw plantation in the tropical
north of W.A. The trees included half a
dozen males, and an abo., after having been
TOO MUCH OF A HANDICAP.
BYSTANDER: “Ow’d yer like to be ridin’ about in a motor-carl”
DEMETRIUS: “No good ter me, Lysie. Look at all the cigarette bumpers and cigar-
ends a man’d miss.”
shown what to do, drove nail 3 into these as
well. When the fruiting season arrived the
females flowered in the usual way, but the
green fruit fell off without maturing. The
males, however, took on the discarded job
and bore a quantity of long, pointed fruit,
not quite so well flavored as the proper
crop but eatable. Is this unusual?
“A. J. 8.”: The question has been asked
whether any correspondent knows of a case
of snake eating fish. Recently in a lagoon
near Tocumwal (N.S.W.) a black snake was
shot and opened up, its skin being coveted by
the shooter. Reposing in its innards were
two fish, each about 7in. long and in good
condition, as if just caught.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Re wily dingoes (B. 7/3/’2B).
For many sad lamb-slaughtering
mouths one beautiful specimen
evaded trap and bullet in the Mur-
chison (W.A.) district. It was re-
served for a woman to make a door-
mat of his skin after all the reputed
catchers had given up trying.
Warming up an 18-gallon copper of
water she washed every dog she
could lay hands on and preserved
the liquid. Even the abo.’s canines
went into the melting pot, and for a
few days Binghi hardly recognised
his own four-legged followers. Much
against her grain the huntress used
a freshly-killed lamb for bait, which
was the centre of a ring of open
trap-jaws camouflaged. Then she
used a spraying syringe and rained
the dog-juice she’d saved all over
the danger zone and as far beyond
as it would go; after that she
mounted her neddy and dragged a
mulga bush by a rope in ever-
widening circles to obliterate her scent.
When found next morning the outlaw was
jawed in three traps.
si: sjc . * *
“Scrub Itch”: Tell “Up North” (B.
21/3/’2B) that “beautiful white flowers” are
never found on figs in Queensland or any
other land. The fig blooms inside the unripe
fruit, each fruit containing many small
flowers. There are male, female and gall
flowers, the last being adapted to the breed-
ing habits of the fig wasp, which, in return,
carries the pollen from the male to the female
flowers. Many scrub trees bear cauline or
stem flowers. The one “Up North” refers to
is probably a species of Eugenia, whose white
flowers are massed together and bear a heavy
scent. On Dunk Island they flower in August
and September.
;J{ »J{ £ jfC
“Yarri”: Derry came to the men’s hut
looking for tangible sympathy in the shape of
tucker. “You know that gin belonga me?”
he said to the cook. “Las’ night she bin sit
down on. black snake, big pfeller, an’ snake
bite her two places.” “Gin die?” asked the
cook. “No fear,” said “Snake die.”
* * . * *
T „
G.B.L. : The word mallee seems to
have originated among the abos. of north-
western Victoria. The publication of Ham’s
map 0 f victoria in 1846 with this term
printed over country containing thick belts of
eucalyptus dumosa, myall, honeysuckle and
stringy-bark appears to have been the
first attempt to make the use of the word
general. In 1847 Henry Ward was en-
gaged surveying the boundary line between
Vic. and S. Aus.; he spelt the word “mar-
lie,” and later “marlee.” The abos. are said
to have used the word to designate the
dumosa variety of eucalyptus only.
SO INCONSIDERATE.
IRATE MTORIST (to obese victim ): “Why don’t you diet yourself, you silly ass? You
nearly had me over.”
“Pfella”: One of the strangest things
about the abo. is his absence from the sou’-
west portion of Jarrahland. That country
is blessed with forest lands _ chockful of
marsupial and feathered life, to say
nothing of snakes and lizards, while the
coastal waters and inland rivers teem
with fish. Good drinking water bubbles
out of clean limestone springs, and the
wild cress around these outlets would
keep a tribe in greens all the year round.
Caves, explored and unexplored, abound.
Yet in the north Binghi rubs along in a
miserable fashion without turning his eyes
to the store of food wealth _ that he must
know lies south. Why is this? I put the
conundrum to one cunning old buck who had
travelled Westralia from one end to the other.
“No willie wagtail,”' he explained; “no
blackpfella.” Is there anything in this
curious association?
* * * #
“Srnod”: “E.S.” (B. 28/3/’2B) is prob-
ably confusing acute conjunctivitis (sandy
blight) with trachoma (granula-
tion). Acute conjunctivitis is
caused by a bacillus, and the con-
tagion is fly-borne; it can be cured
in a short time. Trachoma, on the
other hand, is a chronic disease of
the lids, with well-marked organic
changes, and it is unlikely that any
single application of anything
would even relieve it, let alone cure
it. “E.S.’s” theory as to the origin
of the nickname “sandy blight” is
also open to criticism. The first
symptom of any conjunctivitis is a
feeling of grittiness under the lids,
as though some sand had pene-
trated ; acute conjunctivitis is the
commonest of all these afflictions,
and so it got its colloquial name.
Compared with conditions of a de-
cade ago, things are improving in
Western N. S. Wales. In 1925
among the school children at Tiboo-
burra, where “E.S.’s” medical
friend lived, there were only three
or four cases among 30 children,
and in 1927 there were fewer still;
and they were all mild (I know.,
for I was there). In a few more
years trachoma should be unknown
out there, as it is on the coast.
Incidentally, it was trachoma that
attacked Sturt’s expedition in 1845,
when they were marooned near Mt.
Poole; as a result Sturt himself finally be-
came blind.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Recently I witnessed a wildly
primitive scene on the Escape River country
(N.Q.). Abrupt cliffs of red sandstone
hemmed in a gorge where the sun-dried grass
stood girth high. A sea breeze was blowing,
and a boomerang of smoke-puffs broke out
around the gorge. Black figures, ochre-
painted, raced across the gorge trailing blaz-
ing snakes of ti-tree grass. Soon flame in
sheets licked skyward with a crackling that
swelled into a roar. A line of naked figures
blocked the gorge’s mouth. As the smoke
rolled towards them they danced to a scream-
ing song accentuated by the rattle of
womeras on spears. Driven by the flames
a score of wallabies, headed by two big
cassowaries, bounded out of the smoking
grass and were met by spears. Some fell,
thrashing around and around the 10-foot
spear that impaled each to the ground. The
survivors panted in big-eyed terror; then
they bolted back into the blinding smoke, only
to return and bound drunkenly amongst the
logs of the killers. One cassowary bit
the dust in violent tickings. Its mate tore
straight on and its swaying weight bowled
a nigger over. Other wallabies came flying
out of the heat and bounded straight on to
spear or liberty. Hundreds of brown hawks
swooped down, snapping up grasshoppers
and butterflies. When all was over, the blood-
inaddened savages bounded into the smoking
grass with puffs of ashes spraying from
their feet. They snatched up roasted snakes,
goannas and porcupines and tore them with
their teeth. Screaming gins and piccanin-
nies followed in flying bounds thrpugh the
hot ashes.
* sfc * *
“Motuku”: The hardy Melanesian needs
neither twisted fibre nor splinter of glass
for his barbering (B. 21/8/’2B) when he
can pick up on the beach a pair of natural
tweezers in the form of a bivalve shell. This
appliance is much quicker than the fibre and
gives just as clean a shave. The bottom of
a tin matchbox or a scrap of “gabbani”
(galvanised iron) when neatly folded over
makes an efficient substitute.
*. * * *
“Bill O’C.”: That reference to Black
.Tacky (B. 4/4/’2B) recalls how Tarpot once
demonstrated his idea of a city’s population
to my friend Woolpack. He had just re-
turned from his first trip to Adelaide.
“Many people walk about, Tarpot?” asked
Woolpack. “By cripes!” Then, words
failing him, he stepped over to> a handy ant-
heap, slammed it a few times with his
waddy, and, as the insects came swarming
out in all directions, added, “Likern that.”
* * * ■ *
“B-Gar”: Impromptu packsaddles and
bags are soon made in the bush. A sound
cornsack, sewn at both ends, with a split
down one side and held in place on the
horse’s back with a surcingle will carry a
week’s tucker. The addition of a bush-made
crupper and breastplate prevents the pack
from slipping.
* * * *
“Riverina”: Occasionally whites can sleep
as soundly as opium-soaked Binghis (B.
14/3/’2B). I know pf two remarkable cases
in the bush. One was that of a sawmill hand
who had each morning to be lifted out of
bunk, held on his feet and roughly shaken —
a splash of water was added sometimes —to
rouse him. Yet in working hours he was an
alert, intelligent man. In the other, while a
station hand slept beside a fire of logs a live
end rolled against his leg. His calf was
burnt through to the bone before he woke.
In hospital, where he spent many months,
his habit of profound slumber was a source
of interest to both staff and patients. As
in the first instance, this man was not at all
of a dopey nature; nor did bush grog play
any part.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: It’s truly amazing the idea some
people have of weight. At any country show
there’s generally a prize for the correct
guess of the dressed weight of a fat bullock.
Recently in N.-Queensland, for a beast that
eventually killed 8561 b., guesses varied from
81b. to 40,0001 b.
JIM’S INGRATITUDE.
[For The Bulletin.]
We all knew what would ’appen—*we told
’im all along:
Not one of us but showed ’im where ’e was
goin’ wrong.
But ’e was that pig-’eaded, or else so blanky
dense,
That nothin’ that we told ’im made any
difference.
Whenever I remember the trouble that we
took
With that old stubborn josser I can’t ’elp
goin’ crook —
We did our best, but, lumme, ’e was so
obstinate;
At last we ’ad to chuck it and leave ’im to
’is fate.
Yet now he’s gone—it’s funny the way that
things come out—
It looks as if old Jimmy knew what ’e was
about.
But is the old bloke grateful? There’s not
a word from Jim
To thank us for the trouble we went to over
’im.
W.A.
O.W.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers. ..
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to int
Service Department. , , ~ ,u
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. . cihiect at
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to is
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowle ge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
ė
as utility men in suburban theatres and
worked their way in. (3) Award rates m
N.S.W. are: Night shows, ft) ss. per week;
continuous shows, £6 18s. per week. Opera-
tors work 36 hours per week.
(1) Is there a school in Sydney where 1
can learn to become a sheep-shearing
machine expertf (2) What are the clas »
hours and duration of course? (3) lees.
(4) What are the prospects of obtaining em-
ployment at the completion of the course?
(5) Where could I see the award rates for
the trade? —4025. ,
(1) Dalgety and Cos., Ltd. (the Shearing
Experts’ School of Instruction), Millers
Point, Sydney. (2) 10 a.m. to nqon and
12.45 p.m. to 5 p.m. Monday to Friday. Lhc
full course occupies three months. It opens
early in April each year. (3) £lO. (4) De-
pends upon the ability of the student, lne
school does not promise to secure employ-
ment for students, although a large number
of students are provided with jobs through
its employment register. (5) A copy oi the
award was printed in the S. M. Herald on
March 27. 1928.
(1) What is a good textbook for the
beginner in wireless? (2) Hus un under-
around aerial any advantage over the
overhead type? (3) A few details concern-
ing the “ King-lUnner” six-valve neutrodync
receiver. —4013.
(1) “Wireless,” by J. W. Robinson
(director 4QG) and G. Williams (instruc-
tor of Marconi School, Sydney), Read 1 ress.
Ltd., Adelaide-street, Brisbane. Price, 4s. post
free. Current radio magazines, such as Queens-
land Radio News and Radio (N.S.W.), will
also be of assistance. (2) The underground
aerial has the advantage that the ratio of sig-
nal strength to static strength is greater than
when an overhead aerial is employed. But
a very sensitive receiver must be employed
when located at any great distance from the
broadcasting station. (3) The six-valve Kmg-
Ilinner neutrodyne is a single control re-
ceiver employing three stages of radio-fre-
quency amplification, detector and two
stages of transformer coupled low-frequency
amplification. Full particulars may be ob-
tained from David Jones, Sydney.
Price, including all accessories, £45.
To what extent is it possible to siphon a
shaft? What size and length of hose would
be required f—3924.
The conditions limiting the application ot
the siphon are that the highest point of the
rise should not exceed 27ft. above the water
level, and the delivery end of the pipe must
be lower than the greatest depth of the water
to be removed. The size of pipe depends on
length. Small diameter pipe is not efficient
for long lengths owing to friction losses.
The limiting height of the rise is less at ele-
vations considerably .above sea level.
(1) What is the best way to clear a'■
brigalow and yellow wood scrub, to be sown
afterwards with grass? _ (2) What is the
best grass for this district (Clermont , Q.)t
(1) Ringbark in April and early May, if
the bark is quite free. When the timber dies,
native grasses and herbage will appear spon-
taneously, but it may take three years before
there is sufficient growth to carry a good
bottom fire to ensure a clean sweep of the
dead timber. In dry, hot weather in late
September and October, and at midday, is
the best time to burn; at this period the
grass and herbage should be well frosted and
dried out and the bark split, loose and in-
flammable. After the fire, clean up and
burn any residual timber or rubbish on the
area. (2) Show tested Rhodes grass seed in
moist cloudy weather, preferably right on top
of the cooled ashes, at the rate of about 51b.
per acre.
Is it true that a six-valve radio receiver
is as efficient as an eight-valve one, and
that in an eight-valve set only six valves act
at a time? —4068.
No. There, are receivers that employ as
many as 16 valves, all in use together.
Are there any extensive relics of the
convict days existing at present in Tasmania?
—4052.
A collection of fetters and instruments
of torture used upon the Port Arthur
convicts is on view at the Launceston
museum. At Port Arthur the most famous
relics of convict days are the church, the
penitentiary, the model prison, the old in-
firmary, the arsenal and the commandant’s
residence. There are, on the peninsula, other
buildings used in connection witli the penal
settlement, but most of these places are in
a bad state of repair, and are rapidly crumb-
ling away.
(1) Can Leonard Merrick be classed with
John ■Galsworthy as a novelist? (2) Does
the rate of payment for prose per line in
The Bulletin vary with the subject matter?
(3) What are the chances of a trip abroad
as a purser's assistant? —4093.
(1) A matter of opinion; would say
“yes.” (2) The rate of payment for para-
graphs published in The Bulletin
varies from 24d. to 4d. per line according to
the section in which the par. appears. The
rates are fixed by agreement between the
A.J.A. and The Bulletin. (3) Unless you
are a unionist your chances are nil. There
are hundreds of waiting applicants for such
positions.
Can a bowling green be trued up with the
aid of a theodolite? Our green committee
says that a green, being only 130 ft. square,
is too smtill for the use of a theodolite. —
3915.
Yes it can. The effect of a small error
in either theodolite or level increases with
the size of the work or the length of the line,
so that in a small area, as instanced, com-
plete accuracy could be obtained. A line
to be too small to use a theodolite or level
on would have to be such that the end could
not be brought within the focus of the instru-
ment (about 10 feet).
(1) What is the cheapest single fare
from Sydney to San Francisco? (2) What
is the line, and who is the Brisbane
representative? (3) Would a person resident
in Brisbane have to obtain his passport
from Sydney or Brisbane? (4) Hoio long
does the journey take? —3897.
(1) £2B 10s. (2) Union Royal Mail Line
(Brisbane rep., Macdonald, Hamilton and
Cos.), and Matson Line (Brisbane rep.,
Howard Smith, Ltd.). Both charge the same.
(3) A Brisbane resident should make appli-
cation to Customs Dept., Brisbane, for pass-
port, which would have to be endorsed by
the American Consul to enable landing in the
U.S.A. (4) Matson Line states that it takes
them 19 days; Union Royal advises us that
their run takes 22 days. The routes are
different.
I keep house for my father, a farmer, milk
cows, attend to the poultry and drive the
ear. The coivs a/nd poultry bring in a small
amount of income. Can my father, when
making a State (Vic.) income tax return,
deduct wages paid to me and other women
employed in the house? —3S4G.
The deduction probably would be dis-
allowed. It would be difficult to assess
how much of the payment is for domestic
duties and how much for farm service, and
equally difficult to determine whether the
payment is really wages or an allowance for
maintenance. However, it would do no
harm to make a claim.
(1) Is there a demand in Sydney br Mel-
bourne for capable violinists for orchestral
or dance music? (2) How can a position
be obtained? (3) What is the salary? (4)
Is there more demand for saxophone or tenor-
banjo than the violin? (5) What are con-
ditions in Adelaide and other cities? —4007.
(1) Yes. (2) By joining the Musicians’
Union. (3) From £5 ss. a week upwards.
(4) There is more demand for good violinists
than for players of the other instruments
mentioned. (5) The district secretary of the
Musicians’ Union in each State will inform
you.
Information Supplied.
4173.—T0 preserve green ginger, choose
young, well-grown portions of root stocks,
wash carefully, and scrape off the skin.
Make a syrup of lib. sugar and 1 .quart
water, boil up and skim. Drop the ginger
into syrup while boiling, and cook til] soft
enough. Remove from syrup and drain.
Dry slowly in a warm dry atmosphere —
sun or oven. Roll well in crystallised sugar,
then store in jars with sugar sprinkled be-
tween layers.—“ Java.”
4186. —To remove dull smudges from a
polished maple table, rub lightly with cloudy
ammonia on a rag, then pour off raw linseed
oil and rub in. Finish with any good furni-
ture polish having a beeswax base. A few
drops of stain may be required to restore
color. To avoid recurrence, put cork-mats
under hot dishes. —“Maple.”
3956—T0 destroy rats without using
poison or traps keep one or more young
female cats —males are idlers. Stack your
produce so that the cats can get every-
where a rat can get to. Feed the cats lightly
and regularly on raw meat and milk, and
leave water handy for them. Starvation
won’t improve their ratting abilities. —“C.N.”
4259. —The three main routes from Sydney
to Melbourne are at present in fairly good
conditions for motoring. As conditions are
constantly changing, better consult N.R.M.A.,
26 Grosvenor-street, Sydney, before planning
tour. —“F.H.”
4253. —Gill-birds or wattle-birds do not
migrate outside Australia, neither are they
internal migrants, but they lead a nomadic
life, following the blossoms of the eucalyptus
and banksia. —“A. 8.5.”
4134. —The total length of the Sydney
North Shore bridge will be 3770 ft., of which
the main span is 1650 ft. The total width of
deck is 160 ft., and of roadway 57ft. Greatest
depth of water under the bridge is 79ft.,
and the average depth 50ft. The greatest
depth to rock from water level is 160 ft., and
the average 120 ft. Clearance of bridge above
high water is 172 ft. 6in., and height to top
of arch 440 ft. Contract price is £4,217,721.
Contract provides for variation in price
according to increase or decrease of wages
by wages awards. —“Bridget.”
4037. —To make calico waterproof, take
41b. beeswax, 2oz. resin, 1 pint linseed oil,
4 pint Japan gold size. Heat the oil, wax
and resin until dissolved and mixed, then
add the size, stirring it in gradually. Use
a soft, wide brush and apply the mixture
evenly and quickly while warm. Have the
calico bone-dry—warm if possible. Three
coats are necessary.—“F.S.H.”
4062. —Horses are better swimmers than
cows. Three horses, two of them draughts,
the other a pony, together with a mob of
about 20 dairy cows, were hunted into a
deep pool of the Orara River (N.S.W.) dur-
ing the fires of 1919. The pool was about
40yds. wide, and though some of the cows
were in the water first, the horses were
across and vanished into the scrub before a
cloven hoof touched ground.—“Yufu.”
4123. —Cement lining is preferable to paint-
ing for galvanised-iron tubs that have started
to rust. Remove all loose rust and any
water growths by scrubbing with a dilute
solution of muriatic acid; use wire-netting
to give the cement lining a key to the face
of the tubs; secure the netting loosely to
the inside and bottom of the tub by means
of wire ties passing through holes punched
in the galvanised iron if practicable; other-
wise secure by means of expanding wire
hoops; use three parts clean washed sand
and one part of cement mixed in small quan-
tities with just sufficient water to make it
easily workable. The compo. should be applied
while quite fresh in a manner similar to
plastering; a thickness of three-quarter
inch should suffice. Keep the cement lin-
ing damp for at least three days after
application. —“Compo.”
4158. — (1) Helium was originally de-
rived by heating certain minerals, but is now
obtained from certain natural gas wells in
U.S.A. (2) As only a small percentage of hel-
ium is contained in the natural gas the helium
is separated by a complex process involving
liquefaction of the gas from which it is
derived. (3) Helium is not produced in
commercial quantities in Australia or Maori*
land. —“C.E.F.”
4084. —To put a gloss on plaited raffia
apply pure glycerine with a brush. Allow to
dry, and then give a second coat. —
“Cow-whit.”
4064. —Die nuts are stocked by Scrutton’s,
Ltd., 161 Clarence-street, Sydney, in all sizes,
Whitworth and S.A.E. threads. —“J.R.C.
4910. —The fastest swimming stroke is the
“six-beat crawl,” in which the arms are used
in the same manner as in the double-arm
stroke but the legs are trailed almost in a
straight line with the body, toes pointed and
turned in, and knees slightly bent. The leg
action is a scissoring movement in which
movement is not more than about 6 inches.
D. Helmrich, Forteseue-street, Chiswick.
Sydney, will give further information if you
apply to him.
Does Anybody Know?
What use could be made of slate tiles in
good condition no longer wanted for roofing
purposes ? —4193.
A remedy for mosquitoes other than
citronella, kerosene and Epsom salts solution?
—4192.
Best districts in N. S. Wales to catch
water-fowls, and method of snaring same? —
4106.
Brief Answers.
S.s.: In 1922 Maoriland exported to
Australia butter of the value ot £83,847 ; in 1923,
£372,307 ; 1924, £15,336; 1925, £2683; anil
1'920, £289,453. Australian butter has been ex-
ported to Maoriland, but not to any important extent.
Wee Waa: Queen Victoria ascended to the throne
in 1837 ; the jubilee year of her reign was 1887.. . .
W.G.0.: Australian Press Cuttings Agency, 443 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, and Commonwealth Bureau
of Intelligence, c/o Catts-Patterson Cos., Ltd., 375
Kent-street, Sydney H.H.P.: “Practical Birth
Control,” by Ettie Hornibrook; Angus and Robertson,
Sydney; 4s. 6d Charles R.: Avery good lot.
For your purpose, ’Asia, Tobacco and N. Z. Insurance
in that order P. J.C.: (1) You’ll probably hear of
some amalgamations in the agricultural implement
trade soon. (2) Lead prospects are not good. For
one thing, other countries have enormous quantities
of old dump material to treat. And Canada is
developing some very prolific mines A.T.G.: Tell
us what you want to find out and we will indicate
the most useful works of reference... .W.H.8.: The
publishing firm is unknown here. If you can supply
the address any leading bookseller in Sydney or
Melbourne would procure the firm’s publications for
you. . . .A.J.D.: Priddy and Cos., 99 Pitt-street,
Sydney; £3 3s E.P.: “Hfandbook of Modern Eng-
lish Metre,” by J. B. Mayer; “How to Write Verse,”
by G. F. H. Northcott; “Lessons in Verse Craft,” by
Gertrude Ford; and “The Art of Versification,” by
R. F. Brewer... .T.,T.; No Sydney art dealer has been
able to furnish the name of any private collector
who would be interested in the painting L.M.:
The most common varieties of water fowl found in
N.S.W. are the black-tailed native hen, dusky
moor hen, bald coot or swamp hen, and coot. The
open season is from February 1 to June 30
H.C.: Consult “How to Play Dominoes,” Sir Robert
Bear’s Bookshop, Royal Arcade, Sydney, 9d
J.H.11.: “I Have a Rendezvous with Death” and the
longer poem “Rendezvous” are included in Alan
Seeger’s “Poems” (Constable, 1917), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 6s. 6d J. 11.8.:
It is not worth more than a shilling or two, but
a private collector anxious to complete his set might
pay more... .H.S.M.: See Lady Belcher’s “The
Mutineers of the Bounty and Their Descendants in
Pitcairn island,” Alfred McFarland’s “Mutiny on
the Bounty and Story of the Pitcairn Islanders,”
R. T. Simon’s “Report on Pitcairn Island” and A. R.
Young’s “Mutiny of the Bounty and Story of Pit-
cairn Island.” Stewart’s “Handbook of the Pacific
Islands” may also be consulted. Most of the works
first mentioned are out of print but copies can be
seen at either the Mitchell or Public Library, Sydney.
W.J.T.: Question too vague. Send full par-
ticulars of the stamps to J. H. Smyth, 121 a Castle-
reagh St., Sydney, who will advise you M.M.:
Ask the Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search, 314 Albert St., East Melbourne, to send you
its pamphlet on the subject... .R.R.: See W. J.
Baker, 3 Hunter St.; National Saw and Cutlery
Works, 163 Elizabeth St., Redfern; and Cheetham
and Sons, 237 Elizabeth St.—all of Sydney W.C.:
Communicate with the Commercial Secretary for
Egypt and Sudan, British Consulate, Cairo, Egypt.
A.M.E.: A. and T. Burt, Ltd., Dunedin, M.L.,
may be able to help you... .Sirius: (1) The co. s
articles of association usually prescribe the duties
of its managing director, if any. (2) Hemingway s
“Business Man’s Compendium” ; the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute also issues a handy manual by leare.
. ~.0.A.: But there are hundreds of Starr Bowkett
societies, some (but not all) well managed. The
basis common to them all is g00d... .1.R.H.: Bou t
know where you can get 9 p.e. and “perfect safety.’
There is a reasonable amount of safety and about
7 p.c. in some good pref. issues...-A.C.M.: The
last five cards make a run of five... .S.F.H.: (I)
Under the quarantine laws monkeys can be brought
into Australia only by zoos and circuses. (2)
Seeking answer for rabbit question... .S.P.H..
Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing Cos., Ltd., 23 Mac-
quarie-street; R. A. Rooney and Cos., Ltd., 8 Spring-
street ; Merriwa Contract Cos., Ltd., 255 a George-
street; Federal Pastoral Shearing Cos., Grosvenor-
street —all of Sydney... .T.E.R.: The ribs of a
snake and the muscles associated with them are the
reptile’s principal agents in locomotion. Can:
say what would happen if the scales were removed.
J.W.H.: Don’t touch it unless you are sure
you won’t want the money for several years....
E.W.Ii.: Should be all right, though the manage-
ment is stodgy... .R.S.: Interview the District in-
structor of Physical Training at Victoria Barracks,
Sydney, who will suggest a course of training and
indicate books that would be useful. The Text
Book of Physical Training,” published by the
Defence Department, is recommended... .E.R.M.:
Chappell and Cos., Ltd., 50 New Bond-street, London,
W. 1.; A. Hammond and Cos., 11 Lancashire Court.
New Bond-street, London, W. 1.; Alfred Lengnick
and Cos., Ltd., 14 Berners-street, London, W. 1.; A.
J. Stansy Music Cos., 1579 Broadway, New York,
Irving Berlin Inc., 1607 Broadway, New Y’ork
D.A.: (1) If they don’t want the money they need
not call up all the capital; but you must hold your-
self ready to pay if and when they do call. (2)
A private co., not quoted on Stock Exchange, (o)
They must hold meetings and give notice of them.
But unless their articles require it, they needn't
broadcast their balance-sheets (Many other
mailed).


(/''*- r*%ms
o u *fe«* „
w » fc, , '/
■*. «
*y* £,yi ».
r -n
'MMmi}
$
lil
x
a f
4**S
**♦ *1
&
VI
c*
A
?6
IB?.
/
/
1899
1905
Seven contestants reached
Melbourne without loss of
points, viz.:
H L. Stevens, 12-h.p 2-cyl.
Darracq
Capi H. Tarrant, 12-h p.
2-cyl. Argyll
W. S. Ross, 12-h p. 2-cyl.
Argyll.
S Stott, 12/18-h.p. 4-cyl.
Decauville.
J. H. Craven, 8-h.p. 1-cyL
DeDion
/. G. Coleman, 7-h.p. 1-cyl.
Swift
S. H. Day, 8-h.p, 1-cyl .
DeDion.
• «
A run-off from Melbourne
to Ballarat and back, 140
miles, resulted as follows
Ist ... Capt. H Tarrant
2nd J. H Craven
3rd ... ... S. H Day
All of whom used
DUNLOP TYRES
How Dunlop helped
demonstrate the value of the
Automobile in Australia
In 1899 Dunlop landed in Australia a 41 h.p,
DeDion and soon realised the possibilities of
the automobile in this country.
To further motoring and publicly demonstrate
what the car could do on rough Australian roads
Dunlop in 1905 organised the first Inter-State
Motor Car Reliability Trial conducted in Aus-
tralia. When first mooted threats were made,
in one township that bullock chains would be
fastened across the track to prevent event
taking place.
Dunlop held the test over the Sydney-Melhourne
highway much of it then rough bush track
and the 572 miles event aroused great interest
throughout the Commonwealth. The whole
cost of this trial was borne by Dunlop.
Twenty-three started and five days later
30,000 spectators cheered 17 dust - stained
motorists into' Melbourne.
1928
Dunlop always leads not only in pioneering
work for the advancement of motoring in
Australia —but also in ensuring motorists reliable
and economical tyre service.
Capt . Tarrant's
Argyll-
Your Garage stocks Dunlop.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO OF AUST LTD
All States 1 and N.Z.
§ $
\W'
<\v
Si*
SN
>Nrf
\\*'
<v*
The
** BLACK ”
DUNLOP
MAXFLI
GOLF BALL
ensures
“ those extra
yards ”
DOO^
ao
30.0 6 ob
SpGD
«ssv
NSC
\\V
SN
S»
sss?
W\'
xw
v\\'
X\N


Make
the
Stock
make full market
values. They can do
so. But they must
have the necessary assistance to reach that
mark.
Consign your Cattle, Sheep and Lamhs to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
That step will render their sale at highest possible
prices certain. Energetic, experienced, and compe-
tent, Winchcombe, Carson’s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
e
è
To be Rich —Yet to be Without a Penny—
to own property that cannot be touched —that is the unfortunate
position of many a man’s dependents today, during the many
weary months required for Probate Duty assessment. Even when
assessed the heaviness of this tax often forces dependents to
sacrifice part of their heritage to pay it. These are needless
hardships—P. &C. Probate Assurance removes all of them. It
provides money during the assessment period, pays the tax,
and ensures to dependents their property intact.
Discuss this important matter with our representative or send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man. : H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
I OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
ll4 -ITO CASTL’EREACjH ST. SYDNEY n=
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Write for the Winter edition
of Peapes’ Catalogue—just
issued —a guide to all that is
newest and best in cold-
weather wear for men and
their sons.
It will be found that prices
in every instance adhere to
that consistently moderate
standard which is the result
of Peapes’ no-sale policy.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
A YEAR’S WHEAT-GROWING IN
N.S.W.
Every year the N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department has wheat-crop competitions,
and the observations made by the depart-
mental district experts are of great value,
though naturally what they note as true
in their own areas may not have general
application. Still the observations are
are always worth thinking over.
Last year was, of course, abnormally
dry; and that such results as are reported
could have been achieved speaks volumes
for the new fallowing methods. Even before
the land was fallowed for the 1927 crop the
conditions in most districts were unfavor-
able. The 1926 winter was excesively wet,
and that delayed ploughing; and after the
ploughing there was too little rain in many
districts to allow of much further working
of the ground. In some districts there were
nevertheless as many as eleven workings.
But the average is a little less than half of
that. In the Parkcs-ForbeS district in 1926
the average workings of the seven leading
crops were 6.6; of the next 12 the average
was 4.75. In 1927 the seven in the lead
were worked 8.4 times; the others, 4.9 times.
Generally the drier the district the greater
need, of course, for frequent workings. It
is noted that the Wimmera rigid-tine
scarifier is getting praise in the Western
districts; this Page asked farmers 12 months
ago to consider its virtues.
As to super., the number of unfertilised
crops is astonishing in some districts. In
Dubbo, for instance, only 14 out of 18 com-
peting crops were manured; in Gilgandra 15
out of 19; in Narromine seven out 12. Ap-
parently what has set a certain number of
farmers against the use of super, is that
they or others have tried to make it take
the place of fallowing and working. It
won’t do this; it largely depends for its
action on the presence of moisture in the
soil, and if that is not conserved the super,
is to a great extent wasted.
The Central Western district holds the
keenest wheat-farmers in the State, taking
them all round, and the average quantity of
super, used on the Grenfell crops was 671 b.
per acre, in Cowra 601 b., in Eugowra
64.31 b. and in Canowindra 62.21 b. The win-
ning Grenfell block received 951 b. super.
(651 b. seed) ; the winning Cowra block
751 b. (651 b. seed). The Grenfell block
(R. B. Black’s) grew a 12-bag crop; the
Cowra (Rowlands’) 35 bushels. These
two blocks were worked as follows:
Black’s (light red soil, sandy to grey
loam). —Mouldboard ploughed August, har-
rowed September, spring-toothed end Octo-
ber, disced January, harrowed March, com-
bine sowed and harrowed May 24-25.
Rowlands’ (bright red loams, originally
timbered yellow box). —Disced after a burn
in January, mouldboard ploughed September
(heavy growth trefoil) and harrowed, spring-
toothed December and end of January, har-
rowed mid-March, spring-toothed early May
and drill-sown and harrowed. Senior agri-
cultural instructor Kerle says it was the
best fallow he has ever judged anywhere.
In both these districts there was a wet
1926 winter, a dry spring, very good rains
in December and January, and then nothing
to speak of till September. The farmer
who hopped in early and started to conserve
that December-January moisture scored.
Crops on stubble or poor fallows had petered
out before the rain came.
It is doubtful whether the hardiness of
the wheat plant is better illustrated any-
where in the world than in the Western
N.S.W. w r heat lands, especially the heavy soils.
Early last y-ear a very experienced Victorian
farmer took over a farm in the Temora dis-
trict. The winter was bone dry, and at the
end of it in despair he put his sheep on the
crop. A share-farmer had no sheep to put
on his section. The September rains came
when the crop seemed past hope. Yet he cut
six to seven bags to the acre.
The quantity of seed sown varies greatly;
and no very definite conclusion can be got
from the results. In the Narrandera dis-
trict the winning crop (among 27) got 601 b.
seed and 561 b. super.; No. 3 got 90lb. seed
and 135-1401 b. super.—the biggest figures
anywhere; probably this great quantity was
used with a view to residual benefits—pos-
sible for pasture. At Berrigan, Oaklands,
Culcairn and Henty the smallest amount of
super, used on a first-prize crop was 721 b.
This last crop was grown at Berrigan and
was the new wheat Nabawa. A little
Nabawa was grown also in the Parkes-
Forbes district. Its special virtue is its
resistance to flag smut; it upheld its claim
there last year when such varieties as Yan-
dilla King, thought to be fairly resistant,
suffered badly. In the Dubbo district Can-
berra, Hard Federation, Federation, Wara-
tah and Turvey were specially non-resistant:
the most resistant varieties were Nabawa,
Florence, Riverina and Yandilla. Turvey
seemed to suffer most from loose smut;
Canberra is also a sufferer from this disease.
Waratah was the favorite wheat of tHo
year. Ini the Grenfell-Cowra-Canowindra
district it took eight first places out of 11;
that is because it was able to respond to the
late rains. The increase in the planting of
Waratah is astonishing. In the Parkes-
Forbes district 28 per cent, of the plantings
in the competition in 1924 were Canberra;
last year it was down to 18 per cent. Wara-
tah in the same period has gone up from
34 to 31 per cent. Federation still holds
its own, but it has come to be generally
recognised as a heavy-soil wheat. In the
Narrandera-Berrigan-Henty district it scored
two firsts with 13$ competitors as against
Waratah’s one first with 34 competitors.
Another new variety which is getting a lot
of attention in the dry districts is Penny :
it looks like a good yielder. Whether Wara-
tah will hold its place long is doubtful. Its
susceptibility to flag smut and its tendency
to shell and tangle are not in its favor.
GRASS SOWING IN N. S. WALES.
“Timothy”: Autumn is the best time to
sow the most useful grasses in N. S. Wales.
Most popular, save on the very best land, is
Wimmera rye, which is hardy and liked by
all classes of stock. After the first sowing
it is self-sowing. Best results are obtained
if seed is sown in March or April, but it
may be sown as late as June. In wheat
districts Wimmera rye should be sown only
on areas that are to be given over to grazing
for a number of years.
On the best land Perennial rye is pre-
ferred to Wimmera, as it gives more feed.
In parts such as the Riverina and table-
lands where lucerne is suitable as a grazing
crop, it has been found good practice to
sow 31b. Wimmera rye and 21b. lucerne to
the acre along with the last wheat seeding.
The rye will have formed seed by the time
the wheat is ready for stripping, and after
harvesting the stubble, grass and lucerne pro-
vide good grazing.
Good results have also been obtained by
broadcasting Wimmera rye seed on paspalum
and couch grass pastures, the rye giving
green feed during the cooler months. Wim-
mera rye seed does no harm to sheep or
lambs.
Don’t sow rye too heavily with wheat or
the rye will check wheat growth considerably.
When the land is wanted for cultivation
again, heavily stock the paddock with sheep.
Then fallow, after which the rye can be
kept in check by feeding-off and working the
fallow, using a broad-tined cultivator when
the seedlings are just showing above thb
ground and later as required.
SUBSOILING.
“Paul C.”: Where the subsoil is porous
or gravelly subsoiling is useless, but where it
is inclined to run together and become com-
pacted, deep and thorough loosening up is
just what is necessary if the best results are
to be expected. Though subsoil ploughing
cannot produce moisture, it puts the ground
in a suitable condition to receive and retain
moisture.
Subsoiling should not be done when the
subsoil is wet. Autumn and winter are
usually the best seasons for this work, so
that subsequent rains may settle in it and
fill it to saturation point. This moisture
retained in the loosened ground beneath the
ordinary plough depth will be given off to the
soil above it as occasion demands, and con-
sequently as long as the surface soil is kept
stirred to prevent or retard evaporation good
crops can be grown with little rainfall.
BARLEY FOR PIGS.
“Ken”: Barley is the best of all grain
foods for producing bacon, taking into con-
sideration both quantity and quality. It
should always be fed crushed, and, for young
pigs, mixed with pollard. It is especially
rich in carbo-hydrates, containing G 3.5 p.c.
compared with the 47.3 p.c. and 47.6 p.c.
of oats and wheat respectively. Wheat con-
tains a bigger percentage of protein (13. <)
p.c., but barley is a good second (9.6). Five
pounds of barley will produce one pound of
pork: lib. barley is equal in food value to
41b. potatoes (boiled), 51b. lucerne (green),
or 61b. skim milk.
Bonemeal should be given to growing pigs
regularly in the food; it is the best safeguard
against rickets. About one tablespoonful per
1001 b. of pig will be sufficient.
THE HARD-MOUTHED HORSE.
“Ack”: I have listened to many arguments
as to the efficiency of various gear for con-
trolling the hard-mouthed horse. Many favor
the snaffle, claiming that the thinner the bar
the better. The British cavalryman uncom-
promisingly adopts the Portsmouth bit, a
heavy bar with a shallow inverted U in the
middle to spare the horse’s tongue, and the
heavy curb chain operated by the second
rein. The Light Horseman regarded this,
clumsy instrument scornfully, and gradually
replaced it with the common broken bit and
rings almost universal in Australia. When
Major-General Hodgson, a British Yeomanry
officer commanding the Australian Mounted
Division, inspected the 4th L.H. Brigade at
Deir el Belah, the horses were in splendid
condition, having supplemented their rations
with good grazing, and some of the man-
oeuvres w r ere spoilt by plunging, galloping,
uncontrolled animals breaking up the for-
mations. The divisional commander there-
upon issued an order that Portsmouth bits
only be used, and quartermasters and troopers
put in a fierce time re-equipping themselves,
only to discard them surreptitiously later on.
Personally, I found the broken bit, in con-
junction with a martingale, quite the best of
all. I have smashed curb chains and made a
butcher’s shop of my horse’s mouth with the
other variety, and yet failed to hold him.
SORE SHOULDERS AND SADDLE
GALLS.
“Joe S.”: Lack of grooming, carelessness
in removing sweat and scurf after working,
and failure to remove saddles between inter-
vals of work are frequent causes of sore
shoulders and saddle galls. The commonest
cause, however, is ill-fitting or badly-stuffed
saddles or collars.
A horse so affected should be thrown out
of work until cured. In mild cases, when
this is inconvenient, the collar or saddle
should be chambered so that it wil not come
in contact with the affected part. The
following solution sopped on several times
a day will rapidly bring about a healing:
Sulphate of zinc, loz.; sugar of lead, one
quart. The parts must be kept thoroughly
clean during treatment. The stuffing or fit-
ting of collar or saddle should also be
looked to. In cases of young horses with
tender skins, a hardening application con-
sisting of a half-pound of wattle-bark boiled
in one gallon of water will be found advan-
tageous. This should be sopped on three or
four times a week.
BETTER BEEF.
“Topside”: During a recent discussion in
the “Land” column on “baby beef” and the
possibility of producing it in this country,
someone wrote asking indignantly how it
could be produced under Australian con-
ditions, and, anyway, who was attempt-
ing it. A correspondent of one of the Syd-
ney daily newspapers supplied an answer.
He wrote to the editor complaining that
the N. S. Wales Meat Industry Board, in
its exhibit at the R.A.S., had given great
prominence to an exhibit of Queensland
heavy beef “when we on the land are doing
our best to supply baby beef, which we find
is mostly called for by local customers and
is more suitable for the retail trade.” It
is evident that some N.S.W. 'growers at
least are going in for marketing the young
and swiftly-topped beast which the doubters
have derided, and that they have found a
market for it. There does not seem any
reason why, given comparatively small hold-
ings which will enable close and constant
supervision, the movement towards growing
younger and finer beef should not develop
rapidly on the lines already indicated by
“Land” correspondents. As far as the big
Queensland runs are concerned, a change in
this direction \vould seem to be out of the
question at present, for the herds are too
large, and the expense of the necessary sub-
division into smaller paddocks would be pro-
hibitive. Sfill it is being done on a large
scale in Argentina, and Australia’s turn
may come with closer settlement in the
North.
TO COMBAT BOT-FLY.
“Homby” : Bot-flies are abnormally numer-
ous and active this year, and horse losses are
proportionally heavy. To insure immunity
keep a bucket with a drop of kerosene and
a fair-sized rag (a piece of blanket or corn-
sack is the best) in a handy place in the
yard, and rub the animals dowm once in every
24 hours. Special attention should be given
to the neck and legs, and many owners treat
only these parts; but kerosene is cheap and
it’s far safer to do the beasts all over. The
ę
ě


■fOF.-f
TESTED TO
It is at this high pressure—namely, 3001bs. per sq. in.
-—that every -| - G.F.”I" Malleable Tube Fitting is
tested. This rigorous testing is your assurance that
every “I"G.F.T _ Fitting supplied to you is perfect.
Engineers, Heating Contractors and Gas Fitters
know that +G.F.H” Fittings are the best in the
world, and can always be relied upon.
Suitable for steam, water or gas services.
e
“|-G.F."|“ Fittings are extremely malle-
able, as this illustration shows. They
will not crack or strip under the strain
of “that extra turn’’ and will give satis-
faction wherever they are used, because
they are absolutely reliable.
è
This illustration shows the snug fit which
'i - G.F.“[ - Fittings make. The threads are
accurate and screwed in dead alignment and
the bore is clean and smooth—entirely free
from sandholes and blowholes. This is the
case with every “|~O.F. _ |~ malleable fitting
and is guaranteed by the rigid examination
each fitting receives after it is manufactured.
4000 Varieties. Write for Latest List.
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
kIMI T E " >
SYDNEY., . . 175 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE.. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH.x.x.c*. 33-35 King Street.
MELBOURNE. . 521-523 Collins Street*
ADELAIDE. ... 157 Waymouth Street.
NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street.
+G.F.+


J
vsf
>
n
ii
I
p
Hi
&
iy
r'JVt'f
-?<i
YJI
%
%
-< . V?
ifti
our
vfeyyy
**?
* i
o*l W*
\£F
Ll
fj*
Vlfi
/ / v
l >4
I ii i
U '7*
y k k I i
U
rr?
» in
i i i rrxrrxTl
il* l I HI
-V
1 l VLILL L h II I
Lulu Ll i L ll l
ut
.hi
t Ltt ert
mu ill
util m
Lltk t
i l L l i l ft t h ti h 1 g
L t HU
tt t ftf tt t t ft
n r —w'r r ~~z
. L
lltl l Itct
8 a
l t l ktLtk
■W*
NOsariH'i
THE
Smooth
and
Mighty
POWER
of the
Steam
Engine
AUSTRALIAN motorists have asked us to build a shorter
Super-Six. They wa*hted in such a type the performance, sturdiness,
reliability and luxury of the famous 127-inch Super-Six. So the 118-incn
Hudson is built for them; and the 127-inch Super-Six is continued for those
who prefer the longer car.
In every detail of motor, clutch, transmission, axles, and four-wheel
brakes this new compact Hudson Super-Six is identical with the 12 7-inch
models. ,
Its lighter weight makes possible sensational performance at all speeds.
Few drivers will ever call for its maximum. Fuel economy is of a standard
never excelled in a car of this power.
Three body types —The Coach, Sedan and Tourer —are available on
this chassis. They are richly upholstered and finished, and designed to give
generous, even lounging passenger room.
For those who wish Hudson mechanical and performance leadership jOn
the longer wheelbase, there are five models: the Phaeton, the custom-bui t
Brougham and 7-Passenger Sedan, and the Standard Coach and 5-Passenger
Sedan. > '
The new companion invention to the Super-Six principle accomplishes
the ideal performance of the high-compression type motor that is sought
through the use of special and costly motor fuels. This invention, with regular
petrol, obtains the results sought through the use of such motor fuels. And
there is steam-engine smoothness and power in all performance.
STANDARD MODELS. STANDARD MODELS.
1 1 8-inch Wheel Base. 1 27-inch Wheel Base.
Tourer (Aust. Body) £445 7-Pass. Tourer (Aust. Body) .. . £465
Coach (Imported Body) 480 Coach (Imported Body) ....... 499
Sedan (Imported Body) 510 5-Pass. Sedan (Aust. De Luxe
Body—Leather) 675
CUSTOMS-BUILT MODELS.
127-inch Wheel Base.
5-Pass. Brougham (Imported Body) £560
7-Pass. Sedan (Imported Body) . . 650
Prices at some points slightly higher . :
NEW
High*
Oppression
Motor
that
Turns
Waste Heat
to POWER
HUDSON
SUPER* SIX
DISTRIBUTORS
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


rc
A pliant shoe to prevent
foot troubles.
Built on a last moulded to
ensure the easiest possible fit,
this Abbey Shoe has no toe-
cap. The sides are low-cut,
guaranteeing maximum com-
fort. The upper is made of
tan or black calf—the softest,
most restful leather for tired,
tender or aching feet. And
the shoe is roomy—arched at
the lacing, with non-chafing
heel—nothing to cramp the
foot anywhere.
Full and Half Sizes, each in Three
Widths.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in each full and half
size, so that you get, in effect, a
made-to-order fit. Order by post,
stating width required. Ask also
for a supply of the correct Abbey
quick-shining Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
Write for a copy of the 40 -page colored
catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St, & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
L 69
Cuticura Talcum
The Family Comfort
For The Nursery, Toilet
And After Bath
The purity of Cuticura Talcum,
with its delicate medication and an-
tiseptic properties, make it the ideal
toilet powder for the entire house-
hold. It prevents chafing and irri-
tation, and soothes and comforts
baby’s tender skin.
Soap Is.,Talcum 1 5.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: ‘‘R.Towns&Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
DOF" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GREY
L HAIR
1 WO OLID)
f SPOIL
IT
\
a*
\e»
vr«D»
sw
<fW e
tfv®
\Vf
Sl°' r
V>'-
‘S“>v
V
r ,#WAlNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, L
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Investments in Canberra Are
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
R. G. 11. Joseland, Esq.
Free of State Income Tax.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
iii many ways. Before legislation was intro-
duced it was the custom to bed Sin. casing
in blue shale, and then carry the internal
string of casing down to the top of th~
water-bearing rock, clamping and sealing it
there, and finishing the hole with a small hi'.
This method reduced leakages to a minimum.
The Act compels owners to carry the internal
string to the bottom of the hole, and permits
hydraulic inspectors afterwards to take pres-
sure tests. Owners everywhere have objected
to the absurd casing conditions and subse-
quent pressure tests. Busted bores vindicate
their objections.
The bore just completed at Nelia furnishes
conclusive evidence of the dangers. All con-
ditions were complied with and the bore
was completed and casing strings seated
and driven in the presence of a hydraulic
inspector. Then the bore was screwed down.
The water, finding its outlet closed,
immediately burst up outside both strings
of casing. The prompt action of the
inspector in unthrottling the bore averted
complete and utter disaster, but the work
is ruined. Obedient to the tremendous under-
ground pressure, the artesian basin is forcing
the water up outside the casing in millions
of gallons, together with sand, pebbles, etc.,
and no one can conjecture the end.
It will be interesting to see if the hydraulic
department will still persist in its attitude
or agree to have the Act re-drafted in the
light of experience.
FERTILISER ON PASTURES.
“Cupid” : It pays to top-dress pasture land
with fertiliser. W. P. Ileffernan, of Mil-
vale, in conjunction with the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, set apart two paddocks
for a year’s test. One was top-dressed with
841 b. of superphosphate an acre, and the
other paddock was left as Esau left his
grazing property. Both paddocks were
stocked at the rate of D sheep to the acre
to start with. At the end of two months
the pasture on the fertilised land so increased
that it was found necessary to increase the
stock to two sheep an acre. Later on in the
spring there was such an abundance of feed
that the paddock carried five sheep to the
acre, while the unfertilised paddock could
only maintain the original number of sheep.
At the end of the 12 months the fertilised
paddock finished up with a thick body of
feed. In addition to increasing the carry-
ing capacity of pasture lands, the use of
superphosphate has the further advantage
of enabling sheep to withstand drought con-
ditions very much longer than on neglected
lands.
DOCTORING THE BULL.
“Boronia” : “N.M.L.’s” advice (B. 7/3/’2B)
about “doctoring” a bull is out of date and
barbarous. Modern cattlemen use a proper
instrument which brings about the desired
result without even rupturing the skin. It
is a simple, clean and well-nigh painless
operation, and the animal treated is able to
get up and immediately commence feeding.
COPPER BRANDS.
“N.M.L.”: Two varieties of horse and
cattle brands are in common use —copper
and iron. The copper may cost a shade
more; but it’s worth it. Copper seems to
heat quicker, and, though it also goes off in
correspondingly less time, when it’s fit for
work it makes a quicker, cleaner and better
job. Only a light touch is necessary with
a copper brand carrying the right degree
of heat —they burn much more quickly than
iron, and if pressed unduly they cut like a
knife. Again, the more time a copper
brand is used, and allowed to cool gradually,
the more brittle it becomes; so wrap it in
bagging before packing it for carrying.
Cancer induced by the use of copper
brands —a belief to which many stockmen
subscribe —is “all my eye.” Those tumorous
growths merely denote a hand which should
be swinging an axe instead of taking on the
delicate touch which branding demands.
CO-OPERATIVE BUYING.
“Titun”: Why is the average farmer so
poor a co-operator? Most co-op. societies in
Vic., butter factories excepted, founded to
serve farming interests show wretched re-
sults. What can be done is shown by the
half-yearly balance-sheet of the Wonthaggi
society, which, on a share capital of £19,581,
made sales totalling £68,470, put into reserve
£1296 (total fund, £14,509), and allowed the
satisfying rebate of 3s. 2d. in the £ on all
purchases. This result is only achieved by
whole-hearted support from all shareholders
of the society, and it is at this point, the.
vital one, that shareholders in farmers’
societies fail.
Much might be done in the co-operative
field in the buying of expensive machinery—
too expensive for the individual to buy. If
it’s a question of a top-dressing machine, for
instance, a group of half a dozen should find
the purchase fairly easy to finance.
ORGANIC MANURES.
“Silentio”; Far too much organic manure
goes to waste in Australia. It is essential
to plant growth that the soil is supplied with
a liberal amount of humus or vegetable
mould. A paddock that has had the stubble
ploughed in has a fair supply of it, and will
without any manure produce a crop ; but, if
it had a liberal supply of ordinary manure
scattered over and ploughed in, the yield
would be increastd. Organic manure obtained
from cities is eagerly bought months ahead
by market gardeners, than whom none know'
better the need of feeding the soil. This
particular class of manure consists mainly
of street sweepings and requires careful
handling. Manure from stables generally
containsl large quantities of litter and makes
excellent humus, Sandy wastes will, with
the addition of such matter, produce record
crops. Sheep manure is about the most
highly concentrated of all, but is difficult
to handle; it requires to be well rotted be-
fore use. It may be pitted for years
without losing any of its good properties.
Many farmers supply the necessary humus
by growing special crops for ploughing in.
Even rank herbage answers this purpose
welL A simple way to collect the manure
from cattle camps and paddocks is to make
an ordinary slide and attach a long board
to the back, about two feet high, and drive
slowly, drawing the manure into rows.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Ilomby”: If you have a square iron tank
that is too far gone to hold water, here’s
a use for it. Place it, top uppermost, on a
high piece of ground, or, if there is none,
make an earth foundation about six inches
high so that rainwater won’t flood it. Cut
one of the sides out with a cold chisel. Place
a double row of bricks at each end of the
floor, and two iron bars across, and through
the hole where the lid fitted put an old piece
of galvanised iron to act as a chimney. You
then have an excellent fire-place in which
to cook your fowl- or pig-food.
“Dai R.”: Instead of the old-fashioned
wire slip-over gate-fastener which is so hard
to operate, try this. Fix a gate swinging
pin or other piece of iron bent at right
angles, into the gate-post, and to the gate
attach a piece of old chain with a hobble
ring at the end. The fastening can be
slipped off and on easily on foot or horse-
back, and will get your gate shut for you
much oftener than with the wire one.
“Awani”: Don’t go to the trouble of chop-
ping up your castor oils. Turn the sheep on
to them. Jumbifck likes the plants when
young, about Gin. high, and will not only
clear out the pest, but get fat on them.
“Biro”: When greenstuff is scarce turkeys
do well on the green to’" hr onions minced
and placed with their ,ooc.. They will also
eat vegetable-peelings and cabbage. The lat-
ter should be cut up roughly;.
“Ida”: To clean the mouldboard and other
bright parts of a plough when rusted, mix
4oz. of sulphuric acid in one pint of water.
Handle the acid very carefully, pouring it
into the water very gradually, and using
either a glass or crockery vessel, or a tin
that is not wanted afterwards. When the
mixture is ready pour it on the rusted parts,
and five minutes afterwards scour the parts
well with dry sand. Then oil or grease the
implement, and it will quickly become bright
when used again;
“T.W.”: Asa bacon-forming foodi, grey
peas are excellent. They should be fed to
the grunters raw (boiled grains have a ten-
dency to pass through, thus aiding in mal-
nutrition), mixed with the usual fare. Pea-
fed pigs provide good flavored meat, and it
will be found firm. A good and constant
supply of water should be allowed, for peas
create thirst.
“ J.A.R.”: How’s this for anew use for
compressed sugar-cane megass sheets (“Celo-
tex”)? I had decided to give the wife and
kids a week at the seaside and told
Choom to carry on the farm while we were
away. Arriving in town I forgot to order
oil-cake to feed the cows on, but had ordered
this new-fangled sheeting for walls for the
barn. On arriving home I was surprised to
see how well Strawberry, Dolly and co. were
looking, and how they were relishing their
feed. It was Chum who enlightened me. He
had fed them on what he reckoned must be
anew brand of oil-cake —the megass sheets!
“N. 8.”: Owing to the keen demand for
store cattle in recent weeks many dairy-
farmers in Victoria intend saving all the
calves in their herds this year, and both
steers and heifers will be reared. In many
districts graziers cannot get sufficient grown
cattle to top up for fats, and cattle are also
wanted to keep the new growth of grass
from getting away from the sheep before
winter.
“Saturday”: Money in pigs? Bill Thomp-
son, of Bryden, Queensland, bought a British
black sow 15 years ago for 30s. She has
just littered nine youngsters. Members of
the family prior to these arrivals have re-
turned Thompson over £3OO. In war-time a
litter of 10 brought £52 10s. The mother
needed no special attention at any time, and
ate anything that was going.
“Ledraw”: The suitability of the Upper
Clarence for sheep-raising has been demon-
strated this year. The wool clip of 112
bales from Gordon Brooke gave a net return
of £3277, the net average from each bale
being £29 ss. The average return from each
sheep, after all expenses, was 18s. 10d., the
wool being equal to many of the best Maori-
land clips.
“Pigcat”: Out on the Georgina (W.Q.),
after a good rain and following hordes of
flies, horses running bush develop great
raw patches on their hips. Apart from that,
of course, their eyes are' bunged and their
cheeks raw; but those hips puzzled me till
I took a tumble. Horses during fly time
naturally stand head-and-tail —it’s the only
chance they have of battling through with
even a minimum of comfort. Even so, one
fellow gets stung on the eye. He looks for
a place to rub it. His own knee is good ;
but his mate’s hip sticking out seems just
the thing the doctor ordered. That knob
just fills the socket of the eye, and there’s
whips of comfort in it. So he acts accord-
ingly. After doing that several times a wet
patch forms on the horse’s hip. When the
sun gets to it that wet patch scalds. It
attracts the flies, which cluster on it, and
that’s the way the raw patch is formed.
“B-Gar”: That South Australian stud-
masters are catering for and getting a big
share of the ram demand in Queensland
is evident from the many recent shipments
made. Queensland breeders have at last
realised that the S.A. rams are the ideal
one for the hot climate, their robust consti-
tution and the quality of the wool both
being suitable. The latest consignment for
Western Queensland consisted of 1100 rams
valued at £IO.OOO.
“Ted R.”: The mere fact of a bull having
a pedigree does not warrant his being kept
for stud purposes. It is always advisable to
keep a bull long enough to test the quality of
his daughters. If they are better than their
dams, continue to use him to the fullest
extnt.
“8.G.”: What’s a hogget? Ever since I
was taught that a sheep grew wool I’ve be-
lieved a true hogget was a two-tooth that
had never been shorn as a lamb, and that the
wool was easily distinguishable from the
fact that the tip was pointed and curly, and
did not have the blocky appearance of pre-
viously shorn sheep. Recently a brother-
grazier showed me a yard of sheep two years
old and ready for their third shearing which
he argued were hoggets. What’s the verdict?


dnoiher reason why
you will like
J ARDATH
There are twenty
reasons in every
packet
FLAVOUR, the finest production
of 30 years manufacturing
experience
rAV
J
10
,/o»
w
OVAL
VIRGINIA
SMOKE-OH!
Man proposes... .but woman leads him up
to it!
* *
“Not lost but gone before” can truly be
written of the week’s screw.
* '*■
It is modesty that forces some women
into bathing costumes.
SEEKING ITS SENSE OF GRATITUDE.
“I wonder how I could make the brute understand that
I am a life member of the S.P.C.A.?”
A clergyman recently described betting as
a menus of getting something for nothing.
Hasn’t lie got it upside down?
if she stamps her foot and says, “I won’t,”
buy tii" ring; you’re set. If she says, “I
might later, but we’re too young yet,” sew
a button on your hip-pocket, and keep it but-
toned.
* ❖
A conflict of wills means stoush for wharf
laborers, amu'sement for women, argument
for club members and profit for lawyers.
We hasten to assert that we do not sub-
scribe to the statement of a biassed Sydney
tourist that after six months of wfetched
weather Melbourne is now settling down to
enjoy six months of wretched weather.
*l*
“Polling at Chicago,” says a cable, “was
disastrous to Mayor Big Bill Thompson,
the leader of the anti-British party in the
U.S.A.” We learn, however, that there is no
truth in the report that gross impersonation
at the polls was traced to King George,
disguised as a gunman.
* *
St. Peter: “Where do you come from?”
The Applicant: “Sydney.”
St. Peter: “H’m—l suppose you want
your harp, as usual, on time payment?”
tfi v
Concerning Mr. Bruce’s “Big Four” who
are to advise the Government on the best
way to develop Australia, we were asking
awhile back “Which four?” Now we ask
“What for?”
* *
There’s one good thing about being a
match manufacturer; every strike assists
the industry.
* * *
“What,” a newspaper asks its readers, “is
a fathom?” Isn’t it the length of the fish
that always gets off?
Debt collectors find a lot of people go
out to meet their bills.
One great risk attached to accepting a
pound note from a Scot is that the flimsy
thing is so likely to be torn in halves.
* *
A girl never looks ripping when she tears
along.
* *
In London a person may place himself
in the hands of the post office and be de-
livered to any address. Here it would be
impossible to carry sufficient food to last
the time.
$ *
A motorist accused of speeding the other
day said he mistook a notice “To the punt”
for “To the pint.”
* * * ■
Life is the Dickens: before marriage,
“Great Expectations”; afterwards, “Hard
Tijnes.”
* *
Judged by the way her dress is going, it
would seem as if woman has decided to be
her own Cupid.
* *
“Hello, what’s that you’re reading?”
“I’m not sure yet, but I think it must be
the story of a hungry fisherman —the, hero’s
always speaking with ‘bated breath.’ ”
* *
It is not only in the newspapers that
matrimonial troubles are displayed in head-
lines.
* *
“Ong Dee”: I forecast that the MacMeins
are going to be verra prosperous. They
haven’t the ’phone on, but
the Browns next door
have. Every day at 5
p.m. Mrs. MacMein drops
into Mrs. Brown’s for a
chat, and Mr. MacMein
rings up on a public
’phone but doesn’t press
the button, and so re-
covers his pennies. If this
happens once, Mrs. Mac.
knows he’ll be home to
dinner ; if twice, he won’t.
* *
During the governorship
polling at Chicago 23 per-
sons were injured; nine
bombs were thrown ; 158
voters were thrown out of
booths and 74 persons
were kidnapped. How-
ever, only five negroes and
two whites were killed.
We learn that many gang-
leaders are to be expelled
for letting their men loaf.
* *
Television sets can now
be purchased which, how-
pver, transmit only a silhouette. Mr. Bruce
is said 1 to have ordered one. He will fill in
the details of Mr. Hughes himself.
* *
The color scheme, when Miranda wed,
Revealed her folks as patriots true;
The ’groom looked red, and the bride looked
white,
A.nd her dad {who paid the bills) looked
blue.
* *
An electrical machine has been invented
which opens letters at the rate of 30,000
an hour. Ours will continue to be opened
by wife.
* *
In the next world no one will ever grow
old. In this world only one sex has accom-
plished that.
* *
Britain has decided that woman shall have
equal rights with man. That seems a ter-
rible set-back for the fair sex.
* *
“Good-bye, darling,” he said, tenderly
kissing his wife as he went out. Then he
went inside and washed-up, after which he
went into the sitting-room and, taking down
the photograph of the wedding group, punched
the clergyman in it heavily on the jaw.
* *
Very few men try to bring the truth home
to their wives.
* *
The modern girl’s dress is like an out-
West mirage—there is not much in it.
* *
The fact that a man in Tamworth
(N.S.W.) recently killed a snake by hitting
it with a camera supports our belief that
cameras should be listed, with bagpipes and
saxophones, among the world’s deadly
weapons.
* *
A man presses his suit before marriage, and
often after.
The difference between getting drunk and
getting married is that if you get drunk you
don’t have to fight.
* *
“A large party of British politicians,”
says a cable, “will shortly visit the battle-
fields in France.” It seems deplorable that
so many leading citizens should be exposed
to such unnecessary risk.
* *
“Not for years,” says a cable, “has the
United States Presidential campaign been
so incoherent as the present one.” Striking
evidence in support of the report that the
U.S.A. has been experiencing a great influx
of Welsh immigrants.
TRAM LOVE.
The old sport sat
On a tram-car seat,
And noticed there
Two ankles neat.
Above them, fair
In silken hose,
A lovely pair
Of calves uprose.
His game was fired —
He did. not see
Above the skirt
That draped her knee.
He thought, “If I
Were slim and dapper,
Then I would try
To catch this flapper!”
Alas for love
When such as he
DO look above
Dear Grannie's knee!
s.A.
A. E. WILLIAMS.
THE INFERNEL MASHINE.
Tom Truelove knew that any moment
might be his next. Bound Helplessly hand
and foot, he sat in the Chair watching the
Devellish Infernell Mashine ticking His
Life’s moments away. Tick, tick, tick, he
Heard distinctly: and Every Tick plunged
him further towards Eternity.
Another man might have
Turned Pale and Disspaired.
Not so Tom. Desperate as
he knew his lot to be, he
Still Knew that Calm Cour-
age might find a Way Out.
But what could he do? t
A Rat which had crept
into the room from a hole in
the Waneseott advanced
boldly Further. It scampered
Away as Our Hero rose to
his Feet. Though bound, he
was not Tied to the Chair.
Pivoting on his Heels he
worked his way to the win-
dow.
It alowed him to look
Forth on a seen that
Arrowed his very Sole. Be-
low the hut, which Stood on
a Rocky Promenens, he saw
Maude Magnus tide to a tree,
with the Sinister faces of the
Evil Dick Daggers and his
Villenus crew gathered round
hei\
“In a little time,” he heard
Dick say, “the parson will
be Here to Marry us. He
is one of the Gang. Then I
will have all Your Money,
and I’ll be rich.”
“You will be Captured and Hung,” said
the brave girl deffiantl.v.
“Hoho!” laugfed the Villin. “Do you
think that your father, the Judge, will Sen-
tens his Son-in-Law to be Hung? He will
have to find me Not Guilty to save his Own
Name.”
“Never!” cried the Brave Girl. “My Love
is given to Tom Truelove, although he does
not know it, and No Other than he shall
claim this Fair Hand.”
“Aha!” sneered Dick, “your Hero is in
yon Hut. Near him is a Infernell Mashine
which we have timed to Expload and Blow
him to Bits just as you are Married to
me.”
Tom could bear no more; the agony in
Maude’s face was To Great. He pivoted
himself away from the window and through
himself down against the wall.
The Infernell Mashine went on ticking re-
morsellessly.
There was a Momentery Glow in Tom’s
Heart as he remembered what Maude had
said. She had always Scorned him because
he was only a Pore stockman on her Farther’s
estate; and he had Thought she meant it.
Almost Imeditely his pleasure Faded.
Through his fault She was left in Her Present
Predickerment. Dashing to her rescue when
he heard she was .Captured by Desperados
TEMPERING THE WIND TO THE
CORNED LAMB.
MRS. H. PECK . (daring him) : “I hope you
approved of the lamb, Augustus?”
MRS. H. PECK: “Er — the — er—gravy was
very tender, my love l”
lie had heeded not the wire the Dastardly
Seoundrells had stretched across the path,
until his Horse tripped and fell.
He felt he had been Foolish; and now he
was to be Blown to Bits whilst she suf-
fered a Fate that was worse than Death.
Tom groaned. But he was not without
hope. Sudenly, had he not Controlled him-
self. he would have given a shout of Joy.
When Our Hero through himself on the
Floor it was with a Definite Plan in his
mind. He had brought the rope tying his
Hands Right over the Rat Hole he had
Notticed. Finding itself Imprisoned, he
thought, the Rat would try to Naw his
way out.
Nor was he Mistaken. It was the feel of
Sharp teeth Biting at his Bonds which had
Almost made him give a Cry of Joy. But
he dared not frighten the Animal.
Even so, Could it Do its Work in Time?
How soon would the wicket Parson Come?
His Only Answer was the devellish clock-
work. ticking remorsellessly.
Even as Our Hero, trying to keep Him-
self from turning Pale, listened, an over-
fat, Red-Faced man, with an Evil Lear
on his Bloatered Feacliers, which were
HIS STAR PERFORMANCE.
BIG HUBBY: “Yes, I left a few pounds on your dressing-
table. Haven’t I earned some applause?”
LITTLE WIFEY: “Applause, darling? Why I’d love an
encore!”
Clothed in Clericle Garb, came Riding up
the Track.
“Tiie Chief has some more Dirty Work
for you—a Marridge,” said one of the men.
“Pax O’Biscum.” said the parson, giving
a Blasphemious Blessing. “The dirter the
better,” he added with a grin, “as long as
there is Money in It.”
It was such a man that Maude faced some
Moments later.
“You are only just in time,” said Dick
Daggers. “In another Moment yon Hut
would have Gone into the Air, taking with
it the Mortal Remains of Tom Truelove ; and
I want that Explosion to Celebrate our Wed-
ding. Get on with the job.”
“No, no!” screamed Maude, “I will not
marry this Base Blackguard. Help!”
“It is useless to Cry for Help; there
is None to Hear You!” sneered Dick, Cut-
ting the Bonds so that he could put the
Ring on her Finger and holding her firmly
in spite of her Strugles.
The Parson began to mumble the Ritchule.
“Wilt thou take this Man as thy Lawful
Wedded Husband?” he asked.
“No ! No !” cried Maude.
“I will put that down as ‘Yes,’ ” said
the Wicket Preest.
“Stop!”
A voice of Thunder made them look round.
It was Our Hero. A moment Befour he
had felt his Bonds give as the Rat nawed
through. With the Infernell Mashine in his
Hand he climbed through the Window. Now
he stood Above,Them, with the Bomb ready
to throw.
Crash!
With a Terrific Sound the Infernell
Mashine exploded.
But Tom had already throne it. Before
it burst it had fallen among the wicket
company below him.
And what of Maude? Had Tom Truelove
forgotten her danger?
No; sooner would he himself have died.
He had Throne the Bomb so that when it
Fell the Body of Dick Daggers shielded
Maude. Up in the air the vile desperado
was blown, and so tight was his hold upon
Maude that She went Up with Him. Then
his lifeless arms, torn from his body,
released their Hold, and Maude fell Peril-
lously towards the earth.
She might have been Killed, biit instead
a Pair of Manly Arms received her, checking
her Fall.
Our Hero had Dashed Forward in time to
Catch her.
‘Tom!” she cried as she lay Clasped in
His Arms.
“Maude!” he whispered.
And in that moment they knew that they
w r ere going to get married
HAMER, JUNIOR


é
NO CORKSCREW
REQUIRED!
Our new screw-cap
and tear-off capsule
A White Horse
bottle may now
be opened in an
instant with the
new aluminium
screw cap and
tear-off capsule.
e
We could not
add to the
perfection of
“ White Horse,”
so we improved
the seal.
WffwmSKY
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD
Glasgow.
è


South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
The Federal Mutual
eHsnroD&fc
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1926.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-60 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROI.L, Manager.
('ueensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manaser.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
“Guy Fane”: If conscientiousness makes
an actor Ben Travers, author of those two
ornithological farces, “A Cuckoo in the
Nest” and “Rookery Nook,” should be a
famous star. He acted only once —in Singa-
pore—playing the part of a Chinese rick-
shaw coolie in a revue of which he was
part author. In a bazaar he bought a cheap
costume, and for three days surrendered it
to the tender mercies of the fowls so that
it should acquire the correct degree of
filthiness! Travers, by the way, had no
thought of play-writing until well into his
’thirties. A cousin of his is Pamela Travers,
the New Zealand writer now doing very well
in London.
“G.F.” : The opening of the Capitol, built
in Sydney to accommodate 3000 persons at a
cost of £lBO,OOO, sent me hunting up the
Sydney Gazette for news of the opening of
Australia’s first theatre. It happened on
January 16, 1796, with a play entitled “The
Revenge.” “At the licensing of this exhibi-
tion,” the Gazette said, “the company were
informed that the slightest impropriety
would be noticed and a repetition punished
by banishment. A seat in the gallery was to
be had for one shilling, or as much flour,
meat or spirits as the manager would accept
in lieu of that sum.” I wonder if I could do
a deal in “empties” with Stuart Doyle?
“Roycha”: What brings the applause of
the multitude to a stage star? Hard work,
talent, beauty? Perhaps. But Josephine
Baker, the banana-tinted nymph whose
dancing startles even the hardened French-
man, has her own recipe. This, she says
in her recently published memoirs, is how
she won fame: “Every night before going
on the stage I say my prayers; and again
before getting into bed.” Josephine dances
at the Folies Bergeres.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : What would
young Australian singers think of putting up-
£l4oo for the privilege of a year’s operatic
experience in Europe? That is the arrange-
ment made by the Juilliard Foundation in
U.S.A., and it ensures that promising Ameri-
can singers will secure appearances at the
Dresden Opera House. The Wolfsohn Musi-
cal Bureau has a like scheme in hand, with
the difference that singers who go under
its auspices will appear in 27 opera houses.
In addition to finding the 7000 dollars, these
embryo operatic stars will have to defray
their personal expenses. Young singers from
the Dominions often wonder why they can-
not jump on to the European operatic stage.
The explanation would seem to be a 7000-
dollar lever.
“Seventh Understudy”: Although the
Playbox, Sydney’s “art” theatre, has done
much good work in its five years, it has done
practically nothing to put into effect one of
the principal planks of its platform. For
years Duncan Macdougall and others asso-
ciated with him have been reiterating that
the Playbox stands for “the development of
Australian drama and the encouragement of
the Australian playwright; actually Mac-
dougall has produced 21 plays in Sydney, five
by American authors, four by German, four
by French, three by Irish, two by Czecho-
slovakians and one apiece from England,
Russia and Australia. The lone Australian
effort was Judge Beeby’s “Five Nights in
’Frisco,” and the Playbox repertorians are
so determined to forget it that they even
omit it from the frequently-published lists
of past performances.
“St. John’s Wood” (Loud.) : Beatrice
Elliott, whose recent recital in New York
brought her a sheaf of eulogistic notices
from the*' Manhattan press, was boldly and
wholly billed as from Australia. Her soprano
voice pleased everybody, her use of it was
almost equally successful and her debonnair
appearance helped considerably in the gen-
eral appeal. She was complimented on her
interpretation of French and German songs,
and altogether got the welcome verdict —
come again.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : Ernest Knocli, of the
Quinlan Opera Company, who in the opinion
of many connoisseurs was the finest con-
ductor that ever visited Australia, has be
come a great favorite in America. lie cov-
ered himself with glory at the Century
Theatre, New York, which has just wit-
nessed the return to the operatic stage of
Johanna Gadski, a Wagnerian star of pre-
war days at the Metropolitan Opera. In
a fine performance of “The Valkyrie” Gadski
had as associates Paul Althouse and Allen
Hinckley, both of whom have many ad-
mirers in Australia.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : At time of writ-
ing E. J. Carroll’s production of “Tho
Wrecker” at the New Theatre is steadily
advancing in its second century. Already it
has set up two records. It is the only show
which the King and Queen and every member
of the Royal family have attended during the
first week of its run. Indeed, such a measure
of Royal patronage is rare even in a year.
Also, it is the only play for many a long
year to be performed twice a day for several
weeks, and to crowded houses. These hap-
penings have given it an impetus which only
a landslide can terminate.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Andre Skalski was the
pianist at a recent recital given at the
Dunning State Hospital, Illinois, U.S.A.,
when Dr. Herschfield, State alienist, made
tests to note the reaction to music of two
thousand patients, many of whom were
violently insane. The doctor holds that
a notable discovery in musical therapeutics
is at hand, and the concert was part of an
•experiment to explore the possibility of
music as a helpful agent in the treatment
of the mentally afflicted. The doctor’s anno-
tations on the occasion were: Chopin “Valse
in E Minor” : Gay music—patients amused.
Schumann, “Traumeri” : Sad music—patients
restless. Wagner, “Wotan’s Farewell”:
Stimulating. Liszt, “Liebestraum” : Sooth-
ing. Skalski’s many-sided art achievements
have made a very considerable impression in
Chicago.
“ROSE MARIE,” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY’S.
Sergeant Malone (James Hughes) and Hard-
boiled Herman (Frederic Bentley).
“Backstaller” : The Winter Garden, London,
featured, early this year, a play with Aus-
tralia partly in the background, by novelist
Ralph Stock, who visited these shores in a
small sailing boat. The play, “Quest,” was
given a good word by the critics. It con-
cerns a peer who relinquishes his estate in
favor of a waster of a cousin and goes
cruising on a yacht with a barmaid and a
professional pug whom the police are after.
They have a hectic time aboard, but return
good cobbers; the peer takes over his es-
tate again, and marries the barmaid, and
the pug is let off. Ralph Stock has done
better things about the South Seas.
“Proscenium”: Pieces included in the
Gregan McMahon repertory crowd’s syllabus
include Bernard Shaw’s “The Doctor’s
Dilemma,” Galsworthy’s “Justice” and
Barrie's “Dear Brutus.” Katharine Prich-
ard’s “Brumby Innes” is almost certain
to be put on, and Harrison Owen’s
“The Happy Husband” or A. E. Jobson’s
“Mrs. Macquarie” will also be produced. Of
the others to be picked from. Ivapek’s
“R.U.R.” and O’Casey’s “Juno and the ray-
cock” have already been staged in Sydney,
but are worth reviving. Others on the list
are Pirantello’s “Right You Are if you
Think So,” Eugene O’Neill’s “Beyond the
Horizon,” Ben Levy’s “This Woman Busi-
ness” and Richard Goddard's “The Fog.”
COMEDLAN: “Send for my understudy, I feel
so funny.”
MANAGER: “Get on*quick, before the feeling
goes!”
“L.H.P.”: Dunedin, once the best show
town in Maoriland, seems to have gone to
pot. Shows fare badly now, and most com-
panies give a very brief season. George
Ilignold played “In the Ranks” for 14 nights
to big business there in 1886, and the Royal
Comics got a run of 12 nights out of
“Patience” in 1882. With double the popu-
lation, the dour city can’t get anywhere near
that now. The explanation seems to be
cheap picture shows.
“St. John’s Wood” (Lond.) : Ernest Toy.
who used to delight Australia with his fid-
dling, especially in his home town, Brisbane,
where he led a really fine string quartette,
has made a niche for himself in the musical
life of America. During the past season he
has had many engagements, mostly jointly
with his wife, who wrote the words for
several acceptable songs of his composition.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) : A feature of the
opera season in New York has been the con-
tinued and conspicuous success of Francie
Alda, to whom Australia was indifferent
during her recent concert tour. Her “Mar-
guerite” in particular won the very highest
praise.
“Persistent Deadhead” Curious that Aus-
tralia has no counterpart of the English
Actors’ Church Union, which has the Arch-
bishops of Canterbury and York as active
patrons and which has a membership of over
600 honorary chaplains who attend to the
general welfare of touring barnstormers. The
union also keeps an eye on the children of
actors and actresses who are playing out of
town by providing a hostel and other help.
A somewhat similar body i* the Catholic
Stage Guild, whose object is to help Catholic
artists on tour and to put them in touch
with local Catholic clergy.
“Cauboy”: Provided the necessary legis-
lation is forthcoming, smoking may soon
be in order in any Fuller theatre. John of
that family has just been touring European
showliouses and was much impressed with
the freedom of the weed as a means of luring
the crowds from the cinemas. His idea is
that if permission is extended to all parts
except the stalls, the barrage won’t be so
thick as to make the stage invisible.
“Lever de Rideau” : Chicago isn’t all bomb
outrages, graft and Bill Thompson. The
Civic Opera Company there has set about
collecting £4,000,000 for a permanent orches-
tra building. The immense horseshoe-shaped
edifice isn’t expected to pay its way ex-
clusively by music. The idea is that
enough revenue will come in from letting
shops and offices to pay for the swaggerest
festivals. Meanwhile, what has happened to
Melbourne’s million-bob fund and Sydney’s
State orchestra?
“Wog”: What a remarkable crowd of
Australians have made good in pictures
overseas! Here are some who have starred
or co-starred: Enid Bennett, Daphne Pol-
lard, Snub Pollard, Clyde Cook, Sylvia
Breamer, Ena Gregory, Marc McDermott,
Andre Beranger (formerly George), Micky
Bennett, Mae Bnseh, Louise Lovely, Fred
Lindsay, Dot Cummings, Lotus Thompson,
Annette Kellerman, Trilby Clarke, Dorothy
Seacombe and Snowy Baker.
“Oilskin”: Australian Leonard Willey,
who has been doing excellently in New Yorx
for many years (B. 4/'4/’2B), is indebted
to Gilbert Emery—the original Ginger Mic-k
—for bis first professional lift. Emery, a
•schoolmate of Willey’s in South Yarra, was
doing small parts' with Bland Holt and in-
duced the actor-manager to give the cherubic
Leonard a try-out, and Willey, who was a
gifted actor even as a nipper, never looked,
back.
“Wongajong” : Ernst Toller, the _ German
dramatist who served a term of imprisonment
for his revolutionary ideas and whose
“Masses and Man” caused a small uproar
in Sydney a few years ago, has written a
new play, “Hoppla, wir Leben!” A per-
sonal tragedy of a revolutionist during the
German 1919-20 upheaval, it is presented
in half-film and half-dramatic action. The
screen is used to provide an atmospheric
background. The piece will probably be pre-
sented in Australia before the end of the
year.
“R.G.LI.T.”: In a way Allan Wilkie is
in good company in his Shakspearean exile
at Newtown. The Macdona Players with a
Bernard Shaw repertory appeared for many
seasons at the Chelsea Palace —a house
associated with umpteenth-rate revues and
Beecham has had to keep his grand opera
company at Goldcr’s Green. Lilian Bayliss
is struggling along with Shakspeare in
Waterloo-road, with tuppenny gods and five-
penny pit. The Jewish Art Theatre flourishes
in Whitechapel, while Everyman Theatre is
exiled to Hampstead, the “Q” Theatre to
Barnes, and so on ad lib. The fact is that
good plays will not stand city rents.
“Craiser”: Another record was broken
when the Grama blew in to Melbourne with
over 70 theatrical artists consigned to
J.C.W., 58 of them Italian operatic choris--
ters. Incidentally, the Firm has never been
so cluttered up with people, many of them
doing nothing. Rumor has it that that or-
ganisation aims at creating a corner in local
lvistrions, which would certainly embarrass
the Fullers. Anyhow, Poverty Point has
never been so empty.
“Cauboy” : The Firm announces that Leon
Gordon has been asked to write an Aus-
tralian play “which might be of great value,
if produced abroad, in bringing Australia
under the notice of those who might be in-
duced to come out and settle.” If Gordon s
idea of immigration propaganda is enshrined
in his present ferocious indictment of Ameri-
can legal methods, “The Trial of Mary
Dugan,” I hope he will spare us.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Amy Sherwin is
now settled in America, where the husband,
Hugo Gorlitz, is interested in films; the son,
Louis Sherwin, is chief publicity man for the
Frohman circuit, and the daughter, Jeanette,
as an exponent of exotic characters in
modern drama, finds constant stage engage-
ments. Fraser Gange, a pupil of the Tas-
manian prima donna, has been accepted as
the finest oratorio singer in the United States.
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne Repertory
Society has risen, so to speak, from the
ashes heaped on it by the Taits and has en-
gaged Frank Clewlow to put it on its legs
again. Clewlow', an English actor with an
incurably comic face, was imported by Wilkie
last year. His Henry the Eighth will be
remembered as a humorous version of the
historic Hal, but none the less acceptable
for that. In the Cold Land lie stage-managed
several repertory companies and just before
coming to Australia produced for the Carl
Rosa Opera people.
“Cauboy”.: I place Gladys Moncrieff in
the same box with actors like Moscovitch
as an unfortunate victim of the decay of
public taste. Just as there are no big dra-
matic parts being written for Moscovitch,
so there are no solid romantic stories being
written for Gladys. Her sojourn abroad was
a hopeless quest for some stage vehicle into
which to fit her luxurious frame, her solid
acting talent and her rich and voluptuous
voice. In despair she plunged into Lon-
don maelstrom in the deplorable “Riki-
Tiki,” and it was only her fine abilities in a
wretched part which prevented the w'hole
cast from being boo-ed off the boards.
Her first show will be “Rio Rita,” said to
be a tempestuous Mexican tale exactly suited
to the heroine of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” and “The Lady of the Rose.” But
what of the rest of the three years? Her
owners will find it hard to get their money
back if they have only “Mercenary Marys”
up their sleeves. Gladys, as far as I know,
isn’t even blessed with a respectable high
kick.
“Wundaroo”: Because they appreciate a
change from the regular movie programmes,
N.Q. towns are now good marks for vaude-
ville and dramatic companies. The “Rose
Marie” company recently arrived in Bow’en
at 7 p.m. and departed at 3.30 a.m. with
£l5O for the evening’s performance. Once
this town was a graveyard for travelling
shows.
MUMMER AND SCRIBBLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
w
N.s.w.
BYSOM AUBERE


How does he do it ? In four minutes he’s down,
smooth-chinned and smiling, the envy of all men
who don’t know the secret. He uses a Valet.
The “rushed” shave has no terrors for the
“Valet” owner, because the razor’s always ready
for him. In ten seconds, with nothing to un-
screw, he can put a professional edge on the
blade ; after shaving a rinse under the tap leaves
the razor clean for the next time.
.f et Y/C^P
?*or
VAtE
No. 55 Set. Contains specially
designed razor, three blades
and strop in hinged container.
In highly polished \ f\ [
nickelled case . . j U * -
OJ all dealers
“VALET”
Safety Razor
r Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD..
181. CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
Neu) Zealand Agents:
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington , Christchurch .
••mi*
"••nil
’I
9 •!
f‘"l
f {( h Jill' 1 *
mu
rm
%
A * vm -
GRIPPING THE ROADS OF THE WIDE WORLD
sJT
Bse
•V) |j
kl
ot
N
From Tree to Tyre
From U.S. Rubber trees on U.S. Rubber plan-
tations comes the pure rubber latex which is
unsparingly built and sprayed into U.S. ROYAL
CORDS. So you have the right rubber (and
plenty of it), in the right places. (The web
cord fabric is impregnated with rubber,)
ROYAL CORDS are built by amazing and ex-
clusive machinery, under the supervision of the
pick of the world’s tyre experts. Naturally you
get "more for your money.”
lerfect
U.S.ROYAL CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS:
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 439 Kent St., Sydney.—Tel. M 2031 (4 lines)
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 102 Victoria St.. Carlton, Melbourne.—
Tel. F 5783, F 5784.
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 11l Margaret St., Brisbane.—Tel. 4250,
United States Rubber Co (A/sia), Ltd, 195 Flinders St., Adelaide.—
Tel. 6246.
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 984 Hay St.,. Perth. —Tel. A 3151 (4 lines).
Australian Automotive Agencies, Ltd., Townsville.—
Tel. Central 980.
Westclo^C
Big Ben Deluxe
2!/. II KiA
Baby Ben Deluxeg
luminous
We
Big Ben Deluxe
Ste. luminous
mk 28 /e
BenHur
' J /s
um
10
11a VI
Ben Bur
m
10
luminous
8 ~ 4
8-'
QW- 4
7ft M
Baby Ben Deluxe
21/. *
Attractive New Designs
r I "'HESE attractive new designs are as dependable
as they are good looking.
Big Ben De Luxe, Baby Ben De Luxe and Ben
Hur set a higher standard of beauty among alarm
clocks. They’re designed on a new principle, which
makes them stand firmly and adds to their long life.
Like all other Westclox alarms, they can be relied
on to tell you the correct time and call you when
you say.
You can select from a variety of reliable Westclox
ranging in price from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
*■
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH • BRISBANE


s* <r r
p
um
Turning to
Knight-engined cars
Many car owners are now investigating and buying cars
powered by the famous Knight double-sleeve engine. The
trend of favourable opinion is rapidly turning to Knight-
engined cars.
This demand for a motor car with long-lived economical
engine indicates a wide public appreciation of a motor that is
unusually free from such carbon trouble and mechanical
annoyance as has marred their motor satisfaction in the past.
If you would select the car that will give you the greatest
value and satisfaction test a Falcon-Knight Six before buying.
Falcon-Kniaht
THE WORLD’S FINEST TYPE OFCAIOTOR
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.). LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (Q’LD), LTD., Q.T.C. Building, Petrie’s Bight, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.


i
| sSg™:;:
*WIg
He Is Young at Sixty
“Sound as a bell,” says his
doctor. Every organ in his body
functions with the precision of a
well-kept machine. He has a
healthy mouth.
Contrast him with the man of
half his years whose wits are
dulled and body prematurely aged
by Pyorrhea. Pyorrhea is a disease
of the gums, but its infecting germs
seep into the system and deplete
vitality. They travel in the blood
stream and may affect the heart
or kidneys, or cause such disorders
as rheumatism and anaemia.
Pyorrhea begins with tenderness
and bleeding of the gums. Then
the gums recede, the teeth decay
and loosen, or must be extracted
to rid the system of the deadly
Pyorrhea germs which breed in
pockets about them.
Don’t let Pyorrhea become
established in your mouth. Visit
your dentist often for tooth and
gum inspection, and start using
Forhan’s For the Gums to-day.
Forhan’s For the Gums will
prevent Pyorrhea—or check its
progress—if used in time and used
consistently. Ordinary dentifrices
will not do this. Forhan’s keeps
the gums firm and healthy, the
teeth white and clean.
How to Use Forhan’s
Use it twice daily, year in and year
out. Wet your brush in cold water, place
a half-inch of the refreshing, healing
paste on it, then brush your teeth up
and down. Use a rolling motion to clean
the crevices. Brush the grinding and
back surfaces of the teeth. Massage your
gums with your Forhan-coated brush—
gently at first until the gums harden,
then more vigorously. If the gums are
very tender, massage with the finger, in-
stead of the brush. If gum-shrinkage has
already set in, use Forhan’s according to
directions, and consult a dentist immedi-
ately for special treatment.
Price 2/- and 3/6. Obtainable from all
Chemists and Stores or will be sent post
free upon receipt of the price by the
Australasian Agents, Sheldon Drug Co..
Ltd., 131 Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S. IV.
Formula of R. J. Forhan, D. D. S.
Forhan Co., New York.
Srs
W
,9o
HI
Q>
‘IJr
KS'l
i
o
£ V) 3f
mu jif>.
.mitwnii
iiMirt
> K
Q 4.
*:,. K
ForharTs
FOR THE GUMS
C/iecfcs Pyorrhea
Dainty White China .
White China-Real White-is once again much in vogue, and
a breakfast or tea set of the famous “Shelley” Dainty White
China is a present that is sure to please, and which could
live at peace with any surroundings. It is not expensive,
and includes attractive odd things like cress dishes, covered
muffin dishes, fruit bowls, fruit saucers and honey pots.
Ask. to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Cowbaw,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds — all'British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleij on each piece of China
e
THE INKY WAY.
“Adelaide”: Adelaide Register has dined
and otherwise farewelled Robert Burns, its
late hardworking and conscientious editor,
who has held the reins since the more brilfiaut
Sowden retired five years ago. Evan and
Geoffrey Kyffin Thomas, proprietors of the
paper, led the speechmaking At the dinner,
which included congratulations for R. T.
Foster, the new and youthful editor, and
O. E. Wylde, his associate. Kelsey and Sow-
den, junior, remain sub-editors, and Ernest
Whitington chief-of-staff.
“Lao-dah”: One of the finest feats of
literary ghosting ever brought off in Aus-
tralia was Bert Hinkler’s fine serial story
of his flight. The airman himself is an
essentially matter-of-fact person; even his
wonderful night arrival over Rome did not
occur to him as being the least bit dramatic.
Times of starting and arriving and number
of revs, were his chief recollections of the
flight. The journalistic spook who “sold”
Hinkler to the world was Frank Russell,
a writer of specials who delights more in
creating a national figure out of recalcitrant
materials than in seeing his own name in
print. Having lived in Malaya, I most ad-
mired the imagination displayed in the chap-
ter in which Hinkler glides across the
amethystine floor of Malacca Straits. Rus-
sell’s story of how he got Hinkler’s story
would probably make quite as interesting a
tale as that of the “epic flight.”
Miss Crichton Imrie, that extraordinary
parcel of energy who descended upon Aus-
tralia from Maoriland, and then passed on
to London, looking for new jobs to beat, fled
from England in the midst of last winter —
one of the severest on record —and found
the sun in S’Africa. She also found her way
into the Cape Argus and then was appointed
travelling representative of the Cape Times.
Her work at the moment is the collection
of matter for an annual —a new departure
so far as the Times is concerned.
MUST HAVE BEEN LONG AGO.
CASUAL CUSTOMER: “No. I only want a
shave. I told my own barber that I
would never allow anyone but him to
touch my hair."
THE BARBER: “And teas the poor fellow
killed at the war, sir?"
“Max”: Writers are 10 times more numer-
ous than artists (B. 28/3/’2B) because any
person of average intelligence and education
can write about something, but he cannot
draw unless he has been trained to the work,
and it is a long and hard apprenticeship.
Harry Furniss described artists as nervous,
quiet, hardworking people with nothing to
say. To achieve any success they must pos-
sess a capacity for a type of work so slow
and painstaking that the half-hearted are
soon driven into other occupations. This
particularly refers to black-and-white work-
ers : the paint-smudgers are in another class.
John Dailey has got very fine English
press-notices for his new novel “No Armor ”
This from the Daily News is typical:—’
Mr. Dailey combines irony with sentiment; he
can tell a story that moves quickly and yet lets us
into the minds of the characters. It says a good deal
for Mr. Dailey’s delicacy of treatment that he can tell
the story of a middle-aged married man’s love-affair
with a pretty young dancer, during his wife’s absence
in England, without ever appearing cynical, without
the suspicion of a snigger.
And it concludes: —
This is a first novel, but it would be a notable one
even if it were Mr. Dailey’s twenty-first.
“O. McKay M.”: A Labor motion con-
demning the growth of combines in the news-
paper world recently passed the House of
■Commons without a division. It w T as hardly
to be expected that the Government would
oppose it, for Nortlicliffe’s would-be suc-
cessors are almost uniformly hostile to Bald-
win. The Rothermere papers, despite their
Tory outlook, have recently been doing their
best to resurrect Lloyd George, and Lord
Beaverbrook’s papers consistently attack the
Government. Though the Westminster
Gazette is no more, the Cowdray combine
is still the biggest in the country; the
FAIR WARNING.
“Oh, Stanley, do he careful, the little hand’s
loose!”
Berry group is steadily getting a strangle-
hold on what papers remain independent;
and Rothermere has just embarked on an
ambitious project to establish a chain of
provincial rags.
THE REJECTED BARD.
[For The Bulletin.]
I wrote a bit of po’try once an’ sent it to
the Bulleteen,
As good a bit, I’m game to bet, as any man
’as ever seen.
But do they put it in? Not them! That
flamin’, would-be clever bloke
Wot does the answers comes to light with
wot ’e reckons is a joke.
’Twas ’ow a feller loved a girl an’ ’ad to
leave ’er for a bit;
Blokes in the pub was always keen on gettin’
me recitin’ it.
I’ve seen ’em try to ’ide their tears when I
came to the saddest part,
That’s where ’is letters go astray, an’ she dies
of a broken ’eart.
It was the same at darnces, too, you’d ’ear
a pin drop in the room
Whenev’r I arrives at where ’e sunk down
dead upon ’er tomb.
The shielas thought the world of me an’ said
I was a man of note,
An’ they all wanted copies of the bit of
po’try that I wrote.
You’d think that they’d ’ave put it in—
you’d think the Bulleteen ud be
Real glad to get the dinkum stuff —but no,
they ain’t, an’ wot gits me,
Wot makes it plain as anything a man don’t
get a dinkum spin,
Is that they leave my po’try out—yet look
at wot they do put in!
W.A.
BAYSWATER.
Art and Some Potboilers.
Lister Listers:—
The president of the N.S.W. Royal Art Society has
the gift of advertising very desirable station proper-
ties, residential sites and other things. In the
present show at the Anthony Hordern Gallery, Sydney,
there are 62 agreeable paintings mostly lit with
bright Australian sunshine, and a few of them* are
up to the very highest Lister pinnacle. “Shadows
are Creeping Across the Valley While the Hills are
all Aglow,” one of the larger canvases, is amongst
the best; the impression that the shadow of one
hill thrown upon a sunlit neighbor is actually moving
is inescapable. But two of the gems of the show
are amongst the smallest—“ Under the Trees the
Shadows Cluster” and “The Misty River,” both in
the water-color section. The pictures give you a
feeling that the artist is saying “Come and see
Australia as I see it! lam proud of it! ” and the
enthusiasm he throws into his work overcomes the
occasional intrusion of formula.
* # * *
Acclimatisation:—
Australian artists, even when life for them was
mainly counter-lunch and dodging the studio landlord,
always fought for the right to express the true
Australian atmosphere. Curiously enough those who
ought to have been able to recognise the atmospherics
of their own country refused to believe them real
when they saw them on canvas, and the critics were
similarly—sometimes bitterly—blind also. It was
only after a prolonged struggle that the artists
triumphed. One gets an idea of why the old pre-
judice died so hard at the exhibition of the pictures
of Alfred Priest at the Macquarie Gallery, Sydney.
The English artist, who has a fine touch, came to
Australia last year, but, in spite of obviously con-
scientious effort, he still retains the inclination to
impose English atmosphere upon Australian scenery.
Vet the paintings he has presented are, outside this
fault, effective and expressive, No. 5, a corner of
Sydney Harbor, and “Gum-trees, Sunset,” being
especially appealing. Paintings of Indian—the
“Rhododendron Tree” especially—and English sub-
jects show a skilful treatment against which there
can be no cavil, and a portrait of G. K. Chesterton
is vigorous work.
* * * *
An Australian Pilgrim:—
F. Meade Norton has been on his travels, the
places visited including many churches and monasteries;
he illustrates his journeyings in a display of pictures
shown at the Grosvenor Gallery, George-street,
Sydney. A tendency to be merely illustrative and
at times posterish does not detract from his merits;
and at times there is something above photography
in paint. In “Valley of Rocks, Lynton, Devon,” he
has conveyed a sense of the cold of the shadowed
valleys and the moderate but grateful warmth of the
sunshine above, but there is more of the “feel” of
chill airs than the sunshine that should be in
“Lake Como.” Other interest besides that attaching
to strange localities warrants a visit to the show,
which closes on April 28. Lovers of cheese, for in-
stance, can see “Gruyere,” a precipitous place painted
as if its cultivation areas are falling down the hill-
side.
* * * *
Melbourne homegrown and imported:—
Jessie Traill continues to evince keen interest in
man’s mundane activities. At Margaret Mackean’s
studio in Collins-street she is showing etchings and
waters of the Sydney harbor bridge and the Hume
weir construction works which, apart from their
artistic qualities, would probably attract the re-
spectful attention of a Scotch engineer. Miss Traill
is reported to be making for the interior, to exercise
her restless pencil on the railhead of the Trans-
Australian line. There is a strike on there, so she
may be able to bring back some still-lifes.
Geo. Sheringham, a noted English decorative
painter, is up at the Fine Arts with some 37
examples in oil and water. His viewpoint is over-
refined and lacks vitality. His designs are for the
most part pleasing, but after the eye has recovered
from the display of decorative ingenuity, the lack
of plain, honest vision becomes apparent in an ob-
trusive flatness. No. 27, containing 19 Chinese
snuff bottles, is a lecture on the horrors of over-
population. The fan designs are charming.


c
l
s
V)®-
1
7-
VV
A®
9
N*
v°
a.
3 V
o*
&v e
\*
6?
©v
xv
H
w
*
tv
v
*© %
&
V°
©P
<P
e~
sy
69
£
&
\cP
9
V*
iV°
ftp
;oe
<i
Sv x^
&
V*
.«©
ftp
**
tP
Sv
6^
e
9
%
o
&
Y*
#
tv c
H
\P
VC
a*
a;
\t
bp
<%*&
©<
\\
tv
no
l\
\*
&
•V>
cP
a.
Sv c
Y e
Y c
to*
v\*
tp
<*
Y°
tP
v°
a,
yv*
©P
no
©P
©p
rt
XV
tP
fcV
a:
vv°
<v e
p
©>
s*
Y*
\ot
&
OP
\p
&
9
\*
©■
(tv
oP
oP
v*
©^
a
t e
w
Y°
&
WG«i
9
4
w
>/✓////
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd..
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
TRUCKS


THE NEW LEFEVER SINGLE
A NEW, RELIABLE GUN MADE BY AN OLD, RELIABLE FIRM.
LEFEVER SINGLE BARREL LONG RANGE
FIELD AND TRAP BUN
851-
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
nmne safety device such as is used on expensive double-barrel guns, and an automatic ejector which
icks the shells out when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully choke-bored to give the
c osest, nardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is proved with an excessive load to make doubly
, necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factory load. The
I'] ln ' 0n °' s t° c k has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap and
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
We are the Agents.
Va
pty
LTD
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER BEER.
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Good horses were in the ascendant at
Randwick on Saturday, but punters, for the
most part, let them run loose. This was very
decidedly the case with Aorangi (14 to 1)
in the Denman Stakes. In spite of his second
in the Doncaster, he was reckoned too slow
off the mark to beat some of the smartest
sprinters in training at six furlongs, so
eight horses were backed in preference to
him, Beckwith, Ascalon and Killarney shar-
ing favoritism at sixes. Kapuya (8 to 1), a
Linacre mare from Newcastle, looked a likely
winner a furlong from home, Whitta (8 to
1) and Greenwich (10 to 1) having beaten
themselves by battling for the lead; but
Bartle brought Aorangi along with a great
run and Trautwein’s horse beat Kapuya by
a neck; Factor (12 to 1), who should be
a good thing for a suburban sprint presently,
was a fast-finishing third, and Beckwith a
close fourth. They ran the “six” in lmin.
llfsec.
Vaals looked a very handsome fellow as he
came out to do his preliminary for City
Tattersall’s Cup. But he was an unknown
quantity at 11 furlongs, and was allowed to
drift to twelves. Valparaiso (5 to 1), who
looked rather light on it, as also did the
three-to-one favorite Vallino, tried to win all
the way, but was done with at a mile and a
furlong. At that stage Marsden brought
Vaals up on the rails, and the aristocratic
chestnut came away, winning by a couple of
lengths from Reonui (12 to 1) and Edgardo
(25 to 1) in the course-record time of 2min.
18|sec. The judge could not separate Reonui
and Edgardo, who, like Vaals, were regarded
as non-stayers. Lovqbox came home well
enough to suggest that she is capable of
winning at the distance in average propriet-
ary-course company, but the favorites cut up
badly and Lady Constance shaped as if her
fall in the Coogee Handicap had given her
a distaste for the game.
Vaals’s brother Sion (10 to 1), ridden
by Pike, beat a big field very easily in the
Club Welter ; Beedos (25 to 1) and Spruiker
(10 to 1) were the others whose numbers
were hoisted by the judge. Bought as a
yearling by Edward Moss, owner of
for 4100 guineas, and sold by him to Robert
Miller for 1600 guineas, the erratic customer
had been knocked down during the week to
one “L. Felix” for 900 guineas, and at that
price he was certainly a bargain. Possibly,
moreover, time will cure him of the bad
habits which sickened his previous owners.
The Sion disappointment was tempered for
Miller by a success in the Novice Handicap
with Cute Bird (5 to 1), and Samuel Hor-
dern got a good race out of Clear Flight
<7 to 1 in the Youthful Stakes), for which
slippery ,Claro colt he is reported to have
paid 2000 guineas.
For Moorefield next Saturday:
Ivogarah Stakes: Firefly or King Wil-
liam ; next, Inducement.
Flying Handicap: Factor; next, Green-
wich.
Moorefield Handicap: Flinders; next,
Tressilian.
Carlton Mile: King William or Sir Allan;
next, Koorathella.
* * * *
There were eight events at Aspendale Park
(Vic.) on Saturday; six favorites were
beaten, but the last two winners were popu-
lar picks. A big field of fair-class sprinters
faced the barrier for the Plate, the Woorak
mare AVedau being a solid favorite at threes.
Nothing had a chance with Numenia (7 to
1), a small daughter of Stardrift, who
hopped away smartly and was never headed,
winning well by three-quarters of a length
from Vagrant (15 to 1) ; Stage Saint (33 to
1) was third. George Harrison had the
mount —lie is finding riding ’em more profit-
able than training ’em.
There was a great finish in the Park Han-
dicap, for which Elwood Fisher’s gelding
Menander was a 2-to-l favorite. He* ran a
good race, but the topweight Affirm (9 to 2),
getting up in the last stride, beat him by
half a head ; the barbarously-named Retsac-
nal, who had made all the running, was
another head away. Daniels, who is having
a great run, was Affirm’s jockey. The
brothers Connolly were very much in the
limelight in the Purse; Eric took the first
division with Rugbyean (4 to 1), that in-
and-out brother to All Sunshine, and Harry
scored in the second division with Sombre
(7 to 4), on whom Duncan rode a very vig-
orous finish. An interesting Maiden Plate
winne.r was Harry Gavin (5 to 1), one of
the few offspring of Eurythmic, who died
before he got much of a chance as a sire—
THEY HAD JUST BEEN INTRODUCED.
BELLA: “Why have you such a down on motor-cars, doctor? Surely they are of great
use to you in your professionf”
PROFESSIONAL GENT.: “But, my dear young lady, I am a horse-doctor.”
perhaps, being Australian-bred, he wouldn't
have got much of a chance had he lived.
* * * *
“Swan”: A Fremantle union (the Tram-
way Employees’) runs a weekly tipping com-
petition on the Perth races. You write out
your tips on a slip of paper and send them in.
with a postal-note for a shilling; no tickets
or receipts are given. Successful tipsters
are notified by advertisement in the dailies.
An unusual feature is that protests against
the “allotments” are allowed up to 5 p.m.
on the day these are published. In a recent
instance a competitor was announced as hav-
ing won £627 19s. This was corrected later;
he and two others were advertised as having
divided the £627 19s. in equal parts. Another
man drew £179 4s. and eight others collected
£ll 4s. each. Nearly .a thousand pounds a
week, and all in shillings. Needless to say,
promoters and competitors are enthusiasts
for the “socialisation of industry.”
Linacre died the other day at Herbert
Thompson’s Oakleigh stud at Widden
(N.S.W.). Imported by J. Brennan in
1908, Linacre was by Wolf’s Crag from
Lismaine, harking back to the StockweU
line. A fair performer on the track in
England, he made his name as a sire in Aus-
tralia ; among his many winners were Elf-
acre, Glenacre, Otacre, Erasmus, Lingle,
Mistico, Tangalooma and Blue Cross,
though the list is too long to recount.
Mistico was perhaps the best of them. The
Eastern States never saw this brilliant horse
till lie was past his prime, and then he beat
Magpie at w.f.ar When an aged stallion
he likewise defeated Eurythmic, also at
w.f.a., in Perth.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Paul Demsky (9st. 711 b.) served up a
bitter dish of disappointment to his ad-
mirers at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. He met Johnny Curley (9st. 611 b.) in
what was to have been a 15-rounds’ main
event, and was so used up in the fifth
that the referee stopped the slaughter when
the round had only about eight seconds to
go. While Demsky was belaboring the Cock-
ney’s ribs in the second round Curley swung
a long-arm speculator on the chin, and Paul
fell like a log. He got the full benefit of the
count and rose groggy, but smothered and
ducked and then fought on capably enough.
For the next two rounds he held his own,
and the fifth was nearly sped when Curley
banged the point again. Down for “nine,”
the Russo-Australian dodged to the left, and
some thought him able to continue. But
Wallis promptly decided that another puncli
would be dangerous, so lie stepped between
and put an end to the proceedings. It was
a great reverse for Demsky and his friends,
who had reckoned it a case of “put in and
take out.” Curley, though well in the thirties,
has not been beaten in Australia.
* # * *
The low ebb to which boxing has sunk in
Melbourne is embarrassing the Stadium
management, as was shown when a raw
novice in Alby Emmett (lOst. 131 b.) was
tossed into the ring with man-eating Billy
Moody (lOst. 131 b.), who is not far off
championship class. Without unduly ex-
erting himself, William reduced Alby to sub-
mission within half a round. In the sup-
porting 10-rounder Bill Negus (9st. lflb.)
easily outpointed Gilly Brown (9st. 81b.),
the affair leaving the small crowd cold.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”: Gene Tunney and Maori-
lander Tom Ileeney have signed articles in
due form for a meeting at the Yankee
Stadium. New York, on July 26. Ileeney’s
cut per cent.) will be small compared
with Tunney’s, but even if he loses will be
handsome payment for a few minutes’ per-
sonal exertion. If lie wins he will be well
started on the way to become a dollar mil-
lionaire.
si: * * *
‘Tom Cribb” : Jack Pilkington, the Ameri-
can lightweight who was in Sydney for some
time, has had something to say of Australian
boxers which is of much greater interest than
the guff usually handed out by these returned
travellers. He considers that contemporary
Australian boxers, while clever, are not nearly
so rugged, generally speaking, as American
pugs, and that they don’t get nearly enough
fighting. Both counts of the indictment are
unanswerable, and the promoting gentry are
to blame.
Footbrawl
The N.S.W. Rugby League season opened
to fairly good business on Saturday. The
chief attraction was the meeting of Eastern
Suburbs and University at the Show Ground :
East won comfortably by 18 (4 tries and 3
goals) to 14 (2 tries and 4 goals). Busch,
a new half behind East’s pack—he is
from the Northern Rivers —made a
good showing, while Oxford, with a try and
3 goals, earned his passage in the forwards.
McCormack and Mclntyre were the best of
the Students. South Sydney had a fairly
easy passage against Glebe at Wentworth
Oval, ending with 12 (2 tries and 3 goals)
to 2 (a penalty goal). There was a good
deal of rough play at times, and cautions
were frequent. The North Sydney-Bal-
main match was won by North, 16 (4
tries and 2 goals) to 12 (2 tries and 3 goals).
Western Suburbs, coached this season by
iChris McKivatt, made a promising start, de-
feating Newtown by 13 (3 tries and 2 goals)
to 5 (a try and a goal). Form was far
from first-class all through the games, but
most of the teams should shake down to
normal after another match or two. .
sj; sjs sjs sis
“Gate” : The Rugby League, which set out
some years ago to conquer the earth, has
fallen far short of its ambitions, if the ad-
mission of the parent English body goes for
anything. Recently this organisation ex-
plained its reasons for flagrantly violating
the agreement with the Australian and M.L.
Leagues that it would cease from purchasing
their leading players. The excuse is one
made familiar in 1914—“ military necessity.”
It has been impossible to purchase a satis-
factory type of footballer in sufficient num-
bers in Britain, the revival of the Rugby
Union having practically closed the profes-
sional body’s only local recruiting ground, so it
was decided to preserve life in an atmosphere
of broken faith rather than perish in the
odor of sanctity. But there is always a
catch. While the Australian consignment of
brawn is showing a handsome return to
the purchasers, the importations from Maori-
land are not even paying interest on the
capital outlay.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: Rhodes scholar Vernon
Treatt, now a Crown Prosecutor, is turning
out at centre three-quarter for Glebe-
Balmain (N.S.W.) alongside Johnny Wal-
lace, with whom he played for Oxford. The
young C.P. has been capped for England. To
find a parallel to his case one must go back
to 1888, when C. G. Wade, later Premier
and Chief Justice of N.S.W., played for the
Wallaroos and N.S.W. with all the honors
of Oxford and English representation thick
upon him.
* * * *
Huge crowds greeted the opening of the
Vic. League season on Saturday. The
Collingwood Magpies, last year’s premiers,
went to Geelong, where 17,360 enthusiasts
yielded up £395 135., and were overwhelmed
for a time; at half-way Geelong owned 35
points to ’Wood’s 18. But after that the
Magpies got their system into something like
order and steadily overhauled the others
till they finally compiled 66 points to Gee-
long’s 60. Carlton bumped Fitzroy on the
latter’s ground before 30,000 spectators and
won a strenuous game by 117 to ’Roy’s 79.
Mount, a young Carltonian in his second
season, played great football forward, and
Bols, of ’Roy, was equally good back till
lie unluckily broke a wrist. Footscray, so
determined to achieve a premiership that
it has enticed star-forward Morrison from
Yarraville with a £75 bonus and £8 a week,
went to South Melbourne, ran the Red-and-
Wliites off their feet and would have col-
lected the bacon but for a lucky last-
moment Southern kick: South, 100 points;
’Scray, 99. Hawthorn similarly gave St.
Ivilda cold shivers, only faulty kicking
when the other sort was most needed fooling
away the game: Hawthorn, 67 points; St.
K.. 70. Melbourne and Essendon indulged in
a mannerly game, the Red Legs winning with
85 points to ’Don’s 72; and the Richmond
Tigers administered severe punishment to
North Melbourne in a match that was
more vigorous than skilful; Tyson, North’s
skipper, had to retire for a while, and
Bentley, a Tiger, was removed with a
damaged hip. Richmond scored 99 points
to North’s 21.
(Continued on page 41.)
BALLADE OF THE BUSTED
BOOKMAKER.
[For The Bulletin. 1
‘‘Bookmakers report that the victories of Simeon’s
Fort and Winalot took a huge sum out of the ring.”
Frail Fortune is a bubble blown;
Instanter at a breath she flees,
As tomcats when the boot is thrown
Forsake their housetop harmonies.
One moment are they lapped in ease
AATio bask within her glance’s glow ;
The next in frightfulness they freeze:
Observe the case of I key Mo.
As mourns the “mong” his stolen bone,
Ike weeps lost opportunities;
So all must do whose francs have flown
Like dead leaves whirling on the breeze.
Yea, well may care his forehead crease;
His future, blacker than the crow,
Looms sinister as storm-threshed seas:
A million-gone seems Ikey Mo.
Hark! Dismal as the bagpipe’s drone,
The press intones his obsequies.
No more the Chrysler shall lie own,
No more his diamonds, fat as peas,
Shall grace gay girlies—such as these
He ne’er again may seek to know;
Yet, while his bitter weird he drees,
Refrain from tears for Ikey Mo.
Envoy.
Be not too eager, blokes, to seize
The notion that his cake is dough.
Full oft before we’ve heard that wheeze:
He’s hard to kill, is Ikey Mo.
N.S.W.
J.B.H.


Sporting'.
Australian Jockey Club.
WARWICK FARM RACES.
Saturday, May 12, 1928.
THE MAY STEEPLECHASE, with £2OO
added. About Two Miles.
THE PROSPECT HANDICAP, with £250
added. Six Furlongs.
THE FARM STAKES, with £2OO added.
For Three-year-olds and upwards which
have not at time of starting won a
race on the flat (Maiden Race excepted)
of the value of £5O to the winner. Low-
est handicap weight, 7 stone. Seven
Furlongs.
THE ST. .TOIIN’S PARK NURSERY
HANDICAP, with £250 added. For
Two-year-olds. Six furlongs.
THE WARWICK MAY HANDICAP, with
£250 added. Horses to be ridden by
apprentices who have not ridden 10 win-
ners. Lowest handicap weight, 7st. One
mile and a quarter.
THE CASULA HANDICAP, with £250
added. Lowest handicap weight, 7st.
71b. One mile.
Entries close with the Secretary of the
A.J.C., Sydney; V.R.C., Melbourne; or
N.J.C., Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on
MONDAY, APRIL 30, 1925.
Forfeit (£1) must accompany each entry.
If entries are made by telegram the amount
of forfeit must also be telegraphed.
Weights declared at 10.30 a.m. on Monday,
May 7. or such other time as the Committee
may appoint.
The A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and
Regulations to be observed.
G Bligh Street, C. W. CROPPER,
Sydney. Secretary.
Australian Jockey Club.
WINTER MEETING.
June 4 and 9, 1928.
FIRST DAY MONDAY, JUNE 4.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
HURDLE RACE, with £2OOO added. About
two miles and three furlongs.
SECOND DAY—SATURDAY, JUNE 9.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB
STEEPLECHASE, with £2OOO added.
About three miles.
The Entries are to be made with the Sec-
retary of the A.J.C., Sydney; Y.R.C., Mel-
bourne ; Q.T.C., Brisbane; S.A.J.C., Adel-
aide; W.A.T.C., Perth; W.R.C., Wellington
(N.Z.) ; T.R.C., Hobart (Tas.) ; or N.J.C.,
Newcastle, before 4 o’clock p.m. on MON-
DAY, APRIL 30, 1928.
Weights to be declared at 10.30 a.m. on
Wednesday, May 9, 1928, or such other day
as the Committee may appoint.
A.J.C. Rules of Racing, By-laws and Regu-
lations to be observed.
If nominations are made by telegram the
amount of first forfeit must also be tele-
graphed.
G Bligh Street, C. IV. CROPPER,
Sydney. Secretary.
Legal Notices,
P STATE of WILLIAM JEFFCOTT, de-
ceased. The children of JOHN
HILLIARD JEFFCOTT, who died at
Wellington, N.Z., on 24th December, 1888,
and of LILLIE ELLEINA JEFFCOTT,
formerly MAHER, or anyone knowing of
their whereabouts, are requested to com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Box 7, G.P.0., Sydney, in connection with
the Estate abovenamed. LILLIE EL-
LEINA MAHER at one time lived at
Parramatta, N.S.W.
TN THE ESTATE OF ELIZABETH
1 JESSIE PILLEY, late of 33 Park-street,
Subiaeo, Western Australia, Widow, De-
ceased intestate.
INFORMATION is sought as to the address,
if living, of Mrs. Susan (or Susannah)
Richardson, formerly Susan (or Susannah)
Bowman (nee Scott), a sister of the above-
named deceased, or if not living, as tc
the address of any of her children. Mrs.
Susan (or Susannah) Bowman went to
Sydney about 1883 or 1884, and after the
death of her husband was married to a
Mr. Richardson, and about the year 1902-
1903 was said to have kept a boarding-
house in George-street, Sydney. All persons
interested are requested to communicate
with Speed & Cantor, Solicitors, _ of Forrest
Place, Perth, Western Australia.
HTO REGINALD HAROLD ILES, SON
1 OF HAROLD ALBERT ILES. DE-
CEASED, FORMERLY OF TAUR-
ANGA, NEW ZEALAND, BY HIM-
SELF OR THROUGH ANY HIS
GUARDIAN, PARENT OR STEP
PARENT.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
9th March. 1928, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on oi
before the Ist June, 1928, your claim to the
estate of Albert lies, who died intestate on
or about the Bth December, 1926, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto, disregarding
your claim.
DATED at Wellington this 13th day oi
March, 1928.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
DiRECTons —A; C. Luva, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. liaYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Hirers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Rank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Right - T
fora Life times
Writing 1
o
4=:
A PPRECIATION of a
“ Swan ” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
years of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. FoV the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
A useful companion to the
"SWAN " pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
no sharpening,and isuseful
for presentation purposes.
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
Swan ’ Self'Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, “Swan” Ink and
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Prices from
7/8
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price
3d
Pilenta Soap, all Chemists, 1/9. — Advt.
The “Sensible” Girl.
BEAUTY,” said Elizabeth, “is a talent.
.Cultivate it and it increases tenfold;
bury it in a napkin, and it dies. In
other words,” she added, for the benefit of
her puzzled little friend, “if you do not take
care of your looks, you soon will not have
any left to take care of.”
The bride looked sad. She was a pretty
little thing, very dependent on her color-
ing for her cliurin. Xu the strong light
her small face was revealed as being a shade
too powdered, the eyelashes darkened arti-
ficially, the soft hair a trifle too obviously
“waved.”
Her strong-minded friend Elizabeth sat
with the late afternoon sun pouring over
her face and hair, and revealing no flaw
in her exquisite skin. Her sober dress
was a foil to the whiteness of her neck
and the smooth forehead, from which the
golden hair rippled back. Dark eyebrows
and long curling lashes emphasised the
clearness of her eyes. She was good to
look at. Yet Elizabeth was apparently scorn-
ful of her own good looks, cared little
about pretty frocks, and ran a Government
Department with the greatest efficiency and
commonsense.
“Elizabeth,” said the bride, “it’s all very
well for you to be sneering about powder
and things, but you’ve got a perfect skin
ind gorgeous hair. I have to make up a
bit.”
“My dear child,” said Elizabeth, “of
course, 1 take reasonable care of my looks,
just as I wash my hands and shine my shoes.
You cannot leave everything to Nature.
We all start well enough—look at babies’
skins —but we don’t wear well. All this
powder has a good effect for a time, but
sooner or later your skin gets coarse, and
there is no hiding it.”
“I wish,” said the bride, “that instead
of lecturing you would tell me what to do.
You say, ‘Take care of your looks, and
don’t powder’; but what shall I do?”
“Use your commonsense,” said Elizabeth,
“if you thought deeply, you would soon
see that making a mask of cream and
powder over your face blocks up the pores
and makes your skin rough and spotty.
What you want is to peel off the soiled
outer skin, and give the new one under-
neath a chance to show itself. Get some
ordinary mercolized wax from your chemisr,
rub it on at night, and wash it off with
pilenta soap and water in the morning;
i or if you are in a hurry, wash your face
first, and before it is quite dry rub the
wax on, and dry your face with a towel.
Either of these processes absorbs the old
soiled outer skin, and loaves the new clean
complexion underneath revealed in all its
beauty.”
“But,” objected the bride, “my nose gets
so shiny; I must powder.”
“There are other ways of preventing a
shiny nose,” said Elizabeth. “My secret
is a homely one. Just get some cleminite,
dissolve it in water, and use it as a lotion
for your face and neck. It wants to be
patted into the skin until it is quite dry,
and then it leaves a nice even bloom, and
prevents all shininess. Besides, it does
not look a bit like make-up. It just gives
your face a kind of peach-like bloom, which
is a distinct asset.”
“I suppose,” said the bride, “there is
no home-made substitute for rouge, is there?
Because, you know, I look dreadful when
I’m pale.”
Elizabeth thought a minute. “I don’t
know why powdered colliandum wouldn’t
be an excellent thing. It is a soft dull
pink, and it tends to deepen a little in a
warm room. I should be inclined to try that.
Of course, prolactum is the only thing for
keeping your lips smooth and healthily red.
You know that. Of course.”
“One more problem,” said the bride,
“before I married I used to put my hair
in curlers. Now I leave it loose at night,
because .Tack likes to see it down, and,
of course, I have to wave it with tongs
nearly every day. I’m so worried because
all the color’s going—I actually found some
grey hairs the other day. Shall I use henna
or what to make it bright again?”
“Henna, of course not,” said the em-
phatic Elizabeth, “you don’t want to dye
your hair at 22 or at 62, if you’re sen-
sible. You must get some tammalite at
once —plain, ordinary tammalite —don’t take
any stuff they tell you contains tammalite.
and make it up yourself with bay rum.
That wall soon bring back the lost color,
and, of course, make your hair grow thicker.
Do you shampoo with stallax? Oh, but yon
should! That makes your hair so silky
and bright. Of course, you must drop waving
your hair with hot irons. It's suicide for
your hair—makes it dry up and fall out.
“But, Elizabeth, my hair is quite straight,”
moaned the bride.
“That’s all right,” smiled Elizabeth,
“all you want is silmerine. Just comb your
hair down the way you want it to go.
Damp it a little with silmerine, put a slide
or two in, and fluff your hair up on each
side of the slide. In the morning you will
find a nice kink ■where the slide was. Your
hair ought to look naturally wavy, not a
series of hard furrows like a ploughed field.
You won’t need to put the slides in more
than once or twice a week. You’ll find
that your hair, with a little patience and
perseverance, will develop a wave of its
own, so that after your stallax shampoo, if
you comb it before it’s quite dry, the wave
will return of its own accord. Enough of
your looks; let’s pass to brighter subjects.
The bride smiled. “Silmerine —silmerine.
I won’t forget that. All right, talk away,'
Elizabeth.”


Bfi
Ml
«=1
ijyr
m
an 11UJ
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
“OF SHOOTING FAME”
yVrite for
Hints to
Shooters.
Record Break
100 CLAY BIRDS Consecutively by
DONALD MACKINTOSH
in public at Rockbank, Victoria, 7th
October, 1922, in aid of local Library.
Conditions—Birds thrown from a Spring Trap.
Unknown angles, standard charges of 33grs. x 1 Joz. shot,
2i inch cartridges. When doing this performance, probably
unique for Australia, the second barrel was only used on two
occasions. A real performance after being 14 years out of
public competition and attending his business daily.
Donald f 1111111111111111111111111—25
Mac- J 1111111111111111111111111—25
kintosh’s 1 1111111111111111111111111—25
Score l 1111111111111111111111111—25
—lOO
I stock from the cheapest 55/- gun to the highest-grade presentation gun.
All repairs are done on the premises by qualified experts who specialise in guns.
DONALD MACKINTOSH
(0/ Shooting Fame),
432 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Footbrawl
“Hotham”: As was evident from the be-
ginning, Vic. Football League has refused
the request of the Association for affiliation,
giving as its reason that the Association has
no district scheme and consequently affilia-
tion would not be to the League’s advantage.
Even the request that the pinching of Asso-
ciation players by League clubs be stopped
by the bringing in of a mutual permit sys-
tem was ignored. It cannot be said that the
rich and powerful League has come well out
of the matter. With Soccer making distinct
progress, the wider interests of the game
should have some consideration and not
merely the finances of a few clubs.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
season, which opens with a match between
the Waratahs and the Rest at Sydney Show-
ground on Saturday, promises splendidly, for
the recovery of the game since the war has
been strongly accentuated by the deeds of
the Waratahs. In addition to.the usual club
football season, Maoriland will send over a
side in June, and a N.S.W. team will also
tour Maoriland in August and September.
The Maorilanders will play six games, one of
them in Newcastle, where the Waratahs will
appear on August 12. It is a pity that the
Queensland movement to resuscitate the
game is not far enough advanced to permit
the visit of these teams to Brisbane, at least.
* * * *
“Ake Ake”: The All Blacks arrived in
Sydney last week bound for South Africa,
where they will play a long programme, in-
cluding three Test matches. They are with-
out Cooke and other fine players, but give
every appearance of shaking down into a
rattling good team. Maoriland and South
Africa measured their strength against each
other in 1921, when the Springboks toured
the Dominion; the ’Boks won 19 games,
lost two and drew two, each side winning
one Test—the third was drawn. The M.L.
Army team had a short and successful tour
of the Union in 1919, but no Tests were
played.
* * * *
“Everton”: The final for the British Asso-
ciation Cup, most coveted of Soccer football
trophies, was played at Wembley on Satur-
day, Blackburn Rovers winning from Hud-
dersfield Town by 3 goals to 1. Blackburn
has now won the Cup seven times; the
Lancashire club’s last victory dates back to
1890-91.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: When the Australian tennis
authorities named Crawford, Patterson and
Ilopman as the Davis Cup team, the failure
to select an emergency in case of sickness or
accident was the cause of considerable com-
ment. A sort of compromise was arrived
at whereby Patterson was authorised to call
on the services of J. B. Hawkes. The ne-
cessity seems to have already arisen, since
it is cabled that Ilopman has developed
“tennis elbow,” which may lay him up for
six months. Patterson is now practising with
Crawford for-the doubles, in which it was
not intended he should play, and if he has
to turn out in the singles as well as these it
may tell against Australia’s chances, since
the big fellow has lately been showing con-
siderable lack of Staying power.
* * * *
“Pit-a-pat” : The gentleman who is acting
as managing chaperon—or is it chaperoning
manager?—of the Australian women’s tennis
team is arranging a tour of Australia for
a party of South African girls. It was hoped
that the Union would have been able to send
across a team of men next season, but this
is not possible. The visit of the women
is, however, practically assured.
* * * *
“Towkay”: S. G. Lum, the Victorian-born
son of Stephen Lum, the Melbourne Chinese
merchant, has left Shanghai, where he is
stationed these days, to represent China in
the Davis Cup match to be played in the
American zone. With Paul Kong, who will
be his partner in the Cup games, he won the
Far Eastern championships for China
recently.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queenslanders who subscribed
to send Cummings and Moon overseas are
well satisfied with the showing of the pair
on their tour through Australia to catch
the boat for South Africa at Fremantle. The
cables state that an itinerary has been
arranged which will see them playing at
Jo’burg, East London, Port Elizabeth and
Capetown. South Africans, in spite of the dis-
plays of their men against the Frenchmen,
have thought so little of their talent this year
as to refrain from entering for the Davis Cup.
The matches against the two Australians
should give them a further line on their form,
which at this distance seems more than
good. All the same, the Australians, who
received such cavalier treatment in quarters
where they had a right to expect every
Consideration, are likely to make the best
of them travel.
“Amateur Pro.”: Since Suzanne Lenglen
—you will remember hearing the name —
plunged into professional tennis and news-
paper oblivion, women players have fought
very shy of the professional side of the game.
So there is something novel in the announce-
ment of Mrs. Lambert Chambers, one of
the best women players England has pro-
duced, that she is turning professional with
the idea of becoming a coach. England is
infested with what used to be known as
seminaries for young ladies, and in these
days of lawn-tennis madness, capped by
Betty Nutliall’s effulgent success in the
newspapers, every flapper in a school unifortn
is determined to be another Betty, if she
can’t be a Helen Wills. Looking at it from
that aspect, it would seem that Mrs. Cham-
bers is about to bat on a good wicket. I wish
her luck accordingly.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: Rufus Stewart struck a hot
lot of opponents in his first competition in
England—all the leading English profes-
sionals, save Compston. It was an open
event held at Roehampton, and the South
Australian failed to qualify in the first 16,
his two rounds costing 77 and 78, or 17
strokes behind the leader of the qualifying
round, Arthur Havers. Stewart’s wood play
is described as excellent, but he was unable
to record bogeys or better, as his successful
opponents did. As an illustration of what
some of them are capable of, Boomer did his
second round in 66, a record for this difficult
course. Stewart considers that the standard
of British golf is higher than he expected,
but that is no reason why he should not
rise to it before the great test comes in the
British “open.”
* * * *
“Admiral Blowmetight”; I chanced upon
some golfing information the other day
which will, I am afraid, be the cause of con-
siderable perturbation to my fellow-contri-
THE KING’S ENGLISH.
butor, “Colonel Damurize.” It is to the effect
that there are now 11 women’s golf clubs in
South Australia and there is a prospect of
the number being added to. Victoria is in an
even more parlous plight, for there are actu-
ally 76 clubs in the Victorian women’s union,
which sounds too terrible to be true. Still
there seems little use avoiding the issue, for
it is stated that 23 new clubs have joined in
the past year. I have no information as to
the condition of things in N.S.W. If I had
I should fear to impart it, for this seems to
me essentially one of those situations wherein
ignorance is the only chance of experiencing
any bliss that happens to be going.
* * * *
“Fluffer”: Really, nothing seems sacred in
these iconoclastic days. Certain varlets in
Britain have actually dared to ask what St.
Andrews has been doing with the bawbees
collected at championship meetings. The
revered institution has even had its bona
fides questioned, which is tantamount to
suspecting the stability of the Bank of Eng-
land. From the turmoil the pained but
dignified voice of the R. and A. has emerged
giving an account of its stewardship. The
brass has gone in financing international
matches, in augmenting money prizes for
professionals in the open championship and
in reducing the debit on the account of these
championships.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Bulletin golfers who
were discussing miniature courses recently
may be interested in one of the completest
of its kind, an 18-holer at Pinehurst
(U.S.A.). It is 100 yards out,and 1001-3
yards in, and par is 20-21, or 41 for the full
course. The course is most scientifically
laid out, and full of tricks for the most
experienced golfers, all the (sand) greens
being elaborately guarded by sand mounds,
shrubbery or cement traps of one sort or
another. The • proper clubs to use are a
putter and a niblick. The longest hole is
71 feet and the shortest 13 feet. It is con-
sidered a feat for even a scratch player if
lie can do the course under 60 in his first
round.
# * * *
“Brassey”: Avondale (N.S.W.) golf club
seems to be built of the right material. Not
long ago members were notified that £450
was needed to finish off a road to the links,
the money to be lent to the local shire council
at interest. The notice was posted during
the morning, and by 2.30 p.m. the brass asked
for was in the hat. Good work. Much the
same may be said of the members of the
Indooroopilly club, near Brisbane, who have
been holding regular working-bees on their
new course every Sunday during the off sea-
son. As a result the fairways and greens
were in splendid condition for the opening.
The voluntary labor of the members is esti-
mated to have saved the club over £4OO.
“Divot Digger”: Charles Gray, the young
Sydney professional whom Kirkwood induced
to join him in America some time ago, has
returned to Australia. He was with Kirk-
wood at Radium Springs club, Georgia,
which paid the ex-caddie from Manly 10,000
dollars a year as its leading professional. As
Joe was rarely there, being usually absent
giving trick exhibitions in other parts of
the States, Gray gathered the impression
that the club considered his name alone as
worth the money. In spite of the high
wages and the big purses available for pro-
fessionals on the other side of the Pacific,
Gray found that the much higher cost of
living provided an effective balance, so he
turned again to the home pastures. He had
some interesting information to give on the
subject of the proposed visit of Kirkwood
and Hagen to Australia. The American
wants a substantial guarantee to come over;
Kirkwood is willing to make the trip for bare
exes.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Though golf is becoming
more and more a young man’s game there
are not wanting Methuselahs who cling to
the tradition that only the old and wise can
comprehend its mysteries. And they have
dinned this belief into the ears of the young
and ignorant for so long that many of them
have come to believe it themselves. So, much
is being made by them in the English golfing
press of the result of a match between 10
veterans and a similar number of youthful
upstarts, which the oldsters won. The glory
is somewhat dimmed by the fact that the
young team —all under 30 —contained no
player of any particular note, while the
veterans’ side included Vardon, James Braid
and Taylor. It seems to liavedbeen something
like matching a team of elderly Carbines
against one composed of half-grown Clydes-
dale colts.
The Watermen
The G.P.S. eight-oar race was rowed on
the Parramatta on Saturday, and won by
Sydney Church of England Grammar School,
which had not had a look-in for 13 years.
S.C.E.G.S. made a good job of it once it
had started, for it won both the other events
of the day, the first and second fours; its time
in the mile and a half race was 9min. 2ssec.
There was the usual huge crowd afloat and
ashore, and all the assembled flapperdom of
Sydney seemed to be squealing “Shore” at
the finish of the big race, just as it would
have been squeaking “King’s” or “Grammar”
if either had got home first. The winners,
who were stroked by R. S. Miller, were one of
the lightest crews in the race, but they were
handled with fine judgment. Rowing in almost
faultless style, they came away from the chal-
lenging Grammar crew in the last 100 yards,
and won by three-quarters of a length. Syd-
ney High, triumphant in the three previous
years, was half a length behind Grammar,
with The King’s crew three-quarters of a
length away. The race, which was rowed on a
Hood tide, afforded one more argument for the
shifting of the event to some such non-tidai
course as the Nepean. “Shore” was fortunate
in drawing the No. 4 position, which gave ail
the advantage there was to be gained from
wind and water. This is not noted in any spirit
of disparagement, but there is too much of the
luck of the draw in rowing on the Parra-
matta, as the inter-State oarsmen realised
some time ago. The winning crews in the
two fours events also showed evidence of
sound coaching, the work of M. A. Mackay
at stroke in the first fours being particularly
admired. In both these races, also. Shore
had the advantage of the draw, getting No.
4 position in the first fours and No. 3 in
the second. Generally, the day was a triumph
for the much-criticised Oxford style, to which
headmaster and rowing coach L. C. Robson
has steadfastly adhered.
“Old Boy”: “Slide’s” par. (B. 4/4/’2B)
is not free from over-statement. The train-
ing of the G.P.S. crews moves pretty well in
one groove; if there is a variation, that is
the business of the school concerned, and the
writer has only his own school in view. We
watch for signs of over-strain, and realise the
seriousness thereof. An example : One of the
“eight” went down with influenza and lost
two weeks; he was dropped to a “four” lest
the effort to catch up in the stiffer training
should be too much for him. The doctor
who re-examined the “eight” expressed sur-
prise at the physical improvement shown in
each case; he had previously been a bit
doubtful concerning the strenuousness of the
training. “Slide” is right out of his groove
in saying “the youths engaged are withdrawn
from all effective school-work for weeks be-
fore the race.” Not a minute’s concession is
made. Our fellows leave school after 3.30,
and are back at tea at (about) 6.30; time
spent on the road and in dressing leaves
an hour to an hour and a half for rowing—
surely not excessive. They do more on Satur-
days and holidays, but the preparation is
graded by men skilled in the game. In de-
precating publicity “Slide” gets home. It
has been suggested that rowing on the Nepean
would turn off a lot of the limelight, and the
change may yet be made. We cannot dodge
the journalist; one coach did refuse informa-
tion and invited the journalist to move off to
a distant and warmer spot—result, a formal •
demand from the A. J.A. for an apology!
The G.P.S. would be deeply obliged to
“Slide” if he would show how this unwanted
publicity could be avoided.
H*
“Blade” : The inter-Uni. eight-oar race is
down for June 2 on the Murray River at
Mannum (S.A.). Five States are sure to
be represented; Queensland may have to
stand out owing to the distance and expense.
The N.S.W. crew will be chosen from 16
oarsmen provisionally selected by W. J.
Middleton, of Olympic celebrity. They have
nearly all rowed in G.P.S. races, and Middle-
ton is confident that Sydney will have a
big say in the result this year.
V H*
“Hotham”: The vicissitudes of the Vic-
torian eight for the King’s Gup continue. Id.
A. Schlichting, chosen to fill the stroke seat
vacated by the first choice, C. N. McKay, has
found it necessary to stand down in his turn
through pressure of business. The V.R.A.
selectors have appointed B. C. Edwards, of
the Melbourne club, to the vacant post.
Edwards rowed No. 7 in the Victorian eight
last year.
(Continued on next page.)


WE ARE THE AGENTS
TH£
Ssfe.
" BULLDOG"
HAMMER LESS
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRIGS
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FCTX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE,
Agents wanted where not represented.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
"The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from "The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Melbourne
Italian
OPERA SEASON
Opens May 12.
Stay at the Hotel Windsor, the most
beautifully located of all Mel-
bourne’s good-class metropolitan
hotels. Opposite Parliament House and facing
magnificent gardens, and but a few minutes
from theatres and shops. Hot and cold water
and telephones in all bedrooms. Minimum
tariff from 22/6 (inclusive). Room and
Breakfast from 15/-.
ms 3toM WindAOt
Spring' Street, Melbourne
Telegrams & Cables:
“Telwinsor,”
Melbourne.
Manager:
D. G. Baker.
’Phone: Cent, ©260.
The Watermen
“Hawthorn”: The rowing premiership of
Victoria, which is decided on a points system,
has this year,fallen to the Melbourne club
with 32 points, Mercantile being second
with 22; Wendouree, the leading country
club, was fifth on the general list with 15
points. Richmond won the junior division
competition with 52 points, Ballarat coming
second with 39.
* :]! fc *
“Gol Gol”: Mildura’s Henley-on-the-Muv-
ray regatta drew a big entry from Victorian
rowing clubs, including several crews from
Melbourne. Though only five years old, the
Mildura club has reached a high standard of
rowing, its members including many oarsmen
from the public schools. The regatta was
run by amateur officials, the wages-sheet
amounting to a mere £2. Club members had
laid out reserves and lawns, planted shade
trees and erected fences. There is a fine boat-
house, well equipped with boats, and not. a
bean is owing on anything; the profit on the
regatta was so good that other boats are to
ordered. Mildura is only one of many
flourishing country rowing clubs in Victoria,
and S. Aus. is likewise well supplied.
N.S.W., with its network of splendid rowing
rivers, can boast only one country club, and
that one is affiliated to Queensland.
* * * *
“Slide”: The rowing clans of Australia
are beginning to gather in Sydney for the
King’s Cup race on May 5. The crews will
be billeted at Penrith, where the race is to
rowed. The N.S.W., Westralian, Tasmanian
and Queensland crews are already on the
river, while the South Australians and Vic-
torians are due to arrive on Friday next.
There is a good entry for the sculling cham-
pionship also, including Pearce (N.S.W.),
the holder, who departs for the Olympiad
after the race.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: America recently produced a
gentleman who invented a rocket in which
he intended to ride to the moon. Germany
has gone one better; the Opel Motor Co. of
Berlin announces that it has perfected a car
driven like a rocket by a combustible powder
shot out from tubes behind. It claims that
the car has already attained a speed of 110
kiloihetres an hour within eight seconds of
starting, and states that an attempt will
shortly be made to beat Malcolm Camp-
bell’s speed record, the car to run on a railed
track. This addendum places the attempt
right outside the ambit of speed-car tests, of
which one' of the essentials is that the run
be done on an open track, either natural
or prepared, but without any artificial ad-
juncts in the way of rails and the like. In
any case, the new invention is not likely
to prove of any practical use, since the in-
ventors state that the propelling material is
so expensive that a car using it can never
be considered a commercial proposition.
There’s always a catch somewhere in these
great ideas.
* Hi H> *
“Nairne”: The fellow who growls about
the way the excitement has died out of
Brisbane dirt-track motor-cycling (B.
18/4/’2S) ought to be down here in Ade-
laide. There’s quite a lot of that sort of
stuff here, but it’s the most disappointing
game going. Not that the riders don’t take
chances and cop bumps, but nothing ever
happens after that. Just when everyone is
wondering whether the hearse will have
plumes or be just plain, or whether it will be
a cremation case, the lad gets up, as the
Brisbane bloke says, and hoofs it off the
track, while the crowd realises that it’s been
stung again. The other night, as a paper
had it, there was “a thrilling capsize oppo-
site the stand,” and at the end of the first
lap only one rider, was “left ungrassed.”
Then another cove dashed into a stone wall
“without injury to himself,” though how the
bike and the wall got on the report forgets
to say. Two more collided and “piled up
their machines in the middle of the track.”
Then a side-car crashed into the fence, after
the front forks of the machine had snapped,
took off a dozen palings and smashed the
3x4 rail. The rider was “pinned beneath
the car,” but “slight concussion” was the
only damage to him, It’s worse than watch-
ing Sheffield Shield cricket.
* * # *
“Sprocket”: After being ignored in favor
of flapper swimmers and similar athletic
improbabilities, Jack Standen has received
an official invitation to go to Amsterdam,
the money for his expenses having been found
by the Truth co. The Goulburn cyclist
should have been one of the first chosen after
Andrew Charlton. Unlike several other
members of the team, he looks to have a
really good chance of annexing an Olympic
championship, as far as a comparison of
times can indicate.
❖ * Jfc #
“Wheel”: News of the Australian profes-
sional cyclists who are to compete in the
Tour de France race is to the effect that,
for training purposes, their machines have
beeh refitted with higher gears than are
customary in Australia until the bikes being
built for them by the French firm of Ravat
are ready. They are to ride this firm’s
machines only, so the co. has evidently taken
the team under its -wing. This will mean
much to the lads, for the concern backing
them will provide for their every want; if
they came in as routiers or independent
riders they would have to look after them-
selves. So far in the history of the race the
winners have always come from team com-
binations.
Miscellaneous
“Long Dog”: The cables told us the other
day of Sydney’s esteemed friend “Judge”
Swindell, who introduced tin-hare chasing
to this country and then departed for South
Africa, taking £20,000 of Australian money
with him. The shipment of greyhounds
ordered by his Honor from N.S.W. in order
to inaugurate the joke in South Africa ar-
rived in good order and with small loss, but,
as a Bulletin writer suggested, the Afri-
kander authorities have not agreed with the
eminent dispenser of justice as to the ad-
visability of encouraging the alleged sport.
The Cape and Transvaal Provinces have re-
fused licenses to the promoters, which cuts
out Capetown and Jo’burg; and there aren’t
many pickings in the Free State or Natal.
Perhaps the most intriguing item in the cable
was the Judge’s hope that in spite of these
handicaps he might make the game as popular
as it is in Australia. Of the six States, three
ban it altogether, and two permit no betting
on the thing. In N.S.W. alone is it possible
to have a bit on, and that only by day.
# # * *
“Fitzcray”: Save for the Olympic Games
and an occasional visit to Maoriland, Aus-
tralian track and field athletes rarely get a
chance to show their paces abroad. So there
is the charm of novelty in an invitation re-
ceived by the Victorian A.A.A. for athletes
to compete at the Javanese international
sports to be held at Bandoeng on June 30
and July 1. The association is standing
the matter over until it finds out whether the
Javanese body is affiliated with the Inter 4
national A.AiA.; if so the invitation will
probably be accepted.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: As a change from the motor
record-breaker two young men have set out
from Melbourne to walk to Wyndham
(W.A.), 2000 miles distant. One, Whislaw,
is an Englishman standing over six feet in
liis socks. The other, Cunningham, hails
from tropical Queensland, where white men
waste away; he is 6£ feet and weighs 16
stone.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro” : The attempt to remove
the ban of professionalism which a fool-rule
imposed on Dick Eve, the Olympic diving
champion, when he became manager of Manly
(N.S.W.) baths has failed. Eve’s supporters
sought to have the rule amended on the
lines of one adopted by the. British swim-
ming authorities which permits an amateur
to manage baths so long as he does not
teach swimming for a consideration. The
W.F. HORNIG, manager of the All Black
Rugby Union footballers, who had
some practice in Sydney last week on
their way to South Africa.
proposed amendment was submitted to a mail
vote of the State swimming associations. A
two-thirds majority was necessary, but one
State did not vote and the others were three
to two for the amendmlent. so it was not
carried. As an example of pig-headed ob-
stinacy, coupled with inter-State jealousy,
the incident would be hard to beat.
* * * *
“Pot th’ White”: Frank Ferraro, the
South African professional billiard player.
is to visit Australia shortly in search of
Walter Lindrum’s scalp. Ferraro is rated
by fellow-Afrikanders as one of the most
brilliant cueists that country has produced.
He has had a shot at the English champion-
ship, but did not set the green cloth on fire.
He was probably hampered, as so many Do-
minions contestants are, by the ivory-ball
fetich, which still holds sway as regards this
particular tournament.
* S 4= *
“Bramall Lane”: F. C. Toone, the York-
shire secretary who managed the 1920-21 and
1924-25 English cricket teams to visit Aus-
tralia, will take on the same job for the side
that will arrive in Australia in September.
Following on a suggestion in the English
press that the team should carry two mana-
gers, one for the business, and the other for
W.M. (“TICKLE”) WHYTE, the Vic-
torian distance runner, who will repre-
sent Australia at the Amsterdam
Olympiad.
the social side, Lord Harris was asked to
officiate in the latter capacity. He politely
refused, pleading pressure of affairs.
Us He H* *
“Slurk”: The hardly-veiled enmity be-
tween the Victorian and N.S.W. cricket
heads came to the surface at a recent meet-
ing of the V.C.A. A letter was received
from the N.S.W. body asking co-operation in
compelling the Board of Control to hold its
meetings in public. A Vic. delegate to
the board remarked that this sort of critic-
ism from the Ma State had been constant
since Sydney had been deprived of one of the
Test matches in favor of Brisbane, and that
he doubted the genuine spirit of the letter.
The others agreed and it was resolved to
take no action. Stand by for a dead cat
from Sydney!
* * * *
“Ironbark”: It seems peculiar that main-
land Australians, the majority of whom are
lovers of sport, especially the gun, have
not followed the example of other countries
in acclimatising game. Maoriland has shown
what can be done in this direction ; pheasants
and partridges, red-deer and chamois have
been successfully acclimatised there, and the
trout-fishing is now world-famous. Nor has
Tasmania been behindhand. On several
Midland stations deer were introduced with
good results many years ago, and pheasants
liberated on King Island are thriving, thanks
to the public-spiritedness of the island
farmers. There are many parts of Australia
in which game could be established without
danger to the stock-breeding. or soil-tickling
industries, and it would be an immense at-
traction to tourists, who are worth consider-
ing nowadays.
* * * *
“Tripehound” : Carter Bros.’ ancient grey-
hound Terminus has surely earned a long
holiday. At Rooty Hill last week the first
ties of the Woodstock Cup matched him
against Andy, from which dog the opening
points have never been taken. Fast from slips,
the old fifth-season battler put up a great
course and Andy had only his nose in front
as the hare was forced off her line. The
tightest squeeze Parnell’s flyer has had.
Later, Andy ' .ok the final pointless. Brigand
landed the Derby (£225 first money) and
a nice parcel of bets, at from 50 to 25 to 1,
for a confederation from Wagga. In the
Oaks, Rejoiceful, a speed model by Terminus
from Rejoice, downed her six opponents in
one-sided fashion. The hares ran like 45
Limericks. There were only that number on
the ground to decide a 174-course meeting,
spread over 4 days. All but 4 eluded the
soup-pot.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Nota Bene”: “One man one job” is tbe
policy rigidly enforced by the Trades Hall
on Vic. railways. Hence, when the wfindow-
glass in the lavatory of a carriage on a
narrow-gauge railway was recently broken,
the carriage was put out of commission and
an inspector sent from Melb. to examine the
damage and measure the frame. Next day
a glazier from Melb. appeared and repaired
the window. On the third day a metropoli-
tan painter arrived to paint the new putty !
A local handy man could have done the com-
plete job in a few minutes at the cost of a
couple of bob or so.
:]c ;|! * *
“M.L.C.”: A small apiary situated on the
Speck’s wild West Coast is trading directly
with the Ilaymarket Stores, London, and this
season it is forwarding one ton of honey
culled mainly from the delicate white flowers
of the Eucrypliia billardicri. The London
firm retails it in small glass jars and declares
it to be the best-flavored Australian honey
ever placed on the English market.
j)C ij* >! :
“Natte Y.”: In a Melbourne suburb a
couple of months ago a man went from
house to house selling chickens, “guaranteed”
to be pullets, at Is. 6d. each. He made a
fair number of sales, and then it turned out
that all the chicks were cockerels. Thi
humor of the situation did not fully develop
until the vendor appeared later on his old
round in the rOle of a wholesale poultry-
buyer. Ilis offer of 9d. a pair for the
birds he had sold at two for three bob was
accepted by many inhabitants who failed to
penetrate his disguise.
* * * *
“Caxton’s Ghost”: The old Rotomahana is
being scrapped after 40 years’ service. She
was built by W. Denny and Co., of Dum-
barton, and left Plymouth for Australia on
August 9, 1879, reaching Melbourne 43 days
later, after calling at St. Vincent and Cape-
town on the way. The boat was hailed as
the “greyhound of the Red Funnel fleet” and
made many trips on the Melbourne-M.L. run.
Afterwards she did the Melbourne-Launceston
and then the Lyttleton-Wellington services.
She was sold for £l7OO three years ago, and,
with everything of value removed, will shortly
go to her last resting-place, Cape Scharock,
near that of her old rival, the Coogee.
$ * # *
“Cooramin”: The tug boat John Gollan
which saved the Iron Chief the other day
after she crashed on the Mermaid Reef
north of the Manning River, recalls the ship-
building activities of the early days of the
Manning. The John Gollan was one of the
vessels built by Captain Gollan at Tinonee.
In the middle of the last century there were
ship-building yards both at Tinonee and
Pelican, the latter established by Captain
Alex Newton, who launched a fairly large
fleet of sailing vessels from his stocks.
All were built of timber that was cut on the
Manning with axes and pitsaws.
* * * *
“Bret Vane”: In one section of the new
Federal Clothing Trades award appears a
list of 3326 firms that are either making
dresses, hat and caps, underclothing, shirts
and pyjamas etc., or are dyers and cleaners.
Five States are covered. There are 1293
firms in the Ma State (less than a dozen
outside Sydney and Newcastle), 938 in
Queensland, 925 in Victoria, 241 in South
Australia and 29 in Tasmania. The section
covering tailoring involves about another
3000 in the States mentioned. Altogether
quite a tidy little circuit for the union
officials to watch.
* * * *
“Idleberg”: One result of the recent
clearing up of the Yarra by the Board of
Works may be the use of that neglected
stream for the transport of goods from the
factories direct to steamers. A company
is in process of formation which proposes
to put barges towed by launches on the river,
which, with very little expenditure, could be
made navigable as far as Heidelberg. It has
always surprised me that the lower reaches
aren’t used by private citizens. Private
motor boats or ferries could carry hundreds
from their own doorsteps right into the city,
a journey which by road is fast becoming
a nightmare.
* * * *
“M.L.”: May I point out in defence of
Maoriland white pine, which has recently
been the subject of some adverse criticism,
that it is impervious to the borer as long as
it is not in the shade. If the timber is
placed anywhere in the sun, e.g., in the seats
of an open wheeled vehicle, the borer will
not enter it, and it is much better and tougher
than Oregon. In flooring or linings it is a
different matter, but even there the borer
may be destroyed by brushing it over with
sheep dip. The West Coast white pine is
better and harder than the Southland.


British Bearings
That Give
Consistently Greater
SERVICE
RXil BALL $ ROLLER
@n BEARINGS
f/VCLANO
“Specify them for Replacements”
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors;
GARDNER, WAERNg CO. Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARDWARE
CO., LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
Tasmanian Agents: W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
West Aus. Agents: Automotive —COVENTRY MOTOR
CO., LTD., PERTH. Industrial —FLOWER,
DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
BUY BEARINGS
'CARPEmt
lAf?pgNnis :
THE SET OF 4 VOLS.
Price 30/-
POST
FREE.
QUICK
REFERENCE
Saw filing?
Steel Square?
Rafter's?
Any question in-
stantly answered
l>y the quick-refer-
ence index. The
course is progress-
ive, but the index
gives immediate
answers.
Inside Trade Information for Carpenters,
Builders, Joiners, Building Mechanics and all
Woodworkers on—Care and Use of Tools,
How to Use the Steel Square, File Saw 3,
Make All Kinds of Joints, Draw and Read
Plans, Write Specifications, Make Estimates,
How to Frame Roofs and Houses, Lay Out
Work, Put in Foundations, Full Instructions
on In and Outside Building Work, Stair
Building, Sawmill Work, Practical Painting.
Short cuts that save time and money—in-
formation usually obtained only by hard
experience.
Audels Carpenters and Builders’ Guides have 1600 pages—3 700 trade
illustrations. These Guides solve trade problems, eliminate mistakes,
answer questions, saving you time, money and labor.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS.
BOOKSTALL CORNER,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
id 4+“
ip*
mu".
|i_r -\f .
ir.n I
L lii i ill I
I/-
v.
i±3F' -‘s
fe-
Aee/uJ UMnt&i
fumifouA ham
!!
SLgLA
L.
Bft.
i
Central heating—by which is
meant one “Ideal” boiler cir-
culating hot water through
radiators placed in as many
rooms as are required to be
warmed—is effective, proved
and the most economical heat-
ing yet devised for cheaply
heating large buildings.
"Ideal” Domes-
tic Boilers are
also the cheap-
est and most
efficient for
supplying con-
tinuous hot
water to Bath-
rooms, Sinks,
or wherever re-
quired.
Full particulars
on application.
RADIATORS
& BOILERS
Ideal Radiators maintain a
temperature of 70 degrees—
and any member of the house-
hold can stoke and look after
the boiler. They heat an aver-
age-sized room for 24 hours
at an approximate cost of two-
pence. Get ready for winter
—write now for booklet and
information.
John Banks & Son
Pty. Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


*
£9
24.D.L.16 —Catanach’s Gent’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, Plain
Dial, £9; Luminous Dial, £9/10/-
£5
24,D.L.10 Catanaoh’s
Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted
fancy dials, £5
for
Reliable Watches
“De Luxe” Watches, two of
which are illustrated below, are quite
the most popular timepieces in Melbourne.
They are excellent timekeepers, having 15
jewel movement, and are available in an
immense variety of distinctive designs.
“De Luxe” Watches are guaranteed by, and
obtainable only from, Catanach’s. Choose a
“De Luxe” and be sure of satisfaction.
< C\j(o *3* K)
egp@^]cD
o o CO t>
Magnificent Diamond Wrist Watch, £25
This exquisite Diamond Wristlet Watch in White Gold is
showing at Catanach’s for £25.
Many other choice designs in Diamond-set Watches, some in
Gold, Platinum-set, others in White Gold, at prices ranging
from £l5, £lB, £2O up to £75.
Catanach’s are also showing Exquisite Diamond-set Watches,
with flexible Diamond-set Bracelets, at £65 to £l3O.
e
Corner Royal Arcade and Little
Melbourne
Collins Street,
- - Victoria
w
Melbourne
Chatter
Two performances of Noel Coward’s “Hay-
fever” successfully led off the Uni.’s com-
mencement week celebrations. The women
grads, to the number of about 250 gathered
around a dining-table one evening, and
cheering crowds assembled on the banks of
the Yarra on Thursday and Friday after-
noons to watch the inter-collegiate boat
races, in which Queen’s, for the eleventh
time, carried off the Mervyn Bournes
Iliggins Shield. Though the time-honored
procession of students through the city has
long been interdicted, on Saturday morning
the interdict was defied, as is the annual
custom, and a caravan of lorries, taxi-cabs
and nondescript vehicles, carrying a miscel-
lany of brigands, Romans, ballet dancers and
other weird characters, made a sortie into
Collins-strcet and dislocated the traffic of the
Block for some hours.
The conferring of degrees at Wilson Hall
was, as' usual, a dignified and picturesque
ceremony. The procession to the University
of cap-and-gowned undergrads, and hooded
grads, was a colorful spectacle, and the
Chancellor in his gold-braided nightie made
a majestic figure on the dais, taking his
seat between the Minister of Education and
Director of Education Tate. Sweet girl
graduates reaped a respectable harvest of
sheepskins in the Arts and Science sections,
but in medicine and dentistry they were
conspicuous by their absence. Isabel Lyall
Reid, a very youthful-looking, Titian-haired
maid, well known on the hockey field, was
the only one of her sex to tack B.LL. to her
name. A lot of applause went to a nun
from the Catholic Ladies’ College, whose
thesis upon the part the emotions play in
the education of a child gained her the degree
of Master of Education. Noteworthy among
a fair bunch of -new-made M.A.’s were
Kathleen Mary Straclian, who is also a
Bachelor of Science, and Frances Elizabeth
Allen, whose strong suit is mathematics.
Winifred Powys Kent-Hughes, who received
her M.'Sc. degree and a scholarship, is booked
to sail for Europe in a week or two.
In the afternoon the usual garden party
was held, blessed on this occasion by beauti-
ful weather. Professorial crimsoh robes and
feminine attire of all shades of the rainbow
made the scene a bright one. Among the
women guests who strolled about the lawn
or clinked cups in the tea-house were Mrs.
Stanley Argyle; Mrs. Springthorpe, in a
pleated and tucked grey frock; Dr. Hilda
Rennie; Dr. Eileen Fitzgerald; Mrs. Cow
ling, clad in flouncines of blue floral georg-
ette ; Professor Masson’s lady; Dr. Ethel
Osborne, a study in soft grey; Enid Joske
(the new principal of the Janet Clarke
Hall; Julia Flynn and Mrs. M. P. Hansen.
The Hotel Australia was handed over on
Wednesday evening for bridge and dancing
to help reduce the St. Vincent’s Hospital's
maintenance debt of £12,000. In the forefront
of the organisers was Mrs. Merson Cooper,
whose faint pink robe was encircled with gold
sequins and chalk beads, her assistants being
Mrs. George Bowcher, lion, sec., in floral-
painted chiffon, and Eileen Newbigin, whose
green frock was a background for sparkling
embroidery. There were stalls for the sale
of cigarettes, sweets and other trifles, and
the Firm, 3LO, Green Mill and Tivoli lent
entertainers. Amongst the feminine jazzers
and bridgers were Mrs. Murray Morton,
sporting a water-lily upon the left shoulder
of a wine-hued frock; Mrs. J. S. Watts, in
black with glimmer of red and crystal beads:
Mrs. W. Rogers Thomson and daughter
Kathleen, the latter all poppy-red frills ; the
Hennessy lady, swathed in draperies of
black lace; Mrs. T. C. Brennan, wearing an
embossed- gown of reseda green; and Leila
Pirani, whose gown of silver tissue bore zig-
zags of green and red.
On Wednesday the Yarra Yarra Golf Club
opened its season, and the prettily situated
links at Rosanna responded once more to the
drone of the drive and the click of the
niblick. Mrs. G. Brooke Hutchings enter-
tained a crowd of members and visitors at
tea, and there were trophies for foursomes
played according to Canadian rules. The
winners wore Mrs. W. H. Wallace, who re-
ceived a beautiful crystal bowl, and Gertie
O’Donnell, whose guerdon was an opulently-
fitted leather handbag. The club-house was
a bower of autumn foliage, marigolds, chry-
santhemums and gladioli, and the hostess
gave greeting in a smart three-piece
sports suit in brown and tawny shades of
figured and plain tweed, with a beige felt hat.
The catalogue of the National Rose
Society’s show at the Town Hall read like a
list of the Thousand Best People, Dame
Edith Helen, perfect of form, deep pink in
hue and deliciously fragrant, being the belle
of the bunch. Though the heavy January
rains and the following spell of heat were
not welcomed by rose-growers, the display
was a fine one. Rosarians, having in the past
sacrificed scent for color, are seeking to
restore perfume, and in many cases this year
they have succeeded. Alister Clark’s famous
rosary at Bulla was represented, as usual,
by a wide variety of gorgeous blooms, the
most arresting item being what looked like
a whole bush of Sunny South displayed in
an immense jar. Lieutenant-Commander
l’rideaux. of Flinders Naval Base, and artist
Blamire Young were among the proud prize-
winners. The finest blooms, after Dame
Edith Helen, were, perhaps, Verschuren,
Felicity, Red Radiance, Billy Boiler (a
recent Alister Clark discovery) and Revd.
Page Roberts. The last-named is greatly
sought after by Sydney florists.
The autumn sale arranged by the Gentle-
women’s Aid Society, held at the Malvern
Town Hall, brought forward some really
beautiful samples of necdlecraft, the
workers having been spurred to great
achievements by the offer of prizes in the
various sections. A bridge party run by
Kathleen Ahern and Phyllis Mary Dunne
helped to swell the takings. Owing to the
recent death of the secretary, Ethel Fowler,
whose place has been filled by Miss C.
Quartermain, there was no opening ceremony.
Strella Wilson, with a diadem surmount-
ing her fair locks and a lengthy train lined
with old gold attached to her robe of ivory
brocade, made a commanding figure as the
royal lady in “Princess Ida” at His Majesty’s
on Saturday night, and she was equally well
suited by the battle array of gold chain
armor topped by a white plumed helmet. Her
maids went forth to war with touches of pea-
cock blue velvet beneath their coats of silvery
mail. The maidens who had thrust man out
of their cosmos attired themselves, neverthe-
less, very prettily in gowns and caps of
brocaded velvet. In spite of the counter-
attraction of revels at the Uni. there was an
almost full house. Applause was frequent
and free and there were lots of flowers for
the leading ladies at the final curtain.
Robert Best and his lady, with a daughter,
occupied a box, other first-nighters being Dr.
and Miss Nyualsy; Ethel Bage; Pattie Wil-
son, from Geelong; Mrs. C. J. Ahern; and
Mr. and Mrs. W. Bates.
This is a Monte Luke picture of Herbert
Leigh, who has played many important
parts in the Firm’s productions during his
25 years’ stay in Australia. He came from
South Africa at the conclusion of a most
successful two
years’ season
in Bloemfon-
tein during
the Boer War.
In his com-
pany were
Beatrice Day,
Reg Wykeham
and the late
Herbert Flem-
ming. Among
frequent visi-
tors behind
the scenes
were Edgar
Wallace, then
a war corres-
p o n d e n t,
Baden - Powell
and many
other notabili-
ties. Mr. Leigh
came to this
country with
Julius Knight and Maud Jeffries, with whom
he was associated for three years. He at
present has a place in the cast of “The
Terror.”
Mayoress Morell presided over the tea-tray
in her private suite at the Town Hall on
Thursday afternoon to welcome Mrs. W. W.
Cabena, who, with Alderman Cabena, has
just returned from a health trip to England,
mostly spent in Cornwall. The Mayoress,
who wore a robe of black lace and a small
felt hat, handed the guest of honor a sheaf
of mauve blossoms grouped around a rare
orchid. Mrs. Cabena’s black satin frock was
topped by a hat embossed in dull green
petunia and pink. Shiela Morell sported a
pretty jumper suit in which rose pink and
.apricot tones were blended with a dash of
black. Dorothy Humphreys, clad in magpie
raiment, lifted a thrush-like voice in song,
and Lorna Reid, whose frock was an Oriental
harmony of goblin blue and dull gold, sang
at the piano. The suite was decorated with
enormous mauve chrysanthemums in artistic
groupings.
Intense interest was taken in the outcome
of the second trial of Methodist ex-parson
Griggs for the murder of his wife, and the
Criminal Court was crowded for four days.
The case, though of a sort common enough
in its general outline, had its elements of
pathos. Justice Macfarlan’s summing-up was
meticulously fair to the accused, and Ins
parting injunction to the jury was to return
a verdict of acquittal unless it felt that
the Crown had removed every reasonable
doubt as to the prisoner’s guilt. The jury
took over six hours to arrive at its decision,
so it evidently found its task, if not difficult,
at least laborious. Maxwell, K.C., added to
his already brilliant reputation by his hand-
ling of the case for the defence, which at the
outset looked rather hopeless.
The bright-looking maiden pictured here by
Ruskin is Eileen Stan-, the clever young
singer and actress who is playing the part
of Miss Wendell in “The Girl Friend,” the
musical
comedy which
is delighting
full houses at
S y d n e y’s
Theatre Royal.
Miss Starr,
who is a Mel-
bourne girl,
possesses a fine
voice, which
has been heard
many times on
the concert
stage here, and
has also
pleased the
patron s of
3LO. Her
stage career
began in the
chorus of the
last William-
son-M e 1 b a
Opera Com-
pany, where she showed so much aptitude
that she was occasionally given solo parts.
Captain Lingham, the sky-writer, arrived
from England one day last week and lost no
time in greeting Melbourne with a snaky
“Hello.” If anyone had told our grand-
patents, in their youth, that the time would
come when men would write upon heaven’s
blue in mile-high letters they would have
chased their informant to the nearest lunatic
asylum, but the modern age is so inured to
wonders that such performances are accepted
as a matter of course. The next generation
probably won’t bother to risk a crick in the
neck by even glancing at such stunts.
The wedding of Decima, only daughter of
the Percy Carters of Bentdng, F.M.S., which
was to have taken place in Malaya in June,
was put forward a couple of months owing
to the imminent transfer of the bridegroom,
.Captain Boyes, of the Royal Engineers,
to Persia, and the event took place in St.
Paul’s Cathedral on Wednesday evening. The
17-year-old bride looked like a rosy dawn in
her short lace gown with billows of tulle
floating over the lace train. A young cousin,
Margaret Osment, just returned from Eng-
land, attended her in a pink chiffon frock
trimmed with narrow bands of taffeta, her
dark shingle confined by a chaplet of tiny
blossoms. Mrs. Carter, a member of the W.
Iv. Watts family, of this State, wore an
embroidered gown of pearl-hued chiffon with
a transparent lace hem, topped by a smart
black hat. The reception was held at the
Osment home. Captain and Mrs. Boyce
will spend their honeymoon in Europe, pre-
paratory to settling down in the land of
Omar.
It isn’t often that a bride’s maiden sur-
name coincides with her husband’s Chris-
tian name, but it happened in the case of
Elsa Andrew and Andrew Chirnside, a very
youthful couple. The bride is the daughter
of the late Dr. Frank Andrew, of this city,
and of Mrs. Andrew, of Kooyong; the bride-
groom being the third son of the Percy
Chirnside couple, of Brandon Park, Oakleigli.
St. John’s, Toorak, was decorated in the
blue and gold of Geelong Grammar School,
whose principal, Dr. Brown, tied the knot
for one of his old boys. The wedding gown
was of vellum-toned satin with a train of
ivory and gold brocade surmounted with
rare old Honiton lace; and the attire of the
three bridesmaids was of the tint of autumn
gold, felt hats and all. A small cousin, who
was train-bearer, wore a petalled dress of the
hue of ripening corn. The bride’s seventeen-
year-old brother Rod left his studies at Gee-
long Grammar School to give her away, and
he and the bridegroom made the speeches of
the afternoon at No. 9—the G.G.S. puts
public speaking in its curriculum.
Catherine, elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
W. J. Craig, of Box Hill, struck an original
note in bridal array when she wed John
Lawson, of Castlemaine, son of the one-
time Yic. Premier. Her frock was of faint
pink swathed with tulle. Her two ’maids
showed glimpses of blue of the same tone
as their felt millinery beneath frocks of
white taffeta.
Flight-Lieutenant Ellis C. Wackett em-
barked upon the sea of matrimony the other
day, bound for the heights of bliss and the
harbor of content, his pilbt being an appro-
ately-named young lady, pretty Doreen Dove.
Five ’maids in rainbow-liued draperies atten-
ded her at the taking-off place, All Saints’,
St. Kilda, and her frock of white satin was
wreathed in cloudlets of pink-and-white tulle.
Flight-Lieutenant Wackett had the support of
several Air Force and R.A.N. officers.
On Thursday afternoon, at St. Pat.’s
Cathedral, pianist May Broderick, wearing a
gown of white georgette and a veil of Lime-
rick lace, promised to accompany fiddler Cecil
Parkes throughout life’s journey. Father
McCarthy came from Fern Tree Gully to
give the duet his blessing, and Nellie McGrath
was attendant ’maid in powder-blue georg-
ette.
Mayor Morell spared an hour out of a
busy day last week to launch a show of oils
and water-colors from the brush of Glewin
Harcourt, a Melbourne artist who has been
sojourning in Europe for some years. The
civic chief backed up a glowing eulogy of
Ilarcourt’s work by buying a picture, and the
National Gallery trustees have their heads
together about another, which won the appro-
val of the Royal Academy. Among those
who accepted invitations were the Mayoress
—she came in black and white with a fur
wrap—the Mitchell lady, 11. S. Power and
his wife, John Longstaff, Mrs. George Bell.
Madame Mortill, Mrs. Edward Officer, Nancy
Jones, Judy Finch and Hilda McCardel.
A jar of pussy-willow in the foreground and
sundry baskets and bowls of white and
crimson dahlias glorified the stage of the
Assembly Hall for the concert of the L.A.B.
Music Club. It was a night of Marjories.
Marjorie Haleliard and Marjorie Leach, two
accomplished singers, joined voices in Henry
Purcell’s song cycle, “The Moon,” and were
also heard in solo offerings. Marjorie Frock
ter stroked a violin attractively. Phyllis
Parlett, M'orfyn Jones and Maisie Thomson
were the solo pianists of the occasion, and
Mrs. Prockter and Gladys Cunliffe proved
sympathetic accompanists to the Marjories.
A good-sized audience was very liberal in
the matter of posies and applause.
A Collins-street tram last wteek closed the
useful life of a pioneer of Broken Hill. Firth
Groves was the first doctor in general prac-
tice there; for a couple of years he not only
looked after all the patients in the little tin
and calico hospital, but, also without pay-
ment, often provided the drugs. He died
about 20 years ago; his widow followed him
last week! After her husband’s death she
spent some time in Europe, but of late years
had been settled in Melbourne.
Rupert Bunny, just returned after taking
his palettp and brushes for a short oversea
jaunt, promises to display his latest harvest
in a Melbourne gallery soon.
Lionel Lindsay has fallen a victim to the
seductions of Spain, and is planning anothe
visit to the land of dons and mantillas. He
finds there exactly the sort of people and
scenery that he most enjoys depicting.
Mayoress Morell and her daughter Sheila,
Mayor Fitzgerald of Essendon with his wife
and small girl Erin, Dr. and Mrs. Maurice
Magillicuddy and Mrs. N. F. Wellington
were at the Town Hall on Thursday night
for the farewell concert of Vera Bradford.
The talented young pianist wore white taffeta,
the skirt cut in deep points with a black
velvet hem. Gwen Procter with her cello,
contralto Isobel Biddell, and Elsie Fraser,
accompanist, were studies in various shades
of pink. Violinist Edward Lambert lent the
show a professional flavor. There were
flowers in plenty for the feminine music-
makers.
Draperies of royal blue, mingled with
golden blossoms, made a pretty setting for
the dance and bridge party at Brenan Hall,
St. Vincent’s Hospital, last week. The two
Jimmies, Whelan and O’Neill, were the
chief engineers; and their efforts were re-
warded by a crowd of 300 and a propor-
tionate increment to the hospital’s war chest.
The junior members of the E.S.U. held a
little dance at the club rooms one night last
week. Lynette Young in sparkling blue
frock, Meg Massey in array of moss-green
taffeta and Evelyn Manners Sutton in gold
lace and tissue were the principal con-
spirators.
Stouington, the vice-regal mansion at Mal-
vern, is no longer a rented property, the
State having bought it for a permanent vice-
regal shack at a cost of about £35,000. As
seven acres go with the house, which the
Wagner family built on a lavish scale, the
price works out at something like £5OOO an
acre. It is pretty safe to wager that a
f6w thousand more will be spent on exten-
sions. The bungalow that has been used
for the staff is of cheap material and is in-
sufferably hot in summer and cold in winter.
One way and the other our Cocked Hat costs
£12,000 a year, counting the upkeep of Ston-
ington and Macedon establishments and
sundries.
Having seen their daughter married, the
William Bateses have decided to leave their
charming home and seek fresh scenes. At
the end of this month they will board the
Niagara for Vancouver, with the intention
of pushing on to Toronto to visit Mrs. W.
G. Lamb, Mrs. Bates’s sister. After that the
party, augmented by William Bates’s sister
Maud, will motor to New York, with a
transcontinental journey to ’Frisco next on
the itinerary.


Oriental Pearls
5^5
{ Specialists in FINE PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO.
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
, Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash.
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Strin&in& of PEARL
Necklaces on
the premises.
1 *8?
Iff
lib
Wm.DRUMMOND£CO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
344.346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
Doe*
your mirror say:
Overworked?
WORRY, overwork, and the strain
of modern life have a weakening
influence on your nerves and digestion.
You must do something to counteract
these disturbing effects on your health, and
you can —with Sanatogen.
Regain your former health and energy by
taking Sanatogen, the true tonic-food.
“SANATOGEN goes to the core
of well-being, viz;., the cells, and
builds these up into a solid and
permanent fabric of health,”
writes a well'known English physician.
COO
Start using it to-day
sanatogen
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
A. SAUNDERS’
'V
SPECIAL
OFFER
at
SPECIAL PRICES
Solid Oak Mantel
CLOCK
Strikes hours and half-
hours on Cathedral-tone
Gong. Visible Pendu-
lum; 8-Day Movement.
3716
Highly Recommended.
ALL CLOCKS ARE
OILED AND
ADJUSTED BEFORE
LEAVING
SHOWROOM.
60/-
* .■
PS
e
10
a
6j
7
WE KEEP IN FREE
REPAIR FOR 12
MONTHS.
60/-
A. Saunders’ 8-Day Mantel Clock, Mahogany Case, Strikes
hours and half-hours on Cathedral-tone Gong, 60/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller —Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
m
in
z
m
3
m
m
;i wit
Worthy alike
of your Pride
and your Trust
Such a masterpiece of craftsmanship is the wafer-like,
modern Elgin.
Whether wristlet or vest-pocket variety, you never
have reason to question their accuracy, and none,
however discriminating, will ever challenge such out-
standing beauty of design.
Elgin watches are true alike to the time-minute and
the style-minute.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
’HE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
in the Watch Care
9
Li'
• 1 tfDn®
IS
%\
—" — J jMBli
(' mßmXakZ
fiGCifg SaQetjp-*
Holds More Ink
Make Onoto your Pen — It is a great time*
saver and the best writing instrument it is
possible to obtain, and the fact that it
holds 50 per cent, more ink than any
other self-filling pen has gained for Onoto*
the Pen, the first place.
THOMAS DE LA R'UE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhursl
50 York Street. Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pen*.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin^
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
7a
Champagne
Qiarifislleidsico^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
‘'Mum ” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
[Wen tworth ]
HditL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe. Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The centre of Queens/onc/s
iS'OC/O'/ l-/
cnnom
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
anacnea. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central o'B0 —10 Liner
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Tliere was only one place for Young Syd-
ney on Saturday and that was the boat
race; and Young Sydney had flung anything
up to 80 years behind it. Ribbon sufficient
to have girdled the earth streamed along the
banks of the Parramatta. Though the after-
noon, as seems usual when the Head of
the River is being rowed off, wore a grey
cowl, there was enough color loose to cause
the blood of thousands to run riot and to
shake up the good old voice box to its sten-
toi-ian best. Flappers wore the colors of
their favorite crew embroidered on tunics,
woven into jumpers or combined in hats and
coats. Cabarita Park stored enough petrol
to blow up the continent. 1 Spirited cars
flung a madness of honks, hoots and shrieks
into the grey terraces of the brooding sky
as Shore in a miraculous revival after 13
years of eclipse scooped the pool, did the hat-
trick and broke the bank—in short, won all
three events of the afternoon, from Eights
down ; and Shore fathers and mothers arose
and called their sons blesshd and themselves
far-seeing in having chosen such a seat of
learning for their offspring. On the river
ferries and launches, to which humans clung
thick as swarming bees, rocked with the
tumult and the shouting of their cargoes.
And high above the crowd came the voice
of a girl as gold and black striped as a wasp.
Her coat over the striped dress was of a
fabric shot with gold thread, and the lining
thereof was black and gold. “Later on,”
said she as she came to town, “I will turn
my coat inside out. I am nothing if not
patriotic!” But Shore won, after all, and
headmaster Robson, who is coach as well,
smiled even as one who has lifted the family
curse.
Once again the representatives of that
splendid group, the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, have met ,in annual conference, and
the report of their doings during the past 12
months makes one believe that fairy god-
mothers still roam the earth. Wherever they
wave their wands up springs a hospital or
rest-home for mothers, a holiday-home for
bush kiddies or a hostel for girl students.
Armidale, Glen Innes and Bombala will soon
boast holiday homes, and, of course, there's
the popular Keera House at Dee Why. And
Ungarie now has a hospital with operating-
theatre. So much has this splendid organisa-
tion captured the country woman’s imagina-
tion that membership and number of branches
have doubled in the last two years. Lady
de Chair presided at this year’s War Council,
which was held in the Y.W.C.A. hall in
Liverpool-street, and her most noteworthy
utterances * were a recommendation for the
federation of the associations in the various
States and a suggestion (which this Letter
loudly applauds) that city kiddies might be
taken for country holidays as well as country
children being brought to the seaside.'
Mrs. Matt. Sawyer, pictured in The Bul-
letin last week, was elected this year’s pre-
sident of the C.W.A., Mrs. G. T. Hindmarsh
secretary and Miss Warby treasurer. All
three work for love.
Last week the Uni., proud of its' memorial
carillon, invited the music critics on the
city newspapers to lunch, and afterwards,
with Professor Todd and Bryant Barker,
the carillonist, as cicerones, they went to
see the bells and the maze of mechanism that
tames them. The touch at the clavier has
been made as light as possible by counter-
weights ; nevertheless fists and feet have to
be used instead of fingers, and playing the
bells is an athletic business. But there is
a nice little 4-octave mechanical player,
which, actuated either through an ordinary
ivory and ebony keyboard or player rolls,
can manage runs, trills and massive chords.
The committee that arranged the opening-
recital programme was perturbed to .find
that it couldn’t represent Australia in a
collection of national airs. It had “Advance
Australia Fair” and “Australia Will Be
There” under consideration, but at last de-
cided that both were just a bit too banal.
And yet, and yet, is there one Australian,
highbrow or burglar, who doesn’t feel his
spine ripple and his shoulders square when
the band strikes into “Advance Australia
Fair!” And, if that is quite out of the
ciuestion, merit might be found in the South
Australian anthem—“ There is a Land.”
Biceps prepared to a turn, a tread as swift
and light as that of Hiawatha, the bronzed
firm arm of a swimming girl flashed and
ebbed and flowed on a tide of jazz as the
State’s strivers in the Olympic tests danced
their farewell to Sydney. The ball was in
the nature of a money-raiser as well as a
good-bye and good-luck wisher to the girls
and boys who sail for Amsterdam to pluck a
few Olympic bays for Australia. Crimson,
the color of victors, was the dominant note in
the decorations, except on the table where
sprinter Jim Carlton was the guest of honor.
Here a doll dressed as Miss Amsterdam and
a runner in cerise and blue —the colors of
“Joeys,” where Jim is a student —caught the
eye and the fancy. Manager of the team
Les. Duff and his wife entertained a party.
Swimmer Bonnie Mealing emerged handsome
and forceful from a swirl of water-green
moires.
No handshaking and no presentations-
this was the feature of the Musical Associa-
tion’s party to Moiseiwitscli. The music was
good, and the speeches over the coffee and
sandwiches not so dull as many a time before.
Benno threatens to prove as popular as on
his previous visit—perhaps more so, us lie is
now one of the unmarried men.
Allan Wilkie welcomed a full house, with
Lady de Chair in the centre thereof, when he
opened his suburban experiment at the
Majestic, Newtown ; the beauty and the
chivalry of the Points mingled with the chiv-
alry and the beauty of Erskineville in the
drab barn, which was merely partially glad-
dened by the flags draped over the ledges of
the boxes and the d.c. centre. After the
show Wilkie spoke a much better speech than
is usually heard from the stage, explaining
without bitterness his reasons for making
the venture in Newtown, and took the oppor-
tunity of thanking Sydney subscribers who
had helped to provide the cash to replace
the properties and costumes lost in the Gee-
long fire. A vast improvement in both
departments suggests that the fire was
providential. But Wilkie’s best bit was his
appeal to the public to get away from the
idea that Shakspeare is educational and
appreciate him on his entertainment value.
"Pro Bono Publico” might write to the
papers about it.
The Bulletin took a section of the Hor-
dern pavilion at the Sydney Show this year
and, turning it into a gallery, filled it with
original drawings, and wondered how many
people would leave the leaping horse and the
fat lady to look on Scorfield, Leason, Hop,
Souter and the others. It hasn’t any doubts
now. In eight days the little gallery was
visited by over 70,000 people, and some of
them paid the artists the compliment of
studying every drawing. One other little
experiment was tried: the Easter Bulletin,
specially designed for sale to Show visitors,
was issued with a colored cover —probably
the first Bulletin ever sent out without the
old pink pinny. Scorfield’s colored drawing
caught the eye, of course; but scores of 40-
year readers breathed into the attendants’
ears a hope that the “old red cover’ll never
go.” The number of husbands who want the
Old Girl to continue wearing last year’s
fashions is amazing.
The jolly-looking girl in this Hall photo-
graph is
Jeanne Cooke,
who is, as far
as this Letter
knows, the
youngest can-
didate to pass
the practical
test for the
diploma of the
Royal Life-
Saving So-
ciety. Indeed,
although the
society is 35
years old in
N. S. Wales,
up till this
success only
23 candidates
had pinned the
honor on their
chests, and in
the last three
years no swim-
mer had gained the distinction. Jeanne is
15 and a daughter of the Norman' Cookes,
of Chatswood.
The St. John Ambulance Association’s
first-aid methods as applied to its own finan-
ces were a triumph. The Wentworth was
the scene of action, and the crowded house
told a tale of organising well done. The
committee was headed by Chief Justice\
Street, president of the N.S.W. centre, and
his lady, who presides over the auxiliary.
She did honor to the occasion in a rich black
frock encrusted with gold beads and vivid
with embroideries. Medicine-men Storie
Dixson, J. A. Dick, Purdy and Norrie were
present; Sister Parry, St. John’s organising
secretary, flashed pink georgettes and a
pleased smile; Mrs. Arthur Eedy, a vice-
president, was impressive in grey and silver;
Mrs. A. C. Godhard wedded skyey blues and
a cascade of crystal fringe. But Miss F. A.
Read, district superintendent of the brigade,
who has been connected with the work of St.
John since it started in Australia — she's the
real heroine of the piece. Three medals and
a Paisley shawl of many memories wrapped
the little wearer in an aura.
On Monday afternoon, at the Australia,
Acting-Premier Buttensliaw launched the
£30,000 building fund appeal for the N.S.W.
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb the
Blind. A big gold-spinner will be the Sym-
pathy Ball, whose hard-working committee
has ex-Mayoress Cecilia Walsh as president.
The enterprising director of the Queensland
Tourist Bureau sent out invitations for a
custard-apple party last week. Concentrated
sweetness in a green husk made cool-looking
mounds on the bureau’s table, and as the
delight of this tropic richness was enjoyed
by tongue and palate, Mr. Nally told how
half-bushel cases containing 10 big or 20
little apples could be bought for 2s. to 6s. at
the fruit markets, though they were priced
from 9d. to Is. Gd. apiece in the shops.
Which makes you long for the introduction
of the system that prevails at Nice, in the
Riviera, which every housekeeper goes a-
marketing every morning, not to stuffy shops,
but to the great market-place, whose flower-
and fruit-stalls are things to linger over.
In all Nice this Letter doesn’t believe you’d
find half a dozen fruit-sliops.
The girl with the steadfast eyes in tins
New Talma picture is Shirley Bavin, and
while her Pre-
mier father is
being made as
good as new by
the doctors,
and her mother
is under the
weather to
tonsilitis, she
is carrying on
by taking over
as many as
possible of
mother’s com-
mittees and
public appear-
ances. She was
one of the
girls who
helped to orga-
nise the ten-
nis tourna-
ment last
Monday at
Government
House in aid of the Ilavilali homes.
Cricketer Alan Kippax was married in
view of battalions of friends at St. Stephen’s
on Friday night. His bride was Mabel Catts,
of Chatswood, and she did him proud in
white georgette starry with rhinestones and
a Limerick-lace veil mounted on pink tulle.
Jack Gregory, whose own wedding will take
place in Launceston (Tas.) in June, stood by
liis old playmate.
A thistledown frock fashioned of ivory lace,
flushed through with pale pink tulle and chif-
fon, stirred softly about Margery Janet
Crane, of Wahroonga, as she walked the
aisle of the local St. Paul’s on her way to
matrimony and David Richard Denne, also
of Wahroonga. . The church bloomed even
as the Valley of Sharon from the spendthrift
heaping of blooms from the gardens of Mar-
gery’s girl friends, and formed a pictorial
setting for the froth of train and surf of
tulle that finished off the bridal outfit. Pic-
ture frocks and hats of sunset pinks arid
blues were worn by the two sisters of the
■ bride, who balanced off her entry with
groomsmen Wakefield and Summers. Red-
leaf. the A. W. Cranes’ Wahroonga home,
roofed the merrymaking.
White velvet berets and bouquets of scarlet
geraniums that spilled over and were caught
in the trails of scarlet velvet ribbons that fell
the length of their white lace frocks were
the striking wear of three ’maids at the
Newcastle wedding of the month. This was
a knot-tying by Bishop Crotty in the New-
castle Cathedral, the pair entangled being
Vera Harle and Alan Paton, son of General
Paton of Newcastle. The bride, very modern
in ivory velvet and silver lace, the full skirt
shorter on one side and showing a silver-lace
underskirt, was enveloped in misty swathings
of tulle and real lace.
The historic old Woolpack at Parramatta
re-lived some of its departed glories the other
night. It was chosen as the scene for the
marriage-feast of May Davis, of Parramatta,
and Dr. Clive Wentworth Thompson, D.S.O.
and M.C., of Newcastle and formerly of
Bathurst. Hoary old St. John’s at Parra-
matta had shaken off some of Time’s rime
during the passage of the wedding party up
its aisle. The bride’s dress suggested a
delicate sea-shell, its white velvets stained
with the faint pink of the georgette which
formed its lining. The train of pink-rucked
tulle was sprayed with diamentes, and a
swirl of pink tulle veil aided the glamorous
effect. Two ’maids in sea-anemone pinks
and greens followed the bride.
News comes from America that Donnee
Waldron, who visited Sydney last- year witn
her mother and was a guest of her aunt. Mrs.
Spencer Brunton, was married in New York
to Wallace Hardy Arnott, son of Colonel
and Mrs. J. M. Arnott, of Coolah. Donnee,
■whose full name means “God Given, * s
daughter of Charles Waldron, an actor who
once stirred Sydney’s emotions.
Artist-girl Bertha Sloane was among the
week’s brides. Her bridegroom was Hinton
Ward Thomas, of Cooma, a son of
Thomas. Bertha is a daughter of the x.
Sloanes, of Moorilla, Young.
The swish “afternoon charity” next month
will he the Irene Vanbrugh matinee in aid or
Havilah, the babies’ home at Waliroonga.
The committee just bristles with society
names and the helping Younger Set is headed
by Elaine de Chair. This will be the second
occasion on which Miss Vanbrugh has given
Ilavilah a helping hand; maybe the tact
that her father was a distinguished Anglican
Churchman makes her sympathetic to these
homes. The rose-sprigged dimity frocks or
the ladies in Barrie’s “Quality Street will
be worn by the Younger Set, which includes
Clarice Faitlifull Anderson and Shirley
Bavin. The Theatre Royal is promised the
prettiest decorations it has ever worn.
Sydney’s old boy Keith Kennedy has
travelled far since he unbuttoned his violin
in the Town Hall. Bast heard of lie was
playing to a packed Community Hall at
Grand Canyon, Arizona, not only on his
fiddle, but on his collection of barbaric
musical instruments, using the original native
themes. These he has collected from native
tribes all around the South Seas. And he
lias written articles of great interest both
to anthropologists and music-lovers about
them.
A cable telling of daughter Gwen’s slow
recovery from a serious illness lias sent Mrs.
Herbert Nelson once more hurrying across
the Pacific; she and Frank Coffee are now
the only two left in the Continuous Flight
competition. The cable came only four
days before the Ventura sailed, so getting
away meant a rush even for so experienced
a traveller. Fellow-travellers were theatrical
knight Tallis’s lady and daughter Biddy,
Fred Eger and his pretty bride, the Cale-
meyers (sugar-plantation couple from Hono-
lulu), and Mrs. Nelson’s namesake, the de-
portee from Samoa, whose dusky daughter
was charming and most popular.
Josephine O’Neill and sister Helen,
daughters of well-known medicine-man
Eugene O’Neill of Dunedin (M. 8.), are
back in Sydney after the pilgrimage to Eng-
lish and French specialists taken in the
interests of father’s health. The girls and
Mrs. O’Neill have put up a sign at Churchill
Chambers, 61 Market-street; “Aunt Ann’s
Aid.” As Aunt Ann they are prepared to
attend auctions, give bridge lessons, provide
emergency players, valet for busy women
and visitors, and mend for bachelors.
Josephine used to be on the Otago Dailx
Times.
Every family owning a radio set is asked
to organise a home dance and party on Satur-
day the 28th for the benefit of the Hospital
Saturday Fund. For this evening broad-
casting stations 2FC and 2BD have arranged
a continuous dance-music programme;
2BL will commence at eight o’clock with
Ann Henderson and her Happiness Girls, and
at a quarter to nine 2FC will take up the
jazz dances and carry on till midnight.
But here the churches got in first. For
weeks—maybe months —the good Irishman
of the Newtown Cong. Church, whom
2BL broadcasts every Sabbath eve, has
been giving out the old hymns and inviting
all the fireside listeners-in to keep step with
his own choir.
Old Red Page friend Francis Jackson is
once more trekking to Europe. Before he
sailed by the Osterley his own Players’ Club
gave him a good-bye sandwich in David
Jones’s private dining-room. Mr. Jackson,
who is director of the Players and president
of the Shakspeare Society, is going abroad
to study the latest phases of the Repertory
movement, to secure some of the best modern
plays for the club, and to see what there ;s
in the literary and theatrical Europe of 1928
to tell The Bulletin about.
Another success of the dancing week was
the Ivaritane dinner shuffle at the Went-
worth. New frocks were worn with a unan-
imity that spoke much for the single purpose
of the female mind. The shimmering supple-
ness of ring velvet occurred again and again,
and its charm remained undimmed and un-
staled. Mrs. McKeoch, of Roma_ (Q.), was
among its wearers. It occurred in sapphire
tones on Mrs. Ken Austin’s powder-bine
georgettes; and in black, in company with
white georgette and encrustments of rhine-
stones, it formed Mrs. Sydney Field’s attire.
In Mrs. Field’s party Marian Arn'ott glowed
pinkly to the accompaniment of congratula-
tions on her engagement. The lucky man is
Frank Jennings. A regular Field night it was
at this jolly table, for three branches of the
clan were represented. Mrs. J. C. Leete, who
secretaried in company with Rupert Mark-
ham, glittered in flame georgettes and gold
lame; Mrs. Leslie Waterhouse, the president,
was efficient in floral ninons ; treasurer Mrs.
John Purves wedded black and white lace
with happy results.


'f-'t, s->v yj : \ s
*♦s
:irn
m
m
r '
< TA
~**xKm**if
'**’ ; I
|£ MiU
A HOLIDAY IN
CEYLON.
EYLON offers unique facilities and oppor-
V-' tunities for holiday making. The scenery is
everywhere interesting and beautiful, and the well-
made roads ensure comfortable motoring, while the
hotels and rest houses are of a high standard. The
jungles are full of big game and shooting expedi-
tions can be arranged. Golf, tennis and fishing can
be had in abundance.
And, the cost of such a holiday is exceptionally
reasonable both as regards the fare and expenses
while there. The Orient Line Excursion Return
Fare from Sydney is only £65, First Saloon.
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET- - SYDNEY
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be* over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
Amusements.
P M P I R E THEATRE.
*“ SAUNDERS’ CORNER, RAILWAY SQUARE.
Nightly at 8. MatinCes Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices.
I) N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL : THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION. THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
* * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivdi Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEDIHTY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
** The greatest motion picture programme in the
History of the Screen.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
THE CIRCUS.
ALSO
METROPOLIS,
A U.F.A. Production.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
■ C. WILLIAMSO N, LTD.
v»- MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE YEOMEN OF THE GUARD,
APRIL 26 and 27.
THE GONDOLIERS,
APRIL 28.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE GIRL FRIEND.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MARGARET BANNERMAN CO. in
OUR BETTERS.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
Amusements.
A THEN /E U M TIIEAT II E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
PERCY HUTCHISON
and his English Comedy Co. in a Sparkling Three-act
French Comedy,
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
HO Y T’S D E LU X iii
MELBOURNE.
THEATRE,
THE GOLDEN BUTTERFLY,
With LILI DAMITA and JACK TREVOR,
AND
SALLY O’NEILL in
THE LOVELORN.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JACK HOLT and DOROTHY REVIER
In the Master Picture
THE WARNING.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN.
Sydney Rep.: J. V, de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
’Phone: MA1277.
Public Notice.
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
INTERIM DIVIDEND.
An Interim Dividend of 7/- per share, being at
the rate of 14 p.c. per annum, has been declared
and will be payable at the Melbourne Office of the
Company, 461-71 Bourke Street, on and after 17th
May.
The Transfer Books will be closed from 30th
April to 14th May, both days inclusive.
H. N. GIBLIN ) T • f ivr
R. H. MOSS f Jolnt Mana gers.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
(Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to
Toowoomba for the show and stayed with
the Lloyds at Harrow. Alice and Dorothy
Hawthorn and Major Wolff were in the
party. Another event of the week was a
dinner to which Colonel Donald Cameron,
Dean and Mrs. de Witt Batty and Mrs. Ross-
Munro were bidden.
St. Luke’s, T’woomba, saw the wedding of
•T. G. Grant, who hails from Inverness, Scot-
land, to Hilda Palmer, who wore sequined
ivory mariette over satin. Her veil was an
heirloom of Honiton lace and she carried a
bouquet of cream and pink dahlias and tuber-
oses. The bridesmaids were Edna Palmer
and Miss E. Drumbroski, in delphinium
blue with posies of autumn-toned dahlias.
“Sweetie” Robertson, whose time has
been fully taken up with farewell parties for
some time, was married to C. H. S. Lang, of
Gunnedah, N.S.W., in the Ann-street kirk.
Rose-pink ring velvet clothed the bride, whose
veil was of ivory bridal tulle. Elsie Ware-
ham, of Sydney, Dorothy Lang, Susie Bon-
ham and Leslie Robertson ’maided in rose-
pink taffetas with caps of rose-pink tulle.
Roses, pink tulle and silver dressed Rowe’s
for the breakfast.
There have been two golden weddings to
testify to the preservative qualities of our
climate. The James Yeos had theirs at
Hemnant, when 200 guests dined with them,
and a wallet of notes was handed to the
hearty old couple. The Caf© Majestic was
decorated with yellow dahlias and red roses
and there was a three-tier wedding cake made
by their grand-daughter Mabel Stendup, when
the Fred Hileys of Kangaroo Point celebrated
their marriage jubilee. They have not changed
their abode throughout their married life.
An American woman journalist, Martha
Rutledge Allen, has been with us. She likes
Australia and considers her fellow-country-
men don’t know as much as they ought to
about our continent. The purpose of her
tour is to raise the veil. Mrs. Forrest enter-
tained the visitor at lunch, and afterwards
v/ith a party introduced her to the view from
One Tree Hill.
TASMANIA.
m, , Hobart.
Ihe rock cabin on Mt. Wellington opened
its career in glorious weather, and over 400
people clambered to the summit, where
Mayor Wignall gave the building his bene-
diction. The sturdy little stone hut is built
on the site where Lady Franklin set up a
shelter-shed 85 years ago. Some of the hardy
climbers who got to the top were over 70
and recognised every stick and stone on the
track. The Wignalls provided tea and cakes
for all. Brandon Cremer and Molly Gray,
who are engaged on the “Tasmania at Work
and Play” film, were there on business bent,
and the scene will figure on the screen.
Joyce Brownell, daughter of the Spencer
Brownells of Sandy Bay, plunged into mat-
rimony with Paul McCutcheon, of Mel-
bourne, at New Town Methodist Church. Her
frock of white romaine was in modified medi-
aeval style richly worked with pearl embroi-
dery, pearls also outlining the hem and neck-
line. The train of brocaded silver tissue was
lined with white tulle, and the lace veil hung
from a half-cirle of orange blossom and buds.
The ’maids, Enid Brownell, Frances McCut-
cheon and Marjorie Hodgman, made a pretty
trio in pale apricot georgette frocks over the
same shade of taffeta, with short gold-lace
capes. Bands of gold tissue with tiny posies
of hand-made flowers low over one ear formed
their head-dresses.
Our Royal Society members turned out
in force the other night and rallied round
Leonard Rod-
way, -who has
been a mem-
ber for 44
years, a mem-
ber of the
council for 17
years and sen-
ior vice-presi-
dent for seven
years. He’s
one of our
leading botan-
is t s in his
spare time,
and his works
include “The
Tasmanian
Flora,” a hand-
book of the
Speck’s wild-
flow T ers, and
many papers
published i n
the society's
transactions. When Edward Braddon was
Premier he appointed Mr. Rodway honor-
ary Government botanist. The society recog-
nised these services and a tremendous amount
of work done for the parks and gardens of
the city by making this energetic plant-lover
the first recipient of the society’s medal.
George Rex handed out a C.M.G. 11 years
ago.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
At the races the dressing suggested indis-
criminate recourse to end-of-the-summer sales
and first autumn showings. But the Clerk
of the Weather was to blame for that. The
peculiar brand of autumn being supplied
to us involves freezing at morning and night
and broiling at noon, unless you take a change
of clothing in your handbag. A recent bride,
topping a g rey jumper suit with a small
grey hat, was one of the smartest figures on
the lawn, and just arrived from England was
a wide-brimmed hat shadowing a frock of
bois-de-rose lace.
Hinkler got two of his warmest welcomes
from ex-soldiers and at the Children’s Hos-
pital, and dropped most happily into his
stride when he talked to Commonwealth,
Rotary and Legacy Club members of his
scheme for linking Australia and England by
a 14 days’ air service, and travelling at
night to leave passengers free for business
and sight-seeing by day. At the Town Hall
reception his audience was chiefly women,
the most observed of them his wife, with a
great sheaf of gladioli flaming against her
w’hite cloth coat and skirt. She wore a
wide-brimmed black felt hat.
The week has given us two weddings—at
St. Andrew’s, Walkerville, where Laura All-
nut, attended by her sister Grace, married
Dr. Berkeley Muecke, and at St. Peter’s
College Chapel, where Kathleen, daughter
of the W. J. Sinclairs, of Hackney, took as
husband Capt. C. M, Thomas, of the Staff
Corps, younger son of the W. A. Thomases,
of Hamilton.
Naturally the news of Captain Wilkins's
remarkable polar flight has created much joy
in this city. We of this State now feel our-
selves upsides with Bananaland, whose air
hero, Hinkler, we have just been entertain-
ing. Undoubtedly the exploit of the South
Australian is of the first importance. Even
crusty old Amundsen, who seems to have
quarrelled with everyone he ever met, has
not forborne to cheer. “No flight has ever
been made anywhere at any time which com-
pares with Wilkins’s achievement,” was his
comment.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The thoughtful-looking maiden with tin
shingle is Violet
Luyer, daugh-
ter of the Wal-
ter Luyer
couple of
Clare m.o n t.
The clever
lass graduated
at Perth Uni.
before she was
20, and has
recently been
appointed to
the teaching
staff of a lead-
ing seminary
for girls in
her own dis-
trict. Lafay-
ette made the
portrait a few
weeks ago
wlii 1 e Miss
Luyer was on
a holiday visit
to Melbourne.
The first big dance of the season was the
Polo Ball, which squeezed 400 couples into
the Y.A.L. Hall. Lady Campion wore royal
blue chenille georgette, and Mrs. David
Goyder, who shared the vice-regal corner,
was in black studded with rhinestones. Mrs.
Sam Grimwood chose black georgette beaded
in silver and pink; Mrs. Langlois Lefroy
sported a marvellous robe of fish-scale scin-
tillations in gold; Mrs. Barr Goyder wore
black; Mrs. Roy Forrest, white, the skirt
all fluffy feathers; Mrs. A. J. Herman was
in blue net flounces; Mrs. Albany Pad-
bury’s raiment gave the effect of glittering
gold, and her sister, Mrs. Roberts, sparkled
in white heavily encrusted with silver and
crystal. Mrs. Ednie Brown wore pearls
with deep champagne satin, the skirt at the
back swishing her ankles; Betty de Bernales
was handsome in gleaming gold sequins ;
Mrs. Hereford-Jones’s frock boasted a
bodice of pink-beaded georgette and a skirt
of draped black velvet, and her pretty sister,
Nora Lovell, had a dipping hemline at the
back of her peacock satin gown. Mrs. Olden
chose sunset sprinkled with silver; Mrs. Reg.
Summerhayes, rainbow cross-stripes on pas-
tel-tinted taffetas.
A gymkhana with girls competing wound
up our polo week. There were races of all
sorts, musical chairs and a comic event in
which men did up girls’ faces with rouge
and lip-stick. Connie Murray won the more
important prizes, and Jean Grant, Sheila
Hayes, _ Ghita Locke, Peggy Sundercombe
and Miss Hamersley were also successful.
Mrs. David Goyder, in crimson and primrose
polka dots on black satin-de-soie, presented
the spoil to the victors. Amongst the on-
lookers were Mrs. Waldie Forbes, in almond-
green crepe and a beige felt hat; Mrs. Sam
Grimwood, wearing rose taupe and a scarlet
hat; Kathleen Piesse, in plum-toned mari-
ette and saxe-blue millinery; Mrs. Charlie
Murray, in battleship-grey touched with
jade ; Mrs. Ambrose, in sulphur ; and Mrs. P.
Wheatley, in red, patterned with black check
stripes.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
We ve had a nursery rhyme and fairy-tale
ball, which was most successful. Beauty
and the Beast, Little Boy Blue, Miss Muffet
and other characters dear to the heart of
childhood danced and frolicked gaily.
Mrs. T. G. Worgan, who has been secre-
tary of the Victoria League since its incep-
tion in 1915, has been in hospital with a
poisoned foot for some weeks. It was found
necessary to amputate her leg below the
knee, but she is now recovering health.
A. E. Coutanche, manager of the Com-
mercial Bank, who has departed for the
Orient on holiday leave, was given a fare-
well party, which began with a dinner and
continued without intermission till the boat
left the jetty at half-past eight next
morning.
Bob Stott, Commissioner of Police for
Centralia and Chief Protector of Aborigines,
who by the time this gets into print will be
on final long leave, is our leading authority
on tribal law and aboriginal customs. He
joined the South Australian police force in
1882 and has spent most of his time since
in the North.
E. Gurry, for the last six years post-
master at Darwin, is to be transferred to
Port Augusta, and will leave with his fam-
ily by the June boat. His wife, a daughter
of the late Inspector Stretton, is a native
of the Territory. She will be missed, for her
energy was untiring; and there were few
social affairs in which her assistance was
not eagerly sought and willingly granted.


Nursery Rhymes revised by REX.
■ri
(l
o
&
/
4
/s
%
V
o
i
o',.
Always say REX-PYE
/
C)
\\
h
I diddle diddle
Mum, Dad, and the fiddle.
The children jump over the moon,
Why does everyone join in such wild
sport ?
’Cos mother has done as all mothers
ought—
She has bought REX-PYE—what an ex-
cellent thought—
And it’s lunch-time soon.
A little hint for housewives
—and a recipe.
If the day is hot, place a tin of REX-PYE in
the ice-chest.
Isn’t it easy? —a delicious cold lunch prepared
in a moment —REX-PYE with salad or mint
sauce.
Or try this recipe:—
REX-PYE in Mint Jelly.
One 1-lb. tin REX-PYE, 2 dessert-sp. gelatine, 2 table-sp.
chopped mint, 2 table-sp. vinegar, 1 lettuce, 2 tomatoes,
1 pint clear stock. Warm the stock and dissolve it in the
gelatine ; then add mint and vinegar. Cut the REX-PYE
into fingers one inch thick. Build up the finger-lengths
crosswise in a mould. Pour the mixture over them. Put
aside to set. Arrange some of the lettuce leaves on a dish.
Turn the jelly on to the bed of lettuce and garnish with
finely-shredded lettuce and sliced tomatoes. Receive
the congratulations of your guests.
Other REX Pure Foods—
lib and '/tlb TINS lib TINS ONLY
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
e
w
REX-PYE
In lib. and J4lb. hygienic cans.
Foggitt Jones Ltd ♦ Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon


,J\
Af ’
Yeaston
Puri Dried
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One fo four Tabfels
2/3
4/9
“OCKE TomPSiTT fcCo
7T,
Bottles of 36
Bottles of 100
All women are who take Yeaston Tablets regularly.
Yeaston Tablets are not a drug nor even a medicine. They
are a natural, health-giving food, a corrective to our modern
over-refined diet and lack of exercise. They contain only
live (active) yeast cells. Yeaston Tablets attack constipation,
indigestion, skin disorders and “ below-par ” conditions at
their very root. They are not a cure-all, but a simple means
of removing the causes of ill-health.
Accept no substitute for genuine Yeaston Tablets .
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes healtk
from within.”
e
Nature's
Corrective
Tonic Food
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's- “Rose Marie”
Royal “Rookery Nook”
Criterion “The High Road”
Palace “Whispering Wires”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) . .“A Midsummer Night’s Dream”
Regent Charlie Chaplin in “The Circus”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Gondoliers”
Royal “The Girl Friend”
King's “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Comedy “Our Betters”
AtiieNjEuai “Mr. What’s-His-Name”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Sydney will hear its latest musical instru-
ment to-day, when the carillon of 02 bells
perched on the roof of the Uni.’s clock-tower
will burst into melody under the lists of
Bryan Barker. The bells are played from
a clavier keyboard in the tower below, the
keys being represented by handles of round
polished wood, with an auxiliary row of
rubber-shod pedals for the two lower octaves.
The hammers inside the bells, varying in
weight from several pounds to a few ounces,
are nicely counterbalanced, otherwise the
carillonist would have to use a sledge-hammer
in the bass. As the player can only actuate,
at most, four notes at a time, harmonies are
limited, and most of the music is scored in
xylophonic fashion. But as an auxiliary to
the hand-and-foot clavier there is an electro-
pneumatic mechanical player which, within
the limits of the carillon’s compass of four
octaves, can cope with ten-note chords. Apart
from the clavier and mechanical player is a
separate apparatus, geared to the clock, that
will play “quarters” of an ancient chant and
sound the hours on the biggest bell. The
13 bells at the treble end of the register are
duplicated, the couples being struck in unison
to swell the volume. The bells are sweet in
tone and true in pitch. Each bears, cast in
relief upon its side, the name of its donor.
The outfit is the Uni.’s war ipemorial, and
is the last word in carillon design. There are
one or two in the Old World with a slightly
larger compass—three notes at the bass end
—but none more completely equipped.
A refurbished and artisti-
cally brightened Allan Wil-
kie company tackled “The
Merchant of Venice” at the
Newtown Majestic (Sydney)
on Saturday night. Although
the useful Gus Neville is
missing, the company has
been strengthened and, with
better support, Wilkie has
shaken off some of his stagi-
ness ; the court scene was
unusually well rendered.
Miss Hunter Watts, despite
some funereal patches, has
a lively sense of comedy and
gave quiet effectiveness to
the “quality of mercy”
speech. Lorna Forbes, a
slightly more ample Jessica
than one expects, and Dulcie
Cherry fill the other femi-
nine rbles; John Cairns ?s
an Antonio who succumbs to
depression much too early in
the piece ; Arthur Keane is a
volatile Gobbo, and Alex-
ander Marsh a sufficiently
fiery Bassanio. John Cam-
eron is a reasonably good
Lorenzo ; William Lockhart,
as the Duke of Venice, and
Milton Sands, as the Prince
of Morocco, are amongst the
more outstanding of the
others. “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream” will replace
“The Merchant” on Satur-
day.
* * * *
“La Favorita,” rarely pro-
duced, proved melodious and
dramatic at Sydney St.
James ; but Donizetti shows
some queer artistic lapses. In
the third act climax, when
Ferdinand, who has forsaken
his monastic vows for love of
the mystery lady and won
distinction as a general
against the Moors, learns
that his bride Leonora has been the mistress
of the king, he is naturally wrath; and so
is the king when Ferdinand not only spurns
the heartbroken, ashamed lady, but tears off!
the insignia of honor recently handed him by
the monarch and breaks his sword across his
knee. The tense situation is one that calls
for drums, but, figuratively speaking, Doni-
zetti has given it cymbals. None the less
the artistic Scamuzzi as the king. Rota as
Ferdinand, and Nina Algozino as Leonora
held the situation very well. Thenceforw’ard
the lady got over her lack of fervency and
went to the demise invariably demanded by
grand opera in a style that left nothing
to be desired. Rota did his best work of
the season and earned a double encore for his
singing of “Spirito Gentil.” Clad in amaz-
ing whiskers, the sonorous Fumagalli was
impressive as the monastic chief, Balthazar ;
and the chorus was in unusually good trim.
* * * *
“Lucia di Lammermoor” saw the Italian
Scots of the Gonsalez co. in good form.
Olga Poletti, otherwise commendable, was
rather short of high notes for the exalted
singing in the mad scene. Scamuzzi was an
excellent Sir Henry Ashton, with Rota
giving excellent assistance as Edgardo; his
“Appressati, Lucia” with the lady was
especially good. “Lohengrin” was staged
last night (Tuesday). The season will finish
at a special matinee on Thursday afternoon,
when Alfred O’Shea will appear as principal
tenor.
* * * *
Sheer singing beauty and an atmosphere of
holy quiet invested the Schubert Impromptu
in A flat as played by Benno Moiseiwitsch
at his concert at the Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night. It was an arresting opening,
and like every other work of the evening
sounded simple and understandable, but that is
just the artfulness of the Moisiewitsch touch
allied to the pianist’s musical insight. There
was a soft happiness about this Schubert
number that made one listener at least
think of autumn leaves drifting through
smoke-grey layers of silence over Burrago-
rang Valley. The Appassionata Sonata was
the big work of the programme, and in the
final movement poetic fury got a fine innings,
yet the tone was never blurred every detail
was clearly defined no matter what the speed,
while the Andante was a linked-out sweet-
ness. A Celtic mysticism enveloped the
Debussy La Cathedral Engloutie. The Stra-
vinsky work was a beaker of sparkling wine
that called for a refill, and the Falmgren
Lullaby suggested a shepherdess piping her
flocks of dreams. Then there was Chopin—
Chopin who always makes you draw together
whatever rags of silky manners and polished
speech the claws of time or circumstance
have left to you—False in G flat, Nocturne in
F sharp major and Ballade in A flat. Moisei-
witsch seems, above any we have heard in
Sydney, the true expression of this delicate
composer. The fireworks of the Tannhauser
Overture brought the concert to a close, but
the insistence of the encore fiends drew
Moiseiwitsch back to play the Liebestraum
JANETTE GILMORE, with the “Rio Rita” Co., open-
ing at Sydney St. James on Saturday. She is that
rarity, good comedienne and good dancer too.
and a butterfly-light Scherzo by xMendelssohn.
The third concert of the season will take
place on Thursday.
“Rio Rita” will fill the gap at Sydney
St. James Theatre on Saturday; on the same
night “Rookery Nook” takes possession of
the Royal, where “The Girl Friend,” rein-
forced by May Beatty, says adieu to-night,
and “Whispering Wires” will supersede “The
Donovan Affair” in the Muriel Starr season
at the Palace. “Rose Marie” is extending
its little hour at Her Majesty’s. Although
a revival of “The Notorious Mrs. Ebb-
smith’’ is promised by tlic Boucieault-Van-
brugh co., the date for the ending of “The
High Road” at the Criterion remains unfixed.
“Take the Air” (Empire), “Spooks” (Grand
Opera House), and Worths’ Circus pursue
the even tenor of their way.
By way of a counterbalance to Bert Errol,
the female impersonator, who is back at the
Sydney Tivoli, Florrie Le Ver-re, on the same
bill, gives male impersonations. The reve-
lation that the showy female presented by
Errol is a man comes as a surprise to the
uninitiated ; the lady’s efforts are only amus
ing imitations.
* =!-• * *
The difficulty of transferring to the screen
the piquancy of Anita Loos’s “Gentlemen
Prefer Blondes” is successfully overcome at
the Sydney Capitol. Ruth Taylor gives a vivid
expression to the part of Lorelei, although
probably the producer, Hector Turnbull, de-
serves most credit. The Lyceum has struck a
good laughter-maker in “Get Your Man,” al-
though its theme wanders overmuch into ines-
sentials ; the companion-picture, “The Lone
Eagle,” gives some thrilling glimpses of air
fighting and crashing ’planes. At Hoyts the
slight story in “The Lovelorn” is made artis-
tically interesting by the character studies
presented by the vivacious Sally O’Neil and
the reserved Molly O’Day. That fine picture
“Chang” will be farewelled at the Prince
Edward Theatre; at the usual gala night on
Saturday “The King of Kings” is to take up
the running. “Sorrell and Son” continues at
the Crystal Palace; and at the Regent
“Metropolis” displays its visions of what the
world may be some day.
“Princess Ida” made her (belated) on-
slaught on the woman’s suffrage movement
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday.
The display of martial but melodious females
in clanking armor was adequate and Walenn
was an admirable character study of a bow-
legged mediaeval tyrant who is tortured in
captivity by always being allowed to have
his own way. Leo Darnton, son to King
Hildebrand, scored top marks of the evening
in the vocal division. A wild rush of repeti-
tions will close with “The Gondoliers” on
Saturday.
* * * *
The Chcrniavskys had their deoch an’ doris
with Melbourne on Saturday at the Town
Hall. The marvellous phrasing of Jan and
Mischel were chief features of the Mendels-
sohn trio, op. 66, but Leo’s violin was not so
satisfactory a member of the party. Jan’s
pedalling, and liis poetry and fire, which
never, however, horn off his sense of rhythm,
were amply displayed in some Chopin odd-
ments. Leo, as became the showman of the
family, devilled up a clever but diabolical
solo by Tartini.
Following his principle of admitting only
one composer at a time to the ring, Edward
Goll dealt exclusively with Beethoven at
Melbourne Assembly Hall last week. His
struggle with the mighty Ludwig (op. 86,
109 and 110) gave the veteran pianist the
opportunity for a finer display of thought
and feeling than the previous Bacli contest.
The uproar kicked up on behalf of visiting
foreign virtuosi obscures the solid work of
local musicians, yet without men like Goll
such great works as op. 109 and 110 would
never be heard. They don’t fit comfortably
on a gramophone record, so there are no
royalties to be collected.
* * * *
The Discovery Theatre, a new organisa-
tion, burst into mild prominence last week in
Melbourne by staging three Australian plays.
Vance Palmer’s intentions in “The Prisoner”
were only dimly seen through a mist of
amateur acting, but Isabelle Handley’s
“Technique” was made all clear by the re-
markably neat rendering of a giddy widow
by Maisie Middleton. Miss Maisie has ap-
parently made a close study of Irene Van-
brugh, and a very good model, too. The
playwright shows distinct talent for light
comedic dialogue. In “Youth,” a masque or
miracle play by Colin Tapley, the player of
the title role, garbed by the dramatist in a
few inches of feminine dress material, sought
information on the subject of Light from
Love (Ruth Tregurtha) seated on a throne
of kerosene-cases covered in white cloth;
while Convention (Philip H. Shappere) in
a cardinal’s red hat and gown, interrupted
the debate, and Fear (Aubrey Wilton) threw
in some odd The upshot was that
Youth decided to avoid the fleshpots of this
world and follow Light, though the absence
of information as to what constituted this
last left ordinary sinners still in the dark as
to where the young man was off to.
A breath of reality is blowing over Mel-
bourne Majestic programme. Captain Lan-
caster and Mrs. Miller tell a plain, un-
varnished tale of their hop from Croydon
(Eng.) to Australia. The plucky little lady
makes no attempt to underline the thrills
and risks of the journey, but spins her Odys-
sey as if it were a trip into Collins-street
in a cable-tram. “Ladies at Ease” and “The
13th Juror” form the fiction in the bill.
Hoyt’s has temporarily run out of supplies
of mother-love and the sisterly variety is
having an innings in a tale entitled “Love-
lorn.”
At Melbourne Athenaeum Percy Hutchison
continues to strain the credulity of large
audiences by presenting himself as “Mr.
TOTI DAL MONTE, the public favorite
of the previous Melba Grand Opera
Co., is back again for the new one, open-
ing in Melbourne on May 12.
What’s-His-Name,” a hairdresser whom fash-
ionable women find irresistible. The bright
trifle is in its fourth week.
* * *
Saturday will see three curtains rise on
new shows in Melbourne. Margaret Ban-
nerman will present Maugham’s “Our Bet-
ters” at the new Comedy Theatre erected
by the Firm in Exhibition-street. Annie
Croft will be “The Girl Friend” of the mul-
titude at the Royal, Leon Gordon trans-
ferring his flag to the King’s to accommo-
date the lady. “II Trovatore” will be the
preliminary outburst of the Fuller-Gonsalez
people at the Princess. At His Majesty’s a
revival of a revival will close the G. and S.
season, prolonged by imperious public de-
mand.
*!» H* *l* •!»
Claudia Alba, the lady with the angelic
faee_ and the torso of a Roman gladiator,
continues to catch nine-inch shells on the
top joint of her vertebrae and to lift howit-
zers with her teeth at Melbourne Tivoli.
The Kelsos unfolded their Crazy Quilt
revue before a rapt audience of connoisseurs
on Monday.
The fairy queen in the Andersonian panto,
at Adelaide P. of Wales, “Mother Goose,”
differs from others of her regal class in hav-
ing to endure (a) rude back-talk from the
Dame (Bert Ray) and (b) amorous advances
from the Demon King (Darvall Thomas).
Nellie Kolle’s lazy smile and rich contralto
pervade the story, the chorus is both young
and supple and good-looking, and Bert Ray’s
ideal of making all his stage partners laugh
when they don’t want to is nearly achieved.
Kears is a stolid and reliable fun-maker,
but the Golden Goose could be much funnier
if it tried. Some slip of the blue pencil last week
•eclipsed any mention of Basil Radford’s work
in “Rookery Nook”; he is hereby given credit
for a quaint rendering of Tom Walls’s original
part, and for being much more audible than
that erratic genius. In “Thark” it is Cyril
Vernon who shares the honors and the hard
work with Hastings Lynn ; Minnie Rayner
and Helene Simon score for the opposing
sex. “Brigadier Gerard” has left West’s to
the _ splendid Commonwealth Band, but is
having a well-deserved second innings at the
Pav. Norma Talmadge, as a sort of Carmen,
and Bebe Daniels, as a professed sheik, share
honors at the York, but Wondergraph gives
them to men, the beguiling Monte Blue and
the absurd Clyde Cook.


HOJPMANN&CO*
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/- per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
a
365
m
r AAMAmS L™
352 GEORGE S T SYDNEY
.AND BRANCHES ♦
3*
r
*Jhe nicetT cf
ail Mmduiched
That’s what they say at the pic-
nic when the Anchovette
sandwiches are passed round.
There’s nothing more tempt-
ing for any light meal than this
delicious fish paste. Get a jar
from your grocer to-day.
For a change try Peck’s
Salmon and Shrimp Paste
Peck's
The
delicious
Fish Paste
w
e
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WILL HECTOR HAIR write to
ARCHIE HAIR?
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
The Bank of Adelaide,
SIXTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance-sheet of the Bank as on the 26th March, 1928, and
statements of Profit ancf Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 26th
March, 1928 (including the balance brought for-
ward from previous year, £39,827 Is. 5d.), amounts
t° . . . . • • • • • * 'tin'"
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of I 0 per
cent, per annum was paid in November last . .
£168,464 5
52,500 0
Leaving available . . . • •
From which it is proposed to pay a Divi-
dend at the rate of 1 0 per cent, per
annum ..£62,500
To transfer to Reserve Fund (making
it £970,000) 20,000
£115,964 5 3
Leaving a balance to carry forward of. .
82,500 0 0
£33,464 5 3
The 50.000 new shares, the issue of which was authorised by the Share-
holder,, on 10th June, 1927, were offered to the Shareholders at £7 P er sha T*
f£s being capital and £2 premium). The shares have all been issued and paid
for! lITaTS per ,KarL-£250, J00-K.. been added - ' «
making it £1,250,000, and the premium of £2 per share — £100,000 has be
credited to the Re.erve Fond, making it 000 It .. now propo.ed to add a
further £20,000, making the Reserve Fund £970,000.
During the year a Branch has been opened at Brisbane, Queensland, . and
Agencies'af Cungena and Yantanaby; the branches at Moorook and Truro have been
conZtedlto Agencies, and the Branch at Barmera and the Agency at Cobdogla
have been closed.
Since the General Annual Meeting in May la.t the late Sir G '»'«'®" ok 7. n ’
Holdern on 10th June, 1927, and Mr. Charles Richmond John Glover, on 21st
September, 1927, were elected to fill the respective vacancies.
On 30th August last Mr. Robert Scott Young, the superintendent, resigned his
position and retired on pension after nearly 35 years of devoted and valuable ser-
vice to the Bank. The Board wish him many years of health and happiness m his
retirement* . . -
Mr. William John Masson was appointed to succeed him, with the title o
General Manager. „ ,
The General Annual Meeting will be held in tK ® B ,° ard , R °°^ C ,
Office of the Bank, King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 2nd May, 1928,
at 12 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two
Directors in place of Arthur Graham ftymill, Esq., and Edward Wheewall Holden.
Esq., who retire by rotation, and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and
fix the remuneration of the retiring Auditors.
By Order of the Board of Director,. w j MASSON.
r.#»TiAral Manaorpr
BALANCE SHEET, 26th March, 1928.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 950,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 115,964 5 3
£2,315,964 5 3
Notes in Circulation .. . • 6,755 0 0
Bills in Circulation and other
Liatfilities .. . • • • 180,710 6 1
Balances due to other Banks . . 464,413 311
Deposits .. .. • • 6,084,128 11 , 1
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted 82,835 6 7
Contingent
of Letters
£9,134,806 12 11
Liabilities, consisting
of Credit, etc. .. 345.884 5 11
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion
and Cash Bal-
ances . . . . £271,889 13 10
Australian Notes
and Cash with
Commonwea Ith
Bank . . . . 945,404 10 0
Government Se-
curities .. 712,909 11 3
Municipal Deben-
tures .. .. 3,800 0 0
Money at short
call and Imperial
Govt. Treasury
Bills . . . . 197,500 0 0
Balances due from
other Banks . . 296,958 6 6
Notes of other
Banks . . . . 2,593 10 0
Remittances in
Transitu .. 700,491 5 4
Bank Premises and Furniture . .
Bills Receivable and all other Ad-
vances
£3,131,546 16 11
347,509 10 8
, 5,655,750 5 4
£9,134,806 12 11
Liabilities of Customers on Letters
of Credit, etc., as per Contra 345,884 5 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
YEAR FROM 28th MARCH. 1927, to 26th MARCH, 1928.
To Dividend in
1927
Dividend in
vember, 1927
Balance
May,
. . £46,041 13 4
No-
.. 62,600 0 0
£98,641 13 4
.. .. .. 115,964 5 3
£214,506 18 7
By Balance, 28th March, 1927 . . £85,868 14 9
Net profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Inter-
est accrued on Fixed Deposits,
and Rebate on Bills Discounted,
and deducting Expenses at
Head Office and 60 Branches,
including Salaries, Rents, Taxes,
etc. 128,637 3 10
£214,505 18 7
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date
. . £950,000 0 0
£950,000 0 0
By balance, 28th March, 1927 .. £850,000 0 0
Premium on New Issue Shares.. 100,000 0 0
£950,000 0 0
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
O. L. ISAACHSEN, Accountant.
HOWARD W. LLOYD 1
E. W. HOLDEN
CHARLES R. J. GLOVER J
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of
the Bank of Adelaide for the Year ending 26th March, 1928, and certify that it is
a correct abstract of the same. We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills
and Government and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head Office—the Assets
and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates
of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A. I .
G. R. ANNELLS, F.C.P.A. f Auduors.
*105A123.
Adelaide, 13th April. 1928.
Macmillan s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Short Stories
of Thomas Hardy
Complete in one volume. Con-
taining about 1 100 pages. With
end-paper map of Wessex. 7s.
6d. net.
Rudyard Kipling
A Book of Words.
Selections from Speeches and
Addresses delivered between 190 b
and 1927. By Rudyard Kipling.
Uniform edition. 7s. 6d. net.
Pocket edition. Cloth, 6s. net.
Leather, 7s* 6d. net.
[Also Dominions Edition.]
HUGH WALPOLE’S
NEW NOVEL
WINTERSMOON
Passages in the Lives of Two
Sisters, Janet and Rosalind Grandi-
son.
[Dominions Edition]
Theistic Monism
An Answer to the Question “Is
There God?” reached by deter-
mining the Relation of Mind to
Body. By Joseph Evans, M.A.
1 2s. 6d. net.
To bo Obtained from all
Bookseliers.
MACMILLAN & CO.LTD.
& LONDON. W.C.2.
To
be
of the
sure
look
nal
or
th
for
name
WEED
every
on
hook
ALMOST impassable
l roads are made nav-
igable for the truck or
bus equipped with WEED
TYRE CHAINS.
Weed Chains grip and
hold —they furnish the
traction necessary to take
one steadily through soft,
miry mud, sand or clay.
No truck or bus should
ever be without Weed
Chains. Keep them ready
for immediate use when
road conditions warrant.
Order fromyourdealer.
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1507
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


"STANLEY” VACUUM
BOTTLE.
“It wUI not break.”
The “Stanley” unbreakable vacuum
bottle fills the long-felt want, with
motorists, travellers and station
folk who have been brought almost
to despair with the constant break-
age expenses of the ordinary type.
The “Stanley” Flask is made of
steel and contains no breakable
parts.
50|-
Quart Size
With leather
57/6
Two quart size,
With leather
75/-
cover,
65/-
cover,
O' J 9
IKE BROTHERS,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also at Toowoomba and Townsville.
TARE A PARTNER.
If you were offered a partner who, while providing
guarantees of his stability, would devote himself to safeguard-
ing your money, make it earn profit, and demand nothing
from you in return, wouldn’t you accept?
Of course you would, and—
you ARE offered such a partner.
A Savings Account will do all this for you, and yet
allow you full control of the business.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account to-day.
Coißonwealtb lank of Hnslralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.'
LADIES
OR
CENTS
9
a
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
set) measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83951
THE STAIN.
BY
A. SMITH.
THE high house rose from a velvety lawn,
and trees afire with burning red stood
where the clipped grass sloped to the
winding road. An air of stateliness clung
about the quiet place.
Away from the curving road rippled
wooded hills; where they dipped you saw
the purple of the distant sea and the white
line of the reef. Above glowed an afternoon
sky with incredibly beautiful opal-tinted
clouds drifting across it. To Crawshaw,,
who had landed for the first time in Suva
with the day’s tender dawning, and was now
riding leisurely along this unfamiliar road,
it seemed that a peculiar quality of glamor
pervaded the afternoon. He thought again
of Mrs. Strake, that alluring, strangely
lovely woman who, like himself, had dis-
embarked that morning in Suva. He won-
dered whether they would meet again ; the
sudden thought of her had been compelling.
That indefinable quality of glamor—or was
it romance? —had seemed to invest her, too;
it quickened the imagination.
“And I suppose this place,” he said to
himself, drawing rein, “belongs to some cor-
pulent old copra-king sitting back on shekels
made out of the sweat of coolies.”
He laughed aloud, and his laugh was unex-
pectedly echoed. What he had at first taken
absently to be a Fijian seated in a patch
of light-dappled shadow, his face to the dis-
tant sea, turned and rose to the height of a
tall, dark-skinned, splendidly-built man
wearing a black sulu.
In a moment they found themselves talk-
ing together, and Crawshaw repeated the
thought which had produced the laugh.
“Your conjecture,” said the man in the
sulu agreeably, “is not altogether correct.
But, since you appear interested, you may
care to listen to a romance connected with
the place.”
Crawshaw, who is a man of a certain re-
serve, does not to this hour know what im-
pulse possessed him. But he dismounted
and was presently seated in a room
appointed with a studied luxury.
It was evident that his unexpected host
was somewhat of a connoisseur as well as a
man of affluence. Pictures of a notable
quality enhanced the beauty of the room,
and the windows seemed designed to frame
chosen vistas of sea and sky and rolling-
hills. But the room’s keynote was an ex-
quisite statue of a dancer. She stood in a
small austere alcove so planned that she
seemed to gather all the light about her.
She had for Crawshaw a vague sense of
familiarity that tantalised him.
He caught the unhappy gaze of the dark-
man upon him. “A consummate piece of
workmanship,” Crawshaw said, annoyed at
allowing his curiosity to master him.
“You are right; but not more beautiful
than the woman herself who posed for it.
She was my wife.”
“Your wife!”
“My wife. You are naturally astonished.
You say to yourself, ‘What could such an
exquisite creature find in common with a
half-caste?’ Oh! I am not insulted” —his
uplifted hand checked Crawsliaw’s protest.
“I should, in your place, have the same
thought. But sit down. This romance I
spoke of is a long one. What will you
drink?....
“I met her in Paris. That figure had just
been completed. We met at the sculptor’s
studio, and I remember thinking at the
time that it was strange such a little rat-
face could mould such beauty. Ir Avas
strange, too, and not pleasant, to see Valerie
wreathe her white arms round his lean neck
and kiss lightly his twisted lips with her
own that were so smooth and red. There
was a black-haired girl who lived with him.
I remember her sudden flaring anger and
how Valerie laughed and coaxed the girl to
laugh, too. Valerie found it easy to charm
when she wished. But with all her charm
and her coaxing kisses she couldn’t wheedle
the thing away from its creator. His ugly,
clever, tobacco-stained fingers touched it as
caressingly as if it were the actual warm
flesh of a beloved woman. Valerie wanted
it —and I bought it and remember giving it
to Valerie with some inane remark to the
effect that beauty should not be parted from
beauty. I had curious illusions in those
days.
“You wonder how I persuaded her to
abandon the world she knew and come with
me to this quiet place. I think in those
first days my passion touched her pity, and
with it her curiosity. And it is good to
have wealth—women of her nature spend
money recklessly when they have it, and
are aggrieved when they discover it has
melted. And, I am sure, of all the men who
desired her, I alone thought of her as an
earthly goddess. I imagine that amused
her. It amuses me now.
“You have to see me, too, as she saw me.
Europe, the old and sophisticated, was to me
bewilderingly new. The Islands and all they
stand for lay behind me. But their stain
was in my blood, and often on those nights
in Paris I would dream and see as clearly as
ever I saw it the old white house on the
plantation where I was born. I would hear
the surge of the waves on the reef and that
sound of wind in the palm-leaves that is
more like the sound of drifting rain than
anything else. In my dreams I Avould almost
always be standing on the beach, and there
would often be Fijian girls fishing out be-
yond me in the shallows. Sometimes among
them I would sec the grey head of my old
mother, and she would turn and look at me
with an unbearable sorrow in her dark eyes.
And then the fishing women would be gone
and Valerie would come gliding across
the smooth surface and the surging of
waves would change to the applause her
audiences gave her. Right up to the shore
she would come, and, as I turned to watch,
I would see a blackened space of earth for
her to dance on where the old white house
had stood. Always the dream ended like
that. It began seriously to annoy me.
MATRIMONIAL BONDS.
“I hear she married money. What’s her husband’s name?”
“Five thousand a year.”
“My childhood had not been conducive to
an ordinary outlook on life. There were my
father and mother- —he a cultured man, com-
pact of enthusiasms and eccentricities; she
a strong-willed, passionate, superstitious
native woman. God knows what flung them
together, but together they remained till the
end. My father prospered, and it was he
who conceived the damnable idea of sending
me to Europe to veneer myself with culture.
I understand now my mother’s brooding
angers and her resentments of his plans for
me, his only son. Primitive women, I im-
agine, have deep-rooted instincts. I think
she knew that for me the simple plantation
life in the island of my birth would be the
best.
"There was a pretty girl there, dark as
I am, who loved me. I should have married
her and we would have lived simply and
happily together and watched our children
grow around us. That was before \ alerie
made every other woman in the world seem
less than nothing. But my mother, who de-
sired that marriage, did not know that in me
there had always been, side by side with my
acceptance of it, a hatred of the dark strain
in my blood. Even when Lucias soft
glances thrilled my boy’s vanity there was
within me a passionate desire to yield no
whit of my white heritage. If I thought
of marriage I imagined the partner of it to
be of a dazzling fairness; I pictured sapphire
eyes and hair radiant in the light. Lucia’s
was black as night and without lustre; her
dark eyes were placid and very kind.”
For a moment a silence fell; but Craw-
shaw, though unwillingly held, did not move.
It appeared to him that the dark man had
a desire to make the woman and himself
live in his urgent words. His voice, which
had a peculiar intonation, grated at first on
the ear; then, by some mastery of will, it be-
came compelling and magnetic. Crawshaw
felt it was as if a master of music compelled
an inadequate instrument to interpret his
passion and his power.
The dark man began again to speak.
“You, perhaps, who only pass through
Suva, see it as an ordinary tropic town.
But to me in those first two years of our
marriage it was Paradise. This house I
built for her, and as it took shape I prided
myself that it would be a fit setting for her
loveliness. It is good to have wealth when
the woman graces it. I have seen the
wives of kings of commerce with flawless
jewels mocking their withered necks, and
sumptuous gowns hanging shapeless from
ungainly bodies. But Valerie was dazzling
white, and in gorgeous colors she shone like
some woman out of a tale conceived jn a
time when women were like earthly
goddesses. In black, with only her fair-
ness to contrast, she was like a pearl
tinged with rose. I think, too, for a while
this house among its sighing trees satisfied
her and induced her to a languorous content.
“We saw few people. She had little in
common with women at any time, and I
thought of her and no one else in the world
at all. But I know the Islands fascinated
her at first —the color and the light. She
seemed to take a golden radiance at the
heart of so much brightness. She was a
woman exquisitely sensitive to beauty ;
though I think in her pulsed little racial
pride, or she would have drawn back re-
pelled by the blending in my blood. You
see how calmly I am able to discuss it. Yet
I know now that this veneer of poise and
culture does no more than cover the savage
in me. Perhaps it does in all men ; perhaps
no man knows what he will do when the
stark things of life grip him by the throat.
Even you, my chance-brought listener, may
mask a man unknown even to yourself.
“Estates in the outer islands gave me an
income not to be despised. And before his
death my father inherited yet more wealth
which, in its turn, came to me. Did not
one of the more cynical ancients remark on
the liberality of the gods to those who make
for them diversion: But 1, like a fool,
thought I had all that made life worth living.
I wanted children, too—sons and daughters,
fair as their mother, to inherit the fruitful
estate. I tell you I saw my line begin like
an island dynasty. I have one child....but
we shall not dwell on that subject.
“It was after the first year that Valeri*'
.began to grow dissatisfied. You cannot wor-
ship a woman and be unaware of even her
whims. But because our child was soon to
be. born I thought, as any man might, that
its coming would alter all her petulances
and moods of unrest. But Valerie did not
desire a child, and when ours was born, she
appalled me by the cold distaste her eye"
showed for it. I thought till then that Ml
women loved children; I had pictured Valerie
all sweetness, her fair head bent as she
crooned lullabies. I can see the humor of
that simplicity of mine now. I judge, too,
that my illusions began to die then, though
still she was to me the most lovely and de-
sirable of women. And sometimes I had the
hope that as she grew strong again she
Would turn to the child that was flesh of
her flesh. But she never did, and when we
realised the child was a def’nont her coldness
turned to aversion. She would not have it
near her—an old dark woman became its
constant attendant. For me the clouded
mind of the child I had sc looked forward to
—the child who was to be part of the achieve-
ment of my life —was tragedy.
“I do not know how first the passionate
affair began between her and Barry Marne.
He was a painter drunk with the beauty of
these South Seas and the islands glowing in
them. He was a man of rather striking
appearance; he did what pleased him
whether it was customary or not. Women
invariably adored him; and while he was
by no means indifferent to them, none of
them, I imagine, had ever mattered very
much to him. Painting was the only serious
thing in his life. At some time in the
course of his wanderings through the group
he had become possessed of a dilapidated
two-masted affair that had gone cheap. Once
it might have been styled a yacht, and though
its first glory had departed it still served
Marne very well. He had got hold of a half-
caste with a captain’s ticket and two or
three muscular natives, and in it he had
cruised up among the lonelier islands. Up
into the Lau seas he went—he got great
sunrises there for his avid canvases—and
down where Ono edges the group and along
the dreaming shores of Taveuni. He had
himself pulled ashore in lonely islets from
whose peaked crags he watched the moon
flood the world with silver, while far beIOAV
his disconsolate captain sent the mournful
plaint of a ukulele over the waters. The
colors of the Islands had burned into him :
in his work you saw the living soul of those
lonely and lovely islands flowering in the
rolling blue lawns of the Pacific. He was
for Samoa next —someone had told him that
in Samoa was a beauty softer and yet, for all
that alluring softness, more sinister than
that of Fiji. It fired his imagination.
“He was often here in the days that fol-
lowed his return from the outer isles; here
in this very room the three of us met often
—and I, the third, was blind. But I was
glad to see Valerie brightening again—a
glow as of happiness seemed to light all
her delicate body. I have never seen a
woman whom moods moulded so absolutely;
she became for a time the incarnation of
whatever emotion possessed her. It was that
quality in her, together with her beauty, that
had made of her dancing the very poetry of
motion.
“I think it was on the night he was to
sail to Samoa —the night she fled with him—
that the first misgiving broke upon my mind.
It was a night made for lovers. Moonlight
bathed the world, and in the garden the trees
seemed to stand delicately in an almost
imperceptible radiance. Their boughs
drooped with an incomparable grace; and
through the still foliage the starred dusk--
blue of the sky accentuated the dark pattern-
ing of leaves. Pools of moonlight flowed one
into a myriad others through the shadows
cast fantastically on the grass.
“Idly we sat here, the moonlight flooding
the room and no other light at all. The
woman in marble seemed to take life in it;
and the living woman sighed softly, and I
saw her eyes, dark in the moonlight, turn to
Barry Marne’s bewitched ones and hold them ,
a long moment. While that revealing gaze
held, they were unconscious of any but them-
selves. And then Barry Marne got up
abruptly and went without a word to either
(Continued on page 53.)


w
IN this Willys-Knight 2-ton truck
are incorporated the best known
principles of truck design insuring
speed, power, dependable perform-
ance, rigid economy, fine appearance
and long life.
The patented six-cylinder double-sleeve
Willys-Knight engine supplies abun-
dant power, with no valve-grinding,
and unusual freedom from carbon nui-
sance and periodic mechanical troubles.
The extra deep, low-hung frame—
the strong metal-spoke wheels
the sturdy bevel-drive rear-axle —
chrome-vanadium steel springs—two
stage progressive type rear springs—
Hotchkiss drive—smooth, sure-acting
clutch—are a few of the time-proven
features that are combined to produce
this completely modern truck.
It will pay you to see this truck and
try its service in your own business,
as it will in all probability help in-
crease your daily profits. Willys-Knight
trucks of similar design are also avail-
able in 1, IV2 and 2V2-ton capacities.
WILLYS'KNIGHT
Six-Cylinder
MOTOR TRUCKS
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-126 Russell Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER AND SON, LTD., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.). LTD., 62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
LONG ECONOMICAL LIFE
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
m
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
One of the reasons for the success of the “Suntyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface, covered to a uniform
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes—from 17 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Distributors for Queensland,: H. V. McKay (Queensland),
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. King & Murray Sts.. PERTH.
Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


BY APPOINTMENT
Mappin&W£bb
A LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being one
of the oldest Firms of Gold and Silversmiths,
Jewellers, etc., in the world, and they extend a
cordial invitation to Visitors from the Common-
wealth to call at their Showrooms when in London.
The West End showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the Leading Hotels; the City showrooms
are opposite the Mansion House, and quite near the
Guildhall, St. Paul’s Cathedral, and the Tower of
London.
1
iiL-U-'
mm
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of Tea and
Coffee Services in Prince’s Plate and Sterling Silver,
at prices to suit all purses and styles to suit any
period of decoration.
Mappin &Wehb
A A LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St., W. 1., 172 Recent St., W. 1., 2 Queen Victoria St„ E.C.4.
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
mm
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined flap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-chafing grip; and the pads being set well
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest security
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhip?
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
WHIPS
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/6 extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER § STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
of us into the moonlight. And Valerie looked
up at me with such clear eyes that I cursed
myself for that moment’s doubt.
“She fled with him that midnight. She
was like Marne in that way: she did what
she wished and cared nothing for the world’s
opinion. God damn her, the beautiful
wanton!”
The dark man’s voice rose suddenly in a
frenzy of anger ; he quivered with intensity of
emotion. He mastered the vehemence and
smiled wryly.
“You perceive,” he remarked more quietly,
“the savage under the veneer. But let me
go on—let me go on.
“I did not follow them. But I cursed her
for her smiling deceit. And I cursed the
white blood in me and the aspirations and
strivings that were its heritage. I swore
to myself that I would forget all and go
back to the ways of my mother’s people, to
whom at least clung no damned artifice and
pretence. I drew back from white men and
women. I laughed at the polite lies and
the hypocrisy of their world. And while I
laughed I knew that in my marred soul I
was envious of them.... But I resolved
to go back to the old white homestead on the
plantation where I was born. I shut this
ill-omened house I had built in my foolish-
ness, and when the high hills behind my old
home loomed up in a transparent dawn I
felt that I had done wisely. To go back
to my own kind was like sinking without
effort into an easy, laughing life that asked
no impossible standards and craved little
beyond the everyday needs of existence.
And there was Lucia still pretty and un-
married, though she was twenty-five now.
And she still loved me—she had remained
faithful to that long-past boy-and-girl attach-
ment of ours with a fidelity rare in half-caste
girls.
“But while I played with that idea and
Lucia’s eyes promised me all I might ask
of her, I knew that the image of Valerie
would remain always. She had spoiled
every other woman in the world for me.
“I stayed long on the plantation. And
then, a month ago, I came back to be finally
rid of this house of memories and to return
for ever to that simpler life and Lucia who
waited.”
He paused, as if to shape his words. Then
he resumed in a firmer tone.
“To-day has changed everything. This
morning Valerie came back!”
Crawshaw sorted —an incredible idea was
filling his minu.
“God knows what brought her. Perhaps
she tired of Marne, or he of her. Or perhaps
he had tired of giving way to her moods—
I do not know. I only know she came back
She stood hesitant in the doorway and
stretched out arms to me in. an attitude
that was, as were all her movements, grace
itself. She said nothing, only her smile
was wistful, and by some guile her sapphire
eyes-were misted with tears.
• “I, garbed as she had never seen me, like
any native, and with the bitter lines she
had put upon my face—to her I must have
seemed a savage. Yet she saw the soften-
ing in these bitter eyes of mine and began
to move slowly towards me.
“Then, like a surge of madness, all that
was wrecked between us rose and mastered
me. I was the savage with the lust to
kill: civilisation had never been, and she
was caught and helpless in my hands.
“ ‘I shall forgive you—when I have killed
you,’”. I said; “and her sapphire eyes,
darkening now, met mine with horror in
their depths—a horror that was half im-
potent anger. Idols and women, they are
like that —they are not prepared for their
worshippers to turn and rend them. She
is not beautiful now at all, for that look of
anger that convulsed her has remained on
her dead face—and her throat is marked
where my hands crushed it.”
Crawshaw was upon his feet. “Good God,
man! Do you know what you’re saying?
Are you mad? Who are you?”
u The man in the sulu answered him wearily.
“I am as sane as you. And my name—
it will be common gossip soon enough—
is Huntley Strake.”
To-morrow.
THIS will only be a short story. It’s got
to be, because this is Sunday night
and to-morrow they are going to hang
me. So there isn’t much time. I’ve always
been trying to write and never did any good.
But after I’m dead I’ll get this printed.
The papers will print anything about a man
that’s been hung.
They say I’m a bad lot. That’s not true.
I was only bad when I had to be —when
there was no other way, I mean. Oh yes,
I been a criminal and done time —whips of
it. But I never did this murder. Only I
happened to come along and pick up the
money. And then I had a gun. That’s
what done it.
It was to get away from the mob and live
straight that made me clear out of New
South Wales. I kept on going till I struck
that island. You’d have thought a man
would be safe there. All peaceful it was—
blue skies, blue water and palm-trees. And
natives who just kept on smiling.
I had a first-rate camp and a garden. I
grew cabbages—the finest ever I’ve seen.
But I never done much with spuds. I expect
my tomatoes are ripe by now. The niggers
will get them, and good luck to them.
Adams was the last man in the world I’d
have murdered. Among all the whites he
was the only one who ever spoke to me—
quite cobbers we were. And I didn’t want
money. In that place I had everything I
wanted. I was the happiest man on earth.
Adams was the manager of the biggest
sugar-plantation on the island. He used
to pass my place every week on his way in
and out of the town. I knew he carried the
money once a month. Always he used to
stop the car going or coming and get out and
have a yarn with me. He reckoned I lived
what he called an ideal existence.
Sometimes he used to bring his assistant.
He was one of those snobs; an Australian
who liked to get himself up to look like a
Johnnie. You know the sort: silk socks,
walking-stick, gloves and a haw-haw way
of speaking. He used to sit in the car and
look away when me and Adams was yarning.
Then other times Mrs. Adams came. She
was a good-looking woman, but a lot younger
than her husband. I didn’t like her. All
the lipstick in the world wouldn’t stop her
mouth from being hard. And her eyes were
terrible bold and brazen-looking. I seen
many like her in the old days.
Well, the Jay of the murder Adams
stopped at my place for nearly half an hour
on the way going in. We sat in the shade
drinking hop-beer I made, and laughing
and yarning. A bonzer big old bloke he
was; always happy. He wasn’t narrow-
minded.
In the cool of the evening I took my gun
and went strolling through the bush. You
could shoot pigeons there —fine, fat pigeons.
I came out of the scrub on to the road
about two miles beyond my camp. Just a
while before that I heard a shot, and a
motor-bicycle passing; but it never entered
my head that anything crook was on.
I was strolling along as happy as Larry,
and thinking that I might meet Adams on
his way back, and all the time keeping a
look-out for game. I thought I saw some-
thing moving in the bushes and walked in
there. I noticed the tracks of a man’s
shoes. They were small and narrow and
neat. I wondered what he could have been
doing there, and followed them. They led
up to a log, and stopped there—as if he
had been doing something. I got a stick
and dug in the soft earth, and sure enough
I found the bag—only I didn’t know whose
bag it was then. I was stunned when I
saw all that money in it. .Olose on £5OO
in notes and silver.
I don’t think I intended to pinch it. I
tell you I had no use for money in that
Heaven of a place. But I took it home.
What else could I do?
And then began the hullabaloo. Adams
was found murdered in his car—shot
through the head, and the money stolen. It
didn’t take them long to fix on me. The
police had my record and photos and every-
thing. They came out and found the money,
bag and all. I hadn’t even planted it. Then
they had the gun, which was still dirty.
A nice chance I had. But they had to
send me to Sydney to be hung. They don’t
hang people in that quiet place, where the
natives smile from the day they come into
the world till their time comes to leave it.
I told them where I found the bag, but
they just laughed at me. And it rained like
Hell that night and washed all the tracks
out.
That assistant and Mrs. Adams were in
the court while I was being tried. He’s
married her since, they tell me. I got an
eyeful of his feet, too. He was wearing
little narrow shoes. I told the solicitor who
defended me about it, but he said it wasn’t
any good.
I saw that assistant and the woman look
at each other when the Judge put on the
black cap.
Last night I had a dream that me and
Adams were back together yarning in a place
where it was all blue sky and blue water
and palm-trees. I got an idea that dream’s
coming true. So I’m not so very cut-up
about what’s coming to me to-morrow after
all.
BEN GUN.
The Old Mine-Wife.
“Oh, sorrow,” she said, “I am old and grey,
And I sit alone by the door
Making my plaint of the long white road
Where my sons come home no more.
“The road runs east where the mine gates
stood.
And west to the dim grey sea;
I gave my sons to the brave deep mine—•
Oh, she mothered them well for me!
“And I lay by night in a friendly dark,
Hearing my lads’ light feet
When the whistles blew and the change o’
shift
Came home through the winding street.
“I gave ray sons to the mine w;e loved,
But. sorrow, the mine’s no more,
And the long dark night is an empty thing
For lack of the rushing ore.
“The wind at night has an ugly note,
Crying in from the sea
Through the belt of pines where the long
white road
Gathered my sons all three.
“Gathered my sons, and led them away
Down to the sea and the ships—
Sons of the sons of the mine to go
Out with the salt on their lips!
“There’s fear blown in on the wan sea wind
That my fear wakes to know;
Instead of the crash of the racing ore,
The shock of the grinding floe!
(Dear Lord, did I dream it so?)
“Oh, sorrow,” she said, “I am old and fey,
And my sons come home no more,
And I would they had died in the murk of
the mine
As their fathers did before
“With the lads they loved to carry them
forth,
And the pump’s harsh sobbing breath....
IVyou think it is Death that I mourn, good
sirs?
I am well acquaint with Death !
“But earth to earth is the miner’s shroud,
And how shall they lie at sea
That were bred to the decent sod? Dear
Lord,
How shall they lie at sea?
“The green weed dank in my sons’ black hair,
Their brown feet flung astride
Of a fretted spar, in a dance of Death,
For sport of the wanton tide!”
“Oh, sorrow,” she said. “I am old and mazed
And I sit alone by the door
Making my plaint of the long white road
Where my sons come home no more!”
S.A.
MADGE R.C.


In Autumn.
All that a quiet heart
Can crave is here;
Soft as a mist comes in
The Fall of the Year.
Soft as a mist distils
Tranquillity,
And peace from mellow skies
Descends on me.
Peace glows in a dusk
Diffused and golden,
Sweet as desired rain,
Joy long withholden,
Love from the quiet loam
Has brought her gold,
Harvest of mystic corn
That grows not old.
For the still wine of your eyes
Shines warm and deep,
The hidden bread of your heart
Is mine to keep.
Here is your heart’s desire,
Your repose is here....
Soft as a mist comes in
The Fall of the Year.
VIC.
E. CAMERON.
The House.
“Oh, to have a little house,
To own the bed, and fire, and a11’’....
—Padraic Cohim.
MRS. HIBBERT sat in unwonted idle-
ness in her stylish front room. Her
work-gnarled hands, clasped together
in the lap of her stiff new black dress,
twitched nervously with tli.e strain of being
still. Not given much to speculation on the
inner meaning of things, she nevertheless
wondered why immemorial custom should
thus thrust unwanted leisure upon her, to
whom action of some kind was as necessary
as breathing itself. Perhaps it was part of
the punishment which Death inflicted on
the living—this sitting apart with folded
hands when there was so much to do. The
thought of the innumerable tasks piling up as
a consequence of the Great Visitor some-
what lightened the gloom which enwrapped
her soul, even as the new, smelly, black
garments swathed her body. With all these
strangers who since morning had tracked
mud through her immaculate house, leaving
footmarks on the mirror-like linoleum, peer-
ing -everywhere, and eating and drinking
what Mrs. O’Brien, the Woman who had
come in to help, had set before them —there
would be plenty of work tidying up after
them!
She hadn’t thought that James knew so
many people; or was it just curiosity to
see the house? A death and a funeral, she
knew, were sufficient licence with her class
for unrestricted visiting and peering. It
was funny how death altered things and
made such freedoms possible. The Staines
now! Dirty, untidy people, with swarms of
children —-why, she would never have
dreamed of letting that crowd into her
house! She never recognised any of them
in the street. Yet here they were, in her
dining-room, with the silky-oak suite, eating
off the polished table, and the kids smearing
their fingers! Why must people have cake
and tea and wine at funerals?
And Mrs. O’Brien showing everybody
round the house as if she owned it! Their
remarks had floated up to her from this or
the other room. “Oh my, what grand furni-
ture ! And this is another bedroom. Silky
oak, too. and marble washstands. And no
children.” And: “A bathroom, no less, all
pink and white.” “Well, I always heard”.. ..
and then a tinkle of spoons and crockery.
Was Mrs. O’Brien setting out the best blue-
and-white china? And the silver teaspoons,
and the little silver forks? The silver forks,
now —that would dazzle them, the Staines,
the Smiths and the Petersons! How they
would stare and envy and talk! She hoped
Mrs. O’Brien would have an -eye on every-
body. Not but what the people were honest;
and, anyway, no one took things from a
house where there was a funeral.
THE DINKUM ARTICLE.
“She says you’re not a real soldier—that
you were only one while the war was
on.”
“Just when her own husband managed not
to be one, eh?”
If only she could get around ! Why must
she sit in state as quiet and stiff almost as
.... what lay in the room across the hall in
the “best” bedroom? She wished it needn’t
have been the best bedroom. Even Mrs.
O’Brien had been too overawed in that
room to point out its beauties —the carved
bed. the hand-worked linen “spread,” the
wardrobe and the dressing-table and thick
Brussels carpet; and the curtains, real lace
on them. But, of course, it had to be the
best room—or people would talk. They had
carried him in there after he had died.
Never would he sleep there —only in the
little spare room off the kitchen. Even when
he was ill, though she had begged, and
even cried. And the doctor had suggested
moving him where it was cooler. But James
had always been obstinate about things—like
having the house in his name, and the
furniture, and only giving her money for
housekeeping and clothes. Not that she
had spent much for clothes. She never went
out much —she’d rather be in the house
doing it up, and getting more things. She
had bought all her silver out of clothes
money—the little forks and spoons, and the
silver things for the dressing-table. ‘‘Like
a toff’s,” she had heard them sav after they
had filed past her chair, each of them touch-
ing her hand and saying, “Sorry for yer
trouble, Mrs. Ilibbert.”
And Jimmy’s wife was worse than useless;
too busy looking after her children. And
Jim —well, Jim just couldn’t leave his
father; he sat there all the time. She
shuddered. Herself, she couldn’t bear- to
think of James’s dead face. How foolish
people were speaking of the “beauty” of
dead people. It was horrible, that still
face, with a sort of grim smile. What was
it Mrs. O’Brien had said after she had laid
him out? “Smilin’ he is; sure they
always smiles. It’s the Grand Saycret.
They knows!”
What was James smiling at? Sometimes
lie had smiled like that when she had per-
QUID PRO QUO.
FACETIOUS M.P. (touring his electorate) ; “What you ought to do is breed roosters
that will lay. You could call ’em Bookmakers.”
DIGGER COCKY: “Well, they’re getting on —some of this lot can cackle. But we
call ’em Politicians.”
suaded him into buying some new piece of
furniture that some people might say was
useless. Like the piano, with no one to play
it. Well, James had signed for it in his
own name on time payment and had smiled.
Or when the bay window was put in. And
the bathroom.
He had been strangely easy of late years,
.though, about the house, letting her do much
what she liked, and paying for everything.
And yet he seemed to hate it, refusing to
admire anything—and sleeping in the little
spare room.
She recalled her first coming to the house
—a little place of three rooms and plain
furniture. James had been so proud of it,
all his own. He had watched lier as they
went together through the living-room, bed-
room and kitchen. What a queer fellow he
was even then! She remembered how his
face had changed when she had told him of
the grand house she would have some day
and how they must save and get more rooms
and more furniture. He had put his arms
around her and laid his head on her
shoulder and cried. Yes, cried! She had
felt frightened and wondered if she rightly
knew what she was doing in marrying
James Hibbert. She remembered how hf
had put his arms about her and said, “Oh,
Lizzie, Lizzie, it’s you and me that matters;
not a house or furniture. What’s a house,
after all, except to hold people that love
each other?” Silly, he was.
But she was determined. Ever since she
was a child, living in a white-ant-eaten
weatherboard bush-shanty, she had wanted
a nice house. It had been her dream. And
working in other women’s houses, handling
their beautiful things, had but inflamed her
passion. Even out of her wages she had
bought little household things—real damask
serviettes and tablecloths and cutlery—in-
stead of hats and dresses like other girls.
And then she had met James and had seen
a way. Of course she had liked him, and
had been a good wife, never squandering
money in dress or amusement like other
working men’s wives. And they had a house
that everyone talked of. “Like a toff’s.”
But it had cost more than money. In
the beginning a quarrel for almost every-
thing. And James had wanted children.
Well, she had had Jimmy to please him,
but no more. And he had been wild when
she made Jim leave school.at 14 to help.
Other working men’s sons had done the
same thing, and Jimmy wasn’t clever, but
his few shillings had helped, and Avlien he
grew up there was his board money—it had
bought lots of little things ; her own, these.
True, Jimmy had married, in spite of any-
thing she could say. Married at 21 to
Sarah Smith, who was no housekeeper and
had a haby every year. She suspected that
James helped them. He used to be there
a lot. He used to praise Sarah —“a kind,
loving woman.” “Loving!” James seemed
to think a lot of loving, but didn’t seem to
notice that Sarah’s house was never tidy,
and the furniture, what there was of it, was
all chipped and scratched. And young Jim
always worrying about bills: and no wonder,
with five children. Well, they had been
saved all that, thanks to her.
Here were more people coming, more foot-
tracks ; and she sitting there like a stuffed
image! If only the funeral were nicely
over. She wished now she had had the
courage to advertise “Private interment. ”
Lots of people did. But young Jim wouldn’t
have stood for it. And, anyway, she was
glad these people could see the house for
once.
Two o’clock it would move off, and then
she would go into things.
Going into things—the thoughts that came
with the idea worried her. Everything was
in his name, except little things. And
James must have saved something, perhaps
five hundred pounds. He couldn’t leave it
away from her, not in Queensland. There
was a law. One-third.., .one-third... .that
would be over a hundred. And, of course,
the house and furniture. Of course the
house. Oh, if the people would only go!
She wanted to be alone to tidy up and sit
and admire her beautiful things, her beauti-
ful things.
What was Jimmy saying? “They’re go-
ing to screw down the lid!” Yes, of course;
that had to be done. Wouldn’t she come
and take a last look? God, what torture !....
No, she wouldn’t!.... No !
Why should Sarah take hold of her other
arm to assist her to walk! Why should
everyone all at once treat her as if she were
incapable of walking, or working, or doing
anything for herself! No, she wouldn’t go
in. .. .to see James... .smiling. .. .as if—no !
What if the hearse was coming? Sarah
needn’t draw down the window blinds. She
wasn’t a fool or a child to be frightened of
he horrible, black feathery things... .that
hook....and shook.
The men were coming in. What a baby
Jimmy was, sobbing right out. And Sarah,
D 0....
They were taking him out... . She re-
membered the first coming; she had a navy
blue dress. James had wanted her to be
married in white. What nonsense, wasting
money on a dress that you never wore again!
A sensible navy now—one could always wear
that. He had given her five pounds to buy
the wedding dress. It had cost thirty shil-
lings ; she had made it herself. Bella, the
housemaid at Burton’s, had said it was un-
lucky to make your own wedding dress.
Nonsense, too; she’d had the best of luck
—a grand house and such, furniture! Bella s
husband was an invalid, and she had to
go out washing. She had got. hers made.
It showed you. James had said he’d been
IT HAD HAPPENED BEFORE.
D AD: “Didn’t I tell you this morning that if
you did it again I’d settle with you
when I .came home?”
KID: “Yes. But I thought you were joking,
Dad—like when you told the butcher
you’d settle with him.”
lying awake picturing her coming up the
aisle of the church all in white with a veil
like an angel. But she had bought a set of
saucepans with the three pounds ten she
had saved.
Ah, the funeral was moving! She would
draw up the blind —why not?—and would
get to the house and start tidying up.
....If James were mean enough to cut
her out except for her share, she would just
live on that —a few pounds at a time. She’d
live in the kitchen and sleep in the spare
room. No, not that room! One of the
others —and perhaps take a boarder, a lady
that would know the value of things. A
toff No, she wouldn’t. She had worked
for toffs. They were the worst —used every-
thing, washed in the best rooms and left
things about. Working people were the only
ones who knew how to take care of things.
She’d do a bit of sewing and live somehow
for another five years. She’d be sixty then
and could draw the old-age pension—a pound
a week; they gave it to a woman five years
earlier It’s gone !
Everything in the big house was in shining
order. The garden paths had been swept,
and depressions where feet, weighted by a
heavy load, had sunk into the red soil were
levelled up. A hrick- or cement-path now—
ah, she forgot; there would be no more
money regularly from James. Perhaps a
few pounds from her share. Well, she would
see.
Again she was sitting down with folded
hands after three days’ brushing, mopping,
tidying, waiting. Jim and Sarah were to
call for her to go to the lawyer’s. Mr.
Seton had the will, and wished them to. go to
his office to hear it read. She had tried to
pump Jimmy and Sarah, hut they didn’t
know. Or said they didn’t. Ah, here they
were!
Mr. Seton’s office was stuffy; perhaps that
accounted for the choky feeling. And Sarah
ivould squeeze her chair near hers and try
to take her hand, instead of using it to hold
the haby she was shamelessly nursing at her
breast.
There was a little thread of a voice like
you hear through a long-distance ’phone:
“House and furniture sold within a month
.... proceeds.... banked.... interest to be
paid to widow during lifetime.... further-
more my wish that she make her home with
my son, he having expressed his willingness
.... in consideration of which a sum of three
hundreds pounds at present at deposit be
paid to said James Hjbbert.”
Oh God ! Oh God! What was that fool
Sarah saying? “Best way, Grandma. Yon
couldn’t live alone in that big house. We’ll
he glad to have you, Jim will put in a room
for you out of the money. And you’ll live
like a lady on your interest. Jim says the
house and furniture will bring over £lBOO.
That’s more than thirty shillings a week.”
She was choking. Thirty shillings a week
and Sarah’s brats and awful house.
What had Mrs. O’Brien said? “They
always smile. The Grand Secret.... They
know.”
And that was what James knew, was it!
MARGARET CURRAN.
Gipsy Heart.
How can I be learnfed,
How can I be wise,
When the sky peeps at me
With blue friendly eyes?
How can I stay indoors,
Delving into books.
When the wind is whistling
Through green woodland nooks?
Why should I be struggling
With dull sophistries
When a bird is tossing
Ardent ecstasies
From a gilded tree-top?
A fig for your books —
With the wind you’ll find me
In the woodland nooks,
Whistling like a schoolboy,
Gipsy-liearted me,
Seeking wisdom lightly
From each bird and tree!
maoriland.
IVY GEBBS.


m
9VG
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 67-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
MART ELL'S
BRANDY 1
II I |j||||u fbi GLae 6 Quuajhti/
I IS
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
li
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe" and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE WIDOW'S MIGHT.
BY
ALYS BROWN.
SARI stood in the doorway of her mother’s
hut, and from the shelter of her widow’s
fish-net. veil peered down at the street
below with stormy eyes.
All the village was getting ready to dance,
for it was the full of the moon. Young
bucks, squatting on their heels under the
huts, were gazing into small trade mirrors
propped up before them. Paint-stick in hand,
gourds of ochre, red clay and pearl-white
lime at their sides, each was carefully tracing
lines of color on the brown face mirrored
in the distorting glass.
Giggles and little shrieks of laughter
floated from dim interiors, where the girls
were teasing out their bushy mops with
palm combs, and weaving scented garlands
of pink and white frangipani or scarlet
hibiscus into the midnight blackness of their
tresses. A clinking of shell bracelets and
the jingle of dogs’ teeth necklets told of
family treasures taken from their hiding
places, whilst the rustle of grass petticoats,
as they were shaken and fluffed out, made a
murmur like the wind in the kura-kura
grass.
By craning her neck and staring with
directness unbecoming in a widow, Sari
could see Pita, who had bought a knob of
washing blue at the store, draw a broad
line of ultramarine diagonally across his flat
face. With skilled hand lie drew a glaring
white circle round each eye, and his satisfied
expression as he cocked his head to get a
good view in the mirror showed he had
attained his ideal of manly beauty.
Sari heaved a deep sigh as she watched
him. He was one of the few eligible un-
claimed bachelors in the village. She was
tired of trailing the flowing grass skirts of
widowhood in the dust of the roads. The
strings of scallop shells edging the thick
knotted veil which shrouded her head were
heavy wear in hot weather.
It was full three moons since her husband
Biro and his young brother were blown from
the reef out to sea in their frail fishing
and there had been no signs of any
man wishing to take his vacant place. Three
months of heat, dust and smother in the
widow’s garb of mourning, with never a
dance or a feast to lighten the burden of
living! Sari sighed again.
Her old mother pushed through the door-
way and stood beside her, surveying the gay
bustle with bright, beady eyes. “Aie! Look
at Pita! Was ever face so beautiful?” and
she clapped her wizened hands with glee and
gurgled. “Look! Sari, look! The beauti-
ful plumes! The grand headgear!” Pita
had donned his head-dress of gay parrot
feathers, and with a boar’s tusk thrust
through his nose strutted up and down, mak-
ing fierce faces at an admiring audience of
small piccaninnies, fascinated by his hideous
grimaces; joyous, half laughing, yet half
afraid.
The air was filled with a babel of sound.
Shouts and laughter, the throbbing of drums,
blowing of conch-shells and the shrill notes
of flute and jews’ harp were deafening. Ever
and anon the whirring drone of a bull roarer
screamed on the evening air. Old and young
were making as much noise as lungs would
allow.
Pita went into his hut for his drum, and
Sari’s mother, suddenly remembering con-
ventions, drew her daughter back into the
shadow of the doorway. “Show not thyself
so boldly, my daughter,” she said. “Hide
behind me; it is not seemly to take an
interest in the dance. Thou a widow of but
three moons!”
“Bah!” snapped Sari. “Why should I
pretend to mourn a man who shamed me as
Biro did? With my own eyes I saw him
share a betel-nut with Bobo, though he
thought none could see.”
She tossed the heavy net from her face and
moved to the open again, staring boldly now
into the street, ogling Pita as lie promenaded
to and fro.
“There goes a fine man, mother, Aie! If
he would only give me a sign!”
Her mother, with an indignant snort,
drew the veil over Sari’s close-shaven head.
“Pita!” she said scornfully. “He will never
offer to share betel-nut with thee. Thy tongue
is too sharp. Thy speech is like a spear, ever
ready to flay. Many girls have cooked taro
for Pita, but he eats with none- And thou
a widow! Tut, tut!” said the old dame.
“Listen, mother!” said Sari, and she drew
close and whispered for a while into her
mother’s ear.
Old Ego’s wrinkled face gradually expanded
into a broad grin, showing red, toothless
gums, as she listened. Finally she threw up
her clawlike hands, and broke into A cackle
of sheer delight. “Was ever such sharp-
wit !” she chuckled. “If thou canst |>ear the
jeers of the village for a while, ’twill ]go well,
my daughter,” and she cackled again. “Come,
we will prepare the taro.”
With a swish of sweeping skirts Sari fol-
lowed the bent old woman inside and drew
the tapa cloth curtain across the doorway.
The dance was soon in full swing. The
risen, moon shone silver-white, high above
the gently waving tops of the palms fring-
ing the village. It showed, clear and bright,
the double row of dancers, facing each other
down the long straggling street. Sleeping
paradise plumes waved—haloes of golden
orange and blue green—gleaming in softly
blending shades as the men moved to the
rhythm of the dance. Grotesquely painted
faces flashed into view, and again were lost
in shadow. The full skirts 'of the girls
whirled wantonly as they swayed full hips
in sensuous abandon, tlieir sleek brown
bosoms heaving and dark eyes flashing, full
of the joy of life and love.
Shuffle and stamp, sway and whirl: the
throb of many Jcapas ; light tinkle of laughter
and men’s voices in sonorous chant; a medley
61 ear-numbing cadences. Mothers were sit-
ting on the hut platforms with their children
swarming round their skirts, suckling their
sleepy babes, gossiping, admiring, scolding,
but with a watchful eye on dancing daugh-
ters. Old men leaned against verandah posts
gently scrubbing their skinny backs against
tire rough poles, talking of the dances of
days gone by. Bau-baus passed continuously
from hand to hand, giving out pungent fumes
of trade tobacco, which hung in the hot
night air, with the heavy scent of the gar-
lands, the reek of the sweating bodies of the
dancers, and lingering odors of fish and cocoa-
nut oil. Amongst the litter under the huts,
lean pigs rooted, scuffling and squealing,
adding to the joyous pandemonium of the
light-hearted, moon-mad people. Dust rose
in clouds from the hard, sun-baked earth.
The tramp of those tireless bare feet ground
the surface to fine powder, which floated
lightly in the moonbeams.
A fine frenzy agitated the swaying rows.
Enthusiasm rose to thunderous pitch. All
eyes were on those pulsating rows of dusky
dancers, so none saw the two dark figures
which slid down from Ego’s back door and
crept noiselessly under the huts, hugging the
black shadows until they reached Pita’s home
and disappeared inside.
There was a chinking of cooking pots, u
rustle of petticoats, and the harsh creak’ of
unfolding mats; then a dry chuckle, one
of the figures slipped away, and all was still
again within the hut.
SECOND SIGHT.
“Yes, it was a case of love at first sight.”
“Why didn’t you marry him?”
“I saw him several times afterwards.”
With a last yell and a roll of drums the
dance ended. Shouts of “Good night! Sleep
wi ll!” sounded up and down the street.
Pita, with weary legs and heavy head,
stumbled up his ladder. He saw nothing of
the still dark form crouching in a gloomy
corner. He flung himself heavily down on his
sleeping mat, and was soon sound asleep.
He awoke at down, with a soft voice
whispering in his ear. “Pita. Pita, arise!
The cock crows! Break thy fast, the taro
is ready.” A plump brown hand thrust a
wooden platter of snowy-white taro before
his sleep-laden eyes.
Drowsily he stretched out his hand to take
a piece ; then his clouded wits cleared. He
sat up with a sudden jerk. In the dim light
Sari’s face smiled down at him. She!
had discarded her widow’s weeds, and wore
a thin, short petticoat, which barely con-
cealed her plump limbs. Her rounded breasts
shone like bronze in the rosy light of dawn,
now stealing in through the door.
“What dost thou here?” he demanded, as
he hastily straightened his tumbled rami
round his dusty, sweat-grimed body.
“Eat thy taro,” she said persuasively.
He pushed away the tempting bowl and
sprang to his feet. “Shamless wanton !” he
snarled. “Get back to thy mother, and cover
thy shaven head. Thou wilt put me to
shame.”
Sari laughed. “No shame, Tita. I have
slept by thy side. See the new sleeping mats
TERROR OF THE LAW.
DOCTOR: “You have water on the knee.”
PATIENT: “Oh, jor heaven’s sake, please
don’t tell anyone!”
DOCTOR: “Why, good gracious, what on
earth”
PATIENT: “I might be fined. I’d lose all my
business. I’m a milkman!” (Breaks
down.)
I brought for our wedding night. By the old
custom I am now tliy wife. Eat the taro
and complete the bargain.”
i'ita dashed the bowl out of her hands,
scattering the soft white mass over floor and
mats. “Old customs are gone,” he said.
“Thou art a fool to think such a custom
binds a man these days. Christians wed not
so. A church wedding is the only bond.”
“Then take me to church,” she said
promptly. “Let Paulo say the words to bind
us.”
“Never,” he snapped. “Go away, or I will
complain to the magistrate,” and he rushed
out into the clear morning air, leaving her
picking up the pieces of taro.
When Pita returned home at the close of
day, a big pot was bubbling on the fire in
front of his hut. Sari was peeling taro.
A heap of kexca shells beside her told him
the contents of the pot; but though he loved
kexca stew he strode past without a second
glance.
He took his fish to his brother’s wife to
clean and cook for him. “Nay, Pita,” she
said. “Thou hast a wife now. Take them
to Sari,” and turned her back on him and
his explanations.
Under the curious eyes of the villagers
Pita went across to old Ego. who cackled and
shook her grizzled head when he entreated
her to remove her daughter. “Better give in
now. Pita,” she said, as she wiped her
rheumy eyes. “She slept all night by thy
side, and by the old law can claim thee.”
Pita groaned and took his fish down to the
beach and cooked and ate it there.
After supper he returned to the village
and made to join the circle of young bucks
with whom he nightly foregathered. The
circle was closed, leaving no place for him.
“Go to thy rightful place, Pita,” jeered one’.
“Thou art a married man now. Thy naughti-
ness hath found thee out.” The others
laughed knowingly.
He had either to take a place at the
benedicts’ fire or remain alone. The elder
men made room for him, and when he was
seated he laid his case before them, and
awaited their verdict.
It is the custom. Though for many
years no widow hath claimed her right, still
it is the custom of our fathers, and Sari
is thy wife,” said a white-haired elder, de-
cisively.
The other men nodded agreement.
Pita sprang to his feet and went off, anger
in his heart at these out-of-date old dotards.
He borrowed a mat from his brother and
begged a place to sleep on his verandah. As
he lay lie heard his sister-in-law’s voice
within. “There is no smoke without fire,”
lie heard her say. “Pita has sipped honey
from many a flower in the village and flown
away. This time the flower had thorns and
caught him. A widow, too!” she added
scornfully.
Pita knew that in every hut in the village
similar talk was going on, and he smarted
under the sting of it.
For a week he held out, getting liis meal 3
as best he could, sleeping on the verandah
under his sister-in-law’s grudging eye.
All the time Sari was very busy. She
went placidly about her work, and jeers
soon ceased, for her sharp tongue and quick
wit were weapons to be feared. Daily she
trudged to Pita’s untidy garden. With her
digging stick she routed out the weeds and
tended the yams and bananas. She stopped
the holes in the fence so that the pigs could
no longer root there.
One afternoon, after making sure Sari
was away, Pita slipped back to the village,
and crept like a thief into his own hut. He
needed some fish-hooks from his box. He
saw the floor was clean scrubbed and his
mended nets hung tidily on the walls next
to Sari’s best petticoats. A row of well-
scoured pots flanked two new sleeping mats.
Ilis own greasy tattered mat was gone. A
tiny fire glowed on the clean-swept hearth,
and the hut looked cosy and inviting to the
homeless man. He found his fish-hooks, and
before he left to set his lines guiltily swept
away the sand he had carried in.
As Pita returned with a string of fish
slung on his shoulder, Paulo, the teacher,
accosted him.
“What’s this I hear, Pita?” he asked.
“People say thou art living in sin with
►Sari, the widow of Biro.”
Pita told his tale, but Paulo looked un-
convinced. “The damage is done now.
Thou liadst better bring Sari to the church
to-morrow and make an end to this shame.
I think thou must have been in fault, else
she had not done so by thee.”
Pita realised that furtliei resistance was
useless ; public opinion was against him. He
went his way to the village, threw the string
of fish at Sari’s feet in mute surrender and
sat down to wait for his supper.
Sari bustled round the lire importantly.
Soon a savory smell rose from the pots to
Pita’s nostrils, making liis mouth water. lie
took his bowl in silence, and the*two squatted
down and ate together in sight of all the
village. Sari was a widow no longer.
In her best petticoat of red and yellow
stripes she trotted behind Pita to church.
Paulo read the rnaVriage service, and the two
settled down to married life.
Then Sari found her tongue. From morn
to night, and oft in the night hours. Pita’s
hut echoed with the sound of it. Biro, her
first husband, had beaten her when it grew
too loud for his comfort, but Pita bowed his
head under her torrent of words. Did he
spill from his lime pot. or forget to hang
up his nets, bring too few fish, or stay out
t<io long, the tongue-beating she gave him al-
most raised the thatch.
There was no more dancing with the
maidens on moonlit nights. Sari saw Pita
safely seated with the older men, whilst she
and her mother watched the dancers from
the verandah. Her fingers were always busy,
shredding eoeoanut leaves for matting or
petticoats, or weaving baskets!, whilst her
tongue as busily tore the reputations of
the dancers to shreds finer than the fibres
on her knees.
Still, Pita throve and grew fat, thanks to
Sari's skill with the cooking pots. Their
garden soon showed the finest yams, taro
and bananas of all the village. Fat yellow
pineapples, luscious melons and huge pump-
kins crowded amongst golden-cobbed corn
and thick brown-mottled sugarcane. Never
before had Pita fared so well, and his
paunch grew rounder day by day. But her
tongue!
One evening, before church, Pita opened
his heart to the teacher.' “Oh, Paulo,” he
groaned, “Sari’s tongue is like a cloud of
hornets, ever buzzing and stinging round my
head. I have no peace night or day.
Being a Christian I cannot beat her; besides,
if I did, she might complain to the magis-
trate and lie would fine me a pound. They
say Ahuia, the babilau fauna , hath a wonder-
ful charm for scolding women, but sorcery
is forbidden to us church members, and,
moreover, Ahuia is a grasping man. A
charm would cost an armshell. What can
I do?”
Paulo thought deeply. “Truly, Pita, lam
full of sorrow for thee. I know of nothing
to still the tongue of a shrew. Stay! There
is one thing I can do. I will pray for
thee.”
At the end of the service Paulo put up a
prayer for a certain man of the congrega-
tion sorely afflicted. Pita dropped a shilling
in the collection box and was rated all the
way home for his extravagance.
As the week went by and Sari’s scolding
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Siikldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sly. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors:
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 CORBINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares ; 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
C-RANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f 0
periods and Iransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital £ 1,250,000
Reserve Fund 950,000
£2,200,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,450,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Alsu 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,,
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
'v' :
to** 'wm
ksJ
25 Cigars,
12/6
50,23/9
100, 46/-
/
Post paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. Post
free.
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciuli
Reil Cigar Factory.
Shipping, etc.
osMheJMc
£
m
03T
irmfM
.=s££?
O.u
ct
1
+d_?-fe
Jf
NA PA
UNITED STATES
Teurope
NIAGARA .. 13,415 tons, May 3 1 From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, May 81 ) and Vancouver.
MAKURA ... 8,075 tons, May 17 | From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
MAUNGANUI 7,527 tons, June 14 ) San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
f| 0 UDAfe URS,ONs
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait. j
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon /s/ands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports *
m
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
£7,494,260
5,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,520
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Qeneral Manager: OSCAR LINES.
-29 ThreadDeedle Street, E.C. 2.
517 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE J. COHEN. Chairman; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND; Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.8.E.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACIvAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
—GO NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER!—
HAWAII
A complete change in a Paradise where the
average temperature is 75 degrees. Golfing,
motoring, outrigger canoeing, surf-board rid-
ing, new fruits, flowers, sunkissed beaches;
lunar rainbows gleaming through coco-nut
palms. Inter-island cruises along mystic
tropical shores; steaming volcanoes. Total
cost of 6 to 8 weeks’ round trip, with 3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free stop-over
privileges, if on route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, usual American conveniences, 12s.
to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Department 26, Box 241 d, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., enclosing advertisement.
QUAINT ORIENTAL TOUCHES.
HAWAII
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WULLONGBAU —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart Parkerl/™
Magiiifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER UMITEi)
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
JENOLAN
CAVES
Inclusive
Three Day
Tours
Rail & Motor
£4/7/-
Motor all the
Way,
£5/10/-
Bracing Air,
Glorious
Scenery,
Wonderful
Caverns,
Dancing,
Billiards,
Card-room
Lounge.
Tour Programme and Booking at
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


!()e Prettu!
©e oainfci|!
©e y[fcactwe!
©e a- Ixexoiu
!
isrx
a
■
Miss LILLIAN STEAD,
a charming Rexona Girl and
winner of Clay’s 1927 Siren
of the Surf C ompetition,
writes; “Having used
Rexona Soap for a number
of years, I find there is abso-
lutely nothing to compare
with it for the skin and
hairI 1
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
V
llllllll
gg|
£l* eJtMtf£u\
162-166 PITT STREET ,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE d KING STREETS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
IVhat a lovely
Gift.r
tongue still disturbed the household peace,
Paulo confessed that apparently the day of
miracles was past, and Pita lost hope.
As he paddled back from the reef one
afternoon he saw the steamer from South
moored at the wharf. He lingered for a
while, watching the unloading, and it was
dusk as he dragged liis canoe up the beach.
He could hear a great hubbub at the other
end of the village.
Paulo, with shining eyes, met him in the
street. “My friend,” he said solemnly, “the
day of miracles is not past. My prayer for
thee is answered. The sea hath given up
its dead. Biro hath returned.”
The crowd came surging up the street.
Pita could hear Sari’s voice above the din
and saw Biro and his brother in the midst
of the throng. Excited voices told the tale
of how the two had been tossed by the gale
for days, and saved, when close to death,
by a steamer which had taken them to
Sydney. They had returned that day by the
big steamer.
Pita, hungry and bewildered, listened dully
to the. talk of the marvels of the great city,
but his eyes wandered anxiously to Sari.
What would she do?
By and by the crowd moved on, still
chattering and marvelling. Pita went into
his quiet house to sit down and think. Only
his own cracked cooking pot remained.
Sari’s petticoats had gone from the walls.
He was rid of her at last.
He squatted upon the solitary sleeping
mat, and the peaceful stillness of the hut
shrouded him like a soft mantle. lie mused
thankfully on. his release from that ever-
clacking tongue. Opening his box he scat-
tered his paint pots around him, and in the
firelight carefully decorated his face with the
gayest colors.
His belly called aloud for food, but a chew
of betel-nut stilled its cravings. Seizins'
lus drum he leaped down into the street anil
joined the dancers, the first time for many
moons. Laughing and shouting, he was the
noisiest of that merry throng, for Pita was
himself again—a bachelor—footloose and
free.
He went to his brother’s house for his
food as he had done aforetime, but his sister-
in-law refused to cook for him, reviling him
as no man” for giving up his wife to Biro
without a fight.
In spite of this, his sense of elation lasted
for some days, then the petty details of life
began to jar on him. It irked him, on his
return home from hunting or fishing, to carry
wood and water, kindle his fire and cook his
supper.
He began to hate the sight of Biro, whose
belly grew fat whilst his own hung slack.
He sneered as he listened to the gossip
round the firejs of the wordy warfare now
raging between Biro and Sari. He grew
morose and sullen, chewing much betel-nut to
stay the pangs of liis ever-present hunger
He was amazed at his feelings. Here he
was, but two short weeks freed, as he had
longed to be, from the clatter of Sari’s
ye t ere was still something amiss.
Of course Sari was a good cook, and
pleased him in. many -ways. but of one thing
he was sure; he did not want her back He
would not have_ her back if he had the
chance, though his garden was overrun with
weeds and his hut dirty.
Yet sometimes the quiet of his hut fright-
ened him and he began to start at shadows.
At night he veas loath to bid good sleeping to
the men, rnd was the last to leave the
friendly fire in the street.
Pita sat brooding in the quiet hut early
one evening, st ring moodily at some taro
and a young magani he had brought in to
cook for his supper. He was hungry yet
reluctant to start his cooking.
cl^ k , of cooking pots and the swish of
petticoats brought lnm to his feet. In the
doorway stood Sari, a beaming smile on h»r
comely face.
“Aie, Pita,” she said cheerfully. “Thou
wilt have to eat taro with me again Biro
has gone off with that huzzy Bobo, and
I m a widow once more.” She gave a Quick
Ullt i dy hut - P ick cd up the
its sheath d drCW her skin ni ng-knifc from
filloi*m a ?^? ed at , the .ioy which suddenly
filled his belly, pushed the taro towards her
, fook and with a grin on his face
fled to the married men’s fire. He sat there
weWirrf’’ s 1 cnt l y happy, waiting for Sari’s
ready!” 6 ' Come ’ Pita! Thc taro is
The Days of Lilies.
Le temps des lilas,
Le temps des roses,
Ne reviendra plus.”
I sat one morning
Ere youth was o’er,
And laughed in counting
My golden store.
And, lest my laughter
Should fail too soon
I sang, light-heart,
* n th e gracious noon:
The days of lilies
And garden lore,
The days of roses
Return no more.”
I gazed one eve
At the sinking sun,
And sighed to think
That his day was done;
■“Ut stars came whisp’ring •
Oh, night is best,
bor night comes singing
And night is rest!
Suns of glory
Have left my shore,
And stars that loved me
Return no more.”
I dreamt one night
That I roved again
And pulled fair buds
On a flow’ry plain •
And one beside me
Was sweet and pale,
downcast eyes of her
4< Told a tale:
“The days of lilies
Are past and o’er:
The days of roses
Return no more!”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIEEY.
Evil Magic.
WOORAMUK was to be sung dead.
Kadlinganki thrilled with terror and
anticipation as she hurried noise-
lessly through the wet bracken toward the
camp. It is a serious matter for a lubra
to know in advance her ertioa is to be sung
dead.
But Billi-billari and she had arranged it.
Billi-billari had seen Kootchee, the spirit of
evil, when he was very small, and now men
feared him, for he was koonjee, and was
believed to be able to work magic. It is
so always when one sees the evil spirit.
Before Ningerranoul, father of Kadlin-
ganki, had traded her with Wooramuk for
his sister, Billi-billari had wished to take
Kadlinganki for his wife; but Billi-billari
had no female relations to offer in exchange.
Now things could be managed through his
magic. Wooramuk would be sung dead, and
lie had no brothers to take Kadlinganki as
wife. So, after a while, Billi-billari would
take her, for no one was likely to discover
who had sung Wooramuk dead, and it would
be strange indeed if the pinya council picked
on Billi-billari.
The sight of the camp fires through the
trees ahead reminded Kadlinganki she was
passing the haunts of the spirit-children;
and she bent herself double, making herself
look very old, and crying aloud in a very
squeaky voice to the spirits to leave her alone.
•For there is danger, in passing the spirit-
places, that one of them will enter a woman’s
body, and then she will have a child. “Kind
Anjea would not harm an old woman,”
Kandlinganki quavered, stumbling in the
grass as is the way of old women. “Good
Anjea will let alone a poor old woman who
cannot bear children,” And as she cried so,
Kadlinganki saw Mulligo, ertwa of Tulkara,
who had never had a child; and she knew
Mulligo was charming Anjea to have a child
spirit grow in his wife.
Kadlinganki could not stop, for it is
dangerous to loiter in the spirit-places; but
she saw Mulligo looked at her strangely,
and she wondered if he had seen her meeting
with Billi-billari. And because Mulligo was
a friend of Wooramuk, her ertwa, she hated
him, and hoped he, too, would be sung dead
soon. But he said nothing, and she hurried
on.
Wooramuk was back from the hunting
when she reached the miam. His temper
was not good, and Kadlinganki shrank away
in fear, for Wooramuk often beat her at
these times. But he wanted only to borrow
her girdle, for the spirit of a bandicoot he
had killed had entered his head, and was
troubling him. When he wore Kadlin-
ganki’s girdle, the pain would go away, un-
less she had been evil and killed its charm.
“If the pain is there when the sun burns
again,” Wooramuk told her, “it will be
through your wickedness and you shall be
beaten.” In the morning the pain was
worse and there were more pains as well.
So Wooramuk beat Kadlinganki with a
club; but she did not mind because she knew
Wooramuk was mookooellie duckana— that
is, struck by the bone, and would die, for
Billi-billari had sung him dead in the night.
“Perhaps an enemy has pointed the bone
at you,”. she suggested, slyly, to help the
evil magic. Then Wooramuk became very
much afraid and sent for Kuller-kullup, who
knew all about bone-magic. And Kuller-
kullup agreed that someone had pointed the
bone at Wooramuk. For Kuller-kullup was
getting old, and his leadership in the tribe
was challenged by Wooramuk, so he said
this to him hoping it was so.
When Wooramuk heard, he took off Kad-
linganki’s girdle and lay down in his miam
ready to die. When a man really is sung
dead he can do nothing unless the source
of the magic can be found. Very soon the
whole tribe knew what had happened, and
the men gathered round and wondered among
themselves who could have done it. But
Wooramuk lay very still, ready to die.
Wooramuk lay there, never moving, for
two days. On the third day, when the sun
was. just over the tops of the gums, they
carried him from his miam into the hot, heavy
air, and laid him on the grass, with his
head on the knees of Wyenyeanine, who was
his friend. And before the shadows com-
menced to grow long again Wooramuk was
dead.
Kadlinganki’s heart sang praises to Billi-
billari’s cleverness; but her mouth made
sorrow as she muffled Wooramuk’s dog in
an opossum rug and joined the other women
to watch the mourners.
There were four circles of mourners, for
Wooramuk was a man of influence in the
tribe, and was accounted very wise. And
as they assembled Kadlinganki commenced
wild lamentations that were taken up and
repeated through the bush, so that the wail-
ing dirge rose and fell back from the camp
as the tr'be mourned its loss. But all the
time Kadlinganki’s heart sang for joy.
In the inner circle of mourners Warrup,
Mulligo rnd the wise old Kuller-kullup sat
round the corpse, with others, busy with
digging sticks.
It was Kuller-kullup who saw the beetle
crawling away from Wooramuk towards the
east. “It is from the east the magic came
to kill our brother,” he told them. “It is
to the east we must look to avenge him.”
And the mourners turned clay-daubed faces
to one another and whispered of vengeance.
When Kuller-kullup spoke thus, the
laments of the women ceased; and the rasp
of digging sticks sounded in a great stillness.
Then suddenly the mourning-dirge started
again, and those in the outer circles knew
the grave was finished.
Wyenyeanine and Mulligo lifted Woora-
muk’s body in, and as the leaves were placed
over it the solemn, menacing cry of Kuller-
kullup sounded through the wailing of the
women. “Koor-re-koor!” he cried. “Koor-
re-koor!” Which is to say “Blood for
blood”; and the tribe knew the time was
approaching when it must decide who had
sung Wooramuk dead.
“Great was his wisdom, and his skill in
the hunt exceeded his wisdom,” chanted
Kuller-kullup, bending forward over the
grave and listening for the dead man’s
answer. His words in the council were
heeded; and his spears carried death.” And
(Continued on next page.)


*-Every picture j
Veils a Story' -L±-j— LJJ
LJ.J-L OXTH 1
HI %
C
, -6-
JKiwej*
-zwszr
iMl*
w
Makes Rapid
Headway
Add This Fact to Your Store
of Knowledge.
Kidney disease often advances so rapidly that many
a person is firmly in its grasp before aware of its
progress. Prompt attention should be given to the
slightest symptom of kidney disorder. If there is a dull pain in the back, headache, dizzy spells, or a
tired, worn-out feeling, or if the kidney secretions are irregular and attended by pain, procure a good
kidney remedy at once. Sydney people recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Read these
statements: —
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. Chas. Clift, 59 Kellick Street, Waterloo, Sydney,
says: “In common with many others I have nothing but good
to say for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Before, I took
this remedy I was suffering a lot with my back, the pain at
times being almost unbearable. I could not stoop or move
freely and always felt tired and had no energy. The secre-
tions were affected, being thick and cloudy with a red sedi-
ment, and I had dropsical swellings on my legs and ankles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were one day brought under
my notice, so I sent for a bottle. They gave me relief almost
at once, so I persevered with the remedy until I was quite
cured, using in all four bottles.”
Twelve years later, Mrs. Clift says: “I have had no
reason to alter my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. They cured me over twelve years ago, and I am still
well. I always keep them in the house and take a dose now
and then, just as a preventive against any return of my old
complaint.”
TESTIMONY
FROM
SYDNEY.
Mr. Jas. Wilson, 17 Little Buckingham-street, Sydney,
says: “For a long time I suffered torture from backache and
kidney trouble. The pains in my back were very severe, in
fact, so bad at times that I could not attend to my work. The
kidney secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy and
contained a red sediment. I was also subject to dizzy feelings
and could not sleep properly at night. Nothing I took gave
me any permanent relief, but one day when I was feeling
very bad I heard good report of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills, so I bought some and after using seven bottles I was
cured. This remedy not only banished the backache, but
strengthened and toned up my kidneys and improved my gen-
eral health.”
Twelve years later, Mr. Wilson says: “I am still well,
a fact that proves that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills give
lasting benefit.”
e
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors,
15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
again he leaned forward to hear Woora-
muk's reply, pausing for a moment. For,
knowing magic, Kuller-kullup could hear,
where others heard nothing. “He was
strong in battle, and his feet were sure; he
was fleet in the chase, never tiring; he knew
secret watering-places that dried not in dry
years; and where he went all things in-
creased,” Kuller-kullup chanted again.
And the women took up the lamentation
afresh, so that it swelled plaintively over
the camp, and died in the silence of the
bush.
Kuller-kullup lay flat on his stomach now,
one ear on the grave of Wooramuk. After
he had listened so, he sat up, saying Woora-
muk had promised not to haunt the tribe
if his death were avenged. But Wooramuk
had not said the name of his slayer. “Who,
then, has stricken this Lead man of our
tribe?” Kuller-kullup asked them. And,
hearing, the women brought firesticks, for
they had a part in the pinya council, which
traces the magic and selects the pinya , or
avengers.
“It is Achilpa, of the Ingwaburra,” Wea-
ban declared; for Weeban and Achilpa were
bitter enemies. But his voice was drowned
by the cries of other men, each naming his
enemy.
“No, it is Ukgnulia,” they cried. “Pelung
has done this; it is Turumbol, of the tribe
of the Little Sleeping Waters; the magic
came from the east, look to the east!” And
their voices made a babel of sound, and the
hoarse, discordant shoutings startled the
birds afresh, and they fled, shrieking, deep
into the bush.
But Ivadlinganki heard one voice among
them naming Billi-billari, and she was
afraid, for Billi-billari was an enemy of
Kuller-kullup. She listened, and heard it
again. “Billi-billari, Kuller-kullup. Billi-
billari it was who did this evil magic, for he
has seen Kootcliee.” And Ivadlinganki saw
it Avas Mulligo who called, and lie looked
at her over the heads of the others strangely.
Kuller-kullup heard, too, and lie caught
up the name; and others joined him. And
when the pinya left at sunrise it turned to-
ward the east, where Billi-billari’s tribe
lived. Ivadlinganki knew its mission, and
she wailed her sorrow and grief on Woora-
muk’s grave. And her laments gave strength
to the hearts of the pinya men as they strode
through the bush to appease Wooramuk’s
spirit with the kidney-fat of his slayer.
* * * *
Kuller-kullup himself led the pinya, and
they walked fast, very silently. Yenna,
whose spear was surest in the tribe now
Wooramuk was dead, followed Kuller-kul-
lup ; and near him marched Weeban; and
Warrup, whose beard fell over his broad
chest, was there, too. For Warrup was the
strongest man among them all.
Wyenyeanine spoke sometimes to Mulligo,
for both were friends of Wooramuk; but
they did not mention his name, for one does
not mention the name of one’s dead relatives
of friends, or their spirits believe you are
calling.
There were others there also, young men
Avho had never been in a pinya before; and
because of this, they, too, were silent for
the most part.
So they travelled through the bush to the
cast. Soon the sun that was behind them
cast long, threatening shadows; and when
Kuller-kullup saw the shadows dancing on
ahead he called to the young men and
showed them how their spirits were leading
them on to find the slayer of Wooramuk.
Kuller-kullup told them he could see the
spirit of Wooramuk there, too; and he
pointed it out to them; but knowing no
magic, the young men could not see.
At night they camped beside a small river.
Kuller-kullup told them the river ran near
Billi-billari’s camp, and he spoke with
Quatcha and Pallian, the spirits of the
water, asking them not to warn Billi-billari’s
spirit that the pinya was coming.
Overhead Ivootchee, the spirit of evil,
whispered to the trees. And fearing Koot-
chee would warn Billi-billari, Kuller-kullup
burned each tree a little with his firestick,
and the whisper in the trees passed away to
the west. Kuller-kullup was wise, and his
cunning was very great.
The tiny, intimate noises of the bush stir-
ring to wakefulness were all about when the
pinya encircled Billi-billari’s camp. The
young men smelt the fresh, wet smell of
a new day before it is tired by the heat
of the sun; and the blood thrilled in their
veins.
A dog snuffled in one of the miams, and
commenced to bark furiously. The camp
stirred, but was still again at the blood-call
of Kuller-kullup : “Koor-re-koor ! Blood for
blood.” For they knew then someone in the
tribe had made evil magic and must die.
The pinya made a melancholy, moaning
sound moving slowly toward the miam where
Billi-billari crouched afraid. The bush took
up Kuller-kullup’s cry and echoed it through
the quiet morning. And. Kootchee whispered
it to the trees; and the trees carried it
away to the west, where Kadlinganki
mourned on the grave of her ertwa.
“Come forth, Billi-billari. We will pro-
tect you,” Wyenyeanine called, standing
with raised spear before the miam. Billi-
billari knew in his heart these words were
false ; but this is the custom of the pinya.
He rose and stood, half-stooping, in the
miam door. And as he straightened three
spears were in his breast.
It was long after sunset when the pinya
reached the new camp the tribe had made.
Even the young men knew there would be a
new camp, for a tribe never stays where one
of its number has died. Two miles to the
westward a tiny glow in the darkness showed
where Wooramuk’s grave was, for it was
Kadlinganki’s duty to keep alight a fire to
warm his spirit until it was avenged and
could rest.
Quietly the pinya approached to let Woo-
ramuk know he was avenged; and across
the hills just tipped by the blood-red moon
Kadlinganki’s wailing came to them, for she
knew her Billi-billari was dead; and she
knew also she had not deceived Anjea,
guardian of the spirit-places, and a child
spirit had entered her.
She saw that which was wrapped round
the spears of Kuller-kullup and Wyenyea-
ninc, and she knew it was the kidney-fat
of Billi-billari. whose magic had slain Woo-
ramuk. her ertwa. For such is the custotn
of the pinya. Mulligo, who had seen her
passing the spirit-ground, was there, and his
spear, too, was decorated; and he looked at
her, strangely, triumphant.
And as the pinya turned back to the
camp the glow of fire on Wooramuk's grave
died away, for his spirit did not need it noAv.
The desolate voice of Ivadlinganki followed
the pinya over the hill as she mourned her
dead.
D.W. BALLEY.
Snowy.
SNOWY, this is Mother,” said Lil, and
Snowy said, “Pleasedtermeetcher.”
He had been a bit afraid of some-
thing of this kind. To Snowy and some other
men a maintenance order is one of Life’s
great disasters. For one thing it lasts such
a long time.
He had seen Lil and her mother when
they were far off the appointed meet at St.
Kilda beach, but he had been afraid to run
away. As in many other cases the cowardice
that prevents men from running away is
transmuted into courage that makes them
stand firm. He sat firm during and after the
introduction, and Lil’s mother sat close by
at his right.
“Fine night,” said Lil’s mother.
Snowy waited for quite a while and then he
said it was.
This observation opened the flood-gates
for Lil’s mother.
“I’v.e been wanting to see you, Snowy,”
she said, “because Lil told me what a nice
chap you was. You know that time when
you was goin’ to take her to Fern Tree
Gully and dinner, and didn’t only have the
money to take her to Croydon and sand-
wiches? She said to me that morning, ‘I
can trust Snowy—he’s all right.’”
“It was me that was all right,” said
Snowy.
“And,” she said, “I trusted her to you.
She is my only child. Oh, Snowy, you can’t
understand the feelings of a parent.”
Snowy remembered the order made in the
police court and thought that he could.
There wa3 an oppressive silence, and Lil’s
mother presently broke it. “You know that
Lil loves you badly,” she said.
Snowy pondered for some moments and
then generously said, “Too right.”
“Lil told me you asked her to marry you
on Saturday week,” said the mother.
He gave guarded assent. “She said I was
going to marry her, but I didn’t say I
would.”
“Oh, but she told me that you would. She
said you was such a gentleman.”
“That’s not what she said to me,” pro-
tested Snowy.
“But that’s what she meant,” said the
anxious mother. “Of course when you marry
her on Saturday week you’ll have to buy
the ring and the blankets. But she’s got
the sheets and her things in the glory box.”
The mother broke an oppressive silence.
“Snowy isn’t your real name, is it? Lil
didn’t tell me any other name you had ; she
said you hadn’t told her any. But you know
if you don’t get married in your right name
it isn’t a proper marriage.”
Snowy thought he saw the path of deliver-
ance and stepped out upon it gladly. J - j
name,” he said, “is Walter Brooks.
It may have been so, but if it was t
must. have been some error in the rec
of the police court. ,
“Well, Mr. Brooks,” she said, I m giau-
termeetclier. Lil always said you was a
real gentleman. I’ve told Father Shanahan
that it will be on Saturday week at three
o'clock.” , „ . ,
“I don’t know about Saturday week, said
Snowy. “We sometimes have a lot of over-
time on Saturday. And even if we don t I
wouldn’t want to get married m me own
time. We could wait till our next strike.
“It will have to be Saturday week be-
cause I fixed it at that,” said Lil s mother,
sticking to the main theme. .
“I don’t know that I ought to get married
at all,” said Mr. Brooks feebly. “You see
there’s me old mother.”
“First I’ve heard of her,” said the mother
of Lil.
“Nor me either,” said Lil.
“She’s up in Ballarat,” said Mr. Brooks.
“Well, let ’er stop there,” said Lil’s mother.
“I s’pose she will,” said Mr. Brooks re-
signedly. , ,
“But look, Lil,” said Mr. Brooks after
a long pause, “what about the bloke I saw
yer with at Brighton?”
“Well,” said Lil with hastily assumed but
very virtuous indignation, “you was with
another girl, wasn’t you?”
It seemed likely that he had been, for his
silence made confession, but his speech made
no avoidance.
“I ain’t what you might call in regular
work,” said Mr. Brooks.
“Oh, but you will be when you are mar-
ried,” said Lil’s mother. “Lil’ll see to that;
she’ll help you.”
“I drink something dreadful,” said Mr.
Brooks, seizing a plank in the shipwreck.
“Ini’s father did, too, before he married,”
said the widow. “But I cured him. lie was
a very sober man for years afore he died.”
“It’s got a terrible hold of me,” said Mr.
Brooks. “Nobody would be safe with me
when I’m drinking. Lil wouldn’t be safe
in the house with me. I’ll tell you that for
sure.”
“It’ll be all right,” said the widow. “I’m
coming to live with you and Lil.”
W. BLACKET.
When I Am Old.
My garrulous old age I would attune
To the soft music of an evening moon,
„ , , ~
t° the sighs the flowers breathe when they
Discolor in their beautiful decay;
So would thought charm the very heart of
mo
’Twould make a song of my garrulity,
w ith the fading flowers in the sweet air
.■ . , . , b
-£■ rc J might sxn g of my departure there,
£ bird within my heart—myself attune
,° t?* e soft music of an evening moon,
. m .°R£ the daisies as the day went by
nightingale might lay him down and die.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


w
WESTIN G HOUSC
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Ag«iu»—mOlMES « CHCItCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
Tl
“ BITUMASTIC ” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic’* Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic ,,, Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
H.
l ... . m .
Si
n
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
KEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMP-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
W AN ¥ ED DISTRIBUTORS
to handle the Sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South
Victoria
/'ales
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B. C., Liebers Fifth Edition
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
The morning shave is never a
trial it you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in. order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
p\l Izr>k Bov IP EVER IM FEEUrffr
3£L.O\N P*R.
£
OR. SUFFER FROM |»4sio-est,oH.
c
TH/vr Tired FeeliM<j,
I TAKE
tieeckm
m
UWEMSrt.
JIVJOU6
3E?NetSt»N.
&
A*s IM SocM
'FiT'Anj welu
fIGAIN.
THERE IS ONLY ONE BEST!
Motor boat enthusiasts demand
the best in marine engine equip-
ment. That is why they use
Kermath Marine Engines. And
that, too. is the reason why over
70% of the leading boat-builders
of the world install Kermath
Marine Engines—“A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
I
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
1
HALL BROS., LTD.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Mifjon’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Marine
Engines
e
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich.
U. S. A.
Cable Addrew
Kermath
w
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort .Macquarie at 10.15 a.in. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
lares: All-day. 2/6: Half-day. 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
86!7. « n™,. 1/6 ' «• !Tdn . T p„ rl „, ua.
s®
oof!
,s
s e '
*’ .•***<4s
s S^ 4
,* * ..•••" ;.-> sfcr«£>
..••• .•••>/V'S*
V' ..•• ..•••


TO MAKE A GOOD AUSTRALIAN FENCE
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed Even, Reliable and Regular. Well
Galvanised, Full Weight and runs out Straight and Flat.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO SUIT AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
FROM “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL.
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
PIG iron
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
e
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
(Continued)
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING
BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT
NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
THE CELEBRATED “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL
is used in the production of i
“WAR AT AH” FENCING WIRE
The Finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world. Will stand the severest straining test—always
even and reliable in Quality.
“WARATAH 8.H.P.” STAR-SHAPED STEEL FENCE POSTS
These posts mark an entirely new development in steel fencing. They are extraordinarily riVid £ c j .1 . * . Tl _ , ,
ljj • *.i i l f. i S Ayr i . ar f extraorainaril y ngia are fireproof and weather-resistant. They obtain a good
hold m either hard or soft soil. Made m sft. and sft. 6in. lengths. (Special lengths can be supplied.)
WHEN BUYING, ALWAYS ASK FOR “WARATAH”
Every coil carries the “Warafah” identification disc.
BRAND
