

ady for ij
r Kodak
/
■ mm
CRUniC
W'4
-^SSJ/iEsl
m.
u
m
i
m
: ;
M
mm,
ttfj
New Pocket Kodaks
The new Pocket Kodaks
(illustrated above ) are popu-
lar models. Prices range
from 54/6 —and there are
six compact models from
which to choose. You’ll see
these favorites everywhere
at Easter, clicking happy
picture stories. The No. 1
model makes pictures 2\ x
3i in., the No. la 2ix4 \in.
A Kodak or Brownie goes naturally with holiday-making.
It brings with it the pleasure and interest of picture-making
—more than that, it enables you to catch and keep the
things you enjoyed most of all—to keep them for the days
later on.
Make the most of Easter by taking a Kodak with you!
Kodaks from 27/6; Brownies from 11/2. Ask for Catalogue .
Vest Pocket Kodak
Carry a V.P.K. and you
will always be ready for
the unexpected picture —
you can take it with you
everywhere—“wear it like a
watch.” Size of photograph,
1| x 2i in. Price 27/6.
Of All Kodak Dealers and
KODAK
v>
tralasia)
LTD.
379 George Street and
108 Market Street, Sydney.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane;
> and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street,
and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Hay Street, Perth.
?~ hve J* j t r ee ‘ > Too T, oomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rod
The Kodak Corner, corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington,
Z -
The Bulletin
ANOTHER “TWIN-BED” STORY—"THE HEART OF A WIFE.”
Vol. 49.—N0. 2509.
Wednesday, March 14, 1928.
Price 6d.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ManceJMpgiig 1
This Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name 1
My Address
O_YSAGHT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
t
Queen Anne'Shape
Where can I buy beautiful china ?
In the shop that sells Shelley China, is the answer. A
Shelley Coffee Set has the rare purity of colour that made
Staffordshire china world-famous. The Shelley Cups
of beautiful form-flight, thin, elegant, strong—are a
pleasure to use; and every hostess loves a Shelley set for
the modest splendour that it imparts to Afternoon Tea.
As\ to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie AttweU and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley jelly Moulds — all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: —T. W HEATH
& CO., LTD., lit CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelieq on each piece of China
pus
*o*
1h e
I,
I gp
% fc
y
Per
SUNBEAM fame is world wide. Time and again
Sunbeam efficiency has upheld British prestige
on Land, Sea and in the Air, just as it has
brought lasting satisfaction to innumerable motorists.
For overseas markets the 16-h.p., 20-h.p. and
25-h.p. models are specially recommended. They
are being shipped to and are giving satisfaction in
every part of the world.
For export, all Sunbeam Cars have standard
track, a ground clearance of 9" at the lowest point,
special springing and a larger radiator with fan to
ensure perfect riding and adequate cooling under all
conditions.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 205-207 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRAL MOTORS, LTD., Comer Hay and Pier Streets, Perth; and Queen Victoria
Street, Fremantle.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MANUFACTURERS:
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
SPECIAL EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l. j
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO.” London. /
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
ft
1*
a
m
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price 1/-
The Great Insect Destroyer-*
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
t«
The Red Page
“The Bulletin” £1700 Competition
The Bulletin realises that the time has
come when something should be done for
the long story and the long-story writer.
It therefore announces a competition for a
full-length novel with prizes so substantial
that it believes the very best of which
Australia is capable will be forthcoming. A
minimum of £l7OO will be distributed over
a period of three years.
The first competition will close on June
30, 1928, at The Bulletin office, 214
George-street, Sydney.
Prizes: First, £500; Second, £125; Third,
£75. Further competitions will close in
1929 and 1930, the prizes for which will be
not less than £5OO oach competition.
The prize stories are to be available for
publication serially in The Bulletin or
the Woman’s Mirror; but apart from that
the copyright of every story will be reserved
to the writer, to whom all profits on the
publication of the story in book-form will
belong. It is expected that, as the result of
winning the competition, the prize stories
will have a very large sale in Australia and
Great Britain. Cinema and dramatic rights
also will belong absolutely to the writer.
Competitors must be Australian-born or
bona fide resident in Australia. (Australia,
far the purposes of this paragraph, includes
lev Zealand and the Southern Pacific.)
Every story for competition must be sub-
d under a nom de plume; and the name
ilia address of the writer, with the nom de
plume, must accompany it in a sealed
envelope, which will not be opened until
after the stories have been judged. Stories
submitted for competition must not have
been previously published.
No restriction has been placed upon the
location or style of novels. While typed
MSS. would be preferred, no objection will
be taken to MSS. written in a clear and
legible hand.
All* MSS. that do not gain a place will
be returned to their authors after the judges’
decision is made.
Competitors whose entries do not gain a
prize, but whose work is considered suitable
for serial publication in The Bulletin or
Woman’s Mirror, will be notified to that
effect. But no entries will be retained for
that purpose without the permission of the
author; and the price to be paid for such
serial publication will be fixed by negotia-
tion.
Plain English
For the honor of the language of Defoe
and Swift, of Stevenson and Newman, and
of our own Henry Lawson, may I protest
against the feeble stuff which now passes
as good prose? I mean these verbless sen-
tences, these phrases trailing away into dots
or collapsing in a dash. It is surely a dead
language that relies upon dots and dashes
for meaning, and a weak thought that can-
not be expanded into a balanced sentence.
The authors afflicted with this disease are,
unfortunately, chronic cases, and so mis-
guided that they believe their malady to be
their greatest charm.
Then there is this modern prettiness, and
this sickly, sentimental hugging of the fine
phrase. Michael Arlen is one of the worst
cases, and another bad one is Donn Byrne,
for whom St. John Adcock recently prophe-
sied a place amongst the gods of Grub-street,
and whose style has captured the reviewers.
He begins “Hangman’s House” with a phrase
like this: “Now was come the miracle of
the Irish June.” A very r pretty phrase, for-
sooth, and one not to be let go. So it
appears again, after a page of lush writing:
“Now was come the miracle,” etc. And
later still, it makes a third entry, a touch-
ing close to the chapter. This wretched
trickery is acclaimed as “wild magic,”
“wizardry”!
In our own magazines we find similar
diseased prose. There are the ladies who
talk in this strain: “Oh the beauty of her
—oh her lissomeness that was like to a
blossoming tree!” One expects that kind
of thing in a callow verse writer and one
hopes to see the sufferer grow out of it.
Keats is forgiven the “dewiness,” “mossi-
ness,” “smotherings” and “flutterings” of
his “Sleep and Poetry” stage because he
later came to write
Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness.
Why can’t they leave the abstract nouns
alone? No prose style can grow to perfect
stature with this kind of jelly in place of
bone.
Cleverness is another thing our writers
are afflicted with. Dr. Ellery’s article in a
recent R.P. (8/2/’2B), entitled “Learned Sock
and Gaudy Garter,” is a good example.
Imagery like this is somehow reminiscent of
cubist pictures and the movements of Felix
the Cat on the Cartoon Films.
Strolling among the daisies or performing
acrobatics of imagery won’t take you far.
From Defoe to Henry Lawson the plain
highway of style has been found the surest
path to immortality. These men were not
to be tempted from their road by pretty
byways, nor did they waste time doing
stunts.
Five or six years ago Nettie Palmer was
a guegt at a Literary Society evening at
the Melbourne Uni. Club House. The
cleverest undergrads were reading enthusi-
astic papers on Masefield. Mrs. Palmer
listened attentively, and afterwards gave
her views in a few decisive sentences. First
she objected to the excessive use of the
word “beauty,” secondly to the tendency
to which such excess pointed. I shall never
forget the looks of pained surprise. It was
as though a heretic had blasphemed in a
company of ecstatic worshippers. Dr. Ellery
used to be a star performer about that
same period, and the undergrads, openly
or secretly, envied him his luscious style.
His muse has grown crotchetty since then
adopted horn-rimmed spectacles, instead oi
leaping wildly over the fields of fancy, as
she used.
“Now was come the miracle of the Irish
June.” From a graceful style and acrobatic
imagery, good Lord deliver me; for things
have come to such a pass that it is as hard
to write plain English as to walk straight
through a crowd of people doing the Char-
leston. *
LUCILLE M. BLOINK.
The Misconstruction of History
Robespierre’s Rise and Fall (Hutchinson;
Angus and Robertson) is a perfect example
of what we may call the misconstruction or
the inadvertent distortion of history.
We are told that the book is not a life
of Robespierre, but “an attempt to fathom
the psychological process of his mysterious
mind.” The personality that dominated
the Terror, the mind that conceived and
held to some line of action in that hysteri-
cal shambles, should be worth the closest
psychological analysis. The figure of Robes-
pierre is so heroic, good or evil, that even
a learned royalist could treat the subject
ex cathedra and show us something of the
figure’s psychological pattern.
But Robespierre ’is not in this book. The
vast range of the references, the evidence
of tireless research and of sound criticism,
the clear, easy style which puts so much
life into poor old Maurice Duplay and
which a dull translation cannot wholly
obliterate—all these put no life at all into
Robespierre, because he is not here. The
book is a mockery, exposing its own fallacy
as any Hamlet without the Prince of
Denmark must expose ft.
If Robespierre was the shambling, pur-
poseless megalomaniac M. Lenotre would
have us see, what becomes of the passionate
devotion of his adherents, of Mirabeau’s
faith in him, of the wild clinging of the
bewildered people of France to their Incor-
ruptible? Intent upon his belittling of this
ambitious muddler, M. Lenotre cannot bear
to spoil his picture by making Robespierre
even a tyrant ruling and achieving by
terror; and that destroys the last of our
confidence.
Robespierre was conceivably the embodi-
ment of insane, bloodthirsty evil; he was
conceivably the embodiment of all patriotic
good, as the extreme socialist thinks him;
but he could not, in plain sense and the
situation in which he found himself, have
been the shadowy crawler, the vain, de-
ficient nothing that Carlyle and this book
make him seem to be. This is not an
artistic objection to a Hamlet without its
Prince, though that, too, could be argued
if there were space; it is a commonsense
unliterary rejection of a report, that will
not hold water. The thing is as full of
holes as a sketch of Napoleon as a lucky
man who never knew his own mind would
be.
Most men who are not sedentary are
vain. They are the men of action, the
actors who know the value of appearance
and are created vain that they shall get its
full value in making their effects before
they start to work. Robespierre was vain,
as Benvenuto Cellini and Father Bernard
Vaughan were vain, and Kitchener and
Peter the Hermit and any subaltern who
dies in agony at his job in a beautifully
cut uniform and trimmmings.
If a man of action, of power and per-
sonality happens to have had a father
who cleared out and left his family to
scratch along, it is likely that this vanity
will turn inwards and feed on itself. If
the children have eventually to be fed,
clothed and educated by the charity of
relations—French small-town relations, the
uttermost idiotic sink of snobbery—-the
vanity will boil unseen and unheard. It
will work like a nigger for scholarships;
win them, and keep on working in silence
and patched clothes, sometimes hungry.
Called to the Bar in the small town that
knows all the “disgraceful” circumstances,
the ingrowing vanity will suffer endless tor-
ture in the small town’s determination to
keep it at its charity-taking level; few
briefs and meagre, “to encourage,” will be
its portion.
Trodden down, like the people of France,
conscious of power but tied hand and foot
(Continued on page 5.)


WHEN IN SYDNEY DO NOT FAIL TO VISIT
Anthony Horderns.
Plan your Easter Trip Now!
Compact Travel Requisites
Fibre Suit Cases
Strong Fibre Suit Cases. Light in
weight, yet very durable. Two metal
frames. Lined throughout. Inexpen-
sive, but will give excellent service.
Size, in.. 20. 22. 24. 26. 28.
Each .. 6/11 7/6 8/3 8/9 9/6
Vulcanised Fibre Cases
Strong Vulcanised Fibre Suit Cases.
Superior locks, tastefully lined through-
out—
Size, in.. 20. 22. 24. 26. 28.
Each .. 16/6 18/- 19/6 21/- 23/-
Wool Travelling Rugs
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs, in a wide range of
newest shades and designs. Well woven, neat in
appearance. Fringed ends. Such high quality is
rarely offered at this price. Size 60
72 inches. Each
21 1-
Superior quality, beautiful designs and colors. The
high-grade wool used gives a soft, fluffy _ .
finish. Size 60 xBO inches. Each .... O\J/“
Merino Wool Rugs
Merino Wool Rugs, in a wide assortment of beauti-
ful color effects. "fTe splendid finish gives a soft,
woolly feel and appearance. Size 60
80 inches. Each
39/6
Tourist Bureau
A branch office of Thos. Cook and
Sons’ Tourist Bureau, with full facili-
ties, is in the Tudor Room. Country
visitors to Sydney will find this branch
very helpful in assisting in tours around
Sydney. Write now for schedule.
Use our Deposit-Purchase System.
Simply leave a deposit on the goods
you require. The goods are then
packed and forwarded to our “D.P.S.
Department, where they are carefully
stored until fully paid for. Pay by
convenient instalments. Select your
goods while in Sydney.
dfg
Military Brush Cases, in
solid Leather Case, con-
taining 2 good brushes,
with ebonised backs.
Each: 17/6, 19/6, 21/-
Real Ebony Backs—
Ea.: 25/-, 27/6,30/-, 35/-
df
The Austral Brush Case,
containing 2 gentlemen’3
Hair Brushes, Comb and
Mirror. A convenient set
when travelling.
Each 19/6, 257-
Others . . . 30/- to 55/-
“Uni
The New Improved
Electric Vacuum Cleaner.
The new improved “Uni” Electric
Vacuum Cleaner is a scientific but
simple machine that lightens the
labor of cleaning. No other
machine at this price has such
mechanical efficiency and perfec-
tion of workmanship. Its operation
is amazingly simple. The nozzle
makes a seal contact with the
rug, lifts it slightly and opens the
pile, extracting the most deeply-
embedded dust and dirt. Weighs
only 1 Solid Cast Aluminium
frame. The “Uni” is fully guaran-
teed. It may be connected to any
electric light or power socket.
Supplied complete with
cleaning attachments jO p 71’7l
for
(Dept. Second Floor. Carriage not paid.)
c3J!
&
V
-
as?
ra
c2>
a
&
5T33
C3J>
gdf
Tan Fibre Hat Boxes,
horseshoe shape. One lock
anti two clips. Neatly
lined.
Strong and durable—
Size, in.. . 14. 16.
Each 17/6 18/9
Superior quality—
Size., 'in.. . 14. 16.
Each 25/- 29/6
PA SSEWCERITO^^^^
Passenger Name Tags.
Made to strap on handle.
Avoids confusion and
delay when travel- j
ling. Each OCl*
!/.©
Solid Leather Suit Cases, made from
genuine Cowhide. Two sliding nozzle
locks. Covered iron frame round body
of case gives added strength to case.
Strongly sewn and riveted; lined imita-
tion leather—
Size, in. . 20. 22. 24. 26. 28.
Each . . 42/- 45/6 50/- 55/- 59/6
Super quality, lined strong cloth—
Size, in. . 20. 22. 24. 26. 28.
Each . . 46/- 50/- 55/- 60/- 65/-
Each .. 58/6 64/6 70/- 76/6 82/6
Lined with Leather—
g
dfg
Week-end Strapped Kit Bags
The Week-end Strapped Kit Bag, with
single handles, capped corners jajid
side locks, straps all round, turn-over
clips.
Quality AX, Genuine Cowhide, capped
corners —
Sizes, in. . ,20. 22. 24. 26.
Each .. . 40/- 44/- 48/6 52/6
Quality BX, as above, plain corners,
all Cowhide—
Sizes, in. . 20. 22. 24. 26.
Each .. . 42/6 46/6 52/- 56/-
Quality CX, Selected Cowhide, with
four strong leather.caps on bottom—
Sizes, in. . 20. 22 . v 24. 26.
Each .. . 48/6 53/6 58/- 63/-
Quality CC, as above, lined Leather:
Sizes, in. . 20. 22. 24. 26.
Each .. . 72/- 78/6 85/- 92/6
njdsng
Fibre Cabin Cases
Cabin Cases, made from strong Fibre,
two strong wooden battens right round
cases, two strong locks, lined throughout.
Size, in 26. 28. 30.
Each 24/- 26/- 28/-
Reliable Cabin Cases
Cabin Cases, made from Vulcanised
Fibre. . Three battens round case, two
best-quality English Lever Locks, lined
throughout, and fitted with lift-out tray.
Size, in.. . 26. 28. 30. 32.
Each . . 45/- 49/6 53/6 57/6
We Pay Carriage on Travel Rugs.
Carriage not paid on Travel Requisites.
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited,
Postal Address: SYDNEY. Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


■
Ft S
%
'Mu
•Hi
m
fi
•t/sflt
2iS£s=
fra
A Distinct New Type
of Small Car
m
(A
'V.
7/
i/tr
pStihXV'Ml
- .
t<. F^
\ j i
■r
■\
Y
m
t
k
%
AK.
fr
n
\YsS
jK.,Ky
%§
PWhtgfM
fN, A
M
AV
3^
@3
No longer does fine car quality
depend on size and weight
df
PRICES
F.O.R. SYDNEY
gdf
SMALL DEPOSITS
EASY TERMS
Complete with four ■ wheel
brakes, 5 balloon tyres, bum-
per bars front and rear,
t ear-vision mirror, automatic
windscreen wiper, thief-preof
lock, petrol guage on dash,.
No small car equals Erskine
in Character, Distinction,
Safety, Comfort, Perform-
ance, Economy and Value.
Tn Studebaker’s Erskine Six —“The Little Aristocrat”--you
-1* sacrifice none of the pleasure, comfort and performance
that were previously associated with big cars at big prices.
The new Erskine Six offers you individual beauty, big car
performance, riding ease and power at small car price and
small car cost of upkeep and operation.
25 and more mdes to the gallon, 11 per cenn grades in top
gear with full load, 5 to 25 miles acceleration in 8a seconds,
60 miles an hour, 1,200 miles to the gallon of oik
J. I. BASHA, of Marrickville, Sydney,
■— says: ■ -
“In five months I have driven my Erskine Six 12,600
miles under all conditions, averaging 28 miles to the
gallon, and I,£ 00 miles to the gallon of oil. So far the
car has not cost me a penny for repairs. It is a truly
marvellous little car ”
Australian and New Zea'and Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia, Limited, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
4i-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street.
Christchurch.
D E BA KE BJS
WEB3S


£)OOK
■pts FORMUUs
pRO<£SSf_S
%
-3
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition a of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered
to the Public?
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH - CENTURY
BOOK OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS
and PROCESSES
Contains over 10,000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especially prepared
for daily use in the home and place of business ; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the city home, as well as on
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume, is
beautifully printed in large, clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventives, Dyes, Filters, Cleaning
Preparations, Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants,
Flavorings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper; to color flowers
artificially ; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof;
to work with metals —aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything
from A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe tlieir success to the manufacture or sale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer—Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book —formulas which men haves
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the
expense of the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have
been impossible to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House (or Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
by this encouraging, infuriating charity,
Robespierre carried on until the chance
came, the chance that led through a sea of
blood to the Terror.
The repression was released, all the
affronts washed out; and apparently (docu-
ments and observers being necessarily few
and biased) the empty vanity had full
play, as M. Lenotre tells us in such per-
suasive detail. One suggests that this is
a misreading of a psychological process,
leading in this case to a misconstruction
of the history of the Terror. The stress
laid upon the inferior action of vanity and
the ignoring of its constructive or “superior”
power have distorted the whole report
beyond reason.
Couldn’t Robespierre have been a rather
rigid man hardened and simplified by suffer-
ing and frustration, and determined, now
that the chance had come, to do his best
without any fear or favor? Repression in
youth may have made this best seem arbi-
trary and raw; certain incidents make this
best look at times like the foulest criminal
indiffei'ence to the rights of man; but Robes-
pierre’s field of action was the downfall
of a nation’s order, and “man” was often all
the thieves in Europe rooting in the debris.
Does the vain, empty muddler advocate,
140 years ago, the State education which is
the very soul of democracy, of the ultimate
greatest good of the greatest number? He
was tricked and beheaded when his job
was only half begun; but, in the little that
we know and the much that we must
imagine, is there really anything to make
him merely this shambler? Indeed, isn’t
he rather the one man in all that night-
mare of vengeance and destruction who
looked like making a clear, quick job of
the reconstruction?
HILARY LOFTING.
Inspirations, Old and New
We have not yet been given the wealth
of praise and description which English
poets lavish upon their flora. Flowers are
not so much a habit in Australia. In the
bush, at least, weather governs the matter.
There are months when Nature is so meagre
with color that hardly a flower may be
seen; there are wide acres which, even in
rainy seasons, are not prolific of flower-life;
and cultivation is keeping down the wild-
flower as it is driving back the song-bird,
the native bear, the ’roo and the ’possum.
But many of our women poets have taken
up the cause of the wildflower in late years
As to love, that other fine spring of
poetry, Marcus Clarke led the way with
his exquisite “Song of Tigilau.” With some
companions, Sin a steals to the beach to
elope with Tigilau, son of Tui Yiti, who
awaits her in his canoe, and with a following
of warriors.
The mooring-poles are left;
The whitening waves are cleft
By the prows of Tui Viti,
By the sharp keels of Tui Viti 1
And
She leaps to meet him;
Her mouth to greet him
Burns at his own.
Away! to the canoes,
To the yoked war-canoes!
Do Samoans kiss? I am not sure about it,
but Marcus Clarke was justified for the
affect the lines convey—the passionate eager-
ness of the young girl aw’aiting her brown
lover, fearful of discovery from behind.
Alice Werner told of the tragedy of
“Bannerman of the Dandenong,” who gave
up his horse to his mate so that the latter
might escape from the bushfire and go to
the girl they both loved. Mabel Forrest
tells of thwarted lovers in “Brigalows,” and
depicts the scene with her usual sympathy
and depth of feeling. Mary Gilmore strikes
a happy note in her “Marri’d,” which every-
one knows and likes. But most of our love-
songs are sad. Lawson, in his “Sliprails
and the Spur,” for instance, in which the
departing lover does not return from his
wandering, is responsible for a blurring of
the lines as we read: —
And often, at the set of sun,
In winter bleak and summer brown,
She’d steal across the little run
And shyly let the sliprails down.
And listen there when darkness shut
The nearer spur in silence deep;
And when they’d call her from the hut,
Steal home and cry herself to sleep.
Poor Mary, waiting for the whistle of her
lover as he rounded the Spur, letting down
the sliprails for him though she had long
ago guessed he would not come back!
Daley has his “Blanchelys”—the name is
music—and Kendall his melodious “Rose
Lorraine”; and L. H. Allen his dainty “Lady
of the Milk-white Throat” and his very
unusual “From a Window” and “The Dark
Room,” which has the distinction of being
written about a wife, not a maid. His work
has abiding beauty because his emotion is
at once revealed and restrained. But our
most passionate love-songs are those of Zora
Cross. To be quite frank, not every woman
feels nearly as deeply as Zora Cross, and
only one in a hundred would confess to such
depth of emotion about a mere man.
Of the sea we do not, naturally enough,
sing as much as do our island ancestors.
Dorothea Mackellar, Myra Morris, Winifred
Shaw show love for ocean descriptions and
an understanding of the people who go down
to the sea in ships. Of the elements, wind
and rain, our songs are many. We have
evidence, too, of the wanderlust that is to
be expected among a people to whom dis-
tance is no object, and our list of pretty
songs for and about children is growing,
growing!
It is natural in a young country that the
bush should figure largely. Whether this
aspect of our literature is interesting to
overseas readers is a matter of conjecture.
But there will always be, for ourselves, a
charm about the eerie majesty of hill and
scrub. Pedants may say what they will,
bookworms sneer at the mention of stock-
whip and saddle, but a section of us will
vow that poetry can still be poetry if a
writer dares to include in a stanza the fiv e
letters of the word that stands for the
bushman’s means of locomotion and his
chief joy and entertainment. Even in a
day when the car threatens to oust the horse
from all save the roughest of paths, outback
a horse is still a horse, and there are
farmers and graziers who, like the hunts-
men of England, prefer the animal to the
machine. And there is nothing more grace-
ful than the motion of- a horse with a good
rider upon him. After seeing Mrs. Rix
Nicholas’s picture of an Australian half-
turned in his saddle, gazing with narrowed
eyes across space, one realises that poetry
can be caught up with a brush and set
down in color. Every horselover who also
loves poetry knows what music there is in
the rhythm of hooves, what color in the play
of light upon a shining hide, what poetry
in every stride!
As for our birds, they have been an in-
spiration from the beginning, as bird-life is
for every poet in every land. Dora Wilcox
states that our bell-bird outdoes the song-
ster rendered immortal by Keats: —
Ah! what English nightingale,
Heal'd in the stillness of a summer eve
From out the shadow of historic elms,
Sings sweeter than our bell-bird of the bush?
Wild swans are favorites. Paterson’s “Black
Swans” is well-known, and a later singer
has written in particular about their cry.
Lucy Dunster in a little poem, “Wild
Swans,” writes:—
One wild cry, and a throb in the air,
A waft as of feathers falling;
Was it a demon out of the dark
Or was it a wild swan calling ?
And Emily Coungeau repeatedly mentions
pigeon, pheasant, cockatoo, brolga—she is
a birdlover in a practical way, too, for her
home at Bribie Island is a sanctuary.
But the greatest inspiration for the Aus-
tralian is the bush. And as a special part
of the bush, as it were, there is the West.
Ogilvie, Quinn, Lawson, Paterson sing of
it, and new poems keep cropping up. Here
is a fine scrap from “Solace” in Galmahra,
the magazine of Brisbane University. The
poet is Colin Bingham:—
Sunlight kissing the homestead shutters,
A sharp axe flashing to a gidyea log,
Busy ducks paddling in black soil gutters,
And the lazy yawning of a small lean dog.
Lure of mirage in open spaces,
Thronging sheep by the watercourses,
Stockmen leaning with wind-burnt faces
In the shade of their drowsy horses.
Australia has the makings of many fine
cities which will be the inspiration of poets
yet to come; but the charm of the bush
will, by the grace of our poets, abide through
the centuries.
E. M. ENGLAND.
A Satchel of Books
Great Short Novels of the World (Heine-
mann). This volume supplements a previ-
ous collection of “Great Short Stories,’ and
the interest of the collection is added to by
introductory notes.
The Black Journey, by Georges-Marie
Haardt and Louis Audouin-DubreUil
(Geoffrey Bles). The story of the Citroen
expedition through the heart of Africa.
Liberally illustrated.
or Curate Pale, by Irving Bell (St.
Catherine Press). The mother of 11 children
should know what is the best form of read-
ing entertainment for young persons, and
she provides it in this bright little story for
the girls’ bookshelf.
Wilson’s Street Directory. A thoroughly
useful guide to the streets of Sydney and
its suburbs, brought up to date; it now
includes no fewer than 135 maps, and to
meet travellers’ needs a special guide to the
Blue Mountains has been included.
What I Believe (Benn). Herein three
writers present personal statements of re-
ligious belief: “I Believe in God,” by Maude
Royden; “The Belief of Catholics,” by
Father Ronald Knox; and “Religion With-
out Revelation,” by Professor Julian Huxley.
The Autobiography of Judas Iscariot, by
Alfred Tressider Sheppard (Allen and Un-
win). An interesting and ingeniously con-
ceived book, written in an earnest spirit that
avoids the melodrama to which obviously the
subject lends itself, and reads into the
character of the betrayer elements not wholly
evil.
The Ringtailed Rannyhaus, by Walt
Coburn (Century Co.; Dymock’s). This,
according to its cover, is “a red-blooded story
of the glamorous days of the old-time West.”
Readers who wallow in the doings of wild
bad men, but rejoice in the heroism of the
tender-foot, will find all they want in its
pages.
Food and Health, by A. B. Callow
(Oxford Press). One of “The World’s
Manuals” series. Diet, the author im-
presses on her readers, is important, because
“the various substances we eat do not all
serve the same purpose in the body, and
the science of diet has to show how each
purpose can be fulfilled.” What the actor
who altered his diet to suit his part arrived
at by experience is here elaborated into a
science, dealing with the different values of
various foods.
In a Persian Oilfield, by J. W. William-
son (Benn). The author trfkes the work of
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. to illustrate the
application of science to industrial develop-
ment. In the course of a few years a wil-
derness has been converted into a settled
area, with roads, railway, electric light and
power, pure water supply and excellent hous-
ing. In Abadan, one of the two shipping
ports, is now a population of 50,000 souls.
Its loading jetties thrust out into the deep
water of the Shatt el Arab, whither come
and go “the great tankers of a mighty fleet.”
A very illuminating book, amply illustrated.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Humane: But you might be a great deal
better off if your wages were much lower. Our great
trouble is that we are pushing up the cost of living
so high that (1) we are losing our markets for
exports, and (2) foreign makers can knock our manu-
factures out unless they are protected by a Hima-
layan tariff... .W.1.K.: (1) Yes, you must pay if it
i:i a limited liability co. (2) Too early yet to say
D.H.G.: See last week’s “Wild Cat” column
5.1. W.: MS. of unaccepted paragraphs cannot be
returned. Other MS. is returned if stamps are sent
with it —every care but no responsibility taken....
P.J.A.: Thanks, glad to hear if you will give three
times more space between your lines. .. .A.G.: Good
material in “Box” made poor use of W.G.B. :
An appeal in it; but it scarcely lives. .. .S.M.
(Sheffield) : Climax calls for a little more attention.
F.R.H.: Thank you; but you miss the writer’s
meaning of the word “tax” and your pen is made
of lead A.A.: Value of imports mentioned, 1926-
27 figures: Cars and chassis, £14,176,000 ; tobacco
£2,702,000; fish and fish products, £1,762,000 ;
preserved fruits and vegetables, £241,300. .. .T.H.0.:
Your translation from the Spanish makes us think
more of our own writers. Anyway, we want original
matter Julius M.: Try a boys’ paper Marian
W.: “Night” won’t see daylight G.8.P.: The
verse was not good enough.. . .Peter P.: Too much
rough geology; too little poetry... .Phyl M.: Its
queer changes dazed us.... Abby S.: The country
townies who did that sort of thing are not con-
vincing Dan W.: Shallow J.8.T.: The row
of the motor-car is too orthodox... .Inez: Labored
humor 5.0.5.5. A.: Not eyen all those initials
could carry it through, although we liked “the sounds
of tender g100m”.... Bonnie N.: Very fair as far
as construction goes, but not sufficient content. Keep
on Q.N.: Might suit Mikror ; has been sent on.
. ...F.S.G.: Orthodox picture.. ..ICE.: Not nearly a
story... .D.McM.: “Remembrance” deserves to be
forgotten... .D.H.E.: Duly destroyed... .D.P.D.: Your
“whithers.” are rung in too often.... Harold S.:
Dull narrative M.W.R.: But you didn’t tell us
what sort of shirts he wore and what he had for
breakfast. You did weary us with much less-
important details... .Arthur It.: Lacks complete-
ness S.J.: Moule, J., was a member of the 1880
Australian XI. He has never been a Federal member,
though ho stood for the Senate in 1901.... V.1.D.:
Affected verse John P.: Nearly Joyce M.:
The Bulletin pays for everything used ; but you’ll
have to do better.... 11. J.: Last stanza spoils its
chance Boulder C.: Premier Collier will oppose
the abolition of State Agents-General, will he? Then
the less Collier he Tarcoola: Streets in the uni-
versity area at Canberra are to be named ofter
Lawson, Kendall, Gordon, Marcus Clarke, Essex
Evans, Farrell, Kingsley and “Boldrewood.” Pre-
sumably the list is incomplete R.A.: “Ode to the
Sweeper” too dusty Lorna G.: “Queen of Night”
verse is moonshine. .. .J.M.G.: Don’t keep the girl
out until “the morning star grows pale” for our
sake W.O’C.: Beliefs such as that “relief” and
“deep” rhyme are fatal P.8.M.: “Her manners
were almost childless” is one of its quaint phrases.
.... P.F.F.: Thrilling enough, but the situations are
forced... .P.J.8.: “Fairy Barque” sank under a
weight of worn-out properties. The article on Art
is more on the lines of a sermon than a critical
utterance,.. .William C.: “Archetype” has merits,
but it needs a better last stanza, and there is
excess of adjectives in others.... Ben S.: Prose
unneatly chopped into merely approximate verse-
lengths i’S.N.S.: If you feel that wild desire to
wander, take a tram somewhere.... Myia E.: Im-
mature.... Lawrence D.: Wouldn’t suit us.... Led:
The accountant’s office is the only place where the
ghost is allowed to walk in The Bulletin ....
L. : Weak, but not hopeless... .J. 8.: Your surf
calls in vain, even although it does cry “Coo-ee!”
. ...F.H.L.: Not quite up.... Saidee M.: Won’t do.
....Chas H.: Would have liked to use the thing;
lack of space settled it. ...Don H. E.: Your pug.
was counted out after a close fight... .Nina L.: Neat,
but hardly enough point.... J.A.H.: It lacks sincerity.
. ...A.W.D.: Too long for its matter.... T.C.: No
particular entertainment in it... .E.J.S.: Misses....
M. : It’s original, all right; but it isn’t poetry.
.. . .T.E.O’D.: “Cobbler” missed by a narrow margin.
. ...R.C.: “The Image” shows the clay of its manu-
facture too badly... .N.S.M.: That’s a trick that has
been played so often it wants some new angle....
E.J.Iv.: Hough verse... .J.W.: Sonnet went on lame
feet in the last couple of lines.... S.J. (Mount
Wilson) : Chased the wild dog off the premises i...
L.M.S.: Original idea? No! You’re only one of the
multitude that sits out in the moonlight and writes
rotten verse about it.. . .D.E.M.: We changed the
v0we1.... Les G.: Tell “the Muse that me inspired”
that it’s a fraud. It’s no more a muse than the family
c0w.... J.A.M.: Fearsomely commonplace.... C.A.L.:
“Jim” is a wash-out. Home, James!... .A.1t.8.:
Why not make up your mind if it’s “she” or “you” ?
Too long, anyway... .W.H.H.: Good story; but the
fear of Pietro could be worked up with half that
long-winded conversation.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.U.: Study hard and break away from juvenile
jokes before trying again... .R.W.P.: Can’t agree
that the gags are funny or the drawings well done....
T.L.: Trust you won’t take it to heart when it
arrives back... .T.PI.: Sometimes the gag is the
reason; sometimes the sketch; sometimes both....
L. : That joke was mouldy when ballooning was
all the rage... . A.H.C.: Very much better than the
majority of first attempts, but you have a long way
to go 5.11.E.M.: No promise in your work....
M. : Did not gain a second 100k....D.P. and
0.L.M.: Failed in the drawing... .E.H.L.: Study of
child alone no use here, though it might make a
nice present. .. .A.E.K.: For a start, re-examine the
arms and legs of the fellow standing. .. .C.K.:
Scratches, and poor scratches at that. . . .U.T.D.:
They resemble a knitted jacket that has become loose
and frayed.... S.: You’ll have to learn to draw
before you begin to leave things out.. . . J.J.M.A.:
Not good enough.


g
%
n
Our registered Great Western
Sparkling Wine label has been
shamefully copied. We warn the
public against spurious imitations.
. : ' ;■
'
':x
m
.
\
, ~
«
i i
-- M®
1' s
»
Gre&t Western
* . ■ i
I Hi
4H
I
mt
Mi l: it I
'
PPP
feiilPt
.*r*. vP a ...I *, * *.:^: i
vf
i§isai
:
Vj
dfg


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2509.
March 14, 1928.
THE TWO-HEADED GIANT.
“In addition to the huge Federal collections, the N.S.W. taxpayer has had to find £26,007,968 for the State revenue during eight months, and that is insufficient to
meet the expenditure by £3,656,088. In other States the taxpayers suffer similarly.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
4i Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 J/s.; (i months, 12s. (id.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months, £1 Ids.; 0
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Ss.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short. Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVhite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-7 9 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I/; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.I/;
E. T. Hole, Holertli Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 1/11/-11 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C. 3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 211 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulcvarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 21th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and l/2nd Street, New York City; Ilotaling’s
Neics Agency, 203 West 1/ Ist Street, Neiv York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley Nervs Co., 101/ Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The, New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans. La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 5.1/1) South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 513 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Boole and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 606 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Almaram and Sons, 1/1/ Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros.. Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fiji. — A. Barker. Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 15-19 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) .-—Commonivealth, New Zealand and Fiji:
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere. 20z.. Id.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1928.
RECIPROCAL, TRADE.
The Commonwealth Statistician has just
paraded three battalions of figures dealing
with Australian commerce for the year
1926-27. Save in unimportant details, a
comparison with immediately preceding
years shows that all the progress made has
been in the wrong direction. Comparing
1926-27 with 1925-26, imports increased by
8.6 per cent, and exports decreased by 2.4
per cent. The balance against Australia
increased from £3,075,969 to £19,821,411. Tne
decrease in exports can be put down to
climatic vicissitudes, but the rising tide of
imports reflects intense devotion to the
pawnshop. The cause of inter-Empire trade,
so touchingly extolled by such visitors as
Amery, Horne and others, languishes.
Again comparing 1926-27 with 1925-26, the
proportion of imports from within the
Empire has decreased from 56.5 to 54.6 per
cent.; the United Kingdom’s share has
dropped from 43.4 to 41.2 per cent. On the
other hand the proportion of foreign
imports has risen from 43.5 to 45.4 per
cent., and Uncle Sam’s shipments have
grown from 24.6 to 25.1 per cent, of the
total. On the export side the same story
is repeated, with a lot more liveliness in
the movement. The other countries of the
Empire took only 44.2 per cent, of our
produce, as against 52.8 per cent, the pre-
vious year, and J. Bull’s quota shrank from
41.4 to 33.4 per cent. Foreign nations, many
of which sell us hardly anything, took 55.8
per cent, of our exports, as against 47.2 per
cent, the previous year. The United States
quota moved up from 8.7 to 12.8 per cent.,
but deducting £3,000,000 of good yellow gold
specie shipped in 1925-26 and £10,000,000
shipped in 1926-27, Sam’s purchases have
shrunk from 6.7 per cent, to 5.9 per cent,
of the total—rather ungrateful on the part
of a nation that supplies a good quarter
of our imports.
* * * *
Of course, nobody expects every inter-
national trading account to balance exactly,
but it is a sound commercial rule that
reciprocal trade is more advantageous than
one-sided trade. The only notable attempt
made in recent years to improve inter-
Empire trade, if Mr. Pratten’s present mis-
sion to Maoriland be excepted, was the
treaty with Canada. This was operative in
1926-27, and a slight improvement is shown.
Imports from Canada subject to preferential
concessions increased from £1,843.000 to
£2,561,000, and Canada reciprocated to the
extent of taking 0.81 per cent, of our ex-
ports in place of 0.58 per cent, in 1925-26.
But this result (so far as exports are con-
cerned) seems to have been brought about
more by a temporary falling-off in Can-
adian dairy production than by any in-
creased affection for Australia, and already
Canadian cow-cockies are clamoring for a
duty on our butter, just as their Australian
opposite numbers seek protection against
the Maoriland article. The trouble about
improving this trade—this inter-Empire
trade—is that, with the exception of the
United Kingdom, the various territories are
engaged in very much the same sort of
production, and primary production at that.
Canada alone is a considerable exporter of
manufactured goods.
Nevertheless, the success, however quali-
fied, of the Canadian trade treaty encou-
rages further effort along the same lines.
Neither Canada nor Australia can be ex-
pected to relinquish the Protectionist policy
under which they are building up manu-
facturing industries, but there are a good
many unnecessary barriers impeding trade
among the Dominions. It should not be
necessary for Maoriland to buy its oranges
in Palestine, to take an unimportant but
typical example. Appeals to sentiment are
not of much avail, and the best road seems
to lie in the direction of examining the
present trading accounts of the parties and
discovering what tariff concessions can be
fairly and advantageously made. In certain
cases, such as the occasional Canadian and
Australian need to import butter, and the
almost perennial need of Maoriland to
import wheat, we might substitute for tariff
duties a system of trading under license,
imports being limited to the fair require-
ments of the importing country. A good
deal of friction and ill-feeling might be thus
avoided and the trend of trade away from
the Empire definitely checked.
THE HIGH COST OF “BONDIES.”
Ip “Bondy” Hoare is as candid as he pro-
fessed to be when he said that an emissary
of capitalism had given him a bonus of
id. per ton to keep the Stockton Borehole
mine working, he will not mind explaining
why it costs so much to belong to the union
of which he is president, the Northern
(N.S.W.) Colliery Employees. Unions which
have no use for strikes or Moscow objectives
make a satisfactory financial showing on
fees of 10s. or 12s. per member per year.
In 1925 —the latest year for which the
N.S.W. Registrar of Trade-unions gives
figures—46lo Boot Trade Employees paid
£2501 in fees and had funds amounting to
£9712 at the end of the term. The Tobacco
Workers, 1570 of them, contributed £SS4
and had assets worth £1982. These are
unions in which strikes are practically un-
known. But £85,689 was extracted from
13,264 members of “Bondy’s” union, roughly
£6 9s. 2d. per head. Of this vast sum
£54,715 was distributed in benefits —presum-
ably strike pay for the most part. Man-
agement and other expenses ate up no less
than £29,846. Funds at the end of the
year were retur'od at £43 565.
* 4 ai
If “Bondy” is still in the revealing mood
he might mention how much of the £29,846
went in salaries and allowances to union
officials, and how much of the £43,565 was
represented by shares in the Labor Daily.
He might also be inclined to let in light
on the affairs of the allied Coal and Shale
Employees’ Union, Western District, which
furnished figures even more surprising.
Though this union had only 2051 members
at the end of 1925, £13,258 was extorted in
contributions during the twelvemonth.
Management and other expenses accounted
for £10,479, or just on £5 2s. 6d. per head.
Benefits were calculated at £2365 and funds
remaining at £4190. In this district, as in
Newcastle and thereabouts, the workers in
comparatively peaceful pits would have to-
fork out a great deal more than chronic
strikers. Amazingly high as the average is
compared with what the Tobacco Workers
and the Boot Traders and other steady-
going unions pay, it might in such cases be
doubled, perhaps trebled.
* * * *
Members of unions ought to be protected
against extortion on the part of their
officials. In other countries—Maoriland,
for instance —they are protected; union
fees, as well as union rules, have to be
approved of by the authorities charged with
the administration of trade-union laws and
Government auditors regularly examine the
accounts. If similar safeguards existed in
N. S. Wales, the coalminers would be freed
from the burden of supporting a horde of
useless officials, and there would naturally
be fewer strikes. (One of these outbreaks
in which a rebellious N.S.W. minority was
engaged cost the members of the union
£160,000; this was admitted by a “servant”
of the organisation who was sent up to
Queensland to drag strike levies by means
of police-court proceedings from anti-strike
miners there.) The fear that Bruce-
Latham’s Arbitration Bill may lead to
something of the sort being done for the
protection of unionists’ pockets partlv
accounts for the great rising of union officials
against that very mild measure. The man
who belongs to a coalmining union may be
likened to a shareholder in an unlimited
liability company with poor prospects. But
the analogy is not perfect, for, unlike the
shareholder, the coalmining unionist may be
arbitrarily deprived of all his interest in
the show, and even of his means of liveli-
hood, for working when others are striking,
or refusing to pay levies, or offending the
almighty “executive” in some other way.
And whereas the Equity Court might have
something to say regarding claims made
outside the Articles upon members of an
unlimited liability co., the member of a
union may be called upon to make all sorts
of indirect payments. Who, for instance,
paid “Bondy” the Id. per ton he admits
receiving? Was it the owners, or was it
really the miners? This at any rate is
certain: if the owners hadn’t paid the ha’-
penny a ton to “Bondy,” they would have
had a ha’penny a ton more to pay to some-
body else, assuming that nobody interfered
with their regular working.
THE MAN WITH THE LAMP.
Every wireless set, every telephone, every
tram car, every elevator, almost every one
of the thousands of material things that
help to make modern conditions possible,
owes its origin to the efforts of some man
with a lamp—some selfless truth-seeker.
When you flick down the button of an
electric-light switch you confidently expect
to get immediate electric light; if you don’t
get it, you curse whatever authority it is
that controls electric-lighting and ask your-
self whether you should not change your
political faith. But how many of us ever
think of the man, or series of men, who gave
their lives to the study of electrical pheno-
mena and made electric switches and
domesticated electric-light possible? Modern
society for almost every one of the amenities
that it enjoys has ultimately to thank—if
it thanks anyone—the plodding pundits
whose only god is Truth and to whom the
pursuit of Truth means more than the pur-
suit of profits or golf balls.
We readily, eagerty, grasp every new
morsel of truth that the pundits dig up and
that we think we can use to our profit; but
we do little of the digging. It is in the
great halls of learning that they dig, and
it is from the halls of learning that, we
borrow the essential things that make our
progress possible.
What do we pay back? Very little, most
of us, largely because we do not realise our
obligation. Yet eveiy one of us ought to
pay something, if only for conscience sake
Sydney University—one of the halls of
learning that have great achievements to
their credit —is asking the people of N. S.
Wales for money to enable it to carry on
the .work that it has done so well during its
75 years of life. During that 75 vears it
has produced great men and done great
things. The achievements of the late Pro-
fessor Hunter in spastic paralysis are recog-
nised throughout the scientific world; but if
it had not been for Sydney University and
the facilities it provides for the development
of great minds, whether backed by great
purses or not, Hunter would probably have
remained in obscurity and his work would
never have been done.
In America a request by such a university
for such a small capital sum as £250,000 to
enable it to add to the income of its 46
departments a mere £260 a year each would
probably be laughed at, not because of its
magnitude, but because of its littleness.
Here the request is looked upon by some as
an indication of pedagogic extravagance. At
a meeting, mostly composed of women, in
the Hotel Australia the other day, when
the question was the apportionment of the
proceeds of a picture-show, and at which
the representative of the picture show indi-
cated that his firm would like the University •
to be included, one lady asked in Arctic
accents whether the University con-
sidered itself a charitable institution. Sydney
University was not suing for favors from the
picture-show people, nor did it make any
effort to push its claim to a share in the
spoils. But if it comes to a question of
what is a charitable institution, then there
can be no doubt that Sydney University,
both legally and in fact, is one.
Even its paying students, whose fees dur-
ing recent years have been increased by
50 per cent., do not anything like pay for
the services that are rendered to them;
and besides those paying students there
are many others thanks to the demo-
cratic outlook of our politicians, pay no
fees at all. The University does not com-
plain against these conditions; it realises
that its function is to disseminate as much
knowledge as possible at as little cost as
possible to all those who seek it. But,
quite apart from the dissemination of know-
ledge, it is essential that a university should
be itself a seeker after knowledge and a
cautious analyser of everything: that pur-
ports to be a new phase of knowledge; and,
in order to be that, a university must have
resources at its disposal sufficient to en-
able it to carry on independent research-
work of a thoroughly reliable kind. Be-
cause of its penury—very largely due to
the fact that its income from endowments
and Government grants has diminished as
every other more or less fixed income has
done because of the fall in money values —
Sydney University has been forced to for-
sake very much of its original research. It
is short of stall; it is short of equipment;
it is short even of necessary library re-
quirements; it is, therefore, seriously handi-
capped in a great variety of ways.
Some of the far-seeing men of the past
made endowments which have materially
helped in developing Sydney University to
its present position of eminence, and it is
a very gratifying fact that one of our affluent
citizens the other day donated the sum of
£27.000 for the endowment of a Chair in
Histology and Embryology, plus some inci-
dental matters relating to the Medical
School. There must be other wealthy citi-
zens of New South Wales to-day besides
George Bosch who, if they thought
seriously about it, would realise that we as
a people owe to this University very much
more than mere admiration of its admittedly
excellent Gothic architecture.
PHILOMANTH.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Queering Their Own Pitch.
The Administration of the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea seems to be singu-
larly lacking in tact. There have been
many instances of this, and the treatment
accorded the mining community on the
Bulolo goldfield has been one of the most
outstanding. This condition of things seems
to have been aggravated, rather than im-
proved, by the direct intervention of the
Federal authorities last year, when a com-
mission of inquiry was appointed. This
seems to have followed the usual procedure
of commissions, which almost invariably
exonerate the authority appointing them.
Thus encouraged, the far-off Federal
authority has proved as tactless and in-
different as the Administration. The result
is widespread disaffection, culminating: in
a movement having for its object a direct
appeal to the British Government and to
the League of Nations through that Gov-
ernment. A petition is being prepared to
that end, and will be forwarded in due
time. Of course the movement is already
defeated, since the Imperial authorities can-
not consider anything of the kind not com-
ing through the proper channels —in this
case the Federal Government. The League
of Nations will be equally inaccessible to
the petitioners and for the same reason. So
the complainants will have to swallow their
grievances and the Administration will carry
on as before.
But it is a very undesirable thing that
anyone, much less the Australian inhabit-
ants of the Mandated Territory, should have
had reason to appeal to the Imperial autho-
rities and particularly to the League of
Nations for relief from the control of their
own countrymen. Never since these man-
dates were granted have the Germans
ceased from insinuating that the Australian
Mandatory was unfit to handle its job. It
has been charged with inability to adminis-
ter the native population, and, so far, all
the charges levelled against it have been
launched with this aspect of the situation
in mind. What a weapon then will be
placed in the hands of those desiring the
removal of the mandate when it is learned
that its own citizens are complaining of the
Administration!
The danger of the dissatisfaction of the
mining population in this respect has been
recognised for many months past, and some
effort at conciliation might well have been
made. Yet we find the Federal Govern-
ment piling aggravation on aggravation,
blunder upon blunder, by imposing on the
already heavily taxed miner a royalty on
gold won. The German delegation to the
League dan be trusted, when the time
comes, to make the most of a situation
which the tactless Federal authorities have
prepared for it with fatuous assiduity.
♦
Camel or ’Plane?
The reported preparation of the "Wahabi
tribesmen of Central Arabia to invade Iraq,
which is still under British protection
though rated as an independent kingdom,
is full of interest to the student of modern
military tactics. The Wahabi religious
movement may be designated as a “Back
to Mahomet” evangelisrii, the avowed
object of the founder being to wipe out
all the heresies which have obscured the
original teachings of the (vamel Driver oi
Mecca, and also the heretics professing
them. / .
The Wahabi teaching oh the simple life
coupled with ruthless bloodshed has over-
run much of South-Western Arabia, witn


y7uTfyxxLleiv)i
Special Easter Number.
The Four Hundred Best.
On Saturday, March 31, a Special Easter Number of The
Bulletin” will be issued, containing the cream of the past
year’s “Bulletin” pictures and stories.
The Hundred Best Drawings
The Hundred Best Smoke-oh Tales
The Fifty Best Little Stories
The Fifty Best Bush Yarns
The Hundred Best Jokes
The Ten Best Recitations
And a
Selection of “The Bulletin’s” Short Stories
With a Colored Cover and Much Original Matter.
The Most Wonderful Sixpenn’orth
Ever Offered in Australia.
ORDER FROM YOUR NEWSAGENT.
the result that Mecca and the other holy
cities are now in the hands of the Wahabi,
who is credited with the intention of
dealing with Iraq, and perhaps Trans-
Jordania as well, in the same fashion.
The Wahabi is a horseman and a
camel rider. His arms are the rifle and
the sword, with perhaps a few field-guns
captured from deposed King Hussein at
Mecca. He exemplifies the warrior hordes
of Mahomet, who conquered half the civil-
ised world, save that the rifle has replaced
the bow of the men who rode within sight
of Paris and held Spain for many years.
But it is the equipment of the enemy
these mediaeval warriors will have to meet
that arrests the attention, for it will consist
almost entirely of aeroplanes and armored
cars, with light, fast tanks—a very epitome
of all that is ultra-modern in military arma-
ment. The local Iraq forces, which have
been trained bjr the British, may also be
expected to take the field; but it is the clash
between horse and camel men on one side
and the bomb-dropping ’planes and armed
cars and tanks on the other that is awaited
with curiosity in every army headquarters
in Europe and out of it. Can bombing
and machine-gunning ’planes, even when
backed by speedy tanks and light artillery,
effectively destroy or disperse an invading
force of this nature before it is able to
reach its objective, without the help of
artillery and'infantry to bring the question
to a final issue?
It is easy to avoid aeroplane observation
by marching at night and careful conceal-
ment by day—the Turks drove that fact
home during their invasion of Sinai, before
they were broken at Romani—and the possi-
bilities of motor-car and tank reconnaissance
by night do not seem impressive. On the
other hand, the British air forces claim that,
on the n.-w. frontier of India and in Iraq
itself, it has been succesful in defeating
raiding parties, though such a large force as
that of the Sheikh el Wahabi has not yet
been tackled.
City Traffic Problems.
Although the railways and tramways of
N. S. Wales have been steadily losing money
in recent years, Chief-Commissioner Fraser
is seized with the conviction that there
ought to be a lot more of them. His
remedy for traffic congestion in Sydney, as
outlined to the Traffic Advisory Committee,
is the construction of an electric railway to
meander in a wide circle among the eastern
suburbs, with a subterranean tunnel to take
trains to Balmain. Suggestions that the
trams impede street traffic are waved
magnificently aside.
Indeed it appears that the Bavinshaw
Government, acting doubtless on the advice
of the Commissioners, intends to simplify
that particular problem by banishing all
other vehicular traffic from the busiest
streets, leaving the trams in sole possession.
The proposal savors of burning the house
to roast the pig. A saner remedy for pre-
sent and future troubles would be to gradu-
ally replace the tramway services within the
two-mile central zone with motor-’buses,
which are amenable to the ordinary rules
of traffic and, apparently, even in competi-
tion with trams, can be run at a profit. In
Maoriland the new railway policy is to pur-
chase motor-’bus services in every case where
it is considered they can be profitably run
by the department, and the municipally-
controlled tramway corporations are adopt-
ing the same plan. Commissioner Fraser
is on sound ground when he lauds the
efficiency of railways and tramways for
long-distance runs, but his department has
at least partially admitted that they com-
plicate city traffic problems by carrying the
new North Shore line overhead and tunnel-
ling the city sections of the new suburban
railway.
The motor-car is not responsible for to-
day’s traffic problems, which would be six
times more difficult if Dobbin still drew the
majority of vehicles. To prohibit motor
traffic in the interests of railways and tram-
ways is merely a confessibn of ineptitude.
+
Social Conditions of Teaching.
An exasperated station-owner recently pro-
posed to give up his homestead to tempor-
arily house his shearers, but the accommoda-
tion not being up to union specifications, the
offer was rejected. Our factory laws require
scrupulous attention to the welfare of em-
ployees—to the provision of rest-rooms and
facilities for recreation; and workshops
everywhere give effect to the spirit as well
as the letter of the law. After his day’s
work, the miner may, if he wishes, remove
the traces of his toil at the baths provided
for his use and return home in his ordinary
street attire.
In view of these circumstances the attitude
of legislators to the employees of the great
Education Departments is inexplicable. At
many schools of over 1000 children there is
no provision at all for the comfort of the
40 or 50 teachers. If one of the staff is
not feeling well, there is no retiring room.
It frequently happens that teachers must
take their lunch to school, and they are
forced to eat it in a classroom that has
previously been occupied for three hours by
50 or 60 pupils
The Teachers’ Federation cannot escape
its obligations. If some of the hardy annuals
were deleted from the agenda paper and
reforms of social evils in the service given
more attention to, every school, and not a
few isolated ones, would soon have a staff-
room, properly furnished. There would be
facilities at least equal to those enjoyed
by the miners. Part of a teacher’s efficiency
is gauged b3 r the ability with which she (or
he) uses the blackboard for demonstration;
yet when she wishes to cleanse the white-
soil stain from her hands before lunch in
the classroom, she must retire to the public
water tap—a procedure that the miner and
shearer would condemn, while the factory
employee would almost reel at the sugges-
tion.
♦
The Oil War.
Everything indicates that the Yankee
colossus will shortly have a violent attack
of indigestion through overproduction of
oil. The market price of 34 oil cos.’ stock
recently dropped 200 million pounds as a
first symptom. The chief cause of the
trouble is that, whereas only about
gallons of petrol used to be refined from a
barrel of crude oil, improved methods have
raised the figure in some cases to beyond
14.8 gallons.. In addition scores of fiercely
competing cos. have sunk thousands of new
wells, until the daily production of crude
oil has reached 2 % million barrels, making
a daily surplus above home consumption
and export of 8,400,000 gallons.
The Australian motorist will ask why
then he has to pay anything from 2s. on-
wards for his juice. The fact is that over-
indulgence is more expensive than modera-
tion. It costs somewhere about 20 pence a
barrel to build storage tanks for the surplus
and over a shilling per annum to look after
it. To market the product the companies
have run up literally hundreds of thousands
of fuel stations, of one sort and another.
In spite of all this, the American gets pretty
cheap petrol, so it must be Australia and
other importing countries which are paying
for the appalling waste.
Which gives point to the argument in
favor of using the oil in the coal which
Australia now wastes so extravagantly.
♦
This Stupid “Liquor Question.”
A referendum on the question of prohibi-
tion is to be taken in N. S. Wales next
September. With the horrors resulting from
the effort to make America dry before the
world, the prohibitionists are likely to
receive less support than on any previous
occasion. But, as usual, no attempt will
be made to allow an expression of the
views of people who have no admiration
for the liquor trade, yet either object to a
condition of drought or deny the right of
Smith to tell Jones that he shall not have
the liquor that he never abused.
Long strides have been made in the im-
provement of the trade during the past 20
years, especially in Victoria. In South Aus-
tralia also great changes for the better have
taken place. But in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land more remains to do than has been done.
In the Sydney metropolitan area, in spite
of the building of big hotels, elaborately
decorated, the drinking shop is almost as
much in evidence as ever it was. Large
profits are made out of the business with-
out any real attempt to compel the traffic-
kers to fulfil the obligations upon which
their privileges were originally granted—the
obligations to supply refreshment of any
sort that may be demanded in reason, and
accommodation to those in need of it. Even
the pretence of being prepared to supply
meals has been abandoned by many hotels
in the city, and the rooms which are sup-
posed to be available for the wayfarer
remain empty when, on some crowded occa-
sions, people have to walk the streets until
they are weary in their search for accom-
modation. That feature of city life and the
positively appalling state of a great many
country hotels in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are a disgrace to us.
It would be very easy to supply a much
better system. Yet all that barren-brained
politicians can put before the people when
the “liquor question” has to be considered
is whether or not a foolish attempt shall
be made to turn this or the other State
quite dry.
—„ <?>
The Teaching Industry.
Dear Bulletin— lf “Wealsman’s” logic
were as passable as his English (B. 22/2/’2B),
his eulogy of the Tasmanian State High
Schools’ recent Public Examination results
would have something to commend it. As
it is, a sieve can hold water more readily
than his statements can support his con-
clusions. Let me give some facts about
this business:—
(1) No proper comparison can be made
between State and non-State Secondary
Schools in Tasmania as to the worth of
examination results on the basis of pub-
lished returns. Neither the age of candi-
dates nor the number entered from each
school is given. Any assertion, therefore,
that “age for age, examinees from State
High Schools are scholastically well ahead
of those from private Secondary Schools”
is empty complacency—if not flapdoodle
Much more to the point is the period spent
in preparation. The High Schools insist
on all examinees studying the full two years
prescribed by the syllabus between the
Intermediate and Leaving standards. Other
schools are frequently forced to allow a
boy or girl to attempt two years’ work in
one, as -parents cannot afford the full two
years. Despite this handicap, and the
advantage the High Schools have of a
relatively much more numerous entry, the
non-State schools won nine University Exhi-
bitions and Scholarships out of 13, and six
Special Subject Prizes out of nine (exclusive
of commercial subjects, for which only High
School entrants competed).
(2) Why “Wealsman” drags employers
into his discussion is about as clear as
ditchwater. What have they to do with his
“knickerbocker stage” of education? A
kiddy either gets a secondary education or
he does not. If an employer gets him at
the earliest available age (14), the young-
ster’s alleged secondary education is a farce.
If “Wealsman” means to refer to the
finished Secondary School product, the mat-
ter falls to be dealt with on other lines. I
can give a number of instances where big
firms and institutions—on the mainland and
in Tasmania—have offered cadetships and
other openings to Public Schools, and have
expressly stated their determination to keep
away from the State system. Their reasons
were their own; but the facts remain.
(3) The broader question of the utility
to the community of State Secondary as
against Public or privately-owned schools
cannot be disposed of in a few sentences,
State High Schools have come to stay. But
the experience of practically all who have
sampled both types of school is that Depart-
mentalism is soulless, without bowels of
compassion; and this almost of necessity,
because of organisation. God help the edu-
cational well-being of Australia if her systems
are regimented down to a dull uniform level
by the Departmental Machine! A mini-
mum of common work there must be. But
each Public and private school, with its
particular spirit and diversity, makes for-the
enrichment of the national life and for the
constructive individualism that is the main-
spring of progress. Most of these schools
have staffs that compare more than favor-
ably with that of any State High School.
And the support accorded shows how most
thoughtful Australians regard them. They
will not be willingly let die. —Yours, etc.,
Quabtus.
♦
Still Faulty Packing.
Dear Bulletin, —The Australian who packs
food for export is making every patriotic
Australian tin-dredger in “the East” either
very sad or very wild. The Australian
canning and packing are still indescribably
casual and careless; and the labels won’t
bear comparison with those of the Austra-
lian’s competitors, especially the Americans.
The result is the Australian goods are
pushed into the background and not pro-
duced unless expressly asked for.
Last month I bought some Australian
tinned fruit and to complete the order had
to take some American. The difference
was heart-breaking. The Tasmanian apples
(which I know myself are Al) came out
mush. My Chinese cook, who was used
to seeing the American, came to me with the
open tin held at arm’s length. The Oriental
is a keen buyer. I’ve seen the coolie go
into a native store and insist on his tin being
opened before he left the shop. I had an-
other experience at Christmas. Aussie
friends sent me a tin of Australian biscuits
of the fancy-cake variety. When they
arrived they were in crumbs and as dry as
a north wind. All due to faulty packing.
Never have I seen in this country Aus-
tralian soups, sauces, vegetables or meats;
yet, believe me, there is a huge trade await-
ing the firms with the goods.—Yours, etc..
An Australian Woman in Burmah.
• ♦
The Country Town in Queensland.
“K.N.K.”: The reasons given by “Ces”
(B. 22/2/’2B) for the exodus of young people
from country to city may be true of stag-
nant districts. But young men in our sugar
districts do not evince any great desire to
abandon country life; their ambition is to
get hold of land and grow cane for them-
selves, and the old man has to allow them
full wages if they work for him. The result
is frequently a highly successful partnership.
Of course the sugar grower is in an excep-
tional position, owing largely to his political
power. Queensland sends 16 members to
the Federal Parliament, and all but two
have constituents directly interested in
sugar-production. No party in power can
afford to ignore such a body.
Dairying in Queensland is approaching the
same position, and the young men are
much more inclined to look for farms than
jobs. In prosperous mixed-farming districts
like Moreton and the South Burnett, the
same conditions apply. The German-Aus-
tralian element is strong here, and the
young man seldom displays any inclination
to leave home until he wants to marry,
and then it is the almost invariable custom
for the old man to set him up on a farm,
perhaps not quite free of liability, but so
that he can make a success of it. On most
of these farms the car is an institution, and
the towns are not by any means the drab
affairs described by “Ces.”
Under these conditions, which are typical
of the principal farming districts of Queens-
land, young men are quite willing to stick
to the country. The insane desire of Gov-
ernments to entice settlement on country
that is unsuitable, and the general inclina-
tion of Labor Ministries to look on graziers
as natural enemies to be obliterated if
possible, has turned out numbers of the best
settlers who were utilising the land for its
natural purpose, and paying high taxes,
to form communities of discontented
farmers. These frequently, after years of
leaning on Agricultural Banks and Advances
to Settlers Boards, throw up the sponge, and
they and their children supply the major
portion of the drift to the city. Legisla-
tion is not wanted, but commonsense in
land administration is; and the collapse of
the great loan industry would go a long
way towards righting matters.
Death in the Wire.
The other day in a Melbourne suburb a
schoolgirl threw her arms in play around
an iron shop-verandah post, and died shortly
afterwards. The shopman had ordered two
lamps to be installed in front of his premises
and the electrician left the job unfinished.
The current got into the post via an un-
bonded conduit, the post was not earthed
and the current took the easiest path—
through the child’s body. Recently in Albury
two women engaged in simple domestic
tasks were electrocuted on the same day.
These and dozens of similar incidents
indicate that there is something radically
wrong with our way of handling electricity
The millions of users of the juice cannot
obviously be turned into competent electri-
cians. Insulation starts to deteriorate im-
mediately it is installed. Rats gnaw it and
ignorant workmen mess it about. So there
are endless opportunities for it to find a
human circuit with disastrous results. In
the circumstances, voltages for ordinary use
are far too high. There is a certain amount
of risk even with voltages round about 100,
but in many parts of Australia 230 is the
rule. Accompanying the change in that
direction should come a stricter supervision
over the men who do electrical work. In
many cases, indeed, they are not men—they
are youths. If unattended youths were per-
mitted to compound medicines at a
chemist’s, with the run of all the poisons,
there would be an outcry. Yet unattended
lads are put on to do electrical jobs every
hour of the day—jobs in which carelessness
or error is liable to mean sudden death.


m
< ■
%
km
NJ
.
iw
, „ j
»***, >•
You know before-
hand the Quality of
Service
MANGROVITE
Leather or Rawhide
BELTING
will provide. There is nothing experimental in buying Mangrovite, for its
proven dependability is famed times without number its service has demon-
strated the ultimate economy of buying the best.
Ask about the new genuinely Waterproof and Stretchless qualities.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director.
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), Sydney.
Mb _
Melbourne
Its location is ideal —at the hear*
of Melbourne’s business zone and a
few steps from railway stations,
steamship wharves and houses of
entertainment. It is complete in
every essential that should charac-
terise the City’s best hotel —perfect
cuisine, sumptuous appointments,
quietness and instant, yet unobtru-
sive attention. Direct and inter-
communicating telephones and hot-
and cold-water service in all bed-
rooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day, or Bed and
Breakfast Kate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s,” Melbourne.
’Phone: Cent 9012 <f lines).
BTB
£ -
POLITICAL
POINTS
The alienation of land in the Federal Capi-
tal Territory was prohibited in order to shut
out the grasping pri-
vate landlord. Busi-
ness sites were auc-
tioned, but the buyer
didn’t pay the sum he
bid; he undertook to
pay 5 p.c. p.a. on that
sum as rent. There
were to be periodical
reappraisements, but
the first was a long
way off. So speculators
bought (or, rather,
rented) business sites
in a cheerful fashion
and sublet them. Now
sub-tenants are show-
ing signs of collapse,
for, among other
things, the house-
building programme at
'Berra is mostly sus-
pended through lack of
money, and shops may be left on the
hands of the tenants, and the spectre
of prosperity may wear thin. The
general desertion of the place after
the first Parliamentary session and
the general resolve of the escapees
not to come back till they could re-
main away no longer have damped
the squib of Cotteropolis.
The Egyptian refusal to ratify the treaty
with Britain was foreordained, the Gyppo
desire being for complete evacuation by the
British. If that came about someone else
would walk in as soon as the Briton had
walked out—most probably an Italian with
a fierce expression and a firm faith in castor
oil as a remedy for political biliousness. But
the Gyppo’s outlook is much the same as that
of the Australian Labor politician who de-
mands an embargo on all immigration, to-
gether with the immediate abolition of “mili-
tarism.”
The most important development in the
Australian iron and steel industry since the
initiation of the splendid Broken Hill Prop,
enterprise at Newcastle is the formation of a
British-Australian co. with a capital of
£5,000,000 to realise the Hoskins brothers’
dream of great iron- and steel-works at Port
Ivembla. The Hoskins Co., Dorman, Long and
Co., Baldwins and Howard Smiths are asso-
ciated with the enterprise, and Pratten, the
Minister of Customs, announces in the pride
of his heart that “some thousands of men will
be employed” in addition to the present Hos-
kins and Dorman-Long staffs “as soon as the
venture is in full swing.” He may well feel
proud, for the undertaking is the first-fruits
of his new tariff.
The ordinary shareholders of the privately-
owned land-grant Midland railway of West-
ralia are going to get a dividend after 38
years of waiting. The figure is 24 per cent,
less income-tax. They put £593,102 into the
business, and so far as they are concerned
the State got the use of 277 miles of rail-
way very cheaply. If the £593,162 had been
borrowed at 4 per cent, it would have cost
Westralia about £900,000 by now—simple
interest, not compound—and the original sum
would still be owing.
The annoyances of Canberra include the
borer, a furniture-eating insect which has
appeared in the Labor quarters of Parlia-
ment House, the bee and the blowfly. And
there are no bars.
The bosses of Brisbane Trades Hall have
gone through the solemn farce of readmitting
the Communist party to that temple of
Labor. The Muscovites were expelled at the
behest of the politicians, with whom the
Labor Council at that time was friendly.
Two railway strikes and a disturbance in
the building trade estranged the political and
industrial wings, so the industrials, to get
home on the politicals, made it up with the
Trotskies. The joke is that, unknown to the
Labor Council, the Communists met in the
Trades Hall all the time they were sup-
posed to have been expelled.
Prime Minister Ilertzog, speaking on his
pet theory that South Africa and the other
Dominions have achieved the right to re-
main neutral in the case of Britain being
involved in war, genially remarked that
his country would be out of the combat in
that event. The difficulty is that it takes
two sides to a neutral, just as it takes
two to make a war.
Trial by newspaper was denounced by
Irvine, C.J., in his summing-up at the Omeo
murder trial. His Honor seemed to think
the Court ought to be given additional powers
to deal with such infringements of its func-
tions. It is a question whether the scandal
calls for additional powers or for drastic
enforcement of those already existing; but
one thing is certain: to present, day after
day, a farrago of gossip, rumor, hearsay and
implication, all directly bearing upon the
THE IDES OF MARCH.
“Following the decisive defeat of the Labor candidate for Wollondilly, Mr. Lang attended a meet-
ing of the Lidcombe branch of the A.L.P. (Lideombe is in his own electorate). Amid stormy scenes,
a gentleman prominent in local politics invited the ex-Premier to come outside and settle it. At 11.30
p.m. the meeting broke up in disorder.”
“Pah! Who Can harm imperial C[?]sar!”
issue of the accused's guilt, is to render it
difficult to empanel an unbiased jury.
After cross-examining H. W. Clapp, Chief
Vic. Railway Commissioner, as to whether he
was in any way connected with a company
which had obtained a railway contract for
£140,000 worth of electrical equipment, Vic.
Auditor-General Norris said lie was satisfied
that there was no such association, direct or
indirect. He did not think it necessary to
wait till he had reported on the question he
had to report on—the ordering of equipment
in advance of requirements l —before wiping
out publicly any stigma fastened unfairly on
Clapp because his brother is interested in
the co. Norris took evidence under the Audit
Act and administered the oath to each wit-
ness. The inquiry was held at the instance
of the Hogans, egged on by critics of H. W.
Clapp.
An old 'weight-chaser in Westralia com-
plains to The Bulletin of the trouble a
prospector has to face in applying for a
miner's right in the Northern Territory.
After a long delay Canberra informed him
that neither it nor any of the State capitals
issued rights, but that Alice Springs and
Darwin did. As he wants to work into the
Territory from the north-east border of West-
ralia he asks why can't he get a right issued
by the Commonwealth authorities in Perth.
He adds with a kick: “I have never met any-
thing to compare with the half-dead adminis-
tration of the Home and Territories Depart-
ment of the Commonwealth regarding mining
affairs in the Northern Territory."
More pilgrims from the Sydney Trades Hall
are going to Moscow, where they will mingle
with jabbering plotters against “Western
Imperialism” from all parts of Asia and
Africa, and as necessity has compelled Mos-
cow to shut down on the free passes, “expenses
of the delegation will be paid out of the pro-
ceeds of a levy on each financial member of
affiliated unions.” The Bruce-I’age Arbitra-
tion Amendment Bill would enable unionists
—at least, those who belong to unions with
Commonwealth registration—to veto this mis-
appropriation of their money for a purpose of
which quite 95 p.c. would disapprove. Until
such legislation becomes operative, in both
Federal and State spheres, they will be help-
less against the brigandage of the official
caste.
Defending the arrangement whereby the
brothers Abrahams were to pay the Com-
monwealth half a million in respect of
income-tax swindles, Attorney-General
Latham told the House of Reps, that no
promise of immunity from criminal prosecu-
tion was given, and that, for his part, he
w r as influenced by the feeling that “honest
taxpayers should get some relief from the
result of this dishonesty.” The case is so
very odd that it could do with further dis-
cussion ; meantime, the officers who ferreted
out the frauds might be commissioned to
investigate the transactions of other doubt-
ful gentry—some starting-price bookmakers,
for instance. Then honest taxpayers might
get more relief.
Engineer Buchanan, whose unflattering
article in the National Review has revived
interest in his report on Australian harbor
facilities, mentions one absurd feature of the
congestion policy in his remarks on Sydney
and Melbourne. In cargo-handling appli-
ances. he says, these ports are very much
behind the times; on the other hand they
are ridiculously over-supplied with quay
space:—
Bombay and Calcutta possess equipment on a scale
unknown in Australian ports. Their trade may
fittingly be compared with the trade conducted at
Sydney and Melbourne, both in respect of annual
value and volume, but their combined quay space
is nearly li miles less than that of Melbourne.
Calcutta, it seems, has 17,900 ft. of wharfage,
Bombay 24,000 feet. Melbourne 49,410 ft. and
Sydney 60,000 ft. Tons of cargo per foot of
quay space in the latest recorded year were
248.05 at Calcutta, 269.12 at Bombay, 99 at
Melbourne and 112.96 at Sydney.
W. J. Denny, who was Lionel Hill s
Attorney-General, and Premier Butler, whose
taxation and retrenchment schemes are on the
heroic scale, were at an Adelaide performance
—Wilkie’s —of “Henry VIII.” In the next
issue of the morning paper that Butler takes
he found a letter from Denny suggesting
that he could learn a lot “from the Duke of
Norfolk’s speech to King Hal” :
For upon these taxations
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
The many to them ’longing, have put off
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, .who,
Unfit for other life, compelled by hunger
And lack of means, in desperate manner
Daring the event to the teeth, are all in uproar.
Butler might have retorted that his policy,
unlike that of Denny’s party, was “to take
arms against a sea of troubles and, by oppos-
ing, end them.” But he just smiled sadly
and went on with his job.
“Establishment of an Australian republic”
was one of the proposals sent forward by
the Carters and Drivers’ Union for con-
sideration at the Easter Labor conference
in Melb. For “diplomatic” reasons the
thing was withdrawn, but there are other
fantastic items among the 170-odd motions
sent in ; supply of bread by Government free
of charge, exclusion of employers from mem-
bership and abolition of war are among
them. The topic in which the Hogans take
most interest is redistribution of State seats.
The party is at present committed to divi-
sion of each of the 20 Federal seats into
three, but it is expected that this will be
turned down for a scheme aiming at the
retention of the present number of Assembly
constituencies (65). Such a change would
be welcome to the Government.
The A.W.U. may lose its Bill Lambert
in the West Sydney selection ballot (though
this is by no means certain), but it is
obviously regaining its old predominance
among the N.S.W. political unions. The
Miners’ Federation won to power by posing
as the Sea-green Incorruptible of unionism
and undertaking to “clean up the move-
ment” ; but men found the new crowd’s selec-
tion ballots just as rotten, in their way, as
the old crowd’s, and the Stockton Borehole
revelations, following upon the queer attempt
to unload the Balmain coalmine on the late
unlamented City Council at an outrageous
price, have engendered doubts. If peace
breaks out before the Commonwealth elec-
tions it will be on the A.W.U.’s terms, which
terms will include the restoration of Mutch,
M.L.A., to the Parliamentary Caucus, and the
removal of the disqualification imposed in the
paltriest spirit of tyranny on ex-Senator
Gardiner.
The last Westralian Labor Government got
into trouble for letting gaol-birds out from
“humanitarian” motives, and the present
Administration has been criticised for the
•same tendency. There were some pointed
remarks not long ago about the release of a
goldfields Communist who was ordered seven
years for robbery under arms—he called it
“propaganda by deed.” Now all Westralia
is discussing the case of a burglar out on
parole who cut loose with a revolver when
refused more beer in a Perth bar, and shot
a police-sergeant who tried to get the re-
volver from him —the game police-sergeant is
dead. _ The murderous ruffian owed his
liberty, it seems, to the recommendation of an
Indeterminate Sentences Board. The un-
happy issue should be a lesson to all such
bodies and to “humanitarian” Governments
of all party complexions.
“8.T.”: While agreeing that “Australia
doesn’t want to encourage importations” (B.
29/2/’2B), I submit that in the face of the
declining proportion of British imports as
recorded by Wickens, it is useful to the pro-
tectionist Australian to know something of
Britain’s efficiency in manufactures not pro-
duced here. The British Empire Exhibition
in Melbourne proved to me, for one thing,
that our best customer makes a typewriter
quite as good as any of the U.S. articles
used in most of our offices. Australia does
not manufacture typewriters. Other com-
modities exhibited which compete, not with
Australia but with the foreign countries men-
tioned in Wickens’s import figures, were
dyes, vacuum-cleaners, machine tools, cutlery,
electric lamps and lawn-mowers. It is true
that there were many things— e.g., woollen
goods—to which The Bulletin’s criticism
applies, but British manufacturers of
matches, textiles, confectionery and other
things are represented in Australia by branch
factories, and others, such as the motor-car
people, soon will be. So I suggest that such
exhibitions are serviceable to Australia as
well as Britain.
LABOR AND THE TOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Ramsay Macdonald, in the course of a bitter
attack on Mr. Winston Churchill before a Labor
gathering at Rochester, said that it was impossible
to imagine a Labor Chancellor of the Exchequer fav-
oring a proposal to raise revenue from the legalising
of totalisators.”
Bad enough for Tory rotters,
Sordid pack !
But your Labor fancy totters
At the black
Infamy of, e’en in crises,
Cutting revenue by slices
Off the workers’ pleasant vices,
Don’t it, Mac?
Winston you denounce and harry,
Give him heff,
For encouraging the pari-
Mutuel.
Would a Labor statesman ever
Such iniquities endeavor
To condone? You tell us “Never.”
“No,” you yell.
Labor’s set ’gainst making legal,
Sternly set,
Anything that may inveigle
Men to bet.
All with such a craze who’rc bitten
Almost risk, ’twoukl see, the mitten,
Still you only speak for Britain,
Don’t forget.
Far from me your righteous slogan
To condemn,
But it must make chaps like Hogan
Haw and hem.
For if anyone should quote his
Views on totes, you can’t but notice
They are Winston’s own in totis,
Ramsay M.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETU
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Salambo”: Several Maorilanders found
conditions aboard the Sir James Clark Ross
quite different from anything they had pre-
viously experienced. The mainstay of the
commissariat was small lierring-like fish,
tinned raw, and eaten with immense gusto
by the Norwegian sailors. Norwegian cheese
proved more palatable, though the taste for
that must take a little acquiring; it is made
from either goats’ or cows’ milk and filled
with caraway-seeds and currants. On
Christmas and New Year’s Days the Maori-
landers refused to work, and were promptly
logged £2 per head. All members of the crew
however, received Christmas presents, the
issue consisting of magazines printed in Nor-
wegian, a set of ludo and a cup of cocoa
apiece. When the local men were paid off
each netted from £93 to £lOO for the voyage.
s|s :|: *
“Geoloin” : Hickson, the much respected
superintendent of our local Sunday-school, is
a draper’s assistant during business hours.
Last week a lady customer who had pur-
chased some spring blinds expressed doubts
as to her ability to hang them, her husband
DIDN’T LEAVE EMPTY HANDED.
MADELLR: “I believe Jackie tried for Peggy’s hand?”
SYBIL: “Yes — and got father’s boot.”
being absent. And Hickson, always courteous
and obliging, volunteered to look in that,
evening after closing time and do the need-
ful. On arriving home the lady found her
husband had unexpectedly returned, so she
sent her small son around to tell Hickson
that he needn’t bother to call. The shop
was full of ladies, and the unthinking young-
ster performed his mission with a remark
which it will take the recipient months to
live down. “Mr. Hickson,” he piped shrilly
from the door, “mother says not to come
round to-night, because father’s home.”
* * * *
“Ilanno” : The recent discovery of wireless
receiving-sets in the cells of prisoners at
Pentridge will surprise no one who knows
how easy it has always been to smuggle con-
feraband of any kind into this establishment,
For years past the authorities have been
unsuccessfully trying to wipe out the under-
ground “post office” through which letters
and parcels are delivered to inmates, gen-
erallv with a promptness for which one may
look in vain in the P.M.G.’s department.
Certainly the charges are very much higher ;
in Melbourne are places (one for long was
a tobacconist’s shop in Little Bourke-street),
where letters and parcels may be “posted
to prisoners for ss. and 10s., with the cer-
tainty of delivery within a few hours. A
friend once told me that he “mailed a letter,
reply paid, from one of these places to a
prisoner and got the answer the same day.
„ * * *
“Nikko”: The highly mineralised atmo-
sphere of Rotorua (M.L.) has a curious
effect on money and jewellery. Gold takes
on a ruddy hue, silver turns dark brown,
and anything not genuine in the coin or
ornament line becomes entirely black. A few
days away from the thermal region will
restore the color to genuine metal, but the
brummagem stuff needs hard polishing to
make it presentable again. Frequently a
M.L. shopkeeper will look with suspicion
at a dingy coin tendered by a purchaser, but
the explanation that the buyer had just
returned from Rotorua generally carriesi
weight. The other day in a Sydney office
a dark-brown florin was questioned, and
traced to one of the staff who had spent his
vacation handy to the sulphur baths.
Ji< 5jS *
“Aroerooter”: Recently I visited Deliver-
ance Island, outside Torres Strait, where Capt.
Cook repaired the Endeavor in 1770. The lone
inhabitant, known in those latitudes as “Old
I-larry,” is still in residence; he has put
in nearly 40 years there, the last 12 .without
human companionship. A Maorilander,
cocoanut-planting in Dutch New Guinea,
who calls about once a year on his way to
T. 1., is his only regular visitor, though a
Japanese pearling lugger may drop in occa-
sionally. During the war period Harry spent
two years without seeing the face of a fellow-
human. His diet is principally turtle. When
asked how he was getting on, he gravely
assured me “There’s no sickness on this
island.” A miniature Danish flag flies in
Harry’s humpy to attest his nationality.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: It was during Allenby’s final
offensive in Palestine that I heard a Digger,
staggering through the historic village of
Jericho, hail a motor cyclist who was speed-
ing past with a box containing message
pigeons strapped to his back. The despatch
rider pulled up full of importance and im-
patience. “What is it you want?” he de-
manded. “I’m from Headquarters and in a
hurry.” “I want ter know,” explained the
other with sozzled gravity, “if yer want a
sar’nt-major for them pigeons. I’m used to
trainin’ wild animals.” The speed-merchant’s
snort of indignation sounded like the blast
of Joshua’s trumpet.
* * * *
“Hanno”.: The British chaplain in Brus-
sels who attended Nurse Cavell up to the last
is reported as saying, in condemnation of
the “Dawn” film: “The execution was car-
ried out in the usual way, none of the firing
party knowing which rifle was loaded with
blank or real cartridge.” But is it the usual
way nowadays in the German or any other
army? On the face of it, the expedient
would be a futile one, since it is easy to
tell whether a just-fired rifle lias been loaded
with live or blank cartridge, and those of
the firing-party whose weapons contained
bullets would know it instantly. I have
witnessed three military executions, and I
know positively that at each one every man
in the firing-party had a real cartridge in his
rifle.
* * * *
“Kune”: Death sometimes throws dow ? n
the gauntlet in circumstances that suggest
he likes a fight against odds. When recently
the Medical Association was in conference
at Hamilton (M.L.) Mr. Victor Bonney, a
London specialist, performed an operation
before an audience of some 50 other
medicoes, the patient
being a woman suffer-
ing from a serious form
of tumor. The object of
the demonstration was
“to make the opera-
tion an example of
what an operation
should be.” A coroner
completed the tragic
event with the obser-
vation : “The spectre
of tragedy will stand at
the side of the surgeon
until a perfect anaes-
thetic is discovered.”
“P.R.”; Policemen don’t always fill trans-
gressors with terror. Accosting two nuns
who had just crossed an intersection in our
main street, a John pointed out that they
had just broken a municipal regulation,
Smiling a little perplexedly, the spokes-
woman, in the soft tones of southern Ireland,
repeated his charge. “Jay-walking! And,
my good man, what might that be?”
* * ::: . *
“Gregor”: Marlborough, . like Kitchener,
was a great military organiser; whether he
is entitled to rank as England’s outstanding
military genius (B. 29/2/’2B) is another
question. The battles upon which his fame
rests are Sedgemoor, Blenheim, Ramillies,
Oudenarde and Malplaquet. At Sedgemoor
he was merely a subordinate commander
under Feversham against a mob of peasants;
at Blenheim he collaborated with Eugene of
Savoy, whose strategy won the day, and at
Oudenarde and Malplaquet he again had
Eugene’s assistance. At Ramillies, the only
battle where he was in sole command, he de-
feated Villeroi, but the latter hardly ranks
high as a military leader, and the defeat
was not a decisive one by the standard ot
those days. It was in his gift for military
organisation that Marlborough was far ahead
of his time. He was the first to establish
depots and victualling-stations at strategic
points ; on his march across Europe in the
Spanish Succession War he had those depots
along liis route with everything from food
DETAILS WANTED.
“Did you hear that Myrtle Brown was taken ill whilst trying on a new hat at Jeanne's
on Thursday?”
“Oh, how dreadful! What was it trimmed with?”
and munitions to casli waiting for him. As a
tactician and strategist he was excelled by
Wellington.
* * * *
“Erua”: Of course there are Maoris and
Maoris (B. 7/3/’2B). To refuse accommoda-
tion to some of them would be quite unthink-
able, but there was some excuse for the
Rotorua victualler who hastily hoisted the
“full-up” sign when a Maori prophet and
his retinue requested bed and board. “I
hear the old Bluebeard has six wives with
him,” he remarked, “and any man that takes
in a fellow with six women tagged on to him,
white or brown, is looking for trouble!”
i|! ❖ V
“Nakhoda”: In the pre-Mussolini days I
landed at Naples with an Australian letter
of credit. Owing to a general strike the
exchange had soared to 120 lire to the £.
I changed £5O for 6000 lire, the bank official
glaring at me as he pushed over the money
as if I were sucking Italy’s life blood. I spent
3000 lire in the country before continuing
my way to London. When I passed through
Naples again the exchange had gone down
to 65, owing to a firm stand taken by the
Government. For my balance of 3000 lire I
received back my £5O, so that, except for the
small item of commission, I had had my holi-
day in Dante’s land for nothing.
* * si' *
“Anatol”: I never heard of the com-
munion cup in use in a church at Opotiki
(M.L.) from which Maoris drank the blood
of a murdered missionary (B. 29/12/’27),
but the victim referred to is evidently Carl
Volkner, who was murdered by Kereopa,
Te Kooti’s right-hand man in the Hau Hau
rising. The Hau Ilaus were in the habit of
devouring the heart and eyes of a slaugh-
tered enemy, and the story went that
Kereopa partook of his grisly meal in this
case off the silver communion platter in the
church. This plate was found in the bush
not so many years ago and restored to the
church, the presumption being that the
Maoris had never realised the true signifi-
cance of their spoil. Kereopa was hanged
in the old gaol at Napier, where only one
other execution ever took place; there is a
tablet in the cathedral there in memory of
Volkner.
“Bert the Carpenter”: I suspect that the
vogue of some of these Chow quacks has little
to do with their diagnosis of disease and
Oriental remedies therefor. A mate and I
were working close to Hung Cow’s consulting-
room, when we noticed a nervous, excited
middle-aged man walking up and down the
pavement in an obvious agony of impatience,
and nervously jerking out his watch every
minute. Presently the “healer” arrived in
a luxurious car, growled something to the
waiting man, and went into his rooms,
closely followed by the other. Almost simul-
taneously a young girl rose from a seat
across the road, whence she had been staring
fixedly at Hung Cow’s door, and hurried
over ; a third client, hard on her heels, was
a pasty-faced woman, beautifully dressed,
and seemingly very weary, who dragged her
feet listlessly from a car in which she had
been waiting. In a few minutes all three
“patients” came out. The man bought a
paper and walked jauntily away. The girl
tripped past us, her eyes quite bright now,
and a half-smile on her face. When the
woman emerged, she was touching up her
face from a vanity-bag, and she hopped
into her waiting car quite blithely. Ive
seen that performance, or something very
like it, repeated more than one morning
since, and I have drawn my own conclusions
about the medicine which Hung Cow sup-
plies.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: One would expect that, con-
sidering how much of her anatomy modern
woman exposes to the view, the flapper
would be the last to patronise the tattooing
cult, yet Melbourne’s only full-time operator
draws most of his clients from the shingled
sex. On Friday nights they wait in a
queue to undergo the painful and some-
times upsetting operation. Designs most
favored are flowers, hearts, Australian flags
and reptiles of all sorts; hut there is one
woman in Melbourne who is a walking
picture-show not open to the public, her
entire body, except the neck, face and hands,
being covered with designs. An immense
dragon clips her round the waist, and a dog
for ever pursues a rabbit a trifle iower down.
It is highly probable that the tattooer makes
more money removing his handiwork than
putting it on, but the electric needle bites
deep and repentance often comes too late.
* * * *
“Runa”: Reference to the Chinese as
mighty navigators in the long ago (B.
7/3/’2B) recalls a tradition that they were
among the earliest visitors to Maoriland.
Deep down in the limpid waters of Dusky
Sound, West Otago, lie the remains of what
is believed to be an ancient Chinese ship, and,
yearly crowds of tourists hang over the rail
of the excursion steamer and strain their
eyes to see this relic of prehistoric navi-
gation lying on the sea floor. In Maori legend
there is no reference to this Chinese visi-
tation, and from the appearance of the old
ship it is believed to belong to a period of
antiquity long ere Te Ngahue, the lone voy-
ager who found Maoriland, set out on his
trip from Hawaiki to the South Seas.
* * * *
“Kauri”: Professor Bartrum, professor of
geology at Auckland University, places the
age of the submerged forest discovered dur-
ing the deviation of the Waikato River as
between 3000 and 4000 years. He suggests
that the reason why the trees are all level,
as if they had been evenly cut, is that tbr
silt which eventually buried them prevented
air from reaching the lower portion of the
trunks, and so preserved them for ages,
while the exposed upper parts above the silt-
level decayecl and fell. The abnormally dry
season throughout the Dominion has been
responsible for other finds where surface
waters have dried up. One of such treasures,
brought to light in Lake Brunner, is a beau-
tiful greenstone axe and the stone used for
its sharpening. Antiquaries regard it as
supplying further proof that the Maoris of
Canterbury passed that way on their jour-
neys, hundreds of years ago, long before the
advent of the pakeha.
* * * *
“Ferrochie”: The announcement that the
Commonwealth Government has decided not
to run an Australian pavilion at the Lyons
(France) fair this year reminds me that in
March, 1919, I was in charge of said pavilion
at that pleasant city, one of the exhibits
being a IOOOoz. bar of silver from the Broken
Hill Pty. After seeing our end of the fair
through I was instructed to convey all ex-
hibits back to London. Special orders were
given regarding the insurance of the B. H.
co.’s bit of metal, but to make assurance
doubly sure I and two Diggers kept a con-
tinuous guard over it during a 10-days’
railway crawl from Lyons to Boulogne.. Even
when we handed it over to the keeping of
the purser on the Channel boat one of us
was always on watch outside his cabin, and
I gave a sigh of relief when I handed over
the silver in London. A week later the
bar vanished utterly, stolen from one of the
show windows at Australia House!
ETERNAL EYE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Grandmama was young and gay
( Repeatedly I’ve heard her say)
She did not carry on the way
That modern flappers do.
She wore a modest crinoline,
Which shielded every inch of shin
From naughty glances masculine
And even hid her shoe.
She never ogled bold, bad boys,
Or sought about for stolen joys;
Xor did she ever lose her poise
When parties grew too rough.
She wore a sweet, angelic smile,
And always crossed an awkward stile
Without displaying half a mile
Of leg in silken stuff.
She never went to picture shows
(Good reason for it, 1 suppose,
As none existed) ; nor her toes
In jazz steps wriggled free.
She never went out on her own,
But always with a chaperone
Who wouldn’t any slip condone
That shocked propriety.
She never smoked, or swore, or ran
About in cars with any man,
Or went to bedroom plays, did Gran.
Or sipped at cocktails sweet.
She wore good flannel next her skin;
Nor were her dresses made so thin
That sunlight might meander in
When tripping down the street.
And yet Grandma, howe'er explained
Not long upon the shelf remained —
At sweet eighteen a husband gained:
So soon she snared a man!. .. .
The flapper of these modern days
May hunt in rather different ways ;
But underneath it all, there stays
Her likeness unto Gran. !
N.S.'.V.
LEUROOMBA.


Herodot”: It isn’t only in a held-np
railway train that a Hindu who will only
eat food prepared by one of his own caste
is liable to a prolonged fast (B. 29/2/’2B).
The authorities at a Queensland gaol had
to send 70 miles for an Indian to dress and
cook the food for three Indian prisoners who
had gone on a hunger strike until a co-religion-
ist of the proper brand could be secured.
And I knew an Indian patient in a New
South Wales hospital with a broken leg to
starve for four days till some food arrived
which had not been touched by unclean
hands.
* * * *
“Mako”: Re the communism of Henare
(B. 7/3/’2B), one of the periodical enter-
tainments of the small town of Gisborne
(M.L.) was provided by the visit to the city
of Renata, an imposing old chieftain from a
far-back village. Renata, a native of means,
would immediately repair to the shop of the
leading clothier, where he would replace
his tattered raiment with everything of the
latest mode, and would depart, wearing a
belltopper and carrying a cane, to meet his
retinue down the street. Half an hour later
there would march back to the shop a tall
liatless, grey-headed figure, barefooted and
enveloped in a striped blanket, which would
presently emerge again clad as before. This
performance might be repeated three or four
times, until such members of the tribe as
wished to be fashionably attired had acquired
new clothes by the simple expedient of
admiring those of their chief, which courtesy
then required should be handed over to them.
In the evening a procession of silk-hatted,
elegantly-attired Maori braves, with an inter-
mixture of barefoot wahines, a rabble of
children and the inevitable dogs would
wander towards the family buggies, and
anyone chancing on the Maori settlement a
week later would find probably every member
of the ti'ibe in possession of at least one
garment from Renata’s communal wardrobe.
%
“Ohm’s Law”: Touching electrocution.
Considering that the risk of electric shock
is far more frequent than the chance of
drowning, it is astonishing that the best
QUEER, VERY QUEER.
“The woman always pays—but, gee! it’s the man who goes broke.”
method, first, of rescuing an unfortunate,
and, secondly, of resuscitating him, isn’t
made more widely known. Death or serious
injury isn’t often occasioned, even if high
voltages are engaged, when the victim is only
in temporary contact with the stuff. Elec-
trical workers constantly touch bare wires
carrying currents of 400 volts and over. It
is when the victim, owing to the paralysis of
his muscles, is unable to let go, that a
fatality threatens. The best way to rescue
him isn’t to rush up and try to pull him off,
as you will probably get stuck yourself. It
is to find the switch and cut the current off;
or. failing that, to short-circuit the wires,
even if it blows the fuses in the sub-station.
And as death is generally due, just as in
drowning, to suffocation, the same methods
employed to restore the apparently drowned
are applicable. In a recent case at the
Flinders-street (Melb.) railway station a
painter’s bucket short-circuited the overhead
wires, and for some minutes half a dozen
painters were seen to execute a step-dance
to the tune of 1500 volts on the steel net-
work. It was probably the dance that saved
their lives.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: The telegraphic business which
resulted from the coroner’s inquiry into the
alleged poisoning of his wife by
the Omeo (Vic.) near-parson
Griggs furnishes a good measure
of the curiosity that any event with
sexual complications arouses. The
inquest lasted two days, and 95,000
words were handled. It would have
taken the single wire between the
remote Gippsland township and
Melbourne several days to carry
that traffic in the ordinary way,
but millions of newspaper readers
all over the country had to be given
the details hot and steaming. So
the department sent up a high-
speed Whetstone instrument, the
first of its kind to break the peace
of a Vic. township office. The
officers were faced with the fact
that Omeo had no electric power to
drive the thing, but eventually they
routed out a tradesman who had a
small private plant. The impromptu
installation worked so well that a
Melbourne paper was setting up
the copy three minutes after it
had been lodged in Omeo.
* * * *
“Maunga” : Are scientific instru-
ments the most reliable barometers ?
Towards the end of last year the
Maoriland official meteorologist
pointed out that sun spots were
approaching their maximum, and
that the connection between these
phenomena and weather conditions
was now an established fact. On
the strength of this he ventured to
predict a wet and cold summer.
Almost simultaneously one of Pal-
merston North’s oldest inhabitants,
who enjoys some reputation as a
weather prophet, confided to a local
newspaper that he hadn’t been
watching the habits of the native
cabbage-tree for 50 years without
learning something about the
weather ahead, and that he was con-
vinced we were in for an exceed-
ingly dry summer. Maoriland has
just experienced one of the longest
droughts and hottest summers for
many years, and the rustling cab-
bage-tree has acquired a new impor-
tance in consequence.
* sis
“B-Gar”: The dumping of stowaways at
Thursday Island by both inward and out-
ward bound ships (B. 22/2/’2Bj has' re-
ceived a check from an unexpected quarter,
the T.I. watersiders having decided to declare
black any ship that attempts to increase the
island’s population by this means. A skip-
per who recently attempted to drop a non-
paying passenger from Darwin at T.I. was
glad to change his mind after an interview
with the lumpers. T.I. has a job to feed its
own without being made a dumping-ground
for derelicts.
* * * *
“Basra”: The bayonet and sword may have
had comparatively little use in France, but
in Palestine they did some effective work. At
Ayunkara, in November, 1917, the Turks
launched an attack against the dismounted
troopers of the N.Z. Mounted Rifles; as the
lines closed the Maorilanders rose and went
in with the bayonet, and when the enemy
fled they left 162 dead in addition to the
wounded. The day before, at El Mughar,
the 6th Mounted Brigade (British) charged
a strongly-held position on a stony ridge; 600
enemy dead were counted afterwards. At
lluj, the same month, three squadrons of
British yeomanry charged into the teeth of an
enemy battery over 900 yards of bare ground.
Most of the Austrian gunners, fighting to the
last, were sabred at their posts; the captures
included three batteries of artillery four
machine-guns and 70 prisoners. But per-
haps the most notable cavalry charge of the
war was that of the 4th Australian Light
Horse Brigade at Beersheba, on October 31,
1917. The Light Horse were not then armed
with swords, so the troopers rode with their
bayonets in hand. They swept over suc-
cessive lines of trenches and through the
town, capturing nine field-guns and 700
prisoners.
“Stellsby”: According to a recent cable
Italy possessses the fastest cruisers afloat.
If this is so, a remarkable advance has been
made since the war years, when no great
nation had such a negligible naval arm. For
a time we monotonously escorted allied
troops to Salonika, but never a Macaroni
came along to help us. Yet every time we
dropped into Brindisi we found his barnacled
scout cruisers and t.-b.d.’s with the ship’s
company’s washing {eternally hanging out to
HIS FINAL CRASH.
"I think you’ve been a most faithful husband, John. Never since you married me have
you done a wrong thing. Have you, darling?”
“No. That was the last.”
dry. In all my experience in the Mediter-
ranean I never remember meeting an Italian
or Greek man-o’-war more than a hop, skip
and jump from harbor; although they turned
out in style to accompany us and the French-
men through the Dardanelles to Constanti-
nople when Ferdy and Jacko threw in the
towel.
* * * *
“Uramao” : The West Coast of Maoriland
has been celebrating its 75th anniversary at
Greymouth. A Scot named James Mackay
was sent down among the unsophisticated
Maoris with 400 sovereigns to negotiate a
purchase of real-estate, the sum he carried
being the limit fixed by Governor Gore-
Browne. Mac must have driven a canny
bargain, for he got 7,000,000 acres for £3OO.
This area comprised the greenstone districts,
which were “tapu,” but Mac talked Brown
Brother into disregarding the prohibition and
accepting a reservation of 12,000 acres. The
country bought has since yielded £26,000,000
in gold alone.
* * * *
“J. Patrick”: The French suicide who
figured in a recent cable as having chased
and belted a boy who cut him down, prior to
returning and completing his job
satisfactorily, was a plagiarist. Some
years ago a man was crossing a bridge
over a sheet of water in a Sydney
park when he noticed a sailor below
who seemed to be out of his depth.
The good Samaritan promptly went
to the rescue, and found himself en-
gaged in a desperate struggle with a
man considerably stronger than him-
self. He was finally overpowered, and
held under water until almost at his
last gasp. The sailor then let him
up, towed him to the bank, and with
a grim you , will you let
a man alone?” resumed his previous
task. The man on the bank, when
he had recovered his breath, made for
the. nearest traffic point, and there
found a policeman. The pair hurried
back to the pond, and fished a body
out. There was no struggle this time.
W.1.U.”: Two trains, probably record
ones for Australia in one respect, came into
Broken Hill from Cockburn after the break
caused by the wasliaways had been bridged.
The first was 910 yards long and the second
868 yards. Each was hauled by two eng'nes
with two brakevans at the rear. Though
stretched over a mile the trains were light,
weighing, exclusive of locomotives, 709 tons
and 746 tons respectively. The travelling
was done at a speed of 15 miles an hour
down a ruling grade of 1 in 80.
* * * *
“Sol. M.” : Ballarat (Vic.) enjoyed a poor
advertisement recently—the kind which
British papers are liable to reprint The
health inspector and the city health medico
had their attention “drawn” to a couple of
tenements, partly through a woman being
murdered there under dubious conditions.
Ihey said the odor of stale beer and stale
humanity was past description, and enumer-
ated among the occupants of the premises
a one-legged man who was wholly unwashed,
an intoxicated man of a similar type and a
woman in bed in the vicinity of a tub of offal.
It was requested that something should b a
done to the owner for “suffering to exist on
his premises a condition liable to be dangerous
to health,” as the law puts it, but the Court
held that the owner possibly didn’t smell
the condition of his property even when he
called for the rent, and dismissed the case.
It also ordered the complainants to pay costs.
* * * *
“H.N.0.”: In Sydney and Melbourne are
several successful lawyers who followed other
callings until they were middle-aged men, oxie
of them having been a master-mariner. This
sort of thing is less frequent in the medical
profession, but I know one Melbourne doctor
who earned a living as an insurance-agent
until lie reached the age of 30, when he
qualified as a chemist. At 42 he commenced
to study medicine, and after topping the
honors list in several subjects graduated
at 48; he now has a thriving suburban
practice. And there is a lady doctor who
tried half a dozen different jobs before an
unexpected legacy at 37 enabled her to
qualify for the profession that had always
attracted her.
“P.X.”: Three Sydney doctors I know
had other professions before they took to
medicine; and each had also accumulated
a family. The most interesting common fea-
ture about the three cases —a feature that
ought to make some parents think —was that
each boy had been brought up to his father's
profession. In every instance the father had
climbed very high in that profession—in one
case he was general manager of the Broken
Hill Prop.—and it may be that the sons
were more or less hypnotised by their
parents’ success. In no case was the pur-
suit of medicine easy: examinations are
hard things to pass when one has got into
the thirties.
* * * *
“Tariff”: The auditors for S. Aus. district
councils are chosen, like the members, by
the electors’ votes. In one out-back d.c. the
nominations for the positions were just suf-
ficient and everybody was returned unop-
posed, including John Broxx who had
offered himself as auditor. At the end of
the financial year the district clerk brought
his books round for John to run his pro-
fessional eye over them. Next day John
in person returned the accounts with the
assurance that everything was 0.K., adding
a hope that the “X, his mark,” which his
lack of schooling forced him to employ in
lieu of signature, had been inscribed in the
right place!
* * * *
“Repwoe”: I once saw a man swimming
across Sydney Harbor without any limelight
—or daylight either. It was on a Sunday
night in the early ’nineties, and I had
arrived at Circular Quay to find that the
North Shore boat had just left. In those
days there was no other for an hour. So
I engaged a waterman to row me over. When
we were well past Dawes Point we overtook
a swimmer, and pressed him to get into the
boat. He asked where we were going, and,
being told McMahon’s Point, refused the lift.
“Don’t bother about me,” he said, “I’m going
to Milson’s.” For all I know to the con-
trary he arrived there safely.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: A Perth resident did a
bit of home-renovating the other Saturday
afternoon, and the smell of paint that night
sent him and his family to the pictures. To
ventilate the house two side-windows were
left open, and when the family returned they
found their portable possessions in disorder.
Some money and valuables were missing, but
the depredations on the clothing were con-
fined to a pair of pants, the disappearance
of which was explained by a note left on the
table. “It has not been my habit,” said the
writer, “to take personal wearing apparel, and
it only happened in this case because of your
failure to put a ‘wet paint’ notice on the win-
dow-sill. My trousers were l spoiled in conse-
quence, and I am forced, because of the high
cost of clothing, to take a pair of yours.”
SPARE PARTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr Henry Ford envisages a future in which the
organs of the body will he replaced, when neces-
sary, by spare parts.”
Oh Henry, were you stonkered, or by
soaring fancies conquered,
When you “dipped into the future” like the
chap in “Locksley Hall”?
When you saw men travel-weary, men
whose pace was second-geary,
Or a lamentable crawl?
Their worn-out parts replacing and uproar-
iously racing
Like scalded cats, their energies recharged
with youthful pep,
New hearts, new lungs, new livers in their
anatomic flivvers—
Were you skiting? Nope or yep?
I have fooled with pills and potions and
with Coue’s cranky notions;
I have tried in vain the little Daily Dose
upon a zack :
Yet, though careful of my fodder, in dyspep-
tic gloom I dodder,
Atra Cura on my back.
My brain can still do service; and I don’t
feel very nervous
About my other organs--except and save
the one
That receives my daily ration. Could I.
find a Service Station
To replace my Little Mary by a painless
duplication?
Henry ! Say —can it be done?
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


a
NO/
Si
7
m
ss
Cidarett
b
$
Q
e
x
IVO
/2
oa
w
«5*
Ral/a)
LT?
SY
e
4
-v
4c>
H,
<<
'Sh
cO
vH
:!!::•!
tp
414
<7
□
dm.
a
.
L^S
L^Nl
B
o
}«
if mooih to the
0
s
i
u
Ss
m
/
i
i
i
BBIHUy T clmiiil
nMirrr*
=feO
■saw
G 2»
V
/
<</
O'
fc
niii!i||it!|l|i||:;!::j!3
u
iiii!illl:!l!lillili!i!i!!3
SSMiI
Cigarettes
Special
Ivory Tips
»
W D.& M.O.WILLS
(AUSTRALIA) LV? SYDNEY
k
: :::hi;;:
iiMra iaH
:: :; ;. :; . ::
PACKETS OF
10 s &15?
also
Airtight Tins
of 5 O
/\so/?- T/fi>s


HOUP-LA ABDULLA!
TRAPEZE ARTISTES
High up among the flaring lights of the Circus Tent
two Trapeze Artistes fly like great birds across a dazzling
gulf.
Launching out from a trapeze into space demands
immense pluck and agility, and a complete faith in one’s
partner. The sustaining inspiration of Abdulla Cigarettes
becomes essential.
Life is a hit-or-miss affair, but we are most likely to
swing from Success to Success armed with Supreme Abdullas
to cheer and stimulate us.
superb CIGARETTES
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


“TALLY HO!”
Another official, at £4000 p.a., has been appointed to the Australian immigration machine.


I
k\
■***r
%
X
x>
Hh.
a
Now!
A Portable Adding Machine
with a Wide Carriage
THE BURROUGHS Portable Adding Machine is
now offered with either wide or narrow carriage and
with either four or six columns of pounds adding capacity.
The wide carriage feature enables you to watch daily the
relation between such items as sales, purchases, expenses,
etc., giving you accurate and timely advice of fluctuations
in your business.
Try one of these machines on your own work for a week
or two at our expense and you will see how easy it is to
get those very necessary figures.
Burroughs
Portables
are priced
as low as
XOS.
Sor 12 months
terms
Discount Sor Cash
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christchurch
Wellington
□
□
Adding
800 kkeeping
□
Cal
cu
Machine


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ONLY £4/4/-
FRENCH
PRISMATIC
FIELD GLASSES
MAGNIFYING EIGHT TIMES
Complete in smart Leather Case,
with strap.
l. v
V
- JHBBIir
WP %%r%
We have a new shipment of these wonder-value Glasses. The advantageously
low rate of the revised Customs duty accounts for the low prices. Compare
them in price and merits with any other make of binoculars, and you will
be speedily convinced of their amazing value.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Jewellers and Sight-Testing Opticians,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
' Motel
WndUot
Spring Street, Melbourne.
The most beautifully located of all Melbourne’s
good-class metropolitan hotels. Opposite Parlia-
ment House and facing magnificent gardens;
ideal for the
EASIER HOLIDAYS
Exceptionally quiet and secluded and only a
nrnute or two from the city attractions, shops,
theatres, stations, wharves, tourist chars-4-bancs.
Hot and cold water and telephones in all bed-
rooms. Minimum Tariff from 22/6 (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 15/-.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
Manager: D. G. Baker. ’Phone: Central 9260.
u>*«
is
pilJ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Arrived in Ashburton (M.L.) Hans
Schnurpfeil, glass-engineer, of Czeclio-Slo-
vakia, to instal the plant in the Southern
Cross Glass Co. works. The company had
the building ready;
it has sufficient
capital, limitless
supplies of 99.75
silica sand as white
as table salt, a
sympathetic Gov-
ernment and glass
imports of about
half a million. First
output will be win-
dow-glass in May,
with hollow - ware
to follow, then cry-
stal. Schnurpfeil
has done 45 similar
jobs in various
parts of Europe,
and is author of a
book on glass.
HOWARD
HEINZ, of the 57
sauces, who has
been deep-sea
angling in Maori-
land, and is pre-
sently to visit
Australia.
Anti-Lang Laborites who lost their seats in
the last elections are to get no share of the
fund into which all members of the party pay
to provide consolation prizes for the departed.
Goodin, Gillies, Alldis, Loughlin, Cann.
Minahan and Murphy (with those who were
more fortunate at the polls) paid their quid
a month to the fund which will provide £l7O
each for the Lang supporters who went out
—Fitzgerald, O’Halloran, Dooley, McClel-
land, Clarke, Stokes and Holdsworth, while
McTiernan and Greig, who did not start, are
to have their payments returned. An apology
seems due from those who have been blaming
Queensland goats for the nasty smell about
Sydney.
Maoriland was recently visited by one who
claims to have fired the first artillery shot
in the Great War. He is Gunner A. G.
Jenkins, then attached to E Battery of the
Royal Horse Artillery, Third Cavalry Bri-
gade, under General Gough. At Binche, Bel-
gium, at 11.30 a.m. on August 22, 1914, he
launched a shell from liis 13-pounder at some
Uhlans who had been sniping at patrols of
the Old Contemptibles. He kept the brass
case of that shell, and it is now a football
trophy of the British Army, inscribed with
the names of the gun team’s members.
“Maunga” : A one-time nurse at Auckland
(M.L.) Hospital had something interest-
ing to relate the other day concerning Hink-
ler. About 15 years ago Harry (“Wizard”)
WALLACE BRUCE, president of the
Associated Chambers of Commerce of
Australia, lately in conference at
Hobart.
Stone was giving exhibition stunts in a
monoplane in Australia, and racing the ’plane
against Percy Cornwall and his 80-miles-an-
liour car. While at Bundaberg they came
across a 17-year-old lad named Hinkler try-
ing to make an aeroplane. Stone was so
impressed that he took the lad to Maoriland
as junior mechanic. At Auckland stunts
and a ’plane-against-car race were profusely
advertised, but failed to take place owing to
Hinkler and Cornwall meeting with a car
smash. Then Hinkler spent three weeks in
Auckland Hospital nursing broken ribs. Stone
took his machine to Napier, where he came
an all-in crash.
Lieutenant Henry M. Chester, Thursday
Island’s first resident magistrate, was some-
thing of a fire-eater, but he had a quiet way
of dealing with his adversaries. He was a
skilful fencer and swordsman, and once,
having given offence to the representative of
another Power whose ship happened to be
in, was challenged to combat. He arrived
on the scene the following morning, clad in
a long, loose dressing-gown, to find that his
opponent and seconds were already there,
and were stepping out distances. He stood
contemplating the scene until his attention
was directed to the weapons provided.
Immediately he was on his dignity. “What’s
all this?” he inquired haughtily. “You seem
to forget that I am the person challenged,
and therefore have choice of weapons! I
have already made my choice!” and with a
flourish he drew from beneath his gown an
ordinary tomahawk. The duel was declared
off, and the parties left the ground arm-in-
arm.
Alfred Roberts has sold his seat on the
Stock Exchange of Adelaide after occupy-
ing it for 40 years. He began in the
height of the Broken Hill boom, and
went through the Kalgoorlie excitement
of 1893, when Adelaide brokers put on double
staffs and never closed their offices at all, and
one historic calling of the list lasted from
10.15 to 4.30, with nobody allowed to leave
the room. Roberts was at one time president
of the Stock Exchange and, outside business,
has been Mayor of Glenelg, an Adelaide
councillor, captain of Norwood football club
in its prime, and hon. manager of a Davis
Cup team. He succeeded E. T. Smith as
president of S.A. lawn tennis, and is still
a useful veteran at the game. The war
brought him an 0.8. E.
Another brilliant Australian lias dropped
into a job at Sydney University; Professor
J. Kenner, F.R.S., who was appointed in
1924. created the vacancy by resigning from
the Chair of Organic Chemistry. His suc-
cessor, Dr. John Campbell Earl, Ph.D. of
St. Andrew’s and D.Sc. of Adelaide, was
born in Australia but had his early technical
training in England. In 1914 lie was Vic-
torian Government research scholar at the
Melbourne Uni., and then went to Adelaide
as assistant in the S.A. Department of
Chemistry. During the last 18 months of
the war he helped in English explosive fac-
tories, and stayed on doing research _ work
towards establishing the British dye indus-
tries. He has been a lecturer and demon-
strator at the Sydney Uni. since 1922.
A. D. Henry, just dead in Adelaide, went
back to the bad old days of inter-State Cus-
toms duties. He was a collector at Went-
worth (N.S.W.), Euston (Vic.) and Broken
Hill before being given charge of the Adel-
aide office. His favorite story was of the
Ivenmuir Castle foundering in the Bay of
Biscay in 1883. Only eight were saved,
he and Mrs. Henry among them.
W. G. Marsh, secretary of Melbourne
Y.M.C.A. for a dozen years at the end of
last century and Anglican parson in Adel-
aide ever since, has just had an 87th birth-
day ; and yet he is cheerfully making plans
to visit Europe, Palestine and the U.S.A.,
the last-named being his native land.
Monsignor Carey, over whom the grave
has closed in Melbourne, voluntarily relin-
quished his high-status parish at N. Melb.
to provide a dignified anchorage for Dr.
Mannix when he arrived about 15 or 16
years ago to become coadjutor to Arch. Carr.
When Arch. Mannix succeeded Dr. Carr.
Dean Carey, as he was then styled, was re-
stored to his old parish. Dignities were
heaped upon him in his old age. He is cre-
dited with having fired a gun at pigeons
when they became a nuisance at St. Mary’s,
N. Melb., but it is not certain that he hit
any.
The £4OOO p.a. job of vice-chairman of
the Development and Migration Commission
has gone to W. P. Devereux, who for 13
years managed the Australian Mercantile
Land and Finance Co. in Brisbane, and
lately moved to Sydney as acting manager of
the same concern. Devereux was chairman
of the Q. State Wool Committee during the
war, and was one of the three appointed by
the Commonwealth to investigate the wool
position. That committee’s recommenda-
tions resulted in Bawra.
T. A. Ferry, appointed to the Queensland
Board of Trade and Arbitration in the place
of Gillies, is a Bananalander and head of the
Chief Sec.’s Department. He was police-
and industrial-magistrate in the Ingham and
Cairns sugar districts, where he achieved
such a reputation in settling disputes that
he was several times appointed special com-
missioner to inquire into industrial and other
matters, notably electoral boundaries and
the influx of aliens into North Queensland.
His latest job was an inquiry into the
Queensland Gem Pool, and he will not take
his seat on the Bench until he has com-
pleted his report. Few are better fitted for
the arbitration job than he is, and the fact
that this is the first post of importance that
has not been filled by a politician for some
time is an additional satisfaction to Queens-
landers.
Charlie Speight, who died in Dunedin at
63 the other day, was for many years the
king-pin of Speight’s Brewery, founded by
his father, James Speight, more than half a
century ago. He was an upright and in-
tensely respectable citizen; he cherished an
O. which he won for his hard work in
the Scotchbyterian city’s latest exhibition.
The brewery his dad founded has been noted
—and still is—for turning out the very
strongest beer in the Empire.
The veteran of the garrison of eight
which now holds the fort at Bare Island.
Botany Bay, is Private John Ball, who has
just had his 90th birthday. He served in
the Maori wars. Forty-odd years ago the
N.S.W. military authorities thought it neces-
sary to build the Botany Bay fortification,
but in 1912 it was turned into a Veterans'
Home, and there the old warriors live com-
fortably during the last days. Ball is oldest
of the little party by seven years.
Although Hogan had to serve 14 years in
Vic. Assembly before lie became Premier, he
was luckier than some of liis predecessors.
The apprenticeship of Duncan Gillies was
27 years, Munro’s 16 years, Patterson’s 25
years, McLean’s 19 years, Bent’s 33 years.
Murray’s 26 years, Bowser’s 23 years, "Law-
son’s 18 years and Prendergast’s 30 years.
Also, Gillies, Munro and Bent had coolings
outside Parliament for a term or two on the
way up.
“S.W.”: Another interesting early cleric,
apart from Bobby Knopwood, mentioned
lately in The Bulletin, was George Middle-
ton. Seventh on the list of Anglican clerics
and first pastor of Newcastle, he was reputed
to be the natural son of George 111.
Gone under to war effects, Charles Doug-
las Tod, writer, as “Taharangi,” of Bulle
tin pars, and stories, and a well-known con-
tributor to Maoriland papers. An Oxford
product, he spent a strenuous term on ser-
vice, and was only 39 at the finish.
A gentle and lovable soul winged its
way over the dark waters when Tommy
HINKLER.
Rowe, Dean of the
Faculty of Law at
Canterbury College,
Chris tchu rch
(M.L.),. passed out
at 65. Born in
Christchurch, he
became headmaster
of a country high
school at 23, but,
tiring of the bii-cli,
he became Chief
Librarian at Wel-
lington Public
Library. Then the
law beckoned, and
after accumulating
an LL.B. he started
practice in Christ-
church. Soon his
Alma Mater roped
him in as a law-
lecturer, in which
capacity lie was far
more successful
than he ever was as
chaser of costs and
brow - beater of
juries. His manner
was a beautiful ad-
mixture of the pre-
cise and the genial.
He didn’t mind
being called Tommy,
but when his for-
mer students com-
menced to call him
“old Tommy’’ he re-
gistered one of the
few kicks of his
placid existence.
And he was right. He never was old.
Alf Smith, who has been making Victoria’s
railway engines for 28 years, has just thrown
in his job as chief mechanical engineer and
collected first instalment of his pension. Son
of a Williamstown town clerk, he started as
a rail apprentice in ’B3, got his baptism of
oilcans, nuts and bolts at Newport and the
old Williamstown shops, and succeeded
W. M. Shannon as C.M.E. in 1919, when
Shannon moved up to second Commissioner.
A mechanical genius, Smith designed the
I)d, A 2, C, Iv, N and Pacific type engines,
besides a Consolidated class which was never
built. His designs always followed the grace-
ful sweeping lines of the English engines.
As an administrator, Smith was ultra-lenient
and handicapped by a natural incapacity
even to look severe. Astronomy, modelling
and an occasional dabble in water-colors fill
his leisure hours.
Victoria has a dearth of memorials to people
who did things and a plethora of reminders
of those who merely talked, so the proposal
to erect a statue of road-maker W. J.
Calder on the Geelong highway is a rather
welcome change. During his 15 years as
chairman of the Country Roads Board Calder
did more for Victoria’s highways than any-
body else. He was an authority whose
opinions were listened to abroad. A Maori-
lander by birth, he was a man of few
words, and most of those uncompromising.
M. Iv. McKenzie, the blind politician, who
was Vie. Minister for Lands for seven
months under Irvine (now C.J.) in 1902-03,
left property (mostly personalty) worth
£31,000. Twenty-five years ago an act of
his administration in the Lands Department
was attacked by Prendergast, now Chief Sec.
An inquiry by a select committee followed.
Then McKenzie resigned his Ministership,
his Executive Councillorship and his seat in
the Assembly. He recovered the seat in
1914, and retired voluntarily in 1920.
Bundaberg lost a fine citizen when Lewis
Maynard, ex-mayor and Diggers’ friend,
went out the other day at 67. Helping
museums occupied a lot of his time, the May-
nard collection of firearms in the Brisbane
building being his most important monument.
He kept a private collection of ancient and
modern weapons almost as good.
Charlie Harriott, who dropped his oar
the other day, was a barrister who appeared
in very few spectacular cases, but had a
sufficiently good practice to enable him to
follow all the big sculling events on the
Parramatta River in his own launch. In
his youth he was a great oarsman. He was
one of the Oxford eight in the great Uni-
versity boatrace of a long-ago year. He
played Rugby for Oxford, too. Fifty-nine
when he died, Harriott was admitted to the
Bar in 1894, and for the last 15 years was
secretary of the Bar Association.
Closed the session at 92, Major Harris, a
former member of both Houses in Maori-
land. When Bill Massey first attempted to
enter Parliament in 1893 he stood against
Harris and was beaten. The Major entered
Parliament for Franklin 50 years ago, and
held a seat till 1896.
SPRINGTIME IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poplars on the Albert-road will soon
be showing green;
Out from the slender twigs the buds will
thrust,
And from the branches birds will sing, and
on the road between
The heavy, clinging mud will soon be dust.
And up the road to La Boiselle, and down
the road to Bray,
The hard and toiling roads that once you
knew,
The farmers’ quiet, plodding teams will go at
break of day,
For spring is coming back to France—
and you.
The tender flowers will bloom again beneath
the kindly skies,
Where soft white fleecy clouds are gently
blown,
And from the fields by Pozieres the happy
larks will rise,
Where oft you heard the battleplane’s dull
drone.
And on the farms by Warlencourt and Fri-
court and Velu
The heavy sod will turn before the share,
For once again, old mate of mine, to far-off
France and you
Spring comes, and yet, alas! you will not
care.
You used to count each dreary day and mark
each long dark night,
When down the trench the sleet would
whip and sting.
“But spare me days!” you used to say, “a
man will be all right
If only he can hang on till the spring.”
And now. in all her loveliness, her gay and
gallant dress,
She loiters down the ways that once you
knew;
But bursting bud and song of birds to-day
are meaningless
Since all the seasons are the same to you.
You used to say “In springtime now it’s
not too bad in France;
This winter, strike me lucky! is a cow;
But when the good old springtime comes a
man has got a chance.”
And back to France the spring is coming
now.
The buds are on the hawthorn liedge, the
lark is on the wing,
The miry road grows firmer ’neath her
tread
As down the ways you used to go the smiling
Maid of Spring
Is coming back again to deck your bed.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


METROVICK.
HIGH TORQUE
HIGH EFFICIENCY
df
SQUIRREL CAGE
INDUCTION MOTORS
fi
I
The leading features of our C.K.B. Motors
may be briefly summarised as follows: —
1. Low initial cost.
2. Robustness.
3. High starting torque.
4. High efficiency.
5. Quick starting.
6. Lower starting current.
7. Reduced slip.
icKers
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane and Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
SECURE A RELIABLE EXECUTOR
by appointing
THE Trustees, Executors and Agency Co., Limited,
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia.)
Its experience of over 49 years in controlling all classes of Estates ensures a service that
will protect the interests of your dependents. , ,
If you have already appointed a private Execute r, the Company can be substituted by a short
codicil.
SECURITY; Capital (Paid and Uncalled) and Reserves exceed £BBB,OOO
Arrange an interview or write for booklet.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacEarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
R. SMIBERT. General Manager. v - G. WATSON. Manager.
CIIAS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The City Mutual Life Assurance
Society (Sydney) :
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1905 .. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1,971 25,141
1910 .. 121,588 . 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1917 .. 282,008 142,900 41,105 2,271 95,732
1918 .. 339,743 149,279 51,456 581 138,427
1919 .. 392,530 150,216 55,829 6,466 180,019
1920 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1921 570,065 198,603 78,755 11,488 281,219
1922 641,593 231,764 81,292 6,977 322,560
1923 .. 715,179 266,200 79,765 12,036 357,178
1924 . . 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,613 429,070
1925 .. 867,172 339,366 90,190 25,912 411,704
1926 . . 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 ..1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
Thus since the beginning of this century
income has multiplied itself 19£ times, and
has more than doubled in the past seven years.
But actual revenue was not quite as fat as
the figures suggest. Last year, for instance,
£233,481 of cash bonuses were declared;
£225,002, or 96.3 p.c. of the total, about
the same proportion as in the previous year,
was left in the business to buy additional
insurance, and these figures are included with
claims and income. The bonuses declared
last year were equal to 39.8 p.c. of the net
premium income, compared with 36.2 p.c. in
the previous 12 months and 34 p.c. in 1924.
The important part these bonuses play in
attracting new business is illustrated by the
fact that the office budgeted to write two
and a half millions last year, whereas the
result was nearer three millions, over
£350,090 in excess of the estimate. For the
most part that excess represented additional
cover taken out by existing members —an
indication that they are also alive to the
change in the purchasing power of money. On
the average £l7B to-day will buy no more
than £lOO would in 1911. The fatness of
the bonuses is partly due to this fact; but
mainly to policy-holders being overcharged in
the first place. At the end of last century
the premiums listed by this office were prac-
tically non-profit rates. To meet the public
taste, however, rates were increased, allow-
ing a margin for bonuses. Handsome bonuses,
in other words, are to a great extent
leg-pulling, insisted upon by the gentlemen
whose limbs are to be elongated.
The next comparison gives a good idea of
how the business clings:—
Renewal First New
Premiums. Premiums. Assurances.
1910 .. .. £71,987 £21,771 £637,300
1915 .. .. 115,628 32,610 804,614
1920 .. .. 215,103 84,771 1,998,906
1922 .. .. 291,719 76,967 2,194,076
1923 .. .. 338,420 65,453 1,964,583
1924 .. .. 371,934 66,427 2,025,000
1925 .. .. 406,432 74,642 2,436,056
1926 . . . . 453,599 74,825 2,482,000
1927 . . . . 488,570 90,311 2,857,000
Last year’s renewals were only £39,854 less
than renewals plus new premiums in 1926.
The figure represents what the co. _ lost not
merely in lapses but also in maturities and
surrenders. The average per policy last year
was £535, an exceptionally high figure; it
was £326 in 1920. Setting aside the undrawn
cash bonuses, exes, ate 19.9 p.c. of last
year’s' net premium income compared with
i 8.4 p.c. in the previous year; their ratio to
gross income was 13.4 p.c. and 12.4 p.c.
respectively for the same two years. On the
basis that renewals cost 7 p.c., and single, pre-
miums 3 p.c., and charging the balance of
the year’s exes, against new business, the
latter ran away with 91.3 p.c. of _ the first
year’s premiums last year as against 88.7
p.c. in 1926 and 78.4 p.c. in 1922. But the
society’s investments call for special care
and attention, which must raise the rate
to more than 7 p.c.; hence the actual cost of
new business is certainly much less than the
figures suggest.
The office kcores lieavily on its investments.
Last year they turned in £283,484, or £24,766
more than was realised in 1926—in 1918 the
return was only £64,755. That and the
underwriting surplus are now providing hand-
some additions to policies. Of the £508,143
added to the Assurance fund in 1926 the
actuary figured that no less than £418,000
was available for distribution amongst policy-
holders. When figuring the liability under
policies the office assumes that its funds
will earn 3J . p.c.; last year the average
was 6.0 p.c., compared with 6.9, 6.3 and
8 p.c. back to 1924 —these figures include
profits on sales. So long as no national
cataclysm occurs to produce large capital
losses, these yields spell fat bonuses.
In addition to the Assurance fund
(£4,413,831) there is £70,000 put by for con-
tingencies—£lo,ooo was added to the store
last year—and £25,000 to provide against fluc-
tuations in value of Government securities.
That and some liabilities (£75,638) make a
balance-sheet total of £4,584,469, and the
money is invested in this way :
1914. p.c. 1927. p.c.
Public securities ..£123,008 16.0 £859,051 18.9
Mortgages . . .. 362,992 47.0 2,768,456 60.2
Loans on policies. . 102,196 13.3 442,409 9.6
Properties . . .. • 119,404 15.5 317,675 6.9
Shares & debentures, etc. 39,507 5.1 102,449 2.3
Cash and sundries .. 24,243 3.1 94,429 2.1
£771,350 £4,584,469
A departure from the conventional was
made a couple of years ago, when the office
bought land at Hyde, near Sydney, and
established a golf links. The venture has
been so successful that the directors have
decided to buy properties near the capital
cities in Other States for a like purpose. The
initiative and enterprise of managing-director
George Crowley in attracting business
rather than pursuing it commands respect-
ful attention now from thousands who at
one time found it only entertaining.
H- H* *J»
The Commonwealth Life (Amalga-
mated) Assurances, Ltd. (Sydney), was
registered Oct. 20, 1926, and took over the
businesses of the Commonwealth Life and
Citizens and Graziers’ Life as from Sept.
30, 1926. Products of the post-war boom in
insurance floats, the Commonwealth was
established in 1920 and the Citizens and
Graziers’ in the following year. Neither co.
did much for itself except pile up intan-
gibles. The price paid for each business
was figured on a net asset basis at Sept. 30,
1926, except that liabilities under policies
were taken on the December 31, 1925, valua-
tion. In addition an amount equal to the
premium income of each co. for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1925, was paid for goodwill.
Thus the Amalgamated co. paid (in shares)
to the two old cos., each of which continues
to function as a holding concern, £129,192,
of which £96,422 went to the Commonwealth
and £32,770 to the Citizens and Graziers’.
These figures are arrived at in this way:—
Citizens’
Common- and
wealth. Graziers’.*
Assets, except goodwill .. £72,312 £29,364 £101,676
Liabilities, except under
policies 6,424 11,797 18,221
Liabilities under policies 39,572 15,048 54,620
Net tangible assets ..£26,316 £2,519 £28,835
Goodwill .. .. .. 70,106 30,251 100,357
Total consideration . . £96,422 £32,770 £129,192
♦Excluding Queensland assets and liabilities.
Tlio right to future profits from the
Queensland business of the Citizens and
Graziers’ was later bought for £IB,OOG-odd
(in shares). Thus the goodwill payment
for the two businesses stood in the Amalga-
mated co.’s books at £118,743 at Sept. 30,
and paid capital had advanced to £149,415.
Shortly before the close of accounts the life
business of the Colonial Provident was
bought; at what figure is not stated, but
the goodwill involved was £397.
The idea behind these purchases was to
make an assault upon costs by a cut in over-
head, and is, therefore, a good one. Owing
to the lay-out of the published figures it is
not possible to say what new business is
running into, but taking the business as a
whole definite progress appears to have been
made. The year’s income was £114,155. of
which industrial premiums provided £58,184;
ordinary, £46,588; accident, £5170; interest,
etc., £4213. There was a slight falling-off,
but that does not matter much since claims
(£11,213) were proportionately less and exes.
(£87,361) substantially lighter. The com-
bined exes, of the two old cos. for the nine
months to Sept. 30, 1926, was £85,875, equal
to £114,500 on a yearly basis, so there has
been a saving of over £27,000 there. Never-
theless last year’s outgo of £87,361 represents
76.5 p.c. of the total income, and that is a
very heavy proportion, loudly calling for fur-
ther reduction. Since the two old cos. were
working their businesses separately for about
nine months of the term the prospect of fur-
ther improvement in the next accounts is
encouraging.
The result of the year’s operations was a
surplus of £15,581, compared with a deficit
of £6463 on the combined operations of the
two old concerns in their last nine months;
£469 of it was struck off preliminary exes.,
reducing them to £lB7B. The balance
(£15,112) went into the assurance fund,
making it £71,067. Renewals were claimed
to be 80.1 p.c., and that is satisfactory.
Assuming that the assurance fund is suf-
cient to cover liabilities under policies, there
was only £28,399 in net tangibles, equal to
3s. lOd. per share, to represent £149,415 of
paid capital. Assets were: Government
securities. £64,875; mortgages, £14,152;
cash, book debts, etc., £14,899; motor-cars,
£8278 —evidence of extravagance in the past
—and odds and ends, £2675. Policy-holders
are well covered; in addition to the above
they had the protection of £127,671) of un-
called capital in the Citizens and Graziers’
Co. at Dec. 31, 1926, and only a trifle of
it has been called since. Shareholders, how-
ever, have to look to the respective holding
cos., and there is some hot air there in addi-
tion to that in the Amalgamated co.’s sheet.
At Dec. 31, 1926. the Commonwealth’s paid
capital was £141,159 in fully-paid £1 shares,
and creditors were owed £525. To repre-
sent the lot there were shares in the Amalga-
mated co., £96,422; cash in suspense, £1306;
establishment, £43,956. Thus tne net tan-
gible backing amounted to only 2s. Sd. per
share. At the same date paid capital in
the Citizens and Graziers’ was £155,504, and
£582 was owing on open account. On the
other side of its sheet shares in the Amalga-
mated co. stood at £32,770; Queensland
assets, less reserve for actuarial liability,
£18,397; book debts, £6B; establishment and
organisation, £104,851. Assuming that the
Queensland assets can all be touched, net tan-
gibles amounted to 3s. Id. per £1 of paid-up
capital.
Prospects largely depend upon the ability
of the management in the Amalgamated co.
to so cut costs that bonuses can be paid to
policy-holders. After that there is a fine pile
of intangibles in all three cos. calling for
reduction. Shareholders cannot hope to get
into the picture for a long time.
* * * #
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ j£
1917.. 20,265 10 p.c. = 6,828 13,437 94,652
1918.. 17,076 10 „ „ 6,828 10,248 104,900
Transferred to capital, £45,522
Cash bonus, “A” and “B” shares, £22,761
1919.. 76,136 8 p.c. = 9,083 67,053 110,004
1920.. 17,818 8 „ „ 9,083 8,735 116,282
1921.. 5,052 8 „ „ 9,083 112,251
1922.. 14,635 8 „ „ 9,083 5,552 117,803
1923.. 19,696 10 „ ~ 11,354 8,342 120,145
1924.. 9,249 10 „ „ 11.354 124,040
1925.. 13,710 10 „ ~11,355 2,355 126,395
1926.. 13,778 10 „ ~11,355 2,423 128,818
1927.. 12,722 11 ~ ~ 12,490 232 129,050
Mon, that looks rash! Profits were £1056
poorer, and only twice in the past dozen years
has a lower figure been written; yet share-
holders are given an extra taste, and only a
few dregs visibly remain to be put away in
the cupboard. However, these cautious finan-
ciers have never overdone things in the way
of distributions, and it is unlikely that they
have done so now. Visible accumulations are
£15,503 in excess of paid capital, so total
funds have to earn just a whisper over 5 p.c.
in order to pay 11 p.c. Certainly trade has
been in and out since the welter of war profits
ended in 1919, but over that period the co.
has averaged much better than 5 p.c. on its
mean funds. Also profits are written after
making the usual provision for depreciation
and contingencies. Up to the outbreak of
war the annual writing-off was disclosed, but
what is done in that way is not visible now.
Still some idea of the policy that was handed
down may be got from the figures. For the
10 years to 1913 £31,892 was paid in divi-
dends. £52,336 was added to reserves and
£52,151 written off for depreciation, etc. The
works then stood in the books at £129,711,
the entry grew to £153,915 in 1920, but at
Dec. 31 last the figure was back to £116,082,
though their capacity over the last 14 years
has been greatly increased, and the outlay
must have been considerable.
In 1919 £45,522 in bonus scrip and £22.761
in cash was handed out. Thus with the 1912
gift (£22,761) paid capital has expanded
from £45,522 to £113,547 without share-
holders being asked for a penny. And, de-
spite all this, visible accumulations have over-
taken the total on the share register. The
position is very solid—
-1924. 1925. 1926. 1927..
Liabilities. . .. £40,587 £50,042 £ 50,200 £48,453
Works .. .. 121,946 124,740 120,603 116,082
Stocks . . . . 22,861 32,869 26,138 23,801
Book debts, cash,
investments, etc. 139,037 138,052 151,502 157,980
After deducting the final dividend each of
the 26,160 pound prefs. could see £5 os. 2d.
in the more or less liquid surplus (£133,328).
Allowing bare cover for the profs, the
balance was equal to 245. 6d. per fully-paid
ord. share. That is disregarding altogether
the fixed assets, which have a written-down
value equal to 20s. sd. per £1 of paid capital.
The market values the scrip on a 7 p.c.
basis and pays 31s. for both classes of
shares. The prefs. are entitled to a mini-
mum 5 p.c. and have priority as to capital,
but do not share in surplus assets. Prospects
are that the works will be kept busy during
the current, year, but profits are largely de-
termined by conditions at Smithfield, and
maybe exporters will have to look to the
wool on pelts for a good deal of their
profits.
The Fourth Victoria Permanent
Building Society (Melbourne) :
Written To lie- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £ £,
1918.. 18,082 8 p.c. = 9,318 2318 6,446 106,744
1919.. 20,931 8 „ „ 9,513 11,418 118,162
1920.. 36,009 10 „ „ 14.660 21,349 139,511
1921.. 30,732 10 „ „ 16,935 1751 12,046 151,557
1922.. 40,536 10 „ „ 29,017 7 11,512 163,069
Premiums on new shares . . 34,521 197,590
1923.. 44,427 10 p.c.= 28,548 122 15,757 213,34,
1924.. 49,128 12 „ „ 34,521 16 14,591 227,938
Premiums on new shares .. 5604 233,542
1925.. 51,467 12 p.c— 35,853 15,614 249,156
1926.. 56,883 12 „ „ 40,009 16,874 266,030
Premiums on new shares .. 1155 267,185
1927.. 59,213 12 p.c.= 41,193 18,020 285,205
Over the past eight years shareholders have
averaged 11 p.c., and more than 45 p.c. of the
net earnings has remained in the business.
Thus reserves have advanced to within
£2470 of the permanent capital (£287,675).
In addition there is £70,660 of temporary
capital, £24,928 of it got in during the year
at a premium of £1155. The National Mutual
Life, which is the biggest shareholder and
depositor, took up the last issue. Much of
the society’s success is due to its associa-
tion with the big life office, which gives it
command of a fine volume of funds, and also
a standing different from most others.
The position of shareholders is growing
steadily stronger. After allowing for 12
p.c. on the temporary capital, the balance of
last year’s net earnings was equal to 18.2
p.c. on the permanent capital compared with
17.2, 17.4, 17.1 and 15.6 p.c. back to 1923.
And during the year £4163 was spent on
alterations and additions to headquarters
freehold, which stands unaltered in the books
at a conservative £40,000. Total share-
holders’ funds have to earn only 6.4 p.c. to
pay a 12 p.c. div. Here is another view
of the extraordinary progress of recent
years:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Permanent capital .. £287,675 £287,675 £287,675
Investing capital .. Nil 45,723 77,480*
Deposits, etc. .. 738,299 969,780 1,078,473
Advances, etc. .. 1,231,147 1,551,281 1,712,041
Other freeholds . . 40,370 40,399 40,433
Cash, etc. . . . . . 2,533 287 292
‘lncluding interest, £6820.
The net tangible backing for each of the
fully-paid £5 permanent shares is £9 19s. Id.,
nearly all in mortgages. The scrip is tightly
held; buyers offer £7 175., but that has not
been sufficient to bring sellers out of their
shell. At that price the return is 7.6 p.c. on
a 12 p.c. basis.
* * * *
Manly Hotels, Ltd. (N.S.W.), which, in
1910, began with a deficit of £2930, repre-
senting preliminary expenses
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 2799 7 p.c. = 2450 349 1,230
1919.. 3561 8 „ „ 2800 761 1,991
1920.. 4538 10 „ „ 3500 1038 3,029
1921.. 4174 8 „ „ 2800 1374 4,403
1922.. 4305 8 „ „ 2800 1505 5,908
1923.. 6618 10 ~ ~ 3500 3118 9,026
1924.. 5892 10 ~ ~ 3500 2392 11,418
1925.. 6901 10 „ „ 3500 3401 14,819
1926.. 5663 10 „ „ 3500 2163 16,982
1927.. 2811 10 „ „ 3500 16,293
The poorest result since the long, lean war
years. The management blames the weather
and increasing costs. The £2Bll netted was
only 8 p.c. on capital compared with 16.2,
19.7, 16.8 and 18.9 p.c. back to 1923. How-
ever, the 10 p.c. to shareholders was re-
peated, though reserves had to be dipped into
for £689 to do it. Shareholders have not
had much out of the business—-a lone 5 p.c.
in the first eight years and an average of
5.3 p.c. over the past 18 years. After the
war the position steadily improved ; altera-
tions and extensions were made to the
premises in 1924 and profits promptly re-
sponded. But the decline in earnings over
the last two years is far from reassuring.
There is, however, nothing uncomfortable
in the financial position
1Q93 IQ9<v IQ9ft 1Q97
Liabilities. . .. £26,075 £27,846 £26,997 £25,820
Liquid assets .. 11,718 11,474 12,788 10,921
Excess liabilities.. £14,357 £16,372 £14,209 £14,899
Buildings, etc. . . 60,133 67,941 67,941 67,941
Liabilities include £20,000 p.c. perpetual
debentures; £12,000 of it represents pur-
chase price of the freehold and goodwill,
etc., of the old Clarendon Hotel. In addi-
tion, capital (£35,000) had the assistance
of £16,293 of reserves at Dec. 31. Cash
and book debts (£7256) were more than
enough to meet trade creditors, including
provision for taxation (£5618). Fixed assets
remain unchanged since the 1924 additions.
There is probably some inner strength in
the freehold item (£54,671), but how much
is put by to meet depreciation and renewals
on plant, etc. (£13.270), is not disclosed, and
a hotel of this kind is a hungry animal
for repairs and modernising improvements.
Future profits, therefore, partly depend
upon whether the provision lias been suffi-
cient.
The market, which a year or so ago had
large thoughts about the future, now pays


mmm
II
H
>■
*f ■
SSBSS
H
-
•**«
n s
warn
■
:
2
No. I.—Taylor’s “Eye Wit-
ness” Station Knife, as illus-
tration 1. Comprises 3in.
pen-shape blade, 2in. spear-
point blade, screw-driver,
tin-opener and shackle.
Metal - tipped stag
handle
lijgjij
M,
f'ML •*
6
Write to Desk R for Murdoch’s
new and profusely illustrated
A utumn and Winter Catalogue
FREE !
IT was inevitable that Murdoch’s, catering for tens of thousands of
Men scattered throughout this Great Commonwealth, should add
to apparel other commodities so necessary in every-day life. What
this means to the men of Australia may be gauged from the overwhelming response
to our first announcement that a Cutlery Section had been opened. The reason is
quite simple—the unrivalled service to shoppers which has now made Murdoch’s the
World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store is also strikingly evident in the New
Cutlery Section.
gdf
No. 3.— Sports Knife, with 2 strong
blades, corkscrew, screw-driver,
stone remover, pricker and
tweezers, shackle. As illus- )£*
tration 3 OfO
Better qualities at —
5/9, 16/6, 18/6, 18/9
No. 7 —Footrot Knives. Taylor’s de-
pendable ’’Eye brand.
Steel blade, long. Wood- j
en handle, as illustration 7. . cL "
No. B.—Wade and Butcher’s Heavy-
weight Butcher’s Knives. Re-
liable Sheffield steel Blades.
Sizes, 6in. . .
As illus. 8: 7in., 2/9; Bin., 3/-
No. 12.—Joseph Rodgers’ Stockman’s
Friend Pocket Knife, 3 blades, 1
castrator blade, 1 skinner blade, and'
I spear-point blade; stag „
handle, metal ends O
g
No. 4.—Taylor’s “Eye Witness” Single-
blade Clasp Knife, as illustration 4.
Catch prevents closing
when in use, 4in. Sheffield •* Q </*»
steel blade, stag handle . . M
No. 9.—Wade and Butcher Boning
Knife, best quality Sheffield steel
blades, as illustration 9, 7 q
inches O'O
Russell’s Green River, 6 Jin., 2/6.
No. 10.—Superior Quality Wade and
Butcher’s Sheffield Steel Skinning
Knives, as illustration 10.
6 inches
6-Jin., 3/3.
Russell’s Green River, 6in., 2/6; 6Jin.,
3/-; 7in., 3/6.
No. 13.—Taylor’s “Eye Witness” and
Joseph Rodgers’ 2-blade Pen Knives,
of excellent quality Sheffield steel.
Prices: 2/6, 3/-, 3/6, 3/11, 4/-,
4/6 each.
Stainless Dinner Cutlery
No. 5. —Wade and Butcher’s Stainless
Dessert and Dinner Knives. Latest
shaped blades, as illustration 5.
Grained Xylonite Handles. Supplied
with patent sharpener in half-dozen
lots.
Dessert, per half-doz. .... 20/9
Dinners, per half-doz 24/-
Same quality, but with ordinary
shaped blades—■
Desserts, per half-doz 17/6
Dinners, per half-doz 20/-
No. 11. — Sets of Carvers, made by
Thos. Ibbotson, the reputable Shef-
field maker. Contains Knife, Fork
and Steel all of the finest-quality
Firth Stainless Steel. White Xylon-
ite Handles. Complete in Silk- .
lined case, as illustration 1 I 1.0/0
Superior qualities: 18/6, 23/6,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6.
No. 6. —Cabinets of Cutlery, as illustration 6. Made by Ibbotson’s of Sheffield.
Comprises one dozen Teaspoons, Dessert Forks, half-dozen Dessert
Spoons, quarter-dozen Table Spoons, half-dozen Dessert Knives. //j
Complete in attractive Leatherette Case *)«' O
Others at 70/-, 72/6, 75/-, SO/-, 105/-
WADE AND BUTCHER’S STAINLESS SHEFFIELD SPOONS AND FORKS.
Teaspoons, per doz 9/6
Dessert Spoons 16/b
Table Spoons 21/-
Dessert Forks 16/6
Table Forks 21/-
No. 2. Ibbotson’s Pocket
Knife, as illustration 2, com-
prises one spear and one
pen - shaped blade and
shackle, also chain. /
Black bone handle. . tP I
r H
w
;■ ■■
7 8 9 10
1
11
All Murdoch's goods arc
offered on the frank under-
standing of “Perfect Satis-
faction or money refunded
n
ffillllllllllNlifaniS—==■___
12
Scissors
No. 12.—Taylor’s “Eye Witness”
Nickel-plated Cutting-out Scissors,
as illustration 12.
Bin.
6/6
9in.
8/6 pair
Taylor’s “Eye Witness” Brand House-
hold Scissors. Keen edges.
6in.
3/6
Tin.
4/6 pair
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR. When writing kindly address your letter to Desk R.
COPYRIGHT.
■
m
si
:
r :P1
wM
“The World's Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store . ”


Don’t LoseYourMoney
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS* ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MARCH NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * •
A Help to Inventors. Writing on January 30 last,
a recipient of a copy of the booklet “Invention,”
expresses his appreciation. “Many thanks for your
booklet ‘lnvention.’ It has enlightened my friends
and myself a great deal concerning invention, and
now we can get on the right road.” You can obtain
a free copy of this interesting pamphlet by sending
your name and address to H. H. Rayward, Me.E.,
Patent Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509
Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. [2
* * ,* *
Full volume flow is always maintained in Pioneer
Wood Pipe, for it is non-corroding. No rust nor
tubercles choke the flow after a few years of use
as in metal pipe. Other points that commend it
as the all-purpose modern conduit are light weight,
simplicity, immunity from electrolysis, and ability to
carry any fluid safely. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
WillK ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney ; 15. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney, Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses. — Advt.
* * * *
Investors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
(irillith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. ConusoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
* * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the re-equipment of
your plant for the next season.— Advt.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
boord&son f
FINEST DRY GIN*
&. OLD TOM
DT
WM
Lgwift & Coimtany Ltd.. AiiHtruluNiiin A tenth. 26 SO Clarence St., Sydney Z!
To Delay Making Your Will Is a Serious Matter.
EQUALLY SERIOUS IS THE QUESTION OF SELECTING YOUR EXECUTOR
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) is in every way to be preferred to
Private Executors, however trustworthy.
Its advantages include:
Continuity of Management. It cannot die or leave the State.
Security - - - Its Reserves and Uncalled Capital are Ample.
Experience - - - - It has handled almost every class of asset.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration Exceed £30,000,000.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Write for Booklet. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director-—R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE. Manager—H. V, DOUGLASS.
Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36 air holes',
the ‘ Fropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
now. cAU Sizes.
The ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
In Queen Street, Brisbane
255. for the scrip. After allowing for the
div. (Is.) the return at that price is 8.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis; and the backing
is 295. 4d. in net tangibles—mostly, of
course, premises.
* * * *
When in 1907 Wm. Sandford could no
longer carry on the Lithgow ironworks, the
Hoskinses bought the business for £50,000
in cash (£lO,OOO down and the balance in 10
equal annual payments), £14,000 4 p.c.
bonds and the payment of creditors in full.
The business has since made wonderful pro-
gress ; works at Sydney. Lithgow, Rhodes
and Bi-isbane, and coalmines, cokeworks,
limestone quarries and iron-ore deposits have
been added to the assets. But actual pro-
gress never caught up with planned de-
velopment, which included the establishment
of works on a large scale at Port Kembla, on
the N. S. Wales South Coast. First the war
and then costs stood in the way of the
Kembla enterprise : but a few years ago it
was decided to make a start, and a 400-
acre waterfront freehold was bought. More
recently tariff adjustments quickened action,
with the result that Australian Iron and
Steel, Ltd., is being incubated with a nomi-
nal capital of £5,000,000. It will have the
powerful backing of Dorman, Long and Co.,
Ltd., Baldwins, Ltd., Howard Smith, Ltd.,
and Hoskins Iron and Steel Co., Ltd. The
combined subscribed capital of the four ex-
ceeds £17,795,000, but the extent of their
individual interests in the new co. has not
yet been announced. The Hoskins Co. is,
it is understood, to be the biggest share-
holder, and its business, together with the
Australian business of Dorman, Long and
Co., except the Sydney Harbor bridge con-
tract, will be taken over. The erection of
new plant and buildings at the port is
to be pushed on with at once. It is ex-
pected that later the public will be invited
to take up pref. shares.
* * * *
The S.-E. Queensland Mineral Explora-
tion Co., Ltd., is being floated to tackle the
black sand deposits of the Coolangatta-
Currumbin coast line a little north of the
Tweed (N.S.W.). Capital is £25,000, of
which 12,500 are paid-ups, and there is no
cash consideration. The deposits there are
on a par with those on the Richmond River
beaches, and for decades past have been an
enticement to the nondescript prospector
and the beachcomber. Company operations
demand more complete data if subscribers’
capital is to be protected from undue risks.
Definitely secured areas with test borings
are at least desirable. The prospectus states
it is the co.’s intention to secure a 20-
acre lease and other lands under permit,
thus giving it carte blanche to spend good
money over uncertain and perhaps un-
tested areas. The assay of a concentrated
sample of sand containing 26.12 p.c. plati-
num and 40.02 p.c. osmiridium is starred,
on the authority of geologist B. Dunstan;
but the latter’s report on platinum shows
that a sample of the metal, not the sand,
contained 26.12 p.c. platinum and 40.82 p.c.
osmiridium. Moreover, the locality of the
sample may be far outside of the prospective
20-acre lease.
Further, the “Wild Cat” has had the
misfortune to be unable to find in geologist
Ball’s report on these beach sands the refer-
ence to concehtrates carrying 54 p.c. tin
as stated in the prospectus. Mr. Ball, how-
ever, does indicate that generally values are
low, but occasionally payable, and that the
results thus far obtained indicate it to be a
favorable field for a dredger, with the proviso
that before money is spent the matter should
be put beyond doubt by thorough boring.
11. E. Hurst, for the co., gives as his opinion
that values are 12s. 9d. per yard, but no area
is specified, and the opinion is not backed up
by any scientific data. Also handsome
returns are indicated if the right method of
treatment is adopted. There is silence on
what the right method is, although it is
known that recovery is difficult owing to the
extreme fineness of the metallic contents.
Questions of overburden and cost of removal
are unconsidered items as far as the pros-
pectus goes, though the black sand layers are
often covered by barren sands.
* * * *
The mining cos.’ log lately presented to the
Barrier unions asked for night shift. Emery,
the owners’ rep., did not press the point
very hard, however, probably because he re-
cognised the futility of doing so. The bigger
mines do not want it, he said, but some of
the cos. now idle think that with it they
could keep working with metal prices even
lower. He was referring, of course, to
the Prop, and its sister, Block 14, which
have to scratch for their ore nowadays, arid
the amount broken at both mines on two
shifts is not enough to keep the jaws of the
Prop.’s capacious plant moving. The unions,
however, came hack with an emphatic “No !”
and Emery let it go.
* * * *
Lander Oil Co., very little heard of
nowadays, is still in existence, though it has
to be nursed by the Roma Oil Corporation.
The co. is being reconstituted, and provided
the present shareholders and the general
public come along with the necessary capital
for that, there is some hope of keeping the
co.’s head above water. The Roma Oil Cor-
poration, which practically took over Lan-
der’s interests, gave all the latter’s share-
holders the first option of becoming share-
holders in Roma Oil. The directors of
Roma Oil acquired another area next its
own 10,000-acre block, and the 20,000 acres
so held between the two cos. is in the
middle of the Roma district. Lander also
holds a 10.000-acre block at Oralla some
83 miles n.w. of Roma, and boring on this,
two or three years ago, showed the natural-
gas characteristic of the Roma formations,
as well as signs of oil. The Roma Oil Cor-
poration’s bores have proved the existence of
natural gas in great quantities, and there
is no reason why the Lander holding, next
door, should not pan out as well in this par-
ticular. Lander’s plant is at present under
lease to the Roma Oil Corporation, but will
be handed back when the latter co. receives
the new machinery ordered from America,
Lander continuing as a separate co.
He H« ❖ *
That the present state of the mining
market is anything but cheerful is evidenced
in the recent report of Guinea Gold that
flotation of the leases has been delayed.
This is due to the stiffness of the money
market and the slump in tin, which has
helped to tie Up capital that might otherwise
be available for speculation in mining
stocks. The Territory Investments’ option,
however, does not expire until March 14,
and by that time things may be got moving.
A good deal was expected of Territory In-
vestments in this connection, and, if the
latter cannot take up the option, it will be
a severe disappointment to the field, where
large companies have been recognised for
some time as necessary evils. So far, with
one notable exception, most of the efforts
in that direction have been of the wild-cat
order. No doubt the decision of the Federal
Government to impose a 5 per cent, royalty
on gold won in the Territory has helped in
the general frostiness.
* * * *
Broughton Jensen, field superintendent for
Guinea Gold co., thinks the co.’s most im-
portant holding is that portion of the leases
known as G. G. South. Tests have shown
400,000 c.y. worth ss. and 5,000,000 c.y.
worth 2s. 6d., with a further yardage yet to
be tested. A plant to work this and the other
areas properly would cost £40,000, based
on present prices. Such an instalment
should return a profit of £30,000 a year,
allowing for the New Guinea rate of exes,
and amortisation of the plant at the rate of
10 per cent, per annum. Working costs
should go from Is. to Is. lid. per c.y. for the
four units. Guinea Gold Central and North,
two more of the co.’s holdings, have not yet
been sufficiently tested to return a fair idea
of values.
* # * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) struggles on.
Latest directors’ report states that, although
no actual oil indications have been met in
the new bore (etc., etc.), a sufficient depth
has been reached to warrant the assumption
that any change in the country may bring
forth encouraging results. On the strength of
this a director and the secretary recently
visited Canberra and asked the Minister for
Home and Territories for more financial
assistance. Their request is now awaiting
consideration.
* * * *
Westralia claims to have the makings of
a new goldfield in the desert beyond Lavcr-
ton. Reefs and lodes in abundance are said
to be running through a belt of country
there, and prospects are declared to be en-
couraging. Something similar was said by
Carr Boyd years ago, but Perth and Adel-
aide fortune-hunters who followed could
not strike anything worth while.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly’s latest flight to Norse-
man (W.A.) promises to be a successful
one. It alighted on the New Mararoa, which
has the southern continuation of the_ old
Mararoa deposit, and which, worked in a
small way, has so far proved payable. Pros-
pects in the present bottom workings at
about 200 ft. down look well; and as the
old Mararoa only became valuable below
300 ft., the New Mararoa may quite likely
improve in depth. The co. has also got hold
of another venture near Mt. Magnet, which
is being worked by open cut and is said to
be big. But the “Wild Cat” has no direct
evidence about it yet.
* * * *
W. A. Manganese Co. is elated at the
prospect of British Metal Corporation ac-
quiring a substantial interest and marketing
its product to the extent of at least
100,000 tons a year overseas. The co., real-
ising that no alliance could better promote
the rapid development of its vast deposits
than one with the British Metal Corporation,
has authorised two directors, Bill Hedges
and McCallum Smith, to complete the deal
in Melbourne with Capt. Lyttleton, joint
managing director of the other concern.
The affairs of the Kawarau cos. (MX.)
are not in a very promising condition. The
Kawarau G. M. Co. was floated four years
ago to dam the Kawarau River, and lay
bare deposits of alluvial gold. It origin-
ally issued 200,000 shares of Is. each, and
there was a later issue of 100,000 at a pre-
mium of 2s. The area to be worked was
divided into 112 claims each of i sq. mile,
and these were all disposed of at £lOOO
apiece, thereby providing the money to build
the dam. The capital of the parent co. is
now stated as £15,000, of which £lO,OOO has
been deposited with the Public Trustee as
a guarantee against possible claims arising
out of flooding, etc. The claim-holders—
mostly small cos. —are under bond to pay
over to the parent co. the value of 20 p.c.
of all gold won, after deducting working
exes., but revenue from this source has
apparently been negligible. At one stag?
the Is. shares, paid up to 6d., were sold at
265.; now, fully paid, they are quoted at
7d. to Bd. in MX., and that solely with a
view to the £lO,OOO held in trust. The shares
of subsidiary cos., many of them Australian
flotations, are not in demand, and quotations
are nominal.
* * * *
Plan Soon holds a large area with appa-
rently a good tin content, though it has
been scratched by Chinese for years past.
Borings show good wash for 70 feet below
the level of the deepest of these workings,
and in some places very heavy tin content
was indicated. The original method of
working after the co. took over was very
expensive, even for open-cast methods, and
a drastic reorganisation was found necessary.
H. V. Seale, who took command, has had
a successful career at Broken Hill and in
Tasmania, and has embarked on an entire
change of method which will take some time
and absorb a good deal of the present earn-
ings. He recommended the instalment of a
“pilot” plant, which is now in operation,
and when this has supplied definite data, a
large-capacity plant will be laid down. Pro-
duction on a large scale is essential under
present conditions of tin dredging, and Phin
Soon’s turnover is not large—about 30,000
yards a month. The £1 shares are fully
paid up, and shares are about 17s. Dividends
are a matter of the future, but they should
come along in time. For a holder who can
afford to pigeonhole his scrip, the show
looks all right. The directorate, which is
practically that of Malay Siamese, tin;
promoting co., is sound.
# ❖ *
Kampong Lanjut is one of the youngest of
Alluvial Tin’s subsidiaries, and lies close to
Malim Nawar South, Kuala Ivampar and
Tanjong, in the Kinta Valley. The first
annual report, up to June 30, 1927, shows
that orders were placed in January of that
year for two bucket dredges of a monthly
capacity of 180,000 c.y. The area is some
876 acres, and has been estimated by Malcolm
Newman to go about 12oz. This is consid-
erably below the estimates for some of the
sister cos. close by, and, generally, their esti-
mates haven’t been realised. The report
doesn’t indicate when digging will commence,
but on averages it won’t be until some time
in 1929. Authorised capital at June 30 last
was £250,000 in £1 shares, 98,000 of them
issued as f.p. Among the assets property is
valued at £119,124. With tin at £2OO Lon-
don, shareholders were advised some time
ago that good profits could be made. But
with these narrow margins there is no telling
till the big dredges get to work.
* * * *
Malay Siamese, which is gradually accumu-
lating quite a respectably-sized stable of sub-
sidiaries, announces that the option held over
Nai Hoot has been exercised. The Nai Hoot
property has been closely bored to an aver-
age depth of 43 feet, going ,891 b. t.o. per c.y.
The Kosabah option, which is a lode pro-
position, has also been exercised and a tun-
nel driven 182 feet. During 1927 the co.’s
capital was increased to £lOO,OOO (the origi-
nal capital was £50,000 in £1 shares) and
the £1 shares split up into denominations of
ss. each. The year’s loss was £4065. Pro-
specting account increased from £895 to
£9070, but most of this will be recovered
from new companies to be formed.
* ■* * *
For February Kampong Kamunting re-
covered 41 tons from 157,000 yards, averag-
ing ,591 b., as against .751 b. for January on
a smaller turnover. The working cost per
yard, always low with Austral-Malay sub-
sidiaries, was 4.5 d. Asam Kumbang took
36 tons from 110,000 yards, averaging ,731 b.,
which is a drop from the January average of
.931 b. from 92.000 yards; working costs, 4.4 d.
Ulu Yam maintained its previous average
with 28i tons from 103,000 . yards; the
January figures were 21.5 tons from 77,000
yards. Costs, 4.4 d. per yard. Thabawleik
had not furnished figures at time of writing.
* * * *
Thabawleik improved on the previous
month with 52 tons from 97,000 yards the
average being 1.281 b. compared with ’1.05
for January. Working costs were £3300 or
a trifle over 8.23 d. per yard.
Muang, Austral Asiatic’s first float, is not
lotting the grass grow under its feet, for
shipment of the dredge pontoon is expected
in June, and it is less than six months since
the show was floated, chiefly in Sydney.
Progress reports from chairman Joe lom-
linson, who is in Malaya at present, show
that an additional area has been acquired on
option. This is now being bored, and if
found satisfactory should considerably add
to the life of Muang, which is rich but fairly
shallow ground. Progress payments for the
dredge and preparatory work on the property
have necessitated the regular calls provided
for in the prospectus.
* * * *
The Anglo-Oriental Tin Corporation is
the co. formed in London to take over
interests of Alluvial Tin of Sydney, a trans-
action outlined in this page _on November
10 last. The new co.’s nominal capital is
£1,000,500, and issued capital is 880,000 7-J
p.c. pr-efs. of £1 each at 21s. and 220,000
ords. of ss. each at 10s. Tin Selection Trust,
which purchased Alluvial’s holdings for
£500,000 cash and £250,000 f.p. £1 shares,
is also to float a subsidiary to work Alluvial
Tin’s areas in Lower Perak. The London
issue of the Anglo-Oriental has been largely
oversubscribed.


THE MERCANTILE BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited
(REGISTERED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS, N.S.W., 1899-1918.)
PROSPECTUS:
CAPITAL
£2,000,000
Divided into—
-200,000 Cumulative 8 per cent. Preference
Shares of £5 each (issued at, a
premium of £1 ) . . • • • • £1,000,000
200,000 Ordinary Shares of £5 each
(issued at par) . . . • • • 1,000,000
£2,000,000
50,000 Preference Shares are being issued immediately
at a premium of £l.
100,000 Ordinary Shares are being issued immediately
at par.
250,000 Shares held in reserve.
DIRECTORS*.
SIR EDWARD LUCAS, K.B. (late
Agent-General for South Aus-
tralia) , Medindie, South Aus.
PERCY FREEMAN, Esq., Company
Director, 58 Margaret Street,
Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Union
Bank Chambers, Hunter Street,
Sydney.
AUDITORS:
C. A. Le MAISTRE WALKER &
CO., Fellows of the Australasian
Corporation of Public Account-
ants, 1 1 5 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ACTING SECRETARY:
OSCAR A. WILLMOTT, Kembla
Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
ARTHUR C. HOPWOOD, Esq.,
Company Director, William
Street, Double Bay.
HAROLD C. MACFIE, Esq., Char-
tered Secretary, 14 Martin Place,
Sydney.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland Representatives:
QUEENSLAND UNDERWRITERS
& FINANCE CO., LTD., Union
Bank Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Victorian Representative:
J. G. POTTENGER, Equitable Build-
ings, 31 4 Collins Street, Melb.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The Mercantile Bank of Australia,
Limited, has been formed for the pur-
pose of transacting general banking
business, including current and fixed
deposits, Bills of Exchange, Letters
of Credit, Drafts, etc. It will open
Branches in the various States of the
Commonwealth and in country and
provincial centres where sufficient in-
ducement is offered. The Bank will
extend to the manufacturer and trader
facilities not obtainable to-day.
MANAGEMENT.
The management of the Bank will be
in the hands of a well-known banker,
who has had a lifetime experience with
one of Australia’s oldest institutions.
In his work he will have the co-opera-
tion of the Directors.
DIRECTORS.
The Board of Directors of the Bank
are all men of distinction in the world
of finance. Indeed, the Directorate is
unique for the practical knowledge
possessed by every member of his
duties.
INTER-STATE DIRECTORS.
In the furtherance of the Jlank s
interests, inter-State. or Oversea
Directors may be appointed.
INTERESTING BANKING
FIGURES.
(1) English, Scottish & Australian
Bank, Ltd.—
The records.of this Bank over the
past ten years show a phenomenally
progressive movement. During that
period there have been four issues
to shareholders at par, or at a
premium less than the markets esti-
mate of the value of the shares,
in one case a straight-out distribu-
tion of 10s. per Share was applied
from reserves to the payment of
Calls on Shares.
An investor who purchased eight
Shares at the ruling rate in l.)18,
and who had exercised the various
options to take up additional Shares,
would have been called upon to out-
lay £357 10s., and would find himself
in 1927 with 94 Shares, which, at
the lowest buyer’s price in Decem-
ber of that year, would have been
worth £714 Bs. This shows him a
capital profit of 100 per cent, on
his outlay^
This result is quite apart from the
ordinary dividend earnings, which
rose from 9 per cent, in 1918 to
10 per cent, in 1919, and 12£ per
cent, from 1923 onwards.
That these results have been
achieved without in any way
jeopardising the financial position
of the Bank itself will be gathered
from the fact that undistributed
profits have risen from £49,699 in
1918 to £277,960 in 1927, while the
reserve fund has similarly accumu-
lated from £550,000 to £2,500,000.
(2) Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Ltd.—
This Bank has made four issues to
Shareholders at par, and a pur-
chaser of 100 Shares in 1919, who
had taken up the various issues as
offered to him. would find himself
in 1927 with 200 "Shares, _ worth, at
the lowest buyer’s price in Decem-
ber 1927, £4890, as against his
capital outlay of £3500 —a capital
profit of £1390.
In addition, this Bank had paid
dividends at the rate of 10 per
cent, per annum throughout the
period.
Here, again, the Company’s re-
sources have evidently not been
depleted to provide the Shareholders
with these results since the un-
distributed profits have risen from
£57,243 in 1918 to £60,184 in 1927,
while reserves have increased in the
same period from £2,040,000 to
£3,100,000.
(3) Bank of Australasia—
This Bank in 1920 distributed
£125,000 out of reserves to Share-
holders in payment of Calls on new
Shares issued. Further issues have
been made at par or at a premium
favorable to Shareholders, while the
Shares have also been subdivided.
An investor who purchased 100
Shares at market price in 1919, and
who had exercised all his options,
would find himself possessed of
1600 shares at the end of 1927.
worth £23,200, a capital profit of
£6350 on his outlay of £16,850. The
dividend allowance in this case has
been on a somewhat more generous
scale. In 1919 dividends and bon-
uses totalled 18 per cent. From
1920 to 1925 the Bank paid 13 per
cent, in dividends and bonuses, and
in 1926 it declared a straight-out
dividend of 14 per cent.
Undistributed profits have been
slightly increased from £127,822 in
1919 to £135,508 in 1926.
GROWTH OF BANKING
BUSINESS.
During the past quarter of a century
there has been remarkable development
in the commercial life of the Common-
wealth. As a natural corollary, the
volume of banking has also increased
to an astonishing degree; yet there has
not been a new commercial bank
formed for a much longer period. Now
comes The Mercantile Bank of Aus-
tralia, Limited, an institution that
will work on sound banking principles.
Dealing with the remarkable expan-
sion of banking business during recent
years, the “Wild Cat” Monthly of
January 7, 1928, referred to the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, and said:
“At June 30 the Bank was hand-
ling practically twice as much busi-
ness as was on its books eight years
earlier.”
IMMEDIATE BUSINESS.
Deposit accounts totalling more
than one million pounds annually have
been promised the Bank immediately,
and there is reason to believe that
additional substantial business will be
offered us before we commence opera-
tions. Further, the influence of those
associated with the project may be
relied upon to bring in many other
important accounts.
NO FREE SHARES.
There are no free Shares issued
to Directors or anybody else. All
Shares issued must be paid for in
cash.
DIRECTOR’S QUALIFICATION.
Each Director must invest not less
than £5OO in the Shares of the Com-
pany.
SHARES—HOW PAYABLE.
For each Preference Share applied
for the terms of payment are as
follows: 10s. upon application, 10s.
upon allotment and the balance in 10
monthly Calls of 2s. per Share. When
this amount has been paid there will
be no further Call for at least one
year thereafter.
ORDINARY SHARES.
For each Ordinary . Share applied
for the amount payable upon appli-
cation is 10s. A further sum of
10s. per Share is payable upon allot-
ment. with ten monthly Calls of 2s.
per Share, No further Call will be
made upon the Shares for at least one
year thereafter.
DIVIDENDS UPON SHARES.
Preference Shares carry a Cumula-
tive Dividend of 8 per cent, in pri-
ority over Ordinary Shares, and are
also preferential as regards Capital.
After 8 per cent, has been paid to
Preference Shares, the Ordinary
Shares are eligible for 8 per cent.,
and thereafter both classes of Shares
rank pari passu for Dividends.
BANKING PROFITS.
The profits made by Banks are
usually high, and Bank Shares have
proved an attractive investment, with
excellent returns for those who recog-
nised their sound value. The Syd-
ney Stjn of January 1, 1928, stated:
“Bank Shares provide one of the
safest and most profitable channels
for investment available in the Com-
monwealth.”
This is a straightforward state-
ment of fact.
PROSPECTIVE BUSINESS.
Shareholders will include manufac-
turers, traders, pastoralists, shippers,
etc., all of whom may be expected to
give their own Bank a share of their
business, so that, apart from the big
accounts already promised, the Mer-
cantile Bank of Australia will open
its doors to a fine volume of general
trade, which should increase month
by month.
BANK PREMISES.
The Directors anticipate no diffi-
culty in securing suitable accommoda-
tion at a reasonable outlay, where
the Bank will have every convenience
and a good address, amid dignified
surroundings.
PREMIUMS.
The amount received as premiums
upon the Preference Share issue will
be used to defray the establishment
charges and expenses of opening
Branch Offices.
PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
The preliminary expenses, with all
legal costs, including registration, in-
corporation and brokerage, will be
borne by the Company.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
Memorandum and Articles of Asso-
ciation may be inspected at the Regis-
tered Office.
CONTRACTS.
The following Contract has been
entered into, and may be inspected at
the Company’s Registered Office: —
Agreement, dated February 1, 1928,
between Percy Freeman, of the one
part, and Harold Campbell Maefie,
on behalf of the Company, of the
other part.
BROKERAGE.
A brokerage of 5 per cent, will be
paid upon all Shares applied for and
allotted upon applications identified
as coming through any Member of
any Stock Exchange in the Common-
wealth or through other duly author-
ised brokers.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
Application will be made in due
course for the listing of the Shares
on the Sydney Stock Exchange.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.
Applications for Shares may be
made upon the form attached hereto.
Additional forms may be obtained
from the Registered Office of The Mer-
cantile Bank of Australia, Limited,
Kembla Building, Margaret-street,
Sydney.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors,
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —
I hereby apply for Preference and
Ordinary Shares in the Capital of the
above Company upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus,
and I hereby agree to accept the same or any less number as may
be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as the
holder of such Shares.
I enclose herewith £ being
10/- per Share on application, and I agree to pay a further 10/-
per Share on allotment, and to pay the balance as provided in the
said Prospectus and to be bound by the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 192
Name (in full)
(Mr., Mrs. or Title)
Address (in full)
Profession or Occupation
Signature
Per
Note. — All cheques must be drawn in favor of The Mercantile Bank of Aus-
tralia, Limited, or. order, and crossed “Account Payee Only,” and the Company
will not be responsible for the loss, misapplication or misappropriation of any
cheque handed to the Company’s Brokers or Agents which is not so drawn. Ex-
change must be added to country cheques. S.B. 14/3/’2B.
THE MERCANTILE BANK OF AUSTRALIA, Limited
KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.


Reading This May Save
You From Buying
An Obsolete Motor Car
"X
X
f
&
Whippet Continues
Its Engineering
Leadership
Economy —Whippet holds A. A. A.
Coast-to-Coast Economy Record.
Large 4 -Wheel Brakes— First
light car to introduce this safety
feature.
Easier Parking— Turns in a 17-
foot radius. Parks in 14 feet of curb
space.
rrr
I
■HSiii
Silent Timing Chain For
quiet engine operation, as on ex-
pensive cars.
Touring
Coach
Sedan
B
d
Engine —Develops more power for
its size than any other light car engine.
m
Low Centre of Gravity
Makes for smoother riding and
greater security.
\
L
Full-Vision Bodies Narrow
front pillars remove the “blind spot”
hazard.
7a
’a
More Leg Room More than
in any other car at or near its
price.
O V ERL AND
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
Proven by 200,000 Owners
EVERY recent new car announcement serves to emphasize the Overland
Whippet’s leadership in light car design. Introduced in 1926 the Whip-
pet was the first car in the lower price range to offer its remarkable com-
bination of fine-car advantages.
Now, two years later, developments indicate that other manufacturers are
attempting to follow Whippet’s lead.
Four-wheel brakes and some of the other advantages pioneered by Whippet in
the light car field are now appearing in the design of other light cars, but
only in the Whippet do you get ALL the advantages of modem design, unu-
sual economy, force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, LARGE four-wheel
brakes, low centre of gravity, modern appearance, speed, comfort, and a hun-
dred details of quality construction. These quality specifications mean long
life to the car and higher resale value.
The Overland Whippet now carries the enthusiastic endorsement of more
than 200,000 owners who have put this modern car to the acid test of more
than 500,000,000 miles of service. Such proven superiority makes the Whip-
pet, in its present perfection, the logical choice of everyone who investigates
carefully current motor car values.
It is important to remember that other manufacturers are only starting to fol-
low the already proven Whippet specifications. Their new cars have still to go
through a long experimental period of customer use before their real worth
can be ascertained.
You can buy the Whippet now—assured of its performance and its lasting
qualities assured that a year from now it will still be the most modern car
in the field.
If you have never ridden in one of these modern cars, come in today for a
trial drive. A delightful new motoring experience awaits you.
Roadster
. i
Coupe
Cabriolet*
Coupe
iVILLYS-OVERLAND
FINE
MOTOR
CARS


Llio confeo of
Quoonolan cfe
Diofn puis hod
S'oc/a/ Life.
Cmntms iSokl
Brisbane
Magnificent Ballroom, Palm
Court, and Lounges at the
disposal of guests and their
friends at all times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single Bedrooms, with Bath-
rooms attached. Hot and cold running water and Electric
Fans in every Bedroom, together with every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
TELEGRAMS A CABLES— LENNONS, BRISBANE.
' TELEPHONE CENT. 5700 (lO LINES).
“Such a reputation is not won overnight **
■■
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d . . . . 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin cS Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
jKmbjdfakjmk I
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“J.D.C.”: While splitting in the bush I
have several times come across a peculiar
fungus growth which is apparently not well
known. The fungus always occurs in the
“pipey” heart of a growing tree, and has the
exact appearance and texture of leather. It
takes the form of the hollow in which it
grows, and usually completely fills it for
several feet. I have never seen this vege-
table “leather” produced under other condi-
tions, and would like to know its name and
if it has ever been utilised.
BANQUETS AHEAD.
BILLY: “What you bin put in there, boss?”
COCKIE: “Goin’ ter try a bit o’ corn.”
BILLY: “Good-oh! Pleny nice fat ’possum bime by.”
“C. Coral”: The “fikisurs” are exercising
their influence upon island names. When
Paiwain and Ivobosi have to fill in the regis-
tration-paper for the latest addition to the
family they turn their thoughts to their last
visit to the movies at T.I. Some of the
recently-registered infants are carrying
“Abe,” “Tom-Mix,” “Doreen” and other
decorative handles to the family name. Still,
perhaps it is an improvement upon “Teapot,
“Tarbucket,” “Nice-one” and so on of a pre-
vious generation.
“Up North”: Binghi “sand-
papers” his spear points with the
rasp-like leaves of a plant. Torres
Strait islanders use a first-class
natural rasp in the skin of a
species of stingray, well tanned;
for rough work they employ brittle
corals. New Guinea boys use the
hide of a very rough-skinned snake
to put a fine polish on their bone-
headed arrows. These weapons,
generally about sft. long, are made
of bamboo reeds, artistically carved
and polished, and are perfectly
straight; each space between the
notches 2ft. down from the tip is
painted in black, red and white.
Some arrows are crimsoned with
blood, rubbed over with a varnish
that retains the color against
weather and rain. The carvings
are often very minute, and it is
marvellous that they can be done
with no better than Stone Age
tools. The arrow-heads are of
hardwood or long slithers of bone,
ground to shape and balancing
weight; they are set firmly into a
socket in the bamboo haft, and
bound so expertly that it is almost
impossible to locate the join. Some
inland tribes manufacture for tin
joining a species of cement thai
sets solidly. The points are of hardj
wood or of bone, mostly the latter,
or are slithers from a cassowary's
“helmet.” Certain inland tribes
fashion their arrow tips on one
side like a three-cornered file, the
reverse side being hollowed out.
Other tribes attach cruel barbs,
and the fiends amongst them
arrange these barbs both ways, so
that it is impossible without a
surgical operation to take the
arrow-head from the stricken body.
* :!s * V
“Larrapinta”: Where is Aus-
tralia’s longest stone wall? I
nominate the one which used to
form the western boundary of the
old Booborowie station (S.A.).
Without a break —except where
roads intersect —it runs from Cano-
wie in the north to Gum Creek
in the south, a distance of over
40 miles. It was built between 1870 and
1880 on contract at £BO per mile, and its
construction must have been a tough job,
for it is carried for most of its length along
the crest of a range of hills, some of
which are craggy and steep.
* * * *
“Up North”: I’ve also known instances of
colored people sleeping while their toes were
burning. Generally, however, there is a
reason, apart from the fact that Binghi's
cast-iron feet stand a burn that would
cripple a white man. One is smoking the
zoob—a bamboo cylinder used as a communal
pipe and copied from the Torres Strait
islanders. Binglii draws from it and re-
inhales the smoke until he rolls over insen-
sible. A portion of his body may sprawl on
the coals, and stays there sizzling.. Another
cause of frightful burns is the opium char-
coal, procured by Binghi from the Chinese.
It is the last scraping of the Chinamen’s
pipes, so rank that even they cannot smoke
it over again. The tribe purchasing a parcel
of this filthy stuff mixes it in a kerosene-tin
full of water and takes a draught of the
poison in turn. Bucks, women and picca-
ninnies participate, and remain half-insen-
THE ACID TEST.
WAITER: “Vegetable soup, sir—good as gold.”
OTHER: “Guaranteed one carrot, I suppose?”
sible for a week after. Anyone who rolls on
the coals roasts there until his flesh puts the
fire out.
* * * *
“Morton Iki” : Apropos of big clams (B.
8/2/’2B), there is one outside Cairns Inlet
(N.Q.) that can be had for the picking up.
Some years ago the owner of a lugger had
two or three tries to get it aboard, but the
only results were broken gear and a boat
threatening to capsize. He estimated the
weight at two tons.
“Sea Nomad”: Tribes near the
Dutch New Guinea border have
thought out a clever drill with
which to bore the holes in their
bone and shell ornaments. The
instrument is a stick about two
feet long, with a circular disc of
baked clay six inches from the
bottom as a pressure weight. The
tip of the stick is split, and a
needle-pointed piece of flint bound
in it with fibre twine. At the top
are two long fibre strings, their
ends tied to a loose crosspiece
about a foot long. The strings
are tightly twisted around the
top of the stick; then the cross-
piece is pulled steadily downwards,
causing the stick to revolve rapidly
as the string becames unwound.
The momentum re-winds the string.
On boring a pearl-shell for a cres-
cent-mia, the drill point is placed
in turn on the designed spots
marked in ochre, and the palm of
the hand or middle finger held
gently on the tip of the drill stick to keep it
upright or at whatever angle is required.
A great, deal of thought must have been
•expended on this drill.
* * H= *
“Pick”: When “Manuka” declares (B.
15/2/’2B) that fixing the north is of no use
to a man lost in the wilds, he betrays scant
knowledge of bushcraft. Every lost person
knows of some river, range, plain or settle-
ment that, if reached, would locate him.
Fixing the north is his first step in setting
off for the known, locality.
“Don Lee”: When “Manuka” says experi-
enced bushmen always blaze their tracks he
talks nonsense. I have filled in many a
weary year on cattle-runs in the North,
ridden the mallee in Western N.S.W. and
spent three years creeping through dense
hopbush in search of wallaby, and I can
honestly say that never in any of my travels
have I hoard a dinkum Australian native
speak of “blazing a track.” It simply isn’t
done.
“Six and Eight”: If lost in thick scrub
the first thing is to travel in a straight
line, and a certain way of doing so is to
follow a compass hearing. When a water-
course is reached, abandon the compass line
and follow the watercourse (and any others
it flows into) downwards until a habitation
is arrived at. In fiat country, where water-
courses are dry and it is difficult to tell
which way the water flows, bark, leaves and
other flotsam caught on tussocks will indi-
cate its direction. If no compass is avail-
able a watch can be used for determining a
north and south line. Point the hour hand
to the sun, and then that diameter of the
face of the watch situated half-way between
the hour hand and the figure XII indi-
cates the line required.
“Tamornie” : An old identity in the N.T.
was once persuaded to carry a compass. He
was a bit nettled about it., priding himself,
rightly, on being a first-class bushman. He
took the instrument with him one morning
when hunting horses, and, having found
them, placed it on the ground saying, “Now,
where’s the camp?” As luck would have it,
the camp was nearly due south from his
position. Landing heavily on the compass
with both feet, he growled, “Fool a man,
wouldn’t yer? But y’re not smart enough
fer me.”
He s|c * *
“Phil P.”: In Makira Harbor, British
Solomons, I frequently saw dogs catching
fish. A school of small fry, raided by some
larger predatory species, would make a mad
rush into shallow water for shelter, many
beaching themselves in their hurry. The
swirl and splash of their passage could be
heard for a considerable distance, and was
the signal for a stampede of noisy villagers
with baskets for the plunder. And every
village cur came to the feast. Straight into
the water they went, snapping and snarling
and bolting the live fish. The razor-backed
village grunters also knew the business and
were quick to get their long snouts into the
stranded titbits.
(Continued on page 25 .1
THE OLD FOLK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old folk were a prosy lot and trouble-
some withal;
They dealt a lot in platitudes, as well do we
recall.
They often got upon our nerves, and yet the
more we see
The more we find that they were not the
duds they seemed to be.
We travel at a swifter bat, and yet however
hot
We make the pace we never reach a place
that they did not.
And when I skite of what I’ve done, and
boast of what I’ll do,
I hear again the old man’s voice: “I tried
that, laddie, too.”
With courage high we venture out, but when
the tale is told
We find the roads we thought were new are
very, very old.
We follow bright and luring lights, but
when their splendor pales
We learn at last the hearth-light is the light
that never fails.
The old folk were a tiresome lot whose know-
ledge often palled.
And glad were we to take the road when
high adventure called.
But now, when all is said and done, a fellow
must admit,
Despite their love of platitudes, the old folk
knew a bit.
W.A.
OSCAB WALTERS.


iiiSssK
m
n
r,
x
i
i
vs,
; I
W; ;, ..
. m
: .
ttsa
m
-
m
\
KS
At
I
■
:
MB
,
M^S
mm,
KSr: *
" ' ■■■ -S| I
__ SISK ra&HHraH
H
i
w
m
i
\ :
ißi
m?
» m
i %
's
B ■
Hi
-
■I
Automotive transport
throughout Australia
is to-day more reliable and
more economical on account
of the great advance made by
Dunlop in tyre construction.
The call for highest quality
... utmost in miles ~. and
freedom from trouble ~ is
answered and supplied by
cjj^y
Q
D
6
Fit Dunlop and you
Will be satisfied !
Garages stock them !
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


Make
the
Stock
make full market
values. They can do
so. But they must
have the necessary assistance to reach that
mark.
Consign your Cattle, Sheep and Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, Sydney, or
Enoggera Yards, Brisbane.
Thai stop will render their sale at highest possible
prices certain. Energetic, experienced, and compe-
tent, Winchcombe, Carson’s work as salesmen is con-
sistently forceful.
s&n & use&;^
■'-^i
.■■'lmmmi /-^ssaft^'
<-•
\...
s
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
PEAPES
—jor men AND their sons.
With the approach of the
cooler months, I’eapes intro-
duce all that is newest and
best in men’s and boys’ wear.
Yet, notwithstanding the
obvious quality of the (foods,
prices are maintained at that
low average level which con-
stitutes the real economy of
shopping at Peapes’.
Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
“Murrungurry”: Old Jack was boundary-
riding on the Warri Warri (N.S.W.), and
I noticed that his camp was always a long
way back from the water, which necessi-
tated a wearying tramp every time he had
to get a bucketful for domestic purposes.
“Why don’t you camp near the waterhole
and save your legs?” I asked him. “There’s
always frogs near waterholes,” Jack
answered, “not that I mind them,” he added.
“I like to hear frogs, ’specially at night;
but they bring snakes if any are about.
While I’m up here an’ the frogs are down
there, they call the snakes away from me.”
“R.A.W.”: Globes similar to
those described by “Larrapinta"
(B. 15/2/’2B) were fairly numer
ous on the beaches of the .South
Coast (N.S.W.) some months
ago. Last Easter at Tomakin,
near Moruya, a resident who had
found several gave me one which;
like tliat described by “Larra-
pinta,” contained a
small quantity of
water, evidently forced
by great pressure
through a small flaw
in the globe. Asked to
find out what I could
about them, I w r as
assured by various in-
SAFETY FIRST.
HIS WIFE: “There—I told you to bring the
lijting-jack.”
formants that they were used as (1) buoys
for German mines. (2) as targets by the
naval authorities, (3) as buoys for oyster-
pots and (4) as floats for fishermen’s nets.
Some are green in color.
“8.Y.N.”: “Wang” must have struck a
pretty slack day if he saw only one swaggie
on the road from Melbourne to Ivooloonong
(B. 8/2/’2B). I have seen a couple of
dozen on the road from Kerang to Mitiamo,
a 36-mile section of that particular road.
In one township along the line there were
13 camped in the showgrounds, three
in the football shelter-shed and four in the
railway cattle-trucking yards.
“Liardet”: Let “Wang” shift from the
Malice and take a trip along the Prince’s
Highway from Melbourne to Sale. It’s a
good bet he will strike at least one swaggie
to the mile, and at Moe, under the railway
bridge at the foot of Haunted Hills, lie’s
certain to find a dozen camped. Gippsland
is full of swaggies just now.
* * * *
“Colub” : What is generally referred to as
a snake’s hole is usually a naturally-formed
cavity in the ground or the dwelling-place
of some other creature which has either
abandoned it or been evicted by the reptile.
It is never a hole dug by the snake itself;
snakes are incapable of burrowing (B.
15/2/’2B). The tiger-snake is the only one
which seems to prefer a hole to any other
residence, although the black snake generally
makes for a rabbit-burrow if one is handy.
The tiger’s favorite spot is a cavity in the
bank of a creek or stream.
“Nitric”: Generally the wriggler will take
another’s possie with all the pleasure in
life, but I have seen him do liis own delv-
ing in sandy soil. The common green-tree
snake will burrow into loam, and I once
watched a coppery devil work his passage
through ploughed soil, where they arc gen-
erally found.
H' »{• *}» -I*
“Nitric”: The giant remains of a pre-
historic animal were unearthed recently by
a drover in the bed of the Flinders River
(N.T.). The fossil was over 12ft. in length
and weighed about a ton and a half. It is
probably a diprotodon, remains of which have
been discovered near Richmond (N.Q.). The
finder was a member of the droving party
which brought 14,000 cattle from the Gulf.
“Cobar”: The Ameri-
cans claim a world’s
record for a Califor-
nian Boy Scout who
made fire with two
sticks in llsec. A din-
kum abo. could cut
seconds off that time.
When the Duke of York
spent a week-end on a
Beaudesert (Q.) station
a dozen abos. gave a show on
the local oval. At night out-
side the pub Jacky produced
fire in lOsec., according to a
brother-pressman. I made it
10 2-ssec. The British press representatives
were assured that 9sec. was not an un-
common time, and that the trick has been
done in Bsec. flat.
* * * *
“Maungatapu”: “Maunga” is incorrect in
saying (B. 8/2/’2B) that the yellow-flowered
musk of Maoriland has practically dis-
appeared. In tramps recently I found creeks
and damp spots near Nelson thickly car-
peted with the dainty flowers. He is right,
however, in saying that the scent has van-
ished. Thirty years ago I remember a val-
ley near Picton from which the musk sent
its delicate perfume down the wind a dis-
tance of a quarter of a mile or more over the
hills, the leaves, as well as the flowers, con-
tributing their share of sweetness. In the
NOT A STRICT VEGETARIAN.
BOSS GARDENER: “Know anything about termarter grub?”
APPLICANT FOR JOB: “Ye-e-s, I tried it; but I wanta bitta meat now an’ then.”
musk plant now only the faintest scent
can be detected.
“Eureka”: If “Maunga” wishes to fill his
nostrils with the scent of the shrub-musk,
let him visit Big Jack, Tantawanglo or
Brown Mountain, in the south-eastern por-
tion of N.S.W., on a warm spring day. On
these mountains, particularly Big Jack, the
atmosphere is impregnated with the scent
of musk, which grows in profusion right up
to the roadside.
“Toonooba”': The disappearance of the
scented musk is a botanical mystery not con-
fined to Maoriland. In 1913 English gar-
deners found it difficult to acquire aromatic
plants; after 1917 they found it impos-
sible, for the scented variety no longer ex-
isted, despite the fact that formerly it was
cultivated tlirougfiout the land. Search has
since been made in British Columbia, its
habitat, but Mirnulus moschatus seems to
have become scentless there also.
* * . * ❖
“E.S.S.”: “Talkin’ about jibbin’ horses,”
said Droney, “reminds me of Spanker, a
slab-sided half-draught who didn’t believe
in too much exertion, an’ was addicted to
holdin’ stopwork meetin’s with himself at
inconvenient times an’ places. I took him
down the paddock for a load of wood one
mornin’, and when I’d loaded the dray,
havin’ put on a couple of sticks extra than
usual, the old scamp went on strike. We
argued about it for half an hour, but all
he’d do was snort an’ shake his head, as
much as to say I was overloadin’ him
accordin’ to the award weights. So I leaves
him to think it over. Near dinner-time I
went back to him, an’ we arbitrated for
another half-hour, but he was still too obsti-
nate to turn a wheel. ‘All right,’ I says,
‘keep on arguing, but you can’t go home with-
out that cart.’ Mid-afternoon I goes to him
for another conference, but he hadn’t
changed his mind yet. I gave him his
time. Paid him another visit at sundown,
an’ he was lookin’ hungry an’ lonesome.
‘Well, Spanker,’ I says, ‘think you’d like to
go home now?’ He cocked his ears an’
looked as if he would. So I took the reins,
an’ the strike was declared off straightway.
I drew tons with him afterwards. He jibbed
once, but as soon as he saw me startin’ for
home he seemed to remember he had an
early app’intment up at the stable, and he
put down his head an’ fetched that load
along as if he wanted to show he could draw
wmod better than any other horse in the
paddock.”
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : Polygamy is a recog-
nised feature of native life in the .Solomons
and New Guinea. But in Australia, where
the moral code amongst the native tribes
is much more strict, I have struck onR one
instance where a full-blooded aboriginal had
more than one wife. He had three, and
was meditating the addition of a fourth
when the law stepped in. Unfortunately for
him, he was a police tracker.
# * * *
“Ess”: I met “Murrumbidgee” several
times in my suburb before I got the strength
of him. He was a big, hairy-faced bloke,
dressed like an old whaler, and carried a
big swag and a rugged billy. Here and
there he called at a house or a little shop,
and usually introduced himself by remarking
that it was “very dry on the Murrumbidgee,”
from which it was deduced that lie was a
veteran of the hinterlands who had been
driven coastwards by the bad times. Recently
while fern-hunting, I discovered his den in
the side of a rocky hill near Cook’s River.
It was a small cave, partly walled up in
front with stones, and had a rough chimney
and all the appurtenances of a permanent
camp. In fact, he had lived there for years.
Every morning he shouldered Matilda and
tramped through miles of streets, sometimes
boiling his billy at noon on a vacant allot-
ment, but generally getting tea or hot water
from a neighboring house. Towards evening
he returned to his cave with a full tucker
bag, some old clothes, and various odds and
ends to add to his treasures. He also had
a collection of newspapers, which kept him
informed as to the conditions prevailing on
the Murrumbidgee. When I referred to that
happy haunt, he said, “I did come from the
Murrumbidgee—five an’ twenty year ago. But
what’s it matter to anybody down here
whether I arrived yesterday or last century?”
JjS * j|c
“Yarri” : Quartpot’s gin, who was rather
proud of her comely appearance, was assist-
ing Miss Squatter while the latter was dress-
ing her hair and making other toilet prepara-
tions for a dance. There was a corroboree
at the camp the same night, and later that
afternoon I noticed Mrs. Quartpot sitting at
the camp-fire frizzling her hair with two
green sticks, which she heated in the ashes
—imitative of Miss Squatter’s curling-tongs.
Her comb was fashioned from the backbone
of a river perch, and her mirror was the
polished bottom of a pannikin. With a pink
petticoat, a necklace of red seedstones, and
a pair of elastic-side boots with gaping tops,
added to her stunning coiffure, she was the
belle of the corroboree. But Quartpot was
jealous of the admiration she attracted.
“You too plurry flash,” he said disapprov-
ingly.
BUSH BIRDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know’ in the bush that the daylight is break-
ing;
I hear in my fancy the brolga’s far call,
The clear ringing notes of the bellbirds and
thrushes,
The songs of the butcher-birds sweeter
than all.
There’s joy in each rich mellow note of the
magpie—
He sings at his best ere the dewdrops are
shed—
And choruses grand in the apple-tree
blossoms
Of honeybird, parrot and grey leatherhead.
There’s mirth in the call of the gay kooka-
burra ;
With feeling the bronzewing sings low to
his mate;
There’s glee in the chirp of the blue lark’s
high soaring
And love in the song of the dove passion-
ate.
I ne’er felt alone when the wagtails were
near me—
And oft in the night-time they’ve sung me
to rest —
Or when in arpeggio their liquid notes
pealing,
The nightjars were watching above the
stone nest.
I know r in the bush that the new day has
broken
And melody reigns over mountain and
plain ;
I long to be back in the green hills and
gullies
To hear all the songs of the bush birds
again.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers. .
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to tne
Service Department. , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Married couple want employment Queens-
land sheep island. Man good farmer, know-
ledge stock, handle boats ; wife capable house-
keeper.—37ss.
Two youths (17), used to horses, not
afraid of work, like position on station any-
where. —3781.
Saddler and harness-maker seeks situation,
station; willing make himself useful. —3772.
Ex-service Englishman, wife, son (15i),
two daughters, 14 and 12, poor, healthy, not
afraid work, wishing emigrate to Australia,
desires to hear from person willing to ad-
vance expenses; would repay by work on
arrival. (Direct to Joseph Hyland, 20
Powell-street, Sutton Oak, Lancs., Eng.)
Capable journalist, experienced leader-
writer, strictly sober, highest credentials,
take any billet connected with newspaper or
magazine (even if temporary).—37l6.
Whereabouts of Margaret Morrison, who
left Melbourne in 1924 for the Mallee (Vic.).
(Direct to Mrs. McLaren, 139 Barkly-street,
St. Ivilda, Vic.)
Whereabouts of James Albert Weekes,
formerly of Pyramid (Vic.). Nephew in-
quiries. (Direct to D. M. Campbell, S.A.
Oil Wells, Mt. Gambier, S.A.)
Ladies visiting Sydney invited inspect
latest modelled frocks, for sale privately at
8 Marouben-road, Mosman.
To buy Stephen’s “Commentaries,” 17th
edition (1922). (Direct to W. Lees, N.Z.
Chambers, Queen-street, Brisbane.)
To find investor willing to put £BOO to
£lOOO into piano and player-piano business,
N. Q’land town ; mortgage given over assets;
10 to 121 per cent. —3761.
Stamps (rare, medium and common), free.
Send lid. stamp for particulars. J. Lynagh,
Whetstone, Queensland. —3747.
To sell two adjoining farms 1280 and 1189
acres close to railway station (Q.), good
country, well watered, handy butter-factory
and meatworks, 20s. per acre freehold; 255.
either block. —3736.
Sell land 50ft. x 150 ft., adjacent Outer
Harbor, South Aus.—373B.
For sale, 1220 ac., 31 miles from Yarrum
(Q.), 6r. house, perm, water, 30ac. cultiva-
tion, implements, 25 cows, etc. £1500: £5OO
cash. —3744.
Bluthner piano for sale, reasonable price,
subject expert examination. —3779.
To sell four £25 N.Z. Perpetual Forest
Bonds, first issue paid to £55. —3763.
To sell new “Life of Lord Kitchener”
(three guineas) for 455. (Direct to A. B.
Wilson, 14 Bealiba-road, Caulfield.)
To sell first mortgage in city property.
Long dated ; 7 p.c.—3774.
Residential wanted, Sydney, 10-12 rooms,
quiet, superior. Fullest details. —3788.
For sale 2000 acres S. Queensland. Netted,
mostly ringbarked, heavily grassed; first-
class sheep country; subdivided six paddocks.
House and yards. About £1 per acre. —3794.
I have 2000 acres in S. Q’land well grassed
and netted. Want someone to stock with
500 to 1500 sheep on half shares. I will do
all the work. —3793.
Information Sought.
What is the saltpetre treatment for the
destruction of dry trees and stumps? —3sBo.
Procure an inch (or larger) auger. Bore
boles in a slanting direction towards the
centre. Prepare a heavily saturated solu-
tion of saltpetre and fill up each hole with
the solution, afterwards plugging with pine
or soft wood. Six months later with the
aid of a small quantity of kerosene the stump
can be fired, and it will steadily burn out.
That is the theory. In practice the labor
required to bore sufficient holes in the stumps
to hold the requisite quantity of saltpetre
makes the plan economically unsound. Th;
system of “stoving out” stumps is much less
laborious and more reliable where lateral-
root systems have to be taken into account.
Can fruit-fly he prevented from attack-
ing citrus fruit? —3580 A.
Mr. George Williams, Director of Fruit
Culture (Q.), advises: “Complete prevention
of fruit-fly attack in citrus fruits is not
practicable. It may be very appreciably
minimised by collecting and burning infested
fruit and using Harvey’s fruit-fly lure in
the orchard according to directions on con-
tainers.”
I am a widow, Australian-horn, 67, in-
come from invested money £4l p.a., and
small furnished cottage in which I live.
Am I eligible for O.A.P.? —3606.
The Act provides that no person shall
receive a pension if the net capital value
of his property exclusive of the home in
which he permanently resides exceeds
£400; also that no pension shall be at
such a rate as will make pensioner’s
income, together with pension, exceed
£B4 10s. p.a. It looks as though you are
not eligible, having apparently more than
£4OO.
A says Melbourne and Sydney times are
the same. B says they are different, hut a
convention dictates that their times shall
he the same. —3667.
B is correct. The Standard Time Act
says N.S.W. and Victoria (in fact, all the
eastern States) must keep the time of the
150th Meridian east of Greenwich. Hence
standard time at Sydney and Melbourne
are the same. But in solar or true time
they differ by 24min. 56sec. Hence in
standard time noon Sydney equals noon Mel-
bourne, and in true (solar) time noon Syd-
ney equals llhr. 35min. 4sec. a.m. Mel-
bourne.
Uoio can I rid my house of white ants?
3499. , .
For white ants in dwelling the only plan
is to remove affected timbers, and dress the
new timbers used in replacing them with a
mixture of equal parts of kerosene and creo-
sote. The timbers surrounding and the soil
beneath the affected portion should be given
a liberal application of the same mixture.
Ants must have a connection with the
ground. This should be traced back; and
if precautions are taken to break this con-
nection the ants in the upper portion of the
building will die out.
Two six-volt “A” batteries will not hold
up after charging. How can l recondition
them? Approximate cost? —3665.
When accumulators won’t retain their
charge, they are worn out or have been badly
treated. Nearly always it is then
to buy new ones. Take your accumulators
to Unbeliaun and Johnstone, 98 Currie-street,
Adelaide, who will advise you as to recon-
ditioning.
A was having a building erected by X,
and was unable to go on with it. With the
consent of the bank he transferred to B,
who was the first to occupy the premises.
The walls of two rooms have become wet.
Can the builder be obliged to attend to the
wa115?— 3726. . . .
Assuming there was an assignment of the
building contract to B, then if the defect
was a breach of the specifications forming
part of such contract, B would have lus
legal remedy against the contractor. If not,
it would be open to the contractor to say:
“I do not know B in the matter; my con-
tract was with A.”
(1) On a daily tariff basis, is a N.B.W.
hotel licensee within the laic in charging for
meals which a guest does not have? (2) Is it
legal for a licensee to refuse a bed to a
person if such person refuses to pay for
breakfast? (3) Does the law require
licensee to hope a printed card in each bed-
room setting out daily tariff?— 3sss.
(1) The Liquor Act is silent on the
point. The legal charge would depend on
whether the contract between the licensee
and the guest was for “separate” service or
for “daily” service. (2) No. (3) Yes.
I have a 33ft. cutter with a 10 -h.p. Wilson
engine, a good set of sails and two first-
class mates. There are plenty of sharks
here. Can we use them? —3487.
The oil is saleable in Australia at 2s. 6d.
per gal., and Chinese merchants will buy
fins at about 2s. per lb. average ; if sent to
Singapore they should fetch 3s. The main
difficulty is to get a market for the hides.
They are difficult to tan, and so far we
know of no tanner in Australia who will
take them. Marine Industries, Ltd., Pindi-
mar, Port Stephens, N.S.W., want you to
communicate with them. An excellent article
on the shark industry was in last number of
Australian Museum Magazine.
I want to become navigating-officer and
ultimately captain. (1) Any age-limit for
starting? (2) Any preliminary examination?
(3) Having started, how long to qualify for
a. master's certificate? (4) Best way to
start training? —3637.
(1) No. (2) No; but have eyesight tested
before commencing. (3) Minimum sea ser-
vice, six years; most officers are from eight
to 10 years at sea before they present them-
selves for master’s examination. (4) Get a
good, sound education. The better educated
an officer the better liis chances of employ-
ment and promotion. Then apply to a
shipping co. for a position as cadet or
apprentice. Get your application registered.
Apprentices’ indentures are usually for five
years, and the premium paid is about £4O.
Failing this, go to sea, become an able-
seaman, and put in 48 months’ sea service
necessary to qualify one to go for second-
mate’s certificate. Superintendent of Mer-
cantile Marine will tell you of any chances
of shipping as deckhand.
(1) How much seed can be expected from
an acre of subterranean clover? (2) Is there
a■ machine for gathering the seed? —3s22.
(1) From one-tliird to one-half ton from
well-established clover. (2) There is no
machine for getting the seed from the
ground. The dry hay is raked and swept
up, then stacked, and the seed is afterwards
separated from the straw. It is sometimes
done with a good thrashing machine. We
have heard of the straw being put through
a chaffcutter and winnowed. The seed has
then to be put through a busker, which rubs
the tough outer coating off the seed. Several
different makes of hulling or husking
machines can be bought to hull about half
to one ton per day. For further information
ask Mr. T. Howard, Mt. Barker, S.A.
Respecting a mortgage given in 1891 and
partly paid off about 1902, will the mortgage
still hold good for the balance although no
demand has been made for about 20 years ,
and no interest paid? —36B2.
Where no act of the parties has given rise
to any assumption to the contrary, the mort-
gagee’s right of foreclosure or right to sue
for the money due is extinguished after 20
years from last payment made to him, or
from last exercise by him of any act of pos-
session. Apparently in your ease the 20
years would commence from the date when
last payment was made.
How can I make wholemeal bread with
yeast? —3663.
Get 21b. flour, 21b. wholemeal, 2 table-
spoonfuls brewer’s or similar yeast, 2 tea-
spoonfuls salt, 2 pints milk and water. Put
flour and meal, well mixed in wooden or
enamel basin, not tin. Mix yeast smooth
with half the milk and water made luke-
warm, and pour into hole in middle of flour.
Stir in flour from sides to make a batter,
dust flour over top. Cover with clean cloth
and stand in warm place about one hour
until fermentation cracks top and froths up.
Mix in salt and remainder of lukewarm
liquid to make a flexible dough. Cover and
set to rise. When two or three times its
original size, knead thoroughly but gently,
and enclose as much air as possible. Shape
into loaves and place in greased tins, then
set aside in warm place to rise again until
half as large again, before baking. Oven
heat 400 deg. F. for large batches, 050
deg. for small; gradually decreasing to not
less than 250 deg. Time for baking, test by
experience. Dough may be twisted into
fancy shapes and baked on floured trays.
How shall I prepare and cure bacon? —
3664.
Allow lib. salt to every 201 b. pork, and
add to the salt 41b. saltpetre, lib. salt prunella
and lib. coarse brown sugar. Pound and
mix together. Begin the work as soon as
possible after the pig is cut up, rubbing the
mixture well into the crevices of the meat
and over it, using wooden or enamel tub.
Next day draw off the brine which has col-
lected, and rub in the mixture daily for
three weeks, turning the bacon every day.
Drain, then dry, or smoke over a clean wood
fire. Best done in cool weather. The salt
prunella may be omitted.
(1) Is there a reliable book on home-
made jams, preserves and pickles for sale?
(2) Would the work l>e profitable?-— 3650.
(1) “Fruit Preserving: Canning, Bottling,
Jam-making and Candying Peel,’ Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Sydney; Is. 6d. (-)
Failure is due most often to lack of sales-
manship. No skill in manufacture will com-
pensate for that. There is a market for
the goods.
If a man patents an invention, how long
is he protected for? —3733.
A Commonwealth Patent lasts 16 years
and protects the inventor from the day
application is filed. If inventor does not
desire to at once incur cost of full patent
(about £22, inclusive of all costs), he can
obtain a Provisional Protection which covers
him for nine months. If an inventor wishes to
protect his invention outside, the .Common-
wealth, he can obtain patents in any civil-
ised country through the Patent' Attorneys
whose names are advertised on the “Wild
Cat” page.
My sub. clover at S taw ell (Vic.) is growing
since the rain. If it dies off without seed-
ing will it have to be reseeded? What are
the chances of it doing so? —3626.
Unlikely that present growth will die off
without seeding. If not previously treated
would respond to a dressing of lewt. super,
per acre. All the seeds do not germinate the
first season, and a percentage of those left
will grow in the second. Pamphlet posted.
(1) Is there a demand for songs in Aus-
tralia? (2) Best steps to take to place a
song on the market? (3) If a song (words
only) were accepted, ivhat might a tvriter
expect to get on publication? (4) Are songs
published in Australia sold overseas? (5)
Do local firms give advice? —3631.
(1) Only in rare cases. _ (2) Go to a
music publisher. An individual has little
chance of marketing his wares inexpensively.
(3) Entirely a matter for negotiation, de-
pending mainly upon appeal of the work.
(4) Australia and N.Z. only, (5) Most of
them.
(1) What are “sun spots”? (2) Their
cause and effect? (3) llow is one to see
them? (4) Any importance in astronomy
or meteorology? (5) llow often seen? —3331.
(1) Dark patches that appear on the sun,
and pass over its face as the sun revolves
on its axis. (2) Presumed to be caused by
internal eruptions, making rifts in the sun’s
chromosphere—the luminous atmosphere sur-
rounding the sun. Their effect on the earth
is magnetic; for on the appearance of any
large spot or spots magnetic storms are
recorded on magnetographs. (3) Easily by
a small telescope having a solar (or dark
glass) eyepiece. (Important: Examination
of the sun by a telescope should never be
made exqept through a special solar eye-
piece.) (4) Except from a magnetic stand-
point, and perhaps as a method of deter-
mining sun’s rotation, their importance to
astronomy or meteorology unknown. (5)
Always more or less. There is a maximum
(and minimum) sun-spot period recurring at
regular intervals of about 11 years.
A cure for tobacco smoking? —3so6.
The only permanent cure is the cultivation
of a firm will to resist the temptation. A
good method is to break away gradually. It
is not half as hard as it sounds. Some
people have found it helpful to carry a bag
full of tart sweets (acid drops) and place
one in the mouth every time the tobacco
craving comes on.
llow can I make oxygen gas and store it?
—3566. . -
Most satisfactory method of preparing it
from chemicals is to make a mixture of un-
powdered potassium' chlorate with its own
bulk of manganese dioxide and heat it in a
Florence flask with a wide delivery tube.
The gas comes off in rushes and is best col-
lected over water; .that is, the jar in which
it is to be collected is filled with water and
inverted in a shallow dish of water with the
tube from the flask in the jar, so that the
oxygen gradually displaces the water. Ten
grams (about 155 grains) of the potassium
chlorate mixture will give 2J litres of oxygen.
Oxygen may also be obtained if the wires
from an electric battery are placed, apart
from each other, in water which has been
slightly acidulated with sulphuric acid. When
the current is turned on, hydrogen comes off
in bubbles at one wire and the oxygen at
the other and may be collected as when
formed from potassium chlorate. Oxygen
can be stored under pressure only in metal
containers, cylinders generally being used.
(1) Is it possible to earn keep and to
attend science and arts courses at the Sydney
Uni. in spare time? (2) What scholarships
and bursaries are open to a student with
small means, and are any concessions made to
necessitous students? (3) Where is full in-
formation obtainable? —3274.
(1) Matriculated students can attend
evening lectures with a view to graduating
as B.A. Such a student could possiblv obtain
employment during the day. (2) The Uni.
authorities give careful consideration to the
case of a necessitous student who wishes t
attend lectures without the payment of fees.
Bursaries up to £5O per annum are available
to deserving students. These are tenable,
however, only in the faculties of arts
science and not in the professional schools
of the Uni. Candidates must give evidence
that their means are insufficient to enable
them to bear the cost of attending the Uni.
without the assistance of a bursary. Appli-
cants must also be qualified by education and
capacity to benefit by the course selected.
The tenure of the bursary is subject to the
student’s diligence and good conduct, and the
student is required to pass creditably the
annual exams. A bursary may be held toi
three years. (31 Make a personal call at the
Uni. and the Registrar will give you lull
information and possibly advise as to matri-
culation studios.
Information Supplied.
3454. —To find one’s way in the bush at
night direct south can be found like this.
Look at the Southern Cross, then imagine a
line extended from Gamma (the large star at
its head) to Alpha (the large star at its
foot). Continue it for an additional 34
lengths of their apparent distance apart.
The end of the imaginary line will be the
true south. —“Coot.”
3281. —In cementing circular gal.-iron
tanks, reinforcement is unnecessary. Ihe
Commonwealth Works Department specifi-
cation says: “Clean off scale and wash clean,
then wash with a cement wash made to the
consistency of cream ; while still wet fill all
corrugations with cornpo, of two of sand and
one of cement. Starting at top, do one-third
at a time to bottom. Then, again in thirds,
float half-inch finishing coat of cornpo. 1.4
sand and one cement. Lay bottom 14 inch
thick of finishing cornpo., and complete with
a bevel fillet fin. wide round bottom angle
I have used above specification on over oO
tanks without a failure. Reinforcement
would be necessary in any shape but cir-
cular.— Harry P.
3466 —To poison a dingo use a leg of mut-
ton that has not been handled. Dose it
with as much strychnine as will cover a
threepenny-piece. By a string dip it in boil-
ing fat. In a bag drag a sheep’s pluck over
the warrigal’s haunts and bury the bait in
loose earth at the.end of the trail.—“W.R.”
3453. —Wild ducks may be caught with a
figure-four trap holding up a crate where
wheat has been spread, or by feeding them
with rum-soaked grain. The surest way to
secure a bag in day-time shooting is to
watch the birds that have settled out on
the lake. Observe where they intend co make
ashore and be there to receive them. To
successfullv stalk them depends on the kind
of duck. Teal are easy to approach, black
ducks more difficult and wood ducks almost
impossible. Keep to leeward always.
“Bill R.”
3388.—1 don’t know' how to poison wom-
bats with cyanide. Here’s a very effective way
with carbon bi-sulpliide. First, make sure
the cuss is at home. One-third of a jam-
tin full (say Boz. or 90z.) pushed well down
the burrow, then the opening immediately
filled in, does the job thoroughly.—F.C.B.
Brief Answers.
J.A.: (1) Matter of opinion. (2 and 3)
We’d include Kreisler, Heifetz, Flesch, Zimbalist,
Elman and either Thibaud or Sammons. (4) Popular,
but not a world-artist E.C.: Not rare. Coins of
that period had the obverse set in the opposite way
to the reverse. Small value... . A.M.T.: Should feel
inclined to back their past success. See “Wild Cat”
Monthly for March F.H.S.: There are stock and
share borses in Berlin, Hamburg, Bremen and Frank-
furt-on-Main. In case you desire to get into touch
with accredited brokers, write Yorstand der Borse
(Berlin, Hamburg, etc.), and ask for addresses
D.L.: Nauru and Ocean Island are controlled and
worked by British Phosphate Commission, Henty
House, Little Collins-street, Melbourne. Prospects
small F.C.B. : (1) If straying on unfenced road,
police can pound them. (2) If off road, legal
occupier of the land can pound them. The Tasmanian
Sec. for Lands does not know of any conditions
under which straying stock may be impounded on
private property. (2) So much a head damage can
be claimed. See Impounding Act, Govt. Printer,
Hobart. .. .G.M.8.: You’d better keep it in force.
E.D.: Applicants for employment in N.S.W.
Education Department should have been at a Govern-
ment Training College or taught for at least six years.
Particulars of department’s short course (about 12
months) of training and application form posted
J. 8.: Add lib. alum, dissolved in water, to each
51b. of tallow. Womans Mirror (31/8/’26) con-
tained directions for home-made candles which might
interest you. . .'.11.M.: From J. Thomson, 311 Queen-
street, Brisbane; or the Publishers, Box 2876 N
G.P.0., Sydney; 2s. 6d R.J.8.: Metropolitan
Police Office, New Scotland Yard, London, S.W.I
F.W.T.: Must know type of soil and district con-
cerned.... D.H.G.: Safe, no! It is a gamble—say
about 1000 to 1. Watch the “Wild Cat” column.
....Ray S.: (1) Write George Wollaston, 177
George-street, Sydney, who will supply you with a
catalogue and information. (2) Paillard tone-arm.
(3) Vibratone speaker S.S.E.: You are within
your rights to put up a trellis provided it is built
wholly within the boundary line of your own pro-
perty. It is assumed that the shutters giving light
and air to your neighbor’s property have not been
in uninterrupted use for 20 years past. . . .F.J.0.D.:
See reply to 3625 (B. 8/2/’2B) Thomo: (1) He
may be disfranchised Federally on being declared of
unsound mind, attainted of treason or convicted of
certain offences. (2a) See “Australian Encyclo-
paedia” ; Quick and Garran’s “Annotated Constitution
of the Australian Commonwealth” ; Harrison Moore’s
“Constitution of the Commonwealth” ; and Wise’s
“Making of the Australian Commonwealth.” (2b)
W. D. Wright’s “Canberra” and F. W. Robinson’s
“Canberrals First 100 Years” A.G.: No data yet
on which to form an opinion. We shouldn’t have
advised the purchase G.W.E.: (1) The Bulletin
didn’t recommend them. (2) If it is a limited
liability co., you have contracted to pay the full
amount... .G.M.: Of oversea vessels only the
Commonwealth Line carries inter-State passengers.
. ...M.M.8.: Darling Harbor, March 21....R.R.:
Estimated population Newcastle and suburbs Dec.
31, 1926, was 99,850; of Brisbane, 274,260
C.P.T.: Good duck shooting is said to be obtainable
(N.S.W.) at Sussex Inlet, Black Lakes near Bibben-
luke, Forbes, Lake Cargelligo and Copmanhurst.
Necessary to secure permission from the owners of
property... .Meddlesome Billy: We hope to do better
than that for them (Many others mailed.)


lg|§
w- k ‘
?-.'v-
mm
-•-> \ u ».. ■,--. ■■■
s®s
, ••• • :*k • ■' • '••>
•••,> ■»
•Jt v y • •,; V-.'V-CV ji-V'
-v &&.;>£&&&
&&kss
££*? •
MM*
\ v;--r-xnfrwv\ ; .*?.,vE3#?i
53r?%
V. •;
aV; ;-j£
.V-
-■ l'A^' 5
' -*?--. 'iir'
B*a*.’ s'‘Xxtmeir -• s' - = ♦;
SKSSiNtf
*%- >v~ {£ v ■ V -*.■- V v \ Jffl&tiFrw
l^>
&&8
&>vff
*a\
s*?&£&}&
Vfcfi
'%\BJ« ! VSSS!
1
tog
MM
•' •w-:-v» 5 .P- , sy vt-'--'- ! ; ;fiv'-.--'w»i
'i N, / ' ' \ > '> / ' ,4- [gjg
.:::;• • : - ’...■ •. ,J ; ■&**&:'.’. :- : \\i-;. .^a-.;;... "./;'
f\r\f>
\- \
v •-
Based on 1 9*7 production
figures Chevrolet is in first
place among American Cars
Thus has Chevrolet’s unquestioned ability tc
produce startling motor-car value won for it
the premier position in the world’s motor-car
production.
The prospective motorist cannot overlook this
great fact—that more people in the world buy
Chevrolet than any other make.
It is the most conclusive evidence of value ever
presented.
And now —
VheAfost Beautiful
Chevrolet
in Chevrolet History
is making still greater records. It introduces a
new order of elegance, style and efficiency into
the field of low-priced cars.
Only Chevrolet—backed by the vast resources of
General Motors —could offer the improvements,
refinements and rugged strength which charac-
terise this latest Chevrolet, mechanically finer,
structurally stronger, more beautiful, far greater
in value, the Most Beautiful Chevrolet is more
than ever before—“ The World’s Best Buy.”
Let your Local Dealer show you the many fine car
features with which the Most Beautiful Chevrolet
is equipped.
The Tourer, £199.
Roadster, £199. Sports Roadster, £220.
Two-door Sedan, £273. Four-door Sedan, £298
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Metropolitan Distributors:—
JOHN McGRATH, LTD.,
155 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.
Buy from your Local Dealer
GENERAL MOTORS (AUS.) PTY., LTD.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH


df
P. & C. SUCCESS MEANS
YOUR PROTECTION
Success is seldom un-earned, and the spectacular rise of the
P. & C. to the foremost rank, in the short space of five (5)
years is due to the special services rendered by the Com-
pany. It keeps policies in force when times are. bad; it
sets aside, each year, sums for loans to its members; its
policies are designed to meet the particular needs of the
man on the land. In joining the P. 6C C. you obtain the
benefit of co-operative assurance and further the need of
the countryman.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man • H Fell
PRODUCERS S' CITIZENS
L COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD..
114- Ho CASTLEREAqH ST. SYDNEY
MARTELLS
BRANDY
A Household Word <-
in Sichness&in Health
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
lODINE FOR LIVESTOCK.
“Pot Io”: The necessity for iodine has
long been established as regards human
beings. Thus goitre is due to a deficiency of
iodine content in food and drink assimilated.
During the past few years veterinary sur-
geons have awakened to the fact that much
of the malnutrition among stock that come
under their notice is due to the same cause.
So, in an informative pamphlet on the sub-
ject, Frank Ewart Corrie, a leading veter-
inary authority, tells in a very illuminating
manner how the natural supply of iodine
secreted by the thyroid gland fails on occa-
sion, and how it may be reinforced by arti-
ficial means. The treatise, which is pub-
lished hy De Cruelly and Co., of London,
gives very full particulars of the results
obtained by adding proportions of iodine to
the feed of stock which are backward in con-
dition and development, and otherwise are
not, apparently, returning a value for the
food supplied them. Instances are too
numerous to quote, but iodine administration
seems to have produced improved results in
stock so widely removed as pigs, sheep, cattle,
horses and poultry. It is introduced to the
stock by natural feeding methods, so there is
no trouble about elaborate injections, etc.,
as with many other causative and prevent-
ive schemes. Results of a long series of
experiments are tabulated so convincingly
that it is impossible to deny that the writer’s
theory, based on much experience by Euro-
pean breeders, is a sound one. The section
dealing with the building up of resistance
by sheep to certain types of parasitic worms
should hold a lot of interest for Australian
flockmasters.
LUCERNE GROWING WITHOUT
IRRIGATION.
“Lucerne Flea” : The growing of lucerne
in South Aus. without irrigation did not
make any headway until 16 years ago. The
Booborowie station —many old drovers will
remember it, for the great Northern cattle-
track ran through it —was purchased by th '
S.A. Government for closer settlement, and
the 65,000 acres in the run were cut up, the
high land into 1000-acre farms, and the flat
into 150-acre blocks for dairying. This flat
—-thousands of acres of rich alluvia] soil,
lying between two ranges of hills running
north and south—was, at the time, only an
area of swamps, water-grass and reeds. The
blockers were not long, however, in discover-
ing that lucerne would grow without irriga-
tion and that 12 tons of lucerne-hay could be
cut to the acre in every season, once the
lucerne was well established.
Then the stud-sheep breeders began to
buy up the small lucerne blocks, paying as
high as £52 10s. an acre for it. To-day
three slieep-breeders own nearly all the
lucerne country, the butter factory has been
closed for lack of support, and few of the
original blocks are left. The sheep-breeders
have greatly extended the lucerne area, plant-
ing even high ground, where the fodder does
nearly as well as on the flat. This exten-
sive planting has had one unforeseen effect—
the lucerne has taken so much moisture out
of the ground that what used to be a river,
with permanent water running through Boo-
borowie, hasn’t run for years, and wells
have to be deepened every year.
Squatters in surrounding districts, seeing
how well lucerne was growing at Booborowie,
planted the flats on their own runs, or
bought farms where the soil had proved too
wet for wheat-growing in years of heavy
rainfall, and put them under lucerne. In
almost every case where the lucerne was
given a chance to establish itself it was
successful, and now at Canowie, Burra, Mt.
Bryan, Hallet and Farrell’s Flat paddocks
of lucerne meet the eye.
Growing lucerne for seed to extend the
planted areas has proved profitable. One
cocky let 15 acres run up to seed, got a bee-
keeper to put an apiary close by to fertilise
the blossoms, and took off nearly £lOOO
worth of seed.
Strawberry clover has also been tried with
very fair success, and it is safe to say that
in a few years’ time thousands of acres of
low-lying ground throughout the lower north
of S.A. will be put under lucerne. It repre-
sents a big advance over growing low-priced
wheat; but the pity of it is that, in a lot
of cases, the cockies who cleared the land
and worked it up to its present fertility are
not benefiting by it. As often happens, the
cocky, after struggling for years, sells out
to a squatter, and then sees the new owner
reap a fortune off land which had only re-
turned' a: bare living when used for wheat-
growing.
CLOSE THRESHING OF BARLEY.
Joshua Tetley and Son, Ltd., brewers and
bottlers, of Leeds (Eng.), have written to
the High Commissioner as follows:
During the last five years we have been pur-
chasers and consumers of Australian barleys (of the
Chevalier and Duckbill varieties) to the extent of
some 25 thousand quarters (of 4481 b. each).
We recognise that the Chevalier type of barley
is a very delicate article to handle at all times,
and we have observed with growing concern that
after each succeeding harvest the habit of close
threshing is yearly becoming worse. The resulting
damage to the protective skin of the barley corn
is rapidly making this class of barley almost an
impossible one for the maltster to manipulate during
the malting process, the damage or fracture to the
skin making each corn readily open to all mould
spores and disease.
Maltsters of repute, although at one time very
anxious to welcome this eminently sound and satis-
factory brewing material, are finding that, on the
average, five out of every ten samples have to be
rejected on account of the presence of a great pro-
portion of skinned and chipped corns. This is
deplorable, and the shipments of barley ex the harvest
of December, 1926, were the worst on record in this
respect. We fear that this threshing damage, if
not stopped or greatly remedied (and at once), will
seriously interfere with future sales of Australian
barleys, and we do not hesitate to state that it is
only playing directly into the hands of the Californian
barley grower, who has (perhaps on account of
longer experience of maltsters’ requirements) learned
his lesson and remembered it.
We are anxious to use Empire products as far as
possible, and earnestly trust that the contents of this
letter may be seriously regarded. If we can help by
demonstrating in our maltings the evil results of
this close threshing, we shall be pleased to do so.
EDUCATION IN FERTILISING.
“W.J.D.”: The Bulletin (15/2/’2B)
said that, so far as it knew, there was “no
co-operative effort to increase the use of
super., though there is an enormous field
for expansion.” In South Australia the
three leading manufacturers formed an
association known as the S.A. Superphos-
phate Association. Last year they gave
nine trophies of a value of £45 for an im-
proved pasture competition, judged by
departmental experts. This year the same
association has again donated nine prizes
of five guineas each, entries to be made
through agricultural bureaus and to be in
Adelaide not later than July 1. Further,
the association issues monthly to branches
of agricultural bureaus a sheet giving results
of experiments, etc., in scientific manuring.
No doubt the three cos. are securing' good
advertisement, but they are also doing work
of national benefit.
SOME LUCERNE HINTS.
“G.L.1).”: “The Welkin’s” methods with
lucerne _ are not wholly like mine, and I
think I’ve been pretty successful. In the
first place I think it is quite wrong to cut
before it begins to flower. The correct time
is when about one-quarter of the plants or
stalks are blooming. If cut previous to this
a big reduction in yield results. Also it is
most difficult to make first-class hay with
soppy, leafy material, unless ideal dry
weather is experienced. If the weather is
at all humid or changeable, with heavy
dews such as we experience on the N.S.W.
coast, a fair cut of “The Welkin’s” hay
would never dry. Hay of this nature has
a tendency to “give back,” or take up mois-
ture from the atmosphere, thus producing
with sufficient pressure brown hay, or, if
too wet or not sufficient pressure in the
stack, only.mouldy, useless material.
“The Welkin” is quite correct in saying
that the flowers draw substance from the
plants, but if the flowers are valueless where
does this substance go?
Perhaps the greatest disadvantage of cut-
ting established lucerne too early lies in the
danger of the plants (which are at the maxi-
mum-growing period) bleeding, thus sapping
the vitality of the crowns and roots and
doing permanent damage. When lucerne is
ready to cut the new shoots begin to come
pway from the crown. .Cutting before flower-
ing does not allow the plants to reach this
stage; thus the plants will obtain a double-
check by (1) bleeding and (2) not being
at the right stage to produce new shoots.
I recently saw a crop of weeds, water-
grass and maize stalks six feet high cut off
a young stand of lucerne. The following
cut did not contain one per cent, of foreign
matter. A dressing of 2cwt. of super, and
a light spring-tooth cultivation every August
will destroy weeds and increase yields.
FARMERS AND BUTTER FACTORIES.
“B. Goode”: “Paul C.” (B. 22/2/’2B) sets
out to warn the dairy-farmer of careless and
inefficient butter-factory managers, but the
figures he quotes show a good bit of ineffic-
iency in other departments. “Paul” states
that the supplier sending 1001 b. of butter-fat
should be paid for of butter. But
that’s doing poor cow 7 cocky down for
51b. of butter in every hundred pounds of
fat. Having manufactured many thousands
of tons of this commodity, I know 7 that the
standard is 82 p.c. butter-fat. It used to
be 83 p.c., but, through heating during pas-
teurisation, commercial butter now carries
a little more “cooked” curd than formerly,
and, added to this, the greater efficiency of
cooling appliances now installed in the fac-
tories allows of a standard-temperature
churning, and the manufacture carries a
little more moisture than previously. If
“Paul” will check up on these figures he will
find that the 100 pounds of butter-fat show
a return of 121.951 b. commercial butter, the
basis upon which the supplier is paid in
N. S. Wales.
As regards the farmer running his own
Babcock machine to check the factory, in
practice this doesn’t w 7 ork. The conditions
on dairy-farms do not allow of sufficient
care and attention. If the farmer is at
any time in doubt, he has any amount of
opportunities to have check tests made, in-
cluding one by the Agricultural Depart-
ment. Sydney. I have known many of these
machines to be installed, and have never
found the supplier and factory “click” ; but
as the difference in 95 p.c. of cases was in
favor of the supplier, they all lived happy
ever afterward.
LAND VALUES.
“Spike”: Compared with prices paid for
wheat land, N. S. Wales wool-growing coun-
try, considering the risks the sheepman
runs, is enormously over-valued. The sta-
bility of the wool market and the phenomenal
run of good seasons are mainly responsible.
Yet so inflated is the market for good sheep
country that it is difficult to see how the
woolgrower coming in at this price can make
his holding pay.
In 1921 I bought 2000 acres of purely
grazing country in the Riverina at £5 2s. 6d.
and sold in 1923 at £7 ss. The purchaser,
after spending a little money subdividing,
etc., re-sold in 1925 at £10; terms one-third
cash, remainder over a period at 6J per cent.
The present owner, therefore, "has paid
£6650 and is faced with an interest bill of
over £B5O annually, to which lie must add
wages, overhead expenses, taxes, etc. A
grazier who averages a clear 10s. per acre
annually is in clover; but, how is lie going
to manage with land values at such a peak
and with interest demanding its pound of
flesh?
The fact that good seasons have been en-
joyed for a number of years does not mean a
continuity. Then, when drought happens,
the costly business arrives of hand-feeding
continued as long as the cash lasts or the
feed is procurable ; then the losses from slow
starvation ; the further losses after the rains ;
finally the muster of the few remaining
broken-woolled skeletons. And the interest
bill mounting all the time.
The wheat cocky is on a different footing.
Should droughty conditions prevail he may,
and will, probably lose his crop, but he can
command his own price for what hay he has
stacked from previous seasons and will
nearly break even on the year. In fact,
cockles of my acquaintance harvest a pad-
dock yearly and stack the hay in readiness
for the starving-stock fodder-market ki
drought time.
The prices now being paid for Western
Plains country, although too steep, are a
little nearer reasonable bounds, and there
is plenty of land procurable. Although these
Western districts do not grow as fine a
quality wool as, say, the Riverina, they pro-
duce a splendid type of big-framed merino
which always commands a big price off
shears from buyers situated in centres grow-
ing finer wool.
lIOW MANY MILKINGS PER DAY?
“Azac”: Apart from the highly theoretical
method of computing the yields of record-
breaking cows, there is another point which
the owners of these cows keep dark, and
that is the number of times per day the
record-breaker is milked. There is no doubt
in the mind of even the most casual cow-
cocky that the interval between milkings
affects the yield of the cow. If one cow’s
production is to be compared with another,
they should all be milked the same number
of times per day.
While all agree that three milkings per day
will result in bigger yields than two milk-
ings, there is no agreement as to the differ-
ence the extra milking makes. Different
cow-s, different results. Ragsdale’s work on
this subject is perhaps the best that has
been done. In the experiments he conducted
cows were milked at varying intervals of
from one to 36 hours, and the following
figures were obtained :
Interval Calculated Yield
Between Milkings. for 24 Hours.
6 hours .. .. .. 20.01 b.
8 hours .. . . .. 18.91 b.
10 hours . . .. .. 18.01 b.
12 hours .. .. .. 17.21 b.
14 hours . . . . . . 16.51 b.
16 hours .. .. . . 15.91 b.
Thus a cow milked twice daily—or at 12-
hour intervals between milkings—gives 17.21 b.
milk per day as against 18.91 b. in the case
of the cow milked three times per day; i.e.,
every eight hours.
The above only refers to milk yield and
therefore is only of direct interest to dairy
farmers who sell their products in the form
of whole milk. As regards those who sell
to the butter factory and are paid accord-
ing to butter-fat content, Ragsdale found that
the actual increase in the fat percentage due
to three milkings per day as compared with
two was about 20 per cent. Greater in-
creases in both milk and butter-fat yields
were obtained from four milkings per day;
i.e., at intervals of six hours, but milking
four times and at regular intervals through-
out the 24 hours is bordering on the im-
possible, whereas milking three times per day
is practicable in some cases.
The point, however, is that when a cow,
by name, say, Maloney’s Pride, breaks a
world’s record, it may have been entirely due
to the extra milkings given in the 24 hours
and not to superior breeding.
FEEDING MOLASSES.
“Trepex”: Molasses is of high value as
a sheep food. The biggest fly in the honey-
pot of its successful use lias been the diffi-
culty of transport and feeding to the stock
in the paddock—a difficulty so great that
only about 15 p.c. of the world’s production
has been put to commercial use. Yet sheep
will thrive and grow the golden fleece almost
on molasses alone.
Two experienced Australians have found a
way; and both pastoral and sugar industries
should profit by their efforts. Reduced from
its normal liquid condition with 30 p.c. water
to a solid of 70 p.c. true sugar, 4 p.c. water,
13 p.c. mineral ash and 13 p.c. organic
matter, the molasses is packed in iron con-
tainers which cost only about 18d. each,
and which can be knocked apart in the pad-
docks and so supplied to the sheep, who
greedily lick it out of the cans, from which
it can only be otherwise removed with a
hammer and chisel. The immediate result is
a very nutritive and digestible food in con-
venient form for handling, a5O p.c. saving in
freight and the absence of any wastage in
carrying.
Solidified molasses is no new article, but
the new container will put it within more
convenient reach of the stock raiser.
CLASSING FARMERS’ CLIPS.
“Mouton” : The number of small clips in
Australia is increasing rapidly owing to two
main reasons. Firstly, increased taxation on
large freeholds has practically forced
owners to subdivide, with the result that,
where one large flock was. now many small
ones are kept. Secondly, the farmer is
realising that sheep are necessary, not only
as direct money-makers but as a help to good
cultivation. As time goes on the small clips
will constitute a larger and larger percent-
age of the total Australian clip, and more
attention must be given to the classing and
marketing of them.
A good deal of the classing may be done
in the drafting-yard; in other -words, careful
and systematic culling will keep the flock
reasonably even in type and quality, which
is very important, because only a few classes
can be made.
The skirting must be carefully done to
enhance the value of the fleece. This result
is obtained by removing all sweaty, seedy
and stained edges. . But it must be remem-
bered that skirtings are sold on a lower
basis than fleece wool; therefore any clean
free wool removed from the fleece must re-
sult in a direct loss to the grower. On the
other hand, if fleeces are not sufficiently
skirted they would be sold as unskirted
fleece, which would again result in loss.
Another important point is the removing of
sandy and mushy backs. Farmers’ sheep
which have been used to clean fallows get
dirt and dust in the back of the fleece. This
causes the wool to become harsh and mushy
and usually tender, while the sides and other
portions may be comparatively clean and
sound. Most buyers of fleece wool cannot
use sandy backs, and if they are not re-
moved valuable competition is lost.
The treatment of the skirtings and odd-
ments is important. They constitute a fair
percentage of any clip, and at present are
selling at high rates. The farmer should
remember this and give them every attention.
One class of pieces should be made. They
must be picked over and all stains and dag?
removed, neatly baled or bagged and branded.
One class of bellies is sufficient. All
stains from the bellies of male sheep should
be carefully removed, and when bagged
(Continued on page 31.)


treasure in any home
—F e
S
. m
m.
m
m
M
m*.
m
This modern “ice-
man” calls once —
with Frigidaire—and
the ice stays always!
The moment Frigidaire comes into
your home you are completely in-
dependent of an outside ice supply.
Frigidaire makes its own ice—an
abundance of sparkling cubes from
your own pure drinking water.
With Frigidaire—no matter what
the change of weather —you are
saved the worry and inconvenience
of spoilt foods that increase your
meat and grocery bills.
Frigidaire keeps perishable foods
fresh and wholesome, and makes
possible the most tempting—most
refreshing summer-time dishes —
frozen desserts chilled fruits
crisp salads.
If your home is without electric
power, Delco-Light will supply it.
Delco-Light—a complete electric
power plant in itself —operates
Frigidaire refrigerators, electric
labor-saving devices, and provides
electric light wherever you want it.
Fill in and mail this coupon for complete
information to your nearest distributors.
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving com-
plete information on Frigidaire Electric
Refrigeration.
NAME
ADDRESS
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON,
172-174 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & McLEAN PTY., LTD.
104 George Street, Launceston.
ELECTRIC REFRIGER
lllllllllllllllllllllllil
3J
tiiitmiiiiiiniii
iiiMiiiimmmi
iiiiiltilllliKiiiiiiiiniii


FARMERS! DO NOT MISS THIS EXHIBIT AT THE 1928 R.A.S. SHOW.
The 40-h.p. STOCK Motor Plough
is the only one-unit Tractor and Plough which will
to any depth under the driest conditions
Stock
%
m
w
mm
■ -
THIS HIGH-POWER MACHINE FOR UNIVERSAL USE
Can be changed from Plough to Tractor as desired, being equipped with 2 forward speeds and 1 reverse speed.
THE ENGINE provides the power to maintain a constant depth of Ploughing, no hand adjustments being necessary, and it will plough from
2 inches to 13 inches deep.
WHEN DESIRED the PLOUGH SHARES can, by engine power, be instantly lifted high out of the ground, thus allowing this one-unit machine
to be reversed. . , . ~
Two of these machines have been constantly in use in N.S.W. for the past 15 years, having ploughed over 68,000 acres. Repairs over thls pe ™°
other than to actual Plough Parts have been less than £5O in each case. They commence their 16th year of service as efficient as new. Ihe
1928 model has, of course, many improvements over these earlier models. The Most Amazing Feature of this machine, which is complete wi h
any desired type of Plough Shares and all accessories, is the price, namely X? fa *7 /Z , , . , . , .
eJLrf V-/ l which price includes everything.
This Machine, and also the new STOCK FRONT-WHEEL DRIVE CATERPILLAR TRACTOR, 28h.p., can be inspected at the R.A.S. Show,
Pateson Street, near Cattle Sales Ring. . . i ,
Full details and specifications of these REMARKABLE MACHINES cannot be given in the space allowed, but descriptive literature, plans and
all information will be forwarded free on request by sole Australasian Distributors,
STOCK MOTOR PLOUGHS LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 219 d.
Agents in other States will shortly be appointed.
iJbr Veteran too!
Chosen as best of all Lighting Plants
by the British Army
e
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
HEN the British Government wanted an electric
plant for War service, it had to pass harder tests
for fitness than any soldier.
No skimped or flimsy type of plant would do—
it had to be solid, strong, efficient and reliable to the high-
est degree, and able to stand the terrific strain of war
conditions. And from numerous makes the Govern-
ment chose Eledtolite— surely the finest recommendation
that any plant could have!
Eledtolite is built for long, long service—longer than any other plant
can give It is also built for economical service, and hundreds ot users
claim it to cost less than city electricity. It supplies ample power
not only for lighting, but also for operating an electric iron, vacuum
cleaner, kettle, chaffcutter, separator, and many other appliances.
Let Eledtolite make life more pleasant in vour home—write for
literature giving full particulars.
Qenerous Terms Make Purchasing Easy
EDMUNDS BROS. &. CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney;
3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide
Box D 147, G.P.0., Perth Box 1139 P, G.P.0., Brisbane
Resident Factory Representative ■ R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney
m
i
X\
//;
/ * *
tMvji
5f
i
l4s
mm
m
m
x
mmi
X. 'O
<7
4>
v ~ p yv 4-
V s /
W %:*
f */s o
«&, <S> o
% °o
\ 0< $>
(By CAppointment
lo H M THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.


Double-Soled
with
leather-lined upper
An Abbey-built Cossack,
made for the hardest of hard
service.
It’s flexible, easy-fitting,
with specially-arched instep
and non-chafing heel. The
tongue is attached by flaps
that keep out dust and
grass-seeds.
There’s no canvas in this
boot—soft leather is used
inside the upper, which is
actually double thickness.
ORDER BY POST
You can select black or tan —
the latter at two prices. The best
grade leather is used for all
soles, but the higher-priced tan
boot has an upper of special
calf. Order a supply of easy-
shining Abbey Polish with your
boots. (Price 6d. per tin.)
TAN WILLOW (46/6 “ d rpr
BLACK - -- - 39/6 per pr.
Ask for copy of 40-page
colored catalogue
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
LG3.
)A
~NV\
V->
Blemishes and Irritations
Quickly Disappear
When Cuticura is used. Bathe
with the Soap and hot water, dry
gently and anoint with the Oint-
ment. This treatment not only
soothes and heals unsightly and
annoying pimples, rashes and
skin irritations but tends to prevent
such conditions.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress; "R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.”
@88?"* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
<GKEY
HAIR
WOOT,B
1 SPOIJL
IT#
r
Vv»-
\e»
■A' e
floe
\> e
\\c»
\\ey
s^ 1
•cvtt-a
c\vv
»?V C >
i,st s
WAINUT
smiN
REMOVES THE GREY
m
I
\
3
mm
\\
c?
r-'i
mx
s. /
W'
Joy of Life!
With the wrong kind of underwear
it is impossible, of course, in a hot
climate, and that is why countless
thousands of people would not dream
of wearing any other than AERTEX
—AERTEX with the wonderful, in-
sulating cellular-weave that ensures
coolness, comfort, fitness and safety.
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and
Drapers: or in case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO, LTD..
313 Flinders Lane. MELBOURNE.
Victoria, Australia
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
A. 72
VERTEX'S
ON DO'
mm
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANE,' LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.; D. W. Macdonald, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
__With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the Werld, this
Qlg... fullfist facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
branded “A Bellies.” Stained pieces, when
wet, should be dried in the sun, and when
bagged branded “Stnd. Pcs.”
When dealing with small clips it is advis-
able to ignore ages and sexes, and treat all
the grown sheep as one line. A flock of
400 grown sheep should yield about 10 bales
of fleece wool. With a clip of this size the
following classes should be sufficient: —
“A A”: The bulk of the fleeces, which
should be of medium to fine quality, medium
to light condition, sound and of a good
length. .
‘*A” : A small or star lot, to consist of the
culls —that is, all extra-heavy, short, dis-
colored fleeces.
“B” : Another small line consisting of any
extra-strong fleeces.
In most small clips the “AA” would con-
sist of six to seven bales ; “A,” two to three
bales; “B,” one bale.
Wool is a valuable product, and it deserves
care when it is being packed. Untidy, badly-
branded bales always give a buyer a bad
first impression. The bales should be tightly
packed and neatly sewn, and branded neatly
with stencil-plates on the cap and front side.
The description on the bales must be correct;
dishonest branding only leads to endless
trouble and confusion.
JUTE IN WOOL.
“Trepex”: On one of the Sydney wool-
brokers’ floors recently the demonstration
was made of a calico lining for woolpacks,
designed with the object of keeping jute
fibres out of the wool. The lining is made
loose and somewhat of an outsize for its
position, but is shirred back to normal
dimensions. The idea is to allow the calico
material to be stretched round the jute edges
of the packs when they are opened for
inspection by the buyers. Three bales so
packed were shown among one lot offered
for sale, so that buyers, growers, press and
anyone else had the opportunity to make a
close study of them. Unfortunately the
experiment was not convincing, and the com-
ments of the buyers were not such as would
lead one to believe that the effort was suc-
cessful. The old question always crops up:
Who will bear the cost —buyer or-seller ?
Jute fibres ought to be eliminated if it
can be done without throwing much addi-
tional burden on to the cost of production.
A grower can do a great deal without much
expense by merely turning the usual Calcutta
pack inside-out and shaking it well before
use. He will be surprised to find how much
fluff and loose fibre falls off from the inside.
More effective still, though it makes rather
an unsightly package, is to use the pack in
its inside-out condition. The proper outside
is much smoother and the outside seams
are much neater and freer of raw jute edges,
which shed off into the wool. But one would
hesitate to say that the man who so pro-
tects his wool would be any the richer for it.
THE SUPER SHEEP.
“Cull”: The committee of experts
appointed by the British Board of Agricul-
ture to inquire into the Voronoff rejuvenation
experiments in Algeria has admitted that the
Russian’s claim has been to some extent
justified. The claim that the size of the
sheep and the weight of the wool were in
creased was borne out by figures, and the
actual “improved” sheep were exhibited; but
the committee considered that the data are
insufficient to form an estimate of economic
value at present, and suggested that further
and more critical tests should be made in
Britain. Further, the committee considered
that the claim that the treated rams could
transmit their improved qualities to their
offspring was one not yet substantiated.
Would such a super sheep as Voronoff
hopes to produce be wbrth while to Aus-
tralian growers? A sheep three times the
size of the present breed and carrying twice
as much wool —which is what the doctor is
confident he can produce with time —hardly
seems payable. A sheep like that presumably
would eat three times as much and would
not produce wool in proportion. The game
would hardly seem to be worth the candle,
apart from the extra cost and difficulty
attendant on shearing and the other handling
processes.
FISH MEAL FOR CATTLE.
“H.M.” : Fish meal for cattle (B. 22,/2/’2B)
was tested in Canada in 1916. Various
herds were tried on different feeds, and those
on fish meal not only gave a more sustained
milk flow, but some of the animals put on
weight to the maximum of 371 b. in 14 days.
The cows ate the meal (60 p.c. protein and
15 p.c. phosphate of lime) ravenously after
the first few days, and there was no detri-
mental effects on either the milk or meat.
On the basis of milk production the experi-
ments showed that the food equivalents
to 2151 b. protein were: —
1. —llolb. fish meal, 451 b. bran, 221 b. oats.
2. —1661 b. cottonseed meal, 501 b. bran, 241 b. oats.
3. —lBBlb. linseed meal, 31b. bran, 21b. oats.
4. —1471 b. peanut-oil meal, 511 b. bran, 251 b. oats.
Australian waters possess enough big fish
(sharks, etc.) to make the proposal of a
factory for the production of fish meal worth
serious consideration.
BLOOD-SCOURS IN CALVES.
“Porco” : The following is a very excellent
remedy for sconrs in calves. Isolate the
sick calf from its mates and place it in a
clean, dry and warm shelter. The first
thing in the morning, on an empty stomach,
give the sick calf one to two ounces castor oil
according to size. Almost two hours later
feed the calf by slowly drenching it with
three to four pints of warm wdiole milk. This
is to keep up the calf’s strength, as exper-
ience has shown that when suffering from the
malady they are very much off their food.
About 3 p.m. drench the calf with as much
powdered bluestone as you can put on a
sixpenny piece, in a pint of cold water; and
about two hours later feed with warm
whole milk, as in the inorning, and then
gradually get back on to the feed that was
usual before the calf was sick.
TO POISON WILD PIGS.
“Zirconia”: “Moawhango” asks how to
poison wild pigs fB. l/2/’2B). Take 20 or
30 cobs of maize, cut some in halves and
throw them on the ground at the pigs’ feed-
ing places. Do this for three or four days
or more. They will readily eat the corn.
Then take more cobs (clear of husks) and
put them into a fairly strong solution of
strychnine (say, two teaspoonfuls dissolved
in a bucket of water) for 24 hours. Take
them out and let them dry in the sun. Then
throw on the ground in the feeding places.
In a few days there won’t be many pigs left
to worry about. Be careful horses or cattle
don’t find the corn.
ITALIAN BEES v. HYBRIDS.
“Larrapinta” : For four consecutive years
I made a careful record of two apiaries—one
Italian, the other hybrid—and the result was
to show that the hybrid bees were more
profitable. To carry out the test I took 50
swarms of each breed, wintered them in the
same district, about half a mile apart, and
during honey-flows I worked them as one
apiary, keeping them 100 yards apart. The
results were, as regards honey-production,
in favor of the hybrids. The Italians gath-
ered an average per hive of 521 b., 1741 b.,
401 b. and 1901 b., or a total of 4021 b. for the
four years. The hybrids returned 651 b.,
1981 b., 491 b. and 2031 b., or a total of 5151 b.,
a balance of 531 b. of honey in their favor.
The Italians did not have a single case
of foul-brood, were a pleasure to handle, as
(hey were very docile, and kept the combs
quite free from wax-moth grubs. But they
had fairly heavy wintering losses, were very
slow to breed up in the spring, and would
not work at all well on cool or cloudy days.
The hybrids, on the other hand, were not
disease-resistant, for five swarms had to be
treated for foul-brood. They were more
savage, too, and did not seem to be able
to entirely keep the wax-grubs out of their
hives. But while the Italians were so slow
to come on in the spring, the hybrids in-
creased rapidly. In four years the Italians
had increased to only 64 swarms, whereas
the hybrids had increased to 117, and always
came through the winter well. They also
worked in cool weather.
By breeding only from my own hybrid
queens, choosing always those that have
proved themselves capable of breeding good
lioney-gatherers, I have worked up an apiary
which puts up very satisfactory perform-
ances in the way of returns, while they have
sufficient of the Italian in them to make
them fairly docile and quite capable of
keeping the wax-grub in its proper place.
I would like to hear the results of any
other tests with the two types of bee in
other parts of Australia, for my experiment
was confined to the lower north of South
Aus.
SOIL .CONDITIONS FOR POULTRY.
“R. J.” : It is a waste of time and money
to put poultry stock on land sour or polluted
by bad drainage. Twenty-five fowls to a
pen is quite enough, since by such small
yardings it is possible to more accurately
pick out the layers. When the pens are made
there should always be two extra enclosures.
These can be resting land, wdiich should be
rough-broken, and by this method the birds
can be drafted to scratching-pens.
The presence of parasitic worms in poultry
is nearly always traceable to polluted soil.
Especially are young poultry subject to this
complaint. The old story that changing pens
stops laying is a myth—except, of course,
when the birds are hunted from one enclo-
sure to another. The poultry-farmer will
find it always pays to gain the confidence of
the flock, for then he is not likely to upsel
the most nervous hens.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Fred Rich”: If you have any doubts, test
your seed before sowing. This can be done
with a sheet of damp blotting-paper and
two plates. Sprinkle 100 grains—taken hap-
hazard—on the paper, and if 70 do not ger-
minate get fresh seed.
“Nota Bene”: The use of manure-bags
for holding wheat is an offence against the
Health Act of Victoria and, I believe, other
States. Penalty, £2O.
“C. 0.” : Can mange be cured? It hadn’t
left a hair on the dog’s body. Every morn-
ing for three or four days I emptied the
remains of the coffee over the animal, rub-
bing it well in. In a week or so the hair
began to sprout, and in a very short time
the tyke became a beautiful curly-haired
retriever.
“Yarri”: Bush remedies are often novel,
sometimes drastic, generally effective. Reuben
Picker, of Bigga (N.S.W.), found his best cow
choking, an apple having stuck in her throat.
Ordinary means failing to shift the obsti’uc-
tion, he got his brother George to hold a
121 b. hammer against it, and then, on the
opposite side of the cow’s neck, lie struck
the lump with a 61b. hammer. That broke
the apple, and the cow swallowed the pieces.
“Ascot”: For land poor in vegetable mat-
ter this fertiliser should give results: Dried
blood, 3cwt.; bone-dust, 2cwt.; super., 4cwt. ;
sulphate of potash, lewt. About
per acre should be sufficient.
“Ken” : A mixture of blacklead and grease
applied with a brush will be found a better
lubricant than oil for chains, sprockets and
cogwheels. It will not collect dust like oil,
nor cause excessive wear through grinding.
“L.M.” : There would be less chance of the
spread of blight in potatoes if the haulms
were burnt after the tubers are dug. After
the potato crop, it is wise to dig in a heavy
dressing of lime to sweeten the soil before
it is used for another crop of vegetables.
“Nota Bene” : A good remedy for greasy
heels in horses is to wash the leg well with
carbolic soap, dry thoroughly, and, when
dry, bathe with a cotton-wool pad dipped in
a solution of salicylic acid (as strong as
can be made) in methylated spirit. Repeat
every third day.
“Ascot V.”: For scaly poultry, keep the
legs and feet in fairly warm water for about
two minutes; then in kerosene for about one
minute. Repeat this treatment once every
24 hours for about three days. The scales
will then be easily removed, and the legs
should be dressed with carbolic oil and
sulphur. The scale is induced by damp and
dirty yards.
“The Welkin”: Fowls and ducks should
not be allowed to eat parsley. The plant is
a slow poison, which would seem to take
special effect on all the feathered tribe. And
don’t feed the stuff to canaries.


■SBPB
OVAL
VIRGINIA
Cjhere are twenty
reasons in every
packet
Another
reason why
you will like
ARDATH
■
m
m
jMmm
mmm
Oval shape gives free drawing and full
appreciation of their fine flavour. Over
aize and 100 % Golden Virginia Leaf«
10/ 9 1 ? £lfvieeQwci 20U&
SMOKE-OH!
Some men are born clever. Others will
believe anything a woman tells them.
He H:
N.S.W. apiarists suggest a “Bee Week.”
Haven't we that sort of week already?
* *
In these days of dieting a man has to
stand by his wife through thick and thin.
•I*
Every man feels at one time or another
that he would like to cast aside his troubles ;
but it’s not so easy to get a divorce.
•!* '2 ;
An English medico states that he is un-
able to find any trace among athletes of ill-
effects from exertion. He must have studied
boxers.
He *
“These natives, the wildest in the Pacific,
asked us for rum, but of course we had
none to give them,” says a missionary lec-
turer. No wonder they were wild.
IN THE CLOUDS.
“I can understand them calculating the weight of the stars, and
the distance they are from the ground, but what beats me
is how they get to know their names.”
A Maoriland woman, who was recently
operated on in the presence of 50 doctors,
died. Well, she was certainly up against
pretty fearful odds.
“The correct form of invitations and their
acceptance is a worry to a large number of
people,” says a newspaper writer. Yet, what
could be simpler than the complete code:
“Hot, isn’t it?” “Well, I don’t mind if we
do.”
SONG OF A VULGAR BOATMAN.
Oh, I’m a happy boatman, I,
And I laugh “Ha-ha!” as I’m rowin’. . . .
“!!!*?!, you’ve smashed me flamin’ oar —
Blast y’! carntya look where yer goin’!”
She: “How can I go! You know that I
have nothing to wear.”
He: “Hang it all—doesn’t the invitation
say ‘dress optional’!”
* *
“I deny,” says a lecturer, “that Austra-
lians haven’t respect for their most venerable
institutions.” Apparently he hadn’t heard
that a man who stood for election to the
Queensland Assembly the other day and lost
his deposit was named O’Loan.
The most truthful remark inspired by the
recent hot weather appeared in a Sydney
News leader. “There is,” it said, “an
ineradicable bias in the human mind in favor
of irrigation.”
According to statistics, trams were respon-
sible for a greater percentage of street fatali-
ties last year than were motor-cars. Tram-
drivers, however, have still to beat the
motorists this year and next year at the
sport before they will be entitled to keep
the cup.
Ponsford in Maoriland has made scores of
110 and 145. That young man is evidently
going off his game.
* *
“One hindrance to immigration,” said Mr.
Amery in the House of Commons recently,
“is a lack of the right spirit.” We don’t
agree with him. The whisky has enorm-
ously improved in the last few years.
* *
The girl was speechless and enraged;
She sat and wept alone.
He’d promised that she’d get a ring —
She got it—on the ’phone.
Young mother
( recently a tele-
phonist), poking
dummy into baby's
mouth: “Number,
please!”
# *
It certainly takes
very little to shock
those who hold up
their hands in hor-
ror at the modern
girl’s dress.
* *
A centenarian in
a recent newspaper
interview asks:
“What is nicer for
supper than a pork-
pie and a pint of
beer?” Oh. very
nice—but why the
pork pie?
❖ si:
According to a
scientist, the next
war will be fought
with insects. There
are plenty of Dig-
gers who believe
that applies to the
last war, also.
* *
A reduction in
the number of seats
in the N.S.W. Leg-
islative Assembly
from 90 to 84 has
been suggested. It
might not be a bad
idea to have a cor-
responding reduc-
tion in the ages of
Legislative Council-
lors.
Austria proposes to honor Siegfried Marcus,
the inventor of the first petrol-driven car.
Undertakers are understood to be sending
a huge wreath.
* *
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
Well I know just what you are,
Up above the footlights there, —
You're an ad. for underwear.
N.S.W. M.
* *
A United States merchant has presented
New York with nearly £1,000,000 to be used
in erecting an enormous art gallery. It will,
in fact, be almost large enough to hold a
life-size portrait of a successful American
citizen.
BEAUTY.
She stood beside the Jersey cow,
A maiden young awl fair;
The setting sun rays kissed her brow,
And zephyrs wooed her hair.
I’d never seen a siceeter girl,
Tier wondrous grace and charm
Set my old, organ in a whirl,
And brightened up the farm.
All business thoughts had been dispelled!;
Dad’s presence I forgot;
The maid my whole attention held
And glued me to the spot,
“You should be proud of her,” said I.
lie beamed, threw out his chest.
“My oath I am!” he made reply—
“ She gives an eight-five test!”
MAORILAND.
J. A. WALSH.
II ere be a cheer
For lone an’ beer
If that ’ee rightly use ’em;
But I do zay
Hell must 'ee pay
If so ’ee do abuse ’em.
S.A.
A. E. W.
THE EAGLE’S NEST.
Boris Boldeno lay on the grass, and looked
across to where, Overhanging a craggy Steep,
the Castle Perched high on One Mitey Cresst.
He was only a Poor Boy, the liumbel son of
a shepherd whose Sheep he was now Tend-
ing ; but grate thoughts were in his Mind.
He dremed that Some day that Lordly
Foughtress might be his.
“There he is! Seeze him!”
Boris was On His Feet in an Instant.
But to Late. From Every Bush about him
there sprang a man. Boris fort manfully.
Seezing one man in his hands, he heaved
him a Loft and hirled him with grate Force
against three of His Attackers, so that the
4 were sent to their Doom over the Brow.
CALF LOVE.
There were others Ingured before the Wait
of Numbers overcame him, and, bound and
gagged, lie was Led Away.
To his astonershment the path his Capters
took was the Road to the Castle. Brave as
he was, He Shudded. Strange Tales were
told about the Crulties practised by the
Wicked Barren in his Lofty Strong Hold.
Presently they entered the Forbidding
foughtress; and Boris was thrown into a
sell-like room, in which there were six beds.
“You’ll stay Here until the Barren is
ready to enjoy your Agonies,” said one of
his Bruttal Capters, grinning evily. “This
is the Anti-room to the Torcher chamber.
Those beds are for our Victims to lie on
when we have done with them. If they die
we throw them out of the Casement. The
Barren has something extra against you, so
you ought to enjoy yourself.”
Left Alone, Boris stept to the Window.
The Sheer Drop onto which it looked almost
Took His Breath Away. He looked about
the room, and found a hole in the wall.
Putting his eye to it he found himself look-
ing at awful Machines, and two men were
Heating Red-hot Irons.
Not a Moment was to be Lost. Boris
reflected that Death must come anyway;
better meet it
Atempting to
Escape than stay
to Provide Sport
for Gouls.
To tie all the
Sheets on the bed
together was the
work of an Instant.
On this rope Our
Hero lowered him-
self out of the
Casement, looking
eagerly for a foot-
hold on the clift.
Alas, there was
None; and Our
Hero found himself
Hanging in Mid Air
But Boris did
not give up hope,
even when a face
with a knife in its
hand Appeared at
the Casement above.
“Have a look at
the Fate you are to
Meet,” said the
Villon. “I will
count Ten before
I cut this rope and
Send you to your
Doom.”
Little did he
know as he counted
slowly, hoping to
Prolong the Toe-
cher of his Victim,
that a desperit
Chance had pre-
sented itself to our
Hero.
He began to swing his Rope like a Pen-
dulem, keeping one Eye on the man above,
and one on a rocky ledge he had noticed.
Soon he was swinging well. At that Moment
the man above counted “Ten!” and the
knife fell!
At the same instant our Hero let go the
rope, and the Impetuous of his Swing sent
him flying towards the Rocky Ledge.
Not till then did he notice that the Leu 0 e
was Ocupied. Startled, a large Eagle rose
screaming as he landed on its -Nest.
It was more to Steady himself than otnei-
wise that Boris lustintively grabbed at
the eagle’s Legs; but at once he ,
that he had done Right. The startled bird
flew out, unable to Free itself from “ s
Burden; but the weight was Too Much tor
it, and gradually it Sank downwards. Boris
saw that lie had Only to Hang on long
enough and he would Reach the ground
safely. , , ...
Suddenly lie saw a sight below which
Caused His Heart to beat violently. A
fight was in Progress around a. motor-car.
A beautiful woman
was in the car
Before which three
Men, with Drorn
Swords, fought
against Terrific
Odds. Their At-
tackers looked like
the Castle men.
Our Hero deter-
mined to take a
Hand. By tweeking
the Eagle’s legs he
found he could In-
duse it to go in the
Direction he
pleased; and
Shortly he was
I lireckly over the
Scene of Conflict.
T li e combatants
were to Intent on
the fight to Notice
him.
Twenty feet from
the ground Boris
released his Hold
and the Eagle, re-
lieved, Sawed upward. Boris landed lightly
on his Feet, and seezing the sword dropped by
a wounded man, Flung himself into the Fray.
The Castle men, Dismayed, fell back, and,
with Boris in the lead, the men they had
Hoped to Kill followed and Slew them One
by One.
But not without Loss. A Sword-thrust
from one of the men pierced Our Hero’s
shoulder, and he Fell, Welting in his Gore.
When he came Too, the Fair Woman had
torn open his Shirt and was Staunching his
Wound.
“Look!” she cried suddenly, “the Stror-
berry Mark on his Shoulder !”
The men Looked Excitedly as Our Hero
smiled at them.
“My brave young man,” said the one
with grey hair, “we are solicitors who On
Information Received are looking for the
Rightful Heir to Yon Castle; this is my
daughter and Secktary. The Wicked Barren
had the heir kidnapped when a Baby and
had him brought up as a Shepherd’s Son.”
“I always thought the Shepherd was My
Respected Parent,” said Our Hero, “but
somehow I felt I was Meant for something
better.”
HIS HANDICAP.
OLD LADY: “Here is a shilling, my poor man. But if you really
mean that you love work, why don’t you find it?”
TRAMP: “No hope, Missus; love is blind.”
“You were,” said the Grey-haired Man.
“You are now the real Barren. All we have
to do is to call in the police and have the
Wicked Barren and his evil Crew hung.”
As Boris saw the Fair lady smiling at him
he felt Himself Well-payed for all his Hare-
Breath adventures.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


v:^Sv//>:vi2}2M'iv/:v/Av
lllilwis
! v ,«
ft Gffi
ISil
9®
iksm
m
mffimmtm l
mm
l rr«
rt+rA
r^>— a :4;1-SMS?
Mg
mm
KW> KTOJSSK
H
K
.:: .•>;
£
■p*
>AO
- *■.%
VmsS
V/v
iiW
©
\l>%
Z
J.W/s, //
#r
ft
?»
'.rA
3^2
ft
cfirit
O
'/3
&
.w.
m
m
fN
WAVM
SH&VJSfts
I illf! *
&§&: *s • :•!»• 5 •: • ••>•*■’• >£:f.;*: •: • ;j; •: •'
m
y.;,v.;.v, v,;/,
.'iv/Av/^^AvivXv:-:
WsS:#-!
&
-if.
y->:vw^v/"v/ > y^'svi
rt,\
on
7
a
ip«a
>
C ;
Nl
| '/; 1
Hi '?
MH
BMM3
SBS&'fc
ip v
Zi
mmK
i
y r W<
m
vm
>■»••• w
a
i-im
* ,, Jllllll>'" 11
"•"'iwiiiniim
m
m
W
f}pW%'* pWlWf^'ltw
7.'.'7.
K*
0
: : : ; tv: : a-: : : : : r <s-:>:& J&ff.'- :; Aj:::: :$:
AV.V;
/.V
lUiiiii
#
i
w: *.::•:* 1 *
•vAv>y»
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Lort you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


The Federal Mutual
TJIWQO/C^
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Workmen’s Compensation /ct 1026.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney, Esq.;
S. Sampson, Esq. ; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-06 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARROLL, Manager.
Pucensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager.
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MINOGUE, Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
Who Saves the Money You Earn?
Do you?
Somebody must, for money doesn’t disappear into thin air. Some of
your money will be saved wisely; some of it will be spent wisely.
By whom? By you?
If you earned it, you’ve got first call on it What use are you making
of that privilege?
Think it over, and act now open a Savings Account, and save wisely
that you may do your own wise spending later on.
Commonwealth lank of Hnstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government..!
Poverty
Point
“Nakhoda” : A story that has had a dis-
tinguished career in the press-agency ser-
vice is now being attached to pianist Moisei-
witscli, shortly to reappear in Australia. It
tells that a little old grandmother asked the
virtuoso at a party in Philadelphia to play
“My Little Grey Home in the West.” The
great man did not faint, or even get
annoyed, but graciously played it. I
remember travelling between Hong Kong
and Shanghai with the Cherniavskys.
They used to practise every morning
in the music-room, and the passengers—
when they learnt who they were —concealed
themselves about the galleries and enjoyed
the impromptu treat, until an American
woman asked them to play the “Merry
Widow” waltz. The pianist slammed down
the piano lid, the violinist viciously sheathed
his bow, the ’cellist swaddled up his instru-
ment and all three stalked out of the room.
For the rest of the voyage they practised in
their cabins. I offer the advance-agents
this variant of the ancient yarn to use a 3
they think proper.
“Topee” : “Kelby” informs us that he could
find a dozen Sydney church organists com-
petent to perform attractive music on picture-
show organs (B. 16/2/’2B). Well, having
heard an imported artist on one of these in-
struments, I hope he won’t.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: In one touring theatri-
cal co. the triangle business that not infre-
quently crops up in such shows came to a
head in rather appropriate circumstances.
The co. had had two good nights and had
announced an extra night to play “East
Lynne.” The audience was growing im-
patient at the delay in starting, when the
local Mayor, who had made himself friendly
with the company, received a call to go
behind the scenes. He found an almost de-
mented Archibald Carlyle stamping the
stage; his wife, who was the leading lady,
had disappeared, and so had his partner,
who acted as manager, and was to have
played Francis Levison. The co.’s cash had
disappeared, too; the couple had even waited
to collect the night’s early cash before mak-
ing their dash for the mail, which left just
before eight. The Mayor undertook to break
the news to the house. “The play to-night,”
he said, “was ‘East Lynne.’ In it a .bloke
named Francis Levison does a bunk with
Isabel, another bloke’s wife. Well, they’ve
done it; and so there can’t be no show.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Deadheads will pro-
bably be as the sands of the sea when “The
Ladder,” a New York play, comes to London.
It is run by a millionaire, Edgar B. Davis,
who cares nothing for box-office returns;
anyone who asks for a ticket can get one.
Davis made his millions in rubber and
oil, and lends a helping hand with El Dorado
munificence. His company love him.
“Clove Hitch”: The “Tom Fool’s knot.”
from which escapologist Murray found it
so hard to free himself at Sydney Tivoli
recently, has bothered many in his line. The
most famous instance occurred when the
Davenport brothers, two Americans, were
taking Britain by storm in the ’sixties. They
escaped from all manner of bonds and hand-
cuffs after being locked in a sealed cabinet,
and they pretended that the spirits released
them. Two Royal Navy men trussed them
up with the “Tom Fool,” and all the spirits
from the vastly deep were not able to cast
their protegds loose. The knot, which is
easily the best on earth for tying up a man’s
hands when handcuffs are not available, takes
its name from the fact that it looks absurdly
easy to make. It is only when he has
relapsed into perspiration and blasphemy
after his attempts to master the seemingly
simple thing that the neophyte realises why
its name was bestowed.
“L.H.P.”: Bellini’s “Norma,” advertised
by Fullers, has not been heard on the Sydney
stage since Martin Simonsen’s season of 1887.
Signora Ciupi was the Druid prophetess, and
gave a notable performance which, in the
Lystcr days was equalled by Lucy Escott.
The ambition of every old-time dramatic
soprano was to don the robes of the priestess,
and, in the sacred grove of the Druids, to
invoke the chaste goddess of the moon in
“Caspa Diva,” one of the most exquisite
gems of Italian song. The opera, first done
in 1831, is nearly 100 years old and is based
on a fine French play.
“Goldilocks”: Now with 2BL, Sydney,
Bobby Watson claims to be the oldest in-
habitant of the Australian stage. He is older
in a theatrical sense than the J.C.W. firm,
for he played with Jimmy Williamson and
Maggie Moore when they first staged “Struck
Oil” in Sydney. That was 53 years ago, and
Watson had then been on the stage three
years.
A PRODIGIOUS SUCCESS.
POVERTY POINTER: “Well, laddie, and did you have a good run in the country?”
ACT-OR: “Better still, my boy—we eluded our pursuers.”
“Cauboy” : Two of the best interiors Leslie
Board and George Upward have produced
are wasted on the feeble “Thark,” now occu-
pying Melbourne King’s. An Argus writer
apparently credited these two stage artists
with lack of intelligence because they pre-
sented the library of Sir Hector Benbow’s
flat in Mayfair without a book in it. Sir
Hector is the sort of person who wouldn’t
have a book j ,in his library, though he might
have a the Pink ’Un ; so the staging
actually showed unusual thought.
“Hamfat” : “Rio Rita,” which is bringing
Gladys Moncrieff, also brings back Ernest
Rolls, who has become a leading light in
“editing” productions. It was Rolls whom
the Empire people entrusted with the selec-
tion of plays and players for the opening
of their very successful venture. He now
appears as the Fullers’ authority in big
theatrical business outside grand opera.
“C. Ockney” : Known as a writer of wild,
farcical comedies (“A Little Bit of Bluff”
was one), Walter W. Ellis has turned to
serious drama. His first has been taken
by Gerald du Maurier, who will stage it at
London St. James when “Interference,”
which has completed a 12-months’ run, is
done. The piece is called “SOS,” which,
as well as “Save Our Souls,” stands for
“Sins of Society.”
“C. 8.”: No grand-opera season is com-
plete without its individual romance. The
Williamson exhibit this year is Elena
Danielli, a youngster who was starving
in a Paris garret when Melba accidentally
heard her singing and took her in hand.
She scored a triumph at her debut in Brus-
sels. The Fullers will have to raise a good
one to beat this.
“Lud”: Frederick Lonsdale joins the select
band of English dramatists who have had
three plays presented on London boards at
the one time. His efEorts are “The High
Road” and “On Approval” (comedies) and
“Lady Mary” (a musical piece).
“L. de R.”: There has been some shuffling
of folios in the J.C.W. parliament lately.
The Vanboucicaults were to have handled
“Our Betters,” but the pungency of the
Maugham piece was apparently regarded as
a bit beyond the capacity of that organisa-
tion. Anthony Prinsep’s company, of which
Margaret Bannerman is the leading note,
will deal with it instead. Another of that
crowd’s offerings will be “From the Minaret,”
an Oriental heart-throb by Robert Hichens.
“I. Phelps” : Tired of the eternal clang and
twang of the American voice, the manager of
the New York Palace has tried the experi-
ment of an all-Britisli vaudeville bill, with
results that encourage him to keep our old
flag flying over the house. His first pro-
gramme was costly, but it was a success. On
it were Ada Reeve, Ella Shields and Coram,
the ventriloquist. He is now thinking of
scooping the London halls for another bale
or two of first-rate talent. As he talks big
and has substantial backing, he is likely to
get the pick of the London artists.
“Goldilocks”: When the Repertory Society
entered into the arrangement which the
Taits allege cost them £5OOO, this writer
remarked that “the society, instead of jump-
ing away like a wise frog, has allowed itself
to be salivaed as a preliminary to being
swallowed.” Now the swallowing has taken
place, and kicks are not likely to be effective.
In Melbourne and Adelaide the groups that
carry on upon repertory lines are better
placed ; in Sydney there will be difficulty in
getting theatres or halls, even if the crowd
decides to continue. The Tait proposal
which was turned down was that Grcgan
McMahon should produce with a professional
company half a dozen “literary” plays a year,
for which the society’s members could get
concession tickets. As a sop to Australian
sentiment, there was a vague promise to
produce an Australian play p.a. “if a suit-
able play could be secured.” The only look-
in the repertory players would get would
be in one play a year—on their guarantee
that they wouldn’t sponsor any rival pro-
ductions.
“L. 8.”: Adelaide Repertory Theatre is
celebrating its 21st year. The oldest body
of its kind in Australia, it started as the
“Literary Theatre” in a basement room of
the University Conservatorium. The annual
report shows £4OO in the bank and about
500 members. It now gives five plays a
year, each of them three times. Talbot Smith
(ex-president), just back from an English
visit, told the annual meeting of his negotia-
tions with Bernard Shaw, Eden Phillpotts
and the Birmingham Rep. The ideal of the
moment is to buy or build a habitation,
instead of chancing the acoustics of the
Y.M.C.A. hall.
“Yarra Ben”: The Gregan McMahon com-
pany formed by the Taits to do worth-while
plays, hitherto to be looked for only in
amateur haunts, is expected to make a start
at the end of March at Melbourne Theatre
Royal. The opening piece will be either
Pirandello’s “Right You Are —If You Think
You Are,” or Shaw’s “Doctor’s Dilemma.” A
strong professional cast is being got together.
“C. 8.”: The most successful line in Ben
Travers’s comedy, “A Cuckoo in the Nest,”
just finished at Melbourne King’s, w T as spoken
only once and will never be used again. It
was uttered on February 22 by Hastings
Lynn as he mounted the stairs to spend his
platonic night in a married woman’s bedroom,
and it ran : “Well, all I can say is, I’m
going to have a devil of a time, even if
Hinkler did land at Darwin at *1 P-m.
to-day!” The hand he got was enough to
have satisfied the greediest histrion.
“Peter Pan”: Leslie Holmes, who died at
Townsville the other day, was, till he re-
tired from the profesh five years ago, one
of the cleverest comedians our stage has
known. At Cremorne Theatre, Brisbane, lie
was chief comedian for a record season of
two years, with a weekly change of pro-
gramme. lie exploited on the stage his pecu-
liar physical deformity—one leg only half
the width of the other; but a few years ago
the leg started to give trouble and made him
retire from the boards. A motor accident
brought down the cloth.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Australia is not going
to have the monopoly of girl violinists.
Canada is in the field with Audrey Cook,
sister of the Countess of Minto and the
Countess of Haddington ; and various involved
cousinships will help in a career. Miss
Cook is to appear in Paris in preference to
London on the advice of her Montreal
teachers.
“Ivelby” : The latest maker of melody to
be addressed as “Sir” is German Edward
Jones, alias Edward German, a man Aus-
tralia knows well through his almost Sulli-
vanesque operetta “Merrie England.” He
came into the public eye about 1888 as con-
ductor at the Globe Theatre, London, under
Mansfield, who was producing Shakspeare.
German, then a youth of 26, a little later
wrote the Henry VIII. dances, which have
sold steadily ever since. He produced many
other light overtures, but failed to strike a
winner till he wrote “Nell Gwynne.” He has
to his credit two symphonies, three sym-
phonic suites and a fair amount of chamber
music, not to mention numerous popular
ballads. His music is essentially English
and happily melodious.
“Hamfat” : The Divorce Judge in Sydney
(which is the headquarters of theatrical
divorce business) heard the application of the
wife in the Sluice v. Sluice suit the other
day, and ordered Roy Rene (Sluice) to
return to his wife—the usual first step to
the divorce on the grounds of desertion. “Mo”
married the lady when she was a member of
the Stiffy and Mo company. She stated
among her grievances that he had o habit of
suppering after the show and coming home
at all hours, frequently, she alleged, with
vine-leaves in his hair.
“C.Q.” : The latest proposal for a brighter
Melbourne is an annual battle of flowers on
the Continental model. The idea is to have
an extended carnival at Cup-time, ending
in a procession of decorated motor-cars
through the streets and the usual bombard-
ment of processers with floral emblems.
Several visiting actresses have voiced ap-
proval, but, without wishing to douche the
ladies’ ardor, I doubt whether the Australian
has the spontaneous gaiety which is essential
on such occasions. The Mediterranean people
are supposed to be mercurial, but the battles
I have seen—on the French Riviera, even —
laughed a dreadfully hollow laugh. And the
first time a theatrical star who allows her-
self to be made a target gets a bouquet
with a bottle inside in the eye, a damper will
fall on the proceedings.
“Goldilocks”: It is suggested that Sybil
Thorndyke, who is contemplating a tour out
of England after finishing her run of
“Judith of Israel,” may have Australia in
view. By attaching herself to the Old Vic.,
the lady, who is said by the critics to be an
unusually fine Portia, has given it a lift.
Her husband, Lewis Casson, was SLylock,
and is to be her leading man again.
Incidentally, “Judith of Israel” was written
by an American doctor, Bernard Baruch, for
Sarah Bernhardt. In her last years Sarah
made much of her Hebrew origin, and on
her last trip to America she sent for the
Jewish doctor, who suggested the theme to
her, and wrote the play at her invitation.
“Craiser” : Theatrical entertainment is so
stereotyped nowadays that no time is
wasted over preliminaries. Several English
companies have arrived recently with the
usual nucleus of six or seven principals and
commenced playing within a week, the local
“types” and the scenery being ordered like
tinned meat from the store. One manager
the other day got a cable from his London
headquarters telling him to engage a com-
pany for “The Squeal.” What “The Squeal’’
was about was not revealed, but that didn’t
matter. It was a mystery play, judging by
the title, so there was no difficulty in
making out a list.
RESTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When high commercial issues
Exhaust our merchant peers
Their overdriven tissues
Demand that the arrears
Of rest and recreation
Meet instant liquidation
In perfect relaxation
Until the system clears.
They find it beneficial
To lay aside all care,
Unbent apd unofficial,
To take the mountain air,
And after such sojourning
They seem to the discerning
More portly on returning
To fill the board-room chair.
But there is one strange factor
Has puzzled me for years,
For my good friend the actor
Confided, over beers,
“Laddie, I am not jesting.
But if for girth you’re questing
Mark this —the more one’s resting
The slimmer one appears.”
N.s.w.
BYSOM AUBERE.


Stiff beards need die
“VALET”
.AnTo/SL**op
Safety Razor
A stiff beard needs a masterful razor blade. Not a blade
that will bend and give way to the bristles, but a sold
blade of rigid, tempered s‘eel with some strength behind
it. Such a blade is the "Valet” Auto Strop.
The “ Valet ” Auto Strop Safety Razor is a joint concern
made up of blade, stropping device and strop. The
stropping device is actually built into the head of the
razor. The strop slips through the razor’s head. All
conspire together to give you a perfect shave. Ten seconds
for stropping—ten seconds for cleaning without removal
of blade—4o or 50 perfect shaves with a single blade.
s«de'cy*^ x ~£
I
No. 50 de Luxe Set. Contains
heavily silvered razor, twelve tested
Valet ” blades and strop of good
quality. Complete in highly polished
nickel case, with special container for
the strop.
25 1-
Managing Agents for Australia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD., 181, CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
«/y_eui / ea'and Jl en's:
Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Jluck’an ’, Wellington, Christchurch,
Ss#* 1
1
Shaving Cpeam
'Jhis is the Shaving
Cream to get the
best out of
your rajor
1
V
“Sanatogen has a
direct favourable
intluence on the
whole nervous
system,”—
wrote Prof. Rodari,
of Zurich LJniver »
sity.
Buoyant Health
—with Sanatogen
NERVE-STRENGTH and buoyant
health, that’s what Sanatogen will
give you.
Sleeplessness, listlessness, loss of appetite —
all those signs of weakness will very soon
disappear, in fact, within a fortnight you
will notice a remarkable change for the
better in your health.
START taking Sanatogen to-day. It is
sold at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBORO’ ENGLAND,
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
g
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines,
j Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir
(Next G.P.0.).


New
Chrysler
So Very much more
Jor your money
IN PERFORMANCE, in com-
fort and in luxury the New
Chrysler “52” is head and
shoulders above anything and
everything else in its particu-
lar price field.
Not only because of its smooth
speed capacity of 52 miles and
more an hour, its remarkable
snap and dash in getaway; and
its low fuel consumption.—
But also because it is so much
larger; its sturdy wood and
*
steel body is
so much more
substantial; its ample seats
are so much wider, deeper and
more restful; its fittings and
equipment are so much richer
and more elegant; andits colour
harmonies are so much more
striking than any other car with
which you might contrast it.
Seven body styles
Qreat Nets)
Illustrious Neu)
Seven body styles
Bc Y-S LI R
Imperial
Fifteen body styles
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave (3 Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
518.


Good-Bye
Garbage Gan
Into the hopper
rloor-then forgotten
f
weepings
o
n.
<y/u
Garbage
Old _
d^fagazin^
uim r~?
jH
"WasteJPaper
din Cans
'rMpdiottles
I.L
P
r~rrr
ri
M
= INCINERATING
= CHAMBER
mau
FIRE AND
DRAFT DOO
BY PASS GRATE
BY PASS FLUF.
V
Ef
DUMPING GRATE'
ASH *" D
draft door.
\
ASH PIT
Built • in the • Chimney
Construction patented exclusively throughout the World.
FOR FLATS, APARTMENT-HOUSES,
RESIDENCES, &c.
Money Saving—Time Saving—Health Saving
* No fuel required—costs only a match a week to operate.
Safety and satisfaction guaranteed.
KERNERATOR & WALL BED CO. LTD.
BATHURST HOUSE, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M.A.1877.
AGENTS:—
MELBOURNE: Norman Brook, Equitable Building, 314 Collins St.
BRISBANE: H. R. Gelston, Ltd., Charlotte St.
. DELAIDE: R. C. Forbes and Co., 37A Currie St.
PERTH: Concrete Construction (W.A.), Ltd., 25 Lombard St.,
St. George’s Terrace.
Send for free booklets and details to any of the above.
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO T , Directors:
t j •! , , n John Deans, Esq. (Chairman;.
Issued Capital 49,161 w. G. Woodger, Esq.; S. J. Goulston, Esq.;
Paid-up Capital 30,234 R. G. H. Joseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax,
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
BUILD WITH
Build an everlasting Home, by using Durabestos
(the Wunderlich asbestos-cement Sheeting) to
line the Exterior and Interior Walls. This material
cannot burn nor rot. It is cheaper than
timber, and does not need painring.
Stocked by leading suppliers of build-
ing materials. Write us . J'-
for free booklet D 4
WUNDERLICH LTD.
Baptist Street, Red fern
Sydney
da
THE POWER OF THE PRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A feature of the daily press
Which taxes my endurance
Are those accounts of sad distress
Assuaged by Free Insurance.
How Mr. Smith, who stubbed his toe
When seeking a reviver,
In mitigation of his woe
Has now secured a fiver.
The pictured cheque that Mrs. Jones
Received because a trolley
Impinged upon her marrow bones
And made her break her brolly.
But payments for fatalities
Cause most self-gratulation;
Mere deaths are trivialities
Beside our circulation!
N.S.W.
FORLS DONLY.
THE INKY WAY.
“Spare Sub”: It is not often that the
Sydney afternoon press displays an intelli-
fent appreciation of a situation, but the
News got near it the other day when it pub-
lished a cable about indiscriminate and all-
in fighting in Central America, and headed it
“In Micaragua.” Wbirroo !
That industrious Brisbane press worke?-,
Mrs. Mabel Forrest, has been busier even
than usual of late. Besides getting an only
daughter married she has planned a new
novel; and the jacket of the last, “Reaping
Roses,” has just been received from London,
so the book itself should show up in a few
weeks.
“Windsor” : Last week a reverend gentle-
man of Colac (Vic.) wrote a coldly-angry
letter to the Argus protesting that his son
had been reprimanded at school for spelling
“favoritism” with a “u.” A rigorous obser-
ver of the “-our” fetich, the Argus supported
the protest with a sub-leader, and so far no
one has had the temerity to take up the
cudgels on behalf of the “-or” contraction.
But surely pedantry could hardly be carried
further; even an Argus leader-writer
wouldn’t be guilty of perpetrating “gover-
nour” for "governor.”
Optimistic “In Memoriam” from a Vic.
country paper:—
Just a year of life been spent
Since father went but still
We feel he’s right so are quite content.
JErorn -Mother, Grace and Bill.
The Barrier Miner, Broken Hill’s always-
vigorous afternoon paper—for many years
the field’s only paper—was 40 on February
2S. When it was very young it had the
B. H. Argus and Silver Age for company
on the streets; it ate them both, just as
earlier the Argus had consumed the B. H.
Times, the field’s first newspaper. The first
editor and principal of that, by the way, was
mentioned in The Bulletin lately—Alex-
ander Riddel. He lives these days in the
wild country not far from Sunny Corner,
N.S.W.’s first biggish silver-mine. The
Miner’s managing editor for a quarter of a
century past has been John Smethurst, who
went to the Barrier first as a building con-
tractor —his headquarters were in Melbourne
—put up several of the town’s public and
hotel buildings, liked the place, liked writing
even better, and so presently settled down
there to his life-job.
“Schnorrer”: An aftermath of Henry
Ford’s withdrawal from his old attitude of
hostility to the Jews is the passing out of
the Dearborn Independent, the paper
which was the vehicle of his fulminations.
The journal went the limit in anti-Semitism,
although there are plenty which have no
other policy in the Central and Eastern
European countries, and it once claimed a
circulation of over half a million.
TOO MUCH LIKE SHOP.
“How many girls have you had your arm
around?”
“Now, darling, don’t. I’ve been adding up
figures all day.”
“Count Drolatique”: America’s gaudiest
tabloid, the New York Daily News,
achieved a world’s record when it published
a full-page close-up of the notorious Ruth
Snyder sizzling in the electric-chair. The
whole horror was “covered” so thoroughly
that there was even a quarter-page study of
the executioner, an ascetic-looking character
in a large check overcoat, who was made
to explain that he was not feeling right up
to his usual homicidal pitch because he had
a touch of gastritis. The main exhibit bore
out the facts of Ruth Snyder’s execution.
The current was so strong that around the
shaved patch of the skull to which the elec-
trode was clamped the hair caught fire, and
the unhappy female began to burn. It seems
the weirdest irony that the ghastly mulish-
ness and cruelty of electrocution shoidd be
exposed by a rag which published the affair in
detail from purely catchpenny motives. Any-
how there .has been a revival of the cry for
the abolition of the chair in New York State
“N.P.”: In an Austrian paper I came
across an advertisement of a book, with
the picture in the jacket reproduced in
facsimile. This represents an Australian
aborigine with a startling nose-bone and
enormous arm-thews; underneath is the
author’s name, “J. Maclaren.” Below this
again is the German version: of the title of
the book, “I and My Savages: Eight Years
in the Australian Bush.” This, of course, is
a German translation of Jack Maclaren’s
book about his years on Cape York. The
book is actually called “My Crowded Soli-
tude,” but “I and My Savages” was doubt-
less substituted to make it clearer. The
trouble is that any Central European, pick-
ing up the book, would think that the dark,
determined face on the cover belonged to the
“I,” of the title, instead of to one of the
savages.
SEX DETERMINED.
“Is your new baby a boy or a girl?”
“A girl. I saw ’em puttin’ powder on it."
“T.M.” : Business announcement from tin
Melbourne Argus of Feb. 3, 1853 :■ —
The present progress of this journal is such that
we can no longer keep pace with the demand that is
made upon us. The number that we now regularly
print is upwards of 10,000.... We are therefore com-
pelled to adopt a step we should think unprecedented
in newspaper history, that, viz., of intimating that
for the present we do not wish any more subscribers
to this journal. We shall not, indeed, feel justified
in refusing them altogether, but we shall do what
we can to induce them to abstain by charging double
our usual rates of subscription.... These charges
are made with the distinct view of checking any
further increase in our circulation, until we are pre
pared to meet it.
And in order to block any injudicious
attempts on the part of the public to surrep-
titiously swell the circulation of the paper,
a year’s subscription, payable in advance,
was raised to £4, and the price of a singie
copy was raised from threepence to six-
pence.
“Svranx”: I concur with “Cartot” (B.
15/2/’2B) that khaki would be more suitable
for tram-guard uniforms these days. When
the blue uniform was first chosen, however,
blue serge didn’t go purple or pink as does
present-day material. Nor did it fade with
a couple of washings; and the old-type
serge didn’t suck up dust and grease like a
sponge. A change now would be costly,
what with the scrapping of countless uni-
forms and the buying and making-up of
khaki cloth. Hence, partly, departmental
hesitation, and. anyway, it takes time for
the mind of officialdom to grind into a new
gear.
“Lagani-Namo”: American tramp
steamers are nosing their way over all the
Seven Seas searching out merchandise.
During the past year Papua has given a
couple of thousand tons of copra to these
craft because American buyers’ agents here
can offer up to £2 per ton more for it than
local firms, who have to send the copra to
England via Australia. Now, too, the
Yankee vessels propose to bring cargo from
Sydney for £1 per ton as against £3 charged
by the line subsidised by the Commonwealth
for this trade. Obviously as long as Papuan
copra sellers can get better prices from the
American buyers the bulk of the copra will
go to them. And with this bulk back load-
ing lost to the Commonwealth-subsidised
vessels they will demand an increase in the
subsidy for carrying the mails.
“W.1.U.”: In “The Outlook for Coal” (B.
15/2/’2B) the writer remarks: “But there
are doubts whether a miner would make a
good road.” There are no doubts about it—
he wouldn’t. Mine workers at Broken Hill,
thrown out of employment by the closing of
the Prop., Junction and Block 14, when given
road-relief work, were charitably, and not
censoriously, returned as 75 per cent, efficient.
Exposure to a summer sun and blasts of
scorching winds for a longer working day
than that to which they were accustomed
resulted in dry, cracked, bleeding and swollen
lips, badly sunburned chests, face and arms,
and sore, blistered and aching feet. Though
only working on alternate weeks, many of
them had difficulty in getting through their
allotted period.
“Old Timer”: Two men started with two
dozen rabbit-traps (Lane’s), a free pass to
the Dorrigo and 15s. in cash, which they
spent on 501 b. of flour, lib. of sugar, a junk of
cornbeef, some baking-powder and a few
loaves of bread and lib. of tea. Their cook-
ing utensils were petrol tins. A kindly
cream-carter gave them a free ride to Deer
Yale; an empty hut was their home. They
set the traps and sold the first week’s catch
to a skin-buyer at Ilernani. Each week
they increased the number of traps till they
had 160 between them. They bought two
horses, sulkies and harness, and a tent,
blankets, etc. They returned the skin-
stretching wires to neighbors who had gladly
lent them and bought what they needed.
People for miles around invited them to their
holdings: they were welcomed wherever they
went. That was two years ago; rabbits art
again very numerous, and this is the time
to start out after them. A few sober
industrious men can start there and save
money; but it’s no use for wasters to go.


Public Acceptance
Proclaims It:
Li
Mute
/. i
Sir
WQ#'
.y'r
Greatest All-Time
ESSEX Achievement
Greater Power and Performance
Roomier, Finer Bodies
Popular enthusiasm has risen to new heights in proclaiming the surpassing
brilliancy of this Greater Essex Super-Six. Spurred by knowledge that the
most eagerly demanded Essex in history was retired to make way for it,
public interest has crowded showrooms, not only here but throughout the
country, to inspect, ride in, and place a prior order for this phenomenal car.
/
IflWfS J:kias =^o^ ir
So, expect a great car when
you come to see and try the
New Essex Super-Six. Expect
a more beautiful, luxurious
and comfortable car. Expect
a car measured in terms of the
best you know, unqualified by
size or price. Of course, you
will look for speed, sparkling
performance, unexcelled re-
liability and riding ease; for
these already belong to Essex
reputation. Yet, we freely
say, that here, too, you must
expect extra margins of
ability, brilliancy and quality.
No previous car —no previous
value gives anything by
which to judge it. It is the
greatest achievement i n
Essex history. See it and ride
in it with greater expectation
of fine things than you ever
held for any but the costliest
cars. You will not be dis-
appointed.
Essex 5-pass. Touring (Aus. Body), £255; Essex 5-pass. Coach (Aus. Body), £325; Essex Coupe (Imported Body), £335;
Essex 4-door Sedan (Aus. Body), £345; Essex 4-door Sedan (Imp. Body), £365.
Prices at some points slightly higher.
70% Australian Built
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and L.auncesion.
, r "
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


THE NEW LEFEVER SINGLE
A NEW, RELIABLE GUN MADE BY AN OLD, RELIABLE FIRM.
FIELD AND TRAP GUN
85
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
matic safety device such as is used on expensive double-barrel guns, and an automatic ejector which
kicks the shells out when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully choke-bored to give the
closest, hardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is proved with an excessive load to make doubly
sure it has the necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factory load. The
barrel is 32in. long. The stock has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap and
heelplate.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
We are the Agents.
Vi
LTD
PTY
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
BITTER ALE,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON. [l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Trivalve earned a lot of easy money for
E. E. D. Clarke, Scobie and Lewis at the
V.R.C. autumn meeting. His exercise canter
in the St. Leger was followed on the third
day by a similar exhibition in the Governor’s
Plate, and in the King’s Plate on Saturday
he had only Pilliewinkie, the Australian Cup
failure Imitator and Stralia to teat. There
was little or no betting on the race, Trivalve
being nominally at 12 to 1 on and Pillie-
winkie 12 to 1 against. Pilliewinkie, who
pulled hard, led till well into the straight,
but Lewis, taking the colt on the outside,
soon had the race won, and although the
verdict was only a neck in favor of Trivalve
he could have increased the margin easily;
Imitator was 24 lengths further back, a
length ahead of Stralia. Ernest Clarke’s
great colt has now won £27,685 in stakes,
and, all going well, he should considerably
increase that amount in Sydney. But he
will have to be right at his top to beat
Limerick, and the Sydney three-year-olds
will give him stiffer opposition in the * St.
Leger than the Victorians did in the race at
Flemington.
Stanza, a half-brother to Stand-By, who
had run second to unbeaten Mollison in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes, was all the rage for
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes, but proved
a disappointment; big-punter Shillabeer’s
Shadow King (14 to 1) won from Lalique
(7 to 1) and Balmerino (6 to 1), after
second and third horses had met with inter-
ference. Shadow King is by Comedy King
—Beryllia, and has scored before.
Gothic, who had followed his Newmarket
victory with a brilliant success over Amou-
nis in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes on the third
day, declined his engagement in the Leonard
Stakes, run over the “straight six.” The
betting took a fairly wide range, but Chry-
stal opened and closed favorite, her final
quote being 7 to 2. Margaux (5 to 1),
Lady Thrill (11 to 2), Biskra (7 to 1) and
Translator (8 to 1) also had many friends.
Switzerland was the early leader, but Biskra
was in front at the distance, and it looked as
if he was going to win at last. However,
Lady Thrill, finishing with a great burst of
speed on the stand side of the course, got
up in time to beat the big South Aus-
tralian —the unlucky horse of the meeting—
by a neck, Margaux being three parts of
a length away. Lady Thrill, who is one of
E. M. Pearce’s big string, registered lmin.
124 sec. Daniels, who is in fine form just
now, rode her very cleverly.
A section of the crowd became very nasty
when the judge hoisted the result of
the Northcote Handicap. The cause of
the demonstration was C. B. Kellow’s
Valais gelding Valorem, who had been
beaten when heavily backed at his two
previous starts at the meeting. On this
occasion he went out at 7 to 1 and, dashing
to the front at the half-mile, lasted long
enough to beat Spear Maiden (7 to 1) by a
half-head; Mountain Prince (6 to I.L, all^ st
as unfortunate as Biskra, was third. l* ie
first and second favorites, Nawallah and Mars,
were never in the fighting line. The winner
is a pretty good stayer when he decides to
do his best, and his time, 2min. 31secs., was
a course record for 12 furlongs. He is
trained by Scobie, and was ridden .by J.
O’Brien, successful on Sea Money in the
Australian Cup. ....
As usual, betting was very lively over
the Farewell Handicap, but Cheosan, who
had finished second to Thracian Belle in the
Bourke Handicap, was favorite at 7 to 2;
Noscitur (5 to 1), Elarby (6 to 1), New
Hope and Baringliup (7 to 1), Cromwell and
Greenray (8 to 1) were the others backed for
big money. Cromwell led into the straight,
but Noscitur, finishing most resolutely,
caught the Woorak gelding, whose form has
been disappointing lately (it may not always
be so), and beat him home by a length ; Cheo-
san (unlucky in running) was about the
same distance away. Noscitur is by Reputa-
tion —Lady Wallace, and is, therefore, a half-
brother to Sydney’s Lady Clara. A very con-
sistent performer, lie is owned by S. A.
Rawdon and trained by Adam Skirving; he
was ridden by Daniels, who thus completed
a double.
$ * * * , ; <
Fields were small at Clarendon (N.S.W.)
on Saturday, but there were some very ex-
citing finishes for all that. Tressilian (3
to 3) and Reonui (3 to 1 on) made every
“DRUNKEN DAN CAME HOME WELL SUPPORTED BY HIS CONNECTIONS.”
—Sporting News.
stage of the Clarendon Handicap, a mile
race, interesting, for they were always
battling for the lead; Tressilian, who is
owned and trained by R. D. O’Donnell, beat
the M.L. horse, who was giving him 401 b.,
by a head. Thrilling likewise was the
Flying Handicap, in which Hazel Boy (11
to 8 on) defeated Prairie Belle (3 to 1)
by a margin almost as narrow. Positions
would probably have been reversed but for
Pike’s artistic handling of Hazel Boy;
nevertheless, the great horseman was hooted
after the Highweight Handicap because his
mount, Bootlegger (3 to 1), had refused to
leave the barrier. The demonstration was
brutally unfair, more especially as Boot-
legger is owned by William Kelso, with
whom Pike has been associated with mutual
confidence for 20 years; moreover, as the
sequel showed, Bootlegger would have had
no chance with Magdaff (9 to 4), who won,
pulling up, from Monoplane (20 to 1) and
Bacagi. MeCarten rode the greatly-improved
Magpie gelding, who is owned by “J. Babin”
and trained by “Last-race” Price.
The Hawkesbury Handicap was as rough
as the 11-furlongs event at Canterbury Park
the previous Saturday, and there was the
usual reversal of form. Obey (6 to 1), the
winner at Canterbury, was never sighted on
this occasion; Bequest (10 to 1), one of
the beaten lot at Warwick Farm, won after
a close finish with Blaircourt (7 to 1), who
struck more than his share of trouble, and
Divulge. Lady Clara, the favorite, lost her
rider, Toohey, after they had gone half a
mile. It was an eventful day for Toohey,
for he had steered three winners (one of
them, a big Shepherd King gelding called
Coercion, may be heard of again), and he
was well enough to ride Bacagi in the last
race.
* * * *
For Boseliill next Saturday:—
Highweight Handicap: Vaals; next, Reo-
nui.
.Club Handicap: Blather; next, Triplex or
Glenariff.
Trial Stakes: Inducement; next, Karuma.
Rydalmere Mile: Irish Prince ; next, Val-
lum or Glenariff.
* * * *
Picking the Doncaster Handicap and Syd-
ney Cup double is never an easy task, and
it is more difficult than ever this year,
thanks to numerous nominations and shrewd
handicapping. Horses that will command
attention in the Doncaster, if started, are
Gothic (lOst. 31b.), Vaals (9st. 111 b.),
Amounis (9st. 101 b.), Fuji San (9st. 91b),
Boaster (9st. lib.), Avant Courier (Bst.
91b.), Aorangi (Bst. 71b.), Don Moon (Bst.
61b.), Cromwell (Bst. 51b.), Sion (Bst. 21b.),
Irish Prince (Bst. lib.), Lesboo (Bst.),
Zuleika (7st. 121 b.), Magdaff (7st. 81b.),
Ragazzo (7st. 71b.) and Triplex (7.st. 21b.).
At present this Page likes Lesboo and Irish
Prince.
Sydney Cup entrants that command atten-
tion are Pantheon (9st. 121 b.), Tibbie (Bst.
111 b.), Piastoon (Bst. 81b.), Honan (Bst.
51b.), Winalot (Bst. 21b.), Black Duchess
(7st. 131 b.), Gallantry (7st. 101 b.), Glenariff
(7st. 91b.), Jocelyn (7st. 91b.), Amusement
(7st. 71b.), Valparaiso (7st. 51b.), Tangible
(7st. 51b.), Vallino (7st.). Piastoon—he has
101 b. more than he won with last year-
appeals, and so do the three-year-olds men-
tioned. Glenariff may prove the best of
them if he has come on as did his half-
brother Belgainba between spring and
autumn at the same age.
$*- $ $
“Stump Jump”: The new racing club in
our Vic. Mallee town has solemnly resolved
“that Mr. Blank be written to and asked to
act as honorary stipendiary steward.” It
must be the influence of the moratorium.
* * * *
“S.T.”: Adelaide Racing Club’s Birthday
Cup is to be worth £2OOO this year, with
a gold cup thrown in. An unusual asset
of this club is a free “flat,” with totalisator
provided. The course is a slice of the Adel-
aide park-lands, and is held on lease from
the City Corporation conditionally on admis-
sion to the flat being gratis.
jH He ■ ♦
“Cartot”: The punter who backs his
fancy in s.-p. shops with a 10-to-l limit
which he knows nothing about falls in
heavily at times. A friend of mine put
£l5 on a steed he had been following with
no luck, dividing the amount among three
strange s.-p. swindleries. The animal won
at 20 to 1, as the S. M. Herald recorded,
but the s.-p. sharpers refused to pay more
than 10 to 1, contending that the existence
of such a limit was so well known that it
was unnecessary to refer to it at the time
of making the bet. As practically all the
tribe lay off at least a proportion of what
they hold in bets with a bookmaker on the
course, this means that while the punter
would collect only tens, the s.-p. magsmen
would get twenties. Or, in other words,
they used half the punter’s money to make
a bet for themselves.
* * * *
“Si Ann” : Australia does a considerable ex-
port trade to the “Far East” in jockeys, train-
ers, bookies and all the rest of the parapher-
nalia of the Sport of Kinks. The army travels
to and fro in tune with the sporting season in
each place, from Singapore up to Kuala Lum-
pur and Penang, across to India, down to
Weltevreden and even Kuching, in Sarawak,
and along the Chiua coast as far as Tient-
sin. They are the camp-followers of the
“griffins,” mixed mobs of young Australian
horses, which are sent up to the order of
the various clubs. The expenses are covered
by subscription, and each member draws a
horse. It may be a crock or a potential
Cup winner, and the owner has the option of
auctioning it for what he can get or putting
it in the hands of a professional trainer to
be prepared for the annual racing frenzy.
Syndicates of £B-a-week clerks, after running
head over ears into debt to the Tamil chet-
ties, have been known to divide a small
fortune out of the prize-money and subse-
quent sale of their pet; but mostly they con-
tribute to the greater prosperity of the camp
followers aforementioned. McShortodds may
be a sturdy white Australian in his own
country, but up in Penang I have often seen
him standing on his box yelling himself
hoarse and quite thankfully accepting the
duits of brown punters with dishclouts round
their waists.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Charlie Purdy (9st. 841 b.) and “Bluey”
Jones (9st. 641 b.) met at the Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, before a crowd
of some 8000 or 9000, to decide which of
tiiem should be qualified to wear the title of
lightweight champion of Australasia. Purdy
won the distinction, and deserved it. He
outboxed the youth from Newcastle, and so
fooled him with clever ducking that on
several occasions “Bluey” grinned at his
own discomfiture. From the gong Purdy
attacked, and as early as the second round
Jones bled at mouth and nose, the effect
of the Aucklander’s straight left jabs, while
Purdy’s right was also busy on the body.
Jones, however, was the heavier puncher, and
in the eighth he shook the Maorilander badly
with a right to the solar plexus. In the
fourteenth Jones rushed into a clinch with
lowered head, as he had done many times
before, and Purdy received a deep gash,
which bled profusely, at the corner of the
left eye. But though he was compelled to
keep on wiping the blood out of the “lamp”
he was still the superior boxer in the
fifteenth and last round. Nevertheless Joe
Wallis’s decision in favor of the M.L. lad
was received with savage hooting, which was
kept up even when Bert Hinkler climbed
into the ring to be introduced.
* * * *
Norm Gillespie (Bst. 1341 b.) registered the
best performance of his career by stopping
Tommy Barber (Bst.loflb.), of N.S.W., in 10
thrilling rounds at Melbourne on Saturday
night. Though billed to battle for the feather-
weight championship these two brilliant
young Aussies drew the customary meagre
offertory, so greatly has the popularity of
the game declined in the southern metropolis.
Odds of 5 to 2 were laid on Barber, but the
Victorian soon supplanted Thomas, in the
quotations. His right drive to the body was
a big factor in his victory; time after time
it thudded under Tommy’s heart, and painted
an angry red patch. The bouts of infighting
were clean, hard-hitting affairs, with none
of the customary mauling and holding.
Norm welcomed these duels, and usually it
was the Sydneysider who broke ground; then
the local boy’s left hand was more accurate
and snappy than Tom’s. In the seventh,
after a clash of heads, Gillespie showed a
nasty gash under his right eye, but it did not
interfere with his sight. In the tenth he
landed a perfect short right on the point,
and Tom was “out on his feet.” Another
right sent the now-helpless visitor down for
nine seconds. He struggled up but
received such a battering that Quirk inter-
vened.
(Continued on page %!.)
THE CADDIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the fairways are rent with commotion
As the drive trickles forth from the tee,
And the surge of our verbal emotion
Pours forth like the flood to the sea;
As Fate unconcerned and sardonic,
He sneers at each puerile pat
With comment keen-edged and laconic.
Unspeakable Brat!
When the maddening ball to the bunker
Flies true as a bird to its nest,
While, mad as a lager-less Junker,
Your speech gains additional zest,
lie grins as you pantingly roll up,
“Well that wuz a dash rotten skelp ;
I reckon yer’d bes’ give the ’ole up.”
Impertinent Whelp!
By the green, with its verdure inviting,
He stands, like a figure of doom,
His air pessimistic inciting
To deeper infernos of gloom.
But when, in the effort to hole out,
The ball rings the rim of the cup—-
Ah, ’tis then that he chortles his soul out.
Pestiferous Pup!
But when free is the swing, and the driver
Connects with the pill, or as slick
And as clean as a champion diver,
The long putt goes down with a. click,
’Tis then a new aura embraces
Him whom we have wished on a grid,
And we dub him, restored to good graces,
A dashed clever kid!
N.s.w.
COLONEL DAMLRIZE.


LdC
Ns
Jjfea-.
/
V
V
4 6
SbS
-w
L-lti!
L_
m
i u
\\ o
s!ii
;.L",
hX&LIi
ifs or but’s'SOLlD
rERTOMANCBIfEAR
IK & YEAR OUT
THE story of the Republic is written in the utter
satisfaction of Republic owners. Of Republic
Trucks it can be said without fear of contradiction:
“They live long, do hard work easily and show a profit
on every job they perform.” The reasons for this will
be obvious if you will come in and lift the bonnet of a
Republic and if you will submit it to those tests which
quickly reveal merit. For those men who live at a
distance from our showrooms we have certain very
interesting booklets. A postcard will fetch them.
O'
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Cor. Elizabeth and Therry Sts., Melbourne.
TRUCKS
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
09 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (QTd), Ltd.,
Creek and Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki and Cable Streets, Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney
OR. 9


BEAM WIItEJLESS
of Science OVerDistance,
HIGH-SPEED TELEGRAPH SERVICE AT REDUCED RATES TO GREAT
BRITAIN, IRELAND, AND THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE.
RATES TO ALL PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM:—
Week-end Messages .... sd. per word (minimum 20 words).
Daily Letter Telegrams . . 6d. per word (minimum 20 words).
Deferred Telegrams
Ordinary Telegrams
I Od. per word (no minimum).
I/8 per word (no minimum).
TELEPHONE 8W2211 (15 lines)
and a Beam messenger will collect your message, or lodge same at any
Post Office throughout Australia
or at
THE BEAM WIRELESS OFFICE,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY (top Wynyard St.), one minute G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES: 59 LIVERPOOL STREET, AND
ROYAL EXCHANGE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
i
Send Vaur Message* VIABEAM'and SaveMonei/ ;
»ii ■ aißj irr»
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. 'T. M. AHERN.
One Minute Wharves.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & £o.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“Swan”: The Frenchmen played their last
match in Australia at Perth. Hopman got
back to his game, beating Brugnon and Bous-
sus in straight sets —even the brief spell af-
forded by the train journey must have done
the overworked youngster good. Borotra took
two sets to one from Crawford, and beat
Patterson in two straight, and he and Bous-
sns downed Crawford and Patterson in a
three-set match, the decider being fought out
to 13-11, but Hopman and Crawford were
too good for Brugnon and Boussus.
* * =K *
“Old Q.”: The Bananalanders are making
a good job of their fund for sending Moon
and Cummings to Wimbledon, though the
Sydney press, the tennis sections of which
are mostly run by officials of the L.T.A.,
have avoided reference to the fact. Only
£750 was asked, and this is already assured.
One hopes that the pair will be able to make
an appearance in the Olympic tennis events,
in which the Davis Cup team will not show.
South Australia, which has sent Rufus
Stewart to the British open golf champion-
ship, and was also responsible for the de-
spatch of the Murray Bridge eight-oar crew
to the Paris Olympiad, might join in and
send Rowe. It isn’t too late yet.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : South Aus. has had a full view
of the Jekyll-and-llyde that is Crawford. The
first day, just off the train, the boy seemed
content merely to push the ball back for Brug-
non to kill, 6-1, 6-1. If he took any interest
at all in the result he must be a fine actor.
Next day he was a champion, hitting fiercely
and fairly conquering Borotra. The last day
he was as on the first (and that evening
he stayed away from the Parliamentary din-
ner because of illness). They have hard
names on the turf for this sort of incon-
sistency.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The Australian Davis Cup
team, due to arrive at Toulon on April 1 : —
ominous date! —will slujrpen up at a Monte
Carlo tourney on April Jl>, and go on to Beau-
lieu and the big Nice tournament on May 4,
5 and 6. Then comes the Davis Cup go
against Italy, which, for some reason or other,
is to be played at Geneva. If that is sur-
vived, there will be a second-round meeting
with Belgium; then the French champion-
ships ; then the third round against India,
supposing the Belgians are beaten. Next fol-
low the international match against England,
and the fourth-round battle against Germany
(if another “if” is surmounted) ; and after
that comes Wimbledon. July 13 will see the
beginning of the European zone final, and the
prayers of the congregation are requested for
Australia’s appearance as one of the con-
testants.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian team now
in Maoriland is the ninth to make the tour,
apart from the various State teams that
have paid the Dominion a visit at one time
or another, and this season’s trip marks the
fiftieth anniversary of the first call made by
an Australian XI. That was the first Aus-
tralian team, and one that made history
by defeating a powerful M.C.C. side at Lords.
Spofforth took 102 wickets at 3.8 during the
M.L. section of that tour, on which the visi-
tors won five matches, drew one and lost one
—that against Canterbury.
* * * *
“Spin” : A curious cricket happening is re-
ported from Maoriland, where the English
professional J. A. Newman, who is coach for
the Canterbury Association, has been no-
balled for bowling with a rubber finger-stall
on the little finger of his bowling hand. New-
man says he wears the stall as a protection
for a badly injured finger, and that, being
a right-hand off-break bowler, he would have
no earthly use for his little finger as an aid
to the break. One is reminded of the argu-
ment as to the right of bowlers to use resin
on their fingers. A few years ago every other
trundler carried some powdered resin in the
pocket of his breeks, but the habit seems to
be dying out.
* * * *
“Norwood” : Hendren finished his first term
as coach to the South Aus. C. A. last week,
and is leaving for England on March 22.
Though hampered at the start by the illness
he contracted at Colombo, he has done very
well with his coaching, and has also come off
in club cricket, in which he has scored four
centuries for Colts, averaging 139 runs. He
wfill play again for Middlesex on his return to
England, and hopes to get a place in the next
English XI; if he doesn’t lie will return to
South Australia.
* * -H *
“Glenelg” : Something unusual in the bowl-
ing line occurred in Adelaide recently, when
H. C. Barker, a young fast-bowler playing for
East Torrens, was no-balled 12 times for
throwing. As he took 5 for 21 in the match,
he probably did not worry. The incident re-
calls the no-balling of Ernie Jones by Phillips
in England, and the set made against
“Chueker” Crossland on that historic occasion
at Old Trafford when he told “Monkey
Hornby, his skipper, to go and chase himself,
or Lancashire to that effect. Australia’s own
abo. crack, Marsh, also came under the ban
occasionally. A tendency to bend the elbow
is usually indicative of a throwing action in
a fast bowler, and Marsh’s parade at the
crease on one occasion with his bowling arm in
splints is one of the brightest tilings in the
lexicon of cricket.
Footbrawl
“Past Grammar”: The renaissance (if the
Rugby Union game in N.S.W. was indicated
in the tour of the Waratahs. This year
the list of senior R.U. clubs will be
strengthened by the revival of St. George,
and, as there is a big district to draw on,
which has hitherto been left to the attention
of the Rugby League and the Soccer players,
there should be no difficulty in getting a
good team together. Harold Judd, who
represented N.S.W. and Australia against
so many Queensland, M.L. and English
teams, has been at the back of the re-
organisation. Any extension of one of the
finest of amateur games should be welcomed
by a community which is furnished with too
many examples of the shady side of profes-
sional sport.
* * * *
“Taffy”: This comes from Wales, which is
such a stickler for lady-like behavior on the
football field that one of its referees seut
off a Waratah forward because he mildly
A BLACK OUTLOOK.
asked, apropos of an adverse decision, “What
about shepherding?” A game between Neath
and Aberavon was played to what the cable
charmingly calls “a running accompaniment
of stand-up fights.” At the finish, the two
sides got together under the goal-posts at
one end, and argued it until the police inter-
fered. Then the visiting team and the
referee had to be escorted off the ground.
No one seems to have bothered about the
scares.
“Gate”: The feud between the N.S.W.
and Queensland Rugby Leagues over the
division of the spoils expected from the
visit of the English team increases in
ferocity. Originally each State handled
its own Tests against visiting teams, and
took the profits. Having become pre-
dominant on the playing field, Queensland
sought a share of the big Sydney “gates,”
which its representatives helped to draw,
and proposed that all the takings should go
into a common fund, profits to be divided
in the proportion of two-thirds to N.S.W.
and one to Queensland. Alternatively, it
was suggested that N.S.W. should take one-
third, the remainder to be allotted to a
Board of Control. This was accepted by
N.S.W., but it is now furiously threatening
to tear up the scrap of paper and “bottle”
the Board of Control over the head. And
all because the board has decided that
N.S.W. is to take two-thirds of the profits
and Queensland one-third. As one eminent
supporter of the game tearfully told a recent
meeting, this meant Queensland getting over
£lOOO more than it would have done under
the original system of whacking up the
swag; and anyone who knows the N.S.W.
League will realise that it will not permit
such an iniquity if any agency, human or
otherwise, can prevent it. Amid shrieks and
howls the Sydney body has announced that
it insists that the system of each State bear-
ing the expenses and taking the profits of
its own Tests be returned to, and that the
chairman and deputy chairman of the board
be Sydney men; if this isn’t done forth-
with, dreadful things, including the seces-
sion of the N.S.W. mob from the board, will
li ftppGn.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : There are few teams in any
code of football more famous than Colling-
wood (Vic.). The Magpies, apart from a
very successful season, financially and other-
wise, chortled greatly at their annual meet-
ing over the goal-kicking achievements of
Gordon Coventry, who landed 97 goals in
League matches last year, breaking his
previous record by 14 goals. A tally of ISO
goals in two seasons is extraordinary, even
in the Australian game, where goal-kicking
is the principal method of scoring, and
where there is no limit to the height or
otherwise of the kick as long as it goes
between the posts. The other Coventry also
came in for a lot of kudos, receiving a special
prize as the fairest and best player in the
League—and that came, not from his own
clubmates, but from the headquarters of the
League.
=i= * * *
“S.T.”: Norwood (S.A.) football club has
celebrated its 50th year by a big gathering
at which J. H. Gosse, the president, was sup-
ported by several of the very men who got
together in 1878. The first goal in the first
match was kicked by George Giffen; the
club has always been strong in cricketer-foot-
ballers, Clem Hill and his brothers among
them. Also one of its long-ago captains was
Alfred Roberts, now president of S.A. Lawn
Tennis Association. Going through its first
season unbeaten, Norwood held the club pre-
miership of Adelaide for six years on end, for
14 years was always either first or second,
and has since won it another 11 times. It
claims to have been “champions of Aus-
tralia” in 1888 and 1907, having at the end
of those seasons taken on, and beaten, the
premier Melbourne club of the year. And it
thought so much of its name that, when
the district system came in, it got special
leave to still call itself “Norwood.” instead
of “East Torrens,” which it really is.
The Nineteenth Hole
Some really great golf was seen at Rose
Bay (N.S.W.) at the week-end, when four
of the crack professionals met in a 72-holes
challenge match. H. R. Sinclair and D. G.
Soutar opposed Tom Howard and W. Corry,
and were two up at the end of the first day’s
play, with 36 holes played. The final 36
holes provided a ding-dong battle, with each
side gaining the lead alternately. Sinclair
and his partner went to the last tee one
down, hut both Corry and Howard
found trouble in the rough, leaving their
opponents with two putts to win. Soutar
holed out for a three, squaring a splendid
game.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: There is much more in
golf than meets the naked eye, and so my
friend Homo found the other day. He was
lured into making his first incursion into
the mystery by a friend who seems to have
been well punished for his indiscretion.
This individual provided clubs, balls, and'all
necessary paraphernalia, and took the neo-
phyte to a North Shore course where the
harbor gapes invitingly for pulled or sliced
shots. It is only a nine-hole course, but
before he had completed it Homo had lobbed
six of his host’s pills into Sydney’s principal
asset. Taking each ball at 3s. 6d., which is a
fair thing, the lesson cost the teacher a nice
little sum for his afternoon’s instruction. I
met Homo next morning and lie reported the
happening. “What beats me,” he said, “is
how the Scotch are so fond of this game.
* * * *
“Ivooyonga” : Rufus Stewart, who will be
one of the few Australians appearing in the
British open championship at Sandwich in
May, is a South Australian by birth, and,
like most of Australia’s leading professionals,
graduated from the ranks of the caddies.
He is being accompanied on his trip by T. H.
Brown, whose liberality and example were
chiefly responsible for raising the fund to send
the Australian open champion to Europe.
Brown will act as his manager. This is a
step in the right direction, for previous com-
petitors in the “open” from Australia have
had to look after their own affairs, with the
result that concentration on the game itself
was not as complete as might have been
wished. Adelaide golfers generally, and
especially those of the Kooyonga Club, where
Stewart is professional, are very keen on his
chances. For one thing, Rufus has the
equable temperament which counts for so
much in big golf tourneys.
* * * *
“Panicum”: The Queensland G. A. has
once more rejected the proposal that pennant
matches should be held in Brisbane. The
cause was championed by E. Gill, holder of
Australian amateur honors a score of years
ago, and by the Royal Queensland captain,
Eric Anning. Really Queensland golf needs
the pennants to lift the standard of play,
which at present is poor. Royal Queensland,
which has been allotted the State champion-
ship meeting this year, in common with the
Indooroopiily, Sandgate and Wynnum clubs
is anxious to develop golfers, and still holds
out hopes of an inter-club competition among
the majority, if not the whole, of Brisbane's
clubs.
* * * *
“Ilotham”: The Victorian Golf Associa-
tion has fallen into line with those in the
other States in the matter of a uniform handi-
capping system. The leading player in each
club is to be ranked by the Vic. executive,
and his rating will be the basis on which
inferior players will be handicapped. The
various courses will be standardised from the
handicap point of view; when this is done it
should be possible for a man on any handicap
to go to any course and there be “fitted” with
his correct handicap for his quality of play
on that particular course. The system has
not yet been fairly tested in Australia, but
the Americans, who evolved the idea, claim
that it has worked with the greatest satis-
faction to all concerned. And a system,
which results in the average golfer being
satisfied with his handicap must be some-
thing of a miracle.
* * * *
“One Down”: Though the spirit of the
roaring days has vanished to a great extent
from Northern and Central Queensland, the
old attitude toward inward refreshment still
lingers here and there. In most golf clubs
it is a breach of custom to interrupt a round
to see a man about a dog, and in some it is
specially forbidden by the rules. But Rock-
hampton is still true to its old traditions, for
the new rules of the local club provide
specially for local habits and conditions.
The most important and the best known
of them states that members who have com-
pleted 9 holes “are allowed to visit the club-
house.”
In the N.S.W. athletic championships at
Manly Carlton took the 220 in 22 3-ssec, and
Stuart captured the 880 in lmin 57 3-ssec.
Neither Olympic lad was extended.
( Continued on page 42.)


Hqueuß
’ - / w/D L
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellou)
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
VICHY
2
mm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“Whizz” : Just to show that American
and English speedsters are not to have
things entirely their own way, ,C. W. Hamil-
ton, of Maoriland, has driven a six-cylinder
Sunbeam of about 2000 c.c. over a straight
mile course in 33sec, dead, averaging 109.09
m.p.h. This is an Australasian record; the
previous best was I). J. Harkness’s spin on
Gerringong Beach (N.S.W.) some years
ago, when 107.19 m.p.h. was recorded. The
ear driven on that occasion was a Minerva
chassis mounting a Hispano-Suiza aeroplane
engine, the capacity of which was not re-
corded at the time.
* * * *
“Bumpkin” : Billy Bluegum, who is so
frequent and familiar on Phillip Island
(Vic.) that he often comes into the town-
ships, will get the shock of his life on March
26, when the exhausts of scores of cars
will pollute the air of Westernport in a
100-mile road race organised by the Vic.
Light-car Club. The contest, which will be
the first of its kind in Australia, will be
staged in ideal circumstances. The course
is 64 miles long and an average speed of
60 m.p.h. should be easily attainable.
* * * *
“Trembler”: Match-making for a stake
and a side-wager is becoming popular among
American and European motor-manufacturing
firms, and even between individual drivers.
A challenge was thrown out by C. T. Wey-
mann, of the Hispano-Suiza firm in France,
to M. Moskovics, president of the Stutz co.,
for a go between a Boulogne Hispano and
a straight-eight Stutz, in a 24-hours’ race.
Woolf Barnato, son of the famous “Barney,”
of Kimberley and Jo’burg fame, weighed in
with a challenge to take them both on with a
British Bentley. This match should be de-
cided shortly on the Indianopolis track in
America. Two leading British professional
drivers, George Duller, who drives for the
Bentley co., and J. P. Turner, who affects
the Austro-Daimler, have put up £lOOO a
side—or their firms have on their behalf —
for a match over a distance not stated in
the cable. This will take place on the Mon-
thlery track near Paris, where so many
notable motor speed-records have been put
up.
* * * *
“Tassy”: Something out of the way in
motor-cycle tours has been completed by R.
Beauchamp and L. Hyland, two young in-
habitants of the Speck, who have ridden
round Lyons’s islet on B.S.A. machines. In
spite of the prevalent impression on the
mainland that Tassy can be circumnavigated
per boot in a couple of hours, the pair found
the task difficult and sometimes dangerous,
the bush proving so rough and trackless in
some parts that they had to ride along
the railway lines; one m.p.h. was the speed
at times. The start was made from Laun-
ceston, the East Coast route being followed
to Hobart. Both lads carried rations for
four days, as well as a tent-fly and blankets,
and two gallons of petrol each, but they
finished their journey, 350 miles, in two
days.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: “Fatty” Lamb, who “wasn’t
nearly good enough for Amsterdam,” accord-
ing to the Melbourne cycling clique that de-
cided the matter, has won a 10-mile motor-
paced handicap in llmin. 6sec. He had to
concede two laps to four other competitors—•
the race was held at the Motordrome —and
thus cover 30 laps to their 28, yet he won
by a lap and a half, at an average speed
of over 54 m.p.h. This performance knocks
spots off his own amateur figures of llmin.
22 l-ssec., and makes Corrie’s pro-
fessional figures of llmin. 47£sec. with a fly-
ing start feeble by comparison. The world’s
record is lOmin. 48 4-ssec.; it was put up by
A. E. Willis in Paris, and has stood since
1908.
* * *
“Sprocket”: The Australasian team of
cyclists now on the way to France to take
part in the Tour de France road race has a
hard job before it. The event lasts from June
17 to July 15 and comprises the encirclement
of France, divided into 22 riding stages;
the longest is about 178 miles and the
shortest 74. The tour includes the crossing
of three mountain ranges; some of the
heights run up to 8000 feet. Time-limits call
for an average speed of 15 m.p.h., except in
the mountain sections. Bicycles are sealed
and numbered before the start, and anyone
desiring to change his bike must hand his
first machine in with seals intact, under a
penalty of £4, which is the same amount as
the entrance fee. This last covers refresh-
ments at 10 of the control-stations; on the
other 12 the cyclists or the firms backing
them must look out for themselves. The
total prize-money distributed is £1032, but
the first prize, for the rider with the fastest
aggregate time over the full course, is only
£97. However, there are many trade bonuses
to be picked up for sectional and other per-
formances.
Miscellaneous
"Billy the Goose”: I ! ve ’ad ter refuse ’n
orfer ter take a team o’ tin-’are dorgs over
ter South Afriker. I’ve run pretty well ev’ry-
think fr’m roller-sweat ter c’mp’ny-promotin’,
but I ain't come down ter the dorgs yet an’
1 ain t goin’ ter, if I ’ave ter work ter dodge
’em. Besides, I ’ear they’re a narsty mob
over that way; if they don’t like yer they
jist takes yer be the scruff o’ yer pants and
eaves yer on board the firs’ outgoin’ boat,
an’ they ain’t pertickler w’ere she’s goin’ to,
either. One o’ me ole pals wot’s doin’ reel
w r ell in the South nowerdays was invited ter
change ’is address that way. No ; east, west,
’ome’s best, as the sayin’ is.
J. LILLYMAN, the very successful N.S.W.
apprentice jockey, who has been passed
out for two months for reckless riding
at Canterbury Park.
“Spur”: Eddie King, winner of the Maori-
land King’s Prize, has been knocking at the
door of the shooting championship for years,
and has seldom been out of the final 50. He
was third in 1926, and nineteenth in 1927.
At 19 years of age he won the prize given
for the best marksman in the North Island.
During the Great War Eddie served in
France with the artillery.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Maorilanders have selected
S. Lay (javelin throw), E. Morgan (boxing),
R. Lindsay, Ena Stockley and Kathleen Mil-
lar (swimming) and Miss Wilson (running)
for their Olympic team. Efforts are being
made to raise funds to send an eight-oar
crew, members of which may also compete
in the fours, double-sculls and pairs events,
and there will be no additions to the team
until this matter is settled, one way or the
other. The advisability of sending a javelin-
thrower to compete against the Scandinavian
specialists in this sport is very doubtful. . A
sprinter like Leadbeater, who has broken
evens for the 100, might have been better
worth while. The omission of Randolph Rose
surprised people on this side when the first
choice was announced, but Randolph has
since explained that he was “not available.”
* * * *
“Chron” : A bomb has been thrown among
the compilers of athletic records by Dr.
C. H. Best, of Toronto University, who has
perfected an electric apparatus for timing
pedestrians. The doctor avers that all the
times which now are accepted as records are
false, being invariably too fast. This is due
to the human factor where the stopwatch is
employed, the holder taking anything round
a fifth of a second (or, say, five seconds if
he is timing Sydney flapper swimmers) to
press the starting lever, while you have to
allow another fraction for the mechanism
to get going. The same thing happens at
the other end, in inverse ratio. The man
with the watch is apt to heat the runner, as
the latter sometimes beats the gun. The
doctor swears that no hundred has ever yet
been run under lOsec., though on this point
his tests, are not conclusive. In one of them
Fitzpatrick, one of the fastest sprinters in
Canada, was credited with 9 4-ssec by
experts with stopwatches; the electrical
device showed 10 l-ssec. A more convincing
experiment could be made with a runner like
Paddock, who breaks evens by stopwatch
every time he starts.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: At Inverel] (N.S.W.) last
week Cameo, a horse owned by Mrs. Long-
worthy, climbed over Bft. lin., a record for
the show-jumping game. The previous best
was 7ft. lOiin.. done by Laidlaw’s Lookout
at Tenterfmld in 1926. These figures have
not been approached at the big Easter Show
in Sydney, though a special prize of £5OO
was offered last year.
* * * *
“Pot the White”: For some time past
Walter Lindrum has been hurling defiance
at Willie Smith, the English billiards eham-
pion, and Willie has been reciprocating in
kind. Each has accused the other of cold
feet and swelled head, and vast sums have
been mentioned as inducements to one or
t’other to come on. Lindrum has now offered
Smith £2OO expenses and a side wager of
£lOOO for a clash in Australia with composi-
tion balls. Willie follows the English cus-
tom of playing with the variable ivory ball,
so he is not likely to take up the challenge
unless the cornpo. ball clause is knocked out.
Still, the money offered is much better than
anything he can expect in England.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Not content with bringing
over a Californian university team in July,
the N.S.W. baseball authorities are trying to
secure a Japanese team. There is no chance
of getting a side from Nippon direct at this
late hour, but permission is being sought to
have a team from the Japanese naval train-
ing ships, due in Sydney at the same time
as the Americans, to play. The Japs are
good baseballers, and the game is compulsory
in naval shore training, so there is reason
to suppose the two cruisers will be able
to furnish a formidable nine,
* * * *
“Sturt”: The Mosman crew (B. 7/3/’27)
can quote good S. Aus. and Queensland pre-
cedents in support of their contention that
their boat should be the N.S.W. boat. The
South Aus. champion eights, for instance,
resulted in a victory for Port Adelaide, and,
following their custom, the S. Aus. selectors
chose the Port crew to represent the Wheat
State in the race on the Nepean in May.
In previous years Mannum and Mur-
ray Bridge oarsmen, the latter particu-
larly, gained a distinction which has now
returned to one of the metropolitan clubs.
Mosman had a strong case, though it may
have gone the wrong way about gaining it.
* * * :|:
“Spoof”: Sydney flapper papers, one in
particular, have a magnificent contempt for
facts when puffing their pet swimmers.
After Ena Stocldey’s success in the 100 yards
backstroke championship the flapper journal
in question came out with a yarn that little
Bonnie Mealing was yards ahead of the
M. girl when Bonnie veered off the course
and. “thinking she had finished, stopped
dead.” Then, the story continues, she went
on and got to the end of the bath, 10 yards
past the finishing point, before the Maori-
hinder had reached the 100-yards mark!
Compare this fantastic narrative with the
Melbourne Age’s account:—
From a good start Miss Stoekley and Miss Mealing
immediately forged to the front. At 50 yards
Miss Stoekley had secured a lead of one foot. Here
Miss Mealing swam erratically, and bored into Miss
Stoekley, nearly forcing her over the lane rope. On
realising her error, Miss Mealing then swam towards
the opposite side rope, and despite warning cries,
continued on and over it, finishing up against the
wall right outside the course.
Forbidden by doctor’s orders to race in tho
N. backstroke championship, a fact of
which she gave the committee ample notice,
Miss Stoekley announced in the Sun last
Tuesday, having just returned from a visit
EDWARD S. KING, who won the King's
Prize at Trentham ( M.L.), against the
crack shots of the Dominion, N.S.W.,
and Vic. He hails from Wanganui
( M.L. ).
to the country, that she would meet the
Sydney girl “at any time and anywhere
desired, provided the race was swum before
Friday, when Ena and Kathleen Millar
return to Maoriland.” The flapper paper
ignored the challenge until Friday morning;
then it described the thing as “a belated
request,” adding that “Bonnie is a very
disappointed girl because she will not be
able tQ meet Ena” ! Bonni-e is a good little
swimmer, but she is unfortunate in her press
barraekers.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Clerk”: Clapp’s latest idea is not another
slogan but a sort of cross between a motor-
car on wheels and a railway-carriage. Driven
by petrol, it will carry 40 passengers at a
cost of 2s. 9d. a mile as against the steam
train’s six bob. It was built at the New-
port shops to replace the early morning tram
to Bendigo. •
jjt Hi Hs
“R. Volt”: Among other things, broad-
casting is affecting the Commonwealth’s tele-
gram business. An enormous amount of
miscellaneous information is now flung out
on the ether which previously went by the
landlines. Inquiries about missing friends,
market reports, tide and weather warnings
and sporting results used to constitute a
large part of the department’s revenue. Last
year the usual increase in telegraphic busi-
ness was below normal, and the last few
months there hasn’t been any.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.”: “The Ringer,” who
lately told us that a third rail on the
Northern Territory trans-continental narrow-
gauge line can be easily and cheaply dropped
in, is thinking only of the recently con-
structed line from Katherine River to Daly
Waters, where provision has been specially
made for changing the line from 3ft. 6in. to
4ft. lt is not true of the 200 miles from
Port Darwin to Emungalan.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: Finding the corrosive action
of sulphurous fumes on the costly plates
of roasters gave them a short life, the Elec-
trolytic Zinc Company asked the metallur-
gists of the Melbourne University to carry
out a search for a better alloy at the co.’s
expense. After 12 months’ labor Professor
Greenwood, who holds the chair of metal-
lurgy in the Vic. University, has disclosed
that the best alloy found was that developed
by an obscure South Aus. firm, and this
after British and Yankee metals had been
tested. A Yankee “rust- and fume-resist-
ing” metal producing firm is known by every
Australian engineer it advertises ex-
tensively. But liow many of those same
engineers know of the metal produced in th "ir
own country?
* * * *
“Cog”: It is up to Australian match
manufacturers to turn out something more
suitable for the humid coastal districts of
Queensland. I’m a sticker for local goods,
but in these rainy days, when dampness per-
vades everything, a few minutes after taking
a box from the package the sandpaper end
will be found useless and the matches nearly
so. Yesterday my storekeeper handed me
a box of Wax Safeties, manufactured in
Italy. They look exactly like ordinary wax
matches, but will only strike on the slate-
colored bottom of the box, and I find them
quite impervious to dampness. Cannot the
Melbourne people make up a similar line?
* * *
“Wollard”: The Tasmanian Flax and Can-
vas Company has undertaken to pay £5 a
ton for all flax grown in Tasmania at the
company’s instigation. Fifty-one farmers
grew flax last year for the company, and
although some crops were not first class
owing to the use of inferior seed, others will
return three to four tons per acre. This
year 1000 acres will be planted in pedigree
seed known as “J.W.S.” A mill is to be
erected in Launceston; and the highest
quality of fibre will be exported, the best
second-class quality being retained for the
manufacture of canvas in Launceston. A
good market for fibre is promised in. Ireland.
The Federal Tariff Board is considering
whether it will give the industry a helping
hand.
* * * *
“Coney Seal”: A committee convened by
the Minister for Agriculture is to consider
the possibility of establishing a fur-farming
industry in N.S.W. A great deal of fur is
now used in Australia for hat production,
and furs made up as clothing are imported
to the extent of £300,000 worth annually.
Much of the latter starts its existence in
N.S.W. on the back of the humble rabbit,
and it should be possible to keep some
of the trade at home. Another question
concerns the possible importation of the
rarer forms of fur-bearing animals and the
establishment of farms for breeding these
commercially 7; but there is much opposition
to this. With the different varieties of rab-
bit, the ’possums, bears and other native
fauna, this country should be able to supply
most of its own requirements in fur.
* X if- *
“C.Q.” : A form of out-door advertising
which has the merit of not becoming a per-
manent blot on the landscape is to be launch-
ed on a large scale by an Englishman who
has arrived in Melbourne. He has con-
verted some old army ’planes to the purposes
of sky-writing, and will be prepared to in-
scribe the merits of Bink’s Pills on the
heavens on suitable occasions. Some of his
legends will extend the whole diameter of the
metropolitan circle and. when circumstances
are favorable will linger on the eye for
half an hour.


BRITISH
IN
BRITISH
BALL and ROLLER
BEARINGS
are fitted dinmqhout theloooßP
Sunbeam for —now In Melbourne
THE Monster IOOU-h.p. Sunbeam Car now
to be seen at the British Trade Exhibition,
Melbourne, is the car in which Major
Segrave achieved the phenomenal speed of 207
miles per hour on March 29, 192 7.
The smooth, perfect running of the vital
parts of the car DEPENDED ON THEIR
BEARINGS, and the fact that RANSOME and
MARLES BRITISH BALL AND ROLLER
BEARINGS WERE FITTED THROUGHOUT
SEGRAVE’S CAR rhows the confidence the
Sunbeam Company had in these British Bear-
ings.
A typical British product solid, durable
and absolutely reliable—they have demon-
strated their efficiency to such an extent that
to-day they are USED BY 80 PER CENT. OF
BRITISH MOTOR-CAR MANUFACTURERS.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —
Gardner, Waern 8 Co. Pty.,Ltd.
MELBOURNE: SYDNEY:
481 Flinders Street. 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
OUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE
00., LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
iUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN AND CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. AND G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: (Automotive) COVENTRY
MOTOR CO., LTD., PERTH; (Industrial), FLOWER,
DAVIES AND JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
&A7
HSS
10,000.000 RUBBER TREES
10,000WORKERS~$UPPLY THE RUBBER
m
t
MORE FOR
YOUR MONEY
Plenty of rubber —not only where you can
see it, but deep down in the invisible cord
fabric of the tyres. Pure rubber —plenty
of rubber —at every point of stress and
strain. U.S. ROYAL CORDS live extra-
ordinarily long lives because they are more
than a match for the drawn out ordeal of
months and months of rough roads.
U.S. ROYAL
CORD
BALLOONS
DISTRIBUTORS:
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 439 Kent St, Sydney —Tel. M 2 o3l <:f i lines )-
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 102 Victoria St.. Carlton, Melbourne.—
Tel F 5783 F 5784
United States Rubber Co'. (A/sia), Ltd., 11l Margaret St., Brisbane^— Tel 4250.
United States Rubber Co (A/sia), Ltd, 195 Flinders St., Adelaide.-
Tel. 6246. ■ .. .
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 984 Hay St., Perth.—Tel. A 3151 (4 lines).
Australian Automotive Agencies, Ltd., Townsville.
Tel. Central 980.
uiuteu
lelaide. —
Home is a Place of Great Adventure
—when the world is at your fireside
I',". ■6’ i V'i
an
To the “FOUR CORNERS OF THE
EARTH” and back—without fatigue,
but with untold pleasure, from the
start to the journey’s end and every
corner thoroughly explored.
“COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD”
—A complete work in six beautifully
bound and illustrated volumes, will
take you from
Melbourne to Maryland... .Indict to New Orleans
Abyssinia to Bengal..•• New York to Punjab
Berlin to the Congo. ... Quebec to Siam
Constantinople to Iceland... .Siberia to Zanzibar
So graphically are the scenes, the peoples, the habits and customs of the
various races described, and so accurately portrayed, you will actually
lose yourself in the engrossing pages, feeling that you, are witnessing the
grandeur, the wonders, the life and character of every scene and
* incident IN PERSON.
COUNTRIES EWORLD
Illustrated with more than 4000 Photographs— 320 Plates
in Colour—Boo Illustrations in Photogravure and
232 MAPS and PLANS
"COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD” is a work that no good home
should be without, for its educational value at least, as well as for the
life-long interest it will have for every member of the family.
130 TRAVEL WRITERS OF THE DAY
Including BEACH THOMAS, who deals comprehensively with Australia
and New Zealand, will be your personal guides over tracts of country
glowingly described and plentifully illustrated. Take this opportunity to
secure this fine work. Post your order to-day!
w
pm
m
&
m
m
SfjO
mz
m
m
m
•vi#
eZ
mm
m
mm
WM®
\V>
wm
m.
m
<&*£<&&■
mm
eftfe
<m-
j K*
m
Hir
: m
m
m
m.
■m
:S«S
IJISS?
Mi
wv
Fill in Coupon and
Post and receive
the Art Booklet by
return.
dfg
AS FIRST
SUBSCRIP-
TION
SECURE
YOURS
TODAY!
6 VOLUMES sent on receipt of order
and First Subscription of 5/-. Subse-
quent Monthly Instalments: Cloth
Binding, 10/-; Buckram, 12/6. Car-
riage extra.
(JORDON and (JOTCH (A/sia) LTD.
Educational Book Dept. (Dept. N.H.4)
51 1-515 Lit Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Dear Sirs, —Please forward free and post free,
a copy of the Art Booklet describing "Coun-
tries o! (he World” and giving the subscription
terms for the work.
Name
Address
a
-S:
L/
fe?
VW
Peck’
Ho tAt
'kiddiM M*
Just try them ! Give them Ancho-
vette sandwiches for their school
lunch and see their eyes sparkle !
It’s good for them, too, and so little
trouble to prepare. Get a jar from your
grocer to-day.
The delicious Fish Paste


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
RRISBANE.
PARIS FAIR
MAY 12 to 28, 1928.
TRAVELLERS TO EUROPE—DO NOT
MISS THIS INTERESTING EXHIBIT OF
PARISIAN INDUSTRIES!
Full particulars may be obtained from the
FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
G. BADER, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Babies
thrive on
it IS so
nourishinq and
east) to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Scores
Melbourne
Chatter
There were many meetings at the foun-
tain on the lawn of Federal Government
House on Wednesday night, beneath festoons
of lights that threw colorful frocks and uni-
forms into relief against a background of ole-
anders, hydrangeas and green turf. Guests
found the garden a delightful spot, though the
night was cooler than we are used to at this
season, and the ballroom was not by any
means crowded. Bamboo and foliage plants
were grouped effectively about the ballroom,
and the white mess jackets of the Navy,
the crimson of the Army and the bluish-
grey of the Air Force added their color
quota to the scene. Feminine frocking was
kaleidoscopic. Uneven hem-lines were in
favor. At the sides of the latest
frocks were sash-ends or waterfalls of
tulle flounces. Lengthy ostrich-feather fans
were carried by many fair dancers.
Lady Stonehaven had floating cherry
georgette attached to her robe of gold lace
embroidered in crimson beads; diamonds and
emeralds and a fan of shaded feathers were
additions. Her mother, the Countess of Kin-
tore, covered her gown of reseda-green tone
with a long coat of the same shade, brightened
with silver lace; and Lady Hilda Keith Fal-
coner, who completed the family party, had
a glimmer of pink beneath white georgette
draperies. The State Governor was there
with Lady Somers, whose pink frock was
traced with Egyptian embroideries in green
and pale blue, with a plenitude of gold beads
and sequins, a fan of green feathers complet-
ing the picture. Dame Nellie Melba held
court in a robe of black lace, the bodice
g'hstening with black beads and diamente.
Her Order sash struck a note of color, and
diamonds rippled about her brow. The youth-
ful Viscountess Mandeville was the slimmest
of figures in a sheath frock of crystal mesh
net with side danglings of white georgette.
Her sister, Miss Stead, was clothed in white
also, with a line or two of diamente about
the corsage. The Grey Egerton lady was
among the smartest dressers, wearing a full-
skirted gown of deep cream satin bordered
with vandyked black Chantilly lace. Ropes
of diamonds and pearls served as necklet and
bracelets, and a diamond star twinkled in
her white satin coiffure.
Mrs. Osborne Fairbairn was in georgette
of pastel-green, and she carried a single
plumed fan in amber tones. Nanette Stuart
introduced something new in a frock of nut-
meg-brown with many frills of tulle that
dipped at one side, being balanced with a
sash of gold tissue tied in a mighty bow and
ends. There was a Hinkler touch in a
swathed pale pink satin confection with a
switch of georgette anchored on the left hip
by an embroidered Air Force badge. Mrs.
Tony Hordern, of Sydney, carried a wealth
of roseate feathers against a frock of silver-
white satin. Mrs. Norman Falkiner’s black
gown was foundation for a glittering bird
at the left side. Edna Tabart’s petal flounces
of yellow were scattered o’er with rhine-
stones. A unique frock was of pale-blue taf-
feta with a quaint overdress of frills cut out
in star pattern that strayed out of plumb
at the hem. Commander and Mrs. Creswell,
the Robert Knoxes and the Colin Frasers
were among those who enjoyed v.-r. hospi-
tality.
The lights shone on fair women and brave
polo players at State Government House on
Friday night. The guests danced in the
hall and drawing-room; and the verandahs,
furnished with red carpets and bamboo chairs
and tables, provided comfortable accommoda-
tion for sitters-out. Gladioli and dahlias
decorated the supper-rooms. Lady Somers
were pale gold net and lace over faint pink
satin. The G.G. and Lady Stonehaven were
there, her Ex. beihg draped in almond-green
georgette with embellishment of brilliants and
emeralds. The Irvine lady’s black robe
sparkled with diamente. Viscountess Mande-
ville was in floatings of cornflower-blue
georgette. Mrs. Napier, wearing crimson
splashed with designs in gold beads, danced
with the Rear-Admiral. General Chauvel
was accompanied by his lady, who had sun-
bursts of gold sequins on a white georgette
gown. Mrs. James Ashton, of Sydney, chose a
night effect in black and silver. Mrs. Beau
Fairbairn’s titian locks appeared above a
robe of black satin and lace; and black velvet
made an effective foil for the blonde coiffure
of Mrs. Osborne Fairbairn. Mrs. Leigh
Falkiner was sheathed in what looked like
beaten silver. The landed interests had further
representation in the John Manifolds, the
Chester Manifolds, the Ross family of
N.S.W., Major and Mrs. Alan Currie, and
others. The younger set excelled itself in
the matter of charming frocks, one of the
most effective being taffeta in four shades of
green with water-lilies at the waist line.
On the eve of the Australian Cup, Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme gave a dance at Blytliswood,
the second staged by the family during the
racing season. The hostess, who wore
draperies of lace and georgette of deep ruby,
gave the party for friends of her daughters,
Mrs.' Geoffrey Haggard, from whose lime-
green frock dangled glittering tabs, and
Joan Syme, whose blue frills were fringed
with sparkling dewdrops. The guests, who
met in a ballroom that blossomed with pink
and white lilies, and wandered in the gardens
beneath a full moon, were garnered mostly
from the ranks of the newly-wed and the
youthful unattached. Mrs. E. D. Yencken,
at present revisiting this State, was there
in beaded raiment, other married folk being
the James Fairbairns of Mt. Elephant, the
Bruce Meade couple, and the Esmond Lillies
of Geelong. Among the younger folk Irma
Dearden, of Brisbane, in pale pink with
opalescent sequin embellishment, and Quen-
tin Winter-Irving, one of the month’s brides,
whose frosted white tulle frock had a touch
of -green, were notable.
The dance given by Colonel Scott arid the
other officers of the Second Cavalry Division,
at Ormond Hall, was well attended, though
the night was hot and sultry, and there
was a brave display of uniforms and frocks.
Colonel Scott and his wife did the honors,
the hostess having embroidery of crystal
upon her gown of white satin. Heading the
naval representatives were Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Napier, she showing a glimmer of silver
about the waist-line of a flounced blue frock.
Lieut.-General Chauvel and his lady, Major-
General Coxen and his wife, and Major-
General Tivey led the land forces, the last-
named bringing his daughter Violet, who
w T ore forget-me-not blue taffeta.
Though the Tennis Association’s hop at
Ivooyong club-house on Saturday night was
not as well patronised as the general run
of such dances, everybody had a good time.
The weather was ideal, and a fine array of
pretty girls in pretty frocks flitted to and
fro beneath festoons of pink roses. Baskets
of flowers of all hues beautified the supper-
tables. Beth Mackey, wearing black taffeta,
who came along after the theatre, was hailed
with glee by many friends, who congratulated
her upon the success of her professional
debut.
One of the smartest private dances of the
year was given at the Rex one night last
week by Mrs. Douglas Boyd, of Tocumwal,
and Mary Macpherson, of Camperdown, the
occasion being the coming-out of Vera, elder
daughter of the Edmund Thornley couple of
Gnotuk, Western district. The ornate Rex
wore extra decoration of garlands, pink and
white lilies and balloons. The deb. wore a
lengthy much-tucked white silk frock girdled
with delphinium-blue. Mrs. Boyd, her aunt,
waved a feather fan over a matching pink lace
gown, and Miss Macpherson, the deb.’s
cousin, wore a robe of opal-green georgette
that carried a sparkle of silver and crystal.
Mrs. Thornley, reckoned the best-dressed
woman in the Western district, chose black
with scintillations of jet and diamente. Sir
Philip and Lady Grey Egerton, the Harry
Whitings, the Lance Lewis couple of Adel-
aide, the Leslie Falkiners and Mrs. Sam
McCaugliey were among the dancers.
The maiden with the dreamy eyes is Gwen,
daughter of General George Johnston, of
Melbourne. Gwen is accounted one of our
finest woman riders. She and her father sel-
dom miss a
hunting meet.
Last year at
the Hunt
Club’s point-
to-point meet-
ings she car-
ried off the cup
in the Ladies’
Steeplechase on
every occasion.
Naturally polo
has attracted
her, and she is
one of the
keenest of the
recently-
formed team of
women players.
Patrons of our
Royal Show
are among the
witnesses to
her horseman-
ship.
Almost wintry effects in weather and wear
distinguished the final day of the V.R.C.
autumn meeting at Flemington on Saturday,
but the summer motif w T as supplied by a fine
show of roses, and as favorites in many cases
behaved as they were expected to the throng
enjoyed itself immensely. But there was one
very unpopular w T in, that of Valorem, which
■was greeted with a. heartfelt and well-nigh
universal roar of disapproval. Sports suits
of the three-piece variety led the fashion,
followed by coats and skirts with furs and
some topcoats. The new jersey velour made
appearance, among the wearers being Mrs.
Alan Currie, who topped a fawn turnout
with a black velvet hat; Mrs. Dermot Casey,
who chose a suit of deep wine hue with a
matching felt hat; and Miss Gladys Collins,
who favored crimson with millinery to
match. Mrs. Chester Manifold’s jersey
shorts suit exhibited blends of purple. Mrs.
Robert Landale introduced a new note in a
three-quarter leather coat of warm red shade,
contrasted w r ith a fawn skirt and felt hat.
The G.-G. was accompanied by Lady Stone-
haven, who wore a gown of cinnamon tweed
with sable furs and nigger-brown hat. The
Countess of Kintore wore all black. Lady
Somers, who was with the State Governor,
sported a black coat with Persian lamb fur
cedar, and a diamond ornament twinkled in
her black felt hat.
This soulful face, pictured by Ruskin, be-
longs to Beatrice Oakley, whose intense
coloring is an inheritance from an Italian
ancestress. Born of a musical family, she
is now one of
our most pro-
mising Conser-
vatorium
students; after
two and a half
years’ wo r k
with an out-
si d e teacher
she gained the
coveted Melba
Scholarship
the other day.
Many excel-
lent voices
have passed
through our
Albert - street
Con., but good
judges are
agr e e d that
Beatrice’s so-
prano isi an
outstanding
one. She is also
credited with unusual dramatic expression,
and the study of grand opera will be her
chief interest during the scholarship term.
Belonging to a South Yarra family, the lass
has already appeared on the concert platform
and sung over the air.
For the Australian Cup meeting the
weather was of the Turkish-bath order, and
many fair racegoers found attendance more
of a penance than a pleasure. Dressing was
undistinguished—most folk were too lan-
guid to worry much about it —and the crowd
was not quite so dense as usual. The G.-G.
and Lady Stonehaven were in the v.-r. en-
closure. His Ex. was lunched by the com-
mittee, and his lady, whose _ black chiffon
gown was patterned in a cubist design, col-
lected some friends to eat with her in the
v.-r. suite. The State Governor was there
with Lady Somers, she in a frock of fawn
lace topped by a large lime-green Bangkok
hat wreathed with pastel-hued poppies.
Lady Caroline Agar spent her last couple
of hours in this city at Flemington, and just
before the Australian Cup was. run made
hasty farewells to all friends within reach,
and left the course with Lady Somers. Mrs.
lan MacDonald, who. wore a jumper suit
of Wedgwood blue with bordering in two
contrasting shades of blue and a white hat,
also said her adieux. Mrs. Stanley Bruce,
Mayor Morell and his lady, Geoffrey Gibbs
and his youthful wife, and her mother, Mrs.
Leslie, lately from England, were among
those who braved the heat.
The final cliukkas of the Merrang and
Stradbroke polo cup competitions were
played in more bearable weather than the
earlier rounds, and Moonee Valley racecourse
had a crowd of visitors. The play was worth
watching. Lady Stonehaven passed over the
Stradbroke Cup to the Harden team —three
Ross brothers and C. Skene, of N.S.W. —
and handed a miniature replica to each
member. The Merrang Cup went to the
Seven Creeks quartette after a hard tussle
with Lord Somers’s team. The G.-G.
watched the finals with Lady Stonehaven,
who was smartly gowned in brown-flecked
tweed, topped by a felt hat and sable furs.
Lady Somers was in coat of natural kasha
with a bois-de-rose hat. The Stonehdvens’
small girls, Ava and Ariel, were there with
Elizabeth, the Somers’s little lass. The
Countess of Kintore and Lady Hilda Keith
Falconer were other members of the v.-r.
party. The weather being cool many sports
suits were on parade, and there was a
sprinkling of tailored coats and skirts, some
of these being of a blue that put the sky
to shame.
Kathleen Gray, whose family reside at
Marine Parade, St. Kilda, motored over to
Christ Church at Sandown recently and ex-
changed vows with George, son of the
G. Ross couple, Stawell. A gown of
white and silver enveloped the bride and
diamente sparkled through a cloud of tulle.
Her sister Eileen, in three shades of pink,
and Mabel Ross, in cyclamen embroidered in
silver, attended her. Mrs. Gray gave an
after-dinner party at the Francatelli, where
the bridegroom, an inter-State sprinter of
renown, was congratulated by a host of
friends.
At sundown on Friday Jean Edgeworth
Lillie flouted a popular superstition by
stepping into the Malvern kirk and admitting
her willingness to become the wife of Dr.
lan Mclnnes. Ivory satin draped with a veil
of old Limerick lace surrounded the bride, w r ho
was decked with pearl ornaments. Nancy
Watt and cousin Agnes Staley attended her,
frocked in pink ninon set with silk bands,
and a cabachon gleamed at the side of each
flop-silk hat. Later Mrs. Edgeworth Lillie
received the guests at No. 9.
For her appointment with James Dodds,
at St. John’s, Toorak, Brenda Wood wore a
bridal gown of ivory Duchess which showed
glimpses of pink georgette, and a cloud of
pink tulle shaped into a hood was decorated
with a chaplet of pearls. Sister Natalie,
Meryl Hagenauer and Marion Kettlewell
were the maids, each wearing a peacock-
shaped gown of pink georgette fashioned
with a tight little long-sleeved coat. Yards
of stitching trimmed their large felt hats in
the same delicate tone. No. 9 was the scene
of after-rejoicings.
A romantic thrill of the week was the
engagement of pretty Elizabeth Green, yet
in her teens, to Keith Murdoch, of the
Herald publications. The maid is the
third daughter of the Rupert Green couple
of Toorak. Her dad officiates as starter at
V. meetings.
In “Tarnish,” at the Princess, Betty Ross
Clarke, as Joan Tevis, consoles herself for
a social descent to the grade of typist by
wearing a well-cut navy suit with blouse
of apricot hue and simple black hat. A
clever young actress from Brisbane, Ruth
Arnold, as a scheming manicurist, wears
vivid apparel, and the decorations of her
apartment shriek in unison. Dorothy
Dunckley, who is making her first profes-
sional appearance here, has been welcomed by
a host of friends in the role of Mrs. Tevis,
who celebrates her come-down in the social
scale by wearing fawn georgette and a
powdered coiffure. At the curtain on the
first night Betty Clarke brought Miss Arnold
forth to say a few words.
“Ruddigore,” which opened at His Majes-
ty’s on Saturday night, is attractively
costumed. Strella Wilson tripped around
as Rose Maybud, in a polonaise of soft
green hues, and later appeared in effec-
tive wedding raiment of pink. A bevy of
pretty ’maids, as professional brides’ atten-
dants, armed with pink posies, made entran-
ces in lengthy blue frocks, with veils flowing
from large hats, carrying pink posies, seek-
ing a bride. There were piles of fhrwers for
the feminine principals at the final curtain.
First-nighters included Mayor Morell, his
lady and daughter Sheila, the Colin Frazers,
the E. M. Pearces, the Geoffrey Syme pair,
the Frank Taits and Mrs. Selman. Mrs. F.
Eggleston and Mary Campbell, who taught
several of the company to warble, were in
the crowded audience, which was well sprink-
led with visitors from the countryside.
At the Town Hall one night last week
a concert given by the R.V.1.8. orchestra
and children attracted a nearly-full house.
The State Governor and Mayor Morell and
his lady were interested spectators. A fea-
ture of the evening was a series of folk and
national dances by blind girls, and there
were clever gymnastic displays by sightless
boys. President Carnegie thanked distin-
guished guests for their patronage, and Jim
Angus announced that these concerts had
raked in £2OOO towards the £20,000 required
yearly to keep the institution going.
Brenan Hall at St. Vincent’s Hospital
was dolled up with yellow flowers the other
night for the first dance of a series organised
by James O’Neill and James Whelan. The
jollo attracted 300 dancers and proved a
success in every way.
The Masson lady invited friends to her
South Yarra home to murmur their regrets
to Mrs. Lionel Hurley, who, with her colonel,
is going to set up a home in Sydney. Mrs.
W. E. Bassett assisted her mother with the
teacups, and the Spencer lady, George
Blanche’s widow and Ethel Godfrey helped
to swell the tide of chatter.
The Blessington Gaden couple, who
came south with their small daughter
Cynthia to dodge the heat, have been pre-
vented by floods from returning to their
squattage in the Bundaberg district, and
consequently missed all the excitement attend-
ing the arrival of the local hero, in which
they expected to participate. To console
themselves they are clipping into our social
gaieties under the guidance of their aunt,
Amy Loder, of Toorak.
Jim Fairbairn and his wife are planning
to vacate Mount Elephant, their country
home, for a wander abroad. His sister
Esther married Brigadier-General Wheatley,
now settled in London. So the Faii'bairns
won’t be lonesome in the Cold Country.


MING
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMOND-CIRCLE-RINGS
FROM is. 15-15-0
diamonds
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
O'
;vM°
ffi
/V 7
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem Rin&s completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rin&s procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rinfes
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other ring,s.
Drummond’s rin&s are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rin&s that can be made.
WM-DRUMMOND & €O.
HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY DIAMONDS'
Hlgj AND PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY” JEWELLERY
SPECIALLY-SELECTED DIAMONDS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Cold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS'
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£3O
lO5 =
oTV™TIB
o* .to wrs
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wrist Watch,
fully jewelled Lever movement. Silk Band.
£3
GUARANTEED.
wm
C:\ ;
A. SAUNDER'S’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Elgin Lever
Strap Watch,
£5/10/-
Luminous Dial, £6/10/-
Smaller size, Oct. Gold, £B/10/-
Luminous Dial, £lO
ALL GUARANTEED!
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9et. Gold jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£6/10/-
GUARANTEED.
Other fancy r shapes—
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/- to £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster
set Platinum
18ct. Gold Ring
£3O
Larger Diamond,
£4O
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£65
A. SAUNDERS’
2 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£5O
inEjaraia
BSWSir
A. • SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Patinum,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£95
WE PAY POSTAGE WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK.
A. SAUNDERS,
YVa t rlima k e r—J eweller—Optic i a n,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
3$
Wi
'Sfait
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
O ne °f the reasons for the success of the “Suntyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface, covered to a uniform
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes from 17 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne. 102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney. Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Distributors for Queensland; H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
Kin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
Champagne
Qiarieslleidste^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“Mum.” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
HOliJ.
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 2 7/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-1
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Eighty thousand proud Australians trav-
elled out to Mascot on Saturday in the hope
of catching a glimpse of Hinkler and his
little ’plane. Long before lunch-time, although
the landing was not timed till 3.30, the
pilgrimage to the aerodrome had begun. Many
of the crowd, in true Sydney fashion, took
a sandwich or two in a suitcase, and, having
got a good possy on the rise or near the
barrier, commenced to stave off the pangs of
hunger. AH the afternoon the city’s trains
and ’buses and cars and lorries poured out
spectators of the biggest show of the year;
and long before three o’clock the landing-
looked like a hollow square in a great army.
It was a gay crowd, an expectant and ex-
alted crowd, bound in a happy kinship by
their admiration for the intrepid, lonely and
modest little airman whose course they had
followed day by day as he Hew over desert
and deep, through rain and wind and under
torrid suns.
Loud speakers ticked off the flight from
Newcastle, raucous and disturbing to the
imagination that wanted to scud through the
southerly, close to the flying clouds, with this
Puck of Empire. Up among the mingled
grey and blue of the afternoon’s sky juggling
’planes tossed and darted and looped; and
it would have only seemed a proper part of
the magic afternoon if their drone had sud-
denly turned into some celestial showman's
voice booming: “Ladies and gentlemen, yon
are sure these are aeroplanes—quite sure,
aren’t you? Well, look again! the sky is
a crystal bowl and they are flying fish, flying
fish!” Came Premier Bavin to the official
stand; came the Mayor of Mascot; came
aldermen and members of Parliament; came
Captain Geoffrey Hughes. The knowing
ones in the crowd ticked them all off. Came
a retiring little lady escorted by a nice girl
and a boy. And “That’s his mother!” was
cried along the waiting lines. Policemen
stiffened, the time was drawing on.
“There he is !” broke in a shout like the
roar of surf. And there he was, cleaving the
heights, his rushing ’plane like quicksilver
along a line of steel-grey cloud. The übiqu-
itous statistician said lie was then 2000 feet
high, but he dropped lower than the escort-
ing planes that triumphantly throbbed and
drummed him in. At one minute to schedule
time the silver ’plane gleamed less than 200
feet above the cheering, madly-jubilant thou-
sands. There it poised, its occupant waving
his acknowledgment of the tumult, till one
by one the attendant ’planes slipped to earth
and quickly slid into the hangar. Then in a
slow, graceful rhythm the Machine and the
Man dropped—dropped into a deafening,
dizzying surf of sound: cheers, the clanging
of motor-liorns, a band playing the “Conquer-
ing Hero.” And the Man, whatever his inner
emotions, turned a smiling, unruffled face to
it all.
President of the Aero Club Captain
Geoffrey Plughes greeted Hinkler, and his
mother and sister unaffectedly kissed him.
Then the crowd, fearing it was going to
lose sight of this sub-Olympian, surged to the
platform ; but, presently, after the Premier’s
welcome and Hinkler’s reply, the platform
was cleared of officials as well as public,
and just the young man and his mother
stood there arm in arm, smiling at the
crowds. Later still, that even those on the
outermost rim could go home with the satis-
faction of really having seen him, the good-
natured fellow climbed a press photographer’s
ladder, and from it smiled and waved to his
admirers. And this Letter can’t help wonder-
ing if it was some boyhood memories of hav-
ing had his own line of vision on show days
blocked by the tall of stature that prompted
the little hero’s thoughtful action.
From Brisbane to Sydney in one day,
with two big receptions thrown in, might
have been thought enough; but Hinkler
tucked in a visit to the T.B. men in Rand-
wick Hospital, impressively escorted thereto
by mounted police; a call on the Governor,
a visit to the Cenotaph, and a reception
given in his honor by the returned soldiers.
Intrepid Bert Hinkler had to lighten his
little ’plane as much as possible for the
final hop from Darwin to Bundaberg; but,
having reached his homeland, he simply had
to have with him the paper whose name
meant home to him. So lie brought some
sheets of The Bulletin with him, and then
did one of those kindly things that have made
him so popular—having signed his name
across the cover, he posted it at Bundaberg
to the editor in Sydney.
Now that March is here with its fresh
mornings and nights, the lethargy of the
Turkish-bath ond-of-summer is being thrown
off. Woman once more is planning assault
on the nublic purse for the benefit of innumer-
able charities, and cabaret meetings consume
the morning hours. Foremost among the
schemes afoot is Mrs. Hugh Munro’s appeal
for £5OOO to help the flying doctor of the
Inland Mission.
Ermine and astrakhan figure largely as
trimming for winter coats, and, incidentally,
velvet in coats and the three-piece suit are
much in evidence. Pleats still in, and the
boat neck is making a bid for favor. White
is popular for evening frocks; and artificial
jewellery, especially diamond bracelets, can
be worn by the ton. Skirts are just below
instead of just above the knee; and frills
are sewn on quite flat to get away from the
sub-deb suggestion.
It was a bubbling house which gave wel-
come to the Gonsalez Grand Opera Co. at
the St. James on Saturday; a house which
babbled and chattered, and occasionally
emitted from the confusion a sharp, musical
bit of Italian to show that Italia in Sydney
had turned out loyally to greet its country-
men and -women. No doubt, this section pro-
vided a lead in the gusty enthusiasm with
which nearly everything was received, in-
cluding an orchestra Which is mainly Aus-
tralian, although conducted by one of the
Gonsalez triumvirate. The De Chairs smiled
on the house; and Premier Bavin and nis
wife were also amongst those present.
Lady de Chair was in lilac georgettes and
silver lace, and Mrs. Walter Swinson, who
accompanied her, was cloaked in black and
gold. The Chief-Justice Streets were among
the circle-seaters; and the Premier Bavins
shared their box with the Russian prima
donna Hankina and Margerita Flor, the
Danish soprano. The Russian lady has no
fears of green, for her frock shone like a
new leaf. Pier unshingled fair hair was
coiled closely to her head, on which was
worn an ikon head-dress of onyx. The James
Fairfaxes, Ben Fuller and his lady, Dr.
Evatt and his wife, the Stuart Doyles,
Nellie Stewart and George Tallis were a
few of the night’s pointed-outs.
Here is a May Moore picture of Miss
Newton Russell, of the Glenmore-road public
school, Paddington, a mathematical genius
who, like that other mathematician, the loved
Lewis Carroll, has an intense love for and
interest in
children. His
fondness for
kiddies led to
the writing of
immortal
“A lice in
Wonderland,”
and the little
A u s t r a lian
teacher’s in-
terest in them
has turned
arithmetic into
a game. Down
pleasant paths
where beckons
the magic num-
ber 10 the
youngster is
led to a fairy
rainbow that
throws a
dazzling light
on the here-
tofore grey subjects of addition and
subtraction, multiplication and division.
On the way the kiddy meets the Even Num-
ber family and the Odd Number family—
learns to know them by sight and touch and
sound. A particularly jolly part of the game
is called “Awake and Asleep,” and after
you’ve played it once or twice you’ve learned
about fractions and decimals and square-
roots. Little girls in play-aprons and small
chaps in sandals, if they’ve the luck to be
Newton Russell babies, can juggle areas
and percentages with a Town Hall con-
tractor or an income-tax collector. Some of
the training schools in America have heard
of the system, and are interested in it. Let-
ters come from China and Java and the
Northern Territory and Maoriland asking
for individual sets of the arithmetic game.
It has even been installed in a private
school in the north of Scotland. Educa-
tional bigwigs in Adelaide, - Melbourne and
Perth have written in its praise. One woman
exclaims: “It is so simple, I wonder no one
has thought of it before.” But only genius
could have ma|e it so simple. Even so,
into the making of this game, in which color
and fancy are woven, how many of a busy
and often very weary teacher’s recreation
hours have gone!
Sydney enjoyed a sort of theatrical carnival
last week: on Saturday there were three
new shows, and on the previous night there
were two big picture events. One was the
presentation of quite a unique film—“ Chang”
—at the Prince Edward, in which the per-
formers are natives and wild animals. The
bigger event, though, was the opening of
the Regent —the latest word in picture-house
magnificence. The building and its adorn-
ments cost over £300,000; and the money
seems to be all there. A great deal of the
magnificence is about the entrance; the
spacious ground-floor approach is a dazzling
thing of marble, fountains, and statuary ; the
winding stairs, over which hang magnificent
chandeliers, lead into a heavily carpeted,
richly furnished salon, the end walls of
which are cunningly fitted mirrors that give
an impression of limitless space. The rest
of the walls are covered with paintings by
Continental artists. The theatre itself is
less decorative; but it is well ventilated, and
the seats, especially in the d.c. lounge, are
very comfortable.
The profits of the gala night were given
to the Hospital Saturday fund; but there
must have been a big free list. The heads of
all the theatrical managements put in an ap-
pearance ; the Tait clan and the Fuller clan,
the Union Picture people, and the Tallis and
Thring interests were side by side; Parlia-
ment was present in such force that it might
have been in session on the premises, and
newspaper heads —apart from the representa-
tives on duty—were also amongst those pre-
sent. Even W. G. Conley, of the S.M.
Herald, who is not frequently noticeable at
these events, was in the d.c.
Evelyn Stewart Jeffrey, a Brisbane lass
who loved a sailor, came to St. Philip’s
on Church Hill one night last week. The
young man was Lieut. George Hulton
Mocatta, who also claims Brisbane as his
home town. White silk tulle patterned in
tiny gold beads formed the exquisite wedding
frock, the skirt of which was the new fan-
shape coming almost to the knee in front
and to- the ankles at the back. The bodice
was made with a tiny bolero and a deep
swathed belt. With this went a long full
transparent train embroidered in gold, a
plain white tulle veil, and an armful of
yellow roses. Bride’s cousin Marjory
Manchee and Alison Smith maided in golden
chiffons, of which the square-cut bodices and
the uneven lengths of the skirts were outlined
in rhinestones.
Kathleen Shaw, of Mosman, joined the
procession of Lenten brides when she kept
tryst with Major A. V. Sandford, D. 5.0., son
of the late General. Silver-beaded white
chiffons over palest pink and a soft white
felt hat were the glad raiment of the con-
senting lady when Canon Howard Lea put
the questions to her at St. Mark’s. The
’groom was best-manned by John Wright,
but the bride had only her father’s arm to
support her. Toasts followed at the Carlton.
When Archibald Charles Mitchell Mac-
donald, eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Dan
Macdonald, of Yurabi, Goulburn, led Lilian
Edge to the altar at St. Stephen’s, he re-
minded many of his grandfather, the late
Samuel Mitchell, a former S. Australian
politician and later Government Resident at
Darwin. Among the lookers-on, stately in
a black panne velvet-edged with diamante,
was Aunt Nance —Miss Macdonald, of Goul-
burn. Rev. Hugh Paton officiated. After-
wards Mrs. Ellis Upton, another aunt, acted
as hostess. Dainty Jean Macdonald, who
maided, wore a picturesque frock of white
lace over pale-blue crepe de Chine.
Beryl Coventry, of Lyndhurst station,
Armidale, framed the pretty oval of her face
with a pink tulle veil when she sought the
blessing of St. Philip’s on her wedding with
Sidney Downe. The young man, who hails
from Devon, was supported during his wait
for his white-and-silver bride by best-man
Jack Maclean. Ena Coventry, in a spread-
ing frock of silver lace that suggested Colum-
bine caught in moonlight, stepped demurely
after her sister. Later, above red roses and
black lace, the bride’s mother did the honors
at the Wentworth.
A North Shore line bride of the week was
Mary Hammond, whose white georgettes were
panelled with rhinestones and crystals. Over
this her pink veil floated away into a long
rosy flame like the tail of some particularly
dazzling meteor. Pink roses and buckled sil-
ver shoes were other features of the raiment.
Four ’maids in watermelon-pink georgettes
girdled in rhinestones followed the gleaming
trail. Jack Rossell. of Summer Hill, was the
bridegroom, and Reg Ludowici was the
friend who stood by him while the Rev. Leo
Charlton assigned him his bride.
Nola Kerr, only olive-branch of the W. L.
Kerrs, of Centennial Park, slipped unobtru-
sively into St. Stephen’s last week and linked
hands and heart with Alan McGregor, of
Adelaide. Old family friend Dr. Mclntyre
pushed home the celestial rivets, and Mr.
Kerr handed his daughter over. She
strolled into matrimony casually frocked in
the übiquitous jumper suit. This was of
white crepe meteor and was worn with a pet
of a white felt hat, its brim cuddled with
white breast-feathers from a bird unclassified.
A shoulder spray of orchids and a long
beaded bag were carried. In these last two
details she was copied by her matron of
honor, Mrs. Reginald Bridge, who was other-
wise clad in rose beige moire and a rose
velour hat.
Another jumper-clad bride took the matri-
monial hurdle the same day. She was May
Dobell, one-time of Waverley, and the peach-
pink of her georgette jumper frock crescen-
doed to one of the new pink velour hats. A
shoulder spray of orchids was an expensive
after-thought. Bride’s sister, Mrs. W. Hill,
of Elizabeth Bay, rendered first-aid in sky-
blues and a shoulder-posy of pink carnations.
Hal Bartlett was best man to the groom, who
was Beresford Bruce Burge, son of the
medical Bruce Burges, of Waverley.
Ada Carr, of Neutral Bay, has picked St.
Philip’s for her wedding with Jack Leigh
Vivers on March 21. He’s a nephew of Dr.
George Vivers, of Glen Innes.
Dayne made this study of Mrs. Albert
Lit 11 ejo h n,
one of Syd-
ney’s most sin-
cere leaders of
women’s move-
ments. Mrs.
Littlejohn is
an ardent
Feminist and
an exce Ile u t
speaker. She
has an aston-
ishing know-
ledge of Aus-
t r a 1 i a n and
internatio n a 1
politics, is a
fine hostess, a
smart frocker,
and a consis-
tent worker in
good causes.
Her particular
interest at the
moment is
Maude Hoyden, the preacher and lecturer
who is taking in Sydney on her round-the-
world tour. Mrs. Littlejohn is president of
the hospitality committee formed by repre-
sentative Sydney women.
Pauline Watt, Ernest Watt’s eldest daugh-
ter, a pretty girl famed for the length of her
eyelashes, is engaged to be married. The
man is Captain Clayton, R.N. Wedding
chimes in London towards the end of the
year.
Archie Cripps-Clark, whose marriage with
Olga Watson, of Moss Yale, is to be cele-
brated soon, is a son of the old-established
Bulletin writer who mixes pastoral pur-
suits with sea chantys—surely no other liv-
ing soul has brought off that double so suc-
cessfully.
The bride-to-be in Sydney’s eye at the
moment is Joyce Russell, daughter of the H.
A. Russells, of. Darling Point. Her wedding
with Dr. Brian Windeyer at St. Mark’s on
March 21 promises a clothes-thrill.
Phyllis Yale, the youthful eldest of the
Harrie Vales’ four daughters (all blondes),
is contemplating matrimony with Cecil
Schartl. The young man lives at Elizabeth
Bay and Phyllis at Strathfield, but love
laughs even at railway commissioners and
high train fares.
The Mooltan ball for the Royal Life-
Savers was a glittering event in a world that
has not yet had the green mould of the
steamy summer rubbed olf. The moon
gleamed, the decks gleamed and there was a
strong tendency on the part of the dresses
to gleam, too. This was particularly notable
in the garb of Mrs. W. A. Mackay, tall and
impressive in smart black swallow-tails over
white georgette splashed with silver and gold
sequins. The Chief Justice’s lady, who was
president, came in satin and silver lace, and
Ruth Beale shone in black satin with a nice
length of dangling pearls. The Kelso Kings,
he being president of the society, looked in on
the roystering, and daughters Olive and Hazel
in misty blues joined in the fun. Very spick
and span the P. and O. people had made the
liner, and the stewards very decently gave their
evening to waiting at the sit-down supper in
the saloon that bloomed like a rose-garden as
the result of Kelso King’s clipping of the
bushes at Quambi —even that expansive gar-
den couldn’t have had a bud left
France in Sydney has been feting Pierre
Benoit, the writer, and his wife. The
Frenchman, who has slow, humorous eyes,
a disposition to plumpness and a fondness
for animals, particularly cats, won’t learn
English. Probably he hasn’t time. That is
why his listeners at the French Alliance
party in his honor last week had to turn
ear to a lecture on Angora that was in very
colloquial French. The party was staged
at Sargent’s in Market-street, whose white
and gilt ballroom is becoming quite familiar
with the Marseillaise. Mrs. Benoit was very
smart in black satin that wore a hip-bow of
pink from which slid a long panel of black
satin lined with pink—very smart. The lady
before her marriage was a well-known French
actress.


blos ltd.
< '
m
tm
PEARL NECKLETS
and loose Pearls
Always fashionable and in per-
fect taste for every occasion, a
Pearl Necklet is a woman’s most
prized possession, no other Jewels
giving such lasting pleasure.
A small Pearl Necklet is often
purchased, and on Birthdays and
other Anniversaries extra Pearls
added until a large and valuable
string is obtained.
Hardy’s stock of Pearl Necklets
and loose Pearls are bought only
on the most favorable terms and
offer the best value and largest
selection in Australasia.
Pearl Necklets range from £lO/10/- to £5OOO.
Five per cent, discount for Cash.
Hardy’s Catalogue will be sent Post Free to any address, on request.
2*B-300
COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
< 27ie Jfou&c oP Eaxduswc&eweUay
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
U6-JIB
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
"
T i
S.
2 s
j ’HE Orient Line Mail Route by
1 way of Ceylon, Eygpt, Italy, France,
Gibralter, is the most attractive of all
routes to England. Added to the pleas-
ure and interest of visiting so many
picturesque countries during the voy-
age are the enjoyment and comfort to
be had on board the Orient Liners,
with their vast sports and promenade
decks, their spacious and luxuriously
fitted public rooms, and their excellent
cabin accommodation.
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET * - SYDNEY
The Little Sisters
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Chamber of Commerce delegates
worked and played hard during their visit.
Ilis Ex. and Margaret O’Grady entertained
a large party on the opening day at Govern-
ment house; Mayor and Mayoress Wignall
held a civic reception in the Town Hall;
Mrs. Tom Murdoch (wife of the local presi-
dent) concentrated on the women, and tea-ed
and dined them at the Imperial and in her
own home, St. Andrew’s; Mrs. Lamprill held
a reception for them; the Grants, High
Peak, gave tea to a large party en route to
the Huon ; and an opportunity of seeing the
country was taken by a large number who
went up by rail-motor to W. E. Shoobridge’s
at Busby Park, where hop-picking was in
full swing. The O’Grady presided over the
official dinner at Hadley’s, w’here over 100
sat down.
The Chamber of Commerce conference’s
social activities culminated in a luncheon
given by the Orient Co. on board the Otranto,
and the company did everything possible
to give its guests a delightful time. Dainty
bouquets veiled in tulle were laid beside each
lady’s plate; Commander Staunton played
host, with the O’Grady on his right. The
Thomas Murdoch couple and knights Wal-
lace Bruce and John Evans had seats at the
head table.
The last week of the visit of the R.A.N.
squadron was a gay one for the younger set.
Dances were given on the Adelaide, Sydney
and Platypus. Now the harbor looks very
empty, and the usual end-of-summer exodus
has begun.
Among well-known Hobart folk bound for
Blighty are Mrs. Darcy Addison and her
son Alick; the Alan Walkers and Miss
Hook; Kay Masterman and his sister Eve;
Miss D. Gaggin, who takes under her wing
Peggy Crane; the Wilfred Hudspeths, pere
et fils, and Alfred Ashbolt and his lady.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
No prince of blood royal has had a greater
reception in Brisbane than Bert Hinkler,
who arrived amid sunshine and cheering. The
very roofs were thronged, although it was
only a partial holiday. At Ascot, where he
made his landing after leaving Bundaberg
in the morning, fences and lawns and sur-
rounding eyries were dense with spectators.
His Ex. was the first to welcome the natty
little airman, remarkable for the width of
his forehead, the directness of his eyes and
the smallness of his hands—hands that dis-
sected birds when he was a boy to learn
“the reason” of their flight and weighed their
bodies to see how the wind affected different
sizes. The Mayor and Mayoress, Colonel
and Mrs. Campbell, Major Wolff, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Ryder and Mr. C. A. Morris
were in the official stand. Brisbane was at
its gayest when the airman passed through
the principal streets.
In the white interior of the Town Hall,
where the Mayor’s reception was held,
maiden-hair fern with crimson and cream
roses and a miniature aeroplane twined with
dahlias and bebe roses and entirely com-
posed of flowers bound with maroon, with
draped flags behind the mayoral chair, were
part of the decorations. Lady Goodwin was
in rose beige mariette with a shoulder cape
of lace. Her hat was of pink visca straw
and she carried a raffia broidered parasol.
Mrs. Jolly was in champagne crepe de Chine
with amber hat. Mrs. Hinkler, mother of
the hero, was in navy and Picasso red, with
drooped satin hat. Mrs. Maurice Baldwin
presented a bouquet of roses. Queenie Hink-
ler chose cyclamen-pink. She was staying at
Lennon’s with her mother and other mem-
bers of the family. Lieut. Hinkler was the
guest of the Governor and Lady Goodwin.
On Tuesday evening their Exes, had a din-
ner party at Government House. Lieut.
Hinkler, Mr. and Mrs. William Lennon,
Mrs. Hinkler (senior), the Premier and Mrs.
McCormack, the Mayor and Mrs. Jolly,
Archbishop Sharp, C.-J. Blair, the Cold-
hams, Forgan Smiths and E. T. Bells were
amongst the diners.
Lorna Ruddle —whose photo is adjacent—
married Roy Johnston in St. John’s Cathedral,
which was decked with Eucharis-lilies, roses
and dahlias. The Rev. W. Thompson tied
the knot; the
bride, who was
given away by
her father, was
in ivory mari-
ette. Her court-
train was of
bridal-tulle and
her veil Lim-
erick lace. She
carried lilies of
the valley, ste
phanotis ana
Eucharis lilies.
Vivienne and
Rene Ruddle
and Vol John-
ston ’maided
and Yvonne
Laverack was
train - bearer.
All wore pow-
der - blue taf-
fetas with
tight - fitting
bodices and bouffant skirts, petalled, and
caught wfith tiny pink rosebuds, and picture
hats of tulle fastened with a large pink rose.
They carried radiance roses for bouquets. Mr.
C. Atkinson best manned. The wedding
breakfast was at Melvic, New Farm, and
the honeymoon is being spent in Sydney and
Melbourne.
Governor’s Cup day at Ascot was somo-
-cdiaA overcast. Sir John Goodwin presented
the cup to J. Conway, part-owner of Maroon
Gun, the winner of the big race. Lady
Goodwin wore navy mariette and silk lace,
with a hat of navy ribbon. Pretty Mrs.
Campbell was in oyster marocain, with a
pandan hat. Mrs. T. J. Ryan wore French
grey, with a posy of lily of the valley and a
grey tagel cloche. Mrs. Isaac Moore was in
black-and-white crepe de Chine with black
picture hat. Mrs. Stanley Chapman, always
smart, wore navy crepe de Chine. Mrs.
Kenneth Dalzell chose green linen and cream
hat; Mrs. Gray Buchanan wore hydrangea
blue; Mrs. Morgan Lane, ivory mariette;
Mrs. C. E. Sligo, grey with touches of ver-
milion ; Audrey Coldham was in blue; Mrs.
W. B. Journeaux, one of our most pictur-
esque matrons, was in cream crepe de Chine
with green and black stripings.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Society from town and country motored
to York to see Margaret of the Parker clan
stand under a monster wedding-bell with
Frank Manford. The bride wore white
georgette, the skirt having four tiers of
pleatings. A beautiful lace veil was sur-
mounted by a coronet of pearls. The bride’s
sister Jessie and Peggie Manford attended
in rose-pink lightly sprinkled with gold beads,
Eva Corbett, who won an Orient Scholar-
ship and sailed for England and Spain in
December, broke her journey in South
Africa, where, during a two weeks’ stay, she
decided to relinquish her studies in favor of
housekeeping. The man is Raoul Kalian,
manager of Rand Refineries, Ltd. May is
fixed for the wedding in England, and after
a honeymoon in Norway the couple will
visit Perth at the end of the year.
This is Dr. Rita Stang, who for three
years has filled the job of Medical Cancer
for Schools. She also gives lectures in
hygiene at the
Teacher s’
Training Col-
-leg e. Vi c-
torian -born
she spent her
school days at
the P.L.C., took
li e r medical
degree at Mel-
bourne ’Var-
sity, and is
one of the few
women in
Australia to
secure a dip-
loma in Public
Health. She
hung a brass-
plate in Port
Fairy, and was
the first wo-
rn a n medical
officer for
Dookie Agri-
cultural College before coming west. Bart-
letto snapped the portrait.
Dr. O’Connor’s only son, Leo, has won the
heart and hand of pretty Daphne Byron,
only daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Wilfred
Byron and niece of Lady Campion.
“A shilling in for Greta” is the slogan of
the month. Greta Bulline, the victim of
terrible injuries from the propeller of a
launch while bathing at Como, has created
much sympathy by her plucky fight for life.
A committee, topped by Mrs. Hugh Tor-
rance, Mrs. Clarke, Knight Thomas Coombe,
Alec Clydesdale and Hamilton Brown, has
sets itself the task of raising £lOOO.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The chief event of the week has been the
tennis tournament. The heat-wave continued
the whole time, and at the welcome ten-
dered to the French players by Mayor Bony-
tlion Jean Borotra, with a twinkle in his
eye, referred to the “warmth” of their re-
ception. The visitors were guests of honor
at. a social and dance given by L’Alliance
Francaise at the Arcadia cafe. Members who
had been polishing up their French were dis-
appointed to find that the visitors speak
English as well as we do. There was a
brief musical and vocal programme, with
dances by Phyllis and Peggy Leitch in cos-
tume. French Consul Moulden and his lady
were present, and those of the party who
were not L’Alliance Francaise members be-
longed to the Tennis Association.
On Sunday the Frenchmen were taken to
the hills, the French Consul and his wife
giving a large tea party at the kiosk re-
cently opened on the top of Mount Lofty.
There were decorations of blue, white and
red, and Adelaide’s Mayor and his lady and
all the leading lights of tennis were there.
After tea the visitors were taken over the
Bonython place, the tower of which com-
mands a panoramic view of hills and plains.
In spite of the heat and the high price
of seats there was a wonderful attendance
at the tennis, and the maiden admirers of
the three B’s will start the dance season
with raw-red necks in consequence.
Clive Carey, of the Elder Conservatorium,
left on Saturday for Sydney, on his way to
London. He was given a farewell at the
class meeting of those interested in folk songs
and dances, the occasion serving also as a wel-
come to Mrs. Charles Todd and Todd,
just returned after 18 months abroad. Both
were attired in the smart new velvet frocks,
choosing . grey and green respectively. The
Mawson lady made a speech and presented
Clive Carey with a picture as a parting gift
from the folk-dancers, and Dr. Gertrude
Halley said pleasant things. Supper fol-
lowed.
The 10th and 48th Battalions, which had
been in camp at Gawler for a week, took
part in a time-honored ceremony. There
was a march past the Town Hall, where
Mayor Bonython took the salute, and the
Union Jack was dipped as the 10th Bat-
talion (Adelaide Rifles) passed by in recog-
nition of the long association of the regi-
ment with the city. All the local brass
hats were there with their wives.
H. S. Hudd, M.L.A., opened the garden
fete at the Anzac Hostel at Glenelg with a
speech touching upon the forgetfulness of
the public for what our returned men did
for us. The response to invitations gets
smaller every year.


By Appointment to H.M.K-ing George
Lcylands are s<xd and
serviced in Australia
by direct branches of
the English Factory.
4ft
& -
E
FACTORY REPORT
±v\
Speeding' up
PRODUCTION
CROM their work of carrying raw materials
to city factories to that of transporting the
essentials of production to outback settlers,
Leyland Lorries are speeding up production
throughout Australia in a hundred different
ways.
Day in and day out, in all weathers and over
all roads, Leyland Lorries carry heavy loads
with time-table promptness. Their sturdy
British construction proves itself in thousands
of trouble-free miles. Long life, low upkeep
costs, consistent service—these are the sound
reasons for Leyland economy.
55,000 MILES
Total Cost of Repairs £l5
MESSRS TETLEY’S Ice Works, Sydney, advise
that a rebuilt 4-ton R.A.F. Leyland pur-
chased in December, 1924, has to date done 55,000
miles and the total cost of repairs during that period
has not exceeded £l5. Messrs. Tetley s also
operate a 2-ton Leyland, which has done over
30,000 miles with a total cost for maintenance and
repairs of £32.
Write to Department S 5 for descriptive Leyland literature.
Please state the type of lorry in which you are interested.
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works.
2/2} Ton. . £720 4 Ton. . . £1075
3 Ton £B5O 5/6 Ton. £llB5
-fcid-
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 CROSVENOR ST
•• SYDNEY -
SERVICE STATIONS
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot:—
Brisbane Depot
Cr. Villiers & Courtney Streets,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Grey Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
Profactum Tip _ Salve for
your chemist has it. —Advt.
cracked
lips—
[9..
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
“T WAS a wallflower against last night,
I mother.” , .
* “Most unfortunate, my dear, mob.
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry i
“I’m not going to suppose anything of the
sort.”
“But if no man asks me?”
“Then, you’ve got to do your part, and
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.” >(
“Then you’d better go into a nunnery."
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit me. I’m
too fond of the joys of the world.
“What about going to the Islands as a
missionary ?” .
“And run the chance of being eaten.
“Whatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal islands.”
“Rv the way Millicent what are you
wearing for the dance on luesday !
“I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy
and my hair like rats’ tails.
“How very rude of her.”
“Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue eyes.
“Of course, you have.”
Instead of going to the dance Millicent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was very
fond. , • .. r
“I’m delighted to see you, dear, was Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.” . _ ...
“I was, but—er —well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.” . . x , ,
“I’m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that book
I lent you?” .
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and, earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?” .
“It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me.”
“In the first place you need a good cream
that will nourish, and at the same time re-
move the discoloration from your skin.
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face; but have you ever tried mcrcolized
wax?” , ,
‘No- I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.” , . ..
“Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a Ion" time. You’ve heard of Frenchwomen
go ng into retirement during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process. „
“Yes; I’ve read about it.”
“Well, mercolized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—l always use I llenta Soap the)
apply the wax to your face and neck
Wash it off in the morning, and befoie
nowdering rub in a little of the mcrcolized
wax which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder
always use cleminite, which gives that so
velvety bloom to the complexion.
“For those blackheads on your nose and
chin sty mol tablets are the best cure Dio
n tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided batlm the face ww i
the liquid. After drying you will findl that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there b
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mr*.
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
be done is to shampoo it with stallax.
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don t
suppose you know of anything that wn
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do —something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous!” .
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist s
and you apply on retiring at night Bius,
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any slioit pieces
CU “Oh, how lovely that will be! You can’t
think what a load you ve taken off my m -
Now if you would only prescribe somethin*
for my red hands. I’m so ashamed of them.
“I can, dear, give you a prescription tha
I’ve tried myself with the best results. -
bicrolium jelly to your list of wants fiom
Se cKisf This pleasant non-greasj suV
-•tance auickly blanches the hands, removes
?an clears out the dirt which soap canno
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.” _ .
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, t
know all these things. „
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.
“Oh, there’s Jones for me. Good-nigh,
Mrs. Douglas; I don’t know how to thank
J °“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I have tiki you. When you have unproved
your skin and hair you will be dmte beauti
ful and should make many conquests witn
those pretty violet-blue eyes.


e
7^
))
Bottles of 36-2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
Tteu0j
Yeaston
Pure Dried }.
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One to four Tabfela
Tom PS «tt tCo
leaneyed, clear-skinned, radiant health and normal
digestion may be yours, however run down you
feel. Yeaston Tablets —pure, living yeast, rich in health'
giving vitamines, will build new health, new life within
your system.
Not in an hour nor a day, for Yeaston works in Nature’s
way —gradually. But results are permanent
Start a course of Yeaston to-day!
A FREE FULL SIZE SAMPLE BOTTLE
will be sent to you, post free, if you simply cut out this adv.rtisment
(or mention the Bulletin) and send with your name and aadress to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO. PTY. LTD.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
sgah
“Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Girl Friend’’
Criterion “Caroline’’
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli . Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Ruddigore”
King’s “Thark”
Royal “The Terror”
Athen.suil Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Italy was almost as well represented in
the house as on tlie stage when the Gonsalez
opera season opened at the St. James on
Saturday night; and this naturally added to
the enthusiasm with which “II Trovatore”
was received. Nina Algozino, who rose to real
heights as Azucena in “Strida la Vampa,”
lias histrionic powers above the other mem-
bers of the cast. Rosita Sylvestri, who
possesses an expressive soprano, knows bet-
ter what to do with her voice than with her-
self, but her Leonora was effective. The
Manrico was Alesandro Rota, whose singing
is artistic, although his voice faltered at
some of the high jumps in “II Balen.” In
the lighter work he was excellent. The
robust Franco Izal showed himself an ex-
tremely useful Count di Luna; but the
most successful of the male singers was
Ernesto Fumeagalli (Ferrando), whose pro-
found bass notes gave the show a good open-
ing in “All’erta.” An orchestra of 40 had
to make repeated acknowledgments for its
good work, but the chorus was sometimes
uneven. A commendable feature of the casting
was the convincing youth of characters who
should be youthful. Last night (Tuesday)
"La Traviata” was due, and will be re-
peated on Friday; “II Trovatore” reappears
to-night and on Saturday afternoon; “Rigo-
letto” comes on Thursday and on Wednes-
day of next week; the Saturday performance
is “Faust,” with repetitions on Monday and
Friday; “Norma” arrives on Tuesday next
(and the following Saturday) ; and “Un
Ballo in Maschera” is held over for Thurs-
day of next week.
* * * *
The Vanbrugh-Boucicault co. changed into
the comedy garments of “Caroline” on Satur-
day night at the Sydney Criterion. The most
delightful passage of Somerset Maugham’s
comedy comes at the conclusion of the first
act, when Caroline Ashley and Robert Old-
ham simultaneously discover that after 10
years of anticipation of married bliss they do
not really w r ant the reality which has become
possible by the death of Caroline’s husband.
What follows would hardly be worth while
except for the delightful acting of Irene
Vanbrugh as Caroline. Piqued at the readi
ness of Robert to fall into her own mood,
Caroline turns to the youthful Rex Cunning-
ham (Hugh Williams) for consolation; but
lie, too, hurriedly withdraws when it appears
that marriage is possible. The happy status
quo is restored when Dr. Cornish, admirably
portrayed by Dion Boucicault, after assur-
ing Caroline that she is suffering from
middle-age, announces that the husband is
not as dead as he was reported. The resur-
rection of hubby enables both Robert and
Rex to surrender themselves once more to
hopeless passion without the risk of matri-
mony, and Caroline again to enjoy the de-
votion which has become essential to her.
Prudence Vanbrugh and Peggy Carter make
a bright pair of interfering friends, and
Annie Saker a competent Cooper.
“The Donovan Affair,” produced at the
Sydney Palace on Saturday, begins with
Harvey Adams, as Inspector John Killian,
marshalling on to the stage the dozen people
present at the Rankin dinner party at which
young Donovan was killed, in order that he
may interrogate them about the mysterious
crime. After that thrill succeeds thrill until
the mystery is unravelled just before curtain-
fall. The melodrama does not need the mys-
terious lights of “The Ringer” or the shrieks
off stage of “The Terror” to add to its creeps.
Suspicion veers from one member of the com-
pany to another as the police chief continues
his probing for information, and extracts an
occasional piece which somebody had hoped
to conceal. Harvey Adams, as the deter-
mined but bewildered sleuth, holds the floor
through the evening; Muriel Starr, as Jean
Rankin, who with David Cornish (Elln
Irving) provides the love interest, has merely
a minor part. Robert Purdie plays Pro-
fessor Donovan, a kindly old gentleman in
whiskers who refuses to believe that his son
was a rotter who deserved killing; Mayne
Lynton, as Peter Rankin, makes an irascible
person of the host whose dinner party has
been upset; and Fred Coape finds a part to
fit him as the butler of the disturbed estab-
lishment. Zara Clinton presents a con-
vincingly objectionable second wife of Peter
Rankin, Nancye Stewart is a hysterical
Ruth Linsey, and Bertha Ballenger is the
servant, Mary Doyle.
“Take the Air” is to supersede “The Film
Girl” at Sydney Empire on Saturday night.
Comedian Fred Bluett will be in the new
cast. Frank Neil is making a change at the
Grand Opera House, where Sheridan’s old
laughter-raiser, “Fun on the Bristol,” is to
succeed “Up in Mabel’s Room” for the last
two weeks of the company’s season. “The
Girl Friend,” at Her Majesty’s, and “The
Trial of Mary Dugan/’ at the Royal, remain
undisturbed until Easter.
The Cherniavskys commence their season
at Sydney Conservatorium on Saturday, with
concerts to follow on Wednesday and Thurs-
day.
* * *
Ann Suter keeps at the head of the Syd-
ney Tivoli bill; she has varied her act
pleasingly, but “Hustling Hinkler” remains
amongst her songs. Shell and Vernon, whose
work is don-e mostly up in the flies, are
among those who fill the gap occasioned by
the departure of Murray, who “did” four
hours in a police cell for refusing to pay a
fine inflicted for obstructing the traffic whilst
stunting, but was rescued by the manage-
ment before he could escape.
* * # *
Jim Gerald finishes his season at Fullers’
on Friday of next week. The popular com-
edian is likely to have packed houses for his
week-long send-off; he has a trip abroad in
view.
Wirtlis’ Circus returns to Sydney next
week, opening on Wednesday, March 21. It
returns to its tent habitation, in which it
has not shown in Sydney for nearly two
decades, in Wentworth-avenue and Goulburn-
street.
:]s * 4-. *
Sydney’s new showliouse, the Regent,
lias magnificent approaches; at the opening
last Friday every one of the 2500 seats in
the airy, decorative interior had its occu-
pant, and there was some overflow. A large
orchestra, under Signor Ivost, gave a musical
decoration to an excellent programme, but
was occasionally too strident. The main
picture was the Ufa film. “Flesh and the
Devil,” another German production with
much more dramatic appeal than ever comes
out of Hollywood. A young military officer
is lured into an intrigue with a woman he
does not know to be married until her hus-
band arrives, to be killed in the resulting
duel. A military court sentences Leo to five
years’ service in West Africa. Without be-
traying his relations with the lady—a quarrel
at cards is faked as a reason for the duel—
Leo asks his bosom pal Ulrich to see that the
woman whom he has widowed does not suffer.
Ulrich promptly falls in live with his charge,
and when Leo returns it is to find his friend
“THE FILM GIRL” AT SYDNEY
EMPIRE.
Violet Elliott sings “Nobody Loves a Fat
Girl,” and Audrey Lewis disguised as a
cabin boy.
married to the siren lady. He tries to avoid
her; but the woman will not let him alone,
and there is a prospect of another duel when
the cause of contention obligingly dies and
Leo is left to marry the girl he ought to have
loved all along.
* # 'I. -:=
“Chang” commenced its showing last Fri-
day with all the pomp and circumstance
associated with Prince Edward Theatre (Syd-
ney) productions. There are no professional
actors in this film; Ernest Schoedsack and
Merian C. Cooper, for Laskys, wandered into
the wildest part oi Siam to get it. They went
down to fever, and had narrow .escapes from
tigers and other hostile fauna; and a stam-
pede of a herd of wild elephants, with
the final capture of half of it, is one of the
items they have pictured. A mass of jungle
thrills is ingeniously worked into the story
of a bona fide nigger who, with his family,
seeks to hew out a home for himself in the
wilds.
Photography as art: —
Many artists are satisfied to be mere photographers;
the business of H. Casneaux, the only Australian
member of the London Salon of Photography, is
to show how good an artist a photographer can be.
He does so with such effect in the 145 pictures shown
at his Grosvenor Gallery exhibition/the first one-man
photographic show in Sydney, that it is difficult to
believe that many of these are not pictures into
which a trained hand has imported the personality
of a master artist. Such exhibits as “Mona Vale,”
MELBOURNE ROYAL.
Ashton Jarry butlers
for the Terror.
“The Quest,” “Old Farm, Mittagong,” and “The Veil
of Spring” are works of art full of delicacy ; there
are contrasts in the vigor of movement caught in
“The Razzle Dazzle” and the decorative effect achieved
in a view of the National Art Gallery. An interesting
study, too, is “The Bamboo Blind”; behind it a
child sits caught in the streaked light and shadow.
Some pleasing exhibits of Orrefors glassware are a
subsidiary show.
* * 4c *
“The Joker,” at Melbourne Athenaeum, is
a below-the-average detective story printed
on poor paper. The show —as presented on
Saturday night, at least —is considerably
beneath the standard set by this usually fas-
tidious playhouse. Noel Scott, the author,
seems to have stolen three-quarters of his
material from “The Last of Mrs. Cheney.”
The cast is composed of crooks and police-
men, the heroine and her maid alone ex-
cepted ; the dialogue largely consists of the
turning of locks and revolver shots. Percy
Hutchison, the hero from Scotland Yard,
delivers his acid-drops with the deadly pre-
cision of a fly spray, and the cohorts of
villainy wilt before him. He it is who rescues
Stella Francis, the cherubic heroine, from the
thieves of whom she is the unwilling accom-
plice. Crook dramas customarily finish here
with the suggestion of wedding bells, but
Noel Scott supplies a fourth act in which
the girl is discovered married to the police-
man. Her wicked uncle secretes himself in
her wardrobe, having prepared a doped glass
of whisky which she is to give to her hus-
band ; otherwise uncle will shoot him. She
warns her loved one by baring her bosom,
writing “Dope” on it in large letters with her
lipstick and flashing the message in the
mirror. This is the play’s great moment, and
should be seen by all interested in wireless
telegraphy. The English company does not
carry even the mild amount of conviction re-
quired for this kind of giglot. Townsend Whit-
ling is the head crook of the thieves’ kitchen,
the other members being E. Rayson Cousens,
R. Steuart West, V. Watts-Weston and J. L.
Haslam. They create their atmosphere of
terror by growling for a couple of hours like
a pit of bears laboring under an intolerable
grievance. Reg Roberts has a small part as
an inspector.
Whether it was presented for the first
time, as the management avers, or was re-
vived, as some theatrical historians have
been asserting, “Ruddigore” furnished a
piquant evening’s entertainment at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday. One
was struck by the modernity of the G. and
S. burlesque of the current romantic foibles
of their day. If the pair were now alive,
their two-pronged pin would doubtless have
been thrust into the mystery-play bladdei-.
The Rose Maybud of Strella Wilson was
physically a blossom in full bloom, as well
as being vocally splendid. The elderly humors
of .Charles Walenn were a trifle buried in the
role of Robin Oakapple. .Tames Hay de-
served the thanks of the discriminating on
a double count, his cheerful rendering of
Richard Dauntless and the generally excel-
lent production.
“The Terror” will keep Melbourne Royal
audiences shivering until the 30th; after
which Moscovitcli will revive “The Ringer”
for five nights, Gregan McMahon and his
professional troupe being postponed in con-
sequence till April 7. The surprise of the
week is a sudden rush of patrons to the
King’s, where the haunted house of “Thark”
has been renovated and made so acceptable
to uncritical seekers after thrills that the
proposed departure to Brisbane has been
indefinitely postponed. At the Tivoli the
same old crowd of coons has been reinforced by
some white performers, all of whom have been
seen before. The Pulitzer prizewinner, “Tar-
nish,” at the Princess, is going better; Ruth
Arnold and the second act are worth seeing.
At the Palace on Saturday “Three Ghosts”
will walk in place of “Spooks.”
* * * *
The first of the season’s programmes pre-
sented by the University Symphony Orchestra
at the Town Hall on Wednesday night catered
for all varieties of musical palates. It
included the Beethoven Prometheus Over-
ture and a well-done performance of the
richly colored Symphony in E flat with
its Cesar Franck harmonic suggestions. Then
there was the Hungarian Fantasi of Liszt,
with Margaret Sutherland at the piano occa-
sionally extinguished by the orchestra’s ex-
uberance, and Massenet’s restful “Le Der-
nier Sommeil de la Vierge.” Finally, as
concessions to popular taste, there were the
.Tarnefelt Praeludium and Elgar’s march,
“Pomp and Circumstance.” Bernard Heinze
got near full measure from the instrumental-
ists.
Irene Rich and Clyde Cook are “The
Climbers” in several thousand feet of
Spanish love and brigandage at Melbourne
Majestic this week. Old and new Spain
figure in the show which has some scenic
moments and striking dramatic passages.
Uncle Sam appears as the suppressor of
Moorish pirates in the Mediterranean in
“Old Ironsides,” Hoyt’s main exhibit, a
spectacular affair of storming forts and
rescuing Captives. A debutante in moving-
picture society was “Borrowed Plumes,”
screened at the Queen’s Hall on Thursday.
This was a sort of repertory film, acted by
amateurs largely for their own amusement,
the idea being to rise by small degrees to
higher things.
* * # *
Melbourne Art: —
A gentle show of water-colors and woodcuts hangs
to the credit of Eveline Syme at Melbourne A the
nseum. Two or three studies in simple light and
shade of concentrated composition stand out amongst
the rest, but Miss Syme should, for the present at
least, avoid the animal creation. Her only human
figure is singularly inept, and a pair of horses are a
blot on an otherwise meritorious landscape and a
reflection on the judgment of their owner. The
woodcuts are a trifle flat and labored, but show a
nice sense of design.
It has been wicked weather for indoor
shows in Adelaide, and the ukulele team from
Hawaii have had the best of it in the open.
But Gilbert and Sullivan did well at the
Royal till they had to move to Melbourne ;
an excursion into “The Chocolate Soldier”
was popular, and gave Patti Russell and Leo
Darnton special chances. At the Prince of
Wales’, Wilkie moves on from “Julius
C«esar” to the somewhat infrequent “Antony
and Cleopatra,” showing his own Mark A.
in another aspect and giving his wife a rare
chance as the Nile fascinator. Support by
the players is good, and by the public enor-
mous.
“Brumby” : About the quickest method of
inducing’ Hollywood not to send undesirable
films here would be a sliding-scale tariff.
Those up to standard might be admitted at
present rates. A second, third and fourth
class might be loaded with progressively stiff
duties —that on the fourth being almost pro-
hibitive. This would induce Yank promoters
to pick over each heap of mullock before
consigning it to Australia, and they’d con-
centrate on producing pictures to qualify for
the censor’s best marks. If these measures
had been adopted long ago, a lot of possibly
useless inquiry by an expensive commission
would have been avoided, and a tremendous
improvement effected in films.
“F.N.W.” : “Ula’s” statement that of five
London pantos three presented Australian
principal boys this year (B. 15/2/’2B) is
wrong. Of “Ula’s” trio, Vera Pearce was
in “Humpty Dumpty” at the Liverpool
Empire and Kitty Reidy in “The Sleeping
Beauty” at the Manchester Palace, while
the other one- was not in a London pro-
gramme. Dorothy Seacombe, however, pleased
the Cockneys at the Lyceum, Trixie Ireland
upheld Australia as Prince Charming at the
Liverpool Hippodrome, and Maud Fane
girled it at the Royal, Newcastle. Of the
111 provincial pantos., “Cinderella” won
with 22 productions.


1
(1
mM
. ~
m
n
m
L
$ *+*',# fc % s#*, c * t
cAn Honoured Place
THE Beale Player-Piano not only welcomes the most
searching inspection. It definitely challenges compari-
son, whether in modern artistry of design, practical sturdi-
ness of construction, excellence of both material and
craftsmanship, or in the enduring rich resonance of tone.
Above ail, and in spite of the low price for which the Beale is sold, it
challenges comparison r w th the very highest-priced instruments. It was built to
compete with these, and these only—and it has done so with such trium-
phant success that the Beale nowadays has an honoured place in many of
our most luxurious homes.
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms.
$4O George Street, Sydney
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories ?
41-4/ Trafalgar St., Annandate,
Eranches: New South Wales : Newcastle,
Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth,
and Maples at Wagga ar.d Albury.
Victoria : Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart, Maples,
Launceston.
South Australia : Savery’s Pianos Limited,
Adelaide.
Western Aus'.ralia : Thomson’s Limited.
Queensland: G. J. Grice Limited, Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
32.Fp.28


The
“Ideal”
Weather Forecast:
Cloudy and unsettled,
with rising tempera-
tures. Fair to fine later.
If climatic conditions' vary four times in one day, the “Ideal” Raincoat
adapts itself to every change. A perfectly fitting, smartly tailored walking
coat, it offers perfect protection from the severest weather, and its extreme
lightness of texture enables it to be worn without the slightest incon-
venience on the warmest days. The greatest recommendation of all,
however, lies in the facility it offers for disposal on the resumption of
fine weather —
IT MAY BE ROLLED UP AND PLACED IN THE
HIP POCKET READY FOR INSTANT USE IN
CASE OF EMERGENCY.
The
‘ldeal” Raincoat
adapts itself to any
weather report
Guaranteed
Waterproof.
Prices
45 1- & 65/-
Procurable
from—
Go wing Bros., George Street.
Sydney.
Leviathan,
Melbourne.
Foy & Gibson’s,
Adelaide.
THE HEART OF A WIFE.
By
JAMES JAMES
EVERY woman is at heart a movie
heroine.
Babette had been away pn a holiday,
having, I judged by her letters —which told
me nothing—a good time. Of course, I was
down at the railway-station to meet her.
Kabette never returns from a holiday alone;
she always arrives with a strange fellow-
passenger, to whom she casually introduces
me. Always a male, often a good-looking
one.
This time, however, as she daintily stepped
from the train and kissed me in the business-
like way she reserves for public approval, I
found that the travelling companion who so
eagerly carried her suitcase was not
unknown to me. True, I did not know his
name; but on more than one occasion
Babette had pointed out to me—in a crowd,
at a supper, in the hotel lounge, at the
races —a tall and well-set-up man, with
hair grey at the temples, always smartly
dressed. Evidently an outdoor man, and
well endowed with worldly goods. What
Babette called “a sport.”
“After all,” she had sighed, “I’ve got only
one husband; but there must be thousands
of possible second-husbands about. And it
is just as well to keep in touch with them.”
Excitedly Babette introduced us, and our
handshake was a measuring of naked swords.
He looked me in the face with that steady,
penetrating scrutiny; and I felt sure that he
was thinking to himself: “So, that’s this
divine creature’s husband ! A poor worm !
However did he manage to win such an
alluring and delightful woman? Some men
have all the luck.”
“Mr. Stalwart,” Babette ingenuously ex-
plained, “came down in the same compart-
ment as me, and he has been wonderful in
looking after me in the train. And how are
the kiddies?” she asked eagerly. Then she
said a nice good-bye and shook hands with
Mr. Stalwart.
“Yes,” she said as we got into the taxi,
“I’ve had quite a nice time. And what have
you been doing, poor old dear, all these
three weeks?”
I assumed my most pained appearance.
“While you have been having a good time
with men I don’t know, and especially one
I don’t want to know, I’ve been slaving
away at the office to pay for your holiday.
Still, I don’t grudge you your good time,
dear; but I think that chap is a bounder.”
Babette considered. “Yes, perhaps he is;
but he gave me a very good time —and you
know you sent me away in the hope that
I’d enjoy myself. He rather rushed me, you
know.”
That was all —then; for the taxi had
reached home, and was welcomed with the
shrillest yells of delight from the excited child-
ren. And to see Babette, all mother, embrac-
ing the kiddies and avidly scanning them
with delight, no one would have suspected
that this estimable wife of mine could ever
think of flirting with any other man.
I had become pretty well inured to
Babette’s flirtations, innocent though I knew
them to be; but there was a nagging dis-
quiet behind my mind. I did not like that
man’s eyes. Of course, I trusted my wife-
after all, all husbands have to trust them —
but Babette’s radiance on her return from
her holiday, I felt, could not be caused
merely by me. What had the delicious little
devil been up to —at her age?”
“Now,” she happily sighed, as she sank
down on my knees in the big armchair, “I
suppose you jealous old thing will want to
hear all the dreadful details?”
“It might cheer me up,” I mournfully
replied, “after the rotten dull time I’ve had
all the while you were away enjoying your-
self.”
“Was it so bad as that?” Babette asked
me, with a sudden cuddle. “Not keeping
anything back, old dear, are you? I could
not bear a husband who deceived his trusting
wife. Nothing to confess, then? Well, if
you solemnly promise not to divorce me, or
spank me, or sulk, I’ll confess' everything.
“I simply existed at the boarding-house,
drinking milk, for two days; and then it
happened ! ITold me tight, darling, because
I’ve got to get round some nasty corners!”
Babette dramatically paused.
“That night, who should be shown by
the waiter into the vacant seat at that dear
little table built for two?”
“That bounder with the eyes!” I disgust-
edly muttered.
“Jim Stalwart!” corrected Babette. “Yes,
it was he. Of course, I never looked at
him, but in evening dress he was amazingly
smart. The latest black tie and a dinner-
jacket that must have cost guineas and
guineas—oh, wonderfully cut! His lean face
was beautifully shaved —he shaves twice a
day, the absurd dear! Don’t joggle me,
darling! How can I tell you my romantic
story unless you keep still? But you know,
old dear, you ought to shave morning and
evening. I like that velvety smooth feeling.
Let me see, where was I?”
She paused to recover her thread. “Oh,
yes! I never looked at him, but I liked his
lean, brown, strong hands; he must be an
outdoor man, for under his nice cuffs I could
see the brown running up his muscular arms.
I loved the ripple of his muscles under that
perfectly fitting coat. It gave me such a
shivery, helpless feeling. He could crush me
into teeny bits, though I wouldn’t like him
to in my new frock.
“So there we sat, like two dumb mutes,
opposite each other and not daring to speak.
It seemed so silly. Such a waste of time !
I looked past him or down at my plate of
soup. I felt sure he was more pleasing to
look at than tomato soup. And I could
feel his gaze flit over me, over my face and
as far as my evening frock let him. I’m
afraid I disappointed him, just a little; but
on the whole I knew he thought I was
rather nice. There was just one hair on
his smooth head that wouldn’t stay down,
and I just itched to pat it down for him;
but, of course, I never even raised my eyes to
him. The suspense was getting unbearable
when”
I could not help it. “You asked him to
pass the salt,” I suggested.
Babette gave a start. “You’re wrong,
dear, quite wrong. Surely you don’t think
I would address a perfect stranger at a
public dining table, even though it just
fitted two? No; I asked him for the pepper.
Our eyes met, and I had to smile. Now
you mustn’t sulk, dear, but it was inevitable,
wasn’t it?”
I explained to Babette, in a perfectly
husbandly way, that I wasn’t sulking, but
that my right leg was.
“Oh!” cried Babette, not entirely con-
vinced. “Well, there’s room for both of us
RIGHT TURN.
ADOLPHUS (who hopes he don’t intrude): “I’d like to offer you a cigarette, but”
MARIE (who isn’t impressed by him ): “Don’t bother. I never smoke cigarette butts.”
in this big armchair, and if you can sit
back a bit there ought to be room for quite
a lot of me on the chair, too. It is a tight
squeeze, isn’t it, darling, but .we’re husband
and wife. There!
“Now, where was I?” Babette asked.
“Oh yes. After that it was absurdly easy. I
didn’t let on for one moment that I’d ever
cast eyes on him before; and he was just
as considerate. We got quite friendly by
the time we came to the sweets.
“Well, I wandered into the jazzing salon,
and sat down waiting for someone to claim
me. And sure enough in he came, looked
discreetly round the room, and found me
quite close to the door. I didn’t see him,
of course. It is one thing to have to
make conversation at a dinner table with a
strange man, and quite another to let him
jazz with you.”
“Quite right, my dear,” I murmured.
Babette nodded. Then, after a reminiscent
pause, she added, “Jazzing! I never knew
what jazzing was till I was in his arms on
that perfect floor. Oh, my dear, he was the
loveliest dancer I’ve ever met. I just seemed
to melt into his arms. He hardly talked at
all. He didn’t need to. I knew everything
that he was thinking, and it almost makes
me blush. And then the last dance . I
couldn't help it: I said the most intimate
things to him, though I didn’t speak them
except through my eyes. He told me frankly
that he had never seen such something-or-
cther eyes, I forget what.
“Some of the young fellows started switch-
ing off the lights for a second or so, just for
fun. And when this happened a second time,
1 felt his lips on mine, just the quickest
of kisses; and when the lights flashed up
again, he was sedately jazzing with me, with
not even a smile on his face!”
“Must have had a lot of practice, the
bounder!” I angrily exclaimed.
“Yes,” sighed Babette; “that’s what I
liked about him. I would have hated him
bungling the thing and being caught by the
light. It gave me a feeling of confidence in
him.
“Of course, he wanted to see me to my
room; but the corridor was horribly well
glited, and people were passing all the time.
So that was that!”
Babette squeezed into a more comfortable
position on the big armchair. “Where
was I?” she murmured. “Oh, yes, the next
day! Bob is keen on riding, and I had
promised to go riding with him the next
morning.
“It was a delightful day. Jim looked
splendid on his horse. I loved his muscular
build—beautiful calves, and the muscles of
his thighs, and his supple back. We had
a lovely gallop, though I’m afraid I bumped
a bit. But the anxious care he took of me!
Well, we had a picnic lunch by a little
stream, standing up. He must have guessed !
So tactful of him, because I hadn’t ridden
for ages, you know. But when he lifted me
into the saddle —he must be very strong—he
let his hand rest on my leg, just above the
knee. That lingering, caressing touch
thrilled me awfully; but, of course, I pre-
tended not to notice. And then we rode
home in the twilight, side by side.
“When he lifted me off the horse into his
strong arms in the dark, I must have been
clumsy, and just for one second he clutched
me tight—to save a fall; and oh, I felt so
excited. Just at that moment we were lit
up by the dazzling lights of a motor-car
that had sneaked behind us; and it was all
off.
“That night I didn’t dance. Couldn’t.
Couldn’t even sit down. Didn’t venture into
the ballroom. Went straight to bed. Felt
thoroughly miserable, especially there.”
Babette was silent for several seconds.
Apparently she was thinking back a little.
“Next day,” she resumed, “nothing doing.
I lay in bed and wrote you such an affec-
tionate letter, you. remember?”
“Yes,” I assented, “but there was nothing
in it about that bounder.”
“What could I say, dear?” Babette taxed
me. “Up till then nothing had really hap-
pened, had it? And after that, how could
I possibly say anything? The next day
—let me see? Oh, yes, I remember! —Jim
took me out in his huge monster of a car.
No chauffeur for that trip; Jim gave him
a day’s holiday. Considerate, wasn’t it? It
was a lovely thing, his big car. Too big,
really, just for two.
“And then we stopped at a lovely bend
in a big beautiful river, and he got out
the afternoon-tea things. It was such a
warm day, and the river looked so inviting.
“ ‘Wouldn’t it be perfect if we could go
in for a swim?’ I said. ‘What a pity we
didn't bring bathing-suits.’
“Jim looked at me, with a smile; and then
he said, ‘Look. There’s another bend of the
river, round that point. A swim would be
great. Clothes don’t matter. You could
undress in the car and slip into the water
here, and I’ll go and undress in the trees
beyond the bend, and have my swim there,’
“It sounded all right; but I felt shy at
the idea of going in with nothing on,”
Babette continued. “But Jim only laughed.
‘Even if we did catch sight of each other,’
he said, ‘we’d only see each other’s heads,
and I promise not to encroach upon your
private swimming pool.’
“Well, nothing could be fairer than that,
could it?” asked Babette. “And I was just
dying for a swim. So he disappeared round
the point, without once looking back; and
I slipped off my things—but not all. The
car was quite close to the river, but suppose
somebody did see. Of course, I could do
without my undies on the way home in the
car. So I risked it.”
“Of course, you did!” I muttered vici-
ously. “You always do!”
“But it was quite all right,” Babette
laughed. “I simply fled down that path and
flopped gladly into the water. It was de-
lightfully cool. But I felt frightfully lonely.
“Well, I was swimming out, and wonder-
ing how Jim was getting on round the
point, when I saw the dear boy’s head in
the water. He was swimming with a lovely
crawl stroke, swimming beautifully. I loved
his brown muscular arm as it flashed in
that smother of foam. But lie played fair ;
he kept to his side of the point; and, though
you won’t believe me, I kept paddling along
on my own side. I waved an arm to tell
him I was all right, and he waved his in
turn. And then—it wasn’t my fault, dear-
est. You believe me, don’t you? I was
quietly swimming along when something
clutched me by the legs. Something slimy!
Instantly I thought of snakes, water-snakes.
You know there are water-snakes in those
bush rivers. I pulled _my legs up quickly,
but the thing clung to me! I yelled! I
was horribly frightened. Every moment I
thought I’d "be dragged down and drowned.
If only Jim could reach me in time!
“He had heard me, and he was coming
tbward me, the dear boy, his arms thrashing
the water like a champion. And that thing
still had me by the leg
tangled up with it.
It was a horrible time,
that race between Jim
aud the water-snake.
And he got me in
time!
“He thought it was
cramp; but I told him
what it was. He dived
under and found that
snake round my leg.
Only it wasn’t a snake
at all. It was a long,
clinging water-weed,
nut it did seem horribly like a snake.
He pulled it off, and came up puffing,
with a grin.
“I was so hysterical then that I
never thought about how little I, or
he, had on. It’s all very well to talk
about conventions, but when you’ve
just been saved from what you thought
was a horrible death you don’t think
of conventions.
“ ‘Put your hands on my shoul-
ders,’ he ordered me; and he set off
for the shore, with me holding on tight.
I thought every minute I would faint.
But he soon touched bottom and
guided my feet to the mud. And then
he said, “Now you’ll be all right. Run up
quickly to the car and get into your things.
I’m going to swim straight out round the
point. See you later, Babette.’
“Dreadful,” mused Babette, nestling down
into the armchair, “a thing like that to
happen to a girl! But I was 1 really glad
I’d kept on my undies. You never can tell,
can you?”
“You shameless thing!” I cried. “It’s no
use you posing as an innocent. I don’t
believe there was any water-snake or any
weed, or anything. You fixed the whole
thing up.”
And in my deep indignation, my open
anger, I got out of the once so friendly arm-
chair, leaving it to my dreadful wife, while
I leant against the wall. A fury of jealousy
filled me.
“I don’t care what you say,” I cried. “I
don’t mind your continual flirtations, inno-
cent enough I know; but somebody is going
to pay for this. No; it won’t be you.
I’ve got to let you off as long as you’re my
wife : but I’ll find that bounder and I’ll” —-—
Babette had sprung from the armchair;
her arms were around me: Ifer pleading eyes
gazed up to me; and she whispered: “I
never knew you could be so jealous of your
girl as this! You must love me such a lot,
old dear!”
(Continued on page 53.)


CYLINDER
TWO-TOIM TRUCK
4 SPEED
TRANSMISSION
/M WHEEL BRAKES
■ ( LOCKHEED HYDRAULIC)
INCREASED power in the new Graham
’*■ Brothers 6-cylinder 2-ton Truck means
more speed, more trips per day, more goods
or people hauled—more profits.
And the new truck, like all Dodge and
Graham products, is exceptionally econ-
omical to operate.
The 4-speed transmission affords an unusual
flexibility and smoothness. The 4-wheel
brakes (Lockheed Hydraulic) make the
maximum use of the added speed and power
entirely safe.
Engineers proclaim it the most
advanced motor truck .... See
it ... . Compare it with any
other truck ever made.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buse s
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
14-3-’2B


BY APPOINTMENT
Mappin&^fetob
I 1 LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVERWARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
x
7
Fumed Oak Cabinet containing a complete service
of Prince’s Plate Spoons and Forks and “Trust-
worthy” Stainless Steel Cutlery. Prices range from
£5/5/- to £lOO.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being one of
the oldest firms of Gold and Silversmiths, Jewellers,
etc., in the world, and they extend a cordial invita-
tion to visitors from the Commonwealth to call at
their Showrooms when in London.
The West-end Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the Leading Hotels; the City Showrooms are
opposite the Mansion House, and quite near the Guild-
hall, St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London.
IMappin&^febb
LONDON, ENGLAND.
158-162 Oxford St. W.l. 172 Regent St. W.l. 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch Establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo and Bombay.
1
wm
l ‘T*
HI
THE "WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE
A Saddle high-grade in workmanship and
materials, designed for greater comfort to horse
and rider. It has combined flap and skirt sewn
direct on to the seat, giving a narrow, non-
chafing grip. The pads are set well up and give
perfect security for rough riding.
£l6/10/-
FITTED AS ILLUSTRATED.
Freight Paid for Cash to N.S.W.
Railway Stations.
THE “BEENIE” RUG
THE IDEAL STAY-ON RUG.
“A” QUALITY, FOR TURNING OUT.
Made of Super White Flax Canvas Lined . with Warm Wool Collar Check.
sft. 6in., 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-. Add 2/9 for Postage.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE AND FULL RUG LIST.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
V*
"Love you?” I angrily sail. “I’ve done
with you. You can go to him as soon as
you like!”
Babette actually smiled, a provoking
smile. “But you'll admit that I was wise
to keep my underest things on, won’t you?”
“How do I know?” I groaned.
“You do know, dearest,” she insisted.
"You know I’d never, never do anything
that you would really blame me for. Jim
never mentioned the accident again. But—
oh, do come and sit in that comfy chair
again! I’ll have to admit that on the next
occasion I did behave rather carelessly.”
“Oh, there’s more, is there?” I bitterly
asked. “Let’s have it! And that will be
the end of it all, the end of everything!”
“Well, darling, if you won’t sit down, I’ll
stand, too. It was a week later before
anything really happened. That day he
took me in his car again. Fancy, Jim has
a villa in the mountains; and he took me
to see it. It was a lovely bungalow, looked
after by an old married couple. We got
there about sunset, and he took me in, and
there was a delightful dinner set for us two.
Oh, a perfectly correct dinner, with the
old lady waiting on us. And after dinner
we went for our coffee into his comfy
smoking-room. A man’s room—l loved the
smell of tobacco, and all the easy-going
comforts that bachelor men provide for their
selfish selves. Big leather armchairs with
soft leather cushions, a huge leather couch,
as big almost as a bed; soft carpets and
rugs and books, and not a useless ornament
in the place. And when he softly shut the
door there wasn’t a sound in the room. I
was tired after the drive, and curled my-
self up in the big couch. We had a liqueur,
and I felt so happily lazy. But Jim
seemed restless, kept moving about, letting
his pipe go out, and when he lit my
cigarette for me on the couch his big brown
hand seemed to me unsteady. But he
hadn’t drunk a thing all the dinner. It
was all so cosy and delightful; I was per-
fectly happy, listening to him, though I
did wish he would settle himself in the big
armchair. At last he did; but immediately
he got up again and prowled around the
room.
“And then! He suddenly leaned over the
back of the couch, looking down on me. I
smiled up at him ; I had to. He had always
been keen, but he seemed much too keen
just then. It suddenly dawned upon me
that I was alone in a lonely house with a
big, strong man. But he had always been
so dreadfully correct that I wasn’t afraid.
And when he bent down and kissed me I
pretended that he didn’t mean it. But he
did! It was the first time he had kissed
me, you know, dear. The other times
weren’t really-truly kisses. But this one
was. I felt it in my toes.
“I told him, sternly, that lie shouldn’t.
But he only laughed.
“ ‘You’ve played with me, you little baffling
devil, long enough,’ he whispered. ‘You
seem to forget that I am a man, and that
you are a devilishly adorable woman?’ he
fiercely said. ‘This sort of foolery can’t go
on any longer. To-night you’ll have to pay
your debt!’
“I laughed at him. ‘Don’t be comic,’ I
said. ‘l’ll scream if you touch me again!’
‘Scream away!’ he sneered. ‘There’s no-
body else in the house but our two selves.
The caretakers live in their cottage a
hundred yards away. So, my little devil!’
“As he bent down to grab me I jumped
up and dodged behind a big chair; but I
wasn’t really frightened—only excited. I
didn’t believe he would hurt me—l can
always manage men, can’t I? But this was
a different man. All the niceness had
gone out of his face; and I shuddered when
he came after me—he looked so intent, so
determined. So we glared at each other across
that big armchair. I screamed; but he only
brutally laughed. Oh, how I hated him
then! But I felt that the whole thing was
impossible; like a picture show. I was so
wrought up that I actually laughed in his
face! I had seen those scenes oh the films
so often that I knew exactly what the
heroine would do. And here was this man
gritting his teeth and clenching his hands
and scowling at me—just as I had seen the
villain on the pictures when the innocent
maiden is in his clutches. But I was no
innocent maiden —and he knew it. He
seemed to falter and half-turned away.
“I saw my chance. I appealed to him
to let me go. He was so big and so strong,
I told him, that he wouldn’t take advantage
of an innocent and experienced woman like
me. He was too chivalrous to hurt me like
that, wasn’t he? And then, as I stood
behind that armchair, I felt something in
my hand. It was my hat, which I had put
there when I came in. And in the hat
was a short, strong hatpin. I didn’t dare
to look down at it, but I cautiously picked
it up. I could jab him. anyhow.
“All my pleadings were no use. His eyes
hypnotised me; my senses seemed to swim
I felt shivery all over. I gripped the hat-
pin, and dropped it. I felt so weak that I
actually believe I staggered to meet him.
His strong arms closed round me.”
Babette looked piteously up at me. Un-
consciously my arms went round her, and
she lay limp and broken against my body.
The horror of her avowal I did not think
of; her unuttered confession did not matter.
All I thought of in those moments was to
comfort this poor, dear, despairing child,
caught so cruelly in a brute’s snare.
As she lay against my breast, I felt the
shudders of her body. Poor kid! But she
was still my wife to care for and to keep.
Babette, my own Babette, looked up at
me at last. Her face was not wet with
tears; she was actually laughing! Those
shudders of grief, I instantly sensed, were
not sobs, but chuckles !
“You dearest old thing!” she cooed. “You
weren’t even angry with me! And I’ve been
telling you the most terrible fibs for the last
hour! Why, darling, I made it all up—
j-ather cleverly, don’t you think? I just tried
it on to see how you would take it all.”
I still could not understand.
“Kiss me, old dear!” Babette insisted;
“and I’ll tell you the sad, sad truth. I’ve
had the dullest holiday in the world. I was
an utter failure. Nobody even tried to
flirt with me, though I was quite willing.
And when you were so sorry for yourself
when I came home, I could not resist the
chance to make you jealous. I wanted to
see how much you loved me. I wanted to see
you as a jealous husband. And, really, old
thing, you were quite a success; though I
did exp-ect you to do something dramatic and
threaten to kill someone. And, honest injun,
old darling, I ought to kneel to you for the
way you comforted me and petted me and
held me to you when, for ali you knew, I
was an utterly abandoned hussy.”
“Yes,' but”—l found my voice, and my
suspicions gathered—“that bounder that
came back in the train with you! He was
real, anyhow!”
“Yes,” said Babette, dabbing her ridiculous
nose with the handkerchief she had taken
from my breast pocket, “that gave me the
idea. He was actually at that boarding-
house ; but he did not sit at my table ; he
didn’t jazz with me—he can’t jazz at all;
he didn’t ride —too scared ; he hasn’t got a
motor-car; he never took me anywhere. The
dullest man I ever met. There was a silly
flapper there who did her best to get him;
but he was the most hopelessly married man
I’ve ever met —except you, old thing! The
only time I talked with him he insisted on
showing me snapshots of his awful wife and
his horrible children. I don’t believe he even
noticed Avhat I had on.”
“But he came back in the same compart-
ment with you?” I suggested.
“Yes; that gave me my dreadful idea.
Hardly spoke a word all the way down.
Bead a Hall Caine novel. When we two
got into the motor-’bus to go to the station,
I comforted myself by the belief that he
would get into a smoking compartment; but
the poor old hen doesn't even smoke! So
that’s that!”
“But how could you make up such a pre-
posterous yarn, Babette?” I objected.
“Oh, that was easy! I didn’t mean to
spin it out so much ; but as I saw your face
getting longer and longer and more miser-
able, I just had to keep on making it worse
and worse. I wanted to make you jealous,
dearest, just to know that there was some-
body in the world I could make jealous, even
though it was my husband. I was a dread-
ful failure on my holiday; and for my self-
respect I had to make you jealous, just to
prove that you loved me.”
“All the same,” I said, “how could you
invent a yarn like that out of your own
head ?”
“Easy, old thing!” smiled Babette. “Up
there I had plenty of time to think; and
the story I’ve been telling you all the night
is just what I’d have liked to happen—at
least, all the part of it except the end ; I got
that out of a movie picture—though, of
course, I’d hate it, really.”
The Death-word.
A MAN has died within the town,
Though mourners walk not through
the street;
And yet he will not lay him down,
But walks on all-unconscious feet
And fails to read, where deep it lies,
His death-word in a woman’s eyes.
In his dull brain still lives a thing
The fool called Love ; and like a bird
Snared from wide places of the spring
Its futile fluttering is heard.
It is his heav’n-amazing lark
Fledged to gild fabrics of the Dark.
He deems the earth the fairest place
Among the stars, but I uphold
All beauty common but her face,
My woman with her head of gold.
And all I know of treasure trove
I win from her great wealth of love.
Mark how the dead man moves like life
Seen at a mocking masquerade!
Hear how he claims to have a wife
A priest once married to that shade!
Why should she moan for him or sigh,
Although she willed that he should die?
Dead as he is he will not be
Content to lie beneath the sod.
With pitiless perversity
He still withholds his soul from God
When he should be in cerements bound,
Clay with his kindred underground.
He died last year, and it seems strange
That being dead he still can talk.
Nor does his full-fed laughter change,
Nor does his self-approving walk.
Yet I could lay the proud man low
By three words like a hammer-blow.
Poised surely on half-rolling hips
She moves like melody expressed,
The red sex-pollen on her lips,
The boss of each ennobling breast
Betrayed beneath a film of silk
In amorous shadows white as milk
We killed the man- —he felt no pain—
She and myself; ’twas written thus.
Nor does he know that he was slain,
Though surely it is known to us.
Nor can I set the town astir,
Avowed a live man’s murderer.
We did the man to death between
The dark and dawn. No blood was spilt;
No bludgeon fell nor knife was seen,
No vulgar instruments of guilt.
Behind her thin wine-shaded dress
She thrust through me with a caress.
’Twas thus that he came to liis death.
Drawn close to her I could not miss
The fruity incense of her breath.
I bent to her uplifted kiss
Her waist ungirdled and the bloom
Of untressed hair wrought that man’s doom.
Dark Sovran of the Sepulchre,
I pray you the dead thing to take
And closely coffin it for her,
And for myself, for Mercy’s sake,
Now that she comes to lay her down
And rest in that wine-shaded gown.
She dreams, and as her eyes grow wide
Like Love’s eyes dewy with new bliss.
I see a woman’s heart that died
And lived at a compelling kiss....
She sleeps, and in the moonlit room
There 'Vs a live man in a tomb.
MAORILAND.
DARIUS.


Legal Notices.
WILLIAM KNOWLSON TRUST.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Manchester,
* England, is desirous of obtaining informa-
tion as to JOHN WILLIAM KNOWLSON,
son of John Charles Knowlson, who died at
Rookwood on 14th August, 1925. If the said
John William Knowlson will communicate
with the undersigned he may hear of some-
thing to his advantage.
VICKERY, ENGLAND & WILSON,
Solicitors, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 147 of 1927.
Mr. Justice Douglas.
BETWEEN KATE WOOD Plaintiff and
ALEXANDER ANGUS WOOD Defend
ant.
To ALEXANDER ANGUS WOOD.
TAKE NOTICE that Kate Wood of
Townsville in the State of. Queensland has
commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Towns-
ville by Writ of that Court dated the twenty-
eighth day of November one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-seven claiming a dis-
solution of marriage with you Alexander
Angus Wood her lawful husband AND
THAT if you the said Alexander Angus
Wood wish to defend the said action you
should cause an appearance to be entered for
you in the said Court at Townsville within
two calendar months from the last date of
publication of this Notice in the Sydney
Bulletin AND THAT in default of your
so doing the said Kate Wood may by leave
of the Court or a Judge thereof proceed
therein and judgment may be given in your
absence.
DATED this eighth day of February one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.
JAS. COMERFORD,
Registrar (1.5.).
Roberts Leu and Barnett,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Townsville.
DURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Victoria, made in the action
1927, No. 001, in which MARTHA ANNE
CARROLL and JAMES HENRY WILSON
are Plaintiffs, and THE CURATOR of the
ESTATES of deceased persons defendant,
the persons claiming to be the next of kin
of GEORGE WILSON, late of Murtoa, in
the State of Victoria, drover, deceased,
intestate, who died on the third day of July,
1908, are by their solicitors, on or before the
7tli day of May, 1928, to come in and
PROVE their CLAIMS, at the office of the
Chief Clerk, Law Courts, William Street,
Melbourne, or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said order. The twenty-first day of May,
1928, at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, at
the said office, is appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated the 6th day of March, 1928.
M. M. PHILLIPS,
Chief Clerk.
■yo LIONEL HOLT DEARMAN (some-
times called Lionel Holt Allen) in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and answer
the Petition of CAROLINA EVELYN
DEARMAN in the State of Western Aus-
tralia praying for a dissolution of marriage.
In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce sentence in respect
thereto AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that for the purpose aforesaid you are with-
in 45 days after the date of this publication
to attend in person or by your solicitor at
the Central Office of the said Supreme Court
and there enter an appearance in a book
provided for that purpose.
(l.s. ) T. F. DAVIES,
Registrar.
MAX KOTT, of 5 C.T.A. Buildings, 69
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for
the Petitioned
[To be advertised once in a newspaper called The
Bulletin, published at Sydney, in the State of New
South Wales.]
LJENRY JOHN BOWER the Elder late of
“ Childers Street North Adelaide in the
State of South Australia Builder de-
ceased
and
In the Matter of “The Trustee Act
1893.”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN pursuant
to a direction of the Deputy Master of the
Supreme Court of South Australia made
in the matter of the estate of the above-
named HENRY JOHN BOWER deceased
No. 144 of 1928 that JOHN WILLIAM
BARBER a grandson of the said Henry
John Bower the Elder deceased and all per-
sons claiming through or under the said John
William Barber ARE REQUIRED to send
by post prepaid to JOSEPH EVERETTE
ASHTON Esquire of Brookman Buildings
35 Grenfell Street Adelaide Solicitor for
Elijah Bower and Thomas Edward Fisher
the present Trustees of the Will of the said
deceased (who died at North Adelaide afore-
said on the 13th day of June 1885) their
Christian names and surnames addresses and
descriptions and the full particulars of their
claims on or before the 16th day of July
1928 after which date the said Trustees will
be at liberty to distribute the estate of
the said Henry John Bower deceased among
the persons entitled thereto having regard
only to the claims of which they shall then
have had notice. And the said Trustees will
not be liable for the said estate or any part
thereof so distributed to any person of
whose claim they shall not have had notice
at the time of such distribution.
DATED the Ist day of March 1928.
HUNTER BOUCATJT MARTIN AND
ASHTON,
Brookman Buildings,
35 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the said Trustees.
If any illustration in The Bulletin tabes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
GROCERS
jhe “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
Amusements.
C M PIKE T H E A T R E,
RAILWAY SQUARE, SYDNEY.
OPENING NEXT SATURDAY AT 8 p.m.
FIRST MATINEE NEXT THURSDAY, 22nd.
An up-to-the-minute Aeroplane Musical Comedy in
two acts,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Mamie Souuter, Bobby Jarvis and Audrey
Lewis and all-star cast, including
THE EMPIRE PONY BALLET & BEAUTY CHORUS.
Res. Circle 1/6, Stalls 2/6, Lounge Settees 3/6 & 5/6.
Saturdays and Holidays 1/- extra.
Book at Theatre (MA 1000), Nicholson’s, Paling’s,
Samuels and Leading Hotels.
YDNEFS CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: CAROLINE.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
B * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERKITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
MELROURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: RUDDIGORE.
KING’S THEATRE: 'MARK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A
THEN A 3 U M THEA T R E,
MELROURNE.
Proprietor: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.16.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
The Eminent London Actor-Manager
PERCY HUTCHISON
And His Company of English Artists in
THE JOKER.
Thrilling Four-act Mystery Play.
Plans at Allan’s.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SIIAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Adelaide Season: Prince of Wales Theatre.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Amusements.
UOYT'S D E LUXE THEATRE,
'* MELBOURNE.
WALLACE BEERY in
OLD IRONSIDES.
ALSO
LADIES MUST DRESS.
With VIRGINIA VALLI.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
RIN-TIN-TIN
in
TRACKED BY THE POLICE.'.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone: 7076 & 7790.
Missing Friends.
QCOTT, ROBERT, who left Australia for
England in 1884, last heard of in Eng-
land 1885, his only son (Robert John Scott)
seeks his whereabouts. Any information
would be gratefully received. Further par-
ticulars supplied.
Apply to ROBERT J. BRADSHAW,
Lila Springs Station, via Bourke, New
South Wales, Australia.
HTHE next of kin of JOHN RAY, deceased,
A known as “JACK READ,” who died
at Liverpool on 18th August, 1927, are re-
quested to communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Sydney.
YY/ILL ANY PERSON knowing the where-
™ abouts of any relative of JOHN
BOYSEN, late of Lefroy, in Tasmania, who
died at Lefroy aforesaid, on 14th August,
1909, please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Plobart, Tasmania.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exquisite
Beauty
of
Design
mam
-r. <
To the world-acknowledged accuracy of
Elgin watches is wedded exquisite beauty
of design. An Elgin is an investment you
will never regret—an investment in good
taste, authentic design, unhurried crafts-
manship—and one that will pay divi-
dends of unerring service.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
TKEWATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
[hi? [rade Mark
in the Watch Care
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
WORKS BY THE LATE
THOMAS
HARDY
POCKET EDITION. Printed on
India Paper. Cloth, 4s. 6d. net;
Leather, 6s. net each.
Tesa of the d’Urbervilles.
Far from the Madding Crowd.
The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Jude the Obscure.
The Return of the Native.
A Pair of Blue Eyes.
Two on a Tower.
The Woodlandera.
The Tumpet-Major.
The Hand of Ethelberta.
A Laodicean.
Desperate Remedies.
Wessex Tales.
Life’s Little Ironies.
A Group of Noble Dames.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
The Well Beloved.
A Changed Man, and other Tales.
Wessex Poems. Poems of the Past
and Present.
Time’s Laughingstocks, etc.
Satires of Circumstance, etc.
Moments of Vision, etc.
Late Lyrics and Earlier, etc.
The Dynasts. Parts I and 11.
The Dynasts. Part 111, and The
Queen of Cornwall.
Human Shows, Far Phantasies, etc.
Alsc
WESSEX EDITION
in Large Type.
23 vols. 10s. 6d. net each.
With Preface, Notes, Frontis-
piece, and Map in each vol.
THE DYNASTS, Bs. 6d. net.
COLLECTED POEMS. Bs. 6d. net.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
A ROYAL
SMOKE
m
MONARCH;!
M
m
m
ACTUAL size
The cigar foi
•particular
smokers.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6(1. each
10 cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6
50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to anj
address.
Sampler Box,
containing two
cigars, 1/- post
free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
5548 George Street
Sydney,
Distributors fo-
Club Reil
Cigar
Factory.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
11 deals with every subject of
interest to women.


WE ARE THE AGENTS
TH£
" bulldog "
HAMMER LESS
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRIZE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, tiuid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced. _ ~ _ , _ _
HOLLOWAYS are the Bolls Royee of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances,
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
s COHEN, SONS £: CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
INZ
Cooked Spaghetti
From the recipe of a famous
Italian chef. Seasoned with
rich Tomato Sauce from Heinz
grown tomatoes and a special
cheese. Wholesome, nutritious,
appetizing.
1372
One of the
57
Varieties
T
©
g
Uah In ifca Trademark t Agraa Everywbrr*.
Write far Illustrated Catalogue.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
THE PROFESSOR ADJUSTS
HIS SPECTACLES.
BY HORTON BROOKS.
WELL, it’s all over now!” Professor
Heathcote sank heavily into his
study armchair. Outside he could
hear the taxi lie had just dismissed speeding
along the drive of the University grounds.
"All over now,” he repeated miserably ; “er
—that is to say, for Peggy it’s only just
begun ! Just —just begun !”
The light from the electric globe- project-
ing from the wall on its flexible bracket
shone fully on the professor’s face —a cultured
face, set off to advantage by the broad-
peaked albeit slightly crumpled collar and
shining white shirt of his otherwise immacu-
late evening-dress. It was rare indeed that
the professor attired himself in such fashion;
generally he answered to the conventional
picture of unconventionality, unsociability
and absent-mindedness associated with his
calling; but this evening had been a very
special occasion—the occasion of his daugh-
ter’s marriage.
In a confused way the professor turned
over the events of the past few hours. The
wedding itself? Yes, though he did not
favor these evening weddings, it had been a
most picturesque ceremony; and the light
from the late setting sun unexpectedly shin-
ing on those stained-glass windows of the
school chapel—nice idea of young Huggins’s
to suggest the chapel of his old school —
had imparted a rare, almost ethereal, atmo-
sphere to the scene. How charming Peggy
had looked in her white —what did they
call it? —white georgette! Not in the least
nervous had she seemed, while he —why, he
had nearly spoilt the service through his
palpable nervousness while standing before
the chancel steps. Peggy—to give up Peggy
—it was a tremendous break. Somehow,
he had just managed to steady himself in
time; he had willed himself to concentrate
his attention on that mosaic on the sanc-
tuary wall, and that had saved him from
making a complete fool of himself. As for
young Huggins—Dick? Well, whatever he
lacked, the boy had dignity. Yes; quite
a success, the actual ceremony.
But the wedding supper! Elaborate
enough, the arrangements at No. 11 Dowling-
street —what a lot of trouble it saved in
getting the catering and all that done! It
would have been no end of a bother here—
here in the residential quarters of the Uni-
versity. A good idea of Peggy’s to insist
on No. 11. A host of friends the child
seemed to have gathered around her in the
few years they had been in Australia. Of
course, the active part she took in reper-
tory work would partly account for that—
quite a capable little actress, Peggy. That
gift she had inherited from her mother—it
was at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, whilst
on that visit to Ireland, that he had firs’t
met Kathleen. Kathleen! Seven years a
widower now —Peggy was then only in her
middle teens. Poor little Peggy! And now
she was getting married — was married ! Well,
marriage would steady Peggy—a great pity
that for these last seven years she had been
without a mother’s care. •
But the wedding supper! For the most
part, a fashionable crowd. Some talented
people among Peggy’s friends, too. Pro-
fessor Barton and his wife —what a pity
they had come! What would they think:
Oh, why must old Huggins go and spoil
it all with that silly speech of his! Too
much, it seemed, to expect expressions of
decent sentiment from a man whose whole
life had been given up to the rag trade ! It
had distinctly lowered the tone, of the pro-
ceedings, that speech, full of coarse plati-
tudes which apparently he imagined fitted
the occasion. Why, it had been almost vul-
gar.
And yet Huggins had seemed ill at ease;
he did not appear to be enjoying what he
said. He seemed to be oppressed by a doubt.
That was the strange part of it!
“Huggins !” Professor Heathcote mouthed
the name with an expression almost of re-
vulsion. “And now she’s —Peggy’s Mrs.
Huggins. Plain Mrs. Huggins !”
He relapsed into moody silence—-for a
short while only. Again liis thoughts found
expression in speech.
“Confound it all! What am I thinking
of!” he exclaimed, brightening. “After all,
she’s marrying Dick — not the boy’s father!
Dick —there’s good material in Dick. Already
making some sort of a name for himself at
the Bar. He’s got the Public School spirit,
right enough, that boy; and it’s to his credit
that, unlike some of these pipe-sucking,
futher’s-car-driving products passing through
my hands, he doesn’t try to ape the English-
man ! No ; Dick strikes out in his own virile
yet unassertive way. There’s something I
like, something I distinctly like, about these
young Australians —the pukka ones !”
For the first time, as he now gazed about
him, the professor appeared conscious of his
surroundings. A desß-calendar set out on
his neatly-arranged writing-desk attracted
his attention.
“Helen’s due by the Manchuria on the
28th,” he muttered calculatingly. “She’ll
find it hard to improve on Peggy in keeping
house —for, in spite of herself, Peggy has
looked after me really well. Why is it that
a man’s eldest sister is generally such a
fuss? Wonder what she’ll think of Huggins?
It’s hard enough for me to reconcile myself
to the man !”
“What, already? One o’clock!” The dis-
tant booming of a clock had reached the
professor’s ears. He recognised the clock;
on a still night such as this he had heard
it from here before. Menzies’, Menzies’ Hotel,
was quite close to that clock; Peggy, no
doubt, would be hearing it, too. To-night
she was at Menzies’ with Dick —-in the morn-
ing they would set out on their honeymoon
tour. And he—how difficult it was to realise
it! —he was sitting here alone.
Peggy—his only child, his constant com-
panion since her mother’s death! In the
last two years he had seen less of her, it was
true —so much of her time had been taken
up with Dick. At the large cement-faced
house, one of the few private residences in
that city suburb, packed with its hideous
rows of uniform boarding-houses—she had
preferred her games of tennis there with
Dick.
His only child —a great sacrifice! Huggins,
too, was a widower; but, then, he had five
children. A vast difference that made—it
was inequitable, this!.... Huggins! It
would be difficult to become accustomed to
Huggins; he would see as little as pos-
sible of the man —just so much as conven-
tion decreed. Ah, it was no easy matter to
adjust one’s self to these altered conditions;
not easy
“S-c-cratch Cocky! Cocky wants a
drink!”
Professor Heathcote gave a violent start.
An expression of guilt spread like a wave
over his features. The cockatoo! Already
he had failed Peggy; he had promised her
that he would bring in the cage from the
back verandah and place it by the kitchen
sink, as she was accustomed to do each even-
ing. In the hurry and flurry prior to setting
out for the wedding the bird had been for-
gotten. In the meantime it must have fallen
asleep.
Achsemenides the cockatoo. Achsemenides;
impishly Peggy had named him that. And,
though it was obvious that
she wanted it badly, she had
insisted that he should keep
the bird. Poor little Peggy
—it had been an act of sac-
rifice on her part. Achae-
menides! Counfound it,
what did he want with the
bird!
PUP-PUP-PUPPETS.
ALICE: “I hate a man who tries to kiss a
girl when she's not looking for it!”
MR. GRIMP: “Yes, I suppose these young
pups often do that.”
ALICE: “Well, they often think they do.”
Irritably the professor rose from his chair
and made for the back of the house. Out-
side on the verandah he lifted up the cage
gingerly. The cockatoo regarded him some-
what blankly, he thought, as he deposited
the cage in its appointed resting-place.
“It’s high time I went to bed,” he
mumbled, shuffling along the passage. Never-
theless it was the study door that he now
entered. Once more he subsided into his
armchair, and surrendered himself to the
unprompted workings of his restless mind.
Long did he remain there, staring vacantly
before him, musing.
“Good Heavens!” A crashing commotion
had suddenly rent the silence of the house.
As to its cause Professor Heathcote was left
scarcely for an instant in doubt; from the
kitchen came the loud flapping of wings,
punctuated by shrill cries. The cockatoo
had escaped from the cage; in putting it
down he must have jerked loose the catch
on the small wire door. And the kitchen
window was open!
In a scramble of apprehension the pro-
fessor reached the kitchen and turned on
the switch. It was at that very moment
the bird discovered the road to real free-
dom. With a shocked cry its guardian
watched the beating of its wings as it flew
through the open window.
Dashing across the room, Professor Heath-
cote fumbled with the back door key, and
stumbled out on to the back verandah. On
a railing, where it had been left out to
dry, he caught sight of his sports blazer.
Eagerly lie seized it; should he get near
enough, this would assist him to catch the
bird.
In its labored flight, owing to that clipped
wing, the cockatoo was now wheeling round
to the side of the house. Fearful of losing
sight of it, the professor immediately gave
chase. It had alighted on the top of the trellis,
hopefully he now saw. Cautiously, speaking-
in soothing tones, he approached it. Now
it was cocking its head questioningly-—was
ruffling its crest. This would require extreme
caution-— this was the critical moment.
“Damn!” The professor relaxed in dis-
appointment.
Undeterred, he hurried off in pursuit,
straining his spectacled eyes to keep the
bird in view. Presently an exclamation of
dismay escaped him as, stopping short, he
watched the cockatoo just skim the tops of
a cluster of trees.
“My God, he’s turning cityward !” With
this realisation the professor stiffened in a
self-questioning attitude. Could it be pos-
sible—could it be possible that No;
after all, it was not so absurd ! Menzies’!
—it was the only other home the bird had
ever known—at least, in recent years. The
week Peggy and he had stayed at Menzies’
they had taken Achsemenides with them.
And Achsemenides had seemed reluctant to
leave that indulgent hall-boy— most reluct-
ant ! It was possible, then! And once
outside the hotel the bird would clamor for
admission. And Peggy, if she were awake,
would hear his cries—would recognise those
cries. She would become concerned —on this
of all nights, wlhat a contretemps!
“No, no!” suddenly the professor ex-
claimed, self-persuasively. “It cannot be—
I expect the bird is only too glad to obtain
its freedom.” But a doubt lingered in his
mind.
What was he to do? By now the cocka-
too was out of sight; but, judging from its
heavy flight, it had probably alighted again
somewhere. Yes, unmistakably, that was
its cry. Scarcely distinct enough, though,
for the bird to be still within the University
grounds. It had an advantage over him
there —he would require to go round by the
drive.
But would it be safe to leave the house
unoccupied—with the dining-room packed
with wedding presents? Well, there was a
light in' the study—and in the kitchen, too,
for that matter. That should be sufficient
safeguard.
Where would the pursuit lead him to?
It would be the talk of the term if he, a
Dean of Faculty, were seen stalking a
cockatoo in a city street —and in evening-
dress ! Still, at this hour, there would be
few, if any, people about. Confound the
bird! —if it had not been for liis secret
intention to present Peggy with it as soon
as she had settled down he would not be
exercising himself to this extent. Spurred
by this consideration, Professor Heathcote
decided on pursuit.
On reaching th,e roadway [outside he paused.
No; except for the fast receding tail-light of
some car the road, with its long avenues of
trees flanking the tram-track, appeared de-
serted. Gaining confidence, he hurried along
the footpath citywards in the direction of
that screech.
Soon he halted sharply with a muffled cry.
There, perched on a traffic-board, the arc
light shining full upon him, sat Achsemenides.
But no sooner had he made the discovery
than the cockatoo took flight again. This
time the professor experienced no great
anxiety; the bird had obviously chosen for
its line of flight the long row of trees, and
so long as he did not deflect towards and
above these buildings, capture was still pos-
sible.
Some ten minutes later, after a succession
of unproductive halts, the professor pulled
up again, sorely perplexed. Here, quite close
to the city now, the road narrowed and
turned, the long line of trees ended. And
there on a rockery close by was Achseme-
nides. On this last stretch the bird had
made more use of its feet than of its wings.
What course would Achsemenides now take?
“Cocky wants a drink!” That was en-
couraging ; in that cry there had been dis-
tinctly a plaintive note.
Professor Heathcote moved forward. But
again his eagerness overstepped his caution.
Suspense as to which direction the cocka-
too would now take in its half-flight, half-
amble, stifled his barely audible expression
of impatience. Intently he watched the
bird.
A BIT UNG: ATEFUL, REALLY.
“I’m so sorry for you, Mr. Cowbail. You’ll
miss your poor wife terribly.”
Yes, Miss—her dyin’ jest as I’d got five noo
cows fer ’er to milk.”
“Jerusalem!” he now gasped. “He is
making for Menzies’!”
But no ! Suddenly—merciful relief! —
Achsemenides had turned towards a side
street—had now entered it.
For a moment Professor Ileathcote stood
undecided. But he had come thus far, and
here, so close to the city, he would prob-
ably encounter a policeman who might aid
him in the bird’s capture.
He had proceeded a hundred yards or so
along the side street when the figure of a
man loomed up on the pavement, just ahead
of Achsemenides, who had manifested a de-
cided preference for the centre of the street.
In doing so he had shown a considerable
amount of discretion, the professor thought,
becoming more and more impressed by the
unsavory character of his surroundings. So
far, he saw. the man ahead had shown no
sign of having become aware of their pre-
sence.
“Hi!” he shouted. “Hi!” And then
pulled up in amazement. For, after glancing
round, the fellow had broken into a run, was
scurrying like a startled hare along the pave-
ment. As now he darted into a lane, the
light from the street-lamp projecting from
the corner building showed his form more
clearly.
“Just my luck!” the professor mumbled in
disgust. “Some fool-headed Chinaman !”
Mechanically he renewed the chase. The
side street was a comparatively short one.
The billowy shapes of a number of trees,
becoming more and more distinct in the
moonlight, told the professor that his quarry
and he were now approaching some public
gardens.
A few minutes later he found himself
creeping stealthily across a moonlit lawn.
Achsemenides, he saw, was busily gulping
down some water from a stone basin of a
drinking-tap set in on the wall of an arti-
ficial grotto. So he had really wanted a
drink! It was now or never; an oppor-
tunity like this would probably not occur
again, the professor realised, gripping his
sports blazer tightly.
“Ah!”
In that note of triumph the trials of the
chase were all forgotten. Futile were the
cockatoo’s struggles ; then, apparently recog-
nising its master’s voice, it submitted itself
without further protest, lay still in its soft
enwrapment, its captor cautiously permitting
it to protrude its head.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Maiik Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yarwood ; 11. R. Lysagiit, 0.8. E.;
George J. Sky, LL.I).; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kei.l.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
lIHAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Brandies and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Ofliees at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairrairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. ... 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f or inte fi r x e e s *
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, VV.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
.. £1,250,000
.. 950,000
£2,200,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,450,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual "SST"
87PittSt!!Sydney PfOVidSl\tsOCkty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over .. .. .. £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £63,600,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £9,600,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
11. VV. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed — . THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cun.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dfg
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly’’
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most,
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum,,
Shipping, ere.
D
&
Ck
id
i
I*YV
iiirtvui
=355
CO
/••HI
n ;in
ToXA NA D
UNItE DISTATES
S EUROPE
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, Apl. 5 {
NIAGARA . . 13,415 tons, May 3 \
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
MAKURA ... 8,075 tons, Mar. 22 }
TAHITI 7,898 tons, Apl. 19 j
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
OjpffEarawG
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
(r
&
Full Particulars from-
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
df
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.;
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
Head Otliee —George Street, Sydney. London Office
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia,
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, eic.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
HAVE A NEW HOLIDAY IN
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra expense. Tropical scenery, frag-
rant flowers, luscious fruits, haunting melody
’neath moonlit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surf-
board riding, golfing, motoring, and all out-
door sports the year round. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic spectacles. Or take a round trip
from Sydney, 8 weeks or less for about £lOO to
£l5O all expenses, allowing 3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago. Good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day. Ask
steamship or travel agency or write Hawaii
Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D, G.P.0.,
Sydhey, N.S.W., for beautifully colored booklet,
enclosing this advertisement.
ON YOUR NEXT TRIP INCLUDE
HAWAII.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR Alt A —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WoLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE;
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart Par Iter L'i|
Magnlfloent
' Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
For Y our V acation
Hotel
Kosciusko
Altitude, 5000 ft. Humidity, nil.
Trout Fishing, Golf,
Mountaineering,
Tennis (day and night).
Garage accommodation avail-
able and petrol for sale.
Summer Tariff:
From 21/- per day.
£5/15/6 per week.
Bookings and further particulars
from Manager, or
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


Read what Murray, the World’s
Greatest Escapologist, now appear-
ing at the Tivoli Theatre, Sydney,
says:—
“In the course of my profession you
can readily understand that I receive
numerous scratches, scars and bruises,
ichich necessitate the use of a healing
balm,. Being an Australian I am natu-
rally very glad to have proved that
Rexona, the Rapid Healer (also Aus-
tralian), carries out its dunes ueicer
than any other remedy that I have
used.”
(Bgd. ) MURRAY.
m
tigimaimm
Murray Always Frees Himself
but-MURRAY Cannot Escape
the fact that
REXONA is
Marvellous!
Kn/fcmicL
Jha Rapid
flealer
1/6
fl
i/Cooling
'Soolhmg -
' — Healing
Imntiseplic Omtmenr
« lir ifi« 9 Absolulely
Heals Reliable
itiurmji'iiWQa-
A Reliable healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin. Ecxema. Sores Cuts.
Bums Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects,
and all kinds of Inflammation
'REXONA DEP' SHELDON DRUG C° L 7D SYDNEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
•3^
Chocolates
11 [ do like my Daddy—see
what he's brought me home!"
The Famous Red Box of Chocolates.
Mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address In Australia.
Dinadt tdbiieA
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE AND KING
STREETSJ
CASTLEREAGU STREET
(Next Theatre Royal);
GEORGE STREET
{Next, Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue illustrated
with reproductions of our
confectionery in colorSm
m
j
m
An
Wiping the sweat from his broad forehead
Professor Heathcote set off homewards along
the deserted path before him. Presently
he checked his step: on a seat beneath a
large elm bordering the path he had seen
the figure of a man. What if Achsemenides
chose to screech as they passed by! It
might be advisable to make a detour by way
of the lawn. He was about to do this when
the man’s attitude excited his curiosity,
strangely caught his sympathy.
The fellow’s bare head, the bald crown
of which shone almost halo-like in the moon-
light, was bent almost between his knees.
Was he asleep? No; mental stress rather
than physical fatigue, the professor thought.
Yes, the man was awake; but obviously
he was unaware that he was being observed,
for he had begun mumbling to himself.
“He’s the pick of the bunch ! I wonder —
I wonder” Quite distinctly Professor
Heathcote caught the words.
Suddenly the man raised his head. In the
moonlight something sparkled. A diamond
pin, the professor divined as he caught the
gleam of the shirt-front. Evening-dress?
What was he doing here at this hour? Cer-
tainly it was not a case of intoxication.
The man turned his head.
“Pluggins!”
It was too late to stifle that involuntary,
ipcredulous exclamation. On the other’s
face the professor saw first doubting and
then certain recognition.
I,' “Why, ’pon my soul, it’s —it’s you, Pro-
lessor !”
Retreat was out of the question. 11l •at
ease, fumbling with his strange burden, Pro-
fessor Heathcote shuffled forward uncertainly.
Achsemenides had now thrust his head for-
ward in an endeavor to seek a reason for
the diversion.
“The bird—the bird —the bird g-g-got
away from me,” spluttered the professor in
explanation, realising that the cockatoo, too,
had been observed. Then, gaining a little
confidence, he added; “A nice dance he’s
led me this last half-hour!”
“Hullo, Cocky !.... Half an hour, you
say?” Huggins had now risen to his feet.
“Half an hour, you say?” he repeated.
In a flash Professor Heathcote realised
that he had betrayed himself. The hour was
now so very late, and he was still in evening-
dress ; was it likely that on. this night he had
been occupying himself with professorial
work! And as for Huggins—well, of course,
he lived quite close to these gardens; he had
probably taken a 5tr011.... “What are you
doing here? It’s rather late to be taking a
stroll?” he was on the point of retaliating.
But he refrained.
“Er—we might—we might sit down.” It
was Huggins who made the suggestion, he
faintly realised.
They sat down almost simultaneously.
“A beautiful night—it’s a beautiful night,”
at last the professor ventured, breaking the
heavy silence.
To his discomfort the observation proved
fruitless. It was a welcome diversion, then,
that sudden breeze stirring among the elms.
And then, ever so faintly, the professor,
starting in his surprise, heard: “On such a
night as this.... when the sweet wind did
gently kiss the trees.” Just a slight mis-
quotation. but
'The professor stole a glance at his com-
panion. In that profile outlined by the
of the moon he detected a previously-
unsuspected nobility That whisper had
not been intended for his ears; of this he
was quite certain.
“ ‘The pick of the bunch !’ ” Suddenly,
the remark he had overheard flashed into
Professor Heathcote’s mind. And then, with
a catch at his heart, he recollected, with
its suggestion of doubt, the other’s “I wonder
—I wonder”
So Huggins had doubts about the desira-
bility of the marriage! He had been thinking
of the future of—of his boy. Well, with
her flighty ways, Peggy was likely to be mis-
construed ; she had certainly laid herself
open to criticism!
“You know, this chap Ponsford’s a
genius!” suddenly broke in on the professor’s
reflections.
“Yes, he’s had a truly wonderful season!”
he found himself answering with a readiness
that surprised him. “Improved out of all
sight, why”
The professor had broken off abruptly.
Intently he leant forward, conscious that
his companion had also stiffened in expec-
tancy—realisation.
“One—two —three.” The booming of the
clock died away.
There followed an awkward silence —a
silence broken at last by Achsemenides.
“S-c-cratch Cocky! Cocky wants a
drink!” he cried.
Considering that its thirst had only
recently been satisfied, or at least partly so,
the throaty inflection in the bird’s voice
was unexpected—as unexpected as it was
insistent.
Reflectively, the professor moistened his
lips.
“It’s scarcely three minutes away, you
know,” he heard his companion say. “And
we needn’t wake the household.”
“By all means, Pluggins!” the professor
found himself replying. “As you say!”
Together they escorted Achsemenides
through the moonlight.
Simonson’s Cat.
QMITH’S neighbor Simonson had a cat of
great beauty altogether at variance
with its inner qualities. It was a
thieving brute. It was fed,
pampered and petted out of all reason, and
its detestable sneaking and caterwauling
. were regarded by its owners as huge jokes,
:from which the neighboring families were
’ expected to get as much joy as the Simon-
sons themselves.
Smith and his -wife hated it with the
hatred due to an animal which had slain
the canary, stalked the chickens, scratched
| the baby’s face, broken the milk jug, licked
the butter, overturned the port decanter, and
performed many other deeds entitling it to
a sudden and violent end.
As it chanced, the families were friends
as well as neighbors. When they talked
over the front fence or from the back steps
the Smiths called up sickly smiles as they
listened to the latest prank performed by
the criminal. It was only when the cat
was encountered away from the fond eyes
of its owners that Smith could ease his
feelings by a slyly-flung stone or a sur-
reptitious kick.
But the hatred burned, and when the
curtains were drawn at night, when Mrs.
Smith snored from her pillows and Smith
listened through the dark watches to the
Simonson cat making the calm hideous with
its yowls, he swore a deep oath that, come
the opportunity, the animal should pay the
full penalty.
Patiently Smith waited for the appointed
hour. It came one week-end when the
Simonsons had gone to the Mountains,
leaving the cat to the tender mercies of
neighbors who would not see it want.
Smith, with murder in his soul, took down
his gun, loaded it and went in search of his
prey. No qualms disturbed his conscience.
Too long had he suffered to reject vengeance
when it came his ivay.
It was a Sabbath evening—still, holy,
calm—the silence broken by the silver music
of church bells calling the world to prayer.
Mrs. Smith had stolen off to evensong in
her new ballibuntal hat and taffeta frock;
Baby Smith slept in his bassinet.
Smith espied the object of liis wrath, a
fluffy ball of grey outlined against the blue.
Now was the moment. Finger on trigger
and eye to sight, lie took one last look at
his foe, innocently washing its whiskers
preparatory to an evening stroll.
A report, a whiff of powder, a yowl from
the fence-top—then silence. All nine lives
of the victim departed at one bound.
Stealthily Smith recovered the body and
went in search of a spade.
But now difficulties began to obtrude.
Where could he bury the corpse? By some
chance of fate a succession of pedestrians
chose that particular hour for inspecting
his dahlias over the back fence. No chance
there! Where then ?
Desperately Smith at length gave up
thought of interment. W'rapping the
stiffening carcase in brown paper, he tied
the parcel neatly and hid it in his bag—
bulging hideously with its secret.
Next morning chance again eluded him.
The body in its leather coffin went with
him to the office. The contents might, per-
haps, be pushed under a culvei-t, thrown in-
to a refuse basket, stowed away in some
hiding-place for the garbage man to collect.
As it happened, everybody known to him,
and others to whom he was unknown, were
on the road. He read suspicion in every
glance as he hovered about the wire paper-
baskets at the street corners. Eventually
the. bag, with its grisly burden, reposed
beside him on the desk —mute reminder of
a deed that could not be undone. It went
to lunch with him and returned —a ghastly
thing from which there was no escape.
Hope entered his bosom once more as he
set out for home. The bag was placed, side
by side with other bags of the same nature,
in the rack above his head. At his stopping
Smith stepped blithely to the platform,
assured that at length he had been separated
from his Old Man of the Sea. But just as
he reached the gate a voice hailed him from
the car window. “Hey, Mister —you’ve left
your bag behind!”
For one moment of sheer panic Smith
considered making a bolt for it. On second
thoughts, however, he decided to reclaim
the thing—handed out by somebody suffer-
ing from an honesty complex.
The road home offered no solution. All
the people in the world infested the streets.
Dogs sniffed at his heels. Children eyed
him askance. A policeman passed, regard-
ing him with suspicion.
Wan and despairing, Smith entered his
home. Groaning wearily he flung the bag
on the kitchen table and retired to his room.
His sin would be sheeted home to him.
Well, the worst could happen—he was
through!
Suddenly a shout rent the silence. Joy—
horror —what?
Trembling, Smith hurried to the kitche:.
in answer to the call. There, removed from
its wrappings, the wife standing over it in
rapt admiration, lay a magnificent sehnapper
—fresh, succulent, appetising, ready for the
pot.
Smith gasped—not unlike a fish himself
in his bewilderment. But as he served the
beauty at dinner the ghost of a grin glim-
mered about his lips.
“I wonder,” he soliloquised in the depths
of his heart, “what the poor blighter said
who got the cat!”
RENA ABBOTT.
The Guest.
To-night we’ll pass the hours—
Hail fellows met together—
Indifferent to the wind.
All careless of the weather.
Against grim Yesterday
We’ll bolt our doors lest sorrow
Should enter in ; and, too,
Lock out with it To-morrow.
With ruddy wine and strong,
Bright eyes and bearing pleasant,
Full glasses holding high.
We’ll toast the happy Present.
His praises we shall sing,
Hearts linked, hands interlocking.
Though at our door we hear
The Past and Future knocking.
Why let the Past come in
Who loves to hound and trail us?
Why trust the Future’s word,
Well knowing he may fail us?
Good fellows, one and all,
Not minding wind or weather,
Regrets and hopes to-night
In wine we’ll drown together.
Till dawn lights up the sky,
Till sinks the moon’s pale crescent,
As wine, rich wine, we drink
Our guest shall be the Present.
TT.S.W.
RODERTC QUINN.


IS*
*3
*Ui
■£.
£
wsmm
m
mm
1 rate
///
,
:
V
'&
; ■
w
r %
WM
<>: ■
■
r '" ■■':*
■
:: .
■
r
*
7:V>
LI
&s*
*
■ ■•■.■ M
ci»£
r
<=
: H| ■/:
mm
&
mmm
&
ja. vy
3«»
mmm
sS
1
pJky^-
*V
dfc
c>
&
3
l§i
:
SS
iy
3V^
# S
H
P /[>
4?
tS
1 I
Danks
Sydney Showroom,
,fY
4*
?■ >p\i
V-^Cv
t^4
5*
IW
*
*
i<7
>/
x 1!
r »
%
>v v
xy
SL
Plain walls destitute of design
are giving place to the wall-
papered room. Suitable papers
add an atmosphere of elegance
—space —height. They beautify
as nothing else can. The present
vogue is for
FLORAL EFFECTS
TAPESTRY EFFECTS
PLAIN TEXTURES
CANVAS TEXTURES
as well as for period papers em-
bodying scroll work, medallions,
etc. You will be welcome to
either of our showrooms to in-
spect the newest designs at the
lowest prices. Samples posted
free —mention the rooms you
.intend papering.
JohnDanks € Son Pty. Ltd
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
391 403 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE
Rune.
THIS is a land of age-forgotten wrongs
We do not know.
This is a land of strange, primeval songs
That ebb and flow
Across grey deserts from the blue spumed
seas,
The dim .old dirges of Antipodes.
This is a land of ancient phallic fire.
What sacrifice of life to living and supreme
desire.
What cosmic price
Of whirling, starry life and essences
Was paid to bring her forth we cannot guess.
We only know we have her here, and ours
To know and win,
With love and courage, and long patient
hours,
Repenting sin
Of ravishment and thoughtless, lustful greed
With which we wasted her in our first need.
Australia will not give her secrets up
To anyone who has not drunk the sacrificial
cup
Of fire and sun.
The pain and pageantry of teeming earth,
And utter nothingness, to that new birth
Which makes a greater thing out of a small.
Disintegrates itself, to die—or rise more fair
and tall,
And correlates itself with life to all eternity,
In mystic brotherhood of the great Free.
No dreamless souls may seek Australia’s
thought.
She will not give herself to husbandry that
can be bought.
So when we live within her arms,
To gain her soul, her eyes,
We must forsake the little pretty lies.
Nor only say, “How beautiful you are!”
But, passionate, reach up to the farthest
pointed Southern star,
And, more than speech, must pray for that
divine will to aspire—
The universal, all-consuming fire.
Far, far beyond,
Deep, deep down in the ground,
And in a leaf that falls, Australia’s self is
found.
Too old for grief;
Too wise for joy;
Serene and magical;
The simple spirit that confounds us all!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
Mosquito.
BECAUSE Susan, the black stock-pony,
had swept the board at the Wilga
Show, Ned was disappointed when at
Bingiwindi, fifty miles further west, she could
do no better than collect a neckful of red
ribbons. The desired blues had all gone to
a handsome grey galloway owned by the
scrawniest, yellowest, most bespectacled
female child of fourteen that Ned hdd ever
set eyes on. He did not so much mind be-
ing beaten in the saddle classes, but when
she beat him with yards to spare in the
flag race he felt rather annoyed, and when she
carried off the champion cattle draft with
full marks to his own ninety, it was more
than he could bear.
“She ought to be at school,” he remarked
to Old Bill, a picturesque personage in dun-
garees and a cabbage-tree hat, who had been
sent along by Ned’s family to act as guide,
philosopher and stableboy. “It’s too danger-
ous for her. She might fall on her glasses.”
“Dangerous nothin’!” scoffed Old Bill.
“She c d ride the tail feathers orf of an
orstridge, an’ there’s a pony as’ll never come
down with her. Now, Susan’s a neat little
mare on the camp; but the little grey feller
—he thinks.”
Resentment showed on Ned’s handsome
boyish face when lie came out after the
parade of prizewinners, overtaking the grey
with very inch of its arched little neck blue
ribboned. Susan had only reds except for
the blue she had gained in a led class, for
the best pony mare under fourteen-two ; and
Ned reflected glumly that a mere accident
of differing sex had prevented Skeeter from
being first there, too. Ned could not help
admiring him: the wonderfully clean legs,
and the strong yet racing build of him;
above all, the incomparable camp craft, dis-
played to perfection upon the fast red poll
yearlings provided for the drafting.
Ned waited for Lois O’Malley, Skeeter’s
owner, after the parade. He was himself a
thin, dark youngster of seventeen, wide-
sliouldered, light-hipped; the cut of a rider,
with likeable hatchet features. Upon leaving
school he had embarked on a three months’
tour of the Western shows with Susan and
another camp horse.
“That’s a nice pony,” he said, trying not
to look as covetous as he felt. “Will you
have him at the Cullawarrie show next
month?”
“Yes,” said Lois patronisingly. “It’s not
far from my home. We'll be there.”
Ned could have groaned with anguish.
At Cullawarrie, forty miles away, the prize
for the champion camp horse would be fifty
pounds, and he’d have to see Susan get a
lot more seconds.
He walked round Skeeter and viewed him
appraisingly, while Old Bill came up and
loitered near by.
“If you’re looking for faults,” Lois told
him scathingly, “you’ll look a long time.”
Under her steel-rimmed spectacles her sun-
burnt little face lowered its antagonism at
him.
“Um-m,” said Ned, irritatingly, feeling a
hock capped slightly from a recent wire
cut—“not a bad little cattle-horse as they
go.”
“Not bad!” flared Lois. “I tell you,
Skeeter could cut out a beast on his own
while you were wearing a bib at mealtimes.”
“Is that so?” retaliated Ned. “I did
think he looked a bit long in the tooth.”
Lois climbed down hurriedly in defence of
her favorite. “He’s only seven. Look at
hia teeth. But he’s been winning drafts
since he was four, and we wouldn’t take a
hundred for him.”
“I’ve refused that for Susan,” said Ned
grandly. He had refused fifty. In the past
year she had got him seventy-five in prize
money and would have doubled that this
trip if it had not been for the accursed
Skeeter. A thought struck him. "I’ll do
a deal with you. Swap you Susan for
Skeeter. I reckon she’s worth more than he
is because she’s a mare.”
A moment Lois hesitated, flapping the
reins against the blue-banded neck; then
she came to an abrupt decision.
“Skeeter’s good for a fifty-pound prize
in ten days.... but I dunno; lie mightn’t
win. I’d sooner have a mare. Make it
Susan and fifteen pounds and I’ll let you
have him.”
“Done,” said Ned. He felt he’d better
put the deal through before some interfering
parent turned up to stop it. Lois seemed to
guess his thought.
"He’s my own,” she said, dismounting, and
giving the rein to Ned. “I’m going round to
Dad for a duty-stamp.” She vanished in
the direction of the grandstand.
“Blooming little shark!” said Ned. “She’s
not as simple as she looks.”
“I’ll say she isn’t,” cackled Old Bill, lift-
ing the saddle-cloth on the grey’s off side, and
drawing a hand across the pony, where there
seemed to be an identation scored along
the ribs and the intercostal muscles. The
hide quivered and the flesh shrank from
the touch, and Old Bill nodded wisely and
let the cloth drop. “’S all right, laddie,” he
said, smoothing the white nostrils. “I won’t
give you away. You’ve learnt a lesson in
your day, same as young Ned must learn in
liis.” He added to Ned, who was moodily
making out a cheque: “Name’s Skeeter, eh?
Not afraid o’ bein’ stung?”
Ned ignored the query, but Lois, return-
ing, heard and darted him a quick, venomous
look through her glasses.
Old Bill said ruminatively: “Seems like
as if I’d heard some tale about O’Malley’s
grey pony before.”
“He’s well known,” said Lois defiantly,
pocketing the cheque, and handing over her
receipt made out correctly, and dated :
I have this day sold to Edward Anderson, one
grey gelding with black points, fourteen-two hands,
branded Ml6l on near shoulder.
Lois O’Malley, 8/4/1927.
* * * *
At Cullawarrie it was Ned’s turn to be-
stride the blue ribboner of pony classes and
flag and bending races, whilst Lois and
Susan had to be content with reds. Lois
seemed to be taking it all in good part, how-
ever, and Ned was in high feather as he
awaited the big drafting contests on the last
afternoon; for, though there were plenty of
good horses being exhibited, the grey and the
black stood out on their own.
The district cattle draft was the first of
the events, and Susan, under Lois, put up an
almost faultless performance. But Ned
smiled to himself as lie rode the eager-eyed
grey pony into the ring. Susan’s perform-
ance had been good, very good, and Lois’s
campcraft equalled his own; but the grey
was just a bit better than Susan, and Ned
knew how to show the judge this extra
quality.
The mounted steward met him in the ring
and they rode towards the cattle held in one
corner, shorthorn steers, seven to twelve
months old, red roan and white, well grown
and lively.
“That strawberry steer,” said the steward,
“with the muddy patch on his rump.’'
Up in the judge’s stand the bell rang for
the commencement of the three minutes in
which the competitor was to get his beast
away from the mob, and show how his horse
could handle it.
Confidently Ned gathered the reins, nudged
the little grey with his heel and swung his
head towards the mob. But that was as
much as Skeeter would do. He utterly
refused to enter the mob. No amount of
spurring or coaxing would induce him to
go in amongst the cattle.
As Ned abandoned the effort a commiserat-
ing steward bore down on him. “Shy of the
horns?” he asked; but Ned was in no mood
for condolences. With an oath he whipped
Skeeter about and they left the ring.
“Of course,” said Ned bitterly to Old
Bill, “lie’s been horned, and lie’s got too
many brains to go into a horned mob. Fancy
the little devil being so noticing! Those were
polls at Bungiwindi.”
“I told you mosquitoes had stings to ’em,”
said Old Bill tranquilly, smoothing the
dappled haunch. “But you wouldn’t pay no
attention. Here’s a young lady wants a
word with you.”
Ned scowled up into Lois’s peaky spec-
tacled little face. “I’ll swap you back if
you like,” she said. “A plain swap. After
the championship.”
“All right,” grunted Ned, swallowing in-
tense resentment. He knew his busiuess
opponent by this, so did not make the mis-
take of asking for his fifteen pounds back.
“Send Bill round to the hotel to-night
with Skeeter,” she said curtly, “and he can
take Susan back.”
“Ta-ta, Rebecca,” Ned called after her as
she cantered away. “I’m coming back to
marry you in ten years’ time. Reckon you
should ’ve made your fortune by then.”
“She pulled that trick off with another
young feller two year ago at Bingiwindi,”
said Old Bill reflectively.
“You damned old oyster!” said Ned. “Why
couldn’t you have told me instead of rotting
about stings.”
“Wouldn’t ha’ been fair to the little horse,”
said Old Bill. “You and Susan can win
drafts in most other places, but I reckon
Skeeter’s only two hunting grounds are these
two here.”
“What rot! How do they know whether
there’ll be horned cattle or poleys?”
“Here’s the answer to that, son.” Old
Bill opened the catalogue and with a black
thumbnail indicated a clause below the head-
ing “Cattle drafting.” Ned read: “Cattle
kindly loaned for drafting purposes by Jas.
O’Malley, of Ilverstone.”
Now, most Queenslanders can tell you
that Ilverstone is half-way between Bingi-
windi and Cullawarrie, and that James
O’Malley breeds red polls and shorthorns.
WHYTE LYON.


: tr-
■r' -
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland a c «,.*,-».OU1BS « CHCUCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WFST N S WALES
N.Z. Olliee—s)3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington. tUHLUKU If 1, W. O. « ftbbO
Victorian OHice—“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMtTH S CO., LTD;, Adelaide, S.A.
“BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
“Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Vi
9
j
YS lOlO
p)IGEJTION,
and
FiSSHtt
KSUSE'S
nj^ocftoiA
mmaamm\v*
iirojitfft&aaEU
This Popular family Remedy prospers
Because those who take it prosper.
Recommended by Doctors as the safest
and most dependable Children’s Medicine
Cooling in Summer. Reliable Always\
The Genuine Kruse's is made by
Felton, Crimwade & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
rn
SUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR-r
mm
to
V
Guaranteed »
in order for two years free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,6S4 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY,
g
M 1 DEA*. E>oY IF EVER IM FEEI-IMfr
Jfcl-Ov* P*R.
r<
OR. Suffer, from iMuj-eSTio*
C
THAT tißEl> FEELiM®.
I TAKE
E tedkm
m
UVBfciSH.
3U-JOU6 HeaMcHE
V_
JiETKEtSioM.
-s
-<5
IM Soon
'FIT'ANJ) weuu
AGAIN.
“A KERMATH ALWAYS RUNS
These dependable marine
engines are built with ex-
ceptional care, all parts are
evenly balanced, and the
completed engine is minute-
ly tested by the most
exacting experts.
AH parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
? to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N.S.W
&
KERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich..
U. S. A.
Cable Address
Keimath
RM
Marine
Engines
lV:
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin” —bigger and better.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 2/6: Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. 'Afternoon Ten on Hoard.
SPECIAL TRIP EYERY SUNDAY at3 P . m .« r o m No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 <4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
0°
a?
s®
*s*
s')*
L“"v:
.*•
e
9
' .••** .••*’*
• >;£&***


jsf/ARE»EBI
Ti
WHISKY -
A word is enough
to the wise. If
contentment be
the goal, what
better word than
DEWAH’S
ril(iti y
A
/.
/
FINE
aiGtir
,M«|J
V:- ■
y t - »Al*iMcuisivEiY sapfucp to ■
wpsßyqL lHsriTtir&
& %)CBtGni) Clubs//;
John'DewaroSonS
Dishllers PERTH/ScofUj\d)*
PRODUCE or SCOTIAHO '/'//•'
* Tm SVPWVI*| O I« OF THC
