

. .
*
k.
I
m
m safe
im
r '•
‘t-: fix:
r-rfJSS
e
m
S&oj£^-
bnsistent
s
DEWAR’S is really
dependable for it never
varies in quality. Any-
where or any time
DEWAR’S is ever mellow
and mature. And in
stocks of millions of
gallons lies the absolute
guarantee of its unfailing
charm for many a year
to come.
gWARDEg
foMEBAB
I Sr*# |
? Perth=
r
„ T T">! 7V TN£
ft Msfijs ffi
FINE
m«*4
%
UGUP
<1
teEXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TOTHE
wfi
IrtPGRpIL. INSTITiITC
& Js)cst€nD Clubs
JohfiDewaroSons L d
Distillers PERTHjlScoriaivd) a LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTUANO
Sonito <WOtB »»» SuPEßvijiON Of »•*£ CO""0*w tAITB o» relt
The Bulletin
“COLOR” BY MUSETTE MORELL, A WORLEYS BEST STORY—Pages 44-45 .
Vol. 49.—N0. 2514.
Wednesday, April 18, 1928.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story Writing
Cj IvU y at HOT'fE
this Booß FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ‘
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. '
My Name '
My Address
vf
'' V'j
li'i
!pv. <*s?
a,
BALANCED FOODS FOB DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
KEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMO-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WANTED —DISTRIBUTORS
handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in :
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B. C., Liebers Fifth Edition
ii
£
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL
Si:
i 1 /
m
R I
Perfection is the attribute common to all
VEJN US PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade as the world’s larges*
makers of quality pencils oan achieve
V 1
Vi
ENUS
PENCILS
17 Blacklead Degreessd, each, 4/9 per dor., Super
Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d. each, 5/9 per dozen.
Venus Copying 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
“IT’S THE LEAD INSIDE
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE'*
'.V
V
i?
The strong
of High
recision
/HHflwrifjnmirannjoi
y
m
sdfs
THE MARK OF ,
A GOOD RAZOR
*n«n
PLUM
f«sl
Ask any man vow know wbo uses a PLUM—
him if he doesn't think it the best
Raw he has ever used. fleer »■»>
\ answer. "Why, rather T
sdf
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
12 IS
Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
rm\
5
£
7
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/.
S 3 Hi STIIM
m
&
m
V <*
OM-
* *
A<*
The Red Page
Two Months to Finish It
The Bulletin's Prize Novel Competi-
tion will close on June 30 at The Bulletin
Office, 214 George-street, Sydney, and there
will be no extension of time for receiving
entries.
Novels may be sent in at any time before
that date; as received they are, by the
courtesy of the management, put into one
of the strongrooms of the National Bank
of Australasia—some of them may be too
precious to risk even in The Bulletin’s
own safes. And, besides, those safes were
getting a bit crowded. Before Easter nearly
40 entries had been received, and with two
months to go it looks as though there will
be well over 100 novels for the judges to
read. That is going to be a tough job; but
it, will be done with the greatest possible
expedition, and the publication of the first-
prize novel should be begun in The Bul-
letin in September. The first prize will
be £500; and all book and picture rights
are reserved to the author. Other prizes
amount to £2OO.
The competition is open to all Australian-
born writers , and to all writers bona fide
resident in Australia. There is no limita-
tion as to subject or treatment.
Writers who do not win a prize, but whose
work is nevertheless thought to be worthy,
will have an opportunity of selling the
serial rights of their stories for publication
in The Bulletin or Th-e Woman’s Mirror.
Payment for these stories will be as
arranged; but every writer of such stories
will have the absolute right to withdraw
his work. This of course does not apply to
the prize-winners.
Every story must be accompanied by a
pen-name, along with a sealed envelope con-
taining both the pen-name and the real
name and address of the writer. These
envelopes will not be opened until the
judges have come to a decision.
Rhymes for Young Australians
Lying on his back on the lawn, with a
small red-covered book held partly closed
in his hands, the boy was dolefully chant-
ing over and over again:—
Ye lie, ye lie, ye liars loud!
Full loud I hear ye lie;
For I brought as much white money
As gain my men and me,
And I brought a half-fou of good red gold
Out o’er the sea with me.
Suddenly he stopped and opened his eyes.
“I say, Dad, what does half-f-o-u mean?
And how do you pronounce it?”
The book I discovered to be an English
anthology of “Ballads, Old and New.” Now
no form of verse appeals more to boys anc
girls than the ballad, but no child is going
to be led to derive a love for poetry when
such archaic stuff, that needs pages of notes
and a glossary to explain it, is forced under
his notice. It might suit children in
Britain, but I very much doubt it. As to
Australian children who, by direction of
their English teachers in the high schools,
have to study it—-well, just imagine what
attitude towards poetry a young Australian
is going to adopt when he falteringly endea-
vors to fathom the meaning of lines like
these:—
They blew a mort upon the bent;
They sembled on sides sheer;
To the quarry then young Percy went
To see the brittling of the deer.
Naturally all the ballads listed for study
are not so archaic as “Sir Patrick Spens”
and “Chevy Chase”; nevertheless, the book
is full of cheerful ditties telling of deaths
by violence—ballads born naturally in
colder lands of drizzle and snow. Each one
is utterly foreign to Australian sentiment
and traditions. That children of this boun-
tiful sunny land of oUrs should have to
study such literature is a downright dis-
grace to those who select these books for
study, and to the teachers who so blindly
acquiesce in such selection.
From an adult point of view the selection
perhaps is wholly admirable; but so often
tfhen they reach high positions in the teach-
ing service adults seem to forget that the
ideal is to cater for children, and, here, for
Australian children. If it is considered wise
that ballads should be studied and learnt
by heart, as a step in the right appreciation
of poetry, then let them be ballads the
children will understand without recourse to
notes and glossaries. From every point of
view Australian ballads, “racy of the soil,”
fill the bill admirably. Our literature is full
of them. How many youthful Australians
know these lines?:—
There was movement at the station, for the word had
passed around
That the colt from old Regret had got away,
And had joined the wild bush horses
Or these:—
The hot air scorched like a furnace blast
From the very mouth of hell ;
The blue gums caught and blazed on high,
Like flaming pillars into the sky ;
The grey horse staggered and fell.
And these:—
Again Eureka’s voices ring
From blazing bivouacs of night:
Again the rifle bullets sing
Across the palisaded height
Han’t you sense the eager interest of our
Doys and girls if they heard, if they read,
if they recited these ballads of our Aus-
tralian poets? They are real; they are
life—not the disinterred bones of the well-
forgotten past. “Dryblower” Murphy of the
Perth Sunday Times understood the heart
of the young Australian when he wrote:
Give us a ballad that swings along
With the bound of a striving steed,.
Give it us —whether it’s right or wro.g—
In the rhymes our hearts can read.
And they are taught
I saw the new moon late yestreen
V\ ith the old moon in her arm.
Rot!
No wonder the majority of our children
leave school without any appreciation of
good literature, and with no appreciation of
Australian literature at ah. But worst of
all is the cumulative effect of this belittling
of Australia—for that is what this school
process means in the long run—upon our
national lije. Our children are biassed
against their own country, unconsciously
impressed that Australians cannot do any-
thing, and that in all arts and sciences the
old world is supreme.
COUNTRY PED.
Opera or Uproar?
When the biunt-spoken Beethoven was
asked what he thought of grand opera as
a medium of musical expression, he is
alleged to have answerefi that it might be
all right for some people, but there was
far too much murder and adultery in it
for him. Closer examination reveals that
the master probably meant that opera was
so weighed down by its incessant emotional
appeal that there was little room left for
the science of music. Music-lovers are
divided into two kinds, those who listen
exclusively with the ear and those who lis-
ten with their brain; and most operas cater
purely for the first class.
it may come as a shock to some who con-
sider grand opera a severely classical form
of music to read—what I believe to be true
—that Puccini is the Locke of music, and
that hearing one of Puccini’s works is on
a par with reading a novel by that enter-
taining but quite uneducative author. Yet
to a person whose mental food has been'
limited to children’s comics and sixpenny
novelettes, Locke is a writer of supreme
merit, if somewhat difficult to read. Simi-
larly to the vast majority of Australians
whose musical food is limited to Tivoli
trivialities and musical comedy, grand opera
is a thing of tremendous excellence, even
if incomprehensible. To the trained
musician, however, opera is a pleasant but
not very intellectual way of spending an
evening—with certain exceptions.
Recently some of the higher critics hgve
been arguing amongst themselves about the
future of opera. Some of them assert that
it is too palpably dishonest, musically and
spiritually, fo live very much longer. They
point out firstly in regard to the typical
opera plot that it is always boisterous ahd
bloody, if not frankly immoral and sordid.
They further state that the “book” is nearly
always melodramatic farce of the worst
type. They say that we lose our sense of
humor altogether when, without so much
as blinking our eyelids, we solemnly listen
to a beefy gentleman singing a beefy fare-
well for 10 minutes after he has been fatally
stabbed.
Musically, fault is found with the utter
unreality of the thing. In Italian opera of
the old school we are entertained by ladies
and gentlemen who interrupt the course of
the plot and their own particular part in
it while they gaily climb their musical
trapeze and give an exhibition of gym-
nastics. The more rapid the rise and fall
of the voice, the greater the applause of
the awed audience. The more startling the
box of musical tricks the more astounded
the looks of the thousands who hear them
perform with all the breathlessness of a
suburban tennis-player watching Borotra
bounding after the elusive ball. Wagner
attempted to inform this state of musical
wretchedness by “getting rid of the para-
sitic vocal phrase and restoring drama to its
proper position of superiority.” But, as
that noted critic Turner says, “Wagner was
essentially a symphonist, and his so-called
operas are merely symphonies with vocal
parts, the artistic successors of Beethoven’s
Ninth Symphony.” The post-Wagneriao
school, Puccini, Carpentier and the rest,
entirely failed to progress further with the
operatic form of musical expression, and I
do not think that any of them reached any-
thing like the heights of the Mozartian
operas. “The Magic Flute” is a thing of
utter joy.
No one denies that there are beautiful
moments and occasional entrancing melo-
dies in most of the popular operas. What
worries me is whether it is necessary to
suffer the padding. In “Louise,” for in-
stance, the audience sits in awed silence
whilst someone goes into musical raptures
over the fact that “the soup is ready.”
Then follows a little soup music.
Y hat reforms, if any, are necessary to
make opera a thing of permanent value*
It is too big a question for me. I offer the
(Continued on page 5.)


. Truth in Advertising *» a worthy principle faithfully maintained at
Anthony Horderns'
Distinctive Furniture
Constructed and finished by craftsmen
Service Waggon, in light or dark
Oak. An absolute necessity. An
attractive-looking piece of useful
furniture. Size 29 x 1 6 in.
Price .
38/6
Smokers’ Sleepy Hollow Chair, with
adjustable back; very comfortable,
upholstered in good imitation
leather or moquette. Excellently
made and finished.
Price
£6/15/-
The “Ideal” Gentlemen’s Low Boy,
in Oak, fumed and waxed; with half
hanging space and half sliding trays.
Mirror inside door with shelf for
hair and clothes brush and rail for
ties.
Price
£l3/10/
£7/5/-
Other styles from
The Advantages of our
Deposit-Purchase System
You buy at Sydneys lowest prices—
You have an assurance of satisfaction —
You pay no interest —
No monthly payments —
You pay as you please—
There is no extra charge
Our “D.P.S.” (Deposit-Purchase sys-
tem) enables customers to have the
advantages of ANTHONY HORDERNS
“Famous Low Prices,” which are con-
sistently the lowest in Sydney. You simply
leave a small deposit on the goods re-
quired and the balance may be paid in
convenient instalments to suit yourself.
No interest or extra charge whatsover.
You can benefit by special offers on this
convenient system. Goods are carefully
stored until fully paid for.
By using our “D.P.S. you secure the
same advantages that is, same services
and value as when making Cash Pur-
chases.”
Furniture made by Anthony Horderns ’ will be found always to
comply with the most exacting standards of construction and
finish. Craftsmanship and dignity characterise every piece, and
create an atmosphere of refinement in the home. Only the best
well seasoned timber is used. When you are about to furnisn
your home, visit our extensive shows, or write for our profusely
illustrated Catalogues. Post free on request.
i
£
\W-
i
Ml nlll
—-td
8
Bernard Dining Room Suite, £3l/7/6
The Bernard Dining-room Suite, well made from specially-selected figured
Maple. Comprising 5 ft. Maple sideboard, which has bevelled Mirror,
2 drawers and 3 cupboards, having antique brass fittings; 4ft. circular
table with heavy legs; 4 small and 2 carver chairs, which are
available in either brown or blue imitation leather. Price. .
£3l| 7/6
10
m
K
7!
ITT
.III!
cs>
9
1 VvWJlii
(h
HSHa
=3
“Maryland” Maple Bedroom Suite, £49/10/-
The “Maryland” Maple Bedroom Suite. Comprising 5 ft. Wardrobe, two-
third hanging space, with hat shelf and brass rod, and one-third sliding
trays and shelves, shaped mirror; 3ft. 6in. Dressing Table, shaped mirror
with narrow frame; Pedestal Cupboard to match. Of
Queensland Maple, wax finished, lined Californian Red-
wood. Price
£49/10/-
Open until 9 p.m. Fridays for the convenience of our customers
Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Limited, Sydney.
Postal A ddress
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


STUDEBJIKER,
Stock Model Roadster
Smashes
Recants/
Lowers Fremantle - Adelaide Record by 5 hours 14 minutes.
Lowers Fremantle Record by 15 hours 20 minutes.
Lowers Fremantle - Sydney Record by 12 hours 22 minutes.
Otudebaker proved that it will
° OUT - PERFORM ANY
OTHER CAR regardless of
power or price when on March
15 a strictly stock model Roadster
* fitted even with mudguards and
bumper bars—SMASHED ALL
AUSTRALIAN SPEED AND
ENDURANCE RECORDS from
1 to 24 hours and from 100 to
1700 miles.
Studebaker proves its STAMINA
and DEPENDABILITY under
Erskine Models from £298 to £445.
Director Models from £378 to £550.
the severest conditions. This
same stock model in breaking all
Trans-continental records by
travelling from Fremantle to
Sydney in 106 hours 43 minutes
forged over sand-swept deserts
and rutted tracks and had to
battle through driving rains, cut-
ting winds and dense fogs. Yet
with all this gruelling punishment
Studebaker won through. Let us
loan you a Studebaker—let it tell
you its own thrilling story of
performance to-day.
Commander Models from £560 to £665
President Models from £665 to £Bl2
PRICES F.O.R. SYDNEY.
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
f NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited\ Sydney
VICTORIA :
Turner Bros., 396-400 Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
7 6 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens, Limited,
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-154 High Street,
Christchurch.
On this historic Across-
Australia trip the Stude-
baker Stock Model
Roadster was driven
by 'Norman Smith, who
chose Plume Motor
Spirit, Mobiloil and
Qoodyear Tyres.
a»
&
to.
•ja.t
W.
WRB2


At The Two Men’s Stores
Jumpers and Cardigans that suit to a “T”.
Hand knitted types included ... all imported
styles in fine wools and many with matching
socks too. Colors that are new, obtainable in
stripes, “half & half”, two-tone and conven-
tional designs. Come along to-day and inspect
the wonderful ranges shown. You can now shop
in quiet comfort in the Two Men’s Stores.
DAVID JONES’
Headquarters: Castlereagh , Market & Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men's Store: George Street , Sydney.
opinion, nevertheless, that it should not be
necessary to leave one's sense of humor
behind the moment one enters, say, Covent
Garden. It should not be necessary for the
plot to be held up whilst the star sopranos
advance to the front of the stage and rush
madly up and down a couple of octaves for
no other reason than the displaying of
their vocal powers. If the characters must
eat soup, they should do so quietly and
inoffensively, without an orchestra being
required to drown their efforts. An opera is
only excusable if it is a genuine figure of
drama, or comedy or phantasy clothed in
a becoming musical gown.
KEITH BARRY.
Hardy and Life
To Mr. J. M. Edwards’s comment (R.P.
21/3/’2B) upon my analysis of the spirit of
Hardy’s work, I offer the Pharisaic rejoinder
that he has not begun to appreciate and
understand a man who in rare moments did
give us at least glimpses of a world kicked
and mangled under the feet of the gods.
That hopeless conflict between man and the
incalculable forces which blast all his faiths
and suspend him over a vast abyss where
everything is phantasmagoric, unreliable—
that, titanic drama of Man, the Cipher—
Hardy has occasionally and admirably re-
vealed. Mencken, who has never been able
to decide whether Hardy wasn’t, after all,
a little bigger than Conrad, said: “The con-
viction that human life is a seeking without
a finding, that its purpose is impenetrable,
that joy and sorrow are alike meaningless
....is obviously the final message of the
nine symphonies... .and in Hardy.”
But, as with Dreiser, and Moore, and the
Zola who wrote “La Terre” (the other Zola
is not to be considered seriously), he
breathed over the Bedlam a sigh of despair.
The thing is gross. It disgusted him.
In creative art he had two alternatives.
He could have taken the antics of the mad-
house, Life—art’s material—and by analys-
ing it destroyed with laughter and scorn
the thing he despised. Douglas endeavors
to do this, and the Huxley of “Antic Hay.”
Or he could have extracted from the
material the rare essence of lyric ecstasy
to be found in Rabelais, in Pickwick, in
Cervantes, in parts, infinitely marvellous, of
“Sinister Street” and “Guy and Pauline,”
and pre-eminently in “The Satyricon,” that
place of mad gusto. This creation of a new
lyric earth which would fling back into the
teeth of the gods their own poor joke, their
mud-puddle of blood and tears, was obvi-
ously the work he should have done. “Two
on a Tower” showed that. Here, fugitively,
he builds a remote world of passion, aloof
from the imbecilic uproar of existence.
But he shirked that work, and abandoned
himself generally to a horrified contempla-
tion of depressing misery, for which there is
no place in art. “He watched,” as Mr.
Edwards says, “and told us with an exact
pen what he saw adding nothing and
taking away nothing.” I have not denied
that his studies of Wessex yokels are accu-
rate, thorough, but that sort of thing is
not enough to make a big man. An artist
must do more than report. He must add
something, and the something Hardy was
gifted to add was lyric ecstasy. He pre-
ferred to issue against the background of
Wessex life unconvincing pamphlets vaguely
reminiscent of promulgations from societies
for the uplift of farmhands and enslaved
womanhood.
Examine Hardy beside Conrad. Each
had glimpsed, as all w'ho pretend to big
work must have glimpsed, the gross, un-
equal, unmitigable struggle to which man
is committed. Conrad’s answer td it is
Nostromo, Falk, Donna Rita and Lord Jim,
who “passes away under a cloud, inscrut-
able at heart, forgotten, unforgiven, and
excessively romantic.” They are indomit-
able before the most cataclysmic assaults
of life. No cry of despair there, only con-
tempt and an impulse to hit back as long
as breath lasts. Their heroic figures shadow
your mind and burn into it a new vitality
and courage. Hardy leaves you shuddering
at his shrieks of appalled resignation.
But, principally, I would like to correct, a
misquotation which indicates that Mr.
Edwards read my analysis without under-
standing its thesis. What I said of mud-
puddles was this: “Hardy....is oppressed
by the materials of art. The creator will
use these materials—a turgid mass of raw
fact in Hardy—to project upon this mud-
puddle of life an image of what it is not but
ought to be.” That I intended as a con-
densed statement of the conviction, which
I now elaborate, that Hardy shirked in a
barren realism the work he should have
done as a lyricist.
BRIAN PENTON.
A Scrutineer’s List
Someone the other day asked The Bul-
letin’s Service Page to name the five best
short-story writers the world has known.
The Page took a vote of 10 members of the
literary staff, and I have the scrutineer’s
statement of the polling before me. My
own vote was cast for Maupassant, Tchekov,
Ivipling, Poe and 0. Henry. Each of the
first four seems to me such a great writer
in this field that there is no need to dis-
cuss his inclusion. But O. Henry? I put
him, Bierce, Harte, Balzac, Boccaccio, Gals-
worthy, Hawthorne, Andersen and the
writers of the short stories in the Bible into
a hat, and Henry was first out.
So much for a personal opinion. I now
turn to the list—and Henry heads it! The
Bulletin is a staunch Henry office; he re-
ceived the possible of votes, and two of
the voters placed him at the head ot their
five. Now, there seems to me something
intriguing in this general acceptance ot the
American writer of light and sentimental
distended anecdotes, to the exclusion ot
Tchekov, Poe, Balzac, Bret and
others. I admit his “Municipal Report and
two or three more are great short stories m
the true sense of that much-abused desig-
nation; but are even they comparable to
the best of one or two of those others?
And has Henry in general any depth? Hoes
he hold the mirror up to life or drop the
lead-line into it as those others do? Has
he their lasting qualities? Is he not rather
a cheery minor player upon popular heart •
throbs—a good entertainer, getting a lot of
his effects from an argot which 50 years
hence will be highly interesting—to profes-
sional critics? A good writer, 0. Henry:
several rungs down the ladder below Poe
and Hawthorne, perhaps the closest
approach to genius that America has pro-
duced.
No. 2 on the scrutineer’s list appears
Kipling, a vote short of the possible. Ah,
well, a writer who insists on his books being
sold at Kipling prices deserves something
to happen to him. Only one placed him
first of the five; four placed him second.
Five gave Maupassant first place, and his
total was one less than Kipling’s and two
less than Henry’s. Let it pass; there have
been some lamentably bowdlerised trans-
lations of Maupassant published. Fourth
on the list is H. G. Wells, with half the
possible. I did not even put him into my
hat, but I must confess a prejudice—l never
was very taken with mechanics. To me
Wells seems an inventor, rather than a
creator: the things he has built from his
near-perfect literary meccano-set make a
very fine spectacle—a gymnast tableau, with
every muscle in place and the curtain slowly
falling.
And now, fifth on this scrutineer’s list
before me, I read the name Leonard Mer-
rick. It does not amaze me; it simply gets
in under my guard, hits me in the solar
plexus and knocks me over the wicket-
keeper’s head, to land, hugging both
cushions, into the arms of the stipendiary
stewards. Merrick—a gifted entertainer,
who writes, with a pocket handkerchief and
a tickler, of the easy tears and the easy
laughter of carnival! But a short-story
writer of the first five? Well, this is a
surprise! And below Merrick, outside the
pale, is Poe—the odd flower that looks
almost lonely on the great desert that is
American literature. Anyway, he beats,
among others who received votes, Harte,
Galsworthy, Pain, Bierce, Jacobs and Lon-
don! But the first three of these beat Bal-
zac and Tchekov. The mild enthusiasm for
Balzac may be explained in the fact that
he is generally considered greater on the
larger-fiction canvas, and is not pre-emi-
nently a short-story writer; though, in my
humble opinion, he is as great in one as in
the other. If his best is not superior to
the best of Henry, Wells and Merrick, not to
mention most of the others, my critical
faculty must have a wretched kink in it.
Still, I believe his exclusion understandable.
But is Tchekov’s? Russian, but universal,
he stands for me beside Maupassant and
Kipling. He is pre-eminently a short-story
writer and a creator. He has tenth place
on the scrutineer’s list, bracketed with Bal-
zac. And, after all, what have you to com-
plain about, Tchekov, wherever you have
been placed, if you have been placed with
Balzac? And Boccaccio, Andersen, the
author of “Ruth” and “Esther” and “The
Prodigal Son” and the Parables, and the
author of “Wandering Willie’s Tale,” and
Conoard and Mansfield got no vote at all.
Neither did Henry Lawson.
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
What I Saw in Russia, by Maurice Baring
(Heinemann). Sketcliy, but vivid.
The, Life of Prayer, by Friedrich von
Illigel. Two addresses by this prominent
exponent of the life of the spirit.
Henry Ford, by J. G. de Roulhac Hamil-
ton (Allen and Unwin). The life story of the
father of Lizzie., his rise and his achieve-
ments. told simply and naturally.
Heretics, by G. K. Chesterton (John
Lane). A reprint in the cheap and handy
“Week-end” series. In it G.K.C. has his say
about Kipling, Shaw, Wells and others.
The Strayyles of Male Adolescence, by
C. Stanford Read (Allen and Unwin). An
interesting book for parents and teachers
receptive of the new teachings of psychology.
The Lacquer Couch, by Anne Duffhdd
(John Murray). How love can defy racial
antipathies and yet survive is the theme
of this striking novel from a new viewpoint.
Forging Ahead, by Arthur O. Richardson
(Cornstalk Co.). A twentieth-century Pil-
grim’s Progress in which Great-heart forges
ahead. It preaches without being preachy,
and is well poised.
London, by George 11. Cunningham
(Dent). A survey of the history and tra-
ditions of buildings and monuments in the
ancient capital. A work of monumental
labor, it takes London street by street,
alleyways as well as great thoroughfares.
The Open Road in Victoria, by R. H.
Croll (Robertson and Mullens). The vice-
president of the Melbourne Walking Club
quaintly begins his peregrinations with a
walk down Collins-street. Then he takes
the reader for some mild exercise through
Heidelberg, Eltham and suChlike pleasaunces,
before going for walks only possible to strong
physiques and constitutions capable of stand-
ing the rigors of nights spent in the open on
the Victorian Alps. Walking is one of the
few civilised amusements left us, and Mr.
Croll has the right temperament, along with
sensitiveness and keen observation, to
enjoy it.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice fexcept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
. tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.J.W.: “Elwood Swamp Mystery”
received. We are bogged in it A.W.: More an
obituary notice than a story Ken: Amateurish
Jaswell: Laborious P.S.: Too serious for'its purpose.
R.E.F.H.: Sentenced to death Fred 0.: Rather
scrappy Ron C.: We liked the lines “He stood and
watched the setting sun In blending colors one by one
Pass away.” He must have been drinking heavily.
Chas. M.: Old idea; and why the Scots ?
G.V.T.: Can’t get any conviction out of it... .1.X.1.:
(1) Yes; (2) three or four weeks; (3) if you had
sent stamps they would have been returned; (4) ss.
each... .F.R.F.: Not enough meat in the steak yarn.
Windbag: No good at all. Fourpence a line
is the rate for sole rights of publication.... Thewma:
Terrible verse. .. .Lilian M.: We believe you when
you say it’s original; but what is it? Daphne L.:
The telling damns it Danvers W.: You’re care-
less. Why “dreamy dreamer” ?... .D.L.M.: The
alleged verse is without rhyme—or reason Joyce
W.: That politician has already been punished ; why
use your doggerel?.. . .Reecie L.: Under consideration.
. ...W.H.T.: Not interesting enough. You seem
obsessed with the importance of whisky breaths....
Philo: Verses anent the admiral must have been
written in a heavy sea.... Selma A.: “Lilian” may
not call in vain Chick: “That brings me back to
where I left my reader.” Glad you realise that only
one would read so far. . . .A.C.W.: Repetition. .. .
Mark S.: So near at the start and yet so far at
the end! Myra E.: Try again when your “thoughts
half formed” are fully formed F.J.L.: “Coward”
has turned tail for home....Waw: Good idea, but
telling is wrong. Try it again W.F.M.: “Judg-
ment” was indeed a trial W.T.W.: A pawnshop
story should carry more interest. .. .8.0’C.: Too long
for the old tale Julienne G.: Workmanship lacks
finish F.J.L.: With lead-like sound it dropped
into the basket Mark 0.: Rather a dreary fancy.
Norm C.: Our effort to laugh at it for your sake
was all in vain E.R.M.: Explosion item missed
fire E.P.: Your pirate walked the plank, finishing
with a splash in the w.p.b Len J. F.: Dull. We
accept anything—provided it is bright enough....
Cliff H.: Terrible The Bear: No need to “insert
the additions.” We’re not inserting the original....
J.L.M.: “Woe, woe, woe!” Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Savient: Scansion uneven and rhymes deplorable. You
might write verse when you learn how. Study real
literature —and pick your authors H.L.M.: “Sea-
farer” wrecked.... Vera H. M. J.: Quite good; has
its chance Richard R.: “Wife” divorced from
hopes of print.... Jacobas: Greasy item can’t slip in.
.... Bellerive: Comedy this time: —
He’s suddenly arose from the table,
On he's face was an angry frown;
He eagerly felt in he’s pockets,
Smiled at he’s pals, and sat down.
“What’s wrong,” said a burly built coon
Who bore the nickname of “The Tracker.”
“Nothing,” he calmly replied,
“I thought I’d left home my Tobacco!”
....Nellie M.: Your moon may shine; the others
won’t do 8.-Gar: Merely a plain statement of
fact, if fact it is.. . .Vic. K.: Ideas too faint
Helen M.: Try again—with the simple home touches
you should succeed. .. .P.E.8.: Weak bit of pathos.
Retty li.: “Outcast” is T.W.B. : Much too
long, even if you didn’t try such rhymes as “limit-
summit” H.A.8.-W.: Not quite expert enough....
Nihil: “Oh, could we learn”....and then you forget
to say what we would do—or you think we would
do A.W.M.: Our old friend the strawberry-mark
again !... . Marco: Better if you left the revelation
about the disc for the end. .. .R.F.G.: More or less
stunned by it... .E.J.C.: Basis of a good thing in
it; not suitable in that form. . . .Joshford: Poor stuff.
....E. O’N.: Verses about grandma are amongst
the things that turn our own hair grey.... Hugh S.:
Only just discovered that gag?... .C.H.M.: Not
enough in it Peter P.: Nearly. Several awkward
lines R.C. (Emmaville) : Certainly not. If the
stuff was good enough nothing else would matter.
You’ve got to overcome the crudeness S.C.H.P.M.:
Mournful ditty needed the stamp P.L.8.: It seems
fairly definite:
Ah, she is dead ! Dead ! Dead ! And all is gloom !
Her spirit fled,
So cold and still she lies in this dark room,
So cold and dead! Ah, yes, she must be dead!
J.E.D.: Shocking failure Frank W.: Hughes
verse Hughesless... .A.G.C.: Not skilled enough....
G. :No story in a mere swapping of lies Yelip-
too: So the nice girl proved to be the family slavey ?
Astounding! T.R.F.: Artificial.... Frank W.: Not
enough substance... .R.R.M.: Your verse hasn’t a
correct foot to stand on Ledraw: Prosily told
H. : Horrible Ruth L. L. T.: Unsuitable
C.S.P.: “The Dance” is done... .F.1.W.: Du 11....
Jim C.: The little sob-story is quite ineffective....
First Major: Dissertation on “Noises” is not matter
for us H.C.P.: “Love” moves in a mysterious way
its blunders to perform.... derrick, J.P.: Sorry, but
it had to be basketed. Only a fraction of our readers
would have seen the sub-leaders you dissect
C.F. (M.L.) : No space for articles on how to play
hockey—or any other game. ... W. Pen : Doesn’t
bite... .R.W.D.: The blank-verse form is dangerous,
except to the expert. And you’re no expert....
T.L.C.: But that’s exactly what our Service Depart-
ment is for. All you have to do is to ask your ques-
tion, and the Service Department will get an expert
to answer it Ancient Mariner: There’s no story
in that. .. .P.H.S.: Of course it isn’t true. The
competition is confined to Australian-born and persons
bona fide resident in Australia —Australia for the pur-
poses of this regulation including Maoriland and the
South Pacific R.H.L.: But don’t quite see how
they’re going to live. . . .5.N.0.: Comb your brains.
You get everything mixed... .Wenlock: No need for
that cynical little tag. It doesn’t sound sincere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.E.K.: Why didn’t you turn the vacuum cleaner
on to the sketch? It needs dusting up E.T.:
Apart from the old-fashioned appearance of the iady
the drawing misses in many ways. .. .S.D.: You’ll
find a Bulletin cheque just as elusive unless you
show miraculous impi’ovement. .. .5.11. J.: The week’s
most ambitious effort; also the week’s biggest
failure G.H.: One is old and the other does not
interest us....lnk: You’re the hardest trier we’ve
met; but you are still too rough-and-ready....
C.F.A.: Decrepit little effort in pale blue ink turned
down with unusual promptitude... .R.P.: You might
as well have drawn them in invisible ink for all the
use they are to us Algy: The change in your
nom de plume has not been followed by any change in
your work, which is still as unsatisfactory as ever.
. . . .L.O. : Too harsh and rigid.


m.
v - .
pr"
''%
'rT-
■ ' ,;,:
:
...
■
:
*
1 » »
vl
ia
UK
4 SSI
.
M
--' . ..'.'•>
✓
11
■
,-iy‘
:S
M
m
Wmmm
m •
■ : :
■
>:.*
■k
y
.
■
■
-.; ■ ■
: ' • '
■ a- '
■ -
|||;|l||ll||ifl
■ :
JjfT
4
I
Hfc I
■
. ,-•.
2
.-i
><
'
Wl
> *■■ • v- IWiif
mm
Wm
■m
I -mm3


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2514.
April IS, 1928.
A FAMILY GROUP.
“The pass to which things have come in Chicago is due largely to Prohibition. It was no great job to abolish the legal distribution of liquor; but in the illegal
distribution hordes of thugs, blackmailers, political hangers-on and sundries have found employment.
MRS. PROHIBITION: “Yours, I think?”
UNCLE SAM: “Pardon me, OURS.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 4 s -; 6 months, 12s. tid.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 0
months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager,
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission o 1 MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn- —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Hall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdbn
Street, London, E.C.4; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2; F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.’
South Africa. —The Central News Agency. Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House > Durban;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley ; and
others.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and 4%nd Street . New York City; Holaling’s
News Agency, 203 West 41st Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 704 Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.: The Wide World News
Stand, 541\ South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Smith Bros.’ News Co., Box 57 3 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.-— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
CiiiNA. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang, S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Or'ental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 44 Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby,
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji ;
lOoz.. Id. United Kingdom: 4<>z. to Woz., ltd.; each
additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., ltd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 1/oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
TTuTZßullelzoi.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 18, 1928.
WHAT GENERAL JOHN MONASH
DOESN’T KNOW.
Results are not always satisfactory when a
brilliant soldier and a highly capable builder
of bridges plunges into political economy;
and they may be positively disastrous when
another gentleman hoists himself on a
bench, and proceeds to grant lavish
wage and hour conditions with the infal-
lible air of one who passed several law ex-
aminations in his youth and defended a
number of prisoners in later years. Recently
the Tariff Board sat in Melbourne to hear
evidence on electrical matters, and it
stirred up quite a nest of believers in im-
ported. goods, including a witness who ap-
peared as “tariff advisor” to 16 different
concerns. And John Monash, as chairman
of the Victorian State Electricity Com-
mission, was represented by a letter which
included these passages:—
“The action of the Electricity Commission
in placing with Messrs. Thompson Bros,
of Castlemaine an order for a new turbo-
generator was taken with great reluctance,
and in disregard of sound commercial and
economic principles. The Commission was,
however, precluded from taking any <jther
action by an instruction of the State Gov-
ernment. .. .This contract will cost the
Commission at least £lO,OOO more than if
the order had been given to the lowest
tenderer. Its acceptance, will impose upon
Victorian industry for aw, time a burden of
not less than £OOO a year for the very tem-
porary benefit of h small group of workers
at Castlemaine... .The' Commission would
have found itself in the same position if it
had given the order to the lowest English
tenderer, and made a present of their wages
to the workmen about to be employed by
Messrs. Thompson Bros.”
* '? * * #
There are a few points to be- con-
sidered which the■ General has for-
gotten or perhaps never knew. One
is that it is sometimes cheaper for
a man or, a nation to pay liimself or it-
self, say, £2400 a year than to pay a distant
stranger £lBOO. The larger sum and all the
subsequent interest is money taxable by Aus-
tralian Federal, State and municipal authori-
ties because it is here; the other and all the
subsequent interest is money taxable by
other people because it isn’t herel Then
local prihcipal and interest can be -met out
of the paper proceeds of a dog-ta# or any
other local impost, and the paper revenue
comes in freely enough. External principal
and interest might be met. if Australia
doubled the value of its wool exports or
worked Some similar miracle. As it isn’t
in the miracle-working line, the external (or
gold) debt, incurred in payment for im-
ported turbo-generators and such-like, and
in payment of interest thereon, has become
one of the great problems of the age.
* * * *
Still there would be comparatively little
reason why any Government or institution
which hankers after imported goods, pay-
able out of loans, shouldn’t get what it
wants provided it paid the interest and
sinking fund itself. That is to say,; provided
it regularly shipped abroad enough sove-
reigns or saleable goods of its own to hon-
estly meet its bills; But its'method is to
dump on , the bank counter its liability in
paper, which has no value except here, and
demand that the bank should pay the same
nominal amount in gold over there. There
is now a great and Apparently chronic short-
age of gold at Australia’s credit over there,
so Australian Governments feed the banks
with proceeds of new external loans. If
they didn’t the banks would have to peri-
odically suspend the issue of drafts for
longer or shorter periods, and tell their
customer that they couldn’t help him to
pay £lOO in London even if he had £lOO,OOO
of Australian currency and acres, of Aus-
tralian warehouses crammed with non-Aus-
tralian goods. This might lead to his being
declared bankrupt in London, which would
be unpleasant. If;such a situation should
ever arise, the General may have the satis-
faction of knowing that once upon a time
the State Government stopped him from
helping to Lring it about. He may gqt a
little less satisfaction from recalling that he
called the Government a fool for doing it.
WHAT IS OUR BEST MARKET?
While the world’s market for wool con-
tinues very firm, and indeed promises still
higher prices, the market for wheiit remains
very sick, and no hope is entertained of
better things. It is nevertheless a fixed
condition with most of the “reformers” that
the ,pastoralist who produces wool must be
pushed off the land so that the small and
impecunious agriculturist may
come on and produce something else—-wheat
in nine cases out of ten. The fact that the
Commonwealth has 334,000,000 acres of un-
sold and almost unoccupied land of its own,
much of which could be settled without the
pleasure of doing serious damage to any-
body, leaves these apostles cola. In this
matter the N.S.W. president of the A.W.U.
has come forward with what he evidently
considers a valuable programme of repajr. It
contains the familiar long-distance loan
items of land settlement, tree-planting, the
damming of, rivers and increased agricultural
wages. And a special feature is made of the
fact or assertion that there are 20,000,000
acres of possible wheat-growing land handy
to the N. S. Wales railways, and that sheep
should be chased off this area to make room
for wheat-growers.
* * *
Some unystery attaches to the devotion
of Australia’s saviors and regenerators to the
one vegetable of which the supply is already
far in excess of the local demand. Possibly
it just saves them the worry of thinking
up a fresh vegetable. If N.S.W. suddenly
and , strenuously carried out the A.W.U.
scheme, its wheat area would be almost eight
times what it is at present. Supposing the
new farms measured 400 acres each there
would arise* the problem of finding 50,000
new farmers. How all these would find labor
to help them, and Low they would contrive
to pay for it, especially if the rural wage is
raised again and all the odds and ends of
employment insurance and the like continue
to make trouble, are side issues. Then a
question of markets comes in. If the new
area yielded 15 bushels per acre, there would
be an extra 300,000,000 bushels to throw on
an astounded market. The idea would be,
of course, to throw it at Father Bull, who
is understood to buy everything. But it is
an exciting year when John B. wants quite
200,000,000 bushels—one-tenth to one-four-
teenth usually coming from Australia and
the rest from handier sources. City wise-
acres with stereotyped vegetation on the
brain may take too much for granted.
Already it is even suggested that the wheat
export business may soon need a bounty
to keep it alive. Bounties have been granted
on wine, beef, cattle, canned fruit, cotton,
and in a large but indirect way on sugar,
so there is no lack of precedent. A bright
spot is that wool hasn’t asked for assistance
yet, nor does it show any sign of doing so.
* * * *
Recent Australian official estimates are to
the effect that the gross value of the out-
put in the poorer land industries, which are
agriculture and cow, is in the neighborhood
of £4OO per annum for each worker em-
ployed. In the pastoral business it is esti-
mated at about £l2OO. In manufactures the
figure is set down at £872, and it might be
much more if the Gardens and other petty
tyrants didn’t forbid piecework. The pas-
toral industry is still capable of expansion,
but not of indefinite expansion, for it takes
up a considerable amount of room. There
are considerable possibilities in agriculture,
too, if it was possible to get out of the deep
rut, for Australia imports a surprisingly long
list of vegetable substances, and the demand
for cotton and flax to supply factories ought
to be immense. But a very doubtful market
lies before wheat-raising. On the other hand,
the Commonwealth knows exactly where a
customer exists for 51 million pounds’ worth
of hardware and 42 million pounds’ worth of
softgoods per annum. It only remains for
the country to make the goods and give
itseli sufficient preference, for the customer
is right here. Latest figures showed that the
year’s exports of Australian-made agricul-
tural, dairy and farmyard products repre-
sented £43,135,929, so they all, including
wheat, flour, fruit, sugar, butter, cheese,
milk, eggs, hogs, fowls, etc., just about suf-
ficed to cover the bill for softgoods, much
of which might have been made here just
as well.
U.S.A. AND US.
“We have great respect for Australia,” the
head of an important American business
house told me. “My son fought with Aus-
tralians in France and liked them very
much. They were more nearly of American
type, temperament and outlook on life than
any other ally. We consider Australia
destined to become very great indeed.”
American visitors to Australia return home
vastly impressed with this continent-nation
and the progress everywhere in evidence.
“You have a very fine country and are
putting it to excellent use,” is the view
usual among American observers whose
opinion matters. Their one apparently
universal complaint is about the exceeding
fewness of our passable hotels.
Throughout America gratifying interest
is taken in Australia. Owing mainly to the
nature of my business—l interviewed pub-
lishers, iqovie-producers, editors, bankers,
manufacturers, merchants and traders—l had
tp “talk Australia” everywhere I went in
America and across the Atlantic, too. But,
additionally, interviews were requested for
information about Australia. Among these
seekers for knowledge a Chicago lawyer
prominent in polities sought “first-hand in-
formation about Australian politics and Par-
liamentary procedure.” As best I could I
supplied the information he desired. “It
bears out my thought Australia has a
more democratic form of government than
our American system,” he summed up em-
phatically.
American manufacturers expressed no
resentment at all at Australia’s rising tariff
waU. Generally they merely decided against
expenditure to establish a market which
might be lost through operation of a pro-
hibitive tariff. They keenly watch our pro-
gress behind this wall and foresee for us a
future comparable with that of their own
country.
American feeling towards Britain never
came directly under discussion. Americans,
however, are satisfied that Britain is capable
of taking care of herself. In academic dis-
cussion of the United States’ possible future
world-policy, quotation of history in support
of personal surmise weakens the case. The
Big Scrap proved how little any nation’s
immediate actions are based upon the exi-
gencies of yesterday, i.e., on history. For
instance, comparing the amenability to
authority of the Germanic people with that
of English-speaking populations, an Ameri-
can admiral, writing 25 years ago, ridiculed
the possibility of these latter ever submit-
ting to conscription.
At the peak-power of the Republic’s
greatest navy of that period of naval con-
struction, the United States sent a squad-
ron on a successful cruise to Australia. At
the post-war peak-power of its modern-type
battle fleet (in May last I viewed the
entire fleet in East River, New York), a
similar cruise was again accomplished. What
actually is in the mind of American states-
men oply a very few know. The pro-
cedure, however, appears to have become an
established policy. Whether in time of
need U.S.A. will aid Australia not even a
very few know. As yet the United States
has not announced the doctrine “Hands off
all white nations in the Pacific Ocean!”
This powerful union of States may never
issue that warning. But no nation is more
keenly interested in maintaining a balance
of power in favor of white nations in the
Pacific. Neither Australia, M.L., nor
Canada is more vitally interested in white
supremacy in this ocean. Remotely apart
though Australia and the United States are,
for its own future safety’s sake U.S.A.
may consider it essential that white Aus-
tralia be kept inviolate from possible Asiatic
aggressors. Historical precedent or lack of
it would not apply; history is merely a
prejudiced record of past events,
Meanwhile it would be foolish as well as
discourteous to offensively disparage such
sincere well-wishers of the Commonwealth
of Australia.
EILNEST OSBOBNE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where Industry is “Socialised.”
The Russian Soviet has announced to its
own satisfaction and that of its admirers
that its Peasant Loan of £10,000.000
(nominal) has been over-subscribed. Pre-
sumably the usual pressure was applied; it
is significant that many thousands of pea-
sants had just been gaoled on a charge of
“hoarding grain.”
Russian loans are either peasant or mixed.
The peasant is a conservative and deeply
suspected character, so he has practically
none of the privileges of the townsman (the
lattpr supplies the ruling Communist ele-
ment), and only one-fifth of the political
representation in proportion to his numbers.
But he has a copious right of subscribing
to loans.
In 1921 the Soviet’s revenue was
4,000,000,000,000 roubles and the expenditure
26,000,000,000,000 (26 million million)
roubles in useless paper, so the Government
had another repudiation, and began life
afresh. Between 1921 and the beginning of
1927 it floated 14 loans, according to its
own “Soviet Union Year Book.” Two were
in grain and one in sugar, which means that
the produce was commandeered and some
sort of acknowledgment given in return, or
a book entry made, or something. No men-
tion is made of interest in these cases.
Eleven loans were in money, and the pre-
sent one is the 12th or 13th or thereabouts.
The interest rates were various. The
Internal Lottery Loan of 1927 was appar-
ently an appeal to the townspeople, whom
it is advisable to humor. It was issued at
96, and the interest was 10 per cent.
All this slatternly fuss is included in the
“socialisation of industry,” which is the great
ambition and purpose of the rump N.S.W.
Labor Conference dominated by “Jock”
Garden and Co. That kind of paradise is
easy of entry, but it is a hell of a thing to
escape from.
—♦
Ships’ Officers.
Captain Robert Storey Walton, marine
superintendent in Australia for the Union
S.S. Co., giving evidence for the shipowners
in the Merchant Service Guild case, said:
“Some of the best men we have had as
ships’ officers have been newsboys in the
streets.” Well, what about it? What does
Captain Walton suggest? In effect, he says
that the marine officer need not be a person
with much early education, but that a lad,
no matter how he may have been dragged
up, may turn himself into a very good ship’s
officer. But is that not true of every job
in the world? Is there a single high place,
where the accident of birth does not count,
that has not been filled by somebody who
in his early youth was a news-runner or
the like? To suggest that there is nothing
much in a job since an ex-newsboy may
reach it is sublimely ridiculous.
But the fact that so many of the best
officers were once newsboys is a, very good
reason why the pay and other conditions
should be good. It was indeed because so
many sons of well-to-do families were sent
to sea in search of gold braid that the pay
was for so long so shocking. Nowadays,
when apparently the well-to-do are in such
small numbers among the officers, the need
to make the pay commensurate with the
service is more urgent than it used to be.
In Australia no doubt it is better than it
is in most countries. But so it should be.
The Australian coastal trade is completely
sheltered by the Navigation Act, so con-
ditions in other countries have no bearing
on the position here. Further, Australian
officers have to keep their homes going in
Australia, where the cost of living has
mounted higher than it has in any great
maritime country in the world.
Whether the Navigation Act is whollv
wise or whether a thousand of the things
that have produced the high cost of living
are wise has nothing to do with the case.
A sailor, after serving four years at sea to
qualify as an officer, has to pass an exacting
examination; and thereafter in pursuit of
his calling he has to suffer many incon-
veniences, face considerable perils and
assume at times enormous responsibilities.
The pay should be fixed with these things
in mind. What it is in other countries
should not concern us any more than what
it used to be in our own.
fy
The Dope Devil.
A few months’ experience of the Drug Act
which was one of the last legacies of the
Lang Government has served to convince
N.S.W. Police Chief Mitchell of the impos-
sibility of trying to stamp out the growing
menace of drug-addiction with the weapons
which that law supplies. That cocaine and
morphine, especially the former, have been
coming into Australia in general and N. S.
Wales in particular in great quantities is
well known to all familiar with the nosition;
and in some quarters the belief is held that
one of the international drug rings which


have amassed millions by dealing in human
misery is now turning its attention to this
country. Whether this is so or not there is
plenty of evidence that behind the traffic in
Sydney is an organisation controlling the
handling of narcotics through agents, a few
of the subordinates of whom are occasion-
ally caught and fined amounts varying from
five to 30 pounds—less even than the con-
firmed sly-grogseller has to pay.
The profits made by these traffickers and
by those at the back of them are stupen-
dous; to those unaware of the ins and outs
of the filthy business, incredible. A fair
estimate of the cost of an ounce of dope
in the country of its origin would be about
£l, to which must be added £3 to coyer the
expense of bringing it to Australia and
landing it safely. Combined with its own
bulk of some adulterant, and divided up
into small packages, each containing five
grains, it will bring in at least £5O.
Obviously, trifling fines are not going to
have any deterrent effect on the makers of
these enormous profits.
The remedy is gaol without alternative;
but under such a clumsy law as the present
N.S.W. measure it would mean inevitably
that the unfortunate addict who has ac-
quired the habit through sickness would be
sentenced with the trafficker whose only
thought is of profits. And even then it is
doubtful if those caught would be any other
than the minor agents who would not even
know their principals, the ones who make the
thousands while the ethers earn the pounds.
Therefore it might not be a bad plan to
take the advice of the Police Commissioner,
who alone amongst those in high places
seems to realise the danger threatening.
But whatever is done we must distinguish
between the unfortunate addict, who is
worthy of a helping hand, and the soulless
blackguard, who should be pursued relent-
lessly.
♦
The Colored Peril.
Every now and then some gifted person
has a glance at Mulhall, notices that there
are three times as many
colored people as white
in the world, and that the
whites aren’t multiplying
so recklessly as they used
to. On this basis the
gifted person proceeds to
prophesy that the black,
brown, red, yellow and
piebald races will very
soon rise up and knock
the stuffing out of the
effete palefaces. The
latest intellectual to raise
the old dismal cry is
Chiozza Money, quite
an attractive writer on
the stuff his family is
named after, but not
hitherto suspected of hav-
ing delved deep into
ethnology and history.
History doesn’t offer
any food for the fear. A
century and a half ago
the English appropriated
India, the flag having fol-
lowed the trade. Strenuous efforts having
been made by the whites to cure the nat-
ives of their habits of assassinating their girl
babies, dying of starvation and cholera, and
otherwise killing themselves off in wars and
bandit raids, the colored population now
stands at 250,000.000 and the white popula-
tion at 120.000. Yet Britain still rules India.
In South Africa, after 275 years of white in-
fluence, there is a colored population of
5,500,000 and a white population of 1,600,000.
But the Zulus, Hottentots and Kaffirs don’t
rule South Africa. The weight-of-numbers
theory doesn’t fit the facts.
The great strength of the whites in India
is the great gulf that lies between the various
sections of the native population. But if a
great gulf lies between the various sections
of India, how much greater the gulf that lies
between, for instance, the Japanese and the
Hottentots! .
i o
The Word-spinners.
It may be some consolation to Priminister
Bruce, whose industrial peace conference
refuses to materialise, to reflect that in
Maoriland, where they actually held such a
conference last month, nobody got very
much for’arder. Yet the atmosphere was
all that could be desired, and the trades
union delegates in a most conciliatory
encyclical deplored strife and prayed for
peace.
Unfortunately the conference settled
down almost at once to listen to a con-
troversy between four gentlemen who ought
to have been most rigidly excluded—four
Professors of Economics. Professors A and
B condemned the Arbitration Act with bell,
book and candle for raising wages regard-
less of the ability of industries to pajr them.
Professors C and D said that the rise in
wages was mainly due to currency inflation
and high interest rates, and that if the
Court didn’t exist it would have to be in-
vented. Priminister Coates in an earnest
oration announced that now was the time
for all good men and true to come to the
aid of the country, and the president of
the Farmers’ Union reckoned that the Arbi-
tration Court should take its hands off
any industry in which farmers were inter-
ested. The wage-earners’ reps, seem to have
contented themselves with advising the
professors to have a round-table barney on
their own account to ascertain whether there
was anything on earth they could agree
upon.
So umpteen sub-committees and sections
have been set up, and they are all going to
report at some future date; but after hearing
all that was to be said around it and about,
nobody expects any very tangible result.
For in Maoriland, as in most other places,
the tendency is to make a dreadfully com-
plex thing of what in fact is quite simple;
and nobody in the world is more interested
in making things appear complex than
Professors of Economics, who, along with
Professors of Psychology, threaten to be-
come not merely nuisances but national
perils.
4
Trial By His Peers.
Some men never achieve juries, others have
juries constantly thrust upon them, though
the same qualifications may be present
in both instances. In Victoria there is
good reason to suppose that a professional
juryman class has sprung into existence, in
spite of legislation designed to prevent jury-
squaring. Another and even less alluring
aspect of the matter was exhibited in the
complaint made by the Queensland police
that convicted criminals were being per-
mitted to serve on juries in the Northern
State. The complaint was so well founded
that hurried steps were taken to abate the
dangerous nuisance.
In Sydney the Minister for Justice found
it necessary to call for a departmental report
concerning an allegation that a mental
patient had sat on a jury at the trial of a
man who was accused of murdering his
wife under circumstances of unusual
brutality. The accused was acquitted, and
deservedly so, no doubt. It was shown that
the juryman was under treatment for
“nerves” and not for insanity, but the Min-
ister’s action in ordering a departmental
inquiry was significant. It amounted to a
tacit admission by the authorities that the
tragi-comedy alleged is possible.
The incident is one more argument
for the reform of the jury system-
in the direction this time of institut-
ing a much more thorough method of
INNOCENCE.
“Called upon at the A.L.P. Conference to answer a charge of owning shares, Mr. Theodore said
he was a director of the Roma Oil Co., in which he held 100 shares tor which he had paid It was
a prospecting concern, attempting to discover oil, and was not a profit-producing company. Mr Morris
(Newcastle) moved ‘that this conference places its confidence in Mr. Theodore. Carried.
THE A.L.P.: “You only work in your orchard for fun, do you? That’s all right, then;
but let me catch you raising any fruit and that’s the end of you.
inquiring into a juryman’s qualifications.
The raising of the standard of those
qualifications is also due. -It may be
that an offender is entitled to be tried by a
jury of his peers. But to carry that prin-
ciple so far as to permit a receiver to sit in
judgment on a burglar, or a lunatic to be
called on to render his verdict on some
crime of passion which indicates abnor-
mality, is calculated to bring the whole
system into greater contempt than it enjoys
at present.
Tramless Streets.
The Traffic Commission’s proposal to estab-
lish a Transport Ministry in N.S.W. because
there is one in England is an urging towards
a piece of wanton extravagance. To com-
pare the traffic problems of the city of Syd-
ney with those of England is about the same
as comparing Gum Flat Show with the
big affair at Moore Park. The British
Ministry of Transport is faced with the
handling of the traffic problems of the
world’s largest city -and the shifting of the
people and commodities connected with the
centre of the world’s commerce. Its main
concern is far less with the London traffic
than with the transport of British goods.
'ln Sydney the reverse is the case.
Actually its problems are only problems in
any sense because most of us decline to
face a few elementary facts. The suggested
makeshift of double-decked trams shows
again the old cowardice. There is no justi-
fication for expenditure on temporary
schemes. The demand is for tramless
streets, and this condition can only be
brought about as the outcome of a definite
policy.
The Rubber Industry.
The refusal of the Dutch to join in it killed
the Stevenson rubber restriction scheme,
now definitely laid to rest by the Baldwin
Government. The fiat had to come from
London. Singapore would never have
admitted failure, restriction having become
a huge vested interest, like the prohibition
of booze in U.S.A. The big companies pro-
fited by it through the elimination of the
smaller, over-capitalised ones; the British
shareholders in Dutch companies outside the
scheme scored heavily; the smugglers and
their Chinese backers were making hand-
some fortunes, and an extensive bureaucracy
had the well-paid job of suppressing them.
Restriction never did much good to prices,
anyway, except for a moment, and what
good it did was counterbalanced by the en-
couragement given to countries outside the
scheme to indulge in an orgy of planting.
The Netherlands Government was delighted
to give its embarrassing native populations
another staple for export, and hundreds of
thousands of them rose to the occasion by
planting a couple of seedlings in their back
yards.
From the British viewpoint the future of
the industry looks grave, though not hope-
less. The King’s Asiatic possessions no
longer hold the monopoly, if they ever had
it. The Americans talk of vast schemes in
South America and the Philippines. But
Malaya still has almost exclusive access to
the two largest reservoirs of dirt-cheap labor
—lndia and China. So if the money annu-
ally spent in keeping down the rubber
pirates and bootleggers is spent on scientific
inquiry into new ways of using rubber, the
industry may have a prosperous future.
*
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin,— A brief paragraph in the
daily press reports N.S.W. Premier Bavin
as dismissing the subject of Elective Mini-
stries with the observation that to have
men of opposite views in the Cabinet would
be fatal to its solidarity. The main object
of those who believe in Elective Ministries
is to put an end to Cabinet' solidarity, so
called. The present system places the con-
trol of Parliament in the hands of Mini-
sters; a change to Elective Ministries would
re-establish the supremacy of Parliament
and put Ministers in their true position as
heads of departments, with the individual
responsibility of any departmental manager
in a private business.
“But what about Ministerial policy?
the doubter asks. Window-dressing is
usually the most imposing part of
Ministerial policy; the remainder con-
sists, in practice, of administrative work
and proposed legislation. In both
these spheres it is the Minister him-
self who should count and not the uncon-
stitutional and irresponsible entity called a
Cabinet. And over and above the activities
of the Minister should always be the judg-
ment of the majority of Parliament.
“Under Elective Ministries would the best
men be elected? Would there not be a
great deal of intrigue and wire-pulling?”
Probably there would be attempts at work-
ing points on behalf of aspirants for office.
But members of Parliament would have to
shoulder the responsibility for their choice
of Ministers. Under the public eye votes
would have to be given with at least some
appearance of regard for the qualifications
required for the particular job, which is
more than can be said for the present
methods of choice. Time and again, both
under secret voting and selection by the
leader, notoriously unfit men have been
appointed Ministers, men whom no member
of Parliament voting in public would have
dared to support. On one occasion the
vote of caucus made “the fool of the family”
a Minister. Regarded as hopelessly impos-
sible. he was put on the list by a majority
to make their own chances better against
the stronger opponents. And again and
again some obscure and commonplace mem-
ber of Parliament has been elevated by a
Prime Minister to Cabinet rank for a reason
into which the efficient administration of
the department has obviously never entered.
In Switzerland the elective principle has
been in operation for many years and has
been found in practice to be a vast improve-
ment on the old methods of appointing
Ministers. Though party feeling runs very
strongly there, Ministers who have made
good as administrators are quite frequently
returned to office after an election by the
votes of political opponents. Leading
Parliamentarians like Parkes, Baker,
Holder and Watt have advocated Elective
Ministries, and those who study the subject
impartially will be forced to the conclusion
that the adoption of the principle here
would be a big improvement on the present
system. But the change will not be made
till the electors realise that public affairs
are being sacrificed to party and personal
interests. And the average elector is, I
am afraid, a long way from that yet.—
Yours, etc., J. M. Fowler.
4
Magistrates and Police.
•‘R.G.LI.T.”: As an English journalist with
a wide experience of English courts, I am
forced to the conclusion that the adminis-
tration of justice in N. S. Wales courts of
summary jurisdiction is not on the high
level of their British equivalents. The very
name of Police Magistrate suggests a bias
which I feel actually exists. Much as one
would like to think otherwise, these magis-
trates do seem to have an unfortunate habit
of believing a policeman; his uniform
seems to entitle him to a halo which I am
afraid my experience would not allow me to
assume to be universally deserved. It is
a recognised fact that in the majority of
cases which may be summarily dealt with in
England, uncorroborated statements of the
police are not accepted, particularly in re-
lation to charges of annoyance and solicita-
tion. It was reported the other day that a
Sydney P.M. stated: “As the police oppose
bail I cannot grant it.” Surely that entitles
us to assume that there is a relationship
between police and Bench which should not
exist.
Some time ago I was threatened with a
summons for a breach of the traffic regula-
tions which I indignantly denied. The
policeman advised me to plead guilty, as it
would save me a lot of time and trouble!
The English police have a deep-rooted
respect for the Bench; the N.S.W. police
have a superficial respect based, I am afraid,
on the knowledge that their word rules
the issue. Some day a strong magistrate of
the calibre of Mr. Waddy (South London)
will get on the Bench, and then the police
will have the shock of their lives. Detec-
tives will no longer be able to give their
opinions of persons charged; they will have
to restrict themselves to facts. Constable
Blank will no longer get a conviction when
he says he saw Miss Fewclothes speak to
a man; he will have to produce the man.
Then there will be real respect for the
courts, not the semblance of respect which
I am afraid is current here and now.
4
Socialisation v. Nationalisation.
The Labor Party’s annual conference in
Sydney, at which the A.W.U. wasn’t repre-
sented though it is by far the greatest Labor
body, repudiated the control of the Federal
Labor Conference and, taking the Com-
munists to its bosom, resolved that the two
are one, with the, “socialisation of industry”
as the common objective. Nationalisation,
viewed in all its aspects, means that fac-
tories, workshops, farms and activities in
general will be common property, subject to
the debts which they carry, or not subject
to them if that can be brought about.
Socialisation is apparently a different temple
with a more advanced god in it; but beyond
a general impression that the specifications
came from Moscow, the whole thing is a
fog.
The misfortune of the freaks who serve
out theoretical revolutions as if they were
soup is their inability to realise the limits
of the situation. It is impossible to create
a great social and political upheaval in this
deeply indebted land, with the criminal
classes helping, as they would, and not do
serious damage to the persons and property
of the subjects of many States besides law-
abiding Australians. So if the local autho-
rity didn’t suppress a movement for the
confiscation of assets in general, and if the
imperial authority didn’t interfere, there are
others who would be as ready to step in as
the benevolent Yankee is in Central
America.
It is therefore likely that any effects of
the new attitude will consist in putting a
little extra vim and venom into strike and
job-control movements and in causing a
slight increase in crime. For if the push
takes up a political gospel it is always a
more dangerous push than it was before.
4 .
The Sydney Traffic Commission has told
the Government, among a hundred other
things, that double-decker ’buses ought to
be put on to save space in the streets; but
apparently not a word is said about
safety “islands.” Few pedestrians much
mind crossing streets with one-way traffic;
and “islands” turn all streets into one-way-
traffic streets, because the island divides
the flow. London would be impossible with-
out its “islands,” and Sydney could not
serve pedestrians better than by establishing
them wherever there is the space.


TAm Slale ,
1
mcom non-stop'
On an
ordinary “taxi" business
trip, an Australian Aerial
Services 'plane flew from
Melbourne to Warwick
(Q.), 850 miles non-stop
—an Australian record—
on SHELL SPIRIT
and
SHELL
SPIRIT
AND
TRIPLE SHELL
OIL
S 461 j
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Premier Hogan emerged from the
Labor conference in Melbourne battered but
triumphant. Led by the RailAvay Union
bosses, a narrow majority bashed Hogan’s
Government for its retrenchment proposals,
describing them as “inequitable and opposed
to Labor principles.” Instead of meekly sur-
rendering, as was evidently expected, Hogan
made it clear that unless the motion was
rescinded and a resolution of confidence
and appreciation put in its place “the move-
ment” would have to get another Govern-
ment. Within 24 hours the Administration’s
minority of six was turned into a majority
of 99.
Hogan’s manly attitude in Melbourne
coincided with an unspeakable exhibition of
crawling to the mob of the moment by ex-
premiers Lang and Theodore. Though anti-
communists, if tlicir own repeated assertions
are worth anything, these worthies sat in
shivering silence while the Sydney Labor con-
ference boisterously refused to abide by the
Federal Labor executive’s ban on Commun-
ism and Communists, and pronounced the
Labor and Communist “objectives” identical.
Adding insult to defiance, the conference ap-
pointed to the Federal executive a gentle-
man who had excitedly declared that “an
A.L.P. member who is not prepared to advo-
cate Communism should be in the Nationalist
party,” but Theodore uttered no protest;
nor did Lang object when a Communist can-
didate at the 1925 N.S.W. election was
formally restored to “the movement.” Aust-
ralia has a kindness for party leaders, what-
ever their politics, who show courage in an
emergency, as Hogan did, but it has never
had any use for cocktails.
N.S.W. is to build a few new railway lines,
and imperative orders have been issued that
the Ballina-Booyong branch, away up the
North Coast, must be finished though the
heavens fall. This mystery dates back to
1924. It is 12 miles long; was to cost
£100,000; has cost £275,000; and is ex-
pected to cost £356,000 Avhen finished. The
effort to earn interest on a capital of some
£30,000 per mile will be a strain.
One theory about this country’s failure to
supply its tobacco-leaf requirements is that
the cultivated areas are too far south ; hence
blue mould and other drawbacks. Experi-
ments now being conducted in North Queens-
land will prove whether the theory is weii-
or ill-founded. TAventy-five plots have been
planted in localities extending from Mackay
to Cairns, and early reports are excellent.
All good Australians Avill wish the experi-
menters success, for there is a home market
worth £2,500,000 or £3,000,000 p.a. to be cap-
tured, while the export possibilities, thanks
to the British preference, are considerable.
Federal Labor’s prospects in S. Aus. have
improved owing to the Lib.-Cocky quarrel,
the Butler taxation and retrenchment policy
and the threatened reduction of the wine
export bounty, and there has been a signifi-
cant rush of candidates for Senate nomi-
nations. Senator Hoare is, of course, having
another shot, and so is J. J. Daly, Avho
headed the Labor poll in 1925. Frank Lundie
and Harry Kneebone, veterans of many
fights, mostly luckless, are also in the field.
There are 15 aspirants altogether, and only
three seats to fill.
Bishop Long, saying good-bye to his oil
diocese —he has just been called from
Bathurst to NeAvcastle —declared that the
future of Australia rested with the back-
country. Tiie Bulletin loves the busliman;
but, all the same, is Bathurst, for example,
likely to do more for Australia than New-
castle, with its coal and steel industries?
Lots of people— perhaps Bishop Long among
them —forget that the coastal cities are not
the mere importing depots they used to be.
Bloated they are, but they do nowadays pro-
duce millions which but a few years ago
kept foreign countries occupied.
The pass to which things have come in
Chicago is due largely to Prohibition. It was
no great trouble to abolish the legal
distribution of liquor, but no nearly adequate
arrangements were made to deal with the
illegal distribution. In that job hordes of
new thugs, blackmailers, political hangers-
on and sundries found profitable employ-
ment ; and when these were added to the
old thugs and sundries, they proved a power,
and an affluent one. What the bootleg army
would do if it were proposed to take its crime
from it by inaugurating Government sale of
drink or some such device it is hard to
imagine.
The Sydney Labor conference, having
refused to admit delegates from the biggest
N.S.W. union and lifted the ban on Com-
munists in flat defiance of the Federal A.L.P.
executive, meditated for a while on the
beauties of unity. Ex-Premier Lang, who
should know all about the discomforts of dis-
unity, spoke powerfully on the subject. “We
want and must have unity,” he declared;
“the voice of the squealer and the disgruntled
and the disappointed must be silenced,” to the
end that there should be returned to power
“a Labor Government which will preserve
the rights and liberties of the people.” But
apparently the right and liberty of disagree-
ing with Lang, Garden and Willis isn’t in-
cluded in the schedule.
The Westralian party which has Jimmy
Mitchell for leader has changed its name
again. Called “Liberal” in the early war
years, it became “Nationalist” in 1917 and
“United” after the 1924 State election, when
a few Cocky members who had fallen out
Avith their crowd joined it. Now it has re-
sumed the “Nationalist” label. The Queens-
land State Opposition has the same weakness
for taking a new title every tAvo or three
years, though as a vote-catching device it is
a dud.
Thirty-five years ago, during Australia’s
biggest strike, Dick Sleath, the Labor
leader, bought a share in the Broken Hill
Prop, in order to meet the shareholders face
to face, not being alloAved to do it any other
way. Labor doesn’t do that sort of thing
nowadays. It gets more and more opposed
to its officers meeting anybody on the other
side. The latest to get hauled over the
coals is D. L. McNamara, gen. sec. of the
Federal Labor party, a valuable member of
the Constitutional Commission. Why is
Labor so afraid? The simplest explanation
is that it doesn’t trust anybody—not even
its own officers. And that is a horrible
state of mind for “brothers” to get into.
Alarmed by the large number of unem-
ployed in the cities, the Maoriland Govern-
ment decided last year to restrict immigra-
tion. The only assisted immigrants admitted
since May have been domestic servants.
From May, 1926, to the end of March, 1927,
the balance of arrivals over departures was
approximately 10,870. For the same period
in 1927-28 the balance was under 3000. The
restrictions are to be continued till the end
of the year.
(Governor de Chair, during his term of
office in N. S. Wales, has been twice to
Waterloo to open new factories for the Elec-
tricity Meter Co. Last Thursday he opened
one four times bigger than its predecessor.
The business started 15 years ago on a one-
man-one-room basis; the room was rented at
£1 a week. After three years there was a
move to a factory at £lO a week. Five years
later the proprietors floated a company, and
three years further on an English electrical
firm bought a controlling share and erected
the first big factory. Commencing with the
manufacture of electric meters, the c0,,t0-day
also turns out petrol-pumps, electrical refrig-
erators, small motors, magnetos and radio
apparatus. It employs 809 workpeople, and
the business is still expanding rapidly, the
market being great and the tariff sufficient.
The Vic. Hogans have been authorised by
the party conference to bring forward
an “equitable” scheme for the redistribution
of Leg. Assembly seats. This means that
they are no longer bound to divide the
Federal constituencies into three, as was at
first proposed, or obliged to conform to the
one-vote-one-value provision. The metro-
politan area now has 26 seats, urban districts
three and the rural areas 30. As a compro-
mise 31 seats each may be proposed for
metropolis and country and one each for
Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong. Labor now
holds 10 seats in the city and 12 in the
provinces.
At the week-end a number of ships were
held up by job-control tactics; either the
usual “demands” were made wholly outside
the award, or else men stayed away unani-
mously and official unionism said that it
hadn’t the slightest idea why. The employees
of the Midland Railway Co. (W.A.) were
on strike for a concession which the Arbi-
tration Court had just refused, and were
backed by the State railway men. Strenuous
efforts were being made to block the light-
house service ships. And the Darwin uniou
had intimated that all over the Territory
(523,020 sq. miles) black brother (who is
certainly an Australian, whatever else he
may be, and quite unlike some union officials
in that respect) was to be sacked from liis
job and permanently victimised. Federal
Labor-leader Scullin contrived to deliver a
vehement policy speech about the need to
develop Australian industry without a single
allusion to these industrial obstacles.
The Victorian Ministry’s financial revela-
tions don’t improve with age. Lately the
heavy-hearted Ilogan put the prospective
railway deficit at £2,000,000, and he said
that £8,000,000 had been lost on settlement
devices during the last eight years. He added
that he had written to the Federal Treasurer
about the situation and was “awaiting a
reply.” Earle Page is probably reluctant to
waste a stamp. To help the railway the
licenses of the long-distance ’buses which
bang along the country roads are being can-
celled lavishly, to the great loss of the owners
and the great unpopularity of Hogan. The
Allan cocks had luck. They were snatched
from the evil to come.
The cheerless theory is advanced that
many of the gangsters who perpetrate appar-
ently purposeless crimes of violence are
either drug fiends or drug traders, or pos-
sibly traders who are in process of becoming
fiends. This leads to the suggestion that
many of the victims who are shot or razored
are drug addicts, and that their refusal to
give evidence is largely due to fear lest
their supplies should be cut off. Nobody
has offered any very valuable suggestion so
far, though it has been proposed that the
damaged but uncommunicative person should
be forcibly detained for hospital treatment,
the idea being that he or she might presently
make wild offers of information in return
for a snifter of the old poison. When Par-
liament reassembles at Coldberra and has
knocked the pendent icicle off its nose-end,
the matter is to be debated.
A. C. Willis has a plan for the regenera-
tion of the N.S.W. coal industry, and his
comrades at the Sydney Labor conference
said it was masterly. The outstanding fact
about the industry is that the export trade
has gone to pot. Willis proposes to clap
another Is. a ton on cost to provide relief
for unemployed miners; with this assistance
all the lost markets will be regained as a
matter of course.
Victoria proposes to hold an inquest on
its State railways. Of late it has rained
allegations about bad management and
muddle, quite in the fashion of the days when
Syme of the Age dragged down Commissioner
Speight, and the gigantic libel suit of Space
versus Time resulted. The estimate is that
the year’s deficit will be a million, and there
is a desire to know why. One reason is that
the interest bill on every mile of line was
£065 in 1926 as against £597 in 1922. State
railways have a knack of growing more ex-
pensive as they grow older. The necessity
for renewing the miserable old loan at the
lender’s price is one cause of this.
Westralian Premier Collier has discovered
that the troubles of his State are due to the
influx of immigrants from Southern Europe,
and the said influx has certainly increased
somewhat in recent years. All the same, Col-
lier’s explanation only shows that he is an
adept at passing on the blame. The incur-
sion of a few thousand ill-chosen persons
can’t be held responsible in a general way for
employment being scarce. A community
which substitutes borrowing for production
to the extent that Australia does must find
employment scarce; 40 millions of new ex-
ternal debt in a year means 40 millions’
worth of work given away to somebody.
Canada’s population isn’t half of British (in-
cluding Irish) descent, and last available
figures shoAved that it got 96,000 immigrants
for a year—37,ooo from the British Isles and
the rest mixed. Yet Canada pays its way
with a good margin, and it has taken its
name off the list of Britain’s war debtors.
The Prime Minister has spoken severely
to T. R. Ashworth, of the Vic. Employers’
Union, concerning statements he is said to
have made “damaging to Australia’s credit.’’
Trashworth is charged with alleging (1)
that many secondary industries are in des-
perate plight; (2) that unemployment
“stalks” abroad; (3) that desirable im-
migrants cease to be attracted here; (4)
that the country is heading straight for
bankruptcy. Secondary industries are cer-
tainly having a very moderate time, and un-
employment docs “stalk.” Where local in-
dustry is swamped wholesale by imports
these troubles are inevitable. But it is ab-
surd to say that desirable immigrants have
ceased to arrive—or undesirable either.
Still the, country is heading straight for
bankruptcy, though it need not arrive there.
A man may be heading straight for Parra-
matta and yet stop at Granville; but it is
imperative that he should know where he is
heading so that he may have a chance to
stop.
Bruce, unsatisfactory as he is, deserves a
scrap of sympathy. Like Louis XVI., he
inherited a woefully-damaged ship, though
one quite capable of repair. He has tried
much harder to stop the leaks than his royal
prototype did, but with not much more luck.
It was under his predecessor (Louis
Hughes XV.) that the country began to have
that excess of imports over exports which
drives it to pay all the interest on old loans
out of the proceeds of new ones. The pre-
sent man gets more British immigrants than
the last one did, and his unemployment
figures average as well. The verdict is that
ho isn’t much good, but that Hughes or
Scullin would be worse.
Abdul in his Parliament at Angora has
disestablished Mohammedanism, the State re-
ligion for ages, and renounced the Sheriat,
or sacred law founded on the Koran and the
sayings of the Prophet, as the basis of ad-
ministration. He has done in one swoop
what no European Government would dare
to do to its Moslem subjects. The Sheriat
is still scrupulously recognised by Dutch,
English and French rulers of the scattered
sons of Islam, except where it conflicts too
violently with the dictates of modern humani-
tarianism. As Caliph, Abdul used to be
regarded as leader of the Islamic world in
the perennial Holy War. In a European
frock coat and a top hat he will cut a less
impressive figure.
It is a common belief that W. M. Hughes’s
last and bitterest attack on the Bruce-Page
Government was largely due to chagrin at
not receiving the billet of High Commis-
sioner in succession to Joe Cook. Another
belief is that he might have had the billet had
it not transpired that people in England
(presumably those who wrestle with the in-
creasingly difficult job of finding the loans)
regarded his galvanic personality as a pos-
sible cause of difficulties. During the war
Billy grew weary of the plain workaday
job of organising armies and war finances
here, and paid two long visits to England.
In that country his boundless oratory and
the way he took charge of the Empire’s
affairs amused the populace, but greatly ag-
gravated people who thought they were run-
ning the show.
Once more Arthur Griffith has applied
to be taken back to the N.S.W. Labor fold ;
and once more be has been refused—this
time by a larger majority than usual. When
one considers Griffith, his natural ability, his
political and administrative experience and his
courage in standing out for Labor when the
cause wasn’t popular, and when one con-
siders his fidelity to the cause ever 'Since he
was thrown out over Conscription, one can
only conclude that it’s not Griffith’s offence
that bars him—it is his courage and his
independence. A man like that might be
very awkward to have inside.
The demand has produced the supply all
right so far as The Bulletin’s short stories
are concerned. Four months ago it was
announced that much more attention would
be given to this section, and that at least 200
stories would be printed during 1928. With
over 80 selected stories in hand, a high
standard was insisted upon. That, standard
has not only been maintained, but raised;
and there are now available a number of
stories which are as good as any printed any-
where this century. Within the next few
weeks a long short-story, “White Kid
Gloves,” by Katharine Susannah Prichard,
will be printed; K. S. Prichard is the highest-
paid Australian writer, and this is her best
long sliort-story to date. Others of high
quality will be “Paper Money”—an intriguing
tale, unlike any other The Bulletin has
ever published—by St. John McCallum;
“The Stain,” a story of Fiji; “The Widow’s
Might,” another of Alys Brown’s fascinating
New Guinea stories; and “God-be-with-us,”
“Miss Muldoon” and “Sergeant O’Hell,”
three of the best of J. 11. M. Abbott’s tales of
the Macquarie days.
LANG’S FORGOVENESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Wantonly and relentlessly assailed and detained as
I have been, I have nevertheless faith in the doc-
trines of Him Whose law is love and Who has
taught us to remember injuries only to forgive and
forget them (applause).... The Labor movement
has been cleansed of renegades and unscrupulous
impostors (more applause).... The present Govern-
ment is a Government of hypocrites and plain blunt
liars who secured office by falsely accusing- t’ ■> -
opponents of dishonesty and corruption (prolonged
applause).”— Mr. Lang at the A.L.P. conference.
Though wicked men to cook my goose
Successfully have striven,
Forgotten, now, is their abuse,
Aye, and themselves forgiven.
The stabs they dealt me from behind,
The cruel wrongs they did me',
I banish from my Christian mind
As Scripture’s teachings bid me.
And more magnanimous by far
I can't but feel, recalling
What lying knaves they were—and are—
What hypocrites appalling!
Some meekly turn the smitten cheek
And shame thereby the smiters;
Some live in hopes to wreck and wreak
Their vengeance on the blighters.
No pagan wrath I cultivate
’Gainst those who rent and mauled me ;
I nobly wipe from off the slate
The bitter names they called me.
My faith requires that I forgive.
My foes with no exemption....
Still, surely nowhere else can live
Such crooks beyond redemption!
Although they made me take the count
My Hymn of Hate I swallow.
Comrades, the Sermon on the Mount
Is better stuff to follow,
liaised high aloft, brought crashing low
In three short years eventful,
I view the men who wrought my woe
With feelings unresehtful.
Malice to bear my creed would jar.
I,o ! I forgive them.... Blast them !
What scheming rogues they were—and are.
I’d put no vileness past them.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Pandanus”: “Aroerooter’s” par. about
“Old Harrv,” the 40-years resident of De-
liverance Island (B. 14/3/’2B), reminds me
of several visits I made to the islet when
I was pearling in those waters from 12 to
20 years ago. Harry had a mate then, one
Charlie, and I remember presenting the
HIS REPERTOIRE.
“Oh, Albert, will you always love me like this?”
“No fear! I know fourteen other grips.”
pair with some fowls and two kittens about
1908. The fowls and cats multiplied rapidly,
the former being a great standby for the two
hermits, for very often two or three months
would elapse between callers. Charlie, I
think, died about 1911. In 1914 Captain
Hocking, of the Wanetta Pearling Fleet, sent
out a lugger to the island full of seed cocoa-
nut. From that time until I dropped in
again in 1916 there had been no visitors,
so Harry told me. He had lived on turtle
most of the time, having eaten all the fowls,
was smoking dried pawpaw leaves and cocoa-
nut husk, and seemed perfectly contented.
He didn’t know the greatest war m history
was being fought and didn’t seem to care
much when I told him. I asked him what
had become of the cats, and he said. Hey
got so many and looked so darned hungry
that I got frightened and shot them all except
two I’ll never let them get so many again
or they’ll darn well eat me next time.
'* * * *
“Colonel Blighter”: I can’t see why it
should be assumed that there is something
disparaging conveyed or imp heel by the much-
discussed word ‘Tommy (B. 4/4/ 28). My
wife is one, and I have never known her
detect anything slighting in the expression,
which I use freely in her presence. Jim
Graliame, in a piece of verse republished m
the Easter Bulletin, refers appreciatively
or admiringly to “little Pommy brides ; it
is impossible to imagine any of them ..eeling
hurt by the phrase. Actually it means no
more than calling a Scotchman Jock, or
an Irishman “Paddy,” or a Welshman
“Taffy,” and you may note that it is gener-
ally reserved for ncw-chums from England,
for whom there was previously no distinc-
tive sobriquet.
* * * *
“Salambo”: The survival of the Maoris
as a race obviously depends on full-bloods
mating with full-bloods. To what extent
this is going on is hard to say, but such
statistics as we have are not very encourag-
ing In 1919 850 men from the Maori bat-
talion that went to Europe were examined.
Forty-eight per cent, of them had wmte
blood. In 1922 an examination was made
of 4500 children in 94 native schools. The
proportion was much the same; -*O.l had
white blood. At this rate absorption is
merely a question of time.
* Mt * *
“Carol”: The headmaster of a N.S.W. sub-
urban school tells this story. When the
learning of Latin roots was part of the
curriculum the late inspector Timothy
Dwyer, of cherished memory, during one or
his annual visits asked a class to give h ,m
the derivatives from “.specto, I look. kev-
oral were hazarded, but nobody hit on spy,
so Timothy put a leading question. Who
is it,” he said, “that goes creeping round in
a sly, sneaking manner, poking his nose into
other people’s business?” Up shot the hand
of one quick reasoner. “Inspector, sir, he
triumphantly announced.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : One can get some curious infor-
mation about Australian affairs from books
published in England. The “New Age Encyclo-
pedia,” for instance, published at fl 155..
cheerfully informs all and sundry that gold
is a notable export of S. Aus.; that the
same State joined the Commonwealth in
1900, but N.S.W. in 1901; and that “in 1910
the Commonwealth acquired from Victoria
an area of 1912 square miles for the site of
the Federal Capital.” Incidentally, the book
contains —rather astonishingly for an encyclo-
paedia—a capital portrait of Dame Nellie
Melba at her best.
* * * *
“Gloster” : “X.N.0.,” in discussing the Gib-
raltar court-martial, suggests that British
naval officers who object to being cursed by a
superior must necessarily be lacking in humor,
and submits the even more amazing proposi-
tion that the influence of a foul-mouthed bully
as Admiral is likely to be wholesome rather
than pernicious, provided only he berates
men and officers impartially. Perhaps
the best commentary on that view is
the evidence of the Royal Oak’s chaplain
given at the subsequent court-martial that
“the officers were furious because the men
were cruelly insulted” and that men were
in the habit of signifying their opinion of
STYMIED.
“Yes, that’s Betty Jones, Mummy. She’s a mean little thing. Yesterday she called
me names just as the headmistress was coming in.”
the Admiral by describing him a a
little swine.” What kind of service could
an Admiral expect in time of real need from
men who regarded him in that way and
made no attempt to conceal their sentiments
even from a clergyman? It is significant
that the feeling over that sorry business in
Britain, as expressed in almost every cabled
press extract, is one of sympathy for Dewar
and Daniel in their punishment and not
with Collard in his. It is a pretty safe
inference that whether or not the sentences
passed on the two former are mitigated ox-
remitted their ill-conditioned superior’s career
is definitely closed.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The evolution of the Salvation
Army since the days when it collected the
bulk of its sinews of war at draughty street
corners is an interesting study. The band
with the blood and fire banner still inarches
through the streets, but the oi-ganisation de-
l-ives most of the revenue for ornate hostels
and huge missions to the heathen from garden
parties and indoor concerts like any other
church. Donations to it are getting to be
reckoned as good fire insurance. A de-
ceased Melbourne woolbroker recently left
it £350,000. The validity of the will was chal-
lenged, but tlje judge didn’t see any reason
why General Bboth secundus shouldn’t get
it.
* * * *
“Stradbroke”: The coastal steamer Mer-
imbula, which recently went ashore on the
South Coast of N.S.W., had a bad time from
the souvenir hunters, almost everything
being looted, before protection arrived, save
the engines and boilers. But there were no
such spoils for landsmen as when the Cam-
busw allace, a Scottish sailing-ship, was
wrecked off Southport (D-) a few years
ago. Her cargo mostly consisted of cases
and quarters of whisky, which came
ashore when the vessel started to break up.
For 50 miles the countryside came to the
foray, and by the time the Customs and
police arrived on the scene, little remained
in sight except empty bottles and broached
casks. For years after, forgotten caches of
whisky used to be tumbled on in the scrub,
and it was a long time before the local
pubs began to find business looking up
again.
* * * *
“Unity”: Eliza, who arrived to apply for
a culinary situation with references from a
lengthy array of clergy, Sunday-school super-
intendents and choir-masters, stipulated on
unrestricted church-going and a cold dinner
on Sunday to enable her to attend morning
service w-ith an unharassed mind. As the
family had been cookless for nearly three
months they hastily agreed to these and
other demands. Eliza thereupon took posses-
sion of the kitchen and showed such auto-
cratic qualities that her employers dared not
venture into it except when the lady was at
church or prayer-meeting. Every second day
Eliza gave notice. On the in-between days
the family would timidly suggest that they
no longer required her services, but as Eliza
took no notice and merely went on cooking
and praying they were never certain she had
heard them. Eliza’s bedroom was well within
earshot of the living-room, and on quiet
evenings her fervent prayers for each member
of the family in turn, with a catalogue of
their particular weaknesses, used to float
down with nerve-shattering clarity. The
climax came when Eliza marched into the
midst of a Sunday evening party and poured
out a fierce denunciation of worldliness
and non-churchgoing, finishing up from the
window of the taxi that bore her away half
an hour later. The family still cherish a
neatly-tabulated little card Eliza left behind
headed, “Saved, Unsaved and Doubtful.” In
column one are scheduled Eliza, the Methodist
minister and two prominent church-workers;
column two contains a list of the family
and most of their friends; at the top of
the third is the name of the Anglican Bishop!
* * * *
“Cobar”: The statement that the Mel-
bourne morgue has secured 13 for its tele-
phone number reminds me that the N.S.W.
Police Department’s telegraphic code address
is “Nemesis.” Victoria is content with
"r’olice,” and two other States make it
“Chefpolice.” I wonder who was the sai'-
donic person who sought to infuse a flavor
of appropriateness into the Ma State’s de-
partmental alias.
* * * *
“Ferrochie”: Some enterprising linguist
has taken advantage of the Italian influx to
publish, for the benefit of the newcomers, a
threepenny pamphlet entitled “A Little Guide
for the Italian in Australia.” Various re-
quests which a foreigner looking for work
or the necessaries of life would be likely to
put are considerately rendered into English ;
one of the very first of them is “I want
some castor oil.” This should serve to dissi-
pate the vague impression most of us have
formed that the stuff is mainly used under
the Mussolini regime for punitive purposes.
“P.M.”: The N.C.O. who could never
hold his stripes long enough to get them
sewn on (B. 28/3/’2B) reminds me of a
man well-known to me who went higher up
the ladder and descended almost as rapidly.
He arrived in the line an acting lance-
corporal in a Tommy battalion. There
were a good many casualties in the first
week, and he soon rose to' the rank of acting-
sergeant. Then came a “hot and strong’
fortnight which sent the battalion out oi
the line with five officers and 48 men, on;
friend being then senior N.C.O. On the waj
out a shell gave him some even more start
ling temporary jjromotion. One officer was
killed, and the remaining four, including
the Colonel and Major, were carried of
wounded, the result being that the one-tiim
acting-lance-jack took command of the bat
talion, by this time about forty weak, am
led them back to billets. A few days later h
lost all his “acting stripes” for gettin;
horribly drunk and offering to fight a sei
geant-major. He now fights droughts an
rabbits in Victoria.
RECORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Noali unto Japheth as he tapped the
falling glass,
“I shouldn’t be surprised to see a bonzer
year for grass. , . ,
The dams are full; the river’s nz beyond
high-water mark.
We’d better move some furniture at once into
Ai*k
Said Mrs. Noah, “Wipe your boots ! You till
the house with mud !’’
Said Noah, “’Less I’m much mistook here
comes a record flood.”
Said Laban unto Jacob as he combed his
beard, “Oh, boy,
Believe me cattle-raisin’ is an overrated joy.
A promise is a promise; but I never knew a
year
When ringstraked cows was half as common
as I see ’em here.
Still. .. .they are yours.” He sighed. “It
is a record year, I think,
For brindles.” “Yairs,” said Jacob, as he
tipped his wives a wink.
“Here, you,” said Jehu, “fix the girth and
let the palings down.
Gimme a thermos and some lunch, I m
driving into town.
I’ve got a bone to pick with Jezebel. Stand
clear! Giddap!”
And Jehu whizzed along the road, a human
thunderclap.
The speed-cops, dazed and choked with dust,
all goggling in a line,
Saw Jehu smash all records on the road for
Palestine.
Hinkler, to whom we raise our hats, Ber-
nardi, lightning-streak,
And Segrave—or the speedsters who will
jump your claims next week —
All hail! Ye dancers, who gyrate a hundred
hours; ye men
Who raise prize beeves, or bat all day, and
then begin again,
Good luck to you ! But nothing new in all
these stunts I see;
They_ piled up records centuries ago in old
Judee.
VICTORIA..
WAWHERESH.
GREEN O’ THE YEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been down in the grass all day,
Down with the gentle sun,
Hearing the slim green fiddlers play
Little gay jigs for fun :
“Sands of summer have run!”
Teasy lads are the grassblades new
Scraping out song: “ Farewell to you,
Summer, your pride is done!”
All over the paddocks of brown and gold,
Dustily fragrant, sleepy and old,
Emerald fiddlers fine and bold
Lift their lyrical bows untold:
“The green o’ the year's begun!”
VICTORIA.
ELSIE COLE.


“F.S.” : The utter folly of the Vic. Felton
Bequest in attempting to compete in the
world market for Old Masters is shown by
some recent news from Prague. A Yankee
syndicate is eager to obtain “The Feast of
Bose Garlands,” by IMircr, which now decom-
poses in a Czecho-Slovak monastery. A
reproduction of the picture shows a pope and
an emperor kneeling before the Madonna and
her Infant, with an angel accompanying their
prayer upon a lute, while the background
is over-populated with kneeling saints and
cherubs, plus a portrait of the man who
ordered the picture and the painter himself.
It is an example of the artist at his worst—
and Diirer could be terrible at his worst—
with the canvas in a bad state of preserva-
tion. Yet the Americans are offering
£200,000 for it, nearly the whole capital
value of the Felton Bequest.
* si: * *
“A.M.R.”: Many modern military critics
doubt whether cavalry will play much of a part
in future wars, but it retains some sturdy
defenders. One of them is General Allenby,
who recently told an audience that in the
Palestine campaign “cavalrymen held th>
line from the ridges north of Jerusalem to
Jaffa and repulsed the attacks of the Turkish
infantry ns neither tanks, infantry nor air-
men could have done.” Considering that the
General commanded the biggest force of
horsemen that modern warfare has known,
including every mounted arm of the British
and oversea Dominion forces, he can speak
with more authority than most. That
great ride from Bethlehem to Jericho will not
be readily forgotten by the N.Z.M.R. and
Ist and 2nd L.H. Brigades. No mechanical
transport could have done the work their
horses did. And in the movement that ended
in the capture of Amar the N.Z.M.R. left
everything on wheels far behind. Strong
CORRECT MEASUREMENTS.
“Going to be married? Good gracious! Known him long?”
“Long enough to know that he’s never short.”
positions were taken by our mounted troops
at the gallop with amazingly light casualties,
where infantry could never have won through
without heavy loss. The few tanks and
armored cars that I saw in Palestine were
no great success owing to the nature of the
country.
$ * * *
“Camelero”: No doubt General Chauvel
(B. 21/8/28) could have been the idol
of the Australian mounted units if he had
met the Diggers like Royston. Cox and Ryrie,
for whom men would have faced any odds.
But he made no secret of his admiration
for the Tommies, and an Australian victory
brought little praise from him. After the
battle of Rafa, and just after the worn-out
Cameliers had returned to their bivouacs,
they were drawn up for four hours waiting
for Chauvel to address them. The least
they expected was a few words of praise for
the victory they had assisted to make pos-
sible the previous day. What they did
receive when the General came along w T as a
lecture because a couple of inebriated Came-
liers had heaved a few bricks at a Tommy
R.T.O. down Kantara way some weeks pre-
viously. It was little things like this that
made the mounted men look upon Chauvel as
a cast-iron disciplinarian of the Imperial
type.
* * * *
“Kune”: As a Maoriland infantryman who
was on Gallipoli for the Cape Helles and
Sari Bair stunts, and in France for over
two years. I still recall
that the first man I saw
bayoneted was one of our
own mob who had failed
to give the password to a
sentry at the foot of one
of the ravines running
into Sazli Beit Dere.
Later in France, during
stunts and odd raids, I
witnessed numerous iso-
lated instances of the use
of the weapon by both
sides, but never a ding-
dong regimental charge.
Still I know that a por-
tion of the 2nd C. 1.8.
(our sister battalion) was
intermittently kept busy
throughout one whole
night near Flcrs (Somme,
TO) putting the advice
received from instructors
into practical effect. How-
ever much critics may
decry the bayonet in
modern warfare, I am
convinced that any Digger
who took part in a stunt
or was in front-line gar-
rison without the bit of
steel appended to his gun
felt like a city man who
discovers that he has left
home only partially
dressed.
“Malakuna”: Touching the Marquis de
Ray’s ill-fated expedition to the South Seas
which left the name of “New Italy” on the
map of Australia (B. 28/3/’2B), there were
more Frenchmen, Germans and even Bel-
gians among the 300 would-be colonists
than there were Italians. De Ray. the pro-
moter of the scheme, was charge d’affaires at
Paris for the republic of Bolivia, YVith no
knowledge of the conditions of the country
selected for the settlement the new-comers
were ill-prepared to face the inevitable hard-
ships, and having no quinine they soon fell
prey to the ravages of malaria. Food failed,
they quarrelled among themselves, and all
w T ho could left New Ireland by any means
that offered. Only 44 remained when Dr.
Geo. Brown, the pioneer Methodist mission-
ary, arrived in an open boat to take the
survivors away. De Ray’s vessels bound for
the . settlement with assistance had been
seized for debt and confiscated. Brown found
the survivors mostly sick or starving, and
his own voyage of 160 miles in a whale-boat
to render them aid is an epic. Of the 44
whom he sought to convey to his station at
Port Hunter in the Duke of York group,
eight soon succumbed to the privations.
It was to the little remnant that Parkes of-
fered a home in N. S. Wales; some preferred
New Caledonia. To this day may be seen
at the spot where they settled in New Ire-
land a few disintegrating bricks, the pathetic
figure of a Madonna, soiled and crumbling,
bits of old machinery, and here and there an
overgrown mound marking a grave. De Ray
himself ended his life by suicide.
* * * *
“Herbertslioc”: Among the furniture
taken to New Ireland by the Marquis de
Ray’s ill-fated colonists (B. 4/4/'2B) was
a high altar to adorn the cathedral of a
city which never materialised. This had
been presented to the expedition on its
leaving Italy, and was specially blessed by
the Archbishop of Milan. The altar was
SEEKING FIRST-HAND INFORMATION .
“You bin come home in aeroplane, missus?”
“Yes, Mary.”
“You bin up alonga clouds, missus?”
"Yes, Mary.”
“Then you tellit this-Mary true. Did bush mish’ary pullem mine leg ’bout heaben?”
abandoned, with much else, by the frag-
ments of the expedition, and when I last
heard of it it was housed in the New Britain
home of “Queen Emma,” the imperious
and capable Samoan half-caste who, with
her first husband, did so much to establish
the copra trade, in what afterwards became
German territory. The lady, who later
married a German, and died in Europe
during the war, maintained a hospitality
that was famous from one end of the Wes-
tern Pacific to the other. Her fine resid-
ence was practically Liberty Hall, and its
most appealing feature, as far as most of
her visitors of those days were concerned,
was the aforesaid altar. Profusely adorned
with almost every variety of alcoholic
beverage under the sun, it was employed as
a buffet at which any guest was at liberty
to help himself. I have often wondered
what the Archbishop would have said had
be known.
* * * *
“Adamascus”: A little station on the
North Coast line (Q.) is situated about
200 yards from a curve in the railway
track. One night recently when an extra-
long train pulled up at the station, passen-
gers experienced an annoying wait for no
apparent reason. It transpired subsequently
that the guard had been waving his lamp
on and off for 10 minutes before he realised
that he was around the bend and out of the
engine-driver’s sight.
* * * *
“4X2”: There will be tugging of white
moustaches and indignant snorts in the vari-
ous service clubs from London to Peshawar
over the decision to abolish the lance as a
military weapon. The only recorded instance
during the war of a casualty from that source
was in September, 1914, when the colonel of
a troop of 9th Lancers which had charged
and chivvied a squadron of the then Kaiser's
Ist Guards Dragoners was wounded by a
lance of the opposition. Wellington was the
first to introduce the weapon into the British
army and he got the idea from the French
cavalry at Waterloo. It has some spec-
tacular appeal, but its value in modern war-
fare would be about that of the crossbow.
* * * #
“Hanno”: It isn’t only at military execu-
tions that means have been tried to obscure
the odium of having fired the fatal shot. The
latest American device for screening the
hangman, in States where hanging remains
in vogue, consists of an automatic trap
which is mechanically released some seconds
after the condemned has been placed upon
it. In the San Quentin penitentiary, one of
the largest prisons in the world, the mech-
anism which springs the trap is operated by
cutting a string. There are from 12 to 15
of these strings on a board, and nobody
present knows which is the fatal one. When
everything is ready the requisite number of
warders each has a string assigned to him,
and a sharp knife with which to cut it on the
signal being given, the idea being that no-
body will know who was actually respon-
sible for springing the trap. The same thing
has been tried with the electric chair.
t*. * * *
“Jobber”: Concerning the “back in ten
minutes” notices (B. 28/3/’2B). a legal pal
of mine tells of a notoriously briefless bar-
rister who occupied adjoining chambers. The
caseless one put the notice up some time
every day, until some merciless humorist
wrote underneath it, “What for?” Then he
desisted.
* * * *
“Vraidex”: Determined to awaken Bris-
bane to the hideous menace of cancer, the
Queensland campaigning committee designed
two startling posters. One showed a green
and yellow octopus stretching forth its ten-
taeles to grip a doomed and woe-stricken
victim, while nine other persons looked on
aghast. The other poster depicted a scythe-
wielding skeleton towering above a group of
ten with a bony hand resting on a badly-
dressed woman’s head. Under each poster
ran the caption: “Cancer’s Toll—l in 10 —
Kill It With Cash.” These gruesome if
well-intentioned works of art appeared in
shops, in ’buses, in railway carriages; a
huge one added a touch of color to the Post
Office. Soon there were protests—women
had fainted, children had been badly scared,
the beauty of the city _ was being destroyed,
and so on. The committee, having obtained
the publicity it sought, has now expressed its
readiness to withdraw the offending posters
and substitute something less horrible.
& * * #
“E.H.8.” : In August, 1917, near Poperinghe
I saw a tank designed to carry a 60-pounder
gun (B. 28/8/’2B). It was a hollow framework
with the usual tracks and an armored con-
ning-tower for the driver. The wheels were
taken off the gun and hung on hooks out-
side the tracks. The gun was then hauled
up a slide into the interior, where it rested
with the muzzle pointing astern. When the
outfit halted the gun was lowered and the
wheels replaced. I watched the contrivance
being experimented with' for several days.
Three months later the long arm of coinci-
dence came in. I was on leave in London,
and during an air raid I took shelter in a
handy basement. After the “All clear” a
courteous co-refugee asked me to have a
drink. His flat was on the top floor of the
building, and on the table was a model of the
60-pounder tank. He told me that he was
one of the inventors and that the design
had been worked out in that room. I never
saw or heard any more of it.
* * * #
“Uramao” : Very slowly unsuspected dan-
gers of electric power make themselves known
to users in all parts of the world. The
other day a M.L. lady who was in a hurry
to dry her hair after washing it turned on
an electric heater while her hands were wet
and lifted it to place it nearer her head. By
some means her wet hand came in contact
with a live part and she was thrown violently
to the ground. A more startling case re-
corded the other day is that of a fireman
who was directing a jet of water on a burn-
ing building. The jet came in contact with
the current and the electricity ran down it,
knocking the fireman off his feet. Even a
youngster flying a kite is in danger should
a wet string come in contact with a live
wire.
* •-!! * *
“Gregor”: That Oliver .Cromwell’s real
name was Williams was known to many
before Belloc (B. 4/4/’2S). In the late
Frederic Harrison’s “Life of Cromwell”
(“English Statesmen” series) a whole chap-
ter was devoted to the subject. Oliver’s
grandfather, it would seem, assumed the name
Cromwell because of his connection with
Thomas Cromwell, Earl of Essex and Vicar-
General of England under Henry VIII., who
first employed him in responsible administra-
tive work and in the end had him executed.
But the change of name was never made in
legal form. Oliver was Cromwell on all
State papers during his Protectorate, but for
some reason best known to himself he at-
tached the name of Williams to several
private letters, at least two of which are
extant.
* * * *
“X.D.”: A Melbourne mob can generally
be depended on to show T sympathy for a
burglar escaping from a policeman, but it
found a new outlet for its spontaneous
warmheartedness the other evening. A
motorist was seeking to prevent a young man
from annexing his car for a joy-ride when,
to his bewilderment, he found the onlookers
siding with the marauder. Seemingly they
reckoned the car-owner a spoil-sport.
ON WITH THE SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“With the conclusion of the Royal Show in Syd-
ney , the State Parliament will resume its sittings.”
Back to the fields, ye bellowing bulls!
I he gaping crowd no longer pulls
And pushes round, to eulogise
Your stupid strength and witless size,
Knowing the like it still may see
In M.L.A. and M.L.C.
Back to the roosts, ye strident birds!
The plaudits and the glowing words
Of popular approval fade.
The Parliamentary brigade,
Performers in another show.
Can cackle just as loud, you know.
Back to the fold, ye timid sheep,
To leap just where your brothers leap,
To drift in senseless mobs around.
Your human types will still be found.
Poor driven dumb ones, by the score.
As soon as parties take the floor !
Back to the sties, ye rooting swine !
Your chance on city husks to dine
Has come and gone, so now retire
To wallow in some backblocks mire.
The while another stage is set
For noses into troughs to get.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesemau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
sdf
In the Heart
of the City.
Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne, suits tbe busi-
ness man perfectly, being but a step or
two from most business establishments,
and very near to railway station and steamship wharves.
It gives quiet, efficient attention, every comfort, and a per-
fect table. Hot and cold water service and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in each bedroom.’ v
Inclusive Tariff bv Day or Bed and Breakfast 'Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams: “Scott’s, Melbourne.” ’Phone: 9012 (6 lines).
MELBOURNE.
5.23
M
IudSBJR
ss
nmam
L-- ***?■&£
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residentiai
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereafch Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Justice Napier, who succeeds his dead col-
league Slaney Poole, is the third Supreme
Court Judge in S. Aus. to be made Grand
Master of Freemasons in that State. Chief
Justice Way was the first, and the three
other Masonic Grand Masters there were
Governor Kin tore and barristers Grundy,
K.C. (now living in England), and Piper,
K.C. (now a Judge).
“D.McM.”: Perhaps that strong love of
limelight in Billy Hughes owes its origin
to the fact that lie was once an inhabitant
of Poverty Point. In the struggling days in
Sydney B'illy accepted a job as stage super.
LEO SEPPELT, who has helped to make
S. Aus, famous for its wines and spirits.
at Her Majesty’s, where George Rignold
strutted the boards in “Henry V.” Billy’s
job was to storm the ramparts with a card-
board battle-axe —screw, 2s. 6d. per night.
It is a century this year since Capt. Sturt
discovered the Darling, and went down it for
70 miles; and the centenary saw railway
traffic crossing the stream at Menindie, whicti
the explorer passed in ’29. Nearly half a
century later Burke and Wills made that
their depot; and the quarters they occupied
are still standing. This Easter trainloads
passed through from Broken Hill to Sydney.
They found that they could get to Manly
for only about a pound more than it costs
them to reach Adelaide. There’s a fine scrap
developing between S.A. and N.S.W. over the
Broken Hill traffic.
Walter Whitbourn, managing director of
the proprietary motor firm of the same name
in Melbourne, had a chase after one of his
own cars that must be near a record. The
car was sold on the instalment plan to an
aborigine who ran a successful grocery busi-
ness in N.-W. Vic. But the lure of a beautiful
lacquered £950 Sedan was too much for
Binglii—after paying the deposit he piled
his lubra and most of his worldly possessions
into it and made for the skyline. Whit-
bourn and a friend went in pursuit and
caught up outside Cunnamqlla, N. Banana-
land —2000 miles away.
The new Garden Suburbs Commissioner in
Adelaide —replacing C. D. Ilarris, retired—
is, T. C. Stephens, Hereford-born 42 years
ago. He has long
experience as sur-
veyor on the sewer-
age scheme in
Perth, as a shire
engineer in N.S.W.
and on sundry irri-
gation works in
South Aus. C. B.
Harris, who gets
th e secretaryship
to the same office,
is a youngster born
in Melbourne, and
educated in Broken
Hill, where he had
several years with
the Sulphide Cor-
poration.
PAUL
MONTFORD,
who is going to
do the sculpture
for the Victorian
Shrine of
Remembrance.
Alex. Isaacson, of Melbourne Tivoli
directorate, has a passion for collecting
medals and he hasn’t befen able to shake it
oft for 35 years. lie has taken long trips
in Europe merely to hound down some rare
example, and his assortment of Napoleonic
baubles, presented to the Vic. National
Gallery, is regarded by experts as being as
good as any in tbe world. Of war medals lie
has a bagful, from those struck in the Penin-
sular War to those dating from the late busi-
ness with the Kaiser. Isaacson acquires much
of hjs stock from the breasts of hard-up
heroes, but always on the understanding that
they can name their own figure and have
them back at the same price whenever they
want them.
A strange accident to the star Nova
Pectoris, mentioned in a cable from Johan-
nesburg, recalls A. W. Bickerton, for some
time Professor of Chemistry and Physics
at Canterbury College (M.L.). Bickerton’s
theory of “partial impact”—the creation of
new suns by the grazing collision of celestial
bodies —was ridiculed, and the Royal Astro-
nomical Society refused to elect him as a
member. His unorthodox views on this and
on political subjects led to his resignation
from the professorial chair, after which he
turned the spacious grounds of his home,
Wainoni, into a show-place and picnic re-
sort and gathered round himself many devoted
disciples. For many years past lie has lived
in London, trying to obtain recognition for
his theory of the birth of stars, but with
little success. Now the thing that astro-
nomers said couldn’t happen lias happened,
and Bickerton’s much-derided theory will
have to get some attention.
Melbourne’s oldest native, E. C. O.
Howard, celebrates his 89th birthday this
year. He was a member of St. Ki Ida’s first
cricket team in 1859, and for more than 50
years toiled in banks in various Australian
capitals. For 18 years he was chief ac-
countant with the Commercial and for
another 15 years was a manager with the
Bank of Australasia. He now lives at Kew.
Probably Australia’s darkest-skinned
divorce suit to date was that which at
Perth gave full-blooded abo. Wilfred Mor-
rison his freedom. Wilfred, a shepherd,
married a half-caste with the equally at-
tractive name of Violet; but she went for
a walkabout, whereupon Wilfred, having
missed her company for the required period,
made application for release. lie mentioned
that his eye had fallen upon another lady.
It is hard not to admire the fight put up
by guinea-pig-keeper Miller, of Brighton
(Vic.), whatever the wrongs or rights of it
are from his next-door neighbors’ viewpoint.
Undeterred by a ruling of the .Court uphold-
ing the council’s regulation, prohibiting the
Keeping of the creatures in the suburb, he has
bitten the ear of Minister of Health Beckett,
per medium of an imposing deputation of
scientific luminaries. The deputation pointed
out that it would cost £lOOO for Miller to
shift his animals and, in the meantime, the
research work which uses the useful beasts
would suffer. Incidentally, it was pointed
out that Brighton council itself was sharing
in an inquiry into tubercle in milk of which
Miller’s guinea-pigs were an indispensable
unit. Beckett was sympathetic.
The appointment of Edward Milner Stephen
as acting Judge puts another generation of
the family into the N. S. Wales judiciary.
He is a grandson of Alfred Stephen ana a
nephew of Matthew t Stephen (both Chief
Justices), and liis father had a long run as
Official Assignee. The .present. Acting-Judge
has given almost as much time to municipal
politics as to the bar: he was Sydneys
Deputy Lord Mayor for a while.
Last week death took M.L.’s only Boer
War V.C., Farrier-Major William James
Hardham. A notable footballer and athlete,
Hardham went right through the South
African affair, and plunged into the later
scrap with the 4th N.Z, Battalion. Although
wounded badly at Gallipoli _he managed to
pass as fit for service again in 1917, but had
to be invalided from Palestine owing to
trouble with his old wound. He never quite
got over that trouble.
Some pioneer relics were brought to Syd-
ney as a sido7issu.fi of the Show by A. H.
Wright, of Tombong. They were the brand-
ing-irons of Lieutenant Joshua John Moore
and of Ben Boyd, founder of Boyd Town.
Moore, who owned the Acton Estate, upon
which the Commonwealth House of Parlia-
ment now stands, explored south right into
Victoria and practically took possession of the
whole of the Monaro, his flocks becoming as the
sands of the seashore. Wright, who was
born 81 years ago in the Queanbcyan dis-
trict, where his father was the first magis-
trate, intends to give his relics to'the .Com-
monwealth Museum.
Rear-Admiral A. P. Addison, Commodore
of the Australian Squadron • five years ago,
has been appointed Director of Dockyards—
about the only branch of the service he had
not tackled. Somewhat touchy, Addison on
his first visit to Melbourne, was greatly an-
noyed by the harmless and evergreen jibes
in the papers about the arrival of the fleet
for '‘Cup manoeuvres.” He publicly an-
nounced that no one particularly liked
coming at this season, it being done only
to give the country folks an opportunity of
seeinv the .ships; and. as the press persisted
in silly jokes, lie declared he would never
firing them to the festivity again. He kept
his word, too.
A month or two over 90, William Cribb,
keen businessman. Churchman and philan-
thropist, passed on in Brisbane the other
day. Born in England, he came to Australia
early enough .'to spend 80 years in Banana-
land, where he made unite a tidy pile for
himself. In 1905 he gave the Y.M.C.A. a
block at the corner of Georg: and Elizabeth
streets at the time worth about £25,000.
Strong pressure is being, brought to bear
on Willie Watt, M.H.R., to hold oh to Bala-
clava (Viq.) at next general election, and
as his health is improving he may yield.
Balaclava does not relish the prospect of
getting a comparatively minor light in his
stead, It has had Turner, Wynne and Watt,
all of whom have been Ministers of note.
The latest head to fall under the A.L.P.
guillotine belonged to H. E. Boote, of the
Sydney Worker. Ilis attacks on the Lang
Government were dragged up as an excuse,
bis own version of the affair being that after
35 years of faithful service he was emptied
out for attempting to protect the workers’
wages—a unique situation, he called it, “not
altogether devoid of a certain sardonic
humor.” Boote, who made a name as a
militant Labor journalist on the Queensland
Worker before getting the Sydney job, had
his sympathies for toilers forged in a hard
school; as a lad he was a chain-maker’s off-
sider.
The Church ,plight have been pardoned if
it had raised a cheer for the victories of
E. Iv. White’s Winalot. White gave the land
upon which the Gosford Anglicans are build-
ing sf residence for the widow and children
of their late pastor, Rev. A. Renwick, a
friend of White, who years ago was a choir-
boy in that pastor’s church. Many other
sports have helped the Church in Australia.
North Bondi owefli its first tabernacle to
Wally Weekes, ex-boxer and sport, and the
man who flipped deepest into his pocket for
the new Carlton (Melb.) synagogue was
bookmaker Sol Green. ,
W. Dunkerley, manager of the Metro-
politan Fresh Hood and Ice Co., of Mel-
bourne, is generalissimo of the Macßobert-
son caravan which started off from Collins-
street on its 10,099-mile journey the other
day. Dunkerley will be in charge of two
8-ton trucks and a motor consort, and he. will
also be superintendent of BMR, the Mac-
Rofiertson itinerant broadcasting station.
The rbute will be through Adelaide, Balia-
donia, Perth, Marble Bar, Hall’s Creek, Dar-
win, Katherine, Townsville and back by
beaten ways to Melbourne. Macßobertson
himself will pursue the old gold hued fleet
by aeroplane. Isolated settlements will
hear their first radio concert and see then-
first moving picture show per this moving
circus.
D. J. Hoban, who is contesting Brighton
(Vic.) by-election as a lonely Liberal, is a
limbless soldier with a ten years’ post-war
record of public and private usefulness. He
helped to put group settlement schemes m
Vic. and the sunset State upon their legs;
and Springvale, near Melbourne, is a rising
township which calls him father. Using
his experience of soldier settlements, he sub-
divided a large slab of that district and pro-
vided homes on remarkably easy terms to
would-be householders.
Percy Jones, adjudicator at the Towns-
ville (N.Q.) band contests, should know his
work. A St. Augustine Orphanage boy
from Geelong, he led those midgets for years
and was their bandmaster when they were
the premier band in the Commonwealth.
The “Besses of the Barn” people would have
liked to secure him as a cornet player.
He was sent to the Continent instead to
further his musical theory. A Melbourne
band now has liis services.
Owing to decrease of students the Veterin-
ary School in Melbourne has to go under.
There seems to be little demand for qualified
men, and in recent years graduates have
switched over to medicine and other studies
rather than face the world as vets. The Demi
of the Faculty. Professor H. A. Woodruff,
now rules the bacteriology department of the
medical school. In addition to being a mem-
ber of the Royal College of Veterinary
Science, he is a Fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons and Physicians, England.
Had an SOth birthday lately, John Law-
son, who claims to have erected —at Umber-
umberka —the first machinery on the Barrier
field, and later a lot of gold-mining plant in
Westralia. -
One of the most curious meetings in his-
tory was held at Windsor (N.S.VY.) on
Saturday, when the Hobbs descendants got
together. There are reckoned to be between
700 and 1000 descendants of the seven mar-
ried children of Robert Hobbs, who was
transported in 1791 for a minor offence, and
their names are now various: 11. T. Green-
Coal Baron JOHN BROWN, looking
glad over his successes at the Sydney
Easter race meeting.
tree, of Auburn, presided over the hundred
or so who appeared at the meeting. The
business was to consider steps towards claim-
ing the fortune of ancestor Robert’s brother,
John Hobbs, said to amount to £4,500,000.
Dying in ISI4, Hobbs left an annuity to
Robert, directing that the estate was to be
divided among his descendents; but, although
the annuity was paid, it is alleged that no
action was taken about the distribution.
With such a prize in the wind the clan
eagerly decided to push their claims, and
threw 7 in the money for the preliminary ex-
penses.
THE DISTINCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“M:\ Theodore, heckled at the Labor conference
about his private investments, denied that he held
any shares in the Celotex Co. or the Mount Isa
silver-lead mines. He admitted that he was a share-
holder and director of the Roma Oil Co., but pleaded
in extenuation that this was a prospecting concern,
attempting to discover oil, and not a profit-producing
company.”
When buying shares I’m always loath
To touch gilt-edged investments,
A fact to which I’ll take my oath
Upon a pile of Test’men ts.
There’s ways to catch the nimble bob
A chap had best be chary at
If lie aspires to witch the mob
And lead the proletariat.
All right enough high silken hats
For Nationalist chivvies are.
But not for rugged democrats,
No more than thumping divvies are.
Either will tempt some envious nark
To hint your nest you’re feath’rin’ —
A most injurious remark
To come from weaker brethren.
The only company for dough
That down in my delectus is
Must have Pro Bono Publico
Writ large on its prospectuses.
I view askance the flowers which
Supply the Fat Man’s saccharine,
My aim’s to make my country rich
And keep blithe toilers yackerin’.
Let others draw their 12 per cent.;
It wouldn’t do for Gracchuses,
Too wild a whoop of discontent
Would come from Labor jackasses.
What use to make a thou, or so
By shares if some reptilian
Paper next morn the gaff should blow
And leave you gone-a-million?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
£
.PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years.
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., ILtd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEKNSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Timpson Street, Port Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards «
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
* Co.. Christchurch.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
a
4
v
:
The most famous little book
on Business ever written.
We will gladly send you a
complimentary copy.
Name
Business Address
ill
Position
odern
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident
Society :
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, ponses, ciation. Funds.
Dec., A: £ £ £ £
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1906.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 33,701 ) „, r q 47
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 J
1910.. 3,492,09 ; 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322.771
1915.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
1918.. 5,078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43,096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097,941 477,688 60,471 1,555,287
1920.. 5,634,997 2.688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
1921.. 5,882,755 2,816,764 595,440116,191 2,354,360
1922.. 6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422 235,525 2,153,338
1923.. 6,579,192 3,450,862 665,855291,256 2,171,139
1924.. 7,066,013 3,475,869 703,097 83,251 2,803,795
1925.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206112,880 3,015,579
1926.. 7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221125.144 3,229,190
1927.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
Income bounds along, increasing its stride
each year. In the last 12 months the leap
was £517,903 compared with £432,454 in the
previous term. Thus the society’s income in
a single year is as great as it was in five
years at the beginning of the century.
Amongst other things, vigorous policy-
writing and conservative finance have helped
tremendously. Further, the business has
been conducted in a way that has left sub-
stantial margins in all matters upon which
the soundness and prosperity of a life office
depends. In the Ordinary dept, last year
£15,397,528 of additional cover was taken
out under 27,616 policies, and that was
£1,418,265 more than was written under
26,527 policies in 1926, when the in-
crease in new business was £227,622. In
the Industrial branch 61,288 new policies
were issued for £4,062,280, an increase of
£276,096 on the 1926 figure. The society’s
risks were spread in this way at Dec. 31:—
Policies. Assurances.
J*. S. Wales . . . . . . 274,671 £53,032,367
Victoria .. •- 256,815 41,921,677
Maoriland . . . . .. , 139,533 36,593,650
Queensland .. .. •• 77,516 18,156,992
S. Australia . . . . . . 69,473 14,983,29$
Westralia . . • • • • 46,219 11,324,798
Tasmania 18,987 4,397,881
England, etc. . . • • 13,912 . 8,776,552
Of last year’s new Ordinary policies only
9.5 p.c. were written in England. Maori-
land topped the list with 22 p.c. of the year’s
total, the balance being scattered amongst the
Australian States. The next picture takes in
also business discontinued through deaths,
maturities, surrenders, forfeitures and other
causes:—
12 months Annual
to Dec., 1927. Policies. Assurances. Premiums.
New business .. 88,955 £19,459,808 £685,694
Discontinued .. 48,140 7,876,863 321,911
Increases • . 40,815 £11,582,945 £363,780
The total business in force at Dec. 31, apart
from annuities, was £163,276,570 in the
Ordinary branch and £25,910,642 in the
Industrial, an increase of £9,244,471 and
£2,338,474 respectively during the year. Of
the total Ordinary assurances undertaken
since the inception of the society 79 years
ago, nearly 50 p.c. is still in force.
At Dec. 31 actuary Elliott figured the sur-
plus in the Ordinary branch at £2,9.26,022,
and after putting aside £29,000 for interim
bonuses and £30,000 for the non-participat-
ing fund, making it £957,047, there remained
for distribution amongst policyholders
£2,867,022. This, with £28,432 paid in
interim bonuses during the year, is £202,030
more than was divided in 1926. To most
policyholders these bonuses represent addi-
tional insurance, and last year’s lot would
provide £4,980,000 of additions policies.
In the next table is seen how bonuses have
compared with premiums on participating
policies:—
1893 1898.. 34.1 p.c. | 1919.. .. 38.0 p.c.
1898-1903.. 34.8 „, . j 1920.. .. 38.8 „
1903-1908.. 36.0 „ I 1921.. .. 42.4 „
1908-1913.. 38.2 „ | 1922.. .. 47.3 „
1914 .. 39.2 „ | 1923.. .. 50.9 „
1915 .. 30.8 „ I 1924. . .. 52.9 „
1916 .. 30.1 ~ | 1925.. .. 54.5 „
1917 .. 18.0 „ I 1926.. .. 57.7 „
1918 .. 32.6 „ | 1927.. .. 57.9 ..
Handsome bonuses largely represent pre-
mium charges in excess of necessities. The
rates are based on a mortality far less satis
factory than modern experience. Last year,
for instance, the A.M.P.’s death claims were
under 55 p.c. of the expectation, and in the
previous year they were only 5l P-c. Also
the estimated earning power of funds, 3
p.c. in the Ordinary dept., is much below
the average rate of interest actually earned
there: —
Interest Realised on Average Ord. Dept. Funds.
1905.. £4 9 8 p.c. | 1923.. £5 10 3 p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8 „ 1 1934.. 5 11 11 „
1914.. 4 12 10 „ j 1925.. 5 12 5 „
1920. . 5 4 10 „ | 1926. . 5 14 2 ~
1922.. 5 8 9 „ I 1927. . 5 14 0 „
The average rate realised on the whole of the
society’s funds last year was £5 325. lid.
compared with £5 13s. Id. in the previous
term. Further, loadings for exes, and profit
are heavier than they need be, and the mar-
gin for contingencies is, no doubt, pretty
liberal, too. However, at present fat bonuses
suit the public taste, and the chance of a cut
in premium rates is remote. One serious
disadvantage of high rates is the facility they
afford to young cos. to be extravagant; some
of these cos. charge about the full rate, but
fail to hand back bonuses as the established
offices do. Another result of excessive pre-
miums is the tendency to increase the rate
of forfeitures and surrenders, which have
become a very unsatisfactory feature of Aus-
tralian life business during recent years.
New business is inevitably costly, and just
how much of any year’s exes, should be set
against first premiums can only be estimated.
Assuming that old business costs 7 p.c. of
the renewal premiums, and charging the bal-
ance of exes, against new business, we get
the ratios in the last column of this table: —
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,346 £39,951 £68,905 99.6 p.c
1887 .. 837.164 103,694 131,591 70.1 ~
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1910 .. 2,022.470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1915 .. 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1920 .. 3,153,682 334,682 555,863 99.9 ~
1922 .. 3,422.427 339,068 626,422 113.9 ~
1923 .. 3,562,316 387,063 665,855 107.4 ~
1924 .. 3,783,274 465,030 703,097 94.3 ..
1925 .. 4,026,766 473,422 727,206 94.1 ~
1926 .. 4,245,046 469,259 748,221 96.1 „
1927 . . 4,447,024 600,020 799,365 81.3 „
New business poured into the office last year
at a cheaper rate than at any previous time
in tin l last decade. Possibly the waning
influence of some of the new post-war offices
is reflected there. Here is a costs view of
the Ordinary business as a whole: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 .. £8 15 6 p.c. 1922 .. £lO 1 3 p.c.
1910.. 8 7 1 „ 1923.. 10 2 5 „
1915.. 8 9 7,,’ 1924. . 9 19 0 „
1919.. 9 4 0 „ 1925.. 9 14 6 „
1920.. 9 17 3 „ 1926.. 9 9 1 „
1921.. 10 2 5 „ 1927.. 9 9 8,,
The rate is a very satisfactory one and com-
bined with the features mentioned' above
must spell fat bonuses.
The society’s £68,414,822 of funds, in-
cluding an investment reserve of £600,000,
is invested in this way:—
1905. 1915. 1920. 1925. ,1927.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage.. 43.5 36.7 22.9 23.4 24.2
Public securities .. 26.7 41.3 59.3 57.8 56.3
Premises .. .. 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.5 1.9
Loans on policies .. 20.5 16.3 13.2 14.0 14.5
Other assets.. .. 6.4 3.9 2.9 3.3 3.1
More attention is being given to mortgages:
and the substantial amounts annually writ-
ten off premises, etc., have reduced their
hook value to a figure far below their real
worth.
The growth of the Industrial department
is illustrated by these figures:—
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1918. . £503,360 £35,140 £145,262 £322,958
1919.. 593.859 30,860 181,379 381,630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420,270
1921.. 830,709 68,326 253,515 508,868
1922.. 967,988 107,579 276,749 583,660
1923. . 1,118,109 138,902 299,250 ) rKQ
Written off, £21,222 J b58,<35
1924. . 1,245.064 181,918 331,094 1 » Qn aaa
Written off, £ll6B j
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 1 , ov io .
Written off, £lO,Bll j 791,194
1926. . 1,557,073 365,494 389,855 1 r. on AO o
Written off, £15,302 j ' 86 ’ 422
1927. 485,709 423,964 ) Qnn o 7Q
Written off, £6,007 j 800,3 79
Even more encouraging than the expansion
in business is the consistent reduction df
the expense rate. It was 24.7 p.c. last year
compared with 25, 25.9, 26.0, 26.8 and 28.6
p.c. back to 1922. Valuations here are
on a 3-i p.c. basis, and the year’s divis-
ible surplus was £203,491, or £9715 more
than was distributed in 1926. Over 60 p.c.
of the total policies issued since the begin-
ning are still in force. Which seems to
suggest that a great number of these policy-
holders. being persistent and thrifty, should
have transferred to the Ordinary department
long ago.
* * * -j.
General Industries, Ltd., is a holding
co. which came into existence July 14, 1927,
as a result of the amalgamation of Metters,
Ltd., and K.F.B. Foundry, Ltd. And like
most holding cos., its accounts are uninfor-
mative, Nominal capital is £2,000,000, of
which £1,110.616 in 273.809 7 p.c. cum.
prefs., 547,883 ords. and 288,924 B deferred
ords. was paid up when the first accounts
closed at March 15. There were then 24.346
prefs. and 8682 ords. still to be converted by
shareholders in Metters, Ltd. The deferment
on the B shares, which were issued in pay-
ment for the reserves, hidden and disclosed,
in the Metters co., expires Oct. 1, 1930, after
which the B shares rank equally with the
ords. Meantime dividends thereon are at the
discretion of the board and payable only after
the prefs. have been attended to and 10 p.c.
handed to the ords.
The first eight months’ operations resulted
in a net profit of £42,186, which was at the
rate of approximately S p.c. p.a. on the com-
bined ord. and deferred capital as at March
15, after allowing for the pref. requirements.
Only a half-year’s dividend was received from
each of the subsidiaries, and exactly how
much thus came in is not visible in the
published figures, because an unspecified sum
for preliminary exes, management charges,
etc., was deducted before the net result was
written into the sheet. After attending to
the prefs. Is. per share was handed to the
ords., and since the two lots called for all
but a thousand pounds or so of the net profit,
the deferreds were passed over. On capital
as it stood at the close of accounts a full
year’s pref. requirements and 10 p.c. to the
ords. and deferreds would call for £102.846,
and that appears to be easily within reach.
The combined net earnings of the two sub-
sidiaries in their last year before the merger
were £94.850, and in each case profits had
been stepping up. And, of course, the operat-
ing cos. may not have handed over all their
net profits to the parent. Also the amalga-
mation should result in a cut in overhead,
and the alert and enterprising management
is still adding new lines to the business,
which continues to spread. During the year
electric refrigerators and electric ranges
were put on the list of products, and it was
decided to extend manufacture to Victoria,
where Metters K.F.B. Pty.. Ltd., will put
up a factory at Footscray—l3 acres of free-
hold have been bought there. General Indus-
tries, Ltd., will then control manufacturing
plants as follows :•—•
Metters, Ltd., . . .. .. Sydney
Metters, Ltd. . . .. .. Adelaide
Metters, Ltd. ... .. .. Perth
Metters K.F.B. Pty., Ltd. .. Melbourne
Metters (N.Z.), Ltd. .. .. Wellington (M.L.)
K.F.B. Foundry, Ltd. . . . . Sydney
In addition Metters, Ltd., has a distributing
warehouse at Brisbane. That lot is repre-
sented in General Industries’ books by shares
valued at £1,075,480 and £74,511 of book
debts. Liabilities (£3794) were trifling. To
finance general expansion of business in the
subsidiaries the holding co. issued £lOO,OOO
of pref. capital in August last. It is a
healthy beginning.
Metters’ business, which has made remark-
able progress and is the backbone of the
merger, won some fine results for its share-
holders of recent years—a regular 10 p.c.
was paid since 1921 sweetened with several
new par. issues. The same control remains
with the addition of two directors from the
K.F.B. The latter co. was established in
1916, when throe of Metters’ employees
(Keysor, the g.-m., and Forrest and Barnet)
set out to fight for a share of the business in
the old co.’s lines. The trio started with a
capital of £1000; although the business grew
rapidly, competition, Which resulted in a
price war with Metters, ate deeply into
profits. An end was made to that when
Metters bought control two years ago ; then
followed complete amalgamation last year.
No goodwill figured in the big deal and
assets are probably worth what was paid for
them in shares; but owing to the issue of
deferreds, the position of the ords. is not
mute as strong as it was in the old Metters
co., and divs. may be sensitive to trade
fluctuation for a while. At March 15 the net
asset backing for the prefs. was £4 Is. 3d. and
for the ords. and deferreds approximately
20s. The market prices the prefs. at par or
thereabouts. For the ords. 265. lOd. is paid ;
at which price the return is 7.5 p.c, on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The deferreds are priced
at 21s. 6d.
❖ # > *
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) •
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1918. . 32,174 8$ p.c. = 21,875 10,299 54,384
1919.. 32,294 10 „ „ 25,000 7,294 54,384
1920.. 32,468 10 „ „ 25,000 7,250 218 54,602
1921.. 29,924 10 „ „ 25,000 4,750 174 54,776
1922.. 30,821 10 „ „ 25,000 5,821 54,776
Reserves.
1923.. 37,515 10 „ „ 25,000 12,515 - 54,776
1924. . 38,847 10 ~ ~ 25,000 8,000 5847 60,623
Reserves brought to light, £89,377 . . 150,006
• Reserves capitalised, £150,000
1925.. 43,319 10 p.c.= 32,500 8,000 2819 2,819
1926.. 54,747 10 „ „ 40,000 10,000 4747 7,566
1927.. 57,553 10 „ ~ 40,000 10,000 7553 15,119
Freehold depreciation and... insur-
ance Reserves taken in £60,065 .. 75,184
1928.. 54,119 10 p.c. = 40,000 10,000 4119 79,303
For 35 years capital remained steady at
£250,000. It was lifted to £400,000 by tin
capitalisation of £150,000 of reserves in
August, 1924. Visible accumulations of one
kind and another provided £83,301 of the
gift; the balance (£66.699) came from the
cupboard where the inner- reserves are kept.
Then, after the bonus scrip had been handed
out, £150,000 of debentures were paid off.
Notwithstanding that the exhibited reserves
were thus reduced to a shadow, the old rate
of dividend was maintained with greater
apparent ease than before. Now, within four
years another £lOO,OOO of bonus scrip is to
be handed out —one for four to those on the
register at April 13. The gift is to be
provided out of "part of the undivided proofs
of the co. now standing to the credit ot
profit and loss account or carried to any
other reserve or reserves, and which is not
required for paying dividends and the capi-
talisation of which is recommended by the
directors.” At Feb. 29 the p. and 1. balance,
after payment of the final div. and setting
aside £lO,OOO for depreciation, was £19,238:
other reserves were insurance £10,005, and
freehold depreciation £50,000. Incidentally,
in 1920 a stray £20,000 was dropped from
somewhere into the latter heap, and last
year there was an unexplained £1273 put
by for insurance. Also there are reserves
against sundry debtors and secured advances.
The amounts were £0512 and £17,424 respec-
tively at Feb. 28, 1927, but in the latest
accounts the figures have been slipped under
cover. These stores were drawn upon in
the 1924 capitalisation; and since the lay-by
in sight at Feb. 29 was £20,097 short of
the present gift requirements, it seems likely
that the same sort of thing will happen
again.
Whether the old rate of div. can be main-
tained on a round half-million of capital
remains to be seen. Only in the last three
years has more than £50,000 of profit been
shown, but obviously not too much notice
need be taken of published net earnings. It
is plain that of recent years the co. has
been raking in profits in fine style despite
drought and trade depression in 8. Aus.
and the closing of the branch brewery at
Broken Hill a couple of years back —supplies
are now sent from Adelaide. This com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows how
the business has been bounding ahead: —
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities . . .£207,197 £135,079 £168,147 £212,081
Property, plant,
etc. . . 445,518 401,714 417,684 444,791
Stocks . . 17,514 17,844 27,154 24,173
Book debts .. 35,190 48,555 47,621 47,369
Advances .. 52,954 142,359 162,390 195,035
Debenture
trustees .. 71,479 —• .
Cash .. 24,733 19,775 17,208 10,017
During the year £27,107 more was spent on
the brewery and plant than was written off,
and advances (£195,035), which are nearly
five times greater than they were four years
ago, stepped up £32,645. But. the more or
less liquid surplus (£64,513), including
stocks, was £21,713 lighter. What the true
position is only those inside know, and then
it is partly a matter of guess-work, for they
cannot know what contingencies will have to
be met. Evidently they entertain little fear
of what the result of the prohibition poll in
N. S. Wales will be. In the co.’s home State
the substantial amount of capital sunk in
wine-growing affords a strong protection
against the advance of the dry army.
The market, satisfied that the 10 p.c. div.
can be maintained, prices the scrip at 415.,
equal to 325. 9d. after* allowing for the gift.
The return at the latter figure is 6.1 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * 4" *
Caledonian Collieries. Ltd.: —
, Dividends.- N Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 p.c.=49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 6 49,570 126 73,102
(8 p.c.)
1920. 29,247 10 „ ~82,617 21,354 94,45 G
Total Div.
1921. .147,790 8 p.c. 12 p.c.=146,250 1,540 95.990
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „ ~ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 ~ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6„„ 89,274 4,568102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 ~ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „„ 58,566 293 109,670
This, Australia’s greatest colliery, is Howard
Smith controlled. The depression in the
trade became more pronounced last year, and
the board wrote net profit at £17,288 less
than the 1926 figure. It was the third con-
secutive drop, and, after attending to the
prefs., there w T as just enough of the year’s
net earnings left to hand the ords. 3 p.c.,
making an average of only 4.8 p.c. for the
last five years compared with an average
of 8.6 p.c. for the preceding quinquennium.
Over the same periods the average net pro-
fit was £79,526 and £112,114 respectively.
They are disappointing results considering
the large scale on which the co. produces
and the assured market it has through the
Howard Smith control. The four Aberdare-
(Aberdare, Central, Extended and South)
are working the best and least expensive
seam of coal in the State, and Waratah
(Burwood seam) and West Wallsend and
Killing worth (Borehole seam) are still good
mines. The board parcels out the blame
over a wide field, including the growth of
electrical undertakings, a general increase in
production and transport costs, the loss of
bunkering sales, which have been largely
captured by S. African collieries, greater


"1
i
:
. ... .c,J
m
m
■
r Wl<" i. j
I t ’J
is
a
i
»ll§il
-
' :
agffi/l.aßl
LL-fe
:
:
fmi
l a mm
v r- . a
GOffi
m
mw
in
W £
VW}sm€ols€W
. Odd Soodc^W^ki
m
m
- tMB
........
P*“* 4 * wmm}m*& l|y|
<;v
■gm
1
ae
111 l
cSmctal MMidfr ii
■V*
till
»!
at*
4%
l vi f *
Esk
i
.
e -
„ Nfi
.... J
ED
: •:
WKSw!"
.. <-
I
1
'■ '^wiiiiinim
■1
scad
.
s=®3?
SiiS
(MKIHMtM
MMM
, .4BW.
.
THE DI/TILEER/ AGENCY LTD>.
EDINBURGH /COTEAND
(PATON]


Don’tLoseYourMoney
CONSULT
‘The Wild Cat’ Monthly’
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
APRIL NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock -f- GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd,, Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
A new standard of conduit service has been estab-
lished by Pioneer Wood Pipe. The non-corroding
quality of wood gives it a big advantage, while the
lightness, simplicity and low cost of the pipe cut down
expenses enormously. Pioneer Wood Pipe will carry
any class of fluid and is safe from corrosion, frost or
electrolysis. Get the lastest book of data. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove (Ferry to Figtree Bridge), N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
:> * * *
Very Useful and Interesting. “Your pamphlet
‘lnvention’ contains very useful and interesting in-
formation dealing with patents,” writes a corres-
pondent from the Tweed ltiver. A copy of this
booklet will be sent free on receipt of your name
and address. Write to H. H. Rayward, Me.E., Patent
Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.-— Advt. [I
sic * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-Oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and , their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the ve-equipment of
your plant for the next season.— Advt.
:? * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
The Commonwealth Postmaster-General Sanctions
the Discontinuance of Postage Stamps on Letters
AND
HAS APPROVED OF
THE “NEOPOST”
. ~'Ww
METER MAILING MACHINE
A simple device enabling Business Houses to FRANK, DATE and
POST MARK their own letters.
A unique advertising feature is also embodied in the “NEOPOST.”
“NEOPOST” YOUR LETTERS.
Write or ’Phone for a demonstration to
“NEOPOST” (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
McKinney house, 10 O’Connell street, Sydney.
’Phone 83511.
May’s Broadcast Fertilizer Spreader.
I'lip
Illy'/:/
n«-
The Machine is attached at rear of
Vehicle and works close to the
ground.
Spreads up to 40 feet. Any
quantity up to 1 ton per acre.
Quantities regulated whilst at
work. No skill required.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
Price—£2o nett f.o.r. Melbourne; £2l nett f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor Lorry attachments.
CALL AND INSPECT.
Agents: GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Sydney.
activity of State-owned collieries, increased
use of oil as fuel, and, not least important,
industrial troubles.
But sucli disabilities are shared by all cos.
on the field. And that raises a doubt
whether the position is quite as poor as the
figures in the table suggest. The co. has
been suspected of tucking profits away, and
probably has done so. But thus far nothing
lias shown up to indicate that the practice
has been adopted on a large scale. A great
deal depends upon what has been put by for
amortisation and depreciation, and the ac-
counts give no hint as to what has been
done in that way. Since 1923 £lOO,OOO or
more lias been spent on a central power
plant at Cockle Creek, and this is said to
be working satisfactorily. Also the whole
of the plant at the collieries is gradually
being converted to electrical haulage. Pro-
> bably a little help has been got from profits
for this work, which must by now be nearing
completion. However, the co. has gone out-
side for a good deal of money :
1913. 1923. 1926. 1927.
Pref. capital.. £252,500 £464,295 .£404,295 £404,295
Old. capital.. 600,007 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors . . ' 39,710 188,930 ( o ofi l 323,531
Overdraft .. 16,671 j ( 19,920
Collieries, etc. 904,904 1,645,298 1,774,382 1,787,550
Stores .. 14,734 103,724 55,562 93,552
Coal stocks . . 8,808 0,306 8,808 13,074
Book debts . . 41,108 48,662 74,181 39,930
Shares .. - 51,302 51,302 51,302
Cash, etc. . . 1,801 809 14,733 245
During the year £10,577 was added to the
debt (£343,451), and the more or less liquids
(£140,SOI), including .coal and stores, were
£6533 lighter. Thus the excess of liabilities
(£190,650) increased by £23,110. Since 1913
£635,387 of new capital has been got in, the
debt has increased by £303,741, and £64,380
has been visibly added to reserves; in all
£1,003,508. Over the same period the book
value of the fixed assets has increased by
£882,646, and the liquid position has wor-
sened by £223,451. A capitalisation at the
beginning has gilded the divs. for the parent,
but individual shareholders have had only a
moderate time.
The market, which has revised its estimate
of the scrip, pays 17s. for the ords. For the
prefs., which carry a cumulative 6 p.c. and
advance with the ords. to 8 p.c., 16s. 6d. is
asked. The return at that figure is a shade
over 7 p.c. on minimum requirements.
* * * *
Maoriland Government’s issue of £400,000
ot Intermediate Rural Credit Bonds is not
being rushed. It is set forth in the prospec-
tus that the bonds are “not chargeable on
the public revenues,” but are “secured on the
assets of the rural advances branch of the
State Advances Office.” The prospectus goes
on to state that “the principal moneys and
all interest accruing thereon are payable
out of the Consolidated Fund and recoverable
from the rural advances branch.” Investors
don’t know whether the bonds are Govern-
ment stock or not; meantime, the issue is
hanging fire.
* * * #
The possibilities of an association be-
tween Australia’s two biggest rubber-manu-
facturing concerns, Dunlop’s and Perdriau’s,
is being discussed by their boards. No hint
as to the basis on which negotiations are
proceeding has been given, but immediately
any decision has been reached a further
announcement is to be made. The aggregate
paid capital of the two cos. is £3,550,802 —-
Perdriau’s, £1,080,147; Dunlop’s, £2,470,655.
The latter co. recently sold a half-million
£1 ords. at 255. each to the English Dun-
lop co., which also has a four years’ option
over a further half-million shares. Although
the Australian Dunlop co.’s profits have been
hit by the slump in rubber prices, its turn-
over is increasing rapidly. Over the last
five years the ords. have had an average of
7.8 p.c. And on the basis of figures at
June 30 last they have a net tangible backing
of 235. 6d. The Perdriau co.’s profits have
not visibly suffered from price movements in
the raw market since 1921. Excepting in
that and the following year, when 5 p.c. and
10 p.c. respectively were paid, the ords. have
had a regular 124 p.c. since 1915. They had
a net tangible backing of 21s. lOd. per fully-
paid share at June 30, 1927, but the manage-
ment is suspected of having made substantial
internal provision for contingencies. Natu-
rally th-e price of the ord. scrip in each
co. strengthened following the announcement.
Perdriau’s fully paids were in demand at
305., and the contribs., paid to 10s., at 18s.
Dunlop's were on offer at 235. 6d.
* * 4=
So far very little traffic has gone over the
new line from Sydney to Broken Hill, and
it is not likely that there will be much so
long as the present agreement between mines
and Silverton Tramway Co. lasts —another
12 months or more. The coal traffic is the
most important. But now in order to re-
duce costs there is a scheme afoot to erect
a central electrical power plant using oil for
fuel. And no sooner had that come up for
discussion than another idea was put forward
—to produce the power at Pt. Pirie and
carry it in mains to Broken Hill. Against
the erection of a plant on the field is the
fact that it would be quite valueless as soon
as the mines are worked out, whereas a
plant at Pirie, in fairly fertile agricultural
country, would always find some work to do.
* * * *
There is a flutter of excitement up Lith-
gow (N.S.AV.) w T ay, owing to an alleged
discovery of platinum at Mt. Werong, which
was once quite a flourishing gold-producing
district. Associated Mines and Tributors Co.
has been cutting through an eruptive sili-
cious granite bar with the idea of draining
the alluvial bed in Limeburners’ Creek, as
well as to determine the nature of the intru-
sive rock. The gold return was disappoint-
ing, but every panning showed a heavier-
than-gold metal. This has been identified
as platinum, and appears to be present in
some quantity. A hydraulic nozzle is being
used on the property, the wash-dirt being
shovelled into boxes in the usual fashion.
This does not recover the gemstones which
are among the co.’s objectives, so it is
intended to employ a pulsator. The gems
comprise sapphires, zircons and, it is be-
lieved, diamonds. The co. intends to approach
both State and Federal Governments for
financial assistance with a view to making
a thorough search. A payable alluvial
platinum field would be worth locating. The
metal has hitherto been found in several
parts of Australia, especially on the Barrier;
but no money has ever been made out of it.
* * * *
The visit of director F. C. Timbury, of the
Roma Oil Cotp., to America has elicited in-
formation of interest to shareholders in this
and other oil-seeking concerns in the same
neighborhood. Experts consulted were of
the opinion that the oil from the Roma bore
is not a condensate, but a natural oil. As
regards the gas from the B|in. casing, in
which the pressure is about 5001 b. to the
square inch, if it is run through absorbers at
a pressure of 1001 b., it is contended that a
much higher yield than the present 1.2 pints
to the 1000 ft. could be obtained. The board
has decided to buy a gas absorption plant,
and this should be installed by the end of
June. Meantime, the average oil production
from the gas flow at No. 1 bore has increased
steadily. The new No. 2 bore, the site of
which was selected by Dr. Woolnough, is
considered to be in a better position to strike
oil, if present in a free state, than gas.
* ❖ * *
Developments with regard to the Lander
Oil Fields Co. have reached a stage where
fresh capital is inquired, the only alternative
being liquidation. It is proposed to issue
25,000 ordinary shares of 20s. and 55,000 B
privileged shares of 20s. each, both classes
carrying alO p.c. pref. div. Unless 35,000 B
privileged shares are subscribed the directors
have the power to call the new issue “under-
subscribed,” in which case application money
will be refunded. The present capital stands
at £220,180.
* * * #
Washington Silver Lead Co. (Tas.) is
interested in two properties, one at Moina
where no work is being done, the other at
Dundas, in the Comet group of mines. The
directors report that prospecting has disclosed
a long shoot of ore in the end of the lower
tunnel which is probably the continuation
of Keogh’s lode, formerly worked at a higher
level at a profit. A promising lode four feet
wide has been exposed by costeening. The
loss for the half-year was £2387, while £5OO
was due to the vendors of the Dundas pro-
perty and £lll was owing to sundry credi-
tors.
* * * *
Graphite, Ltd., S. Aus., has been busy
since April, 1927, improving the leases. The
tramway is removing overburden from
the open cut; the mill building is nearing
completion; the power plant, etc., is on
order and the erection of the refinery is to
be pushed on with at once. A road from
the mine to Port Lincoln has been built, and
the production of graphite is scheduled for
May. Paid capital is £40,000. For the
mine months to Jan. 31 interest brought
in £438, but exes, ate £489 more than that.
Preliminary exes, had run into £1279; leases
and improvements stood in the hooks at
£20,459; plant, book debts, etc., £913; and
there was £16,860 in the bank. Manager
A. W. Wincey, who was on the staff of the
Central at Broken Hill, is busy on research
work. He couldn’t have had a better
training ground.
❖ * sfc H*
Manufacturers of arsenical compounds
have requested an import duty of £l2 per
ton on arsenic. If this be granted, there
may occur a repetition of what happened
during the war- —railage across the con-
tinent of arsenical pyrites from Yilgarn
(W.A.) to Bendigo for extraction of
arsenical content. The price of arsenic
then rose to a high figure, thus rendering
such long freightage profitable. The Trans-
vaal (Yilgarn) lode and its north and south
continuations contain practically unlimited
quantities of arsenic; a £l2 per ton impost
would make the extraction of it a commer-
cial proposition. But why not complete
treatment on the spot, thereby avoiding
heavy railage charges?
Oroya Links mines and plant, Ivalgoorlie,
together with investments valued at £lB,OOO,
are being sold to North Ivalgurli, Ltd., for
383,333 fully paids of 2s. each. Assets of
North Ivalgurli, Ltd., will, on completion of
the sale, consist of mining leases and plant
at present owned by the two cos. and cash
and investments of a total book value of
approximately £38,000. Oroya Links assets
will be (1) 400,000 fully paid ss. shares in
Malayan and General Tin Trust, Ltd.; (2)
383,333 2s. paid shares in North Ivalgurli,
Ltd.; (3) cash and sundry investments of an
approximate value of £14,000. Oroya Links
liquidation should allow of the following
distribution among its shareholders: (1)
For every five Oroya Links shares two fully
ss. paid Malayan and General Tin Trust
shares; (2) for every three Oroya Links
shares one North Kalgurli paid 2s. share ;
(3) for each Oroya Links share approxi-
mately 3d. in cash. A move is being made
to compensate Oroya Links directors for loss
of office, etc., and a resolution to this effect
will probably be adopted at a shareholders’
meeting in London on April 20.
x * * *
There is a sporting chance that the
Mutooroo Co. will be repaid its expenditure
on developmental work on the Waratah lease
at Corboy’s Find (W.A.). At depth of
105 ft. the lode is wider and more settled
than at any other point in the mine and
values are satisfactory. Should good de-
velopments follow driving at this level, the
outlook will be brighter than at any time
previously.
* * * *
Greonbushes, which has contributed nearly
£1,000,000 of the £1,500,000 worth of
tin produced in Westralia, is about to
have £7OOO of Government money spent on
it in boring. If something is struck
the lessees of the area on which the find is
made will be called upon to share the cost
of drilling, but should the bores put down
disclose nothing the Government will foot
the whole bill. The field has livened up.
* * * *
Edna May Consolidated, under option to
McCahon’s Co., continues to augment its
ore reserves by loz. exposures. Despite
the Westonia flood below the 120 ft. level,
the Consolidated is one of the very few W.A.
shows that possess ore reserves justifying
the price paid for the scrip.
* * *
Attention has again been drawn to the
loss sustained by the Westralian gold mining
industry through the Christmas stoppage.
At present there is a total cessation of com-
pany mining operations for a fortnight at
that period of the year, because the union
refuses to allow its members to take their
annual holidays by rotation. As a result
a lesser number of men are employed than
would be if the rotary system was in opera-
tion and a relieving staff provided. A finan-
cial burden, amounting in some cases to
several thousands a year, has to be borne by
the mine-owners because of this.
x x * *
Wiluna (W.A.) claims to have discovered a
process that will extract gold from ore at a
cost that should please all concerned. For a
while results from the pilot plant were not
satisfactory, but since improvements were
made in grinding they are declared to be
O.K. This is backed by Alfred James, a
former president of the British Mining and
Metallurgy Institute. The co. is having a
roll-up in London this ■ month to consider
the issue of new shares at a premium.
* * * *
One of the latest additions to the growing
list of Malayan tin-dredging propositions is
Ulu Klang Tin, Ltd., an F.M.S. incorpora-
tion, with its registered office at Kuala
Lumpur. It is a dollar co., nominal capital
being in 1,200,000 shares of one dollar each.
Of these 500,000 are offered, and the vendors
take another 400,000 fully paid. The area held
by the co. is about 575 acres on the Klang
River., Check boring over 252 acres showed an
average depth of 18.6 feet and an average
value of .61 catties of t.-o. per c.y., the
catty equalling 11 -3rd lb. A selected area
of 55£ acres averaged 22.26 feet in_ depth,
and boring estimates went ,73 catties per
c.y. It is proposed to instal two dredges
on the property capable of digging up to
50,000 yards per month each. The Govern-
ment Electrical Board’s high-power circuit
close bv will supply the juice; thus a con-
siderable economy in working costs is ex-
pected. Thirty acres of the property are
planted with rubber; standard production
is 11,8691 b. p.a. The vendor. Mungo Park,
M.E., a director of Sione Tin, is on the
board of the new co.
Sfc ❖
Sydney Siam is out with a proposal to
float Thalang Tin, Ltd., which is to exploit
the Bangrin leases. The area, 220 acres,
which has been bored by H. G. W. Reid and
H. Bethune, the co.’s engineers, and check-
bored by J. D. Kemp, of Penang, is estimated
to contain 14,000.000 yards, averaging .721 b.
t.o. Thalang will not be put on the market
until the present clouds on the tin horizon
roll by. The draft prospectus puts nominal
oaDital at £150.000 in 60.000 15 p.c. cum.
prefs. which participate with the ords. up to
20 p.c., and 00,000 ords. The public will be of-
fered the whole of the prefs. and 20,000 ords.
The vendors take £35,000. of which £30,000 is
in fully-paid ords. and the balance in cash.
With tin at £2OO per ton it is estimated
that enough will be earned to pay the pref.
div. three times over. But that depends upon
whether the estimated values as set out
above arc realised, and no unexpected and
expensive difficulties crop up. The .decision
to postpone the float indicates that a
certain amount of care is being taken by
the parent of its fledgling’s prospects.
* * * *
Yet another Malayan dredge has gone
below to investigate the bottom at close
quarters. Following on Malim Nawar’s re-
cent capsize, the No. 2 dredge at Kampong
Kamunting, Austral Malay’s initial float,
has sunk, and is now lying on an even keel
on a soft bottom in 15 feet of water. No
great trouble is anticipated in getting the
machine up again, after which it is proposed
to dock it and overhaul the pontoon, which
seems to have been responsible for the mis-
hap. This will mean a big shrinkage in
K.K.’s output for a while. The dredge is
insured, but nothing is said about a loss-of-
profits policy.


THE MODEL CITY.
“Because of the habit of encouraging a nightmare growth of Sydney whilst tremendous wide areas remain unpopulated, a committee was appointed to consider traffic
problems. It has recommended double-decker trams and ’buses.”


Cable, Wireless
and Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney.”
£3
1
lid’)r
If you intend
visiting Sydney
—then let us send you a copy of The Book
of ‘The Australia’,” in which are described
and illustrated some features of The Hotel
of the Commonwealth—thus enabling you to
anticipate the luxurious comfort we otter.
Single Room, with Breakfast, from 15/-;
Luncheon or Dinner from 5/-; Light Luncheon
in the Winter Garden, 2/o.
TWlustralia
Capital Paid-up, £ 1)22,100.
Tht Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Rose Marie”
Royal “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “The High Road”
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic (Newtown) .... “The Merchant of Venice”
Regent Charlie Chaplin in “The Circus”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Princess Ida”
Royal “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
King’s “On Our Selection”
Atuenjsum “Mr. What’s-His-Natne”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Ambroise Thomas’s “Mignon,” which
appeared at Sydney St. James on Saturday
as the latest addition to the Gonsalez reper-
toire, showed Margherita Flor to excellent
effect as the distracted little lady who has
fallen into the hands of the gipsies—grand
opera variety. Olga Poletti sang animatedly
the Polacea, but was occasionally stiff in.
her acting as Filina. Inadequate staging
made the plot look even more improbable
than it is. The fire in the conservatory sug-
gested that red flares were being burned in
the wings; and there was little about the
ancestral halls of Fumagalli (Lothario) cal-
culated to bring back to the memory of an
itinerant musician that he was a castle-
owner and the father of Mignon. Fumagalli,
however, sang sonorously, especially in the
“Sofferto hai tu?” duet with Flor, and made
the reunion with Mignon a pathetic and tell-
ing scene. The Pfrimmer lady took every
advantage of the opportunity given her as
Frederic and sparkled into vivacity in _ the
familiar Gavotte air—this with “Connais-tu
le pays?” (transmuted to the Italian “Non
eonosci” and admirably sung by Flor) well
deserved acclamation. Brandisio Vannucci
looked a heroic Wilhelm, but his singing
was sometimes monotonous. The orchestra
was good in spasms; some of the pauses,
instead of being impressive, left an impres-
sion of raggedness.
* * * *
The Gonsalez Sydney season is to finish up
on Thursday of next week.
KATHRYN REECE, who is to play the title role in “Princess
Charming,” the musical comedy which the Firm will
shortly present at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, is Broadway’s
youngest prima donna. She played Phyllis in "Lolanthe
for fourteen months in New York—a record for Gilbert
and Sullivan in America. She has sung through the U.S.A.
in grand opera and created the part of Juliette in "The
Enchanted Isle.”
Benno Moiseiwitsc-h, after an absence of
five years, Will be heard at the Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night.
* * * *
Allan Wilkie opens his Sydney season at the
Newtown Majestic with “The Merchant of
Venice” on Saturday night under vice-regal
patronage. On the following Saturday “Rook-
ery Nook,” Ben Travers’s comedy, is to open at
the Theatre Royal, where “The Girl Friend” is
just finishing a run of nearly tour months.
The Palace sees an end of The Donovan
Affair” on Friday week; its successor will
be “Whispering Wires,” probably the last
show of the present Muriel Starr season,
t *
Sydney Tivoli management solemnly warns
those who put off visiting the showhouse
until after Friday night that they will miss
Joe and Harry Kelso and their Crazy Quilt
Revue. The affair —comedians, jugglers and
lions included—is an entertaining concoction.
* * ¥
This Showman stole a couple of hours
from between midnight and dawn to have a
look at the latest long-distance dancing
lunacy at Sydney Glaeiarium. A couple of
hundred people still remained to watch the
jaded “dancers” shuffling around the de-
pressingly empty building, changing their
girl partners from time to time, and now
and again discarding them altogether in order
to have a wash and a rub-down without
staying their shuffling feet. Of the two sur-
vivors left, Bert Phillips looked fresher than
Alexander until he retired at 7(5 hours, when
the other went on to equal his previous re-
cord of 101 hours. Since then one Billy
Preston at Katoomba (N.S.W.) has kept on
his feet for 120 hours 50 minutes, beating the
American record. It’s an appalling business,
which isn’t dancing, except in odd moments,
and would probably be just as dull if it
were.
“Trooper O’Brien,” produced by the Aus-
tralian Artists’ Company, and given a private
screening in Sydney last week, suffers some-
what from a weakness in the captions, a
common fault in Australian productions.
The photography is good, and there are
capital bush scenes; it is a pity that they
haven’t a closer connection with the story.
“Metropolis,” the main item in the Sydney
Regent’s changed programme, gives a striking
picture of the monstrous city of the future, the
huge mechanical heap in which the human
characters scurry around like ants. Some
colorful “futurist” music is supplied by
Kost’s excellent orchestra as a garnish.
There is a descent from the impressiveness
of “Metropolis” to the antics of an elderly
Charlie Chaplin in “The Circus”; it has
bright patches, but
Charles’s capers
are sometimes
pathetically rerm -
niscent of any ordi-
nary elderly gentle-
man, slig h 11 y
“shot,” having a
romp to amuse the
children.
* * *
“Up in Mabel’s
Room,” at Melb.
Palace, is full of
the promise of
public undressing
and other
ifn o r t h o d o x de-
lights : hut none of
these things happen
and everybody goes
home with his jaws
aching and his soul
spiritually re-
freshed. Frank Neil
remains faithful to
his original hand of
players, and they
remain loyal to his
ideas of inelegant
farce. Hilda Atten-
borough is a very
fair comedienne and
so is Lily Molloy.
Paul Longuet is an
excellent advertise-
ment for his tailor
and a painted but-
terfly keeps the
draughts away from
Mary Gannon’s ex-
pressive back.
Field Fisher and
Frank Neil are two
knights of errantry
who go in quest of
Miss Gannon’s pink
chemise. Tim cos-
tumes and the
scenery share in the
producer’s recent
snectacular rise in
fortune and the
show 7, is being
packed.
a ❖ ❖
M. Noblet is the
manufacturer of a
bad sauce who gets killed in a railway acci-
dent—ostensibly. The wrong man is buried,
and for two years Mme. Noblet mourns her
loss. But Noblet isn’t dead—only his memory
got hurt. Not even his taste in women was
impaired. He marries Suzanne, a very
splendid creature who supplies Mm with four
sons. He also becomes a hairdresser, Bans s
most distinguished bobber and slangier.
Eventually he gets back to his own house,
invited there to wave his original wife’s hair.
She cannot be mistaken about those electric
thrills they could come only from her origi-
nal hubby’s fingers. Dr. Baudin, an auto-
suggestionist with good intentions, restores
Noblet’s memory. He forgets the last five
years, Suzanne and the four sons, and only
remembers his former helpmate. Unfortu-
nately, she is now
lime. Corton. Gor-
ton, by good pub-
licity, lias spread
Noblet’s bad sauce
all over France, and
has just provided
Mme. Noblet-Corton
with a daughter.
Th e auto-sugges-
tion i s t will not
allow Noblet to be
informed of these
interesting details,
as the shock would
kill him. So bed-
time looms before a
wife with two hus-
bands in the house.
* *
This is the typi-
cal French farce —
and one Frenchman
is still as good as
five Englishmen or
45 Americans at
polite bed-sitting-
room corned y—
whose denouement
readers can learn
by visiting the Mel-
bourne Athenaeum.
The Percy Hutchi-
son co. is handling
it excellently. Sey-
mour Hicks adapted
the piece to suit his
own peculiar style.
Hutchison as Noblet.
had the good sense
not to copy him;
his amusing hair-
dresser was only
French in name.
All the rest were
remarkably well
cast. Stella Fran-
cis, as a serious-
minded wife torn
between two genu-
ine affections,
dressed an inordi-
nately long part in
a nice, clear, sympathetic style. A lolet Ley
gave every satisfaction as a cook, and so did
Joan Rogers as a seductive single woman.
Frances Dillon, the most accomplished per-
former in the troupe, was again accommo-
dated with a diminutive part; but, by bursting
into the third act as M. Noblet’s second sen-
suous choice, she saved an excellent joke just
as it was in danger of wearing a trifle thin.
Some Beethoven gave the Cherniavskys
the opportunity to display their abounding
sense of rhythm on Saturday night at the
Melbourne Town Hall. The melancholy
middle movement of the Op. 70 D
Major trio was given exquisite expression
by Leo and Mischel, and pianist Jan made
the Moonlight sonata sound less hackneyed
than usual. Mischel provided the customary
athletic spectacle of an earnest musician
struggling with a ’cello in rendering some
commonplace but pleasant variations by
Boellmann. The encores were of the popular
variety which assist the sale of the players’
gramophone records. It takes more than
three sincere artists to fill the new concert
chamber, however.
* * * *
The works of Louis Esson and Furnley
Maurice, the two Australian playwrights
with the soundest ideas, have been pursued
by ferocious amateurs for years. A play of
each was presented by the Beresford Fowlers
at the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne, last week.
Esson’s “Dead Timber” left this writer
vaguely exasperated. Better characterisation
of a family in the cow country has never
been written. Mum, Dad and Joe ring as
true as their prototypes in “On Our Selec-
tion” up the street ring hollow. The revolt
of Mary, whose expanding womanhood sees
in a passing sundowner the one hope of es-
caping from the family bog, is finely out-
lined. But the thing remains only a sketch,
given a specious air of finality by the sui-
cide of the father. Maurice’s “Disturber
of the Pools” is excellent comedy. The
suburban subdivisional charlatan who sells
houses for a pound deposit, and ends up by
being patron of the local golf club, is par-
ticularly and beautifully Australian. But
this piece also ends in futility with a pale
verbal flick about sausages. Here are two
playwrights with the right stuff in them ask-
ing for expression. All they need is the
actual theatrical experience, not Authors’
Weeks and appreciative Red Page articles,
but the dust of the arena. They can’t get
it because the few score people who comprise
the public for an Australian play don’t raise
any dust worth mentioning—in either sense
of the word. Other Australian pieces staged
at the Queen’s Hall were “The Doctor,
by McCowan Russell, an attempt to drama-
tise a grisly O. Henry story ; and “A Heroine
of Russia,” a preposterous melodrama by
Mr. Fowler placed in the early days of the
War. Mrs. Fannie Fowler gave a brilliant
exposition of Mum, the haggard optimist of
“Dead Timber.”
GLADYS MON CRIEFF, whom the Fullers have brought back
for “Rio Rita” —proof that they intend to loom large in
Australian theatrical matters.
“Patience” and public perseverance filled
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday. 1 he
present co. hadn’t done this (jilsullivan
satire previously in Melbourne, and the
flatness of tlie jokes about tlie aesthetic shams
of 50 years ago suggests that the music ot
Sullivan will overshadow tlie polysyllabic
pleasantries of Gilbert for future generations.
John Ralston’s voice grows m importance
as the season proceeds; as Archibald tne
poet he successfully sang down bis ladylike
appearance and style.
Three young men dressed for a tennis
party who play with great agility and some
harmoniousness on three xylophones resemb
ling coffins are amongst the best of Melb.
Tivoli’s current rash of turns. Claudia Alba,
the modern Boadicea, is also performing im-
pressive feats of strength. Florrie Le Verre
and Lou Handman have added a sister to
their entertainment; the new acquisition ex-
ploits a crystal-set voice in songs which de-
mand a three-valve vocal organ.
* * * *
“Rookery Nook,” having its first Austra-
lian run at Adelaide Royal, is a modern ex-
ample of the humor started by Italians about
six centuries back. The play follows Ben
Travers’s novel closely. Rhoda, turned out
of doors in pyjamas by her Prussian step-
father, drops in at the house of Gerald,
grass-widower, and stays the night; and that
is all. Everybody mainly concerned, including
his sporting cousin Clive, behaves beauti-
fully. Everybody not directly concerned, in-
cluding his wife’s sister and the charlady,
takes the Worst for granted —and gets de-
nounced and ridiculed for doing so. Dialogue
often of brisk three-word repartees sinks
sometimes to such as this: “Bustle, now, ana
show a leg!” “Here’s my leg, but I haven t
a bustle.” But most of the quick cross-
firing is unconventional and good. This
critic saw “Rookery Nook” in London
lately, and liked it much less than the
Adelaide rendering. Hastings Lynn plays the
hero on the same lines as his brother Ralph
in London, and these two young men play up
to each other delightfully. Donalda Warne,
reputedly but 16, is the new Rhoda; fortu-
nately she has little to do but look pretty
and appealing, mostly in pyjamas. Jane
Comfort as the cattish critic.. Leslie Victor
in a “Private Secretary” part as her hus-
band, and Fitzherbert as the Kaiserly step-
father all do well. Winnie Rayner is the
charwoman, a stern moralist who meets pro-
test with a crushing “That’ll do, missj Im-
pudence always goes with the Other. She
“holds” the stage whenever she is on it.


SYDiNt. Y.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
mm
TEA and
COFFEE
SET on
TRAY.
Very heavily silver-
plated on hard
white metal. Com-
plete set,
£ 23/10/-.
Or pieces obtainable
separately.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
L T D.,
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Since 1866, Peapes liave pre-
served a consistency in good
duality and good values from
which has arisen Ihe tradi-
tion of Peapes’ superior ser-
vice.
To buy from Peapes is to be
assured at all times of the
newest, the smartest, the
best, always at a moderate
price,
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney o
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Eromeno” : In Muttaburra (Q.) there is
an old lady who has lived in the West over
fiO of her 80 odd years; her husband died
lately with a similar tally. They were
teamsters. I say “they” because granny
did her share of the yoking-up and loading
for years. She reared a family of six sons
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
ERSTWHILE EDDIE: “Lady, I tell yer I’ve bin so long without food I don’t know where
me face is!”
LADY OF HOUSE: “Poor man! I suppose that explains why you haven’t washed it lately!”
and three daughters in the roadside camps.
They and their children (all living) number
60, all told.
* * * *
“Gouger”: In his own primitive way
Binghi was an extensive trader, his goods
being mainly stone knives and gouges,
weapons, human hair-belts, opos-
sum hair and wallaby twdne,
pituri, grinding-stones, copper
stone, shell ornaments and uten-
sils, ochres, koolamons and flax
twine. Trade was necessary
because large areas of country
could not supply the desired
goods. Thus the cherished pituri
grows only in small areas in
N.Q. (in the Gulf country) and
in Centralian areas. The tribes
who “owned” these lands zeal-
ously guarded the dwarfed
shrub. But the pituri tribes-
men might have no ochre or
Milestone country, and thus had
to trade to obtain paints for
their corroborees. In parts of
North Australia and W.A. ex-
tensive little “mines” exist
where Binghi for countless cen-
turies has been gouging out the
copper-stone and ochres. One
season was always recognised as
the trading time, and emissaries
then travelled under a truce.
Many tribes, though far distant,
had a perfect system of bush
telegraphy, by which they con-
veyed their wants to one an-
other. As the old bucks have
explained it to me, thar trad-
ing system was scrupulously
fair. In those few areas where
Binghi is still wild it is possible
to connect up tlm trade routes,
curiously like a spider web
across the continent.
“Macßopus”: It was my misfortune to
be one of a party of Tassie pot-hunters
perched upon the rocks of a small river
while a raging fire came down both banks.
After the first scare had passed I cocked
my rifle and waited for the traditional
hordes of bush creatures to stampede into the
stream. Although I sat there for two hours
in a region where game was fairly plenti-
ful —the wallabies are known to be fearless
swimmers when Old Baldy is behind them—
nothing. disturbed the scene beyond the
crackling of flames and crashing of trees.
“Wawena”: “Gouger” (B. 8/2/’2B) does
not go deep enough into the matter of totems.
A man of one totem may not marry a woman
of the same totem. The natives of New
Guinea, New Britain, New Ireland, the Duke
of York group, Buka and Bougainville were
very strict on this point; the penalty for
SILENCE IS SILVERN.
MCTAVISH: “Ah mon, that whisky we had is awfu’ strong. Ah can see two lots of
picturs a’ th’ time.”
McDonald: “Sh-h-h, mon! Dinna let ’em hear, or they’ll maybe want anither saxpence
for the ither one.”
overstepping the mark was always death to
both parties. The totems are almost endless.
The white cockatoo, the hornbill, many
species of hawks; the tree-rat, etc., are all
used. The native with the hornbill for totem
may marry ony of these but never another
hornbill. In Buka and Bougainville the
women carry a kind of hood which they don
upon the approach of a man of the same
totem, so that he may not look upon the face
of a woman of his own totem, and to the
woman the man is tabu. The child takes the
totem of the mother. It has been somewhat
of a puzzle how the native prevented inbreed-
ing ; the totem appears to be the solution of
the matter.
* * * *
“Garbut”: In some of the tributaries of
the Condamine (Q.) both cod and catfish
flourish ; in others cod are absent, although
the rather unpopular catfish are even more
plentiful than in the parent stream. Why is
this? One local authority puts forward the
rather unlikely theory that codfish are only
to be found in streams whose banks are lined
with oak-trees. lam more inclined to blame
the sandy bottoms and mirror-clear water to
be found in all streams running through
granite country—which, by the way, is not
conducive to the growth of river oak-trees.
* * * *
“L.H.H.”: “Cast Iron Jimmy” was busy
with his month-old paper when I rode up l to
his camp. “I see the Guvmint Moterologist
is at it again, forecastin’ rain,” he said.
Knowing that “Cast Iron’s” contempt for
meteorologists is as boundless as his belief
in himself, I asked him what lie thought
about it. He expanded at once. “There
ain’t a solitary sign o’ rain,” he said. “Me
corns ain’t troublin’ me; I ’aven’t ’eard a
frog or cricket singin’ out fer munce; the
salt’s as 7 ard as rock, an’ so’s the sugar;
an’ the ants' ain’t climbin’ the trees. It
can’t rain.” That night it rained 370 points
and very nearly washed “Cast Iron” into the
creek.
* * * *
“Natte Y.’” : Concerning the disappearance
of the Diamantina, Georgina and Cooper
flood waters (B. 21/3/’2B). Enormous beds
of remarkably porous sandstone outcrop
across the courses of the streams. The water
is absorbed to form part of the great sub-
terranean reservoir from which the artesian
water of the Northern Territory is drawn.
“E.V.S.” : Has “B-Gar” ever noticed water
vanishing down a drought crack on the West-
ern downs? If so, he should not wonder at
the disappearance of the Diamantina flood
waters. In practically the whole of inland
Queensland the soil is of a deep, loose, absor-
bent nature. Mitchell grass roots have been
traced six feet in their search for moisture,
and lucerne is credited with 30 feet. Seep-
age alone accounts for the escape, though
with characteristic love of mystery old bush-
men maintain that Lake Eyre is connected
by an underground river with the sea. Any-
how, the galali is never found far from
water; there are big holes at intervals that
will withstand any drought. I once deepened
a good waterhole with a view to increasing
its capacity, but after disturbing the bottom
it never held water again. In the Nive,
Alice and Warrego rivers the water seeps
away rapidly, but scratch in the sand a
couple of feet and there it is in abundance.
* * * *
“Eo-Ra”: It is not at all hard to drive
turkeys (B. 21/3/’2B). When Ted Ireland
kept a stall in the old Victoria markets,
Sydney, his father used to go down to the
Albion wharf, empty the coops out there
and drive the turks up Market-street with a
whip. Pigs, on the other hand, take a bit
of handling, but even they used to be hoofed
over Pyrmont bridge to the Glebe abattoirs
by quiet old men armed with a bit of a
swish.
* * * *
“Riverina” : McGubb, our tight-fisted pub-
lican, was a keen horse-dealer, so when the
chronically unfinancial Speewaa Smith rode
up on a beautiful brown colt Mac’s eyes
gleamed. He shouted twice —an unheard-of
thing—and then “How much’ll yer take fer
the colt?” he asked. Speewaa'scratched his
neck thoughtfully. “Well, seein’ it’s you,
Mac,” he answered sociably, “shout again,
an’ lie’s yours for three notes.’ He had
emptied his glass by the time three one-
pound notes were on the counter. He took
a casual look at them and sauntered to the
door. “You’ve made a slight mistake, Mac,”
he remarked with a genial grin. “Them’s
the wrong three notes. I meant two tenners
an’ a fiver!”
* * * *
“Boronia”: Two men engaged in road
repair work were camped in the heavily-tim-
bered Warren country (W.A.). During a
week-end one of them found it necessary to
journey to the nearest town for stores.
That night a gale roared through the forest,
and a large limb crashed on the tent, firmly
pinning its sole occupant across the back
to the. ground. Although practically unhurt
lie was unable to extricate himself. One end
of the limb had penetrated the ground and
disturbed a colony of soldier ants. They were
not long in finding the helpless man and sub-
jecting him to their infernal torture. Two
days later he was found dead, the body being
horribly swollen. Obviously he had tried
to reach his rifle, which lay just two inches
beyond his grasp ; his fingers had clawed out
a deep groove in the earth. There is no
doubt as to what he intended to do with the
weapon.
(Continued on page 21.)
THESE MODERN WAVS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wot! You! Well, strike a feller pink! Wot’s
crawlin’ on yer now?
Yer want a flamin’ ’oliday—well, ’oo is
gointer plough?
An’ ’oo will dip the bloomin’ sheep an’ ’oo
will drive the drays?
It makes me crook ter see the way young
folk go on these days.
Yer got a life as good as most. Why, onl /
Wensdee week
Yer took an evenin’ orf an’ went a-trapesin’
down the creek;
An’ Sundee there wuz comp’nee ’ere, an'
often w’en there’s rain
Yer ’ave a ’arf a day or more—an’, cripes!
yer still complain.
W’en I wuz young it wuz orl toil. ’Twas up
at ’arf pas’ four,
The ole man yellin’ in the yard an’ kickin'
on the door.
An’ cows ter milk an’ pigs ter feed, ’ard
graft from morn till night.
Aw! yer don’t know wot yacker is—yer get
off bloomin’ light.
Not satisfied jist as yer ’are! Wot’s thirteen
hours a day?
An’ then ter ’ave the cheek ter ask fer
’olidays an’ pay!
The world is goin’ mad orlright, it’s trip-
pin’ down ter ’Ell
W’en yer own nippers ask fer pay—an’
’olidays as well!
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINDLAY.


/7
w
V.
m
V
\
Y
/
*****
h
-•J
'. •-*//
-r--V -r
«
Xj
5P
*i^
*r.f>
n;
y
u
*
N
;
(ft
r
0'
The Car for
Today—and Tomorrow
Dodge Brothers Four supports the contention
of leading automotive engineers that the car
of the future will be comparatively light and
of medium wheelbase.
For it will travel rough roads with greater
comfort than other cars of its weight and forge
its way through traffic as no other car can do
with safety.
Dodge Brothers motor has always been noted
for economy of fuel and oil, but in this new
Four, with the famous new motor, oil economy
is made more certain by an improved lubrica-
tion system, and petrol consumption is reduced
one-fifth.
Now equipped with
Steeldraulic Four'
wheel Brakes at no
extra cost.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide ,
Winlerbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
F 344


sdf
Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Founded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
oy Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
Such a reputation is not won overnight
TcaxiT
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d .... 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkin c 5 Co., London. Branch of The United
sdf
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Take No Risks With
RUPTURE
Serious develop-
ments are in-
evitable if
Rupture i s
n e glected.
Have sure
support with
comfort , and
freedom b y
w earing
OIMVC"
m
Denver’s Elastic Truss,
pad.
Single, 30/-;
Has a patent water-
Double, 40/-
Write to-day jor Free Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses. Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
Dept. 1, 281 C.liOHCll STUKKT. SYDNEY
(Directly opposite Hunter Street).
“Eureka”: The best boomerangs, both in
appearance and effectiveness, were those
made by a tribe of blacks whose chief hunt-
ing grounds were about the Richmond River
(N.S.W.). They were cut from myrtle
trees and, after being shaped, were buried
for seven days in soft moist earth to give
them weight and color. At the end of the
seven days they were unearthed, carefully
wiped, and then polished with the melted
fat of a wallaby. The result was a finish
as good as any French polishing. In this
state the weapons glittered in the sunlight,
and it was difficult to see them coming
through the air even if thrown slowly.
A BAD DROUTH
YOUNG BILL (back from town, where he had seen a barber singeing a customer ): "An'
cripes, dad, I seen a bloke at an ’airdresser’s, an’ blime he was so bald the barber
was lookin’ round his head for ’airs with a candle.”
“Gouger”: Throughout Cape York I enm-
sula there are no bridges for 400 miles, and
the wet-season traveller finds a river every
20 miles. If the horse knows his job the
man just gets a death grip on his tail and
away they go. Some rivers there have frothy
little waves tearing along with
the current. These sweep a
horse side-on well downstream
and a man is like a beetle hang-
ing to the prad’s fly-brush.
Should he lose his nerve he is
a goner. Ilis struggles put the
horse out of balance, and the
current rolls the animal over
and under, almost certainly on
top of the man, who finds him-
self rolling among boulders at
the river’s bottom. Another
danger is a barely-seen tree
whose submerged roots may
catch the swimmer fairly in mid-
stream. If travelling with
blacks, a non-swimmer is safe
enough, provided his nerves are
well under control. They often
swim a man over by letting him
hang to the haft of a spear. It
seems a slender thread amongst
boiling waters, but the white
man has merely to keep his
head above water, and not
struggle, and the abos. will land
him. Another method is for an
abo. to clutch each wrist; an-
other is for the white man to
cling to the abo.’s forehead band
or his shoulder. If white feller
goes under half a dozen of tin'
most powerful swimmers and
divers in the world will immedi-
ately be following him along tin*
river bottom and he will be a
stiff man indeed if he goes west.
Some mountain torrents defy all
swimmers, and it is a case of
waiting for the overflow to re-
cede. The Roaring Meg cross-
ing, between Bloomfield and
China Camp, is the most dan-
gerous one in the North, as
there are rocky rapids only a
hundred yards below, the cross-
ing itself being a mass of greasy
boulders.
“L. 0.”: In addition to blankets (B.
28/3/’2B), a benevolent State Government
provided the abos. with rations, distributed
fortnightly, as well as the wherewithal to
make a pudding at Christmas. On my
appointment to Goodooga (N.S.W.) .the lack
of a lady help was severely felt by my wife.
I was informed that Mary would assist with
the washing, but that it would be useless to
requisition her till the rations were ex-
A MAN OF GREAT ENERGY.
SIS: “Dad is a great man to get things finished. He is through his day’s work well
before breakfast
NEW HAND: “Crims, Miss—what does he do?”
SIS: “Gets us all up out of bed.”
liausted —generally three or four days before
the next ration Wednesday. Successful ne-
gotiations saw Mary installed. After a scorn-
ful glance at the Government-appointed wash-
house she took a tub out on the verandah,
lit her pipe, squatted on her haunches' and
got to work. But an endeavor to get her
to polish the stove proved a failure. After
a demonstration of black-leading by the wife
the lady yelp remarked: “No plurry fear,
Missie. I no touch that pfellar, black-lead:
it make me shiny like ’Merican nigger, and
Gubment no give me the ration.”
:!'• * *
“L.11.H.”: There is nothing wrong with
the compass (B. 15/2/’2B) when it comes
to getting out of difficulties in the bush. In
fact it is fairly safe to say that the man
with a compass, pins a knowledge of its use,
would not get himself lost. But how many
bushmen carry compasses? I do not know
of one. The man who uses his head is not
likely to get lost, except in level scrub
country on a cloudy day. In such a case
anthills are a first-class aid towards estab-
lishing the north. They always lean towards
the west. If none are available, examine
the trunks of trees; the south side of these
invariably carries a certain amount of moss
or furry-looking growth resembling it. With
this assistance, the way to the nearest creek
fence or track should be easy.
“Silentio”: The corduroy road is dis-
appearing, much to the relief of man, beast
and vehicle. There are odd patches still to
be found, especially in the timber areas, but
white ants and borers and the increasing
timber shortage have sounded their death
knell. Many’s the rough ride I’ve had over
this class of road, and though it served its
purpose when timber was cheap, its best
claim might be as a liver tonic. There was
a noted patch on the Coochin Flats, near
Boonali (Q.). You could hear the settlers’
waggons, generally the German type with no
springs, bumping along fully three miles
away.
# * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: Whilst strolling along a
narrow track we’d just hacked through a
tangle of lawyer-vines and other lianas in
New Guinea, I was brought to a stop by
savage snarls in the fork of a tree over-
hanging the way ahead of me. Whilst I
scanned the foliage for the challenger, it
suddenly leapt open-mouthed a foot or so
along the bough, swinging and tensing itself
to spring. I covered the next 100 yards in
record time. It was a dragon lizard. Lizard-
shaped but much more heavily built, it had a
tail like a stockwhip, sturdy forelegs, power-
ful claw and a blunt head, with a very big
and broad moutli full of glittering teeth
shaped like a dog’s. Though I’ve traversed
the scrubs a lot since I’ve never seen another.
Except that I believe the beasties in New
Guinea are bigger than the Komodo dragon
recently discovered in the Dutch East Indies
and now in London zoo, they appear to be
similar.
“G.8.L.”: Apparently the first known
reference to the abo. call “coo-ee” occurs
in the journal of Ensign Francis Luis Bar-
rallier, wbom Governor King sent on the
expedition “to the King of the Mountains”
in 1802. On Nov. 9, 1802, between Picton
and Camden, as Barrallier notes in his
journal, the party heard natives shouting
“coo-ee” (or, as he spelt it, “cooy”) to
some distant blackt'ellows.
“Toki”: Can anyone on the Council tell
me the name of the night bird that makes a
sound like a deer belling? I first came
across it when camping a night or two in
an old bushman’s hut in North Queensland.
He told me of the lone deer which “called”
every night. I thought the jim-jams had
been worrying the old chap, but he stuck so
firmly to his tale that on the first night,
wintry, clear and moonlit, I investigated.
Tracking the sound down to a tall gum. I
saw the owl-like perpetrator perched high
up among the topmost branches. It wasn't
a mopoke or a curlew, I can vouch for that.
Old Bill steadfastly refused to believe that it
was anything but a deer.
s': * $ *
“J.W.M.”: ’Possums are supposed to be
protected in N.S.W., but more are being
slaughtered now than ever. A ear went
down recently from the Mudgec River dis-
trict with 140 skins: and at this time of
the year the ’possies’ jackets are not at their
best. Consider, also, the thousands that get
away and die in trees. One chap put out
100 baits on one night last year; he gol
40 ringtails, and only two good one 3 out of
the lot. And so it goes on.
s': * si: *
“Wandi” : The other day a sheep-man was
driving along close to a netted fence in the
Inverell (N.S.W.) district when several wild
turkeys were flushed. Instead of flying, the
birds tried to rush through the fence, and
in a moment were bailed up with their heads
in the meshes. Before they had got sense
enough to pull back, the driver hopped out
and captured them. “A better bag than I
ever got with a gun,” he remarked.
THE HANDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flash Patsy was a shearers’ cook,
And in his culinary nook
Industrious and able;
But in the mirror he would look
And titivate before lie took
The tucker to the table.
Although he tramped from shed to shed,
Oft burdened like a quadruped
With fallals, pads and leather,
Spare clothes and sundries, tent and bed,
He kept himself well groomed and fed
In every kind of weather.
lie carried things that were taboo
To other men, like me and you,
And not the least alluring
Were polishes for boot and shoe,
Perfum’ry and cosmetics, too,
And sets for manicuring.
lie dressed in style for meals, and though
Some cursed and wished him every woe
From mulligrubs to bunions,
He oiled his hair and waxed his mo,
And brushed his boots before he’d go
To serve the steak and onions.
At morning, noon and night he chose
To trip around in silken hose,
But never in a hurry;
And scents of lavender and rose.
That powerfully assailed the nose,
Went with the rice and curry.
When day was done, and ceased the din
Of pot and pan and pannikin,
A chef of melodramas
lie might have been, as with a grin
lie sought his bunk resplendent in
Bed cap and pink pyjamas.
N.S.W.
E.S. SDRIENSON.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
! *
ARDATH TOBACCO CO: LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
SUNSHINE’S LATEST.
The Sunshine Auto-lleader-Harvester is
claimed to be the “greatest harvesting machine
ever placed in a wheat crop,” and most of
the crowd that watched it at the H. V.
McKay stand at the Sydney Show admitted
the claim. It cuts a swathe of 12ft., which
is practically impossible with the ordinary
horse team. Its other main features are
that its comb and knife extend the whole
way across its front, enabling it to cut its
own track right through the paddock of
standing grain, collecting every head in its
12ft. cut, and treading nothing down. A
four-cylinder engine supplies the power both
to propel it through the crop and to drive
its various mechanisms. Only one man is
needed to drive it at 3-4 miles per hour, even
through crops which are yielding wheat at
the rate of a bag per minute.
To harvest 4. r > acres per day on a fuel
consumption of 3 pints per acre, and to be
capable of making a non-stop run over 800
acres of crop, stamps the new Auto-Header-
llarvester as a machine that will satisfy
the requirements of our biggest and most
progressive wheat-growers.
In addition to the big machine, the H. V.
McKay Pty. exhibited a wide range of
agricultural implements, made in Australia,
which give good service under Australian
conditions.
The Sundump Chaff-Saver is a useful at-
tachment to the Sunshine Header-Harvester,
as it saves all the cockie chaff and straw
that might otherwise be wasted. Mixed
with molasses cockie chaff is a good stand-
by for stock during a dry time, and, when
that inevitable drought happens along, the
farmer who unnecessarily wasted the by-
products of his wheat crop will feel sorry.
MOTOR-POWER TRANSMITTER.
Small farmers and graziers who attended
the Sydney Show exhibited a lively interest
in this device, which enables the owner of a
car to use it to drive a chaff-cutter, saw-
bench, pump, shearing plant and any other
farm machinery that is ordinarily driven by
an oil engine up to 8 h.p.
The back wheels of the car are lifted
sufficiently to clear the ground by easily-
manipulated lifting jacks and brought into
contact with two wooden driving pulleys.
A belt is run on to a transmission pulley in
the centre of the transmitter’s axle and con-
nected with the machine to be driven. A
demonstration was given with a saw-bench
and pump, and some very tougli-looking logs
were cut up with apparent ease.
The possibility of the car tyres being
adversely affected by friction against the
driving pulleys appears remote. To test
this the writer tied a thin piece of string
around the tyre, and the string remained in
place after some hours of running. Both in
sawing and pumping the car was running
on top gear. The speed is governed by the
simple action of the patent transmitter, and
it is claimed that it will maintain a regular
speed on any job, and requires little or no
attention after the fuel and ignition throttles
have been adjusted.
,To small men on the land who want to
make some use of a car other than joy riding,
and even to a grazier whose engine goes on
strike during shearing, the Motor-Power
Transmitter comes as a blessing.
PORTABLE SHEARING PLANTS.
The Lister portable plant for crutching or
for shearing small to medium-sized flocks is
very popular in the back country, where it
is often easier to take the machine to the
sheep than to drive the sheep to the shed.
The Ringer, a two-stand portable, and the
“B” semi-portable, of similar make except
that it is mounted on a base of well-seasoned
timber instead of wheels, are much in favor
during the dreaded “fly time.” When crutch-
ing has to be done, these machines are handy
to move about and economical to run. Most
sheepmen agree that a saving is effected by
running these little machines out to the
various yards and doing the crutching there
instead of knocking up weak sheep—particu-
larly lambing ewes —by bringing them to the
woolslied.
The Twin City Kerosene Tractor is another
line of interest. Used for ploughing, sowing
and harvesting at a low cost of operating,
it saves time and labor -when both are limited.
This machine eliminates the necessity of yok-
ing up a ten-horse team, and saves at least
three hours per working day that would ,bc
spent in grooming, feeding and harnessing.
A large portion of the stand occupied by
Dangar, Gedye and Co., Ltd,, at the Sydney
Show was devoted to the various models
of the Lister petrol and kerosene engines
adapted for shearing, crutching, pumping,
chaff-cutting and various other jobs tluit
fill in a farmer’s day. Still cheaper pumping
power is provided by a 12ft. Alston self-
oiling double-geared windmill. This machine
always had visitors around it.
JOHN DANKS AT THE SHOW.
The old-established firm of John Banks
Pty., Ltd., was to the fore with the Aus-
tralian-made Billabong Windmill, which still
retains the good opinion of those who require
a cheap and dependable mill. Special points
about the Billabong are that the gear-box
needs to be filled with oil only about every
six months, and the oil is distributed to the
working parts by the gear. The wheel
accommodates itself to the force of the wind.
When the wind gets too strong for safety the
wheel automatically stops the pumping.
The sheep and cattle troughing—made in
Australia —is in (ift. lengths, which interlock
and rest firmly on an angular iron frame with
strong supports. It is easily and quickly
put together by any station hand, and is
capable of resisting any amount of strain put
upon it by thirsty animals jostling for a
drink.
Danks also handle an asphaltum roofing
that is strong, easily laid, and will stand any
degree of heat, and maintain its efficiency in
any climate. Tools for most trades and
paints for all outside work interested particu-
larly the men who, not being within hail of
tradesmen, have to do most of their repairs
themselves.
“FATHER MADE IT.”
Most country people will see the advan-
tages of the Homerex furniture which was
on exhibition at the Sydney Show. They
have long been familiar with ready-to-wear
houses; but it remained for Home Recrea-
tions, Ltd., to introduce ready-cut furniture,
with every part numbered, so that the job, of
assembling it is made easy for dad when
armed with merely a hammer and a screw-
driver. It is claimed that the Homerex sys-
tem effects a saving of 50 p.c. in cost. But
apart from that anyone who lias had house-
hold furniture brought long distances by rail
and road will appreciate the saving of
temper when, as happens too often, tables
and chairs arrive minus arms and legs. The
co. will supply full directions for the com-
pletion of every piece of furniture it sup-
plies, together with the necessary wood-
stains and polishes. Everything being packed
flat, the saving in freight is as obvious as
it is substantial, and to a handy-man the
cost for decent furniture is brought so low
that there should be no necessity for the
smallest farmer to struggle with drapery-
and kerosene-cases when furnishing his home.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ BIG SHOW.
The portion of the old firm’s huge display
at the Show which is of most interest to
country men is that covered by the Planet
Jr. farm and garden tools and the John
Deere and Ransome’s agricultural imple-
ments. The Planet Jr. implements range
from small hand-propelled hoes, scufflers and
seed-drills for garden work to two- and three-
row horse-drawn cultivators for market gar-
deners and orchardists.
John Deere’s corn planters, shelters and
ploughs are too well known in the 'cpuntry
to need description. The same applies to
the Wiard steel-beam ploughs, the Morgan
patent spading harrows and the Star disc
harrows, all of which the writer has used
successfully.
Ransome’s specialise in heavy disc ploughs
and Horderns’ have a good range of them.
The Improved Chain Harrows are com-
paratively new to Australian farmers,
although much used in England for covering
seeds, clod crushing and spreading manure
more evenly over grass paddocks.
The firm also features Mote’s improved
extension ladders, which are designed, for a
variety of purposes. A new idea is a ladder
for fruit-picking which has a small folding
platform attached to it upon which to stand
a bucket. Another improvement is that the
ladder cannot close suddenly and jamb the
operator’s fingers.
Other appliances of interest to farmers
are post-hole diggers, Myers lifting pumps,
hydraulic rams, portable forges and stump
extracting jacks. In fact Horderns’ display
has a peculiar attraction for bushmen —and
bupwomen for that matter. Almost every-
thing required for the paddocks or the home-
stead is there for them to choose from.
FORTESCUE AND SONS’ EXHIBITS.
In addition to I.X.L. windmills, poison-
carts, fumigators, fire-fighters, water-carts,
pumps, spraying machines, etc., manu-
factured by the firm, it showed power inven-
tions designed to convert numerous well
known horse-drawn agricultural implements
into tractor-powered machines—another
blow at the fast-vanishing heavy-draught
horse. One interesting invention is the com-
pensating double pivot gear which not merely
enables power-propelled machines to be
turned within their own length whilst work-
ing in the crop, but eliminates the waste of
horse-power occasioned by side-draft. An-
other attractive new invention is a universal
tractor which operates effectively in mud,
sandy soil or on hard roads. This wheel,
which is constructed in an entirely new
fashion, is claimed to have greater pulling
power than any ordinary tractor wheel when
working under unkindly conditions.
A FARMER'S UTILITY CAR.
At the Sydney Show General Motors
(Aust.) Pty., Ltd., exhibited a car that
should interest farmers and graziers who
can’t afford to keep a ’bus for pleasure only.
It is “model 1104,” of the open delivery type,
combined with the ordinary Chevrolet road-
ster. An open panel body at the rear is
handy for taking salt out- on the run or
bringing home a few coils of fencing-wire,
fencing tools or stores from the township.
When the black “never-leak” cover is fast-
ened over the body with brewsters, the con-
tents are well protected from the weather
and the whole outfit presents a very neat
job for a utility car. General Motors also
had some serviceable bodies for the con-
veyance of livestock.
SOMETHING NEW IN FENCES.
In addition to its usual range of fencing-
wire and rabbit-proof netting, Lysaght Bros,
and Co., Ltd., exhibited at this year’s Syd-
ney Show new styles of fencing material
which should appeal to the pastoral and
agricultural world. The Spiral all-steel fenc-
ing standard is twisted around a central
bar, which adds greatly to its strength.
When the standards are driven into the
ground the wires are strained and locked
securely to the standard by the central bar
that is driven through the spirals. This in-
genious method eliminates the necessity of
threading the wires from post to post as in
the old style of fence. The advantages of the
steel standard with regard to damage by
white-ants, natural decay and bush-fires are
obvious, and the cost, especially in districts
where fencing timber is scarce, is less than
that of ordinary wooden posts.
The Spiral fence-dropper is made on the
same principle. It can be attached quickly
to any style of existing fence, whether it
carries barbed-wire, wire-netting or any
gauge of plain wire. Neither ties nor clips
are required, and the dropper is prevented
from being pushed out of the perpendicular
by applying a wire-turning key to the end
provided for twitching around the top wire
of the fence. Sheepmen will find these two
lines w r ell worth looking into.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
Australian Fertilizers Pty., Ltd., has issued
a valuable book upon this subject which
is arousing much interest in the grazing
world. Top dressing grass lands, though a
very old practice in England, where it is
compulsory for tenant farmers, has only re-
cently been adopted in Australia. The A.
F. Pty., Ltd., supplies its well-tried Shirley
brand of superphosphate for top-dressing,
and there is no doubt that the use of super,
on grazing paddocks has largely increased
the carrying capacity thereof. Both sheep
and cattle exhibit a decided preference for
grass that has been top' dressed; the improve-
ment is there even when it isn’t visible to
the human eye. The condition of the stock
will soon prove it. Also the relative attrac-
tions of top-dressed and non-dressed sections
of the same paddock will soon be noted.
SILAGE AS FODDER.
“Paul C.”: From practical experience I
can speak of the value of silage as a food
in. the case of dairy cows. I cut out and fed
lucerne and maize silage to 60 milking cows
that had been taken off ordinary pasture,
and this gave me an opportunity to gauge
the benefit or otherwise to be obtained by
the use of this fodder. These cows were
put in a 40-acre paddock very bare of
pasture. They were given as much silage as
they would clean up twice a day. They
had abundance of pure water and plenty of
shade. We found that the milk yield in-
creased, the cream test was higher, and the
cows kept in good dairy condition. As it
was only necessary to continue the feeding
for a month, 1 cannot claim that cows can
be fed indefinitely on silage alone with un-
varying satisfactory results. It would be
unreasonable to expect this, for stock cannot
thrive long on any one class of food alone.
They need variety to balance the ration. But
of one thing I am certain—cows will milk
better and keep healthier’ longer on silage
alone than on hay alone.
That silage is good fodder outside the
dairying industry my friend Mr. W. E.
Tayler, of Parkes, gives testimony: “I com-
menced feeding 1000 ewes in lamb in the
middle of February at the rate of half a
ton of silage per day. They were running
on about 800 acres of stubble with abso-
lutely no grass or herbage. This quantity
with plenty of salt lick kept them in good
condition for about six weeks, when a rain-
storm of about 40 points destroyed the
stubble and I was left with no natural feed
of any sort. I increased the ration to 21b.
per sheep a day, and added |lb. maize or
wheat. This ration was given up to the end
of June. The sheep did fairly well, and
dropped 50 per cent, of lambs.” The 150
tons of silage used to keep that 1000 ewes
going for 4 \ months cost Mr. Tayler £75
to grow and store. If he had purchased the
same weight of lucerne hay at the time (it
was £8 a ton), it would have cost him
£l2OO.
TIIE GLORIA LIGHT.
The owners of this light featured at the
Show the Gloria Matador Light and Power
Plant, for which it claims automatic starting,
regulation and lubrication, with automatic
stopping as soon as the battery is fully
charged. It has Bosch-magneto; no coil
ignition. In addition to supplying electric
lighting for the homestead, the Matador pro-
vides a source of power—-34-4 h.p.—suffi-
cient to drive chaff-cutters, pumps, saw-
benches, etc. The plant works with crude
oil.
Those in the country who have the old
Gloria light system still in action will be
glad to learn that for a very small sum they
can get an attachment that will dim the light
and, automatically, clear the generator.
“E.P.F.”
“Yeoman” : I have no axe to grind, but I
am satisfied that “E.P.F.” possesses fertilis-
ing qualities not possessed by ordinary artific-
ial manures. I have backed my faith by
substantially increasing my order for this
season’s cropping. I have been privileged to
peruse a list showing that hundreds of
w r heat-growers in this State have doubled last
year’s orders. This suggests that their results
have been satisfactory.
Sir A. D. Hall has shown in his experi-
ments at Rothamstead that a deficiency of
any one of the essential plant foods limits
the crop even though all the others may be
present in abundance. “E.P.F.” is based on
this law of minimum. It provides sufficient
of every one of the essential. constituents to
assure a maximum crop—other soil condi-
tions being satisfactory. Fallow does in-
crease bacterial activity, but other conditions
are necessary before the nitrifying bacteria
can multiply. Soil inoculation for the pur-
pose of introducing beneficial bacteria is an
ancient practice. Why, then, cannot modern
science improve on that practice? That is
what the chemist behind “E.P.F.” claims to
have done. Although opinions of this new
fertiliser may vary, it is not without sig-
nificance that the Department of Agricul-
ture has decided to give it a three years’
trial on every important Government Experi-
mental Farm in South Australia.
DOUBLE LAMBINGS.
“N.M.L.”: “F.Y.7” is right in contending
that double lambings are a tricky tool with
which to play. Once on a time they could
be handled with safety. Now, owing to the
pack of wool being put on sheep, they can’t
stand that double strain. After the 1902
drought I knew flocks of ewes which were
double-lambed for several years in succes-
sion, and they stood up to it well. But
those days are gone, and that class of sheep
has disappeared. Those ewes used to cut
about 61b. of wool. Their present-day
sisters have added 50 per cent, to that, and
with that addition have lost about 75 per
cent, of their ability to stand up to punish-
ment.
In many places the feat is impossible,
anyhow. Many thousands of square miles
of Bananaland’s western country are open
downs which don’t know winter rains.
From October every year till the rains the
annual fight is on and stock have to battle
to live. How is it possible to work in a
double lambing there? In many districts
pastoralists are still experimenting to find
which is the most profitable period to join
the rams for a single lambing. By the way,
“F.Y.7” recommended five weeks as the mat-
ing period. Six is better. A merino ewe
is supposed to be in season every three
weeks. So a six-week period instead of five
makes a lot of difference.
(Continued on page 25.)


«r—~• 7S&'<
m
-
Is
*>•*
m
%
w
<Q
V
%
>l*
a
%
%
iy
Now!
A Portable Adding Machine
with a Wide Carriage
THE BURROUGHS Portable Adding Machine is
now offered with either wide or narrow carriage and
with either four or six columns of pounds adding capacity.
The wide carriage feature enables you to watch daily the
relation between such items as sales, purchases, expenses,
etc., giving you accurate and timely advice of fluctuations
in your business.
Try one of these machines on your own work for a week
or two at our expense and you will see how easy it is to
get those very necessary figures.
Burroughs
Portables
are priced
as low as
!OS«
for 12 months
terms
Discount for Cash
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Rockhampton
Auckland
Brisbane
Dunedin
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Christchurch
Wellington
Bur
Adding
800 kkeeping
□
Calculating
Machine


j ks* a
\'i -n //
I 1 v iA
ti*2
%
s\
AY*
V
tr
✓
2'.
>
■.Jr*)*?
V
a
/
■ \
i
(>/
+-
lv
)
you can always
rely upon Zam-
Buk to prevent
that wound or
scratch going
the wrong way.
TERRIBLE ULCERATED SORE
“Whilst my husband was working at Gar-
den Island,” says Mrs. Hunt, 626 Harris St.,
Ultimo, Sydney, “he knocked his leg and
tore off a strip of skin. Through neglect a
terrible poisoned sore developed. Foi
months the incessant burning irritation and
throbbing pains gave him no rest day or
night. He tried all manner of remedies,
but there was no sign of the ulcer healing
until we started with Zam-Buk. Pain and
'fire’ were taken away almost immediately
and with persistent use of Zam-Buk his leg
was perfectly and permanently healed.”
Zam-Buk. 1/6 a box or 3/6 family size. Zam-Buh
Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet. All dealers. C. E. Fuiford
(Aus.) Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney, will send on request
Free Samples of both.
Dr. ANDREW WILSON, Ph.D., M. 8.,
the eminent medical authority, says:
- “Zam-Buk is an antiseptic first-aid
that requires no preparation and
possesses unique soothing and heal-
ing properties.”
BLOODPO |SON
THE peril to guard against in cuts and wounds is the
sudden entry of dangerous germs that set up
poisoning and inflammation. Therefore, be prepared!
Keep Zam-Buk always handy! A dressing of this great
antiseptic healer will end all danger.
Zam-Buk stops pain and bleeding and allays inflam-
mation. It gets into the underlying tissues and kills
harmful germs. It prevents festering and suppuration and
quickly grows new skin.
When you apply Zam-Buk to any cut, eruption or
sore, you are using no risky compound of animal fats and
mineral drugs, but a highly refined balm prepared from
valuable herbal extracts.
Because Zam-Buk is readily absorbed by the tiny
pores, its healing work is carried on in the underlying
tissues as well as on the skin surface.
Zam-Buk is always soothing and safe. It can be
depended upon to heal cuts, scratches, wounds, burns,
bruises, scalds, insect bites, etc. It is also a marvellous
remedy for graver troubles such as eczema, acne, poisoned
wounds, arid sores, ulcers, bad legs, piles, ringworm,
abscesses, etc. Keep a box always handy!
'aura Euk
SOOTHING • HEALING • ANTISEPTIC
THE
INVINCIBLE
□
ua
5S
14/45 h.p. 6-Cyl. Tourer
Extreme flexibility with
top gear performance of 3
to 60 m.p.h. Four-speed gear
box, rignt band change, low
gear axle ratio necessitating
change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the
Britisher overseas who wants
a suitable high-class British
car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, L > J in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
petformance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
h ttest climates. Ix-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm that in the 14/45
six-cylinder .model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd..
187-189 William Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
This year the bigger "Bulletin” won’t print as many short stones as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better,
When
you buy a battery
buy POWER
For a self-starter you need a battery
which will give power generously
and continuously. Buy aP.& R.
and you get such a battery.
There are many reasons why. Here
are a few. The lead of which the
plates are cast is 99.99% pure; the
active paste is “ keyed ” permanently
into place ; inter-cell connector bars
are copper-cored ; lugs are burned-on
as well as cast-on to plates ; such
things as separators and anti-corrode
terminals have been desig?ied ; last,
but not least, the P. & R. has a
heat-proof, crack-proof, warp-proof,
acid-proof “ Dagenite ” case, manu-
factured only by Peto & Radford.
What more can there be to a battery?
R.R
PETO &. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
I he bcqinninq and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
p.l
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD .
Sydney.
ROY HILL & CO., LTD.. Adelaide.
asdf
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
iegreaves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD.
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO.
Wellington, N.Z.


>5
1
mx
mu
ir
EXACT FIT..
Three widths for every size!
That’s why your foot can be so
easily fitted with this pliant Abbey
Riding Boot. Its upper is lined with
soft leather no canvas, no raised
seams inside. The elastic insets
keep it close fitting while allowing
it to flex with every foot movement.
The sole is made of the best
leather obtainable supple and
tough.
Available in tan or black calf,
carefully finished to take a rich
gloss with light polishing.
Order by Post
Specify width as well as size re-
quired and ask, also, for a supply
of the correct Abbey, easy-shining
polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf 427-
Black Box Calf 37/6
The most popular types of high-grade
footwear are described in the 40 -page
colored catalogue. Write for copy.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
L6B.
GROCERS.
JHE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
THIS IS THE
Wonder Wieneke!
The World’s Best
Raddle. As shown
at the British
Wembley Exhibi-
tion and the New
Zealand Exhibition.
Tf you can appreci-
ate the best, send
for my beautifully
illustrated booh of
150 pictures. Post
Free to all Bul-
letin readers.
WRITE TO-DAY.
asdf
The GULF CHAMPION,
a humdinger, complete
for £l5/15/-
JACK WIENEKE,
The Champion Saddlei',
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(((
0
Cuticura Treatment
For Dandruff
Part the hair and gently rub in Cuticura
Ointment until the whole scalp has been
treated. Let the Ointment remain on for
some time, overnight if convenient. Then
shampoo with a suds of Cuticura Soap and
warm water. (Do not rub Soap on the
hair.) Rinse thoroughly. A light appli-
cation of Cuticura Ointment to the scalp
between shampoos is often beneficial.
Soap I*.,Talcum Is. 3d.,Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,N.S.W.”
JPBT" Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
SAFE with GUYATT’S l
asdf
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUY ATT & CO,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opposite Bridge Street.
Walker-Welford 1095]
Cuclope
SPRING COIL SHEEP FENCE
°)he Only Perfect Sheep %nee
Cyclone Spring Coil Sheep Fence of 5 lines
(26 ins.) with a barbed wire added on top,
is 41 ins. high. The tie wires are uniformly
12 ins. apart, and the "kink ” effeciively
prevents the upright wires slipping. The
fence is supplied in 5-chain rolls.
Prices from £l9/10/- per Mile
Use Cvclone Spring Coil Sheep Fence,
10 line (42 ins.), ll line (49 ins.), or 12
line (58 ins.), for Cattle and Horses.
Cyclone Fencing Catalogue Free
"M
V V
l rJt
: v
A
fTtri
vjupSUlg^v
%
L
Red Jag
Cyclone HoldsTfrexi
'US'!, ..a W-.. . ' yn'tt
CYCLONE FENCE&GATECQP"™
COMMERCE BUILDING, ASH ST. (off 350 Georfee St.), SYDNEY
189-191 William Street, Melbourne
Exchange Buildings, Hrie Street, Adelaide
BANANA LAND'S CHILLED BEEF
TRADE.
“Fore": The chilled beef trade with
N.S.W. which Queensland started some
months ago has succeeded beyond expecta-
tions. Increasingly large quantities a!re
coming south over the border, and there does
not seem to be any likelihood of a falling off
until Homebush market can compete in price
with the northern product, and that will not
be until beef comes down to, say, 40s. a
1001 b. at the southern abattoirs. The supply
of fat cattle in N.S.W. is short, and is
likely to be so for some time, so the Queens-
landers seem assured of a profitable run. _
There is an impression that the building
of the railway from Bourke to Barringun
and the linking up of th; Queensland main
stock routes with Sydney may affect this
trade by making it cheaper to send livestock,
but before that can happen the Queensland
Government must build another link, from
Cunnnamulla to Barringun. If such a line
were built it would have to be on the nar-
row Queensland gauge, or else the Cunna-
mulla-to-Charleville section, which is an all-
important factor in the scheme, would be
useless. With a change of gauge, transfer
of the cattle at Barringun would be neces-
sary, and that would defeat the purpose of
the proposed extension, the swifter transfer
of fat stock and stores to N.S.W. frqm
Queensland.
WATER AND STOCK.
“Pot Permang”: A few notes on bore, well
and spring waters may be of interest to
the man who has to use them. Speaking
generally, water which carries one ounce of
salt to the gallon is suitable for horses,
cattle will stand one and a half ounces,
while sheep are not affected until two ounces
is reached. Several field tests are being car
ried out in S.A. at the moment to get more
definite data on the subject. The con-
stituents of the. salts present have a bearing
on the possible use of the water. While a
water containing 2}oz. to the gallon of salts
which consisted practically entirely of sodium
chloride might be suitable for sheep, another
containing the same proportion of, say, cal-
cium and magnesium chlorides would be alto-
gether outside the pale. Again, the type of
feed the stock is accustomed to must be con-
sidered. Sheep used to saltbush country,
for instance, will stand up to a water con-
taining a relatively high proportion of salts,
while sheep on good grass land would be
speedily affected by water of similar salinity.
About the only test possible to the stockman
is to taste the water. If you cannot taste
salt the water w T ill suit any stock, as the
human palate can detect loz. of salt in the
gallon. If you can taste it, get it analysed
if you are doubtful of its value.
Great care should be taken to flush out
troughs frequently when using them for
watering stock. It must be remembered that
in the summer loss of water through evapo-
ration and hence concentration of the salts
is large. A troughful of water containing
1 |oz. salts to the gallon, which is good for
sheep, evaporated to half means a proportion
of 3oz. salts, which is dangerous. The omis-
sion of this simple precaution has caused the
loss of many thousands of sheep in Aus-
tralia.
Finally, if you are thinking of using a
water for garden purposes, give it a trial on
a small plot of French beans. If this is
successful the water should be suitable for
any cultivation, as beans are most sus-
ceptible to the action of salt in solution.
MECHANICAL CANE HARVESTING.
“Mecca”: It will be remembered that
Ralph S. Falkiner, of Queensland, produced
a mechanical cane harvester which gave very
successful demonstrations. At the present
time Mr. Falkiner is attending trials with
this machine on a leading Cuban plantation,
and the following cable has been received by
his representatives in Melbourne :
Management expresses satisfaction preliminary per-
formance and construction. Consider success assured.
Making modification suit Cuban conditions.
The machine is a duplicate of the one oper-
ated in the Mackay district during the 1927
(rushing season, except for certain altera-
tions made as a result of information obtained
there. With Mr. Falkiner in Cuba is Mr.
Charley, the engineer of the Queensland
Cane Harvesting Corporation. The machine
has been purchased by large Cuban interests
TO RELIEVE CHOKING CATTLE.
“Bill R.”: When cattle for the want of
salt take to bone chewing it frequently hap-
pens that a bone becomes .embedded in a
tliroat. With the inconvenience and pain
the bullock goes mad, and, if not relieved,
will die. In his distress he is exceedingly
dangerous to approach. With other cattle
he should be yarded by horsemen, roped,
and hauled up to a post. With a little
manoeuvring his tongue may be seized. Pull
'' out as far as possible and sideways be-
tween the teeth of his upper and lower
jaws. A hand and arm may then safely
be inserted far enough to remove the
< bstacle.
THE SPREAD OF GRASSES.
“Carhue”: How much good do the dust-
storms do us? My paddocks, eight weeks
ago swept clear of all herbage and looking
as if nothing in the world would ever again
cause anything to grow there, are now
a mass of waving grass, and there are at
least six species that have never to my
knowledge grown in this district before.
Have the seeds been buried in the ground for
years waiting for favorable conditions? Or
have those lurid and far-travelling storms
that have swept us recently, red with the dust
of Central Australia, carried the seeds of a
new vegetation by way of compensation?
WHEN TO CUT ENSILAGE CROPS.
“Paul C.”: Most crops are suitable for
silage,, some are totally unfitted for it, others
make good silage if they are cut just at the
right stage. The crops most suitable are
lucerne, maize, sorghum, and wheat, oats aiui
barley. Maize should be cut when the cobs
are well formed; sorghum is best when the
head is showing well; wheat, oats and barley
when just out in ear. Now t this does not
mean that you should wait till all the cobs
are well formed, all the heads of sorghum
are showing, all the ears of reed crops out.
It is better to cut a little too soon than too
late.
Most dairymen who have ever fed miiK-
ing cows exclusively on lucerne silage have
found out that this foddec, even at its best, has
a tendency to give milk and cream a “strong
odor, and if the crop is cut when containing
too much sap this fault is accentuated, i!
silage is intended for sheep or dry cattle tin-
farmer can afford to .be less particular when
he cuts the crop,, but if he wants it for
dairy cows he should not put the mowing-
machine into it till it has begun to blossom;
in fact, he could with advantage let it go
to the haymaking stage—that is, when about
one-third of the field is in bloom. It will
contain plenty of moisture to make good sil-
age, and be less likely to taint milk or cream.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“B-Gar”: Has beerseem, the Egyptian
lucerne, ever been successfully grown in Aus-
tralia —not as an experiment, but for pur-
poses of profit? There’s no reason why it
should not thrive in irrigation areas. It
can be cut more often than lucerne, and its
long roots seek water at a greater depth.
During the war thousands of tons were used
for Australian horses in Egypt, and by their
healthy condition and appearance they
appreciated it.
“Nitric”: Early cotton planting has paid
in Queensland this last year, there being tax-
less damage by parasites. The corn-ear
woi-m (caterpillar pest) generally plays the
greatest havoc, and early planting of cotton
(September) offers the best natural control
of this caterpillar. This has been proved
by the experimental work of entomologists
and the experience of practical growers.
The aphides (small plant-lice) are helped by
the cold and a rainy season. This pest has
not been bad in Queensland, but in South
Africa the aphis (“gassid”) attacks have
resulted in abandonment of cotton growing
in many sections of the country. A special
plant (camlodia), which is resistant to the
pest, has now r been bred.
“Nota Bene”: The name “milk fever’ in
cows is misleading. There is often no fever.
The trouble is rather one of paralysis.
When the cow is found to be suffering with
this, milk out, wash the teats, and, using a
bicycle pump (the nozzle should first be
boiled), inflate the udder tight with air so
that the blood is forced back into circula-
tion. Tie the teats with wide tape over cot-
ton wool and massage gently.
“No Ball”: Warts on cows’ teats are
very troublesome. To remove them—when
the cow is not in milk —tie a piece of waxed
thread tightly around the base of each wart.
When they slough off, smear with a little
vaseline or castor-oil.
“B-Gar”: Wool-growers whose wool has
a blue or black tinge through the sheep
running on burnt country, should not allow
any dealer to bluff them that this is detri-
mental. The yarn that the stain won’t scour
out is all moonshine.
“K. Kocky”: If benzine-tins are used in
the dairy as milk- or cream-containers, the
turned-down edges, the seams at the sides
and the corners at the bottom should have
solder run along and around them. This
prevents the collection of a bacteria-holding
yellow film in the interstices.
“Ascot”: Care should be taken when)
feeding cows on ambercane or any plant of
the sorghum family to that it has been
cut at least 12 hours. These plants, when
young and freshly-cut, are poisonous.
“Paul C.”: Cattle- or sheep-dogs often
develop a taste for eggs, and the women-
folk raise Cain about it. They never forgive
a dog that eats eggs. If you discover your
favorite’s failing before the women do. say
nothing, but get an egg, make a small hole in
its end, let about a third of the contents
out, fill the space up with ammonia and stir
the whole contents with a small stick. Then
stick a bit of gummed paper over the hole
and place the egg where Rover will get it.
He will be seized with such a fit of coughing
and snuffling that lie’ll never again regard
eggs with anything but loathing,
“Cupid”: Cows are sometimes troubled
with warts on the teats. These are in the way
when milking, and often bleed. In most
cases if the warts are moistened after milk-
ing and a lump of washing soda is well
rubbed over them they will disappear. In
stubborn cases a glass rod or small stick
dipped in acetic acid and applied to the
wart will eradicate it. The acid must not
he allowed to run on the teat.
“P.C.”: For pigs infested with worms a
most effective treatment is to keep the
animals without food for about 12 hours.
Then mix a dessertspoonful of turpentine in
a couple of quarts of warm milk. After the
pig has taken this do not give any other
food for a few hours. The dose should be
repeated in three or four days’ time, after
which the pig will be free from the trouble.
“Bon Jour” : If you can’t get at a crop
of “stinking Roger” or any other tall-grow-
ing weeds before they are six or seven inches
high, leave them until they are about three
feet or more high, then put the disc plough
over them. The frame of the plough will
hold the weeds down while the disc turns
them in out of sight, leaving a perfectly clean
field.
“Ted R.”: A simple and effective way to
check a pup that rushes out barking at
everyone and everything that approaches the
homestead is to place an old hobble chain
through his collar so that it will hang down
to within about three inches of the ground.
When the dog rushes out he will get severe
knocks on the. shins that will soon cause him
to discard the habit. Pups should never bo
kept clained up, as this also fosters the
vanning habit.
“N. 8.”: When “washering-up” the wheels
of farm vehicles, place the washer on the
nut end of the axle-arm, and not on the
shoulder. Axle-arms are tapered, and, if
washered at the shoulder the box will bo
given more play, which will soon wear the
axle.
“Ascot”: A good drench for a horse —one
pint raw linseed oil with three tablespoonfuls
of turpentine. Give through a drenching bit
if available. Never dose through the nostril
as the liquid may get into the lungs and
pneumonia result. Starve the horse 12 hours
before dosing, and feed lightly for a few davs
afterwards.


Quality Quoted tie demand
Quality 'TrudntaifU) tAe Sale
Army Club
10 for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper *
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
WW.
r%.
&
m
•ft®*':
/fj
:u
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
MOKE-OH!
Love is largely a waist product.
$ sis
A woman’s nag is the worst nightmare,
si: *
A V neck would now cut a dress right
in two.
LOOKING FOR SPEED.
“I never dreamt Bessie and Tom would,
break it off, they were such fast friends.”
“Urn, yes, but Tom found one a bit faster.”
An ace takes precedence of a king on any
plane.
* *
A man is as old as his arteries; a woman
as old as her art.
* *
Curious that a “hitter” can make a man
glad when a “cordial” would make him sad.
* *
The years a woman subtracts from her
age are never lost. She adds them to the
ages of other women.
* *
The fact that a French liner recently
brought 317 passengers, representing 24
nationalities, to Australia has, we under-
stand, put Mr. W. M. Hughes quite off lus
spaghetti.
* *
“He oughter he bade,” said the old man;
“He's been half the night in the town.
I suppose some flash barmaid has caught
him —
Good-bye to my flamin’ half-crown!
* *
“C.Z.”: “Hollywood,” said a critic I was
reading recently, “wants a new, distinctive
banner.” I would humbly suggest it be the
Stars and Tripe.
* *
“Reports are current on the Continent,”
says a cable, “that King Victor of Italy in-
tends to abdicate in favor of his son. Tins
must be the first intimation the world has
had that King Victor is the father ot
Mussolini.
* *
As far as any investments we. have are
concerned, the Income-tax Commissioner is
always eager to look after our interests.
Courting, her hand beneath his coat
. Oft stole, embracing him;
And ! he, because he loved that well,
Would turn the lights down dim.
Wow they arc married, and she keeps
Old habits fast and right —
He sees her hand steal from his coat,
When he turns up the light.
* *
When there is something amiss in a man’s
life it frequently is a miss.
* #
Wanted, 400 razor-honers to start at once
in Darlinghurst. Only those need apply
who have had a year’s apprenticeship with
the Amalgamated, Co-operative Collar Laun-
dering Combine.
sis *
History Teacher: “What Henry was the
father of Elizabeth ?”
Modern Youth: “Henry the Ford.'
sis sis
Primus: “You mean to say that weak-
chinned individual with the sloping forehead
has great will-power?”
Secundus: “Yes. He’s the sole heir to a
millionaire.”
sis sis
The lesson in dress that modern woman
has mastered is spelt with a final “en,” not
“on.”
TRAGEDY IN A ROOM.
As she tottered to his room she looked the
picture of misery. Pain was in every line
of her drawn face. ....
Calmly, and with calculating
gaze, he met her at the door.
Firmly but with set purpose he
grasped her by the arms and led,
aye, almost carried her to a near-
by settee. “Take off your hat.
your shoes, your stockings,” he
commanded. As one entranced she
did so. With a look akin to fear
she saw the gleaming knife.
Tragedy was in the air. Com-
pletely at his mercy, she closed her
eyes. Then Kiro, the chiropodist,
got to work.
Freddie C.
* *
“It is essential every now and
again,” says a health-writer, “to
clear away from the worry of the
world.” All very line, but what if
she insists on going with you?
* *
We learn that the Federal
authorities have received an urgent
telegram from Darwin expressing
grave concern over the fact that no
England -to - Australia flyer has
there for several hours.
* *
From tlae Bombala (N.S.W.) Times:—
Disappointment, and in many cases disgust, was
the verdict of the big house which rolled up to see a
picture called “The Outcast,” shown here on Monday
night by a travelling showman. The puff advertising
drew the house, but the picture was by no means up
to its reputation, and there was nothing in it that
any child, alone or with its parents, could not have
safely seen.
They evidently like their pictures hot and
strong in Bombala.
$ 3s
Newspaper heading: “Apple-picking for
Women.” Oh, it has become a trade now,
has it?
* 3=
“Aitchsee”: “Who invented the bagpipes,”
asked Smoke-oh recently, “and was he mur-
dered or executed?” I am not very well up
in the classics, but I have always been under
the impression that he was the hero of
Dante’s “Inferno.”
* *
“A woman doesn’t go to the races to bet,
but to show off.” — Sydney paper.
To man is left the vain remorse
Of money bet and gone;
When woman lightly seeks the course
She has hut little on.
3* 3=
Fleets of ships for the use of the dead have
been found in Egyptian tombs. We were
unaware that the ancient Egyptians went in
so extensively for horse-racing.
3s 3=
The Australian Bowling Association has
declared itself against loaded bowls. No ob-
jection, however, has been raised against
loaded bowlers.
When members of the social caste quarrel
they cut each other, and when members of
the underworld quarrel they cut each other.
* *
Fined in Sydney for assaulting his father,
a young man said he did it because the old
man got drunk. His idea, apparently, being
to knock him off spots by knocking spots off
him.
Many a woman marries because she thinks
a husband will be useful in the sweet buy-
and-buy.
❖ *
“If there is one section of the community
to whom wireless has proved a blessing,"’
says the Sydney Guardian, “it is the timber-
getters.” We ourselves have
always been too polite to
make even such a veiled
reference to the affinity of
sopranos and circular saws.
“P.H.”: Passing one of
Melb o u r n e’s best - known
hotels I asked a kerbstone-
minder what the fearful rac-
ket within meant. “Oh, that,
replied he, “is the meeting of
the Noise Abatement League.
The members of the commit-
tee are explaining the objects
and offering suggestions.”
s's
A Sydney firm advertises
garments as “beautifully
feminine.” Strangely enough,
the garments are neither
plus fours nor Oxford bags.
According to the Sydney
Guardian, the latest walk-
ing sticks for ladies are
nearly five feet high. In
fact, nearly as high as the
latest dresses.
* *
“The actors,” says a S. M.
Herald critic, “frequently
let their feelings carry them
away.” Feelings are not re-
markable for staying powers, unfortunately.
THIS WEEK’S RECIPE.
Jugged Hare: Pour some good oil into a
mug with sugar and dough. Stir carefully
until mixture loosens. Remove from mug,
taking care latter is. not too heated. Leave
mug standing, and escape as quickly as pos-
sible.
EVIDENCE.
SHE: “I didn’t know you could act?”
HE: “I can’t I used to belong to the
Decrepitory Society.”
Recent feverish efforts to increase the
speed of motor-boats have no doubt been in-
spired by the Sydney News forecast that
as time goes on Australians will spend more
and more of their time in the water.
A book entitled “In Savage Australia” has
lately been written by another poor observer
of this country. No mention whatever is
made of razor-gangs, bargain-sales or tele-
phone boxes.
Where there’s a lass there’s an ass.
According to a cable, a nobleman in Eng-
land has been thrashed by a fishmonger. It
must have been a sore temptation to the
S. M. Herald cable man not to head the
item “A Belted Earl.”
“Where,” a newspaper asks its readers,
“is the Sahara desert?” Ask us again, please,
the night before pay-day.
TOO MANY FALSE ALARMS.
THE PAINTER: “ ’Ere, cut that out! This is the third time
us blokes has taken you for the knock-orf
whistle!”
The latest street glasses worn by fashion-
able women hide nearly half the face. There
seems to be a good idea here, if it is only
developed a bit.
sjc sjs
FROM DELIA CARDS TO HER AUNT.
Dear Aunty,—
I have something to tell you which you
won’t like to hear 1 am going to commit sui-
cide. I thought if I made some good invest-
ments it should be a good idea so I was
going to buy some shares in a brewery but I
bought an evening-dress in King street with
the money and I had five bob over, so I
bought a share in Fizzupp’s ginger-beer fac-
tory, and in any case I don’t think shares
in a brewery would be nice. Anyhow I was
coming home in the tram thinking how dull
life is and so many girls come home in a
taxi, and somehow to die seemed to be the
only way to keep myself from going on living
and I decided to kill myself. So all the way
home I was looking at everything and think-
ing I’d see it no more so I bought a paper
for the last time and the first heading I
read announced that F'izzupp’s had failed.
Suddenly my brain reeled and when I came
to myself the man next to me was propping
me up in the corner as if he didn’t w T ish to
support me, and I always said what brutes
men are. So I alighted and decided to kill
myself with swimming eyes, wondering if
brewery shares wouldn’t have been better
after all. So when I got home I wrote a
letter to Beecher and you, and I was just
going to shoot myself when I remembered I
didn’t have a revolver. I was going to gas
myself instead wfien Hector came in and he
had some lobster and chocs, only don’t tell
Beecher because Hector and I are only like
brother and sister. But when he had gone
I got downcast again and was looking for
something to poison myself with when I
came on the evening-dress and I thought
to myself that my share in Fizzupp’s was
gone and it wouldn’t be any good to die with-
out wearing it. I do wish Beecher would
come home. Hector really doesn’t buy chocs,
as good as him. The next morning I was
going to commit suicide again but I saw
Hector going into the house where Wenya
Cummin lives, and I knew she’d be only
too glad if I was to die. Coming home
there didn’t seem much to kill myself for.
but I suddenly remembered what Hector did
to me last Aveek, he brought me a pair of
sheer silk stockings and I. found out after-
wards he got them cheap through a factory
girl he knows. So I thought I’d go over
the Gap, but when I got there I didn’t notice
the tram stop and I was carried light down
to the wharf, so I got the boat home where
there was a letter from you.
And I’ll be only too pleased to go to the
mountains with you because I can kill myself
just as well afterwards and I hope Herbert
: is there and Harold, not that I have any
• feelings for them other than cousinly but
: they lijce to see me, so good-bye till Monday,
1 Your affectionate niece,
Delia.
THE JOLLY SAILOR BOYS.
Five jolly sailor boys
Just come ashore.
One met a pretty girl
And then there were jour.
Four jolly sailor boys
On a rare old spree.
One hooked a lovely girl
And then there were three.
Three jolly sailor boys
Swearing friendship true.
One found a splendid girl
And then there were two.
Two jolly sailor boys
Out to have some fun.
One caught a scrumptious girl
And then there was one.
One jolly sailor boy,
His evening scarce begun,
Spied a really beauteous girl
And then there was none.
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
WINTER.
Now comes the time when all things that
hibernate —
Snakes, fish and frogs and their kind— _
Seek out still places where they can recline
in state
Warm from the starkness of winter —m
darkness
To slumber as nature in wisdom designed.
Some will dig under the roots of the giant
trees;
Rocks will hide others in shoals;
While others, with wisdom more great than
the best of these,
Will crawl for their slumber among the old
lumber
Marked “Urgent—At Once” in Government
pigeon-holes.
N.S.W.
M.


Wr
a
Si
-1
I_H
ft
A Xl
K,-
3L
V
fef-
EftnS.
&
VA
" F
GENERAL
MOTORS
Genuine Paris
Sold Heue
V
4?
m
m
"T
'// /s jL
-jFI
Urn
T
O'-
•fa
<?•
>r>r,r+
m
i
i
ov
CHEVROLET
V.
3j
ofn imi'j rre
wv
VA
m
6}
V
V
C/C'
IN
m£2
L^cr
rt0 1 °
w GENERAL
Everywhere—
The General Motors
Sign of Service * *
WHEREVER the road runs —on city streets or
wayback track —you’ll find the sign of the
authorised General Motors dealer. That sign
is the symbol of service.
It means that here you will find spare parts, that here
is expert knowledge of your make of car, that here is
skilled and experienced repairing.
It means that wherever you live or wherever you travel
your car can be maintained at the top efficiency.
General Motors (Aus.) Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne - - Sydney - - Brisbane - - Adelaide - - Pertn


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service ol Bulletin readers. _ .
If you want anything, including information, you are . invited to write to me
Service Department. , , . . . tLo
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from tne
inside back cover, of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved. . . . t
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be(giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Station book-keeper and storekeeper, ex
perienced, educated, active, shorthand and
typewriting, used to horses, seeks position
with people of education. Ex. refs.—4l9B.
Returned soldier wants employment, ex-
perienced bookseller, advt. copy-writer. Will
take on. light laboring.—4lBB.
By lady (27), Protestant, position as
private secretary to philanthropic worker.
Refs.- —4183.
Retired teacher, two years’ leader-writer
for daily newspaper, requires clerical occu-
pation.—4lB9.
Share-farmer to fallow 1000 acres of light
country, supply own seed, super, and plant,
owners to receive one-eighth of result.
(Direct to Glasson and Trestrail, Perinjori,
West Australia.)
Young man, strong, educated, good person-
ality, varied experience, wants work.—4l7o.
Man (22) wants station work in N.S.W.
or Queensland. Can milk, kill and ride;
moderately good fencer and handyman.
—4167.
Young ex-officer wants work, experience of
motors, mechanics and accounts, good refs.
Do anything, go anywhere.—4ls2.
By competent young lady gardener, posi-
tion as gardener or assistant on flower-farm
or nursery.—4l39.
To sell complete set Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica, 9th edition, £5. (Direct to G. do Tour-
nouer, Indooroopilly, Queensland.)
To exchange rare Australasian stamps for
those of colonies outside Australasia. (Direct
to .T. T. Campbell, Bowen-street, Roma,
Queensland.)
To lease for four or five years sheep
property capable of carrying 2000 to 6000
sheep, either in Northern N.S.W. or South-
ern Q. —4177.
Copy of any newspaper or magazine con-
taining illustrated article on the many uses
of the kerosene-tin and case.—4l79.
Energetic agents, Gympie (Q’land), seek
agencies.—4176.
To sell Ludendorff’s “War Memories,” two
large vols., new. 9s. 6d. —4144.
To sell large carved English oak dining-
room suite (dark) in perfect order; cost
£lO5, will sell for £5O or exchange for small
motor-car. Will carefully pack and despatch
to country purchaser for -extra £5. —4157.
To sell for cash four first-issue N.Z. Per-
petual Forest Bonds, paid to £65.- —4156.
To communicate with anyone personally
acquainted with Havelock Wilson, the Brit-
ish seamen’s leader, or anyone from Sun-
derland (England) who served in the Volun-
teer Artillery, 1883-84. (Direct to W. Darra,
Armie-street, Torwood. Q’land.)
Names and addresses of Australian or
Maoriland sheep-station managers in South
America or South Africa. —4136.
Geologist and mining engineer, able to
influence capital, will be glad to get in touch
with prospectors having claims (tin, gold,
etc.) needing development.—4l74.
Whereabouts of .Tames Grant and Wil-
liam John Phemister, late of Newport, Vic.
(Direct to George Pollard, Copley, S.A.)
Words of verses by Henry Lawson con-
taining the line: “When my last long beer
has vanished and the truth is left unsaid.”--
4180.
To buy Vol. 1 of the Official History of
Australia in the War of 1914-18, “The Story
of Anzac,” by C. E. W. Bean. State con-
dition and price.—42o2.
Two rabbiters want good rabbit country,
N.S.W., complete equipment, urgent.—4l94.
To sell inscribed copy David Burn’s “Plays
and Fugitive Pieces.” Published Hobart
Town (1842).—4203.
Words of verse “Sleeping Out,” and any
others dealing with the vicissitudes of camp
life. (Direct to Mrs. .1. Wells, 5 Montagu-
avenue. Hobart, Tasmania.)
Information Sought.
(1) Can an occupier of land fronting a
river erect works on the hank for the purpose
of pumping water for his own use? (2)
What are the conditions governing the erec-
tion of such works? —-3306.
(1) According to the N.S.W. Water Act
1912 the occupier can use river water with-
out license for domestic purposes, and for
watering cattle or other stock, or for gar-
dens not exceeding live acres in extent used
in connection with a dwelling-house. (2)
If you want to use the water for any other
purpose you must apply to the Water Con-
servation and Irrigation Commission for a
license. One of the conditions usually attach-
ing to a license issued for a pump is that the
Commission shall have the power to regulate
or stop pumping operations should it at any
time think it necessary to do so in the
public interests.
Can you tell me what happened to the
fund collected for the widows and children
of the men who lost their lives in the Crcs-
wick mining disaster many years ag0?— 3927.
The money originally subscribed to this
fund, £20,000. was advanced on mortgage of
a property in Queen-street, Melbourne. The
property fell into the hands of the trustees
and was held until about two years ago, when
it was sold for £19,000. The total capital
of the fund at the present time is £24-616,
and the income is distributed half-yearly to
sufferers from mining accidents by the trus-
tees, in accordance with the provisions of
the Victorian Mining Accident Relief Fund
Act.
Who was Arthur Renwick, formerly a
Minister of the Crown in N.S.W.f —410*1.
Arthur Renwick, born in Glasgow 18.17,
came to Australia at four, was one of the first
three Arts graduates at Sydney Uni., gradu-
ated M.D. at Edinburgh, and practised medi-
cine for many years in Sydney. He took some
interest in politics—was twice a Minister—
but was better known for his philanthropic
work. Knighted 1894. The Renwick Hos-
pital for Children is named after him. Died
1908.
(1) If an accused person is acquitted of
an indictable offence by a magistrate can
the Crown still send him for trial on the
same charge? (2) Can a per sop, travelling
to Sydney, after covering the distance as pre-
scribed by the Licensing Act, demand a drink
on Sunday? —4o4l.
(1) A person charged with an indictable
offence is either committed for trial or dis-
charged. If discharged and subsequently fur-
ther evidence of the offence is disclosed he
may again be brought before the Bench. A
dischai-ge is not an acquittal, and on the
second occasion he may be sent for trial.
(2) A licensee is not compelled to supply
liquor on a Sunday to any person represent-
ing himself as a traveller, but may do so if
lie is satisfied as to his bona, fides. The
traveller must furnish his true name and
address and other particulars and may be
punished for making a false statement.
In a game of tennis the ball was returned
well over the baseline towards the server.
The umpire called “out” while the ball was
in the air. Immediately afterwards the
ball touched the server’s racquet unintention-
ally. The umpire immediately reversed his
previous decision and. gave the, point against
the server. Was this correct? —-4100.
Yes. The rule states that until the ball
hits the ground it is in play.
On what dates were the two conscription
refercndums held, and what was the voting
in each case, including the A.I.F. vote? —
4168.
No. 1 held on October 28, 1916, and the
voting was 1,163,033 against and 1,087,557
for the proposal. The vote included 133,813
votes by members of the A.1.F., of which
72,399 were for and 58,894 against. No. 2
Dec. 20, 1917. when the voting was 1,181,747
against and 1,015,159 for. The A.I.F. vote
was 103,789 for and 93,910 against.
I work on a mixed farm. I find my oivn
saddle horse and shoe him. I am supplied
with a cow to milk, one fore-quarter of mut-
ton a week, and a cottage to live in. What
lodges should I get, and am I entitled to
any holidays? —4olo.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Employees’
Award provides a rate of £2 15s. per week
with keep: for permanent farm-hands. If
men find themselves in food they are to be
allowed an additional £1 6s. 6d. per week.
The award requires that the following days
shall be observed as holidays for permanent
hands, and shall be paid for at ordinary
rates: New Year’s Day, Anniversary Day,
Good Friday, Easter Monday, King’s Birth-
day, Anzac Day, Eight Hour Day, Christ-
mas Day, Boxing Day and any day on
which a State or Federal Election is held.
Where Eight Hour Day is not a fixture,
workmen may be granted another day In
lieu, such as for local show or district picnic.
The latter is not to be paid for under other
conditions. In addition to the abovemen-
tioned holidays each employee after com-
pletion of 12 months’ service is entitled to
(•ne week’s leave of absence on full pay,
provided that where an employee agrees to
allow the holidays mentioned above to ac-
enniulate they may be taken with his annual
leave.
Are there any conditions governing the
manufacture of explosives in N.S.W. ? Is
ir, illegal for a private individual to manufac-
ture gun-powder in large quantities? —4os9.
No explosive, except a small quantity for
the purpose of chemical experiment'only, can
be manufactured except under licence in a
properly-constructed factory. The quantity
so manufactured cannot be used for a prac-
tical purpose or sold. Penalty. £lOO a day
during manufacture and forfeiture, of the
explosive and ingredients. Get in touch with
the Superintendent, Explosives Department,
Department of Mines.
Would a bullet fired from a rifle with a
muzzle velocity of 2200 ft. per second reach
the driver of the iocomotive of a train travel-
ling at 2200 feet a second if fired from the
guard's van? —4159.
Yes. The velocity of the train would be
added to the velocity of the bullet.
(1) Would Miss Neicton-Russell’s arith-
metic aids be useful in a small school with
one or tivo pupils in a class? (2) Where
can I procure the aids, and what is the price
(with postage)? —4ll2.
(1) Yes. (2) Inquire from Miss S. New-
ton-Russell, Public School, Glenmore-road,
Paddington, N.S.W.
There arc two children for whom I want
to do something. One is eight, the other
three. What insurance can I get for £lOO
paid now? —4013.
Different offices offer different benefits.
(1) A.M.P. would pay £l5l at expiration of
12 and £lB5 at expiration of 17 years from
date of insuring, with participation in
bonuses. No medical exam.; in case of
death before maturity, premium only (£100)
would be returned. (2) National Mutual
would pay respectively £l5l and £lB3, with
participation in bonuses, and refund of pre-
miums in the event of death. (3) M.L.C.:
£126 and £143, with bonuses £22 and £39
(calculated on those now current). If as-
sured dies before age 11 the single premium
will be returned with compound interest at
p.c. If a medical exam, at age 11 is
satisfactory the co. will pay the full sum
assured with accrued bonuses if death takes
place before age 21; if not satisfactory the
co. will return the premium with 3£ p.c.
compound interest if assured should die before
21. (4) Colonial Mutual: Age next birth-
day 4, £l7l 13s. plus bonuses; ditto 9,
£146 Is. plus bonuses. Premium returned
if death occurs before 21. (5) T. and G.:
£l5O and £125 plus bonuses: bonuses are
carried after the assured have reached 10;
should death occur between 10 and 21 the
full sum assured would be payable.
(1) How can 1 effectively shield a three-
valve receiver? (2) What circuit would you
recommend for use with an underground
aerial ? —4071. , ,
(1) A receiver is screened by totally lining
the inside of the cabinet with No. 24 gauge
brass sheet. The sides and base may be
soldered together or, as an alternative, a
single piece of sheet can be used and bent
into the correct shape. The brass lid should
be connected to the body by a short length of
Ilex carefully soldered at both ends. The
screen is connected to the receiver earth ter-
minal. When mounting the various parts
on the panel and baseboard, it is necessary
to take special precautions to ensure that
they do not come into contact with the screen
and so produce a short. All earth leads
should be soldered to the screen. (2) Cannot
advise you unless you send more details.
Information Supplied.
410 S law does not cast upon a wife
the burden of maintaining her husband.
Inform him that if he continues to defame
your good name you will cease to maintain
him and, if he persists, do so. If after that
he continues to slander you, the fact of your
being his wife will not preclude you from
taking civil action against him. —“X.P.M.”
3452. —To fumigate a glass-house, calcu-
late the cubic capacity of your hot-liouse
by multiplying length, breadth and average
height together, then take &oz. cyanide of
potassium, 4«z. sulphuric acid and loz.
water for every 1000 cubic feet. Mix the
sulphuric acid and water in an earthenware
basin or basins in the glass-house with all
windows shut, then drop the cyanide in and
get outside at once, shutting the door securely
behind you. This should be done after sun-
set. I kill white fly and green aphis with
this mixture when my tomatoes are growing
without harm to the plants. In a case where
the plants have finished growing, a much
stronger mixture may be used, up to about
lOoz. to 1000 cubic feet. You cannot kill
red spider with the weak mixture, but if you
use stronger it might injure the plants. See
that the leaves of the plants are dry before
fumigating. Tobacco fumigation, in my
experience, has no effect on green aphis and
kills half the plants.—“R.L.M.”
3996. —The sundial noon only corresponds
with ordinary noon at Greenwich on and
about April 15, June 15, September 1
and December 24. The difference of time
between sundial noon and ordinary clock-
time noon at Greenwich is called the equa-
tion of time and varies through the. year.
The greatest difference is about 16 minutes,
and at this time the shadow of a vertical
stick would at ordinary clock-time noon at
Greenwich make an angle of about 4. degrees
with the north-south line.—“H.A.H.”
4115. —To cure a mutton ham, use one
liindquarter mutton, 11b. salt, 6oz. brown
sugar, loz. saltpetre, 1 grated nutmeg, -loz.
pepper. Shape the mutton like a ham. Mix
the other ingredients, and rub them well into
the ham every day till all the mixture is
absorbed. Then press with a heavy weight
for 14 to IS days, turning every three days
and rubbing well with the pickle. Take out,
drain, and hang in a dry kitchen. Smoke
for some hours over a small clean wood
fire if liked. To cook, soak for a few hours
in water, put on in cold water and boil for
about two hours. —“Max.”
4110.—(1) The Australian Aero Club
(N.S.W. section). 16 Barrack-street, Sydney,
trains pilots at its aerodrome at Mascot.
(2) The length of course varies with the
abilities of the pupil. Usually, if two half-
hour periods per day are taken, it requires
about six weeks; if only one period per day,
about eight weeks. There is an entrance fee
of £2l with an annual subscription of £3 3s.
for pupil members. Dual control instruction
is £3 10s. per hour and solo flying is £1 10s.
per hour. It generally costs from £5O to
£6O for a pupil to gain a pilot’s licence “A.”
(3) Yes. A great development of aviation
in Australia is expected in the near future.
The Federal Government is allocating
£200,000 for the establishment of civil air-
services, and the uses of aeroplanes for
defence is expanding every year.
4103. — (1) Rabbits are plentiful around
Tenterfield, Inverell and other places close
to the Queensland border, also at St. George
in Queensland. (2) The skin is taken off
without splitting down the belly as in the
case of fox skins, etc. An oblong wire is
sufficient to stretch the skins on. A circular
showing method of stretching has been posted.
(3) Traps cost 235. to 31s. per dozen. (4)
The return per head depends on the prices
ruling, where the skins are trapped and the
class of skins procured. (5) Plenty of men
start with no cash whatever, and make good.
Two men should be able to handle 12 dozen
traps between them and £2B should cover the
cost of their equipment, excluding a con-
veyance if the camp is situated far from a
town. —“R.T.”
4113. —Under the Liquor Act (N.S.W.) no
licensee can recover in any court any debt
for liquor sold in any less quantity, at one
time, than two gallons unless it has been
lawfully sold by him to bona fide lodgers or
travellers. You cannot compel him to accept
what you consider you owe him, but in the
circumstances he will probably be glad to
take it.
4155. —(1) All boys entering the electrical
trade must be apprenticed for a period of
five years. (2 and 3) You may enter the
trade at 141 or 15 years and you cannot be
apprenticed above the age of 17. (4) You
must be registered at the Queensland Appren-
ticeship Office, Brisbane, as eligible to be
apprenticed to the Electrical Trade, and
should produce evidence of having passed tne
State Scholarship, High School, or any exami-
nation of an equal standard, or the special
entrance examination held by the Apprentice-
ship Office. (5) In the Southern Division of
the Eastern District the rate per week is:
First year, 145.; second, £1 Is.; third, 1
155.; fourth. £2 10s.; fifth, £3 55.; in the
Mackay Division the rate is Is. per week
higher throughout and in the Northern
Division of the Eastern District the rate is
2s. 6d. per week higher than the rates quoted.
(6) Get in touch with S. .T. Brytm, see..
Electrical Trades Union, Trades Hall, Bris-
bane. Further information has been posted.
4099. —Every employer is liable to the
Child Endowment tax unless the total wages
paid and the value of board and lodging
(calculated at £1 per week per employee)
provided by him or her during the 12 months
immediately preceding the taxable period
concerned did not exceed £l5O. The amount
of income derived by the employer is irrele-
vant. Payments made to an employer s own
children are not subject to tax.
4082.—Any standard treatise on oil fields
gives a general account of the geology of the
fields. “The Geology of the Mid-Continent
Oil Fields,” by T. O. Bosworth, gives detailed
geological sections down to the oil sands in
Oklahoma, Kansas. General information re-
garding U.S.A., Persian and Caspian fields
is given in the “Handbook of Petroleum
Geology,” Yol. 1, by David T. Day, and
“Treatise on Petroleum,” by Boverton Red-
wood, Vol. 1. “Oilfields of Russia,” by Beehv
Thompson, can also be consulted. Detailed
logs of the strata in oil bores are usually
confined to official publications such as are
issued by the Geological Survey of U.S.A..
etc., and can usually be consulted at the
Geological Survey Libraries in the Aus-
tralian capitals.—“.T.H.R.”
Does Anybody Know ?
How to mix whiting for outdoor painting
so that it will not rub off? —41(54.
Where a set of screw-cutting dies shaped
like nuts and worked with a spanner can be
procured in Australia? —4064.
How to connect up a motor-car with a
circular saw for firewood cutting. Size of
pulleys, where obtainable, cost, etc.? —4012.
(1) The best formula for waterproofing
calico and duck tents? (2) The alum and
sugar of lead process for waterproofing
canvas coats? —4080.
Brief Answers.
Cobar L.: (1) An investment with a large
speculative element. (2) What the agent said goes
for nothing; all depends on what you signed
Arnott: No reason at all why they shouldn’t. But
they have a good deal of leeway to make up first....
A.J.8.: Sorry to say you are not at all likely to
get a penny M.M.: Your best plan is to com-
municate with the Secretary, Council of Scientific
and Industrial Research, Melbourne, and obtain from
him a copy of an exhaustive bulletin, published by
that institution, dealing with white ant control
F.C.: Notify immediately the office in which you are
insured. They will provide you with a printed state-
ment to fill in and return. The loss is then adver-
tised in at least two newspapers, the cost of which
you will have to pay (about 155.). After a month
has elapsed you will be called upon to fill in a
declaration signed before a J.P. A special policy
in place of the one lost will then be issued....
N.M.U.: The services of an aboriginal girl can be
secured in Sydney for domestic work by making
application to the Aborigines Protection Board, 5
Richmond-terrace, Domain, Sydney. You will be
required to fill in a form and wait until a girl can
be allotted to you. .. .It.W.H.: The maximum penalty
for running an illegal betting shop in Maoriland is
£lOO and a fine of that amount has been imposed
on many occasions... .A.K.8.: “The Manufacture of
Roofing Tiles’’ by A. T. Ask worth, published by-
Alfred Hayworth and Co., 84 Leadenhall-street.
Loudon, E.C.3. If unobtainable in Melbourne, any
large bookseller would be able to import it for you.
A. B. Searle also touches on the subject in his
“Modern Brickmaking.” (2) The Public Library of
Victoria would be able to help you to find what
you want.. . .H.T.: Write to Wm. Spilhaus, 58 Strand-
street, Cape Town ; Millner and Co., Ltd., 88 Loop-
street, Cape Town; Colonial Wool and Produce
Agency, Esplanade-street, Durban; and Argentine
Southern Land Co., Ltd., and Rio Negro (Argentine)
Land Co., Ltd., both of Buenos Ayres... .G.A.R.:
It is illegal for employer and employee to conspire
to defeat an award. In such a case the employee
can claim money short-paid but is liable to a penalty
for making false statements in the time-book. The
employer could be compelled to pay the shortage
in wages, on the case being proved, and would incur
a penalty for having paid less than the award rate.
.... E.N.W.: The medicinal properties of Epsom salts
are not affected by atmospheric influences, even
though they change from crystalline to powder form.
. ...S.G.: It has been held in the Wallace case
that land enclosed on three sides by a fence and
the other by a river is not enclosed land within the
meaning of the Inclosed Lands Protection Act, 1901.
It would thus appear that a river is not a boundary
within the meaning of the Act... .Ipswich: Not
brilliant. You should be able to do better....
... .W.8.0.K.: As far as we can ascertain no firm
in Sydney is handling the “Fortiphone.” Guyatt
and Co., 257 a George.street, Sydney', would under-
take to procure one for you by mail within three
months, and by cabling order within six weeks. The
approximate cost would be about one third additional
on the London list price, as the rate of duty on these
instruments is 30 per cent D.8.C.: A change
of name may be placed on record in Victoria by
depositing in the office of the Registrar-General,
283 Queen Street, Melbourne, a Deed Poll declar-
ing such change. The recording of such change
of name is entirely optional. A fee of ss. is
payable on filing... .R'.S.: (1) Secretary, Air
Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. (2) The
Air Force trains pilots and mechanics to meet it-
own requirements only V.T.: The work in
question would come under the Pastoral Award:
the N.S.W. State Award provides a rate of £2 16s.
per week with keep, or £4 4s. per week without
keep, for station hands and £2OO per annum for
married couples. The award only applies to
members of the A.W.U P.A.8.: A pamphlet
on orange-packing, also banana-grading and packing,
has been forwarded to you. No chart is available
on tomato-packing; the main thing is for the
tomatoes to be carefully graded and packed in
half-bushel standard cases, in compliance with
regulations of the State in which the fruit is to
be marketed (Many others mailed.)


The qualities you need
in a motor truck
<2
©
C*.©
WillyS'Knight six-cylinder 2-ton truck
Models 20 and 21
IN this Willys-Knight 2-ton truck
are incorporated the best known
principles of truck design insuring
speed, power, dependable perform-
ance, rigid economy, fine appearance
and long life.
The patented six-cylinder double-sleeve
Willys-Knight engine supplies abun-
dant power, with no valve-grinding,
and unusual freedom from carbon nui-
sance and periodic mechanical troubles.
The extra deep, low-hung frame—
the strong metal-spoke wheels
the sturdy bevel-drive rear-axle—-
chrome-vanadium steel springs two
stage progressive type rear springs
Hotchkiss drive —smooth, sure-acting
clutch —are a few of the time-proven
features that are combined to produce
this completely modern truck.
It will pay you to see this truck and
try its service in your own business,
as it will in all probability help in-
crease your daily profits. Willys-Knight
trucks of similar design are also avail-
able in 1, lVz and 2V 2 -ton capacities.
WILLYS-KNIGHT
Six
MOTOR TRUCKS
rrvTPHT MOTORS (NS.W.), LTD.. 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY.. LTD., 124-126 Russell Street Melbourne.
I, ~ P \nrr * AND SON. LTD., Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane,
kntCiVt MOTORS (S.A.), LTD.. 62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD.. Murray Street, Perth.
long economical life
I
For Comfort,
Warmth and
Health, wear
Wolsey
ALSO
ask to see
WOLSEY
LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY
SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear and
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings
for Women, Half-Hose
for Men and Hose
and Socks for Children-
COLD or wet days will have no terrors
for you if you are wearing Wolsey
Pure Wool Underwear. Wolsey comes
from England the home of the
World’s Best Underwear. It is made
throughout by skilled British labour.
Wolsey gives comfort, keeps you warm
and well! It is the best underwear
you can buy and the cheapest,
because it will never shrink or lose its
shape in washing. Wear Wolsey and
enjoy an even bodily temperature.
Every Wolsey Pure Wool Garment
bears the Wolsey Head Trade Mark.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 3 16, FLINDERS LANE. MELBOURNE.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER * LONGHURST, LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England
sdf
No. 1369
Cifetimefrfn
A birthday lime
\l
rs
Such occasions call for something more
than short-lived recognition—the cele-
bration of a day. It calls for commem-
oration that shall live a lifetime. Why
not choose a "Rolex” —even at a low
price. The "Rolex” is the most elegant
and the most precise watch in the world.
RSLEX
‘Waickes for Men c^omen
“ The zvorld's best by observatory test”
All leading Jewellers
can show you a full
range of ROLEX
WATCHES
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital • 30,234
Directors: #
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
G. Woodger, Esq.; S. .T. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. .Toseland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax,
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application
' L. G. FUSSEIJj, General Manager.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
NOBEI-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia^
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hacltields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and) Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W. 11 Branch [ 122 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Foundries i Bassendean, Perth, W.A. II Office S T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q
Light Rolling
Straw Hats for Men
Only an ounce or two in
cool. The
‘Airway’ has 36 air holes-
the ‘Tropical’ 24. Have
a fresh air treat. Order
non/. cALI S i zes.
T'he ‘Airway’
5/6
The “Tropic”
7/6
Pike Brothers Ltd*
In Queen .Street, Brisbane
Poverty
Point
“H.C.C.”: According to a Melbourne
weekly, the doom of happy-ending films has
been sounded. I protest. I can glory in the
catastrophic ending of a Shakspeare tragedy,
because it is impersonal. But there is more
reality on the screen than there is in
legitimate acting, for it is not limited to the
three walls of the stage. While the stag;;
actor, confined to a room, can merely do
his suggesting with words, the shadow
mummer travels and acts unrestricted over
a world. The atmosphere of the theatre is
theatrical; that of the picture-show is every-
day. The picture-show is too close and per-
sonal to offend by being unhappy.
“C.Q.”: What a draw Melba still is!
Gaud Mayor Morell, of Melbourne, is spon-
soring a concert on behalf of women’s hos-
pitals, and so confident is he of the Dame’s
magnetic powers that he is setting aside a
special reserve of 500 seats at five guineas
a seat. What is more, he sold 100 of them
in one swoop. That little touch of per-
sonality goes a marvellous long way.
“Jon”: England has the all-British idea
rather thoroughly these days ; it has lately
spread to the musical-comedy stage. Thus
Londoners have had “The Beloved Vaga-
bond,” then Edgar Wallace’s “The Yellow
Mask”; and Daly’s new show is “Lady
Mary,” by Frederick Lonsdale (and various
other gentlemen), and interpreted by an all-
British cast. By the way, “Lady Mary’s”
first act is laid in Australia, with the chorus
all “scrupulously dressed up in the national
costume of the country.” What is our
national costume?
“Mezzobrow”: Though they take it all, as
they take most things in life, as merely a mat-
ter of course, most actors and actresses that
visit Australia must be secretly amazed at
the national custom of converting them into
social lions. Is it done anywhere else? What
is their social rank in, say, London? The
answer is not that we have none of these
class distinctions; that stands with the
bunyip as one of our prize fallacies. We
have them all right—pretty severe ones, too,
to any but visiting Thespians. These we
lionise; the arrival of even a moderate one
is yelled in all the papers; society opens its
doors, and in they go. Even in U.S.A. the
heights to which these folk cannot rise are
as the grapes were to the fox.
“Hamfat”: “Rose Marie,” which has re-
turned to Sydney Her Majesty’s for a death-
kick while the co. rehearses a new spectacle,
started operations in that theatre on May 29,
1926, so it has been running for practically
two years except for breaks in travelling.
Though an expensive show to run, it is
the richest gold mine the Firm has dis-
covered. In addition to the main co., a No.
2 company has been on tour in the country
towns, and its houses have been good every-
where. The London success of the piece
was enormous, too. Yet “Tiger Rose,” the
straight drama on which it was built, ran
for only 142 nights when produced at the
Savoy.
“Ciesar’s Ghost”: Piety in showmen
always reminds me of an Ober Ammergau
film that was run through Maoiiland by
some enterprising but “h”-less gentlemen.
They showed on Sunday nights, after church
hours, and got over the difficulty of being
allowed to take only a collection on that
night by charging for booking reserved seats.
At the beginning of the show one of the
partners would appear before the screen and
ask the audience to “ ’Old back your hap-
plause, on haccount of the ’allowed nature
of the ’ole programme,” and would then an-
nounce that somebody would sing “The ’Oly
City.” Creditors who called round for
money after the show were informed in
shocked tones that the partners did not be-
lieve in any avoidable work on “God’s ’oly
day of rest,” and told that payment would
be made next morning.
“Goldilocks" : It is Hoyts who have dived
in for the Australian rights of the Nurse
Cavell film “Dawn.” In the Sydney showing
it will probably be added to the attractions
of the new Regent Theatre.
“L.11.P.” : When Gounod revised “Faust”
for the Grand Opera, Paris, the traditions of
that house demanded a more elaborate ballet
than the dance in the Kermis scene afforded.
Consequently Barbier and Carre, the libret-
tists, reached beyond the love story of Faust
and Marguerite into the second part of
Goethe’s drama, and utilised the legendary
revels of Walpurgis night on the Brocken.
Here Faust meets the courtesans of antiquity.
This ballet is always cut in Australian
shows, but Pavlova staged it here a couple
of years ago with Demoslaoskl as Faust,
Pianowski as Mephisto, Mile. D’Arcy as
Cleopatra and Pavlova as Helen of Troy.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: “The High Road” marks
the high-water mark of Frederick Lonsdale’s
WHAT A FIRST APPEARANCE FEELS LIKE.
work, and allows the Boucicault-Vanbrugh
co. to give its best show—one that is pol-
ished to the nth degree and has no flaw.
The stagecraft of the play is excellent, every
entrance and exit being natural and inevi-
table ; and Lonsdale has developed his gift for
quiet, effective “curtains.” The first act
shows Elsie Hilary left alone on the stage,
helplessly amazed at the sudden friendliness
of the aristocrats who have objected to her
as an actress —an excellent comedy situation,
since the audience is informed of the plot to
frustrate her alliance with young Lord
Teylesmore, of which she knows nothing;
and the curtain falls slowly as she walks off,
puzzled. A single character brings it down
for each of the other acts ; the end is Lord
Trench’s bilious remark, “Our ancestors
would turn in their graves!” It is a remark-
ably effectively method, especially interesting
as a direct violation of the old dramatic laws
about a situation necessary for the curtain-
fall.
“Goldilocks”: The melodious Cherniav-
skys do not spare themselves in regard to
work —they gave 35 concerts in two months
during their last U.O.A. tour. After their
present Australian visit they go on to Africa,
and then to India, Java and China. The
young-looking artists are at home in any
language.
“L.H.P.”: “Mignon” is a welcome revival
by the Gonsalez co. An English season
of this charming French opera was intro-
duced to Sydney by the Montague-Turner
co. at the old Gaiety Theatre in 1881.
Annis Montague played the title-role, and
Charles Turner played Wilhelm Meister.
Others in a great cast were Ted Farley,
Eva Davenport and Ethel Lambert. There
was an excellent revival by the company at
the Garrick (afterwards the first Tivoli),
and then Ambroise Thomas’s opera was
shelved till the George Musgrove revival
in 1901 with Salvi (Wilhelm) and
Madame Slapoffski (Mignon). Another
sleep followed until 1916, when Gonsalez re-
vived it in Italian. On that occasion a man,
Signor Piccolo, was the Frederick, a rflle
usually allotted to the contralto.
“C. 8.”: The separation between amateur
repertory and the Taits has led to a re-
vival of all sorts of struggling little shows
in Melbourne. Beresford Fowler is leaving
Ibsen and Shaw alone for a while and is
turning to some Australian plays. Furnley
Maurice’s “Disturber of the Pools,” Esson’s
“Dead Timber” and “A Heroine of Russia,”
by Fowler himself, arc up for presentation
on the 12th. The aggressively-named
“Live Art Society” will make an attack
on “Sakuntala,” an ancient Indian classic,
by Kalidasa, at the Playhouse on the 30th,
and a season of Abbey Theatre plays of
Hibernian extraction will follow.
“Cauboy” : Brian Ewart’s performance in
“Three Live Ghosts” at Melbourne Palace
raises the question whether the time has
yet come to portray a shell-shocked soldier
on the stage, especially when the play is
a farce. I am inclined to think that the
part itself is not objectionable. Despite
the frivolous situations he is placed in Ewart
succeeds in arousing genuine sympathy for,
and, what is more valuable, understanding of,
the lot of the unfortunate victim of war.
Where the production errs horribly against
good taste —not to say ordinary human
decency—is in the scene where Jack Settle,
as an incredible English police officer, charges
Ewart with theft. This Jack Settle is an
American or Canadian whose sole notion of
playing a role is to make an ugly face and
yell at the top of his lungs. In his interview
with Ewart he adds physical violence to his
repertoire. No wonder Diggers have silently
registered their opinion by walking out in
the middle of his show.
“Hamfat” : Engaging the Sydney Town Hall
as a theatre booking-office proved a good spec
to the Fullers; of approximately 45.000 seats
to be sold for the remaining 24 performances
24,000 were sold on the opening day of the
stunt. The crowd waiting for the booking
was an advertisement, also, if one was
wanted, and its photographed eagerness will
provide good publicity elsewhere. The queue
started to assemble at 6 a.m. and had trailed
itself all around the Town Hall by the time
the doors opened; additions kept it at much
the same size until noon. Nothing so sen-
sational in seat-booking has occurred since
Melba’s return after the long absence during
which her fame reached the top notches. On
that occasion enthusiastic Sydneyites camped
overnight alongside Paling’s waiting for the
booking-office to open in the morning.
“Craiser” : Those who bemoan the way the
world is forsaking the legitimate theatre
for the flickers should study the Stuart
O’Brian effort in Melbourne. This Cana-
dian entrepreneur brought along as undis-
tinguished a collection of mummers as has
been seen for many a day. lie staged an
amazingly feeble comedy and a C 3 mystery
play, and the present sapient writer pro-
phesied his downfall. Instead, he had an
unusually long and prosperous season. The
simple solution was his prices. You could
get a comfortable seat for two bob, or even
one, as against eight to twelve at other
playhouses. As one bloke said to me, It s
awful, but it’s cheap, and it passes the even-
ing, and I’m fed up to the teeth with Holly-
wood.”
“Mezzobrow”: On the legitimate stage
there has long been lowbrow (vaudeville)
and highbrow (repertory) productions, and
the picture houses are rapidly following
suit. An example of the pure highbrow in
picture shows is the present Sydney Prince
Edward bill. Of a two-hours’ programme
only a bare nine minutes is given to slush
—a “novelty” orchestral organ turn in which
the organist is filmed opening piles of request
letters from flappers and others and at once
obliging; an insincere and fatuous piece of
absurdity. The rest of the show is a high-
class travel picture, a three-minute cartoon
film, a violin virtuoso, a bout of opera—
vocal and orchestral—and the jungle picture
“Chang,” which, though utterly devoid of plot,
has a strong theme, and is saved from being
super-highbrow only by one or two slobbery
subtitles. It is something in favor of pic-
ture patrons that this programme is packing
the house a couple of times a day.
“Goldilocks” : Though in their seat-selling
stunt at Sydney Town Hall for the opera sea
son, the Fullers shut down on wholesale buy
ing, some speculators worked fairly bare-
facedly. Tickets were sold on the spot to
men waiting in the long queue who evidently
thought it better to pay a couple of pounds
than to lose more time. When the whisper
went round that “Faust” had sold out, one
substantial-looking country man offered a
tenner to a chap who boasted that he had
four tickets for that show. They cost the
vendor just about £2 —an £8 profit, which
was probably only a portion of
good work.
“Lond.” : The new Judith and Holofernes
drama, with Sybil Thorndike as heroine,
differs from all previous versions in making
her fall in love with, her intended victim at
sight, so that she ceases to be a victim, and
regrets nothing but the beheading—-which,
nevertheless, she carries out according to
schedule. Opinions on the play vary amaz-
ingly, as for example :
Illustrated London News (25/2/’2B) : “The play
approaches melodrama. But, to redress the balance,
there is the language always impressive, often beauti-
ful, Eastern in its fervor and the warmth of words.”
Same paper, same day: “Worse than the senti-
mentality of the story and its heroine is the jargon in
which it is written- —pseudo-Biblical jargon of the
‘Yea verily’ type.”
“Flaming Youth”: That new madness,
non-stop dancing, seems to be spreading. Tn
Melbourne one Bert Phillips recently estab-
lished a record of 100 hours and 10 minutes,
only to learn as he was rubbing ointment on
his corns that Jimmy Alexander, in spite
of being handicapped by the weight of his
spectacles, had just finished 101 hours in
Sydney. Fired with a splendid enthusiasm,
he immediately issued a challenge to Jimmy;
and Dave Smith ( not the boxer) dived in to
make a three-cornered contest of it at the Syd-
ney Glaciarium. “Smith,” I read, “danced for
63 hours recently, retiring owing to a mis-
take in his diet, and not from physical ex-
haustion.” That “mistake in his diet” in-
spires me with a wild hope.
“Macann” : Is it a sort of association of
ideas that makes it impossible for a vaude-
ville management to engage one type of artist
without engaging two or more of him for
the same bill? If there is one dancer on
the bill, the odds always are that there will
be two or three, and the appearance of a
juggler in the first half invariably means that
there will be one in the second. Then for
weeks there will be neither jugglers nor
dancers, and the audiences will be enter-
tained by double lots of instrumentalists,
Cockney comedians or some other of the
ancient stock of vaudeville.
PICTURE PROGNOSTICAATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I never see upon tlie screen
The rain come pouring straight and white
Hut that I know a door will ope,
And out into the bitter night
The weeping heroine will come,
A cloak eclipsing all her charms—
A woolly bundle in her arms!
I never see a lovely star,
As good and sweet as she is fair,
By some vile miscreant decoyed,
Her virtue trembling by a hair,
Hut that I know the hero'll come
At the last hour in breathless state,
To cry: “Thank God, I’m not too late!”
{ never see a sheriff's hat,
A sheriff’s star and hard-won gold,
Hut that I know some hard man has
A gentle maiden in his hold ;
And soon lie will begin to talk
Of mortgages and what she owes,
And threaten darkly to foreclose!
T never see a mother’s son
With open brow and hefty chin,
Who toils from early dawn till dark,
And spurns the gilded halls of sin,
Hut that I know he soon will be,
If right is right and things are fair,
A pure-souled multi-millionaire!
VICTORIA.
P.M.


(Sverubodiis es mffiose
diid^sxDiid^oap.
apie
Miss Harriet Bennet, a beautiful Rexona Girl,
now appearing in Rose Marie at Her Majesty s
Theatre, Sydney, thinks the world of Rexona
Soap, and writes us as follows: To keep your
hair and skin in perfect condition, 1 consider it
absolutely essential to use Rexona Soap; I
wouldn’t be without it for anything.
The fineness, the clearness, the color and
the generally healthy appearance of the
skin are more important than any other
features of beauty which the face may
possess. If a girl has a good complexion
she cannot fail to look attractive, no
matter what other charms she may lack.
It is a case of the complexion first and all
other attractions afterwards.
It is not difficult to obtain a clear
satin-like skin. Rough, ugly skins
have usually been neglected, but
the daily use of Rexona Soap, and
(if there be any breaks or sores
in the skin) an anointing with
Rexona Ointment, which is known
far and wide as the Rapid Healer,
before retiring, will soon end all
complexion and skin troubles.
When you see a girl with a
clear, rosy complexion, you
may not be far wrong in haz-
arding a guess that she is a
Rexona Girl and is a constant
user of Rexona Soap. The
complexion of the Rexona
Girl gives her an air of distinc-
tion and distinguishes her
from other girls who do not
use Rexona Soap and who do
not take the same great care of
their skin.
f '
7T:K.
SMP*
*4
*
* I
/>>:•
;
n>
Ise Prdtu!
lie ©ainfcij!
l/)e f\exmia.
St4®C !
Two
Charming
Studies
of
Miss Harriet
Bennet,
a Beautijul
Rexona Girl
sdf
c?or Pfeallh
cuid^eaiiiy
'lii/n
m
*V<\
i
Q\W
**2
\rssL*
-vs
cv**
A\OV
AO*
111 l
v**-
m
//iu
l/l! ft/$!
r iniU
■*>
///^
KsSSi


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. •• £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 .. £18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sum, don, K.8.E., Chairman;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysagiit, 0.11. E .;
George J. Si.y, LL.D.; Lieut.-Gol. T. L. F. Rot-
1, edge ; James Keli..
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
C/We/ Inspector: W. G. Hull,
read OFFICE, SYDNEY tCorner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MEf,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADEEAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, W.A. (73 St. Georges Terrace).
LONDON (02 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbaikn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tcke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descrintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE mul WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529.988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
I.ong Terra Mortgage Shares .. 374,197
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
C-RANTS DRAFTS ZJTmC'iJS.
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at interest
for fixed
periods and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
, . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ana Two Minutes
horn Entrance to Domain anil Circular j
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart- j
incuts inay be secured separately by the |
day from C/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff j
ail'd all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices. 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,,
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
sdf
SCHUTE,
BELL& C”u
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 41 Bridge Street, Sydney.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will help you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most,
Published by “The Bulletin/’ 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum,
Shipping, etc.
tz^wb.
1
m
CR
FT.
C'?
Cj:7 ;
'V.
w.
(..t'S
PACIFir
M' \\ 2
r2Krff.lL
", a.
WJ
iTffni 11
isnvm,
=*4S
» ■> ILL
To'CA NA D
UNITED STATES
~ & E URO PE
NIAGARA .
AOUANGI ..
TAHITI ...
MAKURA ..
. 1.1,41." tons. May 3 1
.. 17,491 tons, May 31 )
. 7,898 tons, Apl. 19 1
. 8,075 tons, May 17 )
From Sydney i'or Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
And>Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Ifo*®***
» * JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated 1 only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
and up-to-date vessel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. 30 pictur-
esque Island Ports
during a trip of
Four Weeks.
FARE—
From £34 Return.
M 3
fr
Full Particulars from —
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
sdf
Directors
£7,491,200
5,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,520
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert VV. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: OSCAR LIKES.
29 Threadneedle Street, E.C. 2.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office
517 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the worla.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price ------- 3d.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf poits ,
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldto"
and North-West Ports).
CO NORTH TO BALMY WEATHER!
HAWAII
A complete change in a Paradise where the
average temperature is 75 degrees. Golfing,
motoring, outrigger canoeing, surf-board rid-
ing, new fruits, flowers, sunkisscd beaches ;
lunar rainbows gleaming through coconut
palms. Inter-island cruises along mystic
tropical shores; steaming volcanoes. Total
cost of G to 8 weeks’ round trip, with 3 or 4
weeks in Hawaii and a day in Suva or Pago
Pago, about £lOO to £l5O. Free stop-over
privileges, if m route to America or Europe.
Good hotels, usual American conveniences, 12s.
to £3 per day. Ask nearest steamship or
travel agent, or write Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Department 20, Box 241 d, G.P.0., Sydney,
N.S.W., enclosing advertisement.
QUAINT ORIENTAL TOUCHES.
HAWAII
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
-Ulysses ....
tEuripides. . .
♦Anchises . . .
$ Sue vie
*Ascanius . . .
tDeniosthenes
♦Nestor
15,000
15,000
10,000
12.500
10,000
11.500
15,000
tons, April 13
~ April 21
~ June 4
~ June 26
„ July 23
„ Sept. 10
~ Oct. 15
♦First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
P. Sl O. via THE CAPE
SERVICE.
ONE CLASS ONLY.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
BALRANAI.D
BARRABOOL
BALLARAT .
BARADINE .
BENDIGO .
Tons.
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
13,100
UJSLTANA
BRNALLA
808 DA
BKRRIMA
Tons.
. 11,100
. 11,100
. 11,ICO
.. 11,100
Fares, from £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGF.NTS—GIT.CHWST, WATT. SANDRUSOX
Tel. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Svdnry,
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S S ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOMiONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
* Both vessels fitted with AVireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
fares.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., T.td.
Huddart Parker Lyn
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
CoMins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.


Lands and Peoples
Six Sumptuous Volumes - - Edited by I. A. HAWIMERTON
A glowing Presentation of the beauty and colour of the whole 1
world, with fascinating records of Life and customs in every J
corner of the globe. 'J
An Art Production J
containing over 2,500 Illustrations including nearly 600
pages printed in full colour.
The Complete Set of Six Superb Volumes
is delivered upon receipt of a small first subscription
of 5/- with your order.
Subsequent monthly instalments; Cloth Binding,
11/6; Buckram Binding, 13/-. Carriage Extra.
The Privilege of Possession
THE prospect that opens out before you when you possess
the six delightful volumes of "Lands and Peoples” is as
wide as it is fascinating.
Daily it becomes more important that one should know more
about the many countries and races that make up the earth and
its inhabitants. The world is quickly shrinking. The aeroplane
has made the Atlantic crossing little more than a day s journey ;
broadcasting has swept away the barriers of distance in a way
that past generations would have thought incredible. Lands that
we have called fhr-ofF claim more and more attention in our news,
our schools and our commerce.
To a surprisingly fortunate extent,."Landis and Peoples” takes the place of
expensive travel. What you see in "Lands and Peoples you see at your
leisure and in comfort. There is no rush or bustle -no interference from the
weather—no difficulty of language—no hurried impression afterwards lobe
confused with another. You go where you will and when you will. You
have for your time-table a 32-page General Index, embodying a guide to
pronunciation, and you turn at once to the pictures and the story of the
land you wish to see.
Six luxurious volumes constitute a set of "Lands and Peoples, and the
work contains more than 2,500 pages. There are nearly a hundred pages
in fell colour in every volume illustrating in the complete work more than
six hundred subjects. Not only do they show you examples of rare scenic
beauty, but they depict for you the homes and lives of folk whose ways are
of extraordinary interest.
Not content with giving you a feast of colour, "Lands and Peoples offers
also a remarkable collection of more than two thousand photographs repro-
duced in black and white. The whole work is issued on art paper so that
the illustrations are triumphs of the printer’s art.
The privilege and pleasure of possessing "Lands and Peoples” is one that is
brought easily within your reach by the convenient way in which you are
invited to acquire the work.
sdf
Send The Coupon TO-DAYS
Messrs GORDON AND GOTCH (A sia) L TD, All-515 Lit. Collins Street. MELBOURNE
’Educational B ok D partment (Lipt. ]\T. TT. ") •
Dear Siis, — P ease forward free and post fuse, a copy of the Art Bo ket describing Lands
and Peoples,” and giving the subscription tarns for the wort.
Name,
Address.
/ Always Mark
Everything with
CASHS NAMES
Before sending to the Laundry,
they ensure Ownership— Cash’s
Names are Fadeless, and in-
valuable not only for marking
Linen, but any woollen article.
“A Few Stitches and They’re On.”
PRICES:
12 doz. 7/6,6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz 3/6
Write for Name Style Circular to
1 P I f ICU PTY. 85 Cubitt Street
' & J LflOil i tD. Richmond, Melb.
'.r
imi
in:
M
fml )
l
\
W. J. Cartwright, of Temora, has not
missed one Sydney Easter Show for 40 years,
lie has been president of the Temora Show
Committee for 30 years.
Tiie Bulletin’s old friend J. 11. Curie is
looking Australia over once again. As a
mining engineer, Curie wandered over most
of the earth’s surface until middle age, when
he started to develop his writing gift. "I he
Shadow Show,” a series of travel sketches,
was the result and it was the sensation ot
its year.
Dr. Hilton W. T. Cheuhall, lately elected
to the council of the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, is a medicine man who possesses
a business bent. His grandfather was J. T.
Tillock, who built up the Kent-street business
of that name, and the doctor, after terms as
resident .at the Prince Alfred and the
Women’s Hospital, has decided to follow the
family fortunes.
The great drift is not always towards the
city. On the land in the Keith (S.A.) dis-
trict are ex-chemists Dickson and Fry, ex-
tailor Densley and ex-scliool teacher Jenkins.
The first three have grown-up sons with
them. Dickson was well known in Geelong
(Vie.) as the manufacturer of a proprietary
medicine; lie sold a substantial business a
couple of years ago to W. G. Hearne and Co.
Jimmy Hislop, who for the last 16 years
has been the engineer of receptions to dis-
tinguished visitors to Maoriland, is relin-
quishing his job as Under-Secretary to the
Department of Internal Affairs in June.
He won’t be 60 for another three years ;
however, he has been 43 years in the civil
service, so he goes out with full superannua-
tion rights.
Frank Swinburne, a trustee for 18 years,
has been elected to the chairmanship of the
Vic. National Gallery in place of Alex.
Deeper, but his bed isn’t likely to be com-
posed of roses, either. No zoologist has yet
declared that the stuffed elephant in the
museum is really a giraffe, but most other
branches of the institution have come under
criticism, and the controversy over the art
purchases of Frank Rinder is by no means
settled.
America’s Chauncey Mitchell Depew, who
retired from active politics 16 years ago,
lived on to be 94, and the obituary notices,
Avhich would have filled columns in the dailies
a while back, were boiled down to a brief
cable announcement. Depew had outstanding
oratorical powers; of a multitude of con-
sidered candidates he was chosen to deliver
the oration at the unveiling of the Statue of
Liberty, and thereafter appeared as the
U.S.A. representative in nearly every big
affair where a real orator was needed.
NOT MUCH TO UNDERSTAND.
“You know, I suppose I’m a bit of a Bol-
shevik—what! I never could under-
stand the principle of interest.”
“Veil, der best kind of interest hasn’t got
much principal.”
“T.R.H.”: The recent death of Lord Cave
recalls the Artemus Jones case, in which
n n n
Gave appeared for L. Hulton and Co., pro-
prietors of the Sunday Chronicle. The
present Lord Chief Justice Hewart was for
Jones. A former sub-editor of the Sunday
Chronicle wrote a story naming one of his
characters—a churchwarden and a visitor to
Dieppe—Artemus Jones. The Jones in the
story behaved badly at Dieppe, and the
real Jones brought action for libel. For
Jones, Hewart had the ace up his sleeve all
the time. Artemus Jones had written him-
dreds of articles for the Chronicle, and it
was through a dispute with him that the
writer of the defamatory story resigned, The
real Jones was also a churchwarden am]
always spent his holidays at Dieppe. Ver-
dict for £1750 for Jones.
“Flaming Youth”: Japan has turned out
the latest film based upon Christ. A Bud
dhist wrote the scenario, and the piece 5 s
acted chiefly by Buddhists. The disciples
as a gang of revolutionaries who have found
opportunity in the popularity of Christ and
made Him King, and Mary Magdalene badly
in love with Jesus, are a couple of the de-
partures.
The late Emelie Polini’s will is held to
demand the interpretation of the Equity
Court. The will was made in the bitterness
of the actress’s failure to secure the custody
of her little daughter; it provides that the
estate is to go to the girl if she be brought
up in the charge of Mrs. Owen Naves
(Emelie’s sister) ; otherwise, with the excep-
tion of £lOOO, the money is to go to the two
sons of Mrs. Nares. The father and Isis
people have declined to relinquish the child.
ONE OF THE LADS.
“Aren’t you a member of one of the local
art societies?”
“Yes, yes; I belong to the younger group.”
Maurice Blackburn, lawyer-member for
Clifton Hill, who will stand for the Speaker-
ship of Vic. Assembly if his party (Labor)
decides to nominate, is perhaps the most
cultured person in the House. Captain Alex.
McCrae, who was P.M.G. from 1851 to 1855,
was his grandad. McCrae, by the way, was
disinherited from an estate his dad owned in
Jamaica, West Indies, because he advocated
emancipation of the slaves there. And his
evidence before a commission early last cen-
tury helped to bring about better conditions
for the Maoris.
“Hanno”: Australian theatres differ
from those of England and other countries
in the strictly-observed rule forbidding ad-
mission to the back of the stage to all save
those with business there. In some London
playhouses it is hard to understand how back-
of-the-house staffs are able to work, so thick
is the crowd of visitors to the wings and
dressing-rooms, and in Parisian and New
York theatres it’s even worse, especially be-
tween acts. Here managers take the view
that allowing the public behind the scenes
destroys the atmosphere of illusion.
Among the many trusted henchmen of
Ministers of the old regime taken over by the
Reformers in Maoriland in 1912 was J. D.
Cray, who had been Dick Seddon’s private
secretary, and then found his way to the
Hansard staff, having been originally a
journalist. Gray’s special usefulness to the
new Government was his intimate knowledge
of island affairs; in 1914, when it became
necessary to invade Samoa, Jimmy Allen,
then Defence Minister, gave the man a
place on his staff. Afterwards Gray became
permanent head of the External Affairs
Department. He retires this month.
The Royal entertainment of the Amir
of Afghanistan in England recalls that once
the N. S. Wales Governor was directed to
entertain coffee-colored royalty. As early
as 1859 Thakombau, King of the Fiji Islands,
had offered to cede them to the British on
certain conditions. These were not accepted,
but in September, 1874, Sir Hercules Robin-
son, Governor of N.S.W., was sent to Fiji
to negotiate. His mission was completely
successful, and the sovereignty of the islands
was ceded unconditionally to Queen Victoria
by Thakombau, the treaty being signed on
the part of Britain by Sir Hercules Robiu-
son, and witnessed by the late George Inne*
as Attorney-General of N. S. Wales, who
for his services received a knighthood. Next
year (Nov. 29, ’74) King Thakombau and
his two sons arrived in Sydney as the guests
of the Governor, and were entertained at
Government House until December 21, when
the party returned to Fiji in H.M.S. Dido.
“C.Q.”: A foreign trader who brought to
Melbourne some years ago a large collection
of antiques is back again with a larger assort-
ment, but this time he doesn’t claim so much
for his samples. While insisting on the authen-
ticity of some of his Louis XVI. furniture
and girandoles, lie admits that others are
modern reproductions. A glance around his
stock reveals the disquieting fact that some
of the “reproductions” look a dashed sight
more genuine than the original article. Pro-
bably only an expert could tell the difference,
and where arc the experts in Australia?
The National Gallery has an impressive
array of old Ming, Tang and other “period”
porcelains and china, acquired under the
unlucky Felton Bequest after consultation
with the best local cognoscenti available.
Some time ago a dealer questioned the
authenticity of some of the collection. Three
specimens (ticketed as of immense antiquity)
were sent to London and all were declared
nineteenth century imitations! Scores of
others are under suspicion in consequence.
I WAS AWAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The kings from over the water
And the lords of Barbary
Came with their gold and silver
To lay at the feet of me,
But I was out in the pastures,
Chasing a wild, brown bee.
The priests and the broad-browed scholars
Knocked and knocked at my door,
Bowed ’neatli their well-thumbed pages,
And primed with their ancient lore;
But I was away with the sea-birds,
Tramping a wet, blown snore.
The wise old women who delved in
AH that a maid should know
Came w r ith their skill to teach me
To broider and bake and sew;
But I was away by the river,
Watching the rushes blow.
Love came out of the distance,
Out of some rose-hung place,
With a web of dream on his eyelids,
And his shy, untutored grace;
But I was aw r ay in the grasses,
With the kiss of the wind on my face.
VICTORIA.
MYRA MOBRIS.


■ «»
afia
Saaaaa
■■■■■a
«■■«■■
laaaai
laaaaa
liaaaa
iir nik
aaaaai
aaaaai
aaaiai
jaaaaaa
laaaaaa i
jaaaaaa a
aaaaaaaav
aaaaaaaai
aaaaaaaai
vamaaaaaai
aa aaaaaaai
ar aaaaaaa
~ laauaaa
laaaaaa
laaaaaa
inaaaai
■gaar laaaaaa
iiaar laaaaaa
laaaaaa
laaaufii
laaaaaa
iV
aaaar
aaar
aar
'.aaaaai
laaaaaa
iaaaa*»'
Sai
Bf
laaaaaa*
laaaaaa
laaaaaa
w—m ■■
aaaaaa
aaaaaa
inoaiaa J
iaaaaaßi|
laaaaiai
is::e::i
aaaaaai
aaaaaai
aaaaaaa
•aaaaaa
ipb
■ fin
maaiaii
iißisnaiai
aaaar
aaa'
aaaßßaaaaa
'aaaaaaai
iaaaa:
naia
laaaaaai
aafiam
aaißßßa
■aaai
■ieai
aaaaaai
aaaaaaa
laaaaaai
laaaaaa*
iaaaaaaa
aaaaaaa
aaaawaaw
aaaaaaaaaaaaaa'
IBBB
iaaaaaaa
ar aaaaaa
jw aaaaaß
■aa».«aaar aaaaaa
■aaaiißir aaaaaa
aaaaaaaa'
AV
a*.aaaaaa.
•aaaiaaana.
■ aa
jaflaaL.
*aaaaaiaaa««aa
Baaaaaaaiiaaß
'aaaaaaaaaaaa
:::::::
laaaaaa
laaaaaa.
laaaaaai
■ aa
■;
aaaaaoaw^j
aaßaSSaaaa
laaaßßiaaia
in
■Sai
■III
aaaa|
aaaafi
■ aaa*
■Kaaa
iaaaaaai Vi
laaaaaai jb
laaaaaai at
aaaaiaiai
aaaaaaaa'
aaaaaaaa
aaaaaaaa
■aaaaaai
■aaaaaai
■aaaaaai
laaaaaai
■aaaaaai
laaaaaai
laaaaaai
iaaaaaaa
ibbbbbbb
aaaiHaa_
.aaaaaaai
aaaaaaa
.BBBBaOB
.iafab.
ißimaii
jaaiaaiaaa.
aaaaaaaaaa*
laaiiiaii
aaaaaaa*
IBBIBBia
4i
laaaaaa
taaaaaa
iga
888
laaaaa
laafiaa
laaaaa
I laaaai
tjiaaii
jaaaaaaa
ißßaaaaa
laaaßßaiaa'
ißßßaaaaa'
laaaaaaaa
anaaaaaaa
aaaaaaaaar
•aaaßßflßßkiß bibbbbb.
laaaaaaaß'
aaaaaaar
1888888881
laaaaaaaav
IBBIBBBB'
iaaaa' ibi
laaaßßaaaaar iiaiiiaiw.^iiir'
BBBBIHBiaBBBi'
laaaaaaaar
laaaaaaaa
18888881
BHuaiiuaaaaaar
'aiaaiaaaßßr
'aaaaaaaa
on every point and
you’ll understand
Reo popularity/
Check up on the mechanical equipment—compare the engine—
examine every part in detail. You will be amazed at the strength
which is built into the fast-moving, utterly reliable Speed Wagon.
Check up on upkeep and running costs. Get the actual figures
from us (or from any Reo owner) and make comparisons. You
will see why Reo owners make profits on their operations.
Check up on the Reo range. You will find that there is a Speed
Wagon exactly suited to your requirements. Come and see for
yourself; and if you cannot call let us send you the facts in print.
REO MOTORS LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney.
’Phone: F 4166-67.
REO MOTORS, LTD.,
171-175 William Street, Sydney.
REO MOTOR SALES, LTD.,
96-100 Franklin Street,
Adelaide.
CANADA CYCLE AND MOTOR
AGENCY (Q’LAND), LTD.,
Adelaide and Creek Streets,
Brisbane.
A. B. DONALD, LTD.,
Customs Street, Auckland-.
V
1
*
r
5",
n
%
QUEEN’S BRIDGE MOTORS (PTY.), LTD.,
Queen’s Bridge Square, Melbourne.
S P E ED* WAGON
for faster, surezv'O'easier.cheaper hauling


Firearms Sent C.O.D.
sdf
sdgdh
THE WALT H E R
AUTOMATIC PISTOL
is just the thing for motor-cars.
Shoot Rabbits and Crows without getting out.
Magazine holds 13.22-cal. Long-Rifle Cartridges.
Adjustable sights. Press a button, it is apart
for cleaning. 7i inch barrel model, £7/5/-;
9i inch barrel model, £7/15/-, post free. For
the 9i inch model NO LICENCE IS REQUIRED.
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S BESI.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private BatHrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606. proprktor .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A proud man was H. A. Knight when the
King’s trophy was handed to him, ana
prouder still when he received a personal
message of congratulation from the royal
donor. And the crowd shouted lustily tor
owner and horse. It is always pleased to
see these Maoriland owners win, for they
never shirk a challenge, nor do their horses
ever show such startling improvement in a
few days as was exhibited by Simeon s r ort,
for example. Neither do they belong to the
category of big punters, most of whom could
be well spared. ....
Perhaps a mile and a quarter is Limerick’s
pet distance. Winalot and Trivalve should
trouble him over longer journeys in the
spring if Rossendale’s son retains his form
and Cyklon’s regains his. Winalot did well
to get within half a length of Limerick in the
King’s Cup at a difference of 131b., especially
as he was thought to be going off—hence the
long price. It is queer that the two best
three-year-olds of the year should slump from
first-rate to third-rate in a few days, W malot
in October and Trivalve in April. In the
Cumberland Stakes the dual Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup winner was downed by V aln-
mita, an old stager who is merely second-
rate. After this humiliation Scobie and
Lewis were convinced that the colt had gone
stale. ....
Mollison may also be a burden to Limerick
at a mile or thereabouts. Nothing could
extend the Seremond —Molly’s Robe gelding
in the two-year-old races, and he wound lip
the meeting with an record; his
deeds and those of Mountain King (second
in the Tocal Handicap and first in the Dan-
Under the Whip
Limerick has had four trips to Sydney
and here is his record: —
1926: First, Carling-fold Mile and Chelmsford
Stakes; second, Hobartville Stakes, A.J.C. Derby
and Craven Plate.
1927 (autumn) : First, Rawson Stakes, A.J.C.
St. Leger and A,J.C. Plate ; second, Chipping Norton
Stakes and Sydney Cup.
1927 (spring) : First, Warwick Stakes, Chelms-
ford Stakes, Hill Stakes and Spring Stakes; second,
Metropolitan and Randwick Plate.
1928: First, Rawson Stakes, Chipping Norton
Stakes, Autumn Stakes, All-aged Stakes and King’s
Cup.
A very fine list of achievements, and as
the Limond gelding- is only a four-year-old
he should, barring accidents, earn a great
deal more money for H. A. Knight. His
winnings already amount to £32,370. As
a miler he is in a class of his own at pre-
sent, as he proved when he defeated Gothic
in the All-aged Stakes. The Victorian con-
tingent (which, incidentally, had a great
meeting) pronounced Gothic at the top of
his form, and the English horse had the ser-
vices of the best jockey in Australia, but he
could not pace it with the Australasian
champion, who beat him, with something in
reserve, by a length.
Limerick had a much stiffer task in the
King’s Cup, although the conditions of the
race enabled him to come in at 9st. 51b., in-
stead of lOst. or more. With his accus-
tomed liberality, McShortodds said he would
take 2 to 1, but it looked anything but a
2-to-l-on chance at the six-furlongs post,
where McCarten’s mount was last of the
field of eight. He moved up smartly from
that point and was fourth entering the
straight. A furlong from home he was
tackling Valparaiso (20 to 1), who had es-
sayed to lead all the way—a rather foolish
proceeding on the jockey’s part in such com-
pany, especially as the light-framed bay had
to battle against a head wind for nearly a
at the same time Winalot
(8 to 1), Amounis (33 to 1) and Simeon’s
Port (6 to 1) threw out challenges. Val-
paraiso fought it out gamely, but Limerick
got the better of him and had his head in
front at the finish ; Winalot was the same
distance behind Valparaiso, and Simeon’s
Fort and Amounis were likewise heads
away—truly a grand race.
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
S ECOND: “How do you feel?”
FALLEN BOXER: “Well, I used to think I did it with me fingers, hut now I know I can
do it with me face just as well.”
gar Handicap) enabled E. M. Pearce to col-
lect an A. J. C. cheque for £9lBB. A career like
that of Gloaming lias been mapped out for
Mollison, who is not to compete in handi-
caps. In appearance he is not distantly
reminiscent of Gloaming, and lie is a sweet
galloper with a generous disposition. If lie
proves to be another Gloaming—it would he
foolish to attempt a prediction one way or
the other —so much the better for the turf.
An Epsom possibility came to light in the
second division of the Rous Handicap on
Saturday, when Karuma, backed from tens
to sixes, beat some good horses pointless and
ran the seven furlongs in lmin. 24|sec. He
is a three-year-old bay colt by Magpie—Ear-
loona in J. Carey’s Randwick stable. If
he continues to do well he will be coupled in
many Epsom doubles with Simeon’s Fort,
though the handicappers are sure to take good
care of Simeon’s Fort.. Rain interfered with
the pleasure of the public on the first and
fourth days, but the club was satisfied with
the financial results. As usual, the meetl “j?
was capably managed by C. W. Cropper and
his assistants, but a lot of rough riding wen
undetected and unpunished. More activity
in spotting offenders and long terms of dis-
qualification where guilt is proved beyond a
shadow of doubt are what the case calls tor.
* * * *
For the City Tatt’s meeting at liand-
wick :
Denman Stakes: Beckwith ; next, Genuine,
Novice Handicap: King William; next,
Inducement. _ .
City Tatt’s Cup: Lady Constance; next,
Honan or Coolgong.
Club Welter: Coolgong or Magdaff; next,
Sir Allan.
* * * *
There was nothing thrilling about the pro-
gramme at Epsom (\ic.) on Saturday last,
but the big crowd enjoyed the day. as well-
backed horses were first home with gratifying
consistency. Pterylaw (7 to 2), one of
country-trainer Hoystead’s highly profitable
string, registered his third successive win
in the Epsom Plate, Day Dreamer (7 to
1) and Merrylyn (7 to 2) chasing lum home.
The well-bred Sea Pilot (Sea Prince—Mono-
dia), who had won at Sandown the previous
Saturday in a similar class of event, smoth-
ered his field in the Epsom Purse; four
lengths separated him from his nearest pur-
suer, Miss Disraeli—very much fallen from
grace for an Oaks winner with the pony
Pippin in third place. Sea Pilot should score
again soon in better company.
Imported Buffline (7 to 2) outstayed his
opponents in the chief event of the day, the
Epsom Handicap. Taking charge at the
home turn, he went on to win well by a
length and a quarter from the All Black mare
Aibarelle (6 to 1), with Corncrake (6 to 1)
in third place. T. Lewis had the mount, and
the 10 furlongs took 2min. Bsec. Buckwheat
mares are doing well at the stud, and it is
a wonder Corncrake isn’t being given her
chance in some fashionable establishment.
The hid mare is earning a bit of place money
but that, is not much good in these days of
high training costs and heavy betting.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A good steeplechaser has to
do a lot of travelling these days. Epergne,
who won the £3OOO steeple at Oakbank
(S.A.) in the presence of 50,000 people, has
cleared timber at Randwick, Flemington and
many other courses, mostly Victorian. He
was a warm favorite at Oakbank after the
scratching of the Maoriland horse Sir Rose-
berry and Clan Robert —Clan Robert was
exhibited in walking parade in the straight.
Epergne is owned and trained by S. P.
Casey, of Bendigo, and William Foley rode
him • the time, 6min. 24fsec„ is easily the
record for the race—3i miles. Unohoo, one
of the dead-heaters for first last year, was a
moderate second; Mount Cooper, the ot ici
dead-heater in 1927 and an outright winner
once before, failed this time after making
most of the running. The Onkaparinga, Cup
w .„ won as last year, by '' atei i istoi
( pistol—Prakrit), locally owned by Cowan
and Von Doussa, whose family name will
always be associated with this meeting.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: The run-off following a
dead-heat will be banished from registered
r-iciim at the end of the present season,
tliis decision was arrived at by delegates lrom
the leading Australian clubs during the
AJ C Easter meeting. The change will
be welcomed by everyone with il
horses Many an honest animal lias been
ruined bv being compelled to run an exliaust-
ina race over again" while the practice was
a source of annoyance to the public owing to
die delay in finishing the programme and
the necessity of backers haying to hang on
in order to see what was going to happen to
their money.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Imported sires had it all their
own way at the yearling sales in Sydney,
and no stranger in attendance would have
imagined tlial Australia had many home-bred
sires able to get winners. The sensation of
the sales was the record price for Australia
of 0750 guineas for a chestnut colt by Salt-
ash (imp.) from Weltea, bred at ?erc y
Miller’s Kiora stud, near bcone (N.S.W.).
The youngster, a magnificent specimen of a
thoroughbred, was bought by a syndicate
headed by It. E. H. Hope, of Adelaide: the
others were E. M. Pearce (owner ot Mob son
and Avant Courier), 1. Robmson and J.
Fell. The next-best price also went to the
Kiora stud, John Brown giving 4000 guineas
for a brown colt by Magpie—CharlevilF,
full brother to Windbag. Wmalot s icccnt
performances helped the Rossendales to re-
tain favor, and the lots submitted aveimged
well, a colt from Tregony (imp.)
1600 guineas and a filly out of Scintilla
(imn f 1200. The Valais stock slumped
slightly, though five averaged 1170 guineas,
the best price coming for a handsome colt
out of Cross Battery, and thus a three-
quarter brother to Valicare-2250 guineas.
There was a fair demand tor the first pro-
geny of Top Gallant, a colt from Tanaale
bringing 1250 guineas and a filly out of Con-
ceit 1200. Caravel, another untried sire, also
scored well, a brown colt from Vincella
fetching 2000 guineas.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
“Tiger” Payne pulled in another big crowd
to the Sydney Stadium on Saturday night to
watch him wallop Billy Harms, the gritty
and sneedv man from South Africa. At
o’clock the coon scaled list. 941 b. and the
white list. 101 b. As is Ins pleasing habit
Harms went for his man the moment they
touched gloves and sent in a fusillade of
snappy punches to face,. head and body.
Payne was at first astonished at the speed
and fury of the attack, but he didn t take
long to think about it; in less than a minute
they were swopping punches to the immense
delight of the crowd. The negro drove the
white to the ropes and peppered his middle
heavily; but Billy tore out, turned and aimed
effective body punches, besides hooking the
chin viciously. Payne sent- over a couple ot
full-arm swings at a head that wasn t there
Harms, coming back with a well-timed clout,
knocked him clean off his feet. veils o
“You’ve got ’im. Billy!” filled the vast
liomo But “Tiger” scrambled up, and with a
wicked dig in the stomach put Harms on Ins
knees, where he waited till Joe \V aliis
shouted “nine.” The rest refreshed him, foi
he fairly rushed the colored fellow across the
ring, landing body blows and hooks to the
iaw till Payne was nearly through the
ropes. The second round began promisingly,
but Payne was soon master of the situation.
A terrific rip to the stomach made Harms so
sick that lie had neither duck, shift nor stop
for a right jolt that took him on the ear.
He fell and was counted out. A short fight,
but a thrilling one. * #
“Bud” Jennings (lOst. 241 b.) returned to
something like his best form m outpointing
Millar Smith (lOst.) in a 12-round wind-up
toa long programme of lash at Melbourne
on Saturday night. Weight of wallop made
Millar 2 to 1 on at the outset, but so com-
nletely did “Bud” take charge of affair*, that
the wise ones soon switched around Jen-
nings gave a polished exhibition of left-hand
jabbing, and received the only possible deci-
sion though Millar was dangerous to the
IS He took a terrible hiding with rare
stoicism. Young McAuliffe (9st. 111 b.) ami
Teddy Webster (9st. 101 b.) fought a 10-
round draw. Mac seemed to be suffering
from a cold and did not give anything like
his usual display, whilst Ted’s work was
spoilt by ultra-cautious methods.
(Continued on page 37.)
THE SCAPEGOATS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“More than half the races at the Randwick
meeting were disfigured by foul riding, due either
to inefficient jockeyship or intentional jostling. l’he
public, believing it would get a fair spin, saw race
after race go to the wrong horse.” —Sun.
“Them blinkin’ jocks!” he said, and scowling
spat
And dourly dredged his pockets for a sprat
To take him home. “A winner, spare me
days!
Needs quite a mort of pickin’ anyways.
An’ when your bet looks good, more like than
not
Some gory mannikin upsets your pot
An’ queers your pitch and leaves you on the
rocks.
Them blinkin’ jocks!
“Them flamin’ jocks!” he swore. “The
pranks they play
Would make the smartest Alick look a jay.
They ain’t no better than a lot of things
Who’ll put the kibosh on the Sport of Kings
Unless the wall-eyed stewards take a hand
With something stiffen than a reprimand.
I’d like to see them in the old-time stocks,
Them flamin’ jocks!
“Them blitherin’ jocks !” he growled. “They
help to rob
The honest punter of his bottom bob.
Some couldn’t ride an ass up Ararat
Or sit a clothes-horse as it should be sat.
And some are full of tricks and base designs
And black rascalities as porcupines
Of quills, or batteries of electric shocks.
Them blitherin’ jocks!
“Them jostlin’ jocks,” he finished with a
snort,
“The accidental done o’ purpose sort,
Those pigskin pygmies who their callin’
shame
Would make a sufferin’ curate chuck the
game.
Bunglers or crooks? Well, Mister, when
he’s broke
It doesn’t make much diff’rence to a bloke
If those who let him down were crooks or
crocks.
Them blinkin’ jocks!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


french P/ai/ecf-
cAustrah'an
Made/
/
/
s
m
%
'mu
m
1
pR»Lfc
V
A
r
§lf}£MLl2>llKl<§
{§@ll®
RACKETS
The Australian Singles
and Doubles, Mixed,
and Ladies’ Singles and
Doubles Championships
were all won with
SPALDING
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
RACKETS
(AUSTRALASIA) r PTY. LTO.
352 Kent Street, Sydney,


ftSCFftK
t ——y
c
WTritorfElectric
Central Hot Water
With this system not water is obtained immediately
by merely "turning on the hot-water tap for the
bath, shower, washbasin, kitchen sink and wash-
troughs. The heater itself is in the loft. The
system is absolutely hygienic, no dirt, no fuel used,
no matches, no smell or smoke or fumes. Saves
tremendous labor, and the cost of electricity is so
moderate that the system soon pays for itself in
the economies it effects. The “Triton” System is
covered bv a two years’ guarantee against electrical
failure. Full Particulars from
THOS. ABBOTT & CO.,
McEwan House, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
’Phone F 4042. Comer Wynyard and Margaret Lanes,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. 11l Taranaki Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Agencies: A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, S.A. Harris, Scarje and Sandover, Ltd.,
Hay Street, Perth, W.A. W. H. Knight and Peter
Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston, Tas. James
Campbell and Sons, Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
Queensland.
‘*<37l
This Pattern Every Time
at 40 Yards
' Jr' ‘
Consistency of pattern is proof of
the reliability and superiority of—
ELEY-KYNOCH
All-British
CARTRIDGES
Therefore, Buy British,
Because They Are Best.
ad
OBTAINABLE AT ALL GUNSMITHS AND
DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
OBEL
»•«
••• •: • • •\ •
• ••***/ . \
• » I * •>• ... i •
»M
•y * •••
.•••V
•••
Footbrawl
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League, true
to its traditions, has seized the opportunity
of the English team’s visit to go in for cold-
blooded extortion. For the games against
the visitors 2s. and 4s. will be demanded,
or more than is charged to witness
Test-match cricket, which lasts 54 hours
as against 14 hours of football. To do them
justice, several members of the League execu-
tive protested strongly against the buccan-
eering, but they were overruled. Chances
like the Englishmen’s tour don’t come the
League’s way every day.
4* M« H*
“Gate”: The N.S.W, Rugby League com-
mences its season with the grade matches on
Saturday. Two rounds will be played; then
country teams will meet metropolitan dis
trict clubs; after that there will be two
Saturday games against Queensland. _ The
English team’s programme will begin on
Saturday, June 2, the Englishmen playing
the State again on the following Monday and
Saturday, after which they go to the coun-
try and to Queensland. Test matches wiil
follow in Sydney on July 14 and 21.
* * * *
“King Billy”: The visit of the Palm
Island (N.Q.) League football team to the
southern section of the State proved a suc-
cess. The opening game in Brisbane against
a Brisbane second team drew a gate of
£B2B, which helped to popularise the abos.
immediately in Rugby League circles. The
visitors gave a capital display, though they
were beaten by 33 to 22. Going on to Too-
woomba the abos. did even better, being
reckoned unlucky to lose to that strong
League centre by 27 to 25. In Smith, the
full-back, and Bowen, a speedy wing three-
quarter, who is said to have taken three
yards from Miles in a Sheffield and won, the
Palm Island team has two notable players.
Bowen is a prolific scorer, and as plucky as
paint in the rough stuff in spite of his light
weight. Less unlikely things have happened
than that the State team may qtilise his
services, Queensland Rugby Union fielded
a brilliant winger in Frank Ivory, a half-
caste aboriginal, in 1894.
4c * Mi *
“Stand Off”: The. N.S.W. Rugby Union
is looking forward to a better season than
it has had since the war. The AVaratahs v.
The Rest match will open the season on
April 28. the grade competitions beginning
on May 5. An invitation to visit Maoriland
is practically assured, and this should give
some of the young aspirants a chance to win
their spurs.
4c Mi * *
“Past Grammar”: The revival of the
Rugby Union game in Queensland is making
good headway; already Brisbane Grammar
School and Nudgee College have announced
their intention of going back to the amateur
code. The Grammar School has been a famous
nursery of Rugby talent, and in the days before
Queensland had a university of its own
supplied Sydney Uni. and N.S.W. with some
of the most brilliant players who ever wore
the light-blue jersey. It seems likely that
Brisbane Uni. will drop the professional
code, and, with Tom Lawton and Dr. Noth-
ling helping, the movement gives every pro-
mise of the old club organisations springing
to life again in the principal centres ot
Queensland.
jjc 4 s M* M*
“St. Peter”: The arrival of Sir Henry
Scott in Sydney may lead to an interchange
of Rugby Union visits between N.S.AV. and
Suva. Sir Henry is president of the Fiji
Rugby Union, and at the civic reception to
the AVaratahs lie urged the Sydney body to
consider Sending a'team to Suva. Nothing
but good coUld come from such a tour, and
the hospitality of the Fijians is such as to
ensure an enjoyable stay. A Maoriland Uni.
team made the trip last season, and the fact
that each side won a game and drew in a
third indicates that the standard of play m
Suva must be fairly high.
* * * *
“Preston”: At the third meeting held to
consider the matter, the Vic. Football As-
sociation decided to attempt to arrange a
scheme of affiliation with the League. It is
proposed to have two divisions, League clubs
in the first and Association in the second, the
leading Association club to change places
with the last League club at the end of
the season. It is provided also that districts
be reallotted and that a joint board of con-
trol be appointed; the retention of separate
entities and the renewal of the repudiated
permit system are also included in the
scheme. If affiliation becomes an accom-
plished fact there can now be no change
until next season, but it would greatly bene-
fit- the game in Melbourne.
#■* * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia is starting the
football season in great heart, 1927 having
been the most successful year, from a finan-
cial point of view, in the history of the
League. Competition games begin on April
28, and it is not likely that the season will
end till October 6, by which time the English
cricketers will be knocking at the door.
There will be three inter-State matches—two
in Adelaide and one in Melbourne. \ ictoria
will be the first antagonist at Adelaide on
June 16, and the Westralians are due on
July 2S.
The Ins and Outs
N.S.W. grade cricket closed on Saturday,
when Glebe, by making a draw of it with
Gordon, retained the premiership. Glebe
again proved itself a solid batting team, with
a useful string of bowlers and a reliable
fielding side. Only one match was lost out
of 13 played, five being drawn. In the cool
and determined Jordan the club has a young
all-rounder who has already played himselt
into the N.S.W. XI, and will reach the Aus-
tralian XI unless this paper is a hopelessly
bad judge. Kippax (115). as usual, headed
grade batting averages for the season, and
Kelleway led the bowlers with 41 wickets
at 9.65.
❖ * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian cricket season
ended officially when Hawthorn-East Mel-
bourne won the pennant final from South
Melbourne by seven wickets. The feature
of the match was the -all-round play tor
Hawthorn-East of P. IV Le Couteur, who
took 7 wickets for 53 and 4'for 62, and made
50 with the bat in his only, knock.
“Neurone”: Le Couteur has lmd a notable
career. A triple blue at Melbourne Uni.
and a brilliant student, he saw Oxford as
'View’s Khodes scholar for 1908. ' While m
England he played for Oxford and for the
Gents v. the Players, distinguishing himself
QUALIFYING.
Golfing Parson (horrified at overhearing small boy’s outburst oj profanity): "What
is going to become of you boys when you grow up?”
URCHIN: “We’re going to join the club.”
witli both bat and ball. Nowadays the largest
girls’ college in Australia calls him head-
master.
* * * *
“Bramall Lane”: The cabled accounts of
poor Roy Kilner’s funeral state that Bobby
Peel, aged 71, was present at the grave of
his fellow-Yorkshireman. Bobby, who was
one of the best slow lefthanders who ever
appeared for England, first came to Australia
in 1884-85. With Lord Hawke’s team in
1887-88 lie skittled 10 batsmen for 58 in the
Test at Sydney, and followed it up the same
year by taking 11 for 68 at Manchester.
Perhaps his most memorable feat was his
6 for 67 at Sydney in 1894, when, with
Johnny Briggs (3 for 25), he snatched what
looked like the easiest of victories from Aus-
tralia, which had only 64 to make and 8
wickets to fall. In all Tests he took 102
wickets at 16.81.
“M.A.M.” : R. C. Hayman, of Mt. Schank
(S.A.) who has been keeping cricket statis-
tics ali his life, maintains that Alf. Pres-
cott, of Mt. Gambier, created a world s
record by making 158 runs in 40 minutes
at Adelaide during Country Cricket Week.
Prescott scored 75 in 15 minutes and 100
in 25 minutes. It was Mr. Hayman’s father,
then owner of Lake Wallace station, near
Edenliope (Vic.), who got the first team of
hiackfallows together in the Vic. Western
District. One of them was to become famous
as Johnny Mullagh (B. 4/4/’2B).
“Kowree”: Johnny Mullagh played with
the Harrow (Vic.) cricket team for years
after he came back from England. Forty
years ago I was one of four members of that
team who carried his coffin from the gates
of the Harrow cemetery to his grave. A
monument was erected to liis memory on the
township cricket ground. So “King Billy's
statement that Johnny attended an inter-
state match at the Melbourne Cricket
Ground 30-odd years afterwards amazes me.
* * *
“Bumpkin”: Probably the most extraor-
dinary cricket tournament .ever played has
been brought to a conclusion in Melbourne.
It was a series of matches between teams
from N.S.W., S. Aus. and Vic., and all
the players and most of the “onlookers’ were
either stone-blind or could barely see their
hands in front of their faces. The bat was
an ordinary willow, but the ball contained a
rattle. The manner in which some of the
batsmen, when a loose one came along,
jumped out and drove the sound to the
boundary was uncanny. Nor were the bowlers
lacking in bite or the fieldsmen incompetent.
To stop a noise coming at you through the
night requires nerve of a high order. Now
and then the indomitable chaps were momen-
tarily at sea as to where the wicket was,
and the umpire would ring a little bell at-
tached to it. And the spectators were as
remarkable as the cricketers. They followed
the game with quite as much intelligence as
the average Test-match crowd.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The opening Davis Cup skir-
mish between Mexico and America, played
at Mexico City, was easy for the Yanks. In
the first round of the singles Tilden and
Hennessey cleaned up Kinsey and T'opia
without losing a set; in the doubles Tilden
and Jones downed Kinsey and Unda by three
sets to one. In the second singles matches
Hennessey took three straight sets from Kin-
sey, while Allison won from Unda by three
sets to one.
if * * *
“Sideline”: With the Frenchmen and the
Australian women’s team playing in South
Africa, and the Australian Davis Cup repre-
sentatives getting into form on the Riviera,
the cables have been full of tennis. The Aus-
tralian girls have done well in Afrikander-
dom. winning all along the line and showing
that they could soon shake down to the
hard courts. The Frenchmen, though tnej
are hard-court players in their own country,
have made a less impressive showing than
they did on the Australian grass. Koroti a
has been universally successful in singles
matches, but Brugnon, Boussus and Landry,
who joined the team at Durban, have been
roughly handled by the Afrikanders, par-
ticularly Condon and Raymond.
*' * * *
“Mulyan”: Back o’ Beyond hasn’t sent
anybody after the Davis Cup yet, but it is
practising. I watched a game at a homestead
near the Paroo. The court had wire-netting
stretched across the centre, like a rabbit
fence. Among the lady players were two
young gins, dressed in pink prints and bare-
footed; the gentlemen included a half-caste
and a full-blooded aborigine, both attired m
white. It transpired that the governess was
preparing the old folks and their eldest
daughter for the coming of visitors, and the
camp had been levied on to give zest to the
game. I don’t know where the darkies
had learnt to play, but they were the best
on the ground, and were practically teach-
ing Miss Squatter, though she wasn t ad-
mitting it.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Spoon” : The arrival in England of Rufus
Stewart has aroused a flutter of interest even
among those golfers in other States who did
not see their way to throw in for the South
Australian’s expenses for the trip. Stewart
played at Colombo and Port Said en route
and, disembarking at Marseilles, had a couple
of rounds there. On reaching Plymouth lie
settled down to practice, and he has arranged
to play regularly at Moor Park, near Lon-
don, and later at Sandwich, where the open
championship will be played.
;J; SjS *!*
“Brassey”: A returned traveller from
America has been telling of a match played
over there in which Joe Kirkwood gave
Bobby Jones a perfectly good hiding. The
match was played on a 6000-yard course in
Florida; the par was 72. Kirkwood won 5
up and 4 to play, his stroke score for the
match being 65. Kirkwood never got into
difficulties during the round, as his score
evidences, and did not fluke a hole. Jones
is nothing like so good in match as in
stroke play, as has often been proved, hue
that cannot be held to detract from Kirk-
wood’s fine feat.
* * * *
“Crow Ball”: New golf links continue to
spring up overnight in Queensland, where
they are now as plentiful as wild cats used
to be. One of the latest, opened the other
day, is the Gympie course, which will provide
the once-famous mining centre with another
and a more profitable interest than gold-
winning and share-swapping. The new
course is only nine holes at present, but it
will be extended to the limit as soon as pos-
sible. The nineteenth, of course, is already
provided for.
* * *
“Colonel Damurize”: There lias been a
campaign of criticism of the professional
golfer as a class in the English press—it
probably emanated from writers who have
failed to improve their game by a dozen
strokes a round after taking two half-crown
lessons from the head caddie at some fourth-
rate club. A pity some of them couldn’t
have had a chance of coming into contact
with the pro. of 30 years ago, for the meet-
ing would have given them reason to appre-
ciate the modern coach, invariably pains-
taking and polite in the face of often terrible
provocation. My first experience was with
an old Scottish individual who contracted to
give me lessons as a boy for an hour a day,
the fee being a shilling, paid in advance. The
old gentleman’s method was to illustrate a
stroke, hand over the club, and then retire
to the hutch he used as a club factory, golf
goods emporium, ball-pressing and repaint-
ing shop—that was in the “gutty” age—bed-
room, parlor and kitchen. At the end of the
hour he would rush out, inspect the per-
formance, make a series of noises like a bel-
fry full of owls and, snatching away the
Hub, announce that yon wud dae f’r yin
daam’d day. He usually added the rider
that the pupil stood a far better chance of
being hanged than of ever becoming a golfer.
* sl= * *
“Yeronga”; Those Brisbane golfers who
have been fighting for the establishment of
a municipal course for years are keenly
interested in the visit to Sydney of Mayor
Jolly, who had a look over Moore Park links
and was struck with their financial success.
The Mayor has recently been lured into
playing golf himself by some of the shrewdies,
so hopes are running high. There is an
ideal site for a municipal course in Vic-
toria Park, a wide area in its natural state
which is handy to the centre of the city. A
former council handed over 200 acres of
this for a University site, but the Senate lias
lately agreed to accept a larger site at St.
Lucia, a few miles up the river.
(Continued on next page.''


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
m
£fs§Sg
ilßl E !»Hmtfnp
■ ■■
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway
One Minute Wharves.
Station.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
World’s Record
made at Monte Carlo
by “Calrossie”
with a
W. W. GREENER
GUN
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Coil”: Lionel Rapson, the English motor-
ist, driving a Mannon car shod with his firm’s
tyres, some time ago started on the task
of covering 50,000 miles in a non-stop run,
save for fuelling purposes, giving himself 10
weeks in which to do it. At latest advices he
had covered 40,(XX) miles on the Miramas
track, France, in 42 days, so he should
easily gain his objective. All previous dis-
tance records were beaten, and as a test of
tyre endurance as well as car performance
the long run should be of value.
*,* * * .
“Disc Clutch” : A quaint sort of fuel con-
sumption and mileage test was staged in
England recently, the Royal Automobile Club
supervising proceedings. The driver of a
10-25 Royer car was handed a fiver by the
observers and told to go as far as he could
on the money, paying not only for petrol, oil.
repairs, etc., but for accommodation and
meals, lie covered the creditable distance of
2140 miles and had 21d. left.
Jj* , ❖ ❖ j»:
“Whizz” : Things are multy in the motor-
cycling line up here in Brisbane since most
of the heads have hopped it to England.
There was a little bit of joy in the ride for
the Helmet at Davies Park the other night;
as one paper put it, Bert Scott developed
a “bad wobble” and was thrown over his
handlebars, turning several somersaults
before coming to rest, while the cove behind
him smashed into the fallen machine at full
bat and also did a sugar-doodle. But just
as people were beginning to climb up on
the seats, and the bored ambulance blokes
grabbed their stretchers, the two chaps got
up by themselves and walked off. There was
“an intense silence,” the report says. Prob-
ably the crowd was wondering what chance
it would have if it asked for its money.back.
>:< * # *
“Sprocket”: Spurred on, no doubt, by Vic-
torian examples, the League of N.S.W.
Wheelmen has decided to hold a three-days’
road race. The dates will be • June 2, 3 and
4, and the distance close on 400 miles—from
Sydney to Bathurst on the first day, on to
Goulburn on the second and back to Sydney
on the third. A good prize-list is to be
offered to compensate for the tough task,
which transcends in climbing difficulties the
Vic. (Rand Prix. The league is appealing for
contributions, and should get a good response,
for cycle-racing of this nature is a fine test
of stamina, and has many claims to utility
into the bargain.
* * * *
“Snore”: The Australian Olympic authori-
ties are resorting to unusual methods to get
a team together. The latest individual to
receive a private notification that he will be
considered as an Olympic representative if he
can raise his own expenses is D. Gray, the
Goulburn cyclist. Good man as Gray is,
he is inferior to Standen, who is probably
one of the best amateurs in the world to-day.
Why Standen has not been asked might be
worth the telling. Like Lamb, the Vic-
torian, he is said to have offended cycling
officialdom in some way.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : T. J. Miles, the Bundaberg
(Q.) professional sprinter, continues to show
great form on the tracks. Competing in a
Sheffield Handicap at Adelaide lie ran 12S
yards—he was on the 2-yards mark —in 12
4-ssec. Later he made an attempt on Jack
Donaldson’s record for the 110 yards,
lOVsec.; with a couple of men to pace him,
Miles did it in 10 3-10 sec. Returning to
Victoria,-the Bundaberg youth won his heat
in the Stawell Gift off 2 yards in 12sec.
dead, or 8 yards inside evens. The final
of the Gift, which was worth £4OO, was won
by Lynch Cooper, of Jeparit (Vie.), off the
8-yards mark in 11 15-16 sec.; Miles was
beaten out of a place in his semi-final.
* ' * 4> *
“Break”: Tim Banner, whose light has
been somewhat eclipsed by Miles, ran 110
yards at Finley (Y r ie.) last week in lOisee.,
which shows that the late “world’s champion”
can still shift himself a bit. There has been
something of a revival of the spiked-shoe
game among the professionals, and with
strict control and a fair deal for the public
a series of matches between Miles and Ban-
ner, with lesser lights to meet them in handi-
cap events, would probably draw good money
in all the principal centres of Australia.
“Cinders” : In view of his fine showing at
Camden (N.S.W.) sports, the Australian
Athletic Union has recommended to the
Olympic selection committee that Nick Win-
ter, hop, step and jump champion, be included
in the Olympic team. Winter’s feat in cover-
ing 48ft. 3iu. at Camden suggests that he is
quite capable of retaining the title he won
at Paris four years ago. Finance is the
stumbling-block: the team is to sail on May
5, and on present showing the money will
be very hard to raise.
* * t- *
“Mulgo” : Many a high-jumper with a great
country reputation fails dismally at the
Sydney Show. This raises the question of
the character of the jumping grounds. Some
are more springy than others; some too
soft or too hard. The wearing quality is
also an important factor. Thus it is not a
fair criterion when performances on one
ground are compared with those on another
ground. Jumping averages are lower in
Melbourne than in Sydney, but it does not
follow that Sydney horses would go there
and beat Melbourne horses; as a matter of
fact their performances vary considerably
in the two cities. For ideal jumping con-
ditions tlie grounds should be prepared with
special soil, as is done with cricket pitches.
& * * *
“Macann”: The Tweed River (N.S.W.)
axeman, Leo Appo, who chipped 38 seconds
off Ivo Johnston’s Australian tree-felling
record at the Sydney Show, is one of those
athletic freaks upon whom age seems to
liave only an improving effect. When I was
a boy, well before the war, he was a staid
married man who earned a crust felling
scrub and had a thorough rest on Sundays
helping me to chop down blackbutts and
other puny growths that harbored bees'
nests. He was a splendid axeman even
then, with a trick of saving seconds in turn-
ing on the log that a slight misjudgment
and a chopped foot rather spoilt. As sober
as a camel, he has improved every year,
and it was really a remarkable performance
when—well into the ’forties —he gave away
up to 75 seconds and yet was able to 'get in
his six springboard holes and slice through
the 13in. upright in 3min. lsec. After that
he was placed third, with another stalwart,
in the Commonwealth log championship; M.
McCarthy, the winner, broke through a 15in.
log in 48sec.. Next day Appo squared the
account by hacking through a 15in. upright
in 60sec. and taking the championship
ribbon for that kind of cut.
“Kelly”: The accommodation provided for
the people who wanted to see the wood-
chopping was all too scanty, and the Show
authorities have promised to extend it next
year. This revival of public interest in a
game which combines expert workmanship
with a genuinely sporting interest is all to
the good. When it is Australia’s turn to
stage the Olympic Games, these events
should certainly be included in the pro-
gramme. Canada, America and Britain, to
name three only, are countries which have
a high opinion of their axemen, so competi-
tion would not be wanting.
tf * *
“Pot the White”: If Willy Smith does
come to Australia to tackle Walter Lin-
drum, as lie threatens to do if he can get
a big enough cash offer, Walter will have to
take care that he is at the top of his form.
In a recent flutter in London William gave
Falkiner 4000 in 18,000 and won easily.
Indeed he settled the question in the first
three days, making breaks of 1105, 563 and
594 —this last his 25th of over 500 for the
season. And all three breaks were made
under the latest limitations as to consecu-
tive cannons and hazards.
J.W. COOK, trainer of Winalot, winner of
the A.J.C. St. Leger and the Sydney
Cup.
“Swan”- Westralian swimmers have been
assured that if £350 were raised locally
to pay his expenses E W (“Brasher”)
Jones ‘holder of several Australian champion-
•ships ’ would be included in the team for the
Olympiad. The money would probably have
been forthcoming but for Jones being unable
to make the trip. It is a pitv that an attempt
wasn’t made to send a Westralian crew to
Amsterdam A representative Jarrahland
eight would be more likely to distinguish
itself there than “Brasher” would, good
swimmer though the lad is.
s * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian inter-State eight
has had a bit of bad luck in losing its stroke,
C. N. McKay, who has had to drop out for
private reasons. The crew had just begun
to shake down, and the substitution of a new
man so soon before the race is not likely to
make for improvement. However, H. A.
Schlichting, stroke of the Melbourne eight,
has taken the vacant place, and he is an
experienced man. lie stroked the Victorian
eight at Hobart last year.
* * * *
“Bow”: “Slide” (B. 4/4/’2B) is not alone
in regretting the animal exodus from class-
room to river-camp in order to prepare for
the Head-of-the-River race, but it is not
universal. At St. Joseph’s, Hunter’s Hill
(N.S.W.), each boy, be he stroke, scrum-
HENDERSON, the big Rugby League
forward from, North Queensland, who
is expected to figure prominently against
the Englishmen for his native State.
half or a Jim Carlton, must attend class
from 9 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. Did any resident
along the Parramatta ever see “Joeys”
afloat before 4 p.m.? The 227 University
exhibitions won by the Hunter’s Hill boys
were not dug up with “crabs.”
* * * *
“Long Dog”: An example of the risks at-
tomlaiija'bn following the tin hare and chasing
the dough at the dog meetings was seen in
the calamity which overtook an owner of
four hounds in Sydney the other day. He
was exercising his charges in one of the
outlying portions of the city, and was so
ill-advised as to fasten the leashes to himself.
Naturally, when, a cat was put up and the
dogs went after it their owner involuntarily
emulated Mary’s little lamb. The cat finally
w r ent to earth in a grocer’s shop, and .the
dogs went through the glass window, with
painful results to their boss, who was badly
cut about. If the incident leads to the
suppression of the practice of training tin-
hare hounds in every vacant area and open
park about Sydney, and exercising them in
the quieter streets by day and night, a lot
of people will he grateful. One open park
near which the writer lives is infested with
fleeing trainers and pursuing greyhounds,
both of which expect one to get out of their
way and be quick about it. A 601 b. hound
going on top gear is not comfortable to col-
lide with, while his male attaches are apt
to express their feelings in regrettable lan-
guage. Yet on that same park golfers are
not allowed to take a club and a couple of
balls out in the early mornings, when no one
is about, and practise a few approach shots.
* * > *
“The Mat”: A Maoriland newspaper has
been holding forth on the subject of a bowl
in the possession of the Wellington club which
is asserted to have been the property of Sir
Francis Drake. The venerable “wood”
measures four inches across one diameter and
six across another, so it should satisfy the
most exacting purist in the matter of draw-
ing capacity. It bears an inscription to the
effect that it is supposed to have been the
very bowl Drake was handling when the
news of the Armada’s coming was brought
to him, and an addendum that it was dug up
on Plymouth Iloe while that historical har-
bor frontage was being reconditioned. It is
a beautiful legend, but modern historical re-
search has placed it beyond all doubt that
Drake was on board ship and ready to sail
when the scouts came in with the news
that the Spaniards had been sighted. Still,
it will give the dear old boys who make
speeches at bowling reunions a chance to
vary their everlasting reference to Drake
and the famous game that he never played.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“BH.R.” : Touching the export of Austra-
lian dried ferns (B. 4/4/’2S). All the dyeing
is not done in Europe. There is at least
one little Australian factory near Sydney
turning out the dyed article in both natural
and various tinted shades before exporting.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Rather depressing to note
a Swedish motor-boat, of large capacity,
unloading a mountain of fruit shooks on to
Port Adelaide wharves. Strange how these
orchardists won’t help their own country’s
sawmillers to snatch some of the waste
from the fire-heaps and turn it into fruit-
cases—and the Tariff Board, whilst helping
in some timber matters recently, went to
sleep on the item of fruit shooks.
* s|: * *
“Erua”: 111-luck has harassed in two
hemispheres the homeward progress of the
Norwegian whaling expedition that recently
left the Antarctic. Following close on the
wreck of the C. A. Larsen, carrying the most
valuable oil cargo ever held in a whaling
ship, came the total wreck of the Southern
Queen, which struck an iceberg near South
Georgia and capsized, taking £200,000-wort!)
of oil to the bottom. The ship was valued
at about the same sum, but there was no loss
of life, as the chasers, with their usual
promptitude, closed in and rescued the crew.
* :!c * Sic
Decided in an Adelaide court —confirming
a clause in the recent Motor Omnibus Act
of S.A. —that a motor-car carrying seven
or more, and plying for custom with a direc-
tion sign, automatically becomes an omnibus
and requires a license as such. The first
case cost the unlicensed culprit £lO and £4
costs.
* * *
“Bill Ding”: Piecework (B. 4/4/’2B) is
extensively in vogue in the bush sections of
the timber industry. It means good wages,
running up to £5OO a year, and strong efforts
to end it have always been successfully re-
sisted. Something between 20s. and 80s. per
day is the common record.
* sa =>
“P.M.”: The Victorian railways suffer a
lot from motor competition, but sometimes they
have a trifle to show on the credit side. On
Saturday afternoons there is generally a pro-
cession of commercial travellers’ cars from
Swan Hill and the Riverina making home fo
Bendigo for the week-end. The other Friday
there was a fall of five inches of rain in the
north, and the Swan Hill-Bendigo train on
Saturday had 17 motor-cars aboard.
* * * *
“Au Fait”: Selling on commission pro-
vides immense possibilities for crooked work.
I know of a man who was selling pianos on
the t.p. system, getting £25 for every instru-
ment he disposed of. One week he made
nearly £2OO in commission. His scheme was
delightfully simple. The deposit asked was
only £lO, and he sold a piano to anyone he
could sight with room to store it. The £lO
he would pay himself, drawing thereby £l5
clear on each transaction. The results, of
course, were disastrous for the firm, which
had to seize the pianos when it became clear
that no payment was likely beyond the
original deposit. At this stage my enter-
prising friend came into the picture again,
charging a small commission for returning
the machines.
:|: si: # *
“Hermes”: Those growlers about unde-
cipherable date-stamp marks on letters (B.
4/4/’2B) cannot be aware how small a
percentage of bad prints leave Sydney's
two big bulk stamping centres (Central
Square and G.P.0.). Sydney’s electric date-
stamping machines, recently installed, turn
out thousands of letters per hour bearing
neat, clear imprints of the date and time of
stamping. Having handled thousands of
oversea letters, I know that our own
machines turn out work every bit as good
as that of other countries, IJ.S.A. included.
The small number of letters that go through
the machine but still retain unobliterated
Stamps arc thrown aside by the sorters and
a lad hand-stamps them.
:|: sj: * *
“The Listening-insect” : “Wireless” broad-
casting threatens to go through an extra-
ordinary devolution which will bring it back
to the use of wires, exactly like the old
form of transmission. It has been found that
if an oscillating current is applied to a
wire in a certain way it will confine itself to
the path offered by the wire instead of dis-
sipating itself in space, and it doesn't inter-
fere with any other function of the wire
in doing it. This means that broadcasting
can be done over the ordinary electric-light
or telephone-mains, and as these mains are
connected with at least 58 p.c. of all the
houses in Australia, the cost to the listener
will be nil; also the static will cease to
affect his temper. The method is already
used by our G.P.O. for telephoning on all
the main telegraph circuits, and it probably
won’t be long before the studios take it up.
If it only abolishes the unsightly aerial it
will have done one good thing.


m
ThtS"**
m
m
'i
a
(Sri
M&sss&zUu&f
\fm\ i •>. H«v
A
I 5 '
'>“<•. I /\
m
m
m
i\ \>.
*
m
SMia
ss’Z?
m
Ik
=£=i
WMMM.
>
a
8
n^s
£3
sft
i
i/»
r
">fi6
v,
wa
'/.S-
-m
ss
c^\UU
m
U"X
22c
urn
■iffifr -
as
@2
Iffl?
1
1
:~'-
@ .
fV’
A*
£A
1
m
S*
m
I
I
sm
m
lit;
fis
ew
Awi ti
8
to
M
SS?<
1
u\
1
S@
I
ia
WrW
i&/,
m
=ss
m *
i
&
gSZ22B/&?WP
iS
In Autumn Mood!
Always correct —approved in the more exclusive
circles of Society—the footwear creations of J. H.
Sharwood represent all that is good in shoemaking. The
new Autumn styles are entirely satisfying. You will
need a pair to set off your new frock.
The men’s shoes, too, are of the same high standard
—splendidly s built, dignified, good to look at, comfort-
able and enduring. There’s an exact fitting for every
foot.
Note carefully how the name is spelt—SHAß-
WOOD—and look for it on every pair.
ljo£s of fUfinmcnt.
If you have any difficulty in procuring Sharwood Shoes
you are invited to communicate with offices, Abbotsiord
Melbourne.


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.ML
Kino
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917. <
CHAMPAGNE (
ChajteTleidsieck
assas
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
1 * • n
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD,
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum ” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
Wen twortb
HdFtL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
~7hp cen foe o/' Qupohs /onc/s
O'W] Gf/shfipuishoct Soc/o/ Life.
fhttumß
Motel
Magnificent Bal 1-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe —double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attacnea. riot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
2 elepunns and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane
Telephone. Central 5780 —10 Liner
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
A midsummer’s day mistook the date and
slipped into the autumn racing calendar last
week, and Randwick-goers suffered or were
glad according to their raiment. For in-
stance, the lady in the long fur coat suitable
for a North Pole expedition wore a look
similar to that of St. Lawrence on his grid,
while Mrs. Harold Weigall forecasted a cool
day in a red outfit garnished with squirrG.
Marjorie Jacobson, too, in her tight-fitting
casque of soft powder-blue, looked as though
a less ardent sun had been catered for.
The new little hat of handkerchief velour
—a soft satiny material that is as smooth as
a cherry-skin unless it wears a marcel wave
in its nap—was on every second head. Many
of them are built with a longer piece over
the left ear to balance the lift-up over the
right eye, where a half-halo effect is shown.
Four ivory cameos worn in a row made a
pictorial frontispiece to Mrs. Lionel Bridge’s
navy velour, which topped a smartly tailored
outfit. The Adrian Knox lady wore black
and white with distinction, and Mrs. Colin
Stephen, herself in the correctness of beige,
brought her summery-clad daughters. June
Baillieu, from Melbourne, was a youthful
charmer in a black coat served with beige
fox and a little black skull hat. Other Mel-
bourne attractions were Mrs. Harry Rosen-
thal in a frock of silver tissue and black
velvet, over which, despite the temperature,
she wore a black velvet coat whose beige
fur collar must have been the original coat of
a well-nourished fox; Mrs. Rupert Boyd in
a claret velour hat and pianissimo frocking;
and a young Rosenthal girl in soft navy
satin. A short cape swung from the cedar-
toned frock worn by Mrs. Henry Hill
Osborne, and with it went hat and shoes of
the same warm hue.
Silver fox and the sparkle of Cassilis air
were contributed to the official stand by
Mrs. Reg. Stafford; the Fred McMasters
brought impressive frocking to the melee, and
so did Mrs. Otway Falkiner. A spice of old
Sydney was added by a Burdekin family
group, Mrs. Alec Hay in it, slender as ever.
The Garvans. too, looked in at the meeting,
and a young thing in yellow and brown
stripes, and another in pink, much crystal-
lised and banded with fox, added a Russian
ballet effect in the scene of perpetual motion.
An outfit that attracted the eye of male and
female alike was worn by a Sydney business
woman, whose income-tax makes a press-
woman’s salary look moth-eaten. It was of
black ring velvet entirely composed of flat
frills to tlie waist. The blouse was of white
velvet made in loose bolero fashion. A cava-
lier hat in black turned sharply back above
the right eye showed a white bandeau about
half an inch wide.
Out to Randwick again to see the King’s
Gup went the G.-G. Stonehavens on Satur-
day, the lady wrapped in a cocoa brown
cloth, coat with furry collar and cuffs. A
small felt hat of carnation pink supplied a
dash of color. The weather had changed
once more and a cold-water shower was laid
on in exchange for the hot vapor bath of
Wednesday. Top coats and furs were worn
by the many, and the Vice regal guests in-
cluded the Melbourne Mackinnon clan.
Randwick held a full hand of vice-regals
every day of the meeting. The G.-G. Stone-
havens and the De Chair family beckoned
the sleekest into the pens that always sug-
gest with their curved railing a well-
appointed oyster bar. Lady Stonehaven had
caught the changing blues of the summer
sea in her georgettes, and her hat of white
bankok banded in black was of a sophisti-
cated simplicity. Even the lark that spread
begemmed wings thereon looked tailor-made.
With -the G.-G.’s was the Countess of Kin-
tore, who wore a jolly expression upholstered
in white patterned in turquoise. This Letter
met her for the first time at the races, but
had heard her spoken of as much easier to
hobnob with than her vice-regal son-in-law.
Mrs. Thorneycroft, also in the party, wore
cool white and a hat shady as to brim. Lady
de Chair wrns fox as to fur, amethystine as
to frock, which fitted snugly, and black velvet
as to toque.
Three cheers for the Bush Nurses! In
nearly 300 maternity cases attended last
year, not one mother lost her life. There are
now 40 headquarters from which the bush
nurse travels in the track of disease and
mishap. T est year 13.234 put-back homes
were ministered to, and putting the angels'
travels on end they stretch out just on 28,000
miles.
Judging by the fleet of music-teachers
swept into the city on the tide of the
Musicians’ Conference, a future in which
Young Australia will play at least; two instru-
ments seems imminent. By that time, though,
some desperate genius will have invented a
soundless piano and violin, so life may still
be liveable. The conference, which was the
first of its kind in the State, was instigated
by the Musical Association, and the attend
ance was so great that Frank Hutchens is
smiling the smile of the just man who has
found a pearl of great price in his oyster
cocktail.
The State Exes, acknowledged the work
of the conference by spreading the grassy
lawns of Government House beneath the feet
of the delegates on a still, warm afternoon.
The vice-reine is a great lover of music, and
is one of the very few Sydney hostesses who
engage singers and instrumentalists to per-
form at her evening and afternoon parties.
The Governor and Lady de Chair welcomed
their guests on the upper terrace, from
which the grounds dimpled greenly in re-
sponse to the smiles of early autumn. Fur-
ther away still, Farm Cove flung its turquoise
at the city's feet —a Haydn day with its
touch of autumn stillness. The vice-reine
was in ivory lace and a black hat, and
Elaine’s georgettes and soft millinery were
notable features of the afternoon. Dignitaries
of the Church, the,movies, the State Parlia-
ment and the Gonsalez-Fuller opera company
were present, thus proving that not by staves
alone does man support himself.
Miss Lovogrove, the subject of this Dayne
picture, is a Maorilander, and it was in
Enzed that she first interested herself in
designing costumes. It so happened that
several talented and musical people lived in
.Miss Love-
grove’s home-
town : one a
musical Nor-
wegian, who
had been a
schoolfellow of
Grieg and a
friend of Ib-
sen ; another a
Russian refu-
gee who, with
his large
family, ha d
formed a small
amateur or-
chestra. The
little gro ,u p
set up a musi-
cal and dra-
matic society
for their own
pleasure and
that of others,
and t h e pro-
ceeds of the performances went to charity.
Miss Lovegrove, who was clever with scis-
sors and needle, was appointed mistress of
the wardrobe, and discovered a genius for
designing and making mediaeval costumes. At
present she has lent her services to Sydney
Uni., and as Mistress of the Wardrobe is
doing important work towards the success of
the pageant which will be held in the Great
Hall in May.
From Cooma and Wagga and Young, from
Dubbo and Trundle and Kyogle and a hun-
dred places beyond and between, pretty girls
and pleasant matrons came to make the
Easter dance of the Country Women’s
Association the success it deserved to be.
Gold and blue, the C.W.A, colors, occurred in
the decorations and on the dance-cards, and
were mingled with cunning ip the blue-and-
gold brocades of Miss Barton. This pretty
frock was furthermore embellished with a
deep border of grey fur. The G.-G. Stone-
havens came and were seated in the cush-
ioned alcove sacred to the elect, after time
had been received by an imposing phalanx
of hostesses headed by president Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, of Bethungra.
The vice-reine wore chiffons like a deep-
pink rose hedewed with diamentes, and her
presentation posy of rosebuds glowed palely
by comparison. Two fresh-faced debs., Nancy
Neale and a slim Badgery girl, bobbed to the
vice-regals to the murmur of Mrs. Matt Saw
yer’s presentation. This lady was herself
impressive in black satin caught in a Sar-
gasso sea of lazily-waving beaded fringe.
Black beads also played an important part in
the plot of Mrs. W. J. Studdy’s black swatli-
ings. A shimmering gold lace apron worn by
the secretarial Miss Warby reminded her
rosy taffetas that above and beyond the
glitter there wore earnest things in life.
The Otway Falkiners hobnobbed with their
neighbor Sol. Green. Penelope Cay fluttered
prettily in cornflower-blue georgettes; Jcssi
McMaster’s lavender moires had an old-
world charm. Mrs. Moore Sims was helped
in entertaining her outsize party by daughter
Sylvia, whose pale-green velvets had the
gleam of deep, still waters. Sybil and Daisy
Dowse achieved distinction in black velvets
and blue taffetas ; and it would be a sin to
let the crystal-hung ivory sheen of Mrs.
Otwsv Falkiner’s rich garb go unmentioned.
Wise old owls turned their round-
eyed stare on a madding, jazzing crowd
one night last week. They were perched in
the gum-trees that branched greenly amid
the white and gilt of the Ambassadors, and
they were present, like everybody else, in-
cluding Gov.-General Stonehaven and his
lady, in the interests of their friends the
Boy Scouts. Craft of the Wolf Cub was
demonstrated in the bark humpies (just
about big enough for a full-size Australian
fairy) and the trails of red berries and
leaves that brought a savor of the bush
to the vice-regal table. Lady Stonehaven
carried a cargo of amber beads on her amber
chiffons, while the Countess of Kintore wore
black raiment in keeping with the spirit of
the ball, which was a Black and White
flutter, and nothing to do with whisky either.
Instead of dates Miss Callendar (with
the <v.-r. party) pinned a red rose on the
shoulder of her black laces. Mrs. Charles
Hotham, who was president of the dance,
sparkled in green and gold; Mrs. Jordan-
Rodgers’s black satins bore the white dazzle
of djamente: Mrs. Kelso King and Olive
Kelso King wore black frocks (highly com-
mended) : green was worn by Jessie Tait
of the red-gold hair; and green and gold en-
hanced Mrs. Harold Yale’s fair good looks.
A Baden-Powell model camp for Scouts was
the objective of the dance. It’s to be at
Pennant Hills.
Mrs. Lobby Hordern dropped into Sydney
from Europe by the Orama the other day
(poking as pretty as a picture in a coat of
natural ermine. This is as far removed from
the usual whitebaitisli-looking pelt of ordi-
nary acquaintance as a Rolls Royce is from
Elizabeth Ann. Michael Arlon described
such a coat on one of his Mayfair heroines.
Also Mrs. Lobby brought back a solitaire
emerald ring the stone of which matches in
quality those in her famous pendant an!
bracelet. These gems are deeply green and
each cost a comfortable little fortune. One
of the stone experts of the Rue de la I’aix is
said to have hunted the stone, for this ring
for two years, and finally discovered it among
the family jewels offered for sale by a Rus-
sian refugee.
Crocking in Paris is very sombre, Mrs.
Hordern says. The lack of color is almost
depressing. White, black and brown are the
only hues seen in the haunts of fashion by
night or day. Margaret Bannerman. a
devotee of black and brown, was a fellow-
passenger, as was Mrs. Jimmy Burns. Back
with them, too, came the son of Mr. Hor-
dern’s first marriage, now 14. He has come
to Australia on a combined visit to his father
and the Monie relations.
St. Brigid’s Church. Coogee, saw to the
linking of Marjorie Mooney and Norman
Keith Britton, of Winscombe station, Bun-
darra. The bride’s parents decanted hospi-
tality at the Oceanic Plotel at Coogee, where
the wedding raiment of georgette, pink as the
lining of a mushroom, with the bridesmaids’
pale-gold chiffons, made a show pretty enough
to attract the eye of the Australian Water
Color Society.
Ruth Chisholm, daughter of the late A.
B. Chisholms, of Carrawarra and Nerida,
and Leo Salwmy, of Mosman, sought St.
James’s last week. The wedding was of the
shorn-lamb variety; no ’maids or groomsmen
or best man flurried the twain. The bride's
sister, Mrs. Arthur Stirling, did the honors
after the ceremony at the Queen’s Club,
where old family friends foregathered with
congratulations and confetti.
From this Monte Luke picture smiles
Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, one of
the most ener-
getic workers
for the Coun-
try Women’s
Associ at ion,
Mrs. Sawyer
lives at Be-
thunga, but
Sydney H.Q.
|iave benefited
by a summer
spent by her
on the North
Shore line.
The gold-and-
hl u e supper
dance, one of
the week's suc-
cesses, owed
much to her
capable presi-
dency.
Not many Australians can boast that the
principal dish at the wedding feast was
pheasant shot by the King. But such was
the lot of Jock Blackwood and his bride
Mvreo Row. The ’groom was one of the
Waratahs entertained by George and Mary
Rex. and got ms snare of tne tamous shoot-
ing bag. This he popped into cold storage,
from which it emerged as the wedding sand-
wich. The breakfast was spread at .he
Ambassadors.
St, John’s Chapel within the Uni. was
chosen by Dr. Honner and Kathleen Dooley
as the scene of their wedding. The doctor,
who hails from Junee, is the president of
St. John’s Athletic Club and was a member
of the last Olympic team. His bride comes
from Murrurundi.
St. Stephen’s kirk housed as pretty a
wedding as any of the year when May Hen-
nett, of Epping, in a flurry of wnite and pink
tulle like apple blossom in the wind, stepped
forward to say “yes” to John E. Harrington,
of Warrawee. Three attendants like hand-
maids of golden autumn followed the bride,
whose parents later supplied refreshments at
the Ambassadors.
“Easter Brides Dispense with Gowns: - ’
ran a newspaper headline the other evening.
Lent, no doubt!
•Perhaps the best frocked function of the
week was the Elizabeth dinner dance at the
Ambassadors, the profits to be transmuted
into cushions and easy chairs for the new
hostel for the Deaf and Dumb. One of the
rooms in the new building has been named
after the Duchess of York and baby Eliza-
beth, which accounts for the name of the
ball. Civic Commissioner Fleming and his
lady made one of their rare plunges into the
city’s night life, and Mrs. Fleming’s black
georgettes sparkled with silver sequins.
Others about the red roses and Easter daisies
on the official table included Chief Justice
Street’s lady in fragile silver lace and sky
after-rain georgette. Mrs. A. B. Shand’s
frock was the green of tender shoots,
drenched with crystal fringe and embroidered
in flowers of delicate hues ; Mrs. Cecil Purser
and Miss Annie Cook were among the
shimmeringly frocked ; Mrs. John McKelvey
was a cascade of raspberry-pink tulle frills;
and Gwynneth Johnson (Melbourne) flew a
mist of white tulle whenever she danced.
Muriel Starr came late to the party; so did
Gladys Moncrieff, who wrapped a ravishing
pink frock in a prima donna coat of ermine.
Merioola, the Arthur Allen home, housed
one of the few private dances of Easter week.
As usual with the Allen parties a strong
flavor of the theatre (in its higher strata)
was present. Dion Boucicault occurred un-
obtrusively between his impressive wife and
tall niece Prudence. Annie Croft and her
husband were at the party ; also the newly-
returned Surgeon MacCorniick’s Morna. A
whole company of Baillieus balanced the
Dundas Allens, the Denis Allens, the Herbert
Allens, Arthur Allens and the other Allens.
The first pirates those who went to the
theatrical garden party at Eynesbury met
were Irene Vanbrugh and Bertie Kelly hold-
ing up the putting-green. It wasn’t hard to
pass their refined methods, but real ruffians
like Gus Bluett and Muriel Starr had a
deadly fascination. That the fascination was
sometimes of a sentimental nature was evi-
denced by the fact that one small boy had
by half-past three been four times back to
the lucky dip over which Muriel presided.
Gus Bluett sold autographs to school girls—
every schoolgirl in Sydney, judging by the
crop. Prudence Vanbrugh, a brunette pow-
der on her olive skin, emerged from pale
sand georgettes very calm and collected.
Marie La Varre was among the traffickers,
her petunia frocking throwing into relief her
fair coloring. Annie Croft, who had been
Vaseline, the hero.ne, looked very attractive
in an amazing burlesque of the Kate Green-
away style allied to large cotton gloves, and
a pork-pic head-dress. Dion Boucicault
tripped about the ways in a grey top-hat,
and the G.-G Stonehavens gave vice-regal
uplift to the money-making. Shirley Bavin,
who took mother’s place, helped to receive
the guests of honor. Lady Stonehaven looked
like a pale pastel in crepe, de Chine of inde-
terminate grey and a hat in which soft grey
felt and crochet were mingled.
Helen Hughes—she’s a daughter of the
A. E. Hugheses—was the deb. at the Rose
Bay Golf Club race dance on Saturday night.
She made her bow in white georgettes sprink-
led with rhinestones. Another white-clad
young thing was Gwen Coombe, who wore
soft white satin caught with a hobnail rhine-
stone buckle.
One of the country weddings of recent days
was that of Olga, “Grandie” Watsons
youngest lass, to Archie Cripps Clark, son
of a valued Bulletin contributor. Moss
Vale’s rustic little church was lined with
white blossoms for the ceremony, which
brought about 150 guests. The bride’s gol-
den, unshingled hair gleamed beneath her
tulle veil, which fell over satin drapings.
She wore a pair of golden sapphire ear-
rings which belonged to the ’groom’s great-
grandmother, a Macleay of Potts Point,
later Mrs. Archibald Clunies Innes. Her
’maids were cousin Clem Watson and Sheila
Cooper, their cavaliers being Edward Carter
and Leo Crisp.
The popular and erudite Edgeworth David
couple were given a welcome home by the
Victoria Leaguers, and Miss Macarthur
Onslow thrust a posy of red roses on the
lady. The most interesting fish in the after-
noon’s catch was the fact that when the
veteran Professor’s wife was in England sh'
was one of a party of 50 grand-mothers
who went to the New Forest and trained to
be Girl Guide Commissioners.


A. SAUNDERS’
SPECIALLY SELECTED DIAMONDS
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster,
set Platinum
IBct. Gold Ring,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£7/10/-
■Sfe
A. SAUNDERS’
6 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£7/10/-
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ Single Diamond, Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
WE GIVE A WRITTEN GUARANTEE
WITH EVERY WATCH SOLD.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£lO.
18ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
S3 CP to 5 ■=
j
W Cft s/m Ins '—
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£3/10/-
WRITE FOR RING BOOK with Size
Card, it’s FREE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18ct.
Gold Ring,
£l5
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18et. Gold Ring,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamonds, set
Platinum
ISc-t. Gold Ring,
£25
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
sdag
<0
o
ELECTRIC
Bath Heater, £B/10/- and £l2/10 «
Tap Heater £5
Water Boiling Jug, £l/10/-
All manufacturing of white glazed Porcelain made in Australia.
INSTANTANEOUS HOT WATER
at the turn of the switch.
CLEAN - SAFE - ECONOMICAL
a child can operate them.
Further particulars, demonstrations, and. trade lists at: —
DUX ELECTRIC HEATERS (N.S.W.), LTD., 418 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Other States —
DUX ELECTRIC HEATERS (World’s Right), LTD., WARWICK BUILDING, HAMILTON
STREET, SYDNEY.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
sd
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin-
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
i wm
i
1
m
m
¥
>-i ill
w
f
k
-i
m
.rr.
Ilrai
1
M
S 3
:: v
1
I
' ' i
I®
A
*■
nts
H&
i ; '■ rH
* • : ,' ■ -.v.
9t
y
H
.
DADDY 5
HOME !;
HI LLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes!"
Made to-day and mailed
to you to-day.
Send for Catalogue Illustrated
with reproductions of our Con-
fectionery in color.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 6/-, 10/-, 12/6,
20/- and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia.
162-66 PITT STREET.
BRANCHES;
CR. GEORGE AND KING STREETS;
CASTLE RE AGII STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
SYDNEY.


9
S 3
ra
ED
(53
PS
HU
ED
£9
24,D.L.16 —Catanach’s Gent’s “De
Luxe” Gold Watch, 15 Jewels, Plain
Dial, £9; Luminous Dial, £9/10/-
24,D.L.10 Catanach’s
Lady’s “De Luxe” Gold
Watch, 15 Jewels, assorted
fancy dials, £5
for Reliable Watches
“De Luxe” Watches, two of
which are illustrated below, are quite
the most popular timepieces in Melbourne.
They are excellent timekeepers, having 15
jewel movement, and are available in an
immense variety of distinctive designs.
“De Luxe” Watches are guaranteed by, and
obtainable only from, Catanacli's. Choose a
“De Luxe” and be sure of satisfaction.
Magnificent Diamond Wrist Watch, £25
This exquisite Diamond Wristlet Watch in White Gold is
showing at Catanach’s for £25.
Many other choice designs in Diamond-set Watches, some in
Gold, Platinum-set, others in White Gold, at prices ranging
from £l5, £lB, £2O up to £75.
Catanach’s are also showing Exquisite Diamond-set Watches,
with flexible Diamond-set Bracelets, at £65 to £l3O.
fśdf
Corner Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
Melbourne - Victoria
W.-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Victorian club’s meeting at Moo nee
Valley on Wednesday was socially a very dull
affair, though the weather was all that could
be desired. The attendance was thin in all
parts of the course, and the lawn showed
evidences that many of the elect had
neglected, in the rush of Easter engagements,
to renew their season tickets. Among the
remnant of the faithful were Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, in black with Oriental embroidery,
who had with her Mrs. M. Macpherson; Mrs.
Alec McCracken, whose cocoa-toned tweed
was topped by a hat of rose red; Major-
General Irving’s wife, with Mrs. Norman
Denham and her daughter Norma; Mr. and
Mrs. W. S. Cox, the David Bells and Mrs.
Hamilton Sleigh.
Toorak College, which two years ago was
threatened with extinction, has survived its
troubles, and its new home, an imposing
brick structure, is rising a little higher each
day on a picturesque site, overlooking the
sea at Frankston. The buildings are to be
ready for occupation in September. Parents
of past and present pupils and others inter
ested formed a company some time ago, and
£20,000 was raised by debentures and gifts.
The Misses Hamilton, who have conducted
the 'school for the last 20 years, will carry
on the work, and will provide the furnish-
ings as their contribution to the new home
of learning. “Foundation stones” nowadays
can be laid at any time, so on Saturday
afternoon Lady Somers, who was accom-
panied by Mrs. Davidson, faced a gathering
of parents and relatives and a girl guard
of honor, and gently tapped a cube of stone
into place, receiving the usual implements
and a posy. Her Ex. was welcomed by chair-
man of directors George Russell and Judge
Dethridge. The cheerful ceremony wound up
with tea and cakes for all.
Official greetings to Captain Lancaster
and Mrs. Keith Miller were continued on
Wednesday when there was a civic hand-
shaking at the Town Hall, with more red
roses for Mrs Miller, and a nice speech from
Mayor Morell, whose lady assisted the chief
magistrate to do the honors. The National
Council of Women spread luncheon for the
flyers at the Lyceum Club, and the Shell
Company gave the pair a dinner.
The Austral Scots sailed away from Port
Melbourne pier on Wednesday to the wailing
of the pibroch and a clamor of parting in-
junctions from 6000 throats. The Hobson’s
Bay was converted into a floating flower
show by the friends left behind, and when
the Scottish standard was run up to the
mast-head, with the Australian, flag wav-
ing to it astern, everyone was thrilled. The
bold clansmen and sonsy matrons from
Bananaland and the home of the Cornstalks
had foregathered with their fellow travellers
from this part of the continent at a garden
party given by the Caledonian Society in the
Botanic Gardens, so the liner took away a
happy family.
Mrs. Watson Robertson, one of the pillars
of the E.S.U., who is accompanying her hus-
band as a member of the Scottish delegation,
was entertained at tea at the union head-
quarters the other afterhoon. Dora Cameron
and Stella Kirkliam were hostesses, and
Mrs. J. S. Watts handed the parting guest
a gold-mounted fountain-pen and some dainty
stationery, a delicate hint from her friends
that Mrs. Robertson is not likely to ignore.
The home of the Napiers at Heyington was
the scene of a charity bridge party on Thurs-
day night, the object being to establish a
tuck shop at St. Vincent’s Hospital on lines
that have proved successful in other insti-
tutions of the kind. Mrs. Napier is pre-
sident of the South Yarra branch of the
hospital’s auxiliary, which has undertaken
the task. Wearing geranium red with em-
broidery of gold and silver sequins the Rear-
Admiral’s wife gave greeting to visitors who
more than filled the 56 tables available. The
overflow occupied themselves pleasantly with
tea and talk in flower-decked rooms while
a string orchestra made melody. Raffles and
sales of home-made cakes and sweets brought
in a useful addition to the financial harvest.
Mrs. W. R. Burston,, whose black gown glim-
mered with coral and silver beads, was hon.
sec., with Tulla Keating as assistant. Among
the card-players were Dr. and Mrs. Murray
Morton, Mrs. Rogers Thomson, Mrs. James
Alston, Madame Crivelli, whose clever fingers
fashioned divers little feminine adornments
that were raffled, and Madame Turck.
Fairies in Grecian robes of mauve, pink,
green and white, beneath which peeped pink
satin slippers, waved mystic wands over not-
at-all-perturbed British peers at Ilis
Majesty’s last week when “lolantlie” took
the stage. Gilbert’s' gentle irony and Sulli-
van’s sparkling music ran in double harness
as sweetly as ever, and empty seats were as
rare as pet flies in a butcher’s shop. On
Wednesday night Captain Lancaster and
Mrs. Keith Miller were guests of the manage-
ment. Among the first-nighters were Dr.
and Mrs. A. V. Anderson, Mrs. R. Fitcher,
Mrs. McColough, of Geelong, and Mrs. W.
Kent Hughes.
“Patience” at His Majesty’s is a blaze of
pretty colors. The scarlet uniforms of
dragoons, the velvet suits of the aesthetics
and the multicolored robes of Grecian maids
mix delightfully, and Strella Wilson fits
decoratively into the ensemble in her glori-
fied milkmaid outfit. Judge and Mrs. Wil
liams, fiddler Gertrude Healy, Mrs. Charles
Tait and a daughter, Dr. and Mrs. Strong
and Mrs. C. J. Ahern and the youngest lass
watched the show from the stalls on the open-
ing night.
“Mr. What’s-His-Name” at the Athenaeum
shows off some pretty furnishings in a white
and gold boudoir and a mauve and blue
bedroom. Frances Dillon leads the dress
parade in a clinging draped gown of black
satin with a cascade of bois de rose chiffon
descending from the left shoulder, a detach-
able cape being lined with the same material.
Joan Rogers sports an attractive gown _of
bright green satin, like the other, the creation
of a French dressmaker transplanted to Col-
lins-street. Coral pink with embroidery ot
gold thread clothes the shapely form of Stella
Francis.
The Canadian actress Margaret Bannev-
man was given her welcome to this city at
His Majesty’s on Saturday night, when
“Patience” was the offering. The slim young
lady, who made her name in London, is
quite as pretty as her portraits. The audi-
ence greeted her vociferously as she took her
seat in a box, and she bowed her thanks over
bouquets of carnations and roses. A snugly
fitting coat of pale blue satin, sprinkled with
pink rosebuds, covered her white frock, which
sparkled with crystal. Strella Wilson made
a speech about Miss Bannerman at the cur-
tain’s fall, when there was another outbreak
of applause.
Under Director Clowlow the Repertory
Society is again hard at work in prepara-
tion for a short season, commencing at the
Playhouse on April 26, when “The Merry
Death” and “The Two Shepherds” will con-
stitute the bill. Under the new dispensa-
tion expenses are to be cut wherever pos-
sible. All members who can sew, saw or
draw will be pressed into the service to pro-
vide costumes and scenery. The programme
for the year will run the gamut from light
modern comedy to heavy Greek tragedy,
with a special season of Ibsen in celebration
of the playwright’s centenary.
Sixteen-year-old Donalda Warne evidently
has what the Americans call “it.” Producer
Highland has plucked her from the chorus to
fill a leading part in “Rookery Nook.”
Minnie Everitt
taught the
youngster to
dance, and re-
gards her as a
possible suc-
cessor to Pav-
-lov a. Miss
War n e first
got a direct
view of the
footlights
when v e ry,
very wee, and
then there was
an interval de-
voted to school.
After that she
had no diffi-
culty in get-
ting a place in
the ballet of
“Tell Me
More.” Now
she has lines
to speak for the first time in her short stage
career, and her future looks very rosy. Rus-
kin made the picture. ?>s
■Chamber music was never intended to be
listened to by vast audiences, and as a mat-
ter of fact vast audiences don’t want to
listen to it. The three Cherniavskys know
this as well as anybody, but, as there wasn’t
a more suitable place available, they had
to waste their sweetness on extensive spaces
of desert air at the Town Hall last week.
However, the crowd of music-lovers that did
assemble thoroughly enjoyed itself, and
showed it. Leo, Jan and Miscliel are old
friends, whose progress has been watched
by Australian concert-goers since the days
when they were mere youngsters. Now that
their art is mellowed by age and experience
they make a really admirable trio. At their
first concert Mrs. Albert Miller, Mrs. Robert
McDonald and Esther and Leoni Levy were
in the forefront.
A. F. Johns, managing director of Johns
and Waygood and one of this city's richest
men. went off for a honeymoon on the
Maloja. It is his second plunge. The lady
of his choice on this occasion is Madame
Newport, who was for years a designer in
a Collins-street frockery.
Frances, eldest daughter of the W. Deans,
of Galicia, Ararat, has accepted an adorn-
ment for the fourth finger of her left hand
from Charles McKay, of Eurambeen, East
Beaufort, whose widowed mother, Mrs. D.
McKay, inhabits the estate of Glenallan in
the western district.
This is a Brootliorn picture of Esther
Levy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. D. C. Levy,
of Prahran. An accomplished pianist and a
graduate of
our Uni., she
takes a keen
interest in the
i m p r ovemen 1 -
of musical
taste, and in
order to help
in the estab-
lishment of a
permanent or-
chestra in this
city she has
undertaken the
honorary secre-
taryship o f
the Million
S hillings
Appeal, which
is a pre£ty
arduous job.
She has
already aided
the cause .'n a
s e c r e tarial
capacity, giving her services to the Junior
Music Makers in connection with the
children’s Christmas party.
Violinist Cecil Parkes and pianiste May
Broderick, having agreed that a duet is better
than two solos, will make public declaration
of the fact at St. Patrick’s Cathedral to-
morrow. The honeymoon will be a short
one, as the bridegroom-to-be has been engaged
by the Firm as leader of the orchestra in
the new theatre to be opened by the Mar-
garet Bannerman company.
Commander Rhodes’s bride, Ula Morton
that was. is mourning the loss of the whole
of her beautiful wedding presents. They
were put into store while the newly-weds
were house-hunting, and went up in smoke
in the blaze that destroyed the Ball and
Welch bulk store and factory.
Edith Thompson, who brought a team of
English hockey girls to Australia, is plan-
ning another foray. She will pilot through
Canada 25 girls who have just completed
their education. The intention is to famili-
arise her charges with the ways of the Big
Dominion and to place them in suitable posi-
tions, preferably in rural districts, though
the cities are included in the programme.
Part of the time will be spent in camp with
the Girl Guides. The tour will cost £lOO
for each girl, but there is a scholarship fund
to help needy but promising candidates for
transplantation. If the experiment pans out
according to schedule the other Dominions
will be given a chance, with Australia prob-
ably next on the list.
The Fred Bennetts have let their Toorak
home and gone oversea. While the head of
the house investigates the woollen markets of
Europe his wife and daughter Madge will
replenish their wardrobes in Continental
capitals.
Mrs. W. L. O’Neil, who has been visiting
her old home at Geelong and introducing her
small son to his grandma, Mrs. A. Devine, is
preparing to return to her home in England.
Geelong has been conducting a round of
farewell parties for R. G. McPhee and his
wife, who are booked for a journey to
Europe, with America to follow. At the
very last tea-drinking the guests included
Mrs. Spencer Niall, Mrs. George Darley,
Mrs. R. Ilyett and Mrs. Ramsay Cook.
After enjoying a term of tropical life in
New Guinea with her son Bill, who is man-
ager of the Panapai plantations, Mrs. Wade
Garnett has returned to Roseneath flats,
Armadale.
The Ben Cox couple, of Malvern, who
boarded the Maloja last week, let their sou
and daughter arrange a farewell dance which
was, of course, a young folks’ party. Mrs.
Cox received her young guests in a gown of
geranium red sparkling with silver lace, and
her chick Yvonne was clad in taffetas of
plumbago blue.
After enjoying a spell of city life Mrs.
James Osborne has returned to Gundaroo
station to keep house in lonely state. Her
husband, who took their son to England to
enter a university, is still abroad, renewing
acquaintance with the many members of his
family now settled in Blighty.
The Melbourne Hospital is about to lose
Sister Nesta Miller, who is packing suit-
cases for a tour abroad. With her goes
her friend Dorothy Bucknall. There is
no time limit on the jaunt, which will l<i s
until the pair have seen all they want to see
of Britain and Continental Europe.
Mrs. Lewis Lett, who has been staying
with her mother, Mrs. Andrew Honman, a.
Greensborough, is preparing to return to her
home in Papua. She is leaving her btt e
daughter June to get an Australian schooling.
Maud McCarthy, erstwhile of Sydney, has
made a hit on the Parisian stage by her sing-
ing of Indian songs to her own ,accompani-
ment on a native instrument. I lie I tali ae»
Guides, where she appears, is crowded
nightly. As a little girl a wonderful future
as a violinist was predicted for her, and w en
only nine she played before royalty, but m-
liealth abruptly closed a promising career.
She married and spent some years m incua
inquiring into theosophical theories. Atter
her divorce she married John Fould the com-
poser. She has only once returned to her
native land. Her sister, Alice O’Hara, sailed
last week to meet the long-absent one m
London.
Back from a world tour, the Frank Han-
lins have decided to found a home in Sydney.
While the head of the house is inspecting
properties Mrs. Hanlin is re-visiting her
home-town, Geelong, where her parents, tne
J. Walters, are giving her shelter.
Dr. Marion Wanliss has returned tp her
home town after a sojourn of three and a
half years in England and on the Continent
in pursuit of knowledge. The young medico
did research work at the Kliza Hall Institute
of the Melbourne Hospital • prior to going
abroad.
A fair visitor appeared on one of our
toniest golf links lately in the large-checked
plus fours, red jumper and tam-o -slianter
she had been used to wearing on the other
side of the globe, and was shocked and
amused in equal proportions when the secre-
tary sought out her husband and told lorn
gently but firmly that the committee had
received a great many complaints, and the
lady must not appear in such a costume again.
It was considered indecent. The innocent
offender, after an inspection of the wispy
skirts of her sisters who were considered
models of propriety, didn’t know whether to
laugh or to cry.
The Wild Cherry tea-rooms in Collins-
street, taken over by the Athenaeum Club as
its headquarters, are in the hands of builders
and decorators who are converting the
premises to their new uses. The chins
former home in the same street, adjoining
“The Block” arcade, comes under the hammer
early next month. The little block of land
changed hands in 1839 for £4O, but the latest
valuation is in the vicinity of £120,000. lhe
Wild Cherry enterprise has found a resting
place in Chartres Ilouse in apartments lately
occupied by the Mia Mia tea-rooms.
Stage ladies are very practical-minded in
the matter of frocking, and those from over-
sea hold up their hands in horror at the
prices charged by the more exclusive empo-
riums in this city. A pretty little English
mummer told the Chatterer that she had
never paid more than eight guineas for the
charming evening gowns she wears on the
stage—and she bought them all in Paris!
She was wearing at the moment a frock of
metal lame woven with a small cretonne
pattern in tiny roses, tight of bodice and
full of skirt, with a girdle of silver, which
she said had cost less than 10 guineas in
the gay city. But in Melbourne —well! A
frugal-minded manager had given the femi-
nine members of the company permission to
select their own dresses for a new piece, with
what he considered a very liberal price
limit. After wandering from atelier to
modiste, and from modiste to mere shop, it
was discovered that the only possible frocks
for the new parts were marked at about 40
guineas, which the manager reckoned ought
to provide a whole wardrobe.
“A.G.M.” writes from London: —
One day in Nice recently at a hostelry much pat-
ronised by English visitors, the occupant of a table
adjoining mine was Annie Jamieson, who in days
gone by was teacher of French and Italian at the
Melbourne Presbyterian Ladies’ College. Her brother
was for many years one of the heads of the Broken
Hill Proprietary; and while resident in Victoria, for
which she still cherishes very warm memories, she saw
a great deal of social life under the protecting wing of
the Bowes Kellys, the Knoxes, Wilsons and others,
then closely identified with the big mine. Miss
Jamieson now makes her home in the land of Musso-
lini and still devotes much time to literary research
in the language of the Duce.
Before the war the name of D’Arcy was synony-
mous with social splendor in London and other
English centres where entertaining on a grand scale
is expected. Since his death his widow —formerly
Mrs. Nutting of Melbourne —has lived a very quiet
life and the other members of the family have done
the same. This retirement was broken on Leap
Year Hay when Mrs. Frank D’Arcy, who has been
absent from London for several years, gave a tea at
the Carlton Hotel at which half the peerage was
present. There were few Australians among the
guests, but Lady Beauchamp and a few other ex-
Governor’s relations touched up memories of other
days at the antipodes.


Hotel Dalton
CHARLEVILLE
TENDERS are invited and will be received by the undersigned at their
offices, 246 Queen Street, Brisbane, up to twelve o’clock noon
FRIDAY, the eleventh of MAY, 1928, for the purchase of the HOTEL
DALTON and TWO SETS OF OFFICES, situated at the corner of Alfred
and Wills Streets, Charleville, described as Allotment 5 of Section 10 in the
County of Orrery, Parish and Town of Charleville, along with the License,
Goodwill and Furniture of the said Hotel (excepting the owner’s personal
oil paintings).
THE IMPROVEMENTS consist of Wooden Buildings of one and two
storeys comprising the Hotel Dalton, containing bai, sitting rooms, large
dining-room, office, bar parlours, 33 bedrooms, kitchen, laundry and
quarters for the staff, and outhouses. And two buildings, one let to the
Commonwealth Bank as Banking Chambers, the other to Messrs. C.
Gallagher & Co. one of the leading Stock and Station firms conducting
business in Western Queensland.
THE HOTEL DALTON is the picked business site of the Town of Charle-
ville, being situated at the busiest business corner at the intersection of the
two busiest streets, being right opposite the Post and Telegraph Offices and
the Telephone Exchange and within two minutes walk of the Court House,
Land Office, the other Banks and the principal business houses. The
business of the Hotel is a very solid one and the Bar trade one of, if not the
best, in the Town. It has been conducted by the one family for the past
35 years or more, and it is only because of the present licensee’s desire to
retire from business that the property is being made available to the public.
THE TOWN OF CHARLEVILLE (which has been often referred to as
“ the Chicago of the West") is the largest and most important centre in the
rich and prosperous districts of South Western Queensland. There is a weekly
Aerial Service from Charleville to Blackall, Longreach, Cloncurry and the
Northern Territory. It will shortly have an aerial service to Brisbane and
also to Bourke in N.S.W., as Quantas” have determined to extend their
services. The proposed Charleville-Blackall railway construction will add
to the importance of Charleville as a business centre.
THE HOTEL is not subject to any Lease, therefore possession can be
given within four weeks from date of the acceptance of offer. Tenders
must take the form of an offer of a lump sum.
TERMS must be on a cash basis free of exchange in Brisbane or
Charleville, as the vendor may in her discretion direct.
Tenderers must state absolutely the proposed terms of payment.
The highest or any tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders to be endorsed “ Tenders for Hotel Dalton, Charleville.”
Tenders must be on the form with conditions attached, which may be
obtained from the undersigned and from L. Bryant, Charleville, and must be
accompanied by a deposit by bank cheque of a sum equal to five per cent.
(5 0 /) of the total amount of the tender, and in the case of the successful
tenderer such sum shall be forfeited to the Owner as liquidated damages
should the tenderer not complete the purchase, which he must do within
twenty-eight days from date of acceptance of tender.
Dated at Brisbane this fourth day of April, 1928.
Wm. QUINN & STEWART
CONVEYANCERS,
246 QUEEN STREET, -
BRISBANE
Amusements.
p M P I R K THE A T li K.
& SAUNDERS’ CORNER, RAILWAY SQUARE.
Nightly at 8. MatinCes Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Violet Elliott, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6, 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinfies: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices,
kl) N E I’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S : ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL . THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
1 * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUI)EVILLE.
The World’s Best.
R EGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■“ The greatest motion picture programme in tne
History of the Screen.
CHARLIE CHAPLIN in
THE CIRCUS.
ALSO
METROPOLIS,
A U.F.A. Production.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
■ C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
'MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTYS: PATIENCE,
APRIL 18-20.
PRINCESS IDA,
APRIL 21.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
ATHENMUM T H E A T R E.
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
E. J. CARROLL Presents
PERCY HUTCHISON
and his English Comedy Co. in a Sparkling Three-act
French Comedy,
MR. WHAT’S-HIS-NAME.
U| O Y T’s» D E J, UX Mi THEATRE.
" MELBOURNE.
REAU SARREUR,
With GARY COOPER and EVELYN BRENT.
, Also
PYJAMAS,
With OLIVE BORDEN.
Amusements.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
In addition to picture programme,
MRS. MILLER and
CAPTAIN LANCASTER
With narrative picturesquely illustrated of their
famous flight in “The Red Rose.”
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Direction: Bailey ts Grant,
EVERY EVENING.
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
ON OUR SELECTION.
A LLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER-
** WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richardll.”
MAJESTIC THEATRE, NEWTOWN,
Season Commences, Saturday, April 21.
Svdney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
WILL HECTOR HAIR write to
ARCHIE HAIR?
TIM ANDERSON, late of Atherton Table-
land, communicate Sister, Upper Barron.
Important, Policy not paid.
RE PATRICK GRAHAM—DECEASED.
Will any person knowing the where-
abouts cf any relative of PATRICK
GRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack. in Tas-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirm-
ary, Hobart, on loth November, 1916, com-
municate with the Public Trustee, Hobart?
Wanted. ■ •-
AY/' ANTED, Steam Loco Crane, capacity
** two or three tons, second-hand, good
order. State full particulars, gauge, jib
radius, boiler pressure, etc. Best price, where
inspect. “Loco Crane,” care Gordon and
Gotcli, Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
E THE ESTATE OF KATHLEEN
NAYLOR—DECEASED: LATE OF
TOWNSVILLE, WIFE OF WILLIAM
NAYLOR.
Will WILLIAM NAYLOR, ELLEN
NAYLOR (supposed to have been married
at Cairns) or DONALD MITCHELL being
the widower and children of the abovenamed
deceased or any person knowing the where-
abouts of any of them kindly communicate
with the undersigned?
ALAN FORD,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Colors of the Southport School—red, white
and blue —dressed up Hamilton Town Hall
for a dance to help pay for an eight-oar
boat for the school crew. Pennants, school
badges and house flags were on the stage
with bowls of African daisies. Lanterns and
roses made gay the supper-room, and the
floor of the hall was thronged with dancers.
Nancy Wright gave a bridge tea at Inn-
Ascot home for Sheila McGowan who is soon
to be married. There were decorations of
pink roses, and a posy of these was handed
to the guest of honor. Miss McGowan wore
floral crepe de Chine in cinnamon and prim-
rose, and a cinnamon felt hat, and Nancy
Wright was in beige crepe de Chine. Mrs.
Bruce Bye. Peggy Dods and Leila Baynes
were among the guests.
Vera Anna, younger daughter of the R.
Crollicks, of St. George, exchanged vows with
Arnold, son of Mr. and Mrs. Fred Bennett
of Ascot, at Holy Trinity Church, Valley.
The leading lady’s gown was of white bride
satin made in period fashion with bouffant
skirt and tight bodice, finished at the waist
with orange blossom. Mrs. Frank Pak-
ridge, the bride’s sister, was matron of
honor and Fay Paltridge bridesmaid, both
wearing shell-pink taffetas with frilled skirts
and hats of silver crin with pink roses under
the brim; they carried posies of Radiance
roses. Little Amy Arming in pink with a pink
poke bonnet decked with forget-me-nots was
train-bearer with Roger Bennett.
When Valda Palfrey linked her fortunes
with those of Thomas Neil Gooch at St.
Mary’s, Moorooka, pink-and-white flowers
decked the church and a wedding bell hung
over the bridal group, with orange blossom
posies to mark the guest-pews. The bride
wore an ankle-length frock of ivory and
silver, and a Brussels-lace veil, the gift of
her aunt, Mrs. H. Hudson. Her bouquet was
of white roses and tuberoses. Joyce Pal-
frey was bridesmaid in cameo-pink. A guard
of honor was formed by officers of the 26th
Battalion.
The Church of the Holy Rosary, Windsor,
saw the wedding of Michael, son of the
John O’Rourkes, of Sydney, to Irene
Florence, daughter of the J. Beiers couple, of
Windsor, Brisbane. The bride faced the
altar in cream Venetian lace over peach-pink
mariette. Moran Beiers attended her in
ivory taffetas.
Longreach has seen something unusual —
two women, one young and the other elderly,
humping blueys and looking for work. They
walked in from the coast and camped on the
reserve by the Thomson river, walking four
miles into Longreach for food.
The woman swimmer of to-day is no weak,
timorous damsel who takes to the water
simply for a little gentle exercise. Mem-
bers of a Brisbane ladies’ swimming club —
most of them married —indulged in a vigorous
ducking match at the Metropolitan Baths
the other day. So strenuous was the game
that one of the fair contestants had to retire
for repairs. “Throw me some new togs,” she
shouted to the custodian, “they’ve torn these
to pieces.” The “togs” were heaved to her
and she reclothed herself under water.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The James Murrays, who have spent tin-
summer here, are returning to Sydney at the
end of this month. By way of farewell Mrs.
Murray feasted a large number of womenfolk
at Hadley’s. The tea room blushed pinkly
with its decorations and its china of the
same tones, and the hostess looked smart in
a black crepe-de-Chine frock with silver and
mauve embroideries, and a black hat.
Managing director F. Ritchie, of the P.
and O. line, and his wife and son were on
board the Comorin, and all three fell in
love with Hobart during their brief stay.
The C. E. Websters gave them a dinner
party to which the Ashbolts and a few
others were invited. On the same evening
Capt. Borland entertained a number of
young folk on the liner to meet Ritchie,
junior. Margaret O’Grady was among the
guests.
John Butters and his lady were partied
and lunched by many of their old friends
during the short holiday they spent here.
Towards the end of their stay Mrs. Tom
Lyons gave a tea party at, her Lyndhurst
home, at which the singing of Lucy Atkins
w-as a strong feature.
Mrs. Tlieyre Weigall, of Melbourne, has
been paying some old Tasmanian friends a
visit. Her young son has just produced a
novel entitled “One Tree Hill.” The author
is a brother of Mrs. Daryl Lindsay, who
before her marriage was Joan Weigall. Mrs.
Lindsay and her husband have been motoring
through the Speck making sketches.
The E. H. Websters’ eldest son Hugh has
covered himself with glory at Melb. Uni.,
having obtained first-class honors in the
M.Sc. exam, as well as the Dickson Research
Scholarship. He leaves for Clare College,
Cambridge, this year.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Oakbank races made a ray of brightness
in a dull week by falling on a perfect day,
giving us some of the best sport that has
been seen there for ages, and draw-ing a
record crowd of 50,000. Harassed officials
had to find parking-space for 6000 cars. H.
D. Young presided at the official lunch, with
the Lieutenant-Governor (who doesn’t often
go racing) on one side of him and the
Premier (who does) on the other. But
crowd, weather, close finishes and all, there
was a falling-off in betting, and the tote
took £5OOO less than last year—-an indi-
cation that the State is going through
hardish times, or thinks it is.
Jockeys were black armletted for the first
race at Oakbank, a mark of sympathy with
Whitmore Carr chairman of the S.A.J.G.,
whose wife died recently. Few women will
be more missed, for her interests were as
wide as her friendships and her help as ready
and generaus as her sympathy.
The Kindergarten Union wants £2OOO, and
to that end is organising a series of frivols
that begin with a fete in Mr. Snow’s garden
at Aldgate, one of the show places of the
hills, especially in autumn, when exotic trees
flaunt their gold and scarlet against the grey-
green of our own gums. A button day, a
market, a queen competition with a proces-
sion of the rival claimants and a corona-
tion, and a gargantuan bridge party are
other items of the programme. Mayoress
Bonython is the prime mover.
Minda, too, wants funds. So there's to
be a ball in the Masonic Hall, with a chil-
dren’s dance as a preliminary, and a pageant
of competitors in a queen competition as an
added attraction.
Mrs. Moss, returning from conferences in
Geneva and Amsterdam in the Naldera, didn’t
find time hanging heavily on her hands here.
On Saturday she met the executive of the
National Council of Women ; on Monday she
went to a mayoral reception and a public
meeting under the joint wing of the National
Council and the League of Nations Union ;
and next day had morning tea with the
Lyceum Club, lunch with the League of
Nations Union and afternoon tea with the
Women’s Non-Party Association. And so,
as Pepys would say, to Melbourne on the
express.
The Gerner-Monton wedding—she tli;
daughter of the Charles Corners of Medin-
die and he the medico son of the Richard
Moutons of Elizabeth Bay—was at St.
Matthew’s, Marryatville, with dancing after-
wards at the Piccadilly.
Easter also brought with it engagement-!,
among them being those of Genevieve,
youngest daughter of Mrs. Barr Mal-
colm, to Francis, eldest of the Penfold
Hyland sons, and of Dahlis, youngest daugh-
ter of the W. E. Hays of East Terrace, to
Lawrence, eldest son of Mrs. W. F. Coltman,
of Ballarat.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
Glowing Virginia creepers, clumps of giant
cannas, plots of dahlias and big beds of late
roses were the garden’s offerings at Belmont
for the races. On the second day a showery
sky and a spice of winter in the breeze
brought forth a crop of furs and new tailor-
mades. Lady Campion wore a black tailored
coat and black hat, Mrs. Farrar chose French
beige and a wide-brimmed brown felt, and
Mrs. Guy MacLeod, who accompanied her,
sported a ripple velvet jumper of shagbark
fawn with a dark red pleated skirt and skunk
furs. Mrs. Charles Lamb, in mole and
a black felt hat, Mrs. Geoffrey Lynne, in
cream, and Doreen O’Hara, in perfectly cut
black satin and a black and champagne hat,
were amongst the smartest dressers. Mrs.
Hewby’s black georgette showed rows of
tuekings, and her daughter, Kathleen Ripper,
contrasted navy crepe de Chine with a china-
blue felt hat. Mrs. Alec Trouchet topped a
seasonable tailored suit with wood-rose mil-
linery. Dot Hayes, just back from a holiday
in. M.L., chose pinky tweeds, her sister
Sheila appearing in a musk-melon jersey
striped with jade. Miss A. McGliie was hand-
some in a coat of tomato rep, with squirrel
trimmings. Mrs. Sam Grimwood, Mrs. Hamp-
shire, and Mrs. Daley were amongst those
who favored grey tailored costumes and
Mildred Gwynne made a splash of color in
an almond-green jumper suit.
This is Mrs. J. N. Thomson, valuable
asset of the Concert Artists’ Repertory Club
and Anita Fitzgerald productions. Her flair
is for charac-
ter parts, but
she has had a
wide stage ex-
perience and
a sound musi-
cal education,
her chosen in-
struments
being the
pianoforte and
organ. She
was pianist
for Faraday's
successful Eng-
lish production
of Strauss’s
“Ch o c o 1 a te
Soldier,” was
associated with
Charles His-
lop’s “Pierrot
Pie” entertain-
ment, and
travelled i n
South Africa playing the piano and taking
character parts with the Wheeler Edwardes
co. She returned to England for a musical
comedy season with George Edwardes and
Robert Courtneidge. A trip to the U.S.A.
was nipped in the bud by a torpedo off
the coast of Ireland, but she survived, to
make her home in Australia.
Mrs. Moss spent a too-short week here
on her way to Melbourne after 18 months
abroad. She was chosen to represent Aus-
tralia at the conference of the International
Council of Women in Geneva. Perth tendered
her a civic reception, with speeches by the
Mayor, Mrs. Cowan and Mrs. Rischbieth.
Miss Iv. M. Wilson, divisional commis-
sioner of the Girl Guide movement in Scot-
land, is spending six months in this State
as the guest of Lady Campion.
The James Brennans’ eldest daughter
Doreen found Ceylon very much to her
liking. She will make her home there as
Mrs. Vigne. Her fiance hails from Lin-
colnshire, England.
A batch of 150 youngsters arriving in
May will swell the roll of Fairbridge Farm
School to 300. Extra cottages and other
additions are being erected to accommodate
the boys. The new headmaster. Colonel S. J.
Heath, with his wife and daughter and rows
of medals on his uniform, will arrive by
the Orsova.


The London and
North-Eastern Railway
of England and Scotland
Serves
Beautiful Cathedral Cities,
Seaside Resorts, Dales & Moors,
Inland Spas, Castles, Abbeys,
THE EAST COAST ROUTE
(Track of the “Flying Scotsman”) is the
Shortest and Quickest between
London and Scotland.
Illustrated booklets describing Resorts on the
L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on applica-
tion to Messrs BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
V Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches; or
in London at the L.N.E.R. West End Offices,
71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly, W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
TOUR ENGLAND & SCOTLAND
by L.N.E.R.
■N -J
-■
irrs ,
fcs
■> — •■
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors.
BRISBANE.
COLOR
By
MUSETTEMORELL.
An hour later he descended the stairs for
dejeuner d la fourchctte. Munching quanti-
ties of roast-beef, feis and sauerkraut, he
sighed in sympathy with the lad above, and,
passing Evoa going out, scowled so horribly
that the surprised maiden threw back her
curly head and laughed in his angry face.
Brian kept to his room all day. Hours he
spent pacing the floor, straining out of the
window or lying exhausted and despairing on
the bed. Again and again he read the letter
Curtis had given him that morning.
Tahiti, 1906.
My Son, —When you get this —if you ever get it —
I shall be part of the earth. Curtis here tells me
‘l’m done, and, though I never did build much on
doctors, I’m an old man and something warns me
ho is right. I’ve made long provision lor you—
college, then Oxford, after which I hope you will
take up a profession * and never, never come to this
land of fatal enchantment. Yet I fear you will.
The sun and the wine of it must be in you, for you
were born here. That’s what I have to tell you.
Yoiir mother was a Tahitian. She died at your com-
ing, and I’m having you shipped at once to my
people at home. By a miracle you have not a
biown patch, so will never suffer from that feeling
of difference, as do many of the poor little beggars
round here.
Son, I can never forget the agony of remorse and
apprehension I suffered before your birth ; it left me
much weakened. I used to watch the little half-
toned kids spattered about the huts, and observe
their scanty upbringing, their monkey smartness that
seemed to turn always to thieving and malicious
mischief, to quirky backhanded, half-toned ways;
their lack of assurance before the whites. With
fearful foreboding I would ponder on their future
THE Tiare Hotel, nucleus of the universe
so far as the inhabitants of Papeete
were concerned, was also naturally the
centre of gossip. In the slack time between
the monthly steamship calls the topic deemed
most interesting and never failing to arouse
argument and betting concerned the infatua-
tion of the fair young Englishman, Brian
Longstaff, for Evoa, the dusky and beautiful
Polynesian. Speculation ran high as to
whether the man’s prejudice against marry-
ing color or the girl’s militant purity would
first go down before the storm of passion
that everyone realised had them in its power.
Evoa’s magnetic beauty alone had been
sufficent to distinguish her even had she not
been set apart by reason of her proud maid-
enhood. For, belonging to a race that loved
simply and lightly as butterflies, and whose
pleasure-loving girls gladly contracted liai-
sons with whites for the few resultant luxu-
ries. Evoa was a conspicuous exception.
Lovaina, proprietress of the Tiare and
mistress of Evoa, shook her wise old head.
"Evoa hope marry whi’ man. Dat well, I
tinlc. On’y whi’ man Evoa want marry no
want black gal. Dat not so well. Smell
like trouble, dat.” And so was thinking
Brian Longstaff, pacing his room upstairs in
the hotel.
Last night, treading the warm sands with
Evoa, the words so long sighing in his heart
had trembled dangerously near his tips, till
only by a most painfully enforced effort of
will had lie prevented liimself asking her
to be his wife. Now the ardor of the
moment sped, his reason castigated him for
his weakness, and he saw that lie must leave
the island. He could not trust himself.
She was too lovely. But could he go? And
remembering the picture she had made on
the beach under the moon, his hands shook
and a groan escaped him.
The shadow of a man blotted out the sun-
light from the opening to the room. Brian
swept aside the gaily-colored parous that
served as screen between him and the bal-
cony, and Murray Curtis, M.D., naturalist,
Brian’s guardian and everybody’s friend and
confidant, stepped quickly over the threshold.
The newcomer wasted no time. Motion-
ing Brian to the one chair, he plumped his
huge form through the mosquito-nets on to
the bed and began;
“See you're just ’bout at the end of your
tether. Don’t deny it! No use with that
face. Well, you can't marry a native, so
that’s that! And hanging round won’t cut
any ice with Evoa—everyone knows her.
So what I say is, if you can’t mend it, end
it. Clear out. Probably have her yelling
you back on your own conditions in less than
u week. If she don’t yell, stay ’way.”
Brian ran a dry tongue over drier lips.
'T can’t,” lie said. “I’m all in. I couldn’t
go if I wanted to. This is something stronger
than me; my legs would carry me back spite
of my will.”
The elder man jerked angrily. “What d’ye
mean to do?”
Brian shook his heath
“Staying means marrying.”
Again Brian shook. “No, I balk at that.
The prejudice seems in my blood. I’ve seen
too many mixtures, and someone always pays
—generally the kid.”
Curtis rose. “Only fools stick to danger.
You’re a fool,” he said harshly. Then his
bluff, honest face softened. He laid an affec-
tionate arm on the broad shoulder near him.
“Look here, lad” —his voice grew more harsh
with feeling—“you’ve got to clear out of
this. That girl’s out for a wcddin’. I know
her, steel under the softness; she would rip
out her heart to satisfy her ambition. You
say the prejudice is in your blood, but she’s
there, too. They can’t both win, and she'll
make you lose. Boy, boy, your father had
that prejudice, but —but that didn’t prevent
him marrying color.”
“ What!”
The blood rushed to Brian’s face till it
seemed it would explode; then as quickly
ebbing it left him the shade of dried kelp.
Curtis rang for drinks, and when Evoa,
eager and smiling, brought the tray he dis-
missed her summarily as, administering Brian
a stiff whisky, he seated himself near the
crushed youth and began his story.
SHOW-TIME.
—a sordid certainty in the case of a girl, a
miserable hazard in the case of a boy. When
you were born and 1 saw you stayed white all
over, in my relief I think I went a little mad.
I fervently determined you should not repeat my
mistake.
Curtis is taking charge of this letter. He has
promised that you will never see it save on occasion.
As you are reading this that occasion must have
arisen, and, son, listen —I plead with you as a
father, as a voice from the grave, as your most
anxious well-wisher to put the girl away. Go back
to England, ■ anywhere away from the Islands; lose
her memory among your own kind, dim her at cards,
forget her with other women, drown her in wine,
spend yourself, waste yourself, anything rather than
be the unthinking cause of your own child’s misery.
Here abruptly the letter broke off. and it
seemed to Brian his life broke with it. His
mind was in a scatter as though the agony
m his mind had paralysed his head. Wearily
he strove for some co-ordination of thought.
Phrases from the letter danced before his
eyes: “When you get this—if you ever get
it” .... “ You will never see this save on occa-
sion” ...think I went a little mad.” Yes,
surely his father had gone a little mad;
how else explain the callous irresponsibility
of risking the chance of him, Brian, the
half-caste, remaining always in England, in
ignorance of his parentage, losing sight of
Curtis —marrying perhaps some white girl!
Children!
Speculation halted, appalled. Again his
head grew dense, became numb.
Then slowly, overriding the black misery
of his realisation of color and dulling his
aching pride, a sweet compensation began to
shine in his mind like a bright star. Since
he was half he could never ally himself to
any woman of untainted blood. He must
turn to his own kind—-half-castes 0r... .
Hastily he rose, bathed, changed, brushed
his hair and stumbled downstairs out on to
the broad verandah which encircled the hotel.
At one of the eating-tables the wealthy
trader Tomlinson was sipping an appetiser
and with an avid eye chasing, capturing and
gloating over Evoa, who, laughing in wicked
enjoyment of his compliments, lolled, sway-
ing against the brilliant curtain of stepha-
notis and bougainvillaea draping the tall lat-
tice at her back.
All the racial qualities of the Tahitian
belonged to Evoa, the artless, indolent grace,
the, childish abandon to laughter and the
sweets of the moment; but a certain fierce
poise of the head, a deeper husky timbre in
the soft voice, a sterner quality behind the
melting light in the eye, suggested the fine
dignity and resolute character of the Maori.
Slender and rounded as a young cocoa-palm,
the flowing lines of her body were revealed
through her one garment, a Mother Hub-
bard. Her feet, as always, were bare. And
Tomlinson, gazing at her now where she
leaned, head thrown back against the vine,
hands netted in the flowers, lips matching in
vividness the hibiscus-blossom in her hair,
eyes laughing down into his in maddening
mockery—Tomlinson felt his heart catch in
a breathless throb of rage, for she seemed
more than ever beyond his hungry reach,
scornfully removed from the lure of his
money. The trader’s heart grew heavy as
his gold as he saw the girl’s lazy body strain
to sudden eager attention, the gay, careless
eyes flash with quick fire, and, following her
glance, marked the Englishman hurrying
towards her treading the air, his gaze lost
and dazzled, his face set and fever-white.
Then as Brian by an imperative gesture
drew the girl after him into the porch, Tom-
linson drained his glass and in a frenzy of
jealous rage flung himself, cursing, into the
bar.
In the porch the girl and man faced each
other. Brian just breathed, “The beach!”
Together they made down the street, under
a tremulous purple-and-gold canopy of
giant mangoes. Past the poor shacks and
wooden cabins, richly embroidered with
flamboyantes, gay yellow allamanda and the
leaf and blossom of a dozen gorgeous vines
and. creepers. Along the deeply-worn trail
through a heavily-scented scrub of lantana,
guavas, wild coffee and pandanus. Near a
clump of tiny huts, which, sheathed in a
clinging skin of verdant vine, appeared like
a peck of giant beans. And then, at last,
out on to the open beach, sparkling against a
background of waving cocoas, large splav-
leaved bananas and soft foliage, through
which could be seen the Pacific glowing in
the golden oily light like some mammoth
sapphire.
Beneath the level green heaven of a
cocoa-palm Brian turned to the girl. His
voice came in a sigh : “Evoa, marry me!”
With a gesture of pitiful and tired surrender
he dropped his head to the soft shadows
at her throat.
The girl grew tremulous as the palm above
her. Her head fell back; her dark eyes grew
intense and even darker.
“At las’! Ah, Brian, me lov’!”
“And I! Oh, Evoa, I always wanted you.
But you knew the reason I could not marry.
And now there is no reason: I am as you,
darling—there is no difference.”
But as he would clasp her the girl drew
back, and because she guessed, she wailed;
“Me no unnerstan’! Me no unnerstan’!”
Even in his excitement, and even to her,
Brian could scarcely admit it, and his occi-
dental prejudice made him turn away his
head as he stammered: “My mother, I have
found out, she was of your people.”
The beautiful eyes clouded. She held him
off.
“Ah, so you have me now you know dis.
Ah, no, no ! Never.”
In the urgency of his love Brian was
heedless. He kissed her again and again.
“Evoa, darling, you do love me, you do!”
With boneless agility she wriggled from
his grasp. Standing apart, straight and
regal, her tortured pride tensing nerves
till her body was strung and quivering as a
liarp-string, and h6r eyes burning like black
stars, she pointed the finger of scorn.
“Me no marry you!”
The fountain of her laughter rippled, low
and mocking. “Me marry whi’ man. Go
kiss gal of you kind, brown man. No, not
brown man; not whi’ man. No kind. Nuss-
ing!” And laughing hysterically she shot
across the golden sand, thrust through the
scented bush, past' the peck of little green
huts, along the shaded street, golden-paved
in mango-blossoms, and, still laughing, laugh-
ing, into the open haven of the Tiare —and
the arms of Tomlinson!
Now at last there was really something
to talk about. A subject that afforded much
variation. On the verandahs, the porch,
the salon of the Tiare where Lovaina played
hostess, traders, petty officials, beach-
combers, sea-rovers, merchants of all kinds,
discussed it with each other, with Lovaina,
with Lovaina’s girls, Atupu, Iromea, Maru
and Pepe, and even with the tourists, fresh
and enthusiastic off the steamer warped to
the wharf near by.
The goddess had fallen from her pedestal;
the proud queen had torn off her crown,
tliown away her sceptre and become even as
her subjects; the superior scorner of them
all had become of the scorned.
“Did she love him?” A shrug answered
“Were they married?” Another shrug even
more elaborate.
Only one man had escaped this latest tit-
bit, and he, trailing home to the Tiare after
a night of anguish spent on the beach, was
suddenly confronted with the dusky beautiful
subject of it.
The street was crowded with merry, chat-
tering Tahitians, all in gala attire, for was
not the passenger ship in!—men in brilliant
parens, women in rainbow-tinted Mother
Hubbards, men and women bedecked with
bead ornaments, fillets of flowers on their
heads, girdles of flowers at their waists, their
erect, easy grace lending distinction to then-
indolent figures; little, naked, lemon-colored,
black-eyed babies, smooth and shiny as eels,
jingling with shells and bright with flowers.
Everywhere sounded the soft greeting.
“la ora na!” Everywhere sang guitars and
mandolins, till unconsciously passing feet
kept the rhythm. Women tourists stared, a
trifle superior in their white skins, but inter-
ested and anxious not to miss anything; men
tourists made hurried inquiries as to where
they could see a hula. They also stared —
at these dark women, so childishly friendly,
who returned their gaze eagerly, their ardent
tender eyes swimming in soft light.


Mick Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need
Use a
better
Racket 1
and get
the utmost
out of
your
Game!
r
\
The
“Lee Monogram’’
Model de Luxe
price 77\6
The world-famous Racket-maker of New
York, Harry C. Lee’s best Racket, and
universally known throughout the Tennis
World from the fact that is it the first choice
of many leading players. Its exclusive fea-
ture is the patented slotted throat, which
ensures absolutely perfect balance and
absorbs the smashing, crashing jolts, besides
giving the “Lee Monogram a wonderful
resiliency and driving power.
Strung with highest-grade English Gut.
The “Lee Monogram” Frame carries a full
Six (6) Months’ Guarantee.
The
99
“Britannic
PRICE 551 -
For quality, dependability and craftsmanship,
this Racket in its own particular class has
no equal in the Tennis World to-day. Made
from specially-selected materials, it is capable
of lasting service and will stand up to the
hardest usage. Selected English Ash Frame,
concave throat and reinforced shoulders.
Strung with serviceable English Gut.
The “Britannic” Frame carries a full Six
(6) Months’ Guarantee.
Distinctive Rackets that ideally
serve the Schoolgirl Player!
The
it
Haymarket
PRICE 30/-
Unquestionably the utmost value offering in
rennis Rackets to-day. Perfect in construc-
tional design, beautifully balanced and
finished; specially reinforced concave throat
and shoulders, strung with dependable gut.
a
The
Haymarket
Special”
PRICE 401~
Constructed from specially-selected materials,
it is a Racket that will stand up to the
hardest usage. Frame is of English Ash
with concave throat and reinforced shoulders ;
strung with dependable gut.
(Carriage Paid on Tennis Rackets.)
Tennis Catalogue post free on request.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney,
ANI) AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
HOME TRUTHS
FOR THE PLAIN AND THE PRETTY.
THERE are far more pretty women in
the world tlian women themselves
realise. Nearly every woman is poten-
tially pretty; in nine cases out of ten all
that is needed is a little care or some simple
remedy to tnrn a plain face into an atti ac-
tive one.
THE SHORT-SLEEVE QUESTION.
The new vogue of the ultra-short sleeve
is either charming or ridiculous, according
to the arms of the followers. Most of us
possess more or less shapely arms, but the
color and texture of the skin usually leaves
much to be desired. Red elbows, rough
hands and discolored skin are not lightly
exposed by a wise woman. Of course, you
have only to think a minute before hitting
on a remedy. There must be few women
to-day who do not know the blessing of
mercolized wax for a bad complexion.
Obviously the only thing to do is to treat
the skin of the arms in exactly the same
way as that of the face. Before going to
bed wash the arms thoroughly in hot water.
When they are dry smear them all over with
mercolized wax, sponging it off in the morn-
ing. After a few days the rough discolored
skin will have been absorbed, leaving the
smooth new skin exposed. This treatment
should be used fairly frequently, as the skin
of the arms soon becomes red and coarse
when exposed.
FREE SHAVES!
Did you see in the paper the other day
that a lady won “three months’ free shaves”
in a tombola? Some of us might not have
laughed so much had we drawn her ticket!
How often one sees a girl, otherwise pretty,
ruined by a growth of superfluous hair on
her face. It is a fact that some women do
shave; but it is very foolish to do so, for it
only stiffens and encourages the growth of
the unwanted hair.
The subject of short sleeves lias been men-
tioned, and a word must be said about the
sleeveless frocks which our dressmakers
provide for the evenings.
It cannot be said too.often that the only
safe and reliable way of getting rid of
superfluous hair is to do it at home with a
little powdered phemitigj. The whole process
will only take about ten minutes, and the
result is really astonishing.
THE LITTLE MORE!
“The little more and how much it is!”
might be exclaimed with some iioint on
the question of eyelashes. A quarter of an
inch more, and a pair of ordinary eyes are
transformed into “fringed magical pools.
Very few people seem to realise that the
lashes can be lengthened and gradually
darkened by the occasional application of a
little mennaline to their roots. No, it isn’t
a dye, and it’s absolutely harmless! Get
an original package from your chemist.
DOES WAVED HAIR SUIT YOU?
Wavy hair is more becoming to the
majority of faces than straight locks.
Unhappily, most of us are not blessed with
naturally curly hair, and the icily regular
waves of the hairdresser are a very poor
imitation of the fascinating natural kink.
Incidentally the use of hot tongs is murder
and suicide to the color, silkiness and
strength, of the hair. Have you any sil-
mcrine in the house? If not, you can get
some from your chemist. The proper way
to use it is to comb the hair in the way
you usually do when you are going to put
it up. When you have decided win re you
want your waves, damp just those parts
of the hair with silmerine, and put a small
slide in each place where you want a wave
to appear. Be careful not to use too much
silmerine, and only damp the places where
you want a wave. Gather as much hair as
possible into the slides, so as to make the
wave more definite. Having placed your
slides, fluff up the hair between them with
a comb. If your hair is very lank and
straight you may have to persevere for some
time in this treatment. It requires patience
and coaxing, but the results are delightful,
for the waves produced by silmerine tend to
last longer and longer, until they become
really natural to the hair.
SOME VICTORIAN HEROINES.
The very plainest face is redeemed by a
graceful and cleverly dressed figure. You
will doubtless remember that Wilkie Collins's
most famous heroines were not remarkable
for handsome faces, but for perfect pro-
portions of body. Fatness, besides being
slightly ridiculous and really dangerous, is
a great foe to beauty, but it is unwise to try
to reduce it by violent methods. Try taking
i a few clynol berries after each meal. They
are perfectly harmless, and they really do
have a wonderful power of reducing super-
| fluous flesh.
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder—all
Chemists. —Advt.
[4.
Swaying along the street Brian suddenly
halted, and he too stared. By the kerb,
under the green and violet arras of a
majestic mango, Tomlinson’s graceful black
Rolls-Royce was parked, and deep among the
golden cushions, idly watching the moving
throng, herself most beautiful among the
many beautiful, lay Evoa.
She drew all eyes, exquisite in a green
silken peignoir, a broad heavy swathing of
pearls clasping her hips, long tassels of
pearls swinging from her ears, hands and
throat iridescent with gems, and her glossy
jet head encased in a gleaming chp of plaited
pearls and amethyst.
Careless of the interest she created, she
toyed with her rings and, gazed dreamily at
the Tahitians who, pressing close, gaped at
her evidence of sudden riches. Only the
shuddering depths of her eye and the tremu-
lous dilation of nostril betrayed her hurt at
seeing Brian, who, haggard and incredulous,
stared and stared as though his eyes could
never more turn from hers. At length with
a broken gasp, fighting for air, sick and
reeling, he plunged into the crowd which
closed upon him as the sea upon a diver.
A minute later, passing the Rolls-Royce,
Murray Curtis breathed deeply in relief. So
Brian had renounced her, and she had gone
the way of all women in Tahiti! Proud as
a thoroughbred, she looked strained and un-
happy, he thought, as he paused a moment
to give a sigh for poor Love, so weak and
handicapped in this most worldly world.
Then his practical mind turned to the
issues. This would hit Brian hard. Poor
lad! Well, it might sting now, but later he
would be thankful for his escape. And
wondering if he had left the island, and
hurrying to see, the doctor dashed into the
Tiare.
Here all was bustle and happy excite-
ment. The tables on the verandahs were
packed and to the impetus of a gramophone
jazz, the tinkle of laughter glass and light
laughter, the flirtatious girls smiling, bare-
foot and flower-perfumed, swayed to and fro
with drinks for the tourists. In the porch,
throned on an immense sea-chest, was
Lovaina herself, dispensing smiles and philo-
sophy, discussing Evoa or screaming orders
to her staff.
But upstairs all was very quiet. So quiet
that the contrasting silence oppressed the
doctor as being unnatural. He called softly :
“Brian, Brian lad!”
Then he fell back, weak and sick.
Brian lay on the bed, already lifeless, still
holding in one slack hand the letter dated
I not!, which only the morning before he,
Curtis, had written and given him.
Without Operation.
THE men’s ward was busy. The junior
nurse on duty there must answer the
door-bell and telephone (which ran,2:
continuously, it seemed) and be a line of
communication between the general public and
the isolation ward, at the same time getting
her ward work done as best she might. Visit-
ing afternoons were worst.
On such an afternoon a man appeared
at the front door, carrying his left hand,
much swollen or much bandaged, in a sling
before him, and asked to see the doctor.
“The doctors don’t live here,” said the
Junior patiently, noting with the corner of
her eye that a contingent of visitors ap-
proached the front gate—foot and horse, you
might say : for some were alighting from cabs,
and some had walked from the town. “Is
your hand very painful? Perhaps Matron
will look at it.” The man followed her,
groaning or muttering, to the out-patients’
theatre. Matron’s office was empty; but the
lady was discovered in the hospital kitchen
just as the advance guard of visitors rang the
door-bell.
“What are you doing here?” inquired
Matron before the Junior reached the threshold
of the kitchen door. “Aren’t you on* duty
in the men’s ward?”
“Yes, Matron,” said the Junior. “But
there’s a man in out-patients’ with a swollen
hand, Matron.”
Matron moved swiftly and majestically
toward out-patients’. The Junior, trotting
behind, thought of the war-horse that scents
the battle. Through the glass of the front door
she saw the general public, strengthened by
reinforcements from the rear, waiting to be
admitted as visitors to the wards. She must
inquire if the women’s ward was prepared
for visitors. With that object she turned
aside and rang the telephone connected with
the upper floor. Nobody answered, but a
fresh contingent of the general public arrived
and the door-bell rang twice. Again the
Junior rang the telephone and again the
door-bell rang, and, while the corridor still
echoed, the bell in out-patients’ summoned
loud and long.
“Matron!” The Junior hung up the
telephone receiver and ran to answer that
most imperative summons; and as she passed
the glass hall doors the general public, in
baffled rage, rang again. “Fire!” said the
Junior; but to herself in a very soft voice.
“Don’t let me see you running like a
mad thing in this hospital,” said Matron,
meeting her. “Let those visitors in at once;
and sterilise some instruments and get out-
patients’ ready to open an abscess. Doctor
Johnson will be here in twenty minutes.”
The visitors clattered in like a victorious
army. The Junior ran ahead of them, up-
stairs to the women’s ward, to see that it was
prepared for invasion. Coming back by the
big operating theatre she snatched some
nickel instruments from the shelves, and
took them downstairs. Into the steriliser
they went, with bowls and dishes. Two rub-
ber gloves were sorted out of a box and com-
pared. Odd gloves—two left hands! The
Junior made a pair of them by the simple
expedient of turning one inside out, and
tested them for punctures by drawing a long
breath and filling them with air. Leaking!
She dived into the box again.
“Nurse,” said a soft voice at the door; arid
she turned to see an elderly woman who
peered in from the hall; "can Mr. Muldoon
have oranges, Nurse?”
“Oh, yes,” said the Junior graciously:
“any fruit but bananas, Mrs. Muldoon.
Presently Mrs. Muldoon appeared again.
“There’s somebody calling you on the veran-
dah, Nurse.”
The Junior reached the verandah by an
outside door: instinct told her to avoid the
ward if she would save time. An old man on
the verandah was shouting “Nurse” at short
intervals, with an eye on the ward whence
she might be expected to emerge.
“Oh!” he said with a start as she ap-
peared before him. “Nurse, my feet are
cold.”
“I'll get you a hot-water bag,” said the
Junior, already half-way back to out-
patients’.
The subject of operation sat dejectedly by
the window, while the Junior set the anaes-
thetic table, and put out towels and a gown
in sterilised bundles ready to be unpinned.
He eyed these preparations in silence.
The Junior disappeared into the next
room, where the steriliser was steaming
merrily. Bending over it she began to dredge
for her bowls and instruments, grappling
them one by one with long-handled lifters,
and waving them in the air to dry them
before arranging them on the trolley.
“Rolled gauze—l should have brought it
from the theatre,” she murmured as she
dredged. “I’ll run up for it presently when
Matron gets busy in here. Where’s the
silver probe?” Scrape—scrape: the lifters
were searching the bottom of the steriliser.
“Did I put it in?” —scrape, scrape, rattle—
“ There it is !” —scrape —“No, I’ve lost it
again !” —scrape, scrape—“l heard it rattle —
ha, here it is!” The silver probe was brought
triumphantly to light and laid beside the
scalpel and scissors, and the trolley was
carefully covered.
Matron and Doctor Johnson went through
to out-patients’, and almost immediately
came out again and returned to the office.
The Junior considered how she might get
upstairs without passing the office. Her
retreat was cut off in that direction, but
the rolled gauze must be produced shortly.
She contemplated a flanking movement. She
would scout up the back stairs, go through
the women’s ward to the theatre, and be back
in five minutes with the rolled gauze, com-
ing in through the pantry and across the hall.
Up the back stairs then, and through the
women’s ward, with a word of apology to the
nurse in charge, and into the theatre like
a rabbit into its burrow.
Coming out, she paused as though she
would risk a dash down the main staircase;
but an echo of Matron’s voice, floating up,
decided her. She hurried back through the
women’s ward and ran, breathless, down the
narrow wooden stairs at the back of the
building. The courtyard seemed endless.
Before she reached the pantry door a maid
from the kitchen met her with an anxious
face. “Nurse,” she said, “there’s a man
getting through the back fence with his coat
on his arm. Is it one of your patients?”
With a sinking heart the Junior entered
the pantry and came face to face with the
Matron. She clutched guiltily at the packet
of rolled gauze in the front of her apron ;
and then she drew a long breath of relief.
Matron was laughing. That eagle eye,
dreaded by the nursing and domestic staff—
and even, some said, by the medical men —
was sparkling with merriment.
The Junior gazed, fascinated.
“The patient is gone, nurse,” said Matron ;
“therefore there will be no operation. You
may go on with your work. I think, by
the way, one of your old men on the veran-
dah is calling.”
“Oh, yes, Matron,” said the Junior, still
gazing—“his feet are cold.”
With an air of deep thoughtfulness the
Junior filled a hot-water bottle from the
steriliser. Sounds of mirth came from the
office; Matron and Doctor Johnson were
enjoying the joke. Outside the back fence
the escaped patient, trotting towards the
town. looked anxiously behind for signs of
pursuit.
I. McIVOR.
Autumn Requiem.
O sweet, sad Autumn, they have buried him,
And lost his flute and broken his fine reed
On which he piped clear lays of seraphim--
Green melodies of singing leaf and seed.
O yellow lady, in your sandals brown,
You need not weep for him, nor even
grieve.
Fond Poesy has hung her own head down,
And bade her maids his deathless mantle
weave.
He often looked upon these grave, blue hills,
And, from his door, the fragile butterflies
Watched in their whirl about his window
sills,
Marked their white wings against the
azure skies.
As light, as loose, as airy was his flight
O’er pastures of pure song, above the vale
Where Orpheus tunes his lute of old delight
To many a nymph with maddened bliss
grown pale.
Oh, when the white gods come, the soul must
fight.
Brown horses of the earth plod on in
vain.
The golden stallions of a vaster light
Paw on their clouds and champ their bits
again,
And toss their shining manes and snort in
fire
A passionate release from right and
wrong. . ..
Time fights the torch and fires your own
fair pyre,
Sad A”Wmu will you take dead Love
this song?
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


Atwater Kent
radio
/
<5 Tffii-
vm-
o
/
;• y'tX
i. ft
*! <
-^aC?
1 >
V.
»
>
•S;
Sfc
K.
[paton]
IBndlre* i
mm
4- •»
QNorlds Greatest Manufacturer
of Radio Receivers
mites to 'You!
since I have been interested in Radio, this
idea has been uppermost in my mind... Compac-
tness with Simplicity of Operation.
Our ability to make powerful radio sets in compact
cabinets is a well-established fact. Hundreds of thou-
sands of satisfied owners testify to that.
44 And now the second part of my ideal has been accom-
plished ...ii\ our ONE Dial Receiving Sets. They
are so simple that a child can operate them. Stations
can be brought in perfectly with the use of but one
hand and without looking at the dial
** Yet nothing has been sacrificed to gain this simplicity
of operation or smallness in size. Our present Models
are more powerful, more selective and have better tone
qualities than any Receiving Sets we have ever made.’’*
Selected Radio Stores throughout Austral-
ia stock the new One Dial Atwater Kent
Radio Receivers. Call on the Atwater
Kent dealer nearest your home. He will
gladly demonstrate this simplest and most
effective of all radio sets .
NEAREST A. K. DEALER TO SHOW YOU MODELS BY ATWATER KENT
Model 35 Receiver has one dial and SIX Valves.
Finished in brown crystalline with touches of gold.
Station dial and volume control in brown bakelite.
Size 171 x 7i x 51 ins.
9m
Model 33 Receiver .. . one dial, SIX valves. Solid
mahogany polished cabinet has brown crystalline
panel, brown bakelite station dial and rheostats/
Touches of gold. Size 2,11 x6lx 61 ins. Unusual
selectivity obtained through special aerial adjusment
device operated by small knob at left of Station Dial.
Model E Radio Speaker (left) covers entire range ol
musical tones. Finished two-tone brown crystalline-
Height over all 181 ins; diameter of casing 152 ins ;
depth over all, 6 ins.
Model H Radio Speaker (right) Height 211 ins.
Diameter of Bell 141 ins. Made entirely of metal in
two-tone crystalline finish.
ATWATER KENT PRICES
Six and Seven Valve ONE Dial Atwater Kent Re-
ceivers, £25 :10 :0 to £37; 10 :0 without valves or
equipment. Radio Speakers, £3:15 :0, £4: 10:0 at. J y
£8:15:0 (New Model E.) Complete outfits from /
£43:10:0 also Console and Writing Desk models
%
y y •• ••
<y
oV %' •
vV;/?/..-
••' ••'.
Cr ■MV 6 .• .
,o;t'F 0 •'
o$A <o*
<y v v
Ts


ft*
&
take
fORMAMINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
Of all Chemists ““3/6 per bottle.
sdf
sd
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANT’S
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean , Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm oj Scotch Whisky Distillers.
LAMES
OR
OEHTS
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perlect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
seij measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
fs
THE MUT
AT MIDDLE HARBOR.
BY
J.H.M.
ABBOTT.
WHEN, in the latter years of General
Macquarie’s government, Dr. Hast-
ings commenced the private practise
of his profession in Sydney, he came to it as
one who suffered under no disadvantages of
illusion concerning the individual and col-
lective characters of the inhabitants of the
little village nestling in the valley of the
Tank Stream. He knew them very well in-
deed as to type, temperament and trust-
worthiness. From the Governor down to the
last lost soul in the Hyde Park convict bar-
racks their ways and their waywardnesses
were equally familiar to bluff and burly
Jimmy Hastings.
Long army service in the capacity of a
regimental medical officer had educated him
very fully as to professional soldiers, their
prejudices and their peculiarities. Subse-
quent employment by the Board of Trans-
port as surgeon-superintendent of vessels
carrying male and female prisoners to New
South Wales and Van Diemen’s Land had
given him considerable insight into the idio-
syncrasies of the official mind, as it might
be studied in the workings of the Homo
Office, the Colonial Office and the Admiralty.
And the many voyages he made in charge of
unfortunate transportees of every condition
and description had given him a knowledge
of the convict character, in all its diversi-
ties, that could hardly be rivalled.
There were five classes of the white in-
habitants of Australia in 1818 —the civil
officials, the military, the free settlers, the
emancipists (as those were termed who had
acquired freedom from bondage) and the pri-
soners. Add to these, of course, the females
of their kind. To James Hastings, M.D.,
there was nothing about any of the sub-
divisions of colonial society that was at all
puzzling. He knew them all, and liked them
all —as one who loves his fellow man—and
they all liked James Hastings. But they
seldom succeeded in fooling him. Neither
from his nature nor from his training was
he a man easily to be deceived. This, how-
ever, is the story of how he once was fooled
-—though only for a time.
H* :J: -U *
It was a little past midnight on a summer
Sunday morning towards the end of Novem-
ber, when the doctor, preparatory to retir-
ing, went out on to the verandah of his
big cottage on the Rocks to release the shut-
ters of the dining-room windows from the
iron catches that held them back against the
wall, so that he might make the house secure
for the night. A very necessary precaution
a hundred years ago was the bolting and
barring of every door and window when the
householder sought his couch, and one that
Dr. Hastings never neglected to attend to
personally.
Three friends had spent the evening with
him over a rubber or two of whist, and a
subsequent scratch supper of stout and
oysters sent for from a neighboring tavern
down in George-street. They had not long
been gone, and after scanning the meagre
sheets of the Sydney Gazette for twenty
minutes or so, the doctor, with a pious prayer
that the advent of no sudden little stranger
might drag him from it ere sunrise, had yawn-
ingly decided to seek his bed. As he stood on
the stone flags of his wide verandah on the
western hillside that was one of the two
ramparts of the village in the valley, the
splendid beauty of the moonlit scene stretch-
ing before him, beyond the picket fence of
the trimly-terraced garden, held him momen-
tarily spellbound.
“Gad —how glorious !” he murmured, as
his gaze swept the vision of silvered, spark-
ling waters and dark hilly coastlines that
stretched away towards the low stars above
the eastern horizon of South Head.
A few infrequent oil-lamps burned dimly
at the corners of narrow streets running
downwards towards the main thoroughfare
of the town, and here and there a lighted
window showed infrequently in the dark
opacity of the houses about the Gove. Direct-
ly opposite the great lantern of the guard-
house by the gates of Government House
shone through its open door, and between
Dawes Battery and Benelong’s Point the
riding lights of four or five ships twinkled
pinpoints of gold that were dimmed in the
brilliant radiance of the moon. Out on the
bosom of the shining harbor, the black pyra-
mid of Pinchgut—then a little scrubby islet
of rock —stood up against the silver sheen of
the reflected rays, and beyond it the immense
landlocked basin of Port Jackson was bounded
by the black projection of Bradley’s Head,
and the more distant barrier of the high wall
that divides it front the ocean. High over-
head, the bright round disc that mad? the
night so lovely hung in the deep indigo of the
cloudless heavens. From somewhere down
bv the waterside came the scraping of a
fiddle, and the occasional roaring cadence of
a sailorman’s chorus. Nothing else broke
the deep silence.
For nearly a minute Dr. Hastings stood
there, gazing upon this entrancing nocturne,
ere lie turned to complete the task that had
summoned him out of doors. Just as lie did
so, lie was startled to hear his name called
softly but distinctly from the garden, in the
tones of a woman’s voice.
“Dr. Hastings ! Oh, Doctor, a moment,
if you please.”
Wonderingly, lie turned, and peered out
into the moonlight.
“Ha, who’s there? I can’t see Please
come up here, whoever you may be.”
For a few moments nothing happened,
and then, quite silently and suddenly, the
figure of a woman, cloaked and veiled, ap-
peared at the top of the stone steps opposite
the front door. The doctor stared at her
in astonishment. She had moved into the
range of his vision as noiselessly and in-
stantly as any ghost might have moved, and
stood before him in her dark riding costume,
its long skirts gathered up in her left hand,
and the heavy veil over her face, in the. pro-
verbial mysterious fashion of some visitant
from another world. She said nothing, but
simply stood darkly silhouetted against, the
gleam of the distant waters and the bright-
ness of the night beyond the black, hard line
of the verandah’s roof.
After a few seconds he mastered his sur-
prise and motioned towards the open hall
door.
“You wish to consult me, Madam! Pray
step within, and go into the room on the
right. I will join you in a moment —I wish
to close these shutters.”
Moving as quietly as before, the woman
went into the house.
When the doctor came back into the
candle-light he found her standing beside the
table, unveiled. Her pale beauty startled
him a little, and the expression of piteous
entreaty in her face summoned to the sur-
face that ready sympathy with suffering that
AND BESIDES
HE ( explaining ): “No, Carrie, I couldn’t
live without my wife.”
SHE ( jealously ): “She loves you so much ?
HE: “Yes—um—and besides, you see, she
has the money."
lay never very far below his grim and_ rugged
exterior. Hastily he placed & chair, and
begged her to be seated. .
“You are ill, madam? Pray inform me as
to how I may assist you. Wait—just .1
moment, pray.” He went to the sideboard
and poured out half a tumbler of Madeira
from one of the decanters. “Drink this first,
and then tell me of your trouble. I can
see that you are greatly fatigued, and
troubled also.” .
She drank the wine eagerly, and put
the glass down on the table amidst the litter
of the oyster supper, long clay pipes and
playing cards. , . , ,
Wiping her red lips with a dainty liand-
kerchief, she smiled faintly, and spoke, in-
quiringly, in a low, musical voice.
“You do not know me then, Dr. Hastings i
The doctor shook his head. “No, Madam.
I cannot say that I recall ever having had
the honor of meeting you before.
“And yet you brought me here —three
years ago—in the Hilda.”
“Three years ago ! Let me see, that was my
last voyage as surgeon of the Hilda. \> ere
you a passenger—in the cuddy? Strange
that I cannot recall your face ! My memory
must be failing me.”
“I was a passenger,” she sighed. “But
not in the cabin. In the ’tween decks, Doc-
tor. You understand —I was a prisoner.”
He shook his big bald head again. ‘I do
not easily forget faces —but I have no recol-
lection. I” .
“Ah well,” she interrupted him, » it does
not signify. But I want you to come with
me, Doctor. Can you come at once? Now?
She leaned forward eagerly.
He looked at her questioningly—perhaps
with some sign of unwillingness in his
regard.
“But, Madam, is the _ matter so very
serious? ’Tis past one o'clock, and I have
had a busy week. Will it not do in the morn-
ing? I confess I am a little tired.”
“Listen, Doctor. ’Tis a matter of life and
death. My—my husband has met with an
accident, and without your assistance he
may die, Ob, Doctor, I know that you’ve
a kind heart,” she entreated him. “Say
that you will come with me— now ._ I beg
of you to hasten to his help. He is every-
thing to me. Indeed — everything /”
Tears were in her eyes as she spoke, and
her voice quivered. With a sigh the doctor
rose to his feet.
“Very well. Pray compose yourself.
Madam, I will come. But where? And
what is the nature of your husband’s
injury?”
“He has been shot through the lungs,
Doctor, and lies at a settler’s house over on
the North Shore, The ferryman awaits us
at the point—Billy Blue —and I’ve horses
ready for us on the other side. Please to
come at once/ and I’ll explain as we go.
There’s little time to spare—every moment
is of value. Even now we may be too late.”
“Well, well, a moment or two whilst I get
one or two things from my surgery. P-ray
take some more wine. I will not be long.”
Presently he came back, and they went out:
together, and walked along the ridge towards
the ferry at Dawes Point. Sleepily the
doctor’s man-servant closed the door after
his master.
“If ’twas me they come a-luggin’ out at
such times,” remarked that disgusted fac-
totum, “I’d see ’em domned first. Too dom’
good ’earted, that’s wot Jimmy is!”
* * * *
It was just growing daylight when they
came to the end of their journey. The
woman, apparently, had used the term
“North Shore” to indicate any part of the
country lying between Billy Blue’s Point and
the Hawkesbury River, and the only satisfac-
tion that the doctor could gain from ques-
tioning her as to how much further their
moonlight ride through the bush was going
to take them was the often-repeat.ed state-
ment that they would “not be long now.”
After three o’clock he had given up inquir-
ing, and had ridden sleepily behind her
through the interminable forest of eucalyptus
that used to cover all the hilly region be-
tween Port Jackson and the watershed
Broken Bay.
After they had been transported across
the harbor hy the “Old Commodore,” who
constituted the Sydney Ferries, Ltd., of the
period, a man had led two horses down to
the waterside, and held their’ heads whilst
the doctor and the lady mounted. Before
they moved off she called him to her, and
handed him something.
“Here’s a guinea for you, Tom,” she said,
“and a letter I want you to deliver in the
town to-morrow. You can get accommoda-
tion at the Good Intent—l’ve arranged with
Billy Blue to take you over now. You’ll
find Driscoll there. Tell him the doctor’s
gone out. And be sure you’re back with
the answer to this by to-night. No drinking,
mind —at least not too much.”
As they rode up the hill along the rough
bush road that led to the district of Lana
Coye, the doctor sought to question her as to
the place they were going to, the circum-
stances of her husband’s accident, and one
or two other matters having to do with
the expedition she had dragged him forth
upon, but with little result. Her husband
was a settler, she said, one who had to do
with the timber-getting industry—a sort
of master-sawyer, the doctor inferred. His
injury had been sustained entirely by mis-
chance —the careless handling of a firearm by
a neighbor. That was all. He would see
how matters were when they arrived. She
was obviously disinclined to be communica-
tive.
So for the most part they had ridden
silently through the dark forests. Only two
or three times had the barking of dogs
denoted some outlying human habitation in
this wilderness of rock and scrub and tall,
melancholy trees. At some distance beyond
the crest of the long ridge that separates
Middle Harbor from the estuary of the Par-
ramatta River she turned off the road to the
right, and they followed a mere bridle-path
through the timber. At no time, he noted,
did she display any hesitation as to then-
route. It was evidently a path that she
knew how to travel as well by night as by
Ua Ah, well, he was used enough to curious
phases of his practice in the neighborhood
of Sydney, amongst the curious people he
knew so well, to refrain from indulging over
much his vein of curiosity as to this par-
ticular excursion. Ide would know all about
it in due course. As for any. personal
danger, he did not consider it any more than
to reflect that in each of his capacious side-
pockcts there reposed a pistol.
Finally they rode down a deep gully, with
the reddening dawn in their faces, and came
to a stone hut standing in a clearing at the
head of what appeared to be some narrow
TOOLS OF TRADE.
“She’s a grass widow, you know.”
“Yes. I’ve seen her about a good deal with,
a rake.”
branch of the harbor. It was a fairly com-
modious dwelling-place, constructed of
roughly-hewn sandstone, and thatched with
ruslies. The front door faced the narrow
waters of the bay and a steep hill beyond,
and at the back was a slab shed, covered
with bark held in place by saplings.
“Will you tie your horse up here, if you
please, Doctor?” she said, as; she slipped ro
the ground. “You will need him to ride back
to Sydney, later on. Please to come inside.
She led the way through the open door,
and Dr. Hastings followed, unslinging the
satchel containing his surgical appliances
that had been slung across his shoulders.
He stooped his head as he entered the hut,
and peered curiously about him in the dim
light that filtered through open door and
window. There seemed to be something
sinister and ominous in the stillness of the
place. It was roughly, but not badly, fur-
nished, and evidently consisted of two
apartments, of which the one they entered
was the living-room.
As his eyes grew accustomed to the twi-
light of flic place—it was clear' day out-
side by this time —he saw that on the oppo-
site side of the room a human form lay
stretched upon a rough couch, covered with
a rug.
“Ah,” he remarked, is this my patient?
He seems to be asleep.” The woman laughed
softly, and a little harshly, the doctor
thought.
“No, he is dead,” she said. “Your patient
is in here, Doctor. Won’t you come in?”
(Continued on page t t 9.)


SENSATIONAL
CASH STORE
n\
J\
w
MEN’S ALL-WOOL SHOT GABERDINE
OVERCOATS
Showerproof, Latest Raglan Style.
Retail Value, 6 Guineas.
HALF PRICE AT
FOSSEY’S COUNTRY WEEK, 63/-
Guaranteed Perfect.
MEN’S OVERCOATS
OF ALL-WOOL DARK GREY TWEED
Well made and smartly cut. Full belted waist.
Selling everywhere, 39/6.
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE, 27 6
dfa
BOYS’ ALL-WOOL
NAVY FLANNEL
BLAZERS
Trim m e d witH assorted
colored cordings in assorted
sizes. Retail value, 12/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE, 7/11
MEN’S FAWN GABERDINE
SHOWERPROOF
OVERCOATS
Belted Waist, Latest Style and Cut.
Selling everywhere, 60/-
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE, 49/6
\
N
S\
u
L
BOYS’ ALL-WOOL DARK GREY TWEED
OVERCOATS
Smartly Cut, well tailored. Selling everywhere,
35/-
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE,
23/11
MEN’S ENGLISH TWEED DOUBLE
BREASTED
OVERCOATS
Half belt back; latest style. Usual Price, £7
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE,
95/-
MEN’S NAVY GABERDINE
OVERCOATS
Belted waist, latest cut. Retail value, 70/
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE,
596
MEN’S ALL-WOOL DARK GREY TWEED
SUITS
Well cut and made. Guaranteed the best value in
Australia. Selling everywhere, 59/6.
COUNTRY WEEK PRICE, 39 6
RETAIL QUANTITIES ARE CLEARLY STATED FOR QUICK COMPARISON!
Youths’ Golf Shirts
Made from Striped Poplin De Luxe.
Excellent quality, separate collar to
match. All sizes. Retail value, 7/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE ... 4/11
Men’s Golf Shirts
Made from finely checked Cambric
with stiff collar to match, in shades or
blue, grey and fawn. All sizes.
Retail value, 12/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE . . 8/11
Men’s Golf Shirts
Made from strong woven Striped
Zephyr, in all sizes. Excellent wearing.
Retail value, 5/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE .. . 3 6
Men’s Golf Shirts
in strong fancy Cambric with stiff
collar to match. Neat designs in
colors of blue, mauve and fawn. Sold
everywhere, 8/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE .. 6/11
I^=
HUGE PURCHASE
500 DOZEN
Men’s Striped Poplin
de Luxe Golf Skirts
Neat stripes, heavy quality,
collar to match. Retail
value, 12/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE,
8/6
Men’s Silk Golf Shirts
Made from All Silk Cream
Fuji, in golf, tennis and
sports styles. Splendid
value at 12/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE,
8/11
Boys’ Shirt Waists
From strong Striped Poplin De Luxe.
Also ranger shirts, all sizes, most
durable quality. Retail value, 4/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE ... 3 6
Men’s Handkerchiefs
Strong White Hemstitched Lawn, large
sizes. Retail value, 6/- doz.
FOSSEY’S PRICE,
4/11 doz.
Men’s Silk Broadway
Ties
Splendid quality, smart designs, 500
dozen of them, all worth 3/6 each.
FOSSEY’S PRICE,
1 11 2 each.
Men’s All Wool
Singlets & Underpants
Australian made. Sizes 36 to 44.
Retail value, 8/6.
FOSSEY’S PRICE . .. 511
t
■ \ A s.
w
\m
m
Men’s
Pyjamas
Made from strong
striped flannelette.
Colorful neat stripes.
Excellent quality, all
sizes. Comfortable
fitting. Retail value,
7/11.
FOSSEY’S PRICE,
5/11
FOSSEY’S
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Mail Orders Please Add Freight and Address
Letters to Dept. “B”


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
are Bound to Help You.
ZS(
VM.
AW
%
i • ■
rm
Mr.
JACK
SINCLAIR
(from a
photo).
“I have much pleasure in send-
ing you a testimonial for the
benefit of others who may suffer as
I did with Stone in the Bladder
and Kidney Trouble. I was ad-
vised to use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, which I did with great suc-
cess, and have the stone passed.
It gave me a shock at the time, but
great relief, and I am only too
pleased to show that stone to any-
one or tell of the good I derived
from the use of Gin Pills. I had
to give up my trade as a baker
through my suffering, and take on
cooking, which was lighter work.
I wish you to use this testimonial
to your best advantage, also I wish
to state that I took Gin Pills
strictly by direction; I drank
plenty of water, knocked off tea
and coffee, and ate very little meat.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are really
a valuable medicine; I cannot
speak too highly of them.
“Wishing you every success,
“Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) JACK SINCLAIR,
“Baker, Balranald, N.S.W.”
Men! Look Well and Feel Well
Don’t suffer the agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Run-down feeling, or Kidney
Troubles of any kind ; but remember that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills were specially
designed to banish all these ailments. No matter how long yon have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used before, you should try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills;
they are sure to help you, as it is practically impossible to take them into the
human system without benefiting. They help you from the very first dose, banish
Backache and make your Kidneys strong and healthy' once again.
D» Sheldon's .
G* 1 *
piixs
BANISH
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER,
AND URINARYTROUBLES.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
M. J. Rvan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the .transaction of all general banking business
QV
%
$
o
A\Ve
y
Food
Far
backward
children.
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children, and
a cupful between meals,
and at bedtime, provides
just what is wanted.
Parents who have a child
growing too rapidly, or weakly,
or not thriving, can be sure
that extra nutrition of this par-
ticular kind is required.
Benger’s Food is always
made with fresh new milk. It
enriches and converts the milk
into a delicious food cream,
very easy to digest.
Benner's Food is sold by Chemists and Stores
everywhere.
Benger’s booklet for Mothers,
post free from BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers : —Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.
A* 71
sdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
FHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulbttrn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
She stood by the entrance to the other room
and waved her hand for him to enter. A
little startled, he turned and walked across
to the door she indicated, and passed through
it. The woman did not follow him. Again,
the uncanny stillness of the place struck
Dr. Hastings. He paused inside the thresh-
old, and looked about him.
The room had that appearance of fem-
ininity in its furnishing and decorations such
as the sleeping apartment of a woman of
some taste and refinement might be expected
to display. A great four-poster bed hung
with chintz curtains occupied the greater part
of its floor space. There were pegs driven
into the interstices of the, rough stone wall
opposite the window, on which hung dresses
and petticoats. A toilet table, with a large
mirror on it, stood before the window. There
were hairbrushes, and small pots and recep-
tacles, and a trifle or two of jewellery, and
little shining implements such as scissors
and tweezers, and a liand-mirror spread about
the surface of the white linen that covered
it. On a bedside table stood an earthenware
jug, a black bottle, and a glass half filled
with what looked like rum. The bed had
white linen sheets on it, and beneath them
and a blanket a man lay on his side, his face
turned away from the window, apparently
asleep. But his sleep seemed so sound and
deep, the bedclothes draped themselves over
his form so much in that curious indescrib-
able fashion in which the raiment of dead
men seemed to cling inanimately to their life-
less forms, and there was such a chill still-
ness in the room, unbroken by any sound of
breathing or of living, that Dr. Hastings,
with his forty years of experience of life
and death, felt instinctively, even before he
looked, that he stood in the presence of the
latter.
After a few moments’ pause, whilst his
quick brain registered these impressions of
the room and its occupant, the doctor
stepped noiselessly to the bedside, and bent
over it. The man did not stir. Even at this
close range there was no indication that he
breathed.
Dr. Hastings brushed the blanket down a
little with his right hand, and exposed a
naked back and shoulder, laying the hand
upon the latter. It was as cold as marble-
cold and lifeless.
“Ah!” muttered the doctor—“l thought
so.”
After a second or two he tightened his
grip upon the shoulder, and pulled it towards
him with all the power of his strong right
arm.
In the grotesque fashion in which a corpse
responds to an external force when rigor
mortis has supervened upon the first limp-
ness of dissolution, the body rolled over on
its back, the bent right arm still rigidly
adhering to the face, with the stiff forearm
and clenched fist sticking up absurdly in the
air, like the leg of a chair that lias been
overturned. The dead, white face was that o f
a young man not much over thirty, clean
shaven, and not unhandsome, save that it
was marred by an old scar that might have
been a sword cut extending across the left
eyebrow and forehead into the roots of the
curly black hair. For a moment the doctor
stared at the lifeless features with a look
of puzzled bewilderment in his rugged face.
Then he took his hand away, and straight-
ened, up, stepping back a pace from the bed-
side, and still staring at the distorted body.
“By God !” he murmured. “Tis Dicky
Mason, of the Commissariat !”
The stillness of the lonely little house
was broken now—in the next room the
woman was sobbing in a suppressed, fashion.
Far up on the hillside, across the narrow
waters of the tidal creek, a chorus of kooka-
burras paid homage to the rising sun. For
a full half-minute the doctor stood there
thinking, a frown furrowing his broad fore-
head, his heavy eyebrows knitted. Presently
he stepped back to the bed and pulled the
bedclothes down, so that the naked body—
with bent knees, and the stiff arm, in a posi-
tion of warding off a blow, bent across the
right temple—lay fully exposed, the glazed
eyes half open in a drowsy fashion.
With great carefulness the doctor made
his examination, and when he had finished,
he drew the bedclothes up over the dead
man, muttering to himself :
“No violence—not even a bruise. ’Tis his
heart. I warned him of it when he came
to see me. Well, well ! In the name of the
Devil, what’s it all mean? He’s been dead
twelve hours!”
He stepped into the next room, closing
the door softly behind him. The woman sat
huddled on a chair by the doorway, her face
in her hands, and her shoulders heaving
spasmodically to her sobbing. The sun,
just peeping over the hilltop, was shining
into the door and window. He said nothing
to her, but w r alked over to where the other
figure lay upon the couch. He pulled the
rug off it, and bent over it. Then he
whistled softly, covered the body rip again,
and turned to look at the woman. Presently
he spoke—gently enough, but very firmly.
Her hands still covered her face.
“Madam,” he said, “in the next room lies
the body of Mr. Richard Mason, of the
Commissary’s Department, who has been
dead, at least, since this time yesterday.
Of heart disease. I knew his condition,
and had warned him of it. Here is another
dead man—shot through the breast, who
must also have died at once, and at about
the same time as Dick Mason died. 1 beg
you to compose yourself, and to attend to
me. Come now, Madam, you have made
some sort of a fool of me, with your tale
of your accidentally wounded husband.
Tell me what has happened. You must
have known that both these men were dead
when you sought my assistance last night.
Look at me, and speak. You know,” he
hesitated, “I am a Magistrate of the Terri-
tory, and ’tis in my power—it may be
my duty, unless you can explain—to arrest
you, and charge you with the murder of the
man who lies in this room. The other has
died naturally enough, but this man here,
he has surely been murdered. Come—speak
up. A moment, though—l will give you
something that will do you good.”
He unfastened his satchel, and took out
a bottle, and a medicine glass in a leather
which he extracted and filled from the
bottle.
“Now,’’ he said, advancing towards her
with the glass, “drink this, my poor woman,
and tell me about it.” _ •
She straightened herself, took the Ja.-s m
a trembling hand, and drank its contents.
Never, thought the good doctor, had he seen
such unutterable woe in any human coun-
tenance, save in those of such as were about
to die by the law. After a little while she
spoke to him, slowly and with hesitation.
“Doctor,” she said, “have you ever, m
London, seen that set of pictures by bir
Joshua Reynolds—seven or more, 1 thinK
entitled ‘The Rake’s Progress’?
“Tut, tut —Madam. Please do not trine-
What has Sir Joshua to do with this affair.
Come, I want an explanation. There is not
time for trifling. What have those paint-
ings to do with this dead man ?
“Everything.”
“Everything ! How?” _
“This is bnt another setting of that scene
in ‘The Rake's Progress.’ The husband
wounded to death in his wife’s bedroom,
whilst the rake climbs out of the window of
the —of the guilty wife’s bedroom in Ins
shirt. Do you not remember? ’Tis such a
thing as took place here at sunset yesterday.
Sir Joshua Reynolds has told the story.
This is but another rehearsal of it. I am
the —the guilty wife.”
With sudden amazement Dr. Hastings
realised that the woman spoke the truth.
“By God !” he spoke aloud. “Young Dick
Mason, he was a d—d young rake —and
that’s the truth.” Presently he addressed
her again. “Rut, Madam, why did you
come to me with that cock-and-bull story
last night? I suppose the excitement lulled
Dick Mason —eh?”
She nodded. _ , .
“He crawled back into bed —and died in
a few minutes. Omy God!” she moaned
pitifully, and again buried her face in her
hands. “ ’Twas after lie had shot my hus-
band. I came to you because I knew your
kindly heart—from what I saw of you on
the Hilda, coming out. What will you do?
The doctor stepped out into the sunny
morning. For ten minutes lie paced up and
down before the stone hut, his hands be-
hind him, and his head bent, deep in thought.
Then he went inside again, and laid Ins
purse upon the table.
“Madam,” he said, “I must ride back to
Sydney, and report this business to the Chief
Constable. He will send out here. But,
he whispered huskily, “his men need not find
you here. Here are ten guineas—you have
your horse. God help poor woman
and every sinner of us all!”
He went outside, mounted the horse lie
had ridden from Billy Blue’s, and roue away
up the gully. ,
“The Lord confound you for an old tool,
James Hastings !” lie murmured, as he rode
away.
The Triumph of Jael.
As I, Jael, wife of Ileber,
Looked forth this day from my tent,
Alone o’er the Plain of Zaanaim
Came Sisera, weary and spent.
I ran and I bowed before him —
“Why comest thou hither, my lord?”
He answered, “The army of .Canaan
Is slain by the edge of the sword.
“My mother waits with her maidens
For the news of my victory—
And I flee from the hand of Barak,
From the host of Israel I flee!”
Then my heart leapt up with gladness,
But I hid the hate in my breast,
And softly I spake* “Now turn ye,
My lord, to my tent and rest.”
Footsore he was, and fiercely
The red sun beat and burned.
And unto my voice he hearkened,
And into my tent he turned.
And he prayed for a draught of water,
But I brought forth milk at his wish,
And cakes fresh-baked on the hearthstone,
And butter in lordly dish.
And I served as a very handmaid
With humble and downcast eyes,
Lest looking up on a sudden
Their mockery he should surprise.
And I spread my mantle upon him,
For heavy he was with sleep,
And I soothed him, “Rest ye unfearing,
A watch and a ward will I keep.”
Then swiftly I seized a tent-nail
And a hammer to serve my need,
And I prayed for strength to Jehovah.
That his sleep might be sound indeed.
I struck with my might as he slumbered —•
I had fitted the nail with care,
Stepping so soft that he stirred not,
Though his breath was hot in my hair!
And the tent-nail pierced his temple.
Ah. he groaned in agony then !
And I laughed aloud in my triumph,
And strongly I smote again.
His mother shall weary with watching
Ere his chariot she behold,
For into the hand of a woman
The Lord hath Sisera sold!
The captain of Canaan’s thousands
Lies there at my feet like a log,
And I spit on his face with scorning,
And spurn the uncircumcised dog.
Ho ! Barak, cease thy pursuing !
Ho ! Fling ye the tent-flap wide.
And Jael. the wife of Ileber,
Shall show where thy man doth hide!
Oh. Deborah, Mother in Israel,
Now praise to thy daughter give!
So long as this people remaineth
The name of Jael shall live!
Go, cast his corpse on the dung-hill,
Let the carrion rot in the sun !
And leave the nail in his temple
To witness what I have done.
N.S.W.
CLARE THOMPSON.


BY A.PPOINTMINI
Mappin &Wehb
A A LTD.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
>ll,l
TO
TO
KKWTOTO
WKttWTOJ
w/totowto
'
: >!
(KKKKnKKKTO
WTO
mas
til WTO
A
m
sc <5
A CORDIAL INVITATION
Mappin & Webb have the dis-
tinction of being one of the old-
est firms of Gold and Silver-
smiths, Jewellers, etc., in the
World, and they extend a cordial
invitation to visitors from the
Commonwealth to call at their
Showrooms when in London.
The West End showrooms are
within 5 minutes by taxi from
the Leading Hotels; the city
showrooms are opposite the
Mansion House, and quite near
the Guildhall, St. Paul’s Cathedral
and the Tower of London.
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of Dressing
Table Services in Gold, Sterling Silver, Tortoiseshell,
Enamel, etc., complete suites comprising 6 pieces,
from £lO/10/-
Mappin
A A LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St. W.l. 172 Regent St. W.l. 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
OUTSTANDING
ACHIEVEMENT
DURING THE
YEAR.
Over THREE
MILLION POUNDS
DIVIDED IN CASH
BONUSES, being
equivalent to rever-
sionary Bonuses of
about £5,270,000.
79th Annual Report Discloses
Following Figures for the Year 1927:
New Business Completed . .
Paid to Members or Their
Dependents
New Business Effected by
Existing Members
Funds at 31st December, 1927
£19,459,808
4,685,392
5,635,256
67,809,683
CASH BONUS to be distributed amongst Ordinary
Department participating policy-holders on 30th
June next represents an average return of
ELEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE
in each pound of participating premiums paid.
Paid to Members and Their Dependents During
the Existence of the Society over £86,000,000
Write or ’Phone jor prospectus.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuarv.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., Secretary.
Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ’Phone: BW 2354.
Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
The Dugong Charm.
A GREAT fishing canoe ploughed a sea
leaden in its placidity; twin curved
outrigger floats made seething fur-
rows. Dashed to the outrigger cross-tie 3
amidships, split bamboo lances formed a
lookout platform whereon stood Ulai,
mamoos of Erub. In the bow the har-
pooner and assistant lounged dejectedly upon
a smaller hatch. Impassively the steersman
gazed islandward. Eight paddlers, four for-
Avard and four aft, Avith rhythmical strokes
of single-bladed paddles, drove the dug-out
onward. Save for the “whoos” of expiration
a brooding silence reigned.
The island of Erub loomed through the
evening haze. The translucent blues of lulls,
scarred by purple ravine-slashes, contrasted
strongly with the cream of cliit-rocks baieu
by the truncation of liill-slopes towards sea-
level.
Ulai, chin on breast, morosely glanced
around, Though hope of locating game had
been abandoned long since, he forced him-
self to the task of scanning the surface Ot
the sea for the dark blotches which, at a
distance, mark the coupling turtles.
As the canoe approached the island the
shore-line gradually emerged. No breakers
foamed upon the rampart of fringing coral
reef. Dexterously the steersman piloted the
canoe through the narrow lagoon channel,
swerved to avoid the submerged rubble walls
of a semi-circular fish-trap, and the canoe
grounded gently on the crisp coral sand beach
of a bay, circled on the left by chfts and
fringed on the right by level sandy terraces
above Avhich the hill-slopes rose steeply.
Groups of squat, circular, grassHhatclicd
huts nestled in groves of cocoanut palms upon
the terraces. Smudges rose straight and
plumed above the palms. A dense thorny
scrub covered the hill-slopes, save Avhere
fallowing garden plots lay clothed in a
matted growth of blady grass, which
billowed in the light sea breeze. Planta-
tions of bananas and pawpaws, with the
beaten tracks leading up from the huts,
exposed the crimson basalt soil like bleeding
gashes upon the foliaged hill-slopes.
Ulai stepped from the canoe and, moving
to the prow, took from a small upright pole
a carved wooden dugong about fourteen inches
long; two human fibulae surmounted a trough-
like depression, filled with red ochre, in the
back; a tuft of dried marine grass adorned
the tail. He eyed the charm derisively for
some seconds; then, without turning his
eyes, spoke gruffly. “Draw the canoe to its
shelter. Then follow me.” Turning, he
passed slowly up the beach, glancing neither
to right nor left, and entered the palm grove.
The crew, stilled in the act of running
the canoe high upon the beach, crouched
like bronze statues, eyeing each other ask-
ance. By taking the agud (charm) to his
hut Ulai had flouted the island custom
which demanded that it be returned to the
agu with traditional ceremony.
Turbulence followed in Ulai’s wake.
Women, crouched over small cooking fires,
whispered together or ran to and fro chat-
tering and gesticulating excitedly. Men,
lounging in the lengthening shadows cast
by the huts, arose with exclamations of
concern and hurried beachward, to return
at the heels of the crew.
In a short time the villagers assembled
before Ulai’s hut. As the stragglers came
running, Ulai spoke.
“Behold, people, the charm carved by the
sorcerer Gizu, dead during the youth of
my father. Behold the cleansed bones placed
by the sorcerer Wali, son of Gizu, taken
after death from his father. Anointed with
fat, marked with totemic emblem, dressed
with sea grass—of what avail all these?
Thrice within the three past days have we
ventured upon the waters. Was degaer
[dugong] drawn to the harpooner’s hand?
Seldom do the watchers from the high hill-
slopes report our canoe laboring homeAvard
sluggish with spoil. I say this charm is a
thing of”
Kaige, the steersman, though profoundly
shocked, interrupted, excitement quickening
his speech.
“O Mamoos, is not the story told that
Seewi, thy father, as thou, scoffed at this
image fasioned by Gizu, and cast it upon
the sea? And did not a great wind from
the north-west come before its time, bring-
ing countless fruit-bats which devastated the
gardens? Was not fire, which consumed
grass and hush, cast on Erub; and till
Bceka found the charm thrown high on the
sands of Merad, did not the fishers return
empty-handed from the sea?”
Ulai answered dispassionately. “These
things are true. Yet, cast upon the waters,
or borne upon the proAV, is the reward not
the same? What of the vacant places upon
our agu? This is a charm Avithout merit.
This will I prove.” With his foot, Ulai
contemptuously tumbled the charm towards
a blazing cooking fire, where finally he placed
it amidst the brands.
With exclamations of fear the onlookers
drew back; Avomen fled to their huts. All
eyes turned towards Wali; a hush of ex-
pectancy fell on the assembled men. Ulai
gazed impassively till the dry wood blazed,
then turned and entered his hut.
Old Wali, hate and rage transforming his
features, Avatched without comment the pro-
ceedings. As the agud was placed upon the
embers his eyes blazed furiously, but he did
not stir. As Ulai entered the hut, Wali
shambled to the fire, which he kicked apart
and with sand smothered the flames. Insen-
sible of burns, he snatched up the charred
fragment, and, muttering incoherently, dis-
appeared down the grove.
Morning broke fair. A gentle south-east
breeze ruffled the sea, but within the reef
the water mirrored headland and palms.
Upon the shelving foreshore numerous stone
fish-traps, formed by piling basalt boulders
from the weathered hill slopes breast-high,
though submerged, were visible.
Ulai waded to the largest trap and, pass-
ing along the outer margin, scrutinised the
basalt boulders. Presently he paused.
Stealthily his hand closed on a gapu (sucker-
fish) w-hich sheltered under the overhang of
a large rock. Gently disengaging the suction
disc, he rapidly passed a thin cord through
the gills and out of the fish’s mouth, making
a loop. With a sliver of basalt he pierced
the base of the tail-fin and through the aper-
ture passed a stouter cord, knotting it se-
curely. Drawing the fish after him, lie
passed writhin the enclosure and tethered it
to a mangrove stake which stood in shallow
water.
Passing up the beach, the equipment of
the canoe was scrutinised. Harpoons, paddles,
ropes and bailers were all in place. Once
again within the grove, his hail, “Come along
my crew,” brought immediate response.
Closely followed by his men, Ulai strode
briskly along the beach to the agu —a low
platform at the head of a small cove, screened
by scrub, upon which lay a number of du-
gong skulls and teeth, intermingled with
turtle carapaces. Hanging from vertical
poles, several carved human effigies swayed
in the wind; a number of small bull-roarers
were slung from shorter horizontal poles.
Each man took one of the latter and, circling
the agu, swung the roarers till they gave
out a zooming drone, at the same time, in-
voking, in a weird chant, the wauri (spirits
of the chase) to crown their expedition with
success. At the conclusion of the ceremony
the bull-roarers were re-hung. Ulai removed
one of the wauri , a grotesque carved with
human head and dugong body.
Quickly the canoe Avas launched; the
wauri, hung upon the prow-pole, and the gapu
was slung at the bow. On clearing the reef,
a course was steered towards the north-east.
After a time Ulai silenced laughter and song,
and by signal directed the steersman towards
a turtle on the port bow.
As the canoe approached, the assistant
harpooner relaxed, for, since the turtle was
small, it would be drawn without difficulty
to the side of the canoe when the gapu be-
came attached.
When released, the fish made straight for
the turtle, and the harpooner cautiously
withdrew the bight in the cord.
Periodic slackenings showed that the gapu
continually shifted its grip. Excitedly the
harpooner pointed, for in Torres Strait
fishing lore this was clearly a warning by
flic fish that the lashings which fastened the
outrigger floats were insecure.
At Ulai’s nod, the assistant harpooner
slid overboard with a cord attached to his
arm. Quietly he swam to the turtle and,
passing his arms behind and below the front
flappers, his legs before and beloiv the back
flappers, clung like a limpet, and was rapidly
drawn to the canoe, where the turtle was
overturned on to the platform amidships.
The crew’s misgivings, arising from the
behavior of the gapu, were easily banished,
for had not Ulai himself renewed the lash-
ings four days ago?
Heartened by the minor success, the bow
was headed for the distant reefs towards
the. north-east, where the shoal coral-banks,
with their pastures of marine grasses, Averoi
favorite browsing grounds for the dugong
schools.
Despite a freshening breeze, the first feed-
ing school was encountered about noon. In
the bow the harpooner was statuesque. The
short harpoon, to which a stout rope was
attached, was loosely jammed into a socket
in one end of a long lance; when the barbs
entered the dugong’s hide the lance Avould
float away and lessen the risk of a fouled
rope.
As the canoe ranged alongside a young
cow, the harpooner, lance held rigid, launched
himself at the beast and the barbs went
home. 'Startled, the dugong made for deep
water. As the rope spun out, the harpooner
regained the canoe in time to ease the
strain as the towing-rope tautened. Spray
thrown by the floats obscured the outriggers.
All eyes intently followed the tiring du-
gong. A sickening lurch, as the starboard
outrigger cross-ties entered the waves and
hung there, threw the steersman and two
paddlers into the sea, where they were
rapidly outdistanced.
Ulai, quick to note that the float was
adrift, crouched on the port cross-ties, tem-
porarily righting the canoe. Scarce able to
see for the stinging spray, he signalled
urgently for the bowman to sever the towing
line. Before this could be effected degaer
veered sharply to the right. Under the sudden
added strain the canoe tilted and the port
float Avas torn away. Sharper veered the
dugong in a last convulsh'e effort to break
free. Deeper ploughed the outrigger as the
canoe keeled over.
As Ulai’s head broke the surface he saw
the foundered canoe 20 yards away, the gap
hopelessly widening.
Thus, by his magic, was the scorcerer
Wali, son of Gizu, avenged. Henceforth
he did wax fat as a maker of charms.
* * * *
The story told, old Arai reflectively dreAV
his fingers through the dry beach-sand.
Suddenly he leaned forward and glanced
furtively around. “Mind you, I not know,”
he whispered. “Suppose Wali come quiet
along beach to canoe. Stone knife he
sharp. Ulai he not watch out good. Wali
that one too cunning—you think so?”
F. JARDINE.
Felo-de-se.
I, the fiercest of the town,
Swift to strike the strongest down,
Must fail before her frown.
I, whose eye was like a lance,
Cowering strength with arrogance,
Must melt at her least glance.
I, whose hand was wont to snare
Vicious live things in their lair,
Must tremble now to touch her hair
I, whose tongue was harsh and wild,
Snarling threats arid oaths defiled,
Must dainty turn to speak her mild.
Hence the eagle flees its prey,
Hence the dove sets forth to slay,
Since my heart my deeds betray;
Since as aspen in the glade,
Do I live and die afraid
Of one little milk-white maid.
N-.SAV.
MUSETTE MORELL.


*<•
r>
V'.
'
v
J2SW
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland agenis—*iOiMEB & CHDItCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victoriau Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
The Mark of Superior Quality
RADIO
BATTERIES
m A
B
G
a
£3
l?^S
■ %
Longer Life
Their Longer Life is due to their
patented construction, whichin-
sulates the cells from each other
and provides for possible ex-
pansion of the electrolyte.
No hot pitch is poured
into the batteries, and
thereby many hours*
service are added.
Better Reception
Ray-O-Vac batteries give un-
distorted tone, because of their
low internal resistance which
is only from 1/3 to 1/6 of
that found in other batter-
ies. And because of their
greater staying power,
the cost of radio upkeep
is greatly lessened.
W rite our distributor for the name of your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
DISTRIBUTOR
United Distributors, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia
Wellington, New Zealand.
Plxito
0&5
■
c
I
m
m
i
II
II
§§=
it?
H
§i
iH
Hi
IS
* Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
BOX PRICES:
EACH.
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/« (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Beil Cigar
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Port Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Fares: All-day, 2/6} Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
Luncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
:3p.m.iron, No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
„ Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tels.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY...
DiJiOUS?
When you suffer
From biliousness take
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Biliousness arises
From disordered
Stomach and bowels
BEECHAHE’S PILLS
Tone and cleanse
Stomach, liver, bowels
And the entire system.
Banish biliousness
Relieve constipation
Bispel dyspepsia
e
sdf
A dose at night
will keepyou right
Sold in
Boxes
1/- & 2/6.
3
7!;i ,D
Opulence
has
Little Place
-=uarrtxbjj xxnicrJu
mmsem
in the modern conception of adornment. In both
domestic and personal appointments, simplicity is the
keynote of what is regarded as the best.
Elgin watches embody art as well as craft in their making:
beauty as well as utility has been the manufacturer’s aim.
Therefore, in wearing an Elgin, you have a double
assurance of correctness in both time and taste.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WATCHIWORD FOR .ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
A' 1 '
o 0 **
C°f
G&y
_ e ©
<s e ..••■
* •• •• -••


J-'-f
"it*.
l 1
■■ .«
V
:: .A
c
tz
AUSTRALIA, EGYPT, NIGERIA, BELGIUM,
S. AMERICA AND NOW INDIA COME TO
ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH WITH THEIR
ORDERS FOR LOCOMOTIVES AND LOCO-
MOTIVE COMPONENTS.
The reason is clear. A. W. locomotives have earned
in service a reputation for workmanship and
quality of the highest standard —and with loco-
motives it is cheapest to buy the best.
A recent contract secured by us in India comprises
51 locomotive boilers for the Bengal Nagpur Rail-
ways.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
SALES ORGANISATION:
KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON, 3.W.1.
WORKS AND SHIPYARDS NEWCASTLE
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & Co. Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney & Adelaide
SHIP?
MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.O. 722.
