

m w
■
r
WP
fcasi *
1
%i
m
m
K
M
A A
\~+?'
I m
ONE OF THE JOCKS
Pure
ct
Scotch
ds
s
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS, LTD.,
Glasgow.
Whitehorse
f, scotch Whisky
DALGETY
t: COMPANY, LTD.,
itgents.
The Bulletin
HEAL AUSTRALIAN STORIES AND CARTOONS.
Vol. 49 No. 2511.
Wednesday, March 28, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S book arcade, ltd.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
fiSteJwrtg! 1
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Bool'let, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘ ’
My Name
My Address
i-YSAGHT
o
D
R
iS
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ś
ŝ fsd
sd s
ya
şdfś
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
KEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMO-RATION
PIJP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WAN TED-DISTRIBUTORS
handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South Wales
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B. C., Liebers Fifth
ş
š
>: v'i
ſs
ß
AAM I
-i
&. :
iCd
e
rr.
M.
&
I IM
Ml!
i
r;
Uirfta iso r
*o
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAC!
FLUID MAGNESI\
Vlt *w*nt»d *«•«;« C«LUV4«4
•*»* ' —-
• v P
I TfW <AU**X*j£
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia
is essentially a family Medicine.
From Grandpa to fise youngest
toddler its use is recommended.
For Upset Stomach, Bilious-
ness, Indigestion, the effects
of overeating or overdrinking;
KRUSE’S is the outstanding
corrective.
Buying a bottle of Kruse’s a
like buying health for the family
—Never be without.
2-
POWDER 1-
MM
’i
m,
Pi
FLUID MAGNESIA
. Made bg Felton, Grimwade A Co. Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Irony
The modern is, I think, yielding too
readily to the sweet temptation of the iron-
ical method. In the hands of the lesser
writers, irony is not a theme; it is only a
method. Hardy and Housman have, I know,
made their-epic bargain with the Angel of
Pain, of which we and letters get the bene-
fit; but these are not the lesser writers.
There are four recent novels on my table;
one of them is by an English lady, one by
an American lady, one by an Australian
man and one by an Englishman; so they
cover both sexes and the English-speaking
world. All these writers are sensitive artists
—not heroic, like Hardy and Housman, but
polished and skilful and eminently satisfy-
ing from the critical point of view. And
each of the four books fails because the
author has allowed the irony in the pen to
destroy the guts of the story.
In Lord Raingo (Cassell’s; Dymock’s)
Arnold Bennett has a really wonderful pic-
ture of English Parliamentary life behind
the scenes. He has an immense collection of
characters of whom every one is solid flesh
and blood at about his second sentence.
Reading it, one becomes hysterical with
admiration of the delicate' method cf
the detail in the large, benevolent irony
of the canvas, of each swift telling stroke
touching to life a servant or a clerk with
three words to say or the Prime Minister
with most of the book to say. One leans
back a dozen times saying: “This really is
at last the English political novel; Bennett
must have been a Minister of State to know
and tell so devilishly all these secrets.” Yet
in the end Lord Raingo dies a defeated
middle-aged millionaire who has received
nothing from life, and the marvellous gallery
of living men and women fades into ghosts.
The poison of the vivid method permeates
and becomes the theme; this fine ironical
yarn has become a yarn about the irony of
life; and only the greatest of pens can
tackle that and leave a sweet taste in the
mouth. One turns the last page in bitter-
ness and a feeling of wasted skill; it wasn’t
a yarn but only an opportunity of seeing
how wondrously Arnold Bennett can sustain
a method. Remembering Elsie in “Ricey-
man Steps” one puts the book away.
The American lady, Ruth Suckow, is as
notable if not, technically, as clear-cut.
Her The Odyssey of a Nice Girl (Cape;
Dymock’s) is diffuse in its limpid charm,
often magic in tenderness and delicacy,
always admirable in sensitive exactness of
observation. You are an inmate of the
Schoessel household, of the Boston academy,
of the nice girl’s heart. Her struggles are
your struggles, her frustrations yours, so
clear are they made by this large pitying
method of irony. But it overlaps again.
Marjorie gets nothing, nothing at all. The
goddess, Miss Suckow, observing this nice
child from on high (as-Arnold Bennett saw
from on high his poor middle-aged million-
aire), sees that there can be nothing for her
in that little mocking world. So Marjorie
vanishes, so completely that only her mother
is alive enough to tell the end of her
frustrate story. The canvas that was so
packed wflth American middle-olass life is
empty.
The English lady not patently either
clear-cut or diffuse; Miss Rose Macaulay’s
view of this poor life is that of steady rail-
lery from her seat on Olympus, and as she
sees it she says it, without bothering much
about mere form. Crewe Train (Collins;
Dymock’s) is demoniacal in its elegant neat-
ness, its smooth pungency. You remember
an old popular song: “Oh, Mr. Porter, what-
ever shall I do—l meant to go to Birming-
ham and they’ve sent me on to Crewe”?
Well, a group of vivid people who meant
to go to Birmingham arrive finally at
Crewe. That is the story. They are splen-
did people, their lives full and piquant,
their Birmingham destinies evidentlv in
their own capable hands. But (from Olym-
pus) their destination is Crewe; so they go
there, their lives and destinies frittering in
fragments and many true themes suffering
the same fate in the cunning satiric wit of
the journey. In effect, this being a picture
of life’s ironically remorseless ordering of
all destinies and destinations, there is noth-
ing here but that irony.
Days of Disillusion (Allen and Unwin;
Dymock’s), the Australian writer’s novel,
suffers to the defects of its qualities. Mr’.
Cobb, brilliant artist as he is, cannot hope
to show life by the ironically realistic treat-
ment of the disillusioning days. That is
only the half of life; the other half is the
days of hope and confidence which balance
the picture into truth. His technical form
is fascinating; through the fipst-person
thoughts of Bob Watson we realise his re-
actions to these days with extraordinary
vividness and clarity. But these are the
ironical days, the days wherein Bob was
the mouse and life the cat. E.g., we are
a third of the way through the book before
we know that the setting is Sydney and
Bob an Australian; and to realise him and
his reactions wholly we should know that
much earlier, Sydney being a different place
from Timbuctoo. The smiling all-seeing
irony has flooded the picture, drowning poor
Bob Watson in its tenderly-mocking waters.
As I see it, the guts is hope; without
hope there is no chance of truth. And
truth is the job—truth of life, not of char-
acter only. Life must deliver into the hands
?/ u Loi ; d Rain g°> Marjorie, Denham, Dobie,
Bob Watson, if not their dreams come true
then some compensating approximation of
those dreams. Life does do that, in life.
And life, whether in a created character or
in the sea and sky, is the master of us all,
novelists and readers alike. We know that
there is mockery, often much of it; but
we know, too, that it is not all mockery.
The mockery is only one of the methods
here, below the Angel of Pain and the real
gods who suffer that we may learn.
HILARY LOETING.
The Voyage of the Caroline
In her latest book Ida Lee has given us
the interesting diary of Rosalie Hare, the
18-year-old bride of Robert Hare, captain
ol the brig Caroline, in which are set out the
events of a voyage made to Van Diemen’s
Land in 1827. The Caroline, under charter
to the Van Diemen’s Land Co., visited the
settlement at Circular Head and returned
to England by way of Java and Mauritius.
The diary itself is a fascinating human
document mirroring the personality of the
writer on every page, but it comprises little
more than one-quarter of the volume. Using
the diary as a peg, Ida Lee gives an account
of the early days in Northern Tasmania, the
story of Java and some account of
Mauritius and St. Helena. The book con-
tains a series of excellent reproductions of
original charts and early maps, but when
the writer attempts to describe the explora-
tion done by the Van Diemen’s Land Com-
pany, through an ignorance of the country
she falls into many errors. This is par-
ticularly so when she deals with Jorgen
Jorgensen.
Jorgensen had an interesting career. He
had been with Lieutenant Grant on the
Lady Nelson and had served under Flinders
on the Investigator, and came to the Der-
went. with Bowen in 1803. On his return to
Europe he visited Iceland, where for a few
days he set himself up as king. After a
further chequered career he was arrested in
1820 for pawning some articles of furniture
belonging to his landlady, and was event-
ually transported to Van Diemen’s Land in
1825. Some time after his arrival in the
colony he made a successful application to
be assigned to the V.D.L. Co., and pre-
sented to Edward Curr letters of introduc-
tion from Captain Dundas, a director of the
company. Curr thereupon employed him
to assist in exploring the country.
Jorgensen w r as instructed to proceed
from the Shannon to the Pieman River and
thence northward to Circular Head. He
failed in his' object, but claimed that he
penetrated to the “peak like a volcano”
noticed by Flinders in 1798, a claim which
to anyone who knows the country, with its
tangled mass of mountains and ravines, is
absurd. He is consistent in only one thing,
his failure to identify the features of the
country through which he passed. It is im-
possible (o see ■/he Frenchman’s Cap from
anywhere on the route traversed by Jorgen-
sen, yet he saw it S.W. by W. distant 35
miles! In point of fact, Jorgensen is a
serious rival to Baron Munchausen. One
eagerly looks for the description of the
country he traversed when he turned back,
but in vain. Jorgensen’s reason for this,
that he lost the account of that part of the
journey, fails to convince us. It is quite
clear that Jorgensen never left the central
plateau; the peak he was making for was
Mt. Byron at the head of Lake St. Clair,
and the farthest point reached by him was
the southern end of the lake. He never
even saw the mountain called by Flinders
“a peak like a volcano.”
Ida Lee stated that Jorgensen’s third expe-
dition was the most important he made. In
reality this expedition has no equal in the
record of the V.D.L. Company for ineffi-
ciency, and was entirely barren of result
Not only had the greater part of the way
oeen traversed before, but Jorgensen and
his comrades went along miles of hard beach
or journeyed over open heaths, and the boat
carrying most of their supplies moved paral-
lel with them. North of the Pieman the
boat was sent back, and the party struck
inland. The rugged country and dense
scrub alarmed them, and after making a
half-hearted attempt to force their way to
the east, they returned to the sea-coast.
Only Lorimer saw the Pieman, and that was
at the mouth. Jorgensen claimed that he
crossed it, but his description of the river,
which he crossed by scrambling from rock
to rock, shows conclusively that it was a
small northern tributary, the Donaldson.
Hellyer was the company’s most noted
explorer, and showed a fearlessness and
intrepidity that is unsurpassed in our his-
tory. Of the two journeys undertaken by
(Continued on page 5.)


Truth in Advertising”
“An Assurance of Satisfaction”
Anthony Horderns’
Correct Football Outfits
Wool Rugby Football Jerseys
Men’s Wool Worsted Football Jerseys. Aus-
tralian made, and renowned for durability.
Exactly the same quality as supplied by
Anthony Horderns’ to the majority of First-
grade Clubs. Designed with collar and
untearable fly fronts. The athletic cut ensures
freedom of movement. Colors are as follows.
PLAIN COLORS Royal Blue, Sky Blue,
Maroon, Green, Navy, Black and White.
TWO-INCH BARS—
Black and White
Black and Red
Black and Gold
Maroon and Gold
Maroon and Sky
Royal and White
Royal and Gold
Royal and Red
Sky and White
Emerald and Gold
Royal and Sky
Scarlet and White
BROKEN STRIPES—Emerald and Red (4in.
Emerald Green with 2in. Red) ; Red, White and
Blue ( 1 in. Red, Jin. White and 2in. Navy).
Also Black with 6in. White band around chest
and arms. Chest, 32, 34, 36 inches.
Each 5//
Boys’ Wool Football Jerseys
Boys’ All-Wool Worsted Football Jerseys.
Strongly sewn, White collar and untearable fly
fronts. COLORS: SELF COLORS—RoyaI Blue,
Maroon and Sky. Each 8/9
Men’s Soccer Football Jerseys
Men’s Soccer Football Jerseys, made of strong
Cotton. Reliable make, designed with laced
fronts, stand-up self collar or button front with
White collar. Exceptionally durable. Colors
are as follows: PLAIN COLORS Royal Blue,
Sky Blue.
TWO-INCH VERTICAL STRIPES—
Black and Scarlet
Black and Gold
Black and Royal
Green and White
Green and Red
32, 34, 36 inches.
Maroon and Sky
Royal and Sky
Royal and Scarlet
Scarlet and Emerald
Each, 7/6; Per Doz., 88/-
Reliable Football Knickers
Men’s Football Knickers, made in our own
workrooms. Excellent athletic finish, strongly
sewn. Pocket and belt loops. The materials
used have been specially selected to ensure
reliable service. Superior Navy, Blue, Drill,
Dungaree, White or Khaki Drill. Size, Waist,
28in. to 40in. Per Pair, 5/3; Per Doz., 60/-
Men’s Canvas Football Belts
In self Grey or Cream Canvas, Leather tipped
with plain buckle; 2in. wide. Each .... 2/11
All-Wool Football Hose
Best All-Wool Worsted Football Hose, turn-
over tops.
Black with Red Top Maroon with Gold Top
Black with Royal Top Maroon with Sky Top
Black with White Top Maroon with White Top
Black with Sky Top Navy with White Top
Black with Maroon Top Royal with Gold Top
Black with Gold Top Royal with Sky Top
Black, Green & Red Top Royal with Scarlet Top
Black with Green Top Royal with White Top
Green with White Top Sky with White Top
Green with Gold Top Scarlet with White Top
Navy with Red, White and Navy Tops
Sizes to fit 5,6, 7,8, 9 boot. Pair .... 3/9
Per Doz 42/-
Football Numbers, for attaching to back of
Jerseys, made of strong White Twill, with fade-
less Black Numbers. Per set (1 to 16) . . 7/6
fH
\
m
'
1
■i
U
Clubs and Schools. Take Advan-
tage of Special Quotations
FOR QUANTITIES.
OPEN FRIDAY UNTIL 9 P.M.
USE OUR “D.P.S.”
The Deposit-Purchase System. Simply
leave a deposit. Pay the balance by
convenient instalments. The goods
are carefully packed and stored until
fully paid for. You pay no interest
or extra charge.
Anthony Hordern
Silk Broadway Club Ties
Men’s Wide Broadway Ties. In various Club
and College Colors. Be an ardent footballer
everywhere. Wear your Club’s Colors. i«y
Each O/O
Weil-designed Football Boots
Dailey “M.” Football Boots. Scientifically de-
signed to give comfort and protection to the
feet. Specially fitted springs in waist. Soles
are exceptionally flexible.
Boys’ sizes, 2 to 4 ... Per Pair. ... 18/6
Men’s sizes, sto 10 .. Per Pair.... 18/6
Dailey “M.” Black Calf Soccer Boots. Newest
Model for the season. All sizes for men, 5 to
10. Pair 18/6
The “Hordernia” Football Boot, made of
selected Black Calf. Strong reinforced toes,
sturdily sewn. Well designed and finished.
Boys’ sizes, 2to 4 ... Per Pair. ... 14/6
Men’s sizes, sto 10 . . Per Pair. ... IS/6
The 0.8. Patent Rugby Football Boot. Stops
held fast by Metal Tween Sole. Made from Box
Calf. Per Pair 19/6
The 0.8. White Hide Soccer Football Boot.
Pair 21/-
Football Boot Laces. Per Pair 2/9
Strong Sewn Rugby Footballs
“King Dick” Extra Special Rugby Match Ball.
Leather used is the highest quality Oak-tanned
Cowhide procurable, tanned exclusively for us.
Made in Anthony Horderns’ own factory. Sec-
tions are cut to pattern and machined. They
are then soaked in water, after which strong
rubber insets are put in the balls inflated by air
pressure. When dry, they are re-cut and com-
pletely sewn again, this time by hand. This
process takes out the stretch, and ensures per-
fect shape. Sewn with specially-prepared wax
heavyweight thread. The ideal ball for grade
matches. Complete with Bladder. Each, 21/-
“King Dick.” Complete with Bladder. Ea. 19/6
Ford’s Interstate Rugby. With Bladder. Ea. 22/6
Ford’s Globe Elite. With Bladder. Ea. 24/-
The “Universal.” Selected, hand-sewn Match
Ball. Complete with Bladder Ea. 16/6
The “Triumph.” A first-class hand-sewn. Com-
plete with Bladder Ea. 14/6
The “Scorer.” Match II Ball, hand-sewn. Com-
plete with Bladder Ea. 12/6
The “Dandy.” Match II Ball. With Bladder 10/6
The “School” Special Rugby Match Footballs,
hand-sewn. Complete with Bladder. 10/-, 13/6
“King Dick,” School Match, water-tested; as
used by junior college teams Ea. 19/6
Boys’ Leather Rugby Footballs. Complete with
Bladder
No. 1, Ea. 3/6; No. 2, Ea. 4/6; No. 3, Ea. 5/6;
No. 4, Ea. 6/6; No. 3, Ea. 8/6.
Soccer (Association) Footballs
The “King Dick” Evtra Special water-tested
hand-sewn 18-piece Ball. Complete with
Bladder . . Ea. 32/6
The “King Dick” Football. Tanned leather,
water-tested, hand-sewn, 12 and 1 3 pieces.
With Bladder Ea. 25/-, 27/6
Ford’s Interstate. Complete with Bidder. 26/-
The “Universal,” hand-sewn, 12 sections. Com-
plete with Bladder Ea. 21/-
The “Triumph,” 8 sections. Complete with
Bladder Ea. 19/6
The “Scorer.” Complete with Bladder. Ea. 14/6
Match, Full Size. Complete with Bladder
Each 10/-, 12/6
The “Junior” School Match, hand-sewn. Com-
plete with Bladder Ea. 17/6
“King Dick” School Match, water-tested. Com-
plete with Bladder Ea. 21/-
Boys’ Association Solid Leather Footballs. Com-
plete with Bladder
First No. 1, Ea. 3/9; No. 2, Ea. 4/6; No. 3, Ea.
6/6; No. 4, Ea. 8/6; Match, Ea. 10/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON ALL THESE GOODS.
Postal Address:
and Sons, Limited
SYDNEY.
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


M
m
m
W
m
m
-rx
I
f m ' *~m
V
v
@1
1
Hi
'
Sll
l; v,,.
mm
28 years ago !
Cars in the 1000 miles
Reliability Trial, or-
ganised in 1900 by
the Automobile Club
of Great Britain and
Ireland 65 started ;
25 finished. This is
one of the most famous
dependability trials in
automobile history.
To-day l
Dunlop Tyres are
more popular than
ever, rendering the
utmost in miles, and
materially helping to
make motoring more
profitable, pleasur-
able and economical.
What Dunlop has done
—and is doing!
There are 30,000,000 automobiles on the roads of
the world to-day.
Apart from the invention of the petrol engine, the
pneumatic tyre invented by Dunlop has had the
greatest influence in the remarkable development
of motoring.
Year by year the motor car has improved so has
Dunlop and all along Dunlop has maintained
leadership in tyre efficiency.
For whatever purpose your automobile is used, you
will appreciate Dunlop service.
* * *
Buy Dunlop from your Garage !
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
All States ’ and N.Z,
N*sa
m
V
£1
I
X
’•S
® 1
«/^
; '/V
NA
J
N


ś
JUST PUBLISHED.
New Revised and Enlarged Edition of
The Greatest Book Ever Offered
to the Public!
HENLEY’S TWENTIETH - CENTURY
BOOK OF SECRET
RECIPES, FORMULAS
and PROCESSES
Contains over 10,000 practical processes, recipes and formulas, especially prepared
for daily use in the home and place of business ; it includes thousands of heretofore
unpublished secret methods needed every day in the city home, as well as on
the farm, in the workshop and factory. The book is in one large volume, is
beautifully printed in large, clear type.
10,000
Trade Secrets
Practical Recipes
Chemical Processes
Scientific Formulas
HOW .TO MAKE EVERYTHING
For the Home, the Factory and Workshop.
Antiseptics, Waterproofing, Lubricants, Rust Preventives, Dyes, Filters, Cleaning
Preparations Enamelling, Beverages, Inks, Adhesives, Polishes, Disinfectants,
Flavorings, Cosmetics, Ceramics, etc., etc.; how to make fly-paper; to color flowers
artificially; to estimate weight of ice by measurement; to make materials fireproof;
to work with metals—aluminium, brass, etc.; to make anything and everything
from A to Z.
THIS IS THE BOOK
Everyone who seeks PRACTICAL ACCURATE KNOWLEDGE
and guidance in his everyday work MUST HAVE at his command.
It is a money-maker and a money-saver; it appeals to the young as well as to the
old. Great business enterprises owe their success to the manufacture or sale of
simple inventions or compounds, usually the result of an experiment at home.
Profit by the knowledge that has made others successful. GET THIS BOOK
TO-DAY. Everybody should have a copy for ready reference.
Price 20/-; Postage 1/- extra.
Every Manufacturer—Workshop—Factory
—Laboratory—Office and Home Worker
will find priceless formulas in this wonderful book—formulas which men have
spent a lifetime of toil to perfect. Nothing like it has ever been offered before.
Every formula can be depended upon. It is a priceless book of information which
everyone should possess. One formula alone will more than pay you for the
expense of the whole book. It tells many trade secrets which hitherto have
been impossible to obtain.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
The Best House (or Technical Books,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
him, which rank with the great exploring
feats of Australia, Ida Lee has mentioned
only one, that of the discovery of the oui-
rey Hills and the Arthur River; the journey
of 1828, when he discovered Mt. Murchison
and Mt. Farrell, and nearly perished amid
the snows of Barn Bluff and Cradle Mount,
she passes over in silence. Had she made
more of Hellyer and much less of Jorgen-
sen, her book, so far as the part devoted to
Tasmania is concerned, would have had
much greater value.
A.L. MESTON.
Galsworthy and Perfumes
With the nicety of detail which distin-
guishes Galsworthy’s work, one is not sur-
prised to find the value he places upon
perfume as a medium in which to present
mood, or personality, or the association of
ideas, or, more poignantly, memory and
sentiment.
To take the Forsyte series alone, it is
a little study in psychology all to itself.
For instance, that whiff of patchouli which
Soames had when passing the veiled lady
outside George’s door in “The White
Monkey.” In a moment her standing is
acclaimed. The patchouli has done it.
Never for a second does one doubt who and
what she is. Once again we read of pat-
chouli when June is doing her reclaiming
work; “the little dark hall of the flat was
impregnated with a disagreeable odor of
patchouli,” we read, and are not surprised
to hear that “against the wall a figure
was sitting.” The scent is made to convey
what cannot exactly be put into words.
When Irene is recalled to her many
lovers, the memory is generally ushered
in with a scent of violets, though when she
herself is there the scent varies. In “The
Man of Property” perfumes and scents do
a tremendous amount of work in the de-
scription of her. Soames saw “his wife on
Bosinney’s arm. He caught the perfume
of the gardenias she wore.” And probably
ever after the scent of gardenias created
a sick longing in him. Another time, Irene
had a spray of azaleas when June met her.
Later June comes into the room where she
and Bosinney are, and “a wave of azalea-
scent drifted into June’s face. She felt
sick and dizzy.” Irene says “The azaleas
are wonderful this year,” and when Bosin-
ney replies that their scent is extraordinary,
poor June says sharply, “How can you like
the scent?”—her jealousy fully declared
by her few words. Another time “her white
neck fragrant as a pinewood in sunshine
haunted him.” What more delicious or
seductive?
In “The Silver Spoon,” Marjorie Ferrar,
when exerting her wiles on young Wilmot,
put essence of orange-blossom on her neck
and hands, then went to the studio and,
“approaching him within a few feet, she
waited the effect on him of the orange-
blossom.” Consummate little flirt! She
knew, and Galsworthy knows, the extra-
ordinary effect on the memory of a scent.
The perfumes Irene uses, and those men-
tioned in connection with her, are fresh,
dainty, fragrant. With Annette it is dif-
ferent. Annette is heavier. “The slight
smell of stephanotis” comes from her.
He does not disdain scents to describe
his men, scents which do not in any way
detract from their manliness. “A faint reek
of cigars and lavender-water”—and Wini-
fred knows that her recalcitrant Montague
has come home. And the methodical
Soames, just to show that his methods were
not to be upset by outside things, “going
into a dark little cupboard he turned up the
light and washed his hands with a piece of
brown Windsor soap,” the ordinary office
soap, the smell of which helped to disperse
that sense of impending trouble which was
haunting him. And describing Old Jolyon,
who kept dainty as he grew old, “a kind of
an elegance, as of an old man who, every
morning, put eau-de-Cologne on his hand-
kerchief.”
With a most attractive use of perfume
he describes the home of the old ladies
in “In Chancery.” “The early-Victorian
house of his aunts with its pleasant odor
of camphor and port wine”—how one recog-
nises those undefmable old scents which we
all remember in such houses! In another
old house “the room held little else than a
vague fragrance, and good taste.” Then the
jar of potpourri in Soames’s house—what
memories! “A bowl of potpourri exhaled a
scent that made his head turn just a little.
His wife!” And later, calling upon Irene,
“When the door opened to him, his sensa-
tions were regulated by the scent which
came, that perfume, from away back in the
past, bringing muffled remembrance; frag-
rance of a drawing-room he used to enter, of
a house he used to own; perfume of dried
leaves and honey.”
In all his suggestions of perfume there
are none more arresting and attractive than
those in the delightful idyll of “An Indian
Summer of a Forsyte.” Unless one ana-
lyses very closely the beautiful and wonder-
ful presentment of the fading life of Old
Jolyon. one does not quite realise how often
he is helped to understand the setting and
charm of it all by the mere subtle
suggestion of scents. “It was very quiet out
there, and he could smell the heliotrope,
watered not long since.” How we dwell in
the garden with him! Again: “He felt a
cool hand on his forehead, smelled violets,”
and we know that the hand is Irene’s. But
“that night in his study, when he had just
finished his cigar, and was dozing off, he was
conscious of the rustle of a dress, and the
smell of violets.” and though we, with him,
sense her presence, we find it is but the
super-normal acuteness of a life near the
borderland, and that but his longing
imagination has placed her there. He finds
“scents, and music, and sunlight had now a
living value; they were no longer reminders
of past enjoyment.” And Galsworthy places
scents first of the three. When the old man
was expecting Irene, he “gathered a great
bunch of carnations for her—their fragrance
would help.” As gentle death is drawing
nearer, though as yet Old Jolyon does not
realise it himself, Galsworthy prepares us
gently, pitifully, taking again as his aid
the fragrance of flowers. “Over the piano a
violet dust-sheet was spread, and on it the
first lavender, whose scent filled the room. ’
“The lavender perfume was overpowering,”
and then in the garden “he smelled the
scent of limes and lavender. Ah, that was
why there was such a racket of bees; they
were excited as his heart was excited;
drowsy, too, drowsy on honey and happi-
ness. Summer, summer they seemed say-
ing”; and so, on the cloying sweetness of
heliotrope and the sad scent of lime and
lavender, dear, courageous Old Jolyon
slipped out.
MADELINE BUCK.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a selected
committee of competent judges nominated
by the Associated Booksellers of Australia
and Maoriland.
General Literature. —Lawrence and the
Arabs, by Robert Graves; Aloysius Horn,
by Mrs. E. Lewis; Alfred Deakin, by Walter
Murdock (reprint) ; Sir Richard Muir, by S.
T. Felstead; May It Please Your Honor, by
Wilfred Blacket; Disraeli, by Andre Mau-
rois; Are They the Same At Home, by
Beverley Nicholls.
Books of Literary Merit (Fiction). —The
Ugly Duchess, by Lion Feuchtwanger; Fla-
mingo, by Mary Borden ; The Wayward Man,
by St. John G. Ervine; Soldier Born, by
Conal O’Riordan; Something about Eve, by
G. B. Cabell; New Wine, by Geoffrey Moss.
Books for Popular Reading (Fiction). —
Growth, by Booth Tarkington; Miss Brown
of XYO, by E. P. Oppenheim; Dagger and
Cord, by Aiden de Brune; Jalna, by Mazo
de la Roche; The Story of Ivy, by Mrs.
relloc Lowndes; Second Wager, by H. R.
Taunton.
A Satchel of Books
Something About Eve. by James Branch
Cabell (Lane). Gerald Musgrave exchanges
bodies with a sylvan and goes into the
underworld of Cabell’s imagination, where
he assumes the usual irregular relations with
sundry warm myths and amorous legends.
The author of “Jurgen” wears a trifle thin
and much of the book is padding, but it is
interspersed with passages of engaging wit
and tenderness, disguised in irony.
Premature Epitaphs, by “Ivensal Green”
(Cecil Palmer). To read one’s own epitaph
is given to few men. Those who are thus
privileged in this little book, “mostly written
in malice,” will on the whole say that the
malice is not deeply envenomed. Nor is it
very bright.
The Basic Interests of Great Britain, by
Lord Aberconway (Benn). An experience
of more than 40 years in the administration
of important groups of industries adds
authority to his expressed opinion. That
opinion is optimistic. Britain has industrial
resources of the first order. The problem
before her is the recovery of the markets
lost through the war. “What we must do
for the restoration of our trade,” he writes,
“and for the assurance of a • prosperous
future is to meet the requirements of foreign
countries in design, in quality and in prices.
We must have a fuller appreciation by our
Government of the value of exhaustive
research; we must cut down our manufac-
turing costs to such a point as will enable
us to control the markets at home and
abroad in which we trade; and we must
have an intelligent, and at the same time
economical, sales organisation in foreign
countries. If, by the willing co-operation
of the worker and employer, these ends be
achieved, our industries will revert to their
full vitality.” The general effect of which is
that John Bull must abandon his last-
century habit of waiting for the customer,
and now, shouldering an attractive bag of
samples, must go out and bring him in.
Roald Amundsen (Heinemann). Herein
the Norwegian explorer unfolds the story of
his life; a plain narration after the blunt
manner of the sailorman. The chief inter-
est for English readers lies in the stcry of
the discovery of the North-West Passage and
of that voyage to the Antarctic in which he
just succeeded in wresting the honor of
being the first to reach the Pole from Scott
and his party on their memorable and
disastrous adventure. To Scott he renders
the tribute that he “was a splendid sports-
man as well as a great explorer,” though
generally he thinks the British “are a race
of very bad losers.” The instances he quotes
suggest, however, that he has a remark-
ably thin skin for one who has gone through
so much.
An Eastern Lover, by Joan Conquest
(Werner Laurie). The type of novel that
is described as “palpitating wdth passion.”
An emotional liot-bath.
*
“Lao-dah” : C. J. Dennis has a copy of his
poems that he is quite unable to read. It is
a selection of the best-known moods of the
Sentimental Bloke, done into braille by Vic.
Braille Institute members, in recognition
of the pleasure his verse has given blind
readers in the State. His verses, several
volumes of which are in the South Yarra
Institute, are amongst the most-befingered
books in its extensive library. The father
of one small borrower tells a quaint tale
about them. After tucking his blind daughter
into bed and putting out the light he has
often heard the rustle of leaves going on.
The seeing fingers were still conning the
story of Doreen and her Bloke.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.D.V.C.: In the kindergarten class
P.J.Y.: “Gimlet” bored u 5.... W.J.E.: “Earth’s
Laughter” failed to cheer. .. .Fan: A story might
have been made of the goddess business H.E.R.:
Unreal Lorna: Try it on a trade journal....
Dan W.: Australian themes, please !... .S.G.P.: Nice
sentimental anecdote, but no story.... Corney : \ oui
effort to rhyme “outcast” and “past” (with the
wrong stresses) is heroic... .J.J.T.: Well, what abaht
it? E.J.G.: Fail to see the humor in calling the
barber “the tonsorial artist,” the waiter “the
grimy Athenian” and your appetite your “gas-
tronomy”.... Bellerive: The breathless incident duly
reported:—
They were encamped in a hut
From the wind and damp,
A wayward youth and
A strong-built tramp.
Said the tramp to the youth:
“Your exploits are o’er;
You're under arrest in the
Name of the law!”
The youth did respond
To the hardened D:
“You’ve no murder charge
To lay against me.”
When the weather cleared up
They set off on their trip,
And arrived at dusk in
A little township.
While escorted by train,
Though securely handcuffed,
The prisoner escaped—
The detective was bluffed.
Lucy H.: But wishes never yet paid off a mort-
gage Rex H. : Overdone —the very burnt-up grilled
steak of humor H.H.: Your hero does not please.
Marie De G.: Not thrilled by your verse about
how you “Convention did scorn, and went into the
garden to pluck mignonette”... .Clyde C.: Not even
next week—- or next year.... Frank W.: Don’t make
them so long. . . .Musette: First stanza of inter-
lude” excellent; then comes the slump Hohepa :
Why choose such an awkward measure?... .T.F.K.:
“Bloke” is sloppy Enid T.: Long-drawn-out argu-
ment A.R.G.: Labored R.C.: You bring to the
job a knowledge of how to write verse, but succeed
only rarely. Don’t be a schoolmaster; the best
schoolmasters aren’t.... M.M.: Sob verse about
ma’s singing too sloppy altogether. .. .A.T. (M.L.) :
Sorry to hear your brightest hopes are dead. So is
the verse Jim M.: Might do elsewhere.... Millie
H.: The basis of your yarn is not convincing. And
there is too much dull working of detail E.A.H.:
You thought two men looked like burglars and you
dreamt that they were burglars. There’s nothing
in that Walter D. W.: You think a great deal
more of the sound than of the sense. .. .R.C.H. :
The idea of two people involved in a murder rushing
around to the club for something to eat is a bit
too thick Jean M.: You enclosed stamps for return ;
“this we proceeded to do,” as your story, in its
tedious fashion, says... .M.A.M.: Poor telling.
Why develop the whole tale in a dreary conversation ?
.... Biddy C.: Mercy to your verses would be
inhumanity to our readers... .Van McC.: The “Road
to Anywhere” ended in the w.p.b Chas. 0..
Ghoulish story misses through lack of interest in
the characters... .Thea D.: Not quite... .8.T.: Do
you think that “home” and “throng” make rhyme?
C.F. (Melb.) : Interesting; but matter for a
newspaper article 0n1y... .D.M.F.: You ran c105e....
P.M.M.: You keep your readers too mystified....
A.L.G.: Quite a good dog-fight; but a dog-fight isn’t
a story... .J.M.S.D.: “Flo” flows back to y0u....
Fred N.: The age-old trick story built on the dental
idea was evident from near the jump... .Ewen K. P.:
A well-described incident which would fit into a
story. It can’t stand by itself, though.... Mares:
A little better plotting would do the trick....
J.N.S.: Overdone. .. .M.S. (Richmond, Vic.): Very
rocky. And that pen-name is mortgaged Una
0,: Immature C.C.T.: The pirate yarn heaved
overboard. .. .A.C.W.: “Wanderer” should be back
by this time. .. .Emily T.: Confused melodrama....
Isabel S.: It isn’t a story, any more than a skeleton
is a man... .R.H.D.: Your spirited defence of the
civil servant was read during working hours to a
roomful of them. Three of them woke up and
cheered... .Ana: Too discursive; there’s a par. in
it... . Prooshan Pat: Another example of frightful-
ness. .. .J.L.: Glad to learn that Hinkler’s
“record supreamely grand” is “placed to the credit
of dear wattle land”. . . . Jas. G. : “Call” is too com-
monplace. ... Bert C.: Well, you seem to have got
in the facts: —
To-day Australia justly sings the praise
Of one who did, alone, in sixteen days,
From England to his native country fly,
Determined ever he would have a try.
True to himself his goal he did attain,
And reached here safely in his aeroplane.
. ...8.F.M.: Your “Idol” has feet of clay—and the
rhyme is rocky, too. . . .E.H. : Beginning, fair;
middle, possible; end, unspeakable. .. .G.D.-B. : Too
thin. . . .R.G.H.: You might give a more humorous
point to what you do remember.... Peter: Your sea
crashed in vain on this rock-bound coast... .R.M.J.:
Very crude. . . .John G.: Story of how you couldn’t
get to sleep has no wide public interest... .Jocelyn
M.R.: We don’t use yarns with “cattle-rustlers”
and “sheriffs” in’em... .Kena : Still fails.. . .M.Y.8.:
Starts as if the drought had something to do with
it; then it starts again, so to speak. .. .Mildred E.:
Slight... .W.T.C.: Drags... .H.C.C.: Only descrip-
tion... .W.S.M.: Very faint plot. .. . lI.M. (Wilcan-
nia) : When humor depends on exaggeration you’ve
got to be careful not to overdo it....Oban: Not
improved.... J.F.L.: No story.... Paul II.: Very
little in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.L.M.: The abo. is not the only one who has
slipped—the artist keeps him company. .. .11. E.: Too
late with your Hinkler caricature. . . .T.R.D.: Ragged,
crumpled and hopeless. .. .C.D. : Still blushing at
the joke. .. .M.E.: The drawing was all that your
pessimistic little note said it wa5....T.5.; Take a
few lessons before you try again. .. .J.M.: Glad to
note that you are aware that you can’t draw—and
you’re no humorist, either... .F. 8.: Unutterably bad.
. ...F.G.N.: A dazzling art career is not predicted
for you. .. .E.J.C.: Rejected. .. .W.R.: The drawing
is worse than the gag. . . .K.F.R.: Their originality
is suspect... .F.J.C.: The art editor got a shock
when he caught a glimpse of the females. .. .A.E.K.:
The drawing is petrified. . . .C.M.: Hopeless. . . .E.C.:
It won’t do; even as a suggestion.


sdf
r.
.
Wmm
f
■
:
mm
I I
/
1 I
i J
ill
s
• /
1 /
Ilf-
■
* Ai
Mr .■
IJlJt I
•%. X
3f
\i
—
is
.1
■
*
>. rS fffj? -I
• ..«**.• -> s *# * yy
/
: ;:: : ;
jr ■
a
1
\
JN
i ; \{ i
■:
// •)
*
/ /
M i
y
.
sdf
,;4MahncedJmif.


The Bulletin
Yol. 49—Xo. 2511.
March 28, 1928.
IN BLUNDERLAND.
“I am prepared now to step aside and take no further action if the industrial peace conference can be brought about without my intervention.” —Prime Minister Bruce
THE MAD HATTER: “I think I’d be much happier at my own little tea-party.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
44 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly l
12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, i2s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Ovekseas: 12 months, £1 Ids.; 6
months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 8.8.,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
by the publishers.
The Bditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Illack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—wilf be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Main Tlall at Australia House. Also
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.lj; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London, E.C.\;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” iH-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
1t'.0.2,- F. Algar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son.
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban ;
Illiodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni News
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. — Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency, S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and I,2nd Street, New York City; Hotaling’s
News Agency, 203 West I,lst Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle. Washington;
Wheatley Nexus Co., 7Ok Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La. ; The Wide World News
Stand, 51/11 South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., 696 Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China.- —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai. China.
Penang, S.S.— K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall.
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon.— T. L. De Silva, 39 Chatham Street,
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmaram and Sons, 1,1/ Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua.— Whitten Bros., Samaras and Port Moresby.
Flit. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.I/.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper): — Commonwealth, New Zealand and Fiji;
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l,oz. to 10oz., lid ; each
additional 1,0 z.. Id. All Sea Route: 160z.’, lid
British Possessions and U.S.A.; l,oz. or part thereof
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1928.
CAKE.
The most important thing yet discovered
about cake is that you can’t eat it and
have it, too. Like millions of infants before
us, we Australians thought we could; and
for a good man3' years we made a very fair
show of doing it. We ate and ate and
found that it was the easiest thing in the
world to borrow and fill the cupboard
again. At first we did not want all cake.
We were content mainly with bread and
butter, and merely topped up with cake,
or had it for Sundays and parties. Then’
finding how easy it was to get it, we had
cake for all meals. Part of this change
was due to the fact that a poor class of
people called politicians were interested in
getting us cake whether we really needed it
or not. They are a very old caste, these
politicians, and apparently they have
always been the same. Ancient Rome knew
them; if the grown-up infants of that time
and place clamored loud enough the poli-
ticians gave them circuses, too. But it is
not on record that they discovered the
borrowing trick. In any case, circumstances
would not have made it a success. It
needed anew country, a country so new
that not a single pawn-ticket had been
issued in it, to make the trick a positive
triumph. In no other would it be possible
to have such an orgy of cake as we have
had.
* * * *
But it is not possible for even the young-
est of countries to put the old truth
about cake into the discard; the only dif-
ference between the old and the new is that
the new can put up a serviceable bluff.
But sooner or later trouble turns up in
quite unexpected guises. We are facing
a very serious one in connection with trans-
port. Fares and freights have been growing
at an alarming rate. At the very moment
when we see the great need to spread our
population better, high fares and freights
put a tremendous handicap on rural indus-
tries. Yet high fares and freights are in
a measure inevitable. Chiefly to please the
clamoring infants, the politicians have given
out a lavish helping of railways with very
little regard for whether they would pay
or not; and to make it surer that they
would not pay, the same politicians have
handed out other cakes to railway workers,
until in thousands of instances two men are
doing the work of one—and there was a
time not long since when on construction
jobs in N. S. Wales and Queensland three
men were not doing the work of a boy and
a dog. All that cake has to be paid for
now in the shape of extra fares and freights.
In the cities it has to be paid for in the
shape of obsolescent modes of transport.
* * * *
What can we do about it? Not very
much perhaps until we realise that as a
people we have been a silly ass, and resolve
to be a silly ass no longer. That is going
to take some courage; and when politicians
show any of it, as Bavin is doing in N. S.
Wales and Butler in South Aus., they
deserve a grea,t deal of encouragement—•
and the list is by no means definitely
closed with Bavin and Butler. The worst
feature is the apparent failure of Labor
outside the tiny group of Ministers to see
the need for any reform at all. Whether
this is due to ignorance or to cowardice or
to pure cussedness The Bulletin does not
know; but because it prefers to believe
that ignorance has most to do with it, this
paper once more urges a meeting of Labor
men and bank managers—or alternatively
the heads of the people’s own Common-
wealth Bank alone—for a purely confiden-
tial discussion of Australia’s financial posi-
tion and prospects. Such a conference need
not—from its very nature would not—adopt
any resolutions whatever. It would simply
give the men entrusted with the safe cus-
tody and investment of the bulk of the
savings of Australia’s working men and
women an opportunity of getting the point
of view on financial questions of the spokes-
men for Labor; it would give Labor an
opportunity to acquire some of the know-
ledge which the men whose business it is
to safely invest the people’s money have
gathered in the course of the job. Labor
has put what look like insuperable
obstacles in the way of the Prime Minis-
ter’s industrial conference. He might have
better luck if he first brought off this pre-
liminary conference.
EAST DAYS OF THE HEROIC JAG.
“Subscription lists for the Commonwealth 5 per
cent loan of £8,000,000 at 98 closed in London
on March 6. It is announced that the underwriters
take 84 per cent, of this issue.”— Cable.
The States held a brisk financial corrobo-
ree during the year to June 30. If the loan
sun is setting it is going down large and
red. These were the figures for a mere
12 months:—
„ 0 , Tr . Loan Spendings. Per Head.
N. S. Wales .. £10,422,270 £4 711
Victoria .. .. 9,277,180 5 7 6
S. Australia .. 8,942,018 15 13 3
Westralia .. .. 4,113,054 10 13 8
Queensland .. .. 3,598,957 4 0 6
Tasmania .. .. 329,698 111 8
Total .. .. £36,683,177 £5 19 2
It was indeed a nerve-racking year. An-
other £3,836,572 went into the “Land Pur-
chase and Advances to Settlers” business;
of this, Victoria spent £1,867,763 and West-
ralia laid out £1,690,368. An aggravating
item was that which the quarterly statistics
mention as “All Other,” because it is made
up of oddments which can’t be put under
railways, tramways, water supply, harbors,
rivers, roads, public buildings, land pur-
chases or advances to settlers. “All Other”
absorbed £7,853,765 for the year, and fig-
ures as an asset for that amount. South
Australia invested £4,118,337 in “All
Other,” Victoria £2,534,291, and Westralia
£812,591. South Australia’s position pro-
bably means that the old accumulated loss
and the new loss on its railways have been
made good out of loans, there being no-
thing else to do with them. In 1925-26 the
loss on the S.A. lines equalled £ll 2s. lOd
per cent, of the capital, and it was £6 3s. sd.
per cent, in 1926-27. What Victoria and
Westralia did with their “All Other” money
will be known when fuller details are pub-
lished, but it is an intensely suspicious
item.
•* * * #
The discrepancy between loan money
raised and that spent is evidence that a
lot is being done with bank overdrafts, to
be turned into permanent debt later on
if the necessary supply of permanent debt
can be found, after which the overdrafts
will accumulate afresh. The Common-
wealth liabilities are shown up to Septem-
ber 30, 1927, which is later than most other
things in the quarterly pamphlet. On that
date the Bruce-Page Government was
facing a debt of £473,862,307, of which
£159,114,513 was in London, £23,585,123 m
New York (Australia is becoming quite
well known there), and the rest here. This
was roughly 13 millions more than the
Federal Government owed three months
earlier and 15i millions more than it owed
15 months earlier. The increase was en-
tirely in the external debt, which calls for
payment in gold; in fact, the amount due
in Australia diminished a little, settlement
in paper being easy by comparison. The
Commonwealth lent about eight millions
of its borrowings to the States, and spent
another eight millions itself. The bright-
est spot on the story is that little Tasmania
didn’t pawn itself for much either this year
or last, and it produced a surplus of about
£185,000. It wasn’t a very bright spot or
a very big one; still it was better than no
spot at all. The whole mass of figures re-
presents a voice shouting on the housetop
that something ultra-drastic ought to be
done, and the only thing of the slightest
use in such a case is the kind that will
produce a favorable balance of trade. The
said favorable balance should be £30,000,000
or a trifle more per annum if possible. As
this can hardly be achieved according to
the strict rules of the economic game, it is
possible that some of the rules may have
to go overboard to lighten the ship.
* * * *
In a sense the racket of 1927 is sugges-
tive of Belshazzar’s supper. That was also
a striking event, and it marked the close
of an epoch. Unfortunately very little is
known about the financial position of Bel-
shazzar.
THE CASE FOR MAJORITY
VERDICTS.
A Victorian jury recently asked the Judge
sitting in a criminal case whether he would
accept an eleven-twelfths verdict. His
Honor pointed out that it was not in his
power to do so, but took occasion to re-
mark that in his opinion it would be desir-
able that in criminal cases other than
charges involving capital punishment such
verdicts should be accepted. “It some-
times happens,” he said, “that one obstinate
juror can prevent a verdict being arrived
at.” There is no doubt an increasing num-
ber of cases where insistence on the unani-
mity of the jury has involved new trials
and even then without result. The effect is
to leave justice suspended.
“In Scotland,” says a commentator on the
subject, “a unanimous verdict is unneces-
sary, and consequently unanimous verdicts
are much rarer than .in England. From
this it is reasonable to deduce that British
juries start with a strong prejudice against
the fiasco of a second trial, and that their
verdicts must often represent, not so much
a real unanimity of conviction as the views
of the more influential members of the
jury, in which the less influential are per-
suaded to acquiesce.” Whilst this may be
true of the jury in conservative England,
where the average man is by long tradition
more inclined to yield to the pressure of a
superior in knowledge or social position, it
is not equally true in a young country such
as Australia, where the mean of education
and social influence makes lines of demar-
cation almost illegible. The more marked
the individual independence the more diffi-
cult it is to secure unanimity, unless where
the evidence is so conclusive as practically
to bar all conflict of opinion.
Nor does the modern juryman come into
court with a mind unsullied by any impres-
sion except such as may be stamped upon
it by the facts presented to him in evi-
dence. If the crime charged is one of any
magnitude, he has, long before he takes a
seat in the jury-box, read accounts of it in
the newspapers, accounts which may be dis-
torted by sensation or presented with such
a modicum of fact as to be little more than
fiction; and from these he has, perhaps,
drawn some hasty or haphazard conclusion.
Again, the juryman of to-day is not com-
parable with his brother of centuries ago.
Education, reading and social discussion
have led him to form his own conclusions
on the policy of adopting this or that
course of dealing with the criminal. For
example, a man conscientiously, or by
reasoned conclusion, may be opposed to the
form of punishment provided on conviction
for a particular class of offence. It is
notorious that where there is a penalty of
capital punishment many men will, con-
sciously or unconsciously, strain their’ views
m order to escape the necessity for con-
viction This is repeatedly indicated by
the weak subterfuge of attempting to water
down their verdict by “recommendations to
mercy. Such recommendations have, in-
deed, become somewhat of a scandal’
These modern developments of the jury-
nund suggest the possible defeat of legis-
lative enactments called for in the supreme
exercise of the law for the protection of
society. To take an instance, the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales proposes to check a
growing evil of personal violence. Although
its criminal law already provides for the
use of the lash in certain offences, the prac-
tical application of that form of punish-
ment has for many years past fallen into
desuetude. It is intended to revive it in
order to check the menace of razor gangs
and generally the increasing use of lethal
weapons. It is an extreme measure to meet
an extreme evil. Nevertheless, there are
notoriously people in the community who,
if on a jury whose verdict will involve the
use of the lash, will avoid conviction where
any excuse possible presents itself.
It seems the reduction to an absurdit\ r ,
in such or similar cases, that one man out
of 12 may so impose his will on his views
on the remaining 11 as to defeat the ends
of justice. Obviously a prisoner or his
friends outside will use every means at
their disposal, monetary or otherwise, to
place a dissentient in the ranks of the jury.
And there are sinister means by which
money can attain such an end.
verdict, say, of three-fourths
would do much to check this possible abuse.
It is rarely that in any body of men there
is complete unanimity of opinion. It is
generally a matter of give and take, of
yielding and compromise. To exact abso-
lute unanimity from a jury argues a per-
fection beyond the practical realm. The
system of a majority verdict has been
found to work well in Scotland, and its
adoption would do much to strengthen the
hands of justice in Australia.
T. B. C.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Small Sister’s Coming Election.
Tasmanian Labor Government’s chance of
retaining its majority at the general elec-
tion on May 30 seems, at the moment,
lairly good, mainly because there is nobody
on the other side who can be taken seri-
ously as a possible deposer of the capable
Lyons from the leadership of Parliament.
Oi course something may happen in the
next couple of months, and especially on
polling-day, to tip the balance against the
Government.
With parties 16 to 14, and the Hare-
Clark system in operation, the issue may
be determined by a mere handful of elec-
tors. It is announced, apparently authori-
•nu ’ Nationalist candidates
will be required to give a public pledge
that they will not accept the Speakership
at the hands of their opponents. Probably
a similar pledge will bind the Labor can-
didates. Then what will happen if the
election brings about a tie? A possible way
out of the trouble would be the declaration
oi an armistice for a couple, of days to fix
up an amendment of the Constitution pro-
viding for an Assembly of, say, 31 or 29
members instead of the present even-
number body of 30.
Lyons’s chief danger lies in the ranks
of the wage-earners, where some dissatis-
faction is expressed at the failure of his
Government to force Workers’ Compensa-
tion amendments and other Labor planks
through the Leg. Council. Moreover,
Hobart Trades and Labor Council officials
are seeking to superimpose a special Trades
Hall pledge upon the official A.L.P. pledge
already signed by endorsed Labor candi-
dates. As the terms of both pledges are
practically the same, it is suggested that
rac *es Hall officials have promulgated
thnir pledge in order to give a union
official, who has announced himself as an
Independent Labor” candidate, some sort
of organisation label to show to the
electors.
* 5
A Blow to South Aus.
The Bruce-Page Government’s friends in
South Aus.—it hasn’t as many as it had in
1925— are wondering what bit it when it
made up its mind to reduce the bounty on
sweet wine produced for export.
The export trade in Australian wines,
admittedly in the front rank of the world’s
types, was hampered for many years by
with Continental rubbish,
which, masquerading as Portuguese, obtained
the benefit of the preference granted to
Portugal on wines from the Oporto district,
a distinctive product. The granting of the
bounty of Is. 9d. per gallon armed the Aus-
tralian growers against this competition, and
they were also helped by the British pre-
ference on “Colonial” wines. With these aids
the sound and superior Australian product
soon began to make headway. Thousands
of additional acres of wine grapes were
planted, and all preparations made to found
a peimanent trade with Britain. When the
Bounty Act expired it was extended again
for three years. But a clause enabling the
Federal Government to “review the posi-
tion” has been availed of, and while the
struggle against European competitors is
still keen—the battle has by no means
been won—exporters have been notified that
the bounty will be reduced by 9d. a gallon.
The wine-makers say they have been
exporting on a basis of from 4d. to 9d. a gal-
lon profit. They contend that the proposed
reduction will play right into the hands of
the people who sell the cheap Portuguese
and Spanish wines, and that what should
be one of Australia’s most profitable indus-
tries will be in danger of sinking back to
its old level. And the blow will fall
heaviest on the small growers, many of
them returned soldiers. Thanks to the
bounty, these growers have received a fixed
price for all wine grapes, regardless of
w'hether they were used for export or local
consumption. They got £7 a ton in 1924 and
£lO 10s. in 1927. Producers of currants and
lexias for which no profitable market could
be found, have also benefited—as Paterson,


the Minister of Markets, complacently
records, “large quantities of currants and
lexias have been sold to the winemakers” —
and so have the returned soldiers growing
doradilla grapes for spirit purposes, who
were down and out a few years ago. It was
the Commonwealth Government that found
the money for these men to go on the land.
In 1922-23, Paterson says, “we exported
648,000 gallons. Last year our exports
totalled 3,014,470 gallons.” In other
words, a good deal of ground has been
gained, but it has to be held, and there
is a great deal to be gained yet. Where
is the sense in reducing the supply of
munitions when the offensive is still in
progress?
A Procession of Unemployed.
‘ W.1.U.”: There was a procession of 200
unemployed men through the main street
of Broken Hill the other night. The band
which led it played imported music on im-
ported instruments by the light of an im-
ported petrol lamp. The flag was an
imported rag which had been dyed a deep
red abroad.
On arriving at the meeting place, the
speakers mounted a table made of imported
wood and covered on the top with oilcloth,
also imported. In the shop immediately
behind them was a window full of imported
hats. Next to it was a display of imported
face-powders, perfumes, toothpastes and
such like. Then there was an appetising
exhibition of most of the “57 varieties”
of imported pickles, sauces and other con-
diments, as well as imported cheese, bis-,
cuits and tinned-fish. Further on again
were imported dates, oranges and figs.
All the speakers said that Australian
Labor would have to “take hold of the
machinery of production so as to prevent un-
employment.” Not one of them mentioned
that this would necessitate Australian Labor
“taking hold” in nearly every country in
the world, with the certainty of violent
opposition from the indigenous workers.
And no one seemed to grasp the fact that in
the making of all those imported goods
many more men than the mere 200 present
would be required.
♦
The Conquering ’Plane.
Westralia is entitled to the credit of being
the first Australian State to recognise the
commercial value of the aeroplane. In
the western State and in Queensland
regular services have been plying to time-
table for years, carrying passengers, mails
and goods over long journeys, and at a
rate of speed which has made the once
dreaded vast distances of Australia prac-
tically negligible within the sphere of their
operations.
The latest-comer to the field is New
Guinea, where services have been insti-
tuted to carry passengers and supplies to
and from the mountain goldfields, which
are so difficult of access otherwise. A ’plane
flown by Captain Moody crossed the island
the other day from Port Moresby to the
fields in 2i hours, carrying passengers and
stores. The distance as the crow flies is
only 250 miles, but the mountain range m
between runs up to 14,000 feet, and the
lowest known pass is 7000 feet. By jungle
paths across the mountains and through the
sago swamps of the north-east coast the
trip takes anything up to six weeks. By
boat round the toe of Papua and up north-
wards again it may take as long. The air-
man rose to the height of 13,500 feet and
made light of the mountain barrier.
The success opens new vistas of traffic pos-
sibilities. Why should not the remarkably
efficient Westralian and Queensland ser-
vices be extended and linked up to form a
mail line, at least, which will reach from
Rabaul, the administrative centre of New
Guinea, to Perth? Even if the section
from Rabaul to Thursday Island might not
pay its way under present conditions, the
laying-down of landing-grounds and the
fixing of a definite route would have value
from a defence point of view. And, as far
as the mainland is concerned, a continuous
mail and passenger service could be estab-
lished with no great difficulty and at no
great cost. The Westralians could push
eastward and be met by a South Aus. ser-
vice which would link up in turn with one
from Victoria. That could extend on the
other side to meet N.S.W., and the latter
could link up with the southern extremity
of the Queensland line. Pilots and ’planes
would only need to fly one section, hand-
ing over to the next, just as the Roman
foot-posts traversed the Empire from end
to end 2000 years ago.
Hinkler’s flight has proved that an aero-
plane of a perfectly useful type may be as
cheap to run as the average motor-car.
The added efficiency in the mail service with
Europe, and in that between the eastern
and western States of Australia, would be
willingly paid for by the commercial com-
munity, to which time so often means
money, in the form of extra postage and
carriage rates on light goods, while the
question of passenger-carrying is also well
worth consideration. The Westralian and
Queensland concerns, in spite of their limi-
ted opportunities, have made passenger-
carrying pay. Of course, there would need
to be Commonwealth Government backing
in the way of mail subsidies and assistance
in the establishment of aerodromes and the
like, but the expenditure would be trifling
compared with the money squandered on
“Federal-aid” roads in doubtful State
electorates.
Brakes on Union Bosses.
The Prime Minister has gone to extraor-
dinary lengths to persuade the Trades Hall
bosses to take part in the conference to
promote industrial serenity on which he has
set his heart. It must be obvious by this
time, even to the patient and courteous
Bruce, that the Trades Halls, in Sydney and
Melbourne at least, are run by men who
preach a class war and who can only retain
their positions of eminence by making class
hostilities as bitter as possible. In this
attitude they are actively supported by
probably only a very small percentage of
union members, but packed behind them are
the massed cohorts of the unintelligent a,nd
indifferent who like to have their thinking
done for them. Dissenters from the policy
of seizing on every opportunity to dislo-
cate industry are numerous, but have
learned that, under existing conditions, they
had better keep their opinions to them-
selves. To become known as a dissenter in
some unions is to run the risk of being
violently assaulted and branded as a “scab.”
Mr. Bruce can best help the cause of
peace in industry by restoring to the unions
a proper measure of control over union
officials. Most of the amendments to the
Arbitration Act proposed by Attorney-Gen-
eral Latham confer upon the Court powers
to enforce the law which similar tribunals
in other lands have exercised unquestion-
ingly without specific statutory authority.
In their original form the (amendments
seemed to this paper likely to raise more
questions as to the Court’s authority than
they were likely to settle, but there were
BY FORCE OF EXAMPLE.
"Thu U.S.A. is throwing a thousand more marines into Nicaragua to make sure that, the Nicaraguan
elections will be conducted without corrupting influences,' At the same Lime the American papers arc
full of references to ‘corrupting influences’ in U.S.A. polities, and the whole nation is discussing the
Teapot Dome scandal.”
THE UPLIFTER: “You Gahdom grease don't know how to run on election. WELL
show you!”
some good points among them, notably the
provision that union members should be
entitled to demand a ballot.
This is an aspect of union control that is
managed much better in Maoriland, where
union rules have to meet the approval of
the Registrar of Unions before they can
legally be enforced. The Registrar insists,
and he has statutory backing for his insist-
ence, that there must be a secret ballot
before an industrial dispute can be created,
before the rules can be altered, or before
any other important step can be taken, and
he also prescribes the procedure of the
ballot. He goes further than this. Sub-
scriptions and entrance fees must be reason-
able (the Court also insists on this as a
condition of preference), and the right
to expel a member from a union is severely
restricted. Furthermore, the Department of
Labor has power to send an auditor along
to any union office and overhaul the books.
The result is that there is no “bossism”
among the great majority of Maoriland
unions, and the honesty of union ballots has
not been impugned for years. Moreover,
dishonest union officials soon find their way
to gaol. Mr. Bruce might do worse than
study the Maoriland system.
+
The Lesser White Elephants.
“O McKay M.”: A Sydney daily published
the other day a list of State Agents-General
who have stayed in England to fill cushy
jobs on the expiration of their term in
office. It is good to know that their trans-
lation to London benefits somebody. Hith-
erto it had been thought that the sole
function of an A.-G. was to amuse the
Great British Public by appearing in knee-
breeches at Royal parties.
Sending elderly politicians abroad to find
work is an expensive form of humor. From
the Big White Elephant in Australia House
to the lesser breeds scattered in State Gov-
ernment offices along the Strand, none oj
Austra lia’s representatives in England earns
his keep. Victoria has carried on very satisfac-
torily for some time in spite of the fact
that it has not sported an A.-G. since Fair-
bairn. H. A. Pitt, Under-Secretary of the
Treasury, did the job in his spare time while
in London on a financial mission, and
when he left the office-accountant, took oyer,
the secretary, first in seniority, having died.
The High Commissioner can do the
country little harm since J. R. Collins was
sent across as financial adviser, and he is
useful as an ornament at Empiah lunches
and dinners. But there doesn’t seem any-
thing in particular for the A.-G.’s to do.
$
The Fanaticism that Blocks Reform.
Dear Bulletin, —Touching “This Stupid
Liquor Question” (B. 14/3/’28), “stupid”
hardly expresses adequately the gross im-
position that fanatical propagandists, aided
by supine politicians, have foisted on us. I
mean, of course, the repeated referenda m
various States, at great public cost, to
settle what the politicians are not game to
settle themselves: Local Option, Early
Closing, Saturday Closing, Everlasting
Closing. Why should
the cold-water brigade
enjoy this unique
privilege?
My pet “question”
is the abolition of the
whole outfit of Arbi-
tration Courts, which
are not courts in
reality, and a return
to industrial sanity.
My neighbor, with an
intractable wife, is
enthusiastic for free
mutual-consent
divorce. Why should
we not invoke the
voice of the multi-
tude at public cost
on our “questions”?
They are both as poli-
tically and socially
important as the
drinking of beverages
containing any modicum of alcohol. The
answer, of course, is that we are incapable
of the clamorous appeal to popular preju-
dice that is the incentive to the jumping
of the political cat. Meanwhile things like
these happen:—
A friend and his family recently motored
from Broken Hill to Adelaide on a flaming
hot Sunday. They reached Burra, the first
S.A. town, in the middle of the afternoon,
pulled up at a hotel and asked for tea,
food or anything, such as soft drinks, to
relieve their throats of the dust of 200
miles or more. They were refused tea and
food because servants were off duty, and
drinks of any kind because it was against
the law. The latter allegation was of
dubious accuracy, but the bar was compul-
sorily locked anyway. Every shop in the
town being also locked up under Blue Sun-
day laws, the party pushed on to another
town, reaching it about 7 p.m.—to find the
evening meal cleared away and to be re-
fused food once more. After much per-
suasion they managed to get a few bottles
of beer, which was, of course, the one com-
modity Bung was not permitted to sell.
My brother had the ill-luck to get a
sharp attack of dysentery while in a
Queensland country hotel, due pi*obably to
the fly-poisoned food supplied. His plight
for two dreadful days and nights may be
appreciated when one realises that his
bedroom was on the upper floor and the
only latrine a disgusting den at the far
end of a noisome yard. The only thing to
be said for it was that it was easily dis-
coverable by the olfactory sense alone.
In the faint hope that, instead of always
yielding a base subservience to stupid pro-
pagandist “questions,” politicians will deal
with some practical matters that concern
the hotel trade, I mention a few which a
short Act of Parliament would cover:—
Hotels should be required (except in a
few and special cases) to provide (a) a
sanitary water-flush system with installa-
tions in the house as well as externally;
(b) lavatories with hot water and clean
towels; (c) an adequate number of baths
with hot and cold water; (and) mosquito-
proof doors and windows to all rooms,
especially bedrooms; (e) the assured sup-
ply of at least hot tea and decent cold
food to the traveller at all reasonable
hours. Lastly, baths, lavatories and latrines
should be so planned that the stranger
could find them without the necessity of
secret information or dependence upon the
sense of smell. As an offset to all this
enforced decency Mr. Publichouse should
be allowed to supply liquor reasonably
with all meals without the necessity of the
“order-before-six” subterfuge and others.
Asa matter of fact liquor is the easiest
thing to be got in pubdom at unusual
hours, but it might as well be legalised and
regulated.—Yours, etc., “Bill O’C.”
. 4
The Cable-Wireless Fusion.
“R. Volt”: Exit our cable co., which has
made history, and enter the cable-cum-Mar-
coni combine. As an ex-cableman I, for one,
regret the loss of independence, though
the merger had to come. The great cable
monopoly has made a handsome fortune out
of Australia, but it has done some good
service as well. The landing of the first
cable at Darwin reduced this country’s iso-
lation as drastically as Hinkler’s recent
flight. It brought Sydney within a couple
of hours of London, instead of the then two
months or so by boat. It affected com-
merce to such an extent that when the cable
got interrupted, which was not seldom, it
caused a national panic. It was during one
of those interruptions that a rumor got
about that Russia had declared war on
Britain and one of her fleets was off the
coast. In Adelaide the militia was called
out.
Followed the alternative route via Cocos
Island and another cable landing at
Broome: The Broome cable was laid chiefly
to allay the Westralian ■ Government’s
anxieties and never paid a div. Govern-
ment competition arrived when the Pacific
route was laid. The official idea was to
force down the rates —some political opti-
mists said they would soon be a penny a
word. Actually the
exact opposite oc-
curred. The Govern-
ment enterprise got
tied up in red tape
and found running
cables an expensive
affair. Also the East-
ern Extension Co.’s
agreement provided
for the automatic re-
duction of rates as
traffic increased, and
when the Government
barged in this arrange-
ment became null
and void. So when the
beam leaped' with a
heavy punch into the
ring, rates were still
unconscionably high.
The position now is that, at its present
amazing turn of sneed, the beam can carry
all Australia’s traffic when the weather is
good. At first sight, therefore, it is time
both the Government and the private con-
cerns coiled up their cables and silently
stole away. Unfortunately, however well
the beam is equipped for commercial com-
petition, it is dangerously unprepared to
carry on the Empire’s business in time of
war. Until the radio people demonstrate
that wireless can be made secret and un-
jammable, therefore, the people of Aus-
tralia will have to remain in the curious
position of supporting their own Pacific
cable against the private cable-wireless
fusion as well as the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s half of the beam.
“Pam”: Vic. County Court Acts are in pro-
cess of being consolidated; and high time,
too. The work is being undertaken by
barrister P. A. Jacobs under the super-
vision of the indefatigable Cussen, J. The
Act of 1915—practically a repetition cf
the 1869 statute—contains 162 sections, and
most of them are rusty on the hinges. The
scope of the alterations is to omit practi-
cally all the proceedings relating to pro-
cedure in order that those matters may be
dealt with by rules, to be framed by the
Judges. With respect to appeals, the “stay”
is likely to be for 14 days, instead of seven,
and the litigant who has been hit with an
adverse verdict of a few hundred pounds
will not be required to lodge the amount
in court, with costs, before he is able to
carry the case to the Supreme Court.
♦
A. R. Dore, town clerk of Albury, writes:
It has been stated (B. 14/3/’2B) that
“recently in Albury two women engaged in
simple domestic tasks were electrocuted on
the same day.” The Mayor, Alderman A.
Waugh, wishes me to point out that there
have not been any deaths or serious accidents
in Albury from the electricity service since
it was installed about 12 years ago.


It was
Built for
YOU
r A
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
with its
Unparalleled Magnificence
and Delectable Cuisine at
Prices to Suit EVERYBODY.
THe Federal Mutual
CKWODAG-
Insurance Company of Australia, Limited.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT.
Licensed to accept liability under Worlcmen’s Compensation /ct
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: Federal Mutual Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Directors: R. Rawnsley Moss, Chairman; W. B. Ainsworth, Esq.; T. A. Magney Esq.:
S. Sampson, Esq.; J. T. Turner, Esq.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street, Melbourne.
H. L. CARUOI.L, Manager.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORMAN M. MAIR, Manager. ’
South Australian Branch: Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
E. M. MI.VOGUE. Manager.
SUPPORT THIS PURELY AUSTRALIAN COMPANY.
R 1 _A I _MANZIE, General Manager.
Tenders.
RENDERS are invited for a five years’
lease with option of purchase, alterna-
tively without option of purchase, of the
well-known Kuranda Hotel, situated at Ivur-
anda near the Barron Falls, in the Cairns
district of North Queensland, the popular
rendezvous of Tourists from the South
during the Winter Season.
Tenderers are required to state prices re-
spectively for the purchase of (1) Furniture
and Fittings as per Inventory, (2) Goodwill,
(3) the Weekly Rental. The Electric Light
and Pumping Plant are to be included as
Property to be leased.
Tenderers must accompany their tenders
w ?th a cheque for the sum of £5O, which
W 1“ be returned in the event of any tender
not being accepted. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders close April 30. 1928, at the office
o; the Kuranda Hotel, Ltd., 127 Eagle Street.
Brisbane, and envelopes require to be marked
Tenders Kuranda Hotel.”
Particulars of Lease, Inventory, etc., may
be obtained at the Offices of Howard Smith
Ltd Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., and Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The National Parliament threatens to turn
into a Canberra Progress Committee. Almost
every sitting nowadays the House is invited
to consider who shall pay for a local kerb
or culvert. There was a great row because
men interested in developing Australian
manufactures turned up at Canberra and
talked to members about the need for higher
duties. But the local butcher and baker can
talk about their small grievances and nobody
sees any harm in it.
It looks as if there will be brisk com-
petition for Brighton (Vic.), the seat vacated
by Speaker Snowball’s death. H. A. Abbott,
the Mayor, got in early with his announce-
ment, and Tommy Ryan’s friends are busy
on his behalf. Brighton would be a lot
easier than the Federal constituency (Bal-
larat) which Tommy contested in 1925, if
Abbott and other prospective candidates
could be persuaded to stand down.
Westralian Premier Collier has sent a
contract for a couple of dredges to Holland ;
and the engineering unions don’t like it.
But they have the least cause to complain :
with the rest of the tribe they have made
work so uncertain and expensive in Aus-
tralia that only a tariff a million feet high
can keep the foreign goods out. Yet of
course they ought to be kept out because it
is better to pay even £5 in paper for local
goods than fl in gold for foreign goods,
the trouble about the gold being that we
haven t got it and no printing-press has yet
been discovered that can make it.
Amidst furious shouts of “Impersonation !’'
and “Schlenter!” Bill Lambert, Labor
M.H.R. for West Sydney since 1921, was
beaten in the selection-ballot by Beasley, of
the Trades and Labor Council. There
were two other defeated candidates—one, an
enthusiastic Langite, was repaid for his de-
votion by seeing his idol side with the
T. and L. C. boss—and all three have
lodged protests on the score of faking. The
A.W.U., with cold ferocity in its eye,
is also demanding to know why its members
were refused votes by the crowd that has
‘cleaned up the movement.”
Dr. Leighton Jones, for 13 years past iu
practice at Darwin, says that Northern Aus-
tralia is no place for a white man’s per-
manent residence. It probably isn’t. In
fact, The Bulletin doesn’t know a single
place anywhere which is. He seems to die
wherever he goes.
Grafton, which keeps Earle Page in the
House of Reps, and sent Pollack, one of the
Dr. s faithful supporters, to the N.S.W.
Assembly last October, has been assured by
Premier Bavin that his Government lias got
the Jackadgery hydro-electric scheme on the
list. The smaller Nymboida scheme, which
throws light and power all along the
Clarence, has been enough of a success to
indicate that the bigger affair would return
dividends. The district cashed in itself for
the Nymboida experiment, after a Labor
Government had thrown a host of ludicrous
obstacles in its way.
The family endowment fad has taken a
mild hold on Maoriland, but ideas are frugal
in that vicinity and there are so many re-
strictions that only 2820 allowances are being
made at present. The maximum statutory
allowance is 2s. per week per child, but evi-
dently this is being exceeded, for an official
statement gives the annual cost of the allow-
ances as £45,162, which would provide each
beneficiary with 6s. 6d. a week. Perhaps the
balance goes in administrative expenses. The
estimated annual cost of the scheme, which
has been in force nearly a year, was £260,000,
but apparently Maorilanders are of an inde-
pendent mind.
There were dastardly doings at Walsh
Island (N.S.W.) before the Boilermakers’
Union struck against “State capitalism.”
Men who, according to Judge Beeby, were
entitled to a minimum wage of £4 19s. a
week earned as much as £5 13s. more, lured
on by bonuses. These “traitors to unionism”
professed to think that the bonus system was
quite a good thing, but the union bosses
stood firm for the grand old principle of a
minimum of work and wages, so the vin-
dictive Bavinshaw Government closed the
works. It was suggested that the other
unions, a large proportion of whose mem-
bers are pieceworkers, should finance the
struggle against the bonus system, but the
response was so frigid that the strike was
declared off at the week-end.
It is doubtful whether the Hogans will do
more than toy with J. A. Smith’s scheme
for roofing over the 80 acres of space between
Prince’s-bridge and Jolimont now used for a
railway yard. The ground is a gridiron of
rails for traffic and storage of cars, and
overhead there is a network of wires for the
electric-traction system. To carry out the
veteran engineer’s idea it would be neces-
sary to find safe foundations for no end of
iron pillars to uphold the roof-floor for his
buildings and bridges. A still greater obstacle
is that there is nothing to spare out of
revenue and the time is inopportune for
loans.
For 20 seconds The Bulletin almost
hoped that Prohibition would be carried in
N. S. Wales next September, because then it
might have had the great joy of seeing
“Ghosts of dead pubs” among the perma-
nent and reproductive w T orks, swindles, etc.,
which represent the public debt. If Pro-
hibition is carried it will be “with compen-
sation” ; even the men who are thrown out
of a job will be entitled to money comfort
of some sort, and presumably also Crawford
Vaughan, who will lose his job as Chief
Stipendary Curser of Drink. Exactly how
we should enter up Crawford Vaughan
among our P. and R. assets The Bulletin
doesn’t know; but with the other items it is
expected that the total cost may be
£10,000,000.
In Sydney last week Gates, C.S.M., struck
a blow for decency by clearing his court of
a dirty-minded mob gathered to wallow in
the details of a case in which unspeakable
outrages on a woman are alleged. The re-
porters were also told to leave, whereupon
there were piercing squeals from papers
which go m for rape and divorce chronicles,
although the magistrate was quite within his
legal rights, and the same power has been
exercised in other States, notably Westralia.
Presently Lang, author of the newspaper tax
that crashed, joined in the hue and cry
against Gates. That made it absolutely cer-
tain that the magistrate was right.
By way of educating Amanullah, of
Afghanistan, the British Government has
paraded all its military prowess before the
potentate from Cabul. He has been down
in a submarine, seen a tank walk through
a fortress as if it were made of cardboard,
and ejaculated “Gosh !” or its equivalent at
the spectacle of armored cars tearing along
at great speed pursued by a skyful of mech-
anical blowflies. The King’s next call will
be made on Russia, where he will be re-
galed with another display of lethal iron-
mongery, the very best that the Soviet can
put on. The old-fashioned hillsman, with
his long-barrelled popgun, was more or less
of a match for the Russian or British infan-
tryman struggling with much adverse
scenery. This mechanised warfare is another
proposition.
For once in a way the Labor party in the
House of Reps, has found a clear-cut issue
on which it was able to take a logical and
reasonable attitude. Frank Brennan’s pro-
test against the Government’s failure to pro-
secute the Abrahams brothers, self-convicted
of extensive evasions of taxation, was sin-
cerely and moderately phrased, and Attorney-
General Latham’s defence was not at all con-
vincing. If the offenders were so guilt-
stricken that two of them fled the country
and the Government was offered £500,000 to
square the matter, there must have been at
least some evidence of wrong-doing upon
which a criminal charge could be founded.
The suggestion that if the Government had
not agreed to take the half-million it might
have got nothing is beside the point. The
duty of the Administration is to administer
the law, not to make bargains with law-
breakers —especially immensely wealthy law-
breakers.
When the Rev. Malthus penned his treatise
on population he probably never gave Japan
a thought. To-day, however, the English
parson’s views are a burning topic in the
island Empire, which is fast approaching the
state of diminishing returns described by the
cleric as the penalty of too much birthrate.
Although the rent of agricultural land is so
high that tenant farmers are continuously in
upheaval, the average return to the land
owners is less than p.c. Consequently
both sides are demanding nationalisation, the
owners proposing compensation which will
give them 4 p.c. and the tenants advocating
plain confiscation. As the amount involved
is over 18 billion yen, the poverty-stricken
Government isn’t likely to accede to the first
request. As to the second, it is proposed
that the landlords should voluntarily give up
their rights, as the Samurai gave up theirs
70 years ago. In the meantime a prole-
tarian party has got a leg into the Imperial
Parliament, so the subject should be kept on
the boil.
You remember Victor Hugo’s “God made
a mouse. ‘Ah,’ He said presently, ‘that was
a mistake.’ So he made a cat.” Govern-
ments push up the cost of living until
somebody can’t carry on his job. But as a
rule they haven’t the grace to say it was a
mistake; they merely throw up the tariff
wall a few hundred feet higher or provide
for a bonus or a bounty or a subsidy. The -
Commonwealth passed a mad Navigation Act
and permitted chaos to develop along the
water-front; and one by one Tasmania’s links
with the mainland are being dropped in
consequence. The latest step is the with-
drawal of the Zealandia from the Sydney-
liobart run. The usual cry for a subsidy
is heard. And it is a reasonable cry, too.
But to leave off creating mice would be the
easiest way out of trouble.
Of all the mad and bad proceedings of
latter-day maritime unionism, which used to
be conspicuous for sane leadership and ser-
vice, nothing has been madder and worse
than the job-control practised on the small
Commonwealth Government steamers which
carry supplies to lighthouses. Many of these
lighthouses are utterly isolated and are de-
pendent for very food on the periodical
steamer visits. There are women and chil-
dren also to be considered; but in the latest
of many wanton hold-ups children attending
school in Brisbane were prevented from
spending the Christmas holidays with their
parents. At length even the mild Bruce-
Page Government was baited into resistance.
It has had two lightships manned by mariners
who are to rank as civil servants —there was
a rush for positions, the pay and treatment
being about the best in the world—and a
third is about to receive attention, the Sea-
men’s Union having ordered its serfs to quit.
Of course, the lightships and all concerned
in them have been declared “black,” but
that shouldn’t lower the temperature of the
Government’s feet. For one thing, the Sea-
men’s Union has so nearly destroyed itself
in its efforts to destroy industry that before
long, apparently, there will be only Walsh
and Johanson left.
The Textile Journal of Australia tells
Customs Minister Pratten that if there are
further increases in wages the industry will
be unable to compete with foreign manu-
facturers and will be “faced with the ques-
tion of closing down indefinitely.” To avoid
this melancholy result the paper suggests
to the Minister that the Arbitration Court,
whenever it increases wages or reduces
hours, “should also promulgate the decision
that the existing tariff must be amended in
order to cover this extra cost to the manu-
facturer.” But the Court of Dethridge and
Becby has done enough damage already with-
out monkeying with fiscal questions. Better
to do as they do in Maoriland nowadays and
instruct the Court to take into consideration
the probable effect of its awards on the
industries concerned and on the general cost
of living.
The Federal Nationalists and Cockies
ought to have learned by this time that the
best way to gain country seats—in N. S
Wales at all events —is to run representa-
tives of both parties in a sporting spirit, and
let the electors decide between them. That
was done in Gwydir last time, with the
result that Cunningham, who had been the
Labor M.H.R. for six years, went out.
Abbott, the Cocky, got 10,509 votes and
McGowen, the Nationalist, 8080, and 7615
of McGowen’s preferences going to Abbott,
Cunningham was beaten by 2128. In spite
of this good example, the Nats, and Cockies
in Hume decided to run a “pact candidate”
against Parker Moloney and met in equal
numbers to choose him. Naturally all the
Nationalists voted for their man and all the
Cockies for theirs, and no one would give
way. Now each crowd is preparing for a
fight, and there is so much bad blood between
them that Moloney looks like winning again,
although Hume is no more Labor than
Gwydir was.
Maoriland’s municipal conference had be-
fore it a scheme of insurance against unem-
ployment very interesting to Australians.
The proposal, sponsored by the Mayor of
Wellington, was to make a levy of Id. in
the £1 per week on workers’ wages, sub-
sidised by the employers, the municipality,
and the Government, each at the same rate,
bringing the return up to 4d. per £1 per
week. This would provide £BOO,OOO a year,
and with the money 10,000 men could be
kept at work for six months as servants of
the municipality. A feature of the scheme
was that the men should be paid less than
the standard rates, and that where possible
payment should be by piecework. The con-
ference turned the proposal down on the
score that it would add to the rates, but it
is supported by some of the leading news-
papers and may be heard of again in Parlia-
ment.
In spite of departmental threats, the Mel-
bourne ’bus clubs are in full blast. One
which uses the narrow and congested main
street of Northcote employs the same
vehicles and the same drivers as the private
co. which was recently suppressed by the
’Bus Board, and there being no regulations
to cover a club the affairs are crammed. The
Government is now looking for a legal cudgel
to smack the new menace to the tramways.
The Queensland Nationalists will probably
ask Mayor Jolly to contest an Assembly
se*t. They will be fools if they don’t, for at
the Greater Brisbane elections Jolly’s per-
sonal vote was extraordinary. A compari-
son of the mayoral voting with the ward
voting shows that he not only captured prac-
tically the whole of the Independent votes
polled in the wards, but a big percentage of
Labor votes as well.
With its customary leisureliness the
British Colonial Office has decided to hold
an inquiry into the massacre of Government
officials at Malaita, in the Solomons, last
October, and its special commissioner is ex-
pected to be on the ground next May. The
inquiry really ought to be about the methods
of the Colonial Office. The root of the
trouble seems to have been the natives’ objec-
tion to being poll-taxed without getting any
visible benefit. In Papua and New Guinea
money raised in this fashion goes back to
Brown Brother in medical attention and
education, mostly technical; in the Solomons
Brown Brother sees none of it coming back,
and naturally resents the impost. The simp-
lest way out of the difficulty would be for
the Commission to advocate the handing-over
of the Solomons to Australia.
Evidently some of the friends of the Vic.
Hogans think that there is money in taking
affidavits and declarations at a shilling a
time. At any rate, dozens of them have been
appointed, since Labor took office 10 months
ago.
Commonwealth Statistician Wickens told
the Constitution Commission the other
day that tariff duties did not cause high
selling prices, and he could find no evidence
that they did. On the contrary, he found that
the cost of living had increased more in low-
tariff countries such as Britain. During the
last four years the increase in the cost of
living over pre-war costs was: England, 71
p.c.; M.L., 61 p.c.; Australia, 52 p.c.; and
Canada, 45 p.c. In England, clothing was
115 p.c. dearer than in 1914, compared with
a 30 p.c. increase in Australia.
The State financing of the farmer in
Maoriland, so far as short-term loans are
concerned, is henceforth to be in the hands
of district rural credit boards, supervised by
a central board. The financial basis of the
scheme is a Government loan of £400,000
free of interest for the first 10 years, to-
gether with an annual grant of £lO,OOO for
administrative expenses and a single grant
of £5OOO for establishment expenses. The
central board will issue debentures to the
public at a rate of interest not yet defined.
The central boards lend money to the dis-
trict boards at 6| per cent, and the farmer
borrowers pay 6J per cent. Advances are
limited to £lOOO, are repayable in five years,
and must be secured by first mortgage. Six-
teen district boards have now been ap-
pointed. The old-established system of
long-term advances to farmers remains in
operation.
THE CHARGE OF THE PIT BRIGADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ill the Sulphide Hall, Booraloo (N.S.W.), on Sat-
urday night Stockton Borehole miners received 25s.
apiece as their share, less income-tax deductions and
incidentals, of the £600 which Mr. ‘Bondy’ Hoare
accepted sub rosa to keep the colliery working....
It is pointed out that for the 16 months during which
Mr. Hoare was paid his premium, the loss to the
men caused by stoppages was £11,700.”
Half a jim, half a jim,
Five shillings onward—
That was the tally line
Toed for Six Hundred.
“Forward tlie Pit Brigade,
Charge for the bunce!” he said.
“This is your bally cut
Of that Six Hundred.”
“Forward the Pit Brigade!”
Who was there disobeyed,
Not though ’twas clear as mud
Someone had blundered?
Theirs not to start or shy;
Theirs not to reason why
’Twas aught but dinky-di,
This way of whacking up
Bondy’s Six Hundred.
Cashed, for all labor to share,
That cheque that looked a snare,
Turned to a bonus there,
Leaving him rue his guile,
The brass who squandered.
Whether the Artful Bloke
Wouldn’t have had a stroke
May well be wondered,
Had he foreseen the joke
With that Six Hundred.
Willis to right of them,
Badly to left of them,
Jack Lang in front of them
Often had thundered.
But none thought out so well
Such an acceptable
And satisfying sell
To even up old scores
And give the bosses hell
Till Bondy came to tell
Of what he meant to do
With his Six Hundred.
No claim did Hoare evade
(Why, even Whiddon was paid).
And the Egyptians flayed.
The spoilers plundered.
Honor the game he played,
Admire the use he made
Of that Six Hundred!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Adamascus”: The voice of the man
seated opposite me in the Quay-bound tram
made me look at him with interest. It had
a faintly familiar ring, but even without
that the faultless articulation, the cultured
tone and the smooth rolling sentences
would have fascinated me. I was still
speculating where I could have heard him
before, and whether he was a politician, a
university professor, an eloquent K.C. or
even an * actor of distinction, when the ob-
ject of my regard alighted. “Excuse me,
I said, leaning over and addressing the
PUBLIC PROPERTY.
THE DARK ONE: “Did you tell Roy that I was a horrid
cat?”
THE BLONDE: “Why, yes —you made no secret of it,
dear.”
man he had been talking to, “I would be
extremely obliged if you would tell me your
friend’s name.” “Him i said the other
carelessly. “Tliats Billy Beefer, the an-
nouncer for 9XY.”
$ * * *
“S.T.S.” : How easy it is to go wrong in
“local color” unless one has really lived in
the place. Gilbert Frankau is insistently
Australian in his new book, “So Much
Good ” He knows what Potts Point and
Toorak stand for—or did stand for in 1913.
He makes play with the “yellow boronia,
the golden wattle, the white flannel-flower
and the crimson waratah; the organ-bird*
and the lioney-eaters and the shy gray
thrushes.” He bases a flirtation in the
Winter Garden at the Australia. He buys a
girl’s hat at Farmer’s. And then, at tne
Melbourne Gup of 1913, he makes the heroine
collect her winnings on Posmatus —from the
totalisator! __ *
* ❖ * *
“Elgar”: Those “back in 10 minutes”
recollections remind me of a notice-board m
the garden of a jobbing plumber who dwelt
in a Melbourne outer suburb. He joined up
in 1915, but before he went turned his trade
sign-board back to front and painted there-
on • “Gone to Berlin. Back in 12 months.
I wish I could end the story otherwise, but
in less than six months his wife was a war-
widow. „ * *
* * * *
“Ex-Dig.”: The R.S.L. has reopened the
attempt to establish the identity of the mys-
tery soldier now in Callan Park (N.S.W.).
The unplaceable Digger first came to light
at the end of the war, when he was returned
to England with a batch of men from a
German prison-camp. He said he was an
Australian, and mentioned a transport that
did bring troops from Australia, but
no soldier answering to his description could
be traced as having travelled upon it ■ and
his mental condition made probing difficult.
His photograph and description were pub-
lished in the Anzac Bulletin —the official
war-time paper—and circulated amongst all
units without any result. It is hardly likely
that, 10 years afterwards, anything will be
found to clear up the mystery; a pathetic-
result of the revived interest in the case,
however, is the number of people it has dis-
closed who still cling to the hope of discover-
ing alive relatives who were reported miss-
ing.
* * * *
“4x2” : One reason why there wasn’t more
bayonet work on the Western front (B.
]4/3/’27) was the amount of time spent by
British troops in bayonet practice. Fritz,
knowing this and being perfectly well aware
of his own inferiority with the skewer,
didn’t wait for it, preferring to put his trust
in the machine-gun. I remember one old
Scotch instructor in France, a wizard with
the bayonet, who always ended his lecture
thus: “And if yin o’ them shouts ‘Kam-
erad, Kamerad, I’ve got a wife and six kids
at hame,’ rin yer bayonet intae him, or he’ll
go hame an’ get six more.”
* * * *
“Hanno” : I heard a first-hand account of
the execution of the Javanese spy Mata
Ilari (B. 21/3/’2B) from a French officer
who was present. According to him Mata
Hari wore a fur coat, which she opened just
before being shot, but beneath it was a long-
white gown. She didn’t blow kisses to the
advocate who defended her, or to the pastor
who had attended her, because neither w’as
there. Two nuns accompanied her to Vin-
cennes, and in a photograph taken before
the execution, which I have seen, these are
standing as though saying good-bye. Another
photograph taken after execution shows
Mata Hari’s body lying on the. snow-covered
ground, with the nuns a few feet away,
their heads bowed. The only others in the
picture are the firing party, some French
officers, two English officers and a few
civilians.
* * * *
“J. Vincent” : There were few in the 20th
Battalion who didn’t know “Bus-horse,” as
he was called. I can’t recall a stunt
which he missed. Five times
he was made a lance-jack,
and on every occasion he
was subsequently disrated
either for overstaying leave
or some other trivial offence.
On the last occasion he
hadn’t had time to attach
the stripe. We were in bil-
lets at Arques in Septem-
ber, 1917. and all n.c.o.’s
were required to parade for
instruction every evening be-
fore the company - com-
mander. an order which pro-
voked “Bus-horse.” “Damn
the n.c.o. parade!” he
snorted. “Are you an n.c.o. ?”
asked an officer who over-
heard him. “Yes, sir,” was
the reply. “Where are your
stripes?” “Haven’t had time
to put them on, sir.” “Well,
you needn’t bother then,” re-
torted the officer.
* # *
“K e Laep a” : “B u 11-
whanger” can hardly have
paid a visit to Tulagi, Solo-
mon Islands, recently, or he
wouldn’t have described the
calaboose as consisting of a
few leaf huts. The present
gaol covers about an acre
and a half of ground, made
up of various compartment
compounds within a tall
barb-wire fence. There are
at least a dozen sheds, well
built and ventilated, for the
prisoners; outside are the
warders’ barracks and the
gallows. There is a special
cell for whites and it has
had several occupants. Cer-
tainly the accommodation for
natives is rather taxed at
present, with over lOC
Malaita tribesmen awaiting
trial for murder, but the gao’
will hold them. Prisoners
are always brought in tc
Tulagi naked for fear the:
might hang themselves oi
their lava-lavas, as Malait;
boys have frequently tried t<
do.
* * *
' “Count Drolatique”: For a long time I
was puzzled by motor-cars halting outside
my residence in the a.m. hours; it seemed
unlikely that they could all be suffering from
engine troubles or punctures. Now I have
solved the mystery. I am next door to a
fairly, well-wooded vacant lot on one of the
most prominent arterial roads leading to the
Dandenongs, and here returning neck-to-knee
parties which have gone out to the wilds
loaded with beer dump their dead-marines.
The consequence is that small boys race one
another daily in the grey dawn to the dismal
space on my western frontier. The other
morning some votary of Bacchus who
couldn’t see or throw straight dropped a
couple of bottles on my lawn, and I was
just slipping into my dressing-gown to re-
move the evidence when the vicar passed on
an early call. He doesn’t nod to me now.
* * * *
“Lex”: When you go joy-riding with
your friend see that he keeps sober. William
Finnie accepted Edward Charles Carroll s
invitation to go and see some friends, and on
WIRELESS FOR THE HOME.
ANGELINA (after the tiff): “Are we or are we not going? You might at least answer
me that.”
WILLAM:“I did answer it—I shook my head.”
ANGELINA: “Pardon me; I suppose I was too far away to hear it rattle.”
the way home Carroll remarked that he
could easily beat a brewery waggon they
saw ahead. There was nothing wrong with
the brewery waggon, two minutes later, but
Finnie had a broken arm and Carroll a
smashed motor-car. A jury down below
said the fracture was worth £500; but the
Full Court wasn’t satisfied, and the matter
was sent back for re-triel. There his Honor
in effect asked the jury to say whether Fmme
knew Carroll was “shot,” and on the jury
saying yes there was a verdict for defendant.
Which raises points not yet decided. If
Totty accepts Percy’s invitation to see what
the night is like in Percy’s two-seater, .and
Totty knows quite well that Percy s mind
won’t keep fixed on the steering wheel, can
Totty recover damages if anything happens
to an accident to the car, or
course? It looks doubtful.
* * * *
“Nikko” : Banking errors aren’t all on the
outer-side of the counter. Our accountant
had a standing feud with a haughty young
teller at the local bank, and had long waited
an opportunity to get even with the youth
for what he regarded as insufferable airs.
In the temporary absence of the office-boy a
very junior typiste was sent up to the bank
with a document, and to the astonishment
of the office returned clutching ten sovereigns
in her hand. I shall never forget the joy
of the accountant as he took in the situation,
nor the alacrity with which he jumped to the
’phone. Send the sovereigns back? Certainly,
when they could spare one of the stall to
go up. It was a distinctly humbled young
teller who dashed down to collect them, and
there was nothing superior in his manner
as he fervently thanked us all and tore back
to make up his cash.
* * * *
“L.11.H.”: Queer drinks? Travelling up
the Bulloo (Q.), I pulled up at a camp to
fill the radiator, and was appealed to by a
bibulous-looking individual for two bob to
moisten the prevailing drought. Getting the
coin, the parched one promptly headed for
the township, about a mile away, Half an
hour later I met him returning with a ben-
zine tin full of a ruby mixture Its not
exactly ‘pinkie’,” he volunteered, but it s
the next best thing. One-and-six for the
bottle of meth. and threepence tor the
Condy’s crystals. The rest’s tank water.
I muttered something about rank poison, but
he scouted the suggestion with “Don’t you
believe it. mate. I’ve paid a deener a nip
for stuff like this, and worse!”
* * * *
“A.X.”: The latest rumpus between
British naval officers recalls the squabble of
oq vears ago, when Beresford, Commander-
in-Chief of the Channel Fleet, wirelessed his
ships in Portland Harbor to devote three
days to painting and cleaning, preparatory
to receiving the Kaiser, whereupon the
cruiser admiral. Scott, signalled to one ot
his ships at target practice; “As painting
appears to bo of more importance than gun-
nery you had better come inside and make
vourself look pretty.” The message was
duly reported to the C.-in-C., and an unholy
row took place on the quarter-deck of the
flagship, only flag-officers being present
Beresford ordering the signal to be expunged
from the signal logs, and stigmatising it as
“contemptuous in tone and insubordinate in
character.” The Admiralty subsequently
held an inquiry, and although the result was
not made public it was common knowledge
that both disputants got a rub-down ; Scott
for his flippancy and Beresford for publicly
reprimanding another admiral. Eight
months later the feud broke out again, with
the result that Scott was transferred to
another squadron to finish his time. He was
never re-employed, except for a short time
during the war, but was given a baronetcy
for liis services to gunnery. Beresford was
relieved at the end of two years, and though
he received a peerage was never promoted
to Admiral of the Fleet. The Admiralty
regards it as a shocking breach of etiquette
for senior officers to publicly fall out or com-
plain about each other, and the blame is
likely to be visited on both heads.
«j:
“Mcllaggis”: The Caledonian Society of
Rabaul (N.G.) takes itself very seriously.
The ither niclit some hilarious individuals
held a midnight revel on Rabaul wharf to
a bagpipe accompaniment and the ill-content
of the King’s subjects. Next morning there
was a cloud of dark suspicion hanging over
everyone whose name began with ‘ Mac, so
the chieftain of the haggis elan wrote to the
local press setting forth that the disturbers
of the peace were the ship’s company of an
overseas copra boat, one of whom possessed
a set of pipes, and they had been warned
that any further infringement of the musical
privileges of the C.S. would be followed by
a prosecution. Caledonia seems to have
been unusually stern and w'ild over the
affair. . * *
“Hugh Stone”: The contributor who re-
cently complained of the un-Australian name
“New Italy,” officially fastened to a post-
office on the Richmond River (N.S.W.), can
hardly have been aware of the place s his-
tory. Nearly half a century ago the Mar-
quis de Ray attempted to settle an island
in the Pacific with Italian colonists. His
scheme ended in disastrous failure, and the
whole population would have been in danger
of starving had not the then Premier of
N.S.W., Henry Parkes, come to their rescue.
He sent a vessel which removed the hapless
settlers to the Richmond River, where he
had set apart a parcel of land for them.
That is how the district came to be called
New Italy. I was there in 1922, and found
that nearly all of the original band had
either died or gone back to their native
land; the younger ones had mostly become
Australians and drifted -elsewhere. In the
circumstances perhaps it is time that the old
name were wiped out; it has a certain his-
torical interest nevertheless.
THE FORGETFUL VOTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Labor selection ballot for the West
Sydney Federal seat on Saturday, March 17, one
oi the block boys organised to travel round the
polling-booths impersonating voters forgot the name
of the person he was impersonating and had to be
reminded by an official that his name for voting
purposes was Kelly.”—S. M. Herald.
Quoth one: “Has anybody here seen Kelly?”
* And waited vainly for reply, because
The josser witli this nom de guerre assigned
him
llad left some portion of his wits behind him
And couldn't say off-handed who lie was ;
Had done his block, in short, forgetful wight!
AS obviously any block-boy might.
Green banners waved without and badges
fluttered
In honor of old Ireland’s good St. Pat.
Strange, on a day of such inspiring omen,
A chap should have forgotten a cognomen
So thoroughly Hibernian as that!
"Kelly,” they said, and took him from the
block
And sent him to the polling-booth ad hoc.
Smith, was he Smith? Or Jones? Or Brown?
Or Chernside
IJpon the pay-sheet of the street patrol?
Who knows or cares a tinker’s malediction ?
All that was asked from him was the con-
viction
His name was Kelly on the Labor roll,
And his support for whomsoever’s stock
Rechristened block-boys were to boost en
Hoc.
They dubbed him Kelly for the cause —
whichever
It was—and sped him forth into the fray.
He wasn’t asked to masquerade or mimic,
Merely to keep in mind his patronymic.
Strange it should slip him upon such a
day!
Block-boy (or -head) a puzzled brow he
rubbed
Till someone wised the dub what he’d been
dubbed.
. N.S.W.
IFORD.
WINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A note of inexpressible sadness was added to the
funeral of the late Flight-Lieutenant Ivor Ewing
McIntyre by the attendance of a solitary plane that
circled overhead, the droning of the engine being-
audible throughout the churchyard during the whole
of the service.” —Press item.
“Earth to earth” And a ’plane grieves by
Like a mateless bird, in a windy sky!
“Ashes to ashes”.... The lonely plane
Goes mourning under the clouds again. _
What would he wish but the whir of wings
For requiem? Hark, how the engine sings,
Sings, and sorrows, and sorrows again,
A desolate bird that is crying in vam
For her mate, her mate!.... -They have put
him away .
To the whir of wings on a windy day,
A passion of wings and an engine s drone
Crying aloft that his flight is flown!
“Earth to earth”.... And a brooding plane
Circles, and sseks for her mate m vam.
S.A.
Madge R. C.


“Cooramin”: Some 30 years ago a Towns-
ville (Q.) brewery engaged an enterprising
signwriter to advertise their wares on the
surrounding scenery. From high up on the
cliffs of Castle Hill down to the edge of Ross
Creek, and all about the suburbs, the eye
was incessantly confronted with the alluring
slogan, painted in bold white letters: “Drink
Tiger Beer.” One of these exhortations
close to the cemetery evidently attracted the
attention of a cold-tea advocate with more
humor than most of his tribe. Anyhow,
instead of trying to deface it, he secured
a brush and a pot of paint and inscribed the
grim addendum in equally plain letters:
‘And you’ll soon be lying here.”
* * *
“Linwood”: Telephoning a friend at the
old Naval Depot at Williamstown (Vic.),
my wire got crossed with another, and the
following dialogue came my way. Girl’s
voice: “Is that 005 Williamstown?” Gloomy
sailor’s voice: “No, it’s 05.” Girl (ex-
citedly) : “Is that 005 Williamstown —the
Flying School?” Gloomy sailor: “No, miss,
we’re sailors —we ain’t angels !”
“Avon”: The little township of Kaiapoi,
in Maoriiand’s southern half, lias been cele-
brating its 60th year as a borough. But its
history goes back much further than that.
About the time Queen Anne was crowned
the Ngaitalui tribe established there the
strongest pa in the South Island, surrounded
on three sides by lagoon and on the other
by swamp. A hundred years ago Te Rau-
paraha, the bloodthirsty old chief of the
Ngatitoa tribe, that dominated the North
Island, descended on the Kaiapoi pa—lvaia-
pohia it was called then—and after a pro-
longed siege, in which the attackers showed
A SACRIFICE.
MRS LEVI: “Vy do you fret and fuss so, Rachel, ven you haf Cohen’s insurance
money t”
RES COHEN: “I loved him so much, Rebecca, that I’d be villin’ to gif up half de
insurance money if he could come back”
themselves proficient in trench warfare, mas-
sacred the defenders and stole all their
greenstone. There was a great cannibal
feast, and when the Rev. John Raven arrived
20 years later to establish a mission he
found the site of the pa strewed with skulls
and bones. Ivaiapa’s other claims to fame
are that it is the birthplace - of Tom Bavin,
N. S. Wales Premier, and that for years
the pubs there sold long beers for 4d. when
thirsty souls in the rest of Maoriland had
to pay 6d.
. “Manar”: The prejudice against women
students, recently fanned into flame at some
of the biggest London hospitals, is no new
thing. It is only of comparatively recent
years that women desirous of entering the
medical profession have been admitted as
students at all, and there are almost always
discouraging restrictions. In the three Aus-
tralian medical schools, Sydney, Melbourne
and Adelaide, and the hospitals attached to
them, no differentiation as to the sex of stu-
dents is made, and the women receive the
same facilities in all respects as men. But once
they have graduated, women doctors in Aus-
tralia are apt to bump up against all sorts
of obstacles, and to find that the same hos-
pitals which admitted them on an equal
footing with men bar them from jobs which
they are perfectly capable of filling. In
England, on the other hand, whatever feel-
ing may exist against women as hospital
students, they encounter no hostility, either
open or veiled, once they have become
qualified practitioners.
* * * *
“Listinsect”: An Adelaide experimenter
has produced a baby wireless station
which can be strapped on to the
back of Lizzie, packed in Matilda or
put in the parlor; the present price is
£3O. Its radius is just under 1000 miles, and
the Australian Inland Mission already has
five operating. It aims at supplying them to
as many Central Australian settlers as
possible, at wholesale reductions if necessary.
They operate only in Morse, which is a
drawback to most outbacks; but typewriters
which punch the code on a slip fed into
an automatic transmitter will be supplied
for an additional fiver. The centre of this
vast extra-official telegraph system will be
Cloncurry, headquarters of Dr. K. St. Vin-
cent Welch, the “flying doctor.” An SOS to
him will fetch the medico, in a Quantas
aeroplane fitted as an ambulance, to the
remotest bedside.
* x *
“S.T.S.” : An old BULLETIN joke has been
used in sober earnest by a fruit-grower near
Adelaide. With an idea of straightening
the finances, the S. Aus. Govt, has imposed
a super tax on top of the ordinary incom 1
tax. And the orchard man protested vigor-
ously to the Taxation office: “Most unfair.
Never used it in my life; always use bone-
dust.”
* * * *
“157.310”: Ten years ago, when I was
serving in Cranwell aerodrome, Lincolnshire.
I saw one of the firing-both-ways guns of
which “Aileron” writes (B. 7/3/’2B). It
was about eight feet in length, had a bore
of nearly two inches, was loaded in the
centre and fired a double charge to obviate
recoil. It was to be fitted, it was said, to
our biggest bombing ’planes, at that time
the Handley Page. I am not surprised that
others should have refused to believe in the
practicability or existence of such a
weapon, for my own relatives seemed to
think I was romancing when I told them
about it after my discharge. That was in
1918, so they have been a long time per-
fecting it.
Sc * * *
“Lao-dah”: A long-married woman pas-
sionately desired offspring, but no olive
branches were forthcoming. She thought
of adoption, and sounded hubby, but he
wasn’t the sort to welcome the prospect of
somebody else’s brat about the house, so
the lady dropped the subject, and he forgot
all about it. Later he had to absent himself
from home and spend a lengthy period in the
country, and was delighted ‘ to receive a
letter from his wife containing some interest-
ing intelligence. Some months later he was
overjoyed when a wire came to announce the
arrival of a son and heir. All would have
gone well if, on his return, hubby hadn’t
been so curious about his wife’s disinclina-
tion to claim the baby bonus. Under his
persistent pressure she filed her applica-
tion and duly drew’ the fiver. But officialdom
wasn’t as blind as the father. Inquiry re-
vealed that the child had been adopted.
Vicarious mother got a term for defrauding
the department, and vicarious father is no
happier for the knowledge that has been
forced upon him.
“Poseidon”: There are some nice subtleties
in connection with Darwin’s latest beer-strike,
The North Australian Workers’ Union
has declared three hotel bars in the town
to be “black” because these hotels employ
abos. as rouseabouts and odd-job men; but
FOOD AND FACES.
“It says in tins book that looks are determined, by one’s diet.”
“Then, for Heaven’s sake, dearie, keep off plain food for a while!”
other tradesfolk employing abos. to a much
greater extent are not molested by the
union. Even in regard to the hotels the
boycott is arbitrarily limited. N.A.W.U.
members may cart and deliver beer for the
hotels; may board in them; may even, if
they are bar-tenders, serve the beer over the
counter. But for a N.A.W.U. member to
take a drink at the bar means a fine of any-
thing from ss. to £lO. So they don't drink
at the bar, but go round to the back door
or have kegs sent to their houses. The con-
sumption of beer hasn’t been affected in the
slightest, so far as available evidence goes.
H* ❖ ❖
“Ohm’s Law”: It was a sardonic humor-
ist who came to the rescue of the P.M.G.’s
department the other day and selected 13
as the Melbourne Morgue’s ’phone number.
It had been going begging for a long time.
$ « X- *
“Bosso”: Talking of the queer names of
some of the old pubs, one that used to give
the swaggie an agreeable shock was the
“Who’d Have Thought It?” on the road to
Quirindi (N.S.W.). It was well named,
for no one who hadn’t travelled the road
before would have expected to find an inn in
such a place.
H* •]' »•*
“Isaac OiFlanagan”: One chance of pro-
fit makes the wdiole world kin. Com-
ing past St. Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, on the morning of March
17, I noticed a stout little man,
wdiose features showed him beyond
all doubt a Hebrew of the Hebrews,
standing beside the great door. His
hat was placed reverently on the
sill beside him, and at his feet was
a box of long green-ribboned badges
with a metal St. Patrick’s cross.
From his own buttonhole depended
an outsize in these decorations. He
was doing quite a brisk business,
for early worshippers were going in
with some regularity, but I thought
he looked a trifle self-conscious as
he caught my ill-mannered stare of
interest.
“Listinsect”: An East Malvern (Vic.)
enthusiast has recorded a curious radio
achievement. The other night he picked up
some music from 2FC and, half-way through
the item, caught the same piece faintly on
another wave-length. Then came the sig-
nature “SSW,” and he knew' that what he
had heard was London rcbroadcasting Syd-
ney.
“Cwrw Bach”: “Gregor” suggests that
Wellington was inferior to Marlborough as a
military commander in “gift for organisa-
tion.” though he may have excelled him in
tactics and strategy (B. 14/3/’2B). Curi-
ously it was on the former quality that the
Iron Duke most prided himself. “If I know
anything at all,” he said, “it is how to
victual an army.”
# *
“Chevroford”: Long runs in misgotten
cars have been rocorded, but this must
surely be the shortest. The would-be joy-
rider took the car from in front of the
owner’s home. The owner came out just in
time to see him collide with a taxi and pick
him up unconscious.
* *s * *
“Ferrochie”: I got my motorist’s licence
outside the Victorian suburban radius (B
21/3/’2B). After a few hours’ tuition in
driving round a quiet country road, I ap-
proached the constable of a popular sea-
side resort and asked to be certified a fully
fledged motorist. All went well till the test
included a drive dowm the approach to the
pier, when, in my frenzied effort either to
turn or reverse, I went over the only two
dead marines on the landscape, knocked over
a kerosene tin on the side of the road and
then came to a temporary stop on the foot-
path. Imagine my surprise when the officer
told me to drive to the post-office and get the
necessary p.n. for my licence. It occurred to
me afterwards that he was avoiding the risk
of accompanying me on a second test, for lie
curtly refused my offer to drive him back
to the police station.
* * ■■!< *
“8.Y.N.” : The scene of the first artillery
shot fired on our side in the war was not
Belgium (B. 14/3/’2B) hut Victoria. On
the afternoon of August 3, 1914, a German
ship in Port Phillip Bay, learning by wire-
less that war was being declared from mid-
night that night, made a dash for the open
sea. The forts at the Heads put a shot
across the front of her, and when she didn't
pull up they put another one across her
decks. The vessel then hove to and became
one of the first, if not the first, captured
during the war.
* * * *
“Sands o’ I)ee” : Maoriland isn’t the only
country with submerged forests (8.14/3/’2B).
A huge one extends along that portion of the
coast of Britain that lies between Holyhead
and Morecambe Bay. As in the case of the
Waikato forest, the stumps have been cut oil
short as if with the axe, but much of the
upper timber remains preserved as it fell.
The forest is plainly to be seen at low tide
off Dee mouth or the Lancashire coast by
those who know where to look for it; it ante-
dates all recorded history.
* * * *
“Bungaree B”: Whether or not there is
a color line in Maoriland (B. 7/3/’2B),
some of our retailers draw a vocational one.
Our boss went to the local store to get
the weekly supplies, and inquired the price
of butter. “Eighteen-pence a pound,” said
the grocer’s lady; “but we have some capital
navvies’ butter for eleven-pence.”
s’: * * *
“Ke Laepa” : Can anybody tell me where
the word “kanaka” comes from? It is not
Samoan, nor Tongan nor Maori/though they
all have a similar word (c.g., tanata), nor
is it Fijian. The only dialect I know in
which it appears is that of the Lord Howe
group, the most northern of the Solomon
islands. Here it is “kang-aka.” But surely
the word did not spread all over the world
from that small settlement.
«*• * *
“Listinsect”: With 79 licences per 1000
of population, Victoria now has the listen-
ing-in habit worse than any country in the
world. U.S.A. is the runner-up, with 78 per
1000, and thickly populated Belgium comes
last of those listed with five per 1000. Bel-
gium’s indifference to the craze is curious,
considering that her ether must be sown thick
with music from neighboring countries.
* * * *
“Caveman”: What seems to have been
Australia’s only settlement of troglodytes is
reported to be entirely deserted. This is
Cupapedy, an opal-mining township of other
days, in the Stuart Ranges (S.A.). The
sun is more than ordinarily fierce in those
parts, and gradually the locals began to bur-
row into the clay cliffs for residential pur-
poses. There they found coolness and a sur-
cease from flies, as well as from the blinding
glare. Pubs, shops, dwellings, and even the
banks all took to the cave-dwelling life, and
no doubt felt the better for it, for the prac-
tice was continued till the field petered out.
A few old fossickers hung about for years
after that, but even these are gone now.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The Aborigines’ Friends’ Asso-
ciation in South Aus. has issued a protest
against the well-intending people who urge
non-interference with native customs. > It is
pointed out by Kramer, a Centralian mission-
ary, that these customs include the killing ol
children, the premature burial of the aged,
blood feuds, and the “initiation” brutalities
practised on young men and women —prac-
tices which can only be described as Satanic.
Often, he suggests, they are only carried out
to please the cruel old men of the tribe.
THE OFFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E’s the kind of feller you want to watch.
Don’t give ’im a chance at all,
Or else, before you know where you are,
you’ll ’ave ’im bouncin’ the ball.
To see ’im down at the pub you’d think that
’e was a reel 'ard case:
But take it from me ’e’s the kind of bloke
you want to keep in ’is place.
’E’s an ’ell of a pea in ’is own ideer. If
you listened to all ’is yap
You’d wonder ’owever you came to meet
such a wonderful kind of chap.
But don’t you take no notice of that; you
let ’im see at the start
That you’ve done a bit in that line yourself
an’ you’re able to take your part.
I’ve screwed ’im off', an’ at pickin’ ’is mark
’e’s as good as ever I seen,
An’ ’e’s sure to git slingin’ ’is weight about
if ’e sees that a man is green.
There’s plenty ready to buy ’im beer; keep
clear of that crawlin’ mob.
An’ let ’im see you’re as good as ’im, though
’e is the boss of the job.
I don’t go round with me eyes shut tight; I
reckon I’ve tramped as far
As most men 'ave, an’ I guess I ought to
know what these bosses are.
They’ve got to be kept well in their place
if a man wants a dinkum spin,
An’ none of the blighters are any good till
a feller’s broken them in.
W. A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
For the Autumn Racing;!
df
ROSS
GLASSES
WITH EXTRA WIDE FIELD.
World leadership has been rightly
gained by these fine British Binoculars.
The new Ross models are a revelation
of what modern optical science can
produce. Objects can be located and
followed with the utmost ease, however
fast the pace, and no unpleasant effects
of eye-strain attend long use.
SOLD AT LONDON CATALOGUE PRICES.
MODELS FROM £lO.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
Sight-Testing Opticians,
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SHELCOTE
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
Modern Private Hotel.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views,
Tennis Court, Swimming Bath,
Billiards.
Guests’ Own Laundry.
Excellent Cuisine,
MODERATE TARIFF.
’Phone X 1621.
Telegrams, etc.: “Shelcote,” Neutral Bay, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Digger army’s incomparable staff man
Brudenell White, who wanted more money
than the Defence Department could pay him,
w r as given a job as Commonwealth Public
Service Commissioner; but he will quit that,
too, shortly to become Australian head of
the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile Agency Co.,
one of the biggest concerns in squatting-
finanee south of the line —besides its big
business in Australia and Maoriland it has
a smaller one in S. America. White, thougn
his name is Cyril Brudenell Bingham, was
born with no silver spoon in his mouth. His
father was a Queensland squatter who did
no better than most Queensland squatters in
the early ’nineties, and young White went
into the A.J.S. Bank at 16. And that was
getting out of the frying-pan into the fire,
considering what the A.J.S. was like in those
days. Still the youngster stuck it for seven
years—then got ready for his first campaign
in S’Africa.
MAYOR BEN
LESLIE, of
Kalgoorlie.
John Gale, who still runs the Quean-
beyan Age and contributes to it, will be 98
on April 17, and is Australia’s oldest work-
ing journalist. J. H. Ricketts, who has
ceased to do any writing, just beats him
as to age. He was 98 the other day. Ricketts
was at one time on the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, and later ran a paper at Ivurri
Kurri. He boasts a set of face-growths
that rival those of Dr. “Whiskers” Ward at
his best. Still remarkably hardy, he recov-
ered from a bad accident last year as if he
was a juvenile.
Some April birthdays: —
Bishop Armstrong (late of Wangaratta), 71, Alev.
Jobson (Syd.), 53, and Walter Young (Elder, Smith
and Co., Adel.), 56, on 2nd; Col. Bourchier, M.L.A.
(Vic.), 47, on 4th; Archdeacon Boyce (Syd.), S 4,
oh 6th; Alf. Roberts (pres, of S.A. Lawn Tennis
Assoc.), 65, on 7th; artist Arthur Streeton, 61, on
Bth; ex-Prime Minister J. C. Watson, 61, and T.
Trumble (High Office), 56, on 9th;
ex-Federal Speaker Elliot Johnson, M.H.R., 66,
on 10th; poet Bernard O’Dowd, 62, on 11th; Dr.
Maloney, M.H.R., 74, on 12th; Justice Douglas
(Q’land), 45, on 13th; W. C. Hill (Federal Minis-
ter for Works and Railways), 62, on 14th; Prime
Minister Bruce, 45, knight Alfred W. Meeks (chair-
man of A.M.P.), 79, and Adelaide’s former Mayor
Allen Simpson, 53, on 15th; Lieut.-Gen. Chauvel,
63, on 16th; R'ev. John Walker (Canberra’s first
Presbyterian minister), 73, and Harry D. Gell
(Adel.), 83, on 17th; David Barclay (Hobart), 82,
on 18th; Dr. MacFarland (Chancellor of Melb.
Uni.), 77, and knight Thomas Hughes (Sydney’s first
Gaud Mayor), 65, on 19th; L. A. Adamson (Wesley
Coll., Melb.), 68, on 20th; W. L. Baillieu (Melb.),
69, Clifford Hay (N.S.W. Premier’s Dept.), 50, and
Dr. B. H. Morris (S.A. Inspector Gen. of Hospitals),
60, on 22nd ; knight Arthur Robinson (formerly Vie.
Attorney-General), 56, on 23rd; medico-knight Carr
Maudsley (Melb.), 69, and James Davies (Commercial
Travellers’ Assoc, secretary), 63, on 25th; Queens-
land’s ex-Senator Drake, 78, knight W. J. Sowden
(formerly editor of Adel. Register), 70, J. MacCal-
lum Smith, M.L.A. (W.A.), 60, and R. W. M.
Waddy (formerly S.A. Deputy P.M.G.), 80, on 26th;
Gov.-Gen. Stonehaven, 54, knight Henry Braddon
(Dalgety’s), 65, Prof. Agar (Melb.), 46, and ex-
W.A. Premier Jas. Mitchell, 62, on 27th; Owen
Dixon, K.C. (Melb.), 42, and botanist J. M. Black
(S.A.), 73, on 28th; and W. L. S. Cooper (clerk
of N.S.W. Parliaments), 63, on 30th.
The Ma State’s champion bankrupt—and
probably Australia’s —has again turned up.
He has “filed” five times, and has years to
go yet. Once he did it as Arnold Taylor,
again as Arnold Taylor Robson and a third
time as Taylor Robson; and he has traded
under at least two other names, including
Robey. But he denies that he ever made it
Robbery.
T. G. Tickell, who built up a tidy bank
roll supplying jam to the British Army
through the war, is spending a trifle of it
having a look round Australia. Next to one
or two newspaper correspondents, a score or
so generals, 10,000 sub-lieutenants and all
9.2 shells, his product was one of the most
generously cursed things in the Scrap ; there
are not many Diggers who have forgotten
the monotony of his plum-and-apple and
another blend or two. The man who wouldn’t
fight after he had been issued with a tin
of Tickell in lieu of cigarettes was regarded
as a born cur.
At the end of a game of 54 moves, Death
has called “checkmate” to ex-Australian
chess champion Albert Edward Noble Wal-
lace. Born in Ireland, Wallace won the
Queenslansd chess championship at the
age of 18; he had been in Australia
two years then. A job in the N.S.W. Sav-
ings Bank took him south, and he became
champion of N.S.W. (after a hard struggle
with Crane) and of Australia. Crakan-
thorp finally deposed him, but he remained
a formidable player.
The first casualty in the campaign against
the recent indifferent art purchases under the
Vic. Felton Bequest is not Frank Rinder,
its London buyer, but Dr. Deeper, president
of the National Gallery. The doctor was
for 40 years a loyal servant of that insti-
tution, and an even more loyal defender
of Rinder. But he has been fighting a losing
battle. His excuse for retirement is that
he is over SO.
Beechworth (Vic.) was preparing to cele-
brate Jimmy Ingram’s centenary when the
Reaper called just five weeks from the cen-
tury. Ingram, who pioneered the district
in 1840, 70 years ago, helped to establish
the hospital and put in uninterrupted ser-
vice on its committee. For a score of years
he was the best known educational stationer
in the Commonwealth, supplying schools in
all States with requisites.
Snowball was the third Vic. Speaker to
die in harness in the last half-century or so.
Duncan Gillies (1902-03) and John E.
Mackey (1917-24) were the other two.
Gillies was an ex-Premier and Mackey an
ex-Minister for Lands when elected to the
chair.
Judge Scholes, who will be 70 on May 29,
is finishing with the Bench. An Armidale
(N.S.W.) native, he was educated and
started his legal career in that town, but
finished liis articles with the firm of solici-
tors which is now Minter, Simpson an<j Co..
and in the old days was Want, Johnson and
Want. He qualified as a barrister in Lon-
don before starting Bar practice in N.S.W.,
and has been a Judge for 20 years. He
was engaged for 18 months in settling up
the mess caused by the big coal strike of
1909-10, and afterwards presided in the
State Arbitration Court.
“lan C.” : If W. J. Skewes is selected to
succeed Brudenell White, as seems likely,
the Fed. Public Service Board will get a
first-rate man, who knows the employees
thoroughly. Beginning as a clerk in the Vic.
J.R. LEE,
N.S.W. Minister
of Justice.
Education Depart-
ment 38 years ago,
he at once got out
of the ruck by be-
coming sec. to the
Minister —Sargood,
a pernickety man,
but one who had
had . a business
training. Skewes
kept on climbing,
but always got
senior work with-
out corresponding
increase of pay.
Tired of this treat-
ment in the Pre-
mier’s office, he
transferred to the
Commonwealth as
a fourth-class
officer. Before be-
coming second
member of the Pub.
Ser. Board he had
a few years’ work
as Government re-
presentative in
arguing service
cases before the
Arbitration Court.
J. C. Westhoven,
Deputy P.M.G. in
Vic., looks a good
tip for third place
on the board.
“Laborer”: During the Hinkler recep-
tions at Canberra I was struck by the way
Billy Hughes was received everywhere. At
the ceremony at Parliament House he was
surrounded by members, and at the screen-
ing of the picture “Wings” he was received
with uproarious applause. His oration in
praise of Hinkler stirred acclamation that
nearly lifted the roof.
The Bulletin regrets the loss by death
of one of the earliest and most valued con-
tributors to its “Land” section. When
arrangements were being made for this new
feature J. D. Campbell (“J.D.C.”) was one
of the 25 experts who were invited to co-
operate. Formerly a grazier in the Con-
dobolin district (N.S.W.), Mr. Campbell
made a deep study of sheep diseases, and
for 10 years past had been chief vaccinator
to the McGarvie Smith Institute, which has
done such great work in combating anthrax.
Baron Somers found it convenient to keep
an engagement in North Gippsland on the
Sunday fixed for welcoming Hinkler at
Flemington racecourse. Synods, presbyteries,
circuits and combinations of all three had
been voicing protests agin Sabbath dese-
cration and the impropriety of forcing the
representative of his Majesty to take part,
and so on. So the Governor got eastward,
and Hogan did the welcoming. He had with
him as fellow-sinners Lord Mayor Morell and
Col. Brinsmead. Only slightly more than
12,000 used the special trains at a bob-a-
head return.
“S.C.M.”: The Rear-Admiral Grace men-
tioned in the cables in connection with the
Afghanistan king’s submarine jaunt is a
son of “W. G.” I saw him last year when
he was negotiating with me re the lease of
a house in England. Except that his beard
if of the naval torpedo cut, he is he “dead
ring” of the G.O.M. of the cricket field.
Anglicans in South Aust. have celebrated
in a practical way—with a cheque—Arch-
deacon Bussell’s half-century of service.
Born in Bussellton (W.A.), which takes
its name from the family, he moved to S.A.
as a child. He is local president of the
Aborigines’ Friends’ Association, and has
done much good work outside his ordinary
duties.
Sydney Smith, senior, who was elected for
the sixth time as president of the Sailors and
Soldiers’ Fathers’ Association on the same
day that his son, Sydney Smith, junior, was
given a presentation for his services on the
management side of cricket, might have been
one of the N.S.W. railway heads. He joined
the baby railway system in 1870 as a boy
of 14, and 10 years later was chief clerk and
assistant traffic manager. But politics called,
and he established a land-agency business in
order to have political freedom. Two years
later he was in Parliament as member for
Macquarie, and later in his 16-years’ term
in State politics he represented Bathurst.
He was Minister for Agriculture with the
Parkes Government of 1889-91, and. for
Mines and Agriculture in the Reid Ministry
of 1894-8. The first Commonwealth Par-
liament saw him as member for Macquarie
again, and Reid made him P.M.G. in his
Ministry. Labor man E. S. Carr (now a
Nationalist) bumped him out of politics in
the 1906 election.
Maoriland has gained a fine athlete as a
citizen in the Scottish all-rounder C. E. W.
Macintosh, now in business in Auckland.
Macintosh represented Scotland and Oxford
at Rugby and opposed American university
reps, at running and jumping. He was
captain of the British ski team that beat
Switzerland, and several times collected the
Kandahar Cup for ski-ing. Last year he
married Lady Jean Hamilton, eldest daugh-
ter of the Duke of Hamilton, Scotland’s
premier Duke.
F. W. (Freddy) Dickson, just dead in
Brisbane, was for years Bananaland’s Crown
Prosecutor, and many times an acting Judge
in the district courts. He was a son of James
Dickson, once one of the big men in Queens-
land politics, and Australia’s first Minister
for Defence. A more popular man than F.
VV. among the horsehair brigade never wore
a wig, and in his long job of “shopping
’em” he was so conspicuously fair and decent
that even the candidates for a Kathleen
Mavourneen used to pray fervently that
“Freddy” would try them. In his off hours
he was a great sailing man, and built many
of his own boats.
“Q.N.”: Men who have been successful
in professions adopted as a second string
(B. 14/3/’2B) include at least two mem-
bers of the Victorian Supreme Court Bench.
Justice Cussen in former days was a civil
engineer, and Justice Lowe a school-teacher.
Justice Mann, before venturing into law as
a profession, was on the clerical staff of the
Melbourne City Court. Two very success-
ful members of the Victorian Bar are . ex-
newspaper reporters and another practised
as an accountant.
J. D. Williams, concerned in the big film
damages case in England recently, kept an
elaborate house at Rushcutter Bay, Sydney,
a few years ago. A few years earlier he
made a crust in the same city by selling
“ticklers” and such carnival trifles.
George T. Eaton, mentioned in the action
brought by J. D. Williams against an Eng-
lish film-producing company the other day,
hailed originally from Queensland, and prac-
tised in Rockhampton as an architect. He
moved to Sydney about 20 years ago, de-
signed the Adelphi Theatre (Grand Opera
House) and was one of its first directors. A
run of bad luck caused him to migrate to
England, where he secured a contract for
part of the work of fortifying the east
coast. From that job he netted £150,000, and
to-day has more than double the sum, chiefly
through land and theatrical speculations.
During a recent Supreme Court sittings at
Townsville, Justice Douglas and counsel
dispensed with their ceremonial robes, owing
to the heat. Counsel even shed their coats,
and with rolled shirt sleeves carried on. The
jurymen kicked, also. They said the court-
house was an abomination, or words to that
effect.
CARLYLE JACKSON, successful Vic.
water-colorist.
Victoria now has a skirted assistant chief
inspector of secondary schools in Julia Flynn,
8.A., who has been moved up from the job
of senior inspector. Another of the sex in-
specting in the State’s secondary schools is
Sybil Llewelyn, M.Sc.
WHEN A MAN REMEMBERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It's when a man remembers the things he
figured out
When everything looked easy and never came
a doubt;
When he was sure as could be that he was
on a win,
That is the time, I reckon, a fellow’s got
to grin.
It's when a man’s been thinking of all the
things he planned,
When everything he needed seemed right
into his hand;
It’s when he follows that up by thinking for
a while
Of what came of his planning, a fellow’s
got to smile.
It’s when he hears an echo of some for-
gotten skite,
When something past and done with gets
dragged into the light—
At times like this I reckon there’s nothing
for a man
To do but just crack hardy and laugh a 3
best he can.
It’s when a man remembers, it’s when he
comes to know
That when the lists are tallied he won’t
have much to show,
When all his schemes are punctured and all
his plans are ripped,
It’s then he gets a glimmer of just how far
he’s slipped.
For when a man remembers the things that
once he said,
And when he sees as plainly the way his
path has led,
It’s then a man discovers, while memories
crowd in,
He hasn’t done too badly if he can raise a
grin.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Metrovick” Products Include
The Marie of
Efficiency
TURBO-ALTERNATORS
ROTARY CONVERTERS
AUTOMATIC SUB-STATIONS
SUPERVISORY CONTROL
TRACTION APPARATUS
GENERATORS, A.C. AND D.C.
INDUSTRIAL MOTORS
CONTROL GEAR
TRANSFORMERS
SWITCHGEAR, A.C. AND D.C.
INSTRUMENTS
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
ADELAIDE,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
PERMIT US TO QUOTE FOR YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
ers
ic
Queensland Agents;
Messrs. Engineering
Supply Company of
Australia, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
USE
sd
BRAKE LINING
SILVER
EDGE
REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
fsd
BRITISH.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commonwealth General Assurance
Corporation, Ltd., of Sydney:—
Excess Out-
Dec., Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
8,943
1921.. 19,481 4,340 20,186 5,045 13,988
Premiums on new shares, 11449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45,801 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,605
Premiums on new snares, 01231 (net) 24,404
Share-selling costs . . 1,300 25,824
Paid for Co-op. and L.C.A.
Industrial departments . . 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81.519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
From sale of Fire business, .1125,378 31,299
From Fire Dept. .. £3BB 30,911
To lteduction
of Deficit.
1925.. 77,258 18,048 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl . . 20,083
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.
1927.. 80,583 17,504 44,056 19,023 16,120
The table combines the result of the co.’s
activities in all branches. The lire and
marine department was sold to the Common-
wealth Traders’ Insurance Co. for £25,378
in fully-paid shares in 1924. For the 2}
years preceding transfer it mopped up in
claims and exes. £24,445 more than it
gathered in premiums. For the last three
years risks have been confined to ordinary
life and industrial policies, etc., and annually
revenue has overtaken the outgo. Last year
the income was £5453 greater than it was in
1926, but the surplus got only £782 of the
increase. That was mainly because claims
took a bigger bite, 21.7 p.c. compared with
16.9 p.c. and 24.1 p.c. in the two preceding
years; exes, gobbled up 55.2 p.c. as against
58.7 p.c. and 61.7 p.c. in 1926 and 1925
respectively. The movement is in the right
direction, but a great deal more will have
to be done if the co. is to get on to its feet.
Here is a more detailed view of the busi-
ness :
Ordinary and Industrial Life.
Nominal
Income. Claims. Expenses. Surplus.
n S Ord; £24,189 £2,527 £20,067 £1,595
1923 1 Ind. 27,876 3,672 29,236 5,032
. ( Ord. 19,771 2,772 13,899 3,099
1924 I Ind. 42,906 6,400 31,003 5,503
n : r ( Ord. 21,150 1,558 12,460 7,126
1925 I Ind. 46,501 10,348 27,173 8,980
-loofi 4 Ord. 22,251 3,679 ) , 9q ,0941
1926 { Ind. 52,879 9,081 J 44 ’ 129 18)241
-1097 1 Ord. 21,540 4,444 j q 23
1927 ( Ind. 59,043 13,060 j 44)Ubb iy ’ U2d
The drift in the Ordinary department is
serious. In 1926 £6823 of new premiums
and £15,428 of renewals were got in, to-
gether £22,251; last year renewals amounted
to only £16,868. The difference represents
the loss to the co. not only in claims, etc.,
but also in lapses, and obviously the latter
are much heavier than they should be. They
probably represent a definite loss to the co.
as well as to the policy-holder. Splitting up
administrative exes. (£13,704 last year) in
proportion to premium income, and accept-
ing the management’s allocation of the bal-
ance of the exes., new Ordinary business was
running into 165 p.c. last year compared
with 156 p.c. in the previous term.. These
figures show how the volume of new busi-
ness is withering:—
Life Business Written.
Ordinary Annual
Policies. Assuring. Premiums.
]923. . .. 1128 £324,463 £14,233
1924. . . . 780 184,202 7,500
1925.. .. 730 196,527 7,749
1926.. .. 681 203,397 7,369
1927.. .-. 490 145,438 5,419
The general trend of the figures, the heavy
expense rate and the lapses have heaved a
good deal of pitch into the outlook. During
the term C. E. Smith, who used to be new
business manager for the National Mutual in
Auckland (M.L.), took charge. This may
mean that more attention is to be given to
the Life department.
Following the policy of its founder,
Thomas Foster, the co. gives most of its
attention to industrial risks; a block of
ready-made business, the industrial policies
of the Life Insurance Co. of Australia, Co-
operative and Australian Workers’ Co-op.,
was bought three or four years ago. One
result was that an establishment account
of £16,585 appeared; another was that pre-
mium income has almost doubled since 1923,
reaching £54.936 last year. Of that amount
exes, gobbled 63.8 p.c. compared with 64.6
p.c. in the previous term, and claims called
for 23.7 p.c. as against IS.I p.c. in 1926:
thus the surplus (£6796) was £10,796
lighter. During the year £308,085 of new busi-
ness was written under 7165 policies, and
that was £12,689 more than was written
under 6913 policies in 1926. The average
per policy and the average premium over the
last three years have been steady around
£43 and £3 7s. respectively.
However, it is doubtful whether much, if
any, real progress has been made. When the
actuary overhauled the policies as at Dec.
31, 1925, he figured liabilities thereunder at
£99,924, and the life fund stood at £19,440.
That left a deficiency of £80,484. To bal-
ance the books £48,000 of actuarial liabili-
ties, taken over with the policies bought
from the cos. referred to above, was added
to the purchase account, and £32,484 to
the establishment account. By this simple
bit of bookkcping the fund was made
equal to the liability to policy-holders, but
there was only £75,587 in net tangible assets
to cover it, and that figure was subject to the
intangibles in £30,991 of shares held in other
cos., mostly in the Commonwealth Traders
Insurance: —
1924. 1926. 1927.
Government securities . . £10,240 £42,640 £55,410
House-purchase loans . . 10,101 11,860 15,277
Cash and deposits.. .. 3,556 2,696 5,214
Loans on policies.. .. 345 630 1,371
Book debts. . .. . . 6,563 2,941 3,356
Owing by other cos. .. 8,778
Agents’ balances . . . . 8,610 2,421 304
Shares in other cos. .. 30,991 30,991
Furniture, cars, stationery 4,024 1,510 2,161
£52,217 £95,689 £114,084
Liabilities . . .. 12,696 3,097 3,685
Net assets .. .. £39,521 £92,592 £110,399
At Dec. 31 the Life fund had grown to
£137,188. Assuming that it was sufficient
to cover liabilities under policies at that
date, and that is by no means certain, then
net tangibles were still £2(5,789 short of the
mark. However, policy-holders have the
protection of £59,877 of uncalled capital,
but the “Wild Cat” shudders when it
thinks of what bonus prospects are. The
position is the result of an extravagant
rate of expenditure over the last half-dozen
years, and is a clear call to the board to
do something strenuous in the way of
economy. Paid capital is £93,699 in 10s.
shares, approximately half of which are
7 p.c. cum. prefs.
# if * *
Howard Smith, Ltd., proprietors of coal
and shipping and other interests: —
, —Dividends
Prei. To Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 794.30,000 10 p.c.= 149,790 17,004 93,435
1919.-201,823 30,000 10 „ ~150,000 21,823 115,258
Dropped into reserves, £523,456 .. 638,714
1920- 30,000 15 p.c.= 225,000 10,880 649,594
1921- 30,000 15 „ „ 225,000 8,784 658,378
Pref. capital (£500,000) returned.
1922- 24,534 15 p.c.= 225,000 6,738 665,116
Profits. Ordinaries.
1923.. 189,410 15 p.c. r= 225,000 629,526
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 .. .. 129,526
1924.. 265,464 12 p.c. = 240,000 25,464 154,990
Profit on liquidation of subsidiaries £91,976 246,966
1925.. 221,041 10 p.c. = 200,000 21,041 268,007
Taxation reserves taken in, £lO,OOO . . 278,007
1926.. 211,608 10 p.c. = 200,000 11,608 289,615
Pref., Ord.,
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1927.. 200,979 762 200,000 217 289,832
The sag in profits has become more pro-
nounced ; only twice in the past decade has
less than £200,979 been written. After allow-
ing for the prefs. the balance of the year’s
net earnings was 10 p.c. on the ord. capital
compared with 10.5, 11 and 13.2 p.c. back
to 1924, the year following that in which the
last gift issue—a round half-million —was
handed out. That and the £1,050,000 of
bonus scrip distributed in the 1914 recon-
struction represent 77-J p.c. of the present
£2,000,000 of ord. capital. In addition a
half-million of 6 p.c. pref. money was handed
back to its owners in 1921. The last lot of
bonus scrip had its origin in the fat profits
of the war years, but conditions have changed
since then. Taking the decade covered by
the table, the average net profit (£217,700)
over the last half was £19.210 poorer than
the average net earnings (£236,910) for the
first half, and the average dividend over the
last half called for £18,352 more than the
mean of the distributions in the first half.
But Howard Smiths is a holding co. The
position, therefore, cannot be entirely judged
from those figures; it is unlikely that the
subsidiaries are distributing all their profits.
Also the co. acts as agent and manager for
a number of concerns in which it is inter-
ested, but how much is thus added to in-
come each year is not visible. The co.’s
chief source of profits is the old Howard-
Smith line, now Australian Steamships, Ltd.,
in which it holds all the shares. Other
sources of last year’s £200,979 were:—
Caledonian Collieries.
Invincible Colliery.
Australian Sugar Co.
Brisbane Wharves, Ltd.
Commonwealth Steel Products.
Other cos.
Interest from Government and other debentures.
Earnings as managing agent.
The shipping subsidiary does not publish
figures, but other shipping concerns had by
no means a dull time last year. Conditions
in the coal trade, however, were not so
good. The Caledonian Collieries, Ltd. (paid
capital £1,459,894, of which Howard Smiths
holds about a million in ords.), which oper-
ates seven pits on the Maitland and New-
castle fields, dropped its div. from 4 p.c. to
3 p.c. last year; it paid 6 p.c. in 1925 and
1924. Invincible (paid capital £104,000)
lifted its div. from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c. in its
last term, and Australian Sugar (paid capi-
tal £200,915) paid 12 p.c. for the last three
years and 20 p.c. for two years before that.
Recent important additions to the list of
holdings include an interest in Southern Blue
Metal Quarries (paid capital £189,890),
which arrived at tie production stage toward
the close of last year, and in Southern Port-
land Cement, Ltd., which was floated last-
year but is not yet producing. Also Howard
Smiths is one of the big four which will
take up the ord. scrip in Australian Iron
and Steel, Ltd., which is to set up large
steel works at Port Kembla; indirectly the
co.’s shipping interests can be expected to
benefit in consequence of this. To provide
for the purchase of scrip in these concerns
shareholders were offered 250,000 £1 6 p.c.
cum. prefs. in Sept.—they were all snapped
up—but only £146,588 of the money had been
got in when the books were ruled off at Dec.
31. When the balance of the cash (£103,412)
is received the pref. requirements and 10 p.c.
to the ords. will call for £24,021 more than
the figure at which last year’s profit was
written. Shares in other cos., in at valuation
(£2,008,520), were £172,832 above the 1926
figure. Liquids were drawn upon:—
1924. 1920. 1927.
Liquid assets .. £347,716 £438,790 £373,694
Liabilities . . . . 674,002 644,717 603,629
Excess liabilities £326,286 £205,921 £229,935
During the year the amount coming to
creditors (£433,002) was increased by
£19,600, but £60,689 was lopped off the sum
held on deposit (£170,626) ; thus the excess
of liabilities over more or less liquids at
Dec. 31 (£229,935) grew £24,014. Free-
hold has a book value of £95,434; leasehold,
£11,032 ; plant and gear, £52,131.
The market, which lias revised its esti-
mate of the value of the scrip, now gives
28s. 7d. for the pound ords. At that price
the return is 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Two years ago 355. was offered for
the ords.
H= * Si #
Wrigiit, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and general mer-
chants :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
July, T 9 . . 13,067 10 p.c. = 6562 6,505 77,597
Reserved for taxes £BOOO . . . . 69,597
Jan., ’2O . . 25,878 11 p.c. = 7563 18,315 87,912
Reserved for taxes, £5OOO . . . . 82,912
July, ’2O .. 23,275 12 p.c. = 8250 15,025 97,937
Jan., ’2l .. 14,030 12 „ „ 8250 5,780 103,717
July, ’2l .. 12,225 12 „ „ 8250 3,975 107,692
Jan., ’22 .. 9,489 12 „ „ 8250 1,239 108,931
July, ’22 . . 9,382 12 „ „ 8250 1,132 110,063
Jan., ’23 .. 12,941 12 „ „ 8250 4,691 114,754
July, ’23 .. 15,904 12 „ „ 8250 7,654 122,408
Written off Gold’s Debentures.. £5OOO 117,408
Jan., ’24 .. 13,073 13* p.c.= 9281 3,792 121,200
Internal reserves disclosed.. £20,000 141,200
July., ’24 . . 17,028 15 p.c. = 10,312 6,716 147,916
Jan., ’25 . . 16,476 16* „ „ 11,344 5,132 153,048
July, ’25 . . 18,242 19 „ „ 13,063 5,179 158,227
Jan., ’26 .. 14,945 20 „ ~13,750 1,195 159,422
July, ’26 ..15,227 20 „ ~13,750 1,477 160,899
Jan., ’27 .. 15,710 20 „ „ 13,750 1,960 162,859
July, ’27 .. 17,785 20 „ ~13,750 4,035 166,894
Jan., 28 .. 17,799 20 „ ~ 13,750 3,049 170,943
Of recent years the management has been
faced with the necessity of doing something
to relieve the pressure of profits. Not only
is the co.’s purse bulging, but the size of the
family stocking is becoming conspicuous de-
spite occasional emptyings. Bonus scrip
was handed out thus : 1910, £10,000; 1912,
£10,000; 1917, £25,000. And another £25,000
was distributed in cash in 1919. Five years
later £20,000 of internal reserves were dis-
closed; then last year shareholders were
told that the board had decided to use £20,000
of the inner resei-ves to write down premises
and plant. And that was in addition to the
ordinary provision for depreciation. The
book value of premises and plant, £40,608
at Jan. 31, contracted £15,326 during the
year, so apparently £4600-odd at least
was also spent under that head. Since
3923 gross profits have advanced briskly
from £109,137 to £135,329 for the 12
months to Jan. 31 last, and declared net
earnings got more than half the increase.
The £35,584 netted last year, which was
after £5OOO had been set by for taxation and
£1250 handed to the staff, represented a juicy
25.8 p.c. on capital compared with 22.5,
24.1, 25.4, 21.1 and 16.2 p.c. back to 1923.
What makes those attractive returns pos-
sible is not only the management, which
has showm a genius for adapting itself to
the evolutions of the back-country, but the
fat pile of reserves, of which £170,943 was
in the window at Jan. 31. Thus the known
accumulation is no less than £53,443 in
excess of paid capital. Obviously the 20 p.c.
div. is a simple matter. Embarrassed by
the pressure of profits the board considered
the question of a bonus issue three years
ago; it was even tentatively suggested thal
the basis of distribution should be one foi
one. Instead, however, it was decided t<>
increase the div., which in the three years
to 1926 climbed from 12 p.c. to 20 p.c., and
it Has remained steady at that rate since, in-
cidentally, 4 p.c. of the distribution is
labelled bonus, but a div. by any other name
tastes just as sweet. Here is another
pleasing view of the position:—
1919. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities . . £70,930 £105,830 £110,607 £142,532
Premises, plant,
etc . . 21,152 54,574 55,934 40,608
Stocks . . 57,728 81,724 93,455 98,749
Book debts . . 125,170 141,182 146,938 157,89.»
McCulloch Co. . 44,766 95,828 91,994 67,549
Cash and invest-
ments' .. 46,330 49,225 42,373 108,119
During the vear £31,925 was added to the
debt (£142,532), but as against that the
net increase in the more or less liquids
(£407,310) was £57,551. Thus the surplus
in favor of the latter, excluding £25,000 of
scrip in the McCulloch Carrying Co. the
Vic. end of the business —increased by
£25,026, reaching £264,778, equal to £1 38s. 6d.
per £1 of paid capital. And no less than
£108,119 of the total was in cash (£88.319)
and Government securities (£19,800),
£65,746 having been added thereto during
the year. The figures suggest that a cash
bonus may not be improbable. The market,
which has long anticipated the future, pays
£8 for the scrip, fully paid to £2 10s. At
that price the return is 6.3 p.c. on a 20 p.c.
div. basis.
* « * •
Westport-Stockton Coal Co., Ltd.
(M.L.) . ,
, —-Dividends Nominal
Pref. Writ- Re-
Proflt. 8 p.c. Olds. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 7,960 3818 Nil 4000 10,703
1919.. 14,155 3865 5 p.c. = 6574 5500 8,919
1920.. 17,205 4798 6 „ „ 7888 3500 9,938
Loss.
1921.. 1,113 Nil Nil 8,825
Profit.
1922.. 7,323 5305 Nil 1500 9,343
1923.. 312 Nil Nil 9,655
Loss.
1924.. 4,914 Nil Nil 4,741
Profit.
1925. . 447 Nil Nil 6,188
Loss. Deficit.
1926.. 5,713 Nil Nil 525
Profit.
1927.. 5,582 Nil Nil 5057
Comparatively the best result in the last
seven years, but actually a very poor figure.
The £5582 of profits claimed was 8.4 p.c.
on the £66,315 of pref. capital, which
carries a non-cumulative 8 p.c. In addi-
tion there are 262,940 10s. ords., which have
gone hungry for eight out of the last 10
years, and the prefs. have had only one
small bite since 1921. The P. and L. balance
of £8399 that appeared on the wrong side of
the sheet in 1926 has been wiped out by
the transfer of a paper reserve of £7874 and
£525 from last year’s net earnings. The
balance of the latter (£5057) was used to
write down the cost of the futile flumes ex-
periment. In 1922 it was decided to attack
costs by installing a system of water flumes,
and the anticipated saving was figured at
£lO,OOO p.a. The job was finished in Sept..
1925; but instead of 1926 showing a profit
everything went wrong. In the fluming much
of the coal was reduced to dust, what re-
mained was broken, and the flumes them-
selves were badly damaged. In June, 1926,
the system was abandoned, electrical haul-
age resumed and changes made in the man-
agement. Last year 144,625 tons, nearly
30,000 tons more than in the previous year,
was hauled from the mine, and something
more than that was sold, for there was
more at grass at the beginning of the term
than at the end. However, gross profit
(£78,108) was £16,344 less than it was in
1920, when production was only 130,750 tons.
Output is to be further increased; appar-
ently the fault does not lie with sales. A
section of the underground haulage, said to
be expensive and inefficient, is to be cut out
by means of a stone tunnel, and the work
is expected to be completed at an early date.
It is intended to write off the capital loss
in connection with the flumes as soon as
possible.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that trad ■
was a little brisker:—
1924. 1926. 1927.
Debentures .. . . .. £52,796 £70,651 £70,650
Sundry creditors, etc. .. 16,683 8,429 15,773
Property, plant, etc. .. 249,906 259,675 253,613
Coal stocks .. .. .. 4,865 1,014 275
Book debts, etc. .. . . 17,235 15,652 30,321
The most important item there is the mine
property, etc. (£253,613), which was
£55,828 in excess of shareholders’ funds at
Dec. 31. What the real worth of the pro-
perty, etc., amounts to is difficult to say. but
the long run of lean years makes any figure
an object of suspicion. A year ago the
auditor said that adequate provision had not
been made for depreciation—and the mine
becomes poorer by the amount of coal annu-
ally extracted. On this occasion the board
says it has set aside “a reasonable amount
for depreciation,” but no indie ition is given
as to what the amount was. Future profits


OS
dO SNII IHDU-aiW
-/i - Cl
do siayiovj
‘3DN3dlHOig 4 QJ
S. JO SISVOV^
'o
4
lM
s“n
M
aJePO
y y
aff
0 C
y y
y y
-7
7 y
yy
y
c
y y
/fc£A
y
y>
y>
-s\&
yy
■S^v
<S=>;
%
3d
y
*
Cs
&
m
vS
mm
?s
$>
■
&
U
&
CS
%
yy
5s
/
»
0
i¥
J
Jj
yy
yy
yy
'&■
y
a
m
>1
s
yyyy
•^ii
»
m
■ w
m
s
1
I
•I
vy' ; y
w
-?•
&•
■M
% W:
M
llliiilllilli! ,«lli8i!i
it
1
:V-.V'/av.''-'
£§l
Srnt
i
•yy-
sip
yy
S3H
'
VSS
n
wm
'■■■ - #;
il
V;-V. V/ ’Z \*M
m
4v«*
if’
I
fiPS*
%
• .«. 11111111111111111111 /1 m 111 n r M i f 111 ii 1111 j 11 a 1 1111(111 1 1111 1 [ 1 1 (| [ |
C


Don’tLoseYourMoftey
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MARCH NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
We stock + GF -f Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —A dvt.
sjs $
The all-round adaptability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
fits it for every possible conduit purpose. It does
not rust nor corrode, is impervious to the action of
frost or electrolysis, will carry any class of fluid
safely, is light to handle, simple to instal, cheap
to buy. Get the book of full data. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Boad, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
% * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; B. K. Morton Pro-
prietary, Ltd., 85 Clarence Street, Sydney; J. R.
Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Success-
fully used all over the Commonwealth for all pur-
poses.— Advt.
j*: sfs %
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coliuson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
A Help to Inventors. Writing on January 30 last,
a recipient of a copy of the booklet “Invention”
expresses his appreciation “Many thanks for your
booklet ‘lnvention.’ It has enlightened my friends
and myself a great deal concerning invention, and
now we can get on the right road.” You can obtain
a free copy of this interesting pamphlet by sending
your name and address to H. H. Rayward, Me.E.,
Patent Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509
Sirius House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. [2
❖ * * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-Oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the re-equipment of
vour plant for the next season.— Advt.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist liis executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri*
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
ARTHUR EEDY,
General Secretary.
r
Y G
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
8l OLD TOM
*
fa
DT
=M
-Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY, J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
will be largely governed by whether the pro
vision has been sufficient. The co. appears to
be making an effort to get its house in order
and to clear up the rubbish.
* * * *
Austkalian and New Zealand Invest-
ments, Ltd., registered in Sydney, Oct. 31,
1927, with a nominal capital of £20,000. The
co. has an option over 4000-odd acres of land
near Auckland (M.L.). The property is to
be cut up into four lots. The first portion,
comprising 1219 acres, is under offer to the
co. for £13,500, an average of a shade over
£ll per acre. To buy this land, plant it with
flax, care for the crop to maturity, which ;'s
about four years from the date of planting,
erect a mill to convert the green leaf into
fibre, and generally meet all exes, up to that
time and make a profit for itself, the co. is
asking the public for £68,177 in bonds of
£2l 10s. each. The issue is on the basis of
£64 10s. per acre. Bondholders get the free-
hold, also 7 p.c. on their money till Dec. 31.
1931. Then a bondholders’ co. is to be formed
and the bonds converted into shares, and the
presen; co. is to sell the mill, which will be
paid for out of the bond money, to the new
co. at cost, no estimate of which is given,
for fully-paid shares. Thereafter dividends
of 10 p.c. rising to 33& p.c. are spoken of.
What part the present co.’s capital is co
play and details of how all the bond money
received is to be used are lacking in the
prospectus. But £5 7s. 6d. of each bond,
when fully paid, will be deposited with the
N.S,W. Public Trustee as a guarantee that
the co. will do its job. This so-called trust
fund will ultimately be handed to the co.;
meantime the returns from its investment,
after deducting the trustees’ exes., will pro-
vide part of the 7 p.c. to be paid on the
bonds. Good profits have been won from the
milling of wild flax in Maoriland, and
it is suggested that improved returns
should result from cultivation. Maximum
production is reached in the seventh or eighth
year after planting, and the promoters expect
future profits of £3O per acre, equal to 46
p.c. on £64 10s. The point oh which the
investor needs to satisfy himself is that the
land will be worth that much per acre.
A study of the latest available official
figures regarding the flax-milling industry
in the Dominion, those for 1925-26, does not
encourage extravagant hopes.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: The North co., at the Bar-
rier, has found one shaft at the North
insufficient to carry all the underground
work, so the directors have approved the
sinking of another about 900 ft. north of the
present one. Preliminaries have been com-
pleted and a start will be made on the actual
sinking almost immediately. Sinking and
timbering will run into something like £2O
a. foot, and machinery, etc., will take the
total to £40,000 or more. General manager
Emery says that the milling of the low-
grade British ore at the North has re-
sulted in the expected economies, but that
.advantage has been lost owing to the decline
in metal prices. The board has decided,
however, to continue operations for the
present.
* * * *
Broken Hill North has been boring down-
wards from the bottom (1700 ft.) level. At
395 ft. the drill got into the footwall of the
lode and ran on in ore to 668 ft. Allowing
for the angle, there is a width of 109 ft. of ore
thus proved at a point 230 ft. below the
1700 ft. level. The length of the body is,
of course, unproved, and the samples from
one core would prove nothing conclusively as
to values; but it can be now safely said
that there is a vast body of ore awaiting
development and extraction below the pre-
sent bottom workings.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Miners on the New Guinea
goldfields are beginning to advocate the issue
of gold-buyers’ licenses for New Guinea. At
present anyone can buy gold there. In
Rabaul there are many Chinese willing to
buy and not at all particular as to whom they
buy from. It is contended that native claim-
workers are beginning to realise the convert-
ible value of gold, and an epidemic of thieving
from the claims is feared if the boys get in
touch with buyers. It does not seem to be an
offence in the Territory for a native to have
gold in his possession, as it was in Papua.
There it was illegal to buy gold from natives,
except those of the island of Sudest, in the
Louisades, the scene of one of the earliest
mining rushes in British New Guinea.
There the natives quickly learned to fossick
for gold _ on the slate bars in abandoned
creek claims, and as this had become a regu-
lar practice an exemption was made in
their favor. Gold-stealing was almost un-
heard of in New Guinea in consequence of
this prohibition. All the storekeepers, who
were the only buyers in those days, were
white men, and observed the law for their
own sakes. Most of them financed the
miners and supplied them with native labor
when setting in, and depended on the gold
won for repayment. An ordinance requiring
all buyers to take out licenses and forbidding
the dealing in gold with natives certainly
would not be out of place.
Queensland’s gold yield for February, 1925,
was 8860 z., and 7350 z. of that came from
finalising work at Mount Morgan, leaving
118 oz. to cover the rest of the fields. Shades
of Charters Towers and Gympie! Still,
Queensland can look with hope to the
future if she proceeds on modern lines and
gets down to tin tacks as Canada has
done on the Porcupine field, where a 4dwt.
mine ranks first or second in the world.
Deposits of the impregnated type, like the
mother lode at Ravenswood, Mount Coolon
and possibly Mount Leyshon, all big low-
grade things, may be next in line for stimu-
lating the industry.
The old Mt. Leyshon gold deposits, about
20 miles south of Charters Towers (Q.), are
attracting the attention of the American
drillers who were operating on the Cloncurry
field recently. It is necessary to go back
to the days when Dr. Jack was Government
Geologist of Queensland to see this field
operating. It wasn’t suited to the methods
of the ’eighties, for the gold was too dis-
seminated. Jack describes it as an old vol-
canic neck breaking through porphyry, and
the gold is in tiny hematite veins which
spread through the mass. While individually
these may go ounces, the bulk tests from
open cuts represented a few dwts.—possibly
5 dwts. or thereabouts. The drillers are
putting on boring plant, and if cores show
enough dwts. of gold it will likely develop
into a big proposition. Plans for a large
power plant, with transmission to the field
for getting costs down to the irreducible, are
in the air.
; i : ❖ Jfc
It is cheering to note that Sardine Tin,
Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), has struck another
lense of ore in a hitherto barren area of
lode. A rise from No. 4 south level ran into
a shoot of rich tin Ift. wide and estimated
to carry 20 p.c. ore. A good block of un-
tried ground above this make gives distinct
possibilities for the extension of the shoot.
sjs :t: %
The Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, Harriet-
ville (Vic.), has been shut down. For
months the company has been on the hunt for
a payable reef, but working costs have been
the stumbling block. This apparently closes
the history of the goldmines in the Beech-
worth division.
* * * *
Copper Nickel Mining Co., Zeelian, (Tas),
being only half a mile from a railway siding,
is having a narrow-gauge tram line carried
into the mine. For the present ore is to
to be sold in its crude state. A recent assay
gave copper 7.33 p.c., nickel 17.67 p.c, and
sulphur 38.46. The lode is wide and
of a soft porous nature. It was cut at 30ft.
in the main shaft, now down to 60ft. It
will take three months to finish the tramway,
erect the plant and unwater the mine. Mean-
while capital is to be increased by the issue
of 100 £lO shares.
* * $ *
Westralian Premier Oil Co., which claims
to have something good on the side of a lime-
stone hill overlooking Fremantle, has just
issued a queer prospectus. The jobs of pro-
visional directors and secretary are left
vacant, and no mention is made of the
approximate sum to be set aside for boring.
Briefly the public is asked to find £7500,
and if it does the promoters will annex £2500
as cash consideration, and brokerage, estab-
lishment, etc., are bound to make a hole in
the balance. Promoters anticipate success
right away, but if in their shoes who
wouldn’t?
* x * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., whose shares
are all held by Wiluna Gold Corporation,
Ltd., held a small but cheerful meeting in
Kalgoorlie the other day. During the past 12
months the co. spent £80,401, of which
£53,114 represented mine development and
£12,249, less £4024 value of bullion won, ex-
perimental treatment. Chairman Claude de
Bernales announced that 1,000,000 tons of
40s. ore was now in sight, and that the co.
had lately acquired additional ground and
taken an option on an adjoining group of
leases. He also hinted that a separate co.
would probably be formed at an early date
to take over and operate some blocks at the
north end of the Wiluna belt.
•Jr- X- * *
Ivanowna Red Hill is about to be liqui-
dated. In the last seven years it produced
£46,568 worth of gold and paid three 6d.
divs. It was able to do this as a result of
opening up from time to time small rich
shoots, the supply of which has now appar-
ently given out. Co. has the unique record
among Westralian no-liability cos. of never
having made a call.
* * * *
Sand Queen Gladsome Mines (W.A.), in
which Gordon Lyon and some Melbourne
friends are interested, is tipped to get on
the dividend list at an early date. But for
unexpected difficulties, which were met in
cleaning up the workings and in other ways,
shareholders would probably have got some
return before now.
The scare about a possible shortage of
tin continues, and Lord Askwith, who is
much concerned about it, is trying to devise
a method of merging all British tin-producing
cos. throughout the Empire, which produces
about 42 p.c. of the world’s tin. How con-
sumers will view the idea is another story.
Conservation means pushing up prices, and
the recent slump in the market is proof that
consumers think they have been paying more
for the metal than it is worth to them. The
Stephenson rubber scheme is a perfect example
of what is likely to follow on artificial stabi-
lisation of prices, and its warmest admirers
are now prepared to admit that it is likely
to lead to the Empire losing much of its
one-time rubber monopoly. American tin-
buyers have been very cold during the past
12 months, and, as The Bulletin pointed
out some time ago, their failure to buy
heavily over the year-end led to a fall in
prices, for tin-producers must sell just about
as fast as they get the stuff. Packers and
others have been hunting for tin substitutes,
and terne, a mixture 20 per cent, tin and
the balance lead, is being largely experi-
mented with, and, in fact, is being used with
some success. Any attempt to hold up tin
prices will certainly drive consumers further
along that road. The remedy lies in cheaper
methods of production. Time was when any-
thing less than ground was sneered
at. Some of the most modern plants are
now making profits out of half a pound.
* * * *
Last week there was quite a flutter among
the optimists who deal in tin scrip in Sydney
when it was learned that the big Alluvial
Tin crowd had made up their minds to
throw three of their Kinta Valley holdings
into a block, to be worked as one concern.
A year or so ago Larut, which is handled
by the same people, to all intents and pur-
poses did the same thing, swallowing three
other subsidiaries with, up to the present,
good results. The three properties which
Alluvial is now blocking are Malim Nawar
South, Kuala Kampar and Tanjong Tualong.
All three properties are in juxtaposition, and
as all are well equipped with modern dredges
and are returning fair to middling recoveries,
the merger should be in the interests of the
shareholder. The new co. is to be called
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, and the nominal
capital is £1,000,000 in 2,000,000 shares of
10s. each, Shareholders in Alluvial Tin get
170,000 of these f.p., which is in the pro-
portion of three shares in the new co. for
every one held in the old cos. That leaves
830,000 shares in the bag. None of the three
amalgamating concerns has ever come near
its estimated recoveries. Malim Nawar
South gave boring tests of lib. and ,751 b.
dirt, Tanjong was tipped to return from lib.
to .661 b. per c.y., and Kuala Kampar was
given the same rating. Actual digging
recoveries were, for the two months ending
February 29: Malim Nawar South, .661 b.
and .511 b.; Kuala Kampar, .351 b. and .501 b.;
Tanjong, .631 b. and .421 b.
* * * *
Chairman Meagher told shareholders in
Tongkah Compound that, as the parent co.
had to supply part of the £60,000 required
to finance the purchase of machinery for the
new Tongkah Compound No. 3 float, it had
been decided to issue 50,000 shares called
to 16s. Bd. each, in the proportion of one
for four; ss. on application and the balance
in easy calls. The rest of the capital is to
come from Eastern Tin, the vendors of the
property. The parent co. is thus left with
its own area and holdings in the Nos. 2
and 3 cos. Only the interruption in the
working of the dredge at Setul had pre-
vented the declaration of a dividend, the
chairman said. This dredge returned an
average of .961 b. to the yard from 57,000
yards in February, and of I.lllb. from 62,340
yards for January. In February the Man tin
dredge got 22 tons t.-o. from 98,000 yards,
averaging ,541 b. per yard. For the first half
of February the average was .361 b.
Silaya Tin, a modest holding and prospect-
ing co. with a Sydney registration, which
was founded in 1926, announces the forma-
tion of a subsidiary, to be known as Kazat
Tin Dredging, to work a property at Kazat,
near Mergui, in Southern Burma. The new
co.’s nominal capital will be £50,000 in
200,000 ss. shares, of which Silaya takes
49,600 f.p. and £3300 in cash. Boring re-
sults from 80 acres show 870,000 c.y. aver-
aging 26.720 z., 1,452,000 c.y. averaging 10oz.,
and 464,000 yards averaging 40z.; the oxide
assaying 69.9 p.c. metallic tin. The pro-
perty is to be equipped with a modern
bucket dredge with a minimum capacity of
50,000 c.y. per month. Hopes are that the
dredge will be under steam by June. 1929.
Silaya has a paid capital of £32,500 in
70,000 £1 shares, of which 50,000 are paid to
ss. each.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: The December report o?
the gold Warden for the Edie Creek and
Bulolo goldfield is of special interest, be-
cause it makes an attempt to summarise the
total production of the field from October
1, 1926, to December 31, 1927, that being
the period for which reliable records are
available. The declarations for 1927 were
110,6270 z. valued at £236,296, and for the
period from Oct. 1, 1926, to December 31,
1927, 139,2500 z. valued at £292,365. Pre-
viously to October, 1926, the gold won can
only be conjectured, but it is estimated that
it amounted to about 20,0000 z., valued at
about £44,000; most of it was got by Park
and Nettleton on Koranga and Nami.;
creeks. This would bring the total recovered
to about 3 k tons, of which 95 per cent, was
from the Edie and Merri creeks- —suitable
machinery to work the large leases on the
Bulolo and Watut has not yet been pro-
cured. The amount of production in this
small area is worth considering in compari-
son with the total gold output for Aus-
tralia during the six months ending June
30, 1927, which was 239,3250 z. Papua’s
best year, 1921>22, showed a return of
52,7040 z., but this, like that for the preced-
ing years, is based on guess-work, and is
far behind actual recoveries.


THE SIDE-SHOW.


Yeaston
Pure Dried
Brewers Yeast
Dose
One To four Tablets
Rocke Tompsitt ». Co
rr,
Bottles of 36 - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - 4/9
Good health depends on the purity of the blood-
stream and regular elimination of waste. Yeaston
Tablets Strong provide a natural remedy for con-
stipation. In these tablets purest living yeast is
combined with a safe, efficient laxative which
positively restores normal habits.
Afterwards plain Yeaston Tablets should
suffice to maintain perfect health .
A FREE FULL SIZE SAMPLE BOTTLE
will be sent to you, post free, if you simply cut out this advertisment
(or mention the Bulletin ) and send with your name and address to
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO, PTY. LTD,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“A clear spotless
skin denotes health
from within
VO
x>V
<b*
o\^
A^
»\ jj6-
* o>
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Girl Friend”
Criterion “The High Road”
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire “Take the Air”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent .; “Flesh and the Devil”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Mikado”
Roy’al “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
Athenaeum Moving Pictures
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Last week the Gonsalez Opera Company
added Bellini’s “Norma” and Verdi’s “Un
Ballo in Maschera” to its list of produc-
tions at the Sydney St. James; the familiar
“Carmen” was due for presentation last
night (Tuesday). In Bellini’s melodious
story of the Roman proconsul who was
addicted to leading Druid priestesses astray,
Rosita Silvestri did full vocal justice to the
part of Norma, singing the “Casta Diva”
well, and “Mira O Norma/’ in conjunction
with Adalgisa (Nina Algozino), effectively;
but the priestess’s moods of majestic anger
were too weighty for her and she might have
been the young lady who recites "Lasca.”
Nevertheless, the scene in which Norma
learns that it is her own lover who has
seduced Adalgisa from her vows was well
rendered by the principals; it was the only
one in which Arturo Tamburini, as Pollione,
abandoned his habit of singing as if he had
chocolates in his mouth. The hard-worked
Ernesto Fumagalli used his sonorous bass
to good purpose as the long-whiskered Arch-
druid ; and Matilda Pfrimmer did useful work
as Clotilda, the confidante of Norma.
Giovanni Gonsalez batoned the show well,
the orchestra delivered the goods and the
chorus did nobly, especially in the “Guerra,
guerra!” chorus.
* * * *
The chief success of “Un Ballo in Mas-
chera” was achieved by Scamuzzi as Renato;
he matched dramatic sense with good sing-
ing. There is more sustained dramatic thrill
in this Verdi product than in most operas;
the plots against the life of the Duke Ric-
cardo and the infatuation between him and
Adelia, the wife of his secretary, Renato,
hold out early promise of an enjoyable
story. Scamuzzi gave tenseness to the role
of the faithful and affectionate retainer who
changes into a suspicious and vengeful hus-
band : when he discovered that the veiled
lady the Duke had intrusted to his escort
was his own wife, his vocal wrath and horror
were almost good enough to be real, and the
soliloquy “Eri tu” was given with
remarkable effectiveness. Rosita Silvestri,
as Adelia, made a quite moving sup-
plication of “Morro ma primi in
grazia”; and, in the scene of the revela-
tion, Alfieri, matched with Fumagalli as
leading conspirator, was sonorously com-
mendable. Alessandro Rota made a buoyant
Duke who refuses to treat danger seriously,
and Nina Algozino a sufficiently convinc-
ing negress of the type that deals in magical
herbs and prophecies. Margherita Flor, who
was announced as having self-effacingly
agreed to take the “unimportant role” of
Oscar the page as a compliment to the
management, made an important part of it,
and scored full points for her rendering
of “Volta la terrea” and the “Tra-la-la”
song in the ball scene.
* * * *
If the present enthusiasm should last and
the packed houses continue, the Gonsalez
company has 17 more operas to stage, in-
clusive of “Carmen.” Among new arrivals
will be “Fra Diavolo” next Saturday night,
and “The Barber of Seville” on Tuesday.
* :I: •-:= *
Frederick Lonsdale’s “The High Road,”
delayed a week by the continued popularity
of “Caroline,” is to arrive at the Sydney
Criterion on Saturday. “The Trial of Mary
Dugan” is to finish up at the Royal with a
matinee and night performance to-morrow
(Thursday) ; “The Girl Friend,” which had
its 100th performance last night, will move
in on April 3, after the theatre has had
nearly a week’s airing. “Rose Marie” takes
the vacant place at Her Majesty’s on April
4. There is no hint of any change at the
Palace, where Muriel Starr is engrossed in
“The Donovan Affair”; and the Empire is
finding “Take the Air” as satisfactory a
tenant as any of its predecessors.
* * *
It was a misfortune for the Cherniavskys
that their season in Sydney should have
coincided with opera; the trio had fairly
good attendances but they missed their cus-
tomary full houses. Last Wednesday’s recital
was composed of lighter fare than that pro-
vided at the opening concert; Mischel Cher-
niavsky showed fine artistry in turning the
“Dance of the Elves” (Pepper) into real
music and demonstrating what can be done
with the ’cello. J an scored as a solo pianist;
and shone in Beethoven’s “Moonlight Sonata.”
Violinist Leo was at his best in Lalo’s “Sym-
phonic Espagnole.” Saturday night saw the
finish of the announced season, but there is
to be an extra concert at the Conservatorium.
Sydney Tivoli patrons will bid a regretful
farewell to Ann Suter at the end of the
week. The young lady is a good entertainer
with a personality which exudes cheerfulness.
Old simian friends Max, Moritz and Akka
have returned, and pursue their way on
wheels with humorous side-issues in their
own little quarrels and jealousies. The Ten
Loonies continue to make more or less de-
mented uoises to the accompaniment of
noisier laughter.
Jim Gerald having had his send-off at a
frenzied last night. Fuller’s Sydney patrons
rolled up on Saturday to welcome Mike Con-
nors and Queenie Paul, with Syd Beck
as leading comedian. The verdict was
entirely favorable. The “League of Notions
Revue Co.” gave
“Stepping Out” as
its opening non-
sense mixture;
“Snappy Stories”
are briefly acted
jests, cleverly pre-
sented in the main,
but they would be
all the better for
exclusion of alleged
humor of the Stiffy
and Mo type.
Wirtlis’ Circus
is all the better for
being under canvas
again. There was
never quite the
right atmosphere
or the proper
undterfoot acces-
sories about the
place with the fixed
roof; and near the
junction of Went-
worth-avenue and
Goulburn-street is
likely to be one of
the popular spots
of Sydney during
the next few weeks.
The show is a well
diversified one,
with one act dove-
tailing into the
next. A lion, look-
ing sulky but re-
signed, takes a ride
on an elephant’s
back; a woman in
garments mostly of
feath e r s does a
dance in the centre
of a cage of lion-
esses, which have
some other work to
do beyond provid-
“Three Live Ghosts,”
at Melbourne Palace.
Fred Mackay, as a
hero too good to be
true, confesses his
dreadful past.
ing the dangerous background for a
thrill; Palenberg’s bears ride bicycles and
do some roller-skating, and the Arconas
provide a balancing turn that enables one
lady to risk her neck at the top of a pole
which nearly touches the roof. Mixed with
performing elephants, horses and dogs, and
Chester Dieck’s mad tricks on cycles, this
makes a big programme. The clowning, which
used to be one of the main attractions of a
circus, is rather disappointing; this brand
of entertainment seems to be becoming a lost
art.
* * * *
As a play “Tea for Three” depended upon
smart dialogue; but Robert Leonard has
made an amusing film of it without boringly
throwing the smart phrases into captions.
“The Gateway of the Moon,” with Dolores
Del Rio in it, has some amazingly lovely
scenes in a rather poor story; Hoyts show
these two in Sydney. The Lyceum stages a
gloomily tragical picture in “Surrender,” a
tale of war effects and Jewish customs in
Galicia; “Alias the Lone Wolf” goes with it.
This Showman dropped into one of the only
two vacant seats left in the Prince Edward at
a mid-week matinee to have another look at
“Chang,” and found himself amply repaid.
The naturalness of the “acting” of the
natives, after the artificiality of highly paid
film stars, is delightful, and the close-ups of
wild life are thrilling.
* * * *
More Sydney shows:—
A patchy exhibition showing a fair average is
that by M.L. artists at the Grosvenor Galleries,
George-street, Sydney. The honors of the show go
to Elizabeth Wallwork, whose portrait “The White
Ruffle” is a warm, attractive picture, showing
genuine artistry ; her pastel of Miss Edith McCallum
is no more than pleasing. “Peacocks,” by M. E. R.
Tripe, gets its success from garishness; “The
Shingled Head” by the same artist is commonplace.
As the adventurer of the group, Marcus King makes
defiant use of strange colors, effectively in “Seaside
Picnic” and “Marine, Wellington,” but with smudgy
failure in “The Bathers,” where his attempt to
secure a peculiar shade effect streaks the sea with
mud. A “Creek Scene, Kaikoura,” and “Spurs of Mt.
Rolleston” contain good work. D. K. Richmond is
represented by “Lake Kanieri”; Elizabeth Kelly is
inclined to be posterish and Nugent Welch too
photographic; and some of Horridge’s work make
the last two letters seem superfluous. Cecil F.
Kelly and H. Lindley Richardson are the most notice-
able of the others, although Richard Wallwork’s
“The Mouth of a Cave” is agreeably done on the
lines of a colored illustration to a story.
A water-colorist who, for the most part, merely
sketches in color is A. H. Knighton Hammond, an
English artist, who exhibits the result of a ramble
in Italy and France at the Macquarie Galleries,
Bligh-street. The impression of several of the
exhibits is that they are merely rough sketches for
the real picture; yet there is successful work in
“An Italian Church,” “Washerwomen, Bedelucca,”
“Carnareggio” and a delightful “Olive Trees, Early
Morning.”
The Weston Company has a display of poster art
which might well be studied by Australian con-
cerns which seek to capture the tourist. The show
is limited to “travel posters,” and an item of
special local interest is an imaginative view of the
Sydney harbor bridge as it is to appear in the
future —it was prepared for the Aberdeen Line. Such
pictures as those of Penzance and the one in which
the York Cathedral rises magnificently in the back-
ground make one long to see the originals. The
show is, at the very least, an informative one.
* * * *
Melbourne Athenaeum management added
a curtain-raiser, “The Peacemaker,” to “The
Joker” last week. The sketch has neither
length nor breadth, but is a pleasant-
enough drawing-room comedy to compensate
for much of the subsequent harrowing pro-
ceedings. It also serves to introduce
Frances Dillon, hitherto inexplicably held
in reserve. The lady is l an extremely adroit
actress —sometimes a trifle too adroit, per-
haps, and inclined toward a mechanical per-
fection—but she has Vanbrugh-Tempest
overtones of temperament which hold her
audiences and is easily the highest value
card yet played out of the P. Hutchison
pack. The play recounts how a mellow
widow (Miss Dilion) plans to reunite an es-
tranged married couple, V. Watts-Weston
and Mary Brackley, and in the process nabs
her girlhood’s love, R. Stuart West. All
hands heave on it nicely.
* * jj:
Time will come, no doubt, when Shak-
peare’s purple patches will be encored and
Allan Wilkie will have to repeat “To be,”
yea, even unto the third time. Meanwhile,
G. and S. are the only classics to attain this
distinction. “The Gondoliers” went to sche-
dule at I-lis Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Satur-
day, with the usual repetitions of the popular
numbers. The only innovation which smote
this Showman’s eye was Lilian Crisp as
Gianetta. She was the entrancing colleen
who made Fritz Hart’s baby-grand opera,
“Deirdre in Exile,” worth listening to at
the Playhouse a year ago. A seedling from
the Albert-street Con. nursery, she has trans-
lated her perky amateur talents to the pro.
boards very successfully.
* ;•> * *
Perennial pianist Edward Goll’s recital at
Melb. Assembly Hall last week was all Bach,
and it is doubtful whether undiluted Seb.
Bach makes for a full musical evening.
There was every variety of structure but little
variation in ideas in the fifteen items. It
was as if the venerable performer had a bowl
THE CHERNIAVSKY TRIO.
Leo (with the violin), Mischel and his
cello, and Jan.
of colored beads which he repeatedly shook
up to form different combinations. The great
Sebastian was an accomplished composer,
but he never scratched far beneath the sur-
face, to present writer’s way of thinking.
With new shows flaring up all over the
town, Melbourne’s theatrical intelligence is
littered with Important Announcements.
“The Trial of Mary Dilgan” is listed for the
31st at the Royal; “The Mikado,” same date,
at His Majesty’s. Admirers of Betty Ross
Clarke will be invited to attend the nup-
tials of “The Bride” at the Princess, and
the King’s sliprails will be down for “On
Our Selection.” “Three Live Ghosts” still
walk at the Palace. Owing to the usual
shipping dispute, Moscovitch ceased abruptly
at the Royal, to enable “The Terror” to be
visited upon Maoriland. To allay unrest,
however, the Russian pedlar of theatrical
bubble-and-squeak promises to return with
more mystery plays later.
Vaudeville in Melbourne still resembles
an anthem. The Stiffy and Mo revue has
reached its majority at the Bijou, and will
probably die of old age, if it isn’t actually
immortal. At the Tivoli the Colored Ideas or
Tinted Notions are at their farewells. There
will be no sadness when they embark. Flor-
rie le Vera opens shortly. She is
“America’s Foremost Comedienne,” the fifth
to claim that eminence this year.
The authors of “Alias, the Lone Wolf,”
which is loping across Melb. Majestic screen
this week, pinched their story of crooks and
jewels and private detectives from the secret
archives of the Paris police, so it is a case
of truth being stranger than Edgar Wallace.
Bert Lytell takes the leading role in the
wild and whirling melodrama enacted on an
ocean liner. Laura la Plante’s legs appear
in “Silk Stocking's,” the supporting comedy.
The familiar “Tea for Three” is the chief
function at Hoyt’s.
Melbourne Art: —
Somebody was unfriendly to both parties in set-
ting the art of Cumbrae Stewart quarrelling with
that of Ernest Buckmaster in a two-artist show
at Melb. Athenaeum. Miss Stewart is a seasoned
pastel-worker who weaves Nature into approved pat-
terns of the romantic school. Her landscapes
could serve as superior theatrical backcloths, while
her handling of the nude is as cool and calm as
an autumnal evening. Buckmaster is a young man
who revels vaingloriously in the mechanics of the
brush, and treats Nature with gross irreverence. He
sees nothing odd in supplying an otherwise normal
sky with a large rectangular cloud resembling a
silver packing-case. The pair contradict each other
so flatly as to leave the fair-minded spectator un-
satisfied with either. Writer, however, still has high
hopes concerning Buckmaster, if he will learn
humility. At present he is entirely seized with
the importance of being Ernest.
Dora Meeson (Mrs. George Coates) rejoices in
complexity. There is an unrest, a temperamental
uneasiness, about her work (sent from Europe to
the New Gallery) which finds expression in a choice
of crowded rivers, busy quaysides, bridges groan-
ing under traffic and such like complicated sub-
jects. She also takes what some critics call great
joy in her pigment, though that sort of exultation
isn’t essentially different from the primitive delight
a small boy gets out of throwing mud at a marble
statue. Sometimes Mrs. Coates establishes order out
of chaos; but it is a strained sort of order, and
the traffic cop looks harassed.
s’! s’: si; *
Ramon Novarro is fighting and love-mak-
ing at high pitch on the screen in Adelaide.
“Ben Hur” has arrived at last at the York,
a trifle censored from the film as London
saw it. The chariot race is tremendous, but
this critic finds the galley scenes even more
effective. Novarro does Fairbanks stunts
also at West’s in a story of old Cuba, but
here the dog Rin-Tin-Tin almost pushes him
off the screen. A good hound, Ranger, is at
the Pav, also, and at Wondergraph the per-
sonal attraction of Laura la Plante counts
most. Allan Wilkie continues to make the
Bard thrilling and humorous at the P. of
Wales, and verily he has his reward. Unusual
plays such as “Coriolanus” and “Anthony”
give the student a rare chance. “The Student
Prince” at the Royal has hit Adelaide very
hard. It is monotonously successful, and
seems capable of running indefinitely.
* * * *
From an Adelaide critic: —
The first show of the year at the Society of Arts
Gallery is by the much-travelled Victorian lady
Jessie Traill. From M.L. to Rome she wanders,
with fine versatility of handling. The first impres-
sion ia “masterly,” with a strong Brangwyn influ-
ence. On closer inspection it is found that the
lady has borrowed also some of that master’s care-
lessness in detail. Much of her work has an odd
not-quite-finished air. Still, a fine collection. In
the etchings and such work, a greater austerity has
been necessary, and that end of the room is perhaps
the most appealing of the lot.
“Pas Encore”: In the Fuller production
of “Traviata” the spectacle of the Frail One
warbling her sorrows with impassioned ardor
in Louis XIV. costume would be more appeal-
ing if separated from the modern bedroom
fittings. The up-to-date spring mattress was
well in evidence when the sheet was care-
lessly dragged ashide, and a kapok mattress
lent further incongruity.
“Kalaepa” : “I Phelps” is wrong in assum-
ing that the success in New York of Noel
Coward’s “The Marquise” will retrieve that
playwright’s losses in a London failure (B.
8/2/’2B). Coward gave the play completely
to Marie Tempest as a present. It is a
comedy in the manner of “The Road to
Rome”—a period piece with racy modern
dialogue.


''Such a reputation is not won overnight”
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
tajor Dravkin <& Co., London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
m
■m
CELESIINS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Cclestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Gumblegubbin”; An epic of the recent
Clarence River flood was the rescue of 60
head of cattle from Elizabeth Island, nor-
mally a recreation ground in the middle of
the river a little way below Grafton. When
the island was water-covered and the beasts
frantic with hunger, Alex. McPhee, member
of an old Clarence River family, and
Tom Gordon set out in a motor-launch
to lift the mob. In mid current the
petrol pipe blocked, and an anchor had
FAST.
“Got any pace, Jacky?”
“Pace! By cripes, Boss, mine tinkit this feller could gallop through his whole plurry
lifetime in ’bout two seconds!”
to be dropped while the tube was cleared.
Beaching the island, they tied to a tree, in
whieh, as they found, there were many black
snakes. Then the water drovers had to wade
about to drive and coax the livestock on
board. The boat, 45ft. x 12ft., carried 15
head, which were landed safely. On the
second trip three cows jumped overboard.
Gordon went after them, and, swimming
from one to another, steered them by their
tails to land. Next a week old calf dived
into the swirling current. Gordon followed
and swam the rest of the distance with the
infant resting partly on his shoulder. On
the last trip the propeller key was los~.
Gordon had to dive down and take the
propeller off. A bit of steel from the tool
kit was hurriedly substituted, and the am-
phibious Gordon then fixed the propeller
on again under water.
* * * *
“X2X”: The proper way to use the paw-
paw for softening meat (B. 22/2/’2B) is to
place the meat between slices of the fresh
fruit, cut as thick as possible and then put
it in the ice-chest of a cool place and leave
it overnight. The fruit contains in its juices
chemical bodies closely allied to the digestive
juices and ferments of the human stomach,
and possesses the power of partially dissolv-
ing the tissues of th'e meat and so preparing
it for absorption when consumed. Efforts
have been made to isolate the juices and pre-
serve these for administration to dyspeptics.
The difficulty, however, is their chemical
instability.
* * * *
“Gouger”: In parts of N.Q. the mosquitoes
are so fierce that even Binghi gets tuned up.
Some tribes build dome-shaped gunyahs, in
which the lawyer-leaves are closely inter-
twined. The family and the dogs crawl with-
in this shelter; the opening is hermetically
scaled, and a smouldering fire is lit. As the
smoke accumulates it sinks and envelops the
naked bodies. Only the hardiest mosquito
can bite within this cover. Thus Binghi
waits for the dawn, slumbering with his nose
pressed to a scooped out hole in the ground.
His eyes and nostrils become red-rimmed and
watery from the smoke. Several of the Gulf
tribes strip a sheet of bark from the paper-
tree; this coils around in the shape of the
trunk. Binghi stuffs one end with grass,
then crawls in feet first, dragging with him
an armful of the grass to block the top end.
But the queer little chaps who never leave
the gloomy mangroves have the worst time.
For protection they lather their bodies with
mud, spreading it thickly over the lips and
plastering moist tunnels across the nostrils;
then they coil up on damp leaves, close the
eyes, smear muddy claws over the eyelids and
go to sleep. If these swamp rats did not
pay particular attention to the nostrils they
would inhale mosquitoes at every breath.
* * * *
“Spike”: On one of J. K. Cudmore’s
Queensland holdings it became a common
practice for travellers to call for a “hand-
out,” first at the homestead and then at the
station store. Because of the double issue
the rations account assumed staggering pro-
portions, and the boss arrived to investigate.
Discovering the duplicity, he instructed his
foreman to put up a notice intimating that
for the future no applicants for free tucker
need apply. Next morning as he was leaving
the station another notice, placed directly
beneath his own, caught his eye. It was
evidently composed by a literary hand, and
read: “We cannot believe that Mr. Cud-
more is in any way responsible for the
above disfigurement: Mr. Cudmore, who is
known from the Cape to the border ns an
Australian gentleman whose, integrity is
impeccable, and whose generosity and kindli-
ness to those in need are by-words amongst
unfortunate travellers.” These bouquets
were too much for the boss. “Pull ’em both
down!” he said. And down they came,
* * * *
“Carhue” : A few months ago two men in
a boat, cod-fishing on the Murrumbidgee,
were cruising round some old logs and partly-
submerged trees when their line suddenly
tightened, and the boat, whirling round, was
dragged down stream. One startled fisher-
man pulled on the line with all his strength,
but in his flurry and excitement it became
twisted round his foot. At the same moment
the white belly of a 100-pounder broke
through the surface of the water; then the
HERO-WORSHIP.
DIZZY: “Wot did yer father say when yer mother told him you’d been givin’ her lip?"
BLUEY: “Said he couldn’t understand where I got me gameness from.”
big fish rolled over and forged ahead. The
line tightened on the ankle as the cod gained
fresh momentum, and the fisherman was
thrown heavily against the side of the boat.
A bit of quick work with an open knife, and
a badly-frightenecl angler lay panting in the
bottom of the craft. “Gripes!” he said, “if
it hadn’t been for getting my foot caught I’d
’ve nabbed him. A 100-pounder if lie was an
ounce.” He ruefully rubbed his swollen ankle.
“Yairs,” said his mate, “but if it hadn’t been
for cutting the line he’d have nabbed you.”
* * * *
“Sucker”: What’s wrong with Whitsun-
day Passage (Q.) as a fishing ground?
Here in their seasons barracouta, kingfisli
and bonita provide great sport. And in
Scliute Harbor, on the mainland, you can
catch red emperors, schnapper, bream, rock-
cod, gropers and many other sorts. The
bottom .end of West Molle Island, the Solway
Pass and Pioneer Point are other favored
spots. But perhaps the daddy of ’em all is
Hook Island, just across the Passage, at the
northern end. Recently three men went
there to spend a holiday. They had fishing
gear in plenty, and some of their lines had
caught and held 60-pounders ; but when they
were picked up they’d been without tucker
for five days. Almost as soon as the lines
hit the water the bait had been taken, but in
nearly every instance the fish had been too
big to hold, and the lines had snapped.
They were literally starving in the midst of
plenty.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: The old trick of sending the
new jackeroo to see how much water was in
a dam that never existed has died a natural
death. The new procedure is to get him to
drive the milkers’ poddies away from their
yarded mothers. A knocked-up horse and an
exasperated ’roo are generally the results
after an hour’s work.
* * * #
Ida D. (Java) : The apple-tree planted
by Lady Franklin 100 years ago, and still
bearing (B. 5/l/’2B), is a baby beside the
“wild” apple-trees of Southern Patagonia.
These must be over 200 years of age;
the story is that they were planted by
Jesuit missionaries who had penetrated
to Lake Naliuel Huapi as early as 1650.
As one rides through that wild country
the trees are found in clumps of three or
four beside the permanent little round pools
which crop up in the most unexpected places,
The trees still bear heavily; the apples are
small, and not sweet enough for eating raw,
but they make delicious jam, jelly and pud-
dings. Strawberries are native to the lower
uplands of this region, and I have seen the
fruit so thick on the ground that the horses’
feet were crimson with the juice well past the
fetlocks, as we Australian exiles galloped
after guanacos and ostriches.
* * * *
“Manuka”: An old identity of the Speck’s
West Coast is in the habit of going off, with
his dog for company, into the roughest parts
of the bush on six-months’ jaunts. He takes
a fortnight’s provisions only and a large
quantity of salt, and lives mainly on the
country. His diet consists practically of wild
honey, kangaroo and a few potatoes he
grows in the bush. He does a bit of pro-
specting, hut hunting is his livelihood. He
is familiar with the country in the immediate
vicinity of the Frenchman’s Cap and other
places the average bushman considers more
or less inaccessible. Anyone who knows the
West Coast will admit that a man who can
live there in the bush almost wholly on his
own resources is a bushman above the aver-
age.
* * * *
“Gouger”: In common with other primi-
tive peoples the abos. believe that the spirits
of slaughtered victims can work them harm.
Up near the Fingerpoint (N.Q.) is a man-
grove-locked lagoon where the Yardigan tribe
years ago massacred a party of Gudangs.
To-day, although both tribes are practically
extinct, no abo. will venture to fish in that
lagoon. On the Two Brothers island, Torres
Strait, whose entire population was wiped
out in one bloody raid, no natives have lived
for many years. The Yam islanders make
seasonal canoe trips across and plant their
gardens in the rich soil patches. Later they
return and harvest the fruit, but they never
dare to reside cn the island. New Guinea
natives, when sailing past a locality where
their ancestors were concerned in a mas-
sacre, sing a weird chant to the spirits of
their dead, praying them to ward off the
enemy’s revenge.
He He
“C. Coral” : This is how a Torres Strait
islander warns the youth of the village not
to make too free with his almond and wangai
(native plum) trees: —
Notice to People.—This notice are given to All
people about not to be Allowed knocked the fruit
or this tree down except to be ask Master of the
Tree. If you want to eat you must picked from
undereth. My name. —S. Waria.
(Continued on page 21.)
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’E ups an’ sez to me, ’e says: “The crops
is cornin’ fast.
The season is as good, yer know, as any in
the past;
An’ them young lambs I bought from Brown
are springin’ up like fun:
They’ll bring me thirty bob a ’ead before
the season’s done.
I think if things pan out all right I’ll give
some gal a run.
“I ’eard las’ week that young Jim White ’as
given Jane the ring;
It’s funny ’ow most coves at times give
married life a fling.
An’ I’ve been thinkin’ pretty ’ard that I
could do much worse
Than ’ave a girl to mend me sox an’ ’elp
to keep the purse—
Now ain’t the bracken cornin’ on, an’ ain’t
them burrs a curse?”
’E sez, sez ’c: “It’s true, me gal, but I am
gettin’ old,
An’ I’ll be lucky if I ain’t left lonely in the
cold
With that there farm, as good a ’ome as any
to be found.
I’ll ’ave to spruce myself a bit an’ ’ave a
look around —
Be Cripes! that fiurweed’s a pest—it’s spoilin’
all the ground.”
Not once but ’arf a dozen times ’e’s talked
like that —but ’ow
Can I git ’im to say the rest, the aggravatin’
cow?
Unless I sez it out for ’im, or, leastways,
’elps ’im through,.
I’ll be a slavey all me life —an’ gettin’ older,
too.
I couldn’t arst ’im plain an’ straight, an’
wot’s a gal to do?
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINDLAY


Ride a
■ Sb Ah
r
L
f
&
*5
Get a B.S. 4. Motor Cycle for Easter and spend your
holiday on the open road, visiting new places and new
people. Think of the unlimited opportunities you have
on a motor cycle; of the many beauty spots, inaccessible
by train or car, but easily reached on a motor cycle; of
your ability to go when and where you please; of the
many sports you can enjoy—swimming, shooting, fishing,
camping, all at your command—plus the satisfaction of
an economical, healthy holiday spent in the open air.
Think of the alternative. Staying at home—or travelling
to a set destination in a stuffy, overcrowded train or
’bus, run to an irksome schedule. Thousands of happy
motor cyclists are riding B.S.A.’s, world-famous for con-
sistent reliability and value. Join their ranks to-day and
Lead the way on a BSA
There are thirteen models from which to choose, from
1.74 h.p. to 9.86 h.p., including three O.H.V. machines,
and a wide range of sidecars.
Prices from £45
Send for catalogue and particulars of Easy Payment Terms
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
INLS.W. \
Q’LANDj
BENNETT & WOOD , LTD.,
284- Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA- FIN LA Y BROS. MOTOR CYCLES
PTY., LTD.,
322 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
B.S.A. Sub-Agents Throughout Australia i
D. Y. RENNIE (Factory Representative), 49 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SOUTH AUS.— «/. N. TAYLOR & CO., LTD.
121 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
WEST AUS.-mortlock bros., ltd.,
890 Hay Street, Perth.
TASMANIA -S//V7 king pty., ltd.,
63 Brisbane Street, Launceston.


Ok Equitable Cife
flssce.
O©
a#
nos
?FITI
Coy.
of
Australasia EM.
Head Office:
Farbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Branct < w<’
N.S.W.: vio’iOßlAj
84 Fitt St., Sydney. 360 Collins St., Melb.
Transacts Probate, Life Endowment, Com-
bined Benefits (All Sickness) Assurance.
CVacancies jor Producers with good records.)
FRKDK. LEVY, Mg. Diiector.
I
Aj.J
i /i
P 3 A
S& •
N.
..S'. "
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £lOO,OOO.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minutes from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA lB7J h
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
“E.S.”: Sandy blight, which is causing
much distress in some parts of Western
N.S.W., used to be very much more common
years ago. I have seen shepherds on the
Darling Downs (Q.) whose eyelids for weeks
were like raw beef, the aftermath of the
blinder. It was said there that the first
man who had it was a Scotsman whose
JUST CAUSE.
“Here, what’s the big idea — chuckin' the bricks down as fast as
I bring ’em up?”
“’Sorl right—the boss keeps passin’ underneath.”
“Oh, yes, accidents will ’appen, won’t they?”
Christian names were Archibald Alexander.
He was known to his, mates as “Sandy,” and
when one of them contracted the painful dis-
ease they called it “Sandy’s blight.” It
was also called Alexander the Great, for it
conquered the hardest. I spent three years
in the north-west corner of N.S.Y7. without
any eye trouble, excepting fly-bungs; then
got on to Connulpie Downs, where a stock-
man had the blight. In a little while I got
it, and so did several others on the place.
The late Dr. Speece, an old Bullktin con-
tributor, then at Tibooburra, had a remedy;
a drop in the eyes gave great relief, and in
a few days the patient was about again. The
manager’s wife had a bottle of it, and she
treated all the men on Connulpie. It has
been stated that a cure for sandy blight,
like the cause of it, is unknown. Perhaps
poor old “Medicus” took his secret with him.
s{s # &
“Golub” : A black snake 22 feet long (B.
29/2/’2B) may not necessarily have strayed
out of the land of Munchausen. A Cooktown
(N.Q.) man some years ago killed a black
snake which taped 17 feet 8 inches; and in
1908, between Acheron and Taggerty (Vic.),
one was killed whose length, sworn to by
reputable witnesses, was just on 18 feet. So
it is not at all unlikely that a 22-footer was
killed on the Hawkesbury in 1826.
* * * *
“Larrapinta” : Concerning the spider’s web
which lifted “Sucre’s” hat off (B. 19/1/’2S).
When I was a stockman on Thylungra station
(W.Q.) in 1890 the mulga country at the end
of the wet season swarmed with large grey
spiders, purple-legged. Their webs, stretch-
ing from tree to tree, were as strong as ordi-
nary No. 40 cotton. Carrying sticks upright
in front of us, we collected a quantity of
web like raw yellow silk; this we used to
twist into crackers for our stockwhips, it
being superior to the crochet cotton used for
that purpose. The spiders themselves were
quite harmless, and the big yellow-and-black
hornets killed them wholesale. A few years
after I left Thylungra I went for a trip to
England, and at a house party in Surrey pro-
duced one of these spider-web whip-crackers.
The other guests were interested, but when
I told them that the cracker was made of
spiders’ webs they politely intimated that I
was a liar. A few days later I took them to
tiie South Kensington Museum, where an
obliging entomologist gave us a lecture on
spiders, pronounced my cracker genuine and
showed us even stouter spiders’ webs from
South America.
*'* * *
“C. Coral”: Anchored off one of the
Torres Strait islands the other night, a lug-
ger and colored
crew improved the
moonlight hours by
turning over green
turtle as the crea-
tures came up to
deposit their eggs.
The mainland boys,
however, inter-
vened until Mrs.
Turtle had selected
a site and scooped
out a decent-sized
hole with her flip-
pers ; then as she
began to drop the
white leathery-
skinned eggs one
by one, a native
alongside placed
his hand beneath
and carefully col-
lected them. After
each layer had
been deposited the
turtle pushed in
sand to make them
lie snug, quite un-
disturbed by the
fact that the nest
itself was empty.
When she had done
her 50 or so, she
got to work again
with her flippers,
finishing off the job
by patting down
the sand nicely all
round. Tommy and
Jacky were rolling
on the ground and
nearly cracking
themselves with
mirth. “Look, boss,
look that turtle;
he gammon make
nest —he gammon !
That nest he got
nothing inside; all
them egg stop in-
side bag belong us.
We humbug that
fella proper!” And
as the turtle
waddled solemnly
off, the night air
re-echoed to the
sound of slapping
thighs and a high-
pitched “He gam-
mon, that fella
turtle; he gam-
mon.”
“Pfella” : The trickiest web ever spun by
a spider is to be found in the scrub country
in Jarrahland’s far-inland Nor’-west. He
builds a net, so finely woven as to be hardly
visible, in the shape of a shallow basket about
the size of a soup plate. Then he manufac-
tures another class of line, a gleaming gold-
ALL DOUBTS EXPLAINED.
MRS MAGGS: “’Erbert ’ere ain’t our real son, you know; Vs adopted.”
MRS DAGGS: “Oh, is that ’ow it is? Mrs. ’Awkins and me was only sayin’ the other day
we couldn’t understand ’ow ’Erbert come to be so superior, an’ you a respect-
able woman, as jar as we knew.”
yellow thread, almost as tough as silk, which
is run across at various angles above the sus-
pended trap. Flies and other winged insects
are suddenly confronted by a criss cross of
burnished lines and duck to avoid trouble —
they collect it in the basket below. The owner
of the joint—a grey fellow about an inch in
body length—rolls up his victim and sucks
it dry under cover of leaves ; a larder is never
kept because of the hungry ants near by.
* * * *
“B-Gar”: “Talking of big dampers,” said
Jim, “Yellow Joe in the Orion Downs muster-
in’ camp made the biggest ever I saw. He
usetl up a blackboard full of gidya to get
sufficient ashes, and there were four fifties
of flour and a dozen tins of baking-powder
in the dough. Joe put the business on
at ten o’clock, after we’d turned in, and
just at the peep of day I saw him take it
out. He stood one end up against the back
of the buggy; the other end rested in a hole
a few yards away. He scraped the ashes
off with a shovel and then cut her up. She
lasted three meals; there wmre 42 of us in
the camp. After that Joe put a couple of
off-siders on making flap-jacks.”
**, * *
“Mulyan” : The gag that coachdrivers are
a taciturn lot may, perhaps, be traced back
to “Silent Bob” Bates, an old-time driver for
Cobb and Co. George Adams, of “Tatt.’s,”
who had also been a driver for the firm,
used to tell that a box-passenger one day
asked Bob what crop was growing in a farm-
paddock they were passing. Bob did not
answer, but as they were returning that way
next day he jerked his whip towards the crop
and said “Loosun.” As a rule the coach-
driver was a genial sort, and dispensed a lot
of information about the country, inter-
spersed with tall yarns about the local
inhabitants. He entertained the box-seat
passenger, who in return was expected to
open the gates. I travelled with one who
talked almost incessantly to his gate-opener,
there being a good many gates on the road;
but the lazy commercial who would only get
down at refreshment places, and then neglect
to shout for the driver, had to do all the
talking himself.
He * $ $
“Murrungurry”: The annual distribution
of Government blankets to N.S.W. abos. is
a small matter now T , and the number dis-
tributed becomes fewer every year. A quar-
ter of a century ago many of the squattages
were distributing centres, and blacks gath-
ered there in noisy mobs. Each adult was
supposed to get one, but sometimes blankets
were cut in two to make them go round. At
first there was some trafficking in the bed-
clothes, after they had been given to the
blacks, until it was made an offence for a
white man to have a blackfellow’s blanket
in his possession, or to use any part of one
for a saddle-cloth. That, however, didn’t
prevent Binghi from staking his dole at cards.
I have seen a gin loaded with half a dozen
new blankets, mainly the fruits of gambling,
whilst another carried only the usual ’possum
rugs. Now the ’possum rug is harder to get
than the blanket.
*.#,.**
“Pigcat”: Dealing with fighting qualities
of the quail and the demand for it among
Lascars on that account, “Ibn el Issar” (B.
8/2/’2B) tells us “his reputation in this
respect stands high.” But the male bird
doesn’t fight. His job is to select or be
selected by his bride, sit on the eggs, hatch
the chicks and rear the brood. It’s the ladies
of the quail family that do the scrapping.
They fight in something the same style and
every bit as savagely, as do game roosters.
* * * *
“Jungagor” • The distance from the Lace-
pede Islands to the nearest point on the
Westralian mainland is about 15 miles, and
the currents and tides have no mean repu-
tation. Yet several blacks have done this
channel swim, the love of home overcoming
the inducements of the pearling industry.
The time taken was from 12 to 20 hours;
and, of course, they had neither food nor
drink.
* * * *
“Black Tracker”: When prospecting in
the Ironbark ranges I climbed to a pro-
jecting rock overlooking a forest valley and
found myself sticky-beaking into the home of
a pair of wedge-tailed eagles. The nest, a
huge affair, was built between three prongs
of a towering tree. It was not round, for on
the third prong was a platform, which might
have been used for roosting at night, but
was in fact a table on which meals were
readied by the mother for her three half-
grown babies. The male attended to the
larder, and invariably brought in and de-
livered the food in its live state. As the
female never lost sight of the nest the male
was kept continuously employed, for the
appetites of the eaglets appeared never to
be satisfied. I identified rabbits, bandicoots,
wallaby and an occasional bird-, lizard or
snake, all of which were dissected by the
mother and served. I was satisfied that
nothing in the shape of carrion was brought
in during the hours I had the nest under
observation.
SLAVES OF THE CITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch the thronging crowds go by
Adown the canyon of the street ;
Huge buildings hide God's splendid sky;
I hear the noise of many feet.
The blinding sun at noon beats down
Upon the city’s dusty ways;
Penned up in stifling Sydney Town
I long for other, freer days,
When, by the Darling tide b strode
And stood erect —a man, and free —
Saw camel teams upon the road,
The river flowing to the sea;
And watched the rising sun flame bright,
Out on the edge of yonder plain,
Or verdant stars ablaze at night—
Dear God, to see it all again!
The sage-green bush ; the mile-wide track ;
Great mobs of sheep ; the men who work
All making in from far Outback;
Great river-gums just outside Bourke;
The magic of the eventide;
The cries of homing birds in flight;
The hush and awe of spaces wide
The wonder of the Western night!
The autumn splendor of the plains;
The clean crisp air—the peace, the rest!
Lush herbage after Queensland rains;
The golden glory of the West!
Yet still the people hurry by,
Down narrow laneway and hot street;
Tall buildings hide God’s wondrous sky,
And, oh, the noise of weary feet!
N.s.w.
WALTER D. WHITE


Send Your
Wool
to
Winchcombe
Carson
An
Australian
Wool
Firm
Pounded by Aus-
tralians, conducted
by Australians, the
whole of its capital
subscribed in Aus-
tralia, confining its
activities to Aus-
tralia, selling wool
on behalf of Aus-
tralian clients.
WiNCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS,
Winchcombe House, Bridge St., Sydney,
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Top values consistently result from their capable,
energetic work as salesmen.
fs
Taxing Dependents
You may leave a heritage to your dependents but how
much of it will they receive ? Will they be forced to
sell or mortgage part of it to pay the heavy Probate
Tax ? Will they be provided for during the long period
of assessment when their property will be securely tied
up with not a penny available for current expenses.
P. 8C C. Probate Assurance solves all these problems.
Write for full information on this important subject.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Gen. Man.: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
tu COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE O. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.__
ll4-11.0 CASTL'EREAgH ST. SYDNEY -■=■
PEAPES
T-jor men AND their sons.
To buy at Peapes is to buy
with confidence. Peapes’ re-
cords show many instances
where three generations of
the same family have pur-
chased all their needs at
Peapes’—an indication of the
quality of the service Peapes
have rendered since 1866.
Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
ECONOMICS OF WHEAT-GROWING.
“Enlightened Cocky”: “Singer” (B.
22/2/’2B) raises the question of the ability
of Australian wheat-growers to make a profit
on land at £32 an acre. I know how I get
on on land less than a quarter that price,
and the figures may be of interest.
Capital involved: Land (330 acres),
£2500; permanent improvements, comprising
two-roomed house, stable, chaff-house, barn,
implement-shed, dam and 200 chains of
fencing, £850; plant, consisting of nine
horses and some second-hand implements.
£400; total, £3750.
I sow yearly 130 acres wheat, 30 acres
oats; average yield, 8 bags to the acre. Hay
and oats grown and consumed not taken into
account, except as to seed and cost of
handling.
Annual working costs are: Seed, £57 10s.:
super., £44; bags and twine, £47 10s.; sun
dries (such as petrol, oil, chaff cutter knives,
wheat pickle, weighbridge fees, ploughshares
and cultivator tips), £2O; rates and taxes,
£l5; wages and board for one harvest-hand
for six weeks, £27 ; total, £241. Adding 10
per cent, for depreciation of plant, £4O, and
6 per cent, on capital involved, £225, the
year’s costs come to £506.
The only cash-returning crop is the wheat.
If all goes well I harvest 1040 bags, and
sell them at ss. a bushel —£780.
My net return, therefore, is £274, which
provides me with wages at the rate of
£5 ss. 4d. per week. The average business
man in the city would expect to get 121
per cent, return from his capital after paying
himself an adequate salary for management.
BALANCED RATIONS FOR CROPS.
“Hop Scrub”: Fertiliser experiments,
even under the modern system of small plots
and numerous repetitions, ar.e a hit-or-miss
method of determining the food requirements
of field crops. Soil is subject to much varia-
tion of structure and food content within
a small paddock, and climatic influences from
one season to another vary still more. Up-
to-date soil scientists start with the plant
and not with the soil. The initial experi-
ments have been with maize. The stalks are
tested chemically for the presence or absence
of such essential elements as nitrogen, potas-
sium and phosphorus, and from the results
of these tests the food needs of the corn
are deduced. All plants soon show signs of
soil deficiency by yellowing and chlorosis, and
if the method used with maize can be ex-
tended to other field crops and to trees and
vines fertilising will be less of a gamble than
it is at present.
SCRUB-DESTROYING MACHINES.
“Mallee” : Last year the South Aus. Gov-
ernment offered a prize of £lOOO for a
machine capable of dealing in one operation
with the stunted mallee and other scrub
which covers a large area of the State. A
day was fixed towards the end of February
last for competitors to bring their devices
to Sherlock and show what they could do
with them. Eleven machines were entered,
but only two turned up, neither of which
was considered effective. The department
will hold another trial next season.
The matter is of great importance to S.A.
farmers. A machine that would deal with
mallee scrub would also be able to cope with
yaccas, which infest many thousands of acres
of otherwise good land, particularly in the
south-east. The fact that they are bulb
plants makes them difficult to eradicate.
Superphosphate stimulates their growth, and
while ploughing removes a fair percentage, it
is found neccessary to hand-grub the re-
mainder. This costs from Bs. to 30s. an acre.
A machine that would cut the cost down to
a reasonable figure would make possible the
conversion of large areas of useless coun-
try into good grazing land.
COST OF ENSILAGE.
“Paul C.”: Ensilage can be made much
more cheaply than hay, and silos and ensi-
lage pits will largely take the place of hay-
sheds when this is understood by farmers.
Estimates of cost made by experienced men
touch as low as ss. per ton, but, to be on
the safe side, I will put the cost of making
silage (including the excavation of the pit)
at 10s. a ton.
To deal with an ensilage crop of, say,
6J tons to the acre, the costs Would run out
as follows: £2 an acre for preparing the
ground and sowing the seed, or 6s. per ton
of ensilage; cutting, loading and carting to
the pit, 3s. per ton of ensilage. The ex-
cavation of the pit, if let by contract, would
cost at most 2s. per cubic yard; less if the
farmer did it himself. As it takes two
cubic yards of space to hold a ton of silage,
it would appear that the making of the pit
would run to 4s. a ton, which would make
the total cost of 13s. a ton ; but a pit will
last eight or ten years even if used
every year, so I assess the cost at Is. per
ton, thus bringing the total cost to 10s.
Experience shows that it costs 30s. a ton
or ipore. But that’s not all. You must
have fine, sunny weather for hay-making,
while if you don’t mind getting wet you
can cart ensilage in the rain. In fact, if
you had allowed the crop to get too far
forward before cutting, a wetting would
improve it. Also, if you have an 8-ton per
acre crop, and make it into ensilage, you
will be able to cut practically- eight tons
of fodder out of it, while if you made it:
into ,hay you would do well if you cut out
two-thirds of that weight. Hay is subject
to the devastation of fire, rats, mice and
birds. You cannot burn ensilage, and no
pests interfere with it. You cannot keep
hay very long without waste, while storage
for 10 years has no visible effect on well-
made ensilage.
BABY PADDOCKS
“Black Tracker” : Here are two instances
in which small paddocks of the rich south-
eastern land in S.A. made a remarkable
demonstration of their value.
A friend of mine took a lease of a 21-acre
dairy-farm that had carried from 10 to 12
cows for years. It was divided into four
paddocks. These he converted into 14
of equal size. Within three months he was
carrying 20 cows and a horse. He allowed
the stock to remain 24 hours in each pad-
dock, always applying light harrows after
the change. He kept up this average, and
with grass hay and oat hulls was able to
top the list of suppliers, although some had
considerably larger areas and herds.
The next case concerns sheep. An ex-
tensive landowner leased a 100-acre pad-
dock that was reckoned to carry sheep
to the acre. He divided the paddock into
four, divided by two lanes at right angles,
each paddock having a gate leading to the
lanes, where troughs of water were placed. By
starting at one end, and allowing the sheep,
according to the number, time to eat off the
best fodder before transferring them to the
next, the carrying capacity was raised to
seven sheep to the acre, without any addi-
tional expense.
These experiments were made without
the addition of manures of any kind, or the
planting of grasses.
BUSH HAY.
“B-Gar”: “Yabbie's par.” (B. 22/2/’2B)
about the value of Mitchell-grass hay foi
dry periods opens up the possibility of silos
being erected for the storage of some of the
many thousands of tons of sorghum that
annually go to waste in the flooded areas
of Queensland. Growing amongst the sor-
ghum are many varieties of herbage that
include everything and anything from “crow-
foot” to strawberry clover. After the flood
waters recede, store bullocks put on these
flats fatten into prime beasts within six
months. There’s enough dry sorghum and
herbage annually blown away by wind to
feed all the sheep in Q’land in drought
periods, were it cut and put into silos; but
graziers prefer to pay for fodder and nuts
in dry times rather than go to the trouble
of erecting silos and cutting the native
grasses.
QUEENSLAND BEEF PROSPECTS.
“8.G.”: The Northern Queensland meat-
works have announced their prices for the
forthcoming season; 235. per hundred for
prime first-grade beef, an increase of ss. per
hundred over last season. Already big sales
have been made in the Gulf country for for-
ward delivery at the various works. At pre-
sent Borthwick’s Ltd. seem to have secured
most of the picked lines for their newly-
taken-over works at Sellheim, near the Bur-
dekin River. With the prospects of a big
killing this season, any beast from three
years upward that shows a bit of condition
will go to the works or to butchers, and
there will be a big clean-up.
The three years’ drought in North and
Western Queensland played' havojc with breed-
ing, and many stations killed the calves in
order to give the cows a chance of living.
There will be a big shortage of beef cattle
in Queensland for probably the next three
years, and store cattle will have to be
drawn from the N.T. That the shortage
is already being felt is shown by the first
big instalment of 13,000 store bullocks from
Brunette Downs (N.T.) to Southern Queens-
land. It is certain that beef prices for the
near future will keep on soaring, and next
year southern markets will be quoting prime
beef in the vicinity of £3 per hundred.
Meanwhile spaying will be stopped so that
graziers can breed up again. The late rains
have given a lot of encouragement to the
hard-hit cattle-men, and prospects now look
brighter than for many years.
DON’T SOAK SEEDS IN FERTILISER.
“ Jerso”: Many farmers believe that by
soaking seed in fertiliser solutions prior to
planting the plant will receive benefit. They
reckon that germination is hastened, growtn
stimulated and yield increased. After three
years’ trials at Hawkesbury Agricultural
College, in the course of which a variety of
chemical . fertiliser solutions was used, it
was found that untreated seeds always gave
not only the best germination results but
also the best yields. I have made experi-
ments myself with the same result. In one
instance I planted two rows each of beans and
peas in new soil, one row of each variety hav-
ing been first immersed in a recognised fer-
tiliser solution. The untreated rows gave by
far the better yield, and the treated rows
were finished a clear three weeks before the
untreated rows.
CONTAGIOUS ABORTION IN CATTLE.
“St. Rawberry”: Contagious abortion is
without exception the most insidious disease
that curses the stockowner. It is unrecog-
nisable prior to the act of abortion., except
by bacteriological test. . Even experienced
farmers, when their herds are attacked, may
be forgiven for believing the first two or
three premature deliveries to be ordinary
slips due to any or all of many likely causes.
The disease is far more prevalent than is
supposed, and its effects are dire, yet some
stock-owners wilfully ignore its presen'ce
in their herds. These men lose heavily in
calves and, when dairying, in their creamery
returns. Moreover, they foster the spread
of abortion in their neighbors’ herds. Yet
contagious abortion will eliminate itself by
a process of auto-inoculation in a period of,
roughly, eight years. But what havoc it
plays in that time!
The wise man who has the least reason
to suspect his herd’s infection will take
a blood-test of all his cows and bulls, and
will have an examination made for the pre-
sence of the disease. Let him proceed as
follows :
Having secured a number of small bottles,
sterilise them thoroughly, using pure boiling
water only —use no antiseptic washes or
soaps. There should be three bottles for
each cow to be tested. Commence with those
cows that are suspect—the rest may be
tested at a later date when, the infection of
the herd is established.
The best method of securing a sample of
blood is to draw it direct from the jugular,
but this is beyond the novice. In the ears
may be found three large veins; any of these
may be severed with a keen knife freshly
scalded, and a quantity of blood drawn in
the first clean bottle, which should not be
filled —leave half an inch of space below the
neck. Stopper the bottle with a new cork
previously sterilised. Into the second bottle
draw a few squirts of milk direct from the
cow. Label both bottles with the name of the
beast, and set them aside until all the tests
have been secured.
Throughout this procedure the utmost
cleanliness must be observed ; do not let the
blood run down the ear if it can be helped;
get it direct from vein to bottle; have clean
hands and clean instruments. Do not expose
the samples of either blood or milk to the
air longer than can be helped.
It is desired to secure a serum from the
blood-samples. Set the bottles in a cool
place, and within two hours an amber-colored
liquid (the serum) will have risen to the
surface, and the blood-corpuscles will have
congealed at the bottom. Draw the serum
off carefully, using a clean pipette such as is
used in milk- or eream-testing. Place the
serum in the third sterilised bottle, stopper
securely and label as before.
The samples of serum and milk should now
be packed securely, and forwarded by the
quickest route to the nearest Government
veterinary officer. Get the address from your
local stock inspector.
Tests will be made at a very nominal
charge, and you will be advised as to whether
or no the bacilli of abortion are present in
the samples submitted. For instance, if
five each blood- and milk-samples are taken
in the first testing, it may be found that
three show positive reaction (the germ is
present and the cow infected) and two are
negative. At the earliest opportunity com-
mence drying-off those cows that are in-
fected. Sell them as stores —or, better still,
to avoid tile possibility of some other dairy-
man buying them, fatten them for the but-
cher—but at all costs get rid of them ; you
may lose a few pounds per head, and your
best milkers may go, but you’ll have a better
chance of saving the balance of your herd.
Test all your other cows as -before, and
take blood-tests from the bulls.
You may not inoculate—that is illegal—
and your one remedy is the culling of all
infected animals and the thorough sterilisa-
tion of all foetal matter and discharges from
aborting beasts.
Place no faith whatever in advertised
cures for contagious abortion. They may
cleanse, but they will not cure. Cows treated
with mercury compounds may be rendered
sterile; this would mean total loss if a blood-
test proved the cows uninfected.
WEANING CALVES.
“B-Gar” : In a good season six months is
a suitable age at which to wean, calves.
Make sure the pasture to which the weaners
are to be taken is well watered and has a
good yard for tailing purposes. With the
cows and calves yarded, draft off the wean-
ers and, if possible, get them to the tailing
yard the same day. Keep the cows yarded
tor the night, and then take them away.
They will try to return to the yards, but keep
driving them back, making sure, if there
are fences, that they do not get hanging in
the corners. Tail the weaners for a week,
or until they have settled down and have
got used to being without their mothers and
show no inclination to make back to their
previous pastures. They can then be left
to themselves, with a look now and then to
see they are doing all right.
FACTORS IN WOOL PRICES
“R.L.P.”: “D.J.W.” (B. S/2/’2B) has
hold of the wrong end of the stick. With
no intention of championing S’African wool I
disagree with his assertion that the prices
he quotes speak so conclusively. For one
thing, these prices are for greasy wool, and
so comparisons are useless, for the greasy
price hinges on two factors, the clean-scoured
limit and the wool’s yield. In S’Africa even
now it is a rarity to find a wool that will
give above 52 per cent, clean scoured, where-
as in Victoria’s western district, where most
of the big-priced wools are grown, the rarity
is to find a wool giving less than 62 per cent.
Nor do “D.J.W.’s” prices give any indication
of quality, for in most cases the finer the wool
the more condition it contains. As an in-
stance, at Perth’s sales on February 14 last
year a line of 58/56’s (branded “Kool-
berin”) brought 21£d., while one of 64/70’s
(branded “Jandarra”) brought only iB|d.
The former was estimated to yield 66 per
cent., the latter only 46 per cent. A high
price per pound doesn’t talk so very loudly
unless there is a ; good weight per fleece to
back it up. To my mind, what brings in
the top prices just as much as the grower’s
care in breeding is his fortunate choice in
land selection.
BUYING WOOL ON THE HOOF.
“FY7” : The Americans have been heavy
buyers on the Australian wool market for
years past, in spite of gradually increasing
duties on wool imported to the States. One
of the big Boston spinning firms recently
took up the whole of what is known as the
Jericho wool pool, running to over 800,0001 b.
of average 64’s on the sheep’s back. This
method of purchase, though familiar enough
in Australia, is not usual in the States.
The price paid was 35 cents —say, 17Jd. per
lb., less one per cent draft for wastage,
delivered at Boston. Scouring loss is esti-
mated at 65 p.c., and the cost of the scoured
wool landed at Boston was reckoned to be
a decimal point over a dollar per lb., which
is cheaper than the same quality of Aus-
tralian wool could be landed for, in the
same condition, at Boston in the ordinary
way. The method of buying wool on the
sheep’s back is arousing a lot of interest in
the States, and provided the quantity is
there and the buying proves satisfactory
American seekers after wools of this type
may find it will pay them better to look for
their supplies at home. The catch, however,
lies in the buying. Whether the compara-
tively unskilled American will be able to tot
up a wholesale purchase on the hoof with
the necessary accuracy remains to be seen.
It is quite a different game from buying in the
stores, though the purchase under notice
seems to have been satisfactory to the
buyers. Commenting on the new develop-
ment, an American writer says that no
doubt American buyers who desire fine
merinos for higher class goods will continue
to buy “colonial” wools. The inference is
that they will look to their own country
for the coarser combings in future, and that
should give the Australian exponents of
coarse-wool-growing, as opposed to the tra-
ditional Australian types, something to think
about.
(Continued on page 25.)


Up or down. Tough skins or tender. You
can rely on a “Valet” for the smoothed of
smooth shaves.
The secret is the sharpness of the blade—and
the reason of that sharpness is the stropping,
a device that is part and parcel of the razor.
Ten seconds a day without removing the blade
and you have an edge like new or better th n
new. Not once but 50 or 60 times for 50 or 60
perfect shaves.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
■-or
<>
No. 99 Set. Contains the essen-
tials for a perfect “ Valet ’ shave
— razor, three blades and
strop in neat case .
r -- •
T^<hS
>r
VAtE
No. 55 Set. Contains razir three
blades and strop in hinged con-
tainer. In highly po- 1 A J
lished nickelled case I v —
Managing Agents for Australia:
PH IPSO N 8c COMPANY, LTD., 181, CLAR-NCE STREET, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Agents: l AN STAVEREN BROS., LTD., AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON and CHRISTCHURCH.
11l I
ill 1
I <!
I|,l.
7
as
J
IIM
ifi
l «!-.:.;,i.ilHl!H |l, .J»]l» ft
Hint
ii
i
”i
FARMERS!
DO NOT MISS THIS EXHIBIT
AT THE 1928 R.A.S. SHOW.
The 28-h.p. “STOCK” Caterpillar Tractor
Front Wheel Drive.
The Machine that cannot rear under the heaviest loads, thus giving 100 p.c. tractive efficiency.
3 FORWARD SPEEDS:
Ist, 2 M.P.H.
2nd, 3 M.P.H.
3rd, 5 M.P.H.
REVERSE, 1.6 M.P.H.
TURNING RADIUS,
6ft.
RUNS ON EITHER
BENZINE OR
KEROSENE.
m
V
as
r jm
fer
FUEL CONSUMPTION
LOW.
ALL WORKING
PARTS EASILY
ACCESSIBLE.
ADJUSTABLE DRAW-
BARS TO GIVE HIGH
OR LOW PULL.
BELT PULLEY 11 in.
DIAM., 1000 R.P.M.
first
THE HIGH-POWER TRACTOR FOR ALL WORK.
This is a simply-constructed, light, high-.grade machine weighing only 48501 b., including fuel and water, and giving a drawbar pull of 35001 b.
which is equal to the load pulled by 12 average farm horses working continuously.
Owing to the weight of this machine being over the front or driving axle any overloading does not lift the front wheels but merely pushes the back
wheels further into the ground, thus giving the chains a better road grip This coupled with the fact that the initial road grip and thrust is derived
from the FRONT END of the chain, entirely eliminates all possibility of this machine rearing under the heaviest loads.
gear,
PRICE:
£.495
Complete with cable winch.
This Machine, and also the 40-H.P. STOCK MOTOR PLOUGH, can
be inspected at the R.A.S. Show, Pateson Street, near Cattle Sales Ring.
p ■] j t m __ J - T ,„ r ifi ra tionB of these remarkable machines cannot be given in the space allowed, but descriptive literature, plans and all informa-
tion will be forwarded free on request by SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS-
STOCK MOTOR PLOUGHS LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney. G.P.O. Box 219 d. Agents in Other States will shortly be appointed.


?
fart!
99
U 1
1
I to
Sc
>
*****
,r>
: i
>. ■■<!
mM
‘VS* •.'■/';•
\
s
1
K
%
V *V
%
High Speed
for Heavy Loads
Heavy loads may now travel at high speeds
with perfect safety on the new 6-cylinder
2-Ton Graham Brothers Truck.
Business demands that goods move faster.
And this new triumph of truck building—
with 4-speed transmission and 4-wheel
brakes (Lockheed Hydraulic) —makes it
possible to move goods faster without risk
and without sacrifice of economy.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane—Townsville.
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS, INC.
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
F398


a
m
v
®*/C|[ rA#t’ is w
'$ # %A®%
VtJ
A low-cut shoe
smarter —easier
Smarter, because the maker is
able to ensure a closer fit at ankle
without bulging. Easier, since
the shoe need not be tight-laced to
keep it fitting.
In both ways this Abbey shoe in-
creases comfort. Gives greater
muscle freedom the upper is
arched at the lacing so that there’s
no constraint, and the smartly-
squared, flat toe is roomy.
Available in four different
leathers—each the best obtainable
in its class.
Order by Post.
Good fit guaranteed you can
get no wider choice of sizes. Every
half-size is made in three fittings—-
narrow, medium and wide. Simply
state which you need. Order, also,
a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin) With it, shoes
gloss easily— tan leather takes a
gleaming, mellow tone
Tan Willow or Glace Kid 52/6
Black Box Calf - - - - 507-
Patent Leather ----- 60/-
Write for a copy oj the
jfO-page colored catalogue.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
L 65. SYDNEY.
GROCERS
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
fiiticura
'■'SOAP
(uticuraSoap f h<
medicinal&toilet r .
Best For The Skin
Because it cleanses, invigor-
ates and preserves the skin,
scalp and hair. Used daily,
assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, it prevents
pore-clogging, pimples, black-
heads, and other annoying
irritations.
Soap Is.,Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
GIgEY
HAIIS
WOULD
SPOIL
\
tv:
\e»
\V e
>£\N e
\N*
tc\>
\vy
oil S i° 1
op;, ,l ’
r
v*A»
WAINUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
“THE WOMAN’S
PRICE .... ..
MIRROR,”
. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
df
Jellies, Creams ,
B lane-manges—
—all your troubles in turning them out can be ended by
using moulds of fine porcelain with the utmost smoothness
of surface, which, by a new mode of production, are of
uniform thickness all over. This obviates the usual difficulty
of getting the pudding out whole.
Shelley “individual” moulds—one to each person—serve dainty sweets
daintily. Fifty different moulds— 14 shapes—to choose from.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty mite China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie, Attwell and Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic W'are , and Shelley jelly Moulds—all British. In'case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to :—T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., 232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China '}
asd
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO Directors:
Issued Capital . 49 ici John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
Paid-up Capital *■
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
POULTRY AND CITRUS-GROWING*,
“Sancho”: Poultry-farming may be all
right as a side-line for apple- and stone-fruit
growers, but fowls should be kept out of a
citrus orchard. One of the best friends of
the citrus grower is the little black insect
that feeds on black spot. On hot days they
cluster in hundreds around the trunks of
the trees, and are easy marks for prowling
chooks, with the result that the proper de-
velopment of the orange- and mandarin-
trees is seriously interfered with.
THE POULTRY-FARMERS’ TEN
COMMANDMENTS.
“Chooky”: W. ,C. Rugg, Vic.’s chief poul-
try expert, puts a lot of sound advice to
poultry-farmers into 10 commandments:—,
1. isolate or Sell all Male birds after Octo-
ber i.
2. Gather eggs twice a day if possible, but
always once a day.
3. Keep eggs in a edol place—not more
than OOdeg. F.
4. Protect them from sun, heat* moisture
and bad odors.
5. Treat them as you would choicest cr’ertnl
or butter.
6. Market only clean-shelled, large eggs.
Small and dirty-shelled eggs should be con
sumed on the farm.
7. Market eggs twice a week if possible,
but always once.
8. Keep eggs clean by providing clean
houses, plenty of clean litter on the floor and
roomy nests, and by changing nesting
material frequently.
9. Chickens intended for egg-production
should be hatched in July, August and Sep-
tember only.
10. Breed only from second and third
season hens, and from pedigreed male birds.
ROUP IN FOWLS.
“Jack Point”: Roup, though not so pre-
valent in Australia as it is in England and
America, takes heavy toll of Australia/
flocks. The disease makes its first appear-
ance almost invariably in hens which are
low in condition, and a bad attack will
spread through the flock very quickly. An
Australian flock kept under first-class con-
ditions should never experience anything but
a mild attack, because we have plenty of
sunshine, even in winter, and sunshine is a
big factor in preventing roup. The symp-
toms are unmistakable—a cough, difficulty
in breathing and an offensive discharge from
the nostril.
The .easiest way to nip an outbreak in the
bud is to visit the houses at night and listen
for any hens whose breathing is difficult.
Any bird under suspicion should be imme-
diately isolated and treated. Prevention
should be the aim of the poultry farmer, and
this may be achieved by having dry, well ven-
tilated houses and healthy birds.
For treating birds that show signs of roup,
use a solu ion of permanganate of potash
diluted to the color of claret. Submerge
tile bird’s head in this for a couple of seconds
ahd then, if necessary, syringe out the nos-
trils with a half-and-half solution of perox-
ide ahd warm water. Birds under treat-
ment should be given easily digested, nutri-
tious food, without meat-meal or other egg-
producing items, and plenty of succulent
green feed. It is advisable when getting
new adult birds, .especially in the winter,
to give them a week or so in quarantine
before letting them mix with your flock.
WATERING THIRSTY STOCK.
“Bovo”: When a big mob of cattle is
travelling to water, unless the watering
area is a large one, it is advisable and
necessary to split them into small mobs.
With flighty steers especially it will be
found that as soon as the leaders have had
a drink they will rush out, thus preventing
the other beasts from getting a decent drink.
At troughs, and any places where the water
supply is limited and shallow, cut off as
many of the cattle as can be accommodated
at a time. Give this lot plenty of time
and then bring a further mob along. The
cutting off should be done at a distance
far enough away, so that the mob can be
held. Thirsty cattle smell water from a
long distance and are a trouble to hold if
brought too close. In shallow waterholes
a large mob of cattle will stir up the
mud, with the result that none get a decent
drink. This tip applies to sheep as well as
cattle.
TAKING THE BRIDLE OFF.
“Kooragai”: Taking a bridle off a horse
is a simple thing, and yet many men, even
good riders, do it in a way that spoils the
horse. They pull it off carelessly, some
roughly, so that the bit is the last part to be
released, and when a 3'oung or timid horse
pulls back or turns sharply away the bit
often hangs on the teeth. It is not un-
common to see a person flick the animal on
the rump with the reins after letting it go,
to send it galloping off. Horses treated in
that manner, like those off which the bridle
is dragged, will generally swing away;
whereas the moke that is used to being
properly unbridled will stand a moment or
turn away quietly. A careful horseman
puts his right hand on the horse’s neck,
and with the left lifts the headband over the
ears, and then passes the hand downwards
so that the bit drops from the mouth. He
then gives the moke a gentle rub on the face
and forehead, and a parting pat on the neck.
A horse appreciates these little attentions.
It also likes to be rubbed behind the ears,
where the headband has been, perhaps, for
hours, and left a sweat mark. Horses so
treated, instead of jumping away, will often
rub their heads against a man’s chest, as if
asking for a brush up. I was on a Queens-
land station where the boss always carefully
watched a new man letting his horse go.
That was the crucial test, and though the
man may have proved himself a good rider
during the day, the method he adopted
meant for him either a permanent job or
the sack.
GROWING MUSHROOMS.
“Tomjoey”: “Silentio” (B. 22/2/’2B) has
omitted aw important point in his instruc-
tions for making up mushroom beds. No
iron of any kind—horseshoes, pieces of
fencing-wire, etc. —must be in the manure or
soil used, nor can soil or manure be used
from near where a piece of iron was lying
rusting. I’ve found that a single rusty nail
would render a big patch of the bed unpro-
ductive.
The best spot is an old cellar or disused
mining tunnel. Failing that, under shady
trees build a low shed with a straw thatch
and sides of straw between wire-netting or
palings. Leave a gap of about a foot between
the walls and the roof all round for venti-
lation, and make the beds the full length or
the shed, leaving room to walk between them.
The water used is best applied with a rose
watering-can, and must be pure (well water
is often unsuitable) ; it should also be
tepid, as cold water retards growth. Pine
or she-oak needles make a good covering for
the beds. Using these methods I have often
picked 121 b. per day for weeks on end.
A NEW FRUIT.
“Jerso”: A variety of fruit that has not
been grown previously in Queensland is
topeppi—a cross between the tomato and
tne chili. The plant grows from seed into
a miniature tree, and a prolific crops matures
in about four months. The fruit is bigger
than a large tomato, though not so weighty,
and when ripe is of a yellowy-red color.
Topeppi is ideal for chutneys, etc., can be
eaten as a fruit if properly ripe, and proves
a welcome addition to any vegetable salad. It
is a native of Honolulu, and was imported
by Clias. Hargreaves.
SPREADING PRICKLY-PEAR.
■‘Eureka”: Some birds may carry prickly-
pear seeds and thereby spread the pest, but
the emu can plead not guilty. A Moree
(N.S.W.) man fed an emu for a week on
prickly-pcars. He then buried the manure
at various depths, left some on the ground
and even put some in water; but not one
pear plant appeared. After a seed has
passed through the digestive organs of an
emu there is nothing left to germinate, so
really the emu is performing a national
.service in eating and thus destroying the
pear. It is a noticeable fact that where
emus are thickest there is little pear, and in
places whence the emu has been driven back
by the advance of civilisation the pear lias
increased.
ROBBER BEES.
Larrapinta”: As soon as the first signs
appear showing that your bees are intent on
robbing one another’s hives, contract the
entrances on any weak swarms. Fill a 61b.
tin with fine wood-ashes, and punch a lot of
small holes on the lid. Go around all the
hives and make sure that all the joints be-
tween covers and supers are bee-tight. As
soon as the bees set on a hive take your
tin of ashes and shake them on the attack-
ing bees, as you would salt from a shake.
The ashes have an irritating effect, and the
robbers go back to their own hives. Keep
a watchful eye, and the bees will quieten
down in a few days. But once let the bees
have a good taste of robbing and you’ll have
your hands full trying to stop it. The best,
in fact the only, way to deal with it is never
to let it start.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“H.J.M.”: Thistles make good green feed
for chickens and young poultry during the
colder months. If gathered fresh every day
and the stalks are cleaned away at nightfall
they keep the birds in excellent condition.
“Spike”: Young pigs fed wholly on corn
should be given a weekly ration of charcoal,
which, besides acting as an aperient, will
hawlen the teeth and prevent dental trouble
arising from the constant mastication of
tough grain.
“Hop Scrub”: Bordeaux mixture is easily
the best fungicide, but it rapidly loses its
efficiency. To get good Bordeaux, unslaked
lime, free from stone, should be used, and the
mixture must be applied fresh. If the lime
must be held don’t leave it in bags on the
shed floor bpt keep it in air-tight boxes, or,
better still, store it under water, where it
can be kept for years.
“Brick”: Even when dying of starvation
sheep will resolutely refuse to eat the coarse
grass of dried tussocks. A settler on the
Bibbenluke Closer Settlement Area (N.S.W.)
turned the waste fodder on his holding to
profitable use in the drought of ’27. He
sprayed the. tussocks with a mixture of crude
molasses thinned out in boiling water. Both
cows and sheep then chewed to their roots
every sweetened, tuft, and the condition of
even the gummies improved. Dried straw
similarly treated was also greedily eaten.
“G.G.G.”: Rope traces, where only one
horse is used, are preferable to leather.
They will not flog a big-barrelled horse’s
ribs, or give him a sore neck. A pair of
traces of good Manila, 2Jin. in circumference,
can be made for about 3s. (cost of the rope).
Old links can generally be picked up about
the harness shed. With care, if kept out
of the sun and wet when not in use, a set
will last a year.
“Kooragai”: Pigweed, common on most
eastern farms, is looked upon as one of the
worst weed pests, but pigs are fond of and
do well on it. I have seen pigs fed for weeks
on very little else. Thistles, red Aveed and
fat-hen are also relished by Grunter.
“Silentio”: It is an excellent thing to
have a feeding section in the pig run. Lay
down a small area with strong concrete, the
sides carefully boarded up to prevent it
being rooted up, and the troughs set on
this. In addition the green stuff, or grain
can be fed on the concrete slab too, and none
is wasted. If soiled a few buckets of water
or the hose played on it will soon cleanse
it, and obviate that sour smell usually con-
nected, with troughing set in earthen floors.
The pig is not the dirty animal it is sup-
posed to be, but it can’t do concrete work
itself.
* * * *
“Hatter”: A farmer in n.-e. Tas. dug last
year an extra large Bismarck potato, from
which he obtained 130 sets. The harvest
just dug, filled four large sacks, over a
quarter of a ton of tubers from one. Is this
a record?


OVAL
VIRGINIA
M
«*%
so*!
y0
ARDATH
lO Jor
20 fov V&
Over size, extra weight and the
finest golden Virginia Tobacco
made under ideal conditions.
There
are
twenty
reasons
in
every
packet
SMOKE-OH!
Lots of people have their wireless set.
* *
Many city lawyers have imposing offices.
* *
No doubt the nuts will soon be falling out
of Mr. Ford’s new flivver aeroplane.
He He
“Love is Burning” is the title of a recent
novel. Yes, it is a Jewish story.
Prayer to theatrical magnate: Give us a
good play now and then, for merciful
Leaven’s sake.
MY LADY’S DRESS.
“What a ripping shade your tie is, George! I wish I had a dress
made out of that.”
“Well, I suppose I’ll have to let you take it.”
A newspaper asks its readers: “Who dis-
covered Tasmania?” Wasn’t it somebody
with a microscope?
H= *
We admit the object of these motorists
who are achieving speeds of more than 200
miles per hour has us puzzled. Surely no
pedestrian can run that fast!
When Phyllis saw him first, “A youth
Just after my own heart,” she thought.
Later she learned the litter truth —
It was another’s heart he sought.
He *
A “Nineteenth Hole” contributor mentions
that Bobby Jones, the champion golfer, has
passed his final law examination. A golfer
certainly ought to do pretty well in that
profession.
* *
“R. Volt” writes: —
The Scotsman who wrote “Jockmotherdyingcome-
homeonceHarry” as an urgent telegram (“Smoke-oh”
29/2/’2B) didn’t save himself anything. He was
charged for sever, words, unless the counter-clerk
was working in his sleep.
[Apparently “R. Volt” doesn’t read our
obituary notices, or he would remember how
tragically that Scot died when thfe counter-
clerk asked for the full sum.—Ed. “S.-oh.”]
* *
Mary has a little laml,
A most submissive hub.
On washing mornings out she goes,
And leaves him at the tub!
“What will we do with our mentally de-
ficient?” asks an educationist. Can't they
be used as Olympic selectors?
A newspaper-writer states that in these
days of short hair and mannish dresses it is
hard to distinguish the girl from the boy.
And especially hard if you do your looking
in a park.
* *
A cable reports the invention of a now
lethal instrument that kills more quickly and
surely than any other. Probably a new sort
of bagpipes.
* He
In a recent Brisbane court case a man
said his wife had thrown a boot at him and
hit him on the nose. The moral is—don’t
dodge.
* *
“For the winter frock,” says a fashion
writer, “2£ yards will be ample.” The idea,
we suppose, is to have a couple of yards
always on hand for repairs.
He *
Industrial reports show that the match-
making industry in Australia is giving em-
ployment to nearly 2000 people. We should
have thought Australia had more mothers
than that.
The ghost of many a departed kangaroo
should well renumber how Australia's
’ pioneers braised the tail.
. A writer in the
Sydney News has
won a prize of ss.
for telling how
gramophone records
may be made into
nut-bowls. These
humanitarians
are paid at
their full worth.
* *
“What impossible
creatures men
really are!” says a
woman writer in
the Sydney Guard-
ian. What, dis-
heartened already,
dear, and only a
mere few months of
Leap Year gone!
* *
“The really smart
and elegant
wo m a n,” says a
fashion writer,
never raises the skirt above the knee.”
Didn’t an Old Master once do a painting
of her?
Most records —swimming, running, etc.—
seem to be made to be broken. The only
permanent ones we know of are the gramo-
phone records in the flat next-door.
* *
“Every day,” says a leading feminist,
“sees more and more women making a
success of commercial undertakings.” Far
the greatest number, of bourse, are going
in for the left-off clothing business.
* *
AH!
Great roses were her cheeks; her eyes
were stars. Her lips met his. The great
audience sighed, and twice a thousand breasts
heaved as one : “Ah !”
The moving picture was over. And when
the multitude moved away, the theatre-
cleaner swept up 10,000 toffee papers and
twice a million peanut shells!
The Sheik’s Mother-in-law.
“The demand for money is abnormal for
the period of the year,” says the S. M.
Herald. So, thank Heaven, tire poets do
occasionally call somewhere else.
“H.H.”: The most touching misprint I’ve
seen for some time appeared in the Sydney
News recently. It mentioned the “valet of
the Shadow of Death.”
FAIRY TALE, No. 44,321.
“And now, boys,” said the director of mov-
ing pictures, speaking English and removing
the cigar from his mouth....
Describing a gambling
saloon in France a news-
paper states: “There is a
garcon who brings you
anything your thirst de-
sires, from a cup of tea
to champagne.” Tea!
What is that —-some new
sort of cocktail?
*
An aeroplane has been
built that will rise and
descend vertically. The
rising part of it seems new.
The suggestion has
been made that motorists
should be taxed towards
the upkeep in hospital of
those injured in street
accidents. This would, of
course, be classed as
amusement tax.
We are not quite sm
what the man meant wh.<
told us he could not
understand why a couple
of greyhounds were fol-
lowing him about until he
suddenly remembered that
earlier in the day an
Aberdonian had lent him
a shilling.
A recent street direc-
tory for motorists is re-
ported to be a vast improvement on aiJ
previous issues. We learn that it describes
a new secret method of striking pedestrians
without injuring even the most delicate car.
“Pirates looted a Japanese freighter of
everything movable,” says the S. M. Herald.
“The crew escaped.” Well, it’s comforting
to know wc haven’t a monopoly of immov-
able crews.
When Cleopatra's love was fled
She took an asp her woes to smother;
But when fair Phyllis loses Fred,
She takes an aspirin instead,
And sallies forth to catch another.
The girl’s father might think he has cause
to complain at his daughter and her lover
monopolising the best rooms in the house, but
as a matter of fact they usually let him oil
light.
* *
Some girls get light-headed through drink-
ing cocktails. Others manage it with
peroxide.
t-
According to Sydney Guardian, girl
tennis-players dispense with petticoats. But
why pick on tennis-players’
CASUAL CLASSICS.
Cur offendis: Hurting a dog.
Hors de combat : An artillery steed.
Pendente lite : A hanging lantern.
Bona fide : A dog’s feed.
Ad medium filum : Not too much soda.
❖ s fc
EUREKA!
As the car topped the rise I saw him
about a quarter of a mile ahead, standing on
the side of the road and semaphoring wildly
with his arms. Sensing an urgent need for
assistance, I immediately accelerated. As I
drew level, with brakes hard on, the several
days’ growth on his face and the wild look
in his eyes struck me as eloquent of tragedy,
and I had visions of a badly wounded man
somewhere in the scrub and a faithful mate
who had been tending him and watching
eagerly on that little-travelled road for some
means of transport to hospital. I hopped
Out with alacrity.
“What is it? What is it, quick?” I
shouted.
“Come over here, mister, lively!” he said,
and pointed into the scrub.
“Go on—lead the way!” I yelled, grabbing
the flask from my travelling-bag.
He set off at a breakneck pace and I fol-
lowed.
After racing about two hundred yards he
pulled up. Pointing to a ten-foot dead box
limb. “Is that a snake? Is that a snake?”
he shouted.
“No, man ; it’s a dead limb,” I said.
“Thank Heaven, I’ve got ’em again. I
never thought me cheque’d do it this time!”
he gasped, much relieved.
Homfrey Beale.
We learn that, owing to a go-slow move-
ment among refreshment-room waitresses,
our railway commissioners are installing
•machinery for automatically spilling the
coffee into the saucers.
An English motor manufacturer states that
in places Australian roads are as good as
English roads. We learn that the Federal
Government is having both square yards
placed in the Canlvwr'. museum.
THE WAY IT’S PUT.
“That’s the girl who won the beauty prize.”
“What! That lanky-legged ginger freak with the pointed
pug nose.”
“Yes, only the judges described her as a lissome ash-blonde
with finely-chiselled retrousse features.”
It is said that there arc 5,000,000 illiter-
ates in U.S.A. We’ve always thought they
had more song writers than that.
THE OUTSIDER.
She sat aloof —
Aloof she sat,
The feathers nodding in her hat;
Her eyes apologetic, wid- —
The eyes of one who stood outside
A charmed circle, where her sin
Forbade her ever entering in!
With voices shrill
And shriller grown,
They talked of goitres they had known;
Of jangled nerves and woman’s ills
Of operations, pains and pills —
All but the outside one who sat,
The feathers nodding in her hat.
She rose at length,
At length she rose,
And walked away on her tiptoes,
A guilty look upon her face,
As though she felt her deep disgrace!
To plead, she knew was all in vain—
She could not boast one ache or pain!
VICTORIA.
P.M.
YES, IT IS VERY HOT.
I sought a theme that should enthral
The race of man from pole to pole;
Intrigue the Gelt, the Hun, the Gaul,
And stir the Muscovitish soul;
Furrow the brow of that bronzed youth
Who lordly struts on Coogee’s strand;
Agitate Montreal, Duluth,
Bagdad, Port Said and Samarkand;
Rouse interest where the Eskimos
Skim frosty seas in their canoes,
And where hot sands burn Nubian toes. ...
1 found but otic —the Price of Booze!
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
THE WAY HOME.
“My mother,” mid his wife to Jones,
“Will on a visit, come.
'Now you must meet her at the train,
And show her the way home.”
“There’s not a thing,” Jones made reply,
“Would me more pleasure give;
I’ll do it with the greatest joy —
Where does your mother live?”
N.S.W.
TROY.
THE ASS AND THE CACTUS.
Once upon a time on the great Cactus
Dcs, rt there lived an ass and liis wife. There
was nothing unusual about either of them.
He was just an ordinary ass, industrious,
submissive and obliging, but he gave utter-
ance to one famous line which proved that
he had discernment and gained him much
kudos for that reason in the annals of Allah.
She used to nag him, and the sound of her
sharp tongue got lamentably on his pulse.
So when one day a beetle alighted on the
bitter cactus he was chewing and told him
that away to the west across the desert
there was a wonderful paradise of lucerne,
he set out hurriedly and left his wife to it.
For a long week he trotted across the desert,
but he saw nothing except cactus. And for
another week he trotted, and he saw nothing
except cactus. But in the third week lie
came unto the paradise of lucerne. It was en-
closed by a high fence through which he
could see, and inside were many asses, sleek
and fat from living on the lush lucerne.
“Tell me,” he asked one of them, “how do I
get in?” “Oh,” said the ass inside, “just
trot along the fence till you come to the
gates, and the gatekeeper will admit you.”
“Is it no more trouble than that?” he asked,
his tail beginning to boat on his hollow sides
“FAGGED OUT.”
like a drumstick. “No, brother,” said the
ass inside; and, by way of added induce-
ment, whispered, “we all have five wives in
here.” “Ah-ha,” said the ass of the desert
reflectively; “Ah-ha!” And then, as he
turned him away, he gave utterance to the
line which proved he had some discernment.
“Ah-ha,” he said: “five wives! Ah, well —
here’s hack to the cactus!”
TOP RAIL.


ďs
Mr. Norman (Wizard) Smith,
who smashed all Australian
Speed and Endurance Records
with a Studebaker Commander.
He selected Plume Motor Spitit,
M obiloil, and Qoodyear Tyres .
STUDE BAKER
smashes
every Australian Record
from 1 to 24 hours and
from 100 to 1700 miles
On March 15, a strictly stock model Stude-
baker Commander Sport Roadster broke
every Australian record for speed and en-
durance by travelling 1701; miles in 24 hours—
an average speed of 70.8 miles per hour.
Hampered by a blinding dust storm, and travel-
ling over the dry bed of Lake, Perkolilli, West
Australia —not a smooth speed track —Norman
Smith drove a Studebaker Commander, under
the supervision of the Royal Automobile Club of
West Australia, to yet another victory.
Thus, in Australia, has Studebaker duplicated its
successes in America, where Studebaker holds all
the highest speed and endurance records for fully-
equipped cars regardless of power and price.
Inspect and drive a Studebaker to-day—voted by
the public the “Most Popular Car” and crowned
“ King of Cars ” by Hinkler, “King of the Air.”
Erskine Models from £298 to £445
Director Models from £378 to £550
Commander Models from £560 to £665
President Models from £665 to £Bl5
F.O.R. SYDNEY
Australian and New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited, Sydney .
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., 39&-400 Swanston St—
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA :
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 t ier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Qi
Ltd., Creek &. Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all important towns
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
Millingens, Limited.
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND:
Adams Ltd., 152-T54 High Street,
Christchurch.
itg*-
ft
m
&
/
B
tec
WBRI


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Buxletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Buxxeotn to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
i
Man (27), 7 years Queensland, north and
south, dairying experience, last position
head dairyman and agriculturist, would lik 3
similar position. Ex. refs.—3950.
Position in established business in Syd-
ney as salesman or secretary, with view to
investing up to £1000. Ex. refs. —3944.
Retired banker with 40 years’ experience
wants clerical work of confidential nature.
Occupation desired more than remuneration.
—3852.
English gentlewoman desires position as
nursery governess on Q’land station or in
Brisbane. Experienced with children. —3905.
Young Australian, well trained in Ameri-
can, English and Australian sales methods,
now in Brisbane, desires position in Sydney,
will interview any prospective employer at
own expense. Accept small retaining salary
and commission.—3920.
Bandsman, solo cornet player, now in Bris-
bane, seeks employment. Will tackle any-
thing.—3898.
To purchase two ferrets. (Direct to Ken
Gillespie, Glenfield, Galah, Victoria.)
To buy book on stock-breeding by Brown
(“Bruni” of the Australasian) . (Direct
to A. T. Russell, Wentworth-street, Manly,
N.S.W.)
To exchange Gem microscope (new) and
banjo-mandolin with case for good pair field-
glasses ; or would sell for £6 10s.—3932.
To sell beautiful old English glass punch-
bowl and stand, £15 15s., or near offer; also
some old Bulletin drawings.—3913.
To buy copy “Juvenilia,” by Alan Seager.
—3721.
Biographical details concerning the late
Monte Scott, who was on the staff of the
Brisbane Boomerang and Worker some
years ago, and who was a noted racehorse
painter.—3806.
To buy “Le Disciple,” by Paul Bourget,
in French or English, French preferred.
(Direct to J. J. McKenna, Vaire, Carramai-
avenue, Camberwell E6, Vic.)
To buy a history of Scotland dating back
to 1600. (Direct to Mrs. Edward Gore,
Oakey, Darling Downs, Q’land.)
Words of Cockney song “She Was Poor,
but She Was Honest.” Will pay. (Direct to
R. Leslie, Box 1496, G.P.O., Wellington
(M.L.).
To sell course in journalism (London),
three lessons (one page missing at end).
Cost 13s. 6d. ; will post for 5s. 6d.—3937.
To buy copy of Ernest Dowson’s poems,
(Direct to P. Lawlor, Box 965, G.P.O., Wel-
lington, M.L.)
To sell, cheap, Windsor banjo and case,
cost £12, practically new; or will exchange
for portable “H.M.V.” gramophone, in same
order. —3940.
Customs and shipping agent, Port Adel-
aide, could undertake additional agencies,
inter-State and local. (Direct to H. Guthrie,
Lipson-street, Port Adelaide, S.A.)
Copy of verses “I Wonder Who’s Riding
Brown Harlequin Now?” by Harry Moranc
(“The Breaker”), and “I Learned About
Women from Her,” by Kipling. (Direct to
E. E. Baker, Cowan Downs, Cloncurry,
Q’land.)
Bank cashier and accountant (24), five
years’ experience, seeks position as book-
keeper, knowledge of machinery and cars.
Will go anywhere.—3249.
Young man (Sydney), pianist, would like
to meet young violinist or ’cellist to practise
sonatas, etc. —3877.
University honors man, widely travelled,
speaking French and Dutch, some engineer-
ing and medical knowledge, good organiser,
seeks position where his qualifications could
be put to use.—3865.
To sell student’s cap and gown, half price.
—3883.
Words of “Murphy Shall Not Sing To-
night” (parody on “Curfew Shall Not Ring
To-night”).—3880.
Words of verses “Captain Starlight—Out-
law.” (Direct to A. Queale, Villa-street,
Annerley, Q.)
To exchange 84in. Cooke telephoto lens,
suitable Graflex J-plate, for 34 x 2£ camera
f4.5 lens.—3891.
To purchase Havelock Ellis’s “Psychology
of Sex.”—3857.
To buy piano score of “Rhapsody in Blue,”
by G. Gershwin. (Direct to Noel Pearson,
18 Earl-street, Randwick.)
Geo. Griffith, compositor. Letter for you.
G.P.O., Adelaide.—3853.
Information Sought.
(1) If a licensed gate on a public road is
in good order is it an offence to leave it
open? (2) If it is broken or hard to
shut is there a penalty for leaving it open?
(3) What is the penalty for leaving it open9
—3784.
The Public Gates Act 1901 (N.S.W.)
provides that any person opening or passing
through a public gate who fails immediately
to close it shall on conviction be liable to
pay for any injury so occasioned, in addition
to a penalty up to £5 ; or if the gate is opened
for any other purpose than passage along the
road, or wilfully left open, the person who
opened it is liable for any damage done and
in addition a penalty up to £10. Breaking,
injuring or defacing a public gate carries a
penalty of up to £5.
1 intend to construct a concrete path, and
would like to knoic the Quantities of sand,
gravel and cement, how thick it should be
laid, and how to prevent cracking. —-0686.
For ordinary purposes 2lin. thickness;
mixture one of cement, two of sand and four
of stone or gravel not greater than fin. dia-
meter. To prevent cracking lay the path in
sections 4 or 5 feet long; leaving a joint be-
tween the sections |in. wide. Also, use
as little water as possible in the mix. Pam-
phlet posted.
Can you supply me with information con-
cerning the burning of charcoal? —3804.
Dig a pit six feet long, six deep and four
wide in solid ground, preferably near where
you can get your wood. Three sulky axles or
iron bars of similar thickness are required
to go across the pit, and three sheets of
Bft. galvanised-iron for covering. Inland red
gum or box makes the best charcoal, and
stringybark is not bad. Cut the wood in sft.
lOin. lengths. Fill bottom of pit with wood 2in.
to 3in. in diameter, one-third of the way up,
then use bigger stuff and finish off with wood
as big as you can handle to a height of two
or three feet above top of pit. Light, and
when it has burnt down to level or below top
of pit, keep throwing wood on until the pit
is full of charcoal. Throw the bars across
the pit, and then cover with the galvanised-
iron. Heap dirt round edges and joins of
the iron as quickly as possible, then cover
all over with two or three inches of dirt to
prevent gas escaping from the charcoal. Gas
escaping can be detected by sound or by
throwing a lighted match on the dirt, when
the gas will burst into flame. Throw more
dirt on leaks. Leave for a couple of hours,
then examine surface layer of soil. If any
moist spots show put more dirt on, as these
are gas-escape holes. The best time to burn
is night, as gas can then be seen escaping.
What is the position of the Federal Gov-
ernment's Housing Bill? Has it yet become
law, and-, if so, is it known when advances
will be available under its provisions? —32B3.
The Act has been passed, and is to come
into operation at a date to be fixed by pro-
clamation, this being necessary because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank cannot make
advances to the housing authorities until the
housing authorities have amended their
schemes so as to comply with the conditions
laid down in the Federal law. Negotiations
were entered into with the housing authori-
ties some time ago and, as soon as these are
completed with any one of the authorities,
the Act will be brought into operation.
In 1921 my brother and I took up land
in the County of Cumberland (N.S.W.)
under the Soldier Settlement Act. The blocks
were made up of one estate split into two
living areas of 709 and 680 acres respec-
tively. Four years ago I gave up. and we
made a private agreement whereby for a con-
sideration I renounced my block (which is
still held in my name) in my brother's favor.
Can I (1) transfer this block to him, seeing
that he is already possessed of a living area,
or (2) can I transfer it to his son, aged five
years? (3) Can I will it to his son? (4)
Can a will be drawn up so that the expenses
of transfer, probate, etc., on the estate be-
come a charge on the estate (in this case the
block of land) and not on personal property?
—3724.
(1) No; a second settlement purchase can
only be acquired where the combined area
is not substantially in excess of a home
maintenance area. (2) No; a person under
16 (if a male) or 21 (if a female) cannot
acquire a settlement purchase. (3) See sub-
sections 2 and 3 of section 30, N.S.W. Closer
Settlement Act 1904. (4) A testator may
provide that probate duties, etc., shall be
paid out of such portion, of his estate as he
may direct.
(1) Is it necessary to insure a youth em-
ployed about the place to look after the
garden, folds, etc.? He does not come under
any State award. (2) What would it cost
to insure him? —3811.
(1) The Workers’ Compensation Act, 1926-
27, provides for the payment of compensa-
tion to “any person who has entered into
or works under a contract of service or
apprenticeship with an employer,” so your
youth is a worker within the meaning of the
Act, and you should insure your liability to
pay him compensation. (2) If he is an out-
side “useful” the £3-per-annum rate at the
Government Insurance Office would cover
him.
(1) What premium is charged by solicitors
for articled clerks? (2) Do such clerks
receive salary, and if so how much during
the five years of their training? (3) Does
such salary vary with different firms? —3871.
(1) A few solicitors follow the old prac-
tice of charging a fee for articles. There
is no fixed fee. (2) and (3) Nowadays
the usual course is not to charge a fee but
to adjust the clerk’s salary over the five
years in consideration of training. Salary is
a matter of agreement; there is no scale.
(1) What are the prospects of obtaining
employment in Papua or New Guinea? (2)
To whom could one apply for a position?
(3) Do you advise proceeding to either place
in the hope of picking up a job upon arrival?
—3884.
(1) We are officially informed that there
are no opportunities for employment for
whites in New Guinea or Papua, unless
under engagement. (2) Apply to Burns,
Philp, Ltd., or W. H. Carpenter and Cos.,
both of Sydney, or the Melanesia Cos.,
Rabaul, who control many New Guinea plan-
tations. Papuan plantation companies ad-
vertise their needs in Australian newspapers.
(3) No.
Is it a fact that, while a drowned man
floats face downwards, a woman floats face
upwards! If so, why? —3B64.
No; a body floats because of the develop-
ment of gas, chiefly in the abdomen. The
majority of corpses, male and female, float
face upward.
Would a school-teacher aged 50 who has
been granted a superannuation allowance on
account of bad health lose it if she married ?
—3SIB.
The State Superannuation Board informs
us that marriage in such a case would not
affect the right to payment of pension,
which, however, is granted for only a year
at a time on the ground of invalidity.
Must I obtain permission to bottle, label
and sell hair-oil? —3077.
It is not necessary, so far as the N.S.W.
Pure Food Act is concerned, to obtain per-
mission to bottle, label and sell hair-oil. The
package must bear on tiie label the name
and address of the manufacturer, a trade
description of the contents, and, if the mix-
ture contains any of the drugs month nod
in Regulation 00 under the Pure Food Act,
the presence of such drug must be declared
in the prescribed form. If the mixture is
standardised in the British Pharmaceutical
Codex, it must comply with such standard.
(1) How could I enter the pearl-fishing
business? (2) What are the preliminary
costs and equipment required? (3) What
are the prospects? (4) To whom could I
write for further information? —3902.
(1) Your best course would be to go to
the pearling grounds, either at Broome or
Thursday Island, and buy a year's experience
on a pearling lugger. What that would cost
you would depend upon how useful you could
make yourself. (2) If you propose setting
up as a master pearler you would require a
capital of about £ISOO, which would provide
a lugger with equipment. Possibly you could
buy a half-share in a lugger for £SOO. Alter-
natively you could go in for trochus-shelling.
A cutter would cost you anything up to
£7OO. (3) Trochus-shellers have done well
lately, but prices for both shell and pearls
are not equal to pre-war rates. Pearling is
a gamble, and valuable pearls are rarely
found. (4) Write to the Pearlers’ Com-
mittee (Broome), J. Dunwoody and Sinclair
Bros. (Thursday Island).
I have a five-valve receiver and am using
201 A valves, the filaments of which are
heated by a six-volt car battery. This bat-
tery is charged off the service main (240
D.G.) by means of a trickle charger which
delivers 4 amp., but as the valves take only
i amp., would it be possible to reduce the
charging current to this amount by turning
down the receiver filament rheostats?
Would this endanger the valve filaments?
—3900.
It is quite possible to charge a L.T. bat-
tery from an A.C. battery charger whilst
using the receiver without injuring the
valves in any way. However, a low-pitched
hum is liable to be heard in the speaker
which may be loud enough to affect reception.
If the supply is D.,C. as stated (A.C. is com-
monly used in your city) on no account
must the battery be charged during reception,
as a short circuit of the mains may result
due to the receiver being earthed. Further-
more the practice is dangerous. A charger
delivering \ amp. is not capable of charging
a car battery efficiently. Would suggest
that you obtain one of a smaller capacity
such as a 22 or 33 A.II. —“Cat’s Whisker.”
How can I mix a good Martini cocktail?
—3802.
Take three dashes orange bitters, one-half
jigger Italian vermouth, one-half jigger
whisky. Mix in cocktail glass and add a
maraschino cherry. Or, take two dashes of
orange bitters, one dash of Angostura bitters,
one dash of maraschino, one liqueur-glass of
Italian vermouth and two liqueur-glasses of
gin. This should be ice-cooled.
Information Supplied.
3790. —In making one yard of concrete
the procedure is to use 1 cub. yd. of stones,
fill in the spaces between the stones with
| cub. yd. of sand and then fill the spaces
between the sand and grains with J cub. yd.
of cement, which, mixed with water, sets
hard and binds the whole mass solidly to-
gether. In practice seven such batches give
about 8 cub. yds. of concrete. Mix, there-
fore, 7 cub. ft. cement with 14 cub. ft. sand
and 28 cub. ft. of stones or 1 of cement to
2 of sand and 4 of stone. This is called
a 1-2-4 mix and is that most frequently used.
Cement is usually sold in paper-bags holding
1 cub. ft. (941 b.). The jute bags hold
1J cub. ft. (1261 b.). Australian cement
is not sold in casks, but one cask equals
4 paper or 3 jute bags, containing 4 cub. ft.
Sand and stone must each be measured.
For each use a rectangular wooden box
without top or bottom, holding just the
volume required for one batch. After filling,
lift the box off, leaving the measured ma-
terial on the mixing board. The water is
measured, too. Try 6 gals, to each paper-
bag (1 cub. ft.) of cement and alter this if
mixture is too wet. Do not try to mix too
large a batch at once. A road 12ft. wide
and 6in. thick needs 1 cub. yd. for every
of length. Most cement firms supply
instruction pamphlets.
3615. —Crayfish were canned at St. Helens
in Tasmania some 30 years or more ago.
The venture was a failure commercially,
wholly through the want of capital, for the
canned crayfish was quite equal in quality
and flavor to the best English lobster.
3754. —Dates for drying should not be ex-
posed to rainfall from the period of flower-
ing until collecting. No treatment is re-
quired but it is essential that moisture be
absent whilst drying is in progress. Fruit
is dried under cover with open sides and,
when the process has advanced sufficiently’
stored and packed as required.
3541. —Most seamen are in receipt of
allowances for specialisation (e.g., seamen-
gunners, seamen-torpedo-men, range-takers
divers, etc.), the allowance for such ranging
from 3d. per day to Is. 6d. per day.
a payment of 3d. p.d. is allowed for each
good-conduct badge not exceeding three.
Eligibility for the first g.c.b. arises after
three years’ service: the second after eight
years’; and the third after 13 years’. Service
iii submarines carries extra pay of 3s. p.d;
foi’ able seamen and 3s. 9d. p.d. for higher
1-atings. As regards chances of promotion,
a man of outstanding ability may attain tne
highest rank, including that of admiral. A
man of ability above the average may ad-
vance to the rank of lieut.-commander. A
man of average ability may attain the rating
of petty officer and chief petty officer.
“R.A.N. Commander.”
3543. —Asa rule strychnine mixed witb
jam is useful for poisoning rabbits. It does
not make any difference to the value of the
skins what poison is used. Rabbits are
fairly numerous in the northern districts
of N.S.W. extending from Gunnedali to
Warialda.
Does Anybody Know ?
The origin of the expression, “Said tn§
Governor of North Carolina to the Governor
of South Carolina, "It's a long time between
drinks’ ”?—3900.
How to remove inkstains frorn a wooden
floor and from a hearth-stone? —3911.
Brief Answers.
S.M.C.: A good many risks in it. . . .Anon:
A lad could become a civil engineer without a uni-
versity course by entering the N.S.W.' Railway
Depc. workshops or by being articled to a civil
engineer.... W.J.M.: The legality of certain actions
taken in S.A. under the Dried Fruits Act is still
before the High Covirt, and as the matter is sub
judice we cannot answer your question. .. .C.A.H.:
Inform your State Agricultural Dept, what varieties
oi fruit you grow, the approximate quantities, and
whether you intend canning or jam-making. The
department would then advise y0u....W.E.: Buza-
cott and Cos., Ltd., 7 Market-street, Sydney, are
the N.S.W. agents J.J.S.: Cannot trace Henry
Labouc here’s horseracing betting system, but can
give ydu an outline of his roulette system if you
send ycur address... .S.C.S.: (1) A hard fight ahead;
(2) All right, though not first quality; (3) Pros-
pects good Wik: (l) ■Yes; (2) Not enough data
to advise at present... .P.M.D.: A gamble; you are
too far away to have a fair chance with that sort
of thing. .. .J. 8.: (1) The Federal Invalid and Old-
age Pensions Act provides that no pension shall be
at such a rate as will make pensioner’s income, to-
gether with pension, exceed the statutory limit of
£B4 10s. per annum ; (2) If a pensioner earned £5
in one week it would be necessary for him to
notify the department; (3) If a gift of £SO should
ba received, the Pensions Office should be notified
immediately; (4) If anyone should leave a house-
hold property to a pensioner and he lived thereon,
no deduction in pension would be made. .. .H.C.:
George Wollaston, 177 George-street, Sydney, can
supply H.M.V. type S tone-arms. Price: 7in., 12s.
6d. ; Biin., 15s G.S.M.; Curtis Brown, Ltd., 110
West 39th-street, New York; and Paul R. Reynolds,
70 Fifth-avenue, New York. .. .W.H.H.: The spots
or lumps in sheep’s livers are probably degenerated
hydatid cysts. These are frequently found. There is
no danger to health in consuming such livers, but
it would be wiser to secure sound ones... .11..L8.:
“Australian Language as Spoken by the Awabakal,”
by L. E. Threlkeld; J. F. H. Mitchell’s “Aboriginal
.Dictionary of the Woradgery Tongue” F.L.11.:
“Vindication of the Duke of Albermarle,” by Lord
Lansdowne (published 1736), can be seen at the
Sydney Public Library... .H.N.; J. Byrne’s: “General
Principles of the Structure of Language” ; A Hovelac-
que’s “Science of Language and Philology” and
O. .Jespersen’s “Language: Its Nature, Development
and Origin”... .K.P.: Jackson, Wylie and Cos., 73
West George-street, Glasgow; and Alex. Sten'nouse,
College Gate, Glasgow. .. .V.0.M.: According to the
“Europa Year Book,” tuberculosis (all forms) accoun-
ted for 174.3 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants per year
in England for the period 1901-05, and 103.8 for 1925,
whilst in Italy the figures were 163.0 per year for
1901-05, and 142.5 for 1925. . . .L.D.: Get in touch
with John Heine and Son., Ltd., machinery manufac-
turers, Alien-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.... J. J. 8.:
An IO U is the simplest form of acknowledgment of
a debt; for example: IOU, John Brown, the sum of
five pounds ( Signed ) Peter Smith {Dated). The form
is not usually kept in print. To secure yourself it
is advisable to take a promissory note, which pro-
vides for payment on demand or at a future time
agreed upon. Promissory-note forms can be obtained
at any post office... .E.K.: (1) There are no dry-
blowing plants in operation in New South Wales ; (2)
Reference might be made ta T. A. Rickard’s
“Alluvial Deposits of Western Australia” (“Transac-
tions of American Institute of Mining Engineers,”
volume 28) ; also to A. S. Charleton’s “Gold-mining
and Milling in Western Australia” (pages 31-36).
. •.. . J.L.W.: (1) The address of the New South Wales
Primary Correspondence School is Blackfriars, Syd-
ney. (2) Children are supplied with work-books
and reading books free of cost. (3) Postage-stamps
are provided for the return of papers worked by the
pupils. .. .H.S.M. The poultry expert, N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture, tells us that there is no
reliable method of telling the sex of an egg. Instru-
ments by which it was claimed that the sex could
be determined have been put to the test and found
of no value.... A.P.T.: Will Andrade, publisher,
Central Chambers, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, will prob-
ably have what you want. ...A.Y.M.: Brownhill, Kirk
and Cos., Ltd., Townsville, are the agents, and will
supply all particulars... .Grazier: (1) Sorry, but it
is not The Bulletin’s policy to recommend any par-
ticular make of motor-car. (2) £1 registration-fee
is payable in respect of any sort of motor vehicle.
Tax at the rate of 2s. 9d. per half-cwt. is payable
on cars and lorries shod with pneumatic tyres, and
the rate is 3s. 6d. on lorries shod with solid tyres.
In the case of vehicles which comprise 75 p.c.
British labor and material a deduction of 6d. per
half-cwt. is made H.J.D.: A Zwanzigtousend
(20,000) mark Reichsbank note is valueless, save
as a curiosity.... L.T.: Communicate with Mr.
Caldecoat, secretary, Advertising Service Agents’
Association, c/o Catts-Patterson Cos., Ltd., 375 Kent-
street, Sydney; or the Registrar, Advertising
Association of Australia, c/o Walker and Walford,
396 Flinders-lane, Melbourne.. . .R.M.K.: There is too
much carbohydrate in your diet. Don’t eat porridge
and honey more than once a day. Green vegetables
and fruit are most necessary. Try eggs instead of
porridge, and eat more meat. If your short-winded-
ness persists, see a doctor. You may have something
else wrong with you besides indigestion.... Cement:
If a brother-in-law of an alderman is employed by
a N.S.W. municipal council, and the alderman is not
pecuniarily interested in the matter, the alderman
would not be disqualified for civic office.... Student:
(1) Royal Colonial Institute, Northumberland-avenue,
London, W.C.2 ; Victoria League, 81 Cromwell-road,
London, 5.W.7; Overseas League, Vernon House, Park-
place, London, S.W.I; British Empire League, Nor-
folk House, Laurence Pountney Hill, London, E.C.4;
Navy League, 13 Victoria-street, London, S.W. (2)
Cannot trace the address of the Empire Movement.
. .. .R. 8.: Cannot trace a Pughet le Sands in N.S.W.
—the nearest to it is Brighton-le-Sands, a Sydney
suburb,,,, (Many others mailed.)


“Pay Less —
Dress Better
S.B.
Style.
7
KIR
mm
■ y iM
1
wmmm.
rnmrnwm
D.B.
ityie.
The Popular D.B. Style
SMART AND FASHIONABLE DOUBLE-BREASTED SUITS
for well-dressed men. These Suits are made from splendid-quality Pinhead
Worsteds, also in fancy effects. Coat has smart roll
lapels, three-button front, two to button. Vest has four
pockets, smartly cut. Trousers with side and hip pockets,
cuff bottoms
, Other Prices
HO/-, 126/
95'-
A Smart Murdoch Suit
for Easter
by Immediate
Mail
OW DIFFERENT !
How vastly different the modern scientifically - built Ready-for-Servjce
Murdoch Suit is—compared with the familiarly known “Ready Made.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The Murdoch Suit that comes to you by express train is built for — YOU !
The thoughtfully-planned design, the perfect proportions, the extensive range
of sizes (even to half and quarter), the individuality infused into each
garment—all combine to provide a Suit of such fidelity to your figure and
personality that the keenest scrutiny could not distinguish it from an expensive
“Made to Measure” Suit.
* * * * k
It costs nothing to prove this ! See the Guaranlee on this page.
I
.
3
Murdochs 9 Policy of No Middlemen's
Profits is strikingly evident in
this Remarkable Suit Value!
MEN’S READY FOR SERVICE SAC SUITS, for fit
unequalled. Fashioned from splendid - quality Australian
Tweeds in a splendid range of serviceable Mid or
Dark Grey shades. Graded sizes, including regular
stout, short stout, and slender. Coat, Vest, and Trousers
complete. Ready for immediate wear. S.B. style
and style
Woollen
fs
MEN’S “MILL-TO-WEARER” SAG SUITS, fashioned from smart Woollen
Worsteds, in latest S.R. style. Plain and fancy effects. Smartly cut.
Best of trimmings throughout. Light, Mid, and Dark Grey shades. Coat,
.Vest, and Trousers complete. Ready for Service
84'-
MEN’S S.B. SAG SUITS, in Smart Grey Pinhead Worsteds, also fancy
effects. Latest style. Goat has two-button front, smart roll lapels; Vest has
four pockets; medium opening. Trousers have side and hip pockets and
cuff bottoms. All sizes
95
Other Prices in Worsteds and Serges 105/-. 115/-, 126/-, 135/-,
147/-
The New Sports Models
MEN’S FASHIONABLE and SUPREMELY ATTRACTIVE SPORTS
SUITS. In smart Pure Wool Australian Sports Tweed of excellent quality. Mid
or Dark Grey pattern designs. Coat and Trousers complete, as illustration.
Ready to Put On
Other quaht:es in most distinctive fancy Sports Tweeds : 75/-, 84/-, 90/-.
63'-
SPORTS COATS. Latest Fancy All-Wool Sports Coats for Men .... 37'6
Other Qualities 45/-, 50/-, 55/-. 63/-‘.
“To top the lot”
A Murdoch “Kookaburra ”
FOR HAT VALUE Murdoch’s Exclusive “Kookaburra” quality is
the finest in the Commonwealth, and smartly-dressed men now choose a
‘Snap Brim,” as illustrated. Distinctive new Plum, Burgundy, and Muscat
df
shades; also Beaver, Brown, Black,
Light, Mid, or Dark Grey tones.
Pure Fur Felt
Hats — and Aus-
tralian made.
Sizes: to 7\ . .
21'-
Also in “Prince” and “Nail Curl” styles —
same price*
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR
DOOR.
Guarantee
All Goods on this page are
backed by a binding Guarantee
of perfect fitting and service
qualities. Should any garment
be received unsatisfactory
Murdoch’s will immediately re-
place the garment or refund
purchase money in full.
sdf
sd
fs
df
sdf
s
Sports
Suits.
Murdoch's Beautifully Illustrated Winter Catalogue Now Ready Write to Desk R. for a FREE Copy.
Kindly Address all Letters to Desk
MURDO
WORLD'S LARGEST MEN'S AND BOYS' WEAR STORE.''


The
Weather Forecast:
Cloudy and unsettled,
with rising tempera-
tures. Fair to fine later.
The
'ldeal” Raincoat
adapts itself to any
weather report
“Ideal”
If climatic conditions vary four times in one day, the “Ide. I” Raincoat
adapts itself to every change. A perfectly fitting, smartly tailored walking
coat, it offers perfect protection from the severest weather, and its extreme
lightness of texture enables it to be worn without the slightest incon-
venience on the warmest days. The greatest recommendation of all,
however, lies in the facility it offers for disposal on the resumption of
fine weather—
IT MAY BE ROLLED UP AND PLACED IN THE
HIP POCKET READY FOR INSTANT USE IN
CASE OF EMERGENCY.
Guaranteed
Waterproof.
Prices
45/- & 65/-
Procurable
from—
Gowing Bros., George Street.
Sydney.
Leviathan,
Melbourne.
Foy & Gibson’
Adelaide.
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: There is mystery in the report
that a war of reprisals is threatening between
Britain and U.S.A. because an obscure
American actress was refused permission to
play in the Cold Land owing to her nation-
ality. There must be mpre against her than
her birth. London’s greenrooms are full of
Yankee mummers, just as its stage is over-
run with American plays. There was cer-
tainly some trouble between an American
actress and an English company at Drury-
lane during the war. The English cast re-
fused to play with the lady because at the
moment her country was too proud to fight.
Nothing more was said, however, after Wood-
row decided to come in.
“Hamfat”: The Gilbert and Sullivan eo.
of 1906 was more Australian than that men-
tioned by “C. 8.” (B. 7/3/’2S). It had no
imported artists. An amazingly good com-
bination, it included Howard Vernon, Celia
Ghiloni, Dolly Castles, Aggie Thorne, Crane
and Wallace —the last a nephew of the notable
feminist, Rose Scott. Charlie Kenningham
was present occasionally and among the
others were Frank Wilson and Ernest Fitts.
“L.H.P.”: As a rule the soldiers in “II
Trovatore” have the stage to themselves for
the chorus in the camp scene of Act 111, but
the present Gonsalez version permits Fer-
rando (Signor Fumagalli) to strut up and
down the stage doing no singing; in fact,
nothing at all, save distracting the attention
of the audience from the fine work of the
others. One Ferrando, Fred England, now
on the business staff of the Theatre Royal,
Sydney, used to remain on the stage in the
Simonsen days. But then Fred joined lustily
in the chorus and justified his being on in
the scene.
“Flaming Youth”: A curious feature of
many of the films that are coming out of
Germany is the un-Germanic names of nearly
all the artists. In a recent one, “Flesh and
the Devil,” only one name is frankly Ger-
man, though the people themselves look Teu-
tonic enough. Trade reasons?
“Spokesliave”: The Williamson-Tajts lost
about £BOO supporting the Repertorians, so
it is good to know they managed to stagger
through the year with a small profit. It was
£79,684 —£16,749 more than the previous
twelvemonth produced.
“R.A.F.”: I don’t think “C. Ockney”
would have said the music of “Riki Tiki” was
unmelodious and heavy (B. 7/3/’2B) if he
had heard it. I was present at the first per-
formance in London, and have seldom listened
to more distinguished light-opera music, and
the numbers were beautifully sung by Gladys
Monerieff. The book, bv Leslie Styles, was
terrible. That is what killed the show.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The outcome of recent
disturbances over imported bands shows how
strongly the Musicians’ Union is established.
The Gonsalez Opera Co. brought with it 12
instrumentalists, intending to engage the bal-
ance of the 28 required in Australia; the
union objected, and the whole 28 were en-
gaged locally, the imported 12 going in as
auxiliary strength. A like dispute at the
Regent picture-theatre has ended with only
a few of the imported musicians being re-
tained. The rest are to be distributed among
other Hoyts theatres, but must be merely
additions to existing orchestras. No Aus-
tralian musician loses a job over them.
“Hamfat”: Percy Hutchinson, with “The
Joker” at Melbourne Athenaeum, is a nepheAV
of Sir Charles Wyndham, who started to
train him Avhen he Avas 21. but did not
alloAv him to appear on the stage for seven
years, when he came out in “David Garrick.”
He had previously had experience with his
mother’s company in the proAdnces. The
period of probation Avas filled in as stage-
manager to one of the most exacting of
producers. Plutchinson subsequently started
in management on his oavh account.
“Brewster's Millions” is one of his favorites ;
he has revived it a dozen times. Possibly
Australia may see another revival.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : Sterner Avork from the
pen of. Australian-born Dion Titheradge, the
only examples of whose talent seen here so
far have been such frivolities as “Snap” and
“Hullo Ilealo!” Avill be presented Avlien “The
Crooked Bullet” is staged shortly. It has
been the most successful of the multitude of
mystery or thrill plays recently produced in
London; and the Firm has suggested that
Leon Gordon, avlio had other plays in mind,
might put it on as the successor to “The Trial
of Mary Dugan.”
“Hamfat”: For concert artists the Cher-
niavskys display a remarkable energy. The
first part of the Australian tour they have
mapped out gives them 58 concerts in (ex-
cluding Sundays and Good Friday) 03 days.
The only real gaps in their programme are
the days allowed for crossing to Tasmania
and back. One day will sec them doing two
country towns; AVcllington (N.S.W.j gets
a matinde on March 2S, and that night they
.show in Dubbo.
“L. do It.”: Massenet's “Thais,” included
among the Wil-
liamsonian operas,
lips much sound
psychology in it as
well as a reason-,
able story. The
Paplinutius of
Anatole France’s
ornate and realistic
novel is called
Athanael, but he is
the same Early-
Christian wowser
converting Alex-
andria, where
reigns the cour-
tesan of the name-
part. Among other
happenings he dons
the evening-dress
of the period, so
that he can ex-
amine her closely
at a banquet. In
a scene of sweep-
ing melodic periods,
as powerfully
rhythmic as only
the French school
can make it, he
tells the lady her
beauty will fade
and invites her to
epter a convent to
seek the salvation
of her imperishable
soul. She does so,
and it is at this
point that Athanael
discovers that it
was but envy of
her body that was
actuating him. The
most exalte!
moment comes
when he makes the
further discovery
that she is taking
her soul as ser'-r
ously as he had ad-
vised her, to the
total neglect of her
body. Her subse-
quent death is
merely the orthodox and necessary means of
bringing down a gr’-opera final curtain.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Unless the censorship
here is slavishly impressed by the British
official disapproval of “Dawn.” Australia
will see the picture that shows Nurse
Cavell’s martyrdom. The fuss over a good,
well-acted picture on account of the hurt it
might give an old eneipy seems absurd;
tjie Australian censor slunved a finer sense of
delicacy during the war. A picture was held
UP for a long time on the ground that the
villain being represented as a Frenchman
might hurt the feelings of an ally. It was
eventually passed on the understanding that
captions should be altered to make the re-
presentative of villainy an American. The
picture had finished its showing, fortunately,
before the U.S.A. came into the war j other-
wise Heaven alone knows what disaster
might have followed.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : People who are crying
out for a brighter London will get part of
their wish gratified in the “After-the-theatre”
at Harold Scott’s “Cave of Harmony” in
Seven Dials. The performance will begin at
11.45. There will be nothing so raeketty as
cabaret menu, though. The plays chosen—
all one act —will be by Lady Gregory,
Tchekhov, Laurence Ilousman and Strind-
berg.
“L.H.P.”: Tli-e Hippodrome, which is to
go, gave good shows and a variety of them
apart from Wirtlis’ Circus. It was opened
in April, 1910, at a cost of £38,000. The
circus ring was often converted into a lake
upon which water pantos, and so forth were
staged. In “Kultur,” the war drama staged
in 1916, this was used as a rising river to
destroy a German artillery team. Fullers
staged some good pantomimes there, as also
did Harry Musgrove and Bill Anderson. The
latter followed on with “Robbery Under
Arms,” but the remarks Avere lost in the
vast auditorium, and drama Avas neA-er any
good there for that reason. Pictures, boxing,
dancing exhibitions, Rigo’s opera co. and a
short farcAvell season by the Gonsalez co. in
1917 were other features of the Ilippo. dur-
ing a brief career. The Sunday-night con-
certs by the State Military Band were a
treat.
“M.S.”: Much more classical music is
heard at vaudeville houses than is commonly
supposed. One Melbourne conductor often
uses a Rachmaninoff prelude to create the
atmosphere of tension considered necessary
for thrilling turns. But some of his selec-
tions seem to me to be lacking in good taste.
The other day “the World’s Greatest Head
Balancer” was supporting on his bursting
forehead about 3501 b. of assorted gymnast.
The final stout female had just climbed to
the top of the panting pyramid and was
about to upend herself and wave her fat
stems in the air when the orchestra struck
up. The “Dead March” from the Eroica
Symphony Avas Avhat it played.
NOTHING DOING.
POSSIBLE LODGER: “Rather a small window, Madam, in case of er
— ah—emergency?”
IMPOSSIBLE LANDLADY: “Ho, is it? Well there’s not gointer he any
emergency. My terms are strickly in advance.”
“C. 8.”: Writing from Europe, Nevin Tait,
of the Firm, speaks in admiration of the
revolutionary decree issued by M. Rouclie,
director of the Grand Opera, Paris, putting
a complete damper on the ancient custom of
allowing privileged habitues and subscribers
to go on the stage and mingle with the per-
formers in the interludes. The Firm might
indplge in a little revolutionary action on its
own account. It certainly tries to shut out
latecomers from grand opera, but it shows
no _ such consideration for audiences at
serious drama. And in one of its Melbourne
houses the seats are adjusted to go off like
9.2’s when sat upon.
“Cine Ma”: Next to Nero’s burning of
Rome, no historical incident has been subject
to so much misrepresentation as the Sydney-
Emden scrap. The first film was made in
1915 on the South Coast of N.S.W., and was
mainly an idiotic Hollywooden affair. The
next was shot by an Australian syndicate
upon the spot, and many of the cablemen
who saw the original engagement joined
in, dressing up as German and Aus-
tralian sailors, though, as a matter of fact,
there was no fighting done on land. Since
then two German films have given, very
fairly, Von Muller’s viewpoint. The effort
now being made at Jervis Bay with the
Sydney in use will serve its purpose if
it fills in the blanks with some scientific
comments.
“A.G.M.” (Bond.) : An Australian con-
tralto. Jenny Bourne, has been singing her
way into notice at the Stoll’s. She came
to London on the advice of Melba, who con-
sidered she had a future. A handsome, ex-
pressive face is as much an asset as the
voice.
“Hamfat”: Australia’s old friend James
Dixon Williams, who claimed damages
for wrongful dismissal and unpaid salary
at £5OOO p.a. from the “British National
Pictures, wdiicli dismissed him for extrava-
gance and exceeding authority, put up Syd-
ney’s first theatre built to house pic-
tures, the Lyric, in George-street, and he
went on expanding his picture concerns and
building new quarters. His Sydney run
finished with a row. Williams, aggressively
Yankee in personality, landed on his feet
again in America, and rose high in the pic-
ture business there. He told Americans
that Australia was a country where “a man
had to keep his hands in his pockets to pre-
vent the people from putting money into
them.”
“Nakhoda” : Writer lias heard a Sarawak
Dyak play on the Bornean nose-flute, but he
never heard such an excellent performance
as was given on the South Sea variant of
the instrument, the ifi fagufagu, by a Tongan
choir boy in Melbourne the other evening.
Over two feet long and almost as thick
as a bassoon, it looked an impossible pro-
position for even a Tongan nasal organ, but
the smiling virtuoso, stuffing one nostril up
with a thumb, applied the other to the
mouth- or, rather, nose-piece, and if what
he produced wasn’t sweet, it was powerful
enough. Of course, the ifi fagufagu could be
much better played with the lips, but that
would be contrary to Art.
“Craiser”: The invasion of Italian oper-
ates has caused the turning away of still
more Australian virtuosi. This country was
to have heard pianist Walter Murdoch and
Sydney baritone Harold Williams about the
middle of the year, but they have been de-
ferred by the Taits till 1929. Witji the post-
ponement of these, promoter Gravestock
believes he sees a vacuum and has invited
the 10-year-old precocity Cherkassky to try
to fill it. Cherk. lias been described in America
as the greatest find of this generation. Also
coming to the same order, Welsh soprano
Amy Evans and Scottish baritone Fraser
Grange. Backhaus is returning later.
“L.11.P.”: Nita Lancaster, who has fav-
ored Sydney with grand-opera shows at the
Conservatorium in the past, now has De
Koven’s tuneful opera of “Robin Hood” in
rehearsal. The work was originally pre-
sented here by J.C.W.’s Royal Comics in the
’nineties, and gave Carrie Moore her first
big chance as Maid Marian. Another “Robin
Hood” opera, Sir George Macfarren’s, would
bear revival. The “book” is by John Oxen-
ford, who was for years theatrical critic for
London Times, and who was once rebuked
from the stage by George Rignold for cough-
ing so much as to spoil that limelighter’s
histrionic efforts.
“L. 0.” : For the big day of a Riverina show
both halls were engaged, when a Ned Kelly
dramatic co. arrived in a two-horse van. The
manager of one of the shows told the late-
comers that they could use his hall at the
conclusion of his entertainment at 10.30. The
town was packed with visitors; fully a hun-
dred, having failed to book beds, had a cheer-
less prospect of walking around all night.
One of them had a brain-wave. He inter-
viewed the Ned Kelly co., and it was arranged
that if they attended tbe “play” they could
shake down in the hall till morning. And so the
ghost walked for the dramatic co., and the
bedless slept under cover.
“Cine Ma”: In London recently, C. R.
Herschell, the man who made the fascinat-
ing film of North Australia, signed the big-
best picture contract this country has ever
made outside Hollywood. The English parties
were British Instructional Films. Gaumonts
and New Era Productions, and the Austra-
lian was British Dominions Films Pty.,
Ltd. By its means the first big step to-
wards a reciprocal Empire industry was
made, and a dozen feature films have already
been despatched from the Great Smoke,
with more to follow. The Australian con-
tribution will start later. Incidentally,
Hinkler brought out the historic docu-
ment.
“L.H.P.”: Florrie Ford was playing Robin
Hood in a panto, at Stoke Newington when
the mail left. She was also selling, on behalf
of flood victims, autographed postcards of
herself during the interval. These proved so
popular that the versatile Australian was
kept dashing about the auditorium in a fur
coat over her principal-boy togs long after
the rag rose on the second part.
THE PLEASURES OF OPERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A continual buzz of conversation spoilt the over-
ture. Although women are supposed to have, on the
average, better musical taste than men, they were
the worst offenders.”— S. M. Herald.
No highbrow fads do I pretend;
My tastes are so supremely low.
No cash on opera I’d spend,
But Angelina makes me go.
Myself, I think that folk who fly
To top notes as they kill or kiss
Make osculation rather dry
And rob their crimes of emphasis.
She makes me go, and I endure
While, thrilled by music’s ecstasy,
She chatters through the overture,
Commending others’ frocks to me.
She claps her hands ere themes are done,
And makes me wish that I were dead
When, well-remembered songs begun.
She hums wrong airs, whole bars ahead.
She styles the show “divinely sweet”
To indicate how she’s been thrilled,
As to our suburb we retreat
When everyone is safely killed.
But I. on whom such phrases cloy,
Reflect, albeit my tastes are low,
The opera I might enjoy
If Angelina didn’t go.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


Get
entitled to -
what you’re
Chrysler “62” Features
of Performance, Quality
and Long Life —
1. Six-Cylinder Engine, 54 Horsepower
2. 7-bearing Crankshaft, with interchangeable
shimless bearings
3. 62 and more exceptional Miles an Hour
4. Typical Chrysler Acceleration
5. Impulse Neutraliser
6. Webbed Crankcase Construction
7. Ventilated Crankcase
8. Invar Steel Strut Pistons
9. Special Engine Manifolding
10. Exclusive Type of Cylinder Head and Com-
bustion Chamber
11. Silchrome Valves
12. Oil Filter
13. Air Cleaner
14. Thermostatic Heat Control
15. Manifold Heat Control
16. Cellular Type Radiator
17. Full Pressure Oiling System
18. Rubber Engine Mountings
19. 18-inch-Base Road Wheels
20. Balanced Front Wheels
21. Pivotal Steering
22. 4-wheel Hydraulic Brakes
23. High Carbon Steel Springs
24. Specially - designed Rear Axle for Balloon
Tyres
25. Levelisers on Front and Rear Springs
26. Indirectly Lighted Instrument Panel
27. Fedco Theft-proof Numbering System
23. Electric Fuel Gauge
29. Headlamp Control on Steering Wheel
30. Narrow Corner Pillars
31. Adjustable Steering Wheel
32. Cadet Visor
33. Saddle Spring Seat Cushions
34. Fine Figured Mohair Upholstery
35. Rigid Type Curtains on Tourer
36. Adjustable Front Seat in Tourer
37. Low Centre of Gravity
38. Double Beaded Body Construction
39. Chrysler Smartness of Line
40. Attractive Colour Combinations in Great
Variety
f)
1%
Great New
Chrysler “62”
gives you more in performance,
beauty, comfort, safety and long life
than cars of other makes costing
much more.
Through Standardised Quality Chry-
sler engineering offers you in the
“62” a combination of fine-car fea-
tures which previously cost far more
even in a Chrysler and which are still
not available in any other make at
anywhere near the price.
See the Great New Chrysler “62.”
Ride in it. Test it in any way you
choose. You will then readily under-
stand the reason for its most sensa-
tional public preference.
CHRYSLER'62'
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney >,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne,
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth,
fas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
W.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
528.


Ranking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mauk Shkldon, K.R.E., Chairman;
1 hank N. Yauwood; H. R. Lysaght, 0.8. E. ;
Cisoiioß J. Sly, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
liiiuuE ; James Kell.
General. Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
II LAD 01' I ICi:, SYDNEY 1 (.Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Brunches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
I I'.il'l 11, W.A. (73 St. George’s Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors :
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Tuke.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand and at all the Chief Cities of the World
''•very description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COELINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. ~ .. 1 875 000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 374J97
Ordinary Shares 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609,655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
Great Britain and Ireland, Sam ° a '
RECEIVES DEPOSITS f interest
ji i .... _ for fixed
periods ana transacts all other usual Banking busing
The Bank of Adelaide
t,..™*.... (Incorporated 1865.)
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET '
Authorised Capital .. # oo 000 non
Subscribed Capital ” I. I. ig®
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
£1,250,000
950,000
..... . . , , £2,200,000
Reserve liability of shareholders 1,250,000
£3,450,000
ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Also 109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET E C
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
remitte<L AU usual banking business
Australian Mutual
sv'f.ttsv'sj'iiin, Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887,200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4,893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600 000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £o’60o!oQO
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d
each.
dfs
25 Cigars,
12/6
50,25/9
100, 46/-
I’ost paid to
any address.
Sampler Box
containing two
cigars, Is. l*ost
free.
Craig gAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors forciufc
Reil Cigrar Factory.
Shipping, ere.
D
*
CR
TV-
ninifrn
■lllllllll£S^-
CiVS
NAD
TO
UNITED STATES
& EUROPE
AORANGI .
NIAGARA .
TAHITI ...
MAKURA ..
17,491 tons, Apl. 5 £
13,415 tons, May 3 )
7,898 tons, Apl. 19 \
8,075 tons, May 17 (
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbourne.
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
jpA^CURSIONs
JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
Solomon Islands
Full of Interest, Beauty and Romance, and
situated only 7 days’ steaming N.-E. of Sydney.
A Regular Six-Weekly Service is maintained
by the S.S. MATARAM, a most comfortable
ancj up-to-date vecsel of 3500 tons, visiting
approx. >0 pictur-
esque Isl- id Ports
curing a trip of
lour Y/eekr
I' ARE—
Freni ..’.34 Ret ~n.
ifH
&
[f
lx
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
df
£7,494,260
5,650,000
7,494,260
£20,638,520
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Itobert 1.. Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falldner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 ThreadDeedle Street E C 2
517 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand Fiji Panui
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT.” Foreign Bill’
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world ° *
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 3,950,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,428,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman: Hon. JAMES ASHTON MLC •
Major-General the Hon. J. W. MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D MLC *
OWEN E. FRIEND; and Sir WILLIAM VICARS, c!b.E.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Bircliin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria, at Adelaide, South Australia
and Canberra, Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other
parts of the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
•aia
oiinldujU
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
sdf
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOVVNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge St.
HAVE A NEW HOLIDAY IN
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra expense. Tropical scenery, frag-
rant flowers, luscious fruits, haunting melody
’neath moonlit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surf-
board riding, golfing, motoring, and all out-
door sports the year round. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic spectacles. Or take a round trip
from Sydney, 8 weeks or less for about £lOO to
£l5O all expenses, allowing 3 to 4 weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago. Good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day. Ask
steamship or travel agency or write Hawaii
Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully colored booklet,
enclosing this advertisement.
ON YOUR NEXT TRIP INCLUDE
HAWAII.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OR Alt A—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLON GBAE —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/*
Steamer and First class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., T/TD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLTS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddarl ]Pq 1*1(01' Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LI MITED
CoMins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
For Your Autumn Vacation
Hotel
Kosciusko
Altitude, 5000 ft. Humidity, nil.
Golf, Mountaineering,
Summit Trips,
Tennis (day and night).
Garage accommodation avail-
able and petrol for sale.
Summer Tariff:
From 21/- per day.
£5/15/6 per week.
Bookings and further particulars
from Manager, or
N.S.W. Government
TOURIST BUREAU
Challis House, 8 Martin Place,
Sydney.


BANISH THE FILTHY GARBAGE-TIN
FOR EVER
Instal the Cheap and Satisfactory
KERNERATOR
IT has been approved and pur-
A chased by the Common-
wealth and New South Wales
Governments and the City Coun-
cil of Sydney.
It has been approved by prac-
tically every Suburban Council
in Sydney, and has been exten-
sively installed throughout the
city and suburbs.
It has been approved of by
the N.S.W, Underwriters’ Asso-
ciation.
It is odorless. We guarantee
that it is totally inoffensive, and
that the smoke from the chim-
ney is 75 p.c. less in volume
than that from an ordinary tire.
It is cheap to instal.
It is recommended by Dr.
Purdy, Chief Health Officer.
We guarantee it to consume,
at flue temperature not exceed-
ing 650 degrees, 90 to 95 p.c. of
the garbage and refuse deposited
in it.
It costs nothing to rim, and
is working 24 hours a day
making tenants more satisfied,
and improving letting and sell-
ing values by abolishing the
insanitary garbage can and dan-
gerous rubbish pile.
It helps to keep down plagues
of rats, flies, mosquitoes and
other vermin.
All the parts are manufac-
tured in Australia by Australian
workmen, out of Australian
materials.
We guarantee satisfaction to
the purchaser or we refund his
money after lie has had six
months’ trial.
We shall be glad at any time
to arrange for an inspection of
our installations.
Old Magazin
9 Waste Paper
t
,f!
§
Tin cans
Bottl
Sweepings
Garbage, \
3 Rubbish 1
Broken Crocks
Wilted Flower
Refuse
INCINERATOR
CHAMBER
BY PASS ORATE
m
BY PASS FLUE
FIRE «<l
PRAFT DOOR
DUMPING CRATE
ASH PIT
ASH
gRAFT
POOR
Built
Chimney
FOR FLATS, APARTMENT-HOUSES, RESIDENCES, &c.
Construction patented exclusively throughout the World.
KERNERATOR & WALL BED CO., LTD.,
Cor. BATHURST & CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
•Phone: MAI 877.
AGENTS:—
MELBOURNE: Norman Brbok, Equitable Building, 314 Collins St.
BRISBANE: H. R. Gelston, Ltd., Charlotte St.
ADELAIDE: R. C. Forbes and Co., 37A Currie St.
PERTH: Concrete Construction (W.A.), Ltd., 25 Lombard St.,
St. George's Terrace.
Send for free booklets and details to any of the above.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—A. C. buy a, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq..
M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and
96 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representatioi
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tbi
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking busines-
o
Paint’s all very well
on a petrol tin but you
don’t want it in your
petrol!
Look after your engine and your
engine will look after you. Don’t give
it dirt in its food. Dirt robs you of
miles per gallon and miles per hour.
Fit the Zenith Filter. Simple, easily
installed, inexpensive and utterly reliable,
it puts an end to the expense and annoy-
ance of frequent carburetter trouble,
cleansing every drop of petrol while the
engine is running.
*
Information costs
nothing. Ask for full
particulars, it’s worth it.
ZENITH CARBURETTER CO,* LTD., 40 Newman Street, LONDON, W.l.
Bennett k Wood, Ltd., Sydney; Alex-
ander Mail- & Co. Pty., Ltd., Mel-
bourne; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd.,
Brisbane; A. G. Healing & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Adelaide; Harris Scarfe and
Sandover, Ltd., Perth.
THE INKY WAY.
“Q.N.”: From a Melbourne daily’s report
of the proceedings in a recent murder trial:
“Accused entered the dock at 10.35 a.m. He
was preceded by the Chief Justice.”
“Lao-dah”: Degrees of respectability? A
girl walked into a Melbourne suburban news-
agent’s and asked for a copy of Beckett’s.
“And mother says,” she added, “to please
wrap it up in a copy of Truth !”
“Finn”: What puzzles me about the
“Answers to Correspondents” columns is
that the proportion of turned-down writers
to rebuffed artists is generally about 10 to 1.
Does the artistic talent of the average Aus-
tralian exceed his literary ability to that
extent? Or is his urge to write ten times
as great as his impulse to draw?
“P.R.”: A travelling evangelist from Ire-
land recently organised a “Catcli-my-Pal Cru-
sade” at Hobart. Unfortunately a Mercury
compositor got in some of his upsetting
work, and the item was announced in print
as a “Catch-my-Pay Crusade.” What the
reverend gentleman thought of the emenda-
tion hasn't transpired.
“Eureka”: The recently started Bill
Bowyang’s Magazine published only two
issues. In announcing its decease as a
quarterly, the editor remarks bitterly: “I
produced wlmt I considered the most humor-
ous magazine yet issued in Australia....
A very large section of our magazine readers
prefer the Yankee wild-west type of litera-
ture and the nauseous sex stuff that lines
our bookstalls.” The magazine may appear
later as an annual.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide University examiners,
in their annual report on school exami-
nations, are bitter about “journalese” in the
essays. The higher flight becomes John-
sonian, as “King Arthur masterfully ex-
patiated his manly philosophy”; at worst
it calls bedrooms “rooms of rest” and says
“situated in the vicinity of” for “near.” One
examiner who set description of home as an
easy subject expresses the cynical opinion
that the young people are cut out for land-
agents rather than essayists.
D. G. Macdougall, who made the Alfred
a revenue-producing journal of the Mel-
bourne Alfred Hospital, has moved to Sydney
to look after the research and publicity de-
partment of the Cnamber of Commerce. He
made his start as a pressman when 16, at
which mature age he owned and edited the
Dal by Herald. He moved thence on to the
Brisbane Courier, and was Australian pub-
licity officer for the Y.M.C.A. during the war.
“Lex”: Among my mementoes of Lawson
is a letter-card, addressed, “Henry Lawson,
Bulletin Office. Sydney,” and re-addressed
to Bourke. On the back of the card are
these lines:—
If The Bulletin you’ve read, many verses you’ll
have seen there
In the name of Henry Lawson; sundry songs of
human woe;
But ’tis patent to the reader that a hard-up bard
had been there
Ere he penn’d the lines entitled “When your pants
begin to go!
In a little square is the word “Breaker.”
Did Morant know Lawson except as a verse-
contributor, like himself, to The Bulletin?
MUCH MORE IMPORTANT.
“Hi could go through ’Ell for you, dear.”
“But could yer go through H.C.L.?”
“Lob”: Talking of old South Australian
country newspapers (B. 22/2/’2B), the
Bokdep. Watch, at Mt. Gambier, was estab-
lished in 1861. John Watson edited it from
1863 until his death at the end of 1925
—no mean performance. There are other
long-distance men on the paper still. The
foreman has spent about half a century with
it, and there is a compositor who started
with the paper in his ’teens and is now in
his seventies.
“Listinsect”: Broadcasting stations will
soon be able to emulate the newspapers and
supply portraits of celebrities along with
the news about them. The waves of light
emanating from a photograph are converted
into waves of sound, and these are impressed
on a phonograph record. When the record
is broadcast the sounds are turned into elec-
tricity, which can be picked up., converted
into light and developed photographically.
In a recent experiment in America, Lind-
bergh and Coolidge were disseminated through
the ether, and, despite the striking differ-
ence in their physical appearance, both made
much the same queer sort of uproar.
“Black Out” : The line attributed to David
McKee Wright (B. 7/3/’2B), "Beer makes
a man feel as he ought to feel without beer,”
was not a line of his own. One day, meet-
ing J. P. Archibald in the street, David
quoted the line and mentioned that he had
forgotten the author ; could Archibald tell him
if it was Chesterton’s? Archibald couldn’t,
never having heard it before; but he quoted
it to the next person he met as David’s.
David was a notable debater and never at
a loss for the knock-down blow. Arguing
with Hugh McCrae about “Paradise Lost,”
he settled every controversy on Milton for
ever by declaring with terrific vehemence,
“If Milton meant nothing at all he would
still be a great poet.”
THE IN AND OUT.
“Yer ’usband won’t be ’ome to-night,
Missus; we’ve just run ’im in.”
“Well, you know your own business, I sup-
pose; but I’ve just run ’im out.”
“Royclm” : Max Murray, a young Sydney
journalist, has just had published “Back
Doors of the World,” a record of a trip begun
from Melbourne three years ago on a tramp
steamer. Murray, who had been successively
on Sydney Evening News and Melbourne
Herald, worked his passage to San Fran-
cisco. In America lie hoboed, escorted a
gang of Chinese laborers down to Mexico,
starved, fought, pawned his belongings,
was nearly drowned—and eventually worked
his passage to Greece; thence he went to
London, returning 12 months later to Mel-
bourne in charge of a party of migrants.
He left Melbourne with ss. in his pockets,
and, after travelling 66,000 miles, returned
with £l7. The other day he sailed with his
wife for London to try his luck in Fleet-
street.
One of the few T surviving Cobb and Co.
drivers, S. W. Corkhill, of Adelaide, has
retired from active service at 70. As a
mere youth he was noted for his skill behind
a team in and around Broken Hill on the
run from the Silver City to Cobliam. Later
he drove his teams along most of the com-
pany’s runs, especially from Longreach to
Cloncurry.
C. 11. Mollison, the Victorian Government
pathologist, who has given evidence in the
probationer-parson Griggs case, is one of the
leading medico-legal experts of the world.
Many foreign textbooks quote his opinions
and mention his researches, especially in
poisoning cases. In his term with the Vic.
Crown he has been associated with practically
every crime of importance that has occurred
in the State.
Australian dailies got excited over the
fact that Borotra had an inexhaustible
appetite for business. The notion in the
minds of the reporters, apparently, was that
there was something rather eccentric about
a prominent sportsman showing anything
but contempt for trade and commerce,
despite the fact that many Australians are as
notable in business as in sport. Norman
Brookes, as a matter of fact, is one of the
partners in Satam (Australia) Pty., Ltd.,
the engineering firm which Borotra founded
in between his appearances on this
country’s tennis courts.
At Collinsville, within a stone’s throw of
Bowen (N.Q.), there is coal of a quality
unsurpassed in the Commonwealth. The
Q’land Government and the Bowen Consoli-
dated both have mines which could deliver
thousands of tons per week, but at pre-
sent their only customers are the Northern
railways and an occasional steamer. The
loading cranes at Townsville and Bowen
are not paying interest, and there is no hope
of an export trade until large bins are erec-
ted near both ports. The coal is there, and
its steaming powers have passed all tests,
but the facilities for pushing trade are
lacking.
A sum of £12,000 is being sought in Eng-
land as a suitable presentation for Have-
lock Wilson at his golden wedding anniver-
sary in September, when he will retire from
the post of seamen’s leader. The Daily
Mail has been elected treasurer, and recently
announced that donations were pouring in
from every British port and from many over-
seas. Wilson, when quite young, signed on
as an able-seaman, and shipped for a Black
Sea port, but the life disagreed with him
and his wages were cut down to a shilling per
month. Returning to England, he sought out
a lawyer, took legal action for recovery and
won the case. From then on he w T orked with
his head.
THE PENCE OF PARNASSUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Consider the lot of the clerk;
With counterfoils, ledgers and chits
Monotonous tasks he performs.
An irascible manager storms,
The accountant has choleric fits
And the auditor’s always a nark.
Still the clerk draws a regular wage,
Though it may not quite run to cigars ;
Not so this unfortunate scribe
Who fights with the rest of his tribe
To exist upon ditties and “pars.”
In this or in any old page.
He finds little use for a purse,
The seat of his pants has a shine
More lustrous by far than his boots,
For his labor’s uncertain, sad fruits
Are rewarded at so much a line —
Which explains this lugubrious verse.
n.s.w.
BYSOM AUBERT.


ots the
STRONGEST GUARANTEE
ever put behfnd
a golf ball
\
wr
¥
»
m
%
t
¥Mk
m
jJ/uMnq
KRX3-FLITE
GOLF BALLS
J
Guaranteed for
72 HOLES
There are no ifs, ‘ands,” or “buts” about this guarantee. It
means exactly what it says:—
We absolutely guarantee replacement of any “Kro-Flite” Ball
that is cut through or becomes unplayable from any cause in
72 holes of play. -
s
From All Professionals and Sports Stores
d£,J/vcd&)tnq dhoi.
f 1 ( A| ICTDAi ACi a \ rvrv iti
f
(AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTa
352 Kent Street, Sydney.


THE NEW LEFEVER SINGLE
A NEW, RELIABLE GUN MADE BY AN OLD, RELIABLE FIRM.
LEFEVER single barrel long range
FIELD AND TRAP QUW
851-
Post Free All
Over Australia.
THE LEFEVER LONG-RANGE 12-GAUGE TRAP AND FIELD GUN.
This is the only inexpensive HAMMERLESSS Single-barrel breech-loading Shot Gun with an auto-
matic safety device such as is used on expensive double-barrel guns, and an automatic ejector which
kicks the shells out when the gun is opened. Every Lefever single is carefully choke-bored to give the
closest, hardest long-range pattern. Every barrel is proved with an excessive load to make doubly
sure it has the necessary material and strength to be safe for ANY standard factory load. The
barrel is 32in. long. The stock has checkered full pistol-grip stock with hard rubber grip cap and
heelplate.
LEFEVERS STAND USE AND ABUSE.
We are the Agents.
VA
LTD
PTY
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S BITTER ALE,
Ask for Them by Name—Keep in a Cool Spot.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
When the racing began at Rosehill on
Saturday a shock was administered to the
large and perspiring crowd—the weather
was uncommonly warm—and it was fated to
receive other shocks during the afternoon.
. For the first division of the Railway Handi-
cap William Kelso and his assistants saddled
up two —Boaster (7 to 2) and Asealon (33
to 1, and few takers). The filly was in
front, with the black gelding second, at the
Leger, and so they finished, Asealon having
a good deal in reserve; Bunkum (8 to 1)
was a close third. Land of Leisure (favor-
ite at 2 to 1), Rionscup and Aorangi shaped
disappointingly for fancied Doncaster candi-
dates, but Killarney was doing well in fourth
place at the end.
Remembering that Justify had beaten
Asealon pointless in the Adrian Knox
Stakes at Randwick, many punters backed
that filly, at sixes and better, for the second
division of the Railway, only to see her run
last. She could not even head Irish Prince,
who broke down and has since been scratched
for all engagements. Wootton’s horse was
joint favorite, at fours, with Vaals and Lady
Constance, who figured in a most exciting
finish, the stallion prevailing by a head.
Vaals improved remarkably on liis exhibi-
tion in the Highweight Handicap the
previous week, but the mare will meet him
in the Doncaster on 31b. better terms and
may turn the tables. Coolgong (33 to 1)
was a fair third, and should win at a mile
or a mile and a quarter at the A.J.C. meet-
ing, and Simeon’s Fort pleased his Don-
caster supporters by making up a lot of
ground and finishing fourth. Vaals cut out
the seven furlongs in lmin. 25jsec.; Asca-
lon’s time was lmin. 25isec.
McCarten was not required to bustle
Limerick at any part of the Rawson Stakes,
for which the Maoriland champion, who
looked better than ever, w T ent out at 3 to 1
ori, though there was a little 5 to 2 on.
Fourth to leave the barrier and second at
the home turn, Limerick disposed of Honan,
who had done the leading, in a few strides
and won at his ease by a couple of lengths
from the Rossendale filly Jocelyn (25 to 1),
who beat Amounis (6 to 1) by a head
after a brisk tussle; Winalot (20 to 1)
was a fair fourth. The time for the nine
furlongs was lmin. 53fsec. On the strength
of her good finish, Jocelyn became favorite
for the Sydney Cup, but it is questionable
whether she is entitled to that eminence.
Amounis did not look very bright and should
do better at Warwick Farm or Randwick.
Rarely does a horse of Eric Connolly’s
drift from fours to tens and then come home
on the bit, but that is what Margarethal did
in the Nursery Handicap. She is a very
likely-looking bay filly by Valais —Manganui.
Windbag’s sister Loquacious (3 to 1) ran
out wide again and then finished third, but
she could not have beaten Margarethal.
The Autumn Handicap saw another in-
and-out customer bob up—Dion (8tol) this
time. Second to Drawbridge (12 to 1) for
most of the journey, he shot to the front
in the straight and won by lengths from
Strongbow (12 to 1) and Attractive. Cum-
erlong (7 to 4) failed dismally to stay the
12 furlongs, which, incidentally, were covered
in 2min. 32isec., and Tangible and Glen-
ariff were other Sydney Cup candidates who
disappointed, but Strongbow came home w-eil.
Dion was ridden by Findlay, who had
another winning mount —on Monoplane, a
10-to-l shot —in the Three- and Four-year-
old Handicap, which followed.
Dick Wootton and his friends tried to get
back their Irish Prince losses on Zuleika
(9 to 4) in the Parramatta Mile, but the
mare let them down. Magdaff (5 to 2),
whose chance looked hopeless at one stage,
put in a long and well-sustained run which
carried him to victory three parts of a length
ahead of Alligator (6 to 1), All Home being
third and Piastoon fourth. Magdaff has only
7st. 81b. in the Doncaster, and his creden-
tials are better than those of other horses
well above him in the betting list.
TOO PRECIOUS.
THE GIRL: “Pooh, my last boy had a car that ran into hundreds.”
THE BOY: “Yes, but if he had a good ’bus like this he wouldn’t risk damagin’ it.”
Limerick’s next engagement is the Chip-
ping Norton Stakes at Warwick Farm nexv
Saturday. In addition to the champion,
some of the best two- and three-year-olds and
handican horses in Australia are down to
appear at the Farm, and it will be the last
meeting before the big round at Randwick.
Fancies—
Farm Stakes: Karuma.
Liverpool Handicap: Wliitta ; next, Green-
wich.
Fairfield Handicap: Clear Flight.
Chipping Norton Stakes: Limerick; next,
Black Duchess.
Autumn Cup: Vallino; next, Blather.
Cabramatta Handicap: Cromwell; next,
Koorathella.
❖ * *
Highland, who has done a heap of
travelling during his career on the turf,
added to his creditable record in the Quality
Handicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Practically every starter —there were 13 —
was supported, the horse from Queensland
being first choice at fives. Margaux (7 to
1) bounded away with the lead, and when
she beat off Baringhup (8 to 1) in the
straight looked to have the race in her
keeping, but after a thrilling finish High-
land got up in time to cut her out of it;
“a short head,” the judge said. Baringhup
was a length and a half away. The time,
lmin. 13sec., was quite good.
Sailing Home’s last two performances had
been a first and second in w.f.a. company,
but several horses were preferred to the
black in the Moonee Ponds Handicap; his
price was eights. The race provided a great
contest between Sailing Home and Ataman
(4 to 1). Harry Masterton’s importation
had the lead entering the straight, but Sail-
ing Home, coming again with a most deter-
mined effort, snatched a half-head victory
on the post; old Tookarby (12 to 1), show-
ing his first glimpse of form for a long time,
was a neck away. Sailing Home, who has
turned out an excellent investment for E. ,J.
O’Dwyer, was ridden by Scanlon.
Duncan, who had ridden Highland, com-
pleted a double when his mount, Sir Right-
eous (9 to 4), got home in the Trial Mile
from Lagune (3 to 1) and Pyalong King
(33 to 1). McShortodds wound up an excel-
lent day with a “skinner” when Pinkerton
(50 to 1, no takers) beat Donace (12 to 1)
in the Higliweiglit.
* * * *
“Frosty”: The tote, the worst enemy of
the bookie, was invented by some enterpris-
ing members of the McShortodds tribe in the
early ’seventies of last century. As then pre-
sented to a trusting public it was a black
board studded with numbered nails. On
passing over five bob or half a crown to the
proprietor the investor’s name and the
amount of his bet were inscribed on a card-
board ticket that was hung on the nail
bearing the number of the
horse backed. The winning
tickets scooped almost all of
the pool, the proprietor claim-
ing only a modest percentage.
Tickets, however, were often
mysteriously shifted during
the running of a race, and
proprietors of such lay-outs
became notorious for their
habit of seeing double when
giving out change. A primi-
tive form of the machine of
to-day made its appearance
in the early ’eighties, and
racing clubs found it profit-
able to allow its installation,
since they got a cut out of
the commission. When the State demanded
a cut, too, the device reached secure anchor-
age, and even conservative J. Bull is now
beginning to think there must be something
in it.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: Ruffians in Hamburg, a
German town famous for its method of pre-
paring steak, fitted up a room with a wire-
less receiving-set and intercepted results of
races from Paris. These were tick-tacked to
confederates, who climbed all over my
unhappy fellow-philanthropists before the
dinkum oil was received. The same scoun-
drelly scheme used to be practised in this
country, but nowadays no s.p. business is
done after a fixed period prior to the official
starting-time of the particular race con-
cerned, except on prads well in the bag.
Between ourselves, I was one of the first to
cart a portable wireless on to the course, and
I more than once got round on my Melbourne
and Brisbane books by utilising the early
information with a bit of laying-off among
my fellow-Tommies. After all, they might
as well have been taken down by one of
their own kind as by the rapacious general
public. The money was kept in the family,
so to speak.
He $ $ &
“B-Gar”: I hold no brief for the s.-p
joints (B. 14/3/’2B), but a recent case in
Brisbane goes to show that there’s always
a chance of their getting landed for big
amounts if they exceed the 10-to-l limit. A
horse from the country was labelled a cer-
tainty first time the owner’s cash went
in, and the world was waiting for a lead.
Threes were quoted, with no takers. The
horse drifted to twenties —and won, with
apparently not a bob on it. S.p. caste
north and south of Rockhampton knew better
though. A quarter of an hour before the
race started agents in many towns backed
the animal for substantial sums. It was
too late to send the money to Brisbane and
lay off, for had the horse been backed back
its price would have dropped. The s.-p.
merchants settled at tens.
* * He *
“Luck”: An enterprising wine firm is
offering a prize of £750 to any purchaser of
a bottle of its special port who can pick
the winners of four important racing events.
I had dreams of buying enough bottles to
cover all the possible chances, thereby getting
a wine-cellar stocked free and a goodly cash
bonus. But alas, on figuring it out, assum-
ing there are 30 starters in each event, I
find I would have to buy 810,000 bottles of
wine, which would cost me, at ss. a time,
£202,500. There’s always a catch somewhere
in these things.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules,
Johnny Curley, “ex-featherweight cham-
pion of England,” scaled 9st. 61b. when he
met “Bluey” Jones (9st. 7flb.), billed as
“champion lightweight of Australia,” at the
Sydney Stadium. These promoters do funny
things nowadays. In the past when a cham-
pion was licked (as Jones was by Purdy on
March 10) lie was a champion no longer;
but seemingly the Newcastle youth will have
to be walloped many times before he loses
his amusing title. Curley, bald-headed and
stiff of motion, but full of good intent, went
after the Newcastle swinger from the first
bell, and, though Jones was sending ’em
over very hard, the English boxer had no
difficulty in blocking or evading while driv-
ing clean jabs to the face and heavy rights
down below. He’s still an artist with the
right uppercut as his man rushes in, and in
the third session he caught Jones under the
chin so hard that he might, had he backed
that punch up speedily, have ended the dis-
pute there and then; for “Blue” was groggy.
A similar punch in the fourth
knocked all the fight out of Jones,
who thereafter simply ran in and
clinched. It became a matter of
dull repetition, though Curley still
kept weakening Jones by well-
placed punches. In the last round
(the 15th) Jones stopped a hard
right-cross with his jaw and went
to the canvas. Referee Wallis
noted the youth’s rolling optics and
difficult breathing and crowned
Curley. A relief to all concerned.
* * *
At Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night Tommy Mclnnes, of
Scotland, knocked out AVally Han-
cock in the second round. The
Caledonian got to business early,
and had Hancock on the floor in
the first round, the bell saving him.
Early in the second Hancock was
sent down again, and the next
punch was the last.
“Toeballer”: Brisbane boxing is in a bad
way. There are only two really good local
fighters in the game at present—Joe Houri-
gan (welterweight) and Reg. Cameron (ban-
tam). The rest are mostly preliminary
boxers, whose bouts may be interesting to
the boys and their friends and the betting
men, but are saddening to those who remem-
ber Thorn and Russell and Jeri'y Jerome.
Racquet and Bawl
“Baseline”: E. F. Moon and R. O. Cum-
mings, whom Queensland tennis-players and
sportsmen in other States are sending to
Wimbledon and the other big European tour-
neys, have been playing exhibition matches
in Sydney with a good deal of success.
About the best performance was put up by
Moon on Saturday, when he beat J. O.
Anderson, 9-7, 6-2. If the pair can strike
anything like the form shown by them dur-
ing the past few months, they should beat
a lot more people at Wimbledon than beat
them.
(Continued on page 37.)
FROM ELIS TO AMSTERDAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dreamed a Greek of olden days who, tens
of centuries back.
Had borne the wreath of parsley off from
various hefty rivals,
Escaped from the Elysian fields and straight-
way hit the track
For Amsterdam and one of these Olympian
revivals.
He watched them run and leap and hop along
the verdant sward,
He saw strong men propel the weight and
hurl the heavy hammer,
And listened with the air of one who’s just
a trifle bored
To the tumult and the skiting about
records and the clamor.
Even when motors whirled about and
stunting aircraft ranged
Above his Theban occiput one couldn't
help but feel his
Conviction that, however much conditions
might have changed,
Arms were as strong and legs as fleet upon
the plains of Elis.
Then suddenly I saw his eyes open in wild
amaze—
He seemed to be invoking Zeus and old
Poseidon’s daughter,
Adding the Greek equivalent for “Spare me
crimson days!”
Asa group of woman champions came
racing through the water.
“What, something new at last?” I asked.
He bowed his ghostly head ;
I learned in his Olympiads there was no
stream to swim in.
And, anyhow, the gods might well have
stricken Hellas dead
At such an impious notion as Olympic
games for women.
I dreamed that Greek had faded out, within
a brace of ticks,
At such a spectacle as this he couldn’t keep
his hair on ;
I woke when I was wondering if he was on
the Styx,
And what a tale of things on earth he’d
have to pitch to Charon.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


•4HMI
o
vss
<s^
DAN
CJ
QAN
sft
MV2
W
IZ
a
lllM
nirni
iHcqUL
■<• '4 - u \
Ili
i/ K
Wi
*{|tn
s
Welcome
KDanksExhibit
Jipyal Show
Come and see the latest labor-, time- and money-saving ideas for
THE MAN ON THE LAND and THE WOMAN IN THE HOME.
Up to Date Pumping with
BILLABONG PUMPS AND WINDMILLS.
NEW IDEAS IN HOME FITTINGS.
Sanitaryware Wallpaper
Kitchenware Hot-water Systems, etc.
Electric & Gas Ranges - Electric Washing Machines, etc,
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.,
MACHINERY AVENUE, SHOWGROUND, and 324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fs
H*
HAVANA CIGARS
IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES
Half Corona, £3/15/- per 100.
Samples 9d. each.
Threequarter Corona, £4/15/-per 100.
Samples 1/- each.
Full Corona, £7/10/- per 100.
Samples 1/ 6 each.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
■
m.
1
ZA
H
H
AAiMARKSL™
352 CEORCE S T SYDNEY
• AND BRANCHES*
df
An Easter Gift
'OR an enduring and beautiful friendship
1 you need an enduring and beautiful
symbol—and what more perfect in these
qualities than an Elgin Watch?
The artistry of design, wafer-like daintiness,
durable strength and unvarying accuracy of
an Elgin make it pre-eminent.
An Elgin Watch is the perfect Easter Gift.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
£
fatfwihkce!
Notice his smile when he
sees what’s for breakfast"
Anchovette on toast. It tickles
the palates of all the family, and
it’s so easily prepared. Get ajar
from your grocer to-day.
For a change try Peck’s
Salmon and Shrimp Paste.
sdf
The
delicious
Fish Paste


THE FINEST SHOT IN THE WORLD
sd
Price £5, Post Free.
MUST HAVE A RIFLE
TO MATCH HIS SKILL
itixact estimation of the range; clear definition of the sights; a steady “dead on” hold; and a
perfect trigger pressure —all the skill born of
KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IS ABSOLUTELY WASTED
unless vour Rifle is capable of consistently making small groups, placing shot after shot exactly
where you are holding, and developing confidence in the weapon that is essential to fine shooting.
The secret of the success of the new “WINCHESTER” MODEL 56, BOLT-ACTION .22 CALIBRE
MAGAZINE RIFLE lies in the fact that it is chambered in exactly the same manner as the
famous Winchester Match Rifle, Model 52, in which the bullet of the .22 Long-Rifle cartridge
is seated actually in the grooves of the rifling—central with the axis of the bore, and forming a
gas-tight check 'which conserves every atom of pressure of the powder charge.
Let us send you further information and a special leaflet “B. 56” dealing with this remarkable
weapon.
COWLES & DUNN
(The Oldest-Established Gunmakers in Australia),
M33SS. 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Mil
IBBfl
r
jj
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O. Proprietor:
One Minute Railway Station. T lyj AHERN
One Minute Wharves.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, tor Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY; 509 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Racquet and Bawl
“Bumpkin”: The Australian Davis Cup-
pers, who have taken Australian-made rac-
quets abroad with them (B. 21/2/’2B), will
miss the Australian-made tennis-ball, which
for bound, compression, size, weight and
flight is as near perfection as such a badly-
punished object can be. The effect of this
perfection is beginning to be shown in the
play of Australian cracks. Time was when
there was a delightful uncertainty about the
parabola, of a ball, and tennis was actually
more interesting and exciting to watch in
those days. Strokes were slower and rallies
longer, and the sport, as played by men like
Brookes and Wilding, was more like a lei-
surely game of chess than tennis. Nowadays
rallies of more than three strokes are rare.
The player hits at the spot where he knows
the ball ought to be with perfect confidence
and consequently the pace grows ever faster.
The champion of the future will be an auto-
mat with one killing stroke like Itanji’s
famous leg hit.
* * * *
“Robot”: Some time ago The Bulletin
chronicled the invention of a machine for
tennis practice which had been experimented
with in France by Lacoste. Another of the
type, invented by an Australian, P. Jeplison,
was recently tested at the Kooyong (Vic.)
courts by Patterson, Brugnon and Boussus.
The gadget can deliver balls—it can load
up with 800 of them—at the rate of 14 or
28 a minute, and can land them on the same
spot every time, if desired, while it can im-
part any spin or swerve. Once it is set at
the necessary angle, the player can con-
centrate on his weak shots and play these
over and over again until he has mastered his
faults. The machine does not use regret-
table language or scowl at the umpire or
linesmen, while it hasn’t got a racquet to
hurl on the ground in its temperamental
moments —it hasn’t any of these, either. If
the inventor would only go a step further
and perfect the machine to the pitch of
playing faultless all-round tennis, he will
deserve the gratitude of the nation, which
is apt to get bored with certain rather weari-
some humans who now exploit the game.
The Ins and Outs
“Lab: Ann”: L. McCabe, playing for
Grenfell (N.S.W.) against Randwick, got a
faultless 129 at such a rate that many of the
spectators felt giddy watching him. He hit
4,6, 4,4, 6 off successive balls of the last
over bowled to him, to be mercifully caught
when he made a fine attempt to hoist the
final ball for a sixer. No doubt the young
fellow has promise, but this sort of thing
really isn’t done among the elite in Sydney
to-day.
* . * * *
“W. G. Snort”: One of the reasons why
cricket is losing in popularity is to be found
in a recent revelation by Percy Fender, who
was here with the 1920-21 English XI led
by Johnny Douglas. Paying a tribute to
Hobbs, Percy told of what he called a clas-
sical instance of playing for one’s side and
not for oneself. In the last Test with Aus-
tralia, Richardson’s off-break was giving the
English batsmen “a rotten time” on a bad
wicket. Hobbs, feeling confident of his
ability to stall off the South Australian’s
attack, got to the end opposite Richardson
and stayed there, refusing to make runs, and
so preventing any of the others from having
to face his bowling. He played “eight of
Richardson’s overs and refused to score,”
says Percy admiringly. The one-time corporeal
tenements of such men as W. G. Grace,
Percy McDonnell, George Ulyett and poor
Victor Trumper must have described many
thousands of revolutions in their honored
graves when that dreary apology was
spoken.
Hs ❖ H* H?
“S.T.S.” : The position of Hendren at the
moment is an odd one. He likes Adelaide,
and it likes him; also it agrees with his
wife’s health, and there are things more un-
likely than his ultimately settling there as a
sports-outfitter. Anyway, a next-season re-
newal of his tliis-year job as S.A. cricket
coach is acceptable to both sides. The only
difficulty is, will he be coming back in a
different capacity as one of the English XI?
It seems an open question. Anybody can
pick a team. But, as I saw things on the
spot during last summer in England, there
are a lot of certainties in front of Hendren.
Holmes and Sutcliffe are a big opening pair.
So are Hobbs and Sandham (and Hendren
tells how Hobbs said at parting, “Remember
me to all in Australia, and say I’ll come
again—if I’m asked”). Hallows is perhaps
more reliable now than any of these. Ham-
mond is a more free bat, has taken the popu-
lar fancy greatly and can be considered cer-
tain. Add a wicket-keeper, and we have
seven men—with no bowling at all except
from Hammond. Surely the other four would
be bowlers —Tate, Larwood, Astill, Geary,
Kennedy, Freeman and so on, for choosing?
Make the XI into XV for touring purposes,
and you need another ’keeper and some
more of the bowling that might not squeeze
into the XI. And now observe that every
man named so far is a professional; whereas,
English ideas being what they are, an
amateur captain is a certainty, with pro-
bably two companions for him. Thus the
crush for the final places must be tremen-
dous.
* * *
“Aigburth” : It is curious how some of the
most emphatic laws of cricket are ignored
by players and umpires alike. A couple of
years ago the fact that a Victorian batsman
in a Sheffield Shield match in Sydney had
picked up a ball that wasn’t “dead” and
tossed it back to the bowler was commented
on in The Bulletin ; no one took the
slightest notice of the gross infringement of
rule 29. The Marylebone C. C. has had occa-
sion to call the attention of English clubs
to similar infractions of the rules or of
the recommendations and instructions which
carry almost as much weight in modern
cricket. One particular instance is the
very common practice of the batsman who
has played a ball patting it back to the
bowler. Eighteen years ago the M.C.C. called
attention to the fact that this was an
infringement of law 27, which forbids the
batsman to hit the ball twice under penalty
of being given out. It has recently had to
repeat the warning, in view of the fact that,
in many cases, the practice sacrifices what
should have been an easy run, especially
when the wicketkeeper is standing back.
Footbrawl
“A. 1.”: The Vic. Football League has in-
vited Association delegates to a conference
on April 20 to discuss affiliation, better con-
trol of the game and other things. It has
an idea of making the Ass. clubs second-
grade bodies, with other grades following, the
leading clubs in each grade displacing the
lowest in the grade above annually. The
scheme would make for increased interest in
the game, more especially as the weaker clubs
would battle like wild cats to the very end;
but the Ass. is unlikely to agree. It stresses
the fact that it now has a whole £164 in
the bank and a reserve fund of £522 (the
League talks in thousands) ; also it considers
TOO TEMPTING.
BINKS: “Runs a lot ter bone , don’t she?’’
SPINKS: “Yairs. Her people keeps grey’ounds ier the tin-are joints, an’ they gotter
muzzle ’em w’en she’s about.”
the League a mere upstart and itself the
parent. Technically this is correct, as the
League, when formed in ’97, “seceded” from
the Association, but “gates” tell a different
tale.
* * * S'
“Adelaide” : B.A. Football League has re-
appointed O’Halloran, K.C., as chairman,
Eric Millhouse as vice-chairman, and J. J.
Woods as “deputy vice.” The league has
practically decided that football admission-
charges must go up (like everything else in
South Aus.) from 9d. and Is. 6d. (stand)
to Is. and 2s. All the same, the annual re-
port shows that attendances and revenue
were never greater than last year.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: England has had a great
season in the Rugby Union field. The defeat
of Scotland at Twickenham, 6-0, landed the
Red Rose winners of all five internationals,
including that against the Waratahs. The
only other occasion on which this has been
done was in 1908-9, when Wales cleared the
decks, including the Wallabies in the process.
He * * *
“Gate”: The jingle of the guinea has
healed the breach between the N.S.W. and
Queensland Rugby Leagues. Queensland has
meekly accepted the N.S.W. repudiation of
the agreement as to the division of the spoils
from the English tour, and consented to re-
vert to the arrangement whereby each State
hangs on to its own “gates.” What is to
become of the “Board of Control” now that
its parents have thrown it overboard no one
seems to know, or care. There are indi-
cations that the two bodies are eager to sell
Maoriland a pup. Maoriland Leaguers said
what they thought of the English repudiation
of the arrangement not to buy Australian or
M.L. players, and so far they have not sup-
plied a list of dates for the English visit
to the Shivery Isles. Their friends on this
side are eagerly pointing out the foolishness
of going to M.L., and suggesting that the
visitors would do much better to stay in Aus-
tralia and draw a few more fat “gates” for
local consumption.
* * * *
“Swing tli’ Boot” : Rugby League leaders
in N.S.W. are complaining of the failure
of former League players to take up refer-
eeing. The League itself is to blame in some
degree for the situation, for the lot of a
referee, in Sydney football at least, has often
been more exciting than agreeable of late
years. In spite of disciplinary measures,
last season was remarkable for the number
of occasions on which the cove with the
whistle had to be escorted back to the dress-
ing-room by players or police. Indeed, since
the then leading referee was assaulted in tin
members’ stand of Sydney C. G. after a
Test match against an English team the
sanctity of the adjudicator has been increas-
ingly ignored.
* * - * $
“Old Q.”: The Toowoomba (Q.) Rugby
League, one of the most successful in the
history of the game in Queensland, has in-
vited a team from the Palm Islands to play
in Toowoomba on Easter Monday, and the
invitation has been answered with “Yo-wie,”
for the Palm Islanders are abos. The little
group lies within sight of Townsville on the
N.Q. coast, and has for some years been
used by the Queensland Government as one
of its aboriginal settlements. Many of the
indigenous inhabitants have played good foot-
ball in Queensland, though only one—and he
was a half-caste —ever gained representative
honors. Ipswich, near which is a large State
settlement of abos., used frequently to in-
clude a darky or two in the club sides. One
who played forward with the Ipswich Ran-
gers was a notable performer, especially in
the scrum on a warm day.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: The perils that be-
set a famous man are well exemplified in the
case of Bert Hinkler. When at Capua—l
mean Canberra—the man from Bundaberg
expressed a desire to learn golf. After his
first round, in which I am game to bet he
recorded a card which made his teachers
tear their own up—novices are always like
that, till they are taught how to play the
game—he was insistent on the point, with
the result that the professional at Canberra
there and then offered to make him a set of
clubs. No one who knows Tom Irving, once
of Yeerongpilly, will doubt that the clubs will
be a credit to him and the man who will
use them, but he has incurred a fearful re-
sponsibility. People should not be encour-
aged to play golf—they should drift into it,
just as they drift into crayfish and its con-
comitants. I can foresee the day when Hink-
ler wil cast aside all thoughts of taking the
air again, and will reply fiercely to any
question in that regard: “Blister it, no!
I’ll break the 100 for this round or burst!”
* * * *
“Hoylake” : The news that Walter Hagen
has entered for the British open golf cham-
pionship, after swearing he would never take
his 100 per cent. American self to the
Gahdam country again, promises some good
reading when the big event is recorded over
the cables. Hagen, though a great player,
made many enemies in Britain by “chatting”
his opponents when these were making
critical shots, and by displaying swank,
which British golfers abhor. However, he
has decided that the British “open” is still
worth trying for. Rufus Stewart and Len
Nettlefold are the only Australians in the
entry so far.
* * * *
“Tee Off”: There will be a formidable
entry for the Australian golf championships
in Sydney next September. Maoriland is
sending over Sloan Morpeth and Arthur Dun-
can ; Eustace Ileadlam will be there for
Tassy; and Legh Winser and H. Chcadle will
battle for South Australia. Ivo Wliitton,
Alex Russell and young Edgar will be among
the Victorians. A man who may surprise
in the amateur championship is J. N. Rad-
cliffe, of Queensland, who was runner-up to
Tommy Howard in the Queensland open
championship last year, when Tommy put
up an Australian record for the 72 holes.
* * * *
“Brassey”: After delays for which secre-
taries were chiefly to blame, the N.S.W. golf-
ing heads have issued a list of the standard
scratch scores for most of the Sydney clubs.
The standards fixed, so far, are: Rose Bay,
76; Bonnie Doon, 75; Concord, 74; Moore
Park, 69; Mostnan, 68; Roseville, 66. Clubs
that are still sleeping on it are requested
to wake up and forward their returns.
* * * *
“Ploughman”: Golf, as has been said, is
merely a matter of hitting a ball with a stick
and running after it to hit it again—if you
can find it. The principles which apply to
all other games involving a ball and a stick
(cricket and billiards, for instance) apply
to golf: these are to keep your eye on the
ball and to bring the stick into contact with
it in a line to the direction you wish it to
take. None of the great masters bothers
much about grip and stance, on which
pedants set such store. Bobby Jones, asked
for the secret of his success, replied that he
just looked at the ball and hit it. Later he
will have to write a book, and will, no doubt,
fall into the usual rut of advice as to the
importance of where to put one’s feet and so
on. Vardon outraged all the canons of the
purists at one time or another, and then
wrote a book. The volume is full of advice
as to the importance of correct style and
all the rest of it, but those who can remem-
ber the writer in his heyday can visualise him
writing with his tongue in his cheek —and
Vardon never lacked tongue or cheek, either.
* * * *
“Drayton”: Toowoomba (Q.) golf course
is admittedly one of the best and most pic-
turesque in Australia, and is yearly becom-
ing a greater attraction for golfers from the
coastal districts on account of the delightful
climate of the Darling Downs city. The
club’s success has been mostly due to hon.
sec. Gavin Wild, who put up a record in
raising the funds to buy half a dozen sub-
urban farms in order to round off the prop-
erty completely, and enable the laying out
of a very sporting 18-hole course. Manager
in the Commonwealth Bank at Toowoomba,
he has now been transferred to Rockhamp-
ton, and the Toowoombaites are going to
find his place very hard to fill.
* * * *
“The McHaggis” : According to a more or
less reliable American golf journal, the In-
wood golf course near New York is one of
the most famous in America, if not in the
world. Not because, like St. Andrews,
Sandwich, or Hoylake, it is a terror to the
player not in the plus class, but because of
an almost unbelievable happening years ago,
when Harry Lauder was playing a friendly
foursome. He drove a new and expensive
ball into the lake which is a feature of
the course, and left it there. I refuse to
believe it. There are several makes of
“floaters” still on the market, and I am
sure Lauder would never have risked a
course on which there is a water hazard
without using one of this make.
(Continued on next page.)


WE ARE THE AGENTS
the " bulldog "
hammerlesz
fs
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the Wonder Gun for £B/10/-
Quadruple bolted with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge.
It fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully
balanced.
HOLLOWAYS are the Rolls Royce of English Guns.
Nothing to touch them in the field or over the traps.
World famous, £l2 to £65.
THE FOX D.B. —Wonderful Hammerless, with or
without Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances.
£l3 and £l5.
WESTERN ARMS CO. Guns, £4 and £6. Great
Field Guns. A Week’s Free Trial Given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write the agents for
catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS CO. PTY., LTD.,
Hardware Merchants, 262 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE.
Agents wanted where not represented.
“The 4 Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? I s the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthlv" to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin" Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
LAores
on
GENTS
Ti
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perfect fit
guaranteed, or money
refunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY Phone 83991
df
Car and Cycle
“Chevroford” : The Speck and a Whippet
car are concerned in a new world record.
With engine sealed and starting-handle and
self-starter removed the car ran for 41 days,
32 hours longer than the previous (American)
record. Before it had finished it travelled
just about every possible road on the island
and became as well known as the post-
man.
❖ * * s»:
“Spanner”: Motor-car road races have
gone out of fashion in Britain for some
years; the last was held in 1922. But the
old international meeting for the Royal
Automobile Club’s tourist trophy is to be
revived, with £l5OO added by London Daily
Mail. Any completely equipped standard
touring car may compete on handicap, the
only proviso being that the engines must
all be self-starters. As the race will not be
run till August IS —it is to be held in Ulster
—there will be plenty of time for any as-
piring Australian to hop in.
# * * *
“Chevoford”: What is the longest skid on
record? !'•'happened to be on the spot when
a railway lorry hastening to a breakdown
on the Melbourne-Heidelberg line overturned
at the bottom of a moderately steep hill,
killing one man and injuring three others.
The driver appeared to put on his brakes half-
way down ; the rear wheels locked and the
heavy caravan tobogganed. Stepped out, the
distance from that point to where it cap-
sized was 160 yards.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Adelaide saw some great motor-
cycle racing when “Sprouts” Elder, the
Californian rider, took on Vic. Huxley and
Dick Smythe, of Queensland, in a match
race over a mile. Elder, riding an A.J.S.,
won in 65 4-ssec., which is claimed as a
world’s record for a single-cylinder machine
on a dirt track. Elder is off to England
to compete in the dirt-track competitions
already referred to in The Bulletin, and
Smythe will follow as soon as he has ob-
tained his passport, for which he will have
to return to Brisbane. Most of the leading
riders at the Adelaide championships have
received similar offers from the body control-
ling the newly-organised sport in England.
=l= * * *
“Machete”: Brisbane Motor-cycle Club
has held a unique race meeting at the
ocean beach on Bribie, a long narrow island
stretching north from the northernmost
end of Moreton Bay. The racing was held
at low water, and the hard, wet sands
made an ideal track most of the time,
while some good speeds were attained.
The course was a mile in two half-mile
straights, with hairpin turns at each end.
E. Smythe, riding an Ariel, was the best
performer of the day • he reached 70 m.p.h.
on a couple of occasions, the handiness of
his little machine at the turns being a big
factor in his success. He won the final of
the two miles handicap off the 29sec. mark
in 2min. 46 l-ssec.; but A. R. Walton, riding
a big Sunbeam off scratch, turned the tables
in the five-miles open handicap, which the
Sunbeam won in 7min. 12 l-ssec. Smythe
was unseated at the final turn, but recovered
and chased the winner home.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: J. Standen and D. Gray, the
two N.S.W. amateur cyclists who were
ignored by the Olympic selection committee
in favor of flapper swimmers and the like,
had _ a very successful tour in Maoriland.
Racing at 14 meetings the pair won 44 first
prizes between them ; Standen took 21 firsts
and 11 seconds, and Gray 23 firsts and 11
seconds. Standen’s best ride was an un-
paced quarter-mile from a standing start in
.29 4-ssec.; Gray did a quarter unpaced with
a flying start in 25 4-ssec. Just off the
boat Standen competed in the 10-miles
amateur championship of N.S.W. at Goul-
burn, and won in 21min. 25sec. —very fast
time for a dirt track, even though the race
was paced by tandem cyclists.
Miscellaneous
“P ot The White”: The argument between
Willie Smith and Walter Lindrum is rather
suggestive of two tykes fighting down op-
posite sides of a paling fence which, as
both know, prevents them from getting at
one another. But dawgs so situated some-
times come unexpectedly to an opening
which leaves each the choice of fighting or
fleeing. Nothing. of this sort has happened
to the rival billiardists yet. Lindrum has
made a definite offer to put up a £lOOO
wager and find £2OO expenses for Smith
the latter to play in Australia with com-
position balls. Smith, who was asking for
talk about money, has shifted his ground
now that he has heard it, and demands two
matches, one in Australia and one in Eng-
land, for the same stake. Australians who
have seen both men play are positive that
Walter is Willie’s superior at any point of
the game, but that can’t be definitely settled
till the coy pair meet.
* * * *
“Kerys’’: White-Wickham, a London
enthusiast who spends a large part of his
time in Maoriland waters, has landed the
world’s record thresher shark—a 36-footer
with a girth of over six feet, the weight
being 8321 b. The fish fought for five hours
and a half and provided an 11-mile tow
before succumbing to the harpoon. Thresher
sharks are not often seen in M.L. seas, their
haunts being well out along the whale
track, which, legend says, runs in a straight
line from two rocks between which every
self-respecting whale on the Maoriland run
passes before journeying down the coast.
❖ * i\i Hi
“Old Q.” : In the champion eights of the
Brisbane River, the blue ribbon of the row-
ing year in that keen centre of oarsmen, the
G.P.S. Old Boys beat Brisbane by half a
length, the two miles being cut out in lOmin.
32sec.; the first mile took only smin. 7sec.
The Toowong reach is flanked by a wide
esplanade on top of the high river bank.
Along this motorists and runners exhorted
their favorites to greater efforts from start
to finish. Probably nowhere else in Aus-
tralia could a scene of this sort be witnessed.
Jc * Jfc $
“Nedlands”: If Adelaide Uni.’s rowing
selectors are already on the job (B. 22/2/’2B),
the Westralian authorities have not been
idle. In point of fact, they have had their
provisional selection afloat for months. Only
two of the 1927 crew are in the boat, but
the new combination has already proved
that the defence of the Oxford and Cam-
bridge Cup will be in worthy hands. Row-
ing against the senior eights of all the
leading clubs, and in a practice eight at
that, the Uni. crew raced neck and neck with
the W.A.R.C. boat throughout the journey,
to be beaten by a bare canvas at the end.
West’s crew, by the way, was stroked by
George Rogers, veteran of many inter-State
regattas, who is a wonder for a man of
his years.
* * * *
“Yon Splaschmann”: Gustav Froelich,
who has been giving masterly exhibitions of
backstroke swimming throughout Australia,
has made up his mind to settle in this coun-
try after a flying visit to Samoa, where he
was born. He has decided to live in Mel-
bourne, and liis presence there should do a
lot of good for Victorian swimming, at pre-
sent at rather a low ebb. He is a fine free-
style swimmer, as well as one of the best
of present-day backstroke experts.
❖ * ❖ *
“Barracker”: Despite what Melbourne
Age and one of the mile-race officials have
stated, Ena Stockley was never in front of
Bonnie Mealing at any stage of the race for
the 100yds. backstroke championship. This
is vouched for by four members of tli *
N.S.W. team. When Bonnie bored into the
Maorilander she was an arm’s length to the
good. “Spoof” (B. 17/3/’2B) isn’t truth-
ful enough to admit that the spot where she
struck the wall was several yards past the
finishing rope. Regarding Ena Stockley's
challenge to swim Bonnie Mealing any time
and anywhere, “Spoof” knows, and Ena
GEORGE PRICE, the N.S.W. trainer, who
is having another successful year.
Stockley knows, that challenge races are not
allowable. Miss Stockley’s letter arrived on
Thursday, March 8, at 11 a.m.; a few hours
afterwards I suggested to her that she meet
Bonnie at the Telephone Ladies’ Club car-
nival on March 10. Miss Stockley pointed
out that this could not be arranged because
she was sailing for home next day. On
behalf of Bonnie’s club, I then offered to
defray the whole of Miss Stockley’s expenses
if she remained in Sydney and met Bonnie.
This proposal was also turned down,
s * * *
“Snore”: The Olympic authorities have,
in addition to leaving the raising of funds to
the last nioment, decided on a course of
action which seems to be quite outside their
province. This is the exaction of an agree-
ment in which every member of the team
agrees to forfeit £360 should he or she turn
professional within two years after return-
ing from the Games. The athlete is also
bound to return with the rest of the team,
and to refrain from written or verbal com-
munication with the press. The latter
clauses are desirable enough in their way,
S.N. WATSON,
winner of the Vic. King’s Prize.
but why an athlete who has played his part
in the Games should be compelled to return
when he has performed the service he was
sent over to do is not quite apparent. The
indemnity clause is nothing short of an im-
pertinence. If an athlete—again after he
has played the part required of him—is so
foolish as to turn professional, what business
is it of the Olympic Council’s? Anyone
inclined to do so will probably take the
course without fear of the resuit, for it is
very doubtful whether an undertaking ob-
tained under what is practically duress will
be worth the paper it is written on, quite
apart from the question of the Council’s
right to extort it.
* * jjc
“Chev. ’: S. N. Watson, of the Melbourne
Rifle Club, who is this year’s Victorian
King’s Prize-man, began hitting the bull’s-
eye with the South Bendigo club in 1917.
In 1923 he won the King’s Prize in Sydney,
and in 1924 scored the Longfield aggregate
in the same city. He was Vic. champion in
1924. In winning the £lOO and badge the
other day in Melbourne Watson completed
a score of 326 points. His last day’s effort
of 44, including 5 bulls, was made in the
teeth of a terrific gale and blinding squalls of
rain—the sort of weather that made other
seasoned shots lire off their final with their
eyes shut.
* * * *
. “Ride Off”: The old argument as to who
introduced polo into Australia has cropped
up again, this time in South Aus. It is
asserted that the game was started there in
1874 by Lancelot Stirling, and that it thence
spread to Victoria. But in memoirs pub-
lished some years ago Colonel Quentin, of
u RRh. Hussars, claimed to have pioneered
the pastime in this country late in the ’6o’s.
He was in the habit of coming over on short
leave from India to see the Melbourne Cup
as many officers in India did, and still do!
1 010 had not long been introduced into the
British Army in India, and Quentin was an
enthusiast. He formed a team in Melbourne
and coached the players before going back
to duty with his regiment. As he subse-
quently paid several visits to Australia in
connection with the buying of remounts for
the Indian Army, he had opportunities of
seeing how th e seed of his planting
flourished. &
* * * *
No. 3”: The N.S.W. polo authorities
have received a cable from the Indian Army
Association stating that six players will
reach Sydney by the middle of June to take
part m the Dudley Cup contests, and
arrangements are now in hand for their re-
ception As the N.S.W. body has under-
taken to horse the visitors, it is asking all
polo-players for help in this direction. Onlv
good-class ponies that have been played in
tournaments will be accepted, and it is im-
perative _ that these should be brought to
Sydney in good time, to allow them to be
gotanto playing condition before the visitors
arrive. “
Business, Robbery, etc.
There’s a better time coming for motorists.
Hitherto the C.O.R. has hardly touched
N.S.W., but supplies are larger now, and
home-made bowsers are going up in most
parts of the State. And on top of that a
price-war threatens among U.S.A. cos.
themselves, owing to the threatened early
arrival of the Great Atlantic Union Co.
sjc X
“Tamornie”: Tell “Up Top” that the rib-
bon-stone he mentions (B. 22/2/’2B), and
from which lie suggests that ornaments be
made, lias been used for that purpose for
many years past. I bought sleeve-links, pins
and brooches in which the stuff! was used
from a hawker in Western Queensland,
whose annual visits are an event and who
collects good specimens of stone to be taken
to Sydney and mounted. I understand that
ribbon-stone is very difficult to work on
account of its extreme hardness.
* * * *
“J. By.” : Two years ago a teacher of car-
pentry at the Technical School, Launceston,
on being asked a high price for a tennis rac-
quet, declared he’d make one for himself. He
did, and succeeded so well that he was asked
to make racquets for several of his friends.
To-day lie employs dozens of hands and
turns out 800 racquets per week, which tind
a ready sale, not only in the Commonwealth
but in M.L. and even South Africa. Aus-
tralian woods are used as far as possible,
but English ash is found more suitable for
the frame.
* * * *
“Two Seas”: Somebody recently com-
plained that post-marks, particularly on
letters posted in the country, are largely
undecipherable; it might be added that a
fair number of letters get through without
bearing anything in the way of a post-mark.
Last week I found my friend McSwivel soak-
ing an undefaced stamp off an envelope.
“This is the third I have received this
week,” he chuckled as he spread it carefully
on the blotting-pad to dry.
* * * *
“Ohm’s Law”: The claim recently made
that a ’phone call from Lulea, in Sweden, to
Paris —2280 miles —was the longest on re-
cord won’t bear investigation. Recently a
resident, of Cairns chatted to a friend in
Adelaide over 2770 miles of Mr. Gibson's
metallic circuits.
* * * *
“Tariff”: Khaki uniforms have been the
summer wear for tramwaymen (B. 14/3/’2B)
for many years in Adelaide. All the multi-
farious traffic officials, from the chief-
inspector to the men who clean the points,
wear cool-looking jackets of this material.
On Mondays, however, regulations allow
either blue serge or khaki tunics to be worn
to enable the washable khaki to have its
weekly bath.
“Keg”: The Sydney tramway uniform is
not unsuitable (B. 14/3/’2B). Khaki might
be cooler and keep cleaner than serge in cor-
ridor cars, but a Sydney footboard would
soon play havoc with it. What is really
wanted is a departmental cleaning depot
with compulsory cleaning at a reasonable
cost; Bs. 6d. to cleaners is too stiff a price
for the average trammie. Incidentally, the
service cap is the most unsuitable headgear
possible ; when pulled down on the forehead
on a windy day its vice-like grip is pretty
sure to induce a headache.
* * * *
“Tariff” ; The “cross between a motor-car
on wheels and a railway carriage” for which
“Clerk” gives the enterprising Clapp the
credit (B. 14/3/’2B) has been in use in South
Aus. for a number of years. These inven-
tions were first imported by Barwell, and are
used on lines which have not sufficient pas-
senger traffic to need a steam rattler. Locally
they are known as “Barwell bulls,” from the
characteristic bellow of their klaxons. Those
which have been turned out at Islington,
using the imported cars as models, are mack
entirely of steel and are reckoned to be
superior to the originals.
* ■ * * *
“Imbaga”: Papua is about to enter the
field of secondary industry with a factory
for preparing desiccated cocoanut, for which
there is a world-wide demand. Most of the
present supply comes from Ceylon and the
F.M.S. It is hoped that Papua will begin by
filling Australia’s considerable requirements
for confectionery and other flavoring, now
that the Federal Government has lifted the
embargo on produce from the Possession.
Harrison, Crossfield and Co., of England,
big dealers in tropical produce, are fathering
the project, and the plant will be erected in
the Aroa district in Redscar Bay, n.-w. of
Port Moresby; it is intended to turn out
3500 tons of desiccated cocoanut per annum.
* * * *
“Ula”: An _ Australasian fruit-canning
record was achieved at the Australian Jain
Co.’s plant in Melbourne the other day. In
an approximate working day of 13 hours no
fewer than 8228 cases of peaches were recon-
structed into 221,938 cans.


that turned FRICTION into FICTION
R|M
MADE IN 4/ ENGLAND
BALL and ROLLER
BEARINGS
THE success that has attended the de-
signers and manufacturers of these
British Bearings is reflected in ' the
constant improvements in automobile
engines. Complete protection against
friction, thrust and shock has resulted in
smoother running, more economical and
longer-lived cars.
So reliable and durable have R. & M.
Bearings proved themselves for Automo-
bile application that they are used by 80
per cent, of British Motor-car Manufac-
turers.
The monster 1000-h.p. Sunbeam Car, now
in Australia, in which Major Segrave
attained the phenomenal speed of 203
m.p.h., is fitted throughout with R. & M.
British Bearings.
Insist on R. & M. Bearings British and
Best.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and Distributors: —-
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY., LTD,
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
S. AUS. AGENTS: ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO.,
LTD., Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
TASMANIAN AGENTS: W. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO.,
LTD., BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
W. AUS. AGENTS (Automotive):
COVENTRY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., PERTH.
(Industrial) : FLOWER, DAVIES
AND JOHNSON, LTD., PERTH.
**- *r *
ii
<• '
IP
Seie If 1
tyhmm
n
: v-'j
FAGAN
?’ -y
4B>k 'itfSL
U. S. ROYAL CORD TYRES ARE GOOD TYRES
reasons
m
(1) Because the builders of ROYAL CORDS own
vast rubber estates there is plenty of rubber in
ROYAL CORDS.
(2) Because pure rubber latex is used, it is the right
kind of rubber.
(3) Because the web cord fabric is impregnated with
sprayed rubber, you are sure of rubber in the
right places.
(4) Because there is no tyre-building plant in the
world to equal the U.S. Plant.
(5) Because a ROYAL CORD can’t help outliving
all other tyres.
(6) Because the ROYAL CORD is, of necessity, the
best balanced tyre made.
8
in
UNITED STATES
ROYAL
CORDS
DISTRIBUTORS:
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 439 Kent St., Sydney.—Tel. M 2031 (4 lines).
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 102 Victoria St.. Carlton, Melbourne.—
Teh F 5783, F 5784.
United States Rubber Co. (A/sia), Ltd., 11l Margaret St., Brisbane.—Tel. 4200.
United States Rubber Co (A/sia), Ltd, 195 Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tel. 6246. /
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., 984 Hay St., Perth.—Tel. A 3161 (4 lines). /
Australian Automotive Agencies, Ltd., Townsville. —
Tel. Central 980.
BY APPOINTMENT
Mappin&A^bb
x x LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
, JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of being one
of the oldest Firms of Gold and Silversmiths,
Jewellers, etc., in the world, and they extend a
cordial invitation to Visitors from the Common-
wealth to call at their Showrooms when in London.
The West End showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the Leading Hotels; the City showrooms
are opposite the Mansion House, and quite near the
Guildhall, St. Paul’s Cathedral, and the Tower of
London.
m
» rwm
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of Tea and
Coffee Services in Prince’s Plate and Sterling Silver,
at prices to suit all purses and styles to suit any
period of decoration.
LTD,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St., W. 1., 172 Resent St., W. 1., 2 Queen Victoria St., E.C.4.
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
sf
THE“LONGREACH”
STOCK SADDLE,
Comfortable as an Old Shoe
right from the start.
THE “LONGREACH” needs no breaking-in period,
and is designed throughout to give increased comfort
to both horse and rider. The pads are shaped differ-
ently to the orthodox stock knee pad and give a good
security for rough riding. The workmanship and
materials are first-class throughout and it is fitted
with folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
4-bar stirrups.
£/16/10
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
are guaranteed kangaroo
leather right through, with
inside plaited belly.
Thongs.
12-plait ..
16-plait
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. Oft.
.. 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
.. 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
.. 26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH
ORDER TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY
STATION.
WHIPS
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Loaded handles for 9ft.
thongs are 1/6 more.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
WRITE FOR OUR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.


24,855—Dainty 6-
Stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with
fine-quality, double-
cut Brilliant
Diamonds. Prom
£lO/10/-
24,853 —Dainty 6-
Stone Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Setting, set with
fine double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds.
From £l2/10/-
24,845 All-Plati-
num Square Clus-
ter, set with fine
quality, double-cut
Brilliant Diamonds.
From £27/10/-
24,849 All-Plati-
num Cluster, with
Diamond-set Shoul-
ders, set with fine-
quality Brilliant
Diamonds. From
£4O.
for DIAMONDS
OF QUALITY AND VALUE
Catanach’s—Australia’s Leading Diamond House—are
Diamond Specialists of many years’ standing, and every
one of their magnificent Diamond Rings carries a
WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Catalog Post Free on Request.
CR. ROYAL ARCADE & LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE, C.l, VICTORIA.
24,826 4 Fine
Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
settings. From
£25.
24,829 —22 Dia-
mond Cluster,
18et. Gold and
Platinum Settings,
£2O.
24,847 All-Plati-
num Octagonal
Cluster, Close-set
Centre, set with
fine-quality, double-
cut Brilliant
Diamonds, From
£35.
WXWfSg
24,850 All-Plati-
num Solitaire
Ring, in variety of
designs, set with
fine Brilliant Dia-
mond. From £3O.
W.-McF.
Melbourne
Chatter
At Moonec Valley on Saturday the attend ■
ance was unusually large. A warm clay
with a stuffy atmosphere precipitated a re-
turn on the part of the leg-revealing sex to
light apparel and the ensemble gown, but
the meeting was by no means a dress parade.
Bert Hinkler was the guest of the com-
mittee at luncheon, but dodged away after
seeing a couple of races. Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn, in enamel green, was there with Com-
mander Graham Browne’s wife, who wore
beige crepe de Chine of sporty cut. Amongst
others on the lawn were the John Winter
Irving couple; Mrs. J. S. Gumming and her
daughter Margaret, with Iris Connolly ; Mrs.
Leslie Macdonald. Mrs. L. K. S. Mackinnon,
the Premier and Mrs. Hogan, she wearing a
navy- and white-flowered frock and a stone-
colored felt hat; Dr. Stan Argyle and his
wife, Mrs. A. V. Kevvney, the Clive Leonards,
Lorna Hiskens and Mrs. Merson Cooper.
Scots Church in Collins-strcet, dressed
bravely in flowers and ribbons, was a centre
of feminine interest on Thursday afternoon,
when Nancy, younger daughter of Irvine,
C.J., and liis lady, accepted as a husband
lan Dudley, elder soil of the Dudley Hay-
ward couple of Strangways, North Adel-
aide. The bride wore a long-skirted ivory
satin gown embroidered and girdled with
pearls. A veil of rare lace surmounted by
clouds of white tulle floated around and a
sheaf of pink and white tiger lilies was car-
ried. Claire Salmon, of Geelong, and Marie
Greene attended their friend in tuckings of
pink silk net with felt hats of the same hue,
holding roseate posies tied with silver lace to
match their shimmering sashes. The State
Governor and Lady Somers, she in biscuit-
shaded georgette and lace, with millinery
to match, were amongst those who witnessed
the ceremony. There were rejoicings after-
wards at the home of the Rupert Greene
couple at Toorak, lent for the occasion.
The latest R.A.N. officer to stand at at-
tention before the altar is Lieutenant Philip
Bailhache, third son of the H. W. Bail-
liaches of Upper Hawthorn, who waited
in St. John’s, Toorak, for his bride, Ethel
Frances, elder daughter of the W. F. Ermine
couple. A cobwebby garment of Brussels
net, over which floated a cloud of silk tulle
garnished with orange blossoms, surrounded
the bride, and she carried a sheaf of water-
lilies. Two golden ’maids —the bridegroom’s
sister Dorothy and the bride’s cousin Dorothy
Sell —attended her.
James Purves handed his niece Hilary
Rolls into the safe-keeping of Leslie Bridge-
man Furze-Morrish at St. John’s, Toorak,
one day last week, to the accompaniment
of a downpour of rain. The bride, who is
the younger daughter of the D. Steven Rolls
couple of Toorak, Is a brunette, tall and
slim, who looked very attractive in a lengthy
robe of ivory satin, trailing old Venetian
lace with cascades of white tulle. Sister
Joyce Rolls, whose taffeta frock, crin. hat and
posy were all pink, was the attendant ’maid.
There was a celebration at the home of the
James Purves couple, where Mrs. Rolls
welcomed many guests.
A wmil of protest from the hunting crowd
greeted the announcement that Mary Bates
had engaged herself to W. Geddes, of Auck-
land (M.L.), eldest brother of her sister’s
husband, McKail Geddes. She was visiting
the McKail Geddeses when the ring episode
occurred. Mary Bates will be missed by
the hunt, for she is an enthusiastic horse-
woman and can more than hold her own*
on a polo pony. Some years back, with
sister Sylvia’s assistance, a team was got
together and the girls used to enjoy their
game at Blossom Park, Auntie Belle Reid’s
home.
The Austral Salon reviewed its year at a
social gathering in which Lady Somers
played the principal part. It was her Ex.’s
first visit to the salon, and the president,
Mrs. Thomas Baker, wearing black georgette
and lace, handed to the v.-r. guest a posy
of dahlias that blended nicely with the lady’s
royal blue georgette draperies. The lion,
sec., Mrs. Quinnell, in a gown of sapphire-
blue velvet, also spoke words of greeting.
Lilian Paton, Cecil Parkes with his fiddle,
Molly Warden, Margaret Kerr in mono-
logues, and some others entertained the
guests after the business of the evening had
been got through, and at the end there w r as
a rattle of coffee cups.
The arrangements made in honor of Hint
ler at the Princess Theatre were quit*
worthy of the occasion. The house was
dressed with flags and festoons of blue and
red, forming a canopy over the stalls and
draped round the d.c. balconies and boxes;
the Aero Force badge marked the box occu-
pied by the airman and his mother, and a
bower of wattle covered the orchestral well.
Dark-blue shields bore the names of the
stopping-places between London and Bunda-
berg. It was an Aero Club night, following
the club's dinner to the hero of the hour, and
the performance was delayed while Betty
Boss Clarke presented a bouquet of pink
gladioli to Mrs. Hinkler. During an inter-
val a baritone took his stance in one of the
boxes and sang “Hustling Hinkler” amid
great enthusiasm. After the final curtain
Miss Clarke read a poem composed for the
occasion, and president C. N. McKay, of
the Aero Club, handed Hinkler a life-mem
bership badge. A Will Dyson sketch of the
flyer and a model of his famous 'plane that;
hung over the stage were auctioned, bringing
in £7B 10s. for the Hinkler Fund. The
Aero Club members and their womenfolk re-
mained for a dance and supper on the stage.
In the audience were Premier Hogan and
his wife, she having a pink shoulder posy
on a black frock; Rear-Admiral Napier,
General Clmuvel; Mrs. C. N. McKay, in
gown of deep cream georgette and filmy
lace; and the A.C. sec.
Lady Grey Egerton, who is now on her
way back to Europe with her husband, gave
a farewell tea party at Menzies’ on Friday.
The lady has been renewing acquaintance
with Australian friends for nearly six
months. The hostess was in black chiffon
brightened with pink; and wore a black felt
hat with sparkling trimming. Her daughter,
Mrs. Reggie Power, who was accompanied
by her scliool-girl chick, chose a magpie effect
in floral silk, with a harmonising hat. An-
other daughter, Mrs. W. St. L. Robertson,
and Mrs. T. Gumming, mother of Lady
Egerton, were there. Dame Nellie Melba
graced the party in an ensemble gown and
millinery of burgundy and stone grey; and
the Lawford lady’s spft grey gown was
topped by a pink hat. Mrs. Herbert Power,
the Miller lady, and Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke
and daughter Wilma were also guests.
At Cliveden on Wednesday a luncheon
and bridge party was given by Mrs. Merson
Cooper, the guests of honor being the Tallis
lady and her daughter Biddy, bound for a
holiday in U.S.A.; Mrs. Percy Russell and
Mrs. Philip Glass, who are to sail for
Europe shortly, and Nina Glass, who will
make her home in Sydney during her par-
ents’ sojourn abroad. The hostess wore a
beige pink gown with embroideries of deeper
hue and silver, topped by a felt hat. Mayor-
ess Morell, Mrs. Rogers-Thomson and Mrs.
A. Wray were among the throng. Mrs.
Wray will shortly undertake a trip ro
Colombo, where she will meet her small son
and daughter, who were left at school in
England, and are coming out to rejoin their
parents, who are likely to be in Australia
for a lengthy period.
Mrs. John Jones, pictured here by Lafay-
ette, is a clergyman’s wife who has for some
years held a
leading place
in the Women
Citizens’ move-
ment. She is
also a member
of the National
Council of
Women, tli e
council of the
Girls’ Friendly
Society an d
the board of
directors of
the Y.W.C.A.
Prior to her
marriage with
the rector of
All Saints’, St.
Kilda, Mrs.
Jones was
principal of a
pupil teachers’
school at
Stoke - o n -
Trent, England.
As the mother of a Digger who has re-
flected honor on his native land, Mrs. Hink-
ler was entertained by the Sailors and Sol-
diers’ womenfolk at a tea-drinking at Anzac
House on Wednesday afternoon. Mrs. Col-
lins, the president of the association, handed
over to the Queensland visitor a nice posy,
an autograph-book bearing the signatures ot
all the three hundred present, and a life-
membership badge. Mrs. Hinkler is the
second life-member, the first being the Coun-
tess of Stradbroke. Mrs. Bonney replied on
behalf of Mrs. Hinkler.
About 160 teachers gathered at the
Lyceum Club rooms one evening last week
to congratulate Julia Flynn on her pro-
motion to the highest educational rank yet
atained by a woman in this State. There
were many speeches, and Gertrude Healy,
Doris H addon and Muriel Cheek made
music.
The Firm's brief Gilbert and Sullivan
season opened with “The Gondoliers" on
Saturday night to a crowded house. Wini-
fred Williamson as the Duchess of Plaza-
Toro wore her crinoline with an air. and
Strella Wilson made a stately and handsome
Casilda whose brightness found an effective
foil in the suit of solemn black and huge
sable headgear of the Grand Inquisitor.
Albert-street Con. students hailed with glee
their recent companion Lilian Crisp, who
made her bow as Gianetta. She made a
decided hit and looked very attractive in a
pink frock with a flowered polonaise. Mabel
Gibson made a pretty picture in green and
white. At the curtain the stage looked like
a flower show. Robert Best and his lady
with a daughter had possession of a box and
a selection of Taits smiled approval next
door. Mrs. Phillip Glass, who was with her
husband and Nina, wore a gold and black
wrap that shed brightness over the somewhat
sombrely clad reserved stalls. In the d.-c.
Mrs. Norcott, formerly Ida Osborne, a leading
light in G. and S. operas, Mrs. T. A. Tabart
and the Percy Blackbourns were interested
onlookers.
This is a face familiar in many naval
depots of Australia. It belongs to Lieut.-
Commander Bob Fulton, just retired after
40 years of
service. As a
naval cadet he
joined the
cruiser Pr o-
tector, a n d
was still one
of lx e r com-
pany in 1000
when she was
ordered to
Chi n a. II e
took a hand in
subduing the
Boxer rebel-
lion and saw
strange doings
in beleaguered
Pekin. From
1932 he was
Assistant Dis-
trict Naval
Officer at Fre-
ni a nt le, and
when Edward
P. came along was removed to a similar
post in Albany. The last part of his service
was done in this State, the final term being
served in Geelong. A South Australian by
birth, he married Harriet Thomas, who
died last year. Like most retired sailormen
his hobby is gardening, and the evening of
his days will be devoted to keeping the
grounds of a Glen Iris bungalow ship-
shape. Ruskin made the portrait.
A goodly crowd trooped into the Cairo
on Wednesday evening to see Joseph Cun-
ningham’s company play “A Week End,” in
which a bunch of young Australians had
parts. Toney Seymour, as a French and
flighty girl, wore a smart black and white
wrap coat, topped with black millinery, and
later changed into an airy black lace gar-
ment that did not pretend to conceal a
scanty flesh-toned underslip. Beatrice Fisher,
as the innocent wife of an erring husband, on
removing an opulent-looking furred coat dis-
closed a vivid .lumper suit of vermilion
panne. The part of her companion was taken
by Marjorie Jacoby, who wore a draped
frock of apple-green crgpe Romaine. There
were posies for everybody at the final
curtain.
Dr. Sugden, for the last 40 years principal
of Queen’s College, was handed a cheque
for over £l9OO on relinquishing his post. He
is booked for a trip to Europe with his wife
and two daughters. Two of his old friends
have purchased a motor-car which will await
him in London, and have also undertaken to
defray all Tunning expenses during the tour,
after which the vehicle will be shipped to
Australia free of cost.
A welcome addition to the musical circle
is Claude E. Monteatli, formerly of Bris-
bane, an organist of merit who has taken
up duties at St. Peter’s, Eastern Hill. Be-
ginning shortly after Easter a series of
organ recitals by him will be broadcast by
3LO from this church, the organ of which
is a replica of that used by the London
Royal College of Music for its examinations.
Mr. Monteath, who served in the A.I.F.
during the Great War and was badly knocked
about in action, is an associate of the
R.C.M. and a Fellow of the Royal College
of Organists. Llis teacher in Australia was
George Sampson, of Brisbane.
After many years of absence, Harrie
Dowie has determined to revisit his native
England, and Junction Lodge, the Caris-
brook home, will be deserted, as Mrs. Harrie
and daughters Marjorie and Jean will
accompany him. On arrival their first visit
will be to Mr. Dowie’s cousin, Lord Inver-
forth. Meanwhile the Dowies are struggling
through a stream of send-offs, being residents
of many years’ standing in the Maryborough
district, where Mrs. Dowie, formerly an
Outtrim, has many relatives.
By a slip of the pen in a recent paragraph
on this page it was made to appear that
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer had given a scholarship
to the London College of Music. It was?
given to the Associated Board of the R.A.M.
and R.C.M.
Colonel Speed’s quiet home in Geelong is
thrilled by the accounts received of daughter
Gladys’s travels in Africa. She has steamed
over the Drakenburg mountains, peered into
the perspiring towns perched along the east
coast, and trekked into the interior. So far
she has dodged malaria. The people she has
met include the Governor-General and Prin-
cess Louise. Miss Speed will board a home-
coming liner in May.
Lucy Duncan has returned home on a
visit to her family after five years’ absence
in the Mikado’s country. The World’s
Fellowship movement sent her to Nippon to
instruct Japanese girls, and for IS months
after her arrival she spent most of her time
wrestling with the language. The Tokio up-
heaval occurred before she had attained
fluency. Her classes in Kyoto proved very
popular once she got started, and when Miss
Duncan left every one of her pupils was
busily plying a tatting shuttle and using
the product to garnish her undies.
A passenger for Blighty this month is Mrs.
Champion de Crespigny, and her son Claude.
It is their intention to make a long call on
the airman of the family, Squadron-Leader
H. V. de Crespigny, now stationed at Nor-
flock.
The familiar figure of Victor Champion,
who died on Sunday morning, will be missed
by theatregoers. Twenty years back he
came to this country with his wife, and for
the last 15 years he has been a valued mem-
ber of the Firm’s orchestral organisation.
He last waved his baton over the score of
“The Student Trince,” and, fighting hard
against the illness to which he succumbed,
he just managed to see the Melbourne season
out. His only child, a son, is on his way
to England, but his wife, a sister of Mrs.
Andrew Drummond, was with him at Mt.
St. Evin’s when the end came.
Mary Wilkinson has decided to swell the
May list of departures, and the literary-
minded members of the community are
mourning her decision, for her recitals of
poetry were an oasis in an intellectual desert.
A verse-writer of considerable talent, she
has lately interested herself in the art of
dramatic expression. She takes with her a
number of untried plays which she proposes
to introduce to the notice of repertory
societies in the Cold Country.
The James Officers, having sold their Wan-
garatta estate, are filling in the period before
their sailing by a round of visits in Vic-
toria and Tassy. In London daughter
Audrey has an appointment in a church with
her cousin Harry Officer, already on the
spot, and her mother is going with her to
see the ceremony.
Dr. Taylor Downie’s wife and daughter
Janet will sail on the Oronsay next month
for the Cold Country. A son, Dr. Ewan
Downie, is doing post-graduate work in
London and is anxiously expecting them.
Afterwards the voyagers propose to sample
the sunshine of Southern Europe.
Some kindly women, mobilised by the
Masson lady, have undertaken to keep a big
sisterly .eye on any proteges of the Big
Brother movement who, through accident or
illness, may be sent to hospital in Melbourne.
The latest addition to our feminine in-
stitutions is the Ivallara Bridge Club, which
has its quarters in Park-street, South Yarra.
The members had a house-warming on Thurs-
day, and many guests took tea and admired
the grey-blue walls and deeper-hued furnish-
ings. An exhibition of water-colors and
etchings by leading artists was a feature
of the opening.
By his will, made public last week, the
late J. H. Hewitt, printer, of Ascotvale, sets
aside a large portion of his estate to build
a hostel, witli art gallery, library and a fine
garden, for Protestant working girls from 16
to 30 years of age in need of a holiday.
Sent to America on a mission that lasted
many months, a young architect of this city,
J. Gould King, not only got a lot of new
ideas about hospital planning but found a
wife at Watertown, Conn. The couple are
honeymooning in Europe.
Fellow-students at Newman College have
been showering congratulations on Byron
Bailey, son of the Minister for Lands, who
has just passed his final exams, for medi-
cine and surgery. He was a brilliant student
at St. Pat.’s College, Ballarat, before taking
up medicine a little over five years ago.
Melbourne Club members are breathing
more easily now that the buildings immedi-
ately to the east of their quarters in Col-
lins-street have been transformed into
modern professional chambers. They were
old-style terrace houses, and there was
always a fear that they might become hash-
foundries if left unimproved. On the west
side of the club shop fronts were tacked to
similar buildings, but for some reason—pos-
sibly high rents—they are not rushed. What
would Collins-street East do for swank if
Melb. Club decided to shift its quarters?


PEARLS
Specialists in FINE, PEARLS
PEARL NECKLACES
Largest Selection in Australasia.
Small Graduated Strands from £lO
Larger Necklaces from £lOO to £5OOO.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A selection of Loose Round Pearls of Finest
Quality is always maintained for Adding
to Customers' own Necklaces.
Mail Inquiries receive Prompt
Attention.
Five per cent. Discount for Cash.
An experienced staff attends
to the Cleaning and Re-
Stringing of Pearl
Necklaces on
the premises.
Wm.DRUMMOND £ CO.
THE HOUSE FOR FINE PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
sd
New
Energy
with Sanatogen
Energy, bodily health and nerve strength!
These are the secrets of those happy,
exceptional days when "everything seems
to go right,” when you have an unwonted
feeling of vigour.
With Sanatogen you will work better,
feel better, and be able to enjoy your
leisure hours to the full.
Start to-day with
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH. ENGLAND.
A. SAUNDERS’
QUALITY ? JEWELLERY
SPECIALLY-SELECTED DIAMONDS.
A. Saunders’
Diamonds, Octa-
gon-shaped Plati-
num-set 18et.
Oold Ring,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS'
4 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ot. Gold Rin
A. SAUNDERS'
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Oold Ring
£25
A. SAUNDERS'
3 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
18ct. Gold Ring,
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wrist Watch,
fully jewelled Lever movement. Silk Band.
£3
GUARANTEED.
saa
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Elgin Lever
Strap Watch,
£5/10/-
Luminoiis Dial, £6/10/-
SmaUer size, 9ct. Gold, £B/10/-
Luminous Dial, £lO,
ALL GUARANTEED.
A. SAUNDERS’ Lady's Oct. Gold jewelled Lever
Watch, Silk Wristband,
£6/10/-
GUARANTEED.
Other fancy shapes—
£3/10/-, £4/10/-, £5/10/-to £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Cluster
set Platinum
18ct. Cold Ring,
£3O
Larger Diamond,
£4O
A. SAUNDERS'
Single Diamond
Octa'gon-shapecl
Platinum-set
18ft. Gold Ring,
A. SAUNDERS’
2 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set
1 Set. Gold Ring
A. SAUNDERS'
Diamonds, set
Patinum,
ISct. Gold Kins,
£95
WE PAY POSTAGE- *—WRITE FOR FREE GIFT BOOK.
A. SAUNDERS,
Watchmaker—Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
fsd
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
, Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr
(Next G.P.O.)*


Under
Royal
Warrant
fs
To H.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE <
CWdleidsieck
SllHi
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagne
'-^l’lesllcidsieo^
Reims
"i*!,, ft l
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum.” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
HdlteL
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from. . 27/6
With bath from * 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
The cen/ne of Queen s /onc/s
' cfis bhguf&h&c/ Soc/oi Life.
mote I
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
dfs
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
attached. Hot and cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s , Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780 — 10 Liner
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Mrs. Keith Miller, the woman of the hour
(and the air), comes of clerical stock. Her
maternal grandfather, Rev. J. Kay Hall,
studied theology at Moore College, Sydney,
and her dad’s father was also a clergyman.
An excited, dark-eyed little mother has been
waiting in Sydney for over a week to wel-
come her daughter, and hubby will be over
from Melbourne before his wife arrives. Mrs.
S. C. Beveridge, who is a well-known social
service worker in Melbourne, lias always
been as confident of her daughter’s ability
to win through as Mrs. Hinkler was about
her son’s success. The airwoman has iron
nerves and capacity for excelling at anything
she takes up, from cooking a dinner to play-
ing a sonata. “Chubby,” as her friends affec-
tionately call her, is a practised motorist
and something of a mechanic, so she was not
quite an amateur when she took to the air.
Her mother, during her period of enforced
waiting, has found the keenest interest shown
at Government House and the Queen’s Club
in her daughter’s achievement. A host of
representative Sydney women will be there
to welcome the “Red Bose” when she drops
on Mascot aerodrome.
If we ever have another war it won’t be
due to any laxity of the Sydney branch of
the League of Nations, whose members fore-
gathered at the Wentworth last week to set
the machinery going for the next cosmopoli-
tan hop. Lady de Chair was present, and
all the Consuls or their representatives gave
assurances of support. Netherlands Counsul
Teppema was the cynosure of all eyes in a
perfectly-fitting suit of the new raisin shade
now ultra-fasliionable in London.
Mrs. Chief Civic Commissioner Fleming
was taken to the bosom of the Women
Painters last week, when the auxiliary com-
mittee staged an “at home” in her honor.
After ascending to the third floor of Queen
Victoria Buildings, she journeyed round
passages festooned with greenery and roses
to the welcoming hand of Mrs. W. A. Hol-
man, who hostessed for the big crowd of
entertainers. Marion Marcus Clarke en-
livened the amusements programme; so
did the beautiful voices of Maude Telfer and
Mrs. H. B. Allard.
Muriel Moses was a vision of youth and
beauty on Wednesday last as she shimmered
in satin and silver up the aisle of St.
John’s, Darlinghurst, to murmur wedding
vows to Walter Kidman, only son of Adel-
aide’s cattle king. Brother Richard gave
the bride away, and her sister, Mrs. Harley
Williams, was matron of honor. Mrs. H. C.
Moses dispensed hospitality at the Hotel
Australia after the nuptials in a wealth of
gold beading on black; the ’groom’s mother
also wore black, brightened with a bunch of
red roses.
Phyllis Ivelynack, daughter of Padre Kely-
nack, of Stanmore, was another pretty bride
of the same evening, Rupert Scott, of Eliza-
beth Bay, slipping on the golden circlet at
St. Stephen’s. Petals of crystal and dia-
mante-edged ivory georgette over shell pink
fashioned the wedding frock; the ’maids,
Joan Hoskins, Joyce Howes and Margaret
Copeland, wore somewhat similar swathings
of delphinium blue, and had Ross Noth
Harold F'lockart and John Drury to escort
them from the church to the Lawn Tennis
Association’s rooms, where the reception was
held.
Kindergarten enthusiast Enid Loewenthal
is about to forsake her work as one of the
co-directors of the “Little Citizens” in Riley-
street, Sydney, for matrimony with Clive
Mitchell, owner of Tallaroob station in the
Cowra district. Clive has followed the pas-
toral path in preference to the legal one
trodden by his father, Mark Mitchell, who
found the cash for the soldiers’ memorial
in the Corso, Manly—his own son Allan
was one of those who made the great sacri-
fice. The sister of the ’groom-to-be is also a
kindergarten worker, and that’s how the
romance started. Enid’s father, A. M. Loe-
wenthal, owned that towered mansion in
Randwick which the Sydney Grammar
School has purchased as a hostel for its
boarders.
Singer Muriel Webb and violinist Jack
Farnsworth Hall had the musical fraternity
to witness the launching of the matrimonial
barque when they exchanged “I wills” at
Christ Church. A beautiful Limerick-lace
veil enveloped the silver draping of the
bride, who was attended by violinist Dulcie
Blair. Pianist Frank Hutchens and broad-
casting colleague Ewart Chappie stood by
the ’groom.
The Radio and Electrical Exhibition at
the Town Hall was a revelation in wonder-
ful mechanical labor-saving devices for the
household. It almost seemed, as you watched
the demonstrators, that only pressing a but-
ton was necessary to achieve unlimited
washing and cleaning. The electric range
and various minor cooking appliances were
all in evidence. Listeners-in had an oppor-
tunity of seeing instructor Mrs. Jordan, of
2BL, the proud guardian of delectable-
looking edibles made from recipes snatched
from the air.
The H. A. Russells, of Darling Point,
gave their youngest bud, Joyce, to the care
of Brian Windeyer, youngest son of Ricli-
aid Windeyer, K.C., at St. Stephen’s, Dar
ling Point. The bride’s soft billowing frock
of faintly-tinted pink tulle fell to within a
few inches of her slim ankles, and her ’maids,
Cecile Waley and Evelyn Ilalligan, wore
their floral georgette frocks well below the
fashionable knee limit. Malcolm Mclntyre
and Max Ilesslein sustained the ’groom
throughout the wait for the bride, caused
by a soaking thunderstorm, while the heavy
rain supplied music as impressive as the
pipe organ, forbidden because of the Lenten
season. The wedding-meats were spread at
the Golf Club, which was florally resplendent
for the occasion.
Irene Vanbrugh has a warm spot in her
heart for the Church of England Homes —
her father, the Rev. R. H. Barnes, was
Prebendary of Exeter Cathedral. She is
going to give a matinee on May 22 for Havi-
lah, and has smiled the Theatre Royal and
lots of other perquisites out of the J. C. Wil-
liamson Taits for the programme, which she
is producing herself. Rector Micklem will
appear upon the boards, not in a histrionic
capacity, but to tell the cheerful tale of the
good work of Havilah. Last time Irene was
here she gave a matinee which resulted in the
sum of £lOl6 being divided between the Home
and' the Rachel Forster Hospital. Havilah
earmarked its share for a cot, and the com-
mittee expects that the forthcoming event
will enable it to endow the cot in per-
petuity. Ljady Street presided at a meet-
ing at the Australia Hotel yesterday to get
ticket-sellers, flower-vendors and all the other
voluntary workers in going order.
Mrs. Fleming, the Civic Commissioner’s
lady, took the chair at the annual presenta-
tion of accounts of the Rachel Forster Hos-
pital, and if she had been trained to the
work she could have shown no more thorough-
ness and despatch. What made her task
easier is that the hospital is so admirably
managed. The balance-sheet made little Dr.
Arthur gasp at first and then express his un-
stinted admiration. “This hospital’s finan-
cial position Is excellent, and most other
such institutions are in the doldrums,” he
told them. And the hospital’s enviable posi-
tion is less due to rich, influential friends
than to splendid organisation and economical
management. Situated conveniently for
its purposes at Redfern, it is staffed in every
department with women and conducted for
the benefit of women and children. It was
started a few years ago in a small terrace-
house in Landsdowne-street, Surry Hills, by
women doctors, who financed the whole con-
cern themselves until it began to outgrow
their premises and their pockets.
Monte Luke has made this attractive pic
ture of Mrs. Arthur Allen, president of the
Karitane-Sydney Mothercraft Council. The
widespread appeal of the method persistently
advocated by
Dr. Truby
King, of
Maoriland, is
shown by the
fact that no
fewer than 209
mothers seek
advice at the
society’s rooms
each month.
Close on 100
letters fro m
the Outback,
from India,
the Malay
Sta t es and
Papua are the
monthly aver-
age the Kari-
tane workers
have to cope
w i t h. The
society in Syu
ney has splen-
did committees and auxiliai’ies, with many
ex-Maorilanders in their ranks.
Arthur Kingsford Smith, of Inverell, kept
the date of dates with Winifred Blake, of
Chatswood, in the chapel of his Alma
Mater, the C. of B. Grammar School.
Chaplain David Davis fastened the link, and
the George Blakes welcomed the guests at
St. Thomas’s Hall, North Sydney.
The Golden Shower Tea Rooms belied
their bright name last week, and the usually
cheery voluntary helpers went about their
tasks with sad faces and subdued voices.
Only about a fortnight before they had
hastened to St. John’s, Darlinghurst, to
smile good-luck on co-worker Doreen Pittar.
one of the leading figures in a double wed-
ding, and the news of her death came as
a stunning shock. Mrs. Bruce Ritchie de-
veloped pneumonia while honeymooning at
Bowral.
Beryl Mills, who came from West Aus-
tralia a couple of years ago, married jour-
alist Frank Davison, also from the West, at
St. Michael’s, Vaucluse, last week. The
bride looked radiant in her trappings of
silver- and crystal-embroidered georgette,
with an upstanding fan-like head-dress to
hold her lace veil. The bridegroom, an
Anzac, has been one of the voluntary guar-
dians of the Cenotaph.
This is a
snap of Betty
Taw, one of
the water-
babies who
are upholding
Sydney’s repu-
tation in jun-
ior champion-
ships. Betty
competes s o
consist en 11 y
and tirelessly
that she might
be a reincar-
nation of the
girl baby
whom M a r-
garet in “The
Forsa k e n
M e r m a n”
brou g h t to
earth when
she deserted
her sea bed.
Tennis fans invaded Wahroonga last week,
not merely for the love of the game, but to
add another quota to tlie fixed deposit
needed for the endowment of the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College cot in the Royal
Alexandra Hospital for Children. The ex-
students hold a dance each year to this end,
and the tennis tournament will greatly
lighten organising expenses. Marjorie Wol-
stenholme arranged the sets with games on
her home court and those lent by Mesdames
Strang, Pearce, Thompson, Taylor and
Barry. Each hostess provided the cup that
cneers for the players.
Like a reincarnation of a Currency Lass
bride was tiny, fair Margery Abel in her
tight bodice and Chantilly lace skirt bouffant-
ing over shell georgette as she stepped dain-
tily out of St. Phillip’s on the arm of her tall
husband, Keith Wilson, whose relatives on
his mother’s side are the Cowans and the
Hoggs of the Northern Rivers. The
bride’s father, the late Cecil Abel, was
a well known rifle-shot of other days. Pretty
sister Phyllis was an exquisite rose-beige
replica of the bride, with a tulle hat instead
of a veil. Solicitor Cecil Wilson was
best man. Mother, looking more like an
elder sister in caramel pink froekings, and
sporting an eye-veil to her black hat, en-
tertained the bidden guests at the Ambas-
sadors.
Mrs. F. E. M. Armstrong has given the
use of her reception-room at 44 Macleay-
street for a bridge party on April 3.
The stalwarts who are helping to build
the building fund for the Baden-Powell
Model Camp will bring their friends to
double and re-double and so rake in pre-
liminary expenses for the forthcoming Black
and White Ball at the Ambassadors on April
10. Mrs. Jordan Rodgers is the honorary
organiser.
If you want an eyeful of what used to be
known in Victorian times as “the quality,”
and a glimpse of the big stars of the theat-
rical constellation, keep April 13 disengaged.
The Albert Goulds, of Edgecliff, have handed
over the grounds of Eynesbury on that date
to help the Limbless Soldiers’ Fund. His Ex.
Lord Stonehaven will pronounce the open
sesame at noon, after which the theatricals
will take charge, just as they do at big
charity fetes in London. You’ll be able to
buy pretties from your favorite leading lady
or pick a number on the chocolate-wheel from
your matinee hero. Irene Vanbrugh will
give the uninitiated tips in putting for a
consideration, or exchange views with sea-
soned golfers, while Muriel Starr will dis
burse chances in a lucky-dip for trifling
coins.
Mrs. Earle Page was the “lioness” at the
Country Women’s Club cabaret, where
dancing, music and cards helped along the
chib’s funds. She looked well enough to
suggest that her husband’s job at the Federal
Treasury has plenty of compensations.
The Nightingales of St. Vincent’s Hospi-
tal gave a varied entertainment last week.
It was the fourteenth of its kind, and one
that would have done credit to a professional
company. White-robed sisters of charity
welcomed over 700 visitors to the quad-
rangle, where nurses and resident doctors
displayed their hours-of-ease talents. A de-
licious home-made supper was served, the.
Police Band played beneath bright lights and
gay bunting, and no one enjoyed the show
more than the patients well enough to view
it from the hospital balconies. The exten-
sion building fund to the nurses' quarters
will get a fair lift from the proceeds.
Percy Grainger, the temperamental
pianist with the fuzz of yellow hair, is en-
gaged to be married, according to a cable
from New York. The lady is Ella Strom,
who has twice visited Sydney within the
past couple of years. She is Swedish, hand-
some. an artist (a painter of tiles), and
somewhat of a linguist.
T. 11. Kelly has word from Florence of
the engagement of his younger girl, Pat-
ricia, to one Bolterra, an Italian pianist
of some celebrity in Europe’s musical centres.
Beatrice, the girl with the glorious Titian
hair, still finds the claims of art supreme
—architecture in her case.
Lady de Chair presided at the launching
of the committee for the Grand Sympathy
Ball yesterday at the Australia. It is a
happy name for a very good cause; the
proceeds will go to help along the Deaf,
Dumb and Blind Building Fund Appeal.
The dance on H.M.A.S. Penguin had all
indoor entertainments beat on humid nights
like these; the quarterdeck was gay witli
flags and bunting and balloons that fluttered
in a cool south-easter. The R.A.N.R.
orchestra provided delightful music to which
were stepped lively measures galore, including
a few old-fashioned dances like the Jolly
Miller. The shivoo was not merely for
pleasure, the tickets being sold for the bene-
fit of the Ex-Naval Men’s Association, which
helps unemployed men who formerly served
in the navy. Commander Moyes, of H.M.A.S.
Moresby, with Mrs. Moyes, looking as delec-
table as a fruit sundae in apricot taffetas,
brought along a big party; so did Commander
Quick and his sappliire-eyed wife, whose
drapings were warm Burgundy shade, and
Naval Station officer Brewster with a blue-
and-silver-frocked spouse. The Higgins sisters
were among the younger belles, Doreen in
opalescent sequined frock, and Joan in tur-
quoise. Audrey Wilson looked youthful in
her black taffetas gown, and Joy Wilson’s
vellum satin frock became her admirably.
The Country Women’s Association is an-
nouncing a blue-ribbon event for Easter in
the form of a dance at the Ambassadors on
April 11. As there will be a host of coun-
try folk in town, and the popular Mrs. Matt
Sawyer, of Bethungra, is president, it will
be a favorite rendezvous during the crowded
days round about Easter.
James, the youngest of the Borron line of
Mango Island, Fiji group, passed through
Sydney the other day on his way homewards.
The infant’s dad, young Jimmie Borron, left
his father, the reigning monarch, about
two years ago for a tour round the world.
In Sydney he met Zina Rennie, of Suva,
and the pair were married in ’Frisco and
went on across the Atlantic, to be blessed in
the fulness of time with the newest heir to
what is claimed to be the loveliest island in
the Fiji group. But the Tartes, of Taviumi,
the garden-island, dispute the claim, and so
do the De Mounceys, who raise cocoariuts on
hilly Wakaya.
The children of the Druid priestess in
“Norma” provide some pleasing comedy re-
lief for grand opera patrons. Norma’s aban-
donment of her intention to destroy her off-
spring brings their stage usefulness to a
close; hence it is at the end of the second
act that tlieir presents are handed up
to them. One of the tots shows a desire
to open the wrappings while she is still
bowing to the audience; the other, while
realising that making the due acknowledg-
ments is the business in hand, sometimes
bows to the scenery, from which directions
are no doubt being broadcast, instead of
in the right direction. With this added de-
light the audience persists in the demand for
recalls until the youngsters grow obviously
confused.
Another linking-up was at St. Phillip’s,
where Ada Carr, of Neutral Bay, became
Mrs. Jack Vivers. The ’groom is the son
of the late Alan Vivers of King’s Plains,
Glen Innes; he had district comrade Doug-
las Abbot for best man, and Pat Larkin for
groomsman. The Chantilly lace-clad bride
was attended by Enid Rodgers and Valmai
Ramsay, frocked alike in tiers of rose-shaded
tulle. Mrs. Carr hostessed the reception at
the Ambassadors.
Intelligence Director Peter Nally, of the
Queensland Government Bureau, is usually
a man of serious mien, but he achieved a
smile at the Queenslander residents’ luncheon
to Hinkler that has not yet worn off. It
came with the airman’s assurance that the
thought of again tasting some juicy Queens-
land pineapples and luscious mangoes had
helped him to put a girdle round half the
world in 16 days.


riARDT BROTHERS UD
2903.—501 id Silver Sugar Basin, Cream Jug
and Tongs, in velvet-lined case. A gift of
utility and charm.
£7/7/-
ATTRACTIVE PRESENTS
FOR THE HOME
Hardy’s collection of gifts which are suit-
able for the home is without rival in
Australia for variety and value. Here
are typical examples. Selections will be
sent on approval to any address.
2905.—Silver Butter Dish,
with glass lining and Silver
Butter Knife, in velvet-
lined case, £3
2901. —“Pair of Pierced Silver Sweet Dishes
in velvet-lined case. Diameter 31 inches.
£2/16/-
2902.—Bronzed Brass Fern
Pot. Diameter 9-1 inches.
Height 8 inches. A useful
and attractive gift, 20/-
Five per cent, discount allowed for Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalooue will be sent, post free, to any address.
298-300
COLLINS ST„
MELBOURNE.
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD.
£//fe 7/ouse oP&&Uusw&3eu>€'lUiy
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
116-U8
QUEEN ST.,
BRISBANE.
wm H
0 ’^Vy
I mmSy \ t u%?2
to*
i*
IB
"»-;
P
£...»«■
~ " v '
„„ ‘ - *fe
’■ ■'
.
Erf
ii
. ■ * .
y
- s;i
A HOLIDAY IN
CEYLON
THE beautiful scenery of Cey-
lon, the luxuriant tropical
vegetation, the buried cities and
temples, the excellent hotels and
splendid roads make this delight-
ful island unsurpassed as a holi-
day resort. The jungles teem
with big game—elephants, leop-
ards, wild buffalo and deer
and shooting expeditions can be
arranged. Golf, tennis and fish-
ing can be had in abundance.
The Orient Line Excursion Re-
turn Fare, available, throughout
the year, is only £67 from Bris-
bane, £65 from Sydney, £63 from
Melbourne, £6l from Adelaide
and £59 from Fremantle.
2-4-5 SPRING STREET' - - SYDNEY
The Little Sisters
+ .
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The T. G. Laheys lent their home at Clay-
fieid for a fete to help the funds of the
West End Methodist church. In a summer-
house covered with trailing vine ice-creams
and soft drinks were sold, and a palm grove
disclosed a sweets stall. The Church Help
Society served afternoon tea, and there was
a musical programme. Airs. Lahey wore
Burgundy-colored cr6pe de Chine, spotted
in white, with black tagel hat.
Frank Cottrell gave an address on “The
Ideal in Art” before members of the Authors
and Artists’ Association at the Women’s
Club rooms, in the course of which lie said
our city lacked true artistic atmosphere.
Meriia Gillies arranged the music, and Fred
Homer was amongst the singers. A song
about Hinkler, written by Phoebe Kirwan
and Meta AlacLean, was also sung.
Airs. Harold Spiro had a party for Jean
Alassey, who will soon be married. The
hostess wore golden brown, and cream hat.
Jean Massey was in powder-blue, with a
white hat. Evelyn Wood won a competition
and handed the prize to the guest of honor.
A silver horseshoe amid the pink table deco-
rations and a kewpie bride and ’groom were
given to the bride-elect, and every guest re-
ceived a pink posy and a pair of lucky
silver slippers.
Airs. Cumbrae Stewart presided at the
quarterly meeting of the Red Cross Society,
and the reports received were satisfactory.
Sales of the handicrafts section for three
months totalled over £5OO. Airs. Howell, who
is going to N.S.AV., has resigned from the
executive committee, and Mrs. Cannan has
taken her place.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady wound up a busy week of
laying foundation-stones and opening shows
by inspecting the military camp at Ross,
which was blessed by lovely weather. The
Eustace Camerons, of Alona Yale, brightened
camp week by giving a very jolly dance at
the big house, following a dinner at which
his Ex. was the guest of honor.
Farewell gatherings in honor of the many
who are departing in the liners have filled
their last days. ashore. A very smart and
successful party was given by Mrs. Raymond
Barker for Alfred Ashbolt’s lady, Irene
Beaching and Isabel Simmons, all bound
for the Big Smoke.
The executive of the Women’s Non-party
League entertained John Butters’s lady and
Airs. Aluscio at a lunch at the Imperial.
Opportunity was also taken to say farewell
to the Ashbolt lady, who is interested in the
league’s activities.
The old Central School has been fitted
up as a college of domestic science, though
it is the hope of all concerned that eventually
new quarters will be provided. As part of
the Technical College, Aliss Irvine, the prin-
cipal, lias a staff of six and says that her
roll-call of students numbers over 400, many
of them prospective brides who want to
learn how to feed the brute.
This is W. E. Fuller, bookseller, author
and repertory player, as he appears in the
part of Alfred
Doolittle i n
Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion.” He
did his bit in
the Great
War, and
whiled away
weary hours
in a military
hospital b y
writing a col-
lection of
sketches, which
were published,
and lie has
been an occa-
sional contri-
butor of short
stories and
sketches t o
various maga-
z i n e s ever
since. He has
tried his hand
as a playwright. J. Eccles made the
portrait.
Among those who are making an autumn
flight from Tassy are Mrs. Kay (Melbourne)
and her daughter Eld; Betty Sencken, Mrs.
Kay’s dark-haired little niece, goes with
them.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Port Adelaide Racing Club held
its meeting at Cheltenham in fine
weather. Dr. Alick Benson and his wife
entertained at luncheon and afternoon tea,
Airs. Benson doing the honors in cyclamen
pink crepe de Chine and a black hat. Many
of the fair sex wore their new winter velvet
frocks, and the lawn blazed with color,
scarlet, royal blue and green to match the
grass being popular shades. The jackets of
the jockeys paled beside them.
Henry Barwell and his familv have de-
parted for England. On Friday Mayoress
Bonython gave the Barwell lady and
her daughters a farewell tea at the Town
Hall, when the Hawaiian Troubadours from
the Carden Theatre entertained the guests.
The hostess wore a biscuit chiffon gown, much
tucked, and bordered with lace, and her
black felt hat had a rainbow-hued brush orna-
mentation at the side. The Barwell lady
was in a navy taffeta ensemble, with hat to
match, and a mauve posy. Her three
daughters, Nancy, Alary and Betty, wore
cinnamon shades. The two pretty Bonython
girls favored biscuit tones. Aliss Murray
chose a black and white ensemble.
Our intelligentsia, led by Josiah Symon,
are enjoying a feast of William Shakspeare,
as served up by Allan Wilkie at the Prince
of Wales, where the menu changes nightly.
Less brainy ones flock to “The Student
Prince.”
The E.S.U. had a flutter at the AVent-
worth when Dr. Duguid discoursed upon his
travels. Judge Angas Parsons presided, and
with his charming wife extended the hand of
welcome to all guests. Secretary Doris John-
son intends to organise a Shakspearean fancy-
dress ball to be held during Allan Wilkie’s
next visit. Bridge parties have been planned,
one organised by Airs. Alellis Napier, the
other by Airs. Frank Alagarey, to provide
the society with a city office.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Keen followers of horses motored down
to Bunbury for the Alarch meeting. Their
Exes, were given lunch and tea by the com-
mittee. Lady Campion favored black geor-
gette, the skirt in tiers of plisse frilling, and
a hat of black ribbon and crinoline straw.
Airs. Hamilton Cate, who hails from the
Highlands, is pictured here by Dickin-
son-Alonteath. In her school days she de-
veloped a taste for psychological study, and
has learned al-
most all there
is to know
about the treat-
ment of the
mentally de-
ficient. She
has a genius
for organising
and has used
it for the bene-
fit of many
charitable
organisations.
She opened the
first school in
Scotland for
e pile p tics,
which was a
branch of the
Orphan
PI ome s, and
for three years
she directed a
school in Alon-
treal for delinquent and deficient girls. Alel-
bourne knew her when she was for over
two years the efficient superintendent of
the Yooralla Hospital School. Airs. Cate is
for the present living in Perth.
The Eisteddfod, to be held in April, for
the first time includes a literary section.
Prizes varying from two to five guineas are
offered for an essay, a poem, a short story,
and a play suitable for broadcasting. The
winners’ compositions become the property of
the society.
General Hobbs and his lady gave a bridge
and dance party in honor of son Alervyn
and liis wife, who caught the Alooltan at the
end of their leave. Their home is in India,
where Captain Hobbs holds a military post.
Among the guests at Peppermint Grove were
Air. and Airs. Athol Hobbs, Dr. McWhae
and his wife, the Norman Temperleys, Capt.
Davidson-Houston, Keith Barker, Mollie
Learmonth, Air. and Mrs. Eric Sandover
and the Sandy McLeans.
Mrs. James Cowan offered a bite of lunch
at the Karrakatta Club to Mrs. Knox Chap-
lin. The lady is bound for England and the
Continent, and while in London will investi-
gate English journalistic methods. She is
co-editor of the Swan Hill Guardian (Vic.),
and finds time to act as vice-president of the
Australian AVomen’s National League and as
district commissioner for the Girl Guides.
She is also one of the, National Council of
Women’s best workers.
Mrs. Cecil Mason gave a musical party
at Devonshire Flats as a farewell for Airs.
Redvers Bate, who goes back to . the farm
at Burracoppin. Airs. Alason played delight-
fully, and Airs. Redvers Bate sang in English,
French and Italian. Mrs. Nottage Aloseley,
Mrs. Frank Davies, Airs. Hobson, Airs. Noel
Cutliburt, Airs. A r incent and daughter Helen,
Flora Bunning and Mrs. Curthoys helped to
entertain the guests.
Generous donations have been collected
from all denominations for the building of a
new hospital by the Protestant Federation.
A quiet .site at Bayswater far from trams
and trains has been chosen. The building
will contain every modern invention, and will
cost about £30,000.
Three one-act plays drew repertory patrons
to the Assembly Hall. Jessie Alacgregor and
Jim Ottaw-ay as Caroline and Bill were the
clever vagabonds of “Gentlemen of the Road.”
Helen Ambrose and Olive Beck in quaint
old-world gowns played in “Honors Easy,”
and Hugh Banger, who produced the playlet,
made a self-possessed cavalier. Esme Powell
took the name part in “Emily’s Excuse.”
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
What with parking spaces, motor-control
signs and kerbstone pumps, not to mention
silent cops, Darwin is becoming quite an
up-to-date town. Petrol prices aro only
2d. a gallon in advance of Sydney charges.
Some feminine enthusiasts are trying to
resuscitate the agricultural, industrial and
fine arts exhibition which used to be a
much-looked-forward-to fixture here some
20-odd years ago. A committee is at work
getting things into trim, and it is hoped to
hold the show in August.
Dr. Jones, who left Darwin by the De-
cember boat, returned for a short while to
wind up his affairs. He was farewelled by
the Victoria League and presented with an
illuminated address. His many friends gave
him a send-off at the Soldiers’ Hall.
Air. and Airs. Lauder, old residents of the
port, were farewelled by the members of the
Anglican church. Heavy rain interfered
with a project to make the affair a garden
party, but there was a good muster at the
rectory, where parting gifts were handed
to the couple.


MAN
sd
NEWS
fs
‘Calcutta’
Indian Pith Helmet
Light and cool—well
ventilated—healthy-
and a real treat to
wear during the hot
siege of Summer. All
Sizes. White Drill
and White Puggaree
18/6
Tosp— tyreej
Write Desk S.B.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
TARE A PARTNER.
If you were offered a partner who, while providing
guarantees of his stability, would devote himself to safeguard-
ing your money, make it earn profit, and demand nothing
from you in return, wouldn’t you accept?
Of course you would, and—
you ARE offered such a partner.
A Savings Account will do all this for you, and yet
allow you full control of the business.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account to-day.
Commonwealth M of Instralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
SYDNEY.
The Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Capacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon., Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3666.
MATES
TAUWARRA.
BTM MARSH and Pannikin, his Kiwai
I henchman, had no eyes for the mys-
■l terious, sombre beauty of the jungle-
covered hills ; no oars for the haunting lul-
laby of the river as it rippled and gurgled
over its pebbly bed. The mid-day sun, blaz-
ing in a speckless blue sky, had driven every
living creature save these two into the
shadiest recesses of the forest. The very air
seemed to quiver in the heat. Marsh, gaunt,
haggard, tight-lipped, was intent only on the
swirling contents of the rusty, dented pro-
specting dish. Pannikin, breathing loudly,
was watching his master with lively interest.
With a practised half-turn of the wrist
Marsh flicked the wash into the river. Pan-
nikin leaned forward and his black eyes
blazed.
Marsh’s fingers trembled as lie played
with the heavy yellow grains that covered
the bottom of the dish. Pannikin made a
clicking noise, expressive of satisfaction.
Then, without warning, the thing hap-
pened. There sounded an ear-splitting yell
from the opposite bank. The tangled foli-
age rustled as in a gust of wind; there
came the twang of bowstrings suddenly re-
leased, and a flight of arrows through the
air. Marsh threw himself sideways with a
little grunt; his automatic cracked once,
twice; the reports echoed and re-echoed
through the jungle; there was a yelp of
pain—or was it fear? —then once again the
air was intensely still. The mountain men
had attacked and fled —after their fashion.
Marsh was conscious of a searing pain in
his right leg, of a smear of crimson, rapidly
fading, on the surface of the water, and of
Pannikin’s black face, wearing an expression
of solicitude, turned towards him. Marsh
laughed shakily. “Pull the damned thing
out, Pannikin,” he said.
His face twisted into a grimace of pain
as Pannikin hacked at the shaft of the reed-
arrow with his sheath-knife and drew the
murderous bone-tipped barb through the
wound. His finger-nails bit into the native’s
shoulder; he felt suddenly faint and ill,
beads of sweat broke from the pores of his
body and his head whirled dizzily. Repress-
ing a little groan he tottered to the bank
and flopped heavily on to a fallen log. Sud-
denly he sat bolt upright. When things go
wrong in New Guinea they go wrong very
completely. What if the attempt to murder
him was but the final act of a lightning-
like raid upon his camp? What if his
precious stores had been looted, his laborers
dispersed, his equipment destroyed? Marsh
felt himself growing giddy at the thought.
The forest trees were casting fantastic
shadows when Marsh, dragging heavily upon
Pannikin’s arm, hobbled into camp. A scene
of desolation met his eyes. The tent and
the laborers’ fly had been slashed to rib-
bons. Everything of which ' the raiders
understood the use had been carried off;
the rest had been tossed aside and trampled
under foot. Rice was scattered about;
everywhere were splintered packing-cases,
broken tools; dented tins, blankets,
mosquito-nets littered the ground. There
was no signs of the laborers, but an ominous
red pool, rapidly caking, told Marsh that
not all his timid coastal “boys” had escaped
into the bush.
- Jim Marsh knew fear that night—fear
that gnawed like hunger. Already the pul-
sing ache in his leg was extending upwards;
already the wound showed signs of discolora-
tion at the edges. He found himself looking
at Pannikin in furtive fashion. The native
was crouched over a tiny fire gouging out
the contents of a tin rescued from the ruins
of the tucker-boxes. His dusky face was
blank. All his life Jim Marsh had balanced
chances, taken risks. To-niglit he felt that
Fate had loaded the dice against him. He
was virtually a cripple; he was without
supplies, carriers, equipment; and he was
four days’ march from the coast —over coun-
try that would break a strong man’s heart.
A sickening sense of helplessness de-
scended upon him. What manner of man
was Pannikin? For years the native had
been his boss-boy. He could say thgt they
had been mates, nor would he be debasing
that sacred term. Mates ! He had a sudden,
devastating vision of John Chisholm, and
the eager, vital little lady who was John
Chisholm’s wife; but with a great effort of
his will he wrenched his thoughts away.
Mates ! Always he had played the game
with Pannikin, his Kiwai boss-boy. Would
Pannikin play the game with him?
Marsh sat motionless, conscious of the dry
rustling of leaves caught by the night breeze,
the shadows of the trees, black and soft in
the moon’s refulgent glow, and his own cor-
roding fears. Suddenly he coughed.
“Pannikin !” lie called, staring steadily at
nothing.
The native stiffened.
“What are you”—— Marsh began uncer-
tainly.
Pannikin cut him short. “Have no fear,
taubada,” he growled. “For many years I
marched with the police, wearing the stripes
of a corporal, lie stood up, flexing his
biceps. “I savee white man’s fashion,” he
added simply.
Marsh looked him straight between the
eyes. Pannikin met his glance unwaver-
ingly. There was the faintest suspicion of
huskiness in Marsh’s voice when lie spoke
again. “Thanks, Pannikin. To-morrow we
—we try.”
There was a dirty pink tinge in the
eastern sky that flamed swiftly into rose
and gold when they left the wrecked camp.
Marsh hobbled on a clumsy crutch fashioned
out of a sapling. Pannikin had a netted
bag slung about his neck carrying an assort-
ment of tins from which the labels had been
torn.
Soon the forest swallowed them. Hardly
a ray of light penetrated through the dense
thickets. There was a taint of decay in the
humid, sweltering air, commingled with pun-
gent earth odors, and flower-perfume sen-
suously, poisonously sweet.
Marsh gritted his teeth, well knowing that
his plight was desperate. Beads of per-
spiration hung clammy on his temples and
his wound throbbed
agonisingly. Vivid
pictures of no rele-
vance whatever
hovered before his
eyes like a mirage.
Old memories came
tumbling into his
consciousness. Once
he heard himself
talking aloud. He
pulled himself up,
unspeakably
shocked, and again
fear clutched at
him. Once he col-
lapsed into a clump
of fern and lay
there making inar-
ticulate, sobbing
noises, the ground
under him tilting
like the decks of a
storm-tossed ship.
He retained no
ordered memory of
the rest, of that
ghastly day. There
seemed, to be eter-
nities of blackness,
with someone turn-
ing on a blinding
light now and then,
and a gruff voice
talking.
“Have no fear,
taubada. I savee.”
Gibbering fiends
were driving red-
hot pins into his
wounded leg; the
livid green walls of
the jungle seemed
to be swinging back
and forth as if sus-
pended in space.
He found himself
feeling with his
sound leg for solid earth. There was nothing
under his feet—nothing—nothing. Good God !
Pannilcin teas carrying him! Then black-
ness again—blackness and an intolerable,
stabbing pain.
His wracked body stirred in what seemed
a delightful doze. He opened his e v es and
pangs of agony shot through him. Glitter-
ing stars winked through openings in the
fretted canopy overhead; filtered moonrays
spread a pallid glimmer on the grass.
Pannikin was laving his cracked and burn-
ing lips with water, and coaxing him to
bite upon a scrap of stringy tinned “bullum-
acow.” A ray of clear light shot through
tlie stupor in Marsh’s brain.
“Pannikin,” he croaked. “In the banika
[bank] at Port Moresby I have much yellow
money [gold]. Great will be your reward
for —for” his voice trailed off in a
moan.
“There is but little flesh upon your bones,”
Pannikin told him. “And I”—his clenched
fist thudded upon his chest —“I, taubada,
have the strength of three men.”
“Forty pounds money—fifty pounds—one
hundred pounds—what you will, shall be
yours, Pannikin. You are in truth a man,
my friend.”
‘Ta, taubada!” Pannikin beamed. I will
buy me a cutter and many wives. It is
good.”
Jim Marsh was tossing, raving in delirium.
Over and over again in a dry, thick whisper,
the name of a woman dribbled from his
lips. Her form was floating in a glimmer-
ing mist before his tormented eyes.
Pannikin remained by his side in a semi-
doze. In fancy he was at the tiller of a
white man’s cutter on the turbulent, muddy
estuary of the Fly. Long, low islands
sprawled like giant alligators on the surface
of the waters, and the tang of mosquito
swamps was in the air. Men flattered him,
women desired him; small boys looked at
him with awe, lie was a man of sub-
stance —envied, courted, admired. The
"Gavamani,” maybe, would make him village
constable. Life was good.
Dawn came —swift, shell-pink. Pannikin
lifted his master, now sunk in a merciful
swoon, and strode into the forest towards
the distant sea.
Sl: sic =!t *
Marsh and Chisholm had come to New
Guinea together. They had worked and
striven together, fought together, stood back
to back and laughed at odds that would
have dismayed lesser men. They had been
mates. They had known the roaring days
of the Yodda; they had sickened and all
but died on the Lakekamu, met disappoint-
ment Avitli a grin on the I.mili, and had
driven picks into ground never trodden
before by booted feet. Then they had
drifted apart as mates will. Chisholm had
found a secure but humble anchorage in
the civil service. Marsh had smiled,
THE BEST TIME TO START.
LOFTY: “Got a job yet, Lightnin’?”
LIGHTNIN': “No, but I’m rankin’ a start on this buildin’ soon.
It’s pretty near finished.”
shrugged and gone his way. Always
the solitary places had beckoned him, and
always he had responded to their call.
When Chisholm married Marsh smiled
again, although a little ruefully, and aban-
doned any thought he might have cherished
of weaning his old mate from his office and
his books and the civilisation represented
by Port Moresby.
“Good luck to the lad!” he said, drinking
a solitary toast somewhere behind the
ranges. “A good fellow, a good mate. Here’s
to him !” And he despatched a special run-
ner overland bearing a message that warmed
John Chisholm’s heart.
A year later Marsh made one of his rare
visits to the capital. He accepted with
some misgiving Chisholm’s breezy invitation
to “make himself at home”, in the little, tin-
roofed bungalow on the hillside. Women —
especially Austral-Papuan women—had
always left him cold. One glance from
Esme Chisholm’s long-lashed eyes stabbed
him to the heart. All the old loyalties he
thought were unshakable, all the tenets and
obligations of a creed that had served him
for a lifetime crumbled like vain things
when Esme smiled at him. And the busy-
bodies, the gossips, the scandal-mongers
cocked interrogative eyebrows and leered
behind fat hands. They found the situation
very amusing.
Not so Jim Marsh. He tried to be honest
with himself. He pictured his old mates
eyes filling with amazement, then with
horror. Marsh knew himself for a black-
guard ; he applied to himself a name not
yet approved for print, and felt it was self-
praise ; but lie went back to the bush taking
memories that ever after set his pulses
tingling, his nerves throbbing.
**. * *
Pannikin, thick lips pursed and eyes
intent, was clumsily fixing buttons in a
drill jacket that exuded a faint odor of moth-
balls. lie finished the job and handed the
garment to Marsh.
“I go now, taubada?” he asked.
Marsh nodded. “You go, my boy,” he
answered.
The jacket hung loosely on Marsh’s emaci-
ated frame. He looked at his reflection in
the spotted mirror with a sense of shock.
“A long spell south is what you require,
laddie,” he muttered.
Pannikin coughed. “To-morrow, taubada,”
he began diffidently.
“To-morrow,” Marsh broke in, “we go
look out Charlie Sulman’s cutter. I no
forget, my boy.”
Pannikin grinned. “T’ank you, sah,” he
beamed, and stumped out of the hotel bed-
room.
Marsh turned off the light, and went out
into the night. He walked slowly and with
a limp along the rocky path that led to
Chisholm’s bungalow. He was conscious of
a rapidly-thudding heart as he came to the
steps. It was going to be something of an
ordeal, this dinner with the Chisholms.
Esme rose with a little exclamation of
pleasure. She swayed a little as she came
towards him with hands outstretched. The
sense of her nearness acted upon him like
a drug. She was well worth it, this radiant
little lady who was John Chisholm’s wife;
well worth the jettisoning of all his scruples,
his loyalties, his pride in his manhood.
“My dear l” she breathed. “How ill you
loo* - ' What, a perfectly ghastly”——-
“With you in a sec., .old son.” Chisholm’s
voice boomed from the back regions. “Make
yourself at home.”
Esme laughed softly. She lifted her head
and kissed Marsh lightly on, the lips. A
flame leaped up within him.
Over dinner Marsh recounted such of his
adventures as were good_ for Chisholm’s
official ears. He said nothing about hostile
natives, nothing about the attack on his
camp, and he was purposely vague as to the
locality in which he had been working.
It did not suit his book to have a police
patrol operating near the mountain creek
which, he felt sure, would one day make him
rich. He dwelt at length on his nightmare
journey through the jungle; how for two
ghastly days Pannikin had carried him on
Iris back; how they had blundered into a
Government patrol; how he had been rushed
to the coast and medical aid.
Always he directed his remarks to Esme.
Somehow he could not bear to meet John
Chisholm’s eyes.
“I took an option on Charlie Sulman’s
cutter to-day,” he ended. “If she’s any good
I’ll buy her —and hand her over to Panni-
kin.”
Chisholm nodded. His wife looked faintly
surprised. Then a little rippling laugh
escaped her.
“Quixotically generous as usual, Jim!”
she exclaimed. “How you men spoil these
wretched niggers!”
Marsh stared. A protest framed in his
mind, but collapsed weakly before the magic
in her eyes.
Chisholm pushed back his chair. “You
people’ll have to excuse me,” he said. “Work-
ing back to-night, Worse luck! End of the
month.. Don’t be in a hurry to go, old son.
Make yourself at home.”
“Please don’t be long, dear,” his wife
coo-ed. “I’m sure you and Jim have much
to say to each other.”
Marsh winced. He wished Esme had not
said that.
They sat side by side at the head of the
steps. The night was warm, black, exqui-
sitely enticing. The softly glowing stars
seemed close, intimate; the trees and shrubs
stood out like fairy etchings, the whole
world was bathed in alluring beauty. Marsh
felt a cool cheek laid against his.
“What are your plans, Jim? What have
you thought out for”
A silence fell between them. Marsh
stirred.
“Old Sulman is asking a hundred and
thirty for that cutter of his. It’s not
bad”
“Oh, that!” Esme broke in pettishly.
“Have you any idea of the value of money?”
“Money!” Marsh stammered. “Did you
say money?”
His voice broke off. and he averted his
head. His face wore an expression that


Amusements.
F M P IKK THE A THE.
SAUNDERS’ CORNER, RAILWAY SQUARE.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Thursdays & Saturdays, 2.15.
An Airy Musical Comedy,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Bobby Jarvis, Mamie Soutter, Russell Scott,
Audrey Lewis and All-Star Cast.
The Famous Empire Pony Ballet and Beauty Chorus.
Week Nights: 2/6, 4/6 7/6. Sat. Nights: 3/3, 5/6,
8/6. Matinees: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Children: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6.
Reserves:
Theatre, MAIOOO, and all city Booking Offices.
jj VH N E Y’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND.
CRITERION: THE HIGH ROAD.
PALACE : THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
1 * Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
|_| OYT ’ S TULA TR E, 1. T i).,
Present the Mammoth REGENT THEATRE, SYDNEY,
At the Civic Centre, by the Town Hall.
A STUPENDOUS ENTERTAINMENT.
Headed by
FLESH AND THE DEVIL.
With GRETA GARBO AND JOHN GILBERT.
(A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Production.)
.1 C. W 1 L LIAMSO N, LTD.,
U ’ MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE MIKADO.
THEATRE ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
A TIIEN At U M TIIISAT II E,
** MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
THE EMINENT LONDON ACTOR-MANAGER!,
PERCY HUTCHISON,
and His Company of English Artists in
THE JOKER.
Preceded bv the Sparkling Comedy,
THE PEACEMAKER.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
HOY T’S D E LU X E THEATRE,
1 1
BUSTER KEATON in
COLLEGE.
Also
TEA FOR THREE,
WITH LEW CODY.
jy| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
MAY McAVOY
in
IRISH HEARTS.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phone 7076 & 7790.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees and Direction: Bailey & Grant.
COMMENCING MARCH 31.
ON OUR SELECTION.
ALLAN AYYLKIE and MISS HUNTER-
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part 1), “Richard II.”
Crystal Theatre, Broken Hill, April 7 to 16.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
r'osition Vacant.
PUBLIC LIBRARY, MUSEUM AND
ART GALLERY OF SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA.
APPLICATIONS for the Position of
MUSEUM DIRECTOR close on MARCH
31, 1925.
HATELY W. MARSHALL,
General Secretary.
G.P.O. Box 3S6A,
Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
URGENT —INFORMATION WANTED.
ANYONE possessing information as to the
present whereabouts of Mr. ALBERT
MARSHALL HAMLIN, who travelled from
South Africa by the s.s. Borda during
August last, bound for New Zealand, please
communicate with Barclay, c/o this Office.
VV/ILL EDWARD KELLY, formerly of
™ Launceston, in Tasmania, Butcher’s
Assistant, apply to the Public Trustee,
Hobart, Tasmania, when he will hear of
something to his advantage.
Legal Notice.
TO REGINALD HAROLD ILES, SON
1 OF HAROLD ALBERT ILES, DE-
CEASED, FORMERLY OF TATJR-
ANGA, NEW ZEALAND, BY HIM-
SELF OR THROUGH ANY HIS
GUARDIAN, PARENT OR STEP-
PARENT.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
9tli March, 1928, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist June, 1928, your claim to the
estate of Albert lies, who died intestate on
or about the Bth December, 1926, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
amongst those entitled thereto, disregarding
your claim.
DATED at Wellington this 13th day of
March, 1928.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
"TO JOSEPH FRANCIS BARRETT
A formerly of No. 6 Fletcher Street
Moonee Ponds in the State of Victoria
Mechanic.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the Ist day of November 1927 has issued
in the _ Supreme Court of South Australia
citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of CHARLES JAMES WEST of Flinders
Park in the State of South Australia praying
for dissolution of marriage with ELSE
ISABELL LILLY WEST. In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce sentence in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within 21 days
from the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitors at the Master’s
Oflice Supreme Court House Victoria Square
Adelaide South Australia and there to enter
an appearance in accordance with the rules
in that behalf.
DATED the 9tli dav of March 1925.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
ARTHUR SEAFORTII BLACKBURN,
Trustee Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Respondent.
Public Notice.
ROCKHAMPTON SCHOOL
OF ARTS.
Rockhampton, Central Queensland.
’"THEATRE available for race and show
* dates, Friday, 22nd, to Saturday, the
80th June, 1928. Races, four days; prize
money about £4OOO. Show, four days; prize
money about £3,500. Seating accommodation
about 1050. Stage, 48 feet by 36 feet. Pros-
cenium, 21 feet wide by 17 feet. Electric light
throughout; permanent fire-proof room for
pictures (no machine). Committee pre-
pared to consider offers for season on a per-
centage basis. Any further information
supplied by
W. K. CEEEVE, Secretary.
3
Sff
EINZ COMW
FREE FROM
[MZOATEO’F SOI
M j.Mgy* CaL?l«j«p>t
Uij, =
m
mm
utIM
Ttomatoll
\ Ketchup//
i|
all *mc
} P
CIS l/B
sjnjV "J.wn
Boiled-down
Goodness
HEINZ Tomato Ketch-
up “Tomato Sauce,’*
is the rich, boiled-down es-
sence of vine-ripened toma-
toes. None of the freshness
is allowed to escape. It
comes direct from the garden
to you, adding the relish,
the zest, the tang that every
meal should have. The rec-
ognized standard of excel-
lence throughout the world.
You will marvel at its good-
ness — at the delightful
flavour and the economy
of it.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can.
one of the
57
Varieties
HEINZ
TOMATO
KETCHUP
(Tomato Sauce )
1493
would have startled Esme Chisholm if she
had seen ft.
“I’m tired —tired of trying to make a show
on Jack's miserable salary,” she went on
passionately. “And you talk of squandering
hundreds on a wretched nigger. It’s criminal,
Jim.”
With something like a sigh, Marsh turned
his head.
“How. then, shall I discharge my—er—
debt to Pannikin?” he asked slowly.
“Give him a few pounds and a caddy of
tobacco and a hurricane lantern, and lie’ll
think it’s Christmas. You know what natives
are, Jim Why Jim, you’re not going?
You’re not- —not”
But Jim Marsh was already in the garden.
His figure seemed to loom gigantic against
the soft night pall.
“Good night, Esme,” he said very gently.
The next day he was back in the bush.
TAUWARRA.
Ruth.
A BRUTAL sun laid stark hands on tlio
lonely camp. It limned the few tin-
covered huts with hideousness, and
made the bare hillside yet more shameful.
The callous light brought out all the ugli-
ness that lay around and painted it vividly.
Several children played in the dust. Their
eyes dulled by the glaring sun; the faces
wan and pinched; mouths stamped with de-
spair.
Outside a cheerless hut a woman. On her
face bitterness and revolt; in her eyes the
glaze of sadness. She looked regretfully at
the children, envying them their moment of
pleasure.
Joy and she had long since parted. It
seemed so long ago that Bill had marched
resentfully away—Bill who had told her ho
loved her. Yes, Bill loved her—and she had
sent him away.
She stared anew at the children.
What was the good? Bill had no pros-
pects. Were they to swell the knot of
kiddies that played so freely in the dust?
The bitter cast came back into her eyes.
Not much!
With lagging feet she went inside the hut,
and her eyes dwelt sourly on the uninviting
room.
So Bill loved her. Bill, with his sombre
eyes and louring mouth. He loved her.
Dragging her feet across the earthen floor,
she sat heavily on the bed. Bill! Why did
he say he loved her? Love! What did ho
know about love?
She flung herself on the uneven bed, her
feverish hands beating the pillow.
Wasn’t it enough that she had to stay
here —stay here with all the misery and
want—without Bill telling her he loved her?
Tears blurred her eyes; scalded her hands.
“Bill, Bill,” she moaned, sobbing brokenly.
“Couldn’t you leave me alone? Must you tell
me that?
One of the children came from the noisy
crowd, peered into the hut.
“What’s wrong, Lil?” he asked gently,
a line of perplexity furrowing the youthful
face.
“Nothing,” she rasped, glaring at him.
Get out of this.”
The youngster backed a few feet from
the door, and gazed wonderingly at her.
‘Didn’t mean nothin’,” he grumbled. “I only
came to see why you was crying.”
She got wearily from the bed. “All right,
Bob, you can’t help me. Go back and play.”
He trod thoughtfully back to the children.
‘Come on, Bob. Let’s play hide,” ven-
tured a ragged little girl.
“Don’t want to play,” he growled. “Lil’s
crook.
“She’s not,” asserted the girl. “I saw her
just now.”
Bob looked at her peevishly. “I tell you
she is.”
, . A! 1 right, then, she is. Come and play
hide.
For a moment he stared at the hut, then
turned and joined in the play. A woman
came from one of the huts, and looked in
upon Lil.
“What y’ crying about?”
Lil moved restlessly. “Nothing.”
The woman came into the hut. “We gen-
erally do cry about nothing, don’t we ?” she
said, and laid a friendly hand on Lil’s shoul-
der. It’s Bill, isn’t it?”
“It is.” Lil spoke bitterly.
“Then why don’t you marry him?”
‘‘Marry him!’ Lil’s tone was biting.
Don t you think I’ve had enough of it’
Been here for years. An’ if I married him
it means a lifetime.”
“Well, you know, Lil, even if you have
to toil a bit, you’ll be happy if you love
him.”
“Love again!” blazed Lil. “Can’t you
talk of anything else?”
It s the best, Lil,” pursued the woman.
‘Toil with the man you love is better than
all y r money marriages.”
Lil trod to the door, looked out at the
shimmering bush. A mirage formed on the
bleak horizon, and limned the distance with
placid waters and beckoning trees. Slowly
it faded. Leaving the bleak horizon yet
more drear. Soberly she turned to the
woman.
“Love,” she said gloomily, “is like that
mirage. You think it’s going to be bonzer
—till you get there.”
“But, Lil”—the woman smiled at her
wanly— ‘it won’t always be raining. An’
life’s what you make it. So take what’s
offering.”
“Take what’s offering! So I’m not worth
anything better. Nothing better than to
drudge here all my life.”
“I didn’t mean that. I mean make the
best of life. Get all the happiness you
can.”
“Happiness!” Lil’s mouth curved in de-
rision. She saw the touch of sordidness
everywhere; heard its harsh tone creeping
into the clear voices of the children.
“Happiness! Here?”
“Yes, even here.” said the woman sin-
cerely. “If you only look for it.”
“Look for it is right,” muttered LAI, and 1
went out into the glaring sunshine.
A man came from the bush ; looked at her
distressfully. His sombre eyes were shaded
with pain. He came close to Lil.
“You haven’t altered your mind?” he
asked humbly.
Lil shook her head. She saw the mirage
spreading its milk-white waves over the deso-
late bush. “Not a bit,” she said firmly.
The lines around his eyes crinkled into
crow’s-feet. His big hands clenched.
“Lil!” He spoke desperately. “It’s the
last time I’ll ask you.”
“I don’t care. I said ‘no,’ and I mean it.”
“Well, then” —his voice became hoarse —
“this is the end.”
“Yes,” she said distinctly. “The end.”
He turned and trod a few swift steps,
then swung round and came back.
“Lil,” he said brokenly. “Don’t be hard
on a man.”
She stared at the horizon. “I said no.”
“But you can change that. I’ll do my
best for you.”
She looked at him, her eyes mirroring the
tumult in her breast.
“It’s no good, Bill—no good.”
“What do you mean? Ain’t I good enough
for you ?”
“It’s not that. I mean—l—well, it’s no
good thinking of me like that.”
“Why?” he asked stubbornly.
“Because—because”... .her voice trailed
off. “Because it’s no good,” she said dully.
“But that’s no reason.”
“Well, it’s just that.”
His eyes began to smoulder, the brooding
mouth to become hard.
“So y’ think,” he said, “that you can do
just what you like with me?”
A feeble smile warmed her features. “Not
that, Bill. You’re not judging me right.”
“Not judging you right?” His voice be-
came blatant. “How am I to do anything
else? Haven’t you let me see that you did
care, that some day you would marry me?”
“Do you think,” she said with strange
quiet, “that you’re the only one that’s suffer-
ing; the only one that regrets?”
“Then why don’t you marry me?” he
pleaded.
She looked from him to the children.
“Are we to swell that crowd, Bill?” She
pointed to the circle of huts. “Can you
give me better than this? Why keep on
about it!”
“You’re right,” he said toneless, and trod
awkwardly away.
Her lips moved. One hand rose to stay
him, then dropped to her side. Tears rolled
from her tragic eyes.
“You big silly, Bill,” she murmured to
herself. “Don’t you know when a woman’s
lying?” *
Slowly she walked towards a hut that l
lay a little from the rest. The door was
open. On a bed in the stifling room lay an
elderly woman. Her face became glorious
as Lil came into the room; the faded eyes
gleamed anew. “I wanted y’ to come, Lil.”
The quavering voice held a thousand terrors.
“It gets so dark when you’re not here.”
“Dark, Mum? How’s that? The sun’s
bonzer.”
The old woman drew the tattered blanket
closer around her thin shoulders; the sweat-
beads crusted her face.
“Yes, it’s warm enough. Yet I get so
cold—so cold.” Her worn fingers gripped
Lil fiercely. “They tell me you’re going-
going from me!”
The weariness came back to Lil’s voice.
“I’m not. I’m staying with you.”
“But they say you are.”
“Let them say what they like—l’m not.” I
The old woman laid her head on Lil’s 1
shoulder. “Remember, Lil,” she crooned,
“you promised not to leave me. To be with
me always.”
“I know that.”
Suddenly she began to cry. Choking sobs
wracked the lean old frame.
“You’re marrying Bill. You’ll leave me—
leave me.”
“No. I won’t marry Bill.”
“Promise me that you won’t—that you’ll
stay with me.”
“I’ll stay with you.”
* * ■* *
Out in the glaring sun the children
laughed and played. Over on the horizon
a mirage formed.
EDWARD DAVIES.
The Historian.
Many a night I wander, while you sleep,
Until my heart is warmed by ancient fire
From immemorial torches, flickering out
Beyond the windy battlements of Tyre.
Blood calls to blood across the Carthage
heights,
For these are my blood-brothers, walking
slow
With hearts upon the gusty clouds above
And eyes upon the wicked rocks below.
In Babylon they tap a restless foot
Impatient with the posturing negro crew.
Tired, oh, so tired of dancing. So they turn
To clap the flogging of the dreary jew.
I am at home with restless Romans by
The river’s edge where the white iris blows.
Where, crushed in goblets with a dark design,
I drink the wine-red lustre of the rose.
And so I find you cold. Not your smooth
skin
Nor all the secret curving of your mouth
Means half as much as one thin thread of
song
From old romances of the scented South.
Sleep on, sweet lady. I am happier so,
Swung down the ages on a passionate
dream.
Your small hands smudge the lovely colors
out,
Your bright head blots a more enduring
gleam.
N.S.W.
BETTIE RIDDELL.


How the Money that Might Have Been Saved
Last Year Can Be Saved This Year!
On road-making jobs the cost per mile can be cut to a minimum by using
up-to-date machines. A lower cost per chain means more miles of good
roads —and the machines quickly return their cost in time and labor saved.
■
n
1 MBBt'
THE BARBER - GREENE BUCKET LOADER
pictured here is being used by the Main Roads
Board loading scarified road metal. Its pick-up
is quick and clean —no shovel labor being neces-
sary. This is but one of the many loading jobs
bandied by Barber-Greene Loaders. They are
ideal for loading such material as sand, gravel,
scarified road metal, stone, coal, etc.
dfs
mm
1. Adams One-Man Road Maintainer.
2. Adams Adjustable Leaning-Wheel Road
Grader.
3. Spearwell One-Man Motor Grader.
Three efficient machines which, combined with
the sure power and steady traction of the
“Caterpillar” Tractor, make ideal road grading
and maintaining units.
THE HUNNINGS UTILITY ROAD PLOUGH
Something NEW for the Road-making Engineer!
We are placing on the market a new plough, known as the “HUNNINGS PATENT UTILITY
PLOUGH,” which has been specially designed for road-making and tank-sinking. The Hunnmgs
Plough does away with the necessity of using a multiple of implements, and is capable of efficiently
performing such jobs as the ploughing of hard claypan, loam, old gravel and road metal, and the
construction and cleaning of drains and small channels. The use of extension mouldboards enables
it to make and clean larger drains and channels with maximum efficiency and minimum cost.
We are exhibiting this plough at the Royal Easter Show, where its many special features may be
inspected at leisure.
Interesting Booklets describing the above Machines
sent Free on Request
Willi AM ADAMS & COMPANY
LIMITED,
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


JfoteX
YVuukot
Spring Street, Melbourne.
The most beautifully located of all Melbourne’s
good-class metropolitan hotels. Opposite Parlia-
ment House and facing magnificent gardens;
ideal for the
EASIER HOLIDAYS
Exceptionally quiet and secluded and only a
minute or two from the city attractions, shops,
theatres, stations, wharves, tourist chars-9-bancs.
Hot and cold water and telephones in all bed-
rooms. Minimum Tariff from 22/6 (inclusive).
Room and Breakfast from 15/-.
Telegrams and Cables: “Telwinsor,” Melbourne.
Manager: D. G. Baker. ’Phone: Central 9260.
will appreciate,
the cLelLcaJte
Bouquet and
mellow flavour oP J i
df
sdf
MARTELLS
BRANDY
SHIPPEO SOLELY FBOM THE COGNAC OiSrRtCT
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
3
nuns
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe aiul Hotel Proprietors,
RRISBANE.
THE GALLEY SLAVE.
BY J.H.M. ABBOTT
“T~\ FT, my dear man,” remarked the
|~) Parson, “you have not a great deal
to complain of. It is notorious that
the crew of the Commandant’s barge are
infinitely better off than any others of us—
how shall I put it? —citizens of constraint.
You certainly must bend your back and
strain upon your oar when occasion demands.
I know that the labor of pulling up-stream
against the tide is heavy and hard, but you
don’t do it every day. You have good quar-
ters. Your rations are regular. You get
your tot of spirits and your allowance of
tobacco when you are cn voyage. And. you
have never been through the mill, as I have.
You have not worked with the lime-burners,
you have had no experience of the mines, or
on the breakwater —you have never bullocked
on the cedar logs. Look at me—Master of
Arts of Cambridge, formerly priest in Holy
Orders, highly cultured gentleman, once a
fellow of John’s, once chaplain to a bishop
—once, even, in a fair way to becoming a
bishop myself. And what do I do in the
scheme of things that rules this charming
settlement of Newcastle, or King’s Town, or
the Coal River —or whatever may be its
proper title? What is my honorable employ-
ment in this sphere of coerced usefulness?
Why, dammit, grave-digging! And I look
upon myself as lucky to be so employed.
I have been in an iron-gang, I have been
flogged half a score of times. And you have
never once stretched yourself at the triangle.
Bless my soul, my young friend, you are a
pessimist.”
Peter Septimus Crawshaw, a tall old man
in patched but very clean convict clothing
which even his present task had hardly
soiled, with the face of a saint,. the past
reputation of a satyr and the record of a
“pebble” of the worst description, both in
Sydney and in Van Diemen’s Land, smiled
benignly down upon the younger man. That
person lay on the grass beside the open grave
in the churchyard on the hill at Newcastle,
staring disconsolately out over the lovely
prospect of sun-burnished waters, yellow
sands of the long beach that stretches to
Port Stephens, silvery winding reaches of the
river, miles of mangrove and dark forest, and
the distant blue mountains to the northward
and north-west.
No one ever looked less of a villain than
this venerable sexton leaning upon the long
handle of his shovel and cutting a fill of
black twist for his stumpy clay pipe; yet
there was hardly a prisoner in the settlement
at the mouth of the Hunter who had a
fouler record. Twice he had cheated the
hangman, for five-and-twenty years his char-
acter had been notorious as that of a man
whom normal sinners loathe, despise and
fear—that sort of character which all penal
systems, of all times and places, seem to
breed like the sores of scurvy. A brilliantly-
clever man, horribly perverted and delighting
in the corruption of others, his sins were of
a sort that may hardly even be hinted at.
Old age—ne was seventy-three—had taken his
active vices from him, but he remained a
burnt-out volcano of a sort of badness beside
which mere homicidal mania is a clean,
wholesome and manly sport.
And yet there was no man in all the
colony who had more charm of manner than
this unspeakably disreputable old convict
who had made Latin verses, trouble and
infamy wherever he had been. Until new
officials recognised him for what he was they
nearly always took him for what he seemed
to be —with his clean-cut, handsome features,
fine eyes and gentle manner. But when they
learned his record they generally found some
position for Peter Septimus in which he
would come in contact as little as possible
with his fellow prisoners.
The young man sighed as he scrambled to
his feet. “No,” he said gloomily, “I’ve never
been flogged, and I suppose the billet I’m
in’s not a bad one, as they go here. But I
oughtn’t to be here at all. Damme, I was
wrongly convicted. I no more did what I
was sent here for than —than you did. And
here I am, a warrant officer of the Royal
Navy, compelled to do the task of a—of a
d—d galley-slave.
Very musically and gently the old man
laughed.
“Oh, innocent —of course. We all are.
Cela va sans dire! But why did they send
you here? What is your qualification for
this colony of the elect at the Coal River?
How were you supposed to earn the
privileges of this select community?”
“Forging the Captain’s name—and I
swear I never did it. But that don’t matter,
I’ve told you you’re wanted down at the boat-
shed. And you’d better shake a leg. Jimmy
sent me for you. And he’s down there him-
self. Come along. Put on your jacket, and
hurry up. You know Jimmy better than I
do. It won’t do either of us any good if
he’s kept waiting.
“No, it certainly won’t. That eminent
disciplinarian Major James Morissett of
the ‘Buffs’ is, as you say, not a person
to be treated lightly.” He picked up his
jacket, and slipped it on. “Well, I’m ready
—and I have a clear conscience. There is
nothing against me. Perhaps I may indulge
a hope that this summons portends promo-
tion. The Commandant may have noted my
zeal and assiduity as a First Gravedigger,
and have decided that I am worthy of some-
thing better. Pie may, indeed, wish to
reward faithful, if humble, service by ad-
vancement.
The young man laughed grimly. “He does
intend to promote you, Parson. I heard him
say so.”
“Indeed! And may I ask what my future
snhere of usefulness is to be? Do you happen
to have heard that also?”
“Yes,”
“What is it, pray?”
“He is going to make you acting-hang-
man.”
The old man smiled. “Well,-well —I had
no idea that such an honor was in store for
me ! Good. And the occasion ?”
“There are two to be hanged at Wallis
Plains to-morrow, and Billy the Ram’s broken
his leg. You’re to go up in the barge with us
this evening on the turn of the tide. We’ll
he there in the morning. I hope you like it!
Billy’s job, I mean.”
“Like it, my dear boy—l could kiss you
for bringing me the news. Indeed I could.”
Whistling cheerfully, and always smiling,
the venerable and picturesque old man fol-
lowed the other down the hillside and across
the town to the river, where the Command-
ant’s barge lay ready manned beside the
jetty of the King’s Wharf.
**. * *
A curious craft was this big boat in which
Major Morissett was wont, by means of its
ample waterways, to visit the hinterland of
the territory he ruled so firmly.
Settlement on the Hunter was well estab-
lished in 1825. Newcastle was developing
from a convict camp into a town. Already
the Australian Agricultural Company was
established at Port Stephens. Wallis Plains,
where West Maitland was coming into being,
was beginning to rival the Hawkesbury as a
farming district. The main river, the Wil-
liams, and the Paterson ran into magnificent
cedar forests that were as good as those in
Illawarra. The Upper Hunter, pioneered by
Howe and Loder, and the others from the
MISSED.
“Seen Fizzlesmitch lately?”
“Listened to him for about an hour last
night.”
“An hour? What was he talking about?”
“He didn’t say.”
Windsor side, five years before, was being
taken up as cattle-stations. The van of
the scattered army of colonisation that first
settled in these rich lands had almost reached
the Liverpool Ranges, and was nearly ready
to cross over on to the plains of the North-
West. But active government hardly extended
as yet further westward than Wallis Plains.
The Commandant could still visit the most
important centres of his administration in
his State galley.
The barge was a long and broad-beamed
craft, with capacity for from six to eight
oars, room for an armed guard of soldiers
and a capacious cabin for the accommodation
of the Commandant in the stern. Forward,
in the bows, was fixed up a set of triangles.
It was Major Morissett’s custom, taking the
flagellator with him, to hold courts along the
river-bank upon assigned servants who'-might
be presented by their masters for trial upon
complaints of idleness, theft, insubordination
or insolence, and to administer justice, or
injustice, on the spot where the trial was
held. Once a month at least this useful pil-
grimage was made into the interior, and was
a welcome relief in the monotony of existence
for those who were settled along the three
AARON’S ROD.
GOLDBERG: “Nottings like children—you
can’t beat them.”
COHEN: “Oh yes, you can. But it doand’t
make any difference.”
rivers. That is, to those who did not have to
go into the bows of the barge with their
shirts off.
The broad waters shone like mother of
pearl as the big boat glided across their glassy
surface towards the sunset, the six long oars
rising and falling regularly and rhythmically
to the slow time given them by the cox-
swain standing by the tiller on the little deck
aft of the cabin. Beside him, gazing forward
over the latter’s roof, the tall and burly
figure of Major Morissett dominated the
little company of voyagers. In the well
before the cabin the red coats of a corporal
and three soldiers, flamingly vivid in the level
rays of a pink-and-orange sunset, made a
splash of color against the dark cedar panel-
ling of the little house. The venerable ex-
clergyman sat near them —but not too near.
And' there were two others, handcuffed and
leg-ironed.
Tugging at the bow oar on the starboard
side sat the young man who had been sent
to summon the sexton to this variation of his
work of disposing of the dead, liis gloomy
gaze concentrated upon the bending bodies
of his fellow-rowers as they swung back and
forward in pairs upon the wooden seats
stretching from gunwale to gunwale. He had
no eyes for the beauties of the evening and
the glories of the sunset reflecting them-
selves upon the still surface of the river.
The long beaches of grey mud below the
mangroves, just beginning to be slowly eaten
up by the turning tide, fitted liis mood of
sullen discontent better than the wealth of
light and color which seemed to have fascin-
ated even the grim Commandant himself. The
two pale men in irons—they were the two
who were to die at Wallis Plains upon the mor-
row —were hardly so sorry for themselves as
was prisoner Isaac Penfold, bowman of the
Commandant’s barge at Newcastle and lately
gunner of H.M.S. Bermuda in the Channel
Fleet. Actually, to him, their impending fate
seemed preferable to his own.
Major Morissett’s stern grey eyes wan-
dered over the length of the barge, scanning
each toiling oarsman in turn, and when they
rested on the group in the well before the
cabin he frowned slightly and bent forward
over the cabin’s roof.
“Corporal Tuft!” he barked, with the
parade-ground rasp in his voice.
The corporal started to his feet, straighten-
ing his crossbelts as he rose, and turned to
face the Commandant, standing rigidly to
attention and saluting when he replied.
“Sir.”
“Send that d —d hangman for’ard imme-
diately. D’ye think its decent to have him
sitting there with those two? Let him go
into the bows.”
“Very good, sir,” replied the corporal,
turning to Peter Septimus. “Get to h
out o’ this, you old beast. Go an’ sit be
y’self, up be th’ whippin’post. Move lively,
now. What tli’ devil d’ye mean a-sliovin’ in
amongst decent people?”
The old man scrambled forward, smiling
pleasantly, and sat down in the bottom of
the boat, his hack propped against one of
the legs of the triangles, so that he was
immediately behind Isaac Penfold.
As dusk settled down over the quiet
reaches, and the stars came out in the dark
indigo vault of sky, spreading like the roof
of a tent from wall to wall of dark forest
that stood up dimly visible upon either low-
lying bank of the river, a light shone out
of the Commandant’s cabin, and crew and
soldiers and prisoners became aware that
the great man was at supper. Not until
they halted for an hour or so, at midnight,
were the rowers to satisfy their hunger,
though the soldiers and condemned prisoners
might please themselves when they consumed
their scanty rations. This had been inti-
mated to them through the coxswain, a
ticket-of-leave man, and the only one in the
barge.
“Yous lags’ll be fed at twelve o’clock
—did j’ear me! So ye can jest keep a-goin’
till then. An’ put yer bleedin’ backs into
it.” There was little politeness in New
South Wales in 1825.
The rising moon, almost full, lit them
over the wide mud flats at the entrance to
the river proper, and mounted higher and
higher as they progressed up the stream,
only the thud of the oars in the rowlocks,
the regular faint splash of the blades as
they entered and left the water, a tinkling,
musical lapping of tiny wavelets against
the run of the barge, and the occasional
croaking cry of a mopoke in the dark trees
ashore breaking the primeval silence of the
lonely forest that shut them in. Not until
they had travelled many miles up-stream did
a solitary light, the mere glimmer of a
slush-lamp in some glassless window on the
bank,' speak of any habitation in this wilder-
ness of tangled forest, whose only track or
pathway was the placid river.
Silhouetted in detail against the moor, a
sentry sat upon the roof of the cabin above
the well where the two unhappy passengers
occasionally clinked their irons, or rattled
them, in the darkness. His tall shako was a
monstrous, mis-shapen thing with fhe silvery
light behind it, and the glimmer of his
bayonet mingled with the sparkle of the
eddyihg waters overside, as his musket lay
across, his knees. Through the little window
beside the cabin door the light within shone
behind a red curtain, reminding the rowers
of snug inns in their native counties at home.
The head and shoulders of the coxswain stood
out above the cabin roof against the barge’s
flashing wake. There was a low murmur of
conversation in the deep shadow of the well,
where occasionally a pipe glowed dimly for
a moment, lighting up a sunburnt nose and
tlfe peak of a shako.
And then a very singular thing took place
—so strange and exceptional a thing to hap-
pen in those hard years that the rowers
could scarcely believe the evidence of their
hearing. A young soldier —a sandy, fresh-
complexioned fellow of the last draft from
home—was praying with the prisoners. One
of them repeated his words, dully and
mechanically; the other merely groaned a
sort of acquiescence at intervals. It was all
very low and hushed —the Commandant must
not be disturbed —but quite distinct and
audible throughout the barge’s length.
“ ‘Ar Feyther AV'ich art in ’Emin —altard
be Thoi name—-Thoi kingdun coom’ —go on,
Hegarty man, say th’ words arter me.”
A low tremulous murmur followed, in an-
other voice. “ ‘Thoi will be done on airth, as
it is in ’Evvin. Gie us this daay our daily
bread. Forgi’e us aur trespasses, as we for-
gi’e them ’ ”
And then the other man shrieked —so
startlingly and suddenly that the rowers
lost a stroke, and the barge seemed to jerk
with the simultaneous movement of a dozen
bodies. “O Gawd —O Gawd! Ah canna
bear it!”
The scream of hysterical agony cut the
silence of the night like a flash of lightning
in a dark cloud, and there was a clash, of
jangling iron as the wretched man tumbled
into the bottom of the boat in a fit.
Almost instantly the cabin door opened,
and the head and shoulders of the Com-
mandant loomed blackly in the rectangles of
yellow light.
“Corporal Tuft!” roared Major Morissett.
“Sir!” the alarmed voice of the n.c.o.
answered him.
“Stop that d —d row at once! I want to
go to sleep. If those fellows can’t keep
quiet, gag ’em. If I hear any more of it,
I’ll reduce you. D’ye hear me—as soon as
we’re back in Newcastle I’ll have you
smashed. Damme, I will. Coxs’n!”
“Sir!” from the stern.
“We won’t halt till one o’clock —and not
then, unless absolute silence is kept aboard.
I won’t have such d—d nonsense. Keep ’em
at it till one o’clock. I’ll -hand you out my
(Continued on page !/9.)


y
t'i
PC
<SS
Xv
M
x
\
n.
m
p/
s
V&
%f
&5>
xs
ss#
C/i
,
£
Ck
r
%
t
%
K
/In lIIHu, i
THERE’S money in blue metal —one N.S.W. Blue Metal Company s balance-
sheet shows a net profit of £41,577/16/3 for the past twelve months. The
Great Northern Blue Metal Company, Limited, offers an even more attractive
investment. Owing to the large quantity of loose spawls, economical working is
assured; the management consists of experienced men; and the demand is already
existent, therefore an even larger net profit must be earned.
Great Northern Blue Metal Co., Ltd., shares are the most attractive investment
offering to-day—safe, sound and certain of producing big dividends. No heavy cost
of clearing away overburden, no high cost of boring, whilst explosives for blasting
will scarcely be needed. The toughness, hardness and wearing powers of Great
Northern Blue Metal will secure it first place in Architects’ and Road-makers
specifications.
GreatNorthern
Blue Metal Company Lw
will earn Big Dividends -
be sure you participate -
a
co
ta
ec
To METROPOLITAN UNDERWRITERS ( Australasia ), Ltd.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney
Please send Full Prospectus of the Great Northern Blue Metal Com-
pany, Limited.
Name
Address
Bulletin.
George George-Davey.


Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty
MHMi
MISS NANCY MAY,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, and one of the
finalists in the Sun-
day News Bathing
Belle Contest, writes:
“I use Rexona Soap
and much prefer it to
any other soap for the
skin and hair”
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they are made.
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
762-766 PITT STREET ,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS,
CASTLE RE A GH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
What a lovely
Gift!"
watch through the after window. Under-
stand !”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The Commandant withdrew into the cabin,
and closed the door. Soon after, the light
went out, and then Isaac Penfold heard a
faint snigger behind him, and a carefully
modulated whisper reached his ears.
“Dear me—l'd not have missed this for
worlds. Delightful! Exquisite!”
As he came back on his stroke, Penfold
turned his head, and hissed over his shoulder.
“You devil, shut your mouth!”
* * * *
When their hour of rest came, the rowers
ate their meagre dole of corned beef and
maize cake in their places. At the end of
the meal the coxswain served each of them
with a pannikin of rum, the corporal simi-
larly refreshed his men, and the two prisoners
were given his own allowance by the young
soldier who had prayed with them. “Drink
hearty, poor laads —'twill help ye through
the night.”
The Commandant slept soundly during the
halt of the barge’s progress up the river,
and a careful silence was maintained by all,
in pious accordance with the spirit of the
ancient proverb which enjoins the wisdom
of allowing slumbering dogs to continue to
slumber. Some of the men lit their pipes
from the coxswain’s lantern, which he carried
forward for the purpose, and two or three
stretched themselves along the flooring-boards
in the bottom of the barge, to snatch a
brief half-hour of sleep before the real toils
of the night began. Both tide and current
would be against them at two o’clock, and the
last third of their voyage would be the
hardest portion of their task.
As he handed him his tot of rum, the
coxswain whispered to Isaac Penfold : “Come
down into tli’ starn-sheets. I’ve summat to
say to ye, Isaac.”
The young man followed him aft to his
little deck behind the cabin.
“Lookye, lad, you’re an old Navy man
like meself—l’d be a Callin’ ye ‘mister’ if
we had our rights. I’m numb wi’ till’ cold,
a-standin’ here steerin’. You know th’ river
as well’s what I do, so I’m a-goin’ to get ye
to steer an hour or so, whiles I warm me
blood a-pullin’ at your oar. Jimmy won’t
show up till daylight—he likes his night’s
rest. So ’twill be all right. If he should
light his light, we can easy slip back to
our places, while he’s dressin’.”
“Martin,” whispered Penfold, “tell me—
what’s these two done that we’re takin’ them
to Wallis Plains to hang ’em? Isn’t the
gallows working properly down below? Why
couldn’t they ha’ been stretched in New-
castle?”
“Didn’t ye know! These are the pair—
Hcgarty and Macpherson—that killed Black
Sam, th’ hoverseer of th’ road-gang up at
tli’ Plains. Jimmy’s takin’ ’em up there to
string ’em up for an example to their mates.
That’s all. He’s a-goin’ to show ’em wot
’appens to coveys as splits open hoverseers’
cocoanuts with their shovels —for a warnin’,
like. Not as it’ll make much differ, in my
belief —th’ fear of ’angin’ never saved a hover-
seer’s life yet. But Jimmy thinks it might
—an’ ’tis Jimmy’s opinion counts in these
parts. So up they goes, in front of their
friends. ’Tis easier to take ’em to the gang
than to bring th’ gang to Noocastle. Besides,
Jimmy’s not a-goin ’to let tli’ gang lose a
minute’s work over th’ job. He’s a-goin’ to
turn ’em off in th’ dinner hour. Oh, a leery
cove’s our Jimmy. Yes! No holidays for
bangin’ matches w’ile Jimmy Morissett’s in
charge o’ th’ deck.”
When they pushed off at two o’clock, and
once more went gliding up the broad surface
of the Hunter, young Mr. Isaac Penfold was
busy with his thoughts. He knew the river
well enough to steer almost mechanically on
this bright moonlight night, and could give
himself over to the contemplation of a cer-
tain grimly merciful notion that had come
into his head with respect to the two unfor-
tunate passengers who were to die at mid-
day to-morrow. Also he was angry and dis-
gusted with the venerable ruffian nicknamed
the Parson, and would do much to cheat
him of his sadistic satisfaction in his tem-
porary appointment. He loathed the Par-
son, and the notion of thwarting the horrible
old man’s contemplated pleasure was not the
least attractive feature of the course of
action he was silently considering.
Moreover, he was thinking of himself. He
was tired of being a galley-slave. It was
almost the idea of it that affected him more
than what was really the pick of the various
employments for prisoners at the Hunter. He
had once boarded a Spanish slave-galley in
the harbor of Mahon, and in his fancy he
was himself degraded to their level. A sen-
sitive soul —with the weight of fourteen years’
unmerited transportation weighing it down —
was that of Isaac Penfold.
He would achieve three good things if he
carried out his plan. Firstly, he would cease
to be a galley-slave. Secondly, he would
cheat the Parson of his pleasure. Thirdly,
he would do a merciful thing to those two
unfortunates who would assuredly drown in
their irons. And it was possible that he
might also drown the Commandant —which
was itself sufficient justification for what he
thought of doing.
He decided to do it.
So, in a long deep reach not far below the
mouth of the Williams River—a straight
stretch of half a mile or more—he lashed tin
tiller amidships. Then he opened the little
hatch in the deck and thrust his arm down
near the stern post of the barge, groping for
the plug that screwed into her bottom by the
keel, and was used to drain the hull when
she was hauled up on the slipways at the
boatshed. With difficulty he unscrewed it
and felt the rush of water about his wrist
as the river began to flood the boat. Then
he sprang overboard and struck out for the
shore. A musket flashed in the well. Throw-
ing up his arms, the galley-slave took his dis-
missal from his degrading service—with a
two-ounce bullet in his brain. And that was
the only part of his plan that was suc-
cessful.
For, when they had plugged the leak
ashore, the barge went on to Wallis Plains,
and both to the Commandant and the acting-
hangman the day’s doings were eminently
satisfactory.
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
The Thinking Sea.
SOMETIMES, when for quiet musing
Beach or headland I have sought,
Comes an idle fancy to me
That the sea is lost in thought.
Gazing out on its wave-hollows
Greyly shadowed or agleam,
Like the furrows on a forehead
Ploughed by thinking much they seem.
Placid to its far horizon,
Surface stirred not by the wind,
It seems vested with the quiet
Of a meditative mind.
Standing lone anigh its waters
With the sun or moon above, u
Oft in vain I try to fathom
What it may be thinking of.
Though afar a topsail rises,
Or afar a topsail sinks.
Ships and men to it are nothing,
Not of ships and men it thinks.
More than man and his achievements
From grey ages dead and gone
In its mighty meditation
Does it seem to dwell upon.
Spellbound by it, I imagine
That upon some theme it dwells
Greater far than ever poet
Set in ringing syllables.
Mind abashed, repulsed, defeated,
Failure in my quest to learn
What I deem its wondrous secret,
From the thinking sea I turn.
Turn. .. .and townward, homeward, straying,
Fix my thoughts on homely things—
Life and death, and love and labor,
All that laughs and sobs and sings.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
All on a Summer Morning.
SENIOR - CONST AB EE HANRAHAN
walked slowly, heavily, around the
corner into George-street. He was
thinking of possible promotion, of broken-
down arches and flat feet. He remembered
that Higginson had told him of a man some-
where near the fire-station who’d make you
tread soft as the angels in Heaven. He
couldn’t see the sign anywhere. He decided
gloomily that the ould divil must have moved.
He trod on slowly, heavily. He greeted Con
O’Neill, who was busy opening up his shoot-
ing-gallery. A decent young fellow, Con, with
a civil way with him. Con, smooth-cheeked
as a girl, with a little of the red bloom
brought by his mother from Connemara
flushing his cheek-bones, stopped working
to tip him a hint or two as to liow the new
appointments in the Police Department
would go. Con had his own way of learning
many things. Hanrahan, P.C., felt his ear
thrill as though Con’s words were the songs of
sirens. For Con’s words meant friends at
court, and now, perhaps, no longer would
Hanrahan’s claims to a sergeant’s stripes
be overlooked.
He crossed the road almost blithely and
found himself receiving a smile from the
violet-blue eyes of Helen O’Brien. Heleu
sat enthroned, a goddess of fire, within one
of those sentry-boxes where tobacco, cigar-
ettes and cigars are purveyed to the city’s
thousands.
It would take the songs of Solomon,
Tennyson and the poet Yeats to do justice to
Helen ; the milk-white skin of her, the violet
eyes, the golden-brown hair, and the soft
liuskiness of her voice. All these gifts she
had allied to a slim length of limb that
when she emerged from the cigar-brown
cocoon that now enmeshed her would turn
her home-made mourning into something that
looked like a Paquin masterpiece. Con
O’Neill was poignantly aware of Helen’s
charms. Hanrahan, P.C., used to much
pulchritude in his own home, having two
daughters who looked more like professional
beauties than certified 100-word-a-minute
shorthand-typists, was stirred to pause by
Helen’s window. Had not her dad been a
brother officer of the Law, and if God hadn’t
willed otherwise and taken her father off
wouldn’t the girleen by now have her own
100-word-a-minute certificate? Sure, it did
no harm at all to let the riff-raff about the
street see that the girl was on intimate terms
with the Law. So Hanrahan bent his head
down to the little opening that framed
Helen’s face, and inquired after “Mrs.
O’Brien, the poor creature,” and the younger
O’Briens. And Helen returned the courtesies
by sending a paper-pattern from her mother
to Mrs. Hanrahan and a message to Mollie
and Josephine.
Generally at about this stage of the con-
versation Hanrahan retired on a dignified
salute. But to-day he paused. Some private
instructions at the station recurred sharply
to him. Sure, this was the pretty, lonely
sort of creature that White Slavers might
lay a snare for. Hanrahan coughed and
looked over his shoulder. There was no one
within earshot. “Helen, my dear,” he whis-
pered, “ ’tis more than my billet’s worth to
tell you more, but I’ll tell you this much.
If any upstanding flash young fellow tries
to scrape your acquaintance the next day
or two, giv-e him the cold shoulder. If he
wants to introduce you to his mother, and
she hung like the Queen of Sheba with
diamonds, slap down the windy in their
faces. They’re bad lots.”
“Oh, Mr. Hanrahan, not white slavers!”
gasped Helen, round-eyed with the thrill of
the innocent girl suddenly conscious of
being in a City of Sin.
Hanrahan nodded ponderously. Then:
“Not that you’ve anything to fear with Con
O’Neill just across the way and mes-elf on
this beat!”
“Sure,” sighed Helen, with native but
unconscious flattery, “ ’tis the lucky girl I
am to have a powerful friend like yourself,
(Continued on next page.)


■a-n
‘ ' 1 Ceils a Story"
'imp,
&
mi
i,i
>■ i!j
' i;
-T
I
■»
•:
'
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache by taking Doan’s Pills.
KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unflitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such trouble? Middle-aged people, in particular,
should take an occasional course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mrs. A. Knight, 64 Angel-street, Newtown, Sydney,
says: “My husband was a great sufferer from backache
for some time. He was almost crippled with the ailment,
and compelled to knock off work for a good while, as
every movement caused him increased suffering. He tried
remedy after remedy in the hope of a cure, but they all
failed to give him any relief, and his back ached on in spite
of treatment. Hearing of a cure effected by Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, I induced my husband, after a lot of
persuasion, to try these Pills. He is very glad that he
took my advice, for they completely cured him, and he has
not had the slightest pain in his back since. They are
a grand remedy for backache, and should be taken by all
who suffer from this trying ailment.”
Eight years later Mr. Knight says: “I have had
no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me over eight years ago. I always
keep this medicine in the house and take a few doses
whenever I feel a little off color, and they do me a lot of
good.”
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN’S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 61 Eveleigh-street, Red-
fern, Sydney, says : “A member of my
family suffered terribly with Protruding
Piles. The pain was so great that he
could not sleep at night, and would toss
about for hours. He had been suffering
for three years, and we were always hav-
ing advice and using different remedies,
but nothing did him any good until we
got Doan’s Ointment. This remedy
proved excellent; it gave complete ease.
I cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s
Ointment, and recommend its use when-
ever opportunity offers.”
Twenty years later Mrs. Wark says:
“I am pleased to tell you that the mem-
ber of my family who was cured of Piles
by Doan’s Ointment over twenty years
ago is still free from this trying com-
plaint. This remedy is a certain cure
for Piles.”
Mr. A. H. Francis, 102 Union-street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says: “I used
Doan’s Ointment for Itching and Pro-
truding Piles, and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previously
I had tried all kinds of ointments, but
they gave me little or no relief. I was
suffering terribly when I first applied
Doan’s Ointment, and had little hope of
it doing me any good, but its soothing
and healing effect was noticeable almost
at once, and by the time I had used one
pot I was completely cured, all signs of
Piles having disappeared entirely. I am
a great believer in Doan’s Ointment, and
consider it the best Pile remedy known.”
Six years later Mr. Francis says: “I
have not been troubled with Piles since
Doan’s Ointment cured me.”
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
Mr. Hanrahan.” And at this moment Con,
slender, brown-suited and with the red bloom
his mother had brought from Connemara
like a red banner on each cheek, came over
for his daily two packets, and Hanrahan
moved off.
“How’s business, Con?” asked Helen with
mechanical politeness, as she rang the cash-
register.
“Not bad at all, Helen,” though nobody
but himself was to know that Con was the
syndicate that owned a chain of shooting-
galleries and side-shows and tobacco-booths.
A quiet young man, and the filing cabinet
in the little office at the side of the shooting-
gallery was the only sharer of the secrets of
all his ventures. Con, according to formula,
lit his cigarette at the stand, gazed up the
street and down the street, and was starting
his usual “Well, see you later,” when his
eyes noticed something about the girl’s look.
“Are you sick, Helen?”
“No-o ! Only a bit frightened,” and she
recounted the P.C.’s warning.
“Hanrahan’s an old fool,” said Con, blow-
ing out his match reflectively, “but if you
feel a bit nervous any time, and want me,
just wave your hanky and I’ll be over in one
jump. And,” he added to himself, “Darl-
ing, I’d like to hold you in the crook of
my arm as gently as a bird’s wing shelters
its chick. I’d like —oh, damn, what’s the
use, with half the rich lads going into the
Cathedral crazy on her!”
At that moment Hanrahan, P.C., stood on
the corner with a sigh for the shade he had
left behind. Now his way lay opposite in
a blazing summer sun. Waves of it raced
to meet him on the wind-shields of rushing
motors, and a shimmering pool of it was
reflected in the glass of Con’s runabout
outside the gallery. And even as his sigh
made another dint on the ether, Hanrahan
saw a small boy naked as the babe new-
born leap on to the side of Con’s car and
discharge a slim piece of feather in the
direction of the tobacco stand.
Hanrahan plunged across the road.
“Some young divil,” he muttered, and took
another look. But nothing except) the
shimmering sunlight on the glass met his
eye. “I’ll speak to Con about that kid,”
he said.
But the feathery dart, though it had
pierced the stand, had only managed to
prick the casing of Helen’s heart. Still,
for the first time she was conscious of
Con’s eyes and the clear red bloom of his
cheeks that his mother had brought from
Connemara.
It was exactly a quarter to eleven when
Miss Helen O’Brien discovered that she had
left home without her daily apple. She
made a little clicking sound of irritation,
peeped up and down the block which was
occupied for the moment by a few shopping
women and two small boys, and decided to
risk a trip to the fruit-stall. She could
watch the stand and be back before anyone
would liotice the place was empty. Quickly
her slim limbs flashed through the opening
and up the street. And it was while she
hesitated in choice before a pyramid of
Granny Sipiths that the gaze of young
Peter Denny fell upon her. Peter was
Young Peter to distinguish him from Old
Peter, his father. Young Peter was beauti-
ful and a poet; his father was merely a
business magnate.
Peter sauntered towards the fruit-stand,
but a sense of civility kept him from star-
ing while this rare girl made her purchase.
And even as his eye turned from her, Helen
made choice of two, dropped her fourpence
in the barrow-man’s hand and sprinted to
her job. Peter turned, but the vision had
vanished. He looked around him. The pave-
ment hadn’t opened. There were only a
wine bar and a hotel doorway near by, and
Peter scorned the idea of looking for his
golden girl within them. He beat down the
block, gazed up stairways, rushed across the
road after a pair of slim black legs, only to
find them topped by peroxide and pearl
cream. He stood at gaze near Con’s shoot-
ing-gallery, and then he nearly shouted a
hosanna. There was his beauty, her profile
turned to the passer-by, but delicately in
action upon her recent purchase.
“Apples from the Hesperides. Lord, I
wish I were Paris!” muttered the ecstatic
young man, as he pulled down liis vest and
coursed back to the throne.
He made his presence known to Helen by
placing a silver coin on the ledge. The girl,
blushing with the strain of hastily swallow-
ing an unmunclied bite of apple, looked
around to attend to his desires. And Peter
Denny fell in love!
Helen O’Brien saw a young man with a
lean brown face set with grey eyes and a
whimsical mouth. The voice that demanded
Capstans was one that no woman would
object to hearing demand another cup every
morning across the breakfast-table. She saw,
too, that his eye, as well as registering the
look of keen enjoyment she was used to
meeting in male eyes, had flickered with
momentary interest on the advertisement
just at the back of her head for a new
cigarette that invited the reader to add a
line to the legend below, which read:
Smoke Sawdust Chips....
“When with Fate at grips!” finished the
young man with a nod towards the sign.
“Oh,” said Helen, “you are a poet!” Then,
“Poor fellow!” she thought, “probably he
hasn’t had a bite this morning.” “I’m just
eating an apple,” she began chattily; “they
are very nutritious—would you care for
one?” And she thrust a Granny Smith to-
wards him.
Peter Denny blushed furiously. “Thanks
most awfully,” he stammered, and stuck his
front teeth through the satin sheath. What
sort of a fool would lie be to refuse to eat
an apple on top of the statue of Victorii.
if this perfect girl expected him to! He
glowed through the aperture on the girl. “I
always thought,” he said, “the apple was
given to Helen!”
“How did you know my name?” countered
this puzzling girl.
“I recognised you at a glance, Helen of
Troy.”
“Not quite right,” she laughed—“of
Bondi!”
“Well, that’s handy. It must get a bit
hot in here in the afternoons when the sun’s
this side. Glad to get to the surf when it’s
your afternoon off, I suppose,” he said in a
wily fashion. “Or the Gardens are a nice
cool change!”
“Yes,” she said, “I often go to the Gar-
dens !”
“May I—l’d love to join you there one
afternoon,” said Peter Denny.
While he asked, lest his eyes might look
too eager, he was performing something very
close to a sensitive surgical operation around
the core of the apple. And it was the piti-
able sight of that core which made Helen
reply “Why, I’d love to !”
Then Peter Denny said good-bye; and like
a man in a mist—a soft and rosy mist—
walked into the next street to where a car
awaited his coming.
What luck the boat that was bringing his
mother back from Europe should have been
late! It was the idea of filling in time that
had set him wandering about this part of
George-street, and now lie had found the girl
of his dreams. He settled himself back
against the cushions, and the lines of an old
rhyme came to his mind:
I’ll wash you in milk
And I’ll dress you in silk!
“That damn boat ought to be in now,” he
said to the chauffeur.
Across the road another young man in a
brown suit who had miserably watched the
bent shoulders of Peter Denny during his
long dialogue with Helen felt like a man in
a mist; but his was blood-red.
Helen rearranged her stock pensively. It
must be very nice in the Gardens these after-
noons. She’d go there perhaps on her next
afternoon with the young man who was a
poet. He might write something about her
that would earn him a lot of money. She
was glad she’d given him that apple!
At the P. and O. wharf Peter found his
mother, who looked like a slightly older
sister. Age was massaged and rouged and
powdered away, and from her head to her
shoes she was a whisper of perfection. Only
a diamond pendant that blazed in the sun
and the small hands that shimmered with
light as she caught Peter’s face between them
struck a garish note.
“Why the high voltage, mother?” inquired
her son as he finally steered her into the
sedan.
“Because your father wirelessed me to
have lunch with him, and you know he loves
me to wear them.”
But Peter wasn’t listening. He was bab-
bling to her about a perfect woman who had
come into his life.
“A girl in a tobacco-stand! My dear
Peter!” And then impulsively, seeing the
look in his eyes, “Well, let’s see her!”
So the luxurious car for the second time
that morning purred into George-street.
Helen O’Brien noted its magnificence idly;
then in fascinated horror she saw Peter
Denny alight and help out a beautifully-
dressed woman. The pair tnade towards her,
and still in frozen horror Helen heard the
man say: “Let me introduce you to my
mother.”
Helen gazed as the small bird fascinated
by the snake at the white hand raised
towards her. What was it Mr. Hanrahan
had said: “A little woman hung like the
Queen of Sheba with diamonds”!
“Jesus, Mary and Joseph!” she gasped,
and slammed the shutter in their faces.
Ten minutes later Helen, nearly asphyxi-
ated in her sentry-box, leaned feebly over,
lifted the shutter and waved her hanky. Con
with one leap was before her, and as she
thrust her face eagerly forward to tell him
the awful experience of an innocent girl in a
City of Sin, the feathered dart, still in
the two-ply wood of the stand, pierced through
her crepe-de-Chine dress, her boneless corse-
let, her near-Milanese singlet and lodged
in her heart! And that was the moment she
came to the knowledge that Con was the
nicest young man in the world.
“Come over with me till I send a boy to
look after the stand,” said Con, “and then
I’ll take you home to your mother.” But,
full of guile, he never uttered the name of
Peter Denny. And five minutes later, as
Helen stood beside the filing-cabinet that held
all the secrets of his traffic in side-shows
and shooting-galleries, Con suddenly clipped
her in his arms.
“When shall we put up the banns, Helen?”
he heard himself ask, and then her amazing
whisper: “Any time you like, Con.”
Hanrahan, P.C., still meditating gloomily
on fallen arches, stood on the corner as Con’s
car slipped by. Neither of its occupants saw
his salute; but a small boy, on the running-
board, naked as the new-born babe, except
for a few feathers that stuck out above his
shoulders, waved impudently at him. Then
Hanrahan, P.C., stopped worrying about
fallen arches. Drawing a perplexed hand
across his eyes: “If I see that kid again
I’ll have to go to the doctor about my
sight,” he groaned.
NORA McAULIFEE
The Quiet Hour.
All day the high cliffs stand with stony faces,
The loud winds roaring in their topmost
trees ;
The hills sprawl wide with valleys at their
knees,
And in deep shelter there are soft green
places
Where sudden spray of sunlight hangs bright
laces
On vines that whisper to the loitering
breeze.
Each blossoming bough is loud with tireless
bees,
While, in blue fields above, the white cloud
races.
An eager world of movement and desire.
Of laughing, heedless flower and toiling
root.
And hours whose pride is that they
run so fast
Through countless deeds to catch the sun’s
last fire.
But when the bees have gathered all their
loot
Earth falls to silence, thinking of her
past.
DAVID McKIEE WRIGHT.


sdf
sd
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
wueeiiMlanct ageiu»— a. OHCItCH, Brisbane
N.Z. Office— 9 S-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
"BITUMASTIC” Specialties.
TRIED AND TESTED FOR THE PAST 70 YEARS
“Bitumastic” Black Solution, to prevent Corrosion.
“Bituros,” for preservation of Drinking-water Tanks—
tasteless and odorless.
‘‘Bitumastic” Colored Enamels—an economical paint for
all purposes, in a range of 15 colors.
“Bituplastic.” A plastic, bituminous waterproofing com-
pound, in red and black, for Roofs, Walls, etc.
Manufacturers: WAILES, DOVE BITUMASTIC, LTD., Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SOLE AGENTS—
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.
97 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOQDattd
How to use H,
fir INFANTS
INVALIDS
«und IheAGED.
Food
Is illness in
the house I
If so, send to-day for a copy
of Renger’s Booklet, post free.
This will help you with the
problem of giving the patient a
change of food.
Among the contents are recipes
for the preparation, with Berger s
Food, of dainty dishes which
relieve the monotony of plain milk
diet, so trying to invalids.
Benger’s Booklet is so full of
interest that even if you have no
invalid in the house you should
send for a copy and keep it safely.
Benger’s Food is not only ve~y
highly nutritious, but gives relief
from the distress and nervous
debility caused by indigestion.
Benger'a Food is sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
Invalid Recipes in booklet,
post free from BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., 350, George St, Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: —Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester. England.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
▼
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
POST FREE
fs
u
m
m
m
y/A
OKI
w
fii^
dfs
MARINE ENGINES
FOR trustworthy and en-
during power install a
Kermath Marine Engine.
Kermaths are built to give
efficient service that lasts
through the years— “A
Kermath Always Runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling
means easy starting.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Miison's Point
North Sidney, N. S. W
Kermath Manufacturing Co.F
Detroit. Mich,, U. S. A,
Cf.blc Address - Kermath
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
IP eather and other circumstances permitting.
From Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m, and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Luncheon by 'Garilens Hotel ,,<lren ’ Aft an<l G<, t „
cncriAT Thin uirrnv ciimn/v “ Hotel. Afternoon Ten on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY at3p. m ., r „ m No. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Tels.: 86276 (4 line*). W. Children. 6d.
’ Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
o
.0 f
rS e<
e *
0$
f
I


*
fy
ixiui
Hi
'£k
A
ESSEX Tops its
Greatest Triumph
with even Qreater Values
70 %
Australian Built
Under this combination of resources,
American, and Australian industry
has achieved manufacturing econ-
omies that no other builder for
the Australian market shares.
ESSEX SUPER-SIX.
Essex 5-pass. Touring (Aus. Body) £255
Essex 5-pass Coach (Aus. Body) . . 325
Essex Coupe (Imported Body) . . 335
Essex 4-door Sedan (Aus. Body) . . 345
Essex 4-door Sedan (Imp. Body) . . 365
Prices at some points slightly higher.
At the highest pinnacle of Essex popularity -with
the record-breaking sales of all time the largest
production in Essex history was abruptly stopped
to give this Greater Essex right-of-way.
The industry does not record a
like decision. Yet one glance—
one ride in the New Essex
Super-Six reveals the startling
reasons that prompted it. If
thousands praised the former
Essex, then tens of thousands
must applaud the new. If all
sales records were surpassed
by the former Essex, then
even higher marks must
reward the new.
No previous car —no previous
value gives anything by
which to judge it. It is the
greatest achievement in Essex
history. We are now showing
this greater Essex Super-Six.
We could say it is longer,
roomier, more luxurious with
greater power and perform-
ance —yet that does not ex-
press it.
We do say: “ See it and ride
in it with greater expectation
of fine things than you ever
held for any but the costliest
cars You will not be dis-
appointed.
Only by ordering promptly
can you insure delivery ahead
of increasing thousands who
want it.
ESSEX Super-Six
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED.
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.*
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
.Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-t-BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
V " ' -
193
