

J
m
mm
I
-
T (r
essaaedfj
&
&
ssfif
1
S^».
NONE GENUINE
WITHOUT The BRAND
Ree HATS
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
The Bulletin
WORLD’S BEST CARTOONS.
A NEW STEELE RUDD STORY.
Vol. 49.—N0. 2510.
Wednesday, March 21, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the library catalogue and
lists on all subjects, which will be
forwarded post free on application to—
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story Writing
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTTS Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
To3weOvmefsh.p^A^
CASH’S NAMES for MarUngUnen
oran y Fabric are THEBES
are d.stinctive Hou.ehold.
indUpensable <« every
L . Sold by all Best Drapers.
i ft - LCASH iiim-nT
and They Ve On
PRICES
76
12 doje
do^
3'6
do^
TKe Worlds
Best Briar
costs 2Y~
Look for the LOEWE
Mark
a
I-JORSES without pedigrees
L A never become popular
favourites. The best always
wins in the long run. Choose
a Loewe Briar and you are
smoking the most perfect pipe
it is possible for skilled London
craftsmen to produce. For 70
years the Loewe has been re«
garded as **the best pipe of all ”
in the Mother Country. Made
throughout by hand from the
finest materials.
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES
Bowl cut from the heart of
naturally matured briar root.
Mouthpiece cut by hand from
pure Para vulcanite.
Weight and balance perfect.
Solid Silver mounted.
Complete pipe made by hand by
skilled London craftsmen.
sdf
*Jhe (Pastime*
ONE OF THE MANY
LOEWE SHAPES
9UI LOEWE
shapes
2Y-
SILVER
MOUNTED
£Zc?i
sd
Write for Illustrated Booklet. L. M BROWNE, BOX 555, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
(THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO]
** '
you know who u»e» • PLUM—
ask him if he doesn't think it the best
Razor he ha* ever used. Hear him
amwer. ‘Why, rather!"
THE
PLUM
fs
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
■. ■
12 6
Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE"
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
df
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adhere
sd
EILL
MAT FLY
The Red Page
Sane Criticism
“A word fitly spoken is like apples of
gold in pictures of silver,” says the proverb.
This decorative dessert is amply provided
in Leaves and Fruit (Heinemann), the
latest collection of criticism by Sir Edmund
Gosse.
In the preface to the volume—dedicated
“with affectionate admiration” to Lytton
Strachey—Sir Edmund states that he asks
of books “only that they should be amus-
ing, that is to say, competently enough exe-
cuted to arrest an intelligent observer.”
It sounds a simple requirement; but, in
reality, the amusing book is as rare as the
blue bird. All the more refreshing, is it
to find once more exemplified in his new
book the commonsense, the reserves of
learning, and the good taste always> asso-
ciated with this famous critic.
Many things crying aloud to be said are
here said with authority. Take, for in-
stance, the wise and balanced view of
Samuel Butler, who has of late been
boomed out of all reason. “The thorough-
going idolaters of a year or two ago,” says
Sir Edmund, claimed for Samuel Butler
advantages which, if logically pursued,
would have placed him with Leonardo da
Vinci, Bacon and Erasmus, a touch of Beet-
hoven being generously thrown in. His
mental activity covered an immense area,
and he wrote with contemptuous assurance
on religion, biology, painting, sculpture,
music, philosophy and family prayers.” Sir
Edmund freely conceded his adventurous
spirit arid original, style, but says he “can-
hot seffi iff .the author of ‘Erewlxon,’ amusing
and penetrating as he is at his best) a per-
manent force in English literature. It is
ffot enough to take away; something must
be given in return, and Butler, who snatches
the nuts Out of our hands so deftly, can but
hold out a cold paw when we ask for com-
pensation.” The fact that Butler was the
literary progenitor of Shaw—on that gentle-
man’s frequent admission—is not touched
upon. Shaw’s fierce fight against smug
complacency and equally passionate crav-
ing for the spotlight are certainly in the
Butler succession.
\ Every now and then in Sir Edmund’s
writing one chances upon an illuminating
Comparison. Speaking of Stephane Mgl-
larme, he tells how the French poet, as a
Child, met Beranger—then,. quite old—and
decided to be the Beranger of the future. “It
W as,” says Sir Edmund, “as though Charles
Doughty had determined to be the Eliza
Cook of his time.” Certainly it would
i-ather cramp the style of “Arabia Deserta”
t,o fit it into the “Old Armchair.”
: Anyone who recalls some of the recent
volumes conspicuous for dubious taste and
wild assumptions will agree with Sir
Edmund when he deprecates the amount
of rubbish about Stevenson which is so
rapidly piling up. He rejoices to hear Mr.
Robert Lynd is engaged on a “Life.” It
is a pity that he himself, one of the few
personal friends surviving, could not under-
take the task. Dealing with contemporary
biography generally, in another place, he
says: “We have two classes of portraiture,
the one "displaying the deceased personage
as- practically faultless, as a bust if not
moulded in wax at least carved out of pol-
ished marble; the other indulging in dia-
tribe of even in scandalous innuendo.
With: reference to Torn Moore’s “Diary,”
an attractive anecdote of the poet is re-
lated. At Leigh Hunt’s, Wordsworth being
also a guest. Moore sang some of the
famous melodies which were, as usual, en-
thusiastically received. Asked for an opinion
Wordswhrth said: “Oh, yes! My friend Mr.
Moore has written a great deal of agreeable
verse, - although we should hardly call it
poetry, .should we, Mr. Moore?”' Smilingly
and with the utmost good humor, Moore
agreed. He might well have replied—
“ Quite, Sir! I’ve measured it from side to side;
’Tis iffree feet long and two feet wide.”
Distinctly not a beau geste on Wordsworth’s
part, anyway. It must have been the voice
of the “old half-witted sheep” that so sum-
marily relegated Moore to the goat’s divi-
sion.
To find an appreciative notice of two
such ultra-moderns as Siegfried Sassoon
and Edith Sitwell is to realise that Sir
Edmund Gosse is in no danger of ever con-
tracting what Mr. Priestley somewhere calls
“intellectual ossification.” He considers
Sassoon one of the few poets under 50
whose work will survive. Of the daring Miss
Sitwell he remarks that nothing is forbid-
den to an experimenter but failure, and that
she “has only to cease being a mere ‘gro-
tesque’ for her poetry to become an import-
ant factor in our current literature.” Ella
Wheeler Wilcox is here revenged on her
critics. For Sir Edmund Gosse to quote
“Laugh and the World Laughs with You,” as
a proverb is praise indeed. Ella is surely
justified of her quaint output! It is inter-
esting, by the way, to note that the word
“highbrow” has received the imprimatur of
Sir Edmund.
CONSTANCE E. LEWERS.
Hardy and the Mud-puddle
I suspect B. C. Penton (R.P. 29/2/’2B) of
not knowing his Hardy.
\\ hy miss the beauties of a great author
by enlarging on two out of the 18 or
so Wessex novels', neither his best by a
long way? “Tess” is the most-quoted be-
cause it gives us all the elements of popu-
lar romance and tragedy. “Jude the
Obscure” started with a big advertisement.
It was the first novel to tear away the mid-
Victorian veil of smirking sentimentality
from, life. It was denounced by bishops,
and gave many great people a pain. They
were used for so long to having their food
chopped up and mashed for them that such
.very plain stuff gave them ’indigestion.
The book did a lot to break up the ultra-
prudishness of literature, and for that it
should be blessed, not cursed. Perhaps it
was a direct attempt to break it up, for
Hardy never again struck the same note.
Mr. Penton says that Hardy (and others)
tried “to destroy life with literal brooding
pictures of its essential filth,” and that he
used “a turgid mass of raw facts to project
upon this mud-puddle of life an image of
what it is not, but ought to be.” Mere
words, surely, for how reconcile one state-
ment with the other? If Hardy broods
over the mud-puddle, why does. Marty say
to Winterborne in “The Wood.landers”
when they are planting-young firs: “How
they sigh directly we put ’em upright,
though while they are lying down they
don’t sigh at a 11!”.... And then, “She
erected one of the young pines into its
hole, and held up her finger; the soft musi-
cal breathing instantly set in, which was
not to cease night or day till the grown
tree should be felled”? Hardy there soared
rather above the mud-puddle! %
Mr. Penton complains that Hardy does
not use lile as material for laughter, which
he seems to think is the highest aim of
the novelist. But life is not material for
laughter, and Hardy was a realist—he
wrote as he saw. Far from being devoid
of humor, however, he was full of it—fine,
wistful humor that held very often the true
note of pathos. Whoever denies him that
hag never met with understanding his host
of Wessex yokels, among them poor silly
Leaf, tranter Dewy whom his wife de-
scribed as “such a hot man.... If he only
walk round the garden of a Sunday morn-
ing, his .shirt collar is as limp’ as no starch
at all!” And Coggan, who told a tale of
a husband admiring his. wife so much that
“he used to light the candle three times a
night to look at her,” and Joseph Poor-
grass who murmured at that “boundless
love; I shouldn’t have supposed it in the
world’s universe!”
Watch Winterborne and his man Creedle
preparing high tea for his sweetheart and
ter relations. They “were now in the heat
of preparation in the bakehouse, expecting
nobody before six o’clock. Winterborne
was. standing before the brick oven in his
shirt-sleeves, tossing in thorn-sprays, and
stirring about the blazing mass with a long-
handled, three-pronged, Beelzebub kind of
fork, the heat shining out upon his steam-
ing face, and making his eyeslike fur-
naces.... Creedle pressing out the crust
of a final apple-pie with a rolling-pin.”
Suddenly round come the visitors and
Creedle says, “Lord, Lord, if they bain’t
come a’ready!” Which of us has not been
m a like predicament? For one who
brooded and gibbered over a mudrpuddle,
Hardy could bo very light-hearted.
His characters are peculiarly clean for
mud-pu<ldlers. They have their little kinks,
especially, I am bound to say, the women-
folk. Marty South, with her great unself-
ish love, stands out far above the rest -of
her sex, and of the men Gabriel Oak, Win-
terborne, reddleman Venn, and the Trum-
pet Major are exceptionally fine. Perhaps
the only weak characterisation is that of
Tess’s Angel Clare, who is a psychological
problem. Still, that isn’t so bad W a mud-
puddle wizard.
Mr? Penton supposes that if Hardy had
dealt with a character like Sam Weller he
would have covered him with lice and put
him in the, threepenny bar of a dirty
Wessex inn. Hardy has given us no pic-
ture that I remember of a dirty Wessex
inn; but if Weller were lice-covered,
Hardy, I think, was too much of a realist
to have bothered to clean him up. On
the other hand, if Weller were not lice-
covered, Hardy was again too much of a
realist to afflct him unnecessarily. But he
was not fond of lice-covered characters.
Hardy did not brood. H§ was too sure
an artist for that. Rather, he watched, and
told us with an exact pen what he saw, de-
picting tarnished life and clean life, beauti-
ful and sordid scenes as they hre, adding
and taking away nothing. Nor did he
gibber. He was too sane. If he thought
any of us looked on life as a mud-puddle,
(Continued on page 5.)


COLO ROLLED
STEEL GUIDE
PODS
SEMI STEEL
PITMANS
SEMI-STEEL GEARS
PUN IN OIL
ADJUSTABLE
SPAKE ROD
/ SPIRALWIRE
/CARRIES OIL TO
/fRONT BEARING
- (! Tj l
m.
X
POSITIVE STEEL
.UTO BAND BRAKE
POT HUB SPIDER
WHEELSETS OVER
OUTER BEARING
COLD ROLLED
STEEL SHAFT
4-
Oil ORAIN PLUG
USE ONCE A YEAR
BALL BEARING CHAIR*
TURNS EASILY TO WIND
V
timken or babbitt
BEARING
SEMI- STEEL PINIONS
OIL RESERVOIR
GEARS RUN IN OIL.
‘Challenge” Towers are made in 10ft. sec-
tions, with girths five feet apart in all heights
up to 80ft.—which makes it convenient to
build up from the ground one section at a
time, in places where trees or buildings pre-
vent or make it difficult to put together on
the ground and erect in the usual way.
6ft., 1-5 h.p
INSPECT THESE IMPLEMENTS AT THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SHOW OR AT OUR SHOWROOMS.
Anthony Horderns*
“Challenge” Roller-Bearing Windmill
ensures the maximum supply of water
£2O
“CHALLENGE” 4-POST STEEL TOWER,
in 1 Oft. sections. Spread of Tower at base
is as follows: 20ft. x 4ft. 3in.; 30ft. x 6ft. 2in.;
40ft. x Bft., special 30ft. Tower. These
Toners are rustproof and do not require
pa^ tiug - 30ft. 40ft.
'■■W 2,6 ft. 30ft. Special. Special.
£l6/#O/- £22/10/- £32 £33
THEjfCHALLENGE” TIMKEN ROLLER-
BEAffING MILL is the lightest-running, sim-
plest and most durable Windmill on the mar-
ket. The Roller Bearings run smoothly, never
need adjusting or any attention whatever. The
Oil-tight Reservoirs will hold at least one
year’s supply of oil. The Shafts are made of
best grade high carbon cold rolled steel,
which will not wear or cut out. The Internal
Gear and Pinion are made of semi-steel—23
per cent, stronger than cast iron.
No.-2 MILL, 8 FEET. Back-geared 3 to 1.
Gross weight, 5851 b.; net weight, 4601 b. Has
5, 6 and 7 inch stroke, six arms, six sections
and eighteen fans. Develops 3-10 h.p. in 15-
mile wind, and is the Standard Farm Mill for
wells 35 to 100 feet deep £27/10/-
IQUirwiia
Vertical Lift Mower
The John Deer-Dain Mower is an easily-operated, thorough-cutting,
simply-designed machine that will give very satisfactory service
over a period of many years in any kind of grass.
MAIN FRAME of this machine is made of one solid, heavily-ribbed
casting; perfect alignment of the parts.
UNUSUALLY GOOD FRACTION is produced by the wide
tyred wheels, which have a wide tread. The machine is well
balanced. There is no neck weight on the horses, the large, adjust-
able lifting spring carries the weight of cutter bar on wheels. This
also increases the traction, which is of value in heavy cutting.
A 21-POINT MALLEABLE CLUTCH engages instantly, giv-
ing sure, positive drive and least possible friction. If is not
necessary to back up the Dain Mower to get started even
in the heaviest grass; it starts cutting the instant the machine
moves ahead.
THREE SETS OF GEARS, which make up the driving parts,
are ananged so that they balance one another. This means
less friction, lighter driving and maximum power with
mimimum wear.
VERTICAL LIFT. By means of a special hand lift and gag
lever, the driver can throw the cutter bar into a vertical posi-
tion at any time without leaving his seat. This lever has a
- M&E CL
spade-handle grip and is assisted by the foot lever and the
powerful lifting spring, making the handling of the cutter bar
easy and convenient.
AUTOMATIC THROW-OUT. The cutter bar may be raised
by the foot lift alone to pass over slight obstructions without
throwing the mower out of gear. When the bar is raised
beyond this point, with the hand lever, the mower is auto-
matically thrown out of gear. XT524.
Dain Mower Vertical Lifts:—
with Shafts, 7201 b. Each £2B
ft., with Pole, 7441 b. Each £32
I— M
m
’-SfcSrT*®''%*?**
••W I A R D” ROAD CONTRACTORS’
PLOUGH. The shares on these Ploughs
being subject to more wear and tear than
any other part of the plough, the Forged
Crucible Steel Point is made extra heavy, is
strong and durable, and can be forged or
drawn by any blacksmith. Suitable for heavy
excavating and all kinds of contractors’ work.
All-Steel Ploughs; weight, 3151 b.
(XT69)
Extra Wrought-Steel Points . . . .
£l7/7/6
£ 1/2/6
CARRIAGE NOT PAID.
No. 68 (ALL STEEL) CONTRACTORS*
PLOUGH, can be used with four or more
horses, or steam power, if required. Speci-
fication: Standard is o>f Cast Steel, very
heavy; Beam of Trussed. Steel, well braced;
solid Steel Clevis, very .'Strong; Shin-piece is
extra heavy and easy to replace; Wing of
Forged Steel. The Point is a solid bar of
Forged Steel, 1J inches thick, made so it can
be reversed end for end, thus giving double
wear. Weight, with Clevis, 3251 b. £ 17/7/6
Extra Steel Points 42/6
Chains for No. 68 Plough 33/6
XT67. “WIARD” ROAD OR CONTRAC-
TORS PLOUGH. This has great strength
and is adapted to contractors’ work and for
tearing up cobblestone or macadam pave-
ments. Four or six horse. Beam is made
of Charcoal Cast Iron. The tendency to
wear off the lower front end of Beam in this
class of Plough is entirely overcome by a
separate shoe casting attached to the beam
at this point which can be replaced at slight
expense when worn; this often saves the cost
of the beam. Weight, 2501 b.
Each £ll/15/-
fs
and Sons, Limited
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box No. 2712 C, G.P.O.


Miss FRANCES BUCHBACH,
a pretty Rexona Girl, v'rites ;
“My motto is Rexona Soap
for Health ond Beauty.”
m
*
% ®- S’*
1 f.y- -. >
'
**
£
©>
1/1®
d^p
J)fvamp
it uMv
(X)
deap
exotia
Miss LEXIE PARE ?, a
■pretty Rexona Girl writes:
“I always praise Rea a Soap
to my friends, for I consider
it par excellence the very
best foi' the skin and hair.”
df
Miss SONIA BI ON ALL, a
beautiful Rexona Girl, writes:
“I have been using Rexona
Soap for the past three and
a half years, and I find it to
be far superior to any other
soap on the market.”
sd
"Rexona
Soap
£r/ 0 \ kn T that if IeSS than ten minutes y° u can double the beauty of your hair? It becomes light, wavy,
Rexona Soap*’ * nd aPPGarS aS Soft ’ lustrous and charming as anyone could desire after a simple wash with
A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin. Rexona Soap
eanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments you have doubled the beauty of your
nair. Kexona Soap dissolves every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever
stopping itching and falling hair.
if you care to have pretty hair and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day.
Sor ffealth
cm 2
tin
wm.
7
Wt.
7///X§§a
m
'l,l '//fi:.
///;.
m
rfi
3s*
fO p
'A
\m
•to'V
t&%
rt&
'//■
opy
ws
Vi
*•«
///
fmjk
'////.'/'/
%'m
■m


MR!
■'v-lfiiiff \^V;i
!r : i ; !
c r
m
/
i
■
Fashion Says Tweeds !
For your Autumn or winter Suit, you will, as a
man of discrimination, choose Tweeds either
Scotch or Home Spuns, or Irish from Ballymena
as these are to be the correct materials for
wear during the ensuing Seasons. The display at
David Jones’ will enable you to make your choice
from complete new ranges, and at prices from 7
to 14 Guineas. The varied colorings will enable
you to decide just what is best for your own
particular style. And remember! Both workman-
ship and quality are guaranteed to be of the best j
DAVID JONES’
New Store: Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men's Store : Opposite G.P.O.
then he cleared it a little for us, and showed
us the real images of life, without embellish-
ment or gross exaggeration.
J. M. EDWARDS .
The “Bunk” of England
The London tradition dominates the
light-comedy theatre. Diversion may be
derived from an Australian wayback or
from a Manhattan peddler in second-hand
boot-trees, but apparently only English
gentlefolk possess that inestimable faceti-
ousness of converse and behavior which
enables refined people to scale the top C
of glee.
but this tosh and swishness are only the
tosh and swishness of their dialogue. What
we assume to be their brave leaps away
from the duresses of curates and royal
beings amounts in 75 per cent, of examined
cases to the calisthenics of idiom—to the
play and scamper of words that have little
revelatory function. But strip them of
their espidglerie, and what have we? Gen-
erally a series of cocktail-sinkers and female
Thirsts, drifting from dinner to dinner, from
tea to tea, from amour to amour, some
illuminated by their experiences, some dum-
dum Jaqueses in the forest of Arden, some
more retiring behind their monocles into a
seclusion as terrible as that of their men-
talities; but the majority creatures of
stereoed purpose who prove with the indeli-
cacy of inborn habit that, if there is any-
thing more conventional than an English
drawing-room comedy, it is another English
drawing-room comedy.
You may behold the practice with Somer-
set Maugham, who, for an acknowledged
topliner, has published enough “bunk” to
make Anne Nicholls, of “Abie’s Irish Rose,”
seriously consider asking him for the* recipe.
In the domain of light-comedy he has given
us a “Lady Frederick,” a “Penelope,” a
“Mrs. Dot,” a “Caroline” and so forth, each
a munificent collection of conversational
intermezzos, without which the obvious
finale would dash in and telescope the com-
mencement, for there is little connecting
action between. “Caroline” illustrates as
well as anything the Maugham technique.
Fearing an early nonplus anent a lady who
has to wheezle over her antimacassared
heartaches for three full acts, he has re-
course to the customary strategy of delay—
tea-swiggling, telephones, piano-playing, the
irruption of three or four stencils from the
English stage, not forgetting the distant
husband with the assorted uncertain deaths,
all demonstrating Mr. Maugham a dawdler
who will face everything but his goal. In
his “Our Betters” I admit that a man of the
world is toying with human fates. But habit
still clings. There is no escape. Determined
to present a devastating off-stage adultery
with the Lulu of the occasion, he re-
sorts to the mouldiest Sardoodlish device
to have the adultery, raw and rancid,
thrown into the foreground for the joy of
the realists.
Frederick Lonsdale is another generous
contributor to the library of M. Bunk. At
times Lonsdale has reached an ecstasy of
epithet and a piquancy of impertinence
that must rank him high among persons to
whom all thought is useless; but strut as
do some of his gentlemen, with the gar-
denia of witticism sticking in their button-
holes, I fear that many are animated designs
from the Tailor and Cutter. I question
whether he has ever contrived a play that
has held the memory beyond the taxi-ride
home after the show. Consider the gaudy
pavementiere of “Spring Cleaning” who
lounged in to strike a Christmas-card atti-
tude over the dear children. Recall the
bedroom scene in “The Last of Mrs. Chey-
ney,” a yellow-journal edition of the Tosca
situation. Observe the reverberation of
Barney Shaw’s “Bloody!” (“Pygmalion”)
and its not unadroit echo in Lonsdale’s
“Aren’t We All?” Contemplate further the
dropped coal-scuttle in his latest “On
Approval” and the following comment, “Oh,
he’s only lit a cigarette”; and let us ask
ourselves how much of Lonsdale is out to
twinkle for the pleasure of Piccadilly, and
how much is out to wrench a guffaw from
the Great Unread.
I approach A. A. Milne with consider-
able trepidation. Milne is the Aphrodite of
the critical faculty. Let him issue a
“Belinda,” fresh with the dewy sweetness
of tittering English womanhood, and he is
covered with endearments. A Pirn Passes
By, and the critical slobber drives the
dramatist to oilskins and a pair of sea-
boots. And what is Milne? A consummate
tootler of piccolo tunes. He pipes prettily
of the unendurable niceties of the best bred,
but has never yet launched a figure exhibit-
ing the all-spice of cultivated experience.
Rather his types—his males, at any rate—
are of the order of the pig-fancier in “Pirn,”
who conveys in the author’s bubbling Sundae
manner that Dogberry is in his heaven and
all is well with the world. His tricks,
especially of dialogue, are so notorious that
no one will imitate him but himself.
And Coward? Poor Noel of “The Vor-
tex,” “Easy Virtue,” “The Marquise.” pro-
ceeding to retail his rewarmed chestnuts
for the affluentsia, remains an addict to
quick writing and easy thought. The double
last he achieved in London with “Home
Chat” and “Sirocco” is illuminative of the
twilight of an idol who never had a noon.
With Shaw mooning in retirement among
his Mephistophelean properties, and demi-
wits like C. E. Openshaw earning real
money from such doyleyed scandals as the
one displayed in “All the King’s Horses,”
the future A English stage seems dole-
ful. Even Arnold Bennett, with his latest
fizzle, “Flora,” only deepens the dimmu-
endo.
C.R. BRADISH.
Better than Beaconsfield
Until January of this year I had always
been satisfied to take my view of the Vic-
torian landscape from the de luxe obser-
vation-car conducted by Mr. Disraeli. I
am one of the five surviving treasure-
hunters who have read “Count Alastor,
and I have gone right through from “Vivian
Grey” to “Lothair,” only breaking down
in the second volume of “Endymion.” The
rapture and gusto of those paradisaic pic-
tures of flunkeydom I felt could not be
bettered. I was sad for him when I saw a
couple of Yankee moving-pictures • whose
scenes were set in aristocratic circles. How
marvellously well Hollywood captured the
richly spacious method of the owner of the
extra watch-chains and the green pants!
How that forelock would have quivered if
he could have seen the stately hero of
“The Passionate Duchess” making illicit
but courtly love in a drawing-room 300
yards square with furniture valued at
300,000 dollars (see press sheet). I felt
sure of him because his own triumphal pro-
gress did not dim his roselit vision. He
produced “Lothair” after dinners with
duchesses, and lunches with lords were com-
monplace happenings. With him familiarity
only bred content.
But last month I met the works of Mr.
Robert Awde, and now my convictions are
wavering. I am not at all certain that
Dizzy, even in his later Lord Beaconsfield
manifestation, is the supreme exemplar and
apostle of Proper Respect for One’s Betters.
There is a shining sincerity about this
title-page and dedication which somehow
presses home the feeling of the real thing
with a power that Beaconsfield’s best never
attained:—
“Waiting at Table”
Poems and Songs
By
Robert Awde
A Servant
DEDICATION
To
Robert Ryrie Esq.,
My Good Master
This Volume of Verses
Composed in half hours Snatched
from Sleep and in spare Moments
“Waiting at Table”
Is Inscribed by His
Obedient Servant
Robert Awde
1865.
The first page has a photogravure of a
painting of the death of the late Prince
Consort, with a quotation underneath from
the Morning Post of December 16, 1861:
His Royal Highness was so calm and collected that
a short time before his death he addressed fare-
wells to the several persons around him in the
language of their native countries, English, French
and German....
The principal poem of the book treats of
this scene under the title of “Lines Com-
posed on Seeing a Photograph of the 'Last
Moments of the Late Prince Consort.’ ” It
contains some lines of sheer music:—
Death laughs at honors, scorns the roll of fame;
At those who share them he takes steady aim;
Draws tight his bow, the arrow finds a rest —
Oh, mourn Britannia, ’tis in Albert’s breast.
Though cased with doctors as with armor round,
The open joint the fatal arrow found.
Owing possibly to the lowly origin of the
poet, the B.M.A. apparently took no notice
at the time of the grave slight in that pen-
ultimate line.
Then Mr. Awde publishes, with modest
pride, this letter from his publisher, and it
in itself is a mirror of rare value:—
Sir,—In answer to your note asking whether or
no I w;ould publish your poems, 1 may inform you
that I see no objections to so doing. Your station
in life is certainly of a more prosaic and unromantic
character than is usually the lot of poets, but it
is certainly more noble in you to serve at the
board and pay your way than to live on other people
and affect fine airs, as I have known to be the
case with some persons who wrote verses.
I have certainly read better poetry than that
contained in your MS. ; however, the works of Shaks-
peare, Milton, Gray, Pope, and latterly Tennyson,
are so easily procurable, that this need not surprise
you or anyone else. Male servants of your class
out of their liveries are generally such despicable
beings that I think you are entitled to some credit,
if only for the attempt you have made to cultivate
letters.
In the belief that something dignified has beguiled
your spare moments, I shall have pleasure in assist-
ing your publication, especially as it is to be given
to the world with your master’s sanction and good
wishes.—Yours, etc., J.C.H.
Publisher John Camden Hotten, to use a
modem flapperism, certainly knew his
onions.
I quote from one important poem entitled
“Lines Written on the Fire in Tooley-
street.” The two best verses are these:—
There, foremost in the band,
Stood Braidwood to command
The aqueous Flood;
His fire-attracted eye
Observed not danger nigh
To where he stood.
Help! help, ye who would save
From such an awful grave.
Beneath that wall
Braidwood, the inspector lies.
Help! help him for he dies;
Help, one and aIL
The songs in the North-country dialect are
unaffected, sing themselves easily and
sweetly, and almost bring the feeling that
plenty of folks in those days were quite
human.
This was apparently Mr. Awde’s second
published collection. I am on the trail of
the first, and when I find it I shall try no
more to finish “Endymion.” Here is no
paste. Here is the real jewel of truth.
Moreover, Mr. Awde’s poetry is better than
Lord Beaconsfield’s prose, and the survival
values of his work are greater.
O. N. GILLESPIE.
“Presby”: Re “R.T.W.’s” interesting
article on “The Deposited Book” (R.P.
15/2/’2B), the words in the Commination
service he quotes as “Cursed be” are “Cursed
is.” There’s a big difference,
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted j and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
Horton: Just missed; that a story last
year ran some of the way on the same lines weighed
against it N. Bart: Well done, but subject dis-
tasteful. .. .Worth N.: Doesn’t flow along as smoothly
as it should. .. .G.H.L.: The rattle of dry bones....
Anzacian: Too late W.T.C.: You dawdle too
much on the parts that don’t matter.... Danvers
W.: Not very interesting D.H.E.: Well, a census
taken on a ferry last week showed that, among
what looked like business girls, only seven out of
84 were reading novels Napel: A matter for him-
self ; but a new one would be preferred.... Bret
V.: Gets nowhere... .Anglo-Indian : Not much hope
for you while you crush your lines together....
T.C.D.: Breaks no new ground. .. .M.K.: Nothing
there... .R.S.W.: A man ploughed that furrow just
ahead of you R.L.W.: Curious little melodramas.
. ...J.D.H.: Trite.... Doug W.: It was sunset for
them.... Mary C.: “Desire” not desired.... Chas.
D.: Just misses... .Padraic: Why should the goat
rejoice because his kids make good food in drought
time? Because he is a goat?....Note of I.: The
Man with the Donkey was Pte. John Simpson Kirk-
patrick, born Tyne Dock, Durham. Bean says “he
saved many lives at the cost of his own” —why he
received no posthumous decoration is one of the
mysteries of the A.I.F D.M.F.: Nearly Mai
L.: Never... .Randwick: Jack AVest became M.H.R.
for East Sydney in 1910. It was Samuel Lees he
beat then; G. H. Reid had beaten him in 1906
Roger H.: Too long-drawn-out K.D.S.: Not for
this family paper Vera J.: You don’t clinch the
story... .Irene W.: After trembling on the door-
step of acceptance your Gipsy wanders back....
J.A.H.: The end doesn’t seem right.... June: Merely
a chronicle; not a story A.L.G.: Too gruesome to
be amusing. .. .5.8. C.: Slight promise... .Cornelius:
Hope the library is better than the verse about it.
.... W.T.W.: Poor stuff. That dentist has been
overworked... .M.C.M.: Send your mermaid
“wrapped in her hair of gold” somewhere else....
The Duster. “Mrs. Grundy’s Stomach” would need
too severe an operation H.G.W.: They all went
near... .E.M.8.: If won’t d0....A.Q.: It wasn’t
sufficiently convincing... .E.K.: We liked your de-
scription of the reception of Hinkler:—
Plucked from his ’plane
Like a flower in bloom.
Anon: A string of anecdotes. So-so Terry
A.: Very weak... .11. H.: Worth par.-space; * that’s
all. ... 11.V.T.W.: Overdrawn... .Bert B.: Frankly,
we regard Kearnshaw as a bore... .Chas. H.: Story
just beaten for a place. Sorry about confueion in
names... .M.N. (East Fremantle): A glimmering.
The girl needs to study verse form.... Gord. T.:
Nothing to be ashamed of in “Barling” except that
the story is unfinished —like the others. Too many
words and too little plot construction... .F.R.F.:
Once more the lady’s teeth —though an amusing set- —
fail to bite.... J.M.: Your “Cheque” was nearly
cashed... .W.S.: “What Tim Knew” should earn a
place elsewhere... .Geoff K.: The schoolmarm is
a bit rough.... Maurice 0.: We guessed Irene almost
from the beginning R.C.M.S.: Weak tea....
Lance W.: Cigarette yarn ended in smoke.
. ...D.H. (Dawson Valley, Q.) : Why go all the way
to Europe for a swindle that could have been
worked in Brisbane or Sydney?....John Quill: Not
impressed by the fables.... E.M.T.: No new echo
in the bush-ca 11... .A.Y.Z.: A tragedy—like the
verses about it.... Hugh McE.: Duly consigned....
Philo: So you think “peek” and “street” rhyme....
C. : The idea is good; not so your method
of exploiting it....Quin: No human interest in your
rhapsody... .J.E.D.: Too long and too du11....
Lucy H.: You’ve fallen off.... Wm. C.: Too much of
it —it could be put into half the space.... Eva G.:
Not bad; not good enough. Too slight a theme....
M.P.S.: You’re picking up no silver on “Tom Tidd-
ler’s Ground”... .Nairn: Scenes based on a nursery
rhyme R.8.W.: The green-eyed girl was only
mildly interesting.... Coreen N.: It just missed....
H.M.C.: No value... .D.F.J.: “Night” passed out
M.E.G.: Wicked doggerel. .. .R.L.: Refuse to be
thrilled by the fact that you saw a girl bathing....
E.O’D.: Why the English setting? F.R.F.: Far
too soon for the maintenance of interest we guessed
the ghost... .Brendon L.: “Music’s Spell” does not
strike the right chord... .G.S.: “Women” is a
strange mixture of the Australian and American lan-
guages. .. .W.S.M.: Failed to convince or thrill....
A.S.: Sorry; the yarn is uninspiring... .Quandong:
Doesn’t grip... .W.E.R.: We don’t want the extra
trousers, free or otherwise... .R.E.G.: Doggerel....
Roma R: You lose yourself... .E.M.E.: Nothing in
it... .A.J.S.C.: Having written the story, you might
have forwarded an explanation with it... .G.R.8.:
Loose-ended yarn... .D. 8.: A little heart throb rather
than a story... .C. 5.0.8.: Artificial... .W.S.M.: Raw
melodrama ; doesn't carry stamp of conviction.... Har.
J.: It blasted its way out of the office.... Battery
Creek: Developed mental corns in following its wander-
ings. .. .H.M.W.: “Plugger” is uninteresting..,. V.C.:
No medal for it R.T.F.: You might have pro-
vided your hero with a better reason for dying.
D. : Basketed, as requested... .M. 5.0.: “If you
don’t like it, kill it.” It was dead already
Aitch: “Gleam like diamonds all a-vie” is a brave
effort... .R.C.: Sometimes you nearly succeed; but
always some crude, awkward line or rhyme settles
it.... Biff: It’s out E.McD.: You only start what
might have been a yam May G.: Yes: there’s
promise... .C.C.T.: You created your monstrosity
merely to kill it. There’s no story in that
Cam D.: If that was done in “an inspired moment”
your uninspired moments must be frightfully du11....
Cordelia: No story. ...R.A.C.: Jumbo frolicked clum-
sily. .. .L.T.A.: Your ex-policeman is wearisome ; any-
way, he isn’t Australian... .R.M.: One of its faults is
its beastly precision... .8.8. No place for it. Would
make a par Jocelyn R. : Very crude.... Kay M.:
Paul must die elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J. J.M.A.: Jack and Jill joke the flattest this
year; the other is a close second... .G.E.T.: Take
lessons... .J.S.: A poor attempt to illustrate a
pretty bad pun.... J.W.C.. It’s going home. .. . J.N.:
Gags tame and drawings inferior... .Girleen: Some
promise, but study, study !... .E.A.W.: Everything
about it was unsatisfactory... .8.A.: No use for
that sort of drawing... .E.J.W. and Willo: Unsuit-
able.


wtmmm
1 mm
1
a i
Hi
'V- • ■■'■•■
mm .
/
H H
H
J
:;
\
if
Ik
:■> V
" A
mm
H
hh
■
>v t :
-
r. -1 ff? ■ ■ “
isss
’
• *'■ fm.ifflzf*


The Bulletin
Vol. 49—No. 2510.
March 2.1, 1928.
“BLACK.”
"Notwithstandinb the arrival of Maoriland cruisers in Western Samoa, the natives opposed to the Administration are increasingly insubordinate. Members of the
Mau who were imprisoned at Muliuu walked past the naval guard at will and defied them To shoot. This is the effect of speeches made by H. E. Holland, leader of
the ML. Labor party, whose attitude is warmly supported by Australian Labor papeis."
CLASS-CONSCIOUS SAVAGE: “Get out, you white feller! We and de Labor party declare you ‘black.’”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Henry Kenneth Prior, of
-14 Bradley’s Head Road, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the office of the
Co., 214 George Street North, Sydney, N.S.lv.,
Australia.
Melbourne Office: 114-120 Flinders Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance only).
Posted to any address in Austbalasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. lid.; 3 months. Is,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, Jss. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Cheques, drafts, etc., winch should he crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
All correspondence to be addressed to Box 2521 11. IT,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be-
telused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The liditor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
alt contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further. The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlack and "White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
“The Bulletin” is obtainable at the bookstall
in the Alain Hall at Australia House. Alsc
from Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.lt; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, 'London, E.C.lt;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, l/li Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British Australian and New
Zealander,” )1)-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
1 V.C.2; F. Alr/ar, 58 Gracechurch Street, London,
E.C.3.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son
Capetown and Johannesburg ; Havana House, Durban ;
Rhodesia News Agency, Salisbury; Benoni Netrs
Agency, Benoni; Handel House, Kimberley; and
others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 217 Hastings
Street West, Vancouver, B.C.
Honolulu. —Fisher News Agency, Queen Street.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde; Post Office
News Co., S 3 West Monroe Street, Chicago. New
York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue and 27th Street, New
York City; Schultz News Agency. S.E. Corner 6th
Avenue and )2nd Street , New York City; Hotaling’s
Nervs Agency, 203 West 1/ Ist Street, New York City.
Washington: Liberty News Co., Seattle, Washington;
Wheatley News Co., 70) Market Street, San Francisco;
Wallace, The New Orleans News Man, 105 Royal
Street, New Orleans, La.; The Wide World News
Stand, 5)1 f South Main Street, Los Angeles, Cal.;
Walter News Agency, Box 573 Arcade Station, Los
Angeles, Cal.
Khyi’T. — Jacques, Horn and Co., the Colonial
Book and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
II 0 N<; Kono. —Brewer and Co., 696 Redder Street,
Ilong Kong.
China. —Brewer and Co., 31 Nanking Road,
Shanghai, China.
Penang. S.S. — K. Abdul Rahman, Bookstall,
Eastern and Oriental Hotel.
Ceylon. — -T. L. De Silva. 39 Chatham Street ,'
Colombo; Plate, Ltd., Bristol Studios, Kandy; M.
Atmarani and Sons, )) Chatham Street, Fort Colombo;
A. N. Narayanasamy and Sons, 9 York Street, Fort
Colombo.
Padua. —Whitten Bros.. Samurai and Port Moresby.
Flti. — A. Barker. Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon and Gotch, 75-79 Farringdon
Street, London, E.C.).
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) ; — Commonn-ealtli, New Zealand and Fiji :
10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., lid.; each
additional )oz.. Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., ll.d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z.. Id.
TTuTfyuUelm,.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1928.
TIGERS SHOULD BE TAMED.
Melbourne used to be regarded as the
happy hunting ground of the confirmed
criminal, but good work on the part of the
police, backed up by a judiciary determined
to make it very hot for offenders, has
altered that. Vic. police returns for the years
1924 to 1927 show a steady reduction in
the number of cases of crime and a steady
increase in the number of arrests each year.
The number of unpunished crimes has also
steadily decreased. The worst elements of
the criminal population have found the
climate of the southern city uncongenial.
They now disport themselves in Sydney,
whose weekly tally of razor-slashings, shoot-
ings, robbery with violence and crimes of
ferocious brutality committed for no ascer-
tainable reason keeps the sensational press
in a continual hysteria of headlines.
In respect to razor-slashing—a branch of
crime popular with the Americanised nigger
and the Parisian Apache—the BaVinshaw
Cabinet has been moved to take action.
Judges will be empowered to order floggings
as part of the penalties in such cases.
Whether they will use the power or not
remains to be seen. The judicial record of
the last year or two suggests that there
will have to be a mental revolution, in
some instances at least, before the “cat” is
prescribed. Cases of inadequate sentences for
atrociously brutal assaults are so nurqerous
that a few instances must serve. An un-
speakable ruffian who attacked an aged man,
knocked him down and ground his eye out
with the heel of his boot, shrieking threats
of murder the while, was sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment. Two men who attacked
a tramway conductor, knocked him uncon-
scious with blows on the head with an iron
bar, and stole his fares-bag and overcoat,
leaving him for dead on a lonely road,
moved the Judge who tried them to remark
that they had committed a “most brutal
crime,” but the superlative meant a mere
three years’ imprisonment. Yet both had
records; one tough, aged 24, had served
12 months (!) for manslaughter and wo
years for assault and robbery. Encouraged,
doubtless, by such mild penalties, the gangs
that infest suburban parks permit them-
selves a degree of bottle-bashing and rib-
kicking reminiscent of the palmiest days of
pushdom, and park inspectors are being
armed with revolvers.
* * * *
It is perhaps in the prevention of crime
that N. S. Wales lags most behind its
sister States. The vagrancy law is full of
loopholes that should not be there. Notori-
ous criminals of international disrepute
who find life, unhealthy in other capitals
can snap their fingers ait the police in Syd-
ney. To make matters worse, the Federal
Government refuses to exercise its power
to deport desperate criminals from other
countries when they come out of gaol. A
case in point is that of armed-burglar
Wilks, whose career was ended by a police-
man’s bullet at Manly recently. A Canadian
by birth, he commenced a burglarious life
in England. He soon found it advisable to
emigrate to South Africa, where he was
promptly nabbed, given four years for shop-
breaking, and then deported. He next
turned his attention to Australia, and kept
the Victorian police busy for years.
An application to have Wilks deported was
rejected, and his depredations went on until
the Melbourne police paid him so much
attention that he transferred his activi-
ties to Sydney.
*'* * *
There are certain classes of offenders who
are fit subjects for leniency, and who are
likely to be benefited by reformative treat-
ment; but it should not be forgotten by
Judges and magistrates, that the principal
object of penal laws is to protect the law-
abiding majority of the population. When
the streets of a large city are made the
battleground of gangsters armed with re-
volvers it is time to take drastic action.
Crimes of furious brutality are the work of
human tigers, and to treat them as if they
were tame pussy-cats is ridiculous. Such
natures are only amenable to fear, and the
task of the law-makers and the Judges is
to see that there is a good reason for fear.
Either the law must institute a reign of
terror over the homicidal criminal, or the
criminal will establish a reign of terror over
the community.
“GENTLEMEN, THE PRESS!”
‘The Press” has really put up a magnificent
bluff. It has got itself called “the Fourth
Estate of the Realm,” chiefly by calling
itself so and encouraging others to do it;
and it has been toasted at a million ban-
quets—chiefly, one suspects, in gratitude
for favors hoped for. It has created a sort
of fetich called “Liberty of the Press,” and
it has established the thing so firmly that
it is very generally held almost as sacred
as trial by jury. If Law and Justice do
not exactly come down off their platform
when the Press passes by, they at least
recognise that they must not look very
closely at how it passes by; and if occa-
sionally it gets in the way of Law and Jus-
tice—well, some little thing must be con-
ceded to this wonderful institution, which
is in some way or other the Palladium of
the People’s Rights.
* * * *
It seems a pity to break into this pretty
Garden of Eden; but actually what is this
Press? Would it be possible to bring it
all together, so that one might examine and
analyse it? It is a great and noble institution,
the world has been told a thousand thousand
times; but is it really an institution at all?
There is at any rate no body to either
admit to it or bar admittance, for registra-
tion hardly counts. Any scallywag with a
few .pounds in his pocket or a lying tongue
to get him credit can become part of the
Press; indeed, at some time or place he
can be the Press—the only Press there-
abouts. Certainly he need not be a scally-
wag to do it; in 95 cases out of 100 he is
just a plain, ordinary, honest man with a
living to make. That he becomes a con-
venience to the community and sometimes
does great public service is not much if
at all to his credit; it is more often to his
discredit that he is not a far greater bene-
factor, considering his opportunities; and
that is truer of the great ones than of the
strugglers. It is not, we say, greatly to
their credit in any case, because being of
public service is their job; it is what they
make their living by. But—and this is
where another part of the great bluff comes
in—others cannot talk about their services
like the Press can. The doctor, who has
his living to make, does an enormous
amount of public good in making it. So
does the garbage-man. We do not put the
garbage-man on a pedestal because in do-
ing his job he also is a public benefactor;
we do not give him liberties and licenses
because in earning his living he does a
thing which is absolutely essential to the
people’s health and the public welfare.
❖ * 5k *
In itself, then, the Press has no claim to
a liberty not possessed by the rest of the
community. As a public utility it is en-
titled to certain business concessions—in
such matters as the carriage of mails and
the transmission of telegrams. The mis-
take that has been made has been in assum-
ing that the man who publishes a news-
paper has liberties apart from the public,
whereas in fact the Liberty of the Press,
which has been striven for so hard and
affirmed so vehemently, is no more than
the people’s right to expose encroach-
ments upon their lawful liberties and to
publicly advocate measures for their own
better government. Immediately a news-
paper encroaches upon the rights of the
public or any single member of the public
its alleged liberties go to pieces. Fair trial
by jury is the greatest of all the people’s
rights; and the moment a newspaper does
a thing to prejudice that fair trial it ceases
to have any more rights than a medical
practitioner who under the cloak of his
honorable profession carries out, for the
sake of profit, an illegal operation.
AN ANNEXE TO AUSTRALIA.
It is safe to say that the average Austra-
lian’s ideas on Malaya are summed up in
the word “Singapore,” and that his ideas
on Singapore are a mixture of “White
Cargo” and “The Letter,” with, perhaps,
“East of Suez” thrown in for makeweight.
He knows, that there is a base at Singapore,
but he is a trifle vague as to what the thing
is founded on.
Actually Singapore is only the broken
tip of the spine of lofty mountains known
as the Malay Peninsida, which lies like a
breakwater athwart the line of communi-
cation between Europe and Further Asia.
The spine is so long and thin that, as far
back as one can remember, it has been pro-
posed to cut a canal across the top end so
that traffic can save a couple of thousand
miles of sea travel. The proposal isn’t
likely to come to fruition so long as Sing-
apore is as large, populous, British and
strategically important as it is at present.
The flat island of Singapore, where
adventurous young white men still go out
crocodile-hunting up tidal creeks in cranky
sampans, was not always reckoned stra-
tegically important. D ’Albuquerque re-
cognised that the Peninsula was essential
to Portuguese sea-power, but when he
seized it with 19 warships and fewer than
2000 men in 1509, he aimed at Malacca,
half-way up. The Malay holder of Malacca
at the time of its capture was blessed with
the suzerainty of the Emperor of China.
According to the Malay account of the
affair, the Portuguese were taken for
“white Bengalis,” and, following a well-
established custom of historians, ancient and
modern, the force at their disposal was
enormously exaggerated. The noise of their
guns was like thunder in the heavens and
the cannon-balls sounded on the roof of
the royal dwelling like a rain of beans.
Sultan Ahmad promptly mounted his favo-
rite elephant, Juru Demang, and went
forth to battle; but the days of elephants
in warfare were already numbered, and the
potentate ended his days amongst singing
girls and soft music in the upper reaches
of a river. The magic and mystery of
the land, which still intrigues modern nov-
elists, soon imposed itself on the impres-
sionable Portuguese, and shortly after the
capture of the city they staged a special
exorcism ceremony to drive the devils out
of the tigers which preyed on white man
and native alike.
Since those days the mystery has gradu-
ally retreated inland. Englishmen and
Australians have mined tin, built roads and
railways and planted rubber, and in their
wake and ahead of them have gone trained
anthropologists and psychologists to ana-
lyse the magic. There isn’t much left to
know about the thin wedge to-day. The
country had its Bronze Age and its
Stone Age, and remnants of those
periods still live an anachronistic exist-
ence in caves and trees on the central
and almost inaccessible vertebrae of the
spine. Variously known as Jakun, Semang
and Sakai, they never succeeded in found-
ing cities as large as Sydney owing to an
unfortunate custom of vacating their vil-
lages immediately any of their number
died to avoid the vengeance of his spirit.
Owing to imported diseases they are dying
more frequently than ever, and their migra-
tions have become a settled habit. The
notion that they can fly through the air
better than Hinkler or Kingsford Smith,
and that they can enter the bodies of tigers
and elephants and prey on more civilised
communities, has been found not to be
correct.
• The Malay, however, was never as sub-
missive a chap as his blood-brother, the
Javanese. Piracy or loafing round a court,
both gentlemanly pursuits, has always
been his forte. He has refused to be sub-
merged under the nouveau riche flood of
Chinamen and Tamils, but has quietly
attached himself to the white man, as be-
ing a gentleman like himself. He drives
motor-cars, draws ground-rents, attends
motion-picture shows and Soccer matches,
and occasionally runs amok for diversion.
The immediate destiny of the long bone
of contention appears to be as an annexe
to Australia. It is hard to throw a cocoa-
nut in Singapore, Penang or Kuala Lipis
without hitting a Victorian or a New South
Welshman. It is difficult to have a motor
blowout on the side tracks of the hinter-
land without being asked to accept the
hospitality of a South or West Australian.
It is safe to say that far more Australians
speak Malay, with more or less accuracy
and a great deal of profanity, than talk
Polynesian. Why Australia, which still has
the major portion of its own huge estate
to farm, should go in for the emigration
business, is a puzzle. The popular idea is
that immigration only comes from over-
crowded countries with depressed popula-
tions. That appears to be another delusion.
Feng-Shui.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Hinkler—and Bruce.
Prime-Minister Bruce welcomed Hinkler
at Canberra last week and delivered the
expected eulogy. The Bulletin wonders
how Bruce really felt about it. The one
sort-of-Prirne Minister who might have felt
quite happy in the job is, it suspects, Mus-
solini; and he wasn’t there. As for Bruce
(in his public capacity) and Hinkler, they
stand almost at opposite poles. Hink-
ler represents the hatter, the lone hand.
He chose his own job, chose his own tools,
chose his own time, consulted with nobody
except to get information, co-operated with
nobody. He took all the risks and deserves
and gets all the glory. Bruce, on the other
hand, represents a system which distrusts
the Hinklers of the world more than any-
body or anything else. He is the chief of
a body of Ministers who are expected to
carry out the wishes of a party in the
House, who in their turn trim their sails to
catch the favor of a majority in the country.
True, he can sign a cheque for a couple
of thousand pounds for an airman; but he
makes dead-sure beforehand that the pur-
pose is a popular one; and if he misjudged
on that score not only he but all his
Ministers might be thrown out of their
jobs for doing it.
And if he wanted to do the most import-
ant part of his job quickly, as the occasion
might demand, he could no more do as
Hinkler did than he could drink the
Pacific dry. Having consulted the party he
would introduce the matter of a bill about
it to Cabinet, which would authorise a
Minister to prepare a measure, which
Cabinet in due course would consider and
probably approve. And then it would
begin its leisurely course through two
chambers, under a system of government
devised apparently to make its passage
difficult, if not impossible. Under a similar
system Hinkler, in the first place, would
not have had better than a thousand-to-one
chance of being chosen for the job, and in
the second place, if he had been chosen for
it he would take about two years to com-
plete it—if he ever did complete it.
Well, and what is the moral of it all?
It seems to be that we might be better off
if we had a little more of the Hinkler
touch in our government. We shall not, of
course, throw our democratic principles
overboard; but we ought to simplify our
system, our Parliamentary system in par-
ticular; kill these time-wasting and merely
vote-catching debates, limit speeches at all
times, abolish altogether the preliminary
song-and-dance (the “Speech from the
Throne” and the Address-in-Reply rubbish);
and when we find a man specially qualified
to administer a particular department, we
ought to keep him there instead of throwing
him out to make room for a fool who knows
nothing about it. And that, of course,
involves the abolition of the muddle-headed
party system, whose white hairs try to make
it seem respectable, but which has degener-
ated into an insolent and immoral scramble
for pay and power and privileges.
♦
Fighting Cancer in Queensland.
An anti-cancer campaign has been launched
in Queensland with the energy character-
istic of the tropically enervated North
when it comes to giving a stricken brother
a leg-up. The immediate object is to
establish treatment centres in six different
parts of the State, and for that at least
£lOO,OOO will be required. How urgent is
the necessity for these treatment centres
was emphasised in an address by Dr. Sand-
ford Jackson to a meeting of women in
Brisbane, convened to form a special
women’s auxiliary to the central commit-
tee. He said that cancer now headed the
list of deaths caused by disease 'in the
State, having long superseded tuberculosis
in that bad eminence.
When the money is available a certain
amount of research work will be done in
Queensland. But, for the most part, that
is to be left to Sydney, and the establish-
ment of the six treatment centres concen-
trated upon. The women’s section referred
to proposes to raise its own funds, and so
save the central committee much expense.
Some of the 75 organisations represented
belong to Far Western and Northern dis-
tricts, where the appeal launched from a


Special Easter Number.
The Four Hundred Best.
On Saturday, March 31, a Special Easter Number of "The
Bulletin" will be issued, containing the cream of the past
year’s "Bulletin” pictures and stories.
The Hundred Best Drawings
The Hundred Best Smoke-oh Tales
The Fifty Best Little Stories
The Fifty Best Bush Yarns
The Hundred Best Jokes
The Ten Best Recitations
And a
Selection of “The Bulletin’s” Short Stories
With a Colored Cover and Much Original Matter.
The Most Wonderful Sixpenn’orth
Ever Offered in Australia.
[So great was the demand for the limited amount of advertising space
in the Easter Number that within 48 hours of the announcement of
the issue all space was filled and many orders refused. Surely a record.]
metropolitan centre often fails to penetrate.
It is in the bush and the out-back mining
and agricultural communities that cancer
often takes its worst toll.
_ «
The Balloon Mail.
For over five years the British Government
has been toying with the idea of a dirigible
balloon service that should link the United
Kingdom with Egypt, India and Australia.
Imperial Airways, Ltd., which is heavily
subsidised, has apparently at last got its
preparations to the stage when a weekly
mail service between London and Calcutta
is imminent. As a recent discussion in the
House of Commons showed, the scheme
has not the whole-hearted support of mem-
bers, many of whom think that the mi l-
lions spent in an effort to commercialise
balloons might have been better spent in
the establishment of aeroplane services.
In the domains of both commercial and
military flying Britain lags behind every
other important Power. Sir Philip Sassoon
told the Plouse recently that since 1925
British expenditure on aeroplanes and per-
sonnel for defence purposes had decreased
by 10 per cent., while that of the United
States had increased by 33 per cent., that
of Frajice by 45 per cent., and that of Italy
by 56 per cent. Europe and America are
covered by networks of commercial air
lines, which are being operated cheaply,
reliably, and with an accident rate that
compares more than favorably with any
other means of transport. The only air
service in British territory is that between
Southampton and the island of Guernsey.
Expenditure on commercial flying since the
Great War has been mainly concentrated
on experiments with dirigible balloons, the
history of which is black with failure and
disaster.
It is claimed by Sir Samuel Hoare that
in the last six years the running cost of
airships has been reduced from 4s. 2d. to
Is. lOd. per ton-mile, But a young man
named Hinkler has just covered the whole
route of the proposed All-Red airship ser-
vice at a cost of well under 2d. a ton-mile.
The case against the airship is that it'
cost is enormous; that if it is to be made
safe against fire it must be filled with
helium gas, which is terribly expensive;
and that practical experience has shown it
to be unreliable and dangerous. It is
possible that the success of the ser-
vice to India now being organised will re-
fute all critics, but in the meantime the
weight of evidence is in favor of those who
think that Britain’s commercial and mili-
tary interests would have beem better
served had the money spent on balloons
been devoted to the development of big
passenger ’planes.
O -
“Pommies.”
“Pommy” (short for “pommygranate,” no
doubt) was applied to the fresh-faced immi-
grant when he became noticeable in the
days before the war, with what was then
thought to be mild facetiousness. Inexactly
the same spirit South Australians were
known as “Croweaters,” native-born West-
ralians as “Sandgropers,” Eastern State
“migrants” on the Westralian goldfields as
“T’othersiders,” Victorians as “Gumsuck-
ers,” and so on. Some of these nicknames
are dead, and the rest are dying; and m
the natural course of events “pommies” will
die too. But at present it is having a wide
circulation, and immigrants complain with
only too much reason that it is used by the
ignorant and malicious to express dislike
(hatred in some cases) and contempt.
No decent-minded Australian wants that
to happen. The nation was made by
immigrants and their descendants, and
in the greatest crisis which it has ever
had to face immigrants played a noble
part. They were more numerous in the
A.I.F. than is generally realised and were
associated with some of its most precious
records. The Man with the Donkey, whose
beautiful story will be remembered when
all that happened at Suvla Bay is forgot-
ten, was an immigrant, and a recent arrival
at that. So was Pope, V.C., hero of the
stand at Lagnicourt. So were O’Meara, who
brought in scores of wounded Diggers
(risking his life every moment) from
Pozieres; and Keyzor, and other V.C.’s
The two volumes of Bean’s History which
have appeared contain many moving pas-
sages relative to the bravery and self-sacri-
fice of “pommies.” And Gullett’s book
on the splendid desert campaigns of
Chauvel’s men (too little known to their
fellow-countrymen) is sprinkled with para-
graphs like these: —
“At Beersheba Armorer Staff-Sergeant
Cox (b. Hampshire, Eng.) saw a machine-
o-un being hurriedly dismounted from a mule
by its crew'. In a minute it would have been
in action at close range. He dashed at the
party alone, bluffed them into surrender, and
took 40 prisoners.
“Trooper S. Bolton (b. Londonderry, Ire-
land) single-handed chased a gun which,
with three Turks on the horses and three on
the limber, was being galloped out of action
by a German officer. Bolton fired at close
range, but the weapon missed fire.... He
then knocked the German out of the saddle
with the butt end of the revolver, and forced
the Turks to return with the gun.
“In the attack on Es Salt Lieut. Eoulkes-
Taylor (b. London), revolver in hand and
his men at his heels, raced along the winding
streets, shooting as he went.... Two miles
out Taylor’s party, now reduced to six, was
stopped by machine-gun fire; the troop had,
however, in a few minutes over-ridden and
captured upwards of 200 armed enemy troops
and a great quantity of material.”
Perhaps the Returned Soldiers and Sailors’
League could do more than any other in-
stitution to banish “pommies” from the lan-
guage of good Australians. Tho task, if
undertaken, would be a worthy tribute to
the memory of old mates, and all decent
newspapers would help.
;
One More Tangle.
Section 75 of the Commonwealth Consti-
tution Act gives power to the High Court
to hear and determine “all matters be-
tween residents of different States. If
plaintiff A resides in N. S. Wales and de-
fendant B in Victoria they may bring their
cause of action before the tribunal that
exercises a jurisdiction irrespective oi
States. That is clear enough; but compli-
cations arose in a case with which the High
Court dealt last week.
Two farmers and graziers, one of w T hom
resided in N. S. Wales and the other in
Victoria, issued a writ out of the High
Court claiming damages from a N. S.
Wales grazier for loss of sheep due, they
alleged, to non-fulfilment of an agistment
agreement. Here the defendant and one
of the plaintiffs resided in the same State,
the other plaintiff residing in another State.
Did the fact that one plaintiff resided m
the same State as the defendant oust the
jurisdiction of the Court?
In drafting our Federal Constitution re-
course was had, in many respects, to the
constitution of the U.S.A. The provision
in question had been drawn from this
source, and American authorities indicated
that jurisdiction was conferred on the
Federal Supreme Court only where the
plaintiff was in one State and the defend-
ant in another. A plaintiff residing in the
same State as the defendant had no origi-
nal recourse beyond the Courts of his own
State. And so our High Court decided,
holding that it had no jurisdiction to hear
the case inasmuch as one of the plaintiffs
resided in the same State as the defendant.
Counsel for the unsuccessful plaintiffs
was asked whether he had a remedy else-
where. Hs replied that he would go to
the Supreme Court of N. S. Wales. It will
be awkward if the Supreme Court of N. S.
Wales adopts the attitude that, whilst it
can recognise the plaintiff resident in its
own State, it cannot see the gentleman over
the border.
♦
Jarring Notes.
In the chorus of praise and congratulation
which Hinkler’s achievement has evoked
false notes have been heard. Among the
more jarring are the unceasing efforts of
publicity hounds and tuft-hunters to obtain
quantities of free advertising for themselves
under the pretence of glorifying the national
hero. Another is the sickening reiteration
of the phrase “a splendid advertisement for
Australia.” This parrot-cry is raised when-
ever Australians do anything notable; it
has been applied to the deeds of a touring
football team and the victories of the A.I.F.
Nothing so nauseated the members of that
force as the suggestion, blatantly repeated,
that their agony and self-sacrifice would be
of great assistance to the export trade in
jam and tinned meat. Let the hucksters
stick to huckstering and leave our Diggers
and our Hinklers alone.
Another very bad impression was made
by the offer of a Sydney music-hall pro-
prietor to back Hinkler in an attempt to
fly the Tasman—a perfectly useless, as well
as dangerous, venture which has already
cost the lives of Hood and Moncrieff. On
the day the offer was published, Flight-
Lieut. Mclntyre lost his life in Adelaide,
and the English flier Kinkead crashed to
death at Southampton. During the same
week another attempt to fly the Atlantic
from Britain ended in disaster. Yet it is
actually proposed that Hinkler should in-
dulge in a stunt almost as perilous, with
the Sardine Sisters and the red-nosed com-
edian for background.
Then there is the demand of the more
flamboyant section of the N.S.W. press that
Hinkler should receive a knighthood.
There is probably nothing that Hinkler
himself desires less. His whole story is
one of modesty and reserve, which is in
strange contrast to the trumpetings of his
self-appointed champions. There is not a
particle of evidence that he is keen on being
admitted to the select band of pony-racing
and picture-show and “suburban-estate”
knights. He will value his Air Force Cross
far more than he would a K.B.E. A fitting
recognition of his great work for aviation
would be the reorganisation of the Common-
wealth Air Service, with its own factories
and designers, and, as far as he was personally
concerned, a post worthy of his talents. As
a designer, and especially as a tester, of
new machines, Hinkler is acknowledged
one of the world’s experts, as the late
Harry Hawker was. In such a position
he would be in his element, and be able
to give his services to his native land with
advantage to everyone. To knight him
would be. to play a very sorry jest on an
exceptionally brave, capable and modest
little man.
A Dead Land-Hunger.
Maoiuland’s Minister of Lands, 0. J-
Hawken, has found that there is no longer
any demand on the part of the native-born
for Crown land for settlement. Even
when the Government offers land for no-
thing, conditionally upon certain not very
expensive improvements % being accom-
plished within 10 years, there are no takers.
Mr. Hawken has formed the opinion that
if the local boys cannot make a do with
such areas as are available, there is very
little chance of town-bred immigrants from
the Old Dart being more successful. His
predecessor, A. D. McLeod, stated three or
four years ago that there was no land left
in the country with which to tempt settlers.
And he wasn’t a bit surprised about it.
John McKenzie dreamed a dream, dour
Scotch shepherd that he was, of a land of
small peasant farmers, replacing the squat-
ters, concessionnaires and gridironers whose
arrogance and affluence offended his inde-
pendent mind. With the concurrence of
Ballance and Seddon he burst up the
great estates, delivered the pick of the
farmlands into the hands of a few thousand
Crown tenants, and died dimly compre-
hending that he had created a new landed
aristocracy to rise up and destroy all that
he ever fought for. Even before Seddon
died there was a strong demand that Crown
tenants, most of whom held their land on
leasehold for 999 years, on an annual ren-
tal of 4 p.c. of the prairie value, should be
allowed to purchase at the original capital
value. Seddon temporised by enacting new
conditions in respect to land yet to be set-
tled, but the demand of the L.I.P. holders
was strong, and was one of the principal
factors in the defeat of the Liberals in
1912. The Reformers’ first act was to allow
the lease-in-perpetuity holders to purchase
at original valuation, and ever since they
have been fertile in ideas for converting
Crown lands into privately-owned free-
holds.
At the close of the Great War vast areas
were re-purchased by the State at ruling
prices—which, of course, were inflated—
and concessions, rebates, loans and gifts to
the soldier-settlers to enable them to carry
on make a substantial bite into the Con-
solidated Revenue each year. In the early
post-war days speculation in farm land was
rampant. The buying and selling of estates
became the principal occupation of
McKenzie’s peasantry. The result is that
thousands of experienced farmers live in
retirement in the cities while their successors
labor under a cloud of mortgages.
- <►
Mission Romance.
The missionary to the heathen resembles
the Brassbound Mariner of Kipling, in that,
while he is silently and efficiently attentive
to his duty in working time, he is apt to
become “splendaciously mendacious” when
he comes ashore, or, in the missionary’s case,
when he leaves the scene of his labors, and
discourses to civilisation on the trials and
terrors of his job. Thus, at a recent con-
ference in Sydney an Island missionary did
his best to make his hearers’ flesh creep. The
gentleman’s was not clearly indi-
cated, but his denomination and the fact
that he mentioned several islands by name
indicate that its location is in the South-
Eastern Division of Papua, which includes
a scattered archipelago of large and small
islands. The speaker asked for volunteers
of a heroic type with a love of adventure,
and modestly recounted that he had “often”
stood as a peacemaker between lines of
fighting cannibals. Whether the reverend
gentleman informed the Government of the
existence of fighting cannibals in a locality
where fighting and cannibalism have been
banished these 30 years past—assuming the
South East of Papua to be the vineyard—
he did not say, but the news would come as
a painful surprise to Lieut.-Gov. Murray
and his men.
As a matter of fact, one would have to
make a long search to find a fighting canni-
bal or even a pacifist one w-ithin the boun-
daries of Papua to-day, though occasionally,
no doubt, a little long pig is eaten in secret
and is all the sweeter for it. Much the
same might be said of the remainder of the
Western Pacific groups, save in the Solo-
mons and some portions of New Ireland,
where the inland tribes have not been
brought under missionary control even.
Propaganda of this sort has its uses, may-
be, but it is doubtful if it does not do more
harm than good to the cause. When people
with any knowledge of the facts —and there
are plenty of them about—are confronted
with this sort of thing, they are apt to
take everything else the speaker tells them
with a grain of salt, and he thus defeats
his own ends. The work he does, with all
its shortcomings, is generally respected, and
if he would drop his tendency to romance
far from the scene of his labors, he would
gain in general estimation.
%
High Prices of Land.
Values of pastoral lands in N. S.
Wales are higher now than they were at
the top of the wool boom in 1924-25, and
few pastoralists are earning reasonable
profits on the realisable value of then-
holdings. In Queensland the value of cane
lands has risen steadily since 1920, notwith-
standing that the price of raw sugar has
fallen from £3O 6s. Bd. per ton to £2l 11s,
per ton, and cane-farmers who bought land
in recent years are not getting much more
than bare wages out of their holdings. To
the excessive prices being paid for wheat
lands in parts of Victoria and South Aus-
tralia and to a less extent in N. S. Wales,
reference has been frequently made. The
tendency to over-capitalisation is a general
one.
If the value of land is measured by the
price of its products (and it is in the long
run), how is this tendency explained? The
answer can only be that people are paying
for anticipated increment, buyers being con-
tent with a bare return for a few years in
the hope, of an ultimate and handsome
profit on resale. These conditions cannot,
however, go on for ever, although in a
voung country they may do so for a long
time; and it is certain that the speculators
must get bitten some time or other. So
must a number of people who have had
dealings with them and a greater number
who haven’t.
Unfortunately the genuine pastoralist or
farmer also pays the fancy prices estab-
lished by speculation. Being usually an
optimist he overestimates the earning
capacity of the land when buying, and
when the results fall short of expectations
wonders why he can’t make good country
pay. He may even decide that the land is
overrated as a means of livelihood, and
join the procession to the city. There
are forms of speculation which perform a
social service by tending to stabilise market
prices; but land-speculation is not one of
them.
6
“S.N.R.”: “Death in the Wire” (B. 14/3/’2B)
is timelv and to the point; but the fault,
I think,” is in the supervision and passing
of the job rather than the age of the “unat-
tended youths” who do the wiring. These
youngsters are, too often, only carrying out
instructions to do a cheap job—the cheap-
est possible—for a property-owner careless
of the lethal possibilities of electricity. In
my own country town I have seen weather-
board cottages fitted up with electric-light
wires which ran naked between the match-
boarding of the dividing walls. Moreover,
I have not seen all power-points “earthed,
as they should be for safety. These hazards
would grow less if insurance cos. insisted
on their rural inspectors refusing to pass
work which might be the cause of fire or
death.


S 453
Hinkler was Amazed
*As a precaution,” says Hinkler in a recent telegram , “I
lifted the cylinders on arrival Darwin, and was amazed
at excellent condition, which is due, no doubt, in no
small measure to my using Shell Spirit.”
Be Fair to Your Car
STANDARDISE on
POLITICAL
POINTS
An item on the business paper of the an-
nual conference of the Vic. Labor party is
saddening. “One man, one calling” is advo-
cated by the Billposters’ Union. If the sug-
gestion had come from the Shovellers’ Asso-
ciation it would not have seemed so wrong.
But billposters are close, if humble, associates
of the arts. They .earn their daily wage
pasting up on walls and hoardings repro-
ductions of pictures which are quite often
of artistic worth. One would think that
that would make them aspire to a higher
occupation. But no! They are as content
to go on wielding the paste brush and the
scissors as the editor of Stead’s is. If the
signpainters had adopted the same ignoble
creed, this country would have been the
poorer by several leading artists.
When in Adelaide W. R. Morris, the Brit-
ish motor-car manufacturer, said that in all
his travels he had “never seen two concerns
conducted in a more admirable manner than
the Sunshine harvester works and Hol-
den’s motor-body-building factory.” “These
great factories,” he said, “have been built
up because they have the right men to run
affairs.” Quite true; and it was the right
fiscal policy that gave the right men their
opportunity.
n The Tas. A.L.P. executive lias endorsed
o 9 candidates for the State general election
at the end of May—nine each in Denison,
Franklin and Wilmot, and six each in Bass
and Darwin. Labor won the odd seat—l 6
to 14—in 1925, and Lyons’s record is such
that it deserves to do as well, or better,
this time, but it is not particularly con-
fident —the corresponding Federal electorates
are all held by Nationalists. If the electors
make it 15-15 the Government will stay in
office and try to get a Speaker from the
other side.
The A.W.U. executive lia s refused to
send delegates to Bruce’s industrial peace
conference because, as is wordily explained,
the Government persists in letting people
come into the country and has failed to
absorb” the unemployed. In short, the
executive’s policy is, as always, “Down with
immigration!” and "A vigorous public
works programme to ‘absorb’ the unem-
ployed.’’ People who aspire to run Aus-
tralia ought to have something more help-
ful to contribute to its political thought.
The Brisbane dailies came out the other
day with a story that Premier McCormack
didn’t intend to contest the Cairns seat at
the next State elections, and that his fol-
lower, Pease, at present M.L.A. for Herbert,
would succeed him there. Where they got
the yarn no one seems to know; McCormack
denied it the same day. Unlike Ryan and
Theodore, lie has no Federal ambitions —for
the present, at any rate. It is different with
Stopford, one of his Ministers, who is trying
to get the party nomination for Kennedy.
His strongest opponent is W. J. Riordan,
an A.W.U. official, hitherto a close friend
of “Stoppy’s.” The interesting pair are al-
ready at each other’s throats.
With studied moderation J. A. Norris,
Vic. Auditor-General, described as “a mis-
take” the. expenditure of £163,000 on electric-
train equipment in advance of requirements.
While repeating that there was nothing dis-
honest about the transaction, and while
giving the Railway Commissioners credit for
desiring to obtain the best materials at the
lowest cost, the A.-G. declares that the ascer-
tainable facts were all against their precon-
ceived ideas as to the extent to which subur-
SURRENDER.
“A bill to enfranchise women at the age of 21 has been introduced in the British House of
Commons. Sir George Cockerill declared that it would endow women with permanent political supre-
macy, women being so greatly in the majority.”
BRITISH ELECTOR: “You’d better put that ‘obey’ question to me."
ban traffic would increase. If the outlay had
been referred to the Parliamentary Railway
Committee before it was incurred, he adds,
there would have been no occasion for an
investigation nearly three years afterwards.
Still, if the traffic had increased as antici-
pated Clapp and Co. would have got it hot
from the critics had they been caught short
of equipment.
South Africa raised 13,582,500 tons of coal
in 1926, while Australia, which is about six
times the size, produced much the same
(13,626,800 tons). There isn’t the slightest
chance that the Afrikanders will go out of
the trade again after having taken vast
trouble to get into it, or will cease to rope
in Newcastle’s old customers, even those
almost at its door. And if it becomes a
matter of Government aid the Treasury at
Pretoria may be in a better condition for a
fight than the one at Sydney or Canberra.
By a stroke of his casual pen Vic. Minister
for Labor Lemmon has extended the gar-
deners’ wages award to include the casual
worker in suburban plots. The 50-by-120 lot
automatically becomes a factory, and house-
owner Jones an employer, required under the
Act to post the Wages Board determination
on his Cootamundra wattle, register with the
chief inspector his full name and address and
grant the factory inspector access to his
lawns and shrubberies, to see that safety de-
vices are installed to protect the worker from
slugs. Also, wages will have to be paid
on a basis of £4 18s. for head gardeners
and £4 11s. for others, the week being 44
hours. They are by no means excessive wages
for real gardeners, but the result will be
bad for old chaps who earned a decent addi-
tion to their pensions by pottering about
lawns and flower-beds.
“ ‘The. movement’ is in danger” is a com-
mon cry on Labor-union platforms nowadays.
Yes, “the movement” is in danger, but its
own leaders are to blame, not Bruce, Bavin
or the Employers’ Federation, or any com-
bination of such people. In Brisbane lately
the firemen left their posts, exposing a great
city to a deadly risk, because four of their
number, seeking promotion, had sat for an
examination banned by the fire-brigades
section of the A.W.U. And the boilermakers
employed by the N.S.W. Government on
Walsh Island were called out because the
union objected to good workers getting more
money (“being paid more than they actually
earned,” as one excited Red put it) under a
bonus system. It is because “the movement”
lias become identified with blatant imbe-
cilities of this description that it is in
danger.
Treasurer Page, whose influence in Cabinet
and party councils is greatly underrated by
Big-City dailies, got his election pact with
Bruce accepted, in a slightly modified form
1 at the Cocky conferences, Federal and State,
in Melbourne. The modification was ex-
pressed in a resolution stating that “both
organisations supporting the Government
shall recognise loyal support of that Govern-
ment by a representative of either party as
entitling such representative to the support
of both organisations during an election,”
the proviso being added that both Cockies
and Nats, may run candidates, with an ex-
change of preferences, should the loyal sup-
porter drop out. Opponents protested that
the thing would still be an undemocratic limi-
tation of the electors’ choice, but the majority
decided that anything would be preferable to
a Labor Government bossed by the crowd be-
hind Lang.
“Eromeno”; The Mt. Isa (N.Q.) line can
never become a dead-end proposition (B.
22/2/’2B). It will not only serve the mines,
but will be an extra feeder from the pastoral
country to the main G.N. railway; and that
was in the McCormack Government’s mind
when construction was decided upon. The
Mt. Isa venture is going to be a big help
to Queensland ; moreover, it is going to give
prospecting in the Northern Territory a new
lease of life.
Although the N. S. Wales A.L.P. per-
sistently refuses to readmit Arthur Griffith,
sometime Minister of Works, the Tas. A.L.P!
executive _ has accepted Jens August Jen-
sen’s nomination for a seat in Wilmot, State
Premier Lyons’s division. The offence for
which Griffith has never been pardoned was
opposing Dave Watkins, M.H.R. for New-
castle, as a conscriptionist in 1917. Jensen
beat a Labor candidate as Hughes’s Minister
of Customs that year (he remained in the
Ministry for another 18 months, when he was
asked to leave), and has opposed pledge-
and-caucus men on several occasions since.
He is the first expelled conscriptionist to
be taken back into the fold, although West-
ralian Labor has had conseriptionists—
Angwin and Walker, for instance—all
along.
W. M. Webster, who has been president
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. for a few weeks,
has been warned that his place will pre-
sently be required for a more obsequious
Langite. At the “metropolitan provincial”
conference Webster spoke out against “the
policy of going to foreign countries and bor-
rowing large sums, a policy which causes
unemployment here as well as indebtedness
abroad.” Unwarned by the unusual silence,
the honest fellow went on to say that “when
Labor comes into power that policy must
be altered.” Seeing that Lang borrowed 20
millions in his last year of office, and that
he and his friends have been railing at Bavin
for not pawning the country to the same
extent, the offence was adjudged unpardon-
able, so exit Webster.
The vagaries of fashion notwithstanding.
Australian manufacturers of fancy-leather
goods are steady buyers of home-grown calf
skins and the like. These light hides readily
take color, and their impressionable surface
will show up to perfection morocco, reptile
and other fantastic prints—essential features
when Belinda is bent on a ptggy-bag to
match her Cuban heels. Men’s wallets are
another safe outlet for the same class of
material. But the leather tobacco pouches
seen in Australia are nearly all imported.
A kink in the tariff shuts out this line from
the protective advantages extended to these
other fancy-leather manufactures, though
exactly the same class of leather is em-
ployed. It is a matter that could easily be
rectified to the advantage of a useful industry.
After taking a year to inquire into the
cases of Vic. soldier-settlers who had com-
plained of unfair treatment, six boards
whose operations covered non,-irrigation
districts have told Bailey, Minister for
Lands, some obvious things. Biailey, an
observant man, is really better informed
himself after 10 months in office, but ’the
boards have solemnly advised him that lack
of business ability, want of application, in-
sufficiency of holdings, and non-appreciation
of the fact that farms, implements and
stock were supposed to be owned and not
hired by the settlers, were causes of failure
or stagnation. A percentage of leases will
be cancelled to add to those already wiped
out, and settlers who are progressing slowly
or imperceptibly will be informed that the
extra help now given will be the last.
The decision of the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Caucus, as at present constituted, to debar
defeated members who revolted against Lang
from participation in the seats-insuranee fund
to which all contributed is assailable legally
as well as morally. In the case of benefit
societies and similar concerns which gather
money from individual members for a com-
mon purpose, it is provided that, when a dis-
tribution is made, the contributors must at
least get their money back if the cash is
available, or a dividend if funds do not per-
mit a full payment. Further, the right is
usually one which cannot be contracted out
of. And no company can alter or extend its
activities without calling a general meeting
of shareholders. No notice was given to the
anti-Langites to attend the meeting at which
their contributions were to be commandeered.
The Bavinshaw Government recently
arranged with the Commonwealth authorities
to get the State electoral-roll work done by
postmen, who do the corresponding Federal
job and do it well. When the arrangement
becomes effective it will relieve the police
of a lot of unnecessary work, and electors
and taxpayers will also benefit. Now the
Bavinshaws are adding 200 men to the over-
burdened force to cope with the crime epi-
demic, which may have some connection with
the wild and foolish talk about “the class
war.” Under the late soft-headed regime at
least one State prison became rather like
a rest-house for jaded “sports,” racing re-
sults and Stadium pug. exhibitions being pro-
vided, as well as picture-shows. That also
ought to receive the Government’s attention.
A “provincial” Labor conference in Syd-
ney has decided that the voting age should
be reduced to 18. This was in imitation of
Russia, but Russia doesn’t count for much
in suffrage matters. There the 18-year-old
helps to elect the local Soviet. It sends a
delegate to an All-Russian Congress if it is
a town Soviet. If it is a bush Soviet it
sends a delegate to a provincial congress,
and that body sends somebody to the All-
Russian affair. The latter elects another
institution, and the last creates a Govern-
ment. By that time the 18-year-old elector
and the concern he helped to elect have
gone home and been forgotten.
MY COUNTRY—ALWAYS WRONG.
[FOR TH E BULL ETIN.]
“Misleading statements about the situation in
Western Samoa are being cabled from Apia, including
an atrocious attack on Mr. Harry Holland, M.L.
Labor leader, for his powerful indictment of the
Administrator’s treatment of the natives and his
exposure of the Dominion’s gross abuse of the
Samoan mandate. Actually the Samoans are a
peaceful, lovable people who only ask to be left
alone, etc., etc.” — Labor Daily.
“Take up the white man’s burden,”
Though heavy it be and hard,
As Kipling metrically shows,
And add to consequential woes
Foreshadowed by the bard
The creed which a thousand clacking tongues
Behind your back recite;
That whenever trouble comes along
The white man’s obviously wrong
And the nigger as clearly right.
“Take up the white man’s burden”
As pride of race decrees,
Essay the stumbling feet to guide
In teeming Ind or Afric wide
Or down in southern seas.
But never forget that when wills conflict
There are folk who will make a song
Of your black misdeeds and yourself indict
On the ground that the nigger is always right
And the white man as surely wrong.
‘Take up the white man’s burden”
And take it up resigned
To being estimated not
On what you do by quite a lot
Of those you leave behind.
For the only axiom they apply
When black falls out with white
Is the simple one that in every case
The blame must rest on the ruling
race,
The nigger being always right.
“Take up the white man’s burden,”
Hump it as best you can,
Remembering, howe’er you try
You cannot hope to satisfy
A certain type of man.
His simple faith is all summed up
In this conviction strong:
That whenever it comes to a color
fight
The white man simply can’t be
right
And the nigger is never wrong.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Ricky”: “Silent Fred” put in 12 months
on a station in the Gulf country (Q.) fencing
and as general station-hand. A tradition
still lingers that during this period he spoke
on four occasions—ito a newchum, to a
drunken and voluble cook, to his mate re-
garding the rations and to a co-worker whom
he subsequently put to sleep after a brisk
half-hour’s scrap behind the woolshed. The
remarks have been preserved ; they were (1)
“It never rains till November”; (2) “You
talk too blanky much” ; (3) “Don’t forget the
pickles”; and (4) “Put ’em up.”
* * * *
“8.Y.N.”: Undoubtedly the ability to
drive a car along a wide highway where
there is little or no traffic makes it far too
PUTTING PA IN HIS PLACE.
M. BARBOUILLEUR ( patronisingly): “Ah, so, little one, you are
pleased to become my daughter-in-law, is it not so?”
LITTLE ONE: “Well, no, I wouldn’t say that; but I didn’t see
how it was to be helped if I married Alphonse!”
easy to obtain a motorist’s license outside
the suburban radius in Victoria (B. 7/3/’2B).
A stone-deaf man or a dangerously short-
sighted one may pass the test in these circum-
stances, but I know one old sergeant who is
a bit more shrewd than the average. A friend
of mine, still a tyro, applied to him for a
license. “Righto,” said the sergeant. “I just
want to see a man up* the North-road. You
can run me up.” The house proved to
be at a very awkward bottle-neck in the
road, and when the examiner had alighted
the candidate turned the car round after a
deal of bungling. Presently the sergeant
rejoined him. “Sorry,” he said, “the chap
has moved further up the road.” So the
driver had to turn round in the bottle-neck
again, while the other grimly watched his
discomfiture. That evening the unsuccessful
applicant met the mounted constable and
told him of his bad luck. “Yes,” said the
Tolin drily; “you’re the fifth bloke the boss
has put that joke over in the last six
months j” * * *
“Runa” • When the 13,000-ton whaling
ship C. A. Larsen hit the treacherous
Faro Rock off Stewart Island on her return
com the Antarctic the
value of her oil cargo
was estimated at half
a million pounds. At
the first blast of the
wrecked vessel the 10
whale - chasers rushed
to her aid, and. closing
in, pushed the big ship
slowly up Paterson’s
Inlet and beached her.
There was no possi-
bility of transferring
the oil into the fully
loaded Sir James Ross
Clarke, mother ship of
the expedition, so the
owners had to charter
oil-tankers to remove
the cargo. In the first
phase of the disaster
£20,000 worth of the
valuable stuff flowed
into the ocean.
* *
“Chevrofor and” :
“A.BAV.’s” suggestion
(B. 7/3/’2B) that
there should be a met-
ropolitan test for all
Victorian motorists is
impracticable. The ac-
quirer of a second-hand
Ford in parts of the
Malice would have to
undertake a journey of
400 miles to obtain his
license, and, in any
case, the experience
would be of little
value. Traffic sense is
only acquired by constant practice in crowded
streets.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A laborer’s son at Box Hill
(Vic.) went out the other night into the
family back yard to bury a dead fowl. A few
minutes later he came running in with a hat-
ful of what he took for old war medals.
They proved, however, to be sovereigns, coins
which the lad had never seen previously: 300
of them were emptied out of the teapot lie
had disinterred. The latest date was 1593,
and it is surmised that the boy’s grandfather,
who died worth £IO,OOO, buried the cash in
the days when eight miles of heavy bush had
to be traversed to get to the nearest bank in
Melbourne.
:|: * * *
“Unity”: Wayfarers down one of the
quieter Sydney thoroughfares the other even-
ing were surprised to see some small missiles
descending from one of the upper floors of
a high building. The shower seemed to come
at regular intervals, and presently an inter-
ested group were
retrieving from the
roadway pencils,
pens and small
items of stationery,
the collection being
presently supple-
mented by a vanity-
case and a powder-
puff. When the mis-
siles began to in-
clude small bottles
someone sought the
co-operation of the
corner - policeman.
He knocked loudly,
then gazed fixedly
at the top storey,
until a bottle of ink
suddenly emerged
from a ventilator
above a parapet
and narrowly
missed his official
headgeai 1 . That de-
cided it. Ten
minutes later the
side entrance of the
building was
opened, and the
Law went with dig-
nity up four flights
of stairs. From be-
yond a locked door
a tearful feminine
voice entreated him
to let the owner
out. Presently a
small typist was ex-
plaining to the com-
pany that while she
worked in an inner
office in an indus-
trious overtime
mood a forgetful
boss had suddenly
gone home, locking
the office behind
him. As the office
windows looked out
on an unfrequented
alley, and her fifth-
storey screams
failed to carry to
the street, she had
resorted to the ven-
tila t o r, and by
wrenching a piece
of ironwork aside
was able to push small articles through,
hoping thereby to escape a night in the
building.
j*c i*: sfc #
“Gad” : Touching military executions (B.
14/3/’28). It may be easy to tell whether
a just-fired rifle has been loaded with live
cartridge or blank, but it is not easy to tell
whether a rifle is so loaded before firing.
A soldier might hesitate to fire accurately
at a human target in such circumstances if
he knew for certain that his rifle would
contribute to the despatch of the individual
concerned. After the damage has been done
it matters little to authority whether he
knows or not, which is the point that
“Hanno” misses. It is most unlikely that
at the shooting of Nurse Cavell every man
would have been issued with live ammuni-
tion ; even among rigidly-disciplined Ger-
mans there were some who would have re-
volted at the thought of shooting a woman.
* * =l= *
“Feng-Shui”: This companionate mar-
riage now being discussed in. the U.S. and
elsewhere is no new thing ; it has been in
full operation for hundreds of years m
BEACH CONFIDENCES.
GLADYS: “ He’s so romantic. When he speaks to me he always says ‘Fair lady.’”
PHYLLIS: “That’s only force of habit. I expect he’s a trami conductor.”
Japan. A simple ceremony on the family
hearth or at the nearest Shinto shrine unites
the experimentalists. If at the end of u
year the couple find themselves incompatible
they merely part, any children being readily
adopted by childless people. If they de-
cide to see things out, the State steps in
and legalises the union. The scheme is a
logical consequence of the absence in Nippon
of any such thing as pre-marital courtship,
a youth glimpsing his bride only once before
marriage, at the maia, or seeing ceremony.
Nor is love considered a reason for wedding
bells. A husband who showed a sentimental
affection for his wife used to be compulsorily
divorced by edict of his scandalised parents.
That is no longer legal, but to-day the ridi-
cule of his friends achieves the same result.
Thus the companionate marriage has a defi-
nite function in Mikadoland which it would
not have in, say, Australia, where young
men and maidens see more of each other
before marriage than they do of their parents.
“P. Whiffle”: Companionate marriage is
little more than a revival of the old custom of
“handfasting,” practised in most of the north-
ern English and southern Scottish counties
before the Union. The period of these proba-
tionary marriages was a year and a day, at
the end of which time the couple might
either part or be legally wedded. The usage
originated in the dearth of clergy along the
Border during the Middle Ages and was en-
couraged by the almost continuous warfare
and raids in which women as well as cattle
were carried off. For many years a hand-
fasting fair was held at Dumfries. Amongst
the Border barons and their retainers the
system (as Scott’s “The Monastery” shows)
frequently degenerated into concubinage.
' * * *
“Walad” : At a Melbourne church last Sun-
day two small choir-boys joined forces in a
bit of sacred song. They were uncle and
nephew. Incidentally, the brother of one and
father of the other is the baritone soloist in
the same choir. His father took up the col-
lection.
* * * *
“Cooramin” : Add to the river steamers that
did good service in their day (B. 14/3/’2B)
the Jane Eliza, long associated with the boom
days of Bourko, and now rotting in the mud
near Mildura wharf, tier engine, when she
had no further use for it. provided the first
pumping plant for the Mildura irrigation
area. In the busy days of the river trade
her paddle-wheels churned mightily in many
a stirring race for cargo on the long water-
way. She was the steamer that got lost in
the bush during a big flood in the Darling;
and once she was drought-bound in a pool,
with sun-dried fish floating around her, for
15 months. Her most notable voyage was
during another long drought, when she took
three years to carry a cargo of building
material from Goolwa to Bourke. When
she arrived the consignee was dead, and the
cargo had to be auctioned.
*}c # ifc
“C. Coral”: Two bottles set adrift by
the U.S. Hydrographical Department to
enlarge knowledge about ocean currents
were recently recovered in Torres Strait.
One had been thrown overboard close to the
Galapagos Islands (off the American coast)
on February 3, 1926; it took 18 months to
negotiate the 75G0 miles to Yorke Island.
The other started its voyage from between
Norfolk Island and the Fiji group early last
year: nine months later it found the beach
on Thursday Island after a trip of about
2100 miles. Quite a number of these bottles
have been picked up in Torres Strait, chiefly
round the Yorke Island group, indicating
that the currents set in that way. The U.S.
department is doing a very useful work, and
it seems a pity that there is not some mutual
arrangement between it and the Common-
wealth whereby all bottles found in these
waters, could be handed in at, say, the nearest
harbor-master’s office or post office so that
a copy might be taken of their contents be-
fore the original is transmitted to Uncle
Sam. At present the bottle-papers go to the
nearest American consular office. The sys-
tem of collecting official information per
medium of floating bottles is older than most
people are aware of. Queen Elizabeth ap-
pointed an “Uncorker of Ocean Bottles”
after a fisherman had picked up a bottle
containing a parchment to the effect that
Holland had seized the remote colony of Nova
Scotia. As many as 50 bottles were picked
up and forwarded to this functionary for
opening in 1015.
>i! * * *
“Sheelah” : Touching bank-tellers and lady
customers (B. 7/3/’2B). Asked by a busy
school-marm pal in Hobart to cash her fort-
nightly pittance, I passed the cheque across
without glancing at its value and handbagged
the £9 pushed over. Arriving home half an
hour later, I found a ’phoned request to
transport myself and £2 I wasn’t entitled
to back to the bank. In that brief space
the teller had discovered his mistake, and
with the assistance of the Education Depart-
ment Sherlocked the payee, who had in turn
located me. The teller thanked me profusely
when I restored the surplus, but something
in his eye gave me the uncomfortable impres-
sion that he didn’t believe even a female
would cash a cheque without knowing its
value.
* * * *
“Cirrus”: One hot July afternoon in 1917
a party of Diggers, exploring Salisbury
Plain, came , on a huge signboard at some
cross-roads directing travellers to “The
Bustard” inn half a mile away. The infor-
mation seemed pertinent, and the party made
their way to the hostelry, only to be refused
liquor of any kind, either on the bona fide
travellers’ plea or any other. A thoroughly
disgusted crowd took the track for camp
again, and on reaching the signboard that
had so cruelly misled them somebody sug-
gested that the unaccommodating Bung
should be taught a lesson. The idea was voted
a good one and was carried into effect by the
alteration of a single letter on the signboard,
after which the innovators pursued their way
satisfied that a grievous wrong had been at
least partially avenged. To my knowledge
the new name remained on the signboard for
three months.
* * * *
“Carel”: I have a “Gazetteer of the
Known World,” dated 1809 and printed in
the quaint type of the period. A map of the
world shows “New Holland” and “Van Die-
men’s Land” with “Bass Strait” between,
but the corresponding northern passage is
marked “Endeavour Strait.” When was
“Torres” substituted ?
** * .
“Bob”: “Gouger’s” account of General
Chauvel leading the Desert Column over a
waterless desert (B. 7/3/’2S) needs toning
down. There was enough water in the desert
for the horses’ requirements, and it was often
better than that which was brought to us in
Fantassis. The train was never many miles
behind ; and, if there were no lorries, there
were camels in tens of thousands. Of
“Gouger’s” “comparatively raw soldiers,” 12
regiments of Light Horse, the N.Z. Brigade,
some of the Yeomanry and some of the
Infantry had seen service on Gallipoli.
Chauvel did not have the confidence of his
officers and men in the same degree as
Allenby, although he was better liked by the
Tommies.
A MESALLIANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I ain’t the sort that only sees the rotten
side o’ life;
I ain’t the one to talk an’ sneer an’ stir up
mud an’ strife;
I ’ate to dig up buried things. But still I’ll
make a stir,
Yes, an’ I’ll shake things up for ’em if
Artie falls fer ’er.
I’ve tried me best to put ’im wise to wot's
their little game,
An’ if e’s caught ’e’ll only ’ave ’imself, not
me, to blame.
She’s set ’er line to make ’im bite; ’er mother
finds the bait.
Gawd elp ’im if ’e takes the ’ook —’e’ll find
’em out too late.
I know ’em well. They needn’t kid them-
selves that I’ve forgot
The time the ole man drank fer weeks an’
went right orf ’is dot.
'Oo took the sheep that Murphy lost nine
year ago las’ May?
’Oo borrowed ’Iggs's ’orse an’ cart —w’en
’Iggses were away?
The blessed cheek of that there crowd to
think to catch me son !
They’ll find I’ve got a word or two to say
before they’ve done!
I don’t like openin’ ole sores. But still
there’ll be a stir,
I’ll make the place too ’ot fer ’em if Artie
falls fer ’er.
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINDLAY.
DOMAIN METAPHO RS .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His language wandered where his fancy led,
While sprightly figures lent his speech a
tang;
It seemed he sought to kill some project dead
As a pet scapegoat of the “Nash’list gang,”
Which, from the sky, to bite the hand that
fed,
Fell like a boomerang.
But, as he said, their hideous behest
Should meet with opposition yet untried;
The workers’ might should grapple with the
pest
As unrelenting as the rising tide,
Till, like a trapped rat in a viper’s breast,
It flickered up and died.
Capitalism’s swan-song had been sung,
In the long lane the dogs of war were
loose,
And round their necks white elephants they
hung
By listening to the blandishments of Bruce,
Who, in his pride, with envy’s bitter tongue,
Had killed the golden goose.
N.S.W,
BILDAD THE BARD.


“C.Q.” : Almost as cherished a pet to Gee-
longites as Pelorus Jack was to Nelsonians in
Maoriland is a seal which has found the
waters of Corio Bay to its liking. First
encouraged by the food thrown it by work-
men lunching on the railway pier, it has
lately taken to mixed bathing on the eastern
beach. Up-to-date it has remained unmo-
lested, but even world-wide celebrity and a
special Act of Parliament did not preserve
Pelorus Jack from the eventual idiot with
the gun.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: London, which has enter-
tained many foreign potentates in its time,
from Shahs to Pashas and Czars to Khedives,
is now extending the hand of hospitality to
an Amir, as the ruler of Afghanistan is
called. The latest visitor is said to be
thoroughly modernised, in which respect
it is possible that he will afford a pleasant
contrast to some of his Oriental predecessors.
The visit of the first Shall to London in the
’seyenties involved a considerable amount of
disinfection and reconditioning before some
of the establishments which he and his reti-
nue had occupied were again rendered habit-
able for civilised persons. Richard Neville,
the memoir writer, who was in attendance
on the second Shah and his entourage, has
left it on record that their habits showed
WELL CAUGHT.
DAD: “And Dora deliberately stumbled cornin’ up the hill so that young Moneybags
could catch her, eh?"
MUM: “Y-e-s! What you might call a business trip.”
little improvement on those of their prede-
cessors; amongst other things they insisted
on killing their sheep—which, being Mos-
iems they had to butcher themselves—in a
lavatory. Ihe Amir,, however, is said to
have adopted European customs to the extent
ot taking regular baths, even in a country
where water is so precious as in Afghanistan,
so there may be less reluctance about placing
luxuriously furnished suites at his disposal.
(<Tr , ' .„ ", * „ *
I eng-Shui : Lliere is an excellent reason
tor the late arrival of the Japanese on the
v/o/iooV' modern times
d ’ . foreigners except
a few Dutchmen and Chinese were expelled
from Japan. essels longer than 75ft. were
forbidden ; any foreign ship arriving inad-
vertently was destroyed along with its crew;
and it was a capital offence for a Japanese
to leave his homeland. This remarkable de-
cree was rigidly enforced for 217 years, and
its effect is seen even to-day in the indigenous
fishing-boat, which is quite the crankiest
ocean-going vessel in the world, except per-
haps the Javanese. Prior to the seventeenth
century, however, the Japanese were sturdy
and adventurous mariners. They conducted
at least two naval invasions of Korea; there
are traces of their influence in the megalithic
architecture of Ponape in the Carolines; and
Japanese pottery and bronzes have been found
buried in the raised corals of the Southern
Mariannes. Professor Macmillan Brown
holds that the Japanese have a neolithic
Northern European strain, which theory
may explain why the salt is in their blood.
* * ❖ *
“X2X” : The best way of freeing a person
from a “live” wire when the current cannot
be turned off (B. 14/3/'2B), is to wrap some
material which is proof against current
around yonr hands. The most readily avail-
able will generally be an ordinary macintosh
or rainproof coat.
* * *
“Nakhoda”: A Williamstown (Vic.)
undertaker’s private mortuary was the scene
of an unusual ceremony recently. It was
a Buddhist service for the dead held over
the body of the chief officer of a visiting
Japanese steamer. For 24 hours
the ship’s crew attended in re-
lays to perform the melancholy
chanting with whicii the devout
follower of Amitabha ushers
another into Nirvana. After-
wards the. corpse was taken to
the Fawkner cemetery and cre-
mated. The Japanese, with
their instinctive good taste, have
modified the full ritual, which
is liable to keep neighbors
awake night and day for any-
tiling up to a week, and usually plunges a
bereaved Chinese family into debt for the
remainder of their lives.
s|«
“Yacko”: Captain Cadell (B. 22/2/’2S)
and Captain W. R. Randell (B. l/3/’2Bl
both had later achievements to their credit
than the initial navigation of the Murray in
1853. In October. 1855, the steamer Albury,
owned by Capt. Cadell and piloted by Capt.
George Johnston, reached the town named
after it and collected the N.S.W. and Vic-
torian Governments’ prize of £5OOO. And,
in 1861. the Darling was first navigated to
Bourke by Capt. Randell in his steamer the
Gemini.
* * ijs
“Sebrof” : Regarding these bayonet charges
(B. 29/2/’2B), I wouldn’t place much re-
liance on Philip Gibbs or any other war
correspondent as an authority on front-line
warfare; their information was second- or
third-hand. Nevertheless the bayonet was
used in France on occasions, and some bloody
work was done with it, too. After a hop-over
in the Somme battle in August, 1916, I was
placed in charge of a burying party detailed
to dispose of the corpses. Among the dead
we found a Highlander and a German, each
gripping his rifle-butt and each with his
bayonet stuck fast in the body of the other.
* * * *
“Nikko” : Touching those who change their
calling late in life (B. 14/3/’2B), there was
a Maoriland accountant who started three
sons in professions, and then studied and
joined the youngest in a legal business, thus
gratifying a lifelong ambition which had
been frustrated by early poverty and family
responsibilities. In another case a well-
known Auckland doctor held degrees in both
medicine and divinity, and on Sunday took
time off from the physical needs of the com-
munity to minister to them spiritually
* * * *
“Elgar”: Marguerita Louisa Mahomed, of
Ballarat, is the lawful wife of Jan Mahomed
of the same city. Prior to entering the
holy estate of matrimony the ladv “kept
house” with Budda Deen, another colored
gentleman; and, learning that Budda had
“said things” about her to the Indians in
Melbourne, she wired him to come and see
her at Ballarat. Budda unsuspectingly
came and found a party of three anxious to
have a talk with him—Louisa her husband,
and Boota Barba, a friend of the family,
some discussion tlie three tied Budda
w.Uh lopes, his imnds to the door-handle and
ms teet to the table-leg, and kicked him
hard • Mter which they heated the tongs
and bianded him. At that stage Budda
secured a remission of any penalties
by signing a cheque for £2 >. Mrs. Mahomed
is now doing’ six months’ hard for her share
in the business and the others 12 months
E. AND O. E.
“Rotten supper they serve you here—mighty little chicken in the chicken salad.”
“Too right—and not even a wing feather in the fairy cake."
each. Isn’t it time we followed the example
of certain American States and made mis-
cegenation a penal offence?
* * * *
“Cosmo” : “Cooramin” is right about com-
monplace names for pubs ousting the pic-
turesque old titles. The hostelries in and
around Goulburn (N.S.W.) once included
the Rock o’ Cashel, the Cottage of Content,
the Market House Tavern, the Emu, the
Coach and Horses and the Oliver Goldsmith.
* * * *
“Quero”: Pentridge isn’t the only gaol
where strange things happen. A man who had
been divorced and had re-married was given
a term in a N.S.W. prison for financial
indiscretions. During his incarceration his
former wife had occasion to act firmly in a
legal capacity towards the second one, who
had been the co-re. in the divorce case, and
the infuriated No. 2 apparently wrote her
husband in his seclusion a highly-colored re-
port of proceedings. The result was that
No. 1 received a letter from the prisoner in
which, among other bright patches, he in-
formed her that one of his first actions on
release would be to give her prompt despatch.
And the amazing thing about it was that this
murder-threatening letter had been duly
countersigned by the gaol official responsible
for that branch of prison postal work!
* * s>:
“Basra”: I shall always remember
Shaiba, recently mentioned in the cables as
the scene of Mesopotamia’s latest disturb-
ance, as the place where our Indian allies
placed _us under an obligation. On April
14, 1915, the British force was engaged there
in a stiff fight with the Turks. The engage-
ment had lasted all day without our making
any material progress, and a retirement
would have been a very difficult operation.
It was at this stage that the commander of
an approaching transport column, realising
the position, formed his carts on a wide
front and brought them on at the trot. The
Turks, mistaking them for guns, beat a hasty
retreat. The scrap was ever afterwards re-
ferred to as the “Battle of the Drabies,” and
the honor of winning it unofficially given to
the Indian transport drivers.
# % :Jc
“Natuna Maraki”: Was on an A.I.F.
transport which called at Newport News,
Virginia, in 1917. We were instructed to
refrain from singing “Ragtime Soldiers,” as
our Yankee cousins took exception to the
words of the last line —“For a lousy dollar a
day.”
*
“W.1.U.”: It isn’t always the black-
hearted thief or the light-hearted joy-rider
who makes cars to vanish. A motorist left
his ’bus outside the Port Adelaide police
court the other day while he went in to
explain why he had not satisfied a debt
judgment. When his business was finished
he emerged to find his car gone—“from under
the. very. noses of the police, too,” he com-
plained indignantly. Hasty inquiries eli-
cited that the bailiff had seized the car on
a warrant of execution for another debt!
* * * *
“Stellsb.v” : The White Star liner Majestic
recently beat the Cumarder Mauretania’s
steaming record for 24 hours (603 knots)
by 17 knots. The Mauretania, however,
retains the record for the complete Atlantic
crossing. In 1910 sh e steamed from New
York to Queenstown in 4 days 10 hours
41 minutes. In 1924 she made the longer
journey from New York to Plymouth in
4 days 21 hours 51 minutes. The Lusi-
tania (sunk by Fritz 12 years ago) wasn’t
as fast as the Mauretania.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.” : I penetrated into the back
premises of a sundae shop when the proprie-
tor was mixing his drinks. He first emptied
the sugar-bag into half a dozen huge glass
jars and filled the same with tapwater, using
a not overclean bucket. After the sugar had
been vigorously stirred with half a broom-
stick, Mandolino added a couple of drops of
various chemical solutions to each container.
The kick those two drops gave to the insipid
mixture was amazing, and each had its
peculiar bouquet, orange, raspberry, kola and
so on. Each mixture, however, remained
the same bilious tone of yellow until the
dusky alchemist proceeded to color them,
using a variety of substances, vegetable and
mineral, to get his effects. The delicate tint
of pineapple was obtained by mixing in
chrome yellow—the same stuff as artists use.
A vigorous shake-up and all was ready.
Asked why he did not apportion these pos-
sibly deleterious chemicals with a graduated
measure, the brewer assured me that it
didn’t matter. If his girls found that the
solution had more than the usual bite they
would put less in the glasses. As Omar
Khayyam or somebody said, if the Prohibi-
tionists drank the stuff they advocate there
would be fewer Prohibitionists.
❖ * # %
“Borom”: The discoloration of silver
coins and trinkets is not peculiar to
Rotorua (B. 14/3/’2B) ; it has been equally
noticeable at Broken Hill, Mount Morgan
and many other mining towns. It is
caused by the presence in the air of sulphur
fumes from the lakes at Rotorua and from
the smelting works at the other places, the
sulphur combining with the metal to form the
black silver sulphide.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Although the war has been over
for nearly a decade, Base records in Mel-
bourne still have a sack of war-service medals
on their hands. Over 35,000 of the silver
victory medal, 33,000 of the bronze one and
6000 of the 1914-15 star await claimants.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Herewith an entry for the
quaint Christian-name competition. It is
advertised in Adelaide by an assistant land-
salesman claiming registration under the new
Act: Fortunate John So-and-So.
* * * *
“Hanno”: Although it is 23 years
since anyone has been flogged in a N. S
M ales gaol, the triangles remain in good
working order for the first razor-gangster
who qualifies. The Long Bay apparatus
consists of a frame like an artist’s easel, with
rests for the arms and legs, the subject being
held in place by straps attached to these
rests. The tails of the “cat” are first
hardened by being soaked in brine for some
days. Although it will be necessary to alter
the law to make assault with a razor a lash-
able offence, there are many crimes for wdiicli
Judges can order a flogging. They include
certain sexual offences, garrotting, robbery 7
under arms, aggravated cruelty to animals
and even “damaging a work of art.”
* * ❖ *
“Ferrochie” : Accounts of the shooting of
Edith Cavell are probably no more conflict-
ing in the unessential details than those
about certain executions that took place on
the Allies’ side of the fence. A widely cir-
culated story about Mata Hari, the half-
caste Javanese dancer who wrns shot as a
spy at Vincennes, represents her as throw-
ing her fur coat open and exposing her nude
body to the firing squad, and giving them the
order to shoot. The French officer who had
charge of operations contradicted this, but
admitted that the dancer blew farewell kisses
to the advocate who had defended her and
the pastor who was wdth her to the last.
8010, who was shot as a spy in Paris, w r as
credited with having placed' two handker-
chiefs over his heart with instructions that
one of these sanguinary souvenirs should be
given to his wife and the other to his
brother.
This Easter The Bulletin will publish a
collection of the best things it has printed
during the preceding 12 months: the idea is
to provide holiday reading as well as a record
of the year s best in picture, short story verse
paragraph and iest. Included will be a hun-
dred drawings by Norman Lindsay, Scorfield.
Low, Leason, Minns, Souter, Percival the
Patersons and all the other favorites •’ and
in response to frequent requests for ’some
information about the people who make The
Bulletin there will be a sketchy personal
article about the men and women who pro-
duce the paper. With a colored cover it will
be sold at sixpence.
AN ALLEGORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Justices of the N.S.W. Supreme Court and Dis-
trict Court Judges have not received an increase in
salary since 1883. —S. M. Herald.
’Twas Bill the Wharfie grinned and stuck his
hook into his belt.
His gleaming countenance bespoke the merri-
ment he felt.
Cried lie to Mike, his faithful mate, “Leggo
that case er beer,
There’s somethin’ in ther paper wot I want
yer bad ter ’ear.
Ther missus wrapped it round me crib, an’
’ere it says, O.K.,
Ther blokes in wigs erpon ther Bench is
arskin’ ’igher pay.
Fer five an’ forty years ’as gorn—ther tears
comes ter me eyes
With laughin’—since ther chumps ’as nipped
their bosses fer er rise.
Oh, strike me pink !
Well, I don’t think
Ther tale is fairly on ther dink.
W’ere would we be
If you an’ me
Still drew ther gonce er ’eighty-three?”
Quoth Mike, a trifle scornfully, as down the
case he set,
“Yer’ve got a lotter things ter learn and more,
Bill, ter forget.
Ther world is now ther oyster of ther pro-
letar-i-at,
While ther intelligensier is jest ther toilers’
mat.
It’s us perdooces orl ther bunce, ther work
we choose ter do
Keeps Judges and ther minyuns uv ther cap’-
tilistic crew.
It’s brawn an’ not too much uv it that runs
ther world ter-day,
And brains is up ter putty w’en it comes ter
extry pay.
Yeh, starve th’ crows,
As Moscow shows.
It’s skite that leads ’em by ther nose.
So, up ter date,
With ’earts elate
We draws ther gonce er ’twenty-eight.”
N.S.W.
J.B.H.


Cap! Malcolm Campbell world famed “Blue Bird"
i
v;;:-
:■ 1
■i
9*
m
m
1
■*r
Mm*-
.
minnimi n i ■
The total cost of constructing this special racing car was close on £lB,OOO. It took nearly three years to construct and its task was over in a few seconds.
ffiTfftin
M -
r
4:
mgmm
■• ■ >
U, fc i
_ j
.
V-
wmam
l
■i
WwXMiXJw !<■
■ #\®
As
;
H
V&Sj
I
■ ■" " ■
. saeip
11*1'
f
L.J
SSllilPi
b'
i
r , &
f #1 -
Hi®
sllr , ■
Vj
■
in
4/0
s>
> ' 1 'i.i ,1 ~' I fl»i‘>— 'o&
REAR OF CAR—Showing
“fishlike” tail designed to
reduce wind resistance and
tail sway. Note unusual
position of two radiators.
DETAILS OF CAR
* * *
Napier - Lion Engine; 12 cyl.
(approximately 900 h.p.)
Bore and Stroke, SJ" x s\"
Dunlop well-base Rims
33" x 5" front
35" x 5" rear
. 12 ft. in.
sft. s\in. front
4 ft. 9 in. rear
about 2\ tons
. 191 t.
Reverse
Dunlop Tyres
Wheelbase
Track .. .. j
Weight
Length over all ..
Three Speeds and
Top-gear Ratio ..
1 to 1
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST, LTD.
All States and N.Z.
MR. BERT HINKLER, Australia’s famous
airman, kindly brought to us, from Lon-
don, these photographs of Capt. Malcolm
Campbell’s wonder car, “ Blue Bird.” 1 his
is the car which recently recorded, in America,
the remarkable feat of covering a mile at the
mean speed of 206.9 m.p.h., and a maximum
speed of over 2 1 4 m.p.h.
( mr>
D
m
u
D
m>
were used—and withstood
the terrific test!
IT IS WORTHY OF NOTE that Dunlop
is the only tyre maker in the world that has
built motor tyres to successfully stand up to
a speed of over 200 miles per hour.
DUNLOP has
done it twice
Mean Speed
Major H. O. D. Segrave - - 203.7 m.p.h.
Captain Malcolm Campbell - 208.9 „
* * ★
40 YEARS’ EXPERIENCE has taught Dunlop
how to make tyres that are supreme for
strength, dependability and mileage.
Fit DUNLOP and you will be satisfied !
» .
■
m
FRONT VIEW.


$
m
/■/
ft*
u
m
9t*>
«J 2»
ii»«/
i
WH
if.tj
3r
m
■)i*
m
x
i
see!
1
rttft
wm
fcLQ
"jv.y'v:
..->
VivW
{> L
AifevS.
V'.
X*
m
xT,
m
*~V_
mmmmm
1
&
- ■.
a
**.?* •'
«...
mb
J;
a Six VaWe c^f e
Kent Ile f e , I KKadioSpe“ k ‘
w irhM“? e ' t iloael 33 ha*
e V -built m- nte ntva ad
an exclude vvWcb a s-
ustmeut device selectivvtY .
•ures unusual 0 n -
Hon-Ra J ’ at p r "ce as P"=-
ScnfS.itHont Valves,
‘Staes ot a«.a. *
Complete ' n £69; l0:0
pKbdß ' ' a s Cabinet
Mso obtaiuable r . t . ng Desk ,
or fitted m
Other PrlCeS one D‘ al ‘
VaWe> or g» »| d )
Speakers, £3.
“■•' s t,e Oatms fro-
Comply 3 _ l 0
5 S ■ ■■ ■ -
■ ;V'.y ',• . • ■!.M...A\.- : f
as/
iM'
tm
m
-. ■»;, 7W>..\’-j
For latest Free Literature on
Atwater Kent Radio write to
A. G. Healing Ltd., 354-60
Ppst Office Place, Melbourne,
27 High Street, Adelaide.
208-10 Castlereagh St.,Sydney.
| HPHERE is Romance in the very name of Radio,..Romance
| x surrounds its discovery and development. “Listening in” even
| becomes a romantic adventure, providing your set is a One Dial
f Atwater Kent.
I With . this as y° ur passport, you can embark on a thousand and
5 one nights of entertainment ...each a separate voyage of discovery
bearing you safely and surely into the Harbor of Content.
\ Atwater Kent One Dial Receivers have revolutionised radio. They
| are so . simple that a child can operate them with success, yet so
I selective that all stations are brought in with the greatest speed
* and accuracy. So sensitive are they to “tone” that voices and
j music are reproduced with uncanny fidelity.
i
j Ask your radio dealer to demonstrate one of these sets. Make
your own comparisons. Nothing will convince you so conclusively
that here at last, is the one set worthy of inclusion in your home.
Inserted by the Atwater Kent Manufacturing Co., Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
on behalf of Australian A.K. Radio Dealers. Australian Wholesale
i Distributors: A. G. Healing Ltd. Dealers Everywhere.
ASK YOUR RADIO DEALERTO SHOW YOU NEW MODELS BY ATWATER KENT


OUTSIDE HELP—WHAT IT MAY COME TO.


u
$
1
CMMj ’ l
"'V-v -V . : .r
.
m
* ■
I -
,
& ' ‘
w I *' "' U
1* ■ • >%l -• . ‘. * .Y
l rM till «/
11
■
! jti
sir
Ml
zy
m
TZZDJ
You take a step which
transforms your “spare”
into a purely informal
insurance against the
remotest of remote
possibilities.
AR
Tw^
Barnet Glass tyres -for ike Motorist who dislikes "jaeking up!


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesernau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
Consistent- in Excellence^nee 1575
v
Old
Very
HOLLmN d
GIN
51UU
m
r
A SK for itolsVery Old Holland
** Gin in the STONE Bottle,
or Bols Silver Cap Dry Gin in
the Square Glass Bottle with
the Green Label.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
TJie Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Speaker’s chair of Vic. Assembly is
vacant by the death of O. R. Snowball. He
had been a sick man for years—he was oper-
ated upon for an internal ailment three years
ago—and for weeks before he passed out he
was but a wraith of himself. Snowball suc-
ceeded Tommy Bent as member for Brighton,
and Avas re-elected seven times —he had
a walk-over last year. He was a kind-
hearted, gentle, companionable chap, ready
to do anybody a good turn, irrespective of
politics or creed; in fact, altogether different
from the fire-eating tAvelfth-of-July fellow he
seemed to be when he spoke from the plat-
form as Grand Master of the L.O.L.
The late Speaker Snowball was the third
legal light to represent Brighton. The great
Higinbotham, who was ousted by Tommy
Bent in ’7l, was the first; then came Moule
(ndw a County Court Judg ), who had a
run for six years (1894 to I 960) while Bent
had a spell. Snowball arrived in 1909 after
Tommy had claimed a grave in the Brighton
cemetery. He was the second Speaker
Brighton has furnished ; Bent (1892-94) was
the other.
If Blackburn cannot be persuaded to
nominate, and Solly does not push his claims
(he is Chairman of Committees), the Opposi-
tion may furnish the next Vic. Speaker.
Everard would get Labor support, but Mc-
Pherson or Peacock would be more suitable.
Those who have squeezed close enough
through the welcoming crowds to hear him,
or have listened to him over the wireless,
have been struck with an unexpected quality
in Bert Hinkler. He has proved to be a
better speaker than the majority of the
professional spouters who have been orally
patting him on the back. Quite modest,
and without any affectation, he speaks
sharply, crisply and to the point, and he is
rarely stumped for a word. In Sydney he re-
ceived practically every possible type of wel-
come, from eating disguised sardines in the
midst of dazzling shirt-fronts to being carried
round the stage by the girls of a theatrical
show. Yet in all this variety of appearances
he did not once fail to say the appropriate
thing convincingly.
J. E. Mclntyre, who went the way of
many a good flier when his ’plane crashed
at Parafield (S.A.), was one of the top-
notch airmen of the war. His anti-
submarine work was rated very high. It
brought him the A.F.C., and he subsequently
collected the C.B.E. Only 28 at the end,
he took his first trip aloft at 15. He was
English by birth, though both his parents
were born in Australia.
A much-travelled man is B. T. Harris,
who arrived in Sydney with the bells for the
University carillon. Harris goes wherever
the makers, Taylors, of Loughborough, Eng-
land, have carillons to be installed. He
returned to England from installing bells
at Albany (U.S.A.) only a few days before
starting on his present trip, and lie next
has to rush away to Florida to instal a
£500,000-set at Mountain Lake.
Harrington Lees, Melbourne’s popular
little Anglican archbishop, should bring
back a new bri'de from the Cold Land, his
engagement to Joanna, daughter of English
artist Linnell, having been announced from
Lunnon. The ever-smiling ecclesiastic looks
much younger than his 58, and his choice
is reported to be round about 30. Intense
surprise was caused in Melbourne according
to all the dailies, archbishops being in the
habit of broadcasting progress reports of
their courtships.
The third generation of a famous legal
name comes into notice with the start of a
partnership in Adelaide. R. G. Nesbit, son
of Paris Nesbit, K.C. (who died last year),
has resigned his chairmanship of the Licens-
ing Bench to practise his profession with
his son, L.J. R.G. was in his younger days
a sprinter of inter-State celebrity.
One of the oldest surviving natives of the
Federal capital territory, A. H. Wright, of
Tombong (N.S.W.), was stirred to send
his regards to The Bulletin after reading
J. H. M. Abbott’s recent yarn, “The Sea
Horse.” A son of the first acting-magistrate
of the Federal area, he has done well for
himself in some of the country mentioned in
the story—that behind Twofold Bay, which
port he considers worthy of something a
good deal better than the neglect it lias had.
Another Digger who has declined to allow
blindness to make any difference to his finan-
cial: independence returned to Australia when
Victor Watson, whose eyes went when he
was fighting with the 17tli Battalion in
France, stepped off his ship in Sydney the
other day. In England he has taken an 18-
months’ course in electric massage, and scored
fourth place among 200 students.
Dave McGrath, M.H.R. for Ballarat, who
led the agitation on behalf of T.B. ex-
soldiers which caused the Government to
revise Repat. pension regulations, remained
an M.H.R. when he got into khaki, and his
deluge of letters and representations about
soldiers’ grievances harassed A.I.F. head-
quarters in London. He represented political
interference right in the very cog-wheels of
the machine, and, although General Griffiths
got on very well with him, there were mili-
tary chiefs who would have liked to have seen
him court-martialled. McGrath had a hard
battle for his seat at the 1920 election after
his return. His opponent, who had been
declared elected, Avas unseated on appeal,
and on the second try McGrath got back.
Rightly, dentist “Bill” Hart got his share
of the limelight when Hinkler arrived in
Sydney. Hart was the first man in Aus-
tx-alia to develop enthusiasm for flying, and,
making his own machines, he smashed a large
number of bones in the course of his experi-
ments. Each time he left hospital, however,
he got busy on a new machine or on mending
the old one. In spite of his patched con-
dition he enlisted in the Air Force for the
war and Avas in Palestine.
The S.A. Savings Banks has its 80th birth-
day this month. It began as a sort of bene-
volent affair in which 12 trustees took turns
in attending, Avith a paid accountant, for
two hours on two days a Aveek. Torrens, of
R.A. MARKS,
President of
the N.S.W.
Chamber of
Manufactures.
the Real Property Act, was one of the early
chairmen, and Henry Ayers held the office
for over 30 years; Herbert Phillipps, the
present chairman, has been there for 26.
Goldsmith, the manager, has had nearly
half a century in the bank, as had Mudie
and Poole before him.
“J.K.”: “W.1.U.” claims a long-service
record for the Silverton Tramways with two
employees of 40 years and 18 in the thirties
(B. 8/2/’2B), Walker’s engineering works
at Maryborough (Q.) can beat that hollow.
Alfie Turton has toiled there 60 years and
O. Cuneen 50 years. Four others are in the
forties, and 48 in the thirties.
“A.X.”: G. C. (Bill) Wynter, just gone
home after two years in command of the Gar-
den Island depot ship (B. 7/3/’2B), will not
get another job afloat; he is too senior as a
commander and too old to be promoted.
In the last six years he has had “cushy”
jobs almost outside the service—-first, look-
ing after sub-lieutenants under instruction
at Cambridge University, then in command
on the Rhine flotilla, and, lastly, out here.
He intends to retire.
T. S. O’Halloran, K.C., of Adelaide,
brought off a treble event the other day that
is probably unique: (1) Chairman of the
Child Endowment Commission, sitting at the
Leg. Council; (2) president of S.A. Law
Society, intervening in a warm argument be-
tween Attorney-General Homburg and
Denny, his predecessor in that office; (3)
chairman of S.A. Football League, presiding
at its jubilee meeting, and compiler of the
new constitution of the Australian code,
which another speaker accepted as being “as
near perfect as human ingenuity can devise.”
Alec Nicholson, who got the call aloft
the other day at Hawthorn, was Vic. Chief
of Police when 636 cops downed batons be-
tween Derby and Cup days in 1923. The
strikers were sacked, and Nicholson helped
to rebuild the force before he went out in
1925. He was one of the first to win the
valor badge for pluck and devotion to duty
in making an arrest. Before taking on the
top job after Gellibrand resigned he was
stationed for a long time at Ballarat. The
Kirk is lamenting a zealous elder.
Bondi was all bush when old Hugh John-
son went to live there 60 years ago—it is as
a matter of fact less than 40 years since
the single-track steam tram made its way as
far as the Tea Gardens, now Bondi Junc-
tion. Johnston, who was 90 years of
age last week, can claim to be the seaside
suburb’s oldest inhabitant, even if there are
more recent arrivals who have more years.
Before going to Bondi he lived at Waverley
-—practically all his 72 years in Australia
have been lived in the district.
The Bank of Adelaide directorate seems
to appeal to municipal dignitaries. A few
months ago thei’e was a battle royal between
ex-Lud Mayors Bruce and Glover, and now
another ex-Mayor, Allen Simpson, is in the
field with Prosser, M.L.C., for a vacancy
caused by the retirement of J. R. Fowler.
H. J. Green, Vic. Government Printer,
and T. E. Meek, Sec. to Vic. Treasury, who
were within an ace of being killed when
a motor-ear in which they were riding to
Mt. Donna Buang rolled over an embank-
ment for 30 feet, are two of the most useful
and most unassurhing of the Cabbage Gar-
den’s public servants. They are boon pals,
and Green wanted to demonstrate to Meek
how deftly he could pilot liis car up hill when
the skidding occurred. Meek keeps a firm
but non-irritating brake on charity expendi-
ture and is chief arbiter of superannuation
for State employees. Green has a genius
for avoiding friction, and because he works
so smoothly is seldom heard of.
W. T. B. McCormack, who steps into the
great Calder’s shoes as chairman of Vic.
Country Roads Board, is 40, and for 15
years has been the board’s second member
He has made highways under a worse bom-
bardment than newspaper brickbats. During
the war he enlisted with the A.I.F. and
commanded the 10th Field Company Engi-
neers. Later he acted as commander of the
Royal Engineers, and ran the engineering
end of the Third Division.
“C. Coral”: When old Louis Potior, gen-
erally known as “Louis the Frenchman,”
checked off his last records in Thursday
Island hospital the other day another of the
romantic figures of Torres Strait waters
passed out. For 40 years or so lie was trader
and what-not, and among other profitable
ventures ran a plantation in New Guinea.
Louis had a finger in various money-getting
propositions which roused suspicion in the
official eye. Once, when it was believed that
he had a nice parcel of the forbidden bird of
paradise feathers on board, his ship was
searched from stem to stern. No one, how-
ever, thought of looking in the furled-up
sails, which was where they happened to be !
Junior-cricketer Edwin Proud, who was
blinded by a blow of a cricket ball early in
the season is to receive £1917. The fund
was the idea of the Daily Telegkapii,
and for that reason, in the usual lamentable
spirit of modern Australian journalism, was
ignored by the other papers.
George Campbell Addison, who had his
65th birthday last October, has vacated the
job of Chief.lndustrial Magistrate, which he
held for 16 years. He was a member of the
first N.S.W. Rugby Union team which went
to M.L. in 1882. His father was a well-
known s.m. of his day, and his grandfather,
Lieut.-Colonel Addison, also served as a
magistrate. His wife is a descendant of
William Broughton, Commissary-General
with the First Fleet.
BOB COOK,
Country-party member for Indi (Vic.).
One of the best-known men in the pastoral
industry has joined the great majority—
William Stevenson Fraser, managing director
of the, Younghusband co. and vice-chairman
of the Central Wool Committee. A. native of
Victoria and for 24 years leader in the wool
trade, Fraser was lieutenant to Higgins
when Bawra was formed.
CAPTAINS ALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The death is announced of Captain Woodget, the
last survivor of the famous clipper captains. Cap-
tain Shewan, of the Norman Court, died a few
months ago.”
There may remain a few around the coast —
Old battered shellbacks waiting to embark
Upon their voyage across the Styx, who’ll
boast:
“I sailed with Woodget in the Cutty
Sark!”
And they will talk of bow the witcli could
sail,
And, maybe, one will tell with quavn-ing
mouth
How Woodget dodged the icebergs in a gale
That trip he “ran his Easting” too far
south.
And in his mind’s eye lie will see again
The Old Man clinging to the weather rail,
His face upturned against the icy rain,
Scanning the set of every straining sail.
‘Aye, aye,” he’ll say, “they drove us like
their ships,
Hard men they were, in the old clipper’s
day,
When freights were low, and sailors cheap
as chips,
And captains earned a modern sea-cook’s
pay.
“But they were sailors, and by God they
knew
The way to handle ships in calms or gales!
And we were proud to be among the crew
That brought the first wool for the London
sales.”
JOHN LUKE, M.P. for Wellington North,
(M.L.), and ex-Mayor of Wellington.
Old Stormy’s dead and he will storm no more.
Maybe he’ll meet old Sliewan, safe in port,
And argue with him on the Golden Shore,
About the Cutty and the Norman Court.
# ' * * *
Ah. they were men with hearts for any fate,
And when for them Death struck the warn-
ing bell,
Perchance the look-out wailed at Heaven’s
gate :
“Your lights are burning bright and all is
avcll !”
N.S.AV.
RIPPS CLARK.


IT PAYS TO INVEST IN
PIONEER
%
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858.
This famous power transmitter has maintained the leading position for nearly 70 years
Made and Guaranteed by
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
INTERSTATE and NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 107-109
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry, Ltd.,
Edward Street. Brisbane:
Burns, Fhilp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell and
Sons. Tunpson Street. Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd.,
Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards &
Upton, Auckland. Blackburn, Smith
4 Co.. Christchurch.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Even well-informed people are often amazed to learn
that the average age of men enrolled in the Alexander
Hamilton Institute is 37 at the time of enrolment; that
60% are owners or officers of businesses; that 25% are
department heads and that 1 5 % are clerks and assistants.
The most famous
little book on
business
ever written.
We will gladly
send you a
complimentary
copy.
wz
- O
Name
Business Address
Position
R 1
Modern
The
WILD CAT
CULUMN
Pelaco, Ltd., formerly Pearson, Law,
Ltd., Melbourne, manufacturers of shirts,
collars and men’s wear, from the reconstruc-
tion of the co.:—
» Dividends
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 12£ p.c. Off. Deficit
£ £ £ £ £ £
1918.. 15,131 2092 1406 5000 1053 i 12,788
15 p.c.
1919.. 26,181 2082 2812 7718 1284 503
Reserves.
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8766 2105 12,283
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8,772
Profit. 10 p.c.
1922.. 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 5,560
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2,327
Reserves.
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
The least healthy result for a decade, ex-
cepting the slump year (1921), and less
than half the 1924 net profit. Gross earnings
had then climbed to £126,008, but were back
to £118,090 when the books were ruled off in
1926. Last year a vigorous sales offensive
pushed up the turnover by £48,000, and gross
profit benefited by £7077, reaching
£125,167: —
1919 .. £67,662 1924 .. £126,008
1920 .. 89,659 1925 .. 124,421
1921 . . 49,849 1926 . . 118,090
1923 .. 111,631 1927 .. 125,167
But exes. (£110,097), which sprang £13,699,
won the race by £6622; thus net earnings
shrank to 6.1 p.c. on capital compared with
8.8, 10.3, 12.4 and 10.1 p.c. back to 1923.
There is nothing very encouraging in those
figures, and reserves —they are £14,525 in ex-
cess of goodwill (£lO,OOO) —are not a very
substantial prop for capital. Because of that
and the fact that the pref. requirements and
8 p.c. to the ords. would call for £4712 more
than was netted last year the final distri-
bution to the ords. was passed, thus reducing
the average div. to 8 p.c. over the last five
years. Keen competition, a period of de-
pression in the soft-goods trade and diffi-
culties connected with the supply of raw
materials were mainly responsible for the
shrinkage in the 1925 and 1926 profits.
Another difficulty has been to keep exes, in
hand. They consumed 88.6 p.c. of last year’s
gross profit compared with 81.6, 79.6 and
75.7 p.c. in the three preceding terms; but
prices were cut last year and the sales offen-
sive must have helped outgo along. Provided
the business won can be held and exes, cut,
and that should be easily possible, prospects
are far from discouraging.
The balance-sheet position changed in this
way:—-
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Capital .. £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities .. 192,916 156,345 200,905 237,849
Premises .. 127,027 120,592 116,929 116,929
Plant, etc. .. 63,552 69,328 72,549 77,328
Book debts.. 87,290 103,143 110,215 124,692
Stock.. .. 167,129 129,280 169,764 182,202
Cash, etc .. 1,868 4,356 3,712 3,250
During the year the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £64,337, making the overdraft
£142,844. The money went partly into book
debts, stocks and plant, and partly to reduce
the amount coming to creditors, which was
£27,393 lighter at £95,005. The net result
was that the more or less liquid surplus
(£72,295) shrank £10,491. All told, there
was 18s. 4d. of outside money at risk for
every £l, apart from goodwill, in the busi-
ness owned by shareholders. The co. deals
direct with many retailers, and does its
own warehousing, which means carrying sub-
stantial manufactured stocks. These
(£175,716 at cost) are £49,882 heavier than
they were two years ago. How much is set
by for depreciation on premises and plant,
in partly at cost and partly at valuation, is
not disclosed, but future profits will be
largely governed by whether the provision
has been sufficient.
On the market 245. 6d. is offered for the
9 p.c. A prefs. and 21s. for the 7 p.c. B
prefs. The return at those prices is 7.3 p.c.
and 6.7 p.c., and the backing £8 14s. sd. and
£4 11s. lOd. respectively in net tangibles.
The 10s. ords., which have a net tangible
backing of 10s. lid., are priced around 9s.
Huddart Parker. Ltd. (Melbourne) :
, Dividends. N To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1918. .220,747 30,000 11 p.c.= 55,000 135,747 312,521
1919. .289,387 30,000 11 „ „ 55,000 204,387 516,90 S
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800,735
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,735
1923. .159,479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 124,, „ 93,750 18,565 808,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 124 „ „ 93,750 9,255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 18,881 684,923
The profit claimed by the accounts was
£143,007, just £1944 more than was an-
nounced in 1926; a suggestion that the year
was a trifle better than its predecessor.
And that despite the fact that fewer boats
were at work, and that strikes and other
difficulties in the coal trade affected the
co.’s cargo services. But the declared net
earnings do not take into account addi-
tions to the reserve and insurance funds.
They stood in the books at £380,000 and
£285,905 respectively at Dec. 31, and are
included with reserves above. In 1926
£48,419 was slipped into the reserve fund
as the result of an adjustment of accounts
and a surplus on the realisation of assets,
and last year the sale of more assets put
another £2123 into the same store. Addi-
tions to the insurance fund were £8525 in
1926 and £8751 last year. This accounts
for the difference between the profits in the
table and those claimed by the accounts.
Another suggestion that all is well is the
14 p.c. div. Apart from the 1926 distribu-
tion, 5 p.c. of which was labelled jubilee
bonus, a few thousand pounds more than
hitherto was dropped into shareholders’
pockets. After allowing for the pref. re-
quirements the year’s net result was 16.5
p.c. on the ord. capital compared with
22.4, 13.7, 14.9 and 17.2 p.c. back to 1923.
And then the actual position is better than
those figures indicate. There is, in addition
to the reserves above, an accumulation to
provide for “contingencies,' taxation, repairs
and maintenance, boilers and renewals,
superannuation fund, etc.,” and one way
ai<l another this pile has grown from
£30,000 odd in 1913 to £380,213 at last
balance. Since 1923 movements in the fund
have been as follows:
1923 .. ..£347,178 Decrease £11,340
1924 .. .. 354,502 Increase 7,324
1925 .. .. 351,981 Decrease 2,521
1926 .. .. 364,142 Increase 12,161
1927 . . . . 380,213 „ 16,071
It may be taken for granted that there is
some true profit stowed away there. The
provision now amounts to 35.2 p.c. of the
fixed assets, including snares in other cos.,
in at valuation (£1,078,007), and the recent
profit on sales suggests that there might be
something in addition to depreciation hidden
in the blanket item.
The co.’s outside interests are substantial.
It controls the Ilebburn and Metropolitan
coal cos., owns a half-interest in Tasmanian
Steamers, Ltd., and has holdings in Aber-
main-Seaham and Broken Hill Pty. collieries
and Amalgamated Wireless. Apart from
those investments there is £1,410,872 in Gov-
ernment stocks, debentures and other securi-
ties. Some of this harvest was gathered
from the sale of old vessels during the war
years, when the demand for tonnage was at
its keenest, and the co., having held off buy-
ing while prices for new tonnage were at
their top, saved the profit won. Assuming
that the last-mentioned investments turn in
5 p.c. net, and that is a low estimate, then
the shipping property and holdings in other
cos. have to earn only a shade less than 6
p.c. clear in order to pay 14 p.c. to the ords.
after satisfying the prefs.
Early in the last term the co. lost the
liiverina, which was in the inter-State pas-
senger trade. Later three other vessels, the
Courier, Coogee and Westralia, were sold —
the two latter had been idle for years—and
a new tug, the Foremost, was bought for the
Adelaide towage trade. That leaves the co.
with 11 vessels —two passenger and nine
cargo—apart from tugs, lighters and the Mel-
bourne “Bay” steamers. The only visible re-
sult in the published figures was a drop of
£45,659 in the book value of the fixed assets
etc.:—■
1924. 1926. 1927.
Ships, etc. £1,055,442 £1,123,666 £1,078,007
Cash 35,127 14,046 44,517
Book debts ... 159,817 161,767 134,810
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,320,754 1,410,872
Stores . . . . 54,441 57,002 55,042
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,677,235 £2,723,248
Less liabilities. . 311,052 307,050 340,613
Net assets . . £2,277,031 £2,370,185 £2,382.635
The position is very snug. Liabilities
(£340,613) were £33,563 heavier, but the
more or less liquids (£1.645,241) increased
£91,672. Thus the surplus over liabilities
1 £1,304,628) was £58,109 stronger and
£54,628 in excess of the paid capital.
The market, which has an eye on the
future, pays 495. for the ords. After allowing
for the final div. the return at that price
is 5.7 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis. Apart from
the contingency, etc., reserves the net tan-
gible backing was 38s, 3d. The well-pro-
tected prefs.—there is a round half-million
of them carrying a cumulative 6 p.c., and
the backing is £3 17s. 4d. in net tangibles—
are priced at par or a little better.
* * * *
Hotel Sydney, Ltd., formerly Central
Palace Buildings, Ltd., from its reconstruc-
tion in June, 1923, when assets were written
up £65,000 and two new shares issued in
place of each old one, ordinary and pref.:—
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923.. 16,450 12J p.e.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ ~ 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16.917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
*l4 months.
Better might have been expected. A
couple of years ago the available accommo-
dation was unequal to the demand, so it was
decided to extend the building. The work
was completed early in the last term, and
with over 70 additional rooms available a
considerable increase in revenue was antici-
pated without a corresponding jump in over-
head, said the chairman. Last year gross
profits were £56,580, or £3021 more than
in the previous term, when building operations
interfered with business; hotel earnings
(£51,253) accounted for £2579 of the in-
crease, and rents and sundry receipts for
the balance. Exes., which showed an all-
round growth, climbed £5091, mounting to
£41,927, equal to 74 p.c. of the gross profit
as against 68.7 p.c. in the two preceding
terms. The year’s net result (£14,653)
represented 11.2 p.c. on capital compared
with 12.8, 13, 11.7 and 10.7 p.c. back to 1923.
Drought and the uncertainty ocasioned by
experimental legislation are blamed for the
poorer showing. Business has been well
maintained since the close of accounts, and
the current year’s earnings should brighten
at Easter and September. But the 10 p.c. div.
will wear a steadier look when capital gets
more support; reserves at Dec. 31 amounted
to Is. lOd. per share.
During the last two years £31,829 has
been added to the overdraft, making it
£50,954. and the money has gone mostly
into buildings:—
1925. 1926. 1927.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. .. 19,125 46,623 50,954
Creditors .. .. 6,474 8,127 8,748
Buildings .. .. 137,373 167,161 170,892
Furniture and plant .. 25,276 27,562 30,616
Stocks . . . . 5,184 5,071 4,367
Book debts, cash, etc... 3,559 4,549 4,761
Liabilities were £50,574 in excess of the
more or less liquids. The lease expires in
1960, and a sinking fund has been created
to cover the outlay on land and buildings.
The latter, less sinking-fund reserve, are in
at £170,892. Besides amortising the lease-
hold, the co. has to provide out of earnings
for the renewal of plant and furnishings,
which depreciate rapidly in a modern hotel.
They stood in the books, less amount written
off to date, at £30,615 at Dec. 31. Last year
£5429 was put by to cover amortisation and
depreciation. Much depends upon whether
the provisions have been sufficient. The
sinking fund, which thus far has been used
in the business, could with advantage be
shown separately.
The market, which is satisfied with pros-
pects, pays 245. for the scrip. The return
at that price is 8.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
* # * *
D. and W. Chandler, Ltd., hardware
merchants, of Fitzroy (Vic.), who do a big
mail-order business. The present co. paid
£10.937 for goodwill, and spent £1146 on
preliminaries:—
Towards
Net , Dividends Re-
Jan., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
12,083
1923.. 9,913 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6,133 3780 8,303
1924.. 14,734 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 3134 5,169
1925.. 13,749 8 „ 10 „ 11,600 2149 3,020
1926.. 9,714 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 1314 1,706
Reserves.
1927.. 10,583 8 „ 6 „ 8,400 2183 477
1928.. 10,654 8 „ 6 „ 8,542 2112 2,589
Not a bad result, all things considered. After
allowing for the pref. requirements the bal-
ance of the year’s net earnings was 8.5 p.c.
on the average ord. capital compared with
8.7, 7.6, 12.6 and 13.9 p.c. back to 1924. But
conditions in the hardware trade have be-
come very difficult of recent years. The
slump in values five years back was followed
by keen competition and price cutting, which
of course, ate into profits. Last year a dry
spell in the country districts and slackness
in the building trade did not make things
any easier .either. However, the manage-
ment is nursing the business carefully,
and indications are that turnover is respond-
ing. Freight and delivery charges are growing,
and the repairs and maintenance bill is on the
increase. Both are healthy signs. Also a good
deal of attention is being given to the manu-
facturing side of the business, and toward
the end of 1926 a branch warehouse
was opened in Flinders-lane. Last year
gross profits (£72.597) improved by £7185
compared with a growth of £7830 in the
previous term. But exes. are. climbing too.
They ate 85.4 p.c. of the year’s gross
earnings as against 84, 83.3 and 76.1 p.c. in
the three preceding terms. The new branch
helped exes, along, but the figures indicate
the need for a cut in that direction if net
results are to get any worth-while benefit
from the expanding turnover. The margin
between profits and distributions is comfort-
able, but capital (£130,000) has little sup-
port in reserves, which were only £2589 in
excess of goodwill (£7937) at Jan. 12.
During the year £5OOO of ord. scrip was
issued, £5698 was tacked on to the overdraft
(£16,475), and the money went mostly into
plant and stocks: —
1094 1097 109 R
Liabilities .. £15,741 £80,806 £40,449. £46,557
Freeholds .. 25,933 27,516 30,149 30,625
Plant, etc. .. 13,313 17,604 19,508 24,483
Stocks.. .. 73,628 86,741 83,936 89,162
Book debts . . 24,302 26,901 38,686 40,144
Waiv Loan, cash, etc. 8,324 2,594 717 1,256
The financial position is quite comfortable.
There was £130,562 in more or less liquids
to meet outside liabilities, totalling £46,557,
the surplus (£84,005) being strengthened by
£lll3. Stocks, which are the most con-
spicuous item in the sheet, are growing. At
the close of last accounts they represent over
48 p.c. of the balance-sheet total apart from
goodwill. Nothing is said as to the basis
upon which they have been taken in, but the
probabilities are that they are not over-
valued. Book debts (£35,204) are substan-
tial, but they are less an unspecified amount
for bad and doubtful debts. Provision for
the depreciation of plant and fittings lias not
been neglected. Over the past five years
26 p.c. of their cost has been so struck off.
For the ords., which have a net tangible
backing of 20s. 7d., the market pays 195.;
at which figure the return is 6.3 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs., which carry
a cumulative 8 p.c., have priority as to
capital and equal voting power with the
ords., are valued at par or a little better.
The cover amounts to £2 18s. lid. in net
tangibles, and last year’s net profit was
almost three times their annual requirements.
s!s * * *
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N. S.
Wales) :
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. 29,242 8J p.c. = 17,500 11,742 85,500
1919.. 32,463 10 „ „ ,20,000 12,463 97,963
1920.. 49,190 10 „ „ 20,565 28,625 126,583
1921.. 39,575 10 ~ 24,549 15,026 141,614
Reserves disappear, £8437.. .. 133,177
1922.. 24,118 10 p.c. = 25,000 132.295
1923.. 38,645 10 „ „ 25,000 13,645 145,940
1924.. 57,787 10 „ .. 25,000 32,787 178,727
1925.. 48,290 124 „ „ 31,250 17,040 195,767
1926.. 58,995 124 „ „ 31,250 27,745 223,512
1927.. 40,464 124 „ „ 31,260 9,214 232,720
Owing to the general depression in the trade
the board wrote the year’s net earnings at
£18,531 less than the 1926 figure. Newcastle
coal shipments fell off by nearly 10 p.c. in
the last 12 months. However, sufficient was
netted to repeat the 12| p.c. div. without
straining things, though the lay-by was only
one-third of the amount put away in the
previous year. Incidentally, the profits
claimed by the accounts over the past five
Shears have been, on each occasion, just suffi-
cent to pay the div. without leaving any un-
tidy remainder. But they were written
after providing for depreciation, etc., and the
etceteras amounted to £9213 last year. The
next comparison shows how that figure is
arrived at and the visible store in the various
departments of the financial freezing
chamber: —
1924. 1925. 1926. 1927.
General reserve . . £60,874 £60,874 £60,874 £60,874
Insurance reserve. . 60,000 76,000 85,169 87,318
Div. equalisation re-
serve . . . . 28,000 30,000 30,000 33,000
Contingency account 29,853 28,893 16,116 15,190
Reserve for depreci-
ation . . . . 31,353 136,344
At Dec. 31 that lot was. only £17,274 short
of the £250,000 of paid capital; and there
is more tucked away where it is not ob-
trusive. Fifteen years back the flood of
inner reserves rose so high that capital,
which previously stood at £lOO,OOO, was doub-
led by a gift issue, and the books were bal-
anced by writing up the assets. In 1920
£25,000 of scrip was offered at par—it was
snapped up—to pay for electrical equipment
at the co.’s two principal collieries, Wallsend
and Pelton. The latter, which is on the rich
Greta seam, commenced producing in 1919,
and as it was developed it proved to be a
fine profit-earner. Average net earnings
over the last five years were 19.4 p.c. and the
average distribution 11J p.c. The corres-
ponding figures for the preceding five years
were 15.7 p.c. and 9£ p.c. respectively.
The position is very comfortable: —
1923. 1925. 1926. 1927.
Liabilities .. £22,540 £13,931 £6,719 £5,757
Fixed assets.. 367,196 345,007 360,498 360,056
Liquid assets. . 63,414 133,441 138,484 147,178
Fixed assets are, as usual, claimed to be
in good order; a few hundred pounds more
was written off than was spent upon them
last year. But a mine is wasting property


' eias s
$ /$■ j
%
\%
%
M"i',
\ Vr "
UP TO
„ .. .
AND MOAC
7% GUARANTEED
(PAYABIt QUaRTe RLV>
J2J*.° /EAR
T^CUR/MAtTEED
fPAY ABLE Qua RTfiRtV J
/f r K£AR
7^C6MA?iANTEED
(PAYABLE QUART EIRLYI
FOUNO YOU Pw FORTUNE QN FLAX /
ABSOLUTE SECURITY
The security of title to the property and
funds for guaranteed interest payable to
bondholders, are held by the Public Trustee
of N.S.W. on their behalf.
The dividend estimates are based on such
certain and definitely ascertainable data
that there is no doubt of the returns being
made! Despite the unusually large profits
the investment is undoubtedly of the very
safest type.
f LAA DUNDs
(PARTICIPATING)
Issued by
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
(Share and Bonded Capital, £292,000),
1 7 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
and Huddart Parker Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
Chief Brokers for Australia:
WHEELER, FOXALL & CO., LTD., 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney;
Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne; Edmont B Id g, Rundle St., Adelaide.
EDWARD COLLINS, Esq., St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Within,
Even/ones
Reach
this tax-free, secured
investment
SAFE, CERTAIN, PERMANENT.
Some idea of the extraordinary nature of this investment may be
gathered from the fact that the New. Zealand press (notoriously
conservative) have, during the past 1 2 months published more than
5000 (five thousand) inches of reports and comments on the progress
of the flax industry, in the news sections of their papers in addition
to special editorials. The eyes of the world are turning to New
Zealand, the natural home of the world’s most valuable fibre plant
—where the eagerly-sought-for yield is so much greater than from
anywhere else.
The tremendous progress of the flax industry in New Zealand and
the rich profits that have always been so easily secured there indicate
what is repeatedly being described by the press and the Government
as “Vistas of Untold Wealth.”
Never before has there been an investment in which such large returns
have been positive—which secures the investor in every way and
which carries a guaranteed return from the very outset.
The development period is only 3 years, during which time 7 per
cent, per annum is payable quarterly on paid-up bonds. From the
fourth year, returns increase from ten per cent, to at least thirty-three
and one-third per cent.-—unceasingly!
The past history of the hemp industry in New Zealand shows a con-
sistently healthy and profitable business for 80 years. The wonder-
ful future now opened up provides a basis for profitable investment
through the medium of “Hempland” Bonds. Definite facts place
beyond any doubt the great value of this investment. Green Gold!
Better than a goldmine, because while equally profitable it is infinitely
more certain, and the world’s markets can absorb new production of
hemp even as readily as gold.
The Advantages of This Investment Include:
(1 ) Guaranteed preliminary return from funds held by the Public
Trustee of N.S.W.
(2) Title to the freehold—not leasehold—of the land, which with
the flax at maturity is expected to return annual dividends of
between 30 per cent, and 50 per cent. p.a.
(3) Board of proven Experts in New Zealand to guarantee the
development work, also a Board of Directors well known in
Sydney and familiar with Australian investment conditions.
(4) World-wide market of infinite scope.
(5) A commodity unrivalled throughout the world for its produc-
tivity and varied uses, including: Binder twine, rope and cordage,
upholstery, fibrous plaster, coarse textiles, paper and pulp,
artificial silk, woolpacks, scrims, etc.
(6) It is safe, sound, unusually profitable, permanent and free of
all taxes, and is available on very easy terms.
The weight of evidence is so definitely convincing as to be over-
whelming.
The prospectus and literature are of fascinating
interest. They are posted freely (although the
supply is limited). Send the coupon now and
be sure of yours. Judge with the full facts
before you!
Please send me .illustrated prospectus and
other literature concerning “llempland” Bonds.
Full Name
Address
B. 21/3/’2B.


Don’t LoscYourMoney
CONSULT
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENTS.
EXPERTS’ ADVICE GIVEN IN
ALL DEPARTMENTS.
MARCH NUMBER
NOW READY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
AVe stock + GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
Varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
fiom William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. —A uv'r.
* * * *
Very Useful and Interesting. “Your pamphlet
‘lnvention’ contains very useful and interesting in-
formation dealing with patents,” writes a corres-
pondent from the Tweed River. A copy of this
booklet will be sent free on receipt of your name
and address. Write to H. H. Rayward, Me.E., Patent
Attorney and Consulting Engineer, Room 509, Sirius
House, Macquarie Place, Sydney.— Advt. [1
* * * *
The all-round adaptability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
fits it for evqry possible conduit purpose. It does
not rust nor corrode, is impervious to the action of
frost or electrolysis, will carry any class' of fluid
safely, is light to handle, simple to instal, cheap
to buy. Get the book of full data. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents.^ —Have you an idea worth patenting?
GrifHth & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagti
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Codmson & Co., -183 Collins Sl-cet, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty yeais' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* # * *
The production of ice at unprecedentedly low cost
is made possible by the installation of the “National”
Crude-oil Engine. The fuel consumption of these
engines is so low and their operation so efficient
that numbers are being installed with increasing
satisfaction to the user. The “National” Engine as
a prime mover has no equal and the reliability of a
“National” is shown by the amount of unattended
running which is done, this feature also helping to
reduce the cost per ton of producing ice. Messrs.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., of Sirius House,
Macquarie Place, Sydney, also at Melbourne, Adelaide
and Brisbane, who are the Representatives of the
National Gas Engine Co., will be only too pleased
to give the fullest particulars to interested inquirers,
as now is the time to consider the re-equipment of
your plant for the next season.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance ano repairs ui an classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
The Commonwealth Postmaster-General Sanctions
the Discontinuance of Postage Stamps on Letters
AND
HAS APPROVED OF
THE “NEOPOST”
METER MAILING MACHINE
A simple device enabling Business Houses to FRANK, DATE and
POST MARK their own letters.
A unique advertising feature is also embodied in the “NEOPOST.’*
“NEOPOST” YOUR LETTERS.
Write or ’Phone for a demonstration to
“NEOPOST” (AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
McKinney house, 10 O’Connell street, Sydney.
’Phone 83511.
&
Ye Jolly Abbot.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
NFILTERED WATER
k-J contains innumerable
noxious germs, besides being
discolored and unpleasant to
drink.
To ensure purity see that
all cylinders (the filtering
medium) are branded
“Abbot.” The “Abbot” is
approved by all Boards of
Health.
ABBOT FILTERS,
Pressure and Drip.
Obtainable at All Stores.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
and a lot hangs upon whether the allowances
£or depreciation have been sufficient. Taking
the past as a guide the provisions appear
to have been liberal. The more or less liquid
surplus (£141,4211 has improved by over
£94,000 since 1922, and is now equal to £5
13s. Id. per £lO share. The market prices
the scrip, which lias a net tangible backing
of £l9 Os. 2d., at £l5 2s. Od. The return
at that price is 8.2 p.c. on a 12J p.c. div.
basis.
* * * *
Broken Hill mining men are not very hope-
ful about the re-opening of the Junction
North, which closed on March 2. The creep
a few months ago threw an immense weight
on the level from which the ore has lately
been extracted, and mullockers have to keep
right up against the miners. Timberinen
have nothing else to do but keep replac-
ing timbers snapped under the heavy weight
of overburden to allow trucking to con-
tinue. The working levels could be kept
open by employing an expensive repair-gang
during the stoppage; but as only 208 men
were employed at the end of January and
the management estimated that. 220 men
would be thrown out by the stoppage, it. does
not appear that the required gang will be
kept on. That means the gradual closing
and collapse of stopes and levels; and in
view of the small ore reserves, which could
keep the mine going only for another 12 or
15 months, it is not thought that it will be
worth re-opening to get them. Compensa-
tion is also a bugbear, £262 14s. appearing on
the paysheet every fortnight. Men discharged
have a habit of claiming examination, so that
from the 220 men put off it is more than
likely a few will be found to have reached
the compensatable stage. If the mine is
finished with, it might be taken by the North
co. to protect the southern boundary of the
North mine, which was dragged by the Junc-
tion North’s creep to the extent that men
had to be withdrawn until the ground
settled.
* * * *
Onakaka Iron and Steel Co., (M.L.),
represents Fernland’s first successful at-
tempt to put the iron-sands of Taranaki to
commercial use. Operations were com-
menced in 1923, when 64 tons of pig-iron
were turned out at a production cost of
£8 15s. per ton. Plant has been vastly
improved since then, and production costs
have been cut to £4 15s. per ton, which
looks quite profitable. To finance a
new departure, the manufacture of iron
pipes, the co. is issuing first-mortgage de-
bentures for £llO,OOO, at 8 per cent —an in-
dention of the difficulty that is found in
interesting MX. investors in industrial
undertakings. There is already £103,983 of
shareholders’ money in the business.
* * * *
Tin l fearful effects of a tropical climate
on the white man are seen in tli-e case of
Henry Harbord, one of the early hands on
the Palmer close on 50 years ago. Writing
from Port Moresby, after a longish spell on
Edie Creek, the veteran is enthusiastic on
the great improvements brought about by
aeroplane transport. He and his party of
three were among those who did well on the
field; but now that the gold was being
cleaned up in the creeks, it had to be sought
up the jungle-covered terraces of the valleys,
and that was no job for a shovel-and-dish
miner—it would have to be tackled by
sluicing cos. What pleased the Palmer
veteran most was the great improvement
in the cost of living on the field, due to
the aeroplane service. Rice had dropped
from £7 10s. to £5 per bag, and other items
in like proportion, while white men’s wages
had shrunk to a mere £5O a month and
found. The recent successful trial trip of
two aeroplanes across the island from Sala-
moa to Port Moresby had raised high hopes
of even cheaper transport. Whether the
juvenile from the Palmer is returning to the
Bulolo is not stated in his letter, but it
seems quite likely. Meantime the “Wild
Cat” looks towards him.
* * * *
The Girofia, at Mungana (Q.). is still pro-
ducing good lead ore. and Friday Ahern and
his party have got 350 tons of high grade
stuff in the bins awaiting smelting. The
syndicate bought from the Cliillagoe smelters
a blast furnace reputed to be capable of get-
ting away with 50 tons daily. No trouble is
expected in treatment since the ore is prac-
tically self-fluxing. The ore taken out so far
is estimated to go at least 20 p.c. lead and
Voz. silver. Messrs. Rutledge and Morton,
who were sent to Chillagoe last year at the
behest of the State Government to see what
could be done there, give the Girofla prospects
of 2000 tons of high-grade ore from one stope
between the surface and the 115 ft. level,
with more to follow.
$ * * *
The old Quartette dredging area, along
with a recently-acquired sister claim, will
shortly be put to the acid test by Birch
Tin, Limited. The claims are on the Severn
River, west of Stanthorpe (Q.). A. S. Mor-
tison is the manager, and on tests he reckons
upon averaging 21b. oxide per yard. St.
Smith, a few years back, gave the Quartette
30 or 40 tons as a start, with probabilities
of more than doubling that. There are rich
pockets on the property, and 41b. and 51b.
prospects are easily got by vanning. It’s safe
to say no one knows the probable amount
of tin there, or its average values, as the
ground is patchy. The machinery is being
hurried from Melbourne, and operations are
due to start any time now.
* -t x
The Lass o’ Gowrie tunnel. Stannary
Hills (N.Q.), is a monument to steadfast
perseverance in the face of disappointments.
The tunnel has reached a distance of 1100 ft.
from the adit, and the lode fissure has
changed from arsenical pyrites to fluorspar,
which is hopeful. The former carried tin,
but it was too costly to separate from its
matrix. Mines-inspector Williams reckons
that prospects of a pay-shoot have brightened.
* * * *
Ringarooma Alluvial Tin (Tas.) went to
allotment in London, although not all the
290,000 shares offered for subscription at
4s. were subscribed, and the underwriters
had to take up a heavy load. The total area
is 340 acres, and GO acres were tested ; nine
acres were bored for an average of 21.60 z.;
21 acres averaged 18oz., and 30 acres aver-
aged 14oz. In part payment of the pur
chase price 250,000 shares fully paid to 4s.
were taken by the vendors, and it is quite
possible this big figure had something to do
with the failure of the float. Further Tas-
manian tin nowadays, mostly spells over-
burden.
* * * *
More about Oroya Links’s deal with
Malayan Tin Trust is told in a circular re-
cently issued by the former co. Malayan
Tin Trust has so far issued 132,430 ss.
shares, made arrangements to find a further
£85,000 bv the issue of more shares, and is
unloading' 460,000 on Oroya Links as well.
The issue will be in the proportion of two
for every five Links shares held. The Links
board proposes at an early date to sound
shareholders as to the desirability of putting
the co. into liquidation. Apart from shares
assets include cash and investments, said to
be worth approximately £30,000, and some
mining leases at Kalgoorlie.
* * *
Big things are tipped to come out of the
deep level development at Chaffers, which
is now pushed on from Golden Horseshoe
workings on behalf of Lake View and Star
(W.A.). Years ago a local geologist of
some standing predicted that Chaffers would
get all the Horseshoe and Boulder shoots
at depth. On the strength of this opinion,
together with optimistic official reports, an
early rise in Lake -View and Star is hoped
for.
* * * ■ *
Brilliant Co. has taken an option on some-
thing described as new and valuable near
its present heart-breaking venture at Yalgoo
(W.A.), For some years this co. has been
trying hard, at an appalling cost, to make
money out of a show which, after some
worry and expense, a syndicate of Kal-
goorlie mining men got square on and gave
up. So far Brilliant’s operations have
shown a loss and its prospects are far from
bright.
* * * *
London-controlled' Star Emeralds (W.A.)
is having another —probably short-lived —
flutter. Some weeks ago shares were un-
saleable at a few shillings, but the price
has been pushed up to £l. London reckons
that reports of the discovery of better quality
stcnes, backed by a bear squeeze, are respon-
sible for the rise.
* * * *
Whim Creek Copper Mines are being
again puffed in Westralia on the strength,
this time, of an official report that ore
containing gold and cobalt as well as copper
is being opened up. An attempt is being
made to raise further capital on the strength
of this; but so many blanks have been drawn
on the field that speculators ought to ask
for more figures.
* * s »
Adelaide lias just raised a little money to
test a gold-bearing show known as Hill
GO, Mt. Magnet (W.A.). An open cut is
at present furnishing rock worth 50s. and
there is talk of values improving at depth.
At Mt. Magnet, however, they mostly do the
other thing.
lj; $
Burma Malay, floated in Sydney in 1925,
is now the parent of Katu and Renong Con-
solidated. Ivatu, born towards the end of
4926, is well on its way, and the management
expects to have the dredge pontoon launched
early qext month. The co.’s area is about
400 acres averaging 33ft., and estimates
go ,871 b. The dredge will have a capacity
of 125,000 yards, and be electrically operated.
Nominal capital is .£160,000 in £l shares;
£30,000 in f.p. shares were issued to vendors,
120,000 contribs. were issued as paid to
7s. 6d., and 10,000 were held in reserve.
Renong Consolidated, in a district which has
so far not had many striking successes, has
a big area of close on 600 acres considered
worth working. Average values are rated
at .721 b. Issued capital is £150,000. E. N.
Mulligan, who is a director as well as field
engineer and has the reputation of know-
ing his job, reckons the co. should make
30 p.c. on that capital with tin at £225
London. Only under very good conditions
can it be done.
* * * *
A quartette of the numerous Malayan tin
dredging concerns fathered by Alluvial Tin
lias been listed in Sydney. Kampong Lanjut
is a Kinta Valley holding with 71,000,000
c.y. of dirt estimated to go .751 b. per yard.
Two dredges are to be installed, but these
will not be in action till next year. Nomi-
nal capital is £250,000 in £1 shares, of
which the vendors took 98,000 f.p. and
132,000 have been publicly subscribed.
Ivramat, also in the Kinta district, is not
yet producing. Nominal capital is £150,000
in £1 shares, of which the public subscribed
84,000 and 46,000 f.p. went to the vendors.
The area is estimated to contain 50,000,000
c.y. going fib. to the yard. A big and up-
to-date dredge is to be employed. liawang
Concessions adjoins Rawang’s original hold-
ing, has been worked in the past by open-
cast methods. The Concessions’ capital is
£200,000 in £1 shares, all issued and f.p., the
vendors taking 90,000. The property is
estimated to hold some 22,000,000 c.y. going
per yard. The co. is not producing
yet. Serendah Tin, promoted by Tanah Biji,
an Alluvial Tin Offshot, is near liawang
and is estimated to contain 16,000,000 c.y.
of lib. dirt. A big modern dredge is to go
in here, but it will be a while before it gets
to work. Capital is £165,000 in £1 shares,
all issued and f.p., vendors taking 60,000.
All the above are included in the deal which
resulted in the formation of Anglo-Oriental
Tin Corporation to take over Alluvial Tin’s
holdings.
* * * *
As far as can be judged from the half-
monthly averages, Malaysian tin returns for
the first fortnight of March show, for the
most part, a decided improvement on the
February figures. Interest is added because
there are one or two beginners* on the list,
though none of these have yet reached anything
like their estimated maximum output. Among
Alluvial Tins holdings, the Rawang dredge
with a turnover practically equivalent to
last month’s, has averaged .461 b. to the yard,
an advance on February’s .401 b. Malim
Nawar has dropped, averaging .471 b. as
against .491 b., but turnover was propor-
tionately greater, 11 tons being recovered
from 56,000 yards, against 18 tons from
88,000 last month. Malim Nawar South did
better with .601 b. to the yard from a smaller
comparative turnover, the February average
being .51b. Kundang dropped, taking 10
tons from 60,000 yards as against 30 tons
from 110,000 yards the month before, the
respective averages being .401 b. and .651 b.
Tanjong Tualong jumped from .421 b. for
February to .751 b., 25 tons being got from
SO.OOO yards. Cliangkat’s first production of
10 tons t.-o. from 34,000 yards in 141 hours
is very satisfactory, the average going .701 b.
Boring estimates went 11b. over much of the
ground, but a portion was reckoned of less
value. In any case, most of the work done
was on the heavy overburden; values are
likely to improve as the dredge gets well down
into the wash. Jelapang, one of the Tanah
Biji stable, jumped its average from .601 b.
to ,901 b. The Larut dredges averaged .551 b.
as against .601 b. for the month of February,
the output average being about the same in
each period.
Austral Malay’s team also shared in the
general improvement, though Kampong Kam-
unting dropped its average from .591 b. to
.551 b.; Asam recovered a 1.221 b. average as
against ,731 b. for the month before. Ulu Yam
dropped, averaging .601 b. compared with
.621 b., but Thabawleik did itself proud with
an average of 2.051 b. as compared with
1.281 b. for February. Only 14,000 yards
was turned over, boiler repairs, etc., being
responsible for the loss of 157 hours.
The Malay Siamese holdings also achieved
fair averages, though output was not large
in the case of the much-discussed Hand Yai
and Huey Yot. Haad Yai got 5 tons from
7500 yards. Its dredge struck heavy clay in
the wash, necessitating the installation of a
digger, and did not 'get going again until
March 4. The average on the small turnover
was 1.571 b., an advance on February’s 11b.
figure. Huey Yot worked only two shifts;
the water-supply arrangements had to be
remodelled and the bottom tumbler changed,
but the average was 1.611 b., as against
1.531 b. for February. Pliin Soon was also
shy on turnover, treating only 12,156 yards
for 11.3 tons t.-o. The average, 2.231 b., was
good and well ahead of February’s 1.731 b.,
but a very much increased rate of output
is called for here.
Takuapa, which lost 96 hours for repairs,
dug 41,000 yards averaging ,441 b., compared
with .791 b. for February. Probably the dead
work on which the dredge was engaging at
the end of last month had some effect on the
return ; maybe the second fortnight’s recover-
ies will even things up a bit. Tin Bentong
averaged a trifle under .711 b. as against .721 b.
last month, while Ronpibon, working in poor
ground as a preliminary to entering richer,
averaged .401 b. for the small turnover of
18,000 yards. Tongkah Compound’s Mantin
dredge got 12.25 tons from 80,067 yards, a
trifle over .301 b. compared with .541 b. for
February. Kuala Lumpur’s No. 1 dredge
turned over 20,000 yards for 11.5 tons, or an
average of 1.291 b. as against I.oolb. for
February. No. 2 dredge has encountered
trouble with the screens; the oxide has been
passing through owing to the water supply
being insufficient to wash the dredged
material. The installation of an extra pump
on the screen and a silt pump to clean the
paddock water for the jigs is projected. The
return for the run of 183 hours was four
tons of tin, no yardage being given.
* * * *
, Australian Radium Corporation has been
checked in its development through share-
holders not sending along their calls quickly
enough. Some time ago it was decided to
send director Allan Bowler to London to
arrange capital for road construction, mine
development and additions to the treatment
and concentration plants at Mt. Painter.
Meanwhile mine development is proceeding
slowly, but it is claimed that there are suf-
ficient'qunntities of high-grade ores available
to keep the plants going.


An Investment which is Sound, Safe
and Profitable.
ALL BREWERY INVESTMENTS, PRACTICALLY WITHOUT EXCEPTION,
HAVE PROVED BIG PROFIT EARNERS FOR INVESTORS
Lithgow Brewery Limited
Nominal Capital - - £70,000
(of which 10,000 Shares are held in reserve).
(Registered under the Companies Acts 1899-1918.)
The Capital is divided into 70,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, of which 43,742 shares have been
subscribed for and allotted, leaving the small balance of 16,258 shares, now available at par for
keen investors.
Directors:
JOHN ALEXANDER STAMMERS JONES, Brewer, Lithgow.
ARTHUR GEORGE BODIMEADE, Master Baker, Lithgow.
ERIC CAMPBELL, Solicitor, Sydney.
MICHAEL JAMES DILLANE, Sydney.
A. D. CARSON, 1 8 Loftus Street, Sydney,
Bankers:
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LTD..
Lithgow.
Solicitors:
CAMPBELL & CAMPBELL, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Auditors:
W. B. SMALL & CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
The Company acquired, on 6th February, 1928, the brewery business carried on by
Mr. J. A. S. Jones at Lithgow for the past 20 years under the name of Zig-Zag Brewery, and since
that date has considerably increased sales.
The business during that period has been built up systematically by Mr. Jones and has, apart
from proving highly remunerative to him, expanded now into one of the most successful Country
Breweries in the Commonwealth.
Investors are now invited to send for a copy of the full prospectus, which gives full details under
which shares may be applied for in an established and profitable business which has an assured
demand for its products, including the whole of the trade of 1 0 tied hotels.
Lithgow represents the THIRD LARGEST industrial town in New South Wales with a population
of approximately 20,000 people.
.£;V T ... & ■_ ■" jj. . '"■ '*** 4.'. . 0 v ' • 'V
An Investment of this Nature Occurs but
Seldom in a Lifetime.
The small balance of shares is being rapidly taken up.
SEND FOR COPY OF FULL PROSPECTUS TO
The Secretary: ERNEST A. UDY. A.F.1.A., A.S.A. (Eng.), (C. B. Smith & C 0.,), 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Registered Offices:
SYDNEY: 12 Spring Street. LITHGOW (Branch): Main Street.


The National Bank of Australasia Limited
Head Office: 271-279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches (320) in All States.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,961,710. RESERVE FUND (used in the business) £2,885,867
1
1
I
I |
t *
l
am ■
H I
11, > i
8
m
Oi
®WpiWlWfcsk^«. '
wgm I
m&m
-
■
in
•Mil
m
: ; '
* *!
THE NEW HEAD-OFFICE BUILDING AND ITS SURROUNDINGS.
THE NATIONAL BANK, through 483 Offices and Branches in the
Commonwealth, its Offices in London and Agents in all parts of the
world, provides a complete range of banking facilities. In the new Head
Office, Melbourne, a Women’s Department and Public Safe Deposit
have been instituted to give added service to the Public.
WOMEN S DEPARTMENT is situated on the ground floor and includes the
usual business office, together with lounge and retiring room. Full banking
facilities are available and the comfort and convenience of the Department
renders it attractive and useful to the Bank’s women clients.
PUBLIC SAFE DEPOSIT provides maximum protection for valuable docu-
ments, jewellery, etc. Lockers of various sizes are available at low rentals,
or space for boxes and packages may be hired for long or short periods.
INSPECTION AND INQUIRY INVITED.
%
%
m
Vf
I
.
7F^
TpyfcrtL -~ V .
'.f£M.
r ‘"M 6
/mt
y§
\Wmm , % i <
iMS§,
u /:
/f
it!
V 3
■i*
/
THE CENTRE DOORWAY.
COLLINS STREET.
' ***
■ J:
S
INTERIOR VIEW, THE SAFE DEPOSIT.
GENERAL VIEW OF MAIN BANKING HALL.
Copies of the following publications, issued by the Bank, may be obtained at any of its Branches—
“MONTHLY SUMMARY OF
AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS,”
“SERVICE AND FACILITIES,
“ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
TOTAL ASSETS OF THE BANK, 31st March, 1927, £42,900,000.


SYDNEY.
The- Finest Restaurant and
Dance Rendezvous in
Australasia.
Caoacity: Dining and Supper Dances up
v to 1000.
For Wedding Receptions, Banquets, Dining
and Supper Dances, inquiries to Manager.
Mon. Tues., Wed., Fri., Special Dining 7.30,
12/6. Supper 10 p.m. till 1 a.m., 10/6.
Thursday and Saturday, late Gala Nights.
Continental Dinner from 7.30 p.m., 21/-. Supper
from 10 o’clock, 12/6. Continuous Dancing
from 8.15 p.m.
PEERLESS ORCHESTRA OF TEN.
Bewitching Cabaret afternoon and evening.
Delightful Afternoon Tea, 3 to 5, 4/-;
parties of 6 upwards, 3/6.
Saturdays and holidays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Ring M 3 666.
Whatever you do at iLaster
On Sale at Leading Jewellers.
ROSS
GLASSES
Can Add Immensely
to the Pleasure.
For sportsmen, racegoers, tourists,
theatregoers, yachtsmen, campers
there is the perfect Ross model
most adapted to their special needs.
Prices range from £lO.
Australian Agents:—
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
23 AND 25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
PEAPES
—for men AND their sons.
Fashions being now fully
formulated for the new sea-
son, Peapes show all that is
best in correct wear for
Autumn and Winter.
As ever, the low price level,
consequent on their no-sales
policy, is rigidly maintained.
George Street
(Opp. Hunter Street),
Sydney,
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
UNEXPECTED PHILANTHROPY.
LANDLORD: “I shall have to raise your rent, sir.”
TENANT: “Ah! Thank you. Thank you. A fearful load off my
mind. I have been entirely unable to raise it myself!”
“Gouger” : When Binglii is up against it,
his tracking faculties work overtime. He
will follow a tortoise in its migration from a
dried pool, though the tracks on the hard
eround are practically invisible. If there be
an unusual scurrying of ants along their
tiny pad, .he will follow them to the bees
nest or freshly killed animal they have
located. A few grains of brown dust at the
butt of a tree tell him where he can feast
on the big white grubs. Mosquitoes hover-
ing high up on a limb let him know instantly
that in a near-by hollow sleeps a ’possum
or squirrel. Chipped bark around a hollow
tells him of cockatoos’ or galaks’ nests. On
the sea beach he tracks the scratchy marks
of a crab or the tracery where a shellfish
has dragged its shell along the sand. Across
sand and over gravel and earth he follows
the tiny track of lizards, and even the pas-
sage of a snake through the grass cannot
elude him. It would be an old-man drought
that could starve a wild abo.
* * =l= *
“Silentio” : There is nothing new in drov-
ing turkeys (B. 29/2/’2B). The old hands
round Camden and Picton (N.S.W.) remem-
ber the days when settlers in the Bur-
ragorang Valley regularly drove then-
pigs and turkeys up the mountain
road and through The Oaks to sell
them in Camden, or truck them for
the Sydney market. There is a yarn
still told about a man who coaxed his
flock of turkeys up the mountain side
by walking ahead and dropping corn.
The grain petered out near the top,
and the flock, taking fright or being
no longer interested, flew back into tlieii
valley home.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : A very useful little implement
which has now gone out of fa'Shion amongst
the Torres Strait islanders was the “singee.”
It was a device about 12in. long, consisting
of a lawyer-cane handle, formed so that the
hand could be slipped inside it, to which
was attached bv strong cocoanut-fibre string
a double-ended hook of hard, carved wangai
wood. The whole thing was nicely adorned
and when not in use was attached to the
warrior’s left arm. As soon as he had put
his man to sleep with a stone club, a sharp
bamboo knife was brought into play to cut
round the neck to remove the head.
The job had to be completed by the “singee,”
which was slipped into a slit beneath the
chin and drawn up sharply with a rapid
switch of the wrist. This had the effect of
twisting the head right off, and in addition
gave the collector a convenient handle by
which to carry his trophy.
“The Rumpus”:
There used to be a
sundowner’s hut
some few miles
out of Onslow
(W.A.), along the
Ashburton River
mail track, but the
only person I’ve
ever known to
make use of it
was Charlie Doo-
nan. Charlie would
knock up a fair-
sized cheque on the
up-river sheep sta-
tions, then attempt
to reach Perth for
a burst, but never
got past the coastal
town. One year he
swore a China-
man’s oath he’d
shun the port pubs,
and, to carry it into
effect, camped at
the hut waiting a
steamer going
south. It was nine
days before a boat
called, and then it
made only a dawn-
to - breakfast visit
because of an ap-
proaching willy-
willy. Charlie saw
its smoke too late.
When he reached
the jetty the s.s.
Tyrian was well
out to sea. But he
kept his word, and
instead of painting
the town red, lived
at the old hut
until it was time
to make up-river
again. Various ques-
tions were fired at
him concerning his
holiday, including
the query whore he
put up in Perth.
“At the Pa 11 i s
Hotel,” he said,
“an’ never wunst
kissed the bar-
maid.”
“Murrungurry” : “I was pub groom for a
while at Fossickers’ Flat,” said Jerry, “an’
now an’ agai-n I had to go in the bar.
It wasn't a bad joint, but I got mixed up
with the bottles, an’ nearly wrecked the
place. There w T as the sergeant’s bottle, the
squatter’s bottle, the boundary-rider’s bottle,
the drunks’ bottle, and the blackfellows’
bottle, containin’ different grades an’ quali-
ties of the same liquor. But the black-
fellows’ special was the dregs from the
glasses mixed with wash-up water, a little
painkiller an’ tobacco-juice bein’ added to
give it a bite. The drunks had two bottles-
one very weak an’ the other deadly. Well.
I’d been ’avin’ a drop o’ the good stuff
meself, an’ must ’ave got the bottles dis-
arranged. Anyhow, I served the sergeant
with the drunks’ 0.p., an’ he went down to it
quicker’n blithered Harry. Then, through
BROTHERS IN MISFORTUNE.
PRISONER (to constable ): “Wot ’ave all them other blokes been up to?"
bein’ a bit flustered about the sergeant, I
gave the squatter a nobbier of Binghi's
mixture. It made him bite so much that he
smashed the glass, an’ when Bung saw what
had happened he bit too. ‘The d—— fool
must ’ave given you the stiffener he mixed
for his toothache,’ I heard him say. Then
I left jist to nark him, as he was promisin’
Jumbuk that he’d stiffen me.”
* * * *
“Up North”: There should be commercial
possibilities in the scent of a fig-tree grow-
ing in the Rossville (N.Q.) scrubs. When
in bloom even the trunk of the tree is a mass
of beautiful white flowers, the scent of
which is powerful many yards away. The
snowy tree is a glory when surrounded by
its countless green cobbers. The best
orchids I’ve seen in the tropical scrubs have
been on the highest mountains, and most
frequently in rocky clefts overhanging the
great gorges north of the Daintree. And
on the banks of dreamy pools grow regal
lilies of a dazzling white. In a gnomes’ forest
you will suddenly find the air scent-laden,
and see, drooping from the giant branches
above, a trellis work of flower-covered vines
across the tasselled blossoms of purple orchids.
If you are in luck’s way you may come
across a creeper tight-clinging for 60 feet
up, to the great bole of a jungle giant, with
a thousand crimson flowers burning against
the sombre green bark.
* . * * *
“Jack Point” : For the third time within
a month Fegan’s bull had broken into the
corn patch. Dad and Bill resolved that
Fegan should be given one more chance be-
fore drastic action was taken, and advised to
this effect by post, the letter to be drafted
by Bill. There was a pleased look on Dad’s
dial as he scanned the draft for the third
time. “That’s jus’ what was in me mind to
tell ’im,” he said to the proud author, “but
o’ course I couldn’t ’ave put it so good as you
’ave. A letter, me lad, that gets right to the
point, yet don’t contain anythin! personal or
abuse what Fegan can take exception to.
There’s jus’ a coupla points I’m not too sure
on. I see you’ve got ‘skulkin’ ’ spelt with a
‘c,’ an’ you say ‘dirty’ five times in the
las’ two lines. Make a coupla them ‘greasy’
instead.”
* * * *
“Moe” : An art which seems peculiarly .the
aboriginal’s own is that of shaving with
splinter of glass from a broken bottle. Gener-
ally the bottle is broken with a smart tap
so that it splinters lengthwise, and a piece
of glass with a shelving, edge selected. This
is used as a razor, without soap or lather
of any kind, nor is the beard even moistened;
and yet the hair is removed fairly cleanly,
and apparently without much pulling or tug-
ging at its roots. On several occasions I
have seen white men try to Shave themselves
with such a substitute for a razor and always
they have abandoned the attempt after
minutes of agony.
“Momokeni” : Papuans need neither water
mirrors nor scraps of broken looking-glass
(B. 29/2/’2B) to remove superfluous hair.
Whiskers being usually regarded as a sign
of either age or mourning, the young bucks
operate on each other. The barber takes
his pal’s head on his lap. Doubling a piece
of strong fine fibre, he slips the hair between
the two threads, twiddles both ends, then
with a jerk drags it out. This painful opera-
tion is repeated until a clean surface results.
Nowadays, pieces of glass bottle are in great
favor both for shaving and shingling. The
dexterity with which my native medical
assistant could shave heads with this pri-
mitive razor, when the ladies of Goaribari
had been settling differences with canoe
paddles and the resulting broken heads needed
patching, always filled me with admiration.
He could shave a circular patch of gretisy
hair from around a wound, without anything
in the shape of lather, as well as any barber.
Patients strenuously bpposed the use of a
steel razor, but submitted calmly to the
broken bottie.
* * * *
“E.V.S.” : Housewives and others in N.Q.
may hang tough meat under pawpaws (B.
22/2/’2S), but they would get as good results
by hanging it under gum-trees. Tough meat
can be rendered tender only by a breaking
down of tissue, a process of decomposition-
Time, not pawpaw, is the agent. The fruit
contains an enzyme, pepsin, but it is not
exuded, nor could it act in that manner if
it were. The belief in the queerness of the
tree is only equalled by the queerness of the
belief. In all ages and climes particular
trees have been credited with peculiar proper-
ties. It is a relic of animism. The paw-
paw, the jacaranda, the upas, the hangman’s
tree and, not least, the “Tree of Knowledge”
are examples.
“Jack Point”: Yes, there is something
queer about pawpaw-trees. The belief is
widespread in Queensland that not only is
it dangerous to let children play near them,
but that it is unhealthy to have them close
to the windows of a bedroom. But the tree
has virtues to offset its vices. The fruit,
or its ground-up seed, is good for indi-
gestion, and yields a soothing ointment as
well. Then pawpaw chutney will make
tough old ewe taste like prime lamb.
“Cooramin”: Dan Clodd, maintenance
man, was camped on a lonely part of the
highway, where the only people he saw were
occasional travellers. He liked a yarn, and
would sit down for hours with a swagman
or a bullock-driver. Horsemen he treated
with suspicion, and if they were well dressed
he became so busy mending the road that he
scarcely had time to say good day. Dan
reckoned he had a good billet, and he was
afraid that they were friends of the inspector
and would report him. His special grievance
was that he wasn’t notified when there was
a change of officials, and he had to treat
all likely-looking persons as inspectors. At
local headquarters lie was appraised as the
most industrious man on the road. “It’s
the traffic that keeps me workin’,” said Dan.
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: It’s not only niggers
that are hard-headed (“The Ringer,” B.
22/2/’2B). More than 30 years ago there
was an old Bananaland fossicker whose bald
napper flattened a heavy leaden bullet fired
at it from his own pistol. The old boy, on
recovering from the blow, which tipped him
over backwards, scorched the trees in the
neighborhood with his profanity. He made
a better job of it at a later period with a
plug of dynamite held between his teeth.
(Continued on page 25A
WHEN THE TEAMS COME HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wood smoke and smell of the rain
On the fresh-turned loam!
And my heart is back in the West again
When the teams are coming home.
So much I forget, forget,
But this as a dream remains;
I see the gold of the dust haze yet
And the sun on the clinking chains.
The dust oil the swingle-bars
And the haystacks trim and high,
And a wheeling phalanx of grey galahs
Under a widespread sky.
The earth in its autumn dress.
The gums in the sunset wind
All glinting gold, and the loveliness
That is half of a life behind.
I remember the garden gate
Where the Easter daisies lean
All thick with bees, and the pepper-trees
And the loaded vines between.
I remember the homestead creek
And the church by the Ten-Mile Ilill,
The Sunday hush on the quiet bush
And the crickets’ crooning still.
It would all be changed, be changed,
If I went that way again ;
I should turn with tears from the vanished
years
In a misty fringe of rain
Drooping above the trees
In the sadness autumn lends.
Yet still I am sick at heart for these
In the twilit evening-ends.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


□ OB
B ROTH
~)eniorJine
vx
\
Q.
//
7
*0
a
n
UJ
lb
*fs
a
(§!
fX.
\\^
XT
X
All That Six-Cylinder
Performance Should Be
No car exemplifies more completely than Dodge Brothers
Senior the advantages of six-cylinder performance.
Here is swift, smooth acceleration that makes driving under*
trying conditions a pleasant experience instead of nerve-rack-
ing labour.
Here is more power than you’ll ever use—quiet, disciplined
power, responsive to a finger-touch.
So flexible is Senior power-flow—so smoothly transmitted to
the wheels—that riding becomes one of the most enjoyable
sensations that modern engineering makes possible.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane Townsville
The Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winter bottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
21/3/’2S.


m
m
Money
Makes
the
Skins
worth getting. It’s not
what they are, but
what they realise
which chiefly concerns
you. Top values are
what you want. See
that you get them. For highest possible prices—
consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE-, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
Suck a reputation is not won overnight
100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
10 for 9d 20 for 1/6
Major Drapkir 1 <& Co.. London. Branch of The United
Kingdom Tobacco Co.. Ltd.
W
t©
JLJhJfe
Comfort for the
RUPTURED
ot*rre«
W 1
Denyer’s Elastic
Truss, while
ensuring effect
tive support, is
always com-
fortable and
permits every freedom of
movement. Has a patent
water pad.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
WRITE FOR FREE
RUPTURE PAMPHLET
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs.
Dept. 1, 281 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Right opposite Hunter Street).
“Toonooba”: Along the south-east shore
of Papua the salt-water folk have a simple
method of driving piles for their dwellings
in the reefs and mud-flats of the foreshores.
The site having been selected, a hole is
scooped out by hand at low water. The
pile, to one end of which two ropes arc
attached, the other end being roughly
pointed, is placed in the hole and held
upright by three or four men. Several then
take hold of the ropes, standing on opposite;
sides at a little distance, and by rocking
cause the pile to sink. If difficulty is ex-
perienced in penetrating the silts they erect
a staging on the pile whereon three or four
men stand; the added weight generally suf-
THE SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
DAVE: “Excuse me, Miss, but can you tell me an Dad ’ow you get the soap to larther
in this ’ere salt water?”
fices to force the pole down. With the de-
cline of head-hunting there has_ been a
marked tendency for the marine pile-dwell-
ings to become obsolete. Generally modern
structures are erected either on terra finna or
within the upper tidal zone.
"Thomas Pepper” : How do snakes exca-
vate a burrow? (“Pudden,” B. 15/2/-8.)
Very simply. Having selected the site for
a hole, the snake grasps a pointed stone in
its jaws to act as a cutter, twists its body
into corkscrew shape, and revolves rapidly,
boring into the bank like an auger into wood.
I was coming home last month from a. party
at Dan's —his wife’s in town —and in the
bright moonlight I saw four snakes excavat-
ing burrows in the way I’ve mentioned.
I would have stopped to watch them further
only the big pink cuttlefish which came along
driving an enormous lobster attached to a
Ford chassis jumped off the seat and chased
me home.
*** ■ *
“Pigcat”: Two long-loggers frequently
confounded are the mantis and the stick
insect. The first, is an eater of
his kind, whilst the other dines
only on grass and leaves. The
stick runs to larger sizes than
the mantis, which is peculiar
in having barbs on its forearms
—an anti-skidding device. When
the mantis grabs its dinner it
does so by sweeping its arms
round it, and the barbs give a
secure grip. Mrs. Mantis rules
the domestic roost. Her ’groom
does the courting, and is eaten
by the bride while in the nup-
tial embrace. Mrs. Stick-Insect
treats her ’groom with greater consideration.
* * * *
“Up North” : Dancing is life to Black
Brother. Every dance is significant to him,
because it tells the story of how his ances-
tors lived, how he himself lives, and how he
expects to live after death. The dance com-
memorates an event in his life, or in the Jives
of the gods that created him and all things.
Many dances are stories that unfold to the
young men the history of their tribe, the
virtues of their ancestors, and make a strong-
appeal to the youths to mould their lives
also to the well-being and longevity of
their tribe. Dances at the fruit, vegetable
and fish seasons are thank-offerings to the
particular deity who controls that season.
Every action of the dance has a meaning,
and the natives fully believe that the in-
visible Being looking on knows and appre-
ciates the motives of the dancers. Their
educational dances also are an appeal to
the tribesmen to learn all they can of the
queer white man's world and keep abreast of
the times. The luggers at Thursday Island
for instance, on returning to their island
homes, staged dances giving in detail the
white man’s wonderful procession at Jubi-
lee time. When Wackett’s seaplanes landed
the returning islanders gave a dance in
vivid representation of the wonderful
“birds” and the consternation they created
along the waterfront. But from the ever
THE BOOM IN BOOMERANGS.
COLLECTOR: “Have you any boomerangs for sale?”
COMBO: “Sold out, boss. I bin send alonga Sydney—plenty more next week.”
popular movies the liome-going crews draw
their most inspired themes. The dances
they act to show their home comrades the
Avhite man’s way of life would make the
hair even of a Hollywood producer stand on
end.
“Bon .Tour”: It is true, as “N.M.L.” (B.
15/2/-8) says, that animals are touchy
about watering-places. A neighbor of mine
owned a nag that had never quenched his
thirst at any other place than a creek.
She had occasion to take him from home for
a week. As no creek was available at his
temporary home a tub of water was pro-
vided, but he could not be coaxed to drink.
For four days this went on. till the owner
became concerned about it. Passing a lagoon
she stopped and drove straight into the
water. About eight minutes later Neddy
raised his head, after his longest drink on
record.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: If Dr. Duhig (B.
22/2/’2B) wants specimens of stone-fish, a
letter to Dr. Vernon, of Thursday Island,
would produce the goods. Stone-fish vary
in size and breed. A two-foot specimen
would be a monster. A wound from one
causes agony, sometimes lasting for months.
One remedy is to gash the wound and fill
it immediately with Condy’s crystals. Binghi
uses native herbs. The Japanese and native
divers who tread on the spike of the fish
are sometimes forced to undergo treatment
in Thursday Island hospital. Nothing known
in the sea can produce the same agony.
“Malanai” : The stone-fish is the cause cf
several deaths annually in the South Pacific,
generally from tetanus developing in the
wound. Native treatment is holding tin
penetrated foot over hot coals, and another
is prolonged immersion in water kept as hot
as can be borne; in both cases the wound
is first well opened up.
* ❖ ❖ *
“B-Gar”: Can any Abo. scribe solve the
mystery of the disappearance of the Dia-
mantina, Georgina and Cooper flood waters?
During the rainy season the flooded streams
probably extend to a breadth of 80 miles,
and yet some months afterwards a dry galah
could hardly get enough water to satisfy
its thirst. Lake Eyre (S.A.) gets very
little of this water, as only twice in the last
27 years has the Cooper overflow reached
there. Evaporation and ordinary soakage
cannot account for the lot in such a short
space of time.
jji $ #
“Fosterii”: News to set. the world of
ichthyology a-twitter comes from Queens-
land. A number of young lung-fish (Cera-
todus fosterii) have been netted in Enoggera
reservoir, near Brisbane, where adult fish
were introduced from the Burnett waters
some time ago. The youngsters range from
seven to four inches in length, and half a
dozen of them have been placed in ah
aquarium in Brisbane Museum. Thou ah
Dr. Bancroft, of Eidsvold, which is in the
ceratodus country, had succeeded in breed-
ing lung-fish from ova, they did not live
long, and it was almost an accepted theory
that these rare and fast-vanishing relics of
the past—-“living fossils,” as they have been
called —could not breed and thrive in any but
their closely-restricted environment on the
Burnett watershed. The Enoggera discovery
has proved the contrary; indeed, the problem
of preserving a creature which rivals the
platypus in scientific interest seems to have
been solved.
;Jj iJS *
“B-Gar” : “This "ere prickly-pear ain’t the
curse some o’ these clever blokes reckons it
is,” said Paddy the Rake. “It saved the
lives of me and me prad down near the
Bollon two year ago. Tell y’ about it ! -
certainly. It was dry as blazes, and me an
me moke was .fist about settled. fer. water.
Sundown come, an’ no water’ole in sight, so
I pulls up. All the pricklies bein’ out in
flowers, I collects some of ’em, an’ pounds
’em up in me jack-sliay, an’ drinks. It tasted
that good I give some to the prad, an’ he
simperly laps it up. I dunno ow much we
drunk, but jist before I goes off to sleep
I remembers hearin’ the ’orse sayin’, ‘I ]1
betcher mother pint I'm a better ’orse
than you is.’ An’ w’en I wakes up next
morning, blast me if the ’orse ain’t doin’
the barn-dance with a coupla emus.”
=JC * *
“Pfella” : An old road-walker called in
at Nanutarra sheep station, North W.A.,
and was given the usual feed in the kitchen,
after which his bag was re-rationed. Night
was approaching, and with it every sign of
a cyclonic storm, so the boss invited Mole-
skins to doss in the shed-very comfortable
quarters. “Not me !” Moley snorted. “What
d’yer think I left home for?”
* * * *
“Toonooba”: “A.W.L.” (B. 22/2/-2S)
asserts that I was wrong in saying that
Torres Strait islanders formerly used the
helmet sheil as a cooking-pot. As a matter
of fact, at Darnley Island I collected an old
cooking-pot fashioned from a helmet shell—
or, as the Erubians call it, “ass” —and was
informed of its former use by several of the
natives. Sight of the crumbly relic being
carefully packed for transport caused covert
amusement amongst the islanders, who pity-
ingly presented me with a freshly-cleaned
specimen taken from a near-by reef.
;j : i’fi 4:
“Te W.”: Concerning “Sherlock Holmes”
(B. 29/2/’2B) and his 22-foot black snake,
the highest authentic record for this gloomy
serpent is 11 feet. I have a photograph
of the late “Professor” Fox about to capture
a black snake of that length. Another killed
in Cathcart swamp, Monaro (N.S.W.),
stretched to Bft. 6in. In the early days the
harmless diamond snake, which runs to 10ft.
and over, was often dubbed “black” snake.
* * * *
“Tenamii”: Has anyone ever known a
hare to keep a greyhound at bay? My two
dogs recently turned an old buck into some
scrub. On my coming up to collect the
corpse, I found the hare sitting up between
the forks of a manuka-bush, his scratching
and squealing keeping the dogs at arms’
length*. They could not take him from
behind, and were not game enough for a
frontal attack.
A MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Winter-time at Merbein in the early morning,
Powdered hoar-frost sparkling on the
plough-turned clods,
Jewelled cart-wheel spider-webs leafless vines
adorning, , . , ..
Poplars on the skyline, etchings of the
gods.
Rob and Diamond neighing, waiting at the
stable,
Bluey barking at the cows, bustle every-
where ; . ...... .,
Neighbors’ lusty voices rising high above the
babel: . ., T1 ,
“Get a move on, Darkie!” — W keres the
old grey mare?”
Here’s a splash of scarlet, robin on the
trellis
Carolling a gay tune for the world to hear,
Bearer of glad tidings who has come to tell
All his blithesome heart knows of fellow-
ship and cheer.
Pungent smell of wood-smoke from the cut-
tings burning,
Sweeter, dearer far to me than frankin-
cense and myrrh.
Night to night it clouds my dreams, and
sets my spirit yearning
For Merbein in the morning with the farm
life all astir.
victoria.
ALICE M. LAPIHORNE.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
The Service Department has come to the conclusion that it ought to be giving
more help to wireless users and would-be users. To this end it has added to its
great chain of professional helpers two radio experts, whose opinions and knowledge
will be available to readers who forward inquiries.
Wants.
Returned soldier 30, desires position,
Eastern States or Islands; competent to take
charge of clerks; accountancy student; can
drive car. Do anything, go anywhere.—
3815.
Man, married, seeks job as motor driver ;
reliable, sober, can drive any make car
or lorry, good mechanic, rough carpenter,
blacksmith ; anywhere ; references. —3835.
Retired bank manager, 44 years' experience,
looks and feels young, wants ■ position of
trust in office, part or full time. —3838.
To hear from anybody who has worked
a charcoal-using suction-gas marine-engine
for driving small boats, and whether same
are satisfactory. (Direct to R. Preece, c/o
Keswick, Julia Creek, via Townsville.)
To hear of a stationery and news-agency
in thriving country town within easy dis-
tance of Brisbane, not requiring a large
amount of capital, but capable of being im-
proved by adding ladies’ hairdressing.—3832.
With view purchasing small sheep pro-
perty, young man, single, desires experi-
ence with owner. Deposit after six months;
future payments arranged.—3808.
Whereabouts of William John or dames
Grant Phcmister ; last heard of in Newport
(Vic.). (Direct to George Pollard, Yuda,
via Copley, S. Australia.)
For sale land 49ft. by 81ft., Willoughby
(Sydney), near Middle Harbor. —3816.
To buy Balzac’s “Girl with Golden
Eyes,” Victor Plarr’s “Ernest Dowson,
1887-97.” (Direct to Noel Pearson, 18 Earl-
street, Rand wick, Sydney.)
Information Sought.
What is hypo, how can it he made, and
how is it used in photography? —3567.
Chemically, the “hypo” used in photo-
graphy is sodium thiosulphate, a combination
of two sodium atoms with two atoms of
sulphur and three of oxygen. One method
of preparing it is to pass sulphur dioxide into
an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide,
which forms normal sodium sulphite. If this
compound is boiled with sulphur, hypo or
sodium thiosulphate is formed. But the pro-
cess is one which would be practically im-
possible for a person with no chemical know-
ledge or training, and “hypo” is to be pur-
chased very cheaply. It is used in photo-
graphy because the principle depends upon
light rays precipitating certain silver com-
pounds which are in the photographic film.
After this has been done, other silver com-
pounds must be dissolved out from the film,
and hypo is one of the few cheap sub-
stances which will dissolve silver compounds.
Can you tell me how to mould Balcelite
radio parts, and where machine, moulds and
raw material are procurable; time required
for each moulding, etc .? —3435.
The raw material, procurable in the form
of a powder, is placed in the mould and
then subjected to considerable heat and
pressure for a period of time depending upon
the size of the piece. The mould is next
cooled by water, after which the piece is
ejected. Machines are procurable from O.
H. O’Brien, Ltd., 37-39 Pitt-street, Sydney,
from whom full information regarding cost
of machine, moulds and raw material may
be obtained. Submit to them full details of
the work it is proposed to carry out. The
time taken for a moulding varies from a
few minutes to about half an hour.
As an Australian living in the Islands who
thinks the Commonwealth good enough to
invest his savings in, I would he thankful
for your advice respecting the relative ad-
vantages of investing in {a)Sydney suburban
house propertyj (b) stocks and shares —
sound industrials bringing in a net return
of about 6 per cent, icith a small capital
appreciation. At present I have my capital
invested in stocks and shares of the above
variety, but feel that I could do better by
changing over to suburban house property.
—3425.'
You ought to do better than 6 per cent,
with sound industrials. Money has been
made out of suburban property, but chiefly
by buying and selling—find to do that you
must be on the spot. With the Fair Rents
law in operation and cost of upkeeping very
heavy you are not likely to get a return,
all things considered, better than good in-
dustrials will yield; and if the latter are
well bought you can get out at any time,
whereas at the present moment nearly half
of the houses in one of the best streets in one
of the best northern suburbs are for sale,
and many of them have been for sale for
months without attracting a buyer.
How to make cement laundry-tubs? —3079.
Usually moulded with two compartments.
Inside dimensions of each are 21|in. x 18iin.
at top and 21 jin. x 13jin. at bottom. Inside
height, 13-jin. The outward slope from
bottom to top is made 4in. in front and Tin.
at back and jin. at either end. Two Inside
forms of these dimensions must be mad ; of
planed inch board, with all outside edges
and corners rounded, planed up and- sand-
papered. These should be well saturated
with heavy mineral oil and clamped bottom
upwards on a flat board on a working bench.
Then the outside moulds, also planed up and
oiled, will have to be placed around inside
moulds and bolted together and clamped also
to base board. Dimensions of outside moulds
shall be such as will have a space for con-
crete walls of ljin. thick all round the
inner moulds. They will be also ljin. higher
than the inner moulds to give this thickness
to the bottom of the troughs when these are
moulded upside down by filling the forms.
The two inner forms will have been .so
clamped as to allow liin. between them for
middle partition. Before the moulds are
filled the reinforcement must be placed in
position. Chicken netting of fin. mesh will
be so cut and jointed that it can be placed
in the moulds something like an inverted
wire basket to make a continuous wire mesh
reinforcement throughout the centre of sides,
ends and bottom. Care must be taken to
keep it in this central position when tamp-
ing in the cement-sand. This is made by
mixing one cub. foot cement with two cub.
feet sand and enough water to make it wet
but not sloppy. After thoroughly tamping
it into place the upper surface, which will
be the bottom of the tub, is smoothed off.
Holes must be left in the bottom of the
trough and in the reinforcement to take the
outlet plugs with short outlet pipes attached,
which will be grouted into place with cement
and sand mortar. After keeping covered
with wet bags for 24 or 48 hours the whole
can be carefully turned over so that the
newly moulded tubs rest on their bottom.
The base-board now on top is unclamped;
then the inside moulds taken out. This is
the most delicate part; if the inside moulds
have been so assembled that one part can
be removed at the time there will be less
fear of injuring the tub, which is still tender.
Outside moulds will be easier. The tubs
should be filled with water and left for at
least a week. There is a risk if used too
soon that sand grains may become exposed
and the inside of the tubs thus made rough.
Cure and preventive for sores on fowls’
heads, sometimes on beak, travelling into the
mouth, also around eyes. White leghorns
suffer most. Age, three to four months. Fowls
well bred. —3413.
The malady affecting the birds is chicken-
pox, directions for the prevention of which
are given in the leaflet posted. The sores
should also be painted with tincture of
iodine, but not on the eyes, as it would be
too severe. The sores on the eyes can be
rubbed over with a wet blue. bag.
(1) Who was Prince of Wales when the
present King visited Australia? (2) What
is the highest decoration for bravery in civil
life?—dill.
(1) King George’s father, later Edward
VII. (2) The Albert medal.
Can you give me any information con-
cerning the order known as the “Golden
Fleece of Spain,” and what does the title
“Chevalier of the Golden Fleece” signify, and
for what is the title usually conferred? —
3791.
The Golden Fleece is one of the great
knightly orders of Europe. It is now divided
into two branches, those of Austria and
Spain. It was founded on Jan. 10, 1429, by
Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, on the
day of his marriage with Isabella of' Portu-
gal at Bruges, in her honor. At its con-
stitution the number of the knights was
limited to 24, who were to be “gentlemen of
name and arms above reproach,” not knights
of any other order, and vowed to join their
sovereign in the defence of the Catholic
faith and the upholding of virtue and good
morals. Membership carries with it the title
“Chevalier of the Golden Fleece.” The order
is conferred only upon those of aristocratic
birth.
What teas the name of the Oriental who
tried to make all religions one, and was
imprisoned at Acre? —37s2.
We presume you refer to Baha’u’llah, who
died in prison at Acre in Syria on May IG,
1892. He was the successor of Mirza Ali
Muhammad of Shiraz, the founder of the
Persian cult called Bahaism, who also ended
his days in prison. The cult is a blending
of the tenets of Mahomet. Christ and the
Jews with some Hindoo philosophy. It had
some vogue in U.S.A. An excellent article
on the subject appears in the Encyclopaedia
Britannica.
Is there a good reliable paint for a cement-
finished cellar to keep out damp? —36Bo.
Line the cellar with a fin. mixture of one
of cement to two of sand mixed with a pre-
paration known as “Y-Ur-Ite,” sold by G.
M. Skinner, Ltd., 42 Pine-street, Chippen-
dale, Sydney; 1201 b. of cement and 2 2-3
cubic feet of sand mixed with two gallons
of the preparation will give sq. yds. of
fin. rendering. The floor should be made
I in. thick, using the same mixture; 4|yds.
will be obtained with this thickness for the
same amount of material.
A young girl was deserted by her husband
almost immediately after her marriage 3J
years ago. She is very poor, and has to work
hard to support herself and, child. Can she
get a divorce through the State Aid Dept,
without it costing her anything? —37sl.
Apply to the Registrar in Divorce,
Supreme Court, Sydney, who will instruct
you how to proceed in forma pauperis. Such
a divorce would cost about £7.
Is there any chemical that will dissolve
sulphur? —37B9.
The most satisfactory solvent for sulphur
is carbon disulphide, obtainable from any
chemist. It is very volatile and extremely
inflammable, and care must be taken to
keep corked and away from flame.
If a boat running before a breeze and a
boat running across the same breeze are both
carrying the same amount of canvas, which
boat would be travelling the faster? —3740.
The boat running across the breeze wili
travel the faster. The best illustration in sup-
port of the answer is in the case of ice
yachts, which have been known to sail at
the rate of 60 miles per hour with a beam
wind blowing at the rate of 30 miles per
hour. Running before the wind the ice-
boat could not go faster than the breeze.
Is there a market for wattle gum and the
red gums of hardwood trees? What is their
value? —3701.
Wattle gum is not known to have com-
mercial value. A wholesale confectionery
firm experimented with it as a substitute for
gum arabic, but with unsatisfactory results.
There are small sales for the red gum from
Eucalyptus rostrata (River Red Gum),
which is known as kino. It is used by manu-
turing chemists and paint- and varnish-
makers, and Bosisto and Cos. inform us that
it is worth up to 9d. per lb. dried.
(1) Is there a permanent cure for varicose
veins (in the legs) by injection? (2) Period
of treatment? (3) Best Sydney doctor? (4)
Approximate fee (case fairly mild)? —3705.
(1) There is a quite new treatment for
varicose veins by injections. It requires to
be done by experts in that department, as it
is of a highly technical character. (2) The
period of treatment depends on the condi-
tion of the patient. Probably only a few
days. (3) Ask your local medical man. (4)
We cannot quote fees.
(1) Where can I obtain the best printed
authority on. passion-fruit cultivation and
marketing? (2) Can you supply names of
firms supplying plants in bulk? (3) Any
general information on the subject? —36l4.
(1) See pamphlet posted. (2) As the seeds
germinate so readily, plants are not grown
in quantity by nurserymen. (3) Within the
tropics the pest passion-fruit are produced
only on high country. Granadillas would
be preferable under humid coastal conditions.
I have just purchased an electric motor,
marked 5 h.p., to run 1450 rev. per min.
Now, how can I find out if this motor is
efficient? If we cannot test it ourselves,
what firm would test it, and how much
ivould the test cost?— 3sß9.
Any consulting engineer would test your
motor; the fee would probably be about five
guineas. You could also apply to the Syd-
ney Technical College Engineering Dept.,
which might do it for a nominal fee. If you
wish to test it yourself you will require a
revolution counter (price about 65.), a.
watch with a second hand, a Prony brake.
Information enabling you to construct and
operate a simple Prony brake can be obtained
from the following works at the Free Public
Library : McKay’s “Theory of Machines”
(Chap. 30), Carpenter’s “Experimental En-
gineering” (chap. 8), Marks’s “Mechanical
Engineer’s Handbook” (pp. 1686-1687.)
Information Supplied.
3453. —To attract wild ducks for shoot-
ing, train a young dog to retrieve sticks you
throw away. If you can get him to bark and
play about at the same time, so much the
better. Use 2fin. cartridges, loaded with
nitro powder and No. 2or 3 shot. Go down
to the water’s edge before sunrise, taking the
dog, and get behind a bush or log. As soon
as the light is good throw sticks away for the
dog to chase in full view of ducks out
on the water, taking care not to expose your-
self to the ducks. In about half an hour the
ducks will have come slowly in, attracted by
curiosity, and will be in a dense mob about
30 yards away, intently watching the dog’s
antics. Then let fly both barrels at them.
I’ve bagged 18 ducks with two shots in this
way, and a professional shooter near the
Murray mouth (S.A.) has averaged nearly
two dozen a day in the same way.—“Larra-
pinta.”
3466. —To trap and poison dingoes in
heavily-timbered and well-watered country,
first find the places where the dogs are in the
habit of running. Look for their tracks,
make a note of the localities, and set your
traps accordingly. After setting the traps
drag a trail of meat or entrails along the line
of set traps, and where a trap has been set
brush lightly over the earth covering the
plate. The dingo’s sense of smell is very
keen, and the scent of the human being must
be obliterated. When a dingo* takes a poi-
soned bait it makes for the nearest water,
and with plenty of water lying about, the
task of finding a carcase is a hard one. If
poison baits are used, a freshly shot bird with
strychnine placed in the still warm entrails,
or poison mixed with liquid fat and when set
pieces placed on paper along the route usually
travelled by dingoes, will be found effective.
When setting traps or laying baits wear
gloves.—“B-Gar.”
3529. —The only way to keep ants off
tinplate is to smear it several times a week
with oil of turpentine. A suitable liquid
preparation for putting in the tins in which
safe or table-legs are standing in order to
keep ants away is: Water, 1 quart; Cape
aloes, four ounces; boil together and add
camphor, in small pieces, 1J ounce, and
powdered cloves, 1 ounce. Let stand until
cool and then add a few teaspoonfuls to each
tin.—“Canar.”
3684.- —There is no chemical with which
steel rails or plating may be “cut,” the
oxy-hydrogen and acetylene flames being the
only agents with which that may be done.
The strong mineral acids, sulphuric, nitric
and hydrochloric, would eat through steel,
but it would be a long and tedious process,
especially if the steel were of any thick-
ness. —“Canar.”
3586. —To make bakers’ yeast for use in
hot climates, boil 2oz. of the best hops in
4 quarts of "water for a half-hour. Strain it
and let the liquor cool until it is lukewarm.
Then put in a small handfull of salt and 11b.
brown sugar. Beat up lib. best flour with
some of the liquor and mix all well together.
Let stand for three days and then add 3lb.
potatoes, boiled and mashed, and let stand
for 24 hours. Strain, and it is ready for use.
While making the yeast stir it frequently
and also before using. In this form it will
keep for three or four months, and will even
stand a temperature of 104 deg. Fah. As
it is twice the usual strength of yeast, use
only half the ordinary quantity.—“ Chem.”
3679. —One way to resilver a mirror which
has become patchy is to pour upon a sheet
of clean tinfoil about three drachms of quick-
silver to the square foot of foil. Rub smartly
with a piece of chamois leather until the foil
becomes brilliant. Then lay the mirror upon
a flat table with its face downwards. Place
the foil upon the damaged portion of the
glass and lay a sheet of paper over the
foil, and then place upon it a block of wood
or marble with a flat surface and put a
heavy weight upon it. Leave for about 24
hours and the foil will then adhere to the
glass. It is a job for an expert, and an
amateur is apt to mess things up.—“Morob.”
3433.—T0 adult fowls afflicted with ticks
give three drops oidine in one tablespoonful
of milk. If given when the bird first shows
symptoms of tick fever one dose sometimes
effects a cure. A second dose can be given
after eight hours if there’s no improvement
up to that time. When fowls improve feed
for a day or two on bread soaked in fresh
milk.—“T.W.F.”
Does Anybody Know ?
Will benzine kill borers? —3527.
How to make b@che-de-mer soup?—3B27.
A recipe for French polish?—36s7.
A khaki dressing (not sticky) for a faded
canvas motor hood? —3648.
Brief Answers.
Harbor View: Sorry, can’t advise. Haven’t
anyuuuy in Timor upon whom we can rely....
AV. MacL.: No. .. .D.F.O’R.: As you are admittedly
a gambler, go ahead. It has very fair chances. Our
only doubt is about landing costs... .It.M.T.: Think
you’ve missed your chance. But the future still looks
g00d... .H.J.H.: Afraid not, unless you can prove
that he did not exceed his authority as an agent;
and apparently you can’t do that. Moral —Never
believe more than the printed prospectus tells you,
and then make sure that the people who issue it
are worth powder and shot... .A.J.8.: It has spent
all its capital and if you ever see a penny of your
money back you will be very lucky. Watch “Wild
Oat” Monthly. .. .B.O.: It is the least satisfactory
form of insurance. We know of no case in which
the full amount is paid on early death. (It is dis-
allowed by law in many countries.) ... .N.It.W.: Get
in touch with Cameron, Sutherland and Seward,
Ultimo, Sydney; Gibson, Battle, 535 Kent-street,
Sydney; Ruwolt Pty., Ltd., Richmond, Vic. ; Walkers,
Ltd., Maryborough (Q.). .. .S.G.: The fish trap
described in Service Page (B. 8/2/’2B) can be used
in George’s River; but use of a mesh smaller than
2-Jin. at the sides and top and lin. at the bottom
is unlawful.... Bat: A specialist advises against any
attempt to do it.. . .W.D.D.: You can’t afford to take
the risk... .H.P.McM.: They appear to be honest
enough. Can’t you do better with the Savings
Bank?... .H.W.A.: Nobody knows what will happen
in 16 years. Be clear about what you will get in
the event of early death... .W.R.: A person seeking
divorce in N.S.W. must at the time of the insti-
tution of the suit have been domiciled in the State
for three years or upwards—provided such person
has not resorted to N.S.W. for the purpose of insti-
tuting a suit in divorce. Without knowledge of all
the facts we cannot advise you as to whether you
can institute proceedings in South Australia....
X.X.X.: (1) We cannot give the names of medical
men specialising in the treatment of asthma. The
senior honorary at Sydney or Melbourne Public
Hospital would be well qualified to advise you.
Write to the superintendents of those hospitals and
get into touch with their senior physicians. (2)
Palm-reading is not an exact science and we know
no practitioner who is guaranteed to be “beyond
faking”... .S.M.: (1) There is only a small demand
by hospitals and other places for guinea pigs for
experimental purposes. Institutions that need them
either breed them themselves or are in touch with
people who supply them regularly with the animals
they require. Leading Sydney animal dealers say
there is not much profit in breeding even if a market
can be found. (2) Try Skinner’s Book Shop, Castle-
reagh-street, or Sir Robert Bear’s Bookshop, Market-
street, both of Sydney. Any dealer would give you
enough tips to enable you to carry 0n....T.H.: (1)
Apply in writing to the Assistant Paymaster-General,
Supreme Court Pay Office, London. (2) There is no
official representative of the English Chancery Court
in Sydney and individuals conducting such bureaus
as you mention are better avoided. A list of funds
in the hands of the Chancery Court is issued at
regular intervals... .A.N.H.D.: The tenancy can be
determined by one month’s notice on either side,
expiring at any time. See Sec. 127 Conveyancing
Act 1919 (N.5.W.)... .Corry: Write to La Industriel
Paraguay, Cassila Correo 5, Asuncion, Paraguay, which
might be induced to send you a 21b: sample of yerba
mate. It’s sold by the ton, and the price works
out at about 6d. per lb A.H.T.: (1) The
Bulletin cannot recommend schools of the type you
mention. If you want an art training try the East
Sydney Technical College, Royal Art Society or
the Sydney Art School. As to short-story writing,
that is best self-taught by writing constantly and
studying the stories that are published.... C.D.:
There are already one-trigger hammerless guns on
the market, but your best plan would be to com-
municate with some of the leading English gunmakers.
. ...J.R.S.: Prospects are not bright, positions are
few and far between and when they do occur there
are plenty to choose from. Try advertising....
G.M.C.: You should stand D.C.M.: (1) Pyke’s
I)rive-It-Yourself Service, West Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, will send detailed charges on application. (2)
Depends upon whether the policy contains a clause
insuring the car regardless of who may be driving
it... .A.W.G.: In the case of a doubtful swelling,
the cow should be examined by a veterinary surgeon,
and if necessary tested with tuberculin. Ask the
vendor to produce a clean certificate of health from
a veterinary surgeon... .R.W.: Ford cars numbered
from C 330000 to C 340000 were built between Febru-
ary and April, 1922. There is no distinguishing mark
on the transmission cover from which the date of
manufacture can be traced... .Turf: There is no
other way than by making application to the various
racing clubs enclosing references or by closely
watching the advertising columns of the daily news-
papers. .. .H.W.: Communicate with E. Esdaile and
sons, Hunter-street; H. B. Selby and Cos., Ltd., Bulle-
tin-place; Martin and Cos., Wembley Chambers; or
Harringtons, Ltd., George-street, all iff Sydney.
A microscope for pathological work should be
fitted with an oil immersion lens... .R.U.8.: “The
Invert and His Social Adjustment,” by “Anomaly,”
is not obtainable in Sydney. Order from the pub-
lishers, Balliere, Tindall and Cox, 8 Henrietta-street,
Covent Garden, London, W.C J.H.F.: See reply
to No. 3739 this issue S.A.S.: Consult Andrew
Brown, Assistant Secretary, Master Builders’ Assoc,
of N.S.W., 12 Castlereagh-street, Sydney... .H.D.:
The journal you mention would be of no use for
your purpose. We recommend either the Australasian
Manufacturers’ Directory (£2 25., obtainable
16 Bond-street, Sydney), or Wise’s “Buyers and Sel-
lers’ Guide” (£3 35.) .... J.H.: (1) Either the
Sydney City Mission, 229 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
or the Salvation Army, 140 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(2) Zered (sometimes spelt Zared), is mentioned in
the Old Testament as a valley where the Israelites
sojourned during their flight from Egypt.... Charles
G.: Sorry, none at a 11.... (Many others mailed.)


wm
m
m
MJj
Buying “Willard” is getting more
for your money every time—every
battery. A Willard Battery with
Threaded Rubber Insulation
comes CHARGED Bone Dry. It
stays brand new until it is pre-
pared for your use.
that's
Quality
STORAGE
BATTERY
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD
68 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., Perth.
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC CO., LTD.,
482 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
MOTOR SUPPLIES, LTD., Brisbane.


MELLOW
COOL
AND
ALWAYS
ALIKE
ARD ATH TOBACCO CO: ' LTD: LONDON
THE BEST
CIGARETTES
FOR
YEARS AT
20 for 1/6
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE MAIZE OUTLOOK.
“Paul C.” : The outlook of the maize
grower is very gloomy. At a meeting of the
N.S.W. Maize Growers’ Committee it was
agreed that prices were 45 per cent, below
cost of production, and it was decided to ask
that wheat silos be made available for the
storage of maize until it was needed in time
of drought.
Then at Canberra the second meeting of
the Maize Council was held, at which repre-
sentatives of the three eastern States were
present. Estimates of production indicated
that there would be a very large surplus
over Australian requirements, which, unless
controlled by organised marketing, would
result in the price falling below world's
parity.
The good general rainfall, while increasing
the yield, will largely decrease the demand.
On land capable of producing 40 to 50
bushels an acre, say, land on the Northern
Livers of N.S.W., for which tenants may
pay anything from £2 to £3 an acre rental,
the cost of producing a bushel of maize is,
at the lowest, 2s. <>d.. to which must be
added another shilling if the grain is
marketed in the city. Anything less than
6s. a bushel would not pay. This season, as
local requirements in practically all maize
growing parts of the State will be negligible,
it looks as if competition must bring the
price below production cost.
Failing concerted action on the part of
growers, there seem to be only two ways for
individual farmers to avoid loss. The first is
to start feeding the crop to pigs from the time
the grain is formed and in a milky condition,
right along till the remainder of the crop
must be harvested. Though the practice of
feeding maize to pigs while green, stalks
and all, may result in a percentage of waste,
this waste is probably more than compen-
sated for by the additional food value of
the stalks at their young, juicy stage, and the
lessened cost of handling through dispensing
with picking and husking.
The other way is to store the grain and
hold it back till more favorable market
conditions prevail; and the best means
oi: accomplishing this is to provide
iron tanks as containers (I am assum-
ing the farmer’s finances will not warrant
the erection of a suitable silo). Before the
maize is put into these tanks it should be
absolutely dry. When each tank is filled
almost to the manhole on top, a tin—large
treacle tins with the top cut out will do-
should be sunk in the maize. The tank
should then be filled quite up to the top. A
lighted candle should then be put in the tin,
and the manhole of the tank sealed down air-
tight. This provides for the destruction of
any weevils that might have gone in with
the maize, as the candle will burn till all the
oxygen in the tank is exhausted, and with the
extinguishing of the light, the life leaves any
insect that infests the grain.
WHITE CORN.
“Minto”: Hitherto the cultivation of
white corn was not considered a paying
proposition in Australia, as the sale was
limited, and a big percentage, eventually
found its way into cracked corn, mixed with
a proportion of the red variety, and used
for cattle and fowl feed. The dairyman
often used it as a broadcast crop and chaffed
it as green feed, when it was claimed to
be more milk producing than the red sorts.
A new factory has been erected at Botany
for Kellog (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., where there
will be manufactured their special lines of
breakfast foods, and it is claimed they will
take 10,000 bushels per week, in addition
to a supply of wheat. Last September they
sought the co-operation of farmers and in-
augurated a competition, giving prizes of
over £lOO to growers who would plane the
following varieties: Hickory, King, Large
White, Horse Tooth, Giant White, Silver
Mine and Murrumbidgee White. The com-
petition is to be judged in conjunction with
the Department of Agriculture.
Here is a chance for Australian maize
growers to hop in and secure the trade, or
else the firm will have to import, probably
Irom Africa. The maize position in Aus-
tralia wants a lot more attention ; too often
we have to fall back on importations.
Given ordinary seasons maize could be cul-
tivated from the middle of Victoria to the
fertile stretches beyond Cairns in Queens-
land.
HAY MAKING AND STACKING.
“The Welkin”: Hay-making isn’t as easy
as it looks. Harvesting should be done when
the plants are in flower, otherwise a great
deal of nutriment will be wasted. Grass
for hay should not be cut under a burning
sun, as it will scorch and so lose nutritive
value. Care should be taken to preserve hay
from rain, as water washes away the soluble
salts, and when in the stack will cause fer-
mentation, which if excessive, destroys some
of the uiost valuable properties of the hay.
" Tick’s” method of slanting the pegs to
prevent soakage through the thatching (B.
29/2/’2B) is good; though nowadays stacks
are being built with the sheaves slanting
from the roof, when no thatching grass is
used at all. The middle of the stack is kept
filled or piled and the sheaves slanted there-
from. Stacks should be thatched, however,
and there is no better medium than yelmed
wheaten straw. An attempt should be made
to preserve the green color and natural juices
of the grasses, and to induce a slight degree
of fermentation, which renders the fibres of
the plants more sw T eet and tender. Only a
certain quantity of grass-hay should be put
on the stack daily, to enable the steam to
(‘Scape. Salt should be sprinkled fairly pro-
fusely on the stack as a preservative, and to
make the hay agree better with horses. A
few layers of wheaten straw should be built
in the stack at intervals. This absorbs
moisture from heating hay. and prevents risk
of fire.
PEANUTS.
“Silentio”: Why not more peanuts?
ihey are easily cultivated in any loose soil,
but prefer a warm location. Every year
there is an increasing demand, not only for
human consumption but for stock fodder
Pigs especially thrive and fatten on pea-
nuts ; but as they are a highly concentrated
food they should be fed sparingly in hot
weather. Planted in pig paddocks they
give the grunters plenty of feed and work;
but we should only allow them a few hours
each day, or small areas to clean up.
The seed costs about Is. 6d. a lb., and
takes from 30 to 40 lb. to the acre, the
method of sowing being in rows 3ft. apart
and seeds a foot apart. The ground wants
to be kept clean till the plants are well
established, but from then on require little
attention. The nuts form below the
around and are harvested easily when ripe.
1 he tops make excellent grazing or hay, and
can be ploughed in and used as green man-
ure, making an excellent humus. The two
varieties generally sown are the local small
podded and the large podded North China.
butter factory over run.
“8.Y.N.”: “Paul C.’s” estimate of 1161 b
of butter from 1001 b. of butter fat may be all
right as a basis of payment, but it’s an under-
estimate. The average composition of com-
mercial butter is: butter fat, 82| p.c.; salt,
- p c ' ’ cur< l’ etc -> i P-c. ; moisture, lf> p.c.’
This means you get 1001 b. of butter from
every 82|lb. of butter fat, or 121.211 b of
butter from every 1001 b. of butter fat, giving
an over-run of 21.21 p.c. In Vic. the cow-
cocky is usually paid the wholesale price of
butter for his butter fat, the factory making
working expenses and' profit out of the over-
run. The factory manager in Victoria who
couldn’t maintain an over-run of over 20 p.c.
would send his firm broke within three
months. I worked for a manager who \vas
getting over 30 p.c. until he was caught by tin 1
Agricultural Department’s inspector. That is
i W many Vic. suppliers favor introducing
the N.S.W. system of paying the farmer on
the basis of what his factory manufactures.
MILKING RECORDS.
‘Fernlander” ; There must be some won-
derful milkers in Australia, if “Mac” (B.
2y/12/2<) and other claimants are to be
believed. The man who milked 215 cows in
under an hour should be given a national
memorial when he dies—that is. if he ever
lived. “Mac” does not say how much juice
was extracted from the cows—were they
2-gal. or 3-gal. cows ? There was'a man in
Hunteryille who claimed to hold the Maori-
land milking record. His yarn was that he
used to milk 17 cows in an hour. And,
what’s more, each animal gave three gallons
of milk each time he milked them —51 gal-
lons of milk in an hour! He was also the
champion liar of the district.
DOBBIN SCORES A WIN.
“Paul C. : In January two girders had
to be removed from engineering works in
South Melbourne, to a bridge being erected
over Maribyrnong River. Each girder weighed
43 tons. One of them was loaded on a
trolley, and two tractors, each of which
claimed to be able to pull 60 tons, were fas-
tened on to the load. Press photographers
jostled each other to get pictures illustrating
the efficiency of mechanical power. The
mechanical power roared and rattled for an
hour, and rooted up the roadway, but the
girder remained where it was. - Then a
team of 35 horses was hooked on to the
trolly, and walked off with it. The horse
breeder doesn’t advertise like the motor
agent, and so tlm daily press didn’t record
the victory of Dobbin.
PARALYSIS IN PIGS.
“Coolibah” : “Paul C..” writing on pigs and
their maladies (B. 22/2/’2B), correctly as-
cribed paralysis to the intestinal worm that
attacks the kidney. This, however, is only
one of tin' agencies producing paralysis. A
much more frequent cause is impaction of
the bowels. This very often occurs when the
weaners are taken from their mother and
put to feed from the trough. A cheap and
wonderfully effective remedy is to give the
afflicted piglet a packet of Epsom salts in a
pint of milk. If lie is not on his feet
looking for breakfast next morning repeat
the dose. If young pigs are fed judiciously
and given a few packets of salts in their
milk about once a week paralysis will very
rarely make its appearance. Inbred pigs,
being almost always constitutionally weak,
are most prone to attack. A wise pig-fanner
avoids inbreeding as he would the devil.
A paralysed pig will often live for a long
time, though quite powerless in the hind
quarters, dragging himself to the trough to
drink. I have administered the salts cure to
pigs that had become quite unable to struggle
up for a drink, so that it was necessary to
force the dose dry down their throats, ram-
mining it with a lead-pencil. Two packets
were thus given to each of these badly-afflic-
ted animals, with the result that they were
able three days later to resume drinking
from the feed-trough in the usual way—and
eventually reached the factory as prim ■
baconers.
FATTENING PIGS WITHOUT MILK.
“The Welkin”: A test by the Departments
of Agriculture and Education at Wangaratta
(Vic.) recently proved that a dry food for
pigs was an efficient substitute for milk and
was cheaper. It was found that on an aver-
age 3.721 b. of dry food was needed to
produce lib. of pig weight. The test ration
consisted of 501 b. pollard, 301 b. crushed
barley, 201 b. oats, 101 b. meat meal and 81b.
linseed-cake meal, costing approximately lid.
per lb. The pigs thus fattened were sold
at 9d. a lb., dressed cool weight. The bacon
was of good quality with a tendency to a
little too much fat. Eight pigs sold for
£3O 7s. 6d., and the profit worked out at £ll.
DORSET HORN DEFENDED.
“W.P.D.”: “Azac.” (B. 29/2/’2B) fails to
do justice to the Dorset Horn as a fat-lamb
raiser. The statement quoted by “Azac” that
the breed is not looked on with favor in Eng-
land, being a very coarse-eating lamb, will be
challenged by all familiar with D.H. lambs.
In S.A. and Vic. butchers are keen to buy
D.II. or D.H.-cross mutton or lamb, and
willingly pay the highest prices because its
excellent flavor and juicy tenderness make
it so easy to sell. Reports I have from
British breeders state that no mutton or lamb
is a greater favorite then D.H. or its crosses.
In the last few years no British breed has
increased in popularity so rapidly as the D.H.
Five years ago there were in S.A. two or
three D.H. studs ; to-day there are over 20.
and in Vic. and W.A. D.H. studs have been
established. In Q. there are now two D.H.
studs. The S.A. studs have orders for more
sheep than they can supply.
Tests between rams of the Dorset Horn,
Southdown and Shropshire breeds when
mated with Lincoln x Merino, Leicester x
Merino, and Border Leicester x Merino held
at the Wagga, Cowra and Bathurst Experi-
ment Farms, and covering a period of seven
years, show that the lambs sired by D.II. rams
brought the highest prices.
The D.H. has the special recommendation
that the ewes are in season at least once a
month all the year round, while other British
breeds are in season only once in the year.
The fecundity of the D.H. is extraordinarily
high, ranging from 130 to 180 per cent, under
favorable conditions. The ewes are good
mothers, and the lambs are ready for the
butcher or for export at four months old.
lhe breed is very hardy and the rams very
prepotent. The early maturity of the lambs is
important in a season when feed is short and
it is desirable to get rid of stock as soon as
possible. An objection to Shropshires and
Southdowns is that black or grey hairs are
prevalent in the fleece, and these are most
difficult to deal with in sorting the wool.
The fleece of the D.H. is free from this objec-
tion, but it cannot be regarded as high class,
although it improves under Australian con-
ditions. D.H. x merino wool is of saleable
quality, and with further infusions of merino
strain a good comeback wool results. If
wool, however, is a greater consideration
than early lambs, the Lincoln-merino cross
is better than any other.
SPINNING COUNTS OF WOOL.
"1L E. Combing”: It is not of much actual
importance for woolgrowers to know the
spinning counts of wool; but, at any rate,
let's get it right. In a recent Bulletin
“B-Gar" quoted 52’s and 48's. 52’s is a
quality which does not exist at all as a
standard, and 48's arc only a superior 46’s.
The accepted types are 28’s, only in small
quantities from Scotch Blackfaces and simi-
lar classes of sheep; M2's, some Lincolns
and other British breeds; 36’s, average Lin-
colns, outside the refining districts of N. S.
\\ ales; 40’s and 44’s, some British breeds
iind strong crossbreds; 4G’s and 50’s, the
fi»er British breeds and medium crossbreds;
r>(”s, fine crossbreds, mostly what are known
as “colonial”; 58’s, a standard introduced
within the last quarter-century to cover our
comeback types; tiO's, a strong merino or
fine comeback standard; 64’s, the medium
merino; 70’s, the fine merino ; 80’s, 90’s and
100's, superfine merinos (!)o's and 100's are
now so very scarce that they are hardly
ever quoted).. Some spinners and topmakers
also differentiate between common GO’s and
super GU’s, but they are distinguished more
by style than actual spinning count. Some
firms also produce a specialty which they
call GO’s, but as a standard it is not in
common use, and it is notable that in the
book of 848 types used for appraising the
Australian wool clip for Imperial purchase,
GG’s were only quoted once, and this among
a high-grade set of types. Owing to the
development of some very coarse types among
South Australian rams, they speak of 58's
merino there, but they are not recognised
as such in trade circles.
While their system of standards is
much the same as the English, Continental
designations are different. Their “prime,”
an equivalent of GO’s, is again the divider
between merino and crossbred, but is gen-
erally regarded as the top of the latter
rather than the bottom of the former.
DRAFTING SHEEP FOR SHEARING.
“B-Gar” : Many farmers with small mixed
Hocks do not bother to draft their sheep
before they are shorn, their argument being
that it takes too much time, and that the
classer can sort out the different merino and
crossbred fleeces. The classer will certainly
do this, but where the damage is done is in
the bellies, pieces and locks. With mixed
breeds of sheep being shorn at the one time,
it is well nigh impossible to keep the lower
sorts of wool separated; and no matter how
well the fleece portion of the clip has been
classed, the mixed qualities of the pieces,
bellies and locks play havoc with the general
appearance of the clip. A classer should
insist on having the sheep drafted before
they are run into the catching pens, arid
small farmers doing their own classing
should go to this little bit of extra trouble ;
by so doing they will simplify their woz-k and
benefit accordingly. Rams’ wool should
always be baled or bagged by itself.
MOTORING FOR SHEEP.
“GGG”: Motor transport of sheep from
drought-stricken areas or to market seems
likely to become a commonplace in Australia.
The idea was well tested in Queensland dur-
ing the disastrous drought of the last two
years, and with one notable exception, when
the sheep wei’e weak, the distance long and
the lorries used for transport hastily impro-
vised, has proved a success fi’om every point
of view. The chief trouble experienced has
been the roughness of the usual type of
motor-lorry, which knocks the sheep about
even more than the railway trucks. The intro-
duction of the six-wheeled lorry, with its
greater adaptability to road surfaces, and its
ability to negotiate the roughest country with
comparative ease, promises to smooth over
this difficulty, and this type of transport will
probably be a big factor in sheep trans-
portation in the near future. A six-wheeler
Thorneycroft recently delivered to Robert
Crawfoi’d, of Bimbowrie (S.A.), and speci-
ally fitted for'carrying sheep, is an inter-
esting example, and others are being con-
structed. The vehicle is specially suspended
so as to avoid jolting as much as possible,
azid as it can travel across country is able
to pick up sheep in the paddocks. The body
was made in Adelaide, and consists of three
tiers of sheep-pens, with a folding gangway
leading from the top tier to the ground. The
gangway can be lowered or hoisted in a few
moments. These lorries are now being exten-
sively used in South Africa for sheep trans-
port, and have proved a great success.
(Continued on page 31.)


rm
ttst-gy
The Heart of a Lighting Plant is the Engine
u> Kilowatt direct-coupled type
The Lister-Lite
Home-lighting
Plant
is British-built from end
to end. The Lister gen-
erator, passed by Admi-
ralty test, is thoroughly
constructed throughout
and develops current
very economically. The
switch-board is strongly
constructed and is very
simple to operate.
The battery supplied with
Lister-Lite is rugged and
dependable and in keep-
ing with the rest of the
Lister-Lite plant.
mm
6 Kilowatt direct-coupled type
Write to the Lister-Lite Agent in your State
for full particulars.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
and the famous
IS+CQ Engine
is tHe Heart
of
JJster-life)
Lighting Plant de Luxe .
Therefore, if you choose a Lister-Lite you will always
be assured of an abundance of steady, dependable
power for your generator.
Most lighting-plant engines are just good enough for
that job, but you would not care to give them real
farm jobs for long. The Lister engine, however, was
built for, and has been proved on, every kind of
long-run heavy duty, like driving shearing machines,
chaffcutters, saws, pumping plants and so on. Natur-
ally, then, the Lister can handle a lighting plant more
dependably and last longer than the ordinary engine.
It is an engine of remarkably simple control; you can
leave it all night to work by itself. It is completely
self-oiling and self-governing, and its low cost of
upkeep, both in fuel consumption and repair bills, has
convinced critical users everywhere that it is an
engine of unapproached value, to be depended upon
at all times.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
A. P. Sutherland,
2 Maffra St., South Melbourne.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Malloch Bros M
50-54 William Street, Perth.


New
Chrysler
So tiery much more
•for your money
IN PERFORMANCE, in com-
fort and in luxury the New
Chrysler “52” is head and
shoulders above anything and
everything else in its particu-
lar price field.
Not only because of its smooth
speed capacity of 52 miles and
more an hour, its remarkable
snap and dash in getaway; and
its low fuel consumption —
But also because it is so mu ch
larger; its sturdy wood and
<z
I'xJ
steel body is
so much, more
substantial; its ample seats
are so much wider, deeper and
more restful; its fittings and
equipment are so much richer
and more elegant; andits colour
harmonies are so much more
striking than any other car with
which you might contrast it.
Seven body styles
Seven body styles
Illustrious
3£zr-^S=-|=
_ RH * 1H -0
ena
Fifteen body styles
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N S.W.: Larke Neave 2? Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney»
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
518.


" 1
Handsome Willow
Calf
Comfortable-wearing leather,
made into a low-sided Abbey
Shoe built to fit closely without
strain to arch lightly where it
laces so that the foot muscles
have fullest freedom.
A shoe with a neat, flat toe
with a broadly-welted sole of
even thickness right from tip to
heel.
The fine - grained leather
brightens easily takes on a
pleasingly mellow color.
Order by Post
Three fittings—narrow, medium and wide
—for each half size. No risk of a bad
fit —state the width you need as well as
the size. Order, also, a supply of the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
Dark Tan Willow
Calf 50/-
Ask for a copy of the latest colored
Catalogue of Men’s, Women’s and Child-
ren’s Footwear,
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
T.«A SYDNEY
Post your Order
BONSER BUSHMAN
1928 MODEL SADDLE.
It’s sturdy and strong,
made of best oiled Queens-
land kip leather, well
sewn, capped kneepads,
made on a special steel-
plated tree. Very com-
fortable. Guaranteed
genuine shock absorber.
Full equipment ready for
work. Four-bar stirrups,
best leathers, folded girth
ring surcingle, for
£B/15/-
Well worth £l2.
Send your cash to
f
Agent for
Genuine
Wicneke
Saddle.
the
JOHN BRUSH,
Australia’s Saddle
Specialist,
371 George Street,
Sydney.
V
Care For The Hands
With Cuticura
Daily use of the Soap, with
occasional touches of the Ointment,
keeps the hands soft and smooth.
If red, rough or sore, on retiring
bathe them in hot water and Cuti-
cura Soap, dry, and gently rub in
Cuticura Ointment.
Soap Is.,Talcum ls.3d.,Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.
pagr* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
price ... ' ia
Contains everything a woman needs tt know-
The Canberra Building & Investment Company, Ltd.
Nominal Capital £lOO,OOO
Issued Capital 49,161
Paid-up Capital 30,234
Directors:
John Deans, Esq. (Chairman).
W G. Woodger, Esq. ; S. J. Goulston, Esq.
R. G. H. Joscland, Esq.
Investments in Canberra Are Free of State Income Tax.
Sound Security in Business, Residential and
Industrial Properties. Full particulars on application.
L. G. FUSSELL, General Manager.
Walker-Welford 2007
For Sheep, Cattle &Horse Paddocks
HIQH TENSILE
SPRING COIL FENCE
In addition to our Cyclone "Special” Spring Coil Fences,
the 5-line (26-in.) and 6-line (36-in.) fences are also made
with line wires of 12£ gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire
of 1140 lbs. breaking strain. High Tensile Wire is thus
approximately as strong as ordinary 10 gauge fencing wire.
Cyclone Pig Fence (8-line, 30-in.) is also made with line
wires of 12£ gauge High Tensile Galvanised Wire.
CYCLONE HIGH TENSILE SPRING COIL IS A STRONG,
DURABLE, LIGHT-WEIGHT SHEEP AND CATTLE FENCE
PRICES
(5-line, 26-in. Fence- - £l9 10 O per Mile
\ 6-line, 36-in. Fence - - £25 10 O per Mi e
[B-line, 30-in. Pig Fence £39 O O per Mile
Cyclone Fence ctnd Qate Catalogue is free
on request. 'Write or Call for a Copy.
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE CO. PTY.LTD.
Commerce Bldg., Ash St. (off 350 George St.), Sydney
189-191 William Street, Melbourne
Exchange Buildings, Ptrie Street, Adelaide
When
Ordering
Specify
“High Tensile
Fence
fed
1
.CROSSBRED LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“B-Gar” • The merino ewe crossed with
cither English or Border-Leicester rams
produces a lamb that is ideal for export.
The lambs mature very quickly, are good
doers and take after the rams in the matter
of being large-loined. The merino cross
seems to give them their quality, and after
six months, if on good feed, they will top
up and dress from 38 to 45 lb. Another
cross, the Dorset or Shropshire with the
merino ewe, is one that comes to maturity
quickly, but does not reach the same weight
as the Leicester cross.
PRESERVING EGGS.
“L.M.”: Here are six things to note when
preserving eggs. Do not wash the eggs—this
removes the gelatinous substance from the
shell. Rub dirt off gently with a dry cloth.
Always use new-laid and unfertile eggs.
Examine each egg closely for cracks —broken
eggs have a bad effect on the solution. See
that the solution covers the eggs completely.
Eggs which refuse to settle down at the bot-
tom of the container with the others should
be removed. Keep airtight lids on containers,
or at least keep them covered. Store the
eggs where the temperature does not exceed
50deg. Falir.
COMMERCIAL VALUE OF LARGE
EGGS.
“H. J.M.”: The system of grading eggs for
market is a broad hint to poultry-keepers to
sort out their stock. Large eggs are always
worth Id. a dozen more than the smaller kind,
and it takes no more to feed the birds which
lay them. Get rid of the hens that lay small
eggs, even if they are good layers. The
balance of the flock should be mated to male
birds from proved large-egg stock, and the
pullets retained. It will take perhaps four
years to get good stock, so when you get
them hang on to the standard.
In America the grading system nowadays
goes so far that birds are not officially recog-
nised unless the eggs weigh 240 z. to the
dozen; and the system has improved the
strain of stock poultry.
HALVING AN EARTHEN PIPE.
“Paul C.” : To halve glazed earthen pipes,
to make open drains for the dairy or
piggery, place the pipe in an upright
position with the small end down, and
fill it with sand or dry earth, which should
be lightly rammed down as it is being filled.
Now chalk lines down opposite sides of the
pipe, and with a light hammer begin at the
bottom and strike a succession of fairly
heavy blows along the lines. When the top
or funnel end is reached the blows should be
lighter, because the earth in the pipe is looser
here, and offers less resistance. If the pipe
is a big thick-walled one, the blows should be
struck close together. When both sides have
been treated, the pipe should fall apart.
If it does not do so, th;e blows were
not heavy enough, and the operation should
be gone over again with slightly heavier
blows. On no account try to halve an
empty pipe with a hammer.
FISH IN BORE DLAINQ
“John W”: “Mei” (B. l/12/’27) ' -*1
wrong in his theories about fish and couch
grass in bore drains. Fish can’t come up
bores. The bore water comes from sand
rock, which fishes can’t penetrate. If they
came from underground they would be blind.
These are not. If the bore drain runs into
a creek the fish follow it up. Wild fowl
also carry the spawn on their feathers,
which accouiits for fish being found in tanks
that have no connection with any creek.
Couch grass and bulrush seed are like-
wise carried by wild fowl and blown by the
wind. Couch grass will not grow unless
there is moisture in the ground all the year,
and is never found in the paddocks in W.Q.,
which knocks out the ingenious little theory
that sheep bring it in between their toes
and plant it in the bore drains.
GOOD WORK IN WESTRALIA.
“Tuart”: There was no loafing during the
getting in and away of Westralia’s splendid
wheat harvest. George Chitty, working with
an eight-horse team on a farm at Coorow, on
the Midland line, stripped 720 acres in 37
days, taking off 5143 bags of wheat. He
averaged 19J acres and 137 bags a day—and
had five to spare. And at Geraldton, which
is small and ill-equipped compared with Fre-
mantle, the steamer Passatt got over 78,000
bags of wheat aboard in seven working days,
averaging approximately 1000 tons per day.
BLACKLEG.
“Fred Rich”: This disease usually attacks
calves a few weeks old while the stomach
is in a weak condition, and is caused, I
think, by the mother eating unsuitable foods.
Its first indications generally are a dopey
appearance; later the calf will get weak
in the legs, and later still develop staggers.
It can be cured by making a seton under the
calf’s neck. Plait a few strands of horse-
hair and thread through a packing-needle.
Throw’ the calf, and if you haven’t an assist-
ant to hold it down, see that it is tied
securely. Take about two inches of loose skin
in one hand, and with the other put the
needle through the skin, about an inch or a
little more from the top. Draw the thread
through and right around the skin, tying it
tightly and as securely as possible. In a
few days a sore will form at the spot where
the seton is made, but this need not cause
alarm, as it will gradually dry up and will
eventually drop off, leaving the animal well.
After the seton is made the calf may be put
back with its mother, but if flies are bad
protect the sore until it commences to dry.
Before using the needle see that it is free
from rust, and sterilise it by passing it
through a flame.
COAL ASH AND TOMATOES.
“Wundaroo”: When a Bowen (N.Q.)
farmer saw fine tomatoes growing near an
old mine he became interested. Looking
over the machine site he found magnifi-
cent fruit growing on plants which wore
self-sown apparently on the ash heap. Since
then he has found that coal ashes have a
remarkable effect in stimulating the growth
and yield of tomatoes. He mixes the ashes
with the soil, adds fresh cow manure, and
then plants the seedlings. Water is freely
used when the plants are established, and the
result is a heavy crop of fine size and quality.
Furthermore, the blight which proved so
disastrous to Bowen growers last year did
not injure his tomatoes.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“A.B. J.”: A tonic for moping fowls, can
be made of 4oz. gentian, loz. each of ginger
and saltpetre and 2oz. iron sulphate. To a
warm mash add a teaspoonful of the tonic
per 20 birds every three days, and follow the
treatment with a loz. packet of Epsom salts
in the drinking fountain every week. Before
the treatment keep the birds from food or
water for 12 hours. Plenty of shell-grit and
a warm, sheltered corner will also do much
to put the birds on their tucker again
quickly.
“Camelero”: Many fine litters of pigs
are seriously reduced because the mothers
lie on the piglings and kill them. A two-by-
four nailed about six inches from the floor
and placed entirely around the sty will pre-
vent this. The narrow edge should go against
the wall. It keeps the sow far enough from
the wall to give the little pigs safety.
“A.N.”: To get rid of Indian-wax scale
on fruit-trees, spray with lib. washing soda
mixed in a kerosene-tin of water. The pest
is more easily discerned after the leaves have
fallen.
“Nota Bene”: To keep apples, take a crate
with the slats sufficiently close to prevent the
apples falling through, and on the bottom
put a layer of tussock grass, on that a layer
of apples not touching each other, then
another layer of grass, and so on, covering
the last layer of apples with grass. The
crate should be put away in a place where
the air can get all around it. The apples
should be perfectly sound and not quite ripe.
“Rossmoyne” : A good mixture for killing
weevils in sheep-skins can be made by mix-
ing lib. caustic soda and arsenic with
10 gallons of water. Put the caustic soda
and a quarter of the water in a sgal. drum,
bring to boil, and then add the arsenic. Fill
the drum with boiling water and keep boil-
ing slowly until dissolved. When cold add
another five gallons of water and apply to
the skins with an old millet broom.
“Rossmoyne”: Old horseshoes can be uti-
lised as holders for sliprails, and will save
the time and expense of cutting slotted gate-
posts. Flatten the heel of the shoe so that
it will extend beyond its original length and
punch two or three holes in the flattened
portion to enable it to be nailed to the post,
thus making a holder for the sliprail that
will last a lifetime. Horseshoes can also be
used as pivots for swinging gates by first
boring holes in the gateposts the required
distance apart and driving the prongs of the
shoe deeply into the wood.
“Larrapinta” : To stop super, from stick-
ing to the drill stars, take them out, clean
them thoroughly and give the top surface and
edges a coating of good enamel. When they
are thoroughly dry replace them. The drill
can then be used all the season without clog-
ging up.
“The Welkin” : If at times you are won-
dering what has happened to a fowl, make a
close inspection of the pig-yard. You may
find one or two feathers. Porky will develop
into a notorious killer once he has killed and
consumed his first bird; and, hog-like, he
will not stop to sort flesh from feathers —
thus not only dwindling the members of the
fowlyard, but doing injury to himself.
“Chevroford”: One of the features of
out-back roads nowadays is the clear run
given to the motorist. The old necessity of
getting out every few miles to open a gate
and shut it has gone. Realising that the
city motorist will never learn to close a
gate after him, the farmers have built run-
offs at the side. These take the form either
of an opening with a rough openwork bridge
over a pit, or a crescent-formed passage lined
with boughs and kerosene-tins. This keeps
the sheep starving on one farmer’s property
from crossing to starve on another’s—the
foolish jumbuck is afraid of the contraption.
The only stations where these devices are
not in vogue are those on which horses are
being bred. Man’s best friend can’t be
fooled so easily as a sheep.
“Pick”: Remembrance of the foal-hood
home remains with a horse. A blood-filly
once went astray from New Providence sta-
tion, N.S.W., and later appeared with the
harem of a brumby sheik in the Kiandra
ranges. For years the horse-hunters of
those wilds sought to earn the reward that
was offered for her re-capture. George
Harris, champion of the bush riders, built
a trap yard with wings a mile long, and
succeeded in rushing her in, but when he
followed with his rope she flew the fence
like a bird. After that she never again
could be yarded. Years after, when the
mother of several wild beauties, she was with
a mob fleeing from pursuit across the plains
of the station. When New Providence
loomed up on the far horizon the mare sud-
denly wheeled from her mob and galloped
whinnying through the home-paddock gate.
“A. Jack” : Recently 1100 rams were taken
through Broken Hill from Bungaree (South
Aus.) to Winton (Q.) for restocking that
station by natural increase. The number
transported in one flock for such'a purpose
is a district record and is thought to be an
Australian one,
“Silentio”The herd of milking Short-
horns owned by the Cosy Camp stud, Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.), has had nine sets
of twins in the last 12 months —much to the
disgust of the owner, who says that it takes
too much from the milking cow. In all cases
except one the youngsters were destroyed.
“T.C.”: A Gosford (N.S.W.) farmer is
still wondering who gets the profits from
fruit. Recently he sent 27 half-bushel cases
of plums to Sydney market and his return
was 3d.! He is keeping that coin as a
souvenir.
“Max”: “Jerso” (B. 29/2/’2B) is not
wholly right when he says mixed plantings
of water-, pie- and rock-melons may produce
crossbred fruit. Rock-melons will not cross
except amongst their own sorts. And when
cross-pollination does occur, it affects only
the seeds saved for the following planting'.


r jPtie first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
in pure ribbed watermarked rice paper,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
m
X
m
m
€
as>»
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
Girls’ motto for 1928: None but the brave
deserve the heir.
* *
Being operated on for appendicitis takes
it out of one.
$ ❖
The child that can hang on to the modern
mother’s apron-strings is no dwarf.
An egotist is one who will persist in talk-
ing about himself when you want to talk
about yourself.
It can’t be said that golf-players fail to
keep the Sabbath holey.
Mary had a little calf
With skin as white as snow;
In fact, she had a pair of them
And didn’t have to lift her hem
To let onlookers know.
A city sandwich shop was recently de-
scribed by the police as a sly-grog shop.
Closer investigation proved, however, that
they had been misled by the clinking of the
ham sandwiches.
How poor a thing a man-clerk is!
lie does a break with the boss’s pelf,
A woman-clerk does better biz —
She does a break with the boss himself.
THE BARE NECESSARIES.
“And will my daughter need many clothes?”
“No, Madam. This is a strictly modern school.”
Residents on the foreshores of Sydney
Harbor have been complaining in the press
about the fearful noises made by prawners
at night. We understand, however, that the
noise is not made by the prawners, but by
the Prawns’ Union, which complains bitterly
that the prawners, not being possessed of
luminous watches,. frequently work over the
44-hour week.
A Queensland girl, 18 years old, recently
won a wood-chopping contest in competi-
tion with 15 men. We learn that the other
competitors, all farmers, ran a dead-heat in
proposing to her.
* *
The most effective cure for absent-minded-
ness so far invented stands to the credit of
a Brisbane car-owner. He wiped the ben-
zine off his hands on the seat of his trousers,
and then on the same place scratched a
match.
A newspaper announces that no changes in
the Federal Ministry are likely. Well, Mr.
Bruce always was rather fond of his duds.
* *
The most bitter man we have met for some
time was a motorist who determined to drive
at a pace that would give the more athletic
of pedestrians a fairly reasonable chance.
He had not gone a block before the police
cautioned him for obstructing the traffic.
Mick: “Whoi kape your fate out of the
fut of the blankets, Pat?”
Pat: “Shure, and for why but to dis-
tliract the mosquitoes from me face!”
According to a newspaper, a city is now
being built exclusively for non-motorists.
This, of course, explains the recent activity
among monumental masons.
A newspaper asks its readers: “What
ancient record of beer has recently been
discovered?” We don’t know, but we can
supply the addresses of two poets and a cane-
cutter who will back themselves to lower it.
The only stipulation made in the rules for
the next Sydney artists’ ball is that everyone
must wear a hat. These shows seem to be
getting prudish.
Corncob: “I say—what place d’yer call
this?”
Tram Conductor: “Darlingliurst.”
Corncob : “Gripes ! that reminds me—l left
me flamin’ razor on that blasted train.”
lie rushed to the just-closed pub door
and knocked frantically. It opened a couple
of inches and a face peered out. “Sorry.
After six. Too late,” the hotel porter said.
“Too late be hanged!” he shouted. “I’ve
got. to get in-—I left my pipe in here.” “All
right—come on,” said the porter, conde-
scendingly. Ten minutes later the porter
discovered him at the bar, drinking beer.
“Here!” said the porter angrily, “I thought
you told me you wanted to come in to get
your pipe!” “Pipe!” said the voice from
the beer. “Pipe! I didn’t say pipe—l
said pint!”
*
“Beerbolim Irving” : Schweinsclinout was
one of the greatest producers of his time,
and when he went to Heaven he lost no
time in impressing the fact on St. Peter.
As he argued at
the lodge gates a
curious little crowd
gathered inside to
listen. Schwein-
schnout swelled
visibly and, playing
his trump card as
he piped the gather-
ing crowd from the
corner of his eye,
he told how he had
conferred entertain-
ment on countless
thousands, and
brought joy to
many a weary heart
with his magnifi-
c e n t producing.
“Why,” he cried,
in my last show I
had a real water-
f a 11, consuming
70,000 gallons of
water.” Someone
in th'e crowd in-
side snorted deri-
sively. “Who,” said
the purpling pro-
ducer, “who the—
er, box office is
that?” “That?”
answered Peter
wearily, as he made
out a down-the-line
docket and passed it over. “That? Oh,
that’s only Noah.”
“Embroidery,” says a fashion writer, “is
still popular for decorating lingerie.” So
we haven’t been able to help noticing.
To offer a bribe is to offer an insult. And
how many are ready to pocket insults!
The bookmaker has respect for his bettors.
We learn that a bather who had his
trousers stolen on a Sydney beach the other
day went shockingly shirty.
The man who declares that brevity is the
soul of wit has never had to keep a couple
of daughters and their mother in dresses.
* *
We presume the Melbourne man who
asked to be sent to gaol the other day was
a pedestrian who believed in safety first.
“Don’t bring in your damned lies to this
paper,” roared the news-editor. “What’s
this preposterous story about a man paying
£lOO to have his wife cured of her dumb-
ness ?”
THE BRUTE!
WIFE (after tiff) : “I’m going home to
mother’s, so there!”
HUBBY (ditto) : Well, that’s an improve-
ment on her coming here.”
In the Fitzroy Gardens (Melb.) a battered
hat was found on the head of one of the
statues. The owner was not traced.
Gone home, no doubt, as Life compels
That gayest mortals must,
While yet one thought his bosom swells —
His hat’s still on the bust.
.We are informed on quite unreliable
authority that the 50,000 bags of potatoes
shipped from Tasmania recently were not
grown one on top of the other.
Answers to Correspondents.—A.D. : An
original joke is one that everybody has for-
gotten.
* *
Sydney Guardian reports that while free
beer was being handed over in a North Syd-
ney pub a Scotsman fainted and was carried
out. We learn that he did so merely as a
protest against his sixth glass not being
properly filled.
* *
CASUAL CLASSICS.
Non liquet: After six.
Nota Bene : Broke.
Par Force: Daddy’s a policeman.
Pax in bello : A good feed.
Chef de bataillon : Military cook.
* *
On the pay parsons get every man wdio
goes in for soul-saving needs to be a saving
soul.
* *
“Dawker” : These modern plays! The
other night I took my very staid aunt to
see an ultra-modern concoction, all lingerie
and langwidge. At the end of the first act
she began looking anxiously at the floor.
When I asked her what she wanted, she
replied: “I’m looking for my blasted pro-
gramme, m.v dear.'’
! * *
Nations may be said to be friendly when
they get together and agree on the ldnd of
weapons they’ll use next time they fight.
Bumper bars of rubber, instead of metal,
are now being used on motor-cars. With the
idea, we suppose, of saving drivers from the
inconvenience of shock when they strike
pedestrians.
Sydney working jewellers display in their
windows the notice: “Watch Repairs.” It
seems good advice.
During the hearing of a debt case re-
cently a Judge said that he did not know
what underclothes girls wore nowadays. He
must be dreadfully shortsighted.
A Victorian clergyman says that everyone
must have one day’s holiday a week. Why
not Sunday?
sfc $
Suggested motto for the Anti-roadhog
League—Pedestrians should be seen and not
hurt.
* *
An English fashion-writer says that jazz
garters will be much brighter this season.
Well, we’ll see if they are.
EPITAPH.
She never heard a cattish word
That others breathed so sweetly;
A charming maid, no heed she paid
To gossip passed discreetly;
Now on her tomb there's plenty room
To write the reason neatly.
She, as a girl, teas quite a pearl —
But deaf, oh, deaf completely.
N.S.W. Macann.
* *
Woman’s inhumanity to man keepst thou-
sands out till morn.
* *
According to a report of the Federal Capi-
tal Commission, Canberra residents are
going in extensively for bee-farming. It
already has been proved that drones thrive
there.
* *
“What,” asks Sydney Guardian, “is a
totem?” One, we should say, who doesn’t
like to back ’em with the books.
*
Quite rightly women motorists resent the
recent suggestion in a morning newspaper
that they should pay more
heed to the rules governing
signalling to cars behind them.
Everyone should know by this
time that when a woman
driver stretches out her arm
she is: (1) Knocking ash off
her cigarette; (2) rebuking the
small boy at the side of the
road; (3) going to turn to the
right; (4) pointing to the scenery; (5)
going to turn to the left; (0) feeling for
raindrops; (7) hailing a friend; (8) going
to stop.
ELIMINATION.
The bools that take Europe by storm seem
patently lacking in form.
The crowds to the theatres swarm to see
drama without any plot.
There are journals denuded of news, with,
the “ leaders” divested of views,
And the broadcasting stations refuse to
send anything other than rot.
Our custards have never known eggs, and the
flappers’ übiquitous legs
Are as empty of beauty as pegs, and toe'll
shortly wage wars without shot.
There are trams independent of rails, and
wind-driven ships with no sails,
While the delicate scents one inhales conic
from coal-tar and not, from the flower.
The telegrams go without wires, and the poets
give tongue without lyres.’
And the man with the glider aspires to fly
without engine or power •
There is almost no malt in the beer,
lemonade of all citron is clear,
And the crops that bring plenty and cheer
don’t insist on a genuine shower.
In fact, about the only thing in the world
that hasn’t been eliminated is the price
we pay for what has.
N.S.W.
BLLDAD THE BARD.
TESTING A PINT.
If you walk into a bar and call for a
tin pint or beer, it will be served to you
with two inches of froth on it. There are
two ways of getting rid of this froth quickly.
Blowing it off is the accepted way, but
that makes a bit of a mess. The other way
is to tap the side of the tin pint with your
knuckles.
I went into the Frog and Dog and called
for a tin pint. I could see there was a lot
of froth on it, and I was in a bit of a hurry,
because I had to meet my city girl. On
account of the pint being metal I couldn’t
see just how much froth there was on it, so
I began to tap it.
“Tap-tap-tap,” my knuckles went, and I
had got only to the fifth tap when the girl
behind the bar came along.
“Are you trying to see how much beer
there is in it?” she asked.
Having lived in the city for years, I Had
to think for a long time; then suddenly I
remembered.
“Where do you come from?” I asked.
“Why?” she said.
“To know that,” said I.
“Oh, we always used to tap the tanks
like that in the bush when there was a
dry spell,” she said.
QUITE EASY.
BOYSIE: “Now that we are alone, tell me
how I can prove my love for you.”
GIRLIE: “Oh, buy-and-buy.”
“I come from the bush, too,” said I.
“Do you ?” she asked. “Will you have
another on the house?”
“Only too pleased,” I told her.
After that one thing led to another. Still,
this isn’t exactly a love story. Aou see, we
are now married.
TOP RAIL.


BLACK & WHITE
. ,
m
■ ;, Mmm
1
■:;l
'i
■
> ■
" , /
', aj'i
.
;* •
•V- '.
tm
m i
t.'_V ' J
■
■-
JP
J
*,
mm
■
i
■ j
■
:
4
I I |§ ' J
V' 'IM
.
W- .' *
■v
' 'tv-: •
Mu. .Ml
- f
■
■
*00" \
v'fy.yM •■•••
4G£ 4/VO QUALITY
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


ITORCHES 4
6 The Worlds Best
sdf
Look Cm *• TradMMfk I Agontt Etoywhtr*.
Write for tUmm*ted Cmurtogme.
The Ever-Ready Co. (Gt. Britain) Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafeiv Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadtields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
MAN
sd
NEWS
fs
"Stronghold
Work Shirt
One of the ftrongest Work
Shirts made. The material is
well. Made with oceans of
room in and
Armpits. Shades Plain Blue
'v.Blue with White or Black
Stripe. (Sizes.
10/6
3 for 30/-
Write Desk
S.B.
PIKE - BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, (Brisbane
Poverty
Point
“Bilby”: Those who paid for admission
to a buckjumping show at Mount Morgan
not long ago had more than their money’s
worth before the entertainment finished.
Two local lads entered a boxing ring, but a
spectator objected to their unequal sizes.
Another ringsider told the spectator to mind
his own business, and then these chaps
rushed each other. Before their scrap was
finished others joined in. Then someone
struck a woman with a child in her arms.
Handing the infant to a friend, the lady
attacked every male within striking distance.
Just here a dog fight took place, and under
cover of this distraction the small boy who
was the cause of the disturbance hopped into
the ring and knocked out his burly opponent
in the first round. All this cost a bob.
“Harry Stottle”: Another versatile old-
time mummer was Alfred Dampier, who, in
1889, ran the Grand National Baby Show
at the Melbourne Exhibition buildings. There
were 700 entrants, and the finish was en-
livened by a riot, police having to rescue
the judges and the proud mother whose
offspring was first past the post from an
infuriated crowd of disappointed parents.
“Mercedes”: Why is the operation of the
lighting system in movie theatres put in the
hands of color-blind imbeciles? Before
attending some of these “theatres beautiful”
I didn’t know there were such colors. The
places can be flooded with the most bilious
shades of mauve, heliotrope and purple,
while the man who does it remains securely
hidden. To be set against that is the fact
that the seats positively caress you as you sit
down. You can feed and read and drink with-
out leaving your seat. The plan of escape is
thrown on the screen before the performance.
In the better theatres you may be carried
fainting from the building while the
orchestra plays your favorite march.
“Craiser”: The Taits are not following
the example of the Carrolls (B. 7/3/’2B)
in putting off the 1928 virtuosi. Pianist
Moiseiwitsch will start his scheduled 40 con-
certs in Sydney in April, and the same month
the Cherniavsky trinity will burst on MeF
bourne. They, however, will not be allowed
to clash with the Williamson grand opera,
whatever they do to the rival firm.
“Hamfat” : The Australian Navy Depart-
ment is the latest to unbend and associate
itself with picture production. The obso-
lete Sydney is being lent to help in rescreen-
ing some of the scenes in the Emden film
prepared in Germany. The German film is
fair enough in its story, but it strays unin-
tentionally and laughably in scenes on the
warship used as the Sydney.
“Flaming Youth” : No wonder Leon Gor-
don considers Australia a fine country! He
came on his first visit prepared to supplement
“White Cargo” with other pieces, but it lasted
his whole season, except when —outside his
own company, and an extension of his stay
—he played in “Tea for Three” with Judith
Anderson. Lately he arrived in Sydney with
four plays, but “The Trial of Mary Dugan”
has gone so well that it will last out his
entire season in the Harbor town.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Ellen Terry, who cele-
brated her 80th birthday on February 27, is
perhaps the only actress Doctor of Laws. St.
Andrew’s University gave her the degree in
1922, in recognition, maybe, of her lively
presentation of Portia. Daughter of Thes-
pians, Ellen started stage life at eight as
Mamillius in “The Winter’s Tale,” and retired
seven years ago. Her name was established
even before her first association with Henry
Irving—a duality likely to remain in
dramatic history. She was 19 when she
played Ivatharina to his Petruchio in “The
Taming of the Shrew,” and a mere 16 when
she made her unhappy alliance with the
elderly artist Watts. She had two other
matrimonial ventures with actors —Charles
Kelly and James Carew ; though her children,
both well known (the son as actor,
artist and author), bear the name of Craig
—Gordon Craig was their father. Ellen’s
first term with Irving was brief; the second
lasted 24 years.
HER STRONG SUIT.
“And what instrument do you play, little lady?”
“Several, but I’m best on the gramophone.”
“L.11.P.”: “Fra Diavblo,” by Auber on
Scribe’s “book,” which the Gonsalez crowd
may revive, is sparkling in score and amus-
ing in libretto. Fra Diavolo, the dashing
bandit of the piece, really lived. His name
was Michele Pezza, and he flourished as
“Brother Devil” in Italy from 1760 to 1806.
He was originally a goatherd, then a monk,
and eventually a bandit of pretty evil repute.
“L.11.P.” : Melba-J.C.W. announce Monte-
mezzi’s “L’amore Dei Tre Re” (“The Love
of Three Kings”) as one of their opera novel-
ties. Dating from 1913, it is one of the
finest products of modern Italian genius.
Based upon a powerful tragedy by Sam Ben-
elli, one of the foremost of living play-
wrights in Italy, it combines terse, swiftly-
moving drama with a score that vividly
depicts events progressing fatefully towards
an inevitable human cataclysm. While
there is little or no set melody in Monte-
mezzi’s score, nevertheless it is melodious —
a succession of musical phrases that cjoth-e thc-
words, the thoughts behind them and their
significance in expressive music. Of the
many scores that have come out of Italy
since the death of Verdi, “The Love of Three
Kings” is the most eloquent. London heard
it in 1914, also New York. The scene is a
castle in Italy during the tenth century.
“Wigs”: The Tait-McMahon “literary”
play crowd starts its preliminary season on
Easter Saturday at Melbourne Theatre
Royal with Bernard Shaw’s “Getting Mar-
ried.” The pros, engaged include McMahon,
Greenaway, Beatrice Day, Zillah Carter,
Eardley Turner, Compton Coutts and some
others of like calibre.
“Santander”: Ellen Pollock, who flashed
into sight in “They Knew What They
Wanted” in Melbourne, onlj to disappear in a
haze of excited speculation, has but a few
minutes as a somewhat conventional vamp
in the London production of “Hit the Deck.”
yet she lias found quite a number of usually
silent and aloof critics ready to write ap-
proving paragraphs about her. Ellen is an
actress of genuine ability, as a few writers
in this country noticed. She has appeared
widely in Shaw; and anybody acquainted
with the ancient Bernard knows that he is
very particular about the quality of the
people who are cast for his plays.
“Hamfat” : Ibsen’s centenary is to be cele-
brated in London this year, and a Sydney
girl scene-painter, Molly McArthur, will pre-
pare the scenery for “A Doll’s House,”
which is to be produced at the Kingsway
Theatre. Although the plays of Ibsen, who
died in 1906, are severely dated through
b: ing arguments upon social questions affect-
ing a world now gone, they still appeal, as
was shown by the success in a small way of
J. Beresford Fowler, in Melbourne, with a
whole series of them. Fowler will probably
see that there are more productions in Mel-
bourne to honor the centenary; there should
be a chance in Sydney, also. Gaston Mcr-
vale would be the ideal man for the job.
“I.”: Clive Carey, who is on his way to
England via America, proposes to do a little
teaching still, but as much work as possible
in opera, for which an engagement awaits
him. His strong dramatic talent has been
shown in work with the Adelaide Repertory
Theatre.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The Williamson man-
agement still remembers Judith Anderson
with sorrow: bringing her to her own coun-
try was a costly venture. Yet, though her
own people were inclined to be cold, Judith,
always a draw in New 7 York, has been hailed
back there with triumph : “Behold the Bride-
groom” is the play, and her acting is mak-
ing it a remarkable success.
“Hamfat” : Bob Greig, the Australian, is
now high up in New York stageland. He is
at present one of the principals in “Countess
Maritza.” Incidentally, the snowy-haired
Oliver McLennan fell into a lead directly
he arrived in New York—in “Rosalie,” one
of the season’s successes.
“Goldilocks”: A Tivoli circuit future
event is to be Elsie Janis, who was popular
in England during the war, and did some
concert-party work and nursing in France
between times. She introduced “Over There,”
which became almost as popular as the rum
issue among all the soldiers, including the
Diggers. The breezy ladv has been a vaude-
ville star ever since, as a kid of 10, she was
“Little Elsie” in big letters on New York
bill-boards. She started at eight years old.
“E. Side”: Herewith the chorus of “The
Dirty Dig,” which presumably is the name
of yet another of the edifying U.S.A. nigger
shuffles:
Doiu the “Dirty Dig.” It’s a- “Salty Dog.” “Yes,
the thing-ma-jig is a “Wiggly Wog.”
There ain’t no chance for improvement, on that
sheiky, freaky movement.
It’s a “Wampus Cat,” yes, a “Wampus Cat.”
It’s thirty-eight and two you’ll say.
Now anyone can do it, yes indeed.
Gut bucket music is all you need.
Just bend your bones and do your Jones.
Come on and “Dirty Dig” with me.
The American song-writer is certainly an
illiterate cuss, but what’s the right name for
those who delight to listen to that sort of
rubbish?
“J. Phelps”: Ex-hangman Ellis, who was
engaged to jerk a fat and juicy Charles
Peace into eternity in a Gravesend (Eng.)
melodrama recently, brought peace to more
souls than the violent Charles ever did. He
fastened the last collar on 203 victims, for
each of which he received a tenner from a
needy Government. The veteran strangler
now follows the trade of a barber. It must
be nice buying a shave from him and feeling
the razor gliding over your throat. '
“I Phelps” : Sybil Thorndike, who figured
as Nurse Cavell in the mucli-discus3ed film
called “Dawn,” is booked to stir the senti-
mental recollections of her countrymen in
the part of Florence Nightingale. This time
she will be the heroine of a drama demon-
strating the main public episodes in
Florence’s life, and also exhibiting the lady’s
platonic regard for Lord Herbert which dis-
established the entente between that gentle-
man and his wife. The author of the play
is Reginald Berkeley, sometime a barrister in
Auckland and now existing quite comfortably
on his earnings as a dramatist. His best
effort to date is his first, “French Leave,”
which was staged in Australia a few years
ago.
“Santander”: Ashley Dukes, whose tart
but informative “Modern Dramatists” has
given considerable impetus to English
dramatic criticism, lias made a play out of
Fcuchtwanger’s celebrated “Jew Suss,” which
Matheson Lang promises to put on next year.
Dukes has endeavored to concentrate the
blood and irony of the novel into seven scenes,
and Lang declares a strong liking for the
manuscript. It is interesting that Feuch-
twanger originally wrote the story as a play
that was so hopeless and inchoate that he
turned desperately to his desk and made a
novel of it. To-day the little Berlin Hebrew
is receiving royalties in half a dozen Euro-
pean currencies.
“C.L.” : The feature of the Japanese movie
theatre is a chap who tells the story of the
film from a seat on the stage. He tells the
audience not only what is happening, but
what is about to follow. Universal runs a
special Japanese company with a capital of
more than £1,000,000. The head of it is
J. P. Knox, a young Australian. Producing
Japanese films demands a special technique,
since pictures with happy endings leave
Nippon cold. He likes a good cry, and is
very fond of blondes with blue eyes.
“Ca'sar’s Ghost” : The fact that Sydney is
shortly to have three fine new picture houses
—-the New Capitol, Regent and a lordly place
that is ascending in Market-street —makes it
obvious that some of the other sort of theatre
will need to be improved. Apart from the
Royal, St. James and Empire, most Sydney
show houses are stewpans.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Following the J.C.W.
lead, the Fullers intend making a descent
upon England : a theatre on the Sydney Sc.
James model in London and a provincial
circuit is the idea. As E. J. Carroll has
taken a hand already in management there,
Australia threatens to be amazingly well
represented oh that side in the hub of
Empire.
“Hamfat”: So Harry Overton is gone!
When the first Actors’ Union was fighting
against strangulation by the manage-
ments, Overton’s spare occupation (adopted
to keep him going when the importation-
flooded stage had no place for him) was
chiropody, and there was a foolish sneer
that the union’s number included “a curer
of corns.” George Titheradge, who hesi-
tated about accepting the presidency of the
union, found the income he derived from
flower-growing useful in his long “rests.”
SHAKSPEARE UP-TO-DATE .
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The craze for dressing the Bard in modern duds
has reached Melbourne, where ‘The Shrew’ is shortly
to be tamed in shingle and short skirts.”
Time was the gallery would have raised a
racket,
The stalls have scarce restrained indignant
snorts,
i\t sight of Hamlet in a dinner-jacket
Or Romeo in the coat we know as “sports. 7 ’
Jaques in plus-fours might well have caused
a bellow
And pointed many a protesting par..
And jeers had been the portion of Othello
Equipped with a cigar.
But plays, like prayer-books, call for up-to-
dating
To click with changing fashion’s stern de-
crees ;
A Cassius in puttees now I’m waiting,
Likewise a Caliban in dungarees.
Unless producers are contented merely
To tinker with their latest pressing job,
Ophelia should have a lipstick, clearly,
And Rosalind a bob.
I yearn to see a Lear arrayed in proper
Habiliments at last upon the stage,
Including (say) a venerable topper
And a frock coat a trifle green with age.
A greasy flannel or a dingy sweater
And bowyanged moles might be Nick Bot-
tom’s rig;
And Portia would surely plead much better
From underneath a wig.
I want to watch a Cleopatra flutter
Forth in the modern flapper’s skimpy skirt,
Prince Hal outfitted by a Bond-street cutter,
Coriolanus in a hard-boiled shirt.
And seeing hose and doublet, once de rigueur,
Are now forgotten mediaeval rags,
Falstaff might cut a more convincing figure
In spacious Oxford bags.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


What MORE-
could one car give?
-as-'T
X
Lllil
Liu
tv\s?=
r —*y S?TAVh
m
•>yv
i
m
UUfi
w
W
P
“3
S'-
r' \
jr
/r.
tl
s
v
r*~4'
The freedom of an airy, open car, the protection
of a closed car—and the change from one to
the other effected in a few seconds without stir-
ring from your seat. That is the “ Director ”
Duplex Tourer.
Studebaker alone offers the dual advantages of
this unique two-purpose car.
Concealed in the steel-ribbed hood are side
enclosures which can be raised or lowered just as
easily as you manipulate a window blind at home.
You will thrill to the smooth, eager, six-cylinder
power of the “ Director” Duplex, the most
powerful touring car of its size and weight in
the world.
The “ Director ” Duplex Tourer £398
Studebaker Open
Cars from -
£378
See Studebaker’s Erskine
Six, “The Little Aristocrat,”
F.O.R. SYDNEY
Studebaker Closed
Cars from
€468
Australian and ~New Zealand Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
The Studebaker Corporation of Australasia Limited, Sydney .
VICTORIA:
Turner Bros., Swanston St.,
Melbourne.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Sydney Atkinson Motors, Ltd.
41-45 Pier Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle &. Motor Agency (QV
Ltd., Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
TASMANIA:
Island Motors Proprietary, Ltd.
76 Murray Street, Hobart.
Local Dealers at all impor.ant towns
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Millingens Limited.
42-48 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
NEW ZEALAND :
Adams Ltd., 15 2-154 High treet,
Christchurch.
df
WMBB2


r-
S ) vi
S*
P
4T
/
V
y
r77iYI ; -H
/
sty First
A BOY’S FESTERED KNEE.
“My little boy fell and cut his knee terribly.
Although I tried almost everything, the sore
remained in fearful condition. A friend advised
Zam-Buk. This balm caused the healing to pro-
gress rapidly and soon put the child right again.”
Mrs. E. Bean, 68 Halifax Street, Adelaide.
BURNS AND SCALDS.
“Through upsetting the
kettle, my hand and wrist
were badly scalded. Big
blisters formed and broke,
leaving a mass of painful, raw
flesh. Zam-Buk took out all
‘heat’ and pain; it caused
inflammation to subside and
new tissue to grow. Zam-Buk
healed without leaving a trace
of the injuries.”—Mrs. F.
Phillips, Cecil Cottage,
Logan Road, S.E. Brisbane.
POISONED WOUNDS.
“I knocked my ankle against
an iron fender. Dye from my
stocking got into the sore
place, causing serious inflam-
mation and ulceration. I was
laid up for weeks in awful
pain. However, Zam-Buk
proved most soothing. It
drew out all corruption,
allayed inflammation and
soon healed the wound.”—
Mrs. It. Palmer, 139 Crown
Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
f Prompt Use Of ZAM BUKt
Averts Blood-Poison J
“MINETY-NINE per cent, of cases of
septic poisoning arise through neglect
of trifling cuts and scratches,” says a big
works manager.
Whether for accidents at home or at work Zam-Buk
is the ideal safety-first healer. Prompt application of a
little Zam-Buk to any cut, scratch, burn or abrasion, pre-
vents poisonous germs from infecting broken tissues.
Zam-Buk is the safety-first healer because it acts on the skin
in three ways. It at once soothes and allays inflammation and
swelling. It relieves pain and checks bleeding almost immediately.
Secondly, Zam-Buk is a splendid antiseptic; it kills and excludes
disease germs and averts or checks blood-poison. Finally, Zam-Buk
heals swiftly and naturally by promoting growth of new, healthy
skin.
If the sore place be blistered and inflamed (as in a burn or
scald), spread Zam-Buk on a piece of lint or clean rag.
Zam-Buk owes its exceptional healing virtues to its rare
herbal character, its refinement and its absolute freedom from the
animal fats and mineral drugs found in ordinary ointments and
salves.
Be sure and keep a box of this safety-first healer always
handy.
Obtainable of chemists everywhere, 1/6 box or 3/6
family size. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, Ip a tablet.
“A SURGERY IN A TWO-INCH BOX.”
Consider the
Battery in the
“DAGENITE” case
As a battery—a battery that WORKS—
the P. & R. is wonderful. Something:
extra —something extraordinarily good—
you get in the P. & R. is its “Dagenite” case.
“Dagenite” is a patented, fireproof, acid-
proof, leak-proof, weather-proof, almost
unbreakable material. It looks like
ebonite. But it’s many times as strong.
You need no crate around it. It neither
rots nor corrodes. It will resist jolts, jars
and crashes which would reduce ebonite
to splinters.
And that is not all about the P. & R.
Every piece of it—plates, separators, lugs,
terminals, connectors, paste, the whole
thing —has been made to do its job. The
P. & R. is a BATTERY.
R»»R
PETO A. RADFORD
ACCUMULATORS
The beginning and the end in
Poweß
Before you buy any
battery write for
special booklet to
address below.
P. £
rfllr
Direct Factory
Representative:
John Arnold,
)egrea ves Buildings,
Degreaves Street,
Melbourne.
G. HEALING, LTD.,
Melbourne.
SMITH SONS & REES, LTD., '
Sydney.
BQY HILL & 00., LTD., Adelaide.
MOTOR VEHICLES, LTD,,
Perth.
E. REYNOLDS & CO. s
Wellington, N.Z.
NIAGARA FALLS
> t
i-M
-
I «.<*•.
11
t'N.
C 2-
w.
es
/Lcross the limited States
Combining raibancbwater travel in pleasant diversity, one can
reach London in 29 days from Sydney, via the United States.
Swift Matson Oceanic liners cross to San Francisco in 19
days, pausing at Suva (Fiji), Pago Pago (Samoa), and Hono-
lulu (Hawaii), each an island paradise of luxuriant tropical
verdure.
The transcontinental rail trip from San Francisco offers
opportunity to view such world'wonders as Yosemite Valley,
the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone National Park, the Great
Lakes, Niagara Falls—with visits to Chicago and New York,
cities of skyscrapers; and Washington, the beautiful national
capital. Sumptuous trains, with special observation-cars, all
the way. Stop'Over privileges at any point.
Fares: Sydney to San Francisco, from £ll6/10/', first class
return; £Bl/'/', second class return, available for 12 months.
Sydney to London, via San Francisco, £125, first class throughout;
£92/'/' second class steamer, and first class rail; 12 months allowed
in which to complete the journey.
Round the World Tickets, £235/7' first class, £176 second class
steamer and first class rail, with stopover privileges anywhere, avail'
able for 2 years. Plan to travel to Europe at least one way by the
Matson Oceanic scenic route. The illustrated travel leaflet, “Across
the United States,” is free upon request.
S.S. SIERRA. S.S. SONOMA. S.S. VENTURA.
Sailing every third Saturday.
mmmm ui
12 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St.,
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard
C—2B
Melbourne; 117-119 King
Smith Limited, Brisbane


Royal Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
2nd to 11th APRIL, 1928.
NINE DAYS. FIVE NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
FINEST SHOW OF STOCK IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
MAGNIFICENT DISPLAY OF AGRICULTURAL
AND PRIMARY PRODUCTS.
MOST ATTRACTIVE RING EVENTS.
Grounds and Buildings Brilliantly Illuminated by Electricity
on Five Nights.
Spacious Halls of 110,000 Square Feet Floor Space for •
the Display of Machinery, Manufactures, and Motor-cars.
Magnificent and Commodious Grandstand’s Providing Every
Comfort, Convenience, and' Accommodation Unsurpassed Anywhere
60,000 persons can view, from the ringside alone, the greatest
spectacular panorama of events provided in any part of the world.
Lectures on Stock Raising, Scientific and Practical Agriculture and
on Topics of Everyday Interest to All Classes of the Community,
Delivered by Experts and Those Best Qualified, in the New Lecture
Hall, Back of Poultry Pavilion, Day and Night.
GRAND MUSICAL PROGRAMME DAY AND NIGHT.
ADMISSION: Outer Gates—Day . . .
Night . .
PARKING AREA FOR MOTOR-CARS
Endeavor House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
Adults, 2/-; Children, 6d.
WITHIN THE GROUND.
G. C. SOMERVILLE,
Secretary.
BALANCED FOODS FOR DOGS
With the aid of a force of chemists and bacteriologists, together with
the whole hearted co-operation of one of the great VETERINARY
Colleges, we have succeeded in developing the PERFECT DOG-
FOODS.
80% of all dog ailments are attributable to improper feeding. Meat
must form the base of all foods for dogs or other carnivora. There
is no substitute for meat as an essential food for dogs. The products
of the “HOUSE OF CHAPPEL” are MEAT foods packed in tins.
Favourably known to the veterinary profession in Great Britain and
America as:
KEN-L-RATION
MARO-MEAT
HEMP-RATION
PUP-E-RATION
also the supreme soap for all dogs known as KEN-L-SOPE
WANTED —DISTRIBUTORS
handle the sales of these Internationally known and
Advertised products in:
New South Wale
Victoria
Queensland
South Australia
Western Australia
Tasmania
Kindly Address All Communications to:
The Manager, CHAPPEL BROS., Inc.
ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Bankers references given and required
Cable Address: CHAPPEL Rockford Codes: A. B.C.,Liebers Fifth Edition
(GIR.EY
HAIR
WOULD
SPOIL
KTJ
\
w»
\> e
t?W e
v c
\\ e ?
s^v
f
pp
■feSS ‘ad*"
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay•
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“Yacko”: Australia’s first export was a
shipment of cedar and coal, taken by the
brig Cornwallis to Bengal, in May, 1801.
\. few months later the Anna Josepha
shipped a cargo of the same commodities to
the Cape of Good Hope, and realised £7 a
ton on the coal.
“C.Q.” : It will soon be necessary to men-
tion land or air when one talks about sending
for a taxi in Melbourne. Last month Aus-
tralian Aerial Services, Ltd., carrVd passen-
gers 5578 miles on their several occasions.
’Planes can be ordered by ’phone just like the
snorting vehicles on four wheels.
“Der Jong” : The decision of the S’African
Government to close the fabulously-rich dia-
mond fields at Alexander Bay, in Namaqua-
]and, and to permit them to be worked only as
a Government enterprise, if at all—the Gov-
ernment has acquired 30,000 claims —has
some unusual features. There is nothing
to stop the Union Government from digging
up drayloads of diamonds, but they will
probably find it almost impossible to sell
100 carats unless De Beers is agreeable.
“Lao-dah”: By astute publicity, which
Australian newspapers swallow so readily,
the Americans have convinced most of the
world that they lead in aviation. Some of
the greatest achievements, however, have
become such a commonplace in the Cold
Country that they are scarcely considered
worth mentioning. When I flew from Paris
to London in 1920 in a Handley Page it
took two hours 50 minutes to do the 230
miles. An immensely more comfortable and
bigger machine belonging to the same con-
cern has just done it in 80 minutes. By
land and water the journey still takes
upwards of five hours.
“Caldwell”: Noumea (New Caledonia)
used to get all its coal at Newcastle and
Port Ivembla, but owing to the difficulty of
getting orders filled when industrial disputes
are raging the French buyers are trans-
ferring their custom to Bowen (Q.). The
French steamer St. Joseph has just loaded
a full cargo at the northern port, and if
the quality is . satisfactory the French will
continue to go there for supplies. New-
castle coal is now only sold to South Aus.
when it can’t be got cheaper from England—
there have been at least six full cargoes from
the Tyne during the last five months —and
more vessels are bunkering at Albany (W.A.)
than ever before. Will the miners in N. S.
Wales ever take a tumble?
“Sugarbag”: Now that Australia is manu-
facturing 95 per cent, of its own footwear,
the industry is up against a shortage of leather.
A conference between the Australian tan-
ners and bootmaking firms recently held in
Melbourne failed to find a solution of the
shortage, other than by passing on the
increase. The shortage of leather is world-
wide. The pelt price-index issued by the
United Tanners’ Association in London
shows that in December, 1926, the index-
figure for all classes of hides (the average
of 1923 being taken as 100) was 108; in
December, 1927, it was 151. The tanning
materials price-index in December, 1926,
was 115, and last December it was 135,
South American wet sajted hides went from
108 to 164 in the same period. When a
country’s factories use its own raw materials
these abnormal prices are not all disad-
vantages, especially as higher prices for
hides mean an advance in the value of fat
cattle. Fat bullocks were sold a year ago
at 20s. a 1001 b. in Queensland; to-day they
are worth 305., and the rise is at least partly
due to the demand for hides. But outlook
for the future is obscure; leather being a
by-product of the beef trade, production can-
not be accelerated for the benefit of the boot
trade alone.
THE PROOF.
“What makes you think she is a very
popular woman?”
“She has so many enemies.”
“Avon”: When, three years ago, the
Maoriland Government decided to assist
local bodies to construct main highways
suitable for the use of motors, and imposed
heavy taxation on motorists to provide the
funds, the first difficulty that arose was the
disinclination of South Island counties and
road districts to embark on the making of
expensive roadways. As a result about four-
fifths of the money available has been going
to the less cautious folk of the North Island,
who grabbed the subsidies with both hands.
But the costs of construction in almost every
important case have been much in excess of
estimates, and county after county has de-
clined to proceed with its programme. In
certain cases the Public Works Department
has stepped in and undertaken to complete
the work in hand, but the Main Highways
Board, which allocates the subsidies, has no
power to compel any local authority to do
anything. Now the board wonders what on
earth it is going to do with its income of
over £2,000,000 a year.
“Borom”: By an absurd provision of the
N.S.W. Weights and Measures Act the phar-
maceutical chemist is liable to a heavy fine
if he tests and adjusts the scales used in
dispensing work instead of waiting for de-
partmental officials to do it. As such scales
have to be used daily for weighing out the
ingredients of prescriptions, generally in
minute amounts, the chemist risks poisoning
a customer if his scales are out of order.
Most of them prefer to risk a fine by adjust-
ing them themselves, and I know of one
pharmacist who quite recently was threat-
ened with prosecution because he had cor-
rected a two-grain discrepancy in his scales
by attaching that weight of tinfoil to the
opposite pan. Yet had he given a patient
two grains too much of, say, strychnine in
a prescription he might have found himself
charged with manslaughter.
BEGGIN’ YAlii PAIR DON.
CANDID PARISHIONEE (to new minister ): “Ah
didna like the sairmon for three rizzins:
Fairstly, ye read it; secondly, ye didna
read it weel; an’, thairdly, it wasna
worth readin.’”
“Wanchai”: Had there been a telephone
line linking Cape Everard lighthouse with
Oann River when the Federal was wrecked,
in 1901, the lives of the castaways who
perished on the shore would very likely have
been saved. (Mutilated and partly devoured
by wild dogs, the bodies were recovered well
above high-water mark, which showed that
the sailors had gained the shore but had died
from exposure and the lack of relief.) Since
that disaster East Gippslanders have re-
peatedly asked the Vic. Ports and Harbors
Department to establish communication.
Tenders have at last been called for
a telephone line, and the material is in
transit. Residents of the district are of the
opinion that a salvo from the “Plain English”
section of The Bulletin finally broke down
departmental inaction; and residents wish it
recorded that they are grateful for the
paper’s interest.
The Bulletin’s old friend John Barr
supplies a pint of courage and fun in his
“Men and Other Sins,” how on the book-
stalls at 2s. A fine piece of cheer-up is
“The Light That Never Fails,” for sheer
poetry “The Sea Call” is hard to beat, and
there’s a pretty fancy like a laughing toss
of the head about “The Groves of Para-
dise” and “The Girl Who Climbed the Hill.”
With his briar pipe tucked away behind
his sporran, the fascinating Bishop of Mela-
nesia set sail for Maoriland last Friday.
The presence of this upstanding prelate has
done much to stir up Sydney’s interest, in
the Island missions. Good-looking, with a
fund of anecdotes, which he tells in a mellow,
laughter-crinkled voice, and by name Moly-
neaux, he seems intended by Nature to shine
at ducal garden parties. But he’s really more
at home in a lugger bucketing between his
Island flocks.
When is the Canadian Pacific liner Empress
of Australia due in Australia? Accord-
ing to a New York newspaper man she has
20 of the prettiest girls England and Canada
can produce on her ship’s articles. These
are filling the positions of telephone opera-
tors, flower girls and stewardesses. In addi-
tion to this blue uniformed brigade of
Venuses, the liner carries two hostesses, both
under 30, handsomer if possible than the
other 20. It sounds a dangerous ship for
a newly-engaged girl to let her boy travel on.
There seems to be more than the usual
exodus this year to welcome the English
spring, and the man who had a hurried call
to Europe would find it hard work to get
even a foot on a P. and O. or Orient ship
this month. Everyone knows of the great
popular liners like the Otranto and Mool-
tan, but there are more vessels picking up .a
score or two of passengers than you hear
much about. One of these, a Scandinavian
boat which has been lying in Sydney Cove,
has quite extraordinary accommodation for
a very limited few ; and French wool-buyers,
who like to travel in almost regal comfort,
have booked out the ship for themselves and
their families. Among them will be the
Jacques Playousts, who will have with them
Madame Segaert, the wife of the Belgian
Consul-General.
Though it is 70 years since Norfolk
Island first gave refuge to the Pitcairn
people—l 94 of them —there were no fewer
than 17 of them alive when a Sydney man
visited the little Arcadia less than two years
ago. But death looks in often now. The
other day old “Aunt Nan,” known to every-
body who has ever visited the island of re-
cent years, went the way of the rest, and
left only a dozen of the originals. But the
island’s greatest grief of late has been over
the death of the Administrator, General
Selheim. The Administrator of Norfolk
Island is a sort of lay Father Confessor,
and Selheim was the kindly peacemaker
before everything else. He had been ill
almost since he took over this work, his
trouble being gout, which affected his heart,
and he died in the arms of the island’s
medical officer on the eve Of a visit to Maori-
land. His widow has received many touch-
ing proofs of the quaint little community’s
sorrow.


3
c
Cyl
Tourer
14 45
THE
INVINCIBLE
□
MS
EXTREME flexibility with top gear
performance of 3 to 60 m.p.h.
Four-speed gear box, right hand
change, low gear axle ratio necessi-
tating change of gear on steepest
hills only. Built for the Britisher
overseas, who wants a suitable high-
class British car at the right price.
Designed for Over-
seas conditions with
4 ft. 8 in. track, 9£ in.
ground clearance,
special springing,
special radiator and
fan to ensure perfect
performance on the
roughest roads or
tracks, and in the
hottest climates. Ex-
perts and owners all
over the world con-
firm t' at in the 14/45
six-cylinder model
we have the finest
Talbot Car that has
ever been produced.
Full particulars from
SYDNEY:
Buckle Motors, Ltd.,
92 York Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
MELBOURNE:
Talbot Distributors Pty.,Ltd.,
478 Elizabeth Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367 Murray Street.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
England
sdf
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives:
NORMAN BAKER & F.ONGHPRST. LTD..
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
s
No. 1369.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
dfs
The only Firm with permanent
offices throughout the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
Their Uniformed Interpreters at prin
cipal ports and stations in Europe assist
their patrons in passing Customs
examinations, registering baggage, etc.
Passages Booked by all Lines.
Travellers’ Cheques Issued.
Insurance of Baggage Effected.
Escorted Tours to Europe, etc.
Empire Farmers’ Tour Great Britain.
Inclusive Independent Tours.
Summer Holiday Tours.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildirr
(Next G.P.0.).
d
m
IF you wish your mount
to be a real source of
pleasure and delight you
will use the utmost care in
the selection of the Hubs.
No bicycle can give you
real service unless these
component parts
are perfect.
Smooth and silky
running, long
•wear and per-
fectly safe braking
are insured by
the fitting of the
Perry Improved
Coaster in con-
junction with
m
the Perry front hub.
Behind both these articles
is a manufacturing experi-
ence extending over many
years, a close and intimate
acquaintance with the
Cyclist’s needs and a repu-
tation second to none in the
Cycle Component World.
Few, very few Cyclists, are
there who do not know of
Perry Productions, but only
experience of
their actual ser-
vice will lead to
full appreciation
of their merits
and exclusive
features.
You may not
have had that-
experience,
therefore, for
your greater comfort and
enjoyment when
we suggest you put
yourself in touch with
our
factory Representative: Jollfl At'nold)
DeGraves Street, Melbourne
Perry oCo.Ltd. Birm!n#Mti.En^
fs
is
i
#
m
Tested
•• • •
and found true
'HIS can be said of every Elgin,
whether of the wristlet or vest-
pocket variety. Twelve months have
been spent upon your Elgin— a whole
year of patient, painstaking craftsman-
ship—so, i 3 it any wonder that Elgin
is conceded to be the world’s standard
for watch integrity?
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
[hi? y fiac/e Mark
df
in the Watch Cape


Firearms Sent C.O.D.
MAUSER represents the
WORLD’S BEST IN RIFLES
22-CAL. BOLT-ACTION RIFLE, magazine holds
5 long-rifle cartridges, £6/5/-
Same rifle fitted with Zeiss telescope sight,
£l2/10/-
MAUSER 6.5, M/M 250/3000 CAL. HI-POWER
RIFLES for ’Roo, Dingo and Pigs, £l4/5/.-;
with tangent sight and hair trigger, 30/- extra.
Fitted with Zeiss telescopic sight, £24. ALL
POST FREE.
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
’Phone: MA3540.
110 b BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S BITTER ALE
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
ftURNS, PHILP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. [2
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Bursilary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers* Com-
pensation, etc., etc.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Vaals was an expensive proposition dur-
ing his first and second seasons on the turf,
but he wasn’t so great a disappointment as
his three-year-old brother Sion has proved.
Having done excellent track work, and being
in with a nice weight, Sion was backed as if
lie were a certainty for the first division of
the Highweight Handicap at Rosehill on
Saturday, but the change of owners and
stables has not improved his manners; he
got away badly and was never a possibility
afterwards. Vaals, who was second favorite,
also failed to show up; the finish was fought
out by Golden Grist (10 to 1), Sir Allan
(8 to 1) and Stoneykirk (20 to 1), who
are not in the Doncaster Handicap class.
What in other circumstances would be re-
garded as a taking Doncaster trial was done
by Beckwith (5 to 2) in the second division
of the Highweight Handicap. Almost hope-
lessly placed, as it seemed, at the home turn,
the Greenstead gelding came with _ a
great run on the outside and fairly
outstayed Habashon (8 to 1), Boaster
(10 to 1) and Attraction (9 to 4) —the last
one of Eric Connolly’s importations who is
prominent in the Doncaster betting. And
Beckwith is not in the Doncaster, very un-
luckily for his owner, Fred Williams, and
his new trainer, McNeill. Attraction and
Habashon were in front for a few furlongs;
Habashon, a useful three-year-old chestnut
gelding by Ethiopian—Orvieto, eventually
worried the other out of the lead, but the
English horse looked as if a race or two
would do him a lot of good.
Loquacious (6 to 1), a sister to Wind-
bag, was an interesting starter in one of
the two-year-old races. After running out a
bit wide when entering the straight, she
made a brave attempt to win, but was beaten
—not easily—by Remora (6 to 1), a Ros-
sendale—Demeter filly bred and owned by
the Briens and trained by F. J. Marsden,
who is doing fairly well this season after
years of bad luck. The other youngsters
race was captured by Cleave (6 to 1), a
slippery daughter of Wedge, dashing sprinter
in his day; young Simpson rode both Remora
and Cleave.
The easiest win of the day was that of
The Bulletin’s selection, Blather (8 to 1,
though tens could be got), in the Club Han-
dicap. Pie hit the front in the first furlong,
and there were lengths between him and
the second horse all the rest of the journey;
he finished full of running between two and
three lengths ahead of Cumerlong (4 to 1)
and another length or so in advance of
Drawbridge (25 to 1) in 2min. Gj-secs. for
the 10 furlongs. A four-year-old Magpie
gelding out of a Comedy King mare
’(Charade), Blather must be given a de-
cidedly good chance m the Sydney Cup,
in which he has Gst 121 b. Piastoon last
year’s Cup winner, was one ot tn-
-17 starters, and was backed but the bes
he could do was sixth, though he looked well
enough. . ' . • •
Blather is trained by J. Carey, and was
ridden by a little chap named Bourke In
the next race, the first division of the Inal
Stakes, Green (12 to 1), ridden by Ryan,
struggled home just in front of a chestnut
called King William, owned by F. Monarch
—and numerous sporters of lltli-ot ire
land ribbons, who had backed her freely on
the tote, rejoiced.
Two St. Leger and Sydney Cup candidates,
Winalot and Glenariff, were saddled up tor
the Rydalmere Mile, and many big wagers
went on Winalot, while Glenariff was by
no means neglected. Both came home pretty
well, but they were too badly placed after
they had gone a couple of furlongs to have
any chance afterwards in their then condi-
tion —neither, of course, * strong up.
Beedos (4 to 1), trained by R. D. O Donnell
for John Wren, won —thanks largely to l ike
after a good tussle with Lovebox (7 to 4),
the unluckiest bit of stuff racing about Syd-
ney- * * *
If nothing happens to prevent it, Limerick
will start in the Rawson Stakes at Roselnll
on Saturday. The Railway and Autumn
Handicaps are expected to throw light on
the Doncaster and Cup. Fancies:
Railway Handicap: Don Moon; next,
Irish Prince.
Rawson Stakes: Limerick.
Nursery Handicap: Golden Music.
Autumn Handicap: Glenariff; next,
Amusement.
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap : Beck-
with : next, Magdaff or Jocelyn.
Parramatta Mile : Vallino ; next, Magdaff
or Lovebox.
IT MIGHT COME OFF ONCE.
BOOKIE: “Here, what’s thist You don’t collect. You only backed him. for a place,
and he won!”
Despite all the racing they have had
latelv, Melbourne punters were present m
remarkable numbers at Caulfield on Satur-
day, but results were decidedly against
them • only one favorite was successful. Good
stayers are far from plentiful just now, and
there were only seven starters for the chiel
event of the day, the St. Kilda Handicap.
Sol Green’s imported mare Gallantry, who
had scored attractively at Flemington, was
favorite at evens. “She’ll win this and the
Sydney Cun, too,” the wiseacres said. Spear
Maiden (7* to 2), Imitator (5 to 1) Val-
wyne and Corncrake (8 to 1) were those
backed to beat her. Catching Llanthony—
the pacemaker, as usual —round the home
turn Valwyne and Corncrake had a good
tussle for first place; K-ellow’s mare won
by a length. Imitator being third. Valwyne
who is in the Sydney Cum with Bst.-_.7lbs.
less than she had at Caulfield—left the 1J
furlongs behind in 2min. 33^sec. Gallantry
was disappointed in going for an opening on
the rails and should not be altogether dis-
carded.
Dave Price had something for his followers
to bet on in the Orrong Two-year-old Handi-
cap in the All Black colt Balmerino. who
had been unlucky the previous Saturday.
The promising youngster, first choice at t
to 2, won handily from Clarion Call (5 to 1)
and one of Jimmy Wilson’s, Looran (o to 1).
A good betting race this, and ®° ~yaf.y a f.
South Yarra Handicap, Lady Thrill (4 to
1), Margaux (5 to 1), Adjong (11 to
Baringhup and Lonicera (8 to 1) being al
well supported. A spectacular finish ended
in favor of Baringhup by a head from the
fast-finishing Lady Thrill, with Margaux the
same distance away. Baringhup is a daugh-
ter of Ethiopian—Orvieto, and therefore a
sister to Ilabaslion; she was ridden m lus
most vigorous style by Bob Lewis. The mare
is in the Doncaster Handicap with Bst.
Many punters went for a recovery on Red
Sea (4 to 1) in the Übique Welter, but
nothing could pace it with Elarby (8 to 1),
which Spearhead gelding ran right away from
his pursuers and won by lengths from Amoo-
roob (14 to 1) and Uquee (20 to 1) . Elarby
gave Duncan liis second winning ride tor the
day—the crack jockey had previously piloted
Valwyne.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger”: Star Stranger, the
Martian gelding that won the A.J.C. Metro-
politan in 1926, put up an Australasian
t .
record in the Trentliam Cup on oatimlay;
he galloped the two miles in 3min. 22(|sec.,
knocking a quarter of a second on tiie pre-
vious record, which was shared by Kenna-
quhair, Windbag and Spearfelt. Star Stran-
ger also holds the 11-furlong record, 2mm.
17sec., established at Trentliam in January
last year.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : The S.A. Butler Ministry
has made a sensation by announcing that
the law against bookmakers must be en-
forced. “Books” have been outlawed in
that State ever since the totalisator came in,
close on 40 years ago; but .everybody, rich
or poor, knows when and where to find them.
There are occasional raids on hotels and
hairdressers, and sometimes a stealthy
operator on a racecourse is proved guilty!
but things go on much as they did before.
Hence there was real surprise when Attorney-
General Homburg told the racing-clubs that
they had taken no useful action to assist
the police to prevent “breaches of the Act,
and that they might get their tote licenses
revoked unless they help to throw McShort-
odds off the course.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: The wayback jockey
club provides good sport, and is generally
thankful if it clears expenses. The race-
course at One-horse Town is not fenced in,
neither is there a grandstand; so there are
no admission fees. The only source of in-
come for prizes and expenses are the nomi-
nation and acceptance fees. Every business
place is expected to subscribe, and the whole-
sale houses, hundreds of miles away, where
the storekeeper and the publican get their
goods, and the blacksmith gets his iron, are
levied on for a sovereign or two every year.
It is pointed out to them that the races
bring business into the town, which means
increased business for them. The secretary,
who gets a commission on the moneys he
collects, also asks a donation from every
local person of substance and from visitors
—including the magistrate. If lie hears that
someone has drawn a prize in a sweep or
has lost his grandmother and gained a for-
tune, he is the first person to call round
with congratulations. Sometimes there is
only one day’s racing, sometimes two, and
occasionally an off day as well. It all de-
pends on the collection.
* * * *
“Ike Mcßagg”: If any further proof of
the untiring altruism of the bookmaker were
needed, it may be found in the movement in
England to establish a turf guardian so-
ciety. This will be an incorporated society
of reputable bookmakers —there are other
varieties, for black sheep crop up in the
snowiest of flocks—and its main objective
is the fixation of starting-prices and the pro-
tection of the public against exploitation.
It also proposes to contribute some £50,000
annually towards the maintenance of horse-
racing, the money to be derived from a tax
of 2s. 6d. per £lOO of the turnover of each
member, this being quite apart from the
national betting taxation. Also, it is pro-
posed to offer a guarantee against “evasion
in respect of bookmakers’ liabilities,” a re-
grettable practice which is referred to by
the vulgar as “scaling” or “welshing.” It is
a movement characteristic of the large-
hearted sportsmen who initiated it, and the
suggestion emanating from certain quarters
that it has been prompted by the growing
desire for the adoption of the tote in Eng-
land may be dismissed with the contempt
it deserves.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Johnny Sullivan is a good boxer, as boxers
go nowadays, and he cleverly stops
well-meant punches—if they are slow and
infrequent. Unfortunately for Sullivan,
Billy Harms, of South Africa, doesn’t use
that variety. He hits quick, hard and often,
and from the start of Saturday night s fight
at the Sydney Stadium Harms (list. oflb.)
had Sullivan (list. sjdb.) worried by the
speed and consistency of his attack.
Although the Irishman blocked many ot
Billy’s hooks and snappy rights, lie had to
stop a lot of punches of both types with head
or ribs, and they were hard punches, too.
Rights to the short ribs took a lot out of
the Irishman. Knowing himself behind in
the score Sullivan spurted gallantly and for
a couple of terms held his own; but Harms
was too fast and too hard-hitting. The
Afrikander ran out a clear points winner and
got the referee’s verdict; which, in spite of
the fact that the “bhoys” had Sully a favor-
ite, was passed, not only without protest, but
with enthusiastic acclaim.
* * * *
One of the poorest crowds on record
witnessed the Jack Jones-Len White scrap
at Melbourne on Saturday night and the lack
of numbers and enthusiasm had a palpable
effect on the pugs. Jackie battled along
safety-first lines, and though it was soon
evident that he knew too much for the
Sydneysider, he was so conservative, as it
were that Len lasted until the 14tli. Beyond a
stout heart and a thick hide the Sydney lad
seemed poorly equipped for his job. In the.
sixth, eighth and tenth rounds rights to the
point had him going, but Jack, with every
advantage in height, weight, reach and ex-
perience, refused to take the risk of going
in for the knockout. In the 14th Hen, with
a last desperate shot, got home fair on the
Welsh jaw and Jackie was momentarily
groggy. But shortly afterwards Leonard
was reeling from a battery of rights, and the
referee signified that he had had sufficient.
( Continued, on page 41.)
THE RABBITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“J 0 Anderson says that of the vast number
who play tennis it Js astounding how few are
even reasonably good.”
\re you a rabbit, brother, (sister, too).
Where racquets swish and skill and lieet-
ness tell
Their wonted tale? Let it not worry you
Ev’n if you are and know it all too well.
Take heart of grace! Clubs’ membership
you swell,
And keep associations prosperous;
Aye, and you make Borotras possible;
There’d be no Andersons except for us.
Are you a rabbit, son, for all to view
At the great game which throws its potent
spell
From London to the Leeuwin and the Loo,
One who may never hope to hit like hell
(Or Hammond), or deliver yorkers tell
Or googlies to upset the batsman’s ’bus?
What if you are! All players can t excel.
And where would Ponsford be except for us l
Are you a rabbit with a bat or cue
Or club? Well, chew no rag and toll no
knell.
It takes a myriad crocks to make a few
Chaps of distinction unimpeachable.
At any game, from golf to knurr-and-spell,
There’d be no champions illustrious,
Laurels to win and plaudits to compel, <
And where would Ponsford be except for us l
Envoy.
Brother, are your iambics doggerel,
Your lyrics punk? No need to fret and
fuss.
No poets on Parnassus’ heights would dwell
But for the hordes of minor bards like us.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


fs
(jet theft all there a
litsecond quicker
'tnq
(AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD,
352 Kent Street, Sydney,
r "FHE racket sensation of
■ the 1927-28 season,
since when it has been very
much in evidence at all
big tournaments. It is
favoured by Australian as
well as world-wide
champions.
“Top-Flite” is the fastest
racket ever made. It is a
bat that will help you
develop a faster game.
Lighter head —yet in per-
fect balance. Smaller head,
which permits tighter
stringing. “Kro-Bat” con-
struction to give it strength
for many restringings.
Open throat, which gives it
a new, delightful flexibility
—a trifle of “whip” which
has never before been
possible.
AT ALL
SPORTS STORES


'v. X
-
a i - -:^>
-•»
/T\
1
51 A
/AX /
\ t
■- s
SSL ' •
iU- »•
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ffirarito
iiqueuß
The Whisky for Connoisseurs
GRANTS
LIQUEUR
SCOTCH WHISKY
Beautifully Clean, Soft and Mellow
Shipped by
WM. GRANT & SONS. LTD., GLASGOW.
The leading Independent firm of Scotch Whisky Distillers.
Racquet and Bawl
“Spare Renshaw”: One pleasing aspect o
tlie departure of tlie Australian Davis Cup
team was that the trio took 60 Australian-
made racquets with them for uses m their
matches each man having 20 built to nis
particular fancy. Crawford likes a heavy
racauet with a big grip; Hopnian likes em
light; Patterson, a much bigger man, prefers
•i lie-lit swatter with a thin handle. \\ ltli
the leather grip which he affects added Craw-
ford’s racquets run to 150 z., a return to the
earlier days, when heavy racquets were the
vo<r ue There are plenty who can remem-
ber when the weird instruments of the dark
ages of lawn tennis ran to over 20oz.
“Cut Shot”: Now that those excellent
sportsmen Borotra, Brugnon and Boussus
have left Australia, a brief review of their
methods is not out of season, for tlicir
superiority to our own Davis Cup side, on
the form shown during their visit, must
he admitted. The chief lesson they taught
us was the value of certainty and consist-
ency. They pointed the moral that the
player who wins most matches at tennis. is
he who makes fewest mistakes. Two win-
ning shots to three into the net or out ot
court do not help to the making of a cham-
pion, though a lot of our leading players
fail to recognise the fact. The Frenchmen
were a little fortunate in meeting, in most
of their matches, two wearied youths who
have been played off their feet during the
past two years. The sea voyage will pro-
bably do these youngsters a world of good.
It is to be hoped Patterson’s form will sutler
a sea change also, for something of the sort
will have to take place if this team is to get
near the finals in the European zone.
“Temperament,” a euphemism for pettisliness
and bad temper on tlie courts, will have to
be guarded against also. In this particu-
lar, as in others, the Frenchmen showed
some of our men and women an example :
worth following,
He * * *
“Sphagett”: Australia opens the Davis
Cup tourney against Italy at Genoa (not
Geneva, it seems) on' May 5, 6 and 7. The
Italians are Gaslini, a newcomer to big
tennis; Stefani, who pushed Lacoste to four
sets in the Davis Cup match last year; and
Morpugo, who beat Cochet in three out of
four sets, made Lacoste go to five sets, and,
with Stefani. vanquished Cochet and Brug-
non. Decidedly a warm team !
He * * *
“Top Spin”: The definite decision of Wil-
liam Johnston to get out of Davis Cup tennis
marks the passing of one of the greatest
exponents of the game, and one whose, capa-
city for it overcame his physical disabilities.
Small and of slight physique, Johnston was
one of the mightiest hitters that ever handled
a racquet, though in their famous match in
1921 J. O. Anderson outdrove him and beat
him at his own game. The Californian
rarely came to the net, relying on the placing
and pace of his driving to leave his opponent
standing, but when he did adopt the volley-
ing game he could rival the best of the net
exponents. American judges place him a
trifle below Tilden. The pair were largely
responsible for winning the Cup for America
in 1920 and for holding it for seven years,
till France and Anno Domini got the better
of them last year.
* * * *
“Side Line”: After much chopping and
changing, the American tennis heads. ha"ve
resolved to play their very best team in the
American zone, and not adopt Tilden s sug-
gestion that he and Hunter should go to
Europe and get into form there for the
inter-zone matches, leaving the conquest of
the American zone to a team selected from
Lott, Hennessy and others of the rising gen-
eration. Tilden and his doubles mate will
stay at home and, with others to be chosen,
tackle Canada, Cuba, Mexico and especially
Japan, which the Americans seem to con-
sider the stiffest hurdle in their path. Til-
den has been selected captain, supplanting
R. N. Williams, who has led the side for the
last six years.
The Ins and Outs
“H. Stottle”: Most cricketers who have
foxed their leather along the Murray will
remember old Jacky Cooper, an abo. from
the Cummeragungali mission station, who
used to keep wickets for Barmali (Tic.).
Jacky, a tall figure in a cast-off Beaufort
coat and a jaunty panama, was never short
of an excuse to explain a premature down-
fall. On one occasion he was bowled first
ball, and in silence returned to our gum-
tree pavilion and slowly took off his pads.
By the time this operation was completed, Ins
successor at the wickets was also on his way
to the pavilion. It was then Jacky turned
to the skipper. “What sort of captain you
call yourself?” he demanded scornfuly.
“Sending your best batsmen in in the middle
of a plurry hat-trick!”
% ❖ * *
“S.T.” : South Aus. has awakened to the
fact that it is not making enough use of
its country players as an asset in cricket.
It is an almost unknown thing nowadays
for a visiting team to get a fixture outside
the city, though the pioneer English sidt.
to call at Adelaide played at Moonta first,
and in the city only as an afterthought.
However, a “carnival lately held in Adel-
aide brought 16 teams (playing 12 a side)
from various parts. Webber, of Loxton, had
the astonishing double, against Port Lin-
coln, of 112 runs (out of 221) and 8 wickets
for 9. Bill Whitty and other old identities
were prominent, so much so that the S.A.C.A.
secretary dropped a hint that its idea is
rather to bring on the younger players.
* * * *
“L O.” ■ At Goodooga (N.S.W.) our cric-
ket ground was a scalded red plain, as level
as a billiard table and as bare of herbage as
a billiard ball. We ploughed a furrow for
the boundary, and for a pitch placed two
layers of sheet-irOn on the ground with
matting stretched thereupon. It playet
true, if a trifle low. At Anglcdool they
went one better, the wicket consisting ot clay
taken from white-ant mounds and prepared
after the manner of a concrete pitch. It was
a decided success.
* * * *
“O.I.”: Melbourne’s Country Cricket
Week discovered a few players who, with
coaching and a chance of catching the selec-
tors’ eyes, might reach the Victorian, it not
the Australian, XI. Glen (Donald), aged
21, made 123 n.o. and took < wickets tor
91next day he scored 54 and took 8 tor
Maddern (Dunmunkle) made 124 no and
took 4 for 15 and 5 for 15. Austin (Hamil-
ton), a left-hander, got 9 for 70 and < toi
54. Hassett (Geelong), aged IS, bagged 8
for 26 and 2 for 13. Coombe (Mountain
District), who is only 16. took 6 for 41 and
7 for 55. Smith (Grampians), a young left-
hander with a deceptive delivery, secured
7 for 87, 3 for 39, 7 for 44, 6 for 31, 5 for 10,
and 4 for 21, ending the week with an
average of 8.6. Consistent batsmen were C.
iJeffers (Swan Hill) with scores of 102 (in
120 minutes), 60. 46, .80; and Thomas a I<-
year Bendigonian, with 20 n. 0., 94 80 n.o.
and 82. All these country lads exhibited a
constitutional inability to go slow, and they
would wake up many of the old stagers of
AN IRON SHOT.
FOREMAN: “That ain’t the way to use a pick.”
NEWCHUM: “Awfully sorry—I keep confusing this with golf."
the metropolitan clubs. But unless they
come to town they will get no further.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury” : That English paper's out-
line of the qualities desirable in the captain
of the next English XI (B. 29/2/ 28) has
moved others to flights of fancy. The Daily
Mail suggests that there should be two
skippers, one for the menial task of con-
ducting the game on the held and the
other to act as “cricket ambassador and
make speeches and generally lend an air
of social distinction to the tour. Percy Chap-
man is named by the journal as the working
skipper, and Eord Ullswater as the diplomat
The proposal has its dangerous side for
Australia might retaliate in kind. We have
spare Iv.B.E.’s and the like who could talk
the hind leg off any peer that ever came out
of England, and would jump at the chance
of a little extra limelight.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : The other day the Vic. Foot-
ball Association asked its more powerful
rival, the League, to renew the agreement
to prevent one body enticing away another s
crack players unless the enticed one received
a formal permit from his governing body.
The agreement fell to pieces when the League
pinched three whole Association clubs, Haw-
thorn, North Melbourne and Footscray. The
fact is that Association players are con-
stantly attracted by the ample rewards for
their services obtainable in the League,
while few players bother to change from
League clubs to Association unless it is
plain that the former have no further use
for them. However, the League feels that
it is too much trouble to start the joke all
over again, so it has refused the request to
stop raiding its neighbors’ territory.
* * * *
“Pele”: Rugby Union football, once con-
fined to a select coterie in Britain, girdles
the earth nowadays. Mention of that Tuni-
sian match (B. 29/2/’2B) calls attention to
a notice published in a copy of the Samoan
Times. Most of the journal is devoted to
the quarrels between the Administration and
a section of the administrated, but space is
found for an intimation that the senior
Rugby Union championships are about to
rage.' The great amateur game may not be
played, exactly, from China to Peru, but its
boundaries stretch from Japan to Uruguay
and Argentina.
* * * *
“Old Q”: There were some humorous
items in the annual report of the Queensland
Rugby League. One of these was an _ ex-
pression of gratification at the “harmonious
relations’’ existing between the Queensland
crowd and the parent body in N. S. Wales.
As the latter has been threatening to take
dire action unless it is allowed to collect as
much of the profits of the Fm JishUams
tour as it can get its claws on, and ha* been
insinuating in thinly v-eilcd terms that Ned
Kelly was an amateur compared with its
ungrateful che-ild, the quality of the har-
mony is hardly impressive. Of the other
funniosities, perhaps the _ best was the teai-
laden warning of on.e individual at the niee -
ing against the wickedness of a proposal to
introduce the Rugby Union code to Queens-
land again. He hoped it would be dropped,
for since the “amalgamation of the codes,
the game had prospered, and the revival ot
another code would do tremendous harm.
The “amalgamation” exists in the gentle-
man’s imagination only, for any merging ot
the amateur and professional in any sport
is an impossibility. Still, one can under-
stand that the return of the Rugby Union,
which is flourishing in every continent,
would be awkward, to say the least.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Machete”: The Queensland golf season
was officially opened last week. New clubs
are springing up all over the country ; pretty
well every township which has gone as tar as
a pub and a butcher’s shop is now able to
boast one, even if it is only a humble nine-
holder. The occasion has been seized on to
revive the agitation for municipal links in
Brisbane, which capital suffers from conges-
tion in the matter of crammed waiting lists
at the regular clubs, even as Sydney and
Melbourne do. While on the subject, it
seems about time that a movement of the
sort was begun in Sydney. In spite of the
fact that the Moore Park course has paid tor
itself a dozen times over, no move seems to
have been made to go on with the proposed
new public links at National Park.
* * * *
“Claypan”: One honor, at least, has de-
scended on Hinkler without a string being
tied to it. This is the honorary life mem-
bership of the Brisbane G. C., which is not
easily come by. Hinkler was not present
when the announcement was made at the
annual dinner which marks the official open-
ing of the season, but that didn’t prevent
the members from drinking his health ana
that of so many other people that, as one ot
the most discreet, of the local journals said
next morning, “a distinct atmosphere ot
hilarity pervaded the great assembly ot
golfers.”
He * * *
“Darebin”: The latest addition to the
growing list of Australian golf clubs is
Heidelberg, which will be officially opened
on May 1. The pretty Victorian town
should make an ideal centre for a golf club,
for the surrounding country could not be
better from a golfer’s point of view, and it
is easily accessible from Melbourne. A
twelve-hole course will be ready for play by
the opening day, and the remaining six holes
are now being constructed. A handsome
and roomy country mansion with its grounds
has been secured for a club house, and tennis
courts and croquet lawns will also be avail-
able for members. The club is being financed
by the usual method of issuing shares.
A welcome feature of the book of rules is
a concise summary of the principal rules ot
golf and some instructive comment on the
etiquette of playing the game, both matters
in which the average player is sadly in need
of instruction.
* * * *
“Brassey” : Few players of golf recognise
the value of the minor concomitants of the
game. They pay a tremendous amount of
attention to such things as correct dress, and
even correct language, but many of them miss
the little things that count. For instance,
what average player bothers about the height
of his tee? tie is usually content to grab- a
handful of sand from the box and drive off
the height of the ball from the teeing ground
being determined by the manner in which
he has dumped it down. Yet so great an
authority as Vardon denounces this common
carelessness. He himself uses a tiny pinch
of sand, sufficient only to keep the ball in its
place when driving off. Vardon says, and
rightly, that to do so is accustoming him to
take his wooden shots through the green with
more confidence. There is a lot in it. What
is the use of a player standing his ball up
on a pedestal for one shot only when he may
have to use the same driver or a brassey to
play from a perfectly flat lie on the fairway
in his next shot?
* * * *
“Spoon” : Golfers are always looking for
some cause of complaint, .especially if they
are in the plus category. These particular
gentry have been carping at the lively modern
ball, because it enables the mug player to
reach spme measure of equality with the
Olympians. Since the mugs, who constitute
the vast majority of golfers, have refused to
surrender their alleged advantage, a move-
ment is now afoot to make the fairways more
difficult. Though most modern courses are
sown with traps for players who cannot keep
a straight line, the fairways themselves are
often so roomy that it is possible to play a
very crooked ball and yet keep out of
trouble, while the close shaving now so much
in vogue has resulted in a succession of
easy lies. The reformers desire a narrow-
ing of the fairways proper, and the main-
tenance of a portion at least of them in a
state of “rough.” This will prevent the
game being made too easy, it is claimed.
Which is all very well, but it must be re-
membered that to many players golf never
becomes easy, and to impose further handi-
caps on these would tend to discourage the
thousands of incapable but enthusiastic re-
cruits who are flocking increasingly to the
game. Just as the “rabbit” keeps cricket
going, and the betting ring thrives on the
mug punter, so golf must depend on the
thousands who can’t play it decently, and
never will, but keep at it with a glorious
optimism which is one of the anodynes for
the disease. These people should be encour-
aged in their delusion, for without them
golf would be a game for the few only.
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
CAlso under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
MlyJiilaaßßiiglT
1 mki n I 8 *!!™
'uSSlißfo!
m
Tfir
!
m
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
A
....
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesaale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Car and Cycle
The dry lake bed of Perkolilli, Westralia,
one of the finest natural speedways in the
world, was the scene of a 24-hours’ drive
the other day, when Norman Smith broke
all Australian records from 100 to 1700
miles for stock cars. The car, a Stude-
baker Commander, covered 1701 i miles in
the time, averaging 70.8 m.p.h.; the last 50
miles were traversed at 7S m.p,li, The pre-
vious best was 1070 miles by a Chrysler
car on the same track last year, when an
average of 66.6 m.p.h. was attained. The
latest American figures for a similar event
show an average speed of 75.623 m.p.h., but
this was reached on a made speedway. But
for a dust-storm, Smith is certain he could
have beaten those figures.
jH * * *
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell has cast up
well and hearty in Britain, after putting up
a new world’s speed record, 206 m.p.h., in
America. Dined and wined at Southampton,
he told his audience that his time was sure
to be beaten in the near future by someone,
and he intended that someone to be him-
self. But, instead of going all the way to
Daytona Beach, Florida, he will try his luck
on the Pendine Sands, on the Welsh coast
of St. George’s Channel, where most of the
liigh-spe.ed records have been attempted in
Britain, outside Brooklands track.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A one-armed motorist was
fined in Melbourne the other day for dan-
gerous driving, involving injury to several
persons, and the Bench volunteered the
opinion that no one-armed person should be
allowed to drive. Actually, there are num-
bers of one-armed drivers in the land. One
is a pressman who has been driving for years
and has never been in an accident, although
he us(?s the ordinary equipment of the four-
limbed motorist, including the joystick on
his left hand, or where his left hand used to
be. Chest and chin are as good as the miss-
ing digits on the wheel when it comes to
changing gears.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Another road record for
motor-cycles has been hoisted by Victor
Barcay, of Melbourne, holder of the previous
best time for the ride from Sydney to Mel-
bourne. Starting from Melbourne at 3.30 on
Saturday morning he was in Sydney at 8.1
the same evening. The cycle was a 2.77
li.p. model “W” Triumph, and petrol con-
sumption was equivalent to 85 m.p.g. This
is the first time a light-weight motor-cycle
has beaten the time of the Sydney-Melbourne
express.
# * * :|r
“Bang”; Tell “Whoosh” (B. 7/3/’2S) not
to worry about Brisbane motor-cycling losing
its snap. As recorded in a local paper, a
meeting following the one of which “Whoosh”
wrote was; of such a nature as to satisfv the
most jaded spectator. Two riders and their
machines fell in a “jumble against the fence” ;
another youth, riding in the appropriately-
named Encourage Stakes, came a cropper, but
jumped to his feet, “only to be bowled over
again by another competitor.” A fourth
was thrown with great force, and lay “an
inert mass on the track, while his machine
crashed harmlessly but spectacularly into the
safety fence.” He got nothing worse than
a broken nose. Something of an anti-
climax.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The season for motor-cycling
club trials is at hand again. The A.C.U. of
N.S.W. is to run an inter-club eight-hours’
reliability trial on March 25 from Sydney
through Parramatta. Penrith, Camden and
Liverpool back to the starting point. All
members of affiliated clubs will be eligible,
and provision has been made for teams and
for trade and private riders. Speed averages
have been set down for 250 c.c., 350 c.c.,
600 c.c.', and over (JOO c.c. solo-machines,
and over 600 c.c. side-cars.
* * ■ * *
“Sandgate”: One of the old hands in the
motor-cycle track-riding game came back to
the limelight, in Brisbane last week, when 45-
year-old Ernie Odium won the six-miles Aus-
tralasian championship and a three-miles
special scratch race on a Douglas. The
meeting was held on the old Deagon race-
course track, and the awkwardness of the
flat turns probably gave the handy little
British machine an advantage over some of
its high-powered competitors. The time for
the championship event was sm. 18 4-5 secs,
or 68 m.p.h., very fair for an unbanked
grass track.
Miscellaneous
“Snore” : Perversity makes us acquainted
with strange bedfellows. The latest to
realise it is the Australian Olympic Com-
mittee, which, having obstinately refused
to begin early on the collection of funds to
send the Australian team to Amsterdam,
now finds itself faced with the' problem of
raising a very large sum in a few weeks. To
if in its distress came some of the tin-hare
entrepreneurs with an offer to hold a special
carnival” - and devote the proceeds to the
Olympic fund. Though poor, the committee
is proud, and it refused the tainted money.
Still, it didn’t refuse very savagely, and as
the individual who suggested the stunt an-
nounces that £2OOO could be raised in
this way, it may think matters over. It is
not altogether unlikely, then, that we may
yet behold the spectacle of the Australian
amateurs being borne to Amsterdam on the
wings of the tin hare, to speak in slightly
mixed metaphor.
* * * *
“Freak” : At latest advices, Arthur New-
ton, the Rhodesian runner, was leading in
the “across-America Marathon,” from Los
Angeles to New York, and one Hedman,
described as an Australian, was fourteenth.
The only record available for comparison
is that of American E. P. Weston, who in
1893 covered the 3895 miles from New York
to ’Frisco in 104 days 7 hours. Schedule
time for the shorter event from Los Angeles
is 75 days.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: Rhodes Scholars continue
to figure well in Oxford sports and .athletics.
Walter Harrison, a Queenslander, will be
Oxford’s first string for the long jump
against Cambridge, while Wilfred Kalauger,
of Maoriland, will lead the Dark Blue entry
for the 120 hurdles.
* * * *
“Spike”: A strikingly good all-round per-
formance was put up in the Tasmanian ath-
letic championships at Hobart by J. A. F
Morris. He won the 100, the 220, the 440,
the running broad jump and the hop, step and
jump, and was second in the shot put, javelin
and discus events. Morris’s best time was
23sec. for the 220—only two-fifths of a second
worse than Jim Carlton’s in the N.S.W.
championship, and, like Carlton, the Hobart
youth was never pressed.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : Brisbane saw a revival of
an old game the other night, when a man
was matched to run a greyhound. At one
time in Queensland few country shows and
sports meetings—they were generally syno-
nymous—were without something of the kind,
or a match between a man and a fast pony,
usually with a half-way post to turn at, which
gave a clever ped. a bit of an advantage.
In the Brisbane affair Cross, a well-known
professional quarter-miler, had to run his pet
distance while the tyke, a noted tin-hare
chaser named Plugger Bill, covered 825 yards.
Cross won, pulling up, in 49sec., according
to local dockers. The watches must have
been a bit slow, or the coves who held ’em
were, since the Australasian record is only
half a sec. better, and Cross is no Nigel
Barker. The dog’s time wasn’t taken, which
seems a pity.
* * * *
“Blade” : Victoria’s choice for the King’s
Cup race on the Nepean in May comprises
men from four clubs—two from Ballarat, two
from Melbourne (including the cox), two
from Richmond and three from Mercantile.
The stroke, C. N. McKay, is a Merc., as are
the two men immediately behind him. Ted
Horsburgh will coach. The inclusion of two
men from a country club will strike an un-
J. STANDEN, one of the finest amateur
cyclists Australia has produced, whose
omission from the Australian Olympic
team has caused a great deal of dis-
satisfaction among followers of cycling.
familiar note in N.S.W., which, alone of the
Australian States, boasts no club outside
Sydney.
* * * *
“Splash”: The Sydney public will be given
a chance of seeing Andrew Charlton in
action again when the N.S.W. Swimming
Association holds its Olympic carnival in
the Domain baths on March 31. Charlton
is to start in the 440yds. event for the State
title; this will constitute the test of his
fitness required by the Olympic selection
committee before finalising his selection. The
authorities of the women swimmers’ associa-
tion are being requested to permit some of
their many child “cliamgions” to take part
in contests over Olympic distances, so the
flapper-swimmer press may be expected to
come out with special -editions.
* ❖ * ' *
“Bamboo”: The question of the personnel
of the Australian polo team which has been
invited to visit America next year is already
being discussed. It was proposed at first
that S-A’s. Mount Crawford team should
LE A DARLING, the South Melbourne
batsman-bowler, who helped to land
his team in the semi-finals of the pen-
nant competition by taking 6 for 17
and 4 for 22 against Essendon.
bo sent; but it was then pointed out that
Harden, of N.S.W., has a record of per-
formance almost as high—incidentally, it has
captured the Stradbroke Cup in Melbourne.
The Australian Polo Council has decided to
invite each of the State associations to make
a point of sending a team to Sydney for a
trial after the Dudley Cup meeting in July,
If this can be done, the selectors should have
a fairly good idea of Australia’s best.
At. the same time, the selection of a yrhole
club team has much to recommend it. As
six men are to go, a club of the standard
of Harden or Mt. Crawford, with two of the
best of the outsiders for emergencies, might
fill the bill.
* * * *
“Rummy”: It is not only the question of
standardised bowls which is vexing our bowl-
ing authorities. Other matters almost as
important are attracting pained attention;
the chief of these is dress, in which many
members prove as contumacious as they do in
the matter, of having their “woods” set right.
The law is that your true bowler should
appear on the mat in faultless “whites,” and
rubber-shod to correspond. A uniform hat
of pleasing design is also ordained, with
a ribbon carrying the club badge or mono-
gram. A club blazer, to be worn on the
green or not, is another necessity. The atti-
tude of numerous players towards these regu-
lations is lamentable. They appear in
nondescript garments and in hats that
would rouse the scorn of an out-back black-
fellow. Many also insist on wearing a
waistcoat over their uniform, or sport braces
over the same. There is some reason for this
last practice, since there are bowlers with
figures that render braces absolutely neces-
sary ; but it is felt that the braces might be
concealed from view in some such manner
as were the stocking suspenders of the other
sex before knees became fashionable. Any-
w r ay, the problem is a serious one, and the
authorities would welcome any suggestion for
the enforcement of discipline.
* * * *
“Compo”: The Maoriland bowlers are
not to have it all their own way in England
and Scotland this season. James Wall, ex-
president and v.-p. of the N.S.W. Bowling
Association, intends to collect an Australian
team in London, whither he is bound to con -
fer with the governing bodies in the old
country on such matters as Australian re-
presentation on the International Bowling
Board, and to arrange for a regular inter-
change of visits between Australian and
British teams. A dozen of the State’s lead-
ing bowlers will be available in London dur-
ing the ambassador’s visit, and these may be
supplemented by the many bowlers from all
over Australia who will take part in the
Scottish delegation from this country. Such
visits are to be encouraged, not only for the
sportsmanship and cameraderie created, but
for the increased demand they are bound
to. set up for the products of the Australian
distilling industry.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Clerk”: The latest English firm to see
the point of the Australian tariff is Morley’s,
of Nottingham, who are erecting an under-
wear factory at Ballarat. A very few
skilled workers will be imported, but the
bulk of the employees will be local. There
should be a patrician flavor about the undies
turned out by a company which was estab-
lished in 1790 and has the heir to a barony
as a London director'.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Whatever the artistic qualities
of “Doge Pietro Loredano,” the new Felton
Bequest purchase, doubts arise as to
whether Frank Rinder scored a commercial
triumph over the transaction. The highest
price fetched in England for a Tintoretto
was £3360, paid in 1927 at auction for “The
Raising of Lazarus.” Of 25 works by the
dead Venetian sold in London between 1921
and 1925 none brought more than £lOO.
Ours isn’t all Tintoretto, there being abun-
dant signs of the restorer. It cost £14,000.
* * * *
The Tassy hydro-electric scheme is slowly
producing good fruit. The other day in
Launceston the foundation stone of the Rap-
son Tyre and Rubber Co. was laid. This
promises to be one of the biggest things of
its kind in Australia. Much of the factory
is already completed, and part of the
machinery is landed. Most of the. labor em-
ployed will be Australian, only a few experts
being brought from Britain.
* * * *
Vic. Electricity Commission, in reply to
“R.D.D.,” who complains (±5l. 29/2/’2B)
that, although the transmission lines from
the power plant at Yallourn pass overhead,
he can’t get the juice put into his house
Many people are under the impression that an
electric high-tension line can be tapped quite
readily, but the cost of the necessary sub-station
frequently makes supply impracticable in an iso-
lated case. If “R.8.D.” has been in communication
with the Commission regarding the matter, he will
have been informed of any difficulties, if they exist;
or, if a supply is practicable to himself individually
or as one of a group, he will have been advised of
the steps which will require to be taken.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The Netherlands firm which
is towing the Singapore dock out from Eng-
land (B. 7/3/’2S) is not unknown in Aus-
tralia. In 1924 an explosion broke the back
of the steamer City of Singapore at Port
Adelaide. W. J. Russell, a salvage expert,
bought her and had her raised. While
strengthening the vessel with girders he was
harassed in every way by the unions, and
finally decided that it wlould be cheaper to
have the derelict taken to Rotterdam for
reconditioning. On April 11, 1925, the union
bosses had the mortification of seeing the
two Dutch trigs tie on to their quarry and
pull her off to Europe. It took four months
—the longest tow in history.
* * * *
“Nauta”: A recent visit to North-West
Islet opened my eyes to the potentialities of
the Great Barrier Reef. On this small
island the factory for the canning of turtle
soup is in full swung from the beginning of
November until the end of January, the sea-
son when the greenback comes ashore to lay
her eggs. The average despatched per night
was 25. the same being converted next day
into 1200 lib. tins. Farther north at Bar-
nard Island there is a plant for pulverising
coral, millions of tons of which are going
to waste. Crushed coral, consisting of almost
pure carbonate of lime, makes a splendid
fertiliser for the canefields, as farmers in
the Innisfail district have quickly discovered.
Guano is another valuable product of these
parts; the Japs used to take away shiploads
from Heron Island. On visiting Lady Mus-
grave Island I found it possible almost any-
where to sink a spade 18 inches deep in
almost pure bird-manure. Meanwhile Queens-
land is still exercised by the problem of what
to do with the unemployed.
* * * *
“Drazsi”; The Commonwealth Bank has
hit on the idea of saving removal expenses
when managers are shifted by providing each
manager’s residence throughout Australia
with furniture built to a uniform design.
Hence when the manager of the Waggaroo
branch is promoted to Bunyipville he wall
know instinctively where to hang liis pants,
even in the dark. The specification provides
that each bedroom suite shall be in Queens-
land maple with interiors of imported
“Pacific maple.” But does anyone know
a timber superior to Tasmanian liuon pine
for interiors? The hallstand, dining-room
chairs, extension-table and sideboard are to
be in “Japanese” or “Manchurian oak.”
The balance of the furniture—perhaps 10
p.c.—may, presumably, be of Australian
timber. Surely a Government institution like
this should be the first to realise the im-
portance of providing work for Australian
sawmillers.


SSI
Sis
mSet
By Appointment to H.M.King George \A
df
&
-3
[[Hum
K
Leylands are scwd and
serviced m Australia
by direct branches of
the English Factory.
factory report
FI
qm
Speeding up
PRODUCTION
pROM their work of carrying raw materials
to city factories to that of transporting the
essentials of production to outback settlers,
Leyland Lorries are speeding up production
throughout Australia in a hundred different
ways.
Day in and day out, in all weathers and over
all roads, Leyland Lorries carry heavy loads
with time-table promptness. Their sturdy
British construction proves itself in thousands
of trouble-free miles. Long life, low upkeep
costs, consistent service—these are the sound
reasons for Leyland economy.
55,000 MILES
Total Cost of Repairs £l5
MESSRS TETLEY’S Ice Works, Sydney, advise
that a rebuilt 4-ton R.A.F. Leyland pur-
chased in December, 1924, has to date done 55,000
miles and the total cost of repairs during that period
has not exceeded £l5. Messrs. Tetley s also
operate a 2-ton Leyland, which has done over
30,000 miles with a total cost for maintenance and
repairs of £32.
Write to Department S 5 jor descriptive Leyland literature.
Please state the type of lorry in which you are interested.
PRICES OF STANDARD AUSTRALIAN CHASSIS
Ex Sydney or Melbourne Works.
2/2 a T0n....
3 Ton.
£720
£B5O
4 Ton... £1075
5/6 Ton. £llB5
levland Motors
*=?— *=>
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
- SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot:—
Cr. Villiers & Courtney Streets,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Brisbane Depot:—
Grey Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
Profactum Lip Salve for cracked lips-
your chemist has it. — Advt.
[is.
Violet Blue Eyes.
By “PHLOX.”
“¥ WAS a wallflower again last night,
I mother.”
* “Most unfortunate, my dear, most
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry?”
“I’m not going to suppose anything of the
sort.”
“But if no man asks me?”
“Then, you’ve got to do your part, and
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.”
“Then you’d better go into a nunnery.
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit me. I m
too fond of the joys of the world.”
“What about going to the Islands a« a
missionary?”
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
“Whatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By the way Millieent, what are you
wearing for the dance on Tuesday?”
“I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy
and my hair like rats’ tails.”
“How very rude of her.”
“Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue eyes.
“Of course, you have.”
Instead of going to the dance Millieent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mrs.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was very
fond.
“I’m delighted to see you, dear,” was Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.”
“I was, but—er —well, I’m tired of being
a wallflower.”
“I’m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that book
I lent you?”
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it will
ever come to me?”
“It will, dear, if, as well as _ desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me.”
“In the first place you need a good cream
that will nourish, and at the same time re-
move the discoloration from your skin.
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face; but have you ever tried mereolized
wax?”
“No; I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
“Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of I renchwoftien
going into retirement, during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes; I’ve read about it. ’
“Well, mereolized wax has the same effect
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—l always use Pilenta Soap then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub in a little of the meicolizeii
wax, which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder I
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
“For those blackheads on your nose and
chin stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided bathe the face with
the liquid. After drying you will find that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminol,
which removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing ro
be done is to shampoo it with stallax!”
“Yes, I’ve written, that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will,
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do—something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous!”
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Brush
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be! You can’t
think what a load you’ve taken off my mind.
Now if you would only prescribe something
for my red hands. I’m so ashamed of them.”
“I can, dear, give you a prescription that
I’ve tried myself with the best results. Add
bicrolium jelly to your list of wants from
the chemist. This pleasant non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan, clears out the dirt which soap cannot
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all these things.”
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.”
“Oh, there’s Jones for me. Good-night,
Mrs. Douglas ; I don’t know how to thank
you.”
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I have told you. When you have improved
your skin and hair you will be quite beauti-
ful, and should make many conquests with
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”


Under
Royal
Warrant
sd
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE 1
CHeslleidsiedi
niii
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
5p3pP»US?raQ
jMOVdWVMD
IL 1
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
10 YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Cable Address —
“ Mum” Sydney.
Wire accommodation.
HCflfeL
7
EXCLUSIVE - - QUIET
and with reasonable rates.
TARIFF:
Inclusive Board from.. 27/6
With bath from 307-
Rooms with Breakfast from 20/-
CUISINE, COMFORT AND
SERVICE UNPARALLELED.
Hot and Cold Running Water
and Telephones in every room.
Private Suites de Luxe.
Sydney’s Most Spacious Lounge.
Attached is the Famous Wentworth Cafe: Dancing Afternoon and Night.
ADDRESS: LANG STREET, SYDNEY.
/mf) Tttre centre of Queens fern c/s
d/s/ingu/sfao/ Soc/o/Life.
tmom
mrfel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Suites de Luxe—double and single
Bedrooms, with Bathrooms
cittciciiGd. Hot cind cold running
water and Electric Fans in every
Bedroom, and every modern con-
venience for the comfort of guests.
Teleprams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines
AWOMAN'S
LETTER
Last week will go down in the history of
Sydney as Hinkler Week. We might easily
become known as the Hinkler nation, to mis-
appropriate the pun evolved at the gala
performance of “The Girl Friend” when
somebody announced he had the “liinkler-
nation” to fly. At the lunch tendered to
the airman by the State Government at the
Australia the floral decorations were a dream
of beauty; bowls of pink cactus-dahlias
and roses linked by trails of asparagus ferns
to high rustic baskets brimming with the
same flowers. Among other events with
Hinkler for the central figure were ■ a
reception and presentation at Parramatta, a
making of 20 records at the factory of the
Columbia Gramophone Company at Home-
bush, and the Aero Club’s dinner at Farmer’s.
Then there was the round of visits to the
clubs to be made, exclusive of the heavy-
weight institutions, with everywhere, it
seemed, a cheque to be picked up and a
speech to be made. The midnight shades
found the little man, who hasn’t developed
the habit of gingering up on cocktails, rather
white and weary about the gills.
Some of the clubs remembered the air-
man’s womenfolk, too. City Tatt.’s sent his
mother a little chiming clock, and the Sports
Club a gold wristlet, while the J. C. William-
son firm rounded off their theatrical night
by handing over a platinum and diamond
watch for Mrs. Hinkler, junior.
Long before half-past nine one night last
week, Pitt-street, outside the Ambassadors,
was a solid block of humans. Hinkler was
due at the ball for St. Margaret’s after his
dinner with the Aero Club, and there was
just a chance if you hugged the pavement
of a glimpse at the national idol before the
vestibule engulfed him. On the walls a plas-
tic little Cinderella peeped out, watching for
a young man from Bundaberg whose sky-
cliariot had made even her fairy coach drab
and commonplace by comparison. The or-
ganiser for St. Margaret’s, George Fitzpat-
rick, with the reception committee, held the
porch, and one noticed a little bewilderedly a
laurel wreath big enough to be slipped over
the head of Jessie, the elephant at the Zoo.
Then Hinkler arrived, and out into the
middle of the floor surged a wave of velvet
and brocades and tulle. The orchestra
crashed into “The Conquering Hero,” and, to
the accompaniment of clapping that sounded
like a hailstorm, George Fitzpatrick broke
through the crowded doorway, sheltering the
little airman under his outflung arm. Down
an avenue of cheering humans Hinkler smiled
his way to the official table. Here sat Mrs.
Stewart Dawson, senior, very picturesque in
rose georgettes, Dr. and Mrs. Langton, the
American Consular Lawtons, Miss Preston
Stanley, Minister Buttenshaw, Mrs. George
b itzpatrick, Sister Kervcn, and the hospital’s
pietty secretary, -May Sheehan, in apple-green
georgette and silver lace. Dancing became
a make-believe; couples were too engrossed
jn watching Hinkler as he autographed
innumerable toy aeroplanes and photographs
and menus. Presently the guest of the even-
ing stepped to the middle of the ballroom
ringed about by a bodyguard of the youngest
and prettiest girls in the room, and Minister
Buttenshaw started to auction a special re-
cord made by the airman of the Great Flight
The bidding started at £lO, and the trophy
was finally secured by Stewart Dawson amid
loud jubilations, for £lOO. Hinkler seemed
to enjoy the fun as much as anybody, until
in response to an importunate messenger
from the Wentworth, he was dragged away
to the Flying Doctor Ball; he paused in the
vestibule to crown the Studebaker model
which had topped the King of Cars contest
foi the Sunshine Club with the immense
laurel wreath hereinbefore referred to.
The Flying Doctor Ball at the Wentworth
was ot the dinner variety. Every third man
was a doctor, and surgeons John McKelve.v
and Dan Kelly were early arrivals, each
shepherding a party and a wife in colorful
raiment. Mrs. John McKelvey was draped
about with a gorgeous shawl that later on
revealed pale-pink chiffons of uneven lengths
that flashed a diametric shoulder-buckle
Mrs. Hugh Munro’s gold and bronze laces
suggested an autumn flame, while the small
and sparkling president, Pearl Appleton
whisked about in a foam of pink-tulle
handkerchief frills. At her table were
gathered secretary Gretel Bnllmore in sea-
bines that flashed rose sequins at the hem;
Ann Jamieson, very cameo-like, above black
chiffons, and an English girl, Ruby Smith,
who wore powder blue with a difference.
Black lace and red roses was the Carmen-
like choice of Rosemary Shepherd ; slim and
fair in black and silver was Mrs. Pat Levy,
who, with her husband, entertained a party;
Mimi Ilealey and Judith Osborne were others
of the night’s admired ones; and the same
applies to Nora Grainger in ivory lace, Mrs.
Hugh Gordon and Audrey Johnson in vir-
ginal whites, the last being kept busy utter-
ing the right word to continuous congratula-
tions on her engagement to Rex Chambers.
But wlvat of the celebrity to meet whom one
and all had paid a guinea sterling? At ten
the committee began to be anxious; at half-
past it became impatient; by eleven it was
feverish —and still no Hinkler. A fox-trot
competition, promoted to bridge the wait, was
Avon by Mrs. John McKelvey, partnered by
J. R. Adams, Mrs. Maclurcan delivering the
verdict amid loud applause. But it was
nearly half-past eleven when the mortal Puck
arrived, and the human voice poured out its
greetings in “He’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
He was too tired to dance, but still capable,
as the autograph fiends found, of signing
his name to a mountain of photographs.
The Hinkler hats (tight-fitting skull
tilings with ear-flaps) made early appearance
in the shop windows, also Hinkler marocains
—these last imprinted with - aeroplanes. All
eyes pursued the hero by land and air till
lie took off for Canberra.
Shirley Gordon, of Rose Bay, had father-
in-law Einfeld to help noose her to his son
Solomon at the Synagogue last week. This
is the first time in all its 50-odd years of
marrying and giving in marriage that the
Synagogue has heard a father blessing the
vows of his son. Shimmering tulle and silver
lame, topped by a Limerick-lace veil, floated
about the bride, who had her two sisters,
Lilian and Eleanor, as maids. Toasts at
Paris House.
Artist John Banks and attractive Eliza-
beth Mahony are among the latest of happy
couples. St. Stephen’s, in Phillip-street,
heard the vows, and the honeymoon waxed
over Wollongong beach and links. The two
are ardent golfers, as well as clever artists.
The joint address is Milton Hall, Salisbury-
road, Rose Bay.
The name of the first doctor appointed for
aerial service under the Australian Inland
Mission’s scheme was not disclosed till the
day before the Flying Doctor Ball. The dis-
tinction goes to Dr. St. Vincent Welsh, of
Macquarie-street, who has worked in conjunc-
tion with Surgeon Alexander MacCormick,
and has had wide country experience with
Dr. Lethbridge at Narrandera. He takes up
his practice on May 1, with his headquarters
at Cloncurry, a round that stretches 400
miles east and 400 miles south-west, and a
salary of £lOOO a year.
The girl with the sensitive face and elf-
like eyes in this Casneaux picture is Pearl
Appleton, just about to make her plunge as
a professional actress with Gregan Me-
Malion’s new
company. A
pupil of Fren-
sham, she is
on e of the
finds of the
just defunct
Repertory So-
c i e t y. She
made her first
hit in “Old
English,” with
a part of a few
lines; E. J.
Tait, who was
in front on the
opening night,
was so im-
pressed that he
offered to put
her on the
Firm’s pa y-
sheet straight
away. When
not acting
Pearl leads younger sets on charity com-
mittees. A exeat deal of the success of the
E lying Doctor Ball was due to the unflag-
ging effort of the group of young things,
organised by Mrs. Hugh Munro, of whom
Pearl Appleton was the president.
Sydney took Rosita Silvestri straight to
its heart. The Gonsalez co. soprano with
the pleasant girlish face radiates youth;
and into her voice sometimes falls a note
of passion that suggests romance. The easy,
flexible voice joins to expressiveness a
good range; but it is the singer’s youth that
makes the great appeal. Silvestri’s musical
career did not start until 1926, and she is
still unspoiled by adulation. Australian
audiences have seldom seen a grand-opera
heroine who was not palpably a matron ; the
cheers this lady gathers may be taken as a
mark of appreciation of the change.
The city florists must suffer the worst
sense of disappointment over the Fuller-
Gonsalez opera season, the usual generous
first-night offerings of after-curtain blooms
being conspicuous by their absence. Of course,
none but the thoroughly unsophisticated be-
lieves that a populace is suddenly moved with
a desire to strew the stage with flowers in
honor of people it is seeing for the first
time: the managements themselves have
usually been in the habit of paying for those
ostensible tributes of appreciation which some
florists are prepared to supply at reduced
rates for wholesale orders. This time the
Italian community, which has patronised the
present opera in large numbers, was left to
fill the floral gap, but apparently it wasn’t
apprised of what it was expected to do.
Clive Carey, senior teacher of singing
at the Elder Conservatorium in Adelaide,
chose Sydney
for liis fare-
well concerts
in Australia.
Last night at
the King’s
Hall, in com-
pany w i t h
Gwen Selva, he
captured hi s
audience with
“Clorillo and
his Phyllis,”
his own a r-
rangement of
o 1 d English
songs and
duets. The
English singer
was at Cam-
bridge before
he served four
years in the
war. He has
the ease that
comes from experience, and liis French and
Spanish songs suffer not at all from his
being so essentially a singer of English.
Muriel McHutchirison, of Mosman, an t
James A. Tutin, of the same suburb, crossed
the Harbor for their nuptials during last
Thursday night’s rain. Muriel’s father
escorted her to the altar of St. Philip’s on
Church Hill, and even if the moon didn’t
shine the soft white satin wedding frock of
1830 vintage with its thick encrustments of
rhinestones and silver provided a glittering
trail up the bride-worn aisle. The long and
full tulle train with its foaming top of Hom-
ton-lace veil was followed by three attractive
maids, in roseate taffetas modelled on those
worn in the girlhood of Victoria the Good.
With their pink posies, pink satin shoes
and pink tulle hats the three resembled
some particularly toothsome Sundae. Padre
Kenderdine put the leading questions, Mal-
colm Hutchinson best-manned, and Peggy
Dunbar’s creamy contralto helped take the
edge off things. After which the scene
changed to the Ambassadors, where the spot-
light fell on the bride’s mother in Chanel-
blue georgette, silver lace and a small
swathed hat of grey velvet. The groom’s
mother shared it in her glitteringly beaded
black frock, topped by a fuchsia velvet coat.
In spite of opera and other attractions,
much of the beauty and chivalry of Sydney-
crowded into the Empire to “Take the Air”
on Saturday night along with confirmed first-
nighters. The dressing showed enterprise,
especially when the ballet appeared in flying-
suits of shimmering white. Although “Take
the Air” is full of talk about aeroplanes, it
is likely to win on its legs.
“They looked such darlings in their velvet
suits,” was one of the remarks heard at
the opening Cherniavsky concert at the Con-
servatorium. That recalled a time when the
trio of musicians made their first appearance
in Sydney as smallish boys. This is their
fifth visit since then, and 20 years have
passed. Their popularity is likely to be in-
creased by the matured merit of the per-
formances they are now giving.
Who would suspept Irene Vanbrugh of
being a vice-president of the Girls’ Realm
Guild? Well, she is, and last week she de-
livered a message from the English brand:
of the society to the Sydney members at a
reception in her honor. Her arms filled
with pink roses, handed over by Mrs. Gerald
Hobbs from the Solomon Islands, the tall
Irene made a striking figure in the assembly-
room of the Women’s Club. Her jaunty cape
of golden cloth was matched by a gold
toque and yellow gauntlet gloves, and a
golden voice fold of the English society,
which has a very young group of members
known as the Fairy Ring—its particular
magic is to raise money to help along the
education of gifted but hard-up kiddies. Tin
Edgeworth David lady, president of the Syd
ney branch, welcomed Miss Vanbrugh. And
as one looked at the sparkling ladv, and re-
membered that she and her husband netted
something like £30,000 from their last tour
of Australia, one thought that the Girls’
Realm Guild was fortunate in this vice-
president.
Even the garden world had its Hinkler
thrill. At the Autumn Exhibition of the
Horticultural Society a spectacular exhibit
was a new variety of dahlia grown by J. A.
Johnston of Eastwood. Lady de Chair, who
opened the show of autumn glories—herself
in golden browns—announced that the
orimson-and-silver beauty had been named
the Hinkler. A bowl of peony dahlias
arranged by Mrs. Vaughan and the vases of
roses that went from bud to bloom at
the full were small seas of ravishing color.
Joyce Hillman, daughter of the S. Hill-
mans of Rose Bay, was an 1830 bride whose
maids carried out the illusion to the smallest
detail. Sydney has seen so many 1830 brines
whose maids are 1928 that tli-e pictorial
effect of this Synagogue wedding won a
murmur of satisfaction. Silver lace over
pink georgette fasliioned the ankle-length
frock, and its spreading hips were garlanded
with silken flowers. The pink tulle veil,
arranged in cap fashion, was fastened with
ear posies of orange blossom, while pink
roses filled the arm that was tucked under
father’s arm at the entrance and under, the
bridegroom’s at the exit. The groom is a
Maorilander, Hubert Liclienstein, of Auck-
land; the knot was tied by Rabbi Cohen and
the Reverend A. D. Wolinski, the bride’s
grandfather. Sister Grace and cousin
Joyce, who ’maided, added poke bonnets and
white silk mittens to their long, befrilled
tulle frocks of pale pink and pale blue. Mr.
and Mrs. Hillman later received the guests
at the Lawn Tennis Club House at Rush-
cutter Bay.
On March 27 good looks and youth and
money will all be linked together at St.
Mark’s at Darling Point, when Betty Wil-
son, a pretty Sydney girl, is to marry
Warwick Fairfax, heir to the S. M. Herald.
They are both young and popular. Gold
to match the bride’s hair will be the color
emphasised in the decorations and the
dresses of the five bridesmaids, Philippa
Stephen, Enid Falkiner, Margaret Gordon,
Barbara Allen and Margaret Faii'fax.
The opening night of the new Regent
Theatre resulted in £7OO for deserving chari-
ties. The Hospital Saturday fund gets
half, and the other half will be divided
among the Sydney Hospital, the Royal
Prince Alfred and the Kindergarten Union.
For the Elizabeth dinner dance in aid of
the new club for the Deaf and Dumb, a
committee of heavy social tongue is working
overtime. Mrs. A. B. Shand is the organi-
ser and the Philip Street lady the president.
April 12 and the Ambassadors are the time
and place.
Prince Alfred’s Hospital, not satisfied with
its present corridors and galleries and tower-
ing heights, its labyrinths and mazes, is
about to unveil a new operating wing. The
mere building cost of this new pile will be
£30,000, and an innovation is the grey
scheme of coloring for walls, uniforms and
surgeons’ overalls.
An engagement that is stirring Stratlifield
is that of Marcia, the good-looking eldest
daughter of the A. E. Grace couple, and
Rupert King, a son of the Milton Kings,
of Macleay-street, Potts Point.
The atmosphere of St. Philip’s was
•steeped in pink one night last week w T ken
Evelyn Mary (Toots) Harrington, of Tur-
ramurra, drew her lace raiment up its aisles.
Trails of pink cactus dahlias and radiance
roses smiled on the bride as, clad in Iloniton
lace from veil to train, she stepped forth on
father’s arm to whisper vows to George C.
Gee, of Mosman. Gwynneth Waterhouse,
Rita Gee a\l Edna Dennett ’maided in pink
chenille and cloth of silver topped by soft
pink felt hats. Later, at the Wentworth,
the bride’s mother hostessed in black georg-
ette wedded to an armful of deep red roses.
Roland Foster, of the State Conserva-
torium, will be chief musical adjudicator this
year at Ballarat’s South-street competitions.
Previous occupants of the judge’s seat in-
clude Henry Verbrugghen, Alfred Hill, Fritz
Hart and Arundel Orchard.
John Dailey, for many years of The Bul-
letin’s staff, to which he shortly returns,
has published his first novel in England.
The story ran in serial form through the
Evening News some years ago, and now,
slightly remodelled, it has been brought to
life between covers. It deals with Sydney’s
Upper Crust, with clubs, and suppers and
pretty ladies, and is a clever reminder that
you can’t both eat your cake and have it.
Its title is “No Armour,” and John Long
is the publisher.
Another Australian journalist to become a
novelist is Theyre Weigall, a son of the late
Vic. Justice Weigall. His contribution to the
bookstalls is “One Tree Hill.”
It would be interesting to know how many
young Australians Sister Marsden has intro-
duced to this continent. One of the first
obstetric nurses trained by the Royal Hos-
pital for Women, 40 years ago, she is still
linked with the work of the Benevolent
Society, of which that institution is a splendid
part. In the grounds of the hospital one
afternoon last week, a group of Sister’s
old friends in which doctors and nurses
loomed large pressed on her a cheque for
£B5O in company with a great bunch of pink
roses. Dr. Constance D’Arcy told eloquently
of the benefit Sister’s work had been to
the Uni., many of whose students had
received from her their first training in ob-
stetrics. Professor Windeyer made the pre-
sentation ; Mrs. Graham, the matron under
whom Sister Marsden served her apprentice-
ship, was among the applauding group.


-sHARgT
MOTOR LUNCHEON CASES
==M
-( :? :
-iMS?
BI 3 01.
Ideal for Picnicking, Travelling and Motoring, this particularly fine
Luncheon Case is made Suit-case style from specially-selected
leather. It is fitted for six persons and contains the following
articles:—
6 stainless knives; forks, teaspoons, enamel plates,
china cups and saucers, 2 aluminium tumblers,
aluminium salt and pepper boxes, wicker-covered
bottle, two 2-pint Thermos flasks and 2 metal food
containers. Size 25 x 15 x 7.
£16.
Smaller Motor Luncheon Cases from £8/10/-
Five per cent, discount allowed ]or Cash.
Hardy’s New Catalogue will be sent, post free, to any address.
H A R.DY
BROTHERS LTD.
£//ie 7/ouse oP &oluswc ZJewcllejy
coLUNfsT.,
MELBOURNE.
JJ6-JJ8
QUEEN ST.
BRISBANE.
13 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
And at LONDON.
ELECTRIC!
DUX
INST ANT AN EOUS
BATH and TAP
HEATERS.
The DUX Electric Water-Boiling Jug
PRICE 30/-
Boils Three Pints of Water in Five Minutes.
NO FUMES : : NO MATCHES : : NO EXPLOSIONS.
A child can use the DUX ELECTRIC WATER HEATERS without any fear
of terrifying explosions and deadly fumes. No matches are required, thus
there is complete immunity from fire. Just switch on as you would the
electric light and instantly flows a copious supply of water heated to any
desired temperature.
The one indicator on the bath-heater controls all taps plunge, shower and
hand-basin. The whole operation with a DUX HEATER is simplicity itself.
PRICES s £l2/10/- and £B/10/-
The highly-glazed white porcelain of the DUX HEATERS and their high-
grade nickel fittings make them beautiful additions to the home and impart
an atmosphere of sparkling cleanliness with the surety of a reliable and
instantaneous hot-water supply.
The DUX ELECTRIC TAP HEATER. PRICE, £5.
Sold by all the Leading Supply Houses.
Demonstrations and Trade Lists at
Dux Electric Heaters (N.S.W.) Ltd.,
418 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OTHER STATES—
DUX ELECTRIC HEATERS (WORLD’S RIGHTS), LTD.,
Warwick Building, Hamilton Street, Sydney.
The COVTARD Line of Beauty
g
V ST
L
■ i
7 < . r,
/
<r
-
i
w$M
m
m
11 1 \ f
SMART -
IN EVERY DETAIL
ust as the fashionable woman realizes the
ultimate importance of small essentials,
so does Gossard design and make founda-
tionwear perfect to the most minute details
From the original design created by Gossard
artist-stylists, from the exquisite fittings
made by trained Gossard corsetieres , from the
careful selection of materials by schooled
experts down to the achievements of skilled
artisans Gossards are led on a pathway of
impeccable quality to the peak of accepted
fashion. And because of these things the
fashionable woman loves Gossards, and
knows when she chooses them that her high-
est expectations will be fulfilled.
Gossard Corsets
are made within the Empire
In all the types of foundation garments you
like to wear, you may be sure of finding
a group in The Gossard Line of Beauty. Do
not delay in seeing the new Autumn Gossards
at your favourite store. Girdles, step-ins, Gos-
sard Completes , combinations, clasp-arounds,
front-lacing corsets, are new in design, per-
fect in workmanship.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd.,
114 Castlereagh St., Sydney


It was
Built for
YOU
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE,
with its
Unparalleled Magnificence
and Delectable Cuisine at
Prices to Suit EVERYBODY.
“Triton” Electric Copper
The “TRITON” ELECTRIC COPPER should appeal
strongly to the woman of the better-class home in that
it helps considerably to solve the domestic labor problem,
and the electrical cost is really very moderate indeed.
Owing to the insulation of the Copper, heat losses are
reduced to a minimum.
Capacity of Copper, 12 gallons. Height over all. 33
inches. Diameter over all, 24 inches. Loading, 3000
mcnes. imauing, ouuu
watts. Fitted with 2-heat switch.
Finish- —nickel-plated.
Price
£12/101-
NOTE: The above figures are for a Domestic Copper.
Particulars of Coppers or Boilers for commercial purposes on
application.
Father Particulars from the Patentees and Manufacturers:
TIiOS. ABBOTT (SL CO.,
McEwan House, Cr. Little Collins and Elizabeth Streets,
MELBOURNE. ’Phone, F 4042.
Cr. Wynyard and Margaret Lanes, SYDNEY, N.S.W. Ill Taranaki
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Agencies: A. C. Clarke, 112 Gawler Place,
Adelaide, S.A.; Harris, Scarfe and Sandover, Ltd., Hay Street,
Perth, W.A.; W. H. Knight and Peter Bros. Pty., Ltd,, Hobart and
Launceston, Tas.; James Campbell and Sons, Ltd., Creek Street,
Brisbane, Queensland.
1
w
wm
J
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
tr
111
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Melbourne
Chatter
Tlic practical, pum.uial Hinkler dropped
on to Flemington racecourse on Sunday
afternoon just when he was expected to,
and 70,000 throats sent up a cheer of
welcome, while the Air Force Band played
“See the Conquering Hero Comes.” The
dapper little airman hopped spryly from his
silver-and-green Avro-Avian into a waiting
car, which conveyed him up the straight to
the saddling-paddock, where Premier Hogan
and Mayor Morcll were waiting with hands
outstretched and speeches of welcome tremb-
ling on their tongues. Director of Civil
Aviation Brinsmead, who up to date doesn’t
seem to have much to direct also made a
brief oration. Hinkler’s reply, relayed to
all parts of the course by loud-speakers, was
short and pithy. He looked tired, as he
had a right to, having faced two receptions
since he left Canberra, but he spoke blithely
of the joys of air-riding and put in a word
for British aeroplanes. Australia, with its
vast distances, lie said, was just the country
to give the Empire a lead in commercial
and private Hying. Then he was wafted
off to Menzies’ while the crowd chorused
that lie was a “jolly good fellow.” The
Hinkler family were on hand to witness their
Berts triumph, and others in the special
'u'oiosure were Mrs. Hogan, the Morell
lady and her daughter Sheila, V.R.C. Sec-
retary A. V. Ivewney and his wife, and the
Felix Lloyds.
After a good deal of vacillation between
sunshine and shadow, on Saturday morning
the weather decided to behave itself, to the
embarrassment of early arrivals at Caulfield
who went prepared for the worst, in fur-
coats and winter wraps. Three-piece sports
suits were in favor among later arrivals.
Never has this class of apparel been so well
cut, comfy and smart. Many fair racegoers
carried the latest wraps, of chiffon velvet
patterned in dappled designs. Among visitors
w r as the Governor of Fiji. Mrs. Merson
Cooper chanced the weather in cocoa-hued
georgette with chenille embossing, and the
same liued felt hat. Mrs. Clive Leonard
sported the new blue in suit and millinery,
and Mrs. Ben Lempriere was smartly tail-
ored in black. The Mackey lady chose a
shephcrd’s-plaid skirt and black sac coat
and black hat. Mrs. Russell Gabb and her
daughters Jeanne and Marie were among
those whose frocking caught ike eye. Pre-
mier Hogan and his wife, Mrs. T. A. Tabart,
with her daughters Edna and Pixie, and
Mrs. W. Rogers-Tliomson and her daughter
Kathleen also watched the racing. Hilda
McCardel and Phyllis Holmes Hunt were
among the smartly sports-suited members of
the younger set.
Victoria has followed the lead of N.S.W.
and Queensland, and formed a Country
Women’s Association. The project had the
active interest of Lady Somers, who presided
over gatherings at the Assembly Hall.
Aileen Fitzpatrick, organising secretary of
the N.S.W. body, which has attracted 9000
members and funds amounting to £50,000
in its six years of existence, gave advice as
to organisation. Medical-knight James Bar-
rett gave an assurance that the Bush Nurs-
ing Association was ready to help, and most
other kindred societies offered assistance. The
council formed includes the Mitchell and
Masson ladies, Mrs. lan Currie and Mrs.
lan Black.
Amongst the week’s festivities was Mrs.
Arthur Austin’s welcome home to Mrs. Jim
Burston, who recently stepped off a liner.
The handsome reception-room at the Alex-
andra Club, commandeered for the occasion,
was decorated with baskets of pink and blue
blossoms. The hostess, in blue, and her
daughter Joan, in pink lace, fitted nicely
into the color scheme. The Elder lady, with
daughter Ida, lawyer Raynes Dickson’s wife
and Mrs. Stuart Love were there; also
Dorothy Merritt, who dominated the as-
semblage by reason of her many inches.
The Grammar School chapel bloomed like
a garden for the Lamb-Smith tie-up, dated
to permit Mrs. A. T. Smith’s presence at
the ceremony before leaving on an extended
tour abroad. The J. W. Lambs, of Toorak,
escorted daughter Ethel to the chapel, the
bride in a billow of ivory georgette that re-
vealed a cloud of pink beneath. Bridal lace
garnished the train and the tulle veil floating
around the shoulders was embroidered with
silver. Edna Lea came from Sydney, and
cousin Dorothy Lamb from Bendigo to attend
her. Each trailed a long gown of peach
taffetas ornamented with silver lace and
wore a large felt matching hat. The bride-
groom was Dr. L. Meredith Smith, an old
Grammar boy. who returned, as they all do
if they can in such circumstances, to ask
his chapel’s blessing.
Glittering like an ice maiden in a cloud
of ivory georgette frosted with crystal, Jessie,
eldest daughter of the C. Tomison couple,
stepped into St. Bartholomew’s, Burnley,
last week and there was made one with
George, only son of the T. Wilsons, of
Tliornbury; Little Jean Somer, looking like
a pink powder-puff, kept an anxious eye on
the train of Brussels lace. The two ’maids,
Olive and Irene Hughes, wore shell-pink
georgette a-flutter with rose petals and hats
to match.
St. John’s, Toorak, was decked out in a
bright array of pink and mauve blooms for
the marriage of Quentin, eldest daughter of
the W. Winter-Irving couple of South Yarra,
to John Ernest, only son of the late Ernest
de Little and of Mrs. de Little of Caramut.
lie is a member of the famous Caramut polo
team. White taffeta that blended into a
bordering of vandyked silver-lace formed the
bridal raiment, which was shrouded in a
Limerick-lace veil and billows of tulle that
cascaded into a train, in the custody of the
Geoffrey Haggards’ small daughter Jacqueline
Felicity, and Peter, son of the Fred Grim-
wade couple. The four attendant maids
were garbed in seasonable shades of taffeta
and silk net, with millinery to match. There
was a great gathering of Western district
landowners at the Irving Winter home,
Stanhope, after the ceremony.
St. John’s, again flower-decked, also
housed the nuptials of Frederick Gilder,
younger son of Robert Gilder, of Maffra, and
Elizabeth Nannette, elder daughter of the
Leslie Stuart couple of South Yarra. The
bride, who possesses the daintiest of figures,
was garbed in a gown made up of white
silk net frills, silver-edged, of uneven hem-
line, high in front and swooping to the
ground at the back, that clung to a white
satin bodice embroidered 'in seed pearls
with veil and train of net, bordered with old
Brussels lace. Her three maids were clothed
in petunia pink, with lighter-hued felt hats.
Some hundreds of guests attended a celebra-
tion in the ballroom of the bride’s parents’
home, Logan House.
Harold, second son of J. J. Kingsbury, of
Brisbane, took to himself a wife at Scots’
Church one morning last week. The bride,
Irene Cora, younger daughter of the late
James Warne and of Mrs. Warne, of Upper
Hawthorn, was simply gowned in iris-blue
velvet trimmed with beige fur, and wore
a light-fawn velvet hat. Her cousin Wylfa
Humffray maided in peridot-pink topped by
brown felt millinery. Mrs. Warne was hostess
at a luncheon at Menzies’ afterwards.
Dr. H. L. Murray’s son got himself en-
gaged in London before leaving to take up
liis R.A.F. job in India. The girl of his
choice is Nancy, daughter of the T. Id.
Clcvustons, of Wimbledon.
This is Mrs. Louis Essor, better known
as Dr. Hilda Bull, B.Sc., M. 8.8.5., who has
been appointed by our City Council as advi-
ser in the campaign against infectious dis-
ease. Part of
her qualifica-
tion is that
she has con-
ducted over a
thousand im-
munisation in-
jections in Vic-
toria with
uniformly sat-
isfactory re-
suits. Dr.
Bull was for a
period an
assistant a t
the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital,
and has
always been
interested i n
child welfare
work, but she
has lately been
in private practice. During the war she
was in charge of London’s largest drafting
depot, and won special recognition for her
services. Ruskin made the portrait.
Another Melbourne boy who has chosen a
bride aboard is Leonard William Ovcrell,
whose family home is at Toorak. He mar-
ried Mary Cooper, only daughter of Com-
mander and Mrs. Cooper, of Sutton Court,
Cheswick, at St. Clement’s Dane, in the
Strand, last month. Young Mrs. Overell
has some relatives on this side of the world,
being a grand-daughter of the late George
Mee, of Wellington.
Laurie Taylor, a young Melbourne artist
whose black-and-white work is finding its
way into the London papers, recently mar-
ried a fellow-artist, who signs her Avork
“HaAA T ke.” That is (or'was before it became
Taylor) her real name, though most people
regarded it as an alias. Grace Marjorie
was set before it at baptism. The ceremony
took place at Marylebone parish church, and
the honeymoon took the form of a sketching
tour in Southern England.
St. Vincent’s Hospital will have aid in the
future from an auxiliary formed last week
by the folk of Brighton and surrounding dis-
tricts. The new auxiliary bears the name
of Gardenvale, Brighton and Bentleigh
branch. Mrs. Reg Dunlea is president, and
Mary Winter and Mollie Ryan are lion,
secs.
Archbishop Lees, who went a-wooing over-
seas, fluttered the Anglican dovecots last
week by cabling the news that his proposal
had been accepted. The bride-elect is Joanna
Mary Linnell, a friend of the family,
who has visited the Archbishop and his late
wife in Australia; so when she takes her
place as chatelaine of Bisliopscourt she will
be acquainted with many of her husband’s
flock.
Spencer Shier here pictures the new Assis-
tant Chief Inspector of Secondary Schools,
Julia Flynn,
who began her
career by win-
ning a State
Schol arsliip
which took her
to the Presby-
terian Ladies’
College. Later
she secured a
diploma at the
Teacher s’
Training Col-
lege, and was
one of the first
batch of teach-
ers se n t by
the Education
Dept, to Mel-
bourne Llni.,
wh ere sh e
graduated, and
became mathe-
matical mis-
tress at the
Melbourne High School. She was a
senior inspector of secondary schools for
some years. Miss Flynn is one of a
family of teachers. Her sister Kate is head-
mistress of the Domestic Art School at Cam-
berwell, and another has charge of the
infants’ department at Oollingwood. The
new A.C.I. is the first woman to hold an ad-
ministrative job in Vic. Education Depart-
ment.
The cafe of the London Stores was put to
, charitable use one afternoon last week when
the management handed it over for a card
party to assist the funds of Alfred Hospital.
Mrs. Russell Gabb was the hostess, and the
party was attended by Mayoress Morell and
her daughter Sheila and many others. Sales
of sweets, cakes and flowers helped to swell
the resultant cheque.
Biddy, a daughter of the recently-knighted
Dr. Harry Allen, opened our concert season
with her pianoforte recital at the Assembly
Hall. Miss Allen, who has a light sympa-
thetic touch, drew upon the works of Handel,
Brahms, Schubert, Liszt, Granados and Ru-
tini, the outstanding success of the evening
being her attractive performance of Schu-
bert’s Scherzo in A minor. The audience
included the Allen, Lockyer and Maudsley
ladies, Mrs. Robert McDonald. Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and Mrs. Tliorold Harper. The
clever musician was rewarded with a brave
array of posies.
Bernard Heinze presided over a gathering
of folk interested in the future of a promis-
ing young musician, Vera Bradford, at the
Town Hall, last week. The maiden gained
her diploma for music in 1924 at the Uni.
Con., and also won a special scholarship.
She leaves on May 8 to glean further know-
ledge abroad, and a farewell concert has been
arranged to provide financial help for her.
It will take place at the Town Hall on
April 17.
In a mauve gown brightened by a whisper
of pink, and wearing a black hat, Mrs.
Couchman, the president, did the honors at
the 24th birthday celebration of the A.W.N.
League. Lennon Raws, whose lady, also pre-
sent, was a symphony in beige, explained
the intricacies of public finance. Mrs. H. S.
Crocker, so long identified with the league,
was among other notabilities who attended.
The Town Hall was decked with asters and
other blooms in purple and yellow, the colors
of flic league.
The prejudice against green seems to have
petered out entirely. Even in the theatrical
profession the superstition appeal’s no longer
to carry weight, for there are very few shows
nowadays which do not include the verdant
hues in their dressing schemes. “The Joker,”
at the Athenaeum, allows the leading lady but
two changes, but the first is a trim jumper
suit of crepe de Chine of apple-green, with
a closely-tucked skirt, and the accompany-
| ing felt hat is of green a few tones darker.
. Later on the fair-haired heroine appears in
: a neglige of ninon patterned all over with
> large poppies in fawn, pink and brown.
> When the Embassy re-opens its doors at
> Easter it will a greatly changed
r interior. The walls, formerly white, are now
a symphony of delicately shaded greens,
ranging from the faintest breath of early
spring to reseda, the darkest panels being
framed in gold. Curtains are of gold and
green and cushioned alcoves are furnished
in the same hues, with green carpets of
slightly darker shade. Chairs and tables
are gilded. Indirect lighting on a new sys-
tem gives a daylight effect, which can be dim-
med to twilight.
Evelyn Lakey has returned from Banana-
land, and is the guest of her sister, Mrs. C.
Macpliail, at South Yarra. The pair are
planning a holiday adventure in South-
Eastern Asia, sailing this week.
The Randall sisters are preparing for a
voyage. Their itinerary includes Maori-
land, where they will take ship for Europe.
Their nieces, Mary and Nan Scott, of Gee-
long, are included in the party.
The Elderson Smiths’ daughter, Mrs
Wane Nicliolls, who after her marriage
settled in Fiji, has returned to give her son
and daughter the benefits of education. Her
old friends are beginning to clatter the tea-
cups.
Nellie Yeitch, who has definitely retired
as a teacher of elocution, set out by the
Otranto with lots of good wishes and heaps
of flowers and other gifts. She has passed
on her work to some of her former pupils.
Janet Bevan Walker and Nancy Ford will
take niost of the school classes, and Kath-
leen Smyth and Florrie Finn will also carry
on the traditions of the well-known teacher.
The Women’s Automobile Club and the
women’s section of the Royal Automobile
Club of Victoria are to. amalgamate. The
activities of both will be carried on, but on
a larger scale.
Mrs. Alan Meakin, of Newtown, Geelong,
better known as Dulcie Bland, teacher of
elocution arid an actress of note, boarded the
Otranto for a trip to London, where she will
join Mrs. Rupert Meakin.
The Fred Bennetts’ Toorak home was the
scene the other night of a dance in honor of
Brenda Wood and her fiance, Jim Dods. It
was strictly a younger-set affair. The guests
dined amid a profusion of richly-colored
dahlias, after which there was a dance. Madge
Bennett, who played hostess, wore a wide
skirt of pastel-toned taffetas joined to a
clinging bodice. Tim future bride was sur-
rounded by a cloud of floral-figured georgette.
Alice Cadogan, who has been teaching the
piano and ’cello for some time in Banana-
land's capital, has recently hung out her
brass plate here. She won her licentiateship
of the R.A.M. under the guidance of Tobias
Matthay, who revolutionised the theory of
touch, and then studied for a further five
years with the famous Teichmuller in Leip-
zig.
Mrs. Harry Osborne, unable to face an-
other winter on the Currandoolcy acreage,
was amongst last week’s sailings for London.
After an exchange of chatter with old friends
in Fogtown she will sojourn in the Riviera,
returning home at the end of the year with
a replenished wardrobe.
The Victor Leggo couple plan to leave for
a holiday abroad next month. He has in-
terests in the Malay States calling for atten-
tion, and his wife wants to call on her
sister, Mrs. Valentine Williams, well known
as the Bendigo actress Alice Crawford
before she married her novelist and settled
down in London.
Bendigo has just celebrated the birthday of
its oldest citizen, Mrs. R. Hynd, a Lanca-
shire lass, who received many congratula-
tions on reaching her hundred-and-fonrth
year. She migrated with her husband in
1824, and first saw the golden city when the
present site was covered with prospectors’
tents.
When our Country Roads Board exercises
its new powers motorists and footsloggers
who go out in search of the picturesque will
not get the eye-ache that they now do from
hoardings and other advertising signs. The
board has power to order removal or modifi-
cation of existing displays, and there does
not seem to be any right of appeal—which,
perhaps, is fortunate.
Jennie Brenan, returned after a visit to
London and the continent in search of new
ideas for her school of dancing, brings with
her a skilful exhibition dancer, Mrs. Scrim-
shaw, who has carried off many prizes in
London.
Dorothy Penfold, the Bendigo soprano,
spent a couple of days here last week on her
way home from a visit to her brother in the
Federated Malay States. The heat at Dar-
win induced her to shingle her flowing locks.
The twin spires of St. Paul’s, facing
Flinders-street, are now completed and soon
the scaffolding will be removed and a clear
view will be obtained. The central (Moore-
house) tower and spire are expected to be
finished in two years. There will be less
difficulty now in collecting the balance of the
amount required, as there is something to see
for the money spent. There are many
people only a little over middle age who never
expected to live to see any of the spires up.


II
o
9
• >
8
©
A. Saunders’
Grandfather
“CHIME”
CLOCKS
MISSION OAK CASES.
Solid Brass Movements, Silvered
Dials, Bevelled Plateglass Doors,
Three - quarter ‘‘Westminster”
Chimes, “Litchfield” Strike at the
Hours—
£2l, £25, £3O.
Inlaid Mahogany Case, £37/10/-
Full “Westminster” Chimes—
£3s, £45, £5O.
With “Whittington” and “West-
minster” Combination Chimes,
Handsomely Designed Carved
Oak Cases, Massive Burnished
Brass Weights and Pendulum—
£ss, £65, £75.
MANTEL CHIMING CLOCKS.
Solid Oak Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes, £B/10/-.
Full “Westminster,” £l2/10/-
Mahogany Case, Three-quarter
“Westminster” Chimes—
£B/10/-, £lO/10/-
Full “Westminster,” £l5.
call and see the largest
DISPLAY OF CLOCKS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
805-813 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
LS
L 3 5Q
& any £>ranch op
THE
you may obtain Copies of its Informative Booklets
7 enfified
SERVICES & FACILITIES
v AND
ARE YOU GOING ABROAD?
These Publications Convey rr\uch use Pul
Ir|Pormation and Indicate the Various
Ways in Which the Ban\ may be
he Ip Pul to you
They show that the Bank’s Service
covers the Financial side oP Primary
8l Secondary Production, Land Settle-
ment, Trade & Commerce. Investments,
Loans, Overseas Business & Tourist"
Recpjirerr[ents
COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT ANY OF THE BAh
IS BRANCHES
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Coni fa/ Paid up -^,960,377
Total Asssta in 1917
£15,017,282
Total Asseta in 1927
$42, 909,726
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Their Exes, were at the races at Ascot
for the first of the St. Patrick’s Day meet-
ings. Mrs. Campbell and Colonel Campbell
were with the vice-regal party, Lady Good-
win wearing black and white floral ninon
and a hat of ivory visca with black brim.
Mrs. Campbell was in rose-pink voile with a
hemp-colored hat. llis Ex. was lunched by
the committee, and afternoon tea was taken
on the verandah by the Governor’s party.
In a fetching frock of laurel-green and
orange, Mrs., de Witt Batty was amongst tli
throng. Her hat was of cream visca. Mrs.
Hubert Harris was in black marocain, her
pretty daughter Leila wearing vieux-rose.
Cecily Cadell Garrick was in a Paisley frock
in tones of blue and stone-color, with a
Bangkok straw hat. Mrs. Barnes (Canning
Downs) wore pomegranate-red; Mrs. A. C.
F. Halford, navy satin with touches of rose:
Mrs. Arthur Clark topped her cream frock
with rose-hued millinery.
Mrs. H. Bonney had a tea for the Hinklers
at Montana, Bowen Hills, in a setting of
roses and zinnias. Mrs. Hinkler was in
cyclamen ; Queenie Hinkler in apple-green ;
and Mrs. Bonney wore cream net.
Queensland sculptor Daphne Mayor is
going to make a bust of Bert Hinkler. She
was particularly successful with her bust of
Sir Matthew Nathan, who is a great admirer
of her work.
At the meeting of the Bush Nursing Asso-
ciation William Lennon presided, and Mrs.
Cumbrae Stewart was present. In a discus-
sion as to the cause of and remedy for the
shortage of nurses somebody stated the cause
succinctly: “They get married.” There
doesn’t seem to be any remedy for that.
There is heated discussion in our City
Council as to whether the new Town Hall
shall have a galvanised-iron roof or one of
copper. There is something rather repellent
in the idea of putting a tin roof on such a
handsome structure.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The dance given on the Oronsay on Fri-
day night proved most successful, a cool
change being in its favor. There was a
generous flow of champagne and all was
merry and bright. Mr. and Mrs. Max
Anderson helped Commander W. S. Shelford
to welcome the guests. There was a reck-
less display of brilliant tiaras by feminine
passengers whose attire in some cases set
new records in scantiness and lightness.
The ship’s many decks were a blaze of light.
Black, in tulle and chiffon, was a favorite
with the young matrons. Mayoress Bony-
thon, Mrs. Hew O’Halloran Giles, Mrs.
Stanley Skipper and Mrs. Keith Angas were
amongst the guests.
Bishop Thomas’s Avife sent out 300 invita-
tions to an American tea at the residence
of Mrs. Barker at Prospect one afternoon
last week in aid of the Barker Kindergarten
in North Adelaide, and there Avas a good
response. Tea Avas served in a marquee on
the lawn. Mrs. Bernard Dawson, Mrs.
Stanley Verco and Mrs. D. Craven were
official receivers of gifts, of which there were
many, and the J. Chambers, Lockhart Jack
and Kenneth Wills matrons disposed of the
same.
This is a Hammer portrait of Ariel
Shearer, Adelaide’s promising young com-
poser and pianist, who returned recently
after three and a half years’ study abroad.
In London she
ga v e several
recitals wit li
much success,
and played the
C minor Con-
certo of Saint-
Sae n s with
orchestral ac-
companiment
under the
baton of Dr.
Adrian Boult.
She has com-
posed several
songs and
short instru-
mental pieces,
all dainty and
charming in
effect, and is
now at work
on a piano-
forte concerto.
A recital at
Adelaide Town Hall on her return a few
weeks ago demonstrated that she has de-
veloped her technique surprisingly. She pro-
poses to give a series of recitals in the prin-
cipal cities of Australia and Maoriland, in
association with Charlotte Grivell, the well-
knoAvn mezzo-soprano, also an Adelaide girl.
It is the fashionable thing nowadays for
mothers to take their young daughters on a
trip to the Cold Country. Mrs. Allan
McFarlane and her pretty girl Betty will
leave shortly for England; Mrs. W. A.
Verco, accompanied by daughter Allison, left
by the Mooltan, and Mrs. Priest departs
by the Oronsay with three buds in tow.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Speck kept up its reputation for
climate through all the conferences, even to
the last (if it is the last) —that of the Rota-
rians, which brought hundreds of folk to
Launceston and Hobart for the chief pro-
ceedings, and distributed dozens throughout
the island at its conclusion. At the opening
ceremony in the Masonic Hall the O’Grady
was quite humorous, and before he and
Premier Lyons left the hall the members
burst into a song of praise.
Among the many entertainments arranged
for the Rotarians, the civic reception given
by Mayor and Mayoress Wignall stood out.
The day was perfect, and the idea of holding
the reception out-doors in the Botanical Gar-
dens proved a happy one. The Wignalls
received their guests on one of the lawns,
close to a flower-bed in the shape of the
Rotary emblem, the wheel, planted with
marigolds and asters. The hostess wore
champagne georgette and ficelle lace, her
little black panne liat. sporting an osprey.
Rotarians and their wives from every State
in the Commonwealth, wearing badges that
distinguished each State, wandered among
the flowers or sat at the little tea-tables
distributed under the trees and admired the
glimpses of the Derwent.
This is Mrs. Tom Murdoch, of Hobart,
president of the Women’s Non-party League
in Tasmania. The subjects she particularly
concentrates upon are pensions for widows
with depen-
dent children,
and the lessen-
ing of mater-
nal mortality.
Wh e n Mrs.
Eccles Snow-
d e n was
May o r e s s a
few years ago
she and ■' Mrs.
Murdoch eol-
-lec t e d the
first £5O for
th e Mother-
craft Home,
which formed
the nucleus of
the fund that
established the
insti t u t i o n.
One of Mrs.
Murdoch \s
most prized
possessions is
the medal of Quoen Elizabeth of Belgium,
presented her for work done during the
Great War. The portrait is by Eccles.
The C.J.’s lady, at the head of a hard-
working committee, with Miss Shoobridge
as hon. sec., worked up an “Un-grown-ups”
ball in aid of the Child Welfare Association
with such success that the dancers at the
Continental found themselves packed like
sardines on the floor. Pretty faces and pretty
frocks, charming decorations and a home-
made supper combined to make the dance
one of the brightest of the season.
The Countess of Ivintore, mother of Lady
Stonehaven, has been spending a little time
in the Speck, most of it with her two little
grand-daughters Ava and Ariel Baird, who
were holidaying at Burnie. The Countess
says some very nice things about Tassie, and
she ought to know what she is talking about,
for she has been round the world four or
five times.
westralia.
Perth.
Tennis-players saved up their pennies for
weeks ahead and society went along as a
matter of course to watch the nimble French-
men, the Davis Cup team and the Aus-
tralian women who are to travel play for
three days at King’s Park. The gardens
were a blaze of color, the hedges and lawns
emerald-green, and grey-green gum-trees made
a restful background. Lady Campion enter-
tained friends under a monster beach sun-
shade, which protected her little pen on the
pavilion. In cascade georgette and ostrich
feathers on the second day, she chose a white
rig for the final rounds, the skirt made up
of tiers of silk fringe. Mrs. Nathan wore
dawn-pink georgette ornamented with cut-
work embroidery; Mrs. Peach, a flow-
ered design of trailing creepers on an
apricot gown; Mrs. McNeil, beautifully
cut cedar crepe and fawn georgette. After
Daphne Akhurst and Miss Bickerton, whose
neat dark shingles were swathed in fawn
Lenglen bands, had won the ladies’ doubles
there were speeches through the megaphone,
and good-luck cheers wound up the tourna-
ment.
On a hot summer afternoon two foun-
dation stones were laid on the sloping hill
between the arboreal beauty of King’s Park
and the blue river and white shingle of
Crawley Beach. Archbishop Riley preceded
the laying of the St. George’s chapel stone
with a prayer of thanksgiving. Hymns were
sung under the blue sky, and then the mul-
titude of surplices and cassocks, professorial
robes and brightly-colored frocks moved fur-
ther down the hill, where his Ex. placed a
brick for St. George’s College. Both build-
ings are dreams that are coming true through
the generosity of the Hackett knight. The
Premier, Chancellor Saw and legal knight
Walter James made speeches.
“North-west Day,” the day of the year for
those who keep jumbucks up north and on
the Murchison, happened in regulation hot
weather. There was an all-day cricket match,
and great spreads for luncheon and tea were
served in a monster marquee. Their Exes,
attended to exchange greetings with friends
who live hundreds of miles from anywhere
and come to town but seldom. Lady Cam-
pion chose black georgette with rows of
graceful plisse fringe on the skirt, and a
black crin. hat.
Squads of mounted khaki marched on the
Esplanade for the consecration and presenta-
tion of the Light Horse colors. Archbishop
Riley spoke the consecration prayers, and
Brigadier-General Jess presented the troops
with the banner, inscribed with names of
engagements in which the regiment took part.
Mrs. Cate was in primrose crepe de Chine,
Mrs. Jess in white silk, Mrs. Rowell in
black and the Archbishop’s daughters in
cream.
Visiting country girls whose names are
enrolled on the correspondence lists of the
Education Department are camped at Clare-
mont. They had a busy time one day last
week when May Holman, M.L.A., showed
them over Parliament House, where they
were given lunch; Mayoress Franklin met
them at the Council Chambers, and chars-h-
-bancs carried them to City Beach for a
sports picnic. A musical evening at Mus-
grove’s finished a jolly day.


THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL & SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
For clean
and
thorough
cultivation
fa
!
S
m
m
fjQ
j&fsi
mi
For perfect
sowing
and rapid
germination
One of the reasons for the success of the "Suntyne” is that it sows the seed and fertilizer on a levelled compacted sub-surface, covered to a uniform
depth by a top mulch of well pulverised soil—the ideal condition for rapid germination and vigorous early growth.
WILL SOW AS SHALLOW OR DEEP AS DESIRED.
Sizes—from 17 tynes, sowing 8 rows, covering sft.; to 47 tynes, sowing 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Illustrated Catalogue and prices with particulars of easy extended terms sent post free on request.
MANUFACTURED BY
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke-street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. King & Murray Sts., PERTH.
Distributors for Queensland: H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
z
....
:*:*:* !*e*
H
te
u
4c
I®lB
ftr'c***
'V
O
4:
,%> s
V*b
(5=
o
°s
4>
<V
War Veteran too!
Chosen as best of all Lighting Plants
by the British Army
CAppointment
10 H M THE KING
BOULTON & PAUL LTD.
Norwich, Eng.
HOME LIGHTING
AND POWER PLANT
the British Government wanted an electric
plant for War service, it had to pass harder tests
for fitness than any soldier.
No skimped or flimsy type of plant would do-
it had to be solid, strong, efficient and reliable to the high-
est degree, and able to stand the terrific strain of war
conditions. And from numerous makes the Govern-
ment chose Ele&olite—surely the finest recommendation
that any plant could have!
Eledolite is built for long, long service—longer than any other plant
can give It is also built for economical service, and hundreds of users
claim it to cost less than city electricity. It supplies ample power
not only for lighting, but also for operating an electric iron, vacuum
cleaner, kettle, chaffcutter, separator, and many other appliances.
Let Eledolite make life more pleasant in vour home—write for
literature giving full particulars.
Qenerous Terms Make Purchasing Easy
EDMUNDS BROS. &. CO.
187 a Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 154 Castlereagh Street, Sydney;
3 Gilbert Place, Adelaide
Box D 147, G.P.0., Perth Box 1139 P, G.P.0., Brisbane
Resident Factory Representative ■ R. R. Foulser, 154 Castlereagh St., Sydney


Cable, Wireless
and Telegraphic
Address:
“Austraotel,
Sydney.”
-3J
in
Ft
be
cps’fcgotteiv
the memories of a stay at The
Australia” the splendor of its
appointments, the gay crowds and
brilliant social life, the many unex-
pected comforts and pleasures . . .
Yet a notable moderation of tariff
reigns throughout, as our rate-card
indicates. Please write jor it.
fs
Capital Paid-up, £l/22,100.
The Hotel of the Commonwealth, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s '“The Girl Friend’*
Criterion “Caroline
Koval “The Trial of Mary Dugan
Palace “The Donovan Affair”
Empire ' “Take the Air
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
u.jrsty’s “ The Gondoliers”
Hs Majesty s ..••• “Thark”
“The Terror”
■;;;;;;;;;:
“La Traviata,” the second offering of the
Gonsalez Opera Co. at Sydney St. James,
introduced Olga Poletti, a very charming
Violetta, who, having endured the misunder-
standing of the young lover whom she nobly
wants to save from herself, dies gracefully
in the last act. Her flexible voice managed
the long-range music well without deflecting
her mind from the dramatic needs; but she
had little assistance in interpreting the de-
velopment of the drama from Brandisio \'an-
nucci. Whatever vocal merits the latter may
have, he was a frigid lover, and in the
gambling scene he might have been merely
playing for drinks. Scamuzzi as Germont,
Alfredo’s father, showed feeling in his fine
singing of the anxious parent’s lines; Alfien
made a sympathetic Dr. Grenvil. The mostly
Australian orchestra, under Giovanni Gon-
salez, did some meritorious work, and the
considerable Australian chorus was excellent.
* * * *
The soaking rain of Thursday couldn’t
damp the appeal of that gory musical melo-
drama “Rigoletto.” Poletti again was the
lady in the case; Gilda’s duet with Rigoletto
was an excellent feature of the opening act;
and as the Jester and father Franco Izal was
a dramatic and vocal success, especially in
the scene where he seeks to cloak with a
pretence of calm his rage at the knowledge
that he has helped to place his own daughter
in the arms of the amorous Duke. As the
titled Lothario, Vannucci seemed better
placed. “Questo e quella” and “La Donna e
Mobile” were well sung. Fumagalli as
Sparafucile, Nina Algozino as Maddalena,
and Alfieri as the Count Monterone were all
effective.
* * * *
Gounod’s “Faust,” presented on Saturday
night, introduced Margherita Flor for the
first time; the blonde Danish lady gave the
part of Marguerite a gentle grace in her
earlier scenes and a heart-breaking pathos in
the later. The performance was a trifle rag-
ged in places, despite some extra good work
by the principals, notably Nina Algozino as
Siebel, Scamuzzi as Valentine, and Ernesto
Fumagalli as a booming-voiced Mephisto-
pheles. Vannucci made a cold young Faust,
but acquitted himself better as the old man
of the introduction. “Norma” was due last
night (Tuesday), and will be repeated on
Saturday; and “Un Ballo in Maschera”
arrives on Thursday night.
BROADCASTING AT MELBOURNE ATHENAEUM.
Percy Hutchison, as the “Joker,” picks up the warning transmitted by Stella Francis
anent her wicked uncle, Townsend Whilling.
A remarkably fine, well-dressed and well-
trained ballet won the hearts of the audience
when “Take the Air” opened at the Empire
Theatre on Saturday night, so much so that
the insistent demand for a second recall of
the number “Would Rather Dance than Eat”
was only checked by the announcement that
the girls, being in a half-way condition of
attire, were absolutely unable to return.
There is no more plot than is necessary to
explain why the whole population of a town
on the Mexican border rushes to a Japanese
garden in the Long Island home of wealthy
Oliver Bond, making the trip in U.S. air force
’planes. Bond’s daughter, holidaying in the
vicinity of the border, has fallen in love with
a stone-broke theatrical performer; when
she goes home by ’plane he steals another
machine to pursue her; chase is given by air
force officers, and tlie whole company natu-
rally follows in the interests of musical
comedy. The ’plane-thief having discovered
information which enables a gang of border
smugglers to be arrested, the U.S. Govern-
ment rep. forgives him and smiles approval on
a happy ending, which he shares with
Senorita Carmela Cortez (Edna Dare), a lady
who forgets her lines and mislays her Mexi-
can accent occasionally, but who otherwise
is charming. Bobby Jarvis makes the most
of the actor-man Happy. Hokum; Russell
Scott shows a pleasing tenor to advantage
as the air chief, Captain Halliday; and I red
Bluett, who scores one of the chief song
successes with “Henry’s Made a Lady out ot
Lizzie,” is a somewhat over-comic Sergeant
Mooney. Mamie Soutter is a sprightly sou-
brette who gets most of her effects out of
leg contortions; Audrey Lewis, who gives a
bright rendering of the Bond heiress, has
vastly improved in her footwork, and won
special plaudits by one difficult dancing num-
ber. There is much buzzing of aeroplanes
(off-stage) and there are many references to
Hinkler.
Frank Neil got “Run on the Bristol” out
of the box on Saturday to round off his Syd-
ney season at the Grand Opera House; but
the laughter came only in fitful gusts.
Certainly Frank Neil has but poor support
on the comedy side, Field Fisher being a
monotonous Captain Cranberry and Jefferson
Tait an almost doleful nigger. Billy O’l I an-
ion, as the captain’s son Tommy, is crude,
and Leslie Woods makes a Menaggio whom
not even a demented Irish widow would
accept as a Count. The W iddy luis bright
daughters in Rosa Duggan and Mary Gannon
(who sings a couple of numbers nicely) ;
Paul Longuet is a too matter-of-fact lover,
and Lily Molloy has an ill-fitting part in
the black lady of the farce that not even her
red stockings can compensate for. In the
concert on board the Bristol the Sun Joong
Wah troupe introduce some capital conjur-
ing and acrobatics.
sis sis
The Cherniavsky brothers were given a
warm welcome back to Australia at their open-
ing (concert at the Sydney Conservatorium last
Saturday ; and they reciprocated by provid-
ing something more than musical goods, which
appeal merely to the popular taste. Violinist
Leo delivered a Csesar Franck sonata which
was amongst the best things of the evening;
Jan and Mischel also did excellently in the
A major sonata, No. 3, opus 69 (Beethoven),
for the piano and ’cello. A Tschaikowsky
trio in A minor, opus 50, showed the com-
bination at its best. There are to be other
Sydney concerts.
“The Planets,” by Gustave Holst, is a
series of seven pieces for orchestra in which
the composer endeavours to give a musical
realism to our astrological conceptions of
what the planets represent. Such a work,
naturally, presents serious technical diffi-
culties, ' but the Sydney Conservatorium
orchestra, which gave this number on Wed-
nesday last, acquitted itself on the whole with
honors. The exceptions were in the more
dreamlike numbers, such as “Venus” and
“Neptune,” where pianissimo playing of the
highest order is essential; here there was a
failure to convey adequately the non-contact
with material things, the floating in ethereal
space, which the musical conception de-
mands. The music should glide from re-
lative silence to faint audition ; instead the
tones struck the atmosphere with a degree
of force between piano and mezzo-forte, so
impairing both the effect and the illusion.
Particularly was this noticeable with the
wind instruments of wood, though these may
have possibly been affected by the humidity
of the atmosphere. The choir of women’s
voices in “Jupiter” was excellent; it struck
and kept the right pitch with rare precision,
and the effect of the voices dying away held
the audience spellbound.
With respect to the Firm’s Sydney shows,
the Vanbrugh-Boucicaults have pushed
back “The High Road” until March 31 at
the Criterion owing to the way “Caroline
is drawing. “Rose Marie” will reappear at
Her Majesty’s for Easter whilst the co.
gets ready to produce “The Desert Rose’;
“The Girl Friend” is to be transferred to
the Royal. That means that “The. Trial
of Mary Dugan” is drawing to a close at
that house. “The Donovan Affair” shows
gripping tendency at the Palace.
❖ v
Ann Suter will remove her elastic features
and legs from Sydney Tivoli at the end of
next week. The present programme includes
a Bolshevistic combination of instrumental-
ists who do their utmost to live up to their
designation of the “Ten Loonies.” There
is occasional musical method in their .mad-
ness. Helen and Frank are a pair of
whirling dancers; and amongst new arrivals
are the Fordham Brothers, comedians.
On Friday night Fullers’ Theatre (Syd-
ney) will be filled with the eartliquaky
sounds which attend the farewell to its popu-
lar comedian ; Jim Gerald repeats his open-
ing bill, “The Honeymoon Girl,” for the
occasion.
The Capitol Theatre, Sydney, will open
on Easter Saturday. The old Hippodrome
has been wondrously transformed for its new
role- John Barrymore in “His Lady” will
be the opening picture. The Lyceum has an
unusually good programme with “Shanghai
Bound” and the smile-raising “Silk Stock-
ings”; and Hoyts De Luxe serves romantic
melodrama in “Bardeleys the Magnificent.
"The Spirit of Gallipoli,” which the Picca-
dilly is screening, along with another
Australian-made film,” “The Martyrdom of
Nurse Cavell,” is exceedingly good work
for people with little or no previous
experience in picture-making. The Gallipoli
battle scenes are doubtless borrowed from
other films, but the sincerity of the whole
story gives it a charm of its own. Weak
captions are a fault.
On Wednesday next the Playbox, Sydney,
resumes its studies, so to speak. The inti-
mate little Rowe-street theatre is staging
Georg Kaiser’s “From Morn Till Midnight”
for its first batch of Wednesday-night
performances.
* ❖
Wirths’ Circus, which opens in Sydney to-
night (Wednesday), will bo none the worse
under tent cover. In the old Hippodrome the
menagerie was cut off and wasted ; in the new
location, at the corner of Goulburn-street and
Wentworth-avenue, it will be again a popu-
lar preliminary to the main show.
The Stuart O’Brians atoned for their two
previous indiscretions with “Three Live
Ghosts” at Melb. Palace on Saturday. The
play has merit. Llandled by Barrie, the
notion of three -ex-prisoners of war return-
ing to England to find that they are posted
as dead and officially will remain so. would
have been a masterpiece of whimsicality;
Frederick S. Isham makes of it three acts
of acceptable frivolity. One of the soldiers
with a genius for foraging lias been shell-
shocked, and when the trio lands in London
his talent finds expression in successful
burglary. He breaks into a large house and
abstracts therefrom a fortune in stage
jewellery; also a perambulator with baby.
Just as he and his fellow-wraitlis are about
to be haled off to Scotland Yard, the owner
of the baby turns up and proves to be the
shell-shocked one’s wdfe; and the surprise of
the discovery restores his sanity. The large-
framed Brian Ewart expresses the dimmed
mind of the military kleptomaniac very
prettily in a part that has its moments of
pathos. Fr-ed Mackay, as a misunderstood
American soldier, broadcasts his beautiful
soul through his large dark eyes and is a
tedious and self-conscious hero. Jack Settle,
a police officer as usual, bellows like a fog
warning, also as usual. The familiar
D’Arcy Kelway, third of the department-
ally dead heroes, is comfortably ensconced in
one of his Cockney impersonations. Marie
D’Alton gives verisimilitude to Mrs. Gubbim.,
a gin soak whose disinterested passion for
justice impels her to claim the £lOOO reward
offered for handing over Mr. Mackay; and
Nina Dacre performs miracles of . plastic
surgery with her face in portraying the
Cockney heroine.
* * * *
His Majesty’s continues to lead the fast
life. “Ruddigore,” which Melbourne could
put up with for a good while longer, is go-
ing off to-morrow and “The Gondoliers”
floats in on Saturday. Others are in the,
offing. At the Royal, where the imbecile
“Terror” rages, the shower of bogus coin
Moscovitch knocks out of the Monk’s pillar
is ranging a duet with the rain of banknotes
at the box office. “Thark” lingers at the
King’s under the patronage of large audi-
ences indifferent to dramatic construction
but pleasantly soothed by the continuous
ripple of Hastings Lynn’s fooling. The cigar-
ette-lighter with which the Joker burns liis
bonds at the Athenaeum hadn’t missed its
cue up to time of writing.
When last seen Melbourne Tivoli was still
struggling desperately beneath a mass of
coons in Bourke-street, before large crowds
of non-interfering spectators. The most
acceptable leaven to the colored din are
Jack Lumsdaine, who does a clever Digger
sketch; Wylie Watson, who atones for his
foolish singing with some supple dancing
and a shapely attendant; the Di Gatanos,
who are always graceful and on the feminine
side alluring; and the F'ordliam Bros., who
are maximum acrobats and medium com-
edians. Stella Lamond is an inexperienced
soubrette, but ladles out a bright spoonful
about Henry making a Lady of Lizzie.
“CAROLINE,” AT
SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Norman McKinnel, as Robert Oldham,
K.C., and Irene Vanbrugh, as Caroline.
No film at Melb. Majestic hits the public
violently in the eye this week, but Tracked
by the Police,” with Rin-tin-tin, the dog
star, frustrating an attempt to destroy a
dam, has the merit of being in a way topical
destroying dams appears to be a leading
industry in America,, judging by the fre-
quency of attempts upon the screen. Were
in the Air Now” is Hoyt’s current gloom-
dispeller, in which Wallace Beery—he must
find that name hard to live down in
Dramerica —is providing low comedy in a
runaway balloon.
Clarke Irvine’s picture, “The Birth of a
Flower ” provided with accouchement facili-
ties at Melb. Assembly Hall, is a delightful
variation. Enormously magnified by a
cinema microscope, seeds germinate, flowers
bloom, die and cast off the next generation.
Another fascinating slab of nature-study m
the same programme is Dr. Brookes
Nicholls’s picture of the mixed population of
Turtle Island, N. Bananaland.
i!= * * *
The Student Prince of “Old Heidelberg”
gives James Biddy a big chance at Adelaide
Royal. Always “acting” when he might
be reposeful, he is best in the big moments
when he rises to heights of emotion;
Beppy 'de Vries and Adele Crane compete
for his love, and have the audience
fairly in tears at the pathetic close.
Stigant’s humor relieves the weepful story,
and the male chorus is glorious. Business
is big. With all its gloom “Ben Hur at
the York is worth a host of the ordinary
American films, and has a bigger pull with
the public. Wilkie continues to blend in-
struction with pleasure at the I of \\ ales
His Falstaff, Shylock and Malvolio are
specially good, and he gets fine support all
round.
Melbourne art: —
This year’s Streeton at the Fine Arts Gallery,
Melbourne, shows a mature and immensely competent
craftsman in his 61st year still struggling with
the probably insoluble problem of correctly recording
the swiftly-changing effects of sunlight on the
bush. Where the veteran has been content with a
momentary impression he gets nearest to the truth ,
when he works his pictures into an appearance of
completeness, the quality he is after often eludes
him, and what eventuates is sometimes flat and
often almost posterish. Some dainty snaps of
Venice are in the former class. Tricks of the
brush make his still-lifes, like “Canterbury Bells,”
strikingly superficial, but closer inspection reveals
them as only living on the surface of the canvas—
No. 3, a congested bunch of roses, is, however,
beautifully seen.


r
lilt
V;'
fc. I
%\
a
If
#
-
fe:
y , i'
/ililf
JN
31
mm
•> ::
* •
Ki*
i -A, V
> •
4 ;j
A ;-.
m
II
afe ?m «»
■ -
at
H ■
pfj£f |t#>v
: ~;v:
&JWK
HH
11
m
: -v'-
■ ■
mwitei
WM
<but this shoe is not a J’JOSharwoocl the name is not on it /
The great and ever-growing demand
for this make of footwear tempts
unscrupulous retailers to offer in-
ferior brands which are alleged to
be J. H. Sharwood’s. The public
is warned that no shoe is genuine
unless it bears the inscription—
“ Manufactured by J. H. Sharwood.”
The salesman who offers you some other make which he asserts is “just as good” has his own interests
at heart—not yours. Note carefully how the name is spelt, and look for it on every pair.
Especially at a time like the present,
when boots and shoes are becoming
dearer, you are entitled to the best
value for the price paid—you are
entitled, too, to get J. H. Sharwood’s
when you ask for them. No matter
what others may tell you, remember
to guard yourself against fraud by
insisting on seeing the name.
OBTAINABLE
LEADING STORES
THROUGH OUT
AUSTRALIA.
df
Made in Half-sizes,
MEN’S and
WOMEN’S BOOTS
and SHOES.
jfanltlm Jfarrtfarear.
Any difficulty in -procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with the J. H. Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne (’Phone, J 3104 —3 lines).


WHEN IN BRITAIN
You will wish to see
CAMBRIDGE : : YORK
HARROGATE, EDINBURGH
and other
Beautiful Cathedral Cities.
These are on the
London # North-Eastern Railway
The track of the “Flying Scotsman.”
SHORTEST AND QUICKEST
between
LONDON AND SCOTLAND.
Illustrated Booklets describing Resorts on
the L.N.E.R. will be gladly supplied on
application to Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.,
LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches ;
or in London at the L.N.E.R. West End
Offices, 71 Regent Street, and 59 Piccadilly.
W.l.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
Tour England and Scotland
by L.N.E.R.
TARE A PARTNER.
If you were offered a partner who, while providing
guarantees of his stability, would devote himself to safeguard-
ing your money, make it earn profit, and demand nothing
from you in return, wouldn’t you accept?
Of course you would, and—
you ARE offered such a partner.
A Savings Account will do all this for you, and yet
allow you full control of the business.
Open a Commonwealth Savings Account to-day.
Commonweal) lank of flustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
A wonderful
bodu builder
o:
is always
fresh & pure
In 4 sjzes
of all Chemists & Stores
THE WISE MEN'S CURSE.
BY
D.W. BAILEY
BET sat on the clean white steps, and
considered the position, with her black
face screwed up against the sun. fehe
smoothed down her neat print house-dress
proudly, and pressed her middle where happi-
ness made her feel weak.
The other lubras were playing on the
beach near the jetty. She could hear them
shouting shrilly. And the happiness went
away suddenly, and left her empty as she
realised it would mean leaving them all.
And there was Marta, too. Marta would
never understand. Bet always told Marta
everything. But this was different, secret;
shameful, proud old Marta would think. No,
Marta would never realise what Chaiunka
offer to take her to Sydney meant to Bet,
whose love for the white people had troubled
Marta always.
“I bin take you longa Sydney helpum
nurse white piccaninny,” Charunka had said
when she took in his newly-laundered duck
suit. And Bet, always breathless in the pre-
sence of him whom the natives honored with
the name Charunka —“very wise one” —had
come out on the steps to think about it.
It had been a hard parting all round when
Mrs. Service decided, for the sake of her
year-old daughter and the child that was to
come, to leave the hot little telegraph station
for cooler Sydney. Bet was baby Jean s
nurse-girl. Her whole life had moved round
the wonderful bundle that squalled and
cried and kicked just like any ordinary picca-
ninny. And she wondered whether it wa.s
still bathed every day.
So six months ago Mrs. Service had gone,
leaving the Boss lonely, and Bet desolate
without her beloved Jean. And just a mouth
ago word of another piccaninny had come
over those wires Charunka made to talk —
another piccaninny to share a place with
Jean in Bet’s heart.
Charunka was going south, and lie would
take Bet with him to see the Missus, and
Jean, and the little piccaninny that was so
young it hadn’t even got a name! More
than that, he would leave her there until
they could all come back again, well and
strong enough to defy the heat and discom-
fort of the telegraph bungalow.
Then Bet’s middle felt weak again from
sheer happiness, until she remembered
Marta. Marta would not understand. For
ten years she had been dying in the leper
compound among the trees on the point—-
dying, and nursing her bitter hate for the
white men who had placed her there.
The news that boss bin takem Bet alonga
Sydney helpum nurse new piccaninny come
alonga Missus spread very quickly through
the camp; so that when Bet crept away
through the trees toward the compound'on
the point she knew the elchinkinja would
have told Marta. And she was afraid.
Each night Bet crept out of camp, and
trudged those dark miles to visit Marta.
When she kicked at the compound fence
Marta would let her in; and they would sit
together while Bet told all the intimate bits
of news the elchinkinja always missed.
Marta would sit silent, her disease-scarred
old face turned away into the darkness. Her
tortured body would tremble from weakness ;
but she Would caress Bet, and sing inter-
minable songs of the love she bore her.
It was on these nights Marta would tell
Bet of her ertwa, who died at the full moon
many seasons back. And when Bet, who
could count to ten, asked how long ago it
was, Marta could say only that it was
burlu godera, bur hi godera, nulu nobun ok-
nira. [Once twice, and again, and an odd
fellow very many times].
But Marta would never say the name of
her ertwa. One does not mention one’s dead
relatives by name, for their spirits might
hear, and beside one is not sufficiently sorry.
Then they would come back and be trouble-
some.
Bet learned that the bullya had fought
hard for the life of Marta’s man. Once the
spirit had got away altogether while the
bullya was not looking; but he had chased it,
running very hard. And presently he brought
it back, covered with a blanket, and Marta’s
ertwa had lived again for a while. But in
the end he had died. And soon after the
whites had come, and then that which had
caused Marta to be shut away in the com-
pound had happened. Marta blamed the
whites for it, and hated them ; so that Bet
knew she would never understand her long-
ing to see the big city Charunka. told her
of, where Charunka said there were many
more white men, all very-much wiser than
be: but this, she knew, could hardly be
true, for could not Charunka make the
wires talk?
When she kicked at the compound fence
that night, she knew Marta had heard. But
for a long while Marta said nothing, pressing
Bet very tightly in her arms, and crooning
a little love-song.
Then she told Bet how, long before her
own ertwa died, Kadlinganki woman of
Kadlitpinna, had left the tribe with a Chin-
ese. And she told how the oknirabata, the
great teacher of the tribe, had been very
angry, and there had been evil magic. The
wise men had sworn that no woman should
ever leave the tribe without evil befalling
her. And soon after that, the elchinldnja
[messenger] from another tribe had brought
news of the death of the Chinese ; but Kad-
linganki, woman of Kadlitpinna, was never
seen again. Marta had to tell all this in a
very round-about way, because Kadlinganki
was a relation, and could not be mentioned.
Then Marta told Bet how after the whites
had come she herself had been lured away
from the tribe by a white man who promised
her many things. She had started out with
DIFFERENT, SOMEHOW.
“So you’ve given up your chickens and taken to gardening?”
“Yes, we got so attached to our jowls we couldn’t eat them. You don’t feel that way
about onions.”
him, but the curse of the wise men had held,
and he had died. And Marta had come
back with the disease in her to spend long
years in dying, too. The curse would hold
always, Marta said, and no woman could
leave the tribe.
But still Bet said she would go, for she
knew Charunka was very wise, and would
not let these things happen. And Marta
hugged Bet’s warm body very close to her
own leprous skeleton, and then pushed her
away. So Bet crept off into the dark; and
Marta’s heart was very bitter against the
white people. She wished her ertwa were
alive, so that he could have worked magic
against them; for a woman can do. nothing
with magic,
* * * *
Sydney amazed Bet, and she stood silent
and very still, clinging tightly to her bag,
while Charunka, in his wisdom, obtained a
motor-car; but Charunka told her it was
a taxi. So they got into this thing, and it
shook itself and the ground commenced to
roll away from them. And her wonder at
Charunka’s wisdom grew and grew.
And when they arrived at the bungalow
in a suburb by the sea there was Missus
with the new piccaninny wrapped up very
warm ; and there was Jean, and a woman in
a white dress. And Bet dropped her bag
and ran to hug Jean. But the woman
snatched Jean up and said “No. no, no. Bet
must be bathed first.” And Missus disen-
tangled herself from Charunka and smiled,
and said very kindly she thought perhaps
it would be best.
Bet had a bath every day after that. And
she would stand in front of the mirror and
think how beautiful it would be to be white;
and then she would scrub herself here and
there with the brush, and look to see if she
were going white. Often she would scrub
her hands until it hurt, because they were
pale already.
When the time came for Charunka to go
back to the telegraph station, to make the
wires talk, everyone was very sad. Bet
wished to give Charunka a message for
Marta, but she could not, because Charunka
himself had told her never to go near the
compound, and did not know she disobeyed
every night. So Bet promised Charunka she
would look after Missus and Jean and the
new piccaninny who had been named Robert,
the same as Charunka. Then Charunka
went away.
Letters came from Charunka, telling
Missus all about the station, and there were
special bits for Bet. printed very clear. With
help from Missus, Bet learned to read the
easy words.
Then the new piccaninny got ill, very sud-
denly. Bet had to go to the doctor’s place
and bring him back very quickly. _ There
were many kettles of water to be boiled, and
tubs to be carried; but soon the new pic-
caninny was well again. Missus told Bet the
doctor was much more clever than a bullya,
■■ A. c
and could cure most things. So Bet showed
him a rash that had come on her hands.
When he saw the rash the doctor asked
in a very high voice how long she had had
it? And when Bet told him, he peered into
her eyes, and made her open her mouth,
Then he asked her a lot of questions : and
he was so very kind and interested, Bet
told him all about Marta. But she did not
tell him of the curse of the wise men.
The doctor looked very grave, and called
the woman in white, and they whispered
together. Bet heard the doctor say “lep-
rosy.” Then she knew they thought she
had Marta’s disease, and she remembered
the curse, and was afraid.
She remembered how Ivadlinganki, woman
of had left the tribe and had
remembered she was the thud w
defy the curse that had never failed y t.
They took Bet awqy from Missus and
Jean and the new piccaninny, and put her
in a room with a little verandah outside,
where a great many doctors came to see
her-, , , . . .
There was no bath, but Bet did not mind
that. She did not want to be white any
more. And she knew now scrubbing would
not make her white. Had she not. scrubbed
her hands very hard with the wire brush
they used for the dishes? Had she not
scrubbed and scrubbed until her hands were
sore? But they had not gone white. Only
the rash had come, and the white men said
it was leprosy.
And because Charunka had said these
white men were wiser even than he, who
could make the wires talk, Bet believed; and
she knew the curse of the wise men had
held, just as Marta said it would.
In Cambridge Gulf.
Dawn on the Gulf!
The tropic night dreamed of a pearl,
And a pearl unveiled
Melts in the chalice of morning and flows
round the sky ;
Up from the trees rise the white cockatoos in
a swirl,
And the dawn is hailed!
Dawn on the Gulf!
The brown -tide has dreamed of the sea,
And the sea flows down ;
Whispers of turquoise he stole from the
opulent skies;
Radiance slips from the hills to each blossom
and tree
And encircles the town.
Noon on t-he Gulf!
The sun-tyrant longs for a foe,
And the earth is there —
Marsh for a shield and a hill for a green-
pennoned lance,
Armor inadequate here, and Wyndham is
stunned by the blow
And broods in despair.
Night on the Gulf !
The victor is vanquished at last,
With the hills for pall
(Velvet as soft as the petals of poppies
a-dream) ;
Filaments fine as the floss from a chrysalis
cast
Float over them all.
Night on the Gulf!
Transmuted by magic of moon
To a silver stream;
Striate and swift, to the murmurous man-
groves it sings;
Up on its banks are the evil-eyed crocodiles
strewn
And the town’s agleam.
Life by the Gulf!
You wait, oh, for many a week
For the longed-for thrill
Brought in the mail, and the message from
far-away friends,
Caught on a finger of earth ’twixt the gulf
and the peak
Of a tufted hill.
W.A.
JEAN CARROLL.
Maiden’s Blush.
BEYOND the State nursery, where are
little hoop- and bunya-pines in artificial
shade to simulate the cool dimness of
the high scrub, grow the great hoop-pines,
bunya-pines and a score or so of softwoods
that make up the forest-dense and entang-
led, so that the trees must shoot branch-
lessly upward in the race for survival, whose
ideal conditions are with the crown of the
tree in the sunlight and the foot of it in
moss. In that forest, apparently level black
with serried pine when viewed from the dis-
tance, the surface rolled and sprawled to
contoured hill and sudden gully; and had the
ground been clear, you could have seen the
pine rising rampart by rampart, and falling
terrace by terrace on Uie other slope.
Between the ramparts and the terraces and
the belts and rings of pine grow the inferior
scrub-woods, species by species answering
some call of special soil constituent, and
growing to the demand of their environment
and the profit of the timber merchants.
There is no stillness like the stillness of a
pine forest at its foot even if its crowns swim
in air. The sea is never as silent as the
great Central Australian plain can be, in
such country of low rainfall that there is
not heard the wing-beat of a fly. And after
moonrise, when the little winds of dusk have
died, the only sound is light; or tlm ear.
striving to its normal duty of hearing, listens
until the moonlight has a voice. But for
silences that made men invent holiness, and
for that peace which made men’s minds
dream of sanctity, the pine forest is the place
supreme. From pine forest more than from
cave proceeded the cathedral inspiration-
quietness, incen.se, the shrouded illumination
shafted from high windows, as in the forest
it floats down from sun-washed crown to
everlasting moss. v -
And out of all this silence come traffic,
barter, the huckster’s noises, the cry of the
strong man in the agony of losing money
over a timber deal, tbe scream of the big
breaking-down saws, the struggles of the
patient bullocks snigging logs to the roads,
the courage of the big brave horses struggling
for foothold and drawing the fallen giants to
(Continued on page 53.)


Amusements.
ET M P I R E THEATRE,
RAILWAY SQUARE, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY AT 8 O’CLOCK.
MATINEES: THURSDAYS & SATURDAYS at 2.15.
An up-to-the-minute Aeroplane Musical Comedy in
two acts,
TAKE THE AIR.
With Mamie Souter, Bobby Jarvis and Audrey
Lewis and all-star cast, including
THE EMPIRE PONY BALLET & BEAUTY CHORUS.
Res. Circle 1/6, Stalls 2/6, Lounge Settees 3/6 & 5/6.
Saturdays and Holidays 1/- extra.
Book at Theatre (MA 1000), Nicholson’s, Paling’s,
Samuels and Leading Hotels.
yYDKE VS CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: THE GIRL FRIEND,
CRITERION: CAROLINE.
ROYAL:
THE TRIAL OF MARY DUGAN.
PALACE: THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
m Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELERRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
.1 C. WILLIA MSO N, LTD.,
’ MELROURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S THE GONDOLIERS.
KING’S THEATRE: THARK.
THEATRE ROYAL: THE TERROR.
A Tll E N A-: U M THEAT II E,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietor: Prank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
The Eminent London Actor-Manager,
PERCY HUTCHISON,
and his English Company of West-End Artists in
THE JOKER.
Direction: E. J. Carroll.
Ho Y T’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
WALLACE BEERY & RAYMOND HATTON in
NOW WE’RE IN THE AIR.
also
WOLF FANGS.
A WILLIAM FOX PICTURE.
|Y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BERT LYTELL and LOIS WILSON
in
ALIAS, THE LONE WOLF.
Box Plan at Allan’s & theatre. ’Phone, 7076 & 7790.
ALLAN WILKIE and MISS HUNTER.
WATTS in a Repertoire of 24 Plays of
SHAKSPEARE.
In preparation for 1928, “Coriolanus,” “All’s Well
That Ends Well,” “Henry IV.” (part i), “Richard II.”
Adelaide Season: Prince of Wales Theatre.
Sydney Rep.: J. V. de Batyn, Box 2229, Sydney.
For Sale.
pOR SALE. —Complete Plant of Steam
Laundry. All modern Machinery in
good going order. Particulars from the
Secretary, Home of Mercy Laundry, 51 Pirie
Street, Hobart.
LADIES /t OR GENTS g
.'.-•2 V
<1 ’Hr
Prices from
22/6 Pair
Cut to your
measurements
in all suitable
materials by ex-
perts, perlect fit
guaranteed, or money
retunded.
Send for patterns and
self measurement forms
IMPERIAL SERVICE
STORES
262 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Phone 83991
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
BY APPOINTMENT
Met opin &\VCfeh'b
1 A LTD,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
JEWELLERY, GOLD AND SILVER WARE,
WATCHES, CLOCKS, PRINCE’S PLATE,
FANCY AND LEATHER GOODS.
Visitors to London
A CORDIAL INVITATION
Mappin & Webb have the dis-
tinction of being one of the old-
est firms of Gold and Silver-
smiths, Jewellers, etc., in the
World, and they extend a cordial
invitation to visitors from the
Commonwealth to call at their
Showrooms when in London.
The West End showrooms are
within 5 minutes by taxi from
the Leading Hotels; the city
showrooms are opposite the
Mansion House, and quite near
the Guildhall, St. Paul’s Cathedral
and the Tower of London.
A
s M
'.ti
Mappin & Webb maintain a fine selection of Dressing
Table Services in Gold, Sterling Silver, Tortoiseshell,
Enamel, etc., complete suites comprising 6 pieces,
from £lO/10/-
Mappin&^febb
± * LTD
LONDON, ENGLAND,
158-162 Oxford St. W.l. 172 Regent St. W.l. 2 Queen Victoria St. E.C.4.
The Company has Branch establishments at Paris, Nice, Biarritz, Rome,
Johannesburg, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Bombay.
This year the bigger “Bulletin” won’t print as many short stories as the
“Saturday Evening Post,” but there will be over 200 of them, as good or
better, and they will be Australian. Buy “The Bulletin”—bigger and better.
THE. NEW ITHACA GUN
sd
New Ithaca Field Grade
Wholesale Distributors
Send
for
Catalog.
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd.
Batman Street, West Melbourne.
Tenders.
’"TENDERS are invited for a five years
lease with option of purchase, alterna-
tively without option of purchase, of the
well-known Kuranda Hotel, situated at Ivur-
anda near the Barron Falls, in the Cairns
district of North Queensland, the popular
rendezvous of Tourists from the South
during the Winter Season.
Tenderers are required to state prices re-
spectively for the purchase of (1) Furniture
and Fittings as per Inventory, (2) Goodwill,
(3) the Weekly Rental. The Electric Eight
and Pumping Plant are to be included as
part of the property to be leased.
Tenderers must accompany their tenders
with a cheque for the sum of £5O, which
will be returned in the event of any tender
not being accepted. The highest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
Tenders close April 30, 1928. at the office
of the Kuranda Hotel, Ltd., 127 Eagle Street,
Brisbane, and envelopes require to be marked
“Tenders Kuranda Hotel.”
Particulars of Lease, Inventory, etc., may
be obtained at the Offices of Howard Smith
Ltd., Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., and Burns,
Philp & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Legal Notice.
nro JOSEPH FRANCIS BARRETT
A formerly of No. 6 Fletcher Street
Moonee Ponds in the State of Victoria
Mechanic.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the Ist day of November 1927 has issued
in the Supreme Court of South Australia
citing you to appear and answer the Petition
of CHARLES JAMES WEST of Flinders
Park in the State of South Australia praying
for dissolution of marriage with ELSE
ISABELL LILLY WEST. In default of
your so appearing you will not be allowed
to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce sentence in respect thereto AND
TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within 21 days
from the date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitors at the Master’s
Office Supreme Court House Victoria Square
Adelaide South Australia and there to enter
an appearance in accordance with the rules
in that behalf.
DATED the 9th dav of March 1928.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Master.
ARTHUR SEAFORTH BLACKBURN,
Trustee Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitor for the Respondent.
Missing Friends,
17 STATE of ALEXANDER MOFFATT,
1-4 deceased. The son of deceased’s brother
Matthew is requested to communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Box 7, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
URGENT—INFORMATION WANTED.
A NYONE possessing information as to the
present whereabouts of Mr. ALBERT
MARSHALL HAMLIN, who travelled from
South Africa by the s.s. Borda during
August last, bound for New Zealand, please
communicate with Barclay, c/o this Office.
FROWNING, ROY, aged about 16, son
of Amelia Downing, will hear some-
thing to his advantage if he communicates
with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY.
113 Queen Street, Melbourne.
0
Recognized as the
standard of the world
for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, WEED TYRE CHAINS
are the preference of motor-
ists everywhere. They grip
and hold; assure positive
traction; and protect car ajid
occupants from the dangers
of skidding.
Always insist upon WEED
Chains. Order them
from your dealer
fs
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1506
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, wao will
quote you price for the original.


Mick Simmons
for Every
Sporting Need
better
Racket
and get
the utmost
out of
youf
Game!
r
y
A.
A
Lee Monogram
Model de Luxe
price 7716
The world-famous Racket-maker of New
York, Harry C. Lee’s best Racket, and
universally known throughout the Tennis
World from the fact that is it the first choice
of many leading players. Its exclusive fea-
ture is the patented slotted throat, which
ensures absolutely perfect balance and
absorbs the smashing, crashing jolts, besides
giving the “Lee Monogram” a wonderful
resiliency and driving power,
Strung with highest-grade English Gut.
The “Lee Monogram” Frame carries a full
Six (6) Months’ Guarantee.
The
“Britannic
55\
99
PRICE..
For quality, dependability and craftsmanship,
this Racket in its own particular class has
no equal in the Tennis World to-day. Made
from specially-selected materials, it is capable
of lasting service and will stand up to the
hardest usage. Selected English Ash Frame,
concave throat and reinforced shoulders.
Strung with serviceable English Gut.
The “Britannic” Frame carries a full Six
( 6) Months’ Guarantee.
Distinctive Rackets that ideally
serve the Schoolgirl Player!
The
“Hay market”
PRICE 30/-
Cnquestionably the utmost value offering in
Tennis Rackets to-day. Perfect in construc-
tional design, beautifully balanced and
finished; specially reinforced concave throat
and shoulders, strung with dependable gut.
The
“Haymarket
Special”
PRICE 40\-
Constructed from specially-selected materials,
it is a Racket that will stand up to the
hardest usage. Frame is of English Asli
with concave throat and reinforced shoulders ;
strung with dependable gut.
(Carriage Paid on Tennis Rackets.)
Tennis Catalogue post free on request.
Mick Simmons, Ltd.
Headquarters:
720 Haymarket, Sydney,
AND AT BRISBANE.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters.”
Legal Notices.
WILLIAM KN OWL SDN TRUST.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Manchester,
England, is desirous of obtaining informa-
tion as to JOHN WILLIAM KNOWLSON,
son of John Charles Knowlson, who died at
Rookwood on 14th August, 1925. If the said
John William Knowlson will communicate
with the undersigned he may hear*of some-
thing to his advantage.
VICKERY, ENGLAND & WILSON,
Solicitors, 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND, TOWNSVILLE.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
No. 147 of 1927.
Mr. Justice Douglas.
BETWEEN KATE WOOD Plaintiff and
ALEXANDER ANGUS WOOD Defend-
ant.
To ALEXANDER ANGUS WOOD.
TAKE NOTICE that Kate Wood of
Townsville in the State of Queensland has
commenced an action against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Towns-
ville by Writ of that Court dated the twenty-
eighth day of November one thousand nine
hundred and twenty-seven claiming a dis-
solution of marriage with you Alexander
Angus Wood her lawful husband AND
THAT if you the said Alexander Angus
Wood wish to defend the said actipn you
should cause an appearance to be entered for
you in the said Court at Townsville within
two calendar months from the last date of
publication of this Notice in the Sydney
Bulletin AND THAT in default of your
so doing the said Kate Wood may by leave
of the Court or a Judge thereof proceed
therein and judgment may be given in your
absence.
DATED this eighth day of February one
thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight.
JAS. COMERFORD,
Registrar (1.5.).
Roberts Leu and Barnett,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
Townsville.
LJENRY JOHN BOWER the Elder late of
** Childers Street North Adelaide in the
State of South Australia Builder de-
ceased
and
In the Matter of “The Trustee Act
1893.”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN pursuant
to a direction of the Deputy Master of the
Supreme Court of South Australia made
in the matter of the estate of the above-
named HENRY JOHN BOWER deceased
No. 144 of 192 S that JOHN WILLIAM
BARBER a grandson of the said Henry
John Bower the Elder deceased and all per-
sons claiming through or under the said John
William Barber ARE REQUIRED to send
by post prepaid to JOSEPPI EVERETTE
ASHTON Esquire of Brookman Buildings
35 Grenfell Street Adelaide Solicitor for
Elijah Bower and Thomas Edward Fisher
the present Trustees of the Will of the sak.
deceased (who died at North Adelaide afore
said on the 13th day of June 1885) their
Christian names and surnames addresses and
descriptions and the full particulars of their
claims on or before the 16th day of July
1928 after which date the said Trustees will
be at liberty to distribute the estate of
the said Henry John Bower deceased among
the persons entitled thereto having regard
only to the claims of which they shall then
have had notice. And the said Trustees will
not be liable for the said estate or any part
thereof so distributed to any person of
whose claim they shall not have had notice
at the time of such distribution.
DATED the Ist day of March 1928.
HUNTER BOUCATJT MARTIN AND
ASHTON.
Brookman Buildings,
35 Grenfell Street, Adelaide,
RohVitors for tlm said Trustees
d
THE OUT STANDING
MERITS OF A
GREAT PENCIL
WM
I
I !
I
1
Ferfe:cion is the attribute common to all
VEin US PENCILS; each one is as good and
true to grade as the world’s largest
makers of quality pencils can achieve
Venus
T PENCILS
17 Blacklead Degreessd. each, 4/9 per doz.,Super
Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d. each, 5/s per dozen.
Venus Copying 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
“ITS THE LEAD INSIDE
MAKES THE VENUS GLIDE”
the mill. Also, I regret, of the holy quiet-
ness come disappointments borne not nobly
and wild profanities.
One time the wasteful clearer took the pine
and gave the inferior scrub woods to rot-
tenness and flames. There had to be an
oversea war to teach dullards that nothing is
really necessarily bad because it is Aus-
tralian ; in fear of the introduction of the
new, in a business whose taste and demand
are so conservative that only the cutting out
of cedar made maple respectable, men mar-
keted the new woods with apologies. And so
they discovered as commercial w 7 Oods sassa-
fras and carrabean, crowfoot-elm and pigeon-
berry ash.
And then one daring man cut a few logs
of pink poplar, better known as Maiden’s
Blush. Under the saws it reeked like a
full sponge under pressure; but it dried to
a sheen of pink beauty like to the cheek of
a fair healthy child and showed a misty
figure under the bloom. Chinese furniture-
makers discovered it; its first value being
that while on trial it was cheap. And find-
ing it “plitty,” ordered more of the man
who had tried it, and built bedroom furniture
and sideboards of it.
Nearly a year without a complaint, and
then the owners of the furniture noticed a
white dust on the floor, and after that they
swept up white dust every day. The canker
in the cheek of beauty! Indignant buyers
interviewed bland Chinese and bland Chinese
became indignant, interviewed the mill they
bought of with a sample of Maiden’s Blush
that dropped borer-dust when shaken on the
miller’s office-table, and cried in pained tones
“Whaffor?” So Maiden’s Blush bored itself
off the market.
This is where Edward Taylor came in. A
big man of the Saxon type, very fair he
was and grey he is, and with that sort of
baldness that speaks more of cleanliness than
of age, walruS-moustached, blue-eyed and per-
manent sunburn red. Happy and long-
suffering to the breaking-point of endurance;
after that the enemy did the long suffering
without the happiness. Like charity, he
endureth all things, suffereth all things,
seeketh not after himself, is not puffed up ;
but at the rare limit, unlike charity, he de-
livereth unto the offender punches on the
nose.
With him I listened to the State forester
at Imbil lecturing to us on Friend tim-
ber and Enemy borer. This forester showed
us the dust of destruction from a dozen tim-
bers, then a sample of Maiden’s Blush sound
and unperforated.
“Yet that’s the stuff that Pongs say
‘Whaffor’ to !” said Taylor.
“I’m wondering where the trouble is,” re-
plied the forester. “Is it through leaving the
sapwood on, or is it bad drying under
cover? Or is it climate?”
“All the bad luck with it has been in the
State of its production,” said Taylor. “I’ll
do anything once. Send me twenty thousand
feet of it and I’ll give it a go in Sydney.”
On the w T ay south he told me how he pro-
posed to back Maiden’s Blush —once. “If she
can blush after I’ve finished with her she's
the most modest wood in the world. I’ll
cut off the sap, put her into planks and give
her the hardest sun-drying treatment she can
get; if there’s any borer left then they’ll
have to be robust animals when they start.”
If any timber had a chance it was that
Maiden’s Blush—nil that was left of twenty
thousand feet with the sapwood discarded.
On the high racks in the sun and wind seven
hundred miles from the scrub that mothered
it, the Maiden’s Blush dried by searching
sun and thin winds little less dry than the
sunlight; and stayed so for 12 months. The
uppermost and lowermost planks, curled
themselves into canoe-shapes, but the others,
dried perfectly. The planer brought up the
beauty of it—a carmine gloss that paled
and waxed in the changes of light; —a sheen
like a blush upon the cheek of innocence.
In a timber yard that innocence looked
foreign and unearthly, as a virgin angel
might look among bookmakers. Taylor sent
it to the joinery works, and thence it came
door-stock of beauty and furniture rather
light-colored, but charming.
It was then that Taylor, pleased that he
had beaten the borer by treatment and
change of air, sent an order North for a
hundred thousand feet, changed quickly to
a quarter-million. I asked why the sudden
increase, and if he had placed it in advance.
“No,” he replied, “I hadn’t sold a foot, but
it’s right and I back it. I ordered a hundred
thousand first because when I have only lime-
juice and soda I’m merely Ted Taylor,
timberman ; but when I’ve had two glasses
of wine I’m Edward Taylor, Esq., managing-
director of Taylor and Binnerson, Limited.”
“So between the hundred thousand and
the quarter-million you had the wine?”
“Too right, and I’ve sold the lot from the
sample door-stock I made up. Sold it to
Hunter after he’d had a sample polished,
and he says there’s more to come.”
So with the bungling dislocations of pro-
cedure caused by absence of teams —bullock
and horse —owing to drought, harvest, floods
on the black soil, nasty selectors who refused
easement until Taylor bought their grass,
shipping strikes, space shortage and the acts
of God and the Queen’s enemies and ours, logs
of Maiden’s Blush came to the big saws, and
planks went to the drying, and then to
Hunter, who ate them and asked for more.
And then I forgot Maiden’s Blush, and
Taylor never mentioned it, and the conquest
of the borer was forgotten in some new ex-
cursion and alarum of the timber trade—-
such as American exchange, which put 30
per cent, on to redwood prices.
Until one day in the great bar of the
Caravanserai the big man’s boyish face sud-
denly lost its ever-ready laugh a« a dark,
thin man entered^ —old, sophisticated eyes;
thin lips; thin neck; thin hands: a man
whose food didn’t do him any good. He
greeted Taylor with an imitation of warmth
that was yet not insincere; Taylor seemed
ill at ease, and appeared relieved when the
thin man left us.
“Who’s that chap?” I asked.
“Hunter.”
“The chap who bought the Maiden’s
Blush?”
“Yes.”
“Well, maidens’ blushes are a favorite
game of any but why the self-
consciousness ?”
“Well, the lot came out two hundred and
seventy thousand feet, and we kept twenty
thousand, and it’s got the borer.”
“Maybe only those logs you kept.”
“No —they represent the average _of the
lot, and every morning the room it is in is
like a flourmill—you can sweep up the borer-
dust like sand.”
“Well, you didn’t sell with a guarantee
against borer.”
“No, but I did tell him about the little
shipment that seemed to have beaten it.’
“Still, his was an ordinary trade risk.
What have you to worry about?”
“I haven’t anything. But fair’s fair, and
business isn’t always that. I hate to sell a
man a pup even if I didn’t know it was a
pup at the time.”
“Don’t bother, Ted. There’s only two
games without roguery in ’em —my game,
whatever it is, and pulling a flat-bottom punt
against the tide. All the other games are
as full of wickedness as horse-racing.”
“Anyhow, if the borer’s really in this Jot
and he tells me I must make it up to him.”
A month later proved that the borer was
not in the quarter-million feet, even if it was
in the twenty thousand, for there was
another order from Hunter, this time for a
hundred thousand feet to be delivered Mel-
bourne. And Taylor said he was puzzled but
relieved, and ordered the logs and in due
course delivered them sawn.
It was six months after that he told me he
had kept an average sample of the hundred
thousand feet, and it also was a borer’s
home —the timber as full of holes as a col-
ander ; and y<T once again Hunter ordered
Maiden’s Blush.
“What do you think? Has lie got a
machine to make the borer holes octagonal
and use the wood for honeycopibs ?” I asked.
“No, but if he could convert the wood into
cellulose without spoiling the holes lie could
start a mosquito-net factory. Anyhow I’m
getting too curious to think of the profit
on the timber. First time I meet Hunter
I’ll tackle him —force an explanation some-
how. I want to know why I can pick
all the logs full of borers and he gets every
log sound —or if he doesn’t get ’em all sound
why he doesn’t claim or complain.”
But Hunter was away West, and Taylor’s
own lot of Maiden’s Blush was soon little
more than perforations surrounded by
perished wood.
When next we four met in the Cara-
vanserai (Whaley, the red-bearded poet,
being the third of us) Hunter appeared
almost jolly despite that thin, dark, satur
nine face; certainly not as a man injured
in a trade deal, but as one satisfied with
life and enjoying the profits of it.
“How did the Maiden’s Blush turn out?”
asked Taylor.
“All right. Why?”
“Did you work any of it up yourself?”
“No, I . bought it for clients —thirty thou
sand here, forty thousand there —like that.’
“Was it all for Sydney?’
“No, very little of it. Mostly Melbourne
and a bit to Adelaide and country towns.
Sydney’s taken a fair lot of the last. Might
give you another order soon.” _
“Look here,” said Taylor as if he couldn’t
keep his conscience quiet any longer, “before
you give me any more orders tell me how
it is you’ve no complaints about it.”
“Why, what complaints am I likely to
have?”
“Well, then, your clients —the actual
users J
Hunter grinned. “The actual users are
not in a position to make complaints.”
“Why, do' you know where they buried the
body of the man they killed, or what?”
“No, I don’t. But the stuff polishes like
beauty, and is used only once, and there’ll
never be any complaints of it.”
“Only used once? Tell me whom you
sell it to.”
“You’ll laugh maybe, and then you b
laugh at yourself, Mr. Taylor. I know tin
borer gets to it, but it doesn’t stay lone
enough in sight for that to matter, and the
people who use it don’t care, and probably
don’t know. I sell it to undertakers.”
“What? Coffins? Well, of all the thing '
I didn’t think of !”
“Ship-strikes and ship-shortage cut the
Southern market out of cedar, and as soon
as I saw how Maiden’s Blush polishes I
knew I’d got the stuff. I overlanded those
planks and kept all the undertakers happy.”
“And not a complaint?”
“Not one. By the time the borer gets
in his fine work everybody’s interest in the
job’s departed. Another thing—these borers
probably can’t live underground. And if
they do who’s to grumble?”
Whaley, the red-haired poet, was moved to
parody:
Full many a Maiden’s Blush of purest sheen
The dark and plantless cemeteries bear,
Full many a borer’s born to work unseen
And waste his gimlet in the darkness there.
So the timber rejected of the Chinese
cabinetmaker goes to make the last long
home in the trench filled by forgetfulness
with the forgotten; and there is no indignant
Pong to cry “Whaffor?”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Craft of Dream.
A star is in the rushes where the mirrored
waters gleam,
A petal that has fallen from the hidden
flower of night;
And softly, softly dips and sways our little
craft of dream,
Caught in a web of silver down a ghostly
lane of light.
Silence has set a faery seal upon the lips of
sound.
The wind is mute with listening and
weighted down with sleep ;
The rushes stand like pointed spears that
guard enchanted ground;
Blue-black against an opal sky the pines
dark vigil keep.'
And who would break a ripple down the
silver lane of light?
And who would lift a paddle-blade all
ruthlessly to stir
The earth-bewildered petal from the heavenly
bloom of night
That lies moored among the rushes by a
strand of gossamer?
MAORILAND.
WINIFREN S. TENNANT.


N
lb.
-m
A superior motor at
lower prices
Owners of Knight double-sleeve-engined cars en-
joy unusual freedom from carbon trouble and
mechanical annoyance. They have the satisfaction
of driving a car that remains smooth, quiet, and
alert through many thousands of miles.
For Knight owners the days of motor trouble are
gone forever, — and the Falcon-Knight Six is the
lowest priced Knight-engined car in the world.
Test a Falcon-Knight Six and learn for yourself
about its unusual performance and value.
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD., 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.), LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (Q’LAND), LTD., Q.T.C. Building, Petne Bight,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD., 33-63 Bathurst Street. Hobart.
Falcon-Knight
THE WORLD’S FINEST TYPE OFCAIOTOR


“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
In these days everybody is an investor.
You have a life policy. Is it really worth anything? Is the office
you are in sound?
Are the shares you hold in a solvent company?
“The Bulletin” has established “The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” to discuss
these matters. Subscribers are invited to ask questions.
Published the first Saturday in each month. Price 2/- per copy;
22/6 per annum. From most newsagents, or direct from “The
Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —A. C. Luya, Esq., Chairman; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
M. J. Ryan, Esq.
General Manager —M. 0. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE . . . . . . BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory). Melbourne, Sydney, and
95 branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the, fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
fs
“CLYDE
BATTERIES
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LETTER UNDER THE MIRROR.
By
STEELE RUDD.
ONE morning, perhaps about ten o’clock,
you’re returning from the factory in
the milkcart, sitting- up singing and
swaying to the motion of it. and light-
hearted and hopeful among the jangling,
empty cans and one that’s full of whey.
You’ll drive in through the gate to the
little grey homestead as if it was the land
of Canaan, and your eye will fall on two
startling figures crossing your pumpkin
ground, carrying parcels and a basket, look-
ing like two movie stars on location. They’ll
be big Nellie Ryan and little Katie Ryan,
and Mrs. Ryan won’t be with them at all.
“Ghost!” you’ll mumble, turning pale—-
“they said they’d come and they meant it
all right.” And then you'll fold up. On the
way to the piggery where you deliver the
can of whey to a family of expectant squeak-
ing swine you'll be blessing yourself again
for going near old Tim Ryan, and reckon-
ing “they’ve got a neck!” But it can’t be
helped now, and as big Nellie and little
Katie approach the house you’ll be taking
the horse out and fumbling the harness.
Rover will be barking hard, too, making out
they’re enemies and that he’s got a stiff job
on, though he knows them as well as he
knows you; and looking across to Ryan’s
homestead —Tuam, they call it—you’ll see
Mrs. Ryan watching from the verandah to
see how the girls get on.
Of course you’ll have to go round to the
front of your quarters to meet them, and
when you are nearly there you’ll order
Rover to go and lie down, and ask him
what he thinks he’s barking at. You do
this to keep cool and collected. A little
nearer, and you’ll grin and say: “Heilo, did
y’ think he was going to eat y’?” And big
Nellie will smile, and, dragging the sides
of her hat down over her cheeks, will tell
you they’ve come over to tidy up the place
for you, if you’ll just show them the run of
it, and where the things are that they’ve to
take back to be done up. You’ll stammer
and blush and be sorry for all the jolly
trouble they’re going to for nothing. And
Nellie will say, “Oh no!” while Katie will
screw up her nose and look about inquisi-
tively.
.“There it is, that’s it,” and you’ll open
the door to them; “but y’ won’t want me
any longer.” And off you’ll bolt before big
Nellie can fix her smile on you again, or
little Katie stretch her neck far enough to
see all that’s inside.
They’ll throw the windows open, and put
something against the door to keep it from
closing; then they’ll stare hard at your
housekeeping and your furniture for a min-
ute or so as if they had come to learn
something. But soon big Nellie will have
her cape off and an apron on and be hard
at work in the kitchen. And while she’s
firing the stove and getting hot water ready,
and clearing your shelves of dishes and
things, little Katie, who is twelve or thir-
teen and just coming on, will tip-toe to the
door of your bedroom and peep in as if she
suspected someone was in hiding there.
When no one jumps up or sings out to her
she’ll go right in and look around at the
little that’s there and handle whatever is
on the table. Your brush and comb she’ll
drop and pull faces at as if they -harbored
plague; but your silver watch she’ll open
and fool with, and put to her ear, and wind
up.
There’ll be a letter of five or six pages
kept from flying away by your murky little
mirror, which serves as a paperweight. It’S
a lettbr from Jane McCleverty to Bill
Baker, which was dropped along the fac-
tory road by Bill for you to find. You
haven’t read it all yet because you haven’t
had time, and you know it’s Bill
letter by the envelope, which you used soon
as you got home to light the fire with.
“Your sweetheart, Sarah,” told you near
enough who the author of it was, and you’ll
be going to restore it to Bill next time you
meet him.
Little Katie will see that letter and won-
der what you have stood the mirror on it for.
Girls always like to see things kept in their
proper places. That’s the difference between
them and men. So while she’s looking at her-
self in the glass and smiling different ways to
see which of them suits her best, her hand
will be fondling the letter as if it was a doll.
Deciding on one of the smiles as tlhe best
for her type, she’ll take more interest in the
letter. The first two words of it, “My
lovest,” will hold her and she’ll open her
eyes, and the smile will be forgotten. Then
she’ll rush to the last page, and when she
reads “Your sweetheart, Sarah,” yqu can tell
she’s found a great goldmine. She’ll turn
back quick to the beginning, and when she’s
taken in the first few lines there’ll be a
broad grin on her face. But she’s pretty
careful of her steps, is little Katie. So she'll
put the letter down and run to the front door
to see where you are, and what kind of work
you’re setting yourself. She'll see you hook-
ing the horses to the plough. Then, taking
the broom, she’ll tell big Nellie, who’s turn-
ing the kitchen inside out and decorating
the shelves with nicked paper, and looking
as pleased as though you had just brought
her into it as your bride, that she’ll give
the rooms a sweep over; and off back little
Katie will skip to your bedroom and to
Baker’s love-letter.
She’ll sit on your bunk with it, and hold
the broom between her knees so as to be ready
for work at the sound of danger. She isn’t
a rapid reader of love-letters, not having
had much practice as yet, and Jane McClev-
erty doesn’t write copperplate or spell accord-
ing to the dictionary or the local school-
master. But she’s worrying through all
right, smiling and gaping, and getting red
sometimes, and at other time 3 excited looking ;
then, putting it down sudden, but without
losing the place, and slipping to the door
again, she’ll see how you’re still getting on
with your job. A word or two more with
Nellie; then, making a flourish on the floor
with the broom, back she’ll creep to Jane
and Bill again. Though some of it will seem
to be shocking her, little Katie will want to
read every word of that letter.
Meantime you’ll be ploughing away up and
down, singing out to the horses to make
yourself more important because you think
someone’s listening, and stopping always at
the headland nearest the house to clean the
plough. And when you’re cleaning it you’ll
be keeping an eye on the house; and you’ll
see liomcly-looking smoke coming out of the
chimney, and big Nellie coming out of the
house with papers and rags and all kinds
of rubbish to burn; and sometimes she’ll be
getting water out of the tank, or throwing
some out of a dish, and looking up at you
as she throws it. And seeing the smoke and
her moving about and looking across at you
will make the little brown homestead seem
a different place; and you’ll begin to feel
what it must be like to fellows who have their
own wives working for them. You’ll notice,
too, that big Nellie is a fine stamp of a
woman, and that she’s smart on her feet.
You’ll be taking longer and longer after each
round to clean the plough, too; and when
little Katie leaves the house and comes run-
ning across to the fence calling out: “Nellie
says will you come and have a cup of tea
now, Mister Gall?” your heart’ll give a jump !
“Tea!” you’ll echo, as if you didn’t quite
understand. “It’s all waiting on the table”
—and back will fly the busy little Katie.
“Cripes!” you’ll mutter; and leaving the
horses standing there —they would stand there
all day if you asked them to —you’ll rub the
soil off your hands on to your trousers, and
rake your moist hair with your fingers, and
creep cautiously through the fence. You’ll
drag a fistful of leaves from a gum-bush as
you saunter across the grass patch to the
house and be crunching them as you wonder
what to say when you go in.
FOR CONSISTENCY’S SWEET SAKE.
PATIENT: “But, Doctor, I can’t read the
prescription!”
DOCTOR: “You’re not meant to read it, sir!”
PATIENT: “Oh, I see. Then I hope you’ll
make out your hill the same way.”
Big Nellie, meeting you at the door with
real mountain bloom on her cheeks, will
invite you to “Come along, Mr. Gall, before
your tea gets cold.” Angels of light! You
were never met at your own door like this
in your life before! But somehow you feel
it’s her door, and you’re a visitor being
welcomed. When you go in and look
mind you hardly recognise it! It’s under-
gone a metamorphosis. You look down on
the floor but don’t like walking on it with
your dusty, milk-stained bluchers.
And the sight of the table! At one end
of it is spread a white linen cloth, wherever
it came from, ironed like a dress-sihirt, and on
it set in fashion are the teapot, a cup and
saucer, the sugar-basin with a spoon in it,
a big bowl of butter that’s not yours, a
plate of scones, a bottle of home-made melon
jam—that isn’t yours either —the milk-jug
all brightened up, and a serviette, wherever
it also came from ! At the other end will
be a big bunch of flowers leaning over and
ducking their heads about. Heavens! You
feel it’s your wedding breakfast you’re sit-
ting down to, without the parson or a best
man. and you don’t seem to know where the
chair is when you are going to sit on it.
A GOER.
“Speed fiend, isn’t he?”
“Rather! Takes some corners on the spare
wheel.”
“Do you take milk an’ sugar in your tea,
Mister Gall?” and Nellie, while you’ll be
nodding you do because you can’t find your
voice, will start pouring you out a cup, and
calling to little Katie to see that “the cake
in the oven doesn’t burn, like a good girl.”
Your cloudy, milk-splashed shirt and pants
and dusty brown arms don’t silhouette well
against the white linen tablecloth and
bright tea things, and the comparison will
make you uncomfortable in your own home.
You nearly spill the tea over it in conse-
quence. Then when you lift your cup with
precaution you get a nervous attack and
the cup stops half-way up like a hotel lift,
and wobbles in your hand. My! how you’ll
put it down, quick, and reach for the scones
to kill time with —that’ll be till big Nellie
makes Iherself scarce. But when she sud-
denly runs out to the kitchen to take the
cake out of the oven that little Katie, who
has found a Jew’s harp, doesn’t know is
burning like Rome was while Nero was
fiddling, you’ll hurl that cup of tea down
like beer and send a scone or two and most
of the butter after it.
In a minute or two more you’ll be getting
composed and feel a bit at home. You'll lean
back in the chair and look out to see if the
horses are standing all right. Of course
you know they’ll be half asleep and that no
one but yourself or someone shaking a feed
of corn at tljeir heads could awaken them.
You have drunk all the tea, but you sit
there wondering if big Nellie will come in
again before you go out. You feel you
would like to have a wise conversation with
her. She doesn’t seem to be coming, so
you’ll start to go. But when, you make a
noise getting up she’ll come hurrying in
apologising, and asking would you have liked
another cup of tea? Laws! How you’ll
wish you could reel off compliments like
the city fellows who charm the women on
steamers and in teashops! But you only
shake your head and smile, and twirl your
old hat, and tell her you must be getting
over to the plough again now.
“My word, you’re getting on with it.
You’ll soon have all that paddock finished,
w r on’t you?” she’ll say. And the way she’ll
say it will burn your ears, and the skin of
your face w T ill shine like Moses’s did when
he came down off Mount Sinai after the big
interview.
“If I only had someone always here to
do the housekeeping for me,” you'll say,
laughing, and backing to the door, “I could
do a lot more and better, don’t y’ think so?”
“A good many of them don’t, though,”
big Nellie will say—she will know that some
family men do a lot of ploughing beside the
kitchen fire.
“I wouldn’t be one of them sort,” you’ll
say, and you’ll step out and be off smiling,
and reckoning you got in a good word for
yourself, anyway.
When you start the plough again you’ll
talk like a brother to the horses and feel as
if you are cultivating the Garden of Eden.
More and more will you keep your eyes on
the home; and when little Katie issues from
it to empty a dish or something, you’ll wave
to her like a brother-in-law, and she’ll shake
the dish at you like a relation.
Meanwhile, big Nellie, having done all
she can see to do in the kitchen and living-
room, will turn her energies to your bed-
room. And while she’s hanging things up
on nails, and making your bed, and wonder-
ing if you wear pyjamas and where they
can be, little Katie will be hovering about
watching to see if she will observe Baker’s
love-letter, which she takes for granted .was
written to you. But big Nellie, who isn’t
there to pry into your correspondence, passes
it over, as a matter of respect, and little
Katie will get restless and point to it, and
pull inviting little faces.
“A letter from some of his people, I sup-
pose,” big Nellie will observe at last, giving
attention to the arranging of some red roses
on your table. But little Katie won’t be
satisfied. She must have big Nellie read that
letter somehow or other without giving her-
self away.
‘‘lt starts with ‘My lovest’,” and little
Katie will start humming a tune. A girl is
mother of the woman.
“With what?” and suddenly evincing some
interest big Nellie will glance at the love
an air.
“And it looks like Jane McCleverty’s
writing, too,” little Katie will pause to add,
and then go on humming more.
Big Nellie’s face will flush, and she’ll
look closer at the epistle, and little Katie,
pleased with herself, will run out to the
door to see if you’re sticking well to your
work, and to give her sister a chance to
enjoy the letter. You'll be scraping mud
from the mould-board when she looks out,
and you’ll wave to her when you’re putting
the scraper back in its place, and she’ll
wave to you, and for big Nellie’s benefit
she’ll remain awhile, waving more. And big
Nellie, who also will conclude, without evi-
dence to the contrary, that the letter was
written to you, will be rushing her eyes over
its pages like wireless, and with blood mount-
ing to her cheeks and fire flying from her
eyes. But she’ll drop it like poison when
she hears little Katie coming in again, and
start cleaning the mirror, and striving to
appear disinterested. But little Katie will
know a lot, too.
“What’s in it? Is it from Jane McClev-
erty?” she’ll want to know, looking innocent
and anxious, and breathing short.
“Do you think I would read Mr. Gall’s
letters, or anyone’s, you silly girl?” Nellie
will choke, hardly knowing what to do about
it, she’ll be so disappointed in you, and
hateful of the McCleverty girl.
“00, you have! That’s not how it was!”
And, lifting one of the displaced sheets
cunning little Katie will start perusing it
boldly.
“Don’t you !.... What if Mr. Gall was
to come in!” And Nellie will take it from
her. “Run out and see if the towel I hung
on the line is dry, and bring me the broom.”
And little Katie will fly off faster than
ever, but only because she wants big Nellie
to finish the letter so that she can talk
to her about it on equal terms and without
being accused of wrong-doing. And she
knows from what’s in it that big Nellie
will be bursting to read it all. Women are
curious as emus. But this time little Katie
will stay out much longer, and be waving the
towel to you; and when she’s going inside
again she’ll sneak on tip-toe and catch
Nellie glaring in hate at the last lines and
clinching her teeth.
“Oh, you’ve read it,” sh-e’ll shout, pound-
ing on her triumphantly. And then: “I
know what’s in it—it’s from J M
like I said it was, isn’t it?”
Big Nellie won’t say anything. She’ll be
confounded.
“And there’s a lot of bad things in it —
isn’t there?”
Then big Nellie will put the letter under
the mirror again, and say: “Get our basket,
Katie! And we’ll take back our jam and
scones and everything we brought. He can
bring his washing over to mother himself,
if he likes. Come away out; and don't do
any more for him ! Booh ! don’t let his old
dog touch you!” And out they go.
Crossing the paddock they’ll be holding
their heads down and keeping a deaf ear.
And when you wave and call out to them,
“So long, are y’ going?” they won’t see or
hear you. Little Katie would like to look
at you, though, and give you a smile, too;
but big Nellie will be telling her not to.
And so you’ll stare after them, and think
and puzzle. But you can’t make it out!


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK
OF COMMERCE LTD.
Authorised Capital .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,305,130
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1927 ..£18,366,297
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, K.8.E., Chairman ;
Frank N. Yauwood ; H. R. Lysagiit, O.R.E. :
George J. Sly, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rut-
ledge ; James Kell.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: W. G. Hull.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 156 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Branches and Receiving Offices at 27 places in
Queensland.
MET,BOURNE (325 Collins Street).
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
PERTH, YV.A. (73 St. George's Terrace).
LONDON (62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Directors ;
A. Dodds Fairbairn, Alfred Shepherd, James Turk.
Agents throughout Australia. Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the World.
Every descrintion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COREINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. t £529 988
Preference Shares .. .. ” 1,875 000
Long Term Mortgage Ska res .. '374’197
Ordinary Shares 3,750’000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3.609 655
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
Oieac Britain and Ireland, Slmoa ‘
RECEIVES DEPOSITS at interest
periods and Jransacts all other usual Banking busing
Australian Mutual
ProvidentSociety
.Estahliftiied
1819.
s/i'ttst'sjiiney
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1926 £2,887 200
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of over £4.893,000
Accumulated Funds £63,600,000
Annual Income £9,60o!o00
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
df
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
BROOKS RUPTURE
APPLIANCE
Can Now be
Purchased in
Australia at London
Prices.
m
of M„!" pt,,r ? write at once for full particular,
fo,tahlP rv " * I[ '? nt ! on - cool and com
foi table. Expert attends to Mail Orders.
AGENTS: GUYATT & CO,, E „ , 863
DEPT. B,
Surgical Instrument and Truss Makers.
257 a GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Bridge Street), SYEGEY.
WANT TO MAKE
MONEY ?
“The ‘Wild Cat’
Monthly,”
published on the first Saturday of
every month, will hdp you in your
dealings with shares.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds
are lost annually in Wild Cat com-
panies. “The ‘W'ild Cat’ Monthly”
will help you to identify them.
As valuable for the Smallest
Investor as for the Largest. In fact,
the small investor needs it most
Published by “The Bulletin/* 2/-
per single copy; 22/6 per annum.
Shipping, etc.
D
yt
&
i mi
SI
llfhlFfft
tafi
ft
a
/•‘l'Wp/' 5 ' 4-
-I — j i
NAD
"a
UN IT ED STATES
&. EUR OPE
AORANGI ... 17,491 tons, Apl. 5)
NIAGARA . . 13,415 tons, May 3 j
From Sydney for Auckland, Fiji, Honolulu, Victoria
and Vancouver.
MAKURA ..
TAHITI .. .
8,075 tons, Mar. 22 |
. 7,898 tons, Apl. 19 )
From Sydney for Wellington, Rarotonga, Tahiti and
San Francisco.
And Fortnightly thereafter.
UNION S.S. CO., 247 George St., Sydney, and William St., Melbo
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
a ol wm m ' Of K
l * JAVA (The Beautiful).
Monthly Sailings by the MARELLA (T. 7475) and
MALABAR (T. 5000), via the Picturesque Torres Strait.
Travel via JAVA to EUROPE, the Smooth-Water Route.
South Sea Island Tours
Regular Six-Weekly Sailings from Sydney.
New Guinea ss - montoro,
Visiting 16 Island Ports.
Solomons
S.S. MATARAM,
Visiting 24 Island
Ports.
at
'LL
- -:
Full Particulars from—
BURNS, PHILP & COY. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BAN K OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,481,960
5,650,000
7,481,960
£20,613,920
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie. F.sq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
Directors:
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esa.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tiireadneedle Street, E.C. 3.
514 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Teil'itory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world!
Calile remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
3d.
Price
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Steamer.
I.caves i Leaves
Sydney. /Melbourne
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY (no cargo for Mackay),
TOWNSVILLE and CAIRNS (Transhipping at Bris-
bane for Maryborough, Bundaberg and Gladstone, and
at Townsville for outports).
BOMBALA.
ORUNGAL..
Howard Smith,
Ltd., Kembla Big.,
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
HAVE A NEW HOLIDAY IN
HAWAII
Break your next trip to Europe or America
without extra expense. Tropical scenery, frag-
rant flowers, luscious fruits, haunting melody
’neath moonlit palms. Outrigger canoeing, surf-
board riding, golfing, motoring, and all out-
door sports the year round. Inter-island cruises.
Volcanic spectacles. Or take a round trip
from Sydney, 8 weeks or less for about £lOO to
£l5O all expenses, allowing 3 to i weeks in
Hawaii and a day at Suva or Pago Pago. Good
hotels with meals 12/- to £3 per day. Ask
steamship or travel agency or write Hawaii
Tourist Bureau, Dept. 26, Box 241-D, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W., for beautifully colored booklet,
enclosing this advertisement.
ON YOUR NEXT TRIP INCLUDE
HAWAII.
South Africa and England
ABERDEEN LINE
BLUE FUNNEL LINE
WHITE STAR LINE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 11,500 tons, March 27
* Ulysses .... 15,000
t Euripides. . . 15,000
*Anchises . . . 10,000
t.Suevic 12,500
*Ascanius . . . 10,000
fDemosthenes 11,500
iltunic 12,500
* First class only, t First and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
April 13
April 21
June 4
June 26
July 23
Sept. 10
Oct. 2
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
1 Joint
Agents
P. & O. via THE CAPE
service-
one CLASS ONLY.
I'o LONDON, via Durban & Capetown.
Tons.
BAI.RANALD . 13,100
BARRABOOL . 13,100
BALLARAT .. 13,100
BARADINE .. 13,100
BENDIGO .. 13.100
RELTANA
BENALLA
808 DA
BERUIMA
Tons.
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
.. 11,100
Fares, from. £37 to £45 to England, and
from £2l to £27 to South Africa.
AGENTS —GILCHRIST, WATT. SANDERSON.
I'el. 86701-2-3. 6 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
Geo. Wills k Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE:
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
Huddart Parker1|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Str ?et, Melbourne; Bridge Street, S/dney,


RUB OUT
THE PAIN
AT ONCE
AND
FOR
EVER
'Rut!
''Rui*!
WSMAtnto
‘Hlaxjnetic
Ximment
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment banishes all pain. It
is the reliable over-night relief. If you are suffering from
a stiff neck, just saturate a cloth with it to-night and wrap
round your neck, and in the morning your neck muscles will
be soft and pliable.
Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment does its work effec-
tively and quietly. It is as pleasant to use as toilet water
and there is no fear that it will blister or hurt the skin.
If your muscles are sore from over-exertion or from over-
work, Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment is the remedy for quick
relief. If you have an aching back, no matter how long it
has been troubling you, one good rubbing with Magnetic
Liniment at night before retiring will make all the differ-
Small size, 1/9; Large size, 3/-.
ence.
® ZSkddotte
*ll Xagnetlc
Xwument
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AND ALL KINDS OF
Inflammation.
Prepared B
Sheldon DrugC?
Boston, U.5.A.
s.w
Hilliers
Chocolates
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 6/-,
10/-, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and
mailed to you the day they sure made.
Send for Catalogue, illustrated
with Reproductions of our
Confectionery, in color.
cuvi4tm£ic\
162-166 PITT STREET,
BRANCHES:
CR. GEORGE & KING STREETS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET
(Next Theatre Royal),
GEORGE STREET
(Next Regent Theatre),
SYDNEY.
ijugi l
sag
K<
m
IS
r , c
What a lovely
Gift! ”
Harbor Night.
All day the wild north-easter whipped
White crests of racing seas ;
Now in the blue dusk-hour the tides
Lap in a languid ease.
The benison of peace is laid
On waters streaming black,
Save where the curven moon has marked
Her silver-patterned track.
Each with a glittering freight of gems,
Quivering with jewel-light,
By dim sea-paths the ferries glide
To havens of the night.
A frail moth born of drowsy dusk,
With trembling wings of grey,
A little ship slips soundlessly
Across the tranquil bay.
And high above the darkened sea,
Touched by the sinking moon,
The black swans fly from tide-caught sands
To Deewhy’s still lagoon.
A sombre line against the stars,
In swift and arrowed flight—
Like witches of an ancient tale,
The black swans fly by night.
And down the wind there comes a call
Echoing eerily,
As from the void the leader cries
His greeting to the sea.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
Esukai-Bagadur.
f I ’HIS happened when Esukai-Bagadur
S was but a prince, long before lie be-
•* came the father of the great Temuchin
whom the world knows as Chingliis-Khan.
Many a time before he had reached the
age of man lie had heard Chinese merchants
speak of the divine beauty of Low-Soong,
who lived in the great walled city of China.
For many years she was the object of his
thoughts by day and his dreams by night,
and when he became of age he asked his
father to give him leave to journey into
China, where he would see and woo the
maid he already loved.
Having consulted a lama, who predicted
a safe return, Esukai-Bagadur was given the
permission lie sought, but on the under-
standing that he return within a year and
neglect not his duties towards the gods. Thus
one day lie left his native land, accompanied
by fifty mounted warriors, and with many
head of sheep and cattle, which were to pro-
vide them with meat and milk during their
journey.
After many days of travel they reached
the great wall of the city wherein dwelt
the beautiful Low-Soong. The night was
spent outside the gates, and in the morning
the prince approached the gatekeeper and
asked to be permitted to enter.
“Who are you, and what is your wish?”
asked the keeper of the gate.
He told him that he was Esukai-Bagadur,
Prince of Mongolia, and that he had travelled
far to see and to woo the beautiful Low-
Soong.
The gatekeeper having departed, there
soon appeared the elders of the city who
admitted the strangers within the gate.
Now, Low-Soong was the daughter of a
mandarin, a man cruel and avaricious, who
used the charms of his daughter to enrich
himself. When he learned that a foreign
prince had come to seek his daughter’s hand,
he appeared delighted, and treated Esukai-
Bagadur very kindly. In return the prince
gave him many yambas of silver as a token
of friendship and esteem, and presently
begged his permission to woo Low-Soong.
Being very pleased with the generous present
of silver, the mandarin led him into an inner
apartment, where the prince beheld a won-
derful vision.
“Thou O most beautiful of all women,”
he said, “thine image has lived with me for
many years, and now I come from a distant
land to ask thee to become my wife.”
Then Low-Soong spoke, and her voice was
like the sounds of a silver bell; like the mur-
mur of a mountain spring.
“I am honored, stranger, by your pro-
posal ; but you must tell me somathing about
your country, for I know nothing of its
customs, traditions or beliefis.”
Spoke the prince: “Maiden whose beauty
shines like the moon and whose charms
warm one like the rays of the sun in sum-
mer, I have little to tell thee of my coun-
try. We have no big cities, and therefore
no high walls. We have no large shops and
no big ships; therefore thlere are. no great
possessors and no slaves. We till no soil
and gather no harvests. We eat when we
feel hungry and rest when we are tired. Our
cattle provide us with mesat and milk; our
sheep with houses and clqthing. Our horses
are our faithful friends ‘and servants, and
nature sustains all.”
Low-Soong looked at the strange prince,
and liked him despite his apparent sim-
plicity.
“It grieves me to refuse you,” sh. 3 said,
“but I could not live the life you speak of,
for I am accustomed to dainty food, beauti-
ful homes and pretty clothes. I cannot ride
a horse nor milk a cow, and unless you can
offer me the comforts I enjoy in my father’s
home I cannot come with you.”
Greatly disappointed, for none of the
things she desired could be procured in his
country, Esukai-Bagadur left the apartment
of Low-Soong. More deeply in love with her
than ever, he knew not what to do.
The mandarin met him and asked: “Is
Low-Soong really as beautiful as you
thought, my prineje?”
“A thousand times more so,” replied he,
“for her beauty is: beyond imagination. She
is the bright star in a sky all overcast with
black clouds. How proud must feel the
father who begot: such a daughter!”
The mandarin felt flattered, and said:
“You are not aslting my consent to marry
Low-Soong. Have you changed your mind?”
Thereupon Esukai-Bagadur related to him
his conversation with Low-Soong, and asked
his advice.
The m an dp r in quickly turned in his mind
how he could ti irn the situation to profit.
“Remain here, my prince,” he said, for a
year, so that you and your men may learn
the art of building houses, become pro-
ficient in tilling the soil and making bread,
in cultivating the silkworm and growing
rice. Send a messenger to your father in-
forming him of your decision and asking
him to send more cattle and silver. At the
end of your apprenticeship you wall depart
with my daughter to your native land.’
Thus Esukai-Bagadur remained in the
walled city. One man he despatched to his
father and the others he put to learning
various trades. During the day he and his men
worked at hard and tedious tasks, and,
though they often felt exhausted, they never
complained, for the men believed in the wis-
dom of their prince. Every night he was
permitted to see Low-Soong, and this com-
pensated him for his heavy toil. Low-Soong
was touched by his devotion, and felt sorry
for him, but her father forbade her speaking
about it.
After many months a messenger came
from the king, bringing much silver and
many sheep and oxen, but requesting the
prince to return. The silver Esukai-Bagadur
presented to Low-Soong’s father, and to
herself he gave a beautiful Mongolian pony,
as swift as the wind and as wild as a snow-
storm in the treeless steppes of its native
land. But return he could not, for his men
had not yet acquired sufficient knowledge.
So many weary months passed, and the
seeds they had sown came up and grew into
tall green stalks, and at length began to
ripen. The prince felt happy, for soon lie
would be able to return to the freedom of
his beloved country. Life in the city op-
pressed him ; he longed for the open spaces
and the fresh air. Also, the houses his men
were building were nigh completed; only the
tiles remained to be added.
But now the men who worked on the rice-
fields felt ill. They were not accustomed
to be in water and mud. And one day
locusts descended like a thick black cloud
upon the fields and laid them waste Esu-
kai-Bagadur surveyed the bare ground, won-
dering why so much labor was put into any-
thing when the result was so uncertain, and
he doubted the wisdom of Low-Soong’s
people. A few days later a wind began
to blow from the sea; the almost-finished
houses were upturned, and bricks and timber
were scattered. And in this storm one heavy
rafter fell on the mandarin, crushing him
as if he were a fly.
Then Esukai-Bagadur spoke to Low-Soong,
consoling her in her bereavement.
“Low-Soong, whom Burchan has endowed
with so much wisdom and beauty,” he said,
“canst not thou see the folly of the ways
and the mode of life of thy people? My
houses were nearing completion, and a wind
destroyed them. My bread was ripening and
was to be gathered in, when an insect
devoured it. The rice-fields have sickened my
men, and the hard work has nearly killed the
joy of life, and yet thou deemest all these
things good. Canst not thou see that the
gods are pointing the way for thee? Come
with me and thou shalt have no fear of the
locust, nor that a falling house will kill a
man. Thou shalt dwell in an urta made of
woollen mats, which will keep thee warm in
the winter, and in the summer the starry
skies shall be thy roof. As free as the wind
thou shalt ride in the open steppes. No one
will say: ‘Ye must not do that; ye may not
come here.’ Thou shalt drink the milk
of the cow and eat the meat of the ox and
the sheep. Thou shalt shoot the wolf and
chase the fox. Men will love thee, and thou
mayst share thy love with them. There is
no envy in my country and no jealousy, for
each one requires so little and always has
enough.”
Low-Soong was very touched, and cried at
the loss of her father. Then she said: “You
are right, my prince. I thought this best
because I knew of no other life. Now I shall
come with you.”
After many happy days they returned
home, and the king praised Low-Soong for
her beauty and his son for his choice of a
wife. And they lived together for many
years.
But never before nor after Esukai-Baga-
dur did a Mongol build a home for himself or
plough a field. To the present day die ox
gives him his food, the cow the milk, and the
sheep his house and clothing. And on days
of festival, when mare-milk is insufficient
to put fire into his blood, the mare gives him
coumiss.
S. STEDMAYN
For Love of a Woman.
LET go for’ard Hang on to your
spring aft Dead slow port
Hard a-starboard.”
With these orders fresh from his throat
Captain Tom Sinclair, of the rusty old tramp
Remington, turned to the dock-pilot.
“Well, there you are, George—she’s
yours.”
The pilot smiled and proceeded to give the
necessary orders to take the ship down the
dock.
“Say, Cap., ain’t that the wife over yon-
der?”
But Sinclair took no notice of the friendly
call. Already he was leaning over the port
wing and waving to a pretty young woman
who was standing on the fast-receding wharf.
At last the ship’s stern hid her from his
view and he turned again to his immediate
duties.
“Yes, George, that’s the wife. You know
I’m more sorry for someone else now, and
it’s not myself or Janet I’m thinking of.”
The ship swung into the buoyed channel
as he spoke, and the pilot was engaged for a
few moments putting the helmsman on his
leads. After a few moments he turned back
again, and the captain continued:
“Yes, I guess there’s someone else who
feels this departure this time.” The pilot
followed his eyes and saw them resting on
the broad back of the chief mate on the
fo’c’s’le-head. The captain nodded. “Yes,”
he continued, “poor old Norman loved her as
well, and it was never decided until this
time home, and then she picked me.”
(Continued on next page.)


V
Feeling overstrained ?
"PANATOGEH has a direct
O favourable influence on the whole
nervous system and in all cases acts
as a powerful stimulant to the
nervous system,”
writes a physician in the “Medical Press
& Circular.”
Nerves, brains, blood and muscles, every cell of
them is charged with new energy and vitality by
Sanatogen.
Get back to splendid health and vitality by starting
your course of Sanatogen now.
SANATOGEN
At all Chemists—from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
'-.S'' : \ «S
x^Y#? x * ’•>
&
c*?
X< V
«*<
' :•
XT
4
JH
Gloom to Sunshine
“Feeling liverish this morning—head a bit heavy-
going to be a muggy day—where are my slippers
very late last night of course —must be bright and
early at the office though—The morning glass of
ENO, and a shower—Feel better now—Think I’m
going to eat some breakfast after all—Glorious day
—Business as usual.”
By following the pleasant
health-giving practice of
taking ENO’S “Fruit Salt”
first thing every morning
feelings of depression are
banished, and the world
seems a brighter place.
EN O will at all times, and
and in every climate help
maintain the perfect func-
tional activity of the
bodily organs.
Prepared only by
J.C. ENO. Limited.
London. England-
Sales Agents : The British
Harold F. Ritchie & Co.,
Ltd.. Sydney, N.S.W.
f
♦ ♦
*♦
i
TN
TWO SIZES'
AT CHEMISTS
AND STOKES.
"fSJJJI SALT" AND ENO ARE REGISTERED TRADE MARK 4,
The pilot turned and gave an unimportant
order to the helmsman, and when his atten-
tion was again taken from the steering of
the ship he found the chief officer by his
side.
"Ah, Mr. Keyes, do you think you’ll dodge
the subs, this time?”
The chief smiled —it was a habit of his.
A nice sunny smile. An open smile. A smile
that bred confidence. But a weary smile.
“I’m not caring if we don’t, sir.”
“Come, come, Mr. Keyes, wait till you
meet that nice girl in Buenos Ayres—or per-
haps it is Rio?”
The mate walked away, ignoring the elder
man’s remarks and joined the skipper.
“Where do we join the convoy, sir?” he
asked.
After they had discussed the possibility of
torpedo attack from their new enemy, the
German sub., the captain turned to his mate
and invited him in the chart-room. As they
entered the cosy room he motioned his junior
to a seat, and slowly lit his pipe. His gaze
was fastened quizzingly on the mate’s face.
It seemed clouded. At last he smiled, and,
jumping to his feet, startled the mate with
“Janet sent her regards, Norman.” The
younger man kept silent. The captain con-
tinued : “I’m sorry, Norman, but she couldn’t
marry us both.” Still the younger man was
silent. “I hope we get home safely this voy-
age.” The captain’s voice was pensive.
“Every night she’s praying for us both,” he
added.
The mate looked up. “For us both, sir?”
His voice was raised a little. “For me as
well?”
The captain nodded.
“God! She’s a fine woman, and you’re a
lucky man.” His voice broke. “I swear that
I’ll be her friend still.”
“Of course, of course, Norman.”
“And help her and you in every way I
can because —because I make no secret of
the fact that I love her.”
“Yes, yes,” the captain broke in.
u “Why should I?” continued the mate.
“Love is not a thing to be ashamed of. I do
love her, and shall to the end.” The cap-
tain patted him on the shoulder as he slowly
backed out of the room.
As rcac h e d the door the mate looked up.
But you can be sure, sir, that I shall always
remember she’s your wife. And now I’ve
finished. I’m sorry if I have said too much.
It won’t occur again.”
A hail from the pilot drew the captain out
on to the bridge again.
“Here we are, Captain. Bar Light abeam,”
and as the pilot swung himself down the
Jacob’s ladder into the waiting pilot-boat lie
called out: “A good voyage, and good luck
with the subs!”
The captain rang half ahead and stationed
extra lookouts. He was frankly worried,
first about his mate, but more so about the
present state of affairs at sea. The German
had started his famous blockade of England,
and the Remington was > now proceeding to
join her convoy off the /Tuscan Rock.
But even with the thought of the subs, in
his mind the captain could not forget the
little wife he had just /left. With his chief
mate as rival he had courted Janet Lafferty
for two years, and they' had both known her
for years. They had both proposed to her—•
Sinclair first, and he (had been accepted. They
had been married three months, and this was
his first voyage since hismarriage. Norman had .
been newly appointed to the Remington ; he
was a zealous and worthy officer, but still—■
the captain did not altogether relish having
his old rival aboard as mate. But orders are
orders; and as the Remington dipped to the
swell off the Liverpool Bar he asked himself
how it could matter, anyhow.
* * * iff
“Hullo, Sparks, what are you doing out of
your element here?” It was the second
mate addressing the one wireless officer that
the Remington carried. The hard-worked
young man had just mounted the ladder
leading on to the tramp’s bridge, and was
looking around inquiringly. The Reming-
ton was homeward bound from the Plate
with a valuable cargo of tinned meat, chilled
beef, etc., and was even now ploughing past
the lofty peak of Teneriffe.
. wireless officer looked over at the
single steady light on the peak at Teneriffe,
twelve thousand feet high, and laughed.
, ‘'} vl i lere ’s the skipper, seadog?” he asked,
wireless for him from EIT.”
He’s in the mate’s room, I think.”
Good.
With that cryptic remark Sparks backed
away down the (ladder and made his way to
the officers quarters. A gramophone was
blaring out the: latest jazz as lie entered the
mate s room. The captain was sitting on a
settee sorting over some records, and he
up as Hie operator entered!
Message for me, Sparks?”
J-es, sir, just came through from Tene-
rine.
. Hm captain took the envelope and after
signing the receipt-form motioned the opera-
tor away.
As the wireless man left the room the
mate entered. He was looking rather tired,
Paving ]ust completed his four-hour watch
on the bridge, and he slumped down heavily
in the nearest chair. The captain meanwhile,
had started to open the envelope.
Ihe mate was busy untying his shoes when
he was startled by a strangled “Good God!”
trom ms superior officer. The captain was
staring dazedly at the form in his hand.
iMorman took one stride across the room and
reached Sinclair’s side.
“What is the matter, sir?”
Ihe captain looked up, his face the pic-
ture of dejection. Numbly he held out the
message and the mate read: “Hurry home.
Janet is dying.— Dawjes.”
The captain jumped to his feet. “Send for
the chief engineer, Norman. This tub has
0 move n <>w. My woman !”
Ihe mate touched his shoulders. “Cheer
uibmr. It may not be as bad as you think.”
Ids; but, man, she wants me.”
le ma t e was silent for a brief second,
lhen he made for the door. As lie reached
it he turned. “You know you can depend
on me, sir —and he was gone.
* * * *
Two days later the tramp had just passed
£ nnsterre and was, proceeding with doused
lights, her course set for Ushant. The cap-
tain had kept the bridge since dusk, and he
was mighty glad to see the approaching day
lighting up the eastern sky. The chief
engineer had been making the old tub move,
and the table of revolutions told the skipper
that he was still keeping the black crowd at
it.
It had just turned six o’clock when the
catastrophe happened. The wheel and look-
out had just been relieved when the new
lookout-man sent out the dreaded cry: “Sub-
marine rising on the port bow !”
Tlie master made a rush from his chart-
room and uttered a curse as he sighted the
long, lean, grey shape gradually rise out of
the water. He jumped to the speaking tube
leading to the engine-room; but even as he
spoke the German put a shell across his
bow\
As the Remington did not stop at the first
shot the German sent another. This entered
the fo’c’s’le. Luckily, however, this compart-
ment was empty, all the crew being on deck
watching the raider.
Another shell whistled amongst the rig-
ging of the ship; and the Old Man stopped
her. Unfortunately for the Remington and
luckily for the sub., the Ixirds of the Admi-
ralty had not started their excellent scheme
ot putting four-inch guns on board British
merchant vessels, so that the old trader was
helpless.
As he stopped the ship the skipper turned
to Norman. “Well, that’s done it. They
will make us take to the boats. More
delay!”
The mate didn’t answer, but went to
superintend the lowering of the boats. As
he feared, his precautions were well founded,
tor the German commander, a dapper little
man, called out in perfect English: “All
your crew will take to the boats, captain,
when I shall blow your old barge up.” And
lie raised his hands.
The captain called his officers aside. “You
will take No. 3, Second,” he said; “the
Bos'n will take No. 4, the Mate No. 2, and
I will take No. 1. Steer a course approx.
N.N.E. and it will bring you to Brest.” He
dispersed his men and was in tlie act of
jumping into his boat, when another hail
came from the sub. “The captain will stop
aboard and wait to be escorted aboard us.
It this is done tlie remainder of the crew
will be allowed to go unmolested.”
As the words rang out the mate jumped to
the skipper’s side.
The captain turned ; his face was curiously
drawn. “It’s no use, Norman ; I’ll have to
go.”
“But you can’t, sir. Why, those fiends will
keep you for the duration of the war—for
years.
“It can’t be helped, Norman. Duty’s
duty.”
t The crew was now looking on curiously.
No. 3 and 4 boats had got away and
were drifting rapidly away from the ship.
A boat was being launched from the enemy.
“Remember Janet, Tom.” All rank was
now forgotten. “Your presence may save
her,” the mate continued. “Go in the boat
■—y°u will be picked up in a few hours and
be with her in. a day or so. Get in that
boat — l’m captain now.”
Tom Sinclair stopped him. “Norman,
you’re a white man ; but no !”
The mate rushed to the side of the ship.
A hail came from the sub.
“Come along, there; I’ll give you another
two minutes to get clear.”
The mate took no heed. He looked into
the last remaining boat. His own had gone
gone away under the charge of the lamp-
trimmer. “Take no notice of what happens
now, he called to the crew. He whipped
round, and before the captain could protest
he had hustled him into the boat’s falls;
and as the captain, disappeared the
falls into the boat he called: “Good luck,
old man. Give Janet my love.”
The boat from the sub. took the pseudo-
captain off the Remington, and after laying
a time-charge aboard left her to blow up.
* * * *
Two days later Captain Sinclair was with
his wife once more.
When she was sufficiently well to talk she
asked: “Where’s Norman?”
“God knows,” he could only answer—“but
he bade me tell you he loves you. And I
know he does.”
GEO. R. BARNARD.
To a Dead Gum-tree.
Old Gum!
I wish I had the power
To limn you in with splendid pencil strokes!
To draw your blasted limbs, your giant sides
That stretch all wild to Heaven
Unsuppliant, unshriven!
Incarnate insolence!
You dare the storm,
The hurtling granite rock, the searing light-
ning flash!
What do you care for ail the hail, the heat
That stripped you to the blackened wreck
you are!
Old Gum!
You stand like some unburied plinth
From palaces of Caesars,
Gaunt, grim, great,
Shattered, sublime!
Or like Mausolos’ steeds
Rearing half-limbs of Time-pocked marble
Sculptured by hands long dead,
Yet never dead !
Or you are like
Some monster of the deep,
Cast up by Time and Death
On the green shores of Life,
To trouble Life!
And I would try to hold you
In a charcoaled line!
Old Gum!
If I would tear the pale heart out of me.
And lay it at your feet
To praise the wonder of you,
Should I should I....find God'!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


• -
1
£ ■
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
l|ueenMa.u, >n.,„ * C “ U l\PUi«^ r nn banC
NZ Office —93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.'.
Victorian Office— 1 “Chancery House/’ 485 .Wtourke. Street, Me >»<>
South Australian A, cents: Messrs. ETjDEK, SMITH & CO., CIO.,
Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
ray-d-vac
The Mark of Superior Quality
sdf
H‘ ;
EIRE'S an electric torch that's
a dandy—dark nooks and
corners hold no secrets from you —
safety at night is always assured —
it's theRay-O-Lite, the best you can
buy. Strong vulcanized fibre case,
corrugated for easy grip—heavy
brass trimmings, nickel plated
and polished—patented lock
switch, cushioned to
prevent lamp break-
age, — these and
other advantages
the
are
■SIS
itm n if / / u ®77 f/// H\ vw/ //////// /a \ \
'/A\\
mm,
S 3
■
Mil
St
r
reasons
why you
should use a
Ray-O-Lite.
Equipped with Ray-
O-Vac Batteries, youhavea x^^^
dependablesourceofligbtworth
its cost the first few nights you use it.
Write our distributor for the name of
your nearest dealer.
French Battery Company
MADISON, WISCONSIN, U. S. A.
Distributor:
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS, Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane, Australia,
Wellington, New Zealand.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
D.
EACH.
? BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6, (posted 6/-); 25, 12/« (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45A
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors lor Club Reil Cigar Factory.
HARBOR TOURIST TRIPS
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
Prom Fort Macquarie at 10.15 a.m. and 2.15 p.m.
EVERY TUESDAY AND EVERY THURSDAY.
Tares: All-day, 8/6; Half-day, 1/6, Children, 1/- and 6d.
puncheon by reservation at Clifton Gardens Hotel. Afternoon Tea on Board.
SPECIAL TRIP EVERY SUNDAY ~3 pN o. 6 JETTY, CIRCULAR QUAY
Adults, 1/6. Children, 6d.
Tela.: 86276 (4 lines). Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
onstipafion
Is the curse
Of civilization
Sick Headache
hliousness
ndiqestion
Torpid Liver
TAKE
Headaches, Dullness
Bad taste, no appetite
Skin blemishes
Have their source
In neglected condition
Of bowels
BEECHAM’S PILLS
Relieve constipation
Remove skin blemishes
Cleanse the blood
ƒ
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
Sold in
Boxes
11- & 2/6.
&
m
\
\
m
<k
111
■U
W(
ERTEX
iPHDO3
Joy of Life l
With the wrong kind of underwear
it is impossible, of course, in a hot
climate, and that is why countless
thousands of people would not dream
of wearing any other than AERTEX
—AERTEX with the wonderful, in-
sulating cellular-weave that ensures
coolness, comfort, fitness and safety.
AERTEX
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Outfitters and
Drapers: or in case of difficulty apply to
THE CELLULAR CLOTHING CO, LTD..
313 Flinders Lane. MELBOURNE,
. Victoria. Australia
who supply Wholesale Trade only.
A®
spy
s<*’ c*V«V*


Reading This May Save
You From Buying
An Obsolete Motor Car
Whippet Continues
Its Engineering
Leadership
k
Economy —Whippet holds A.A.A.
Coast-to-Coast Economy Record.
f
Large 4 -Wheel Brakes— First
light car to introduce this safety
feature.
ƒ
Easier Parking —Turns in a 17-
foot radius. Parks in 14 feet of curb
space.
f
Silent Timing Chain For
quiet engine operation, as on ex-
pensive cars.
S'
X
Y
X.
W i
i*vfo"r
If=ir vi
d
illlgine —Develops more power for
its size than any other light car engine.
■ft
m
Low Centre of Gravity
Makes for smoother riding and
greater security.
\
k
Full-Vision Bodies Narrow
front pillars remove the “blind spot”
hazard.
L\
A
'a
More Leg Room More than
in any other car at or near its
price.
vesi
EVERY recent new car announcement serves to emphasize the Overland
Whippet’s leadership in light car design. Introduced in 1926 the Whip-
pet was the first car in the lower price range to offer its remarkable com-
bination of fine-car advantages.
Now, two years later, developments indicate that other manufacturers are
attempting to follow Whippet’s lead.
Four-wheel brakes and some of the other advantages pioneered by Whippet in
the light car field are now appearing in the design of other light cars, but
only in the Whippet do you get ALL the advantages of modern design, unu-
sual economy, force-feed lubrication, silent timing chain, LARGE four-wheel
brakes, low centre of gravity, modern appearance, speed, comfort, and a hun-
dred details of quality construction. These quality specifications mean long
life to the car and higher resale value.
The Overland Whippet now carries the enthusiastic endorsement of more
than 200,000 owners who have put this modern car to the acid test of more
than 500,000,000 miles of service. Such proven superiority makes the Whip-
pet, in its present perfection, the logical choice of everyone who investigates
carefully current motor car values.
It is important to remember that other manufacturers are only starting to fol-
low the already proven Whippet specifications. Their new cars have still to go
through a long experimental period of customer use before their real worth
can be ascertained.
You can buy the Whippet now—assured of its performance and its lasting
qualities assured that a year from now it will still be the most modern car
in the field.
If you have never ridden in one of these modern cars, come in today for a
trial drive. A delightful new motoring experience awaits you.
Touring
Coach
O V ERL AND
ippet
Coupe
Cafmoiet-
Overland Sydney, Ltd., 148-150 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Overland Victoria Pty., Ltd., 117-121 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE.
Overland South Australia, Ltd., 236-238 Victoria Square, ADELAIDE.
E. G. Eager & Son, Ltd.. Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, BRISBANE,
H. C. Heathom & Co., Ltd., HOBART and LAUNCESTON.
Adams Motors, Ltd., 442-446 Murray Street, PERTH.
W I L
LYS-OVERLAND
FINE « MOTOR , CARS
