

O
- .B .
mi rn
i(®i
N
A wn
\u\
I^^XONEy-AUSTRAtIA^-^l
*itj s
BEST
—and a fitting climax to
the great day is the toast
to the best with the best
that’s brewed.
RESCHS
RB
the Genuine jaaer
DA
JDinnerJlc
>*xsnv
*' ■
?/
&
LU
CO
r>
O’
*
Co
>
*
k;
mill
jjj
The Bulletin
“The Last Darmand,” great detective yarn, this issue.
VoL 49.—N0. 2538.
Wednesday, October 3, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
* 1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORG'E STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
TKis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bcli.etik.
Mij Name
My Address
X
X
X
Right-■. r
fora Lifetime’s
Writing’
5L
A useful companion to the
"SWAN " pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
sharpening,and is useful
presentation purposes.
Prices from
7 19
SWAN pen
thin lead white
no sharpening,a
for presentatioi
A PPRECIATION of a
■ r *- “ Swan ” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
years of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. For the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
W\
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
‘Swan Self'Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards,
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.I,
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, Swan ” Ink and
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OP stationers and jewellers.
&
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier’ ’ and
, ... “Saturday Evening Express’ ’ obtainable from :
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty. f Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G.
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
It
It
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price 1/-
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Manuscripts
Consider the Manuscript. What a symbol
of the ephemeral! If pie-crust and promises
are made to be broken, if tadpoles in all
their length are born only to become frogs
in all their breadth, then manuscripts, too,
are nothing until they are transformed into
something else. A writer is willing that his
precious, slowly-wrought work should die,
in the sure and certain hope of a glorious
and multiple resurrection in periodical or
book. Publishing your manuscript is
like breaking open a seed-pod and scatter-
ing the seeds till they multiply. Publishing
is like.... But before that, what is a
manuscript like?
This temporary entity is heavy and awk-
ward, however you handle it, in all its
stages (it is even heavy to burn). It is
in the first stage that the writer shows his
individuality. Later on, he has to dress his
manuscripts to suit editors and publishers,
some with extraordinary tastes. Look, then,
at the first stage, varying from . writer to
writer, and define me a preliminary manu-
script if you can. Not that the writers let
you see them at work, for theirs is an un-
sociable job; but you can often see their
tools and materials, aranged either just be-
fore or just after work. Mr. A, for instance,
takes an end of a table, extremely Clear. On
this he lays a steep mound of the cheapest
paper obtainable. Beneath the table is a
waste-paper basket of the largest size. A
has few luxuries, and his paper, as I have
said, is cheap: his luxufy is to allow him-
self to discard a sheet on which he has
made a mistake, especially if it is (lie first
sentence at the top of an empty page. He
dislikes that sentence. He runs no pen
through it: he simply crushes up the
sheet, drops it stoically into the receptacle,
and takes a virgin page. To feed lift pages
he uses no fountain-pen, but a large inkpot,
a literal well, large enough to let Truth
lurk naked and laughing at the bottom!
Miss B, for her part, loves a typewriter,
thinks on a typewriter. Every novel she
writes has had as many as five typed copies:
some chapters or scenes have been re-typed
a dozen times. Watching her (for the noise
she makes hide's your intrusion) you
wonder if it is herself or the typewriter that
does the thinking. Has the , machine-age
indeed arrived? Is Miss B ''an,affection-
ate, machine-tickling aphid”? Next con-
sider C. I passed by his garden and marked
with one eye how he sat in a deck-chair
and wrote, slowly and steadily, with a hard-
covered exercise-book on his knee. Having
gone through it, using the right-hand pages,
he reversed th'e book and used the opposite
side. Hardly a blot in his papers: no
sign of a w.p.b. Can that be right?
Now A, B and C came first into my
mind, because- their manuscripts, at all
stages, have a degree of order. A loves to
plough a straight furrow, and his typist
(whether himself or another) has a simple
enough job, once used to the quirks in his
handwriting. Miss B’s series of type-scripts
work towards clarity. C’s pages often sug-
gest a book that happens to be produced in
a fine script instead of print: the margins,
spacing and punctuation all make a neat
show. (He does not aspire, however, to
the caligraphy of Arnold Bennett, who wrote
out his whole long “OM Wives’ Tale” in
a charming print-script, copy, which is still
preserved.)
But I am coming to the manuscripts of
persons like X, Y and Z. Theirs are untidy-
manuscripts, shocking for the author to
revise, atrocious for a typist to decipher,
finally horrible if, as does happen, the\ r
are presented in all their incivility to an
editor. Once I mentioned one of X’s stories
to a weary sub-editor, admiring them.
“But they simply can’t be good,” he pro-
tested: “if you once saw the MS. he sends
in; on backs of envelopes; corrections in
loops from one page to the next—he can’t
know what heft doing.” Yet X’s stories, for
all their preliminary scrappiness (which he
would be wisp to keep to himself), do
emerge looking as if their author knew’
what he was about. It is only in the light
of sheer manuscripts that they fail: for
such writers the art off printing was in-
vented. And at least I have not known X
to read aloud from his manuscript in its
crude form, as Y does. The pockets of
Y bulge with heavy, cream-laid sheets be-
longing to the v’ork ho had rashly promised
to “show” you. He recognises, though, that
the scrambling scribble is not fit to be
shown: not even fit to be typed. So he will
read it aloud: one page, two page three
is missing! He finds it: no, that’s page
three of another version. Leave out page
three then: the gist of it is... . Page four
goes on frowsily—“don’t forget all this has
to be re-written.” And so on. The w’riter,
floundering in a sea of sheets, has to remind
himself that art was always long. And
Z? Z is for zealot, one who feels that a
manuscript, neat or not, is an end in itself
and the more the better. Z plans nothing,
revises nothing: he merely writes on, cover-
ing stacks and stacks of unhurried pages.
He is a manuscript-grower, rather like that
man who “kept” a diary for seven years—
kept it quite empty. Z forgets that a
manuscript, but for its glorified future,
is soon nothing more than \tfhat Mantalini
called a “demned, moist, unpleasant body.”
A manuscript should hope for a brief,
bright existence, like a cicada’s. I have
here tried to suggest some of its evanescent
forms.
NETTIE PALMER.
Cottonwool
Several apparently normal persons have
questioned to me the propriety of Thr
Bulletin publishing the recent case, Craw-
ford v. Vidler and Some Others, and that,
I suggest, reveals the cottonwool outlook
of a great many Australians towards this
country’s literature—that all frank criticism
should be birth-controlled. Australia, indeed,
has to before now as the land
where all criticism is laudatory, and there
is a popular belief that adverse criticism is
necessarily a personal affront; the writers
seem disinclined to accept that a critic has
as much right to a conscience as they have.
For example, the implied opinion of my good
friends is thkt one side or the other or both
in the Crawford-Vidler case acted from
ulterior personal motives. The suggestion
that in the outburst of one or the other or
both there was an attempt at honest, imper-
sonal criticism seems to be the last thing
that will be accepted.
If it is not a presumption in me to do
so, however, I should like to plead for a
little more of that candidness. I have no
very high opinion of much of the work that
Mr. Crawford bit at; neither have I a
very high opinion of much of the work
of Mr. Crawford. But. I do think Mr. Craw-
ford has a perfect right to express his criti-
cal opinion on the poetry of others—cer-
tainly that he should not be smothered be-
cause what he wants to gay is unpleasant,
or even because he has a sneering, unpleas-
ant way of saying it. Whether what he or
any other would-be critic says ft the truth
or not does not enter into the question. In
literary criticism, more than anywhere
else, nobody knows"what is truth. That an
honest attempt is made to utter it is all that
matters.
For these reasons I welcome a long
article on Australian literature by one C,
Hartley Crattan in the American Book-
man for August. Mr. Grattan has no ex-
alted opinion of our writing—rather the
contrary—but, as one who sickens before
patriotically blind over-rating of mediocre
work. I find him an excellent antidote. He
might well be prescribed to all the young
and cocksure, and to the old and com-
placent; in fact, to every one of our writers
who is suffering the effects of that, too
great kindness which is the bane of Aus-
tralian criticism.
The article was evidently written about
a year ago, and it includes this interest-
ing topical prophecy: “The Bulletin, Aus-
tralia's leading weekly paper, has offered a
substantial prize for an original novel by
a native Australian. The prevailing opinion
is that the competition will be won by Miss
Prichard or by someone utterly unknown.”
Which, of course, scores a hit with both
barrels. Another interesting point touching
upon this competition is that Mr, Grattan
places Vance Palfner among the only five
producing writers who “seem at all hope-
ful.” The others are Shaw Neilson, Kath-
arine Prichard, Louis Esson and Mrs.
vEneas Gunn. Later, he brackets Shaw
Neilson with Furnley Maurice, the second
of whom was among those who had half-
bricks hurled at them recently by Mr.
Crawford, a poet who, let us say, Mr. Grat-
tan had apparently never heard of. Kath-
arine Prichard, he considers, “is the hfope of
the Australian novel, and, literally, inex-
haustible material lies waiting her hand.”
He is even more complimentary towards
Mrs. Gunn, whose “We of the Never
Never,” he says, is “really a classic.”
So much' on the credit side. J. H. M.
Abbott’s work he dubs “mediocre historical
romances,” and he sees nothing in Steele
Rudd but “vaudevillish gaucheries.” Henry
Kendall, he remarks, “is still the most re-
spected poet in Australian literature, and
yet a critical reader is forced to wonder why.
Kendall is a barely respectable minor poet,
leaning heavily upon Wordsworth and
Keats.” In a similarly omniscient pro-
nouncement he rates Bernard O’Dowd “per-
haps Australia’s most considerable poet,”
and there is perhaps no need to extend the
list further to prove how very stupid Mr.
Grattan can be.
He is, however, not quite so foolish when
he moves on to the economic position of the
Australian writer. He points out that,
through Australian authors having to go
abroad to find a publisher for anything of
quality, they get almost nothing for their
efforts. “But, worst of all.” he adds, “no-
body but the writers seem to care anything
about the situation. Australia suffers
(Continued on page 5.)


*• Truth in Advertising ** is your protection.
Anthony Horderns
NEW
TWO-PIECE
Our Ready-to-wear Two-piece Summer-weight
Flannel Suits have been designed to ensure comfort
and coolness during the most trying periods of
Summer. They give the same comfort and are no
heavier than an ordinary washing suit. They do not
require laundering. The flannel from which these
garments are cut, though considerably lighter, will
give the same long service as the heavier suitings we
are accustomed to. Coat is double-breasted style,
with three patch pockets. Buttons are covered with
material of self. Trousers have side and hip pockets
and loops for belts. Per Suit 70/-
READY-TO-WEAR SUITS
Three-piece Sac Suits, expertly cut and finished.
Select from All-wool Tweed, in Mid and Dark
Shades of Grey or Brown. Also Fancy Worsteds in
Mid and Dark Grey Shades. Such quality and
“built-in” smartness are only obtainable at Anthony
Horderns’ at this low price. Write for measurement
form and patterns —post free on request. Price, 105/-
DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR-CARRIAGE PAID.
USE OUR “DEPOSIT-PURCHASE” SYSTEM
Secure any of your requirements on this convenient system. You pay
only the cash price. Simply leave a small deposit. Pay the balance in
instalments to suit yourself. There is no extra charge whatever.
z
V
//
:
ill hh
'I
:
i §t■
91
H
nraiM
. :
m
v
Anthony Horderns*
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY
HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Posta/ Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


SYAHEAim
SIX
\
I
|7I "f
'//
"•A
JE»
IF
l
4G
%
/
Tremendous Power Without
Excess Weight
Dodge Brothers Standard Six provides the ideal com-
bination-tremendous power without excess weight.
And it provides this combination with safety and
economy thanks to the rugged character of Dodge
construction and the masterly balance of Standard
Six design.
As graceful, roomy and comfortable a car as advanced
body engineering has yet produced, and a finer and
faster Six than anyone ever believed possible at a price
so low.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
'Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. VicTcery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Neicton King, Ltd. .. Ncic Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Dodge- Brothers
Suikikd Six
8/10/'2i'


1 Pipe + “404” - Cont
ity
f I
I *
■, a
parti
We will prove it to you; Just send
for a free sample o&'wff Standard
* mm ■*“ i ■Hr**' - 'BBu&i’
dokers agree.
r doii% remember
ios to suit your own
Paste. Describe to us
your idea of a perfect “smoke”—
and we yd
ta
i
and
To
14
Jains
Th
S
tra
m
on
Br
iol
1/6
o
o
from a literary inferiority complex. Hot
readers feel safer with a third-rate Englisii
or American book than with a first-rate Aus-
tralian book.” ,
Whoever Mr. Grattan may be he knows
Australian literature as few Australians know
it, and he indulges a critical right too oiten
waived in this land of pawky reviewers—
the right to be honestly savage. His article
is almost entirely derogatory, but it is with-
out malice, and certainly it is better and
healthier reading than the common pap ot
overpraise or the back-scratching of our
too-numerous mutual admiration societies.
CECIL MANN.
The Academy Critics
In “Education and Inspiration” (R.P.
29/8/’2B) G. Mackaness links two incon-
gruities, for your academicians have ever
been notorious smotherers of inspiration, the
living genius. Educationists are prone to
embrace the letter and, in the fields of art,
to remove too far from life. They are the
secretaries of art who discountenance the
artists, but flatter their precious selves with
diplomas and titles. The cerise and white
pages of The Bulletin are of more worth
to Australian literature than all our uni-
versities.
But we could do with more potent and
fearless critical reflection; for, lacking higher
criticism of the analytical and discursive
sort, the inspiration of our artists in every
field is discounted, beggared. The essayist
stands between the creative talents and the
mob. He remembers that a public kens not
what it likes or dislikes till the artist-critic
stirs it to observation. But where is the
writer in all this continent who is compar-
able to those probing journalists and littera-
teurs of Europe? Such as Anatole France
(lately buried), Andre Levinson, Holland
and Barbusse, in Paris; Stefan Zweig and
Emil Ludwig, in Germany; Mencken,
Nathan, De Casseres and Stark Young, in
America; Shaw, Wells, Chesterton, Bennett,
Belloc, Ashley Dukes, Desmond McCarthy,
Gardiner, Darlington, St. John Ervine, the
late Walkley and the early Ivor Brown, in
England. What zest of life do we not assist
when reading even the least of the essays
of James Agate or the late C. E. Montagu?
All these men are or were deeply embroiled
in life and art, with devil an academician
among them.
Take Mr. Mackaness: “Humor, I am con-
vinced, is not a national Australian quality.”
The pages of The Bulletin belie him.
And there are no merrier people than
the Australians qji the planet. Again:
“In all ages the novel has been
in large measure a reflection of the
life of the period Were these
Bulletin novels a truthful representation
or revelation of the life of Australians? I
believe so.” Yet: “Among the 542 novels
submitted there were but two distinctly
humorous.” Now, Mr. Mackaness ought to
know that life is reflected obliquely and
paradoxically in art; more particularly in
its highest and intensive forms. For your
authentic artist deals with that half of life
beyond the canons, beyond all ephemeral
acceptances, all customs; and so completes
the gamut of life, not by literal statement,
but, as in any profound jest or gesture, by
implication.
But where among us are the critical judg-
ments to steer the human tide? I do not
see them in our academies.
DUNCAN MACDOUGALL.
The Pacific Flight
Although some of it reads as if it had
been written by an evening newspaper re-
porter racing to catch a special edition, the
Story of Southern Cross Trans-Pacific
Flight, 1928, by C. E. Kingsford Smith and
C. T. P. Ulm (Penlington and Somerville)
is a fascinating book. It is so fascinating
on the whole, indeed, and so good in parts
that it might easily have been more than
the topical book of the moment; without
any fine writing, it might easily have passed
on to the future as a grand piece of litera-
ture. No doubt it will last, but it will last
purely by reason of its subject. It begins:
We have not in the history of human affairs yet
accounted with any degree of authenticity for varia-
tions in individual taste. Nor are we any better
able satisfactorily to account for the varying ambi-
tions that are born in the human mind. Yet, with
the rapid march of aviation when the ambition lias
taken an aeronautical turn, it is surprising what
an effect the movement of the calendar has had
on its reception.
That is shuddersome journalese; but, for-
tunately, the hag is shaken off before the
end of the first chapter, and whatever de-
fects the writing has after that, involved
expression of platitude is not among them.
Briskly the writers tell of their flight round
Australia together, and there is a revela-
tion of the unswerving courage which made
possible the magnificent flying that came
later in the few lines describing their flight
from Port Darwin to Broome, over the
Kimberley ranges, with a badly-blowing
exhaust valve and with nothing better for
landing ground below them than “the
mountain barrier bristling with buttes of
rock and roughly timbered slopes.” If their
old engine had petered out their lives
would surely have been lost. “It was
risky,” they say. Risky, indeed!
Before then they had discussed the trans-
pacific flight, and it was this flit round
Australia that gave body to the dream.
They went to America determined to fly
back. Some idea of the financial and other-
difficulties they had to overcome whilst
in U.S.A. lias been gleaned by everyone
from the newspapers, but there are per-
sonal, intimate things here that have not
been recorded before. The pages dealing
with their financial troubles, their loans
from the Australian Polar flier George
Wilkins and others, the withdrawal of sup-
port by the N. S. Wales Government, the
depression in America following the Dole
Flight slaughter, and their threatening
bankruptcy, until at last they met the rich
and rarely generous Captain Hancock, are
a revelation of another kind of courage in
these two men, and also, of course, an indi-
cation that, even in this age, which our
clever young men will have us believe is
brilliantly original, history still sticks to
the commonplace business of repeating her-
self. The record of the difficulties that
had to be overcome before the trans-
pacific flight was possible is merely a
repetition of almost every great pioneer
undertaking in the history of the world.
All these things in the book are interest-
ing to the point of high excitement, but it
is when we take-off with them from Oak-
land on May 31 and turn out above the
misty fogs that we begin to feel the grand
fascination of the book, to realise all that
is meant in Ulm’s cryptic log entries: “9.02
a.m., Smithy and self shake hands on suc-
cessful take-off. 9.06 a.m., over Golden
Gate, 1100 feet. Hoisted Aussie flag.” This
log contains much of the jargon of flying
that will be Dutch to many, but nobody
can read without understanding such
entries as these:—
Lyon passed through note to say we were making
beautiful course.
Now dead on to T. Zone of Beacon. Smithy and
I chuckle to each other.
Ulm again at controls. Experience does count.
Smithy flying perfectly. I waver slightly from one
side of course to other.
Water beautifully blue.
Perfectly glorious sunset. Everything lovely.
Smithy flew round one storm. I flew around
another. Now they seem to be closing in all
round, so Smithy has controls again. He has just
seen a way through, and we may miss them. Run-
ning into these storms when only 600 feet and
heavily overloaded is no joke. Here they are again
—all round us. Have opened up motors to 1775
revs., and now climbing through rain and storm.
The temptation with such a log is to
quote it literatim. It is intensely exciting
from beginning to end —the great thing in
a fine book. The volume is illustrated with
just the right photos, and perhaps the
truest thing that can be said of it in a
few words is that it is the best book for
Australian boys since Captain Cook.
Novels Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
petent committee of judges nominated by
the Associated Booksellers of Australia and
Maoriland. It is issued to serve as a guide
to books of merit:—
General Literature. —Stalky’s Reminiscen-
ces, by Dunsterville; Cannibal Jack, by Wm.
Diaper; The Chart Makers, by Vice-Ad.
Boyle Somerville; Anthony Trollope, by
Hugh Walpole.
Boohs of Literary Merit. —Comfortless
Memory, by Maurice Baring; Farewell to
Youth, by Storm Jameson.
Boohs for Popular Heading. —Beau Ideal,
by P. C. Wren ; The Battle of the Horizons,
by Sylvia Thompson: Margaret Venning,
Rhodesian, by Sheila Macdonald; The Lion
Tamer, by E. M. Hull; Galahad, by John
Erskinc ; Drums of the Legion, by ,T. D. New-
son ; Account Rendered and King’s Mate, by
Rosita Forbes; Farewell to Youth, by Storm
Jameson ; Crcssida. No Mystery, by Mrs.
Belloc Lowndes; The Phantom Gondola, by
Maurice Dekobra; The Emigrant, by Fred-
erick Howard.
A Satchel of Books
Women Are ?, by C. Nichol (Corn-
stalk). A collection of smart aphorisms un-
complimentary to women, and stated to be
“the answer to ‘Men Are Pigs.’ ” We have
not read “Men Are Pigs,” but if this answers
it “Men Are Pigs” can’t be extraordinarily
brilliant.
A Modern Miscellany (Dent). A collec-
tion of essays divided under the headings
“Wayfaring,” “Aspects of Religion,” “The
Social State,” “Three Philosophers” and
“Literary Criticism.” As those headings in-
dicate, there are not many true essays in the
collection ; nearly all of them, except A. G.
Gardiner’s “On Taking a Holiday,” are in
objective mood, but one of the most serious,
H. ,T. Massingham’s keen and beautiful study
of bird life, “The Venice of England,” is
also one of the best pieces of literature.
Other authors represented are Hudson, San-
tayana. Noyes and Rhys—a very agreeable
pocketful.
The Coming of Christ, by John Masefield
(Heinemann). A one-act miracle play in
verse, well-enough done in its way, but, com-
ing from the pen of Masefield, unsatisfac-
tory. The atmosphere is excellent, and so,
too, is the narrative, but the verse, though
musical and occasionally lofty, is stiff in
pluces, slips now and then into bathos, and
altogether has not the majesty which the
much-worked theme demands. Masefield sees
the Christ before the birth being tested by
the Power, the Sword, the Mercy and the
Light, who foretell His life and give Him
the choice of going into it or not. This is,
of course, intended to be thunderously im-
pressive, but there is the ring of the char-
latan about it all. Still, a pretty Christmas
Eve playlet.
The White Camellia, by F. D. Grierson
(Bles). Every week the demand increases
at the lending libraries for light detective
fiction that includes a cleverly-arranged mys-
tery and some love interest. This is a rather
good example of the kind. Martin Stroud
has invented a remarkable high explosive,
and his twin brother is assigned by a secret
society, of which Martin himself had been a
member, and which includes Russian inter-
ests. to secure the secret of the invention.
Brotherly feelings interfere, and when Scot-
land Yard arrives the wrong brother is found
dead. Kidnappings and such things make
plenty of exciting suspense in quite a well-
written story.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
V.D.: (1) Very remote. (2) They are
not likely to get anything at a 11.... Oriole: Faint
efforts... .A.E.W.: Frail jest....E.W. (Artarmon) :
Not in these columns... .T.W.N. : That id-idity
measure doesn’t give any sense of a stonh-swayed
soul. ..; J.W'.J. (Texas) : Not for us... .Ell. B.:
Poorly t01d... .11.0. M.: How, exactly, do you “burn
with honest anguish” ?... .Nurse T.: Earnest, but
weak... .H.M.W.: The discovery was rather sudden,
wasn’t it ?... .A.E.G.: The telling drags; the finish
is unbelievable.. ...P.A.R.: What is wrong with
your stories? Well, in the first place, they are not
stories. .. .A.N.F.: Unconvincing melodrama....
L.P.J.: Too long C.D.W.: Wouldn’t stand by
itself.... Barnard C.: Very near.... Ed. D.: Sombre
trifle... .L.C.T.: Not enough in it.... Geo. H.:
Answer in the negative to the photographic yarn....
P. Ad.: And now it tramps home.. . .E.11.W.: Prosaic
statements of fact.... Percy W. B.: Enough to make
the angels weep.... Patch-Pants: Too pedagogic in
style, and most of that description is common
knowledge... .Lexie G.: May be good advice, but
it’s poor verse.... Talniat: No speed in the racing
yarn.... Backtrack: Not worth anything like that
space... .D.M.C.: “Quarry” too rocky... .A. 8.5.:
About a dozen bards have been stung to song by
that remark of Tunney’s.... D.A.8.: “Experience”
needs a little rhyme to sauce it... .A.J.11.: “Marlen”
gives no sense of reality.... Howard W.: The funeral
found another awaiting it here... .M.L.S.: “The
Boarding-house Breakfast” is not much chop....
Quinton T.: In the future, possibly; but you’ve a
long road to travel.... Ben G.: Payment sent for
“Desert B.” Notify if not received.... Boon: The
“Boys of Yesterday” shan’t play in our yard....
Ann’s Aunt: Nearly a story... .R.11.H.: The bird
wants too much roosting-space. .. .G.P.S.: Queer
blend of “East Lynne” and “The Sorrows of Satan.”
... .Peggy M.: Just missed. ...1.D.C.: Has been done
more lightly... .I.M.P. (Auckland): Glad to hear
from you again.... Sappho: No particular meaning
in it Alb. II.: More than a bit exaggerated....
P.M.N.: Can’t sort out the wheat from the tears....
Cal. M.: “Ship” wrecked itself on rocks like
“Psychological analysis of soul.” What a line for
a verse!... .Y.T.G.: If you meant it seriously, you’re
funny; if you set out to be funny, you’re a sad
case. .. .Arnold H.: Thanks for sending the girl’s
photo “to draw the picture for the poem.” But
it isn’t a poem. .. .P. 5.8.: Glad to meet you, Mr.
Longfellow... .A.E.A.; The hawker makes no sale
here Wirisflo: We were not the least bit surprised
at “Laura’s Surprise.” Nothing surprises u 5....
F.J.A.: Couldn’t print that, even if we wanted to.
... .Rose W.: Rather a weary business... .C.J.S.: “Oh,
let me fall upon my bier.” Spell it with two e’s and
we’re with y0u.... 8.R.: That about the bard had
a run for our money.... Kitty B.: Fair; the carry-
over from stanza to stanza spoils them.... Cadia:
“Closing Door” nearly opened a way.... Lazuli: Not
quite... .D.C.F.: Deserves to be burnt at the stake.
....Olla M.: “Dark come —Malcolm” prohibited.
. ...L.H.F.: Solemn attempt to be humorous....
J. 0.8.: Both have their merits; but it’s so hard
to strike reality in either... .D.A.G.: “Why do I
write like this?” Blest if we know! A.L.L.:
Not surprised to hear you’re dead. The verse is
certainly lifeless.... Lassie: No “Applause”....
F.L.H.: “New's” is stale... .Eliz. P.: Too much hair-
splitting Oliver W.: You spar round, roughly,
for 1500 words, before you start the poor story
M.0.P.: A quaint old tale of Cupid’s touch—we
thought as much, we thought as much! Ruby I).:
Tame finish J.F.P.: Doesn’t quite get there...,
E.W. (Brisbane): Swagman is tramping back....
East Wind: Blown out 0.P.C.: The triolet busi-
ness has become a disease... .H.E.S.: Falls short.
. ...R.R.P.: You give that second turn “pride of:
place” on the programme. .. .S. Kenn: Your inspira-
tion about the prohibition referendum came a fort-
night after it was over. . . .M.T.R. : “Shoes” is as’
well-worn as old boots. .. .C.V.N.: Crude. . ..M.11.A.::
Now, can you imagine an island native saying “Wiser
than the barking deer are you” ? Obadiah: Slight
humor Wm. Clark: The jarring fourth stanza of
“The Philtre” spoils the sequence. .. . E.F.W.: Lym-
phatic Meph L.: The w.p.b. has it Launch:
Dreadfully green J.11.H.: We’d rather risk the
curse than print the verse E.M.: Orthodox love-
story II.C.McD.: Not sufficient ease in your num-
bers H.R.M.: Travels too far for its value....
Pot L.: You make us feel thirsty... .L.11.M.: When
it’s not jingle it’s jangle.... Oscar 0. T.: Fell with
a reverberating crash in the yawning receptacle—
as you would say... .C.W.P.: Impossible to advise
on choice of subjects; but be terse as to style
Tear: The killing is well described. But that’s
all it is... .Z.V.W.: Unexciting. .. .W.A.0.: Flies
home....lYZ: No place for it... .H.A.S.: It
doesn’t wake up to real life until the end.... Ace:
Euchred.... P.P.A.: You don’t think it’s verse, do
you? ... .H.M.C.: “Translucent —quiescent”—it can’t
be done!. . . .E.K.P.: Not entertaining, even if we
believed it possible. .. .Sey C.: Good ending; but
the whole fabric is artificial M.T.S.: Any verse
that starts “Why didst thou diest” perisheth without a
struggle 8.8. Y.: “The Hook” caught nothing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.8.W.: You’re early with Santa Claus this year,
but a decade behind with the joke... .S.R.L.: Wait
until you learn more about perspective C. J.:
The drunk who mistook a hairbrush for a mirror
has become a pest A.F.: If that’s a typical con-
gregation, no wonder the links are crowded on Sun-
days L.E.S.: You’ll have to reduce the blonde
by one-half at least to get her through that door.
. ...N.G.: It looks as if a few lessons on tar-
spraying crept into your correspondence course....
F.C.: Very promising for a youngster; keep up your
studies... .T. 8.: You should do better with tuition.
K.M.D.: Full-page cartoons are rarely purchased
from outsiders, unless they are uncommonly good.
G.M.V.: A bit below par; still, come again.
. ...S.S.: Dolly and her dude are a dull-witted
pair T.D.N.: Drawing returned; also the sixpence
sent for a copy of The Bulletin in which you
hoped it would appear M.M.D.: Don’t resurrect
that subject; better dead.


sdf
a
/
I
L
Mm
* s .
v
..
::
m
-
i
i#&
I/our JBrufm


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 3538,
October 3, 1928.
THE UNEMPLOYED MINER.
Representatives of coal-mining unions decided, in conference, to reject the Government proposals for rehabilitating the industry. The conference refused to
agree to any reduction in wage or lengthenig of hours. It also urged employees to ‘put up a struggle against any attempt at lowering the standard of the workers in
the industry.'"
THE UNEMPLOYED COALMINER: “Spare my children a few spoonsful.”
THE COALMINER AT THE TABLE: “Collect it from these blokes—I’m going to hang on to what I’ve got.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
2li George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IU/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street; Perth.
London: 36' Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s. ; 6 months, 12s. (id.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, Few Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz. , Id. United Kingdom: ) oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: l(ioz., lid.
British Possessions arid U.S.A.: .} oz. or part tliereoj,
Id, Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
EDITORIAL . . . . 8, 9
“Medicine and Quacks,” by an M.D. • • 8
“FRITZIE’S FLEET”
(A cartoon by Percival) .. . . .. 9
POLITICS (with four caricatures) . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . .. 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) 14
PAGE DRAWINGS, hy Leason and Scorfield 7, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS IS, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . . . 26
MAN ON THE LAND . . . . '. . 28, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
POVERTY POINT 31
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 37
Spring Races and Fancies • • 39
•SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39. 41, 42
POT AND PALETTE 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. .. 49
“COONARDOO” si, 53, 58
“FROM CHINA TO PERU” (Editorial). . . ■ 54,
SHORT STORY—
“The Last Darmand,” by John Crisp 65, 57
VERSE—
“IMPROMPTU,” by Ronald McCuaig .. 57
“A ST A MINAY IN FRANCE,” by Oscar
Walters 11
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1928.
ONE PEOPLE, MANY LAWS.
“That this Assembly is of opinion that the Com-
monwealth Parliament should pass uniform legisla-
tion on the subject of marriage and divorce.”—
Motion carried unanimously by Presbyterian General
Assembly, Brisbane.
A Victorian girl was married in Melbourne
and taken to live in Adelaide. The hus-
band leaving her, she returned to her people
in Melbourne and proceeded to divorce
him under the Victorian Act. She found
then that she had acquired a S. Australian
domicile (meaning, among other things,
that she could sue only in that State), and
that desertion was not a ground for divorce
in S. Aus. So she remains a deserted wife
to this day. Twenty-eight years ago the
Commonwealth Parliament was empowered
by Sec. 51 of the Constitution to legislate
in respect of “marriage, divorce and matri-
monial causes,” the object being to obviate
just such anomalies as this; but for vari-
ous reasons, some social, some religious and
all connected intimately with the party
system of government, no move has ever
been made in the matter.
❖ ❖
Nothing could be more insanely illogical
than the existing state of affairs. In S.
Aus. and Tasmania no ground for divorce
is recognised but adultery. In Victoria
desertion for three years is enough, but
drunkenness is not recognised. N. S. Wales
grants a divorce for three years’ desertion
or three years’ drunkenness. W.A. demands
five years’ desertion or habitual drunken-
ness, and Queensland requires five years’
desertion, but ignores the alcoholic issue.
The women suffer far more than the men,
since, in law, a woman’s domicile becomes
that of the man she marries. A N. S.
Wales woman married to a local dipso-
maniac could divorce him if he was a resi-
dent inebriate. But if he shifted his
domicile, say, to Tasmania, she would have
to cling to him—and have him periodically
clinging to her—for life. If a Victorian
husband attempted to murder his Victorian
wife within a year of their marriage it
would entitle her to a divorce; but if he
acquired a domicile across the S. Aus.
border, and attempted her life there, or
got into gaol on a capital charge, or “re-
peatedly assaulted her in the home” (all
grounds for divorce in her native State),
she would have to put up with him till
death did them part.
* * $ *
The Commonwealth should be able to
pass the most equitable Divorce Act ever
known. It is in a position to profit by the
world’s mistakes; and a ghastly lot they
are. One of the greatest of divorce-court
presidents has condemned the law of Eng-
land as “full of inconsistencies, anomalies
and inequalities amounting to absurdities.”
In France, where a Judge and half a dozen
officers of the court were convicted recently
of corruptly expediting suits, it is on record
that “divorces have been obtained in as
short a time as four days after the filing
of the petition.” And there is no need
to stress the divorce chaos of the U.S.A.
It may be taken for granted that the Com-
monwealth does not want the lightning
divorces of France and their resulting
“divorce colonies,” nor the blatantly col-
lusive divorces of England, which have in-
spired ribald jokes all over the U.K. It
does not want the roaring publicity which
the American press gives to its divorce
reports, nor does it want its divorce suits
to be heard in camera, as in France. The
golden mean is the ideal to aim at, and
with the mistakes of the entire civilised
world to serve as pointers, it might well
be achieved.
THE RENT OF THE RAILWAYS.
The Premier of South Australia spent a
recent cheerless week-end in compiling an-
other reminder to the Prime Minister that
the financial situation of the central State
is extremely grave. Mr. Butler’s troubles
centre in the failure of the railways to earn
absurdly high interest on their cumulative
preference loan capital. During the lunatic
years which have supervened since the war,
five of the States (Westralia being the
comparatively respectable exception) have
developed an astounding capacity for in-
creasing the amount of capital on which each
mile of line has to pay interest. This has
been done partly by building new lines in
haste at high cost; partly by spending new
money on old lines in doing things which
should have been charged against revenue;
and partly through losing slabs of wealth in
the renewal of loans which should have been
provided for by sinking funds. The results
are surprising as well as interesting:—
Book ok Debt Valve of Each Mile of State
Railway Open.
1917. 1927. Increase.
Westralia . . £5,100 £5,322 £222
Tasmania . . 8,447 9,854 1407
Queensland . . 6,996 8,648 1652
Victoria . . 13,498 15,169 1671
N. S. Wales . . 16,229 19,344 3115
South Australia 7,964 11,124 3160
Six States . . 10,210 12,252 2042
!|: * * *
These would be extraordinary sums to
earn interest on even if the rate of interest
wasn’t increasing; but unfortunately the
rate has been on the up grade ever since
1912, though the rise didn’t take on a dizzy
aspect till about 1920. If six States and a
Commonwealth become imbued with the idea
that they must have loans at any price,
they are apt to get them at any price—
unless a time comes when they cease to be
obtainable at all. The Federal volume on
“Transport and Communication” doesn’t
go into much detail about the following
aspect of the case, but it furnishes figures
from which these very close deductions can
be made: —
Interest (or Rent) Payable per Mile per Annum,
1917. 1927. Increase.
Westralia .. .. £lBB £226 £3B
Tasmania . . .. 312 433 121
Queensland .. .. 288 432 144
Victoria . . . . 486 706 220
South Australia .. 303 527 224
N. S. Wales .. .'. 644 967 323
Six States . . . . 393 599 206
Other charges of all sorts show a tendency
to go up; but in a time of dire stress they
can be cut down by reducing wages or ex-
tending hours of labor, or by reducing ser-
vices or closing up branches altogether.
None of these devices, however, has any
effect on the cumulative preference interest
bill. In the quaint situation which the
Australian State railways occupy, the divi-
dend can be neither reduced nor suspended,
which is the everyday resource of Private
Enterprise when times are bad.
ij: * ‘ Jjc
The rush to put a new additional mort-
gage on the old property attained its great-
est intensity within the last four or five
years. Between June, 1924, and June, 1927,
South Australia added £6,700,000 to the
debt burden on its railways. In 1926 and
1927 it wrote £5,944,000 off the paper value
as being lost and vanished. In other words,
over 21 per cent, of the whole system was
declared to be imaginary. Unfortunately
the millions added on to the capital were
real debt—bearing interest at over 5 per
cent., which is the highest rate among the
States, while the millions knocked off
weren’t repaid or cancelled, so the opera-
tion left the case as bad as ever. More-
over, every other member of the family
could do precisely what S. Australia has
done, for not a single State railway sys-
tem is earning interest on its cost after pro-
viding for all other charges. From that
point of view, therefore, every State might
make a claim for Federal assistance. Bur,,
even though Federal assistance may be
justified in some cases, it will be a curse
if it keeps the beneficiaries from probing
for the causes of their troubles and resolv-
ing to end them as far as possible. The
tables printed above show luridly enough
where a start can be made.
MEDICINE AND QUACKS.
In the first place, what is medical science
trying to do? Here we have a world in-
habited by all kinds and types of living
creatures, from elephants to microscopic
and even ultra-microscopic living organ-
isms. Many of these living forms prey
on other forms; not only does man live
largely on the flesh of other animals, but
various parasites in their turn live on man.
Consequently, in order to live, all animals
have developed an attacking mechanism
and a defensive mechanism. Suppose a
man is attacked by the germs of fever, or
a wound becomes infected by bacteria
which produce suppuration. Immediately
the whole of the defensive forces of the
body become mobilised to deal with the
invader. These defensive mechanisms are
(1) local and (2) general.
Local defence, at the site of the wound
or point of infection, consists in the aggre-
gation of myriads of blood corpuscles
which have been trained to eat up the
invading bacteria. To collect these myriads
of corpuscles where they are wanted means
an increased blood supply to that area, and
an otherwise healthy body to supply the
Corpuscles. An increased blood supply
means in its turn that the part becomes
red and swollen, or, as we say, inflamed.
Inflammation, then, is a conservative pro-
cess. It is not an evil. It is nature’s
mechanism for dealing with the invading
organisms. If the body were already so
sick and debilitated that it was unable
to put up any defence, there would be no
inflammation, and the victim would die.
Inflammation, then, is a necessary pheno-
menon if we are to live after invasion.
The second line of defence consists in
the formation by the body of soluble sub-
stances which, while harmless to us, arc
destructive to bacteria and their products.
These substances include anti-toxins, bac-
teriolysins, etc., and are carried into the
blood stream from the organs where they
are manufactured. The increased blood
supply in an inflamed area therefore means
an increased flooding of the invaders by
substances which are poisonous to them.
These, briefly, are nature’s methods of
helping us to deal with an infection. It
is nature that heals and not the physician.
What, then, is the function of the doctor?
To find out how nature is trying to deal
with an infection and to clear the stage,
give her a fair field and help her in every
way. Unless the physician understands all
this he is only meddlesome.
Let us consider a man with an infective
fever or an abscess. If nature is to deal
with this she demands her whole energies
for the work, an otherwise healthy body
to be able to react to the injury and a
good, pure blood. These conditions can
be attained only by rest, good and easily
digested food, and the healthy perform-
ance of the organs of digestion and assi-
milation. Again, the blood supply to the
affected part is increased by local warmth,
while the rise of body temperature (or
fever) has the effect of accelerating the
production of antitoxins and other anti-
bacterial substances.
The person who looks upon fe v er and
inflammation as evils, and would treat them
by “taking down the inflammation” and
giving such drugs as reduce the body tem-
perature to normal, is therefore an inter-
fering, ignorant busybody. The bacterial
causes of the trouble are evils, but not the
body reaction to these—viz., the inflam-
mation and the fever.
But medical science tries to do more.
It often happens that the patient is in
such poor health that he cannot help him-
self to drive out the invader. Suppose,
for instance, he is too sick to produce Iris
own antitoxins. Experimental work has
shown that we can produce these substances
in the blood of animals by injecting the
latter with various bacteria and their
poisons. The blood serum from these ani-
mals can then be drawn, stored and sub-
sequently injected into a patient who is
unable to form his own antitoxins. Vac-
cines, which are suspensions of dead bac-
teria, on injection into the body stimulate
the production in a perfectly natural way
of anti-bacterial substances. In other in-
stances where the body is unable to deal
with infection, and destruction outruns re-
pair, the surgical removal of the focus of
infection becomes necessary.
I have tried to show in a small space
that it is only the man who really under-
stands nature’s methods, and how to assist
nature, that is a fit person to deal with
the sick. Hence the training of the medi-
cal student involves the study of the
healthy body, its structure and working,
and later of the body in difficulties. He
studies these things not only in the
laboratory, under the microscope and in
the test-tube, but in the hospital ward and
the medical museum. He studies not onlv
the processes, but the outward manifes-
tations and altered body functions, i.e., the
symptoms and how these symptoms are
produced. To cure, the doctor has first to
take all the evidence, to unravel the story,
and to trace back the culprit by means
of the changes he has produced, and then
help nature to deal with him. To cov?r
up symptoms, to remove pain, or damp
down a cough is not to cure the patient,
and this is the difference between the quack
and the properly-trained doctor. The
former covers up symptoms without re-
moving the cause. The latter eradicates
the cause, and, where possible, lays down
a routine of living designed to prevent such
causes recurring.
But medical science has far to go yet.
The causes of many diseases are still
obscure, and only patient observation and
experiment will give us the knowledge we
lack. All over the world this work is going
on, and all over the world it is hampered
by lack of money and apparatus. Yet, in
spite of this, enthusiastic and self-sacrificing
men, even here in Australia, are doing their
bit. Their names are not printed in kig
type in the papers, but their work is essen-
tial to humanity, nevertheless. Perhaps
some day an enlightened community' will
demand that such institutions as the Uni-
versity Medical Schools and the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute at the Melbourne Hos-
pital will no longer be short of funds; but
this can only be accomplished by educat-
ing the public to what these institutions
are doing.
M.D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia Is Wide Open to Anarchy.
Twenty-four hours after 5000 strikers had
taken charge on the Adelaide waterfront
and sent a number of peaceful citizens to
hospital, the Premier of S. Aus. announced:
“The Government, with all the forces at
its command, will sec that the rights of the
citizens are upheld.”
But what arc the forces at the S. Aus. Gov-
ernment’s command? What, for that
matter, are the forces at the command oi
the Federal Government in face of organ-
ised anarchy? The whole world knows
what forces are at the command of, say,
the British Government in such circum-
stances. A couple of years ago a general
strike menaced the U.K. It never really
began—the Government weapon was too
strong, and it, was applied too swiftly. If
the strikers had been given so much as
a day in which to organise, demonstrate and
attract support they might have held up
transport and starved, first, London, and
then England, into some form of surrender.
In fact, they were not given five minutes
On last May Day a transport strike was to
have paralysed Paris. Premier Poincare
forestalled the strikers by a manifestation
of the powers of the French Government,
and the threatened upheaval dwindled to
a refusal to ply for hire on the part of
a few taxi-drivers.
Suppose the Adelaide rioters had had a
genuine revolutionary leader—a Lenin or
even a Harry Pollitt —and suppose he had
directed them, not towards the wharves, but
towards the city. It is imaginable that
their numbers might have swelled from five
thousand to ten or twenty thousand. That
is how revolutionary mobs are recruited,
as a rule. To cope with a situation of this
sort an Australian State Premier might en-
roll special constables, which amounts, at
the best, to setting a mob to catch a mob.
Or he might call on the militia—a partially-
trained body of young men whose natural
sympathies, in about seven cases out of
ten, might be expected to be with the
strikers. As a last resort he might ask
for help from the national Government. A
national Government is the true repository
of all those powers to which a country looks
for the preservation of its life and liberties
from the terrors of mob rule. But under
our Constitution a great State capital might
be stormed and pillaged before the func-
tionaries in Canberra were able to decide
what steps they could legally take, and
issue the requisite authorisations. France’s
last transport strike was brought to naught
by the Garde Republicaine, and the chief
factor in killing Britain’s general strike at
birth was the Brigade of Guards. Austra-
lia’s regular army, as General Chvuvel
never fails to point out in his annual report,
is the merest skeleton. It could do no more
against a mob that meant business, even if
its widely-scattered little units could be
brought together in time, than a girls’
school.
Which is another way of saying that the
security of Australia depends on the pro-
vidential incapacity which it has so far
displayed to produce an agitator of first-
rate organising ability.
—4
Disfranchise Them!
The result of a long trial has been to
prove that a benevolent despotism is the
only practicable form of government for
a democracy. The essential fallacy of
“popular” government is that Jack is as
good as his master, which means, if it
means anything, that Jack has no master
and need take orders from no one. On
that principle government is impossible.
Recent examples of how it works out in
practice have been the defiance by the sea-
cooks of the Australian Council of Trade
Unions, whose authority they were pledged
to recognise; the refusal of the wharfies
federation to accept an award which it
had solemnly pledged itself to observe;
and the fiat refusal of a majority of
wharfies’ unions to obey the federation
when it did order thefn to return to work.
Another incident on the same lines is the
refusal of officials of the Seamen’s Union
to recognise the result of a recent ballo T
for the job of general secretary.
In the Federal Parliament Scullin,
leader of the Labor wing, has laid it down
as an axiom that any attempt to enforce
the law against wage-earners in the indus-
trial arena is vindictive and wicked. In
the House he “demanded” that a sum-
mons issued against the wharfies’ federa-
tion for breaking the law should be imme-
diately withdrawn.
The attitude, indeed, of all the leaders
whose views receive prominence seems r o
be that the wage-earner who defies the
police, the law or any ether authority is
automatically in the right, and that an;
attempt to discipline him is an outrage that


FRITZIE’S FLEET.
“Although compelled to hand over to the Allies at the conclusion of the war practically her entire merchant marine Germany has advanced so rapidly that in
ship ownership she ranks again second only to Britain. Her ships are all new and up to date, and include some of the finest vessels afloat.
THE AUSTRALIAN SEAMAN: “Gorstruth! It’s marvellous. How do your people do it, Fritzie?”
THE SQUAREHEAD: “Veil, they haf an idea that vork is goot fer dem and der country.”
should be resisted. Differing not one iota
in principle, it is the same attitude towards
law and authority as is taken by the armed
gangsters of the cities’ underworlds.
The right to strike, even in cases where
it can be lawfully exercised, carries with
it nowhere in the world the right to pre-
vent other people from working.
There is only one thing to do to indi-
viduals in a civilised state who make ;t
their boast that they will not obey this
or any other law, and that is to outlaw
them, at least to the extent of disenfran-
chisement. If every union officer who
ordered an illegal action lost his right to
appear before the law as a union _ officer,
and if every union member who defied the
law lost his qualification as a Parliamentary
candidate and his right to vote at next
election, Australia would be a less distressful
country, and the principle of government
of the people for the people and by the
people would have a chance to dig itself in.
“The Bulletin” in the U.S.A.
The Bulletin, which has got used to most
things, confesses that it felt a little embar-
rassed the other day by the compliments
of Dr. Lothrop Stoddard, America’s best-
known historian. Dr. Stoddard lately again
discussed the future of the Pacific, and his
conclusions were made the text of a Bul-
letin cartoon. After saying things about
the paper which were good to read but
needn’t be repeated, this great American
publicist concluded: “I consider that a
Bulletin front-page cartoon is one of the
greatest tributes my work has ever
received.”
♦
Workers’ Compensation.
The various Workers’ Compensation Acts of
the Commonwealth and the States other
than Queensland contain a provision that
where partial incapacity results from an
injury in the employer’s service, a weekly
payment is to be made to the workman,
depending on the difference between his
average Weekly earnings prior to the acci-
dent and “the average weekly amount which
he is earning, or is able to earn, in some
suitable employment or business after the
accident.”
The House of Lords lately held that the
workman is “able to earn” if his physical
condition is such as to give him the ability
to earn, irrespective of whether he can, in
point of fact, obtain work or not.
In the case before it the w r orker was
a miner suffering from nystagmus. Had he
not had the disease he could have con-
tinued to work at the face of the coal,
and could have obtained employment there.
But owing to the disease he was able to
do surface w T ork only. He w T as, in fact,
physically able to do such surface work.
But. actually, he could not obtain it. Prac-
tically, of course, his inability to earn was
the result of the disease. But the effect
of the decision is that, for purposes
of the Act, his inability to earn is not the
result of the disease. And, as the words in
the Australian legislation are identical with
those interpreted in the English Act, Aus-
tralian Courts will be bound to follow that
decision.
Lord Shaw, in a very emphatic dissent-
ing judgment, pointed out that the result
is a hardship on the workman and defeats
the main object of the Act. This is so
obviously true that legislation to overcome
the defect is urgently called for. If Smith
is a bricklayer and is injured at his job,
it is no use telling him that he could
earn as much as a clerk, if he can’t get
work as a clerk. The injury has clearly
deprived Smith of his means of living until
a clerical job is available.
♦
The Skilled-worker Myth.
A feature of the latest waterside workers’
strike lias been the immediate efficiency
of volunteer labor from town and country
in what is popularly supposed to be a
skilled occupation. In Brisbane, Adelaide,
Melbourne and Newcastle ships have been
loaded by volunteer labor in record time.
Shipowners forced to the extremity of em-
ploying this “unskilled” labor are claiming
that the efficiency rate is from 50 to 75
per cent, higher than that of the profes-
sional wharf-laborer. The experience is not
new. The waterside strike of 1917, for
example, served to show that the amateur
wharf-laborer who was keen on learning a
new job was generally more capable than
the professional, who had grown into the
habit of regarding his as a privileged meal-
ticket.
It is no surprise, therefore, to find strike
after strike collapsing for the same reason
—the discovery that the man in the street
is able to efficiently do things that indus-
trial superstition had supposed to be the
prerogative of the individual who has spent
most of his lifetime in doing nothing else.
The old idol shoidd have been suffi-
ciently battered by the war, which showed
that all sorts and conditions of men and
women could, with a minimum of intensive
training, carry out work hitherto demanded
only of the most highly skilled and trained
artificers. The great post-war attempt at
a strike-revolution in England served to
bring the same truth home. There is no
form of labor of hand or brain which can-
not be supplied from the rank and fde of
a virile nation’s population if that rank
and file be properly directed and have the
will and the courage to succeed.
A Compliment for Treasurer Page.
The S. M. Herald paid it, and quite pro-
bably the Treasurer took it seriously. The
gist of the parable was this:—
“So long as the works of the Postal
Department are repaid from charges on the
services which they render during their life-
time the provision of these works out of loan
moneys is legitimate. The sinking fund of
li per cent, will, reckoning interest at 5
per cent., enable repayment to be made hi
30 years. Works of the Postal Department
were far behind because Governments bad
made the attempt to cope with the require-
ments of the people by payments from re-
venue. Dr. Earle Page, though he did not
initiate it, was courageous l enough to extend
the system of constructing these works from
loans with the provision of the sinking fund.”
Not to go back into the thickets of an-
tiquity, the amount of loan money spent
on post offices, telegraphs and telephones
between June, 1916, and June, 1920, is
returned as £558,926, or about £140,000 a
year. The amount spent out of revenue
varied, but it was always much larger
than the loan outgoings. ' Then followed
a transition period:—
Postal Construction Expenditure.
Paid Paid
Year to June, out of Revenue. out of Loans.
1921.. .. £940,917 £22,555
1922.. .. 940,114 . 802,791
Bruce-Pace Government begins here.
1923.. .. 221,709 2,198,398
1924.. .. 248,876 3,903,021
1925.. .. Nil 4,536,992
1926.. .. Nil 5,538,633
1927.. .. Nil 3,945,325
The inference to be drawn from the fore-
going is that Australia could have acquired
its new post offices, telegraphs and tele-
phones without rushing into any loan boom.
It paid over £940,000 a year for these pur-
poses out of revenue in 1921 and 1922, and
still the average surplus was £341,809 in
each year. Then the revenue rose steadily
till in 1927 it was £13,000,000 in excess of
the figure for 1922. With all that extra
money coming in it should have been pos-
sible to keep up the old pace of construc-
tion out of revenue, and to accelerate it
as much as the case required, there being
no absolute necessity to put a post office
in everybody’s back yard in the same
month. There would be fully a million
pounds less per annum going out in in-
terest if the Bruce-Page Government had
stuck reasonably close to the post and tele-
graph policy of 1921. And it must be
taken into account that the Postal Depart-
ment was only one in which the Bruce-
Pages stopped or reduced construction out
of revenue, and built with loans for pre-
ference. In 1921-22 the amount provided
for public works out of the public income
was £2,571,794. In 1926-27 all that was fur-
nished from that source was £216,447. The
decline was continuous.
“The provision of these works out of
loan moneys is legitimate.” the tale goes,
because “the repayment is a charge on
these services and is being mad''
the revenue obtained from these services,”
with the addendum that “the sinking fund
will enable repayment to be made in
30 years.” The “revenue” and the “sink-
ing fund” are represented by paper notes,
and these are the Commonwealth’s own
printed promises to pay in gold. They can
be made to represent gold abroad, avail-
able as interest or sinking fund on debts
abroad, to the extent that exports exceed
imports, and no more. If there is no sur-
plus of exports they remain paper pro-
mises to pay, and neither paper profits nor
paper sinking funds will help the situation
abroad in any way.
The Sin of Asking for a Job.
These continual strikes and stoppages are
not only ruining the trade of the country;
they are spoiling the sailorman individu-
ally. He is losing the habit of work, and
the union rule on picking up is accentu-
ating it.
Before the union made its idiotic rule
that no man is to personally apply for a
job, the man out of work had the right
of bustling himself a bit in looking for
another, and at least got some exercise.
Though it was often a weary business,
there was some interest in it and the satis-
faction of trying. If his unemployment
was owing to a hold-up or strike of some
other union, he could keep on until he
found a ship’s officer who would give him
a definite promise of work when the trouble
was over. Then he could go home, dig
up the garden, mend the fowlyard gate and
do the hundred and one other jobs that a
sailor’s wife saves up for her man —know-
ing he was sure of his job. Now all he
can do is to go daily and sit in a waiting-
shed until some ship’s officer who knows
him happens to spot him amongst the
crowd. An 4 this spotting is not easy.
Yet the sailor has less chance of picking
his ship than a ship’s mate has of getting
the men he really wants. He may be
offered a job in a ship he doesn’t want to
go in, or in a trade he doesn’t like; yet
if he turns it down it may be weeks before
he gets another chance.
Most of these irritating domestic rules
originate at meetings at the picking-up
places, organised by the discontented, and
carried by the loud-voiced minority. A
man doesn’t get a job on his merits, be-
cause the mate picking up men has no
chance to find out what those merits are,
and so men lose interest in their calling.
And far too often when a job does come
along the habit of working has gone.
♦
“Pukkah”: A recent par. by “Lao-dah”
about an ex-officer from India whose for-
feited lot was sold at a handsome profit
by the Vic. Closer Settlement Board looks
like an attempt to cover up the failure
of a rotten enterprise, whereby 100 ex-
officers lost practically all the capital they
possessed, and that after coming to this
country without cost to the Government
which invited them. The “commission”
mentioned by “Lao-dah” was a board of
inquiry convened under the powers of the
Closer Settlement Act, and reference, to
its findings will show that the charges made
by the ex-officers were proved up to the
hilt. The alleged profit on the sale of one
settler’s block is only a book profit; it
will not mature until the purchaser com-
pletes his payments 20 years hence. The
board made no mention of improvements
effected by the ex-officer during four years
or the arrears which had accumulated; to-
gether they approximated £l5OO. That the
board doesn’t think much of the block
itself is shown by the fact that it has with-
drawn the residence clause.


5-Miles Worlds Record
y
M
V
Mr. A. Denly, riding a 588 c.c. Norton Solo
on the Montlhery Track, broke the 5-Mile
World’s Record (flying start), in Classes D
and E, at a speed of
113.49 Miles per Hour
For this great performance, Mr. Denly chose
SHELL mo o, OIL
5641
POLITICAL
POINTS
Tliere is a gleam of satisfaction in the. fact
that the financial agreement seems to be
through, unless the referendum blows the
whole thing out. Wherefore the States and
the Commonwealth begin, or intend to begin,
their little contributions to the sinking fund
which is to get busy at the reduction- of all
debts, old and new. Not one of them has
any real money, the kind that is needed to
pay bills with in London or New York, and
they have no spare paper money either, but
the garment of good intentions is at least
better than having nothing on. Pending the
ratification of the agreement Premier Collier,
of Westralia, has made a book entry for
£350,000 as his State’s first contribution, and
it is to be hoped that nobody steals it.
Ex-Premier Harry
Lawson is throwing
up his Castlemaine-
Ivyneton seat in Vic.
Assembly to stand for
the Senate. Though
luck turned against
him after he had
been in office for 10
years or thereabouts,
Lawson is still re-
garded as the ablest
Parliamentarian in
the Vic. Legislature,
and as lie is only 54
has heaps of go in him
yet. Forsyth is the
second Nationalist,
and if Senator
Andrew’s health won’t
stand the strain of a
campaign the Vic.
Cocky party may in-
duce ex-I’remier John
Allan to have a shot.
John is liked person-
Harry Lawson.
' ally.
The coal situation is very much where it
was before Bruce and Bavin planned to sub-
sidise the Newcastle coal trade for a year
-with money which neither has got, regardless
of the clause in the Constitution which says
that Federal bounties on the production and
export of goods must “be uniform through-
out the Commonwealth.” The Newcastle
coal-owners assented to a reduction of Is. per
ton in the selling price; the miners, however,
flatly refused to bear any share in the reduc-
tion, and declined to help with a proposi-
tion of their own. Their contribution was
a threat to stop the whole industry. Butler,
of S. Australia, added his straw to the con-
troversy by reiterating that unless the price
falls bv ss. 9d. per ton he must get his sup-
plies from England. So if there is a change
it isn’t for the better.
A result of the strike habit disconcerting
to modern workers is the restrictive legis-
lation it provokes in revolution-shy commu-
nities —which practically every civilised com-
munity is these days. Recent British strikes
have ended in the unions being shorn of
nearly all their old powers, and in the right
of free speech and public meeting being
severely limited. And now Australia has
acquired, on the usual lines, a Transport
Workers Act which not only threatens to
give a form of preference to volunteer labor
on »the wharves, but also provides for the
licensing of deep-water seamen. And _ the
tragedy from the standpoint of disciplined
unionism is that nine-tenths of those out-
siders who have always barracked for union-
ism approve of the new controls, chronic
strikes being almost as disastrous to them
as bank smashes.
The N.S.W. Bavinshaw Government
arranged that only the Premier should reply
Mick Bruxner.
to Slang's poisonous in-
nuendoes against Bavin
and Harvey, J., in con-
nection with the City
Council graft inquiry;
but Mick Bruxner,
Minister for Local
Government, could not
be restrained from
jumping up and saying
what he thought of
Slang and his
“charges.” Mick re-
minded the House that
Justice Harvey had
acted as Iloyal Com-
missioner in the case of
the Auditor-General,
backed by Slang,
against Bethell of the
Child Welfare Depart-
ment, whose champion
was Mutch, Slang’s
Minister of Education,
and had found for
Mutch’s officer, with
stinging comments on
Slang’s protdge and
Slang. And members nodded understand-
knowing their Slang.
McPherson, the Vic. Opposition-leader,
went to Werribee the other day to address
a meeting, but couldn’t find one and had to
come back to Melbourne with his speech
undelivered. Werribee is part of the con-
stituency of Laborite Hjorth, and Labor
didn’t spare Mac when he returned to Par-
liament. “Tell us about that Werribee meet-
ing,” shouted Brownbill, of Geelong, who is
fond of chipping in when other members are
speaking. “Well, there were no interjec-
tions,” replied the knight of Hawthorn, who
is getting readier at retort.
Our Australia is still capable of big sur-
prises. Until the last year or so it was
always supposed that artesian water simply
couldn’t exist in that great dry belt of N. S.
Wale 3 which lies south of Broken Hill and
runs down towards Wentworth. Yet that
whole country is now being dotted with
bores, several of them flowing, the rest of
them with pumping supplies, if not large,
at any rate so useful as to give a wholly
new value to that territory.
The little taste of tariff protection enjoyed
by some of J. Bull’s industries has done them
a lot of good. A hundred thousand extra
men have found employment, and 15 foreign
firms competing in the mildly “safeguarded”
industries have established British works.
Hence Stanley Baldwin has had the tip
from a conference of his party that he must
extend the principle to the industries that
really matter, such as iron and steel, textiles
and earthenware. He is committed by elec-
tion pledges not to increase duties on food
and raw materials, but there’s a lot in the
tariff line that could be done without even
chipping the edge of the pledges.
The latest country to object to unrestricted
Ah Sin is the Philippines, where legislation
is afoot to keep him out and register him
when in. The brown Filipino has never
learned to love his tawny brother. On two
•previous occasions, with the assistance of the
Spaniards, he tried to abolish the unwanted
immigrant by massacre. It says something
for Junglealdo's progress in democracy that
he now proposes to use a bill instead of a
billhook.
A recent clean-up of Hylam night-schools
in Singapore disclosed a hotbed of propa-
ganda aimed at starting the usual revolution.
The Hylams supply most of the island’s
domestic service, and the possibility of their
wives and families being served with a boiled
bomb for tiffin perturbed white residents
obliged to leave their homes to work in the
city. An interesting disclosure was that
the* originating organisation was the Nan
Yang (South Seas) Anti-Imperialist Union,
which is a branch of the South Seas Labor
Union, which is associated with the Pan-
Pacific Secretariat, which is to have a con-
ference in Australia with its brudders of the
Australian Council of Trade-LTnions. The
Nan Yang’s manifesto reads very like those
of the Australian Communists, but the spell-
ing is worse.
A matter which is attracting belated atten-
tion is the loss incurred through dawdling
procedure on public works. When various
railways are started to mollify various con-
stituencies and struggle along at the rate
of one snail per annum, they are weathering
down all the time, and one end is shouting
out for reconstruction before the other is ready
for traffic. In protracted cases one-third of
the ultimate bill has been 'ascribed to this
sort of premature decay.
“Sinic”: Before I took to frequenting
legislatures I used to be impressed by items
like this one, which an anti-Bruce paper
printed at the end of the session :
It was the old Anstey who enwrapped the Govern-
ment in a whirlwind of biting gibes, and his torrent
of denunciation poured on. Bruce slumped back in
his seat with a white face.
I could picture the baural reality. Kindly,
hairy old Anstey blithering hard for Han-
sard, and Bruce listening civilly, woodenly,
as is nis habit, but not white in the face —
only bored to the teeth.
The Joint Public Accounts Committee
has decided not to recommend any writing-
down of the loan-book value of Canberra,
though it states that the capital expended
there “must be greatly in excess of the value
of the assets as they stand to-day,” explain-
ing that “it is a definitely accepted principle
that before capital can be written down
it must be established that it is definitely
lost.” There is no such “principle” ; in fact,
the writing down of assets which are really
improving is a very commonplace precau-
tion. There is nothing particular to be
gained by having Canberra in any set of
books at any value at all, though it has
cost £10,546,084 and can lose £328,000 a
year. That sort of thing isn’t done with
the Tower of London or Westminster Abbey.
What Canberra really needs is to be sys-
tematically paid off.
The general attitude of a State Treasurer
at present is that he expects another deficit,
that he can’t see much beyond it, and that
he will have to let it slide. He is going to
borrow as usual, so that the extra interest
to pay will make the next shortage easier
to come by. The S. Australian Treasurer
provided for the renewal of the “emergency”
taxes imposed last year (they were to have
been withdrawn at the end of 12 months),
and based a sanguine view of things on better
trade and a better harvest. After doing this
he estimated the shortage at £618,508. Ho
trusted to make good out of a “substantial
grant” from the Commonwealth, but the
Commonwealth seems in need of some help
itself. The position suggests Harold Skim-
pole hoping to strike Micawber for temporary
accommodation.
Tas. Senator Millen is reported to be aston-
ished at the lack of enthusiasm for the
“national” insurance scheme announced by
Bruce-Page, which is virtually his own pro-
duction he was
chairman of the
Royal Commission
which collected
material on the sub-
ject for years.
“Non-manual
workers” receiving
more than £8 a
week are to be
barred from parti-
cipation, although
they will contribute
towards the cost of
the thing as income-
taxpayers and also
(many of them) as
Senator Millen.
policy-holders in concerns like the A.M.P.,
on which a special impost has been. shoved.
If the Tas. Senator expected this, large
class to be enthusiastic he has a singular
view of human nature.
Some extraordinary estimates are made
as to the wealth which the N.S.W. Govern-
ment may gather in by extracting the full
amount of the fine from everybody who
failed to vote at the Booze Referendum;
one paper put the amount as high as
£400,000. The business assumed an aspect
of stern resolve when the Chief Returning
Officer was served with the now familiar
notice. The money will prove hard to
collect, too many strikes having left many
persons with only what they stand up in.
The group of economists headed by J. M.
Keynes, who said that the Dawes reparations
scheme wouldn’t w'rk, or that if it did work
it would ruin the trade of the beneficiaries,
have been proved wrong in at least one-
half of their prophecy. Paymenrs have been
duly made, and commencing on September 1
Germany assumed responsibility, without a
murmur, for the payment of the maximum
annual levy, £125.000,000; it started off at
£50,000,000. Uncle Sam has contributed to
this result by lending the Teutons all the
money they needed for industrial and develop-
ment purposes, and so far he seems to be
playing a winning hand.
To the surprise of many of his friends.
Joe Ward has accepted the leadership of
Maoriland’s “United” party, composed of
Nationalists (Liberals), a smattering of Far-
mers’ Union politicians and one or two dis-
gruntled ex-Reformers. All that is certain
about the new Coalition is that it is anti*
Coates and anti-Labor. It will draw what
voting strength it gets from business men m
the towns, from farmers who object to the
multifarious marketing pools, and from wage-
earners who dislike the Reds as much as they
do the Tories.
The late E. B. C. Corser, M.11.R. for
Wide Bay, was*a Nationalist, and as such
beat a Country-party candidate in 1922.
Barney Corser, liis son,
was a member of the
Queensland State
Opposition, which calls
itself the Country-Nat-
ionalist party, and
when he became the
old man’s unopposed
successor he joined the
Federal Country party.
In effect, a seat was
taken from Bruce’s
crowd and added to
Page’s before the
Prime Minister real-
ised what was happen-
ing, although the Trea-
surer probably had a
good idea. And the
Great Men’s election
agreement obliges
Bruce’s crowd to sup-
port the other in an
electorate that was
Nationalist from the
outset of Nationalism
in 1917.
Corser, the new
M.H.R.
The plan for putting the N.S.W. railway
finances on a better footing has material-
ised :
Mr. Stevens said the accounts would be separated
into two groups, metropolitan and other paying
lines, and developmental (or non-paying) lines
which are serving an essential purpose in opening
up the State. Two-thirds of the loss on these
developmental lines would be borne by the public
revenue.
It leads nowhere. In 1926-27 the Ma State
had 3473 miles of non-paying railway, all
developmental, and 2277 miles of the other
sort. The oldest cripple (Blacktown to
Richmond) had been “serving an essentia:
purpose” for 64 years, and it lost four times
as much in 1925 as in 1905. The loss on all
the cripples (£1,311,916) was borne by the
public revenue. If two-thirds is charged to
revenue, as proposed, it appears that revenue
will have to make a further effort and
shoulder the other third as well. Then there
won’t be much difference to differ about.
Victoria spent almost as much loan money
as the other States combined in putting re-
turned soldiers on the land, chiefly because
it had no cheap land to put even a rabbit on,
and now it loathes the whole business. Dur-
ing the last financial year it beguiled the
Federal Government, which borrowed the
money, to let it off £3,462,203, though neither
Commonwealth nor State paid anything off.
Then the State wrote off £940,881, though
nobody paid that either. Now the soldiers
are in arrear £2,624.911. Premier Hogan
proposes to lay the addled egg of the situation
before Parliament once more, and talks of
leaning on the Commonwealth for another
£600.000, though almost everything except
the Tower of Pisa is leaning there already.
The N. S. Wales Fair Rents Bill excludes
flats, amongst other dwellings, from its pro-
visions. Ten years ago landlords could pro
fiteer freely in respect of anything that looked
like a flat, and, of course, they did so. Now
there are close on 1000 old or elderly flats
vacant in Darlinghurst and Potts Point
alone.
The Commonwealth grant to Tasmania has
been reduced from £378.000 to £220,000 this
year, chiefly on the ground that the Tas.
Treasurer showed a surplus in each of the
two years in which £378,000 was the figure.
State Premier McPhee rather belatedly
pointed out that he would be compelled to
budget for a big deficit this year, and argued
that a fair thing would be for the Common-
wealth Government to take the estimated
deficit as well as the two surpluses into
account, and increase the £220,000 accord-
ingly—say, by £50,000. Bruce-Page declined
the suggestion—not, apparently, because
McPheeble’s argument was weak, but that
the Bruce-Pagian finances were. .Tust why
Mr. McPhee did not put forward his argu-
ment last month, when he went to Canberra
for the express purpose of discussing Tas-
mania’s case, is_not stated. Probably he did
not think of it at the time.
HR KNOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking on the Advances for Homes Bill, which
involves the retirement of two of the present Savings
Bank Commissioners, Mr. Lang warned the Premier
that the country would not tolerate any political
appointments.”
When I recall the things that turned
My cake to sodden dough,
The sins and slips for which I earned
The sack a year ago,
Those laches, in the legal term,
For which I had to pay,
I square my shoulders —but I squirm
When I remember Kay.
’Tis true I sought to bluff and bounce
De Chair, but what of that?
For “sassing” sat/aps few would trounce
A rugged democrat.
Men would have dubbed me master mind
Could I have had my way,
But no such solace I can find
When I remember Kay.
I should have cooked the Council’s goose
Had only right prevailed.
I failed, but ’tis a fair excuse
I gloriously failed;
Went down, a prey to factious feuds,
Clean-handed, one might say,
Save that a bit of doubts intrudes
When I remember Kay.
I split a party and I shot
Forth, without more ado,
Colleagues recalcitrant, but what
Else was a man to do?
High-handed deeds from blame are kept
When noble motives sway.
A thought that comforts me—except
When I remember Kay.
So. Bavin, should you contemplate
Such indiscretion —don’t!
I know—none better —what the State
Will stand, and what it won’t.
Most bitter memories Time will heal,
But ’twill be many a day
Before a qualm I cease to feel
When I remember Kay.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bumpkin”: A person I should like to
meet is the pudding taster at the Royal
Show. A tea or wine taster can judge the
quality of a brew by damping his palate and
spitting the mouthful out, but the quality
of a pudding, I imagine, can only be ascer-
tained by swallowing a substantial slice.
There were between 30 and 40 glorious hemi-
spheres of dough at this year’s Melbourne
Show, and I presume the judge waded
through the lot. One would expect him to
be a Gargantua with a storage capacity
equal to that of the late George. Reid. On
the other hand he may be. a frail dyspeptic
creature who takes pepsin to fortify his
stomach for the ordeal. Has anybody met.
the warrior?
* :j: *
“Native”: Little would ever have been
heard of the tale that De Quiros landed at
what is now Gladstone (Q-) and was to
that extent the discoverer of Australia (B.
THE NEW WAY.
“I am sorry, Gerald boy, but I can never be anything more than a mother to you.
Your father -proposed to me five minutes ago."
12/9/’2S) had it not been for the late
Cardinal Moran. The Cardinal accepted the
story that He Quiros landed at the end of
Auckland Point, and showed his faith in it
by visiting the port about 1900 and holding
a service to consecrate the spot. But in
the record preserved by Torres of the great
navigator’s landing at some unidentifiable
place (probably in New Guineaj it is stated
that “the natives stood ai’ound with bows
and spears in their quaint dresses.” Mention
is also made of palms and the smoke of a
volcano in the distance. Obviously those
natives were not Australians, nor was that
setting Australian. And whatever Spanish
relics have been found around this part of
the coast date from a much later period
than that of De Quiros.
“Uramao”: A Maoriland “also ran’’ in
The Bulletin Novel Competition doubts the
justice of some recent comments on the lack
of liumor characteristic of women generally.
After he had despatched his bantling he was
reading Cecil Mann’s first article, before the
decision was made, wherein this particular
judge referred to a pure nugget of gold that
had been submitted from M.L. “Reading
between the lines, my dear,” said the author,
"those comments undoubtedly refer to my
story.” “Oh, you’re just like a man,” his
wife told him. “Whenever the fircbell rings
while you’re at work every one of you thinks
it’s his own house.”
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: I dedicate this to
the Sunday Freedom League, just started in
Melbourne. I asked a Sydney _ man if he
had ever been in the southern city'. “Yes,
lie replied. “I spent a month there one
Sunday morning.”
*JC 5*C *
“Catalyst”: Surgical science moves fast
but medical science takes its time. Over
five years ago South Africa reported
that an infusion of the common periwinkle
weed (Vinca rosea) was a remedy for dia-
betes. The claim has not yet been substan-
tiated, but the weed in question grows widely
in Australia, and its therapeutic value could
easily be determined by any one of our
medical schools. All that can be said with
certainty at present is that an infusion of
the fresh leaves is invigorating and acts on
the heart in a similar manner to digitalis.
It may not be of any more value for diabetes
than jambul (Java plum) seeds, but its pro-
perties are worth investigation, especially as
insulin, although a great boon in many cases,
has hardly proved the success anticipated.
* ' =:= * *
“Te Kuri”: A bit of evidence both un-
usual and conclusive was tendered in a
Maoriland court the other day in a divorce
case. Petitioner alleged that his wife had
deserted him some years ago, and as proof
of her doings tendered a photo (taken a
couple of years after the separation) wherein
the lady was shown with a family of infant
triplets. If ever a co-respondent’s sin found
him out, surely it was in this case.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : Sick Chinese do not so much
take their own remedies, as stated by doc-
tor at the coroner’s inquiry into Chung Cow’s
death in Sydney, as swallow each other’s. The
Celestial who called on an ailing friend and
failed to leave a prescription concocted out
of his own exuberant imagination would be
considered to be lacking in the fundamental
attributes of a gentleman. One of my
Chinese clerks got desperately ill, and the
white doctor diagnosed appendicitis and re-
commended immediate operation. The young
man’s friends, however, arrived at the bed-
side in droves, insisting on the superior
efficacy of powdered deers’ horns, alligators’
teeth, whale’s breath and anything else their
fancy dictated; and, unfortunately for the
progress of scientific medicine in that small
coastal village, the patient recovered.
He *
“Emel”: Even a lift-attendant has his
embarrassing moments. Recently one was
waiting for passengers on the ground floor
of a big Melbourne hostelry when a young
lady sprinted past him into the lift and,
clutching wildly at her clothes, cried, “Oh,
they’re falling down ! Shut the door, quick!”
“Kerys”: My friend Binks went to a
birthday party the other night. Things must
have been pretty willing, for his last recollec-
tion is of a kindly fellow-guest who assured
him he was in no fit state to go home, and
suggested that he had better spend the night
with him at his Bondi flat. Binks must have
agreed, for he woke up next morning in an
unfamiliar room with the sound of the surf
outside and a strange woman with red hair
hanging stockings to dry on the opposite bal-
cony. After waiting vainly for someone to
bring him his morning cup of tea, he crawled
out of bed in pyjamas three sizes too large,
and began to investigate his surroundings.
On the table in the next room were ss.
in silver and a note suggesting that the late
riser should go out and buy the material for
breakfast, not forgetting beer, against the re-
turn of the writer, who signed himself merely
“Pete.” Binks had the choice of doing his
shopping in his evening rags or pyjamas and
a red dressing-gown, and, it being Bondi,
chose the latter as less conspicuous. With
a bag of ripe tomatoes, a dozen eggs and the
beer he set out on his return journey, but
his troubles began when he found he couldn’t
remember where the flat was and didn’t know
the occupier’s surname. He went into three
or four shops and sought to enlist the svm
pathy of the proprietors but failed. Finally
he gave it up and took the tram for home,
That he left the beer in the tram he
remembers as only a minor grievance of
an imperfect day. Binks is now left with
an ancient dressing-gown and a suit ot
enormous pyjamas on his hands, while son ?®"
where at Bondi an unidentifiable Pete, with
a dress-suit as a souvenir, probably awaits
an explanation of his guest’s ingratitude.
ifc :!« He
“Adelaide”: A boy of 14 has brought off
the unusual feat of theft from Adelaide police
headquarters. He just walked in, stated
that his bicycle had been stolen, was intro-
duced to the stableful always awaiting claim-
ants, said “There’s mine,” signed for it and
rode away. After which lie had the rotten
luck to meet a man who not only owned
the grid but could identify it at sight.
SOME TIME LONG AGO.
SHE ( brightly ): “I’m afraid I’ve kept you waiting. When did you get here?"
HE ( bitterly): “I forget the exact date.”
“Mako” : Passengers usually become resent-
ful of train delays (B. 19/9/’2B), but I
remember a case in which a M.L. driver was
actually rewarded for occasioning one. On
the outskirts of an up-country townlet the
train pulled up, and the driver hopped over a
fence and disappeared into a near-by build-
ing, while the guard informed complaining
passengers that he had gone to see his
eight-year-old daughter, taken there that
morning after being knocked over by a car.
By the time the driver returned the train
had subscribed enough to buy the youngster a
substantial present. As North Auckland is
the land of “taihoa” and easy officialdom
these episodes don’t agitate anyone unduly.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Promoters of appeals for public
benevolence are always devising new stunts;
the latest suggestion is a gigantic pie to. be
cooked for the forthcoming charity carnival
at Bendigo. Following an English example,
which brought £2OOO to a hospital, the
Bendigo monstrosity is expected to contain
80st. of flour, 2cwt. of lard, the flesh of
four bullocks and 15cwt. of spuds. . A special
oven will have to be built for it, and it
will need to be hoisted out by a crane. Even
this, however, will not go the limit in Gar-
gantuan delicacies. Krishnamurti, the Indian
youth who is regarded by some theosophists
as the next Messiah, was entertained at
Chicago with an omelet of such huge dimen-
sions that it actually caused an egg shortage
in the markets of America’s second largest
city.
# # # ijc
“Venturino” : The N. S. Wales Education
Department has re-arranged the school vaca-
tions, so that next year the children will
work from the end of January to August
without a break. This means a stretch of
some 27 weeks as against the present 11- or
12-week periods. The reason for the change
is that some medical men have discovered
that during August the child’s vitality is
at its lowest ebb. I don’t know What there
is to support the view, but, as a teacher of
over 20 years’ experience in different States,
I have never yet noticed this August ebb-
tide. What I have noticed, like many other
teachers and possibly most workers, is a
general spring lassitude which comes with the
first warm days, generally late-September and
certainly not in August. The consensus of
opinion among teachers is that the change
is not a good one; but a strong protest from
the Teachers’ Federation has had no effect.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: The news that the fifth
Earl of Orfoi'd has, at the age of 74, handed
over his great possessions to a youthful
cousin and gone to seek peace in Maoriland
is a reminder that the Walpoles have been
largely famous for their eccentricities. It
was the first Lord Orford, friend of the
Prince Regent and noted Corinthian, who
laid Lord Rockingham £5OO that he would
find six turkeys to beat six geese produced
bv his opponent for a walking match from
Norwich to London. He lost, as he usually
did, for the turkeys insisted on going to
roost early, while the geese were always
good for an extra hour or two in the late
evening l . In his milder moments the exube-
rant nobleman used to drive a four in hand
of fallow deer, and one day was chivvied with
his team into Newmarket by a pack of
hounds he had met somewhere on the Heath,
only getting home to safety in an inn-yard by
a couple of lengths. His family was made to
share his racing fortunes. When he had a
good win, there was silk attire and the
fat of the land for all hands, while a huge
staff of workmen would be employed at enlarg-
ing the lake at Wolterton, a darling project.
As soon as the luck turned, the lake workers
would be sacked, the servants put on board
wages, and his family rationed in food and
clothing. Naturally, as one of them has
recorded, interest in any race in which the
old man was known to be going for the
gloves was always at fever heat till the
worst or the best was known.
“Mitre”: The cabled news that W. R-
Morris has given £38,000 to the Badclift’e
Infirmary, Oxford, emphasises _ the way m
which “the goddess muses’ native home” is
being industrialised. The small, grey
w here so many Diggers did “schools” a de-
cade ago has almost vanished into a giant
red maw represented by myriads of brick cot-
tages, petrol pumps and other appurtenances
of the colossal Morris motor-works. The
only part, outside the ancient town proper,
which remains untouched by the wave of
garish modernism is Boar’s Hill, where the
fashionable dons of the type of Gilbert Mur-
ray live —and even that is threatened.
* * * *
“Math”: The 1927 vital statistics for
Sydney show that there were more mar-
riages in December (1044) than any other
month, March being a fair second. In the
births department November (1863) leads,
with May close up. August (1018) had the
biggest tally of deaths, September and July
being very little behind.
$ :i: * *
“Lex” : The Bar is the only profession at
which a practitioner is required to make
his name twice. It happens fairly often that
the public becomes familiar with the name
of a junior. For years he is in one big case
after another, and emerges with credit on
the whole, a barrister’s worst mistakes, like
those of a doctor, being spotted by few out-
side his profession. Suddenly his name
ceases to appear in the newspapers. He has
not retired or fallen dead; he has merely
“taken silk.” As a K.C. he has to begin
all over again, and often he finds it harder to
get briefs in his new' than in his old capacity.
He now has to have a junior at two-thirds
of his own big fee, and only_ champions can
carry the extra financial weight. Why risk
the rise in status, then? The answer is that
a time arrives in the career of every barris-
ter when lie has to make the plunge or lose
hiS| junior’s practice. Dreading the worst,
he has the fatal letters inscribed on his
plate, and in about two cases out of five
his fears are justified. In which event he
often makes a break for a safe seat on even
a lower-court bench.
* * * *
“Tc Ivuri”: An old Bulletin story has
been reacted with slight variations in Auck-
land. A leading restaurant, proprietor and his
wife locked up at 11 o’clock and caught the
last tram for home and bed. The man carried
the day’s takings, over £lOO, in a suitcase;
his wife bore a receptacle, identical to out-
ward view, containing some dog’s meat and
a bottle of oysters. On gettting out of the
tram at the terminus, to w 7 alk the few hun-
dred yards further to their bungalow, the
couple inadvertently picked up each other’s
cases. At their gate they Avere rudely
accosted by a strongly-built man, who
grabbed the husband’s case and hopped into
a car parked close and handy. His remarks
when he came on the dog’s meat must have
been worth hearing.
IN A ’STAMINAy IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the dreary straggling village where the
leafless poplars bent
O’er the pave, with grey mud coated, where
the bumping limbers went,
Resting after days of effort, waiting tor the
next advance,
It was there we found each other in a
’staminay in France.
Though the brew was often rotten and the
vintage mostly vile,
And the patronne mean and grasping and
the (jargon full of guile,
Often you and I, old cobber, found a glad
deliverance
From the dismal hell around us in a
’staminay in France.
When the short dull day was over and the
black night settled down,
And the guns’ unceasing thunder echoed
through the little town,
Seated at our special table, never kings in
old romance
Ruled a gayer court than we did in a
’staminay in France.
Though our court has long been scattered,
gone like leaves when tempests blow,
Down the years there comes an echo of the
nights of long ago.
Still I hear your glad “Bon Sante! and I
hear your gay “Bon Chance!”
As so often I have heard them in a ’stami-
nay in France.
In a ’staminay in Sheol where the lost
souls congregate,
When time troubles us no longer and the
night is never late,
May we come again, old cobber, into the
inheritance
That was ours on winter evenings in a
’staminay in Fr.ance.
We will have our special table and a special
brew, maybe,
And the (jargon will be busy bringing drinks
for you and me ;
And perhaps again, we’ll triumph over fate
and circumstance
As we did with hell around us, in a ’stami-
nay in France.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


‘'Henry Ilorsecollai”; Tlie tragedy of a
weatherboard cottage at the shabby Sydney
suburb of Rozelle bad in it an element of
the grotesque based on lack of complete in-
formation. A devoted mother, who seems
to have hovered a long time on the verge
of religious mania, went over the edge, and
hearing a voice which told her to do to her
small boy what Abraham did to Isaac she
proceeded to cut his throat. As Abraham
didn’t complete the sacrifice of Isaac, but
reared liinr to be a wealthy squatter, it was
a pathetic misunderstanding.
“Valve Lifter": A young policeman with
an extraordinarily keen sense of smell
erdpped up in a Sydney police court the
other day. lie was chief witness against
a motorist charged with driving whilst
“under the influence,” and, after describing
various indiscretions committed by the de-
fendant, said that the most convincing evi-
dence of the latter’s condition was supplied
by his (the witness’s) nose. Then the
motorist’s solicitor had his turn. “You say
that my client smelt strongly of liquor,
constable; perhaps you could tell us what
he had been drinking?” The constable could 1 .
“Whisky,” he said. Costs waxed sarcastic.
“I suppose you couldn’t identify the brand,
by any chance?” Again the constable was
equal to the occasion. “Johnny Walker!”
he announced proudly and positively. He
might have gone on to relate whether the
spirit had been diluted with soda or ginger
ale had not the magistrate dismissed the
case.
* * -t *
“Oxmead”: J. 11. M. Abbott’s convict,
transported in 1789 for “a little mild poach-
ing in his native village” (“The Licensed
Victualler,” B. 26/9/’2B), may have been a
victim to his sporting propensities, but I
prefer to believe he just told the tale that
19 out of 20 convicts told to those who
couldn’t test it. Even as late as 35 or
40 years ago, when convicts who had served
their sentences and ticket-of-leave men could
SEASONED?
“I’hink now, is bridge really your favorite game?”
"M’m, no—I think I’d rather have a little bit of wild duck!”
be encountered by dozens in many parts of
Westralia, none of them ever admitted to
having been “sent out” for anything worse
than snaring a hare or some such peccadillo,
Most of them were getting on in years then—
there can’t be many survivors, if any. left
nowadays, for transportation ceased in 1868—
but when they would lift a corner of the cur-
tain that veiled the past, under the stimulus,
possibly, of a few rums, one couldn’t help
noticing’ that their offence was always a bit
of poaching, done when they were high-
spirited young chaps. Yet I question if any
of Britain’s “erring children” were hustled
overseas in the ’fifties and ’sixties for merely
trying to help themselves to Squire’s rabbits,
and I doubt if the malpractice sent many
here even in the early days, unless, ot
course, it involved something more violent,
such as shooting a gamekeeper.
# # ♦ ♦
“S.T.S.”: The Royal Geographical Society
of S.A. is getting ready to celebrate the cen-
tenary of Sturt’s boat exploration of the
Darling and Murray in December, 1829. The
idea is to run an official party down from
Mildura (Vic.) —or a higher point if de-
sired —to the mouth of the river at Encoun-
ter Bay, and to unveil a series of cairns,
with bronze tablets. In S.A., Renmark.
Berri, Morgan, Mannum, Murray Bridge and
Goolwa have promised to erect memorials.
Wentworth (N.S.W.), at the junction of
the Darling, with Mildura and any other
river town in Victoria that cares to join,
will complete the chain.
si: * * *
“Detonator”: At least one one-legged sol-
dier took part in a charge during the war.
lie was an Italian, Enrico Toti, a railway
stoker who had had his leg amputated at
the thigh after an accident. He tried to
enlist repeatedly, but was naturally rejected;
at last his persistency resulted in his being
attached to a Bersaglieri cyclist battalion,
where lie acted as a despatcli-“runner. '
When his battalion was told off to attack
Hill 85, near Monfalcone, in April, 1910,
Toti pestered his O.C. so hard that lie' was
allowed to hop over on crutches. Even with
that handicap lie was one of the first to
reach the enemy’s trenches, where lie was
fatally wounded. His last recorded act, after
he had run out of bombs, was to hurl lus
crutches at the foe. An Italian Medal for
Valor, the equivalent of our V.C., was his
posthumous portion.
& *
“Whitehall” : “Archibald Aciddrop” is ex-
ercised (B. 30/9/’2B) over the transforma-
tion of Park-lane into a fiat and shopping
centre, and by the thought of “what is to
become of the thousands of gilded aristo-
crats who are habitually depicted as living
there.” His sympathy is wasted. Most of
the aristocrats got out of Park-lane years
ago. The exodus began when the increasing
molor-’bus traffic between Hyde Park Corner
and the Marble Arch made sleep impossible
for those living anywhere near the vibrating
road-level. Holford House, Grosvenor House
and other palaces were empty for years be-
fore they were sold, and the famous maison-
ettes, which were so fashionable in Thack-
eray’s day, can be got at bargain rates now.
Londonderry House is one of the few great
mansions that continue to be occupied by
their owners, but it stands well back from
the roadway.
“Morita”: “Gouger” refers to drivers cry-
ing alongside their dying horses (B.
19/9/’2B). It was characteristic of the Digger
that even when the war had hardened him
till he could talk with badly wounded cob-
bers, and count it all in the game,. a wounded
animal would awaken almost passionate sym-
pathy. I’ve seen at Strczeele a Digger take
over medical duties on a wounded cow left
behind by the refugees. With dressings
every couple of hours that cow would have
recorded a complete recovery if it hadn’t
walked into a 5.9. On the Menin-road I’ve
seen a wounded artillery driver, dazed but
still hanging on in the saddle, refusing to
take shelter from a Fritz strafe till he could
get his horse out of the danger zone. An
even more touching sight was one of the de-
spised mules, horribly wounded, limping back
through Ypres to the horse lines, its load of
18-pounder shells still in the pack-saddle,
with a fatigue party looking on and lament-
ing that none of them possessed a rifle.
It was a Digger M.P. on traffic duty who
led the poor brute off the road and finished
it with his revolver, and even he couldn’t
hide his feelings when he took up point-duty
again.
* * * *
“Murua” : There was plpnty of champagne
j a the cellars of Strazeele when we held
the line there, and some of it was smuggled
out in queer ways. I recall a night at the
Ambulance loading post outside the village,
with a conscientious padre walking up and
down to offer spiritual comfort to wounded
members of his flock, and cigarettes to the
other denominatiojis. In the darkness a
squad loomed up carefully bearing a blan-
keted form on a stretcher. “What’s his
name?” whispered the cleric, believing the
casualty was one of his own unit. “Moet
and Cliandon” came the blurred reply. None
the wiser the padre tenderly drew back the
blanket and was confronted with a couple of
dozen bottles of the best. Luckily for the
looters the officers’ mess was running very
short ,of stimulant’s, and the padre, it was
AT THE PICNIC RACES.
“What sort of a crowd did she have at her party last night?”
“Oh, just fair to maudlin.”
asserted, commandeered half the cargo to
square the matter. Anyhow, there was no
official inquiry.
* * * *
“A. 5.1.”: On the heels of various para-
graphs concerning the Diggers’ artistic
achievements in chalk at Codford and Fovant
(Wilts.) comes the announcement that the
Graves Commission has arranged for a
thorough cleaning of these hillside exhibits.
After this initial effort the landowners on
whose property they are have undertaken to
maintain them for annual payments of £o
and £5 respectively.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: If a man’s hobby is litigation
should lie be allowed to indulge it in a free
country to the top of. his bent? This was
the question recently asked of
Attorney-General Slater, of Vic.,
relative to the activities of R. F.
Millane, already famous for try-
ing to peg out city streets under
a miner’s right. The Heidelberg
Council, in whose diocese Mil-
lane resides, approached the
Crown Law office, and the prob-
lem was passed on to the Attor-
ney-General. The reply was
that “the Government has
under consideration the ques-
tion of introducing legislation
to prevent frivolous and vexa-
tious proceedings such as those
taken by Millane.’’ The Minis-
ter added that he had no power
to issue the warning to Jus-
tices which the Heidelberg Coun-
cil suggested. Meanwhile Mil-
lane has improved the shining
hour by taking out a summons
against “the Mayor, aldermen,
councillors and burgesses of the
town of Melbourne’’ for having
“unlawfully obtained by threat
and menace the sum of one shil-
ling by false pretences.”
❖ *
“Mac”: “C.Q.” (B. 19/0/’2Sf
errs in stating that the beauti-
ful building of the Collins-street
(Melb.) Baptist Church is to
be demolished ; the doomed build-
ing is an old place erected in
the ’fifties, which contains the
vestries. The beautiful Doric-columned
church in front will not be interfered with.
* * * *
“Morita”: These police-court identifica-
tion tests remind me of the parades we had
at the base at Havre whenever one of the
townspeople had a complaint to make against
an unknown Digger. Few could pick out the
delinquent after gazing into the features of
a thousand similarly-dressed men. unless
there were some marks of combat that
couldn’t be disguised. On one occasion two
Diggers, both blotto, had wandered into a
hotel where a tony party was being given
by a French officer, and when gendarmes
sought to eject them a brawl developed in the
hall. The French colonel, strolling in to
make peace, was merely regarded as an
additional adversary, and had stopped a
vicious clout before the wild pair decided to
retreat in view of the heavy odds against
them. To identification parade next d y
came the Colonel himself, a couple or
friends and the gendarmes. L p and o®
the lines they went until a couple or DiacK
eyes enabled them to locate the
one, who was promptly escorted to the
clink. He was back in the lines again tnar
afternoon, offering to fight anybody who saia
a word against “the old ziff.” After pick-
ing out liis man the Frenchman had pleaded
with the camp C.O. to let him off provided
that he tendered an apology.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Black Hill (Vic.) has been
stirred to its foundations by some unpleasant-
ness between the secretary and president of
its progress association. According to the
evidence in the subseauent court proceedings
the trouble arose through Mrs. A. wanting
certain premises for a carpet-bowls tourna-
ment on the same day that Mrs. B. desired
them for a pigeon-club contest, the husband of
Mrs. B. being a member of the pigeon club.
The ladies got heated. Mrs. A pushed her face
forward and invited Mrs'. B to smack it.
Mrs. B. however, contented herself by call-
ing Mrs. A a faggot. This insult roused
Mrs. A to fury and she smote Mrs. B with
an attache-case. The attache-case contained
crockery. Mrs. B retaliated by punching
Mrs. A. Mrd. A then went for a fire-iron.
Mrs. B, who seems always to have been one
step behind Mrs. A in violence, thereupon
left. Later, however, she returned and threw
the petty cash at Mrs. A. This was the
closing round of the contest. It has always
been a regret to me that two women have
never sat simultaneously in any Australian
Parliament.
* * * *
“Adastral”: There is a road which is prob-
ably quite as ancient, if not as well known,
as “Gouger’s’’ caravan track from Egypt into
Palestine (B. 29/5/’2B). This is the ancient
“forty-day” slave caravan route along which
slaves recruited in the Soudan were taken to
Egypt. It passes through the oasis of
Ivharga, about 100 miles west of Luxor, in
the Eibyan Desert. Ivharga formed part of
the Egyptian Empire as far back as 1500 b.c.,
and later was used by the Romans as a penal
settlement. Their name for the oasis was
Jupiter Ammon, and they left testimony of
their occupation in the wells, aqueducts and
ruined forts —in many cases the first still
provide the only water supply. All cara-
vans passing make Kliarga a regular halting-
place, as they have done from time imme-
morial. A feature of the thoroughfare is the
indelibility of the tracks made by camels
passing over the same ground for centuries,
furrows being worn in the limestone and
other rocks along the road. This is particu-
larly noticeable from the air.
t'fi * sfc
“Trion”: lie was a bright young man.
dapper in purple-hued socks and tie, and a
suit that matched the rusty iron roof of
McDougall’s cowbails. Steadily he talked
to McDougall. to the accompaniment of
streams of milk that sizzled into the bucket
and a very occasional grunt from the opera-
tor. The old cockie was starting on hi-
ninth cow when the bright young man
finished his summary of the arguments why
McDougall should sign on the dotted line,
become a subscriber to the paper and secure
free insurance for himself and his human be-
longings. But it seemed as if all his eloquence
had been wasted, and the young man, n
longer bright, was just turning dejectedly
on his heel when McDougall lifted his head
from the flanks of the ninth cow. “I j e s been
thinkin’,” said McDougall. “How much ye
say it was fer cows?”
SUMMER'S SIGIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now does the sere and the sapless summer
Leap like a leopard upon the land;
Now the despairing and drouthy bummer
By cool pub portals assumes his stand ;
Now do the sheiks of the beaches tanned
Seek the solace of breakers briny,
While —clearest of portents to understand —
The tip of Neaera’s nose seems shiny
Hot-rum signs from the bars are banished,
Gone are the beef-tea slogans, too;
Coffee royal with the winds has vanished,
So has the suave and the smoking stew.
When was it, say, that the hot dogs flew?
All are adjourned, as one might say, sine
Die, till winter walks anew—
And the tip of Neaera’s nose looks shiny.
Gone is the mem’ry of dlot Cross Bun Day,
And the Easter eggs—they are all forgot.
The flapper swoops on the toothsome sundae
Till the hapless wight who must pay the
, shot
Hies him out in despair, God wot,
To wreath his tresses with verdure viny—
And land in the “cooler” as like as not —
While the tip of Neaera’s nose grows shiny.
Now does the blithesome and blatant bellow
llise to the welkin from Randwick's ring,
As bagman battles against his fellow,
And the punter flocks to the dead-sure
thing,
Recking nought of the piercing sting
That lies in wait like a dagger tiny
Hid in the linal reckoning—
And the tip of Neaera’s nose is shiny.
N.K.W.
J. B. H.


m
%
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
✓ • r •.>
WlmM,
m
y/Avx
5®
«s»
NDOUBTEDLY the final
test of style is the hat.
It is in his choice of head-
wear that a man expresses
his finesse in taste, his nice sense
of respect for time and occasion—
his appreciation of style. Men of
discernment always choose a
axiXQ
I si,
Merits with None
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
FI
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.


JO*
1 - |
5 s I^l
?•
STOTE £xPRJESS
3»
CIGARETTES
777
Plain or IVORY Tipped*
Cork Tipped.
20 for 1/6
ARDATH
TOBACCO
CO., LTD.,
LONDON.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some October birthdays :
Justice Lowe (Vic.), 48, on 4th; John Grice
(Vic.), 78, on 6th; Justice Ferguson (N.S.W.), 67,
on 7th; Philip Davey, V.C., 32, on 10th; poet
Dr. C. H. Souter, 64, on 11th; E. Lee Neil (Myer
Emporium, Melbourne), 56, on 13tli; Prof. Alcock
(Q.), 42, and S. S. Addison (Melb. Uni.), 48, on
14th; Langdon Bonython (Adel. Advertiser), SO,
and N. G. Bell (Commonwealth Railway Commis-
sioner), 68, on 15th; C. 11. Wickens (Federal Statis-
tician), 56, on 16tli; ex-Vic. Attorney-General Eggle-
ston, 53, and ex-N.S.W. Minister Tom Mutch, 43,
on 17th; Government Geologist Andrews (N.S.W.),
W. H. O’M. WOOD, president of the State
Savings Bank, Sydney, for whom a
retiring pension of £2500 a year is pro-
vided by legislation now before Parlia-
ment.
.08, and Lionel Lindsay, 54, on 18th; Frank H.
Downer (Adel.), 65. on 19tli; Q. S. Speddiug (Labor
Daily, Sydney), 37, on 22nd; Bishop Thomas
(Willochra), 47, and Justice Napier (S.A.), 46,
on 24th ; N.S.W. Minister Dr. Arthur, 63, and W.A.
Minister Alec McCalluni, 50, on 25th; Gen. Neville
Howse, V.C., 64, on 26th ; Speck’s ex-Premier Elliott
Lewis, 70, and Archgaiters Sharp (Brisbane), 63,
on 27th; T. .T. Ley, M.H.R., 49, on 28th; Justice
James (N.S.W.), 62, on 30th; explorer Wilkins,
40, and Prof. Wadhain (Melb.), 37, on 31st.
Charlton’s retirement from politics is
worrying some N.S.W. Labor politicians,
who fear that if Bird, the A.L.P. secretary,
grabs the Hunter seat, A. J. Macpherson will
get through to the secretaryship. Macpher-
son was in the Postal Department when he
was named as one of those on whom Mos-
cow depended for propaganda in Australia;
he was suspended on account of a letter it
was discovered he had written to his Rus-
sian friends, and, although reinstated subse-
quently with a minor penalty, he resigned
to take up a job as the A.L.P.’s chief organ-
iser. The politicians realise that his acces-
sion to the chief executive job would put a
Red stamp on the party which would mean
the loss of thousands of votes; hence the
shivers.
Although for a long time Jimmy
Matthews, member for Port Melbourne, has
had to be carried from the party room to
record his vote in the House of Reps.,
he has missed only
eight sittings in
the last three years.
He suffers from a
form of paralysis,
but he has early
silenced the hopes
of some aspirants
for a safe seat by
announcing that he
intends to stand
again. He has held
the Port seat for 22
years.
RAY WALSH, the
backbone of
Adelaide Reper-
tory Theatre,
and one of its
most brilliant
actors—the draw-
ing has been
done for us by
Autori, the ver-
satile genius of
the J.C.W. Grand
Opera Co.
The Port Adelaide wliarfies had an easy
victory when they chased the free laborers
off the ships in the Port river, but they
struck a snag when they tried to repeat the
achievement in the Outer Harbor. The skil-
ful dispositions of Police-Commissioner Leane
and the resolute bearing of his men, though
outnumbered 12 to 1, were too much for
them. Leane, who was in the softgoods busi-
ness in Westralia before he enlisted, estab-
lished a reputation for cool daring in Galli-
poli as a captain in the 11th Battalion, and in
France he commanded the 48th Battalion
and the 12th Brigade, 4th Division, returning
with a sheaf of decorations. No doubt there
were some of his old trench-mates in the mob
that marched to the Outer Harbor, for the
wharfles, in spite of their bad industrial
record since 1917, were well represented in
the A.I.F.
J. C. Lowry, chairman of the committee
dealing with the Vic. Education Department’s
new school readers, has accepted the job
of editing and producing the books in addi-
tion to his work as senior inspector of
schools. During his career in the field he took
on, as a labor of love, the establishment of
the Odd Volumes literary clubs. The Hamil-
ton club is now in its 29tli year of vigorous
existence, Maryborough has celebrated its
16th birthday, and Castlemaine did nearly
10 years of solid work. Lowry spends his
holidays touring amongst his clubs.
Harold 11. Buckley, the new Trade Com-
missioner for Uncle Sam in Melbourne, had
distinguished war service. He served in the
French army until Woodrow Wilson decided
America wasn’t too proud to fight, when lie
joined one of his own divisions as a flier,
shooting down five enemy ’planes before
the fuss ended. Sugar planting in Cuba
and the feeding of 200,000 starving Russians
daily for the American Relief Administra-
tion’ has filled the time in for him since,
except for 18 months spent in the U.S.
Trade Commissioner's office in Sydney.
S. J. Jacobs has retired from the presi-
dent’s chair of S.A. Bowling Association
after using it for 22 years. A lawyer
before he took up commerce, he was respon-
sible for drafting the constitution of the
Australian Bowling Council, generally con-
sidered a model document. The new presi-
dent is S. J. Laidlaw, of the Adelaide Oval
club, one of S.A.’s two delegates to the Fed-
eral council.
. Victoria loses its 1908 Rhodes Scholar with
the transfer of P. R. le Couteur, headmaster
of the Methodist Ladies’ College, Hawthorn,
to a similar position with the Perth High
School. He takes the place of Matthew
Wilson. Le Couteur has held his present
job since 1918. He collected his M.A. at
Oxford, where he played such sparkling
cricket that lie established an all-round
record for Oxford-Cambridge matches—l6o
and 11 for 66. After Oxford he lectured
for a while at Bonn University. He already
knows his way about Perth; he was one of
the original staff of that city’s Uni. Last
season lie captained Victoria’s premier cricket
team —Hawthorn-East Melbourne.
After Harry Lawson retires from Vic.
Assembly to stand for the Senate, Peacock,
Bowser, Downward, Toutcher and Prender-
gast will be the only five left of the 95 pre-
Federation members. Bowser and Downward
intend to stand down when the present Par*
liament expires in 1930 or sooner. The entire
48 pre-Commonwealth members of the Uppah
Chambah have gone; the majority are under
the sod.
“A native of Australia, but educated, worse
luck, in that hotbed of snobbery and scabber.v
called Oxford, Mr. Bruce’s very upbringing-
should utterly disqualify him,” shouted the
Sydney Labor Daily leader-writer the other
morning. As a matter of fact, Bruce was at
Trinity Hall, Cambridge. But this habit
of denouncing wealthy political opponents
as Oxford men seems to be incurable in
Labor circles. W. H. Kelly, as M.P. for
Wentworth, was constantly damned as an
“Oxford product,” though he had not been
to any university.
After a hard battle for her rights, Miss
Julia Flynn has succeeded in securing nomi-
nation for the job of chief inspector of sec-
ondary schools in Vic. She is now assistant
chief inspector at £650; in the new position
she will get £720. At first she was debarred
from applying, the Education Department
proposing to reserve the place for a man,
and J. A. Seitz, a Rhodes scholar and a
junior officer to Miss Flynn, was recom-
mended out of 10 applicants. Miss Flynn
appealed to the Service pommissioner and
won. She will not be the highest paid
woman in the Education Department; Dr.
Jane Grcig. chief medical officer for schools,
receives £741.
John Nase, recently elected to the Crcs-
wick (Vic.) shire, represents the fourth
generation of the family to hold a seat on
that council. His great-grandfather was one
of the original members.
W. Quarry, of Launceston, holds something
like a reword in club membership. An
original subscriber to the Launceston Work-
ing. Men’s Club, he has been with it 61 years
without a break.
Joe Morris, general sec. of Melbourne
Waterside Workers’ Federation, retires this
year on a pension of £3OO. Secretary from
the beginning of the union, Morris has been
a hard battler for better working conditions
for the wharfies. He never had much time
for the Red element.
Dr. Diamond Jenness, who before leaving
his native Maoriland made a name as an
anthropologist and since then has been with
Steffnsson gathering information concern-
ing the blond Eskimos of Alaska, is now
head of the anthropological work of the
Canadian Government at Ottawa. Steffins-
son, who held a high opinion of another
from these parts, Wilkins, regards Jenness
as the leading authority on the odd Eskimo
race they had afternoon-tea with.
Captain Frank Neale, one of the Larkin
Aircraft co.’s pilots in the southern section
of the continent, has kept a careful record
of his flying. Up to date he has spent 36261
hours in the air without a solitary misad-
venture. He flies from Melbourne to Hay
and back twice weekly.
A lot of water has run up and down
Sydney Harbor since Captain D. T. M. Bed-
ford last saw it as a middy on the Powerful,
better known to her intimates as the Hor-
rible. Bedford is the son of one of West-
ralia’s Governors, and he is coming back to
these waters to command the ’plane-carrier
Albatross when that gradual craft is
finished. Meanwhile he will command the
Brisbane.
Edward O’Donnell, who has completed 40
years’ service as a councillor of St. Ivilda
(Vic.) and has been mayor more than once,
was a contemporary of the late George Tur-
ner, twice Premier of Vic. and twice Federal
Treasurer. Turner was mayor of St. Ivilda
in 1889, when he was _ returned to Vic.
Assembly for the first time.
George Bray, another Sydney Uni. man to
do well abroad, is now senior house doctor
at the East London Hospital for children.
He had some valuable experience in charge
of the Government hospital at Nauru, where
his work secured him a fellowship in th,e
Royal Society of Tropical Medicine, London.
Captain Robert Smith, who was blown
out to sea from Flinders Island, Bass Strait,
when lobster-fishing in a motor-boat and has
not been heard of since, was the chief actor
in a sensational drama of the war. In 1917
the trawler he commanded ivas blown up by
a German submarine. Swearing vengeance,
Smith bought another trawler, and with it
captured a U-boat.
The recent attack on the character of
Dickens by a person of obscure nationality is
a resurrection of every blown-out canard that
has been circulated against the dead novelist.
The defunct London Tribune in 1996 raked
up some rather indiscreet letters written by
“Boz” to a young lady named Weller —she
subsequently married one of his warmest
friends—and in a preface implied that after
Dickens married Catherine Hogarth he g
possession of all the letters he had written
to her and destroyed them. That wa.
promptly blown out by one of the novelist s
sons Henry, who said his mother cherished
the letters to the day of her death, and that
they were still extant and in the hands or
the family. It is true there was a separation
between Dickens and his wife after she had
borne him 10 children, but it is on record
that only one of the children took the
mother’s side in the squabble. Both the sons
who settled in Australia. Alfred and Edward,
always spoke with affection, almost v ith
reverence, of their father. Ted was the
youngest and his regard—as he once told
The Bulletin —was “little this side or
idolatry.” „ , . „„„
A very fine specimen of the Maori race
has died ‘in King George A r . hospital at Roto-
rua. Hare Wirikake stood Oft. 3in. and
scaled 15 stone. A splendid athlete, he
played Rugby for his district for 12 years.
Enlisting in T 4, he served on the Peninsula
and Western front, and did an immense
amount of good among his own people in tlio
ranks —lie always refused promotion.
Work-stoppages are refreshingly rare on
the Collie (W.A.) coalfield, but there was
one on the day Bob Lynn was buried. Lynn
was chairman of directors of Amalgamated
Collieries, Ltd., and every miner had a
good word for him. He made money in coal
and shipping, but gave a good deal of' it
away—ho was never known to refuse «i
request for help—and the Lynn scholarships
will preserve his name. The good fellow
was a native of Stockton (N.S.W.). He was
a Westralian Leg. Councillor for 12 years.
Robert Williams, of Orange Vale, Wan-
garatta, had the star exhibit at Melbourne
Show. With his 420 entries, all products of a
200-acre farm, he scored 90 p.e. of mark-;,
and probably established a record for making
himself self-contained. His exhibits ranged
from bottled river crayfish to pomade—tin;
latter one of the numerous contributions of
his wife, who, until she married him, knew
no more about farming than any other Mel-
bourne girl.
J. K. Forsyth, C.M.G., one of the selected
Nationalist Senate candidates. for Victoria,
is a Queenslander, and was of that bril-
liant band of young professional soldiers,
who, headed by Harry Chauvel, went over
to the C.M.F. when State military systems
were absorbed by the A
mounted infantryman, he served in South
Africa with the Third Q.M.1., and at the
start of the later war organised the First
Light Horse Brigade and took it to Egypt.
He was A.A. and Q.M.G. for the First
Division on Gallipoli; later lie commanded
the Second (infantry) Brigade, and he was
J. HOW LETT ROSS, orator and journalist,
well known to listeners-in to 3 LO and
5CL. He has received a tempting offer
from the leading lecture bureau of the
United States to give a series of lectures
on Australia and recitals from Aus-
tralian authors.
a brigade commander in France until in-
valided in 191(3. A notable organiser, he was
Q.M.G. of the C.M.F. and a member of the
Military Board till he retired with the rank of
Major-General in 1922. For some years past
lie has been organiser for the Nationalist
party in Victoria, and at 61 is still a live,
wire. If elected, he will be the fourth Aus-
tralian brass-hat to reach the Senate. The
others are his old Bananaland chum Major-
General Tom Glasgow, Brigadier-General
Elliott, of Vic., and Major-General Cox, of
N.S.W.
THE STATESMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Said Winkle unto Binkle as he spread liis
paper wide,
“It seems to me the working-class is never
satisfied.”
“You’ve hit it,” Binkle acquiesced, ‘I ve
said so from the first.;
And, mark my words, a Crisis on this Com-
monwealth will burst.”
“The country lacks a statesman” —Winkle
shook his sapient head —
“The Government don’t govern and the
leaders are the led.”
“Too right,” said Binkle, sternly ; “if things
were left to Me,
I'd dump these agitators on an island out to
sea.”
“Still better, I would drown them,” put in
Winkle. “Though severe,
’Twould warn the older countries not to send
their riff-raff here.
The principles of unionism, mind you, I
uphold
As sound and just”— “They were, until a
stream of Russian gold”
“Exactly” went on Winkle, “but the work-
ing-class is blind.
By Moscow agents all the time the coun-
try’s undermined.”
“It's all this Soviet Government, which,
having made a mess
Of Russia, tries its tricks on Us.” “Yes,”
answered Winkle —"yes,”
“See you some more.” “Good-bye, old man.”
And Winkle’s little legs
Soon twined around an olfice-stool, while
Binkle bartered eggs.
And Bruce went blundering blindly on, un-
conscious of the fact
That government, both sane and safe, and
leadership that’s lacked,
Could be combined to-morrow in a Winkle-
Binkle pact.
VICTOHIA.
WAWBERESH.


HER SEAT ON THE LEAGUE.
“In closing the futile discussion on disarmament, M. Boncour (France) declared that even if disarmament failed, the League, which had other tasks to fulfil,
would continue to exist." — Cable.
“No, sit up, dearie, and. I’ll tell you another bed-time story.”


V'
■zsr
—
If
l-t/m . fT' ~
Vvr-'-'
t-* a;
.>v vsi»»
Os
" =r ~'~"'
r
/SC?
SK
re n>« II
>vX~
&
n- —XI-
‘*V'C H. -‘vJ,
- VN«
.
«*k, T* v. <c~\ Kiy*
,'l/ *•
3
ixv y. r{f\ iof
Mfti-fvi?:
H?
fc#
.1;
'ii ///.;/'
W
wmw'
\W'\‘"‘
//S
igs
ggagg
&
Cv^VX'
X 7«
:XJ
\\
55
;\
' Xt'JrzS
K
7=
x'
vS
\N
</5
A>
II
i: 111 l n
'l! ‘v |
; i (.< i .-»' -> —_\-i
U?
f
CL
ll 1
A i|A=ll .
5 v
I Xx,A-\
Pi
uf
AA\
r.
& XX-
w! M
W'<&U
i-xi
m
|C/
x r ii!‘*
jgg4
-ii fr
1 Lv f 1
3
/6
®A3
xVa
V , i«imiYfl , :i ! : :
&
V
; i
4de
|i;;i
I
P
A
m,-
TSI
«
r Old-,
,r
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
|mg
A
r bottled by the makers a
VhoMAS hardy &SONS LIMITED^
AIDE MELBOURNE & SYDnpv ?
X AD SOUTH AUSTRALIAN W| NE EV^
*T,S
•sr'" E x 1 PINT 6 FLUID 02S.
1
ii
3
I'YX /
m
o
*?ST
Fortunate Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wmes.


df
Everlasting Never “leak Blow-off Valve
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only by—
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
I
Shield Design Links,
9ct. Gold, 18/6; 15ct.
Gold, 35/- Extra Heavy.
27/6 and 65/-
Gifts that Men
will liKe and use
Double Oval Links.
9ct. Gold, 21/-; 1 sct.
Heavy, 35/- and 80/-
Heavy 35/- and 80/-
d
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET. CASH ONLY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Student Prince
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Palace (com. Saturday) “Lap of the pods’’
Empire “Annie Laurie” <k “Kris’,
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans”
King’s “The Donovan Affair”
Princess Shakspearean Plays
AtiieN/Eum “Saturday’s Children”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
-«*-
Australian-writer Hugh Stone is respon-
sible for the new play with which Gregan
McMahon’s company w r ill replace “The Bird
in Hand” at the Sydney Palace on Saturday
night. It is called “The Lap of the Gods,”
and has been approved by Galsworthy.
* * *
Irene Homer continues to be slightly indis-
tinct but very endearing in “The Patsy”
at Sydney Criterion. As the cynical wastrel
in “Interference,” at the Royal, Leon Gor-
don makes a noble ending nightly and at
occasional matinees, sacrificing the few re-
maining hours of his life for people whom
the audience would like to see happy. The
sound of rehearsal for the coming “The
Vagabond King” is the only warning so far
that the reign of “The Student Prince”
draws to a close at Her Majesty’s;
it is understood that the vigorous male
chorus will find a place in the new piece.
At the St. James, dark warnings
about “Rio Rita” being on its last weeks
are given; but it will probably be
allowed to complete a six-months’ run be-
fore Elsie Prince comes back again with
“Good News.” The management mentions
that close upon 300,000 people have seen
the production. The Empire is continuing
with the “Annie Laurie” film and the brief
musical comedy “Eris,” in which the pony
ballet continues a brisk attraction.
# ¥ *
The crumbs that fall to the Australian
dramatist look like becoming more plentiful.
At the Newtown Majestic, Kate Howard
ran for three weeks with plays written
by herself; and George Sorlie is finding the
local product “My Pal Ginger” received with
appreciation at Sydney Grand Opera
House. The play is honest out-back melo-
drama, made. topical by the discovery of
oil under the cow-paddocks of Dad Bradley,
VERA GERALD, who plays the mother in “The Patsy,"
at the Sydney Criterion.
whom Billy Stewart presents as the ortho-
dox be-wliiskered husbandman standardised
in Australian fiction. There are some ordi-
nary villains who aim at foreclosing on the
farm and securing the oil before Dad gets
to know about it; and an arch-villain who
plans to snatch Mary Dawson, a country
school-teacher rather overdressed for
the part, from the loving arms of Jack
Bradley; also there is the latter’s pal Ginger,
brought back by him from the husks
of Sydney; and Ginger, although anxious to
reform for the sake of Jack’s sister Elsie, is
not squeamish about cracking a safe or a
head in the cause of virtue. Before the
close it becomes obvious that no lawyer
would have an outside chance of getting
Rex Saunders (Carl Francis) off under the
First Offenders Act. The company handles
the robust material well, George Sorlie estab-
lishing himself in particular favor as
the Sydney tough with the soul of a Robin
Flood. Gracie Dorran, as the school-teacher,
and Barbara Birch, as Elsie, made a pair
of attractive feminines for the sentimental
interest to be fastened on.
* * *
Sydney was not given any opportunities of
hearing Madame Xenia Belmas during the
course of the Grand Opera season, and those
who flockpd to the Town Hall on Saturday
were surprised that no use should have been
made of a voice so full of rich color and
backed with such a dramatic temperament.
The singer opened with Agatha’s soliloquy
from the second act of “Der Freischutz,” in
which she charmingly showed her capacity
for expression. Her programme was full of
variety and included (of course) the “Jewel
Song,” sung with a remarkable freedom of
effort; but probably the most appreciated
item was Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “The Rose En-
slaves the Nightingale.” An occasional stri-
dency is the vocalist’s worst blemish. Dr.
Alexander Kitchin, the lady’s husband, helped
with the accompaniments, and violinist Cyril
Monk and pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith
were other capable assistants.
* * *
Long Tack Sam was greeted with acclaim
on his return to Sydney Tivoli on Saturday
night. Perhaps it is too much to claim that
lie has returned with “an entirely new act,”
but even if the bag-of-tricks of Chinese mys-
tery and acrobatics remains much the
same, the show is as good as ever.
Long Tack Sam’s showmanship is a superb
asset, and the celerity with which the per-
formers move from one trick to another
keeps interest on the bubble. Tom Mahoney,
an Irish comedian, is another notable addi-
tion to the bill, from which the sensational
Barbette is to disappear at the end of this
week.
* * *
Gale Wyer’s Bandbox Revue is finishing
its season at Fullers’ Theatre (Sydney) this
week with “The Commercial Traveller,” a
revue made rather tiresome by the delibera-
tion with which its jokes are worked, but
relieved by the humors of Bill Bovis in two
distinct characters and by some bright
dances. Saturday will introduce a new oom-
bination of hard-
working mirth-
makers, including
Ike Delavale (who,
it is to be hoped,
will be less tire-
some than the ordi-
nary stage .Tew),
Charlie Megan and
Reg Hawthorne —
the last is remem-
bered for some good
work with Jim
Gerald.
* *
Donald Mackay
took with him on
the last of his ex-
ploring expeditions
a movie - picture
camera, in order to
catch Arnhem Land
on the hop, so to
speak; the result is
an interesting film
which was given a
private screening
at the Fox Film
rooms last week.
The opening scenes
are laid in Darwin,
of which few Aus-
tralians have any-
thing approaching
a correct concep-
tion. Quite a lot
of the wilderness
looks like land
that could be made
fruitful and popu-
lous if some Gov-
ernment went about
the job in the
right way ; and the
Wilton and Roper
rivers provide some
magnificent scenery.
“Sadie Thompson” remains a tropic dis-
turbance at the Regent Theatre (Sydney) ;
the bill, shackled to “Diamond Handcuffs,”
seems likely to last, although “Fazil” is
announced as a coming production. At Hoyt’s
De Luxe, George O’Brien as John Ogletree
serves a totally unmerited sentence in the
mines of some Afnerican State where convict
labor is apparently still in vogue, and plays
Joseph to the Mrs. Potiphar of the wife of
the mine-owner, a scoundrelly person who
secured John’s downfall, and, now, annoyed
at his wife’s conduct, plans his death. An-
other lady helps John’s escape, but the silly
chap feels in honor bound to serve his sen-
tence, and is only saved from doing so by liis
innocence being established. The film is
labelled “Honor Bound” and is linked with
“The Lights of Paris.” “Somehow Good”
brings a good British film, with Fay Comp-
ton in the chief
part, to the
Lyceum. Rin
Tin Tin has a rival
in Dynamite in
“The Hound of
Silver C r e e k,”
shown at the
Lyric, dashes off
with a bundle of
papers so as to
prevent them from
falling into the
hands of a crook.
That a four-footed
animal should ap-
preciate the value
of documentary evi-
dence gives huge
delight to a public
which finds a new
charm in dog-foiled
villainy.
* *
The menu served
by the Schubert
cenfe narists in
Melbourne was:
S o u p.... sugar;
Fi s h... .sugar;
Entree .... sugar;
Jioint. ...sugar,
and Sweets....
sugar. This was
not the fault of
the concert-givers
but of the nature
of the dead com-
poser. That fine
pianist Edward
Go 11 labored
through a long
evening at the
Assembly Hall to
infuse heat into a
succession of placid
numbers. Another
evening was given
over to a trio, a
quartette and a
quintette. Bernard
ZILLAH BATEMAN as the threatened wife in “Interference,
at the Sydney Royal.
Heinze’s violin was not the same instrument
in the second item as in the first. With the
assistance of Stanley Tompkins, William
Lamble and Louis Hattenbach, Heinze ren-
dered the arrangement for strings with charm
and elegance. The last and best of the
centenary celebrations was Elizabeth Pin-
schof’s vocal recital. Schubert was a natu-
ral spring of song melodies, and she had
600-odd to choose from.
* * ¥
Melba’s finai farewell was brought one
final farewell nearer by a packed and furi-
ously enthusiastic matinee at His Majesty’s
last week. The diva was never in better
acting temper than in the two closing scenes
of “Bohfeme.” Of the voice there was little,
but the whole performance was a triumph
of mind over matter, and the simple realistic
tragedy of Mimi’s death once more pene-
trated to the bosom of an audience. Little
earnest Browning Mummery, as a comically
got up but terribly serious Rudolfo, received
—and earned —a good half of the plaudits.
In the background Brownlee, as Marcello,
supplied some exquisite touches of gentle
comedy to the melancholy of the deathbed
scene. To round off an Australian occasion
Fritz Hart endeavored to modify the trans-
ports of a local orchestra, exuberant at the
thought of being engaged to help make
operatic history. Melba, as a Desdemona
tremblingly and prayerfully awaiting in her
nightdress the advent of an amokking
Othello, concluded the proceedings.
* *
Rin-Tin-Tin, who is a good deal more in-
telligent than some film actors this paper
knows, is this week saving a jockey from a
band of crooks. The jockey is a virtuous
jockey and deserves to be saved, virtuous
jockeys being scarce. ‘A Race for Life,” is
the title of an exciting story. Hoyt’s is
backing a good picturisation of the late
Don Byrne’s “Hangman’s House,” and a
fine British handling of the life of Nelson
completes the evening’s tale.
The Princess and the Palace, whose back
yards adjoin in Melbourne, will both stage
plays on Saturday by authors whose names
it is considered unnecessary to mention,
though for different reasons. “The Merry
Wives of Windsor” will be the business at
the Princess, and “No. 17,” a mystery drama,
the preoccupation of the Palace. That
approved comedian Walter Cornock, assisted
by Compton Coutts and others, will inter-
pret the latter work.
* * ¥
“The Adorable Outcast” and her deplor-
able surroundings are being silently dis-
cussed on Melb. Auditorium’s silver sheet.
The story is more or less Australian, being
derived from a Beatrice Grimshaw novel:
some of the actors hail from Hollywood and
much Steele Ruddian farce interrupts a
somewhat disconnected and mysterious narra-
tive. Most of the white people who infest
the admirably-photographed island paradise
are such unwashed and unconscionable
scoundrels that Iron Devil, chief of the head-
hunters of Penam, behaves like a perfect
gentleman by comparison.
At Melb. Comedy Miss Vanbrugh con-
tinues to present herself in the part of a
charming middle-aged woman with the green
heart of a girl. This week—and next week—
she will be “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans.” With
give-’em-muck factories in full blast almost
everywhere else in town, a critic has to be
thankful for small mercies, amongst which
please don’t include Gwynne Whitby’s
attempts at an American accent or Dion
Boueicault’s endeavors to turn the part of
Pfere Clement into a Eucharistic Congress
of liistrioonic over-emphasis.
* ¥
Eager crowds are pouring daily into Melb.
Playhouse to' inspect an alleged screen ver-
sion of Marie Stopes’s “Married Love,” and
exasperated multitudes are pouring out
again; having discovered that the story does
not contain a solitary word about birth con-
trol.
* # *
Archibald and Cornelia Carlyle, the Lady
Isabel, Lord Mount Severn, Sir Francis
Levison, Little Willie and other well-known
characters belonging to the great emotional
drama “East Lynne” were rescued from the
Waters of Oblivion by the Bill Ayr co. in
Melbourne on Saturday afternoon. The
bodies were conveyed to the Palace Theatre
and artificial respiration applied from 2.15
until 5, but without success. Efforts to re-
store consciousness will be persevered in until
Saturday, when a new co. and “No. 17” are
due to arrive.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre entrusted
Tcliekov’s “Seagull” mainly to young blood,
though Catherine Neill, as producer, herself
took the part of the actress mother, and
Malcolm Symons was the gentle but fascin-
ating author. The alleged “comedy” of Rus-
sians all temperamental (with the accent on
the temper), quarrelling and love-making
with a cat-like alternation, is in truth a dull
thing; but the three audiences politely re-
frained from applause at such obvious
chances as “You are so incomprehensible.
We are too simple to understand you.” Or
—“Nobody does anything; and all discuss
their theories.” The two old hands already
named gave their usual polished rendering.
Prominent among the new-comers were Edna
Heysen as the neurotic maiden, Bobs Trevor
as the fascinated country girl, and Philip
Peake as the only hero on record who com-
mits suicide twice in one play —the second
time successfully. But the Rep., from top
to bottom, must get busy with two reforms to
come back to its old form—speaking up, and
not dwelling on the action to “dragging”
point.


INSURE WITH THE
STd
9
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established IS7B.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Manager.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
fy
When you face a problem
outside your personal experience,—>
that’s where the Alexander Hamilton
Institute comes in!
We invite you to send for this
little booklet, which will tell you all
the details regarding the Alexander
Hamilton Institute. It will cost you
nothing and may mean a great deal
to you in the months to come.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
XX CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w. b 4
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Buralary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com*
pensation. etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1918.. 207,504 10 p.c. = 77,504 130,000 525,000
1919.. 152,452 15 „ „ 116,257 36,195 561,195
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up.
£1,550,090 transferred to capital.
1920.. *88,713 31 p.c. = 87,192 1,521 47,521
1921- . 231,725 7$ „ „ 174,385 57,340 104,861
1922.. 199,485 7i „ ~ 174,385 25,100 129,961
1923.. 211,289 74 „ ~ 174,385 36,904 166,835
1924.. 215,257 74 „ ~ 174,385 40,872 207,737
1926.. 228,118 74 „ ~ 174,385 63,733 261,470
1926.. 224,600 7f „ ~ 180,198 44,402 305,872
1927.. 230,901 8 „ ~ 186,011 44,890 350,762
* Portion of year only.
1928.. 182,836 7 „ ~ 162,759 20,077 370,839
The general trade depression which pre-
vailed during most of the term, and the ill
effects of unrest in the shipping and coal in-
dustries, are reflected in the latest accounts.
These claim a net profit of £162,836, or
£23,065 less than in the previous year. The
difference between that and the profit shown
in the table represents additions to the in-
surance account and the repairs, renewals and
replacement reserve. The former stands in
the books at £210,000, and the latter at
£160,000; their combined increase last year
was only £20,000 as against £45,000 in each
of the two preceding terms. Incidentally,
the contents of these reserves and over a
million more were handed out in the big
one-for-tliree gift issue which made paid
capital £2,325,135 eight years ago. Their
growth since has been undisturbed, from
which can be assumed that losses and repairs
have been otherwise provided for. Out of
each year’s earnings an unspecified amount
is set aside for depreciation of the fleet and
plant.
The wholesale writing up of assets in
1920 makes plain the fact that the board
took advantage of the fat returns won during
the war period to put away much more than
was necessary for immediate depreciation
requirements. But conditions are very dif-
ferent now. For one thing, it is pretty cer-
tain that opportunities to stow away profits
on the old scale no longer exist. Last year’s
visible result was the poorest since 1920;
profit fell away to 7.8 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 9.9, 9.6, 9.8, 9.2 and 9 p.d
back to 1923, so the final distribution was
reduced to 3 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year.
The marine-cooks’ strike tied up a large
number of the co.’s ships in May and June,
and the 15 tons per gang per hour policy
—it is about half of a fair thing—adopted
by the waterside workers in .North Queens-
land helped to pile up the outgoings. Then,
because the co. refused to add three men
more than was necessary to the crew, the
new motor vessel Katoora was declared
black and had to be taken out of the Queens-
land trade. And now there is a general
trouble on the waterfront.
Nor is that all. Adelaide Steam, like
other Australian shipping cos, is substan-
tially interested in coal. It has large hold-
ings in Abermain and East Greta, and its
revenue must have suffered appreciably from
the reduced divsl received fromi those
sources. The cumulative effect of many in-
creases in the cost of production of coal and
transportation in Australia have resulted
in such a heavy loss of trade that a crisis
has developed in the industry. Until a sub-
stantial cut can be made in costs, no perma-
nent revival in the trade need be looked for.
The subsidy plan put forward by the Govern-
ment has been rejected by the miners’
representatives, though it meant, as far as
the coal cos. are concerned, a reduction of
Is. per ton in selling price. The outlook is
far from bright.
During the year one of the co.’s vessels
was wrecked on the Queensland coast;
another stranded at Pt. Lincoln but was
refloated; a third was sold; two small cargo
boats were added to the fleet and a 9000-
ton motor passenger vessel is expected to be
in commission by next April. Apart from
tugs, tenders, lighters, etc., the eo. had 33
vessels at work at June 30, aggregating
72,420 tons, and that was 4807 tons less
than was employed a year earlier. All this
is reflectetd in a reduction of £112,754 in
the book value of the main asset: —
1923. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital . . £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Liabilities .. 232,331 198,876 185,614
Steamers, properties,
• investments, etc. 2,338,385 2,423,127 2,310,373
Commonwealth Loans 323,662 452,717 532,588
Stocks and stores 93,497 56,638 ,50,421
Book debts & cash 198,043 211,880 242,020
The more or less liquid surplus (£689,415),
including stocks, was £117,056 stronger than
at the previous balance. And the position
is even better than it looks, because a sub-
stantial wad of Government securities is
included with the fixed assets.
Owing to the disturbed conditions in both
coal and shipping, the stoppage of work at
East Greta and a rather poorer opinion of
Abermain developments, the market has re-
vised its estimate of the value of the co.’s
scrip. A year ago 265. 3d. was paid; the
best recent price was 225. 6d. The return at
the latter figure is 6.2 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to 225. 4d.
in net tangibles.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £
Preliminary exes., £25,612 . . 25,612
1927.. 4,947 Nil 4,947 20,663
Reserves.
1928.. 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
This co. issued its prospectus in 1925, and
commenced earning in January, 1927. It
started off with a contract from the N. S.
Wales Government for 50,000 tons of cement
a year for three years at £2 17s. 6d. per
ton without bags at the kilns; wage in-
creases to be added to the contract price.
Two units with a total capacity of 100,000
tons have been installed at the works, which
are on the Mudgee line, 152 miles from
Sydney. The first six-months’ production
was from one kiln. Last year the two units
were at work, but the output was much
below the stated capacity of the plant, so
apparently nothing very large in the way of
outside orders has been yet won. After pro-
viding for taxation, the accounts claim a
trading profit of £50,866, of which £15,000
was reserved for depreciation. No div. was
declared. The balance of profit (£35,886),
which was 7.1 p.c. on the £499,172 of paid
capital at June 30, remains in the business
to strengthen the finances. Thus _ share-
holders can now see the whole of their capi-
tal intact and £15,203 besides.
The fly in the butter has been the un-
expectedly heavy cost of equipment, as a
result of which the co. had gone outside for
£169,248 at June 30, 1927. Last year
£32,480 of new capital was got in. This
and surplus earnings enabled £51,234 to be
clipped off the debt (now £118,014), which
includes provision for taxation. Stocks
(£39,296) were £3522 heavier, and £9386
was added to book debts and cash. (£31,546).
So the improvement in the financial position
amounted to £64,142, liabilities being re-
duced to £47,173 in excess of the more or
less liquids. Shares in other cos. were un-
changed at £35,009. The figure represents
the co.’s holding in the Kandos-Coomber col-
liery. On fixed assets (£526,539) £4204
more was spent during the term than was
written off.
Thus far, though progress has been made,
results have fallen short of prospectus esti-
mates. These figured a net profit of over
16 p.c. p.a. on an output of 80,000 tons.
However, the board’s treatment of the pro-
fits that have been made appears to be a
wise one. The contract with the Govern-
ment will be completed by June, 1930. Mean-
while competition threatens to become much
keener; also rapid changes, many of them
affecting the cost of production, are taking
place in the industry. Of course, the de-
mand is growing, but none of the plants at
work in N. S. Wales have so far been called
upon to produce to capacity. That is to
say, they have not only not yet been able
to develop their full earning power, but
there is always a danger of a cut in prices
in order to increase output and reduce over-
head.
At the annual meeting there was competi-
tion for a seat at the board table, and sug-
gestions of mismanagement were heard. But
a big majority of the shareholders did not
hesitate to express their confidence :n those
in control by returning the retiring director
—P. R. Higgins (chairman). With him on
the board are A. J. Swan, James Murdoch,
W. W. Ivillen, L. Napier Thompson and E.
J. Gorman.
Walters, Ltd. (Maryborough, Q.).
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 11,570 7 p.c. = 9,133 2500 12,373
1919 . . 47 Nil 12,420
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9,291 2750 12,384
1921 . . 12,198 7 „ „ 9,291 2750 12,541
1922 .. 30,478 10 ~ „ 12,419 2750 27.850
1923 .. 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2760 62,672
1924 .. 18,014 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 45,174
1926 . . 19,983 10 ~ ~ 12,419 2750 49.98 S
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73,048
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 •• 42,000
1927 . . 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 43,954
1928 . . 17,801 10 „ „ 12,419 2500 46,836
The past term opened with all the big orders
completed; and there was nothing worth
mentioning in the way of contracts in sight.
However, small orders came along in suffi-
cient volume to keep the machines occupied
and, after adding £2500 (shown as written
off in the table) to the plant-depreciation
reserve, the board was able to declare a profit
equal to 12.3 p.c. on the paid capital com-
pared with 11.5, 13.8, 11.6 and 12.3 p.c.
back to 1924.
Including two bonuses, shareholders have
averaged 15 p.c. over the last seven years,
and £34.295 was added to the insurance,
equalisation and general reserves, which are
included in the table. From 1920 to 1926
the more or less liquid surplus climbed from
£63,510 to £193,443. The board then de-
cided that it could safely distribute part of
the accumulation, and £3i,O4S (ss. per share)
was handed out in 1927. The equalisation
reserve was dipped into for only £7988 of it;
the balance was fished out of inner reserves.
These had benefited by at least £24,674 over
the preceding five years, that being the total
of the carry forward which was quietly
slipped away over that period. The undis-
tributed balance of the 1927 profits (£46SB)
was visibly added to reserves.
There have been many changes in the
character of the co.’s plant since the public
became interested 40 years ago. < The
building of mining machinery, to which the
co. owed its origin, has long been a dead
letter. And steam boilers, once a regular
item in the annual output, have almost dis-
appeared from the list. Even the construc-
tion of locomotives, which has been an im-
portant branch of the co.’s activities for the
past 30 years, has been more intermittent
than it should have been, mainly because bad
government has piled up wages and taxation
bills. Partly to overcome this difficulty, plant
has been remodelled during the last two
years at a cost of over £38,000, of which
£30,000 has been written off out of the plant
replacement reserve. Last year an extra
£lO,OOO in suspense was also struck off;
thus reducing the book value of fixed assets
to £78.647 at June 30. The depreciation re-
serve (£53,000) is equal to 67.3 p.c. of that
figure.
Here is a 10-year survey of balance-sheet
items (fixed assets are shown less the de-
preciation account) :
1918. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities . . 33,890 86,361 42,949 84,201
Fixed assets. . 47,350 33,158 32,740 25,647
Stock-in-trade 25,873 35,231 35,699 42,542
Investments . . 52,050 101,102 78,944 85,065
Completed work,
cash, deposits,
etc. .. 58,316 143,471 97,132 114,395
The more or less liquid surplus was £11,025
lighter than at the previous balance!. The
value of work in hand was little more than
a quarter of the 1927 figure. But since the
close of accounts orders have been received
for the construction of 10 locomotives for
Queensland and three for Tasmania; also
a fair volume of general orders has come in.
All this will be sufficient to keep the re-
organised plant busy for the next 12 months,
ano more.
On the market, sellers ask 235. 6d. for
the fully-paid pound shares. The return at
that price is 8| p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing amounts to 275. 6d. in net tan-
gibles, of which 235. sd. is more or less
liquid.
Wentworth Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney):—
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 15,359 10 p.c. = 3500 11,859 5,453
1921.. 8,698 10 „ „ 3500 5,198 10,651
1922.. 9,672 10 „ „ 3500 6,172 16,823
1923.. 5,761 10 „ „ 3500 2,261 19,084
1924.. 4,443 10 „ „ 3500 943 20,027
1925.. 5,571 10 ~ ~ 5000 571 20,598
1926.. 5,008 10 „ ~ 5000 8 20,606
1927.. 8,776 10 „ „ 5000 ) 64 „ 0 070
Written oft, £3712 .. ] 64 20,b7
Loss.
1928.. 2,976 Nil 17,694
That is the biggest set-back since the
public became interested in 1912, and it fol-
lows on the heels of the third-best profit.
The board blames industrial legislation and
loss of revenue due to the shipping hold-up,
which interfered with inter-State traffic.
Also, it is certainly true that work in con-
nection with the city railway, now nearing
completion, affected the year’s figures. liigid
economy is, it is reported, being exercised in
all departments, and a much better showing
is anticipated at the close of next accounts.
Nevertheless the board decided to withhold the
year’s distribution, even though a reserve
of £7OOO has been accumulated for the pur-
pose of equalising dividends.
At the beginning prospectus estimates went
askew, and it was eight years before share-
holders got a div. For the next eight years
they received a regular 10 p.c., and £20,670
of reserves were accumulated, though mount-
ing costs had reduced margins to a trifle
a couple of years ago. In addition to the
lay-by shown in the table, there is £24,417
in a depreciation reserve (up £1772 during
the year). It is equal to over 60 p.c. of
the book value of plant and fittings.
One of the things that have helped to get
the Wentworth ticketed in the public mind
has been its ballroom, and competition in
this connection has become keener of late.
For all that the co. should be in a fine posi-
tion to reap future harvests from the good-
will that the management has built up. The
p w^ e rd-ssa7e:r a fr£|yM-|
bridge. nf Unlnnce-^heet
Here is a comparison of balance sneet
figures:
1925. 192/
Paid capital .. £50,000 £50,000 o ,
overdraft .. 26,262 27,797 24,6./S
Sundry creditors .. 9,749 7,478 6,439
Freeholda & leaseholds 71,119 72,918 72,526
p] ant> fixtures, etc 18,081 39,635 40,364
Garden cafe .. 10,626 10,626
Stocks .. • • 4,241 v
Book debts .. 2,476 3,243 3,964
Cash etc. .. .. 1.454 lfito
Chief movement there was tlie lep y
of £10,626 which the co. had advanced on
mortgage over the Garden Cafe. T s (
the board to reduce its own mortgage by £313.)
o.nd the amount coming to trade credit ►
x-irv>o \fn C t nf thp hnlnnon was used to
±loo9. Most ot the Daiance wa^
pay the 19-7 div.; thus the fmancia P -
worsened by £6540 during the year, tr-
excess of liabilities over more, qulds ’
including stocks, mounting_ to its.
Ihe pound shares, which sold at Ala. bd.
before the publication of accounts, are now
on otter at 205., without attracting buyer.,
Ihe cover figures out at -7&. Id. in net tan
gibles, excluding the depreciation reserve.
0.T., Ltd. (Vic.).
Nominal
Net Dividends
Profit- Dividends. £ £ £
16 358 8-3 p-Cf _ 11,133 4,335 43,041
1924." 13A07 6.6 „ „ 8,907 4,200 47,241
192r ,. > 20,039 10 „ „ 13,360 6,679 53,920
1920.. 42,277 20 „ „ 26,720 15,557 69,477
1927.. 38,438 20 26,720 n,7iB 81,i9a
Written off *- Bo °® •• ” 75,69
8 p.c.' 20 p.c.
1928.. 36,427 2006 26,720 7,707 83,402
Written off, £2OOO .. .. 81,402
r jij ie board put the year’s net profit at
£46 327, or £1142 more than for the previous
term; but £5OOO of that was visibly set
foJ . taxation ant j depreciation, and,
f ur ther, the contingency reserve was drawn
upon for £4900 during the year. Thus the
fi ua i figure is reduced to the £36,427
pointed in the table. The amounts shown
ag written 0 g are reserved for factory
improvements; actually they are whisked
aw P y to inner ’ reserves .
Three years back new departments were
a dded to the London business and exten-
sjons were made to factory premises there
and ‘ in Melbourne and Sydney. A leap of
OVCI . p c f n net pro fit followed, and busi-
ncgg jj as Co ' n ti D ued to expand since. Last year
£95000 of 8 pc pref. capital was got in.
an<J ’ the money mostly into plant and
debts However, the visible spring in
g°£ gg d pro^ 8 on account of Australian trad-
ing (£73,100) was only £2447, and exes,
(f 59 753) ate up an extra £2603.
Th ’ e n ' xt compar i so n shows the sources
frQm which the co > s pro fits are gathered:—
1027 192 g
_ £ ' £ ' £ ' £
Net trading profit 4,065 14,048 13,472 13,348
Dividends, etc. 42 1,611 1,712 2,979
Foreign—
Dividends .. 10,000 30,000 30,000 30,000
In 1924 foreign divs. were 21 p.c. on the
Qf holAing (£47,455), which
remained unchanged in 1926, so the div.
t h at year was at the rate of 63 p.c. At
j une 3Q ) as t foreign and Australian invest-
mentg wgre lumped at £65,473 ( up £2084
6 ur i n g the year), and that was £7112 less
than the combined figures two years earlier,
In 1927 the board turned down an offer of
£200,000 for Kia Ora, Ltd., the London
business. Last year the offer was renewed
a t £250,000, but was again refused because
0 f the expanding profits won during the last
three years. Clearly, then, foreign invest-
ments are very much undervalued in the
books. Nor is that the only hidden strength,
Further, dividends from abroad are for the
12 months to Sept. 30, 1927; therefore the
results of nine months’ foreign trading was
j n band when the books were ruled off.
Balance-sheet movements suggest brisker
trading :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £133,599 £140,387 £158,599
Sundry cre ditor S.. 27,930 21,922 17,609
Land > buddings, etc... 18,380 22,722 16,609
piant » etc 61 19 500 2 7,947 33,133
Shares etc 47,455 63,389 65,473
Sundry debtors .. 41,270 56,749 63,25 i
stock 26,534 40,523 54,932
Cash 5,842 4,693 40
The year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£100,643), including stocks,
was £20,600, or £1349 more than the improv. -
ment in the previous term. Land and build-
ings are in at cost (£ls,s2o—down £2147
during the year) and for the most part th,
figures are over 10 years old. During the
year a new concentrating plant was installed,
which it is hoped will enable the co. to ship
fruit-juices overseas at a saving of about
80 p.c. in freight and container costs. Also
machinery for the extraction of oil from
oranges and lemons was put in, a new con-
veyor system was installed and other im-
provements made. Progress in America is


Good Tyres Deserve Good Tubes —Goodyear Tubes
Traction
Dependability
Wear
fdf
Now made in Aus-
tralia, the New
LOW GOODYEAR
PRICES apply to
all sizes and types
of INNER TUBES
and all CASINGS
other than a few
sizes which are in
small demand.
«2flK
watt.
¥/
!ft.
’//////
111
A
Wk4P
%
<*
i.
JP*
3h
'////////////"'
Smp,
'/M&'
gg»T
'///////"""'
f////ZZ///S//4
w
W/ w
Cm.
Wt&m &
gTilll /*stp I
I i *7«*l */A v I—
/» f
W l^
i
F
f
II
|||
f ?
I
tjj
:/
1
V'f
frjrf?
m
•////'
%
\ \
4 1
< i
R,
e
WHATEVER car you ride
in, whatever road you
travel Goodyear
Tyres will yield traction,
dependability, wear.
TRACTION, proceeding from
the new type All - Weather
Tread.
DEPENDABILITY, proceed-
ing from SUPERTWIST,
Goodyear’s highly elastic and
durable cord material.
WEAR, proceeding from
Goodyear’s new and tougher
tread compound. Thus may
you ride safely, securely, no
matter the weather or the
road. Thus may you ride at
the lowest possible cost per
mile.
Next time fit the new
Australian - made Goodyear
Balloon.
0 o • •
Goodyear Tubes fit the tyre
perfectly because they are
built and cured on a circular
mould.
Lively, red rubber guaran-
tees you longer trouble-free
mileage from both the tube
and the casing.
And the testing of each tube
—stretched 25 per cent. —
under water before leaving
the factory guarantees uni-
form quality in every tube.
Fit a new Goodyear Tube
with your next Goodyear
Tyre.
GO
TIT!
>H£


GUIDE YOUR MONEY INTO THE
RIGHT CHANNELS OF REVENUE
New Power Shovel and Portable Washing Plant System
for winning alluvial tin.
STANNUM DRAGLINE TIN COMPANY, LIMITED,
Capital: £32,000 in 32,000 Shares of £1
ASSOCIATED WITH COMPANY —
J. C. SOLOMON, Contractor, Hunter’s Ilill.
0 R. MACKENZIE, Contractor, Clarence St.
c! G. CALMAN, of \Y. Adams & Co., Ltd.
I*. W. MERPIELD, Metallurgist, Glen Innes.
\V. E. LONG WORTH, A.M.1.E., Consulting
Engineer.
At. .T. JOHN, A.M.1.E., etc., Con-
sulting Engineer.
Shows over 35% NET Profit annually, together with full return of capital
in 5 years, plus interest.
Public, Business and Technical Men have Invested.
Call at office for full explanation, or write for prospectus, press extracts, etc., to
THE SECRETARY,
Rickard House, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(A FEW SHARES STILL AVAILABLE .)
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
OCTOBER NUMBER ON SALE FRIDAY
SINCLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -f GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose, from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.—A dvt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
Walter E. Cameron, 8.A., formerly Deputy Chief
Government Geologist, Queensland, late Economic
Mining Geologist, Federated Malay States Govern-
ment. Reports on Possibilities for Oil, Tin, etc
Address: Tatong, via Benalla, Vic. — Advt.
* * * *
Roma-Mooga Oil Fields, N.L. —50,000 Shares
applied for. Twelve companies boring or preparing
to bore in the vicinity. Shares, 5/-, 6d. application,
6d. allotment. For Prospectus and Shares, Meudell,
Sharebroker, 135 William-street, Melbourne. — Advt.
■%. >1: s i :
In 10, 20 years’ time Pioneer Wood Pipe will
be found giving tlie same good service as the day
it is installed. Full volume flow unimpaired by-
age is maintained, for no sediment nor alga: can
find foothold cn the smooth inner bore. No cor-
rosion nor tuberculation occur to choke down
capacity. Write for catalogue. The Australian AVood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtvee
Bridge), Lane Cove; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAjL—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.t.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
The largest
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE Ql ARRY PLANT. .
Hacllields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
reported to be slow; elsewhere the demand
for the co’s products is on the increase.
Since the close of accounts it has been
decided to make a one-in-one bonus issue to
the ords. This will call for £133,599 and
visible accumulations at June oO were £•-*-,ill i
short of that, so, presumably, some of the
inner reserves will be brought fo light Also
it will make paid capital £292,198 m 20,000
prefs. and 267,198 ords. Of course a 29
p c div on the ord. capital as increased can-
not be iooked for; but the pref. requirements
and 10 p.c. to the ords. will call for £<66B
less than was netted last year, li ollowing the
announcement the price of the ords. rose
sharply to 685., but later cased to 655. The
return nt the lower figure after allowing for
the div. (45.) and the gift, is 6 % p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The well-protected prefs.
are also priced on a 61 p.c. basis.
Red and Checker Cabs, Ltd.
This is an amalgamation of Melbourne
Red'Cabs, Ltd., and the Checker Cab Co.
(\ T ic.), Ltd. It commenced operations in
October, 1926, and net profit's of 36 p.c. p.a.
on a paid capital of £160,000 were spoken of.
For the seven months to May 31, 1927, the
operating profit was £ISO2; after charging
administrative exes, and depreciation this
was turned into a loss of £7352. Better re-
sults were anticipated at the next balance,
but the operating profit for the year to May
31 last fell away to £1146, and after charg-
ing up oifice overhead (£6490) and deprecia-
tion (£17,886) a loss of £23,229 showed up,
making the total loss for the two years
£30,612, equal to 3s. lOd. per £1 of paid
capital. The board parcels out the blame
between trade depression and keen competi-
tion. Good savings are said to have been
made lately by reorganisation.
The most important item in tlie sheet is
the 200 cabs, which with garage and general
equipment figure at £105,917. That was after
having written off £24,959 over the
last two years, or 3s. lOd. of each £1 of the
purchase price. Since each cab, etc., still
has a book value of over £5OO, and as full
work cannot be found for them, doubt arises
whether the depreciation lias been sufficient.
Freehold, which consists of a garage at
South Melbourne and another at St. Kilda,
is in at £39,259 (cost). Other tangible
assets total only £5352. The overdraft
(£33.527, up £11,576 during the year) and
other liabilities increased £9326, reaching
£38,363, and it does not look as though they
can, with safety, advance much further. In-
tangibles amount to 6s. 2d. per £1 of paid
capital, and 13s. 3d. of the remaining 13s.
lOd. represents the hook value of cabs and
equipment. The co.’s continuance in.business
largely depends upon the fleet finding suffi-
cient employment to earn profits. When that
can he done there is the outside debt calling
for reduction, then the intangibles.
Present indications are that the co. will
be very fortunate if it manages to pull
through without heavy los3 of capital. The
market pays only 2s. 9d. for the scrip; it
thus discounts the hook value of the fleet by
about 80 p.c.
Australian Investment Trust.
The Australian Investment Trust, Ltd., lias
been launched in Sydney with a nominal capi-
tal of £1,000.000 in £1 shares, of which
300,000 are offered. The Phoenix Investment
Co. takes 10,000 paids and £3OOO cash fox
promoting the venture, and 690,000 shares are
in cold store. Broadly tlie co. proposes to
operate along lines similar to those followed
by investment trust cos. in Britain. The pro-
spectus gives a list of 30 of these cos. which
have paid dividends from 5J p.c. to 20 p.c.
on their ordinary capital. It is worth noting,
however, that 62.7 p.c. of tlie total funds,
including reserves, on which they operate
is represented by debenture and preference
capital. This class of capital is obtainable
in Britain at a much cheaper price than
would have to he paid here. Not a great
deal of notice, therefore, need be taken of
l he results won by trust investment cos.
operating in Britain.
By spreading its funds over a wide range
of securities, and by careful management of
the investment portfolio, the co. hopes to get,,
a higher average return than is usually
obtainable by tlie small investor. The pro-
spectus furnishes a table showing results
from the purchase, on July 20, 1926, of 100
shares in eaeli of 49 selected cos. listed on
the Sydney Stock Fxclihnge. For the period
to Feb. 29, 1928, it is claimed that dividends
plus profit on new issues, the rights to which
are presumed to have been sold, would have
returned Ilk p.c. on the capital outlay in-
volved. But during that time there was a
flood of new issues, which means that the re-
turn from that source was above normal. The
return from dividends averages only about 6
p.c.
The primary aim, of course, should be
safety of capital, and that is pretty certain
to mean small returns to begin with. Suc-
cess in this class of business largely depends
upon the management's skill in making a pro-
fitable exchange of stocks. Capital profits
made in this way usually remain in the
business; as reserves are thus gradually
accumulated and re-invested, improved r -
turns can be looked for. This reserve-fun
policy is the corner-stone of sound trust
company
The N.S.W. Government is going to
appoint two accountants to make still an-
other inquiry into the affairs <>t Sydney r er-
ries, Ltd., which has raised a storm by jump-
ing the charge for crossing the harbor from
2d. to 3d. —for very many years it was Id.
The announced increase does not, however,
affect season-ticket holders. There is a tre-
mendous amount of argument as to the true
history ’of the co., and the “Mild Cat
Monthly for October tries to clear it up.
The entire situation will be found discussed
at length and in plain terms. The Monthly
will be on Friday.
Ardlethan supplied N. S. Wales with its
last little boom, and that was in the days
before the war. The Carpathia, the one
product of the field which has given much
besides disappointments, has just had its
15th birthday party, and chairman Alec
Markell was still able t 0 smile on share-
holders last week. When the tin market
sagged the mill was closed; but developments
underground were so good that the board
decided to resume with two shifts. Even at
the present price of the metal there is a bit
of profit; and as on July 31 the co. had
close on £7OOO in hand after providing for
all outstanding claims, shareholders are not
without hope. There are (50,000 shares fully
paid to 10s. and 44,070 contribs. paid to 7s.
* >;= * *
Stewart’s Permit No. 53 at: Roma-Mooga,
25 miles north-east of the Roma O.C. No. ~
bore, is being closely watched on the field.
So far the bore has gone through lour
gas shows, the latest at 683 feet. This makes
the gas horizon about SOO feet above the
Roma No. 2 bore gas horizon. The hole
is on the west limb or leg of the Roina-
Mooga anticline, and it is expected that oil
will be met with about 1700 ft. The rig is a
standard or percussion outfit, and the strike
of gas with a petroliferous smell is regarded
by experts as being a favorable sign. A fea-
ture of this northern part of the Roma oil-
field is that 12 holes are being drilled or
arrangements made for their early drilling.
Another thing whispered about it is that
that excellent business man Archbishop
Duliig is a shareholder in Stewart’s. Well,
if an archbishop gets in early on Queensland
oil lie may do for his church what Jong dcad-
and-gone Dean Backhaus did for his church
at Bendigo.
:{: ❖ ; I : Hi
Placer Development, a co. floated on a
dollan (American) basis in Vancouver in
1926 to develop options in Alaska and South
America, has recently taken an interest in
the New Guinea goldfields. Most of the
shares are held in Australia. The original
capital was 150,000 dollars in 30,000 shares
of five dollars each. The directors recently
issued 30,000 new shares at one dollar pre-
mium. Two of the co.’s engineers, L. A.
Decoto and L. J. Joubert, are now on the
field with an elaborate plant for testing and
examining the dredging areas over which
the co. has an option—Joubert, by the way,
is not the old Papuan and New Guinea min-
ing hand. The property to be tested con-
sists of three mining leases on the Bulolo
River originally taken up by Guinea Gold.
These were exhaustively tested last year by
Tom Horton, when Guinea Gold gave a
Sydney company, known as Territories
Investments, an option over them. On
Horton’s report the option was relin-
quished. There is no reason to suppose that
the American engineers will find higher
values in the properties than Horton did
when he advised against them. The “Wild
Cat” doubts, too. whether it w r ould be prac-
ticable to work the leases as dredging areas;
for one thing, the ground is narrow.
More startling statements come from New
Guinea. The latest, sponsored by the Admin-
istrator, is that a new auriferous lode at
Namie Creek is 33 feet wide, and that from
it the Warden obtained nine samples ranging
from 390 z. down to 15oz„ the average being
250 z. per ton. Most of the samples appear
to have been ordinary dish tests, which are
always guesswork, and the way shares in
N.G. Gold have been bouncing indicates that
the public is guessing, too.
Coorong Oil Co. (S.A.), after spending
£1616 for the 12 months to June 30, shows
a p. and 1. debit of £25,404. Paid capital is
£55,385; there is only £4l coming to credit-
ors, and £BO9 has been reserved on account
of application fees. Mineral license interests
figure at £30,000, plant £278, leaving only
£552 in cash and book debts.
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) has got rid of its
new issue of 25,000 shares without any trouble,
and has decided to supply a further 5000 for
those who were unable to get any of the first
lot. London was recently urged by a well-
known Perth mining man to take a wad of
the co.’s remaining reserve shares, but did
not respond. Possibly the present industrial
situation scared it.
Perth and Ivalgoorlie market valuators are
puzzled to know what is propping up Lake
View and Star. Last year the co. made a
few thousand profit on the treatment of ore,
but this was mopped up for depreciation and
other charges. This year it will be lucky
if it achieves even as much as that. The
opening up of rich ore just across the Horse-
shoe boundary in the Chaffers lease, backed
by the sale of 200,000 shares, is said to
fully explain the big enhancement of the mar-
ket valuation of the show, but it looks as
if it will be a long time before recent buyers
get their money back plus a fair rate of
interest.
* * *
Golden Horseshoe’s board, which was re-
cently strengthened by the addition of F.
11. Hamilton and another representative of
the guarantors of the new share issue, is
preparing to do things. A report on the pro-
perty by an independent expert is to be
made, arrangements are in train for samp-
ling the mountainous pile of already-
retreated tailings on the surface with a view
to further retreatment, and a comprehensive
scheme of underground development is pro-
posed. If results from this work are all right
the strong crowd at the back of this show can
bo relied on to look after the market.
H$ ❖ * #
The stock of new goldmines having run
out in Westralia, some of its derelict camps
are being searched for old ones which will
warrant reopening. Two, the Lancefield, at
Laverton, and the Harbor Lights, at Leo-
nora, have already been tackled, .and others
in the more northerly districts are receiving
attention. Boring is also to be resumed at
Ivalgoorlie and Boulder, but mostly for allu-
vial deposits.
* * * *
Sand Queen-Gladsome, Comet Vale
(W.A.), has called up the whole of its capi-
tal. Last half-year 210 G tons of ore and
830 tons of broken ore and sand were treated
for 13830 z. valued at £4871, or £3 10s. an
ounce. The cyanide plant had not been work-
ing satisfactorily, and nearly the whole of the
tailings, worth 9s. a ton, had to be treated.
Since the books closed 132 S tons have been
crushed, for £2370. Stoping has been started
from each of three levels. Assays range
from 655. to 855., and the reef on No.
5 level is 2ft. wide, and on No. 6 3ft. 9in.
$ * ® *
Westralian Machinery Investment Co., con-
trolled by C. de Bernales, has acquired the
Lionel asbestos deposits and a large area
of country besides in the Nullagine district
(W.A.). From these deposits 1000 tons of
mostly good stuff have been extracted in the
past, and, according to Professor David, they
rank among the best in the world.
* * * *
Alluvial Tin, which disposed of its Kiuta
Valley holdings as from the end of March,
1927, to Tin Investments of Loudon, has had
some anxious moments since. The price agreed
on was £500,000 cash and 250,000 paids in
a £1,500,000 co. to be formed to work the
properties. A deposit of £50,000 was paid
at the end of last April, and the balance was
to have been handed over by the end of
June. But London did not receive the new
flotation with enthusiasm, so the time for
payment was extended to September 30. Allu-
vial now advises that the money has come
safely to hand. Holders of Alluvial scrip
get share for share in the new co. The cash
consideration is subject to liabilities, which
totalled £19,769 at March 31, 1927, and
exes.
Alluvial was formed in 1923 with a paid
capital of £20.000, which grew to £250,000
by the capitalisation of £230,000 of reserves
in 1926. Following the recent announce-
ment buyers lengthened their offer from
465. to 525. 6d. Sellers stand off at 565.
Burma Malay, which started life in 1925
as a holding and prospecting co., has been
added to the list on Sydney Stock Exchange.
Authorised capital is now £150,000 in
£1 t shares, and subscribed capital £40,000
in f.p. £1 shares. Of the co.’s two
flotations to date. Katu, with an issued capi-
tal of £150,000, is expected to start digging
next October. Itenong Consolidated, the
other subsidiary, launched a dredge pontoon
in August, and erection is now proceeding
Capital is 200,000 in £1 shares, of which
£150,000 is issued. Katu has been estimated
to contain some 400 acres of dredgable
ground averaging from .871 b. to .721 b. to the
yard. Renong’s values arc estimated at .721 b.
to the yard for 30,600,000 cubic yards.
* ❖ *
Satupulo’s dredge, which was ready to set
in about seven months ago, but was hung up
on account of trouble over the lease, com
menced digging on Sept. 9 and is reported
to be running satisfactorily. It should be
through the overburden and winning tin by
the end of this month. The machine, which
is equipped with jigs and classifiers, has a
capacity of 130,000 c.y. per month. The
co. bought 101 acres, containing about
7,800,000 c.y. of B.Boz. dirt, from Siam
Concessions for £10.300 in fully paids.
The property was bored by H. H. Miller;
the average depth was 48 feet.
Takuapa’s No. 2 dredge began digging last
week. The plant is a big Diesel-electric, and
should considerably add to the co.’s monthly
output, with a consequent effect on profits.
It is not expected that the wash will be
entered before the middle of October.
# * * *
Bundi showed a falling-olf in production
last month, when 18S,000 yards were turned
over for 88 tons; average, 1.0511 b. per yard.
August figures were 164,000 yards for 90
tons; average, 1.201 b. to the yard.
* * * *t
The third triennial Empire Mining and
Metallurgical Congress is to bo held in South
Africa in 1930. Sessions will be held at
Capetown, Kimberley, Johannesburg, Bula-
wayo and Durban, the whole itinerary cover-
ing about 47 days and some 7000 miles.
Every mining centre of importance and in-
terest from the Kimberley diamond-mines to
the prehistoric workings at Zimbabwe will
be visited. D. L. Stirling, secretary of the
Australasian Institute, wants all members
of the institute and associated bodies who
intend making the tour to notify him as
soon as possible. For varied interest this
Third Congress promises to outshine its pre-
decessors.


V'/M
a®
m
m
* ?
%
■W\&
%
m
jVV/dMm.
ft
MMzB.
*d
Plant your Acorn
Now and watch
it grow!
//
•dks from
Little
TWO SHILLINGS A DAY
Buys a
CHARMING HOMESITE
Let the money you would otherwise squander represent the
acorn. “Plant” it in one of the homesites shown below.
Follow up the first deposit with monthly instalments, which
average 2/- a day. As time passes, the land grows in value
and in the end is worth considerably more than you have
actually paid for it.
For giving absolute value in
land, Rickard’s stand alone.
Hereunder is a selection of splendid value lots, which may be
purchased on a deposit of £7 to £B, and thereafter at 2/- a day:
TORRENS TITLE
The coupon below will bring full particulars. Fill it in and post to us to-day.
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD
“The House of Ten Thousand Homesites,”
RICKARD HOUSE, 84 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 86491-2.
MOTOR TO INSPECT.
CARS LEAVE OUR HEAD
OFFICE EVERY DAY.
’Phone, write, or call, and let
us motor you to inspect, free
of obligation.
Please post me plans and particulars ( without
obligation)' of Letter advertised in The
Bulletin of 19/9/’2B.
NAME
ADDRESS


siqi)orir)a lofi Oal (V)oi)tie —T^ e
Famous Priwa OoQQa Praises the
Famous soap s69p
d
Girls/ Why l)ot Eoi°y
f) Good (oMpleyioQ^
You cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash
your face do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, but that
your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh an
free from blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not
assert this influence, as you are well aware. Many of them contain free alkaa
which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate texture.
Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the skin,
but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, but is medi-
cated on the same principles as the famous Rexona Ointment, which is known
throughout Australasia as the Rapid Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for the skin and face what cosmetics are
supposed to do, by ensuring not only a clean face, but a pure and healthy skin,
and thus gives vou a clear complexion.
SIGNORINA TOTI DAL MONTE, the famous
Prima Donna, uses Rexona Soap, and writes us as
follows: “Since my first visit to Australia, I have
used your famous Rexona Soap, and think it is
just wonderful for the skin and hair.”
'
$
■
a
r ommm
'l wv charming studies of
Signor in a
TOT I DAL MONTE.
Signorina
TO Tl DAL MONTE,
as she appeared in “The
Daughter of the Regi-
ment.”
rr
SO^
T 7"
'Jill
m
m.
5K
77v/
777'
vs*-
i
\o"-
' h
o\>^'
"/////
linimmi' l '
m
'/m
TSpJjealiH and^cauiy


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
For many years Peapes have
concentrated on lightness in
Summer clothes for men, so that
the present-day trend towards
extremely light clothing for warm
weather wear finds them prepared
with suits as light as silk, yet
as smart and durable as heavy
tweeds.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
LYMAN
fd
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
ďfd
No. 42 Receiver Sight for
Savage 19, 22, 23A, 238,
23C, B.S.A. N 6. 2 and
W.O. Model, Winchester
56 and Mauser 22cal.
Price 22/6 each.
No. 26.
No. 26 Front Sight
with Ivory or Gold
Bead. Price—
Ivory, 5/6 each.
Gold 8/6 each.
The Lyman principle of aperture sighting brings
the rear sight close to the eye. You can aim and
fire instantly, always keeping the object sighted
in full view. A great aid to accuracy. Send 6d.
for Sight Catalog and Chart, which tells correct
sights for your gun. Used by shooters for over
40 years. Free Folder.
fd
No. 10 Shotgun
Sight.
ďf
df
No. 10 Ivory Shotgun Sight. Pre-
vents under shooting and cross firing.
Price complete with Reamer, 7/6 each.
d
No. 2 A
Comb.
Rear Sight
with
Disc. Built in a turn down
peep. Pat. thumb lock.
Price 22/6 each.
For ‘prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LIMITED, P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP., 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 5, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“The Rut”: “Soda” (B. 29/S/’2B) should
stick to rabbits. I agree with him that rab-
bits have not reached the Gulf of Carpen-
taria yet, but sheep-raising in the Gulf
country is not a failure. Within a radius
or 60 miles of Burketown there are well
over 60,000 sheep; Inverleigh West has
28,000, and expects a 50 per cent, lambing
this year. As for a jumbuck living six
months of the year in lukewarm water, the
statement is absurd. The flood waters go
down at the most 10 days after they come
up, and the only danger is that the sheep
washed away; but the careful owner
has his flock above high-water level in ample
time to prevent that.
* * * *
“Atherton”: Along the coast of Cape York
Peninsula large areas of country become bogs
in the wet season, but these morasses arc
covered with a deceptive hard crust of grass,
clay and pebbles. A line of packhorses will
be mooching along quite comfortably on solid
ground, when suddenly the leader throws up
his head, making violent efforts to swing up
on his hind legs. The following horse then
goes down, and if the team is inexperienced
in a few minutes every horse is caught. The
only way to retrieve the bogged animals is
to unpack like greased lightning—cut the
girth to get the saddle off if necessary. If
the bog is shallow the horse may be rescued
by ramming grass, bushes and logs under
him to give him a footing. Even then he
has often to be helped by a leverage of sap-
lings under his belly, and the mucky job
may be complicated by the rescuers getting-
bogged themselves. In deep bogs a horse
sinks very rapidly, and the more it struggles
the faster it goes down. When the mud has
got over its neck and is climbing towards the
out-thrust head, there is no hope.
* * * *
“Salambo”: To be likened to a totara-tree
is the highest compliment one can receive
from a Maori. In Maori imagery the totara
typifies strength, beauty, greatness and up-
rightness. In the old days, on the birth of a
chief of high degree and on many another
ceremonial occasion a totara sapling would
be planted, named and endowed with a per-
sonality. Its history was handed down, and
it was regarded as sacred. The basis of this
high esteem was the strength and good work-
ing qualities of the totara timber —the Maoris
were quite advanced carpenters before the
white men came. From totara were made
bird-snaring troughs, elaborately-carved can-
oes and food-baskets, and the wood was a
first favorite for house (whare) building.
The berries were an article or diet, the
leaves were used medicinally, and a dye was
extracted.
* * * *
“Pick”: No animal can outdo the endur-
ance of the dingo. On the plains of Bib-
benluke station (N.S.W.) stockmen came
upon a marauder, slaughtering ewes and
lambs. With their cattle-dogs they gave
chase. Carefully keeping out of reach of
the whirling stirrup-irons the outlaw criss-
crossed the thistle flats of Jincumbilly,
plunged through the swamps of Wangellic
and fled over the stony ranges of Ando. By
then a solitary rider remained in the hunt.
His horse refused a boundary-fence jump, and
the warrigal, no longer chivvied, at once fell
to killing again amongst the paddocked
weaners on Tip-tree. Mustering again, the
stockmen resumed the chase. They followed
YE GODS H— TWINS!
SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE.
McTAGGART: “How does the new team pull, Bill?"
BILL: “Pull! Why, them bullicks’d pull a Scotchman’s foot off a threepenny-bit.”
through the forests of Poddy Hut, over the
creviced hillsides of Bleak Point, through the
reedy flats of the Big River and finally lost
him in the Nunnick scrub. Over 20 miles
had been traversed, and it took days for the
horses and dogs to recover from the gruelling
run. That same night the dingo killed 80
lambs in a Meorigang sheepfold.
* Ms * *
“Lily-Beale”: Cowra (N.S.W.) can boast
a woman gold-digger. At the Warden’s
Court recently Mrs. Daphne Bollinger was
granted permission to enter five acres on
Breakfast Creek station for 12 months to
mine for gold.
* * * *
“AdeL.” : “Te Babarantiko” (B. 25/7/’2B)
hits the mark when he says crocodiles are
slow growers and would soon be exterminated
if systematically hunted for their hides. The
Gulf estuaries and inlets were literally alive
with crocs, up till eight or ten years ago,
but constant shooting and poisoning extermi-
nated them from many of their haunts. In
the neighborhood of Burketown, for instance,
no one would have dared to camp near the
river about the time I mention, and cattle
or horses which attempted to drink anywhere
along the upper reaches made food for the
brutes. To-day thousands of sheep pasture
there undisturbed.
**■ x *
“Nakhoda” : Sea snakes (B. 26/9/’2B) are
like land snakes, inastauch as there are'venom-
ous and non-venomous varieties amongst
them. One variety, however, is regarded as
the most deadly of all reptiles, terrestrial and
marine. This is the one which gives the
Malay his wholesome dread of every swim-
ming reptile. My Malays in Borneo claimed
that if one bit the end of an oar the whole
boat’s crew would die. They were careful
even to keep their paddles out of the crea-
tures’ reach.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: It is quite evident
that “Warradulla” (B. 12/9/’2B) has never
seen a properly constructed ant-mound
oven. When I was in the white-ant country
we always camped next to a beehive-
shaped mound about 2ft. 6in. or 3ft. in
diameter. A hole about a foot square was
cut in the side of the mound about Gin.
above the ground, and a smaller one
on top to act as a vent. A fire
was then started in the spongy honeycombed
material which formed the interior of the
mound, and in about an hour nothing re-
mained but the outer covering of clay. That
was our oven. We filled it with dead wood,
and when it had burned down the ashes were
raked out and the damper, yeast loaf or joint
of meat was placed inside. The openings
were closed by covering with a square of
green bark, kerosene-tin or a flat stone, and
in due time the food emerged perfectly cooked.
When a defect developed in the oven a gob
of wet clay was sufficient to remedy the
trouble.
“Mephisto”: “Atherton's” par about the
thistle seeds that go up in parachutes (B.
5/9/’2B) reminds me of other clever ways by
which Nature makes sure of seed distribution.
Ants are fond of seeds which have “oil-bodies”
or “food-bodies” on their coats, and the violet
bluebell, mignonette and plants of the gorse
and broom families are helped in seed dis-
tribution by the little black workers, who lug
the seeds for unbelievable distances. In wet
weather birds get mud between their toes,
and often this earth, usually conitaining
many seeds, cakes and forms a sort of shoe
on the foot. This earth may be carried
many miles, and every time the bird uses
its feet it knocks a lump off. The next
bit of rain germinates the wandering seeds.
On the Western Queensland plains I’ve seen
thousands of these mud shoes —whole or in
a state 6f disrepair-lying- in the grass or
along the banks of the creeks. Charles
Darwin records that he took a piece of
caked earth from the foot of a bird, kept it
for three years, broke it up, watered it, and
found that 82 plants began to grow from
it.
* * * sit
“Gustave”: “Catalyst’s” par. about boom-
erangs (B. 29/8/’2B) reminds me of a myall
in the old Westralian abo. prison on Ilott-
nest Island who gave an exhibition that was
worth seeing. He had three boomerangs and
threw them, one after the other, well into the
wind. They revolved at a terrific speed,
and returned past the thrower, to land at his
feet. But he was too shrewd to try to catch
them in his hand. I know the reason, too,
as I once got hit with a returning boomerang.
It struck me on the heel of the boot, and so
great was its impetus that it wrenched the
heel right off the boot and left my ankle
sore for over a week. Incidentally, an abo.
will never run away from a boomerang, but
always towards it. Ask them why, and they
merely grin and offer no explanation.
(Continued on page 250
A COOKE IN THE NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Way further out it rained a week
Till, in a surging tide,
A flood came down the Dingo Creek
And far on either side.
By lignum swamp and flat it spread
The station paddocks through ;
Down gullies long years dry it led
Till they were bankers, too.
For miles it covered route and road
The mobs and teams came down ;
And mighty was the stream that flowed
By Gidyagid'gee town.
The old hands watched the waters wide
Sweep past the township door,
And cheerfully they prophesied
“Another ’ninety-four!”
While gran’dads held they couldn’t see
How that was worth recall,
For they could tell of “ ’seventy,”
The “old man flood of all!”....
But as the darkness settled down
Across the waters white
There came to Gidyagidee town
A coo-ee in the night!
“There’s some poor beggar needing aid,”
Was passed from man to man;
And calmly then and unafraid
They made a simple plan.
“We’ll get McCarthy’s dinghy out,
It ought to see us through”—
The craft had lain through months of drought
Half-derelict, they knew.
But one man rowed and two men bailed,
And Fortune turned the trick—
They dodged the floating ti-ees that sailed
Adown the rushing “crick.” /
Through inky darkness far they searched
Till, huddled hopelessly,
They found a sodden swagman perched
Upon a leaning tree.
Then, making back, through flood and snag
They battled as before
Until the nomad and his swag
Were safely placed ashore.
And tending him with rough bush skill
In Gidyagidgee town
They “saw him through,” and kept him till
At last the flood went down.
A simple tale of simple men
Who sought no word of praise—'
The kind that filters now and then
From out the old bush ways.
But I have thought how fine ’twould be
If all men thus would heed
With like unselfishness the plea
Of those that sorely need;
If in the flood of human ill
They all could hear aright,
And answer with a ready will
Each “coo-ee in the night.”
MAOBILAND.
RIVERINA.


%
Di
ny
Sa*
■v* yhiUHltm.
ow
!
v\\\
M
MMMI— 1
ura
f
1
o
in;
M 4,
ililmuu-Au.::.:
"O*
l (a '
“s- ~ -C
=^Sg>
5 r%*r&L •;
3
S=2t
rr-ts
as:
r.FV,
i- Ss
355^.’
3>in
-tf*
: =^SD
kl
dT-.
r?R
1*
_ r
,
CP n
R
IO
CL^ci
ms
31)0
r>o
m
T3l
n
-5-r
h"
B i •''
&9
?d=*^
e*=-Y-
-ay
__ .<
4t*
.?<-< vo
r-.-o
(
x>
r
!C
vjD
E?
?:r=i
Pfrrsl)
<^¥L'
/
• \ : - ''iJJte
e*? Jfi£r
vs;
‘•“•"""T-l
,j»
□ .
a_
Our Valuable Booklet
Road Wisdom
gladly supplied on
application to our
nearest branch.
Just why do you drive carefully—why do
you observe all traffic signs and signals?
You do so for your own safety’s sake, for
the consideration of others, .and because
you wish to get the best out of motoring.
Those are just the reasons why you should
buy carefully, too. The ability of your
engine to respond to every call made on it
depends greatly on the motor spirit you use.
You cannot be sure of this perfect engine
performance by haphazardly filling up at
whatever pump is nearest.
Careful motorists select Plume. Its superior
volatility means easy starting, sweet run-
ning, more miles, smooth power and a
cleaner engine.
The Wisest Sign to Observe
is the sign on the Plume
Pump.
MOTOR
SPIRIT
VACUUM OIL COMPANY, PIT L T jL


THE CLIP on the ROAD
Consign it where its sale at full market
values is certain. Place it in the hands of
selling brokers who, season after season,
prove their ability as salesmen by consis-
tently securing highest possible results for
grower's.
Send the ivool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD*
SYDNEY or BRISBANE.
The firm’s popularity is solely due to their
success in doing well for clients.
*e
6
0-
\«
<v
It is only the purest tobacco wrapped
in snow-white paper without any
trimmings that has made “The Greys
the Best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters.
THE 100 % VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LTD., Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
Play Safe with
RUPTURE
Rupture
carries too
many grave
risks for you to
wear anything
but a depend-
able Truss
such as Den-
yer’s. This
Elastic Truss
has a patent water-pad which ensures effect-
ive support with every comfort and freedom.
Write for free pamphlet.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street, Sydney.
ďf
“Mnlgo”: Wave Hill, the mammoth cattle
run of North Australia, is linked with a pio-
neer named Sam Croaker, a noted cattleman
of his day, who met with a tragic end. The
first small mob of cattle that was put on
the run was taken out by Croaker across
hundreds of miles of trackless country in
the days when Tom Cahill was pioneering the
Victoria River and P. B. Durack was doing
the same in the Kimberley cattle country.
Afterwards, at Auvergne squattage, Croaker
was playing cards one night for tobacco. The
other players were a white stockman, a half-
caste named Charlie McManus, and the
Chinese cook. There was no unpleasantness
during the games, except that the half-caste
sulked over a few sticks of tobacco he had
lost. After leaving the table he got a Snider
rifle and shot Croaker. He then compelled
the stockman and the cook to bury the body,
standing over them with the rifle until the
job was completed. During the night he
left, taking all the tobacco with him, but
was soon afterwards caught and hanged.
if if * *
“Peria Dorei”: New Britain natives re-
cruited for work in Samoa during the Ger-
man regime in New Guinea are drifting back
to their homes after 15 and, in some cases.
20 years of absence. One such
gent, presented himself before the
District Officer of an out-station
not long ago. He was arrayed in a
white drill suit, white socks and
brown leather shoes. A white silk
shirt topped by a soft collar and
spotted bow-tie elegantly thrust
itself into notice from underneath
the white jacket, from the breast-
pocket of which a liberal portion of
red silk handkerchief protruded.
Adorning the head of the wearer
was a felt hat of the softest of
greys, tilted at a rakish angle, and
in the grasp of the right hand was
a suitcase of bright yellow cowhide.
Advancing to the writing-table at
which the D.O. sat, the returned
wanderer presented a letter which
announced that the bearer had re-
turned from Samoa, and that his
home was in the D.O.’s district.
Taking another good look at the
vision to assure himself that it was
real, the D.O. called in his police-
boys. “Take those things off,” he
said, pointing to the superfluous
garments. It was a crestfallen
native who left the office, clad in
a lava-lava in accordance with.
Government regulations.
si: * *
“Long Un”: That horse of “Nota
Greeing’s” (B. 5/9/’2B) did not
open gates or swim rivers to get
home to Victoria. When camped at
a railway siding just this side of
Hillston (N.S.W.) we saw him come
through the railway gates and examine
an empty horse-box. But it was labelled
for Cootamundra, so he started off to walk
along the line to Tocumwal. On that route
there arc no gates and the rivers are bridged.
THE BEAUTIFUL CONSISTENCY OF GRANDMA.
“I’d like a holiday this afternoon, sir. My grandmother is dead, sir.”
“But didn’t I give you an afternoon off a month ago because your grandmother was
dead?”
“Yes, sir—she is still dead, sir.”
“Up North”: Up north when their broods
are hatched the duck mothers educate their
offspring in pools among the tangled man-
grove swamps. Some pools are weedy and
alive with duck food; fish of all sizes and
the countless things which the mangroves
shelter. Here the mothers paddle soberly
the livelong day, teaching their fluffy babes
THE SELF-SACRIFICING MALE AGAIN.
J ACKY: “Alary, you smokem too much—go black in the face. Gibbit me."
Hie business of life. Here comes the shadowy
form of the master animal, spying the duck-
lings with greedy eyes. Cunningly across the
water outlet he places almost submerged
snares of plaited grass, then vanishes, among
the trees. An hour later and a terrific yell
startles the halcyon stillness. A black man
is leaping up and down at the entrance,
splashing the water and howling. The
mother ducks agitatedly skim across the
water towards the outlet followed by tlieir
frantic broods. These get their legs and
heads hopelessly entangled in the fine grass
mesh.
* * * *
“Womera” : I know now why the Papuans
never succeeded in gaining a footing in Aus-
tralia. During the Administrator's last
tour a display of markmanship was staged
on the Aitape beach. A hundred warriors
pranced up to a mark with bows and arrows
to shoot at a target 25 yards distant. Only
three hit it. Had they been North Aus-
tralians none of them would have missed it
at twice the distance, either with spears or
boomerangs. The Papuan does his deadliest
work with a pineapple stone club or a pig
spear at short range, and preferably when
his enemy is not looking.
“Catalyst”: The writer of “Coonardoo”
makes a spear “whistle” in the first instal-
ment of her prize novel (B. 5/9/’2B). As a
matter of fact, a spear makes no sound
whatever in flight—not even the fastest
driven womera spear; arrows are equally
silent. As the spear leaves the hand there
i s a slight flicking sound from the arm move-
ment, nothing more.
; j; * *
“Bad Australian” : Big .Tack was the best
man on the job, and aggressively proud of
his capacity for hard toil. A miscalculation
with a time-fuse had cost him an eye, and
he wore a patch to conceal the disfigurement.
One day as Jack was sleeping off the effects
or his usual pay-day jag the funny man of
the gang shifted the patch and clamped it
firmly over ttm good eye; and when he woke
up he found himself in blank darkness.
“Spare me days,” he yelled, “if the other
blanky glim ain’t dowsed, too!” And as the
terrifying possibilities of the situation slowly
dawned on his muddled brain he groaned, “Me
with a flamin’ tin-wliistle an’ me ole dog
Tray on a string! Oh Hell!”
-i if * *
“Salambo” : Some ancient Maori fortresses
have recently been discovered at Waotu, near
the Waikato River. They were built by
the Ngatiraukawa tribe. The outlines of
trenches, terraces and other earthworks are
still discernible, and there are large cham-
bers carved out of solid rock. Cavities for
holding water were drilled in the rhyolite
rock. Piraunui Pa was the greatest of these
strongholds, perched on a hill 100 feet above
the surrounding plain. The deserted pas are
iapu.
“Larrapinta”: Binghi didn’t always use
dogs for hunting in the way desertbed by
“Gouger (B. 5/9/28). I iocL towards an
Arunta camp on the Plenty River
a nd was puzzled to see a number of strange
objects bouncing about among the wuiiies.
When I came up to the camp I found they
were dozens of dogs, each with tlnec »
lashed together, struggling frantically to get
free and howling dolefully. When the abos.
returned to the camp, laden with game, an
old fellow explained why the dogs had been
hog-tied while the bucks were out hunting.
“.Baal takem lukera [dogs] ’long,” he said.
“Him allatime prighten ugurra [emu] ’n
ungurra [kangaroo] ’n atoor [wild turkey].
Him more better sit down quiet pfeller longa
camp.”
* * *
“Breed”: “Pigcat” (B. 5/9/'2S) can add
the Western Queensland sandalwood to por-
cupine and spinifex as a container of oil.
Apply a match to even the greenest and
wettest branches, and you’ll get a flare that
would rival any bonfire. Unlike its big
brother the sandalwood of the North, it has
no commercial value, although the larger
trees make good fencing posts and the leafy
branches good smokes for sandflies and mos-
quitoes.
* t!: * *
“Dimon” : Fairymount, where Kyogle town
has replaced the old squattage and which
will be a railway station on the new inter-
state line, was one time an abo. battle-
ground. Queensland blacks used to come
across the scrubby range at the head of the
river, where the line is tunnelled through, and
were met by the Richmond River blacks at
Fairymount. Hundreds of camp-fires glowed
on those hills at night, a scene that will
never be witnessed again. Kyogle means
wild turkey, once plentiful thereabouts.
* * * *
“Pick”: I dispute “Bad Australian's”
assertion (B. 12/9/’2B) that no muscles con-
trol the pouch of a marsupial. Between the
lining membrane of the pocket and the outer
skin is a sphincter muscle that permits open
ing and closing. When a joey that could not
creep through a hole eight inches in diameter
emerges from the pouch the aperture closes
again to a narrow two-inch slit. Kangaroos
with baby-carrying mothers amongst them,
when on trek or escaping pursuit, frequently
undertake long swims. How could the young
ones su-rvive if the mother’s pouch could not
be made watertight?
*** * .
“Murrungurry”: Camira Billy emerged
from the riverside thickly daubed from head
to feet with yellow clay, and further coated
with dry grass till he resembled a walking-
jumpers’ nest. He was going after an emu,
and carried two thin spears and a red hand-
kerchief. The emu was a silly bird, he told
me, but it had a long nose, and if the hunter
did not daub himself with neutralising mud
or clay the bird would smell him from afar
off and run away. The red flag, which would
be hoisted above long grass, was to play on
the bird’s natural curiosity and bring it
within range. “Won’t it smell the handker-
chief?” I asked him, as it didn’t look very
clean. “No fear,” said Billy. “I rub him
longa ashes.”
CUTTIN’ OUT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you listened in the night-time to your
bell and hobble-chains,
Where the crowfoot intermingled with the
clover on the plains,
When the autumn showers failin' had dis-
pelled all fear of drought,
It was good to be a shearer in the ’nineties,
matin’ out!
When you struck a shed at meal-time feelin’
peckish it was great
To be genially greeted with a hearty “Sit
in, mate” ;
Though your pockets might be empty, still
your prospect wasn’t black
While you knew that you could count on
helping hands along the track.
When you’d reached your destination and
begun to shear at last,
If the backache had you tliinkin’ and your
wrist was tirin’ fast,
And the wrinkly sheep were heavy and
their fleeces hard to cut,
There was music in the raindrops when they
rattled on the hut.
When the last rough mob was mustered and
was waitin’ in the shed,
What a thrill the sight would give you!
How your fancy ran ahead!
Never has the world seemed brighter to my
eyes, beyond a doubt,
Than in days when I went shearin’—and my
shed was cuttin’ out.
N.S.W.
JIM DOWLING.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. AH you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
By returned soldier (34), experienced
storekeeper, position North Australia or
Islands; can keep books, ride, drive car and
handle cattle.—6656.
By man (24), laborer, respectable and
capable, position gentleman’s residence as
gardener and handyman. Can milk and
drive. Go anywhere.—6664.
For N.-W. Queensland, refined capable
woman, nursery-governess four boys aged 3
to 10, and assist in household; £104 per
annum and faro one way after six months’
service.—6665.
By mother and daughter, position as house-
keepers in Q’land. Bachelor establishment
preferred. Good refs. —6712.
By public-school boy (17), job as jackeroo
on sheep station.—-6651.
By returned soldier (29), public-school
education, motor sales, organising, office and
stock experience, management garage or
fleet of cars, salesman in any line, general
station work, organisation of agencies, River-
ina district (N.S.W.), or Vic. Refs. —6652.
By young man, job as jackeroo on large
property, western N.S.W., with view to
learning station bookkeeping. Good refs. —
6642.
By basso, first-class mezzo-soprano, who is
also a good accompanist, as partner in vaude-
ville turn and picture work. —6636.
By cultured, technically-trained man, with
30 years’ experience as explorer, journalist,
analyst, etc., position as representative or
adviser with financial man or co. Good refs.
—6676.
To sell “Australian Encyclopaedia,” 2 vols..
cost £5, £3.—6661.
To sell cottage, Manly, Sydney, large sec-
tion, e.l., furnished or not. —6663.
To sell collection of birds’ eggs. About 200
varieties, mostly Tasmanian.—6640.
To sell Burton’s “Arabian Nights” (un-
abridged), 17 vols.—6732.
To sell Port Stephens oysters, 15s. per
kerosene-tin, £4 per bag, plus freight. Lob-
sters at market prices, plus freight.—6729.
To buy all or any works of James Thom-
son, published 1880-88.—6720.
To buy St. Bernard puppy. Need not
be pure bred. —6709.
To buy Pugh’s “Queensland Almanack” for
1861 and 1868.—6679.
To buy John Pinkerton’s “Travels” (1808-
14), 17 vols. Price and full particulars. (To
Box 344E, G.P.O., Brisbane, Q’land.)
To buy back numbers of Overseas for
1927 and 1928.—6623.
To buy scenery and drop-curtain for school
dramatic society. (To Box 39, Ilay, N.S.W.)
To buy copy of “Australian Encyclo-
paedia,” 2 vols., cheap.—6646.
To correspond with Bulletin readers over
28, living in the Backblocks and remote parts
of Australasia, preferably hunters, trappers,
stockmen, etc. (To Roy Van Zant, Severn
Park P.O., Ontario, Canada.)
To buy stencil set suitable for use in pre-
paring window tickets. —6414.
Whereabouts of Newton Thomas Moller,
last heard of 20 years ago when on the W.A.
goldfields. Sister inquiring. (To Mrs. A. M.
Rugsted, 35 Abel Smith-street, Wellington,
N.Z.)
To let spacious bed-sitting-room in water-
frontage flat, Kirribilli, Sydney, board
optional.—6653.
To inspect copy of London Suburban Direc-
tory for 1880 or thereabouts.—6704.
Directions for making unsinkable canvas
canoe, as used on Sydney beaches. —6715.
Directions for cutting a pattern for a
parchment paper lampshade?—6713.
Information Sought.
Wliat is the best method of cleaning men’s
suits in the backblochs ? —6433.
Sponge with petrol and dry on wooden
garment-hangers suspended from a clothes-
line in the open. Remember that petrol is
highly inflammable. Failing petrol, you can
get a special dry-cleaning soap at a cost of
about Is.
Gan you give me directions for smoking
fish?— 6596.
The fish are beheaded, gutted and split
open, but the scales are left on. After dry-
salting for several days on wooden benches,
they are tied in loose bundles by the tails and
hung over a smoky fire made from clean
wood or bark until curing appears to be com-
pleted. A small quantity can be done sus-
pended inside a large box or small tank over
a fire, but for commercial quantities it is
necessary to build a smoke-house with an
attached furnace-room, the smoke being
directed and controlled as required.
Is it possible to make a household disin-
fectant from naphthaline or mothballs ?■ —
6571.
No; their action is entirely atmospheric.
Use liquid phenol or carbolic diluted with
water.
(1) To whom should application be made
for admittance to Duntroon Military Col-
lege? (2) What examinations must be passed
by candidates? (3) What subjects must be
taken? (4) What are the age limits for can-
didates? (5) What are the prospects of those
who complete the course at the college? —
6481.
(1) District Base Commandant of the
State in which the applicant resides. (2)
and (3) To qualify a candidate must obtain
a pass in English, mathematics and modern
language (French, Japanese or German),
and two other subjects. A medical exam,
must also be passed. (4) Over 16 and under
49. (g) Those who graduate are eligible for
promotion to the rank of Lieutenant in the
g ta ff Corps of the .C’lth Military Forces,
(1) What is the cause of excessive gas
home-made hop beer. (2) Can you sug-
gCSt a recipe? —6s97.
(i) t o o much yeast. (2) Four gallons
water, 3oz. hops, 41b. sugar, -Joz. bruised
ginger, loz. to lloz. yeast. Add yeast at tern-
perature of about 80 degrees. Let stand for
four days, skim frequently, then bottle,
(l) Docs footrot in sheep infect the land
on which they have been grazed? (2) Is
it necessary to close the paddoelcs in which
the sheep have been? —62s6.
(D In the contagious form of footrot
V* land f . is liable to become. infected, out
impregnation usually occurs in the yaids,
and not in the paddocks. Sunlight has. a
b ene fl c i a ] effect. (2) There is no necessity
t 0 close the pa ddocks, hut you might advan-
tageously scrape the surface of yards and
disinfect.
(1) W hat is the population of Toowoomba
<• q y? ( 2 ) J s it the largest inland city
i n Australia? (3) When a bishop is
created, does the toivn that he is appointed
t 0 automatically become a city? —66so.
(1) The population at Dec. 31, 1926, was
23,886. (2) No. Broken Hill, Ballarat,
Bendigo and Launceston are inland towns
with larger populations. (3) It can be
t- ermed aa ecclesiastical city biit jv°u no
unless it complied with
*?. au “n?. ies mil< ss 11 C( . 1 a n
eir conditions as to population, revenue,
etc ’
(1) What are the age limits for entry to
the Australian Air Force? (2) Is it neces-
sary f 0 pass an exam.? (3) How many posi-
tions as a p u ot are open each year? (4)
(j an one become an Air Force cadet instead
of undertaking ordinary military training?
(5) To whom should application be made? —
6648.
(1) Not under 18 and, as a general rule.
n°t more than 35 for the ranks, and between
18 a ? d 25 for (2) Educational
qualifications are leqmied, and theie 18 «<
medical exam. (3) The number is regulated
by the .vacancies that occur. (4) Yes. (5)
The Secretary, Air Board, Defence Dept.
Melbourne. Mark envelope “Employment.”
/ have several 0.0005 mf. radio condensers ,
and (lcsirc to convcrt th T ese into 0.0003 or ’
C.OOI mf. Can this be dcmef-6572.
It is qu i te possible to convert a 0.0005
CO ndenser into a 0.0003 by removing some of
the g xed plates, but a 0.0005 cannot be con
verted into a 0.001 except by connecting a
0.0005 fixed condenser across the terminals
of the variable. If this is done the maxi
mum capacity will be 0.001 and the minimum
O.OOOSmf. lo convert a 0.0005 into a 0.0003,
remove two-fifths of the total number ot
eit her moving or fixed plates, according to
wb j cb are easier to move. Avoid bending the
remaining plates; otherwise a short-circuit
mgy rc sult. The same result is obtained by
connecting a fixed condenser of 0.0005 in
series with the variable.
jj ow t j ie Royal Dutch Oil Cos. consti-
tided, and to what extent are British in-
terests represented? —6s39.
The Royal Dutch Oil Cos. is the British
title of. the Koninklijke Nederlandsche Maat-
schappij, incorporated in 1890 in Holland,
and amalgamated with the Shell Transport
and .Trading Cos., Ltd., in 1907. To carry
this into effect, two companies were formed:
Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Cos., Ltd., registered
i n England with £25,000,000 capita], and
£> a taafsche Petroleum Maatschappij, regis-
tered in Holland with a capita] of
300.000,000 florins. Sixty per cent, of the
capital of both companies is held by the
Royal Dutch Petroleum Cos., and 40 per
cent, by the Shell Transport and Trading
Cos., Ltd. So British interests are well
represented in the company.
Hoto can I remove grease from ostrich
feathers? —6s34.
Wash in rather warm Lux suds with a
c l o udy ammonia added, by dipping in
and out. Dry by shaking in a warm atmo-
S p] Jere) patting the curves into place with
t j ie fingers
(1) j intend to start poultry-farming. How
Urdg cm j ; . ce? f on 2 -, acrcs? (2)
-^7 j ia f i s e breed for laying purposes?
(3) What should be the annual net, revenue
per n rd ? (4) what would be the cost of
erecting fowl-houses, etc.? (5) In what
month of the year should one replace laying
n rds math day-old chicks?— 632o.
(i) Not more than 600 layers. (2) White
Beghorns. (3) With efficient management,
10s . (4) Exclusive of your own residence,
about £SOO. (5) Any time between June
an( j September
How can j ‘ lean fra Uwl eU and
ant i monv 6494 ’
Wagh in * hot ; oapy water . scrub tly
with a fine brush 7 nd finisb with ” silb
cloth
' Can ivG a rcc) ; for linoleum
polish f hat J COuU be sold » t j lUut uQr
Is 6d per lb ? 6556
' T ake \ lh , dark bee swax, 4oz. curd soap 4
pints turpentinej 4 pints boiled water . Shred
wax and soap, add turpentine and let stand
until dissolved. Then add the water cold
Bottle and shake well. Water may be omit-
ted, when a' firm, satisfactory paste will
result.
what wages can a young girl claim in a
small private boarding-house in N. 8. Wales
as waitress and general?—MiG.
In boarding-houses where eight or more
paying guests per week are provided with
food and accommodation, the rate for a
waitress is £2 16s. per week and for a gen-
eral servant £3 4s. 6d. per week. From each
of these amounts 235. 9d. may be deducted
where board and lodging are supplied to the
employees. If an employee combines the
duty of a general servant and waitress and
is employed on the duties of a general ser-
vant for more than 15 hours per week she
should be paid for the whole week at the
rate prescribed for a general servant.
In two different accounts of the trans-
port of the first frozen meat from Aus-
tralia to England, the name of the vessel is
given as Northern and Northern. Which is
correct? —6701
The name Northern is given only in Men-
nell's “Dictionary of Australasian Bio-
graphy.” Five other authorities give it as
Northam, which is probably right.
(1) How is a cocoanut plantation cul-
tivated? (2) What is the production per
acre? (3) What arc the necessary climatic
conditionsf (4) Where are the most suitable
areas in Q’land? —6725.
(1) The land must be kept free from
weeds, with a clean plot around each plant.
The nuts are germinated and plants grown
for upwards of 12 months in a nursery be-
fore planting out. (2) Ten to twenty cwt.
of copra per acre. (3) Humid, with not
less than 75 inches annual rainfall,
within 20 degrees south latitude. (4) The
area of suitable land is limited and confined
to coast lands on both sides of the peninsula,
and in the vicinity of Torres Strait.
What is the approximate cost of regis-
tration in N.S.W. of a limited company
with a capital of £15,000. —6521.
For registration, £9 17s. 6d.; certificate
of incorporation, 6s; for filing articles of
association (if any), 65.; for filing statement
of capital, 6s. Stamp duty is also payable
as follows: Upon the amount of nominal
capital at the rate of 2s. per £IOO or part
thereof, £ls ; upon memorandum of associa-
tion, £1; upon articles of association (if
any), £1; upon certificate of incorporation,
£l.
(1) What workers’ compensation must I
pay for two domestics employed in a small
N. S. T Vales boarding-house? (2) Must a
washer-woman he insured? —6446.
(1) £1 6s. per £IOO of wages paid per
annum. (2) Yes, if employed with any
degree of regularity, such as, for example,
every Monday or every second Monday. The
rate' is 10s. per annum.
(1) How is the rime of high and low tide
calculated at Sydney, Newcastle and Bris-
bane? (2) Why is there only one high and
one low tide in each 24 hours at Port Dar-
win?-—-6612.
(1) By a method known as harmonic
analysis, based on records kept over a long
period and too technical to describe briefly.
(2) Theoretically there are two high and
two low waters everywhere; but at Darwin
there is a very high tide which takes so
long to run out that the next high water
is retarded. This retarded tide does not
reach anything like the height of the pre-
ceding tide ancl it is not noticed.
(1) What were the “seven wonders of the
world”? (2) What are the names of the
seven seas?-— 6677.
(1) The pyramids of Egypt, the hanging
gardens of Babylon, the statue of Zeus at
Olympia, the temple of Diana at Ephesus,
the mausoleum at Halicarnassus, the Colos-
sus at Rhodes, and the Pharos lighthouse of
Alexandria (alternatively the walls of Baby-
lon). (2) The North and South Atlantic,
the North and South Pacific, the Indian,
Arctic and Antarctic oceans.
(1) What was the name of the first play
produced in Australia? (2) What was the
name of the first play produced in a theatre
in Sydney? —s79l.
(1) “The Recruiting Officer,”, by a party
of convicts, on June 4, 1789, in honor of the
King’s birthday. (2) “The Revenge,” a
tragedy, by Young, and an afterpiece called
“The Hotel.” Both were played on January
16. 1796, in a theatre erected by Robert
Sidaway, under the management of. J. Spar-
row.
Can you give me a recipe for vanishing
cream? —6734.
Spermaceti lloz., white wax almond
oil (purd) Boz., rosewater 4oz. Place the
first two in a good large-mouthed bottle and
melt by placing bottle in a saucepan of hot
water on a stove; add the almond oil and
rosewater, the latter being heated moderately
before being added to the mixture. Stir the
whole very quickly until it has the con-
sistency of thick cream. Perfume with aUy
good perfume oil as desired.
In connection with the Federal elections:
(1) How are the votes counted for the House
of Represefntafives? (2) What system is con-
sidered the most desirable by electoral ex-
perts to record the true wish of the electors?
(3) Do you think a system of voting where
first preferences would have value of one,
second preferences one-half, third preferences
one-quarter, etc., would- give effect to the
wish of the electors? —6721.
(1) An elector must vote for all candi-
dates in his constituency, marking their
names 1,2, 3, etc., in the order of his pre-
ference. On the first count only No. 1 pre-
ferences are counted; if one candidate
secures an absolute majority of these he is
elected. If no one has an absolute majority
the candidate with the fewest votes is ex-
cluded, and the No. 2 preferences on his
papers are distributed among the candidates
for whom they were recorded. This process is
continued till one candidate has a majority
over all the other candidates left in the count.
(2) The electoral experts cannot agree. (3)
It might, but an obvious disadvantage would
be the time taken to count the votes. For
replies to your other questions, not printed
above consult the “Australian Encyclopa'dia”
and the Electoral Officer’s report on the first
election held in N. 8. Wales under the pro-
portional representation system.
Does Anybody Know?
How to teach a dog to turn a back somer-
sault.- —6619.
Meaning of abo. word “wendouree.”
—6491.
What year the immigrant ship Yamora, of
Glasgow, last visited Brisbane? —6665.
A cheap method of dressing a black-soil
path which gets sticky in wet weather.
Cement or gravel are out of the question.—
6650.
How to fill cracks in’ plaster walls ? —6755.
Brief Answers.
A.H.E.D.: Provisional protection granted
to you in Australia would prohibit the unauthorised
importation of the invention protected. Provisional
protection in England costs from £5 ss. upwards. Con-
sult a registered patent attorney H.8.E.: (1) The
N.S.W. Impounding Act provides that any occupant upon
whose land animals are trespassing may impound
them. He may claim for any damage done. (2)
The sufficiency of the dividing fence is a matter of
agreement between the holders, or they may submit
it to arbitration. (3) Does not apply.... Reader:
(1) Warren’s Poultry Farm, Punchbowl; H. W. T.
Hambly, King-street, Mascot; and Gillingham’s
Poultry Farm, Matraville—all of Sydney. (2)
Black Orpington chicks when hatched are white and
black, but as they grow older they lose the white
down and, at about three months, there may remain
just one or two white feathers in the wing. When
full-grown, these white feathers disappear... .J.F.G.:
(1) Oriomo Oil, 350 Georgc-street; Anglo-Persian
Oil Cos., c/o Dalgety and Cos., Bent-street ; New
Guinea Oil Cos., 10 Castlereagh-street—all of Sydney.
And Vogel Petroleum Cos., care T. Miles, N.Z.
Chambers, Queen-street, Brisbane. (2) Yes. (3)
It would be advisable to communicate direct with
the companies and ascertain the prospects. . . . J.M. :
(1) Mimosa is the name generally applied to the
European and American species and wattle to the
Australian species of the genus of plants known as
the acacia. (2) N 0.... A.W.L.: If you are convinced
that a breach of the law has been committed, you
should bring the facts under the notice of the Chief
Electoral Officer, Chief Secretary’s Department,
Sydney... .8.5.: If you secure the certificate issued
by the association a position is almost assured. Your
success depends upon your own ability and aptitude.
. ...L.F.: Duty on a conveyance or transfer of
property is 7s. 6d. when the value of the property
does not exceed £SO ; 15s. from £SO to £IOO ;
and 153. for every additional £IOO or fraction of
£IOO. .. . J.W.M.D.: Bolshevik is a Russian word,
derived from “bolshe” meaning the larger; originally
the Bolsheviki were the majority group of the Social
Democratic party. Menshevik is also a Russian
word and means the “smaller”; originally the Men-
sheviki were the minority group of the same party
to which the Bolsheviks belonged... .T.L.: There is
no Australian course for a diploma in librarianship.
London University has a course and there are several
in the United States, but none of those are corres-
pondence courses. The subjects are library admini-
stration, cataloguing, classification, bibliography,
bookbinding, etc. The time required in England
and America is about three years. There are few
openings for librarians in Australia... .S.N.E.: (1)
For 20 lamps of 60 watts each, 1.2 kilowatts would
be required, and the power for a lOin. circular saw
would be about 4 k.w. D.O. Generators can be
obtained in any size, from 1 k.w. up, at a cost of
approximately £lO per k.w. (2) The lighting
could be run direct off the generator at 110 or 240
volts. A voltage regulator would not be required on
a 100 yd. line. (3) The energy of water depends on
quantity and head. With 50 gallons per minute the
head would have to be about 173 ft. to produce 1.5
k.w L.M.W.: Standard reaction turbines can be
obtained for a sft. head. One to give about 1 k.w.
would require a flow of 4 cubic feet per second,
equal to 1500 gallons per minute. Get in touch
with W. G. Watson and Cos., 279 Clarence-street,
Sydney. .. . H.D.; Write to George Eidelbach, manager
Waria River Gold and Platinum Mining Cos., Morobe,
New Guinea.... J.R.: Your statement of the case
omits so many essential details that we can’t advise.
Better consult a solicitor H.A.: Queensland law
makes insanity of one of the parties a ground for
divorce, but there is no similar provision in N.S.W.
law. You were married in N.S.W. and your wife
is in a N.S.W. institution. To originate a petition
in Queensland would raise some very knotty legal
points which only a Judge could decide... .Credit:
If you signed an agreement to pay 10 per cent,
interest on amounts overdue the claim against you
can be legally enforced... .J.R.S.: The consent of her
father, or, if he is not resident in the State, her
mother, is necessary before a girl under 21 can
marry in N.S.W C.F.L.: For 20 gallons of white
paint you would need 4cwt. white lead, 16 gallons
raw linseed oil, 2 gallons turpentine and 1 gallon
terebine. Advise you to buy your paint ready-made.
. ...M.A.M.: The title is immaterial. Your copy-
right covers the drama... .N.L.: This year Long
Vacation begins on v December 22, and it is improb-
able the Divorce Court will have ended its cases
before that date. ... Sonoma: See the U.S. Consul,
Brisbane.... Bushwhacker: Wash your face with hot
water and a very mild soap two or three times a
day, taking care to scrub out any little black-
heads. Dab lotio calamini on the affected
part before going to sleep. Don’t use ointments....
W.C.: Take plenty of strenuous exercise, and, if you
use it, cut out a1c0h01.... S.P.: The address of
Overseas and the Overseas League is Vernon House,
Park-place, London, S.W.I W.H.C.: Marks
Electrical and Radio Cos., 66 King-street, Sydney.
.... G. J.: East Sydney Technical College, Darling-
hurst ; Art School, Q.V. Buildings, George-street;
Royal Art Society, 72 Pitt-street; and Commercial
Art School, 15 Bligh-street—all of Sydney... .T.N.:
Glenelg (S.A.) is named after Lord Glenelg, the
Secretary of State for the Colonies, who first gazetted
the Colonial Commissioners for S.A Digger: If
A’a father originally erected the fence and B has
not at any time contributed towards the cost of
the timber or of the erection of the fence, A is
entitled to the timber... .Polsek:. Better do it by
a promissory-note for the whole amount, or a
series of notes falling due on different dates, if
more convenient. The N.S.W. duty on p.-n.'s is 6d.
for every £25 or fractional part of that sum....
C.T.: Walker’s “Rhyming Dictionary” (10s.), Angus
and Robertson.... C.E.: You will not have to pay
either Federal or State income-tax... .J.L.F.:
“Colonial Everyday Cookery,” Whitcombe and Tombs.
Ltd., 189-191 Little Collins-street, Melbourne
Wheel Chair: (1) Write to Frederick Hall, Reginald
Stoneham, J. E. Dodd or Louis Lavater, all c/o
Allan and Cos., 276 Collins-street, Melbourne. All
are well-known composers. (2) The terms vary.
Sometimes a straight-out fee is accepted; in other
cases a fee and also an interest in the royalties are
required; in others the work is done for a
straight-out percentage of the royalties. (3) Submit
your work to a music publisher, such as V. H
Paling, of Sydney, and Allan and Cos., of Melbourne.
(4) The royalty paid is usually 10 p.c. of the retail
selling price and 50 p.c. of the revenue from a;,
other sources, which is generally evenly divided
between writer and composer... .A.H.S.: M rite to
J. G. Eliott, M.P., Parliament House, Wel-
lington, N.Z J.C.W.: Try the Scottish
Australia's*, 89 Phillip-street, Sydney... .A.E.M. -
Appears to be a form of erythema. Cut
down starchy foods. Storaxol ointment applied
to the parts after thorough cleansing will alleviate
itching and cure the sores... .F.H.S.: A remedy for
mange is one part kerosene, two parts sulphur and
six parts fish oil. It should be rubbed in, left on
for three days, and then reapplied...• (Many others
mailed.) •


BLACK & WHITE
"1
!
mzk > =
mm
mwm
m wm
isi*§g
I«
rp
i :m InnL'
■• it .* "Ml
■
%nM , 'Ktog's jKsi
; ll*
’*■
9m
W'&wrSm •;
•’ --V :■'
.
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Gnyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
HARROLD COWLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G. 11. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn, free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to w T ait longer for your w’ool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
vv
Wa
SMOKERS !
Here is something
different to relieve a dry
mouth or tickling throat.
Try
‘Allenburvys’
‘OSZL PASTILLES
and be delighted with their
soothing effect and refreshing
flavour.
Your Chemist stocks them.
II- and 1/9 per box
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
FARMERS’ WOOL CLIPS.
“Bourn” : The Bananaland Department of
Agriculture has recently promulgated what
appears to be a fairly decent scheme that
may command itself to "Mouton” (B.
12/9/’2S). Farmers owning not more than
1500 sheep may send their clip, unclassed,
to the department, which undertakes to class
it and put it on the market in lines big
enough to avoid star lot sales. No commis-
sion is charged, and the farmer is given a
correct account of his wool and all proceeds
less 10s. per bale classing fee and his pro-
portion of freiarht, handling, dimming and
rebailing charges. If required, an advance of
GO per cent, of the value of the clip may be
secured pending sale. The wool is to be
sold at the first sales following a sufficient
accumulation to enable a bulk sale to be
made. Altogether the idea appeals, and if
properly conducted should be of benefit to
both farmer and buyer. The danger is that
if anything like 100 per cent, of those elig-
ible support the scheme it may easily be-
come too big for the department to handle,
since the latest available statistics show that
50 per cent, of the flockowners in tin 1 State,
numbering over 2000 men, could participate.
CONCRETE WORK ON THE FARM.
“Bert the Carpenter” : Concrete walls for
farm buildings are rapidly coming into favor.
The timber for boxing is, however, often an
expensive item. The cheapest material for this
work is the big wooden cases in which motor-
chassis or -tractors come to Australia. These
are made of boards with tongued and grooved
edges, and are thus first-rate for concrete
work—many big city contractors use them.
If they cannot be obtained, then try Oregon
sawn into lin. boards six or eight inches
wide.
Before using these boards, oil them on
both sides and on ends and edges with used
oil from the car or tractor, and applied hot
by means of an old brush. This oiling not
only stops the concrete from sticking to the
wood, but when the job is finished the boards
can be stacked up out of doors without fear
of damage.
For reinforcing, the old-style No. 4 or No.
G iron fencing wire is quite good enough for
walls: but for tanks something better is re-
quired. For their walls use tin* wire fabric
sold iu rolls, and for the floors new rods, laid
in a spider’s-web pattern. It is unnecessary
to link all the ends together. Wherever rods
cross they should be twitched with thin
wire, and those in the floor should be carried
for two feet up the walls and wired to their
fabric.
Thin wire twitches, passed through small
holes bored in the boards two feet apart,
serve to keep them from spreading when
the concrete is rammed in, and after it has
set these wires can be undone to allow the
boards to be stripped off, and then cut off
flush with the wall and left-Jn the concrete.
Don’t forget that the slower concrete sets
the harder it becomes ; so keep the walls well
damped to make sure they dry out slowly.
TIMBER FOR FENCE POSTS.
“Werrimee” : I did a good deal of fencing
at a time when hundreds of miles were being
erected on cattle-runs and selections in the
Richmond and Clarence River districts,
(N.S.W)., where there was a good variety of
timber available. Ironbark, blue gum, grey
gum, red gum, box, bloodwood, mahogany,
peppermint and woolly-butt were mainly used
for posts, the first three being preferred. In
rail fencing, the first two or three lengths
of the tree, from the butt, were cut for posts,
and the rest for rails. Spotted gum, a beautiful,
free-splitting tree, was used only for rails,
and that not very extensively. There are
two-rail fences still doing service in those
districts that were erected 60 or 70 years
ago. In parts of Queensland, cypress pine, a
very durable timber, is used for fence post 3.
In rnulga and gidya country those timbers
form the bulk of the fencing material; but
the hardest and most durable of all is nelia,
which grows in the dry north-western parts
of N.S.W. and other interior regions. Any
timber lasts longer in the ground if cut when
the sap is down, and “ripe” timber from big
trees is more durable than unripe from
small trees.
FENCING* SPECIFICATIONS.
“Fetterlock”: “C.C.” (B. 22/8/’2B) is
right in advising a written contract for a
fencing job ; but the specifications in the one
he suggests can be improved upon. The spac-
ing of the wires is incorrect. With 13in.
between the two top wires large stock can
easily put their heads through, and if the
wires are at all slack the rest of the animal
will soon follow. Also there is no need
for the bottom wire to be so near the ground
as Gin. For cattle and merino sheep the
spacing should be ajs follows: commencing
from the ground, Sin., 6fiu., Giin., Tin., Sin..
10in., making a total height of 4Gin. Whether
timber is scarce or not, battens should
always be used, as they make the fence more
resilient. A fence with posts 15ft. apart
and having two battens to each panel will
cost less to erect than one with posts 10ft.
and no battens, and will be more than twice
as stockproof. The battens should, be not
less than Sin. x lin., be let Sin. into the
ground, and keyed to the top wire; other-
wise they will not stay in place. - For a
six-wire fence to stop both cattle and cross-
bred sheep the battens should be not more
than Sft. apart, and even then the wires
must be kept tight.
TOP-DRESSING PASTURES.
“Hatter” : There is no doubt, as “Burrum”
states (B. 22/8/'2B), Australian soils are,
on the whole, largely deficient in lime. Where
this is the case the common practice of top-
dressing pastures with superphosphate only
is mere waste. Signs are not wanting to
indicate when the lime contents of soil are
exhausted. The stock show it by developing
the bone-chewing habit, and the younger
cattle have an unthrifty appearance. The
herbage also deteriorates until it consists
mainly of weeds. Plantain, yarrow, hawk-
bit and sorrel all signify an acid soil. Some
years ago M.L. adopted the practice of top-
dressing her pastures with super., and the
results for a time were so encouraging that
the Commonwealth followed her example.
Now, however, she has recognised her error,
and is applying lime and phosphates as well.
It would be wise to profit by her experience.
MAIZE AS SILAGE.
“Yarralumla”: 11. E. A. and V. White,
of Belltrees, Scone (N.S.W.), have been
conserving maize (B. 29/8/’2B) for the last
30 years at a cost of approximately one
penny a bag for air-slacked lime, in the pro-
portion of one quart of lime to a three-bushel
bag. Two men work at a heap of maize,
turning it over as if mixing a batch of con-
crete, a third man standing by to sprinkle
the lime. On one occasion they tested corn,
thus treated, for seed, and after four years
in lime found that 95 p.c. of it was fertile.
“Raphael” : When a lad I worked on the
late David Syrne’s station, Ivillara (Vic.),
where he grew maize on the<rich river fiats.
When the cobs were ripe they were picked
and put through a machine worked by a huge
waterwheel. The straw would be cut and
carted to the chaffcutter to be chopped into
about inch lengths. It would then be sent
down a shoot into a silo 20 feet deep, and
when filled to about a few inches from the
top logs would be placed on it to maintain
the pressure and keep it as airtight as pos-
sible. When opened in the winter it was
placed in bags and carted to the milking-
shed. to be fed to Strawberry and her sisters,
and the way the milk would start to come
would make a grindstone smile.
FARMER AND WAGE-EARNER.
“Meuin et Tunin’’: “P.M.” (B. 15/8/’2B)
says that the cocky whose net income is
£125 p.a. has nothing to complain about
and compares him to the basic-wage earner.
There is no common ground of comparison.
The cocky has his savings invested in an
uncertain proposition. He works 14 or 16
hours a day, wet or dry, and seven days
a week. His wife probably helps with the
cows. Certainly his youngsters do. Put this
family on the basic wage and their net income
w'ould far exceed £125 p.a. Add the interest
at five per cent, on the money involved in
the dairy. Consider the continuous worry
of working the property, also the absence
of comforts lie and his family could enjoy
in the city. There are few cockies that
would not welcome an exchange. The dairy-
men have all my sympathy.
WELDING STEEL.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Welding iron and
steel is a fairly simple job. The fire in
the forge should be of either coke or char-
coal, and must be banked up to give plenty of
depth. The parts to be welded have first of
all to be "upset,” or thickened by heating and
beating on the ends to make a good wide lap.
This ensures that the welded part will be
the same thickness as the rest of the job.
This lap weld is best for ordinary work,
but for laying a fresh piece of steel on the
point of a pick or crowbar it is best to split
the point of the tool, insert a wedge-shaped
piece of steel, weld, and then forge to shape.
To weld, place the two ends to be joined
in the fire, heat slowly to near white heat,
and dust with powdered borax or fine, clean
white sand. This done, heat rapidly until
the metal is at a bright, white heat, with
a shimmering, bluish appearance, as if a
liquid was running over it. Then remove
from the fire, give a smart tap on the anvil
to knock off any adhering scale, place to-
gether, and give a few swift blows with the
hammer. This will cause the two parts to
unite, and the bulge at the weld can then be
forged or swaged down to size.
It is unnecessary to heat the metal until
bright, snapping sparks appear above the
lire, as these show it has been overheated to
burning point. The correct heat for welding
is lower; on being removed from the fire
the iron should give off a faint hissing sound
without any sparks flying off. If tool steel
is overheated it loses its carbon, and then it
is impossible to harden and temper it.
BARBED-WIRE.
“Agricola”: It is false economy not to
use barbed-wire with wire-netting, as it
prevents stock from pressing against and
bulging the netting. I have not yet found
anw way of rolling barbed-wire up except
by working at it with my hands, but here’s
a tip re unrolling it. Get a bush fork Y-
sliaped, and place a spindle in the roll of
barbed-wire; fasten the ends of the spindle
to the prongs of the fork, and then one man
can pull it silong better than two can carry
it on a crowbar.
INDIAN CATTLE IN AUSTRALIA.
“Bud-G.”: "E'Y7” (B. 5/9/’2B) asks has
anyone in Australia experimented with
Indian Brahmin cattle? Yes, at Breakfast
Creek cattle station in the Ingham district
(N.Q.). There Indian cattle were imported
years ago and crossed with Shorthorns, and
the fact, that the bulls and their crosses are
still used is evidence that the introduction
has been satisfactory. The country where
these crossed types run is infested with ticks
and sandflies, but, as “FY7” says, owing
to the stoutness of the hide and its peculiari-
ties, the cattle are not tormented by them.
The dark color of the meat, which is a
feature with the pure-bred Indian beast,
does not show up in the crosses, and the
quality, color and flavor of the latter com-
pare favorably with the beef of established
breeds. Coastal cattlemen in tick-infested
areas could do worse than cross with the
Indian beast.
BUILDING WEIRS.
“Malice Stump” j In many districts where
the rainfall is good the nature of the soil
and contour of the country are such as to
cause washouts, gutters and creeks, which do
not enhance land values, since they cause
the complete drainage of subsoil waters, and
turn naturally well-watered country into
drought conditions during summer months, as
springs, soaks, etc., have their supply cut off
through perfect spiney draining. These con-
ditions can to some extent be rectified by the
building of Avoirs across deep creeks, thus
ensuring also an adequate supply of water
for stock and in some cases even for irriga-
tion. The writer has built two such Avoirs
in South Australia, one of which stored, Avhen
the dam was full, between 250,000 and
500.000 gallons. The method of construc-
tion is to take out of the bottom of the creek
all loose matter and sink into the solid clay
to a depth of 18 inches—or, if rock, to knock
off all weathered or broken stone—and drive
into the banks on either side to a minimum
of tAA'o feet, though three is better. Build
the weir in the form of an arc against the
pressure, with double Avails of stone set in
cement and filled betAveen with reinforced
concrete. The total width of the wall
should be about 2ft. Gin., the concrete filling
entirely the cut into the banks. Leave suffi-
cient cut down between the banks of the
Avail from surface level to act as an over-
floAV gutter—so that water will not Aoav
round and destroy the wall itself. The
lower side of the main wall should be sup-
ported by buttressing walls of dry stone or
stones set in mortar and flushed Avith cement:
these also Avill support the banks on either
side. BetAveen the banks and in the bed of
the creek large boulders set in concrete form
a solid floor for the over Aoav to fall on and
secure safety from a Avasliout. From the
creek’s floor level to a height and width suffi-
cient to let winter floods through, leave an
opening AA r hicli can be plugged with a rein-
forced cement concrete block or a slate slab.
When properly prepared clay is placed round
the joints before tightening a fairly Avater-
proof job is complete. The advantage of this
kind of dam is that the winter floods flowing
through clean out all silt, and the plug can
be flxed. at the discretion of the landowner
when the clearer spring waters flow.
LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“A'alerin” : I have visited several country
shows where prizes were given for ‘‘lambs
suitable for export.” In nearly every
instance the award was given to the biggest
and fattest lambs, which are in fact not
suitable for the export trade. The export
lamb should not weigh more than 301 b., nor
carry excess fat, but approximate what is
known on stations as good “ration mut-
ton.” At the Smithfield (London) meat
markets I have seen lambs with enormous
kidney-fat development and a thick selv-
edge of fat on the buttocks. They looked
well but were unsuitable, because the fat
had to be cut away, as the British house-
wife cannot afford waste. This cut-away fat
was worth only a few pence per pound. It
would be a benefit to the trade if the
authorities issued a standard of points for
export lambs, and requested the judges in
country shows to adhere to it.
ROLLING SPRING-WORKED LAND.
“Curlew”: “Paul C.” (B. 2!)/S/’28) advo-
cates ploughing down to eight inches for
potato-growing, lie should have added, “if
the soil is a deep one and will stand it.” To
plough deep in a clay soil is to court failure
until the raw clay has been ameliorated by
much sun, frost and rain. Culture won’t
do the work in a hurry. Also lie advocates
using the roller. The roller is lit only to
work almost bone-dry land. The harrows
will work down the soil to a line tilth, tend-
ing to deposit the finer particles underneath
and to pack the soil. Lumps will be brought
to the surface, which itself will be kept open
and friable. An ideal tilth is to have most
of the surface covered with small clods up to
the size of a walnut. If the lumps are too
large they may hi; worked down with a
smoodger. To make this tool, get a six-inch
straight-grained sapling 10ft. long; split it
and space the pieces two feet apart, so that
they have the split faces opposite. Draw it
over the field, and it will work down lumps,
level over any hummocks and will aid in
filling in hollows. The soil must not be
too wet; don’t have a fine-as-dust surface,
or the first rain will set it like a cake. The
harrows won’t hurt, for most spring and
summer crops in their earlier stages are
much benefited by harrowing, and this is
especially so with potatoes. If harrowed as
they are peeping, much moisture will be
conserved and many small weeds destroyed.
Should you have occasion to use a roller
there must be something radically wrong
with your preparation of the soil. If in the
evening you always harrow down the land
ploughed during the day you will not be
likely to need one.
SEASONAL FRUIT SPRAYS.
“NoA” : The effective application of spray
ing compounds is of vital importance to
fruitgrowers. All growers of deciduous
fruits should insist on having first-quality
materials only, and see that these are pro-
perly mixed and thoroughly applied. To
skimp either money or time is to waste
both.
Arsenate of lead in powder form is double
the strength of paste, and should be weighed
out accordingly. It must be made carefully
into a milky consistency before placing it in
the cask. If, as is often done, the powder
is just put in the water, mere agitation will
not mix it properly, and the arsenate will
blow away as soon as the leaves dry out.
Arsenate paste requires sufficient water to
mix it to a consistency similar to the above.
It does not pay to mix lime sulphur with
the arsenate spray, even though much time
and labor are saved. Caustic action is in-
creased, and foliage will probably be de-
stroyed and the setting crop be burnt. A
number of orchardists undoubtedly take this
short method, but they have their own ideas,
gained through years of experiments, and
generally work on their own formula.
Fungus diseases are controlled by preven-
tive methods only, and bordeaux is proved to
be the most effective means. It may. be used
freely upon all pome and stone fruits where
necessary, also on grapes. The best I know
contains also a substance which enables the
mixture to stick; rain will not was-li it oil'.
Citrus fruits rarely, if ever, require bor-
deaux.
Cherry-slug is dealt with by arsenate of
lead, which must be applied well before the
fruit colors. The grower may not have to
face this enemy in early varieties, but should
the pest appear whilst the fruit is ripening
leave the trees alone, harvest and then
spray to kill. If all deciduous trees were
treated with appropriate sprays the winter
carry-over would be negligible. A mid-win-
ter spray of miscible oil will kill out black
and green aphis and other pests.
Hawthorn hedges in proximity to fruit-
trees should also receive the arsenate of lead.
I know practical men who regard this shrub


srf^vT;
S
m
m
;q.
mm
A made-to-order
fit
Both width and length of the foot
are suited exactly with this top-
quality Abbey Boot, made in full and
half sizes, each in narrow, medium
and wide fittings. So, no “breaking-
in” is necessary. The boot fits with
surprising ease right from the start.
UPPER made of the finest calf
or kid, easily the most pliable
and comfortable leathers.
LACING arched to • eliminate
all straining over the instep.
Does up closely without tight-
ness.
SOLE The toughest obtainable
leather, not too heavy or stiff,
but flexible enough to yield
easily with foot movements.
POSTAL ORDERS Specify
width as well as size required.
Ask also for a supply of the
correct Abbey Polish easy to
use and quick to shine. Price
6d. per tin.
TAN WILLOW CALF - 57/6
BLACK GLACE KID - 57/6
BLACK BOX CALF - 52/6
Colored. Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
M2' SYDNEY
Beyond an HM. V. Portable
on buy furniture /
Specialising in H.M.V Portables
til cash or teems arranged
The TALKE Kl ES
477 Q.V. Buildings /Opposite Louses
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease lias caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE OR FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The NEW Wieneke!
— ,
The Gulf
Champion,
£l5/15/-
Complete.
Posted any-
where in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
Stock Saddle-
Here is the
dream of
every Stock-
man —the
wonderful
Genuine Wieneke
Perfect in shape
for horse and rider
Send for my new
book —150 pictures,
rost Free.
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
n
Cuticura Loveliness
Beauty of Mother
Bestowed On Daughter
For more than two generations
mothers everywhere have been using
Cuticura Preparations and have
been teaching their daughters that
daily use of them produces clear
skin and healthy hair. They find
the Soap pure and cleansing, the
Ointment soothing and healing and
the Talcum an ideal toilet powder.
Soap ls.,Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is.and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,N.S.W.”
HM?** Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Crain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
BAGSHAW’S
BA CSHAWS
\ASTHMA
POWDER
§:
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
as a trap to be sprayed when such an appli-
cation on the fruit-trees themselves would be
impossible.
the over-production of fruit.
“Doodles": I know something about fruit-
growing and do not advise anyone to invest
money in soft-fruits production m \ ictoria.
Production there has increased so much,
mainly due to new soldier-settlement areas,
that the industry is at present in a hopeless
position. Statistics regarding last years crop
are hot yet available, but the canned fruits
position give an indication of what they will
be The carry-over was seven million tins.
The total pack for 1927-28 was 37 million
tins, which beat the previous record by nine
millions. Owing to absurd regulations the
percentage available for export _ was on v
11 millions. Australian consumption is esti-
mated at 15 millions, which leaves a carry-
over of 18 million tins —more than enough to
supply home requirements for another 1~
months, and the present crop prospects appear
likely to eclipse last year’s record. In face ot
these facts it would appear that anyone
planting soft fruits at this stage contem-
plated financial suicide. Old-established
growers with orchards in full bearing are
losing money at the game. Orchards which
cost £llO per acre t.o bring into bearing atter
a wait of four years can now be bought tor
£3O an acre.
COTTON-GRO WIN G.
“Cotton Bush”: In the Queensland cotton
belt the most suitable soil for growing the
plant is a light to medium sandy loam on a
clay subsoil.
About six months clear of frost, plenty
sun and not too heavy a rainfall, especially if
the land is well ploughed in early winter
and moisture conserved, make favorable con-
ditions. The land should be only lightly
ploughed or disc-harrowed afterwards. Plant-
ing should be done after the first good rain
in Sept, or Oct., in drills 3ft. bin. to 4ft.
apart with 251 b. to 301 b. of seed per acre, in
a fine seed bed, not more than 2in. deep.
Machines to plant seed as it comes from
the gin can be bought, Australian made, for
about £5 single row, or a makeshift can be
used for small areas. The home-made article
consists of an oil-drum, mounted like a
cotton-reel, fixed to a frame by putting a
stout bar through the centre. A number of
openings are then exit around the middle of
the drum, in cross fashion, so that the size
of the holes can be adjusted by opening the
points with a pair of pliers. These openings
should be about 4in. apart right round the
centre of the drum. If it plants too thickly
some of these can be closed. Put the seed
inside the drum, and fix a cultivator foot
to make the drill, and a piece of. heavy wood
behind to cover up.
It is better to plant too thickly than
otherwise. As soon as the plants appear a
light set of lever harrows should be worked
across the rows to check weeds and save the
expense of chipping. Thin out to 6in. to Bin.
apart. When the first flower squares form,
the plants should be left alone and no more
cultivation attempted. Cotton should be
ready to pick about five and a half to six
months from date of planting. Do not,
however, start picking too early, but wait
till half the crop at least is hanging out.
Two pickings will then complete the job,
or in dry districts it would do to wait until
the whole crop is ready, if labor is scarce.
For picking, stitch two corn-bags together
to make one long sack, by ripping open the
bottom of the top one. Then fasten it over
your shoulder by a wide* strap, and drag it
along the row behind you ; the mouth should
come about level with your waist. Pack
in woolpacks suspended at the four corners
so that the bottom is just off the floor, get
into the bale and tread down the cotton round
the edges. You can thus get 4001 b. to 5001 b.
into a pack.
Seed can be obtained from the Queensland
Cotton Board, Whinstain Ginnery, Brisbane.
SISAL HEMP.
“W.H.M.”: An article in a Sydney paper
recently gave details of the manufacture of
fibrous-plaster sheets, mentioning that the
sisal-hemp fibre used is imported from Java
by the bale. But what is wrong with our
own Australian-grown article?" Sisal hemp
does well in North Queensland and in the
Torres Strait islands. Its cultivation and
preparation should provide a living not only
for many of Australia’s own colored citizens
but for whites, too. But unfortunately,
wherever and whenever it has been tried,
further development has been blocked by the
cryptic “No market; no demand for the
stuff.” Yet as “body” for the fibrous-plaster
sheets it is apparently in demand in Sydney;
and the quantity of imported rope used is
enormous even among the fishing luggers
of the Straits alone.
Some of the coastal mission stations,
which are keen on developing industries that
will make black and half-caste brother self-
supporting, are going in for sisal-hemp grow-
ing ; but, although there is no difficulty in
producing the raw material and preparing
it for market at a reasonable figure, the
experimentalists realise that they will have
to battle very hard against importations.
Surely here a certain measure of Protec-
tion might be made operative.
STIMULATING BEES.
“Larrapinta”: To keep the queen bees lay-
ing through the cold spells in spring means
a big gain, since thus later on when the
honey-flow starts one makes sure of a good
force of working bees to gather it. My
method is to dissolve a gallon of honey in
four gallons of lukewarm water, after having
seen that all the hives had been given a slight
tilt back from the entrance. Then after
dark each swarm is visited in turn, and by
means of a small syringe with a bent nozzle
about a teacup of the tepid syrup is squirted
through the hive entrance and among the
bees clustered on the combs. This deludes
the bees into thinking that a honey flow is
on, and keeps the queen bee laying through
the cold changes. When summer comes hives
thus stimulated show a marked distinction
from others which have not been so treated
in the number of their working bees.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Amicus”: If you have a petrol engine
which has been out of use for some time
and which you want to restart, empty the
tank and refill with fresh stuff. The old oil
may be poured on the bearings, which will
need well greasing. Then inject a little
petrol into the cylinders through the cylinder-
head and set her going.
“Oofti”: For sheep suffering from any eye
disease I have found this an effective cure:
Mix two grains of sulphate of zinc and the
same quantity of sulphate of morphia, with
one ounce of distilled water. Drop into the
eye two or three times a day.
“B-Gar” : The criticism levelled at horse-
men for using a “monkey-strap” on the
saddle when riding a buckjumper (B.
22/8/’2B) may be all right, but it is a handy
thing to have on the saddle for all that. For
getting on a youngster it is invaluable as a
place to hold with the. right hand; and wiien
riding a light-mouthed colt, grabbing the
“monkey” often prevents the rider from
putting unintentional weight on the reins
and thus pulling the colt over on top of
him.
“Bosso”: If you don’t want your fingers
chewed when dosing the sheep here is a
simple preventive. Get a piece of No. 8 wire
and bend it into the form of a hairpin 9in.
long and wide at the bow end. With
the sheep held by your knees insert the bow
between the sheep’s lips, and bring it down
over the tongue behind the front teeth.
Then with the right hand lift its upper jaw,
and the man with the squirt, or the capsule,
will have no difficulty in placing the dose well
behind the root of .the tongue.
“N. 8.”: The following is a simple but
very effective remedy for the snail and slug
pest, and is recommended: One pound of
calcium arsenate mixed with nine pounds
of bran (or proportionate quantities) in a
dry state. Then add water to make up mash
of the consistency that can be rolled into
pellets about the size of a marble. Scatter
these about the places frequented by the
snails and slugs.
“Emel”: “Ephcbus” (B. 8/8/’2B) wants
to know what effect fruit has upon pigs.
It fattens them. A purely fruit diet, how-
ever, results in a flabby pork, so add a
small grain ration, wheat for choice, for a
month or so before killing. In particular
apple-fed pigs, hardened off with wheat,
make very tasty bacon.
“Breed”: Harness if well looked after will
last many years. Washing in soapy water is
insufficient. Take all pieces, straps, etc.,
apart, wash thoroughly in warm soapy
water, and rub dry. A liberal application
of neatsfoot oil is the best preservative for
the leather, but if not available use unsalted
dripping. Hang the harness in the shade,
so as to allow the oil or fat to soak well in.
Once a month is not too often to treat, and
in wet weather oftencr is advisable.
“E.S.L.”: To prevent rabbits chewing the
bark off fruit-trees, make a whitewash of
lime and tallow (or kitchen dripping) six
to one: add enough water to make a. work-
able wash, and boil. AVhen the fat is well
mixed with the lime apply it with a brush
before it is quite cold to the trunks and lower
limbs. If applied in the autumn it will last
until late spring, when bunny will turn his
attention to more appetising food than bark.
Although this wash is 100 per cent, effective
in its purpose, bunny will reach up and nibble
the new growth in the spring, so do not relax
efforts in destroying him.
“XSA”: The handiest way to dust sul-
phur over grape-vines is to use a long three-
cornered hessian bag. Place three or four
pounds in this, grasp the top and give a
vigorous shake just above the crown of the
vine—allowing for drift if windy. As sul-
phur application blows off the vines when
dry, and dewy mornings are all too short,
the dusting should be made whilst the pre-
viously applied bordeaux mixture is still
wet.
“Oofti”: To get rid of couch grass in an
orchard plough it in the winter, then remove
as much of the grass as possible with the
harrow, and expose the roots to the frosts.
At the end of the winter put in a crop of
cow peas and plough again at the end of
the season. Couch grass will not thrive in
the shade.
“Biro”: Too much manure is as bad as
none at all unless the soil is well drained,
deeply dug and frequently watered. The
strength of the soil in times of drought has
the effect of burning off the vegetables. Too
much watering also is bad, as it prevents de-
cay in the manure. Where intensive culture
is practised the ill-effects of Over-feeding the
soil mav be counteracted by the addition of
lime, but this should be resorted to only
where the water supply is sufficient.
“P.M.”: “Curley” says the butter factory
hasn’t the time to wash a can properly (B.
22/8/’2B). In Victoria the factory has to
do it; and if the inspector catches the fac-
tory sending out cans not thoroughly washed
it is a case of look out. Most of the more
up-to-date factories in Victoria have in-
stalled can-washing machines, and the cocky
who can make a cleaner job of his can than
the machine hasn’t been born yet.
“Aneb”: Surely “W.D.S.” (B. 5/9/’2S)
is joking when he suggests letting a young
horse go with a three-foot length of chain
hanging to his neck. What about, not only
his own eyes—with a swinging chain—but
the eyes of all other horses in the same pad-
dock. It is one of those hare-brained sug-
gestions that condemn themselves.
“Interested”: The record recently given
by The Btjixetin of 30 ewes giving birth to
60 lambs is easily beaten by the tally of a
Mount Gambier farmer. Out of a small
flock of comeback and crossbed ewes no
fewer than 93 dropped two lambs each, and
they were all alive and in good fettle when
I saw them quite recently.
“B-Gar” : Something new in the way of a
stock hold-up occurred recently at Winton
(W.Q.) when 3000 weaners travelling from
Telemon station to the Charleville district
(S.-W.Q.) were, on the authority of the
burr inspector, detained owing to the pre-
valence of Noogoora-burr in the wool. In
order to overcome the difficulty, the sheep
were yarded and the burrs removed by hand.
Were this precedent followed the probability
of the Noogoora pest spreading to free dis-
tricts might be checked.


■i
mamm
WmmwMtv'm IHi
j n
H
H
'-■ 1
WHATA
VALUE
THIS IS'
Can’t
Know the
Value
Till
You
Drive the
Car ”
Oldsmobile’s tremendous success is
the inevitable result of value. Every
comparison reveals beauty, luxury,
performance and engineering un-
equalled at Oldsmobile’s price.
Consider Its Appearance
Its voguish new bodies are the dis-
tinctive creations of artist-engineers.
Its low, sweeping, graceful lines
express smartness and luxury in every
detail. Rich upholsteries, panelings
and appointments complete its fine-
car beauty.
You enjoy costly car luxury and
:omfort—and you get it at a lower
price!
Consider Its Performance
A great new engine develops power
for every need speed for every
desire. A new cylinder head of
General Motors Research design pro-
vides the brilliant pick-up and flexi-
bility of a high-compression engine,
without the use of special fuels.
And Oldsmobile offers the additional
advantages of exceptional handling
ease and finger-tip steering. It turns
completely in a 36-foot circle and
slips easily into parking spaces far
too small for the average car.
It possesses unusual stamina and long-
life—proved by more than a million
miles of testing at the General
OLDSMOE
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Metrc-
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Russell Str-
Brisbane: Pacific Motors, Ltd., Ann and Wickham St
Perth: E. D. H


• ■"
: : ■: ::
mm
.
?
■
■ m
Motors Proving Ground—and now
confirmed by millions of miles of
driving in the hands of enthusiastic
owners. You get infinitely finer
performance—and you get it at a
lower price!
Consider Its Equipment
This new Oldsmobile comes com-
pletely equipped, as a really fine car
should be.
Four hydraulic shock absorbers elim-
inate road shocks and provide a
smooth ride over even the roughest
highways. Deep - cushioned, form-
fitting seats complete the restful com-
fort.
Vertical radiator shutters are an im-
portant feature and both the petrol
gauge and water temperature gauge
are carried on the instrument panel.
Rubber cushioning, used wherever cush-
ioning should go, assures a silenced chassis.
And special sound deadening insulation
between body and chassis creates a silenced
interior, a wonderfully enjoyable feature.
You will find every fine car quality at its
best in this Fine Car of Low Price.
Come and take a drive. A half-hour at
the wheel will demonstrate why more
and more thousands are choosing this
new Oldsmobile.
The better they know it, the better they
like it. And when you know k as they
do, you too will say, " What a value
this is! ”
THE TOURER
£330
The
Sports Roadster £3BO
The
Two-door Sedan £398
The
Four-door Sedan £450
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
SIX
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street.
Ltd., Hay Street.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR


Quality equated tAe demand
Qualtti/ 'maintains tAe Sate
Army Club
lO for 9d. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
In pure ribbed watermarked rice paper.
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
A sailor belonging to 11.M.A.5. Brisbane
has been imprisoned for writing disrespectful
verses about his superior officer. Apparently
Britain rules the staves, too.
* *
A Geelong man has gone to America to
teach football. We hope Chicago won’t re-
taliate by sending us a man to show how to
run an election.
* *
The N.S.W. Rugby League has decided
that players must “play the ball.” In future
only the spectators will be permitted to play
the referee.
MADE IT SO AWKWARD.
“My dear, I think we really ought to go and see Maisle
sometimes, even if she isn’t properly married.”
“But there are so few of our friends we can talk about
without seeming to hint at something personal.”
A shipment of Australian oysters has been
despatched to Honolulu for breeding pur-
poses. It is hoped that the Hawaiians will
next ask Australia for a shipment of foreign
oyster-bar proprietors.
* *
A woman in the Sydney Divorce Court
confessed that she had often hurled chairs at
her husband. In fact, to hit him with one
was her chief aim in life.
* *
LUCK.
Some blokes ’ave tons o’ luck, an’ some ’ave
none.
An’ if the clouds above icere rainin’ beer,
An’ mugs were given free, you’d find someone
Whose flamin’ mug ’d leak like ’ell, I fear .
* *
The man who tells his wife he is going
out for a day’s fishing has to get fish
to show her, by hook or by fish-shop.
Melbourne Tramways Board says that
the trams are getting less noisy. On the
other hand the hoard may be getting deafer.
# *
THIS WEEK’S FAIRY TALE.
The Chemist: “I do not recommend this
mixture, Madame, so much for its curative
properties as that it affords me a higher per-
centage of profit than any other I stock.”
* *
“She’s two-faced!” they observed with scorn,
And oft-times they are right—
A washed-out hag she is at morn,
A beauty the same night.
* *
It is reported that strenuous endeavors are
being made to enable the new cruiser Aus-
tralia to be in Melbourne by November <>,
when the Melbourne Cup manoeuvres begin.
* ¥
During September things were quiet in the
industrial sphere, except on the waterfront,
where the position was again normal.
# *
There is no truth in the rumor that
nurses in certain hospitals are to work 24
hours daily instead of 234 as at present.
* *"
Bolshevik newspapers deplore the fact
that Lenin’s works are hardly ever read
now, whereas once they were very red indeed.
Edgar Wallace is suing a dramatic critic
who described his plays as “muck.” Well,
they are pay dirt, anyhow.
EXTRA!!
Man Runs Amok!
A case that has caused more than the
usual interest in Melbourne
was the trial of William
Binks, of Suburbia, for the
murder of fifteen (15) citi-
zens in the space of three
days. When he was arrested,
Binks was standing on a
street corner shouting “I’ll
show ’em! I’ll show ’em!”
At his feet lay two corpses.
In the dock, Binks, who is
a little man and quite harm-
less-looking, stated he did not
know what had come over
him, but when, the day be-
fore Show Day, he had been
asked by one imbecile aftpr
another, “Going to the Show,
Binks?” a terrible anger
grew within him, and he
throttled the next inquirer.
This seemed to continue
most of the day, Binks vary-
ing the killings by knockings
on the head, jumpings on the
victims, suffocatings, etc. On
Show Day the accused hid
away, but resumed his ordi-
nary life the day after.
Unfortunately the first per-
son met asked him, “Go to
the Show yesterday, Binks?”
The 15th murder was then
committed.
The Judge, in his sum-
ming-up, said he knew ex-
actly how Binks must have
felt, and directed the jury to
bring in a verdict of not
guilty. “The accused,” he
observed, “leaves the court
without a blemish on his
character.”
* #
The trouble with the
Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion seems to be that it has
a Beeby in its bonnet.
* *
It is reported from W.A.
that an Irish terrier has
been fatally bitten by a sea-
snake. So it seems that
amongst snakes there is still
a smouldering resentment at St. Patrick’s
high-handedness.
# *
Whatever horse-racing may be, the idea
that you can win money at it is the kink
of spoils.
The confidence man is always glad to
meet anyone he can take for a mug.
The A.J.C.’s profit for the year was only
£77 19s. Enough to send it to the dogs!
* H-
There is no rhyme for “film.” And there’s
not much reason in the average film either.
# *
“ ’77s Spring! ’Tis Spring!’’
The poet cried:
“I see its signs down ev’ry way.”
“Well — yes,” his wife
Replied. “I know —
I killed a blowfly yesterday.”
QUITE OUT OF IT.
“I wonder why he’s a bachelor?”
“Oh, poor fellow, he didn’t have a car when he was.
young.”
General Monash recently stated that he
was very fond of cross-word puzzles, In fact,
lie has turned his brass hat into a thinking-
cap.
* *
“Where are the Isles of Greece?” asked
the examiner. “On the restaurant floor,”
responded the bright boy of the class.
MISCALLED.
[A Thriller After the U.S. Manner.]
Tall, lean, sunburnt, Dan Harvey, the dig-
ger, galloped up Collins-street.
As he reached the city saloon he vaulted
from his horse and flung the reins to a
jackeroo. The men hanging about the bar,
their shirts open at the neck revealing tawny
throats, looked up abruptly as he entered.
Their hands instinctively sought their gats ;
but Dan ignored them. He flung a bag of
gold-dust on the counter. “Give me some
hooch, pard,” he said huskily.
Long Dave, the saloon-keeper, kicked the,
tame dingo lying at his feet and poured some
liquid into a glass. “You look all in, Bo,”
he said as he tossed the bag of gold-dust into
the till and gave Dan a handful of green-
backs in change.
“I ’ave ridden right in from Moonee
Ponds,” replied Dan, who was powdered from
head to foot with red dust. “I struck a
willy-willy on the road.... it was terrible.”
He drained the liquor at one gulp. “Is the
doctor here?” he added.
Seated in a corner, on a kerosene-case, was
Melbourne’s hardest-worked doctor. His
leggings were splashed with mud. Already
that day he had forded the Yarra to gallop
to a case miles down the St. Kilda-road.
“Yairs,” he said sleepily, “I guess I’m the
local sawbones.” Then a gleam of recog-
nition came into his eye. “Gee,” said he, “if
it ain't Dan. Never seen yer since we was
on Sairi Bair. Shake !”
‘.‘You-all,” he said to the interested group,
“may know that Dan and me was cobbers
on old Gally-Poly.” Then to Dan: “Wa-al,
what kin I do fer you, pard?”
“Cripes,” said Dan, “you’ve spilt an ear-
ful. I want you to come out to the Ponds.
I gotter gink there that’s darn bad.”
The doctor sighed. “Orright,” he said. lie
threw up the window and called to Sam. his
abo. servant, who was sitting beneath a coola-
bah-tree, eating fried strips of an iguana
that he had just killed with his boomerang.
“Baas,” said Sam, his mouth in a wide grin,
“mine tinket alonga too much hurry plurry
horse belonga you him all
done up.” The doctor waved
him aside with an impatient
gesture.
Next moment he and Dan
were thundering along the
street, with tin' boys in the
front saloon of the Melbourne
Club looking down on them
in amazement. The over-
hanging branches of the gum-
trees whipped their faces.
Kangaroos menaced them
from behind the tree-ferns.
A flock of black swans flew
honking towards the Yarra.
A leisurely cloud of dust
showed a camel-team, laden
with nuggets from the dig-
gings. But the dramatic
beauty of the scene was lost
on these men, racing against
death A silver gleam in
the distance showed the sur-
face of the Moonee Ponds.
Within a straggling
square of blue gums was the
ranch-house.
One glance at the patient,
as he lay moaning on a
stretcher, and the doctor
rasped out a fierce oath.
“Strewth !” he said. “A
Pommy! Say, 80, if you all
reckon I’m gonner”
A ring of cold steel was
pressed into the folds of the
doctor’s neck. “Get busy.”
said Dan with terse grim-
ness.... For half rtn hour
the two men toiled in silence.
The setting sun tinged the snowy peaks
of the Dandenongs with silver. The weird
cry of the curlews, the tinkling of the
condamines as the cattle returned to the
corrals, the fierce snarls of the opossums
sounded faintly through the ranch-house door.
“Well,” said the doctor at last, “I’ve pulled
your darned Pommy through. Though, mind
yer, if it had been an Orstralian, I’d have
done it slicker and more willing.”
The sick man opened his eyes and his lips
moved faintly. Overcoming his repugnance,
the doctor bent down his car to the man’s
lips. He straightened himself abruptly. A
look of contrition mellowed his seamed and
bearded face.
“Forgive me, pard,” he said to Dan. “Fer-
give me. I called him a Pommy. And he
asked me”-—the doctor choked with emotion
—“he asked me if I —l had the Latest Race
Edition of the Herald. ... Here was me,
CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
FIRST ACTOR: “Have you paid the taxi-
driver?”
SECOND ACTOR: “Yes. Didn’t you hear him
asking me if I was the bloke ’oo played
Shylock?”
goin’ to turn down a dinkum Victorian Aus-
sie”—
lie produced a paper from his breast-
pocket, and as the sick man’s fingers closed
upon it, his face lit up with a tired smile.
Down by the Ponds rose the melancholy
boom of the bunyips. In the ranch-house ail
was peace.
Wawheresh.
VOWEL CHANGE.
Strange is the change you find in him
Who gallantly did woo:
His thought seems centred, now, in “I” —
It used to be in you.
He said his cash was yours for aye —
He owes it now. My hat!
'The man whose pride was keeping fit
Is grossly getting fat!
Aye, he will eye with jealous eye
Each penny of his screw!
The ease he pictured for your life
Has brought but “Ohs” to you.
N.s.w.
SARAGAMP.
TRIOLET.
I arsks for a beer —
She brings me a glass!
I says, “Now, me dear,
I arsks for a beer —
Not one o’ these ’ere;
A pot’s in my class!”
I arsks for a beer —
She brings me a glass! ’
NED THE NAVVY.
HER PROBLEM.
“Women with red hair, while more ardent in
temperament, usually keep their fair complexions
unblemished to a comparatively advanced age.”—
Dr. Wren (London).
When winder winds bring chilly rains,
Or fierce suns beat upon the beaches,
The red-haired girl with ease retains
Her skin of cream and peaches.
Her rival sisters dark or fair
Soon lose that sweet schoolgirl com-
plexion;
The maiden with the ginger hair
lias naught to fear in that direction.
But there’s a question that I fain
Would.ask this Wren who barracked her'.
Her pretty skin she may retain —
But what about her character?
MEPHISTO.


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
d
WAGONS-LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists f Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY!
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.O.).
sd
fsdf
JOHN JAMEfON
* * *
WHISKEY
the J.J. whiskey we sell to-day is
made in Dublin by the old and ex-
pensive Pot Still method —the same
method that we used in 1780. For by
no other process is it possible to
produce the same quite unusual soft-
ness and the generous full John
Jameson flavour.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited, Melbourne, Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co. Perth, W.A.
The GG//ARD Lir\e of Beauty
i
•••
m:
. A
ot on
“HOW SMARTbut
“How Marvelously 11 Fits!”
SMART—how marvelously it
fits” — women say these things of
Gossard foundation garments because
Gossard designers are artists and stylists, and
because women who know Ggssards fit them to
your figure. The fashionable clear cut figure line
of the woman who is Gossard corseted comes
not only from the superb designing of Gossard
foundations, but from the developed knowl-
edge of the corsetiere's art. The corsetiere who
serves you, who chooses just the right garment
for your figure does so not by chance, but be-
cause she has been trained by schooled Gossard
experts. Thus the unequalled fashion attain-
ment made possible by Gossard materials,
designing, and workmanship, is brought to you
in perfect accord by the corsetiere trained in
Gossard corsetry.
Gossard Corsets
are made ivithin the Empire
kRONT-LACiNG corsets, clasp-arounds, step-
r ins, Gossard Completes and combinations,
in the new Autumn designs are waiting for your
inspection at your favourite store. Let your cor-
setiere give you a trial fitting in the garments
particularly suited to your figure needs.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., JLtdtj
114 Castlereagh St., Sydney
New South Wales.


HOTEL SYDNEY
Management: Edward T. Cheesernau.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
Throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
1 J.
“Its Quality Never Change,
es.
ff
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forts Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
Poverty
Point
“Goldilocks”: An act of politeness by
an actor, now in Australia, towards an ex-
wife of his recently stirred a protest from
his present spouse. The ex-wife, here with
another company, happened to lose some of
her luggage, and enlisted the actor’s aid in its
recovery. The present wife considered that
it was a bit of impertinence. “It’s not as if
she was only recently his wife,” she breathed
indignantly. “She' was his wife a long time
ago—she’s three wives removed !”
“The Bat” : Turkish prisoners of war in-
side the barbed-wire entanglements at Kan-
tara, on the Suez, were allowed to break the
monotony by going into the picture show.
Small batches, guarded by Tommies, were
taken in turn into the front seats. They
showed little excitement or interest until
something was screened that included a
villain. Then, as a mark of their disapproval,
empty bottles and stones were hurled at the
“THE STUDENT PRINCE” AT HER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Hubert (Mason Wood) and Lutz (Arthur Stigant) attending Prince Karl (James
Liddy) and Dr. Engel (Hedley Hall).
calico screen. A stern lecture and no picture
show for a week had the desired effect;
thereafter the villain was received with
groans and hisses.
“Cauboy”: Entrepreneurs regard them
selves as hard-headed men, hut one manage-
ment received a severe shock the other day.
It discovered that a principal billed as a
“first appearance in Australia” had already
drawn its pay—and very small pay-—twice
before, when he had only been considered
worth putting in insignificant parts. Whether
the mummer had sedulously concealed his
knowledge of our vast open faces or whether
the agent in London had omitted to ask the
question isn’t known, but it is certain that
the salary would have been a great deal
smaller had his employers at this end known
the true position.
“T.P.”: Disaster generally follows the
actor who storms at his audience, but iras-
cible, good-hearted George Rignold proved
the exception. One night, when as Mephis-
topheles he sank to perdition, the trap stuck
leaving him half-submerged in sulphur fumes.
Spluttering and coughing, he roundly cursed
the mechanicians, and gave the convulsed
audience a lesson in table manners. Another
night the limelight man became erratic in
“Henry V.,” and Rignold roared, “On me,
you dam’ fool, not on the horse’s tail!” I
was present, too, on another night of “Henry
V.,” when the sixpenny gods objected to the
use of French, and requested the actresses .to
speak English, at which King Rignold
flounced on in a royal rage snapping, “Shak-
speare wrote this, you yelping curs, and it
will be repeated till order is restored.” Hater,
he thanked “the respectable portion of the
audience” —and the management permanently
raised our price to a bob.
“Hamfat” : The sale of Sydney Tivoli build-
ing terminates the last connection of the
family of Harry Rickards with that vaude-
ville business, and rounds oft an interesting
story of fortune-making. Rickards was broke
and doing nothing when advance-man Fan-
ning (still going strong at well bver 70) sug-
gested that he should take the old York-street
Opera House, adding that Rickards could
not possibly lose because he had nothing to
lose. The venture proved so successful that
Rickards bought the hall in Castlereagh-
street for £9OOO, renamed it the Tivoli, and
rebuilt it in its present form after the fire
in 3900. After the death of Rickards in
1911 the business was sold for £IOO,OOO, and
to that has now been added the £90,000
which the theatre property realised; this,
of course, was apart from other investments
the vaudeville man had made out of his
profits.
“Coot”: Melbourne’s latest theatre is a
small one in Queen-street at which plays for
children will In; produced on Saturday after-
noons. Miss Huey Barling is promoting the
venture, and present arrangements include a
new play every month. The theatre is on
the top floor of a three-storey building, and
will seat 240. If it is a success a children’s
library and lectures on literature, music and
drama for the youngsters are to follow.
“Craiser”: There was the atmosphere of
a spiritualistic seance about a concert at
Melbourne Assembly Hall the other night.
Bernard Heinze and his University Sym-
phony Orchestra were grouped round an
untenanted grand piano. A Tschaikovsky
concerto was the item to be rendered. The
orchestra struck up, and in due course the
piano came in. Everyone who had heard
l’ercy Grainger perform the particular piece
knew who was playing. There was the usual
athletic vigor and the erratic tempo. Prof.
Heinze was frequently hard put to it to keep
up with the unseen player, who was beyond
the intimidation of his baton. When it was
over one expected to see the Australian
pianist materialise on the platform and bow
to the plaudits. The occasion, however,
a trial of the Duo-art reproducing piano
using audiographic rolls driven by electricity.
Some of the renderings appeared to me to he
well-nigh perfect. It only seems to need a
speaking film to record the performer’s
coughs and sneezes and to throw an image
of him on the piano-stool for the potted
high-class concert to come definitely into its
own.
“T.H.R.”: The late Clara Stpehenson
used to support Walter Montgomery 60
years ago as the Dauphin in “Louis XI.’’
and as the boy in “Richelieu.” She also
played Elizabeth in “Richard III.” Dur-
ing the visit of the Duke of Edinburgh
she played Ophelia to the Hamlet of Eliot
Yorke, A.D.C., and she supported Charles
Mathews and his wife during their visit in
1870. When Fairclough came from the Lon-
don Lyceum Miss Stephenson played Portia
and Lady Macbeth in his co. Then she mar-
ried F. J. Wills, a theatrical manager, and
after his death in 1902 returned to the stage
with Bill Anderson’s co. Later she sup-
ported Tittell Brune.
“Spokesliave” : Pianist Moiseiwitscli gener-
ously gave a concert of beautiful music in
Melbourne in aid of the Alberto Zelman
memorial fund. Surely it is now up to the
committee to reconsider the dull decision to
perpetuate the memory of Australia’s out-
standing musical identity with cots at a
hospital.
“C. 8.”: Some interesting evidence was
vouchsafed Chief Judge Detliridge in an arbi-
tration suit anent theatrical employees in
Melbourne. According to one witness Claude
Flemming’s association with the Firm came
to an end after he became active as a union
delegate. Another remarked that Hugh
Steyne, who was a delegate, was glad to hand
over the work, and that in the upshot all dele-
gates have got the sack. For the other side'
it was claimed that union officials arrived
at inopportune moments to collect fees and
inquire into grievances. A chorus girl dunned
for arrears of union fees just before going
on was not in the best condition to captivate
the baldheads in the stalls. A story related
by one unionist indicates where part of the
trouble lies. Asked by a leading comedian to
help shift some scenery in the middle of a
play he refused on the ground that he had
been engaged to sing - , and, all the choristers
joining with him in refusing, the show was
held up until the stage staff could be rallied.
Keith Barry: It is some time since an
Australian artist has had such a following
in his own country as Alfred O’Shea, who
is off to America shortly. He is a very
good artist without being a world-beater.
IBs singing of excerpts from grand opera
betrays careful teaching and groundwork,
but in his ballad singing he tends to sacri-
fice accuracy for emotion and stretches out
a rather too willing hand for the applause
that always bursts from an audience on the
introduction of any “tricks of the trade.”
Dame Nellie never in her life sung a high
note at the end of a song when the com-
poser wrote differently. Her passion for
correctness is one of the things that got
her to the top of the tree. O’Shea’s trick
of hanging on to a note and allowing it to
melt lengthily into the air is effective but
not artistic. It is making the composer
subservient to the singer.
“L.11.P.” : Talking of female Hamlets and
so forth, I remember a clever American
actress, Annie Firmin, playing Prince Hal
to the Falstaff of J. Jack in the fifth act
of “Henry 1V.,” part one. It was added to
“M’Liss,” a short-weight American drama,
in order to make a good bill.
“Hamfat”: Just-dead Howard Talbot, who
rightly rejoiced in the surname of Munkitt-
rick, made his first big hit as a composer
with the music of “A Chinese Honeymoon,”
which ran at the Strand for 1075 perform-
ances—that remains still among London’s
first 10 long runs. He followed on with “Kitty
Grey,” “Three Little Maids” and “Blue
Morn,” and then slumped musically; even
“My Lady Frayle,” the best of the others,
could run no more than 130 nights.
‘‘C.B.” : There is one actress in Melbourne
who should view with personal interest the
approaching revival of “East Lynne,” by
Bill Ayr, at the Palace. She is Muriel Starr.
She had a shot at the doddering old drammer
during her last season at the Princess, and
it failed dismally. If Ayr succeeds it can’t
be said that the play was at fault.
“Flaming Youth”: The Fullers in their
few years’ dabbling with light musical
comedy have had a i*emarkable succession of
winners, but “Good News” isn’t one of them.
It had the ill-luck to clash with two opera
seasons in Melbourne, but in any case there
was no enthusiasm about its reception; and
now, without paying Sydney a visit, the
people brought out for the production have
gone back to America.
“Goldilocks” : George Soi-lie, back from a
look around the world, is opening his account
again at Sydney Grand Opera House.
George made his pile out of a tent theatre- —
the best equipped in Australia; it possessed
“boxes” ! When, after touring the best part
of the Commonwealth, he decided to take
his world jaunt, he put the members of
his company on half-salaries for a long term
so that they would have a chance to look
round in comfort for anew shop. Not many
touring managers treat their people like
that.
“Spokeshave”: The Firm labored greatly
to produce two rather small mice in the comic
lead and the principal lady of “The Desert
Song,” probably the most elaborate musi-
comedy production in J.C.W. history. If
this couple are the best London can provide,
one wonders why the local field isn’t more
vigorously exploited. It is hard, for instance,
to imagine our own Gus Bluett descending
to such a moss-grown topic for Australia as
the long-drawn-out stuff about being unable
to sit down after a horse ride, which is the
star item in Herbert Mundin s repertoire.
It would also he interesting to see what Aus-
tralian understudy Marie Bremner would
do with the part allotted to the imported
leading woman. Judging by Marie Brem-
ner’s performances in “Lilac Time ’ ond
“Rose Marie” there would be no loss to the
entertainment. One suspects that her chiet
drawback is that she is merely a product of
the Albert-street Conservatorium, Melbourne.
Richard Garwyn: “Cauboy” is wrong in
stating (B. 19/9/'2S) that the Gong Theatre,
Melbourne, “is going to produce a play
every night throughout the year, including
the summer, and every play is to run a fort-
ROBBO AND JULIET.
“The Actors’ Union is claiming for its officials
the right of interviewing members at any time.”
JULIET (above): “Art thou not Romeo, and
a Capulet?”
VOICE FROM BELOW: “No, Madam! I’m
Robbo Smith, the union delegate.
You’re six weeks in arrears!”
night, regardless, apparently of whether an
audience attends or not.” Our booklet states :
“Allowing for an annual holiday, the great-
est number of plays the Gong Theatre Club
can hope to produce in a year is 20. ‘
The reason why no work by an Australian
dramatist is included in our original pro-
duction list is that I know of no Australian
play worthy of production. The moment
it arrives it will be produced, and so far
as royalties are concerned I am willing to
pay 2i per cent, more than I. pay Mr. Ber-
nard Shaw. I think that is fair.
“Hamfat” : The Firm, although it speaks
with bitterness about the two amusement
taxes in Adelaide, has an offset in the
reduction of expenses of the grand opera co.,
which practically wound up its operations in
Sydney. Only the people actually necessary
for the Adelaide and W.A. productions still
remain on the pay list. Several, including
the Zinetti lady, with Umberto di Lelio and
Ettore Cesabianchi, have already left for
Europe. Autori goes with- the co. to Perth,
but does not intend to return to Europe ; he
is settling in Sydney for teaching and con-
cert work.
“Bertie Butt-in”: As a more powerful all-
star cast than “D.W.’s” (B. 29/S/'2B) I
nominate those who once appeared together
in “Masks and Faces” —Dion Boucicault.
Irene Vanbrugh, Sir George Alexander, Sir
Johnston Forbes-Robertson, Gladys Cooper.
Lillah McCarthy, the late Winifred Emery
(Mrs. Cyril Maude) and Mabel Russell.
Another sterling group interpreted “Captain
Swift” at London Haymarket; the east
included Herbert Tree, Henry Kemble, C. M.
Hallard, Fred Terry, Holman Clarke, Car-
lotta Addison, Fanny Coleman, Irene Van-
brugh and Mrs. Tree. One of my pro-
grammes of “Sweet Nell” (1900) shows Fred
Terry, Julia Neilson, Louis Calvert. Sydney
and Lionel Brough, C. M. Hallard, Loring
Fernie, Fred Volpc, Constance Collier, Lilian
.Tefferds, Lilian Braithwaite and Mary Mac-
kenzie on the same list.
“Salambo”: “The Bush Cinderella,” from
the pen of Henry Hayward, is a fine, whole-
some Maoriland-made melodrama movie, with
plenty of good human sentiment in it. It
has been shown with success in Auckland.
CHOPPIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mary Jane plays Choppin
She shakes the blinkin’ ’ouse;
The vauses fall to ’oppin’,
And ’er old man starts to grouse.
But ’er classy friends all pop in
When they ’ear ’er playin’ Choppin.
They used such words as “largo,”
“Conspirito’’ and “teckneek.”
If I could fight like Spargo,
I’d kill that sissy sheik
Who on Mary Jane goes sloppin'
When ’e ’cars ’er playin’ Choppin.
There’s music I can 'ear out:
For instance, “Ain’t She Sweet?”
But, Dig., I want to clear out
When classics she’ll repeat.
So I don’t think I'll be stoppin’
If she keeps on playin’ Choppin!
N.s.w.
DORIC.


Forster’s Steel Products
Adjustable Shelving, Clothes
Lockers, Storage Cabinets, Cup-
boards, Plan Cabinets, etc.
ďf
STEEL CLOTHES LOCKERS.
Steel Lockers with olive-green surface,
adopted by all large, up-to-date establish-
ments for employees’ belongings; also in
public institutions. Made in single units,
in rows against walls or back to back
down centres of rooms, which may be
installed in any number desired to fit
space and needs.
Forster s Sixty-Years Reputation
Proves that “Quality Counts.
To maintain a solid reputation for
Quality and fair dealing for over
sixty years has been the achievement
of Forster’s. That reputation, so
solidly built, still stands behind all
present activities of this firm.
“Quality Counts” has always been
and will ever continue to be the
watchword. Those who place
orders for the New Adjustable Steel
Products may do so with the utmost
confidence.
d
STEEL STORAGE CABINETS.
Excellent for keeping hospital and office
supplies, books, records, papers, protected
against dust, damp and vermin. Fitted
with keys, all different. These Cabinets
are made for anything needing extra
security.
Usual size: sft. Gin. high, 2ft. 6in. wide.
Forster’s Bedsteads Limited
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).
stand
102/6
With
84/
without stand
roleman
Gym? S!&ye
Adds
to the Joy of
Camping
A drive to your favor-
ite camping spot. Appe-
tites sharpened by na-
ture’s tonic —fresh air and
sunshine. And then “good
eats.” You’ll have them
“right now” when there’s
a Coleman Camp Stove
along.
New beauty, new
quality, new con-
venience. They are
ready for you. .. .
handsome new
models of petrol
irons, petrol camp-
stoves, petrol Air-
O-Gas cooking
ranges of all sizes.
Newest of all Cole-
man Instant Starters
. . . .strike a match,
turn a valve, and they
are ready.
KllSVyinstant Lighting
Coleman Iron
* The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle
PATENTS PENDING
w
Lights instantly, no preheating, does the week*
ironing for Id. Price, 45/-
"LIGHT. HEAT AND COOK. THE COLEMAN
WAV
ďf
Coleman
Quick-Lito
Lamp
and
Lantern
ď
Coleman
Radiant
Heater
f
ď
Coleman
Self-Heating Iron
Coleman
Air-O-Gaa
Cook Stove
fd
(pieman Quick-Lite
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.


OHIC ALL SIXES
rs
N
Worlds greatest va l ue
>y this World-wide Verdict
To-day’s Essex Super-Six is outselling all other Sixes
and exceeding its own previous record by such mar-
gins as to leave no doubt of its leadership.
Such success can only reflect unmistakable public
appreciation of the fact that Essex is the World’s
Greatest Value—altogether or part by part.
Greater in power, finer in performance, larger, room-
ier and more beautifully appointed, to-day’s Essex
Super-Six is engineered to the lowest operation and
maintenance costs. And increasing thousands of
owners, rolling up- miles of service prove that these
qualities which delight you on your first ride are just
as lasting as they are brilliant.
Visit your Hudson-Essex dealer to-day — Ride in an
Essex, drive it yourself and make your own decision.
ESSEX Super-Six
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body . . .. .. £27(T
Roadster „ ~ . . .. . . 270
Coach ~ ~ 330
Coach, Imported Body 350 j>
Coupe „ ~ (Rumble Seat) 365
Sedan, Australian Body 345
Sedan, Imported Body . . .. .. 370,
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD., H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Gainsborough <Shape
Ladies lose their hearts
to the beautiful Shelley Tea Sets. To lift a Shelley cup is to
feel the quality in it. Only inherited craftsmanship, genera-
tions old, and the jealously guarded secrets of the Shelley
potteries can make China like this—so feathery light that you
could hardly believe it so strong. When their quality is con-
sidered, Shelley Tea and Coffee Sets cannot be deemed expensive.
Ask to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China.
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel Lucie Attwell and Hilda Con ham
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British. In case
of any difficulty in obtaining, write to: —T. W. HEA'IH
& CO., LTD., z } z CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
ďf
Si
beauty
and
Fidelity
THE rich, exclusive appearance of ELGIN
watches is but an indication of the internal
beauty of workmanship. The world’s finest
craftsmen are engaged upon the production of
these masters of time. ELGIN watches fulfil
their allotted task with a fidelity and exactness
that leave nothing to be desired.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
/hi? 'Jracte Mark Wmi j in the Watch Care
102
V
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco*
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/-
(posted 46/-).
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, 1/- post rree.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors Sor Club Iteil Cigar Factor;*
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Avon”: After putting a soft pedal on im-
portations for nine months Maoriland broke
out again in August, when exports totalled
only £2,005,200 and imports £4,313,700. But
despite that lapse the first eight months of
the current year show a balance of exports
over imports of £14,180,000, and hopes are
high that the banks will give the trading
community another chance and refrain from
increasing the overdraft rate, which only
quite recently climbed down from an exalted
peak.
* * * *
The State Savings Bank of S.A. claims to
have broken all its own records with mil-
lions of depositors’ money on its books, an in-
crease of 1J for the year. The average amount
to the credit of each depositor—omitting
the growing “penny bank” department—is
now over £66, and 80 per cent, of the whole
population of the State have accounts. This
is without reckoning the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank. Where the State one scores is in
its high rate of earning, allowing it to pay
4f per cent, on deposits up to £5OO, and
44 beyond that to £lOOO.
❖ $ X ❖
“Jacques”: N.S.W. police figures disclose
that in the first six months of the present
year 789 motor-cars were reported stolen.
Of this number 20 have not been traced.
In the same period 111 motor-cycles went
missing, and the police found 75 of them.
The Government recently tightened up the
Crimes Act to deal with car thieves, who
are now liable to three years. Previously
the charge was “illegally” using a car, and
provided for a £2O fine. Now the charge will
be “unlawfully” using, and provides for gaol
without the option.
* * * *
“Lew”: In London the best ambergis is
worth about the same per oz. as gold, its
principal uses being in perfumery and wine-
blending. It is rarely found outside the
Pacific or Indian oceans. In M.L. the tide
set leaves it on the west coast from the
Far North down to Stewart Island, where the
finds are larger but the quality is lower. If
the Ross Sea whalers carry on at the recent
rate the “industry” will vanish. Ambergis
has to mellow with time and. immersion. Raw
from the whale it isn’t of much use. The
principal ground in the North Island is the
Ninety Mile beach, and the most favorable
time after a big westerly gale.
♦ ❖ *
“The Invalid” : There may be lots of luck
in droving (B. 12/9/’2B), but skill and re-
source play a bigger part. In the summer of
1917, when grass seeds were causing tremen-
dous mortality amongst sheep, the late
Paddy Smith, of Hillston (N.S V.), piloted
4000 weaners through hundreds of miles
of potential death and torture from Nyngan
to Canally station, Balranald, without a
fatality. Paddy, who was an abo., adopted
the simple expedient of felling a few sap-
lings and having them dragged before the
mob, thus beating a track through the
malicious grass, and it needed no persuasion
to keep the woollies to the track. I handled
the figures.
* * * *
“Front de Bceuf”: Someone has been
taking a cattle census of the world, and has
discovered that there are 523 million, 85 mil-
lion of Avliich are in the so-called “Pacific
Basin.” It will come as a shock to read that
China lead s this area with 26 million, Aus-
tralia running a poor second with just half
that amount. Siam is third with eight million,
and Western America, in spite of the huge
crop of cowboys it raises for the films,
boasts only five and a half million. Aus-
tralia’s turn comes with the sheep; it can
show 104 million, or about 56 p.c. of a total
of 186,000,000. Indeed, each Australian
human has allotted him by the statistician
36.9 sheep, in addition to 2.1 cows or steers,
and only .18 of a pig
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Though the ambitious proposal
to establish huge factories in Queensland to
manufacture celotex, a type of fibroid board-
ing, from megass, the crushed fibre of the
sugar-cane, has apparently fallen through,
owing to some hitch over the acquiring of
BI-I-IG FELLER GOOD TIME.
“Oh Bessie! In my room and with my wedding veil
on, too! What ever do you think you’re doing?”
“Enjoying myself, mine tinkit.”
the American patents, an Anglo-Australian
concern i s preparing to exploit the field.
This co. proposes to utilise, not only the
megass, but tbe fallen and stripped leaves
of the canes, which are knowm as “trash”
and have hitherto been burned as worthless.
One main factory is to be established at
Maryborough in Southern Queensland, with
four smaller pulping plants at Bundaberg,
Mackay, Cairns and Ayr. The new com-
pany’s objective is the making of white
paper, and it is stated that a practicable
process of conversion has been evolved. Cer-
tainly material is plentiful and cheap
enough in all the centres named.
* => * *
“Avon”: One of the epoch-making inven-
tions of recent years stands to the credit of
a Maorilander, A. E. Rod, of Wellington,
who has patented an entirely new method of
reproducing sound, capable of application to
gramophones, telephones and the radio.
Demonstrations of the efficiency of the inven-
tion were so successful that the inventor
had little difficulty in floating a company to
exploit his discovery. An interest in this
co. has now been acquired by John Maxwell,
chairman of directors of British Inter-
national Pictures, Ltd., who proposes to
form a company with a capital of £250,000
to purchase the European rights.
* * * *
“Ming”: A clause in the bill now before
the M.L. Parliament compelling motorists to
take out third-party insurance provides that
any insurance company will have the right
to apply to a magistrate for an order can-
celling a motorist’s license on the ground
that the safety of the public is endangered
by his possession of such license. The can-
celled license will be delivered into court,
and the motorist lias the right of appeal.
As all motorists will come under the pro-
posed Act, no license will be issued until the
third-party regulation premium is paid. The
insurance companies should welcome the
clause, as every company suffers from the
chronic nuisance whose careless driving and
consequent claims make his policy an unpro-
fitable piece of paper.
* * * *
“FY7” : In spite of the growing popularity
of rail transport, the transfer of cattle on
the hoof still bulks big in Queensland. The
other day a party set out with a complete
droving plant from Brisbane to pick up some
BUSINESS FIRST.
ABSENT-MINDEED BARBER (to nurse with new
baby): “Has he tried our invincible
hair restorer?”
3000 cattle at the head of tfie Georgina in
the Northern Territory, a jaunt of some 600
miles, mostly dry. The cattle will be brought
to N.S.W. by C. J. Kenyon, who last year
shifted 11,000 over the same route. The
contract gives the drover 2s. per head for
every 100 miles travelled, or about £3OO per
fortnight, he finding all plant, labor and
wages. The entire job should take about 15
months. When that is over another con-
tract to move 20,000 from the N.T. to
N.S.W. will come up for discussion —some-
thing really like a droving job.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: “Whitehall’s” theory (B.
19/9/’2B) that we are suffering from an
artistic inferiority complex owing to the
influx of foreign styles receives gloomy con-
firmation from the Technical schools’ display
at this year’s Melbourne Show. Of the hun-
dreds of articles on view not one exhibits
independence or originality of thought. Side-
boards, chiffoniers, wrought-iron gates and
imitation antiques are all as stereotyped in
design as anything turned out by machinery
from a Footscray furniture factory for
Savings Bank homes. And the pity of it
in that the execution is as good as the
creative element is feeble.
* ❖ # *
“C.Q.” : A quaint combination of benevo-
lence and business is the Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer trackless train, which
puffed through Melbourne the
other day. Originally de-
signed to visit every theatre
on the Metro-Goldwyn cir-
cuit in the United States, it
soon acquired international
ambitions and crossed the
border into Mexico and rolled
along to Canada. It then
went back to New York and
crossed to England. Scotland
was visited, then Europe and
North Africa. Then after
hunting down every town
where South Americans gape
at the Metro-Goldwyn won-
ders it came to Australia. In
every country the trackless
train does a side-line in
charity. As it is an exact
replica of a Pullman coach,
with electric kitchenette, buf-
fet and hot and cold bath,
the staff travels in the utmost
luxury, except for the bumps.
The extraordinary-1 o o k i n g
caravan is dragged along
the roads by an engine
, mounted on pneumatic-tyred
•wheels, and weighs 11 tons.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Not every Government can
boast, like the South African, a vast and
valuable deposit of diamonds in its back
yard from which to replenish the Treasury
at need. It was announced the other day
that the Namaqualand fields, discovered a
couple of years ago and taken over by the
Government of the Union, had already
yielded five millions’ worth of “stonek,” which
are disposed of at the rate of only £6OOO
worth a month to avoid flooding the market.
Jt is intended to devote the income from
the field to a huge irrigation scheme, which
will include the damming of the Orange and
V aal rivers. The diamonds are transferred
from the field to Capetown by aeroplane,
and as they are found in shallow and sandy
workings, the expenses of recovery are negli-
glDl6.


m
Ey* 3
■;« ..
K'sr,
■'*'4
M
x&sifcva
> !
m
'mwoM
ifiY
» -o
■ .V
<®§iiitii
#
ill
f*'
//////.
&/**** '//////
\m
\\\\\\\\
/////////
Mini
I
///.,
j/Mm
f/UJ.
\rnmm.
m
m
m:
mm
s «t
°?s
= m
PRICE FROM
£75.
Porcelain lined
throughout.
Comfort in Coolness.
Would you enjoy this
Summer an Electric Re-
frigerator that looks after
itself, is automatic, always
cold and requires n o
attention?
Unrivalled for economy,
ElectrlCE is your ideal ser-
vant. It keeps salads, fish,
desserts, cooked meats,
etc., fresh and pure for
days—beverages are made
100 % more enticing.
Many styles, all capacities,
varying prices, adaptable
for every kitchen. See
ElectrlCE before you
decide.
Write or ’phone for our free
illustrated Recipe Book, or,
better still, call and, with-
out obligation to purchase,
see an ElectrlCE working
and inspect our model
electric kitchen.
11 Freeze with Ease”
Manufacturers Products Pty.,
137-39 Clarence St. (top of Barrack St., nei
Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1328.
Ltd.,
G.P.0.),
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
jspjsrr
$
sn
W\
p*
•*rr
An EMMCO Product.
Manufactured by
ELECTRICITY METER MFG. CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
THERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
ITS majestic fiords and sounds, its uncanny thermal
wonders never fail to impress the keenest and most
critical observer. Its trout and deep-sea fishing, its
deer-stalking and native game provide the best of sport.
NEW 'ZEALAND is reached by palatial steamers,
and the visitor on arrival is welcomed
and cared for by those whose duty it is to see that
he has a good time. He is taken care of from the time
he sets foot on shore until he steps on board his
steamer at the conclusion of his tour.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to be seen
The COST involved
application to the
may be had on
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free jor the Asking.
Tours Booked.
Tours Planned.
ROSE DAY
is on
FRIDAY,
October 5, 1928.
Come to Town and join in all the fun of
the fair —and be happy in the knowledge
that the cost of your gaiety goes to a
good cause.
Chocolate Wheels Dancing
Lucky Dips Concerts
Decorated Stalls Bands
in
MARTIN PLACE—BATHURST STREET
—CUSTOMS HOUSE SQUARE
ROSE DAY
October 5, 1928.
Ninety-five of the State’s most deserving
Charities benefit from the proceeds of
Rose Day.


IBIBBTIiBWnr
■ •in
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCITS, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. r*
SPORTING
NOTIONS
spected for his future engagements this
season —he is in the Melbourne Cup with
7st. 31b. Daniels was blamed for making
so much use of Mollison, but if the Melbourne
lad was at fault what about Tooliey on
Ramulus? That in-and-out horseman re-
sorted to the very same tactics as had
failed against Mollison at Warwick Farm
and Rosehill. Two of the disappointments
of the race were Limerick’s half-brother
Roscrca and Heroic’s half-brother Cimbrian.
The betting was a faithful guide to the
result of the Epsom Handicap. Amounis
was favorite at 5 to 2, Sion second favo-
rite at 4 to 1, and Royal Tune third favo-
rite at 8 to 1, and they finished in that
order. Sion played up at the barrier, but
got away pretty well and was second into
the straight to Sir Christopher (66 to 1).
Toohey immediately took him to the front,
and he was clear of the field at the dis-
tance, but Amounis (fifth into the straight),
getting in the last run that means so much
at Randwick, was upsides with him a hun-
dred yards from home, and beat him by
half a length; Royal Tune, who also fin-
ished well, was a length and a half away,
the time being lmin. 37£sec. Munro rode
Amounis and deservedly shared in the cheer-
ing which greeted the big Magpie gelding’s
second Epsom. The same lad had the mount
on Sion in the Camellia Stakes at Rose-
hill, and had Toohey shown as much
patience instead of being in such a hurry
to get to the front, the Epsom result might
have been different.
Of the 16 horses behind the place-getters
(Roonui was left at the post), Killarney
(33 to 1) did best; then came Black Duch-
ess (12 to 1), Valparaiso (20 to 1) and
Under the Whip
Seventy-five thousand was the official esti-
mate of the attendance on the opening day of
the, A.J.C. Spring meeting. There have been
bigger crowds at Randwick, but not many;
and more thrilling racing may have been
witnessed, but not often. The weather was
perfect, and secretary Cropper (back in har-
ness again after his illness) and his staff
looked after their part of the show with the
efficiency of long experience.
The Derby brought out a stylish-looking
field of a dozen, and Mollison, engaging in
his tenth race, suffered his first defeat. The
event proved that he is no Manfred, who,
left half a furlong in his Derby, caught
a field that included Amounis, Vaals and
Tibbie, and outstayed the lot; all the same,
E. M. Pearce’s gelding went down gallantly.
Never farther back than second, lie was be-
hind Ramulus when the straight was
reached, that colt having rushed up on
the rails when Coercion, the leader for a
time, fell back beaten. Ramulus hung on
well when Mollison tackled him, and the
bay did not get his head in front until they
had entered upon the last furlong; mean-
while Prince Humphrey and Oatendale,
third and sixth into the straight respec-
tively, were finishing fast. For a few strides
Mollison looked to have the race in hand,
but Prince Humphrey, vigorously ridden by
Munro, shot up on the outside and settled
him by three-quarters of a length. Very
weary but very game, Mollison interfered
with Ramulus, perhaps depriving him
of third place; but Oatendale came
home so well that he would probably have
been third in any event —he was only, a
neck behind Mollison.. The Happy V arrior
being fourth and Ramulus, eased-up, next.
The betting was 7 to 4 on Mollison, 10 to
1 Prince Humphrey. 12 to 1 Oatendale
and Cimbrian, and 14 to 1 Ramulus and
Roscrea ; and the time was 2min. 32fsec.
Though he raced as a two-year-old on the
other side of the Tasman, being owned by
C. G. Macindoo and trained by J. T. Jamie-
son, both Maorilanders, Prince Humphrey
was bred in Australia. He is by imported
Duke Humphrey—Shepherd Princess (his
dam is a half-sister to Manfred’s dam), and
was sold as a yearling for 70 gjiineas. As
the Derby prize was worth £6657 (another
£4OO went to the breeder, E._G. Blume),
and he had previously won £2769 in stake-
money, he ranks as one of the cheapest year-
lings on record. Jamieson gave him four
races before the Derby, the first on August
4, and critics used to seeing young horses
coddled predicted that he would go oft;
but the fact is he stripped a very fit horse,
and Jamieson obviously knows his job. Mol-
lison's condition likewise could not be faulted ;
but Oatendale could apparently have done
with another week’s work at least, and this
fine Rossendale colt must be greatly re-
ANOTHER RESULT OF RADIO.
BABY: “And did you feel excited when you heard Amounis had won?”
FAIRY: “Excited! I tried to make a sago pudding with the bath-salts!”
Don Moon (33 to 1). Habashon was fifth
at one stage, but drifted into the ruck. Tne
weight told on Fuji San, Cimabue and Black
Duchess.
Backers laid 9 to 4 and 2 to 1 on Limer-
ick for the Spring Stakes, and lost on the
race, though the Maoriland champion did
not lose. It was a match between Limerick
and Winalot (4 to 1), and a madly exciting
one in the straight; for two furlongs they
were locked together, the Australian chest-
nut on the outside. Tooliey on this occa-
sion was not a prey to over-anxiety, but
It. Reed could not prevent the tiring Limer-
ick from coming out, and that cost Winalot
the race. The judge declared it a dead-
lieat, and he was unquestionably right. The
result caused some alteration in the Mel-
bourne Cup betting, for Winalot immediately
became a firm favorite, whereas Statesman
receded —he came in last. Valamita (109
to 1) caused some surprise by finishing
third, beating Spearfelt as well as States-
man.
On the whole the day was unfavorable
to backers, but they would have fared worse
if the bagmen hadn’t been so nervous, par-
ticularly in the case of Mollison. The tote
was well patronised, and in three cases re-
turned better prices than were obtainable in
the ring, though backers of the first horse
divided only 47£ p.c. of the pool. For ex-
ample, Golden Voice, winner of the Ken-
sington Handicap, was at 14 to 1 with the
big bookmakers and at tens with the minor
banditti: on the machine he yielded £8
17s. fid. for 10s. (16| to 1) in the pad-
dock and £5 19s. (id. for ss. (just on -o
to 1) in the leger reserve, and there were
two other dividends besides. A straightout
machine with a 10 p.c. deduction would re-
turn some noble dividends at these great
Randwick meetings.
On Monday Jocelyn equalled the achieve-
ment of her dam, Maltine, who won the
Metropolitan in 1909. The bonny black
mare, who races in J. S. Brunton’s colors
(white, red sleeves, red cap), as did Malt-
ine, got away well and was always travel-
ling like a winner. She had charge at the
distance, where Sharp Son and Fondant
looked dangerous, settled the lightweights
handsomely, and had enough in reserve to
beat off a late challenge from the Maoriland
mare Oratrix; the time was 2min. 444 sec.
For once Fondant was slow to leave the
barrier, and in the circumstances he ran
a good race. Favorite at sto 1, along with
Sharp Son, Jocelyn’s dividend on the grand-
stand tote was £2 11s. —remarkably good
considering that it was one of three, and
that the Government tax alone is 9 p.c.
She was produced in fine condition by
Price, and excellently ridden by Duncan.
For the remaining days of the meeting:
Craven Plate: Limerick.
Suburban Handicap: Don Moon; next,
Royal Tune.
Members’ Handicap: Kavalli; next,
Happy Warrior.
Sydney Handicap: Fondant; next, Lord
Ivennaquhair.
Randwick Plate: Winalot.
Clibborn Stakes: Ramulus.
Melbourne backers are having a bad spin,
and the meeting at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day added to their losses, especially as the
dismal news came through from Sydney that
Mollison had been downed. In the Quality
Handicap, however, they picked a winner.
Kalloni, making his first appearance since
his successful Sydney trip, proved the good
thing lie looked at the weights (he had 7st.
91b.), and started at a good thing’s price,
6to 4 Hopping him out smartly, Dempsey-
indulged Myarin (12 to 1) and Attraction (S
to 1) with the lead, and disposed ot them
easily when it was time for serious business.
Honest Highland was fourth; Pica Pica,
from the West, was an also-ran, and the
Caulfield Cup fancy Hynanna beat only one
horse home. Kalloni galloped the seven fur-
longs in lmin. 261 see.
The Tullamarine Handicap furnished the
sensation of the afternoon. Biggins s bay
gelding Diamond Plume (8 to 1), who had
been beaten out of a place in inferior com-
pany at Geelong earlier in the wceK, made
nearly all the running, and although passed by
Beppinsan (7 to 1), came again and snatched
the verdict by half a head, All Chatter (•)
to 2) being third. Beppinsan’s backers
noisily disputed the decision, and the tumult
was swelled by those who considered Diamond
Plume’s improvement on his Geelong form
too sudden. He is an old Tressady gelding,
and a bit erratic, as the breed is apt to be.
!|: * * =i=
“Thormanby”: The limelight of the
A.J.C. Spring meeting has once more brought
into prominence the utter folly of legisla-
tion against the press publication of betting
odds. N. S. Wales and Victoria have im-
posed this curious embargo for years;
Queensland and Westralia scorn it. The
subterfuges resorted to by Sydney papers to
let the noble army of punters know what s
doing cannot be said to inculcate respect
for the law. The hush-hush fallacy in no
way discourages betting, but it enables book-
makers to cramp the odds. One grotesque
feature of the business is that Brisbane
papers containing the Sydney prices on im-
pending Sydney races can be bought m Syd-
ney, while Sydney papers are forbidden to
publish the same prices.
“Gallery”: The Hogans are going to give
their Tote Bill another run in Vic. Parlia-
ment this session, with the addition of a
clause providing for the Government’s share
to go to charities. Ten months ago the bill
got through the Leg. Assembly by the narrow
majority of two votes, and Macfarlan, who
replaced Snowball, is the only change in per-
sonnel since. The House of Plush knocked
the thing out by 19 to 12. It would be
better if the machine were accepted or re-
jected on its merits without any charity
stunting. Last year there were 721 charity
race-meetings in Vic., and lawmakers are
a bit weary of seeing the hat held out in
association with the turf.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Ad San tel, supposed to be as invincible as
Mollison, was beaten on points by Clarence
TCklund in Melbourne on Saturday night,
after eight uninteresting rounds of wrestling.
The strain of making the weight two weeks
in succession told on Santel. Though never
in serious trouble, he was too busy defend-
ing to take the initiative.
:!*. # ❖
Yankee bantam Charlie von Reedon, who
disposed of Billy McAlister in eight rounds
at Melbourne, had a stiffer job in the second
meeting of the pair at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. The verdict was given to the
Amei’ican at the end of the fifteenth round,
but there was very little between them, and
the crowd rather expected the referee to
declare that he could not separate them. It
was a spirited fight. McAlister weighed Bst.
521 b. and the Yank half a pound lighter.
Footbrawl
The Collingwood Magpies had assured all
and sundry during the week that there
would be “no grand final this year,” and they
were right. With long, low kicks to block
the Richmond high-markers, with clean hand-
ling and exact passing, they kept the Tigers
at bay and steadily forged ahead. Big Percy
Rowe spent much of his time lurking round
the Tigers’ goal or shepherding for Gordon
Coventry, and that star forward got nine
goals. His brother Syd continually changed
his rucks, saved his big men for an emer-
gency, filled up a weak spot here and there
and kept up such a remorseless attack as
broke the Tigers’ hearts. ’Wood’s ultimate
score was 13 goals IS behinds against Rich-
mond’s 9 goals 9 behinds. The man chiefly
responsible for ’Wood’s seventh premiership
is Jim McHale, former captain and for- the
last 18 years coach. The attendance was
50,026; the “gate.” £2533. The barrackers
will now get ready to greet Chapman and
his mates.
(Continued on parte 41.)
Harry Rush, of Victoria, died in Mel-
bourne the other day; he collapsed after
having apparently recovered from an attack
of influenza. An old Wesley College boy,
he played cricket and football for his school,
and later with Ilawksburn C. C., and lie was
a dashing batsman. His long and notable
connection with the V.C.A., for which he was
lion, treasurer for 20 years, and his work
in establishing and maintaining the Board
of Control in conjunction with stalwarts like
himself, were outstanding contributions to
the cause of the game he loved and served.
THE ASHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now many-coded football folds its wings,
Or, preferably, stacks its boots away;
Now tennis champions descend to tilings
Of nought, high-leaping freaks that tew
would pay
Cash at their mimic warfare to survey;
The sprinter streaks, the flapper-swimmer
plashes
With few enthusiasts to shout “Hooray
A more engrossing topic is The Ashes.
Soon shall the Sport (reputedly) of Kings
But second fiddle in the concert play,
And the hoarse roar of odds-intoning rings
Fall upon fewer ears than those which
weigh
The wit and wisdom of the packed array
That from the Hill its commentary splashes,
While bats that block and poke, or flail and
flay,
Decide the destination of The Ashes.
Soon shall our dailies, morns and evenings,
Contending teams’ abilities assay,
While pundits prose on breaks and swerves
and swings,
And reps, are made—or perish—in a day.
And should anticipations go astray.
Selectors may expect their whack of lashes,
While noisy partisans discordant bray.
Ye gods! what dust will rise about The
Ashes.
From deftly wielded bat the sixer sings;
Into the timber-yard the yorker crashes;
Triumph that gladdens or reverse that,
stings—
All this, and more, is in these blinking
Ashes.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


ACKNOWLEDGED
LEADERS
THE
SPORTS
W O R L D.
I N
*««»«#***
**********
SSSSSSZSSSZ
mszhssssss;
haasssssr
MBsmsnuxm tax is at* 1
mimiHMi J
wasss®-T
V^s
<mmm> «mmmmmm
m m m m 3* m m ns m m * m
** mm mm mwmma*
tmmmmmmmmmmm
mmmmmmmmrns
mmmxmmmmm
immrnmmmmma
•mmmmmmmm
SSSSHS
WiiislS
fgisiii
bssh
* SPRr/Kff.**
m mm mm* m* mmmagm
Any court—
anywhere
you’re sure
to find
a Mick Simmons’ Racket in use!
THE HIGHER-GRADE IS ALWAYS LOWER-PRICED AT MICK SIMMONS'
Superior Steam-Tarred
TENNIS NETS
Tennis Nets, with rope head line . . 18/6, 25/-, 30/-
Tennis Nets, with drill head band, wire head
line 37/6, 40/-, 457-
Tennis Nets, with heavy drill head band, flexible
wire head line, double top, 45/-, 50/-, 60/-, 65/-, 70/-
“Classic” Screw Net Adjuster, heavy web, with
ground fastener 5/6
“Acme” Net Adjuster, with web band and nickel
fastener 4/6
Heavy Drill Head Bands, for Tennis Nets .... 7/6
Flexible Wire Head Lines, for Tennis Nets .... 8/
THE “FOUNTAIN SPRAY”
COURT MARKER
price £4 / 10'-
Any Tennis Court marked in less than five minutes. The
“Fountain” Marker sprays the line in a bold, uniform
manner quite independent of condition of surface of court.
THE “DALBY ” HARD
COURT MARKER
price £ 3 fJ.
Approved and adopted by the N.S.W.
tions. It is simple in construction
durable —and thoroughly
( Carnage Extra on Court Markers.)
Distinctive Rackets
for every grade of Player
LEE MONOGRAM
Model-de-Luxe
PRICE ... 77'6
The ever-increasing demand for this superb racket amongst Country as well as City
players makes it one of the most widely-used in Australia to-day. The dominating
feature —the wonderful slotted throat —is exclusive to the “Lee Monogram,” and
cannot be had in any other racket. The reason for the slot is: It ensures absolutely
perfect balance; absorbs the smashing jolts which split rackets at the shoulders;
imparts the very slightest spring—unnoticeable to the user, but lending extra power
to the service, drive, and smash.
Strung with best English Gut. Frame carries 6 Months’ Guarantee.
Gut carries 3 Months' Guarantee.
BRITANNIC
PRICE 55'-
For quality, dependability, and craftsmanship this Racket in its own particular cla93
has no equal in the Tennis world to-day.
Strung with Serviceable English Gut.
Frame carries 6 Months’ Guarantee.
COURT CRAFT
PRICE 24'-
A new Racket, amazingly priced, yet absolutely dependable in every way. Beauti-
fully made and finished. No superior racket at the price obtainable anywhere io-day.
Strung with good quality Gut.
WILL CORRY” GOLF
CLUBS
Products of the finest craftsmanship, made from
highest - quality materials, they find favour with
Professionals and Amateurs alike. Perfect Clubs
and none better to be had in all Australia to-day.
Scientifically matched in weight, length, loft, lie,
and balance.
BEGINNERS’ GOLF SETS
Comprising Driver, Mashie, Mid-Iron, Putter, 2
Golf Balls, and Tan Canvas Bag with leather
fittings, together with copy of latest Golf Rules.
Specially Priced at S(K
MATCHED WOODS 25'-
GENUINE RUSTLESS GRADED IRONS, 25'
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS . 20'
SERVICEABLE GOLF BAGS
Brown or Blue Canvas, superior leather fittings,
cane supports, very light and strong. 1 _ f/
41-inch 15'6
Willow Hide, white green lacing, 2 -y'j/s
canes, highly polished finish O
WILL CORRY'S BOOK ON ‘GOLF.”
A first-hand Treatise on the Game. Price, 2/-, Post Paid.
(Carriage Paid except where specified otherwise.)
The Tennis and Golf Catalogues are post free on request.
. Ttifick <Simhinnxltd
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
AND AT BRISBANE.
“ Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters:
Ti
rr \
I'M
36
MV
i
Jftro;
k


/UQiA^
Every detail of service and
convenience is anticipated in
this great hotel with the
world-famous name.
SiiiiiiiiiiiMiMli
Hil
II iliiiliii
R
rip lilj tjiilslH 111
ills
11
ll Tl?!?
in
ft
n~l
Tn
I I
rrar
H
&&
A beautifully-illustrated folder will enable you to
anticipate something of its quality; write for one
if you are thinking of coming to Sydney.
“After all, there’s only OXE ‘Australia.’ ”
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address: “Austraotel, Sydney
(Capital Paid Up, £422,100.)
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH. SYDNEY.
Footbrawl
“C.Q.” : A participant in the League match
between the Gippsland and Wimmera leagues
at the Melbourne Cricket Ground was a new
clock which aims at turning the business o
keeping time into an exact science. tne
chronometer records in seconds the -o
minutes of a quarter, and is so built tnat
it can be connected electrically with hells
distributed about the grounds, thus eliminat-
ing the unpleasant chance of one team scor-
ing after time because the umpire failed to
hear the timekeeper’s signal, , as happened
recently in an important game in Melbourne.
The inventor is T. Fanil, of Warracknabeal,
where the clock has been in use at matches
for several years past.
* * =i= *
The N’.S.W. Rugby Union team in Main-
land was defeated by Wairarapa in the last
match of the tour, played in pouring ram,
by 17 points to 10. The tourists scored two
tries and (for a wonder) converted both.
Wairarapa is a strong combination ; it holds
the Ranfurly Shield this season. Of the 10
matches played the tourists won 5, losing t<o
Maoriland (twice) and to Southland, the
Maoris and Wairarapa. Their luck was not
of the best, the losses being by the narrowest
of margins, save in the last match ; hut that s
all in the game.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The Queensland Rugby League
season saw University premiers for the
first time since the competition was started
in 1909; the students beat Carlton by. 10
to 7. Their win has additional interest, since
it is unlikely that the Uni. will have many
more chances to repeat it. The big secondary
schools, which act as feeders to the Uni-
versity, have returned in _ a body to the
Rugby Union fold, and it is no secret that
those in authority would like _to see the
anomaly of University players indulging in
a professional game removed. In any case
that will come about as the new contingents
come up from the schools, but the Varsity
players might do worse during the slack
season than consider the many advantages
attaching to the great amateur code and
make up their minds to hasten the inevit-
able by formally transferring to the Union
game.
The Ins and Outs
“Stumps”: With only a fortnight to go
before the Englishmen land at I remantle,
Australian cricketers will have to scratcn
to strike form. The first Test is to begin
on November 30, in Brisbane, and the only
trial for Test-match candidates will be held
on October 19, the day the tourists open
against Westralia at Perth; it will be a
game between Australia and The Rest.
the tone of the daily press it is evident
that veneration for old age will be again the
chief motif in the selections. The craze
to-day is for “experience,” whatever that
mav mean. It wasn’t bothered about much
iii ' the days when W. G. Grace was
shoved into first-class cricket when he was
barely half-way through his ’teens. 1 he-
men who picked out Duff and Trumper over-
looked their lack of experience, while C. 1. »•
Turner came down from Bathurst without
having to serve a long and dreary term
of playing second fiddle to old chaps before
he was let loose on the Englishmen.
* * * *
“Hillite” : The coming visit of the English
cricketers will be only the beginning of a
long series of international tours. Austra-
lians go to England in 1930, and south
African representatives have been invited to
come over here in 1931-32. The West Indians
are being asked to play in Australia in 1930.
The only previous visit of the Afrikanders
was in 3.910-11, and a magnificent side they
were. Australia won four of the five Tests
played on that occasion, but the cricket ot
the visitors made a great impression.
“Tenth Slip”: Engaged to write accounts
of the Englishmen’s matches for London
Daily Telegraph, Warren Bardsley, fine
sportsman that he is, asked to be excused
on learning that he had been named one
of the Australian selectors. In other words,
the international batsman put aside a sum
running into some hundreds of pounds to
enable him to accept a job for which he
will get no material reward. There are a
thundering lot of people who would have
been content to take the cash and let the
credit go.
“Hotliam”: The Victorian cricket authori-
ties, setting things in order for the coming
season, nearly acquired merit from the point
of view of a long-suffering public by attempt-
ing to abolish the tea interval in pennant
cricket. The project was defeated, but
umpires have been instructed to see that
the adjournment does not exceed 10 minutes.
Why on earth this idiotic interval is observed
in cricket where play lasts only a short after-
noon no one seems to be able to explain.
Even in Sheffield Shield and other big
matches the idea of knocking off for a rest
at four o’clock has nothing logical to recom-
mend it. The cricketer who, after three-
quarters of an hour for lunch, has to be
spelled again at the most interesting stage
of the afternoon’s play is an anomaly as an
athlete. He would be better employed at
croquet.
* *
“Canny Lad”: The recent declaration of
the N.S.W. cricket authorities that repre-
sentative Australian cricketers are amateurs,
in spite of the Amateur Federation’s decision
to the contrary, has lent additional interest
to the Board of Control’s scale of allowances
for the season. Test-match players are to
receive a bonus of £3O apiece for each match,
in addition to first-class rail and sleeper ex-
penses, plus 30s. a day while away from their
home State. The amateurs will have to
find their own board and lodging, which
seems an intolerable hardship. The payments
to players in the Sheffield matches vary with
the States, but N.S.W. grants up to 30s. a
day, plus board and lodging. So a good pro-
portion of the players should handle well up
to £2OO for the season of four months. Not
so bad for amateurs. Umpires in the Tests
will get £lO for each match, and 30s. per
day while away from home. But then,
umpires are not amateurs.
:J: * * *
Arthur Richardson, who is returning to
Australia by the same boat as the English-
men, will resume his job as coach for the
Westralian Association for the season. On
completion of this he will return to Lanca-
DOUBLE-CROSSED.
Opening Batsman: “’Ow the blazes do they expect a man ter take centre from a
cross-eyed umpire?”
shire for at least another term under con-
tract with the Bacup League club. Last
season he scored over 1000 runs m League
.cricket and took 75 wickets.
* *
“Adelaide” : S.A. has acquired by residence
two old inter-State cricketers —Barbour of
Queensland, now head of St. Andrews Col-
lege • and Carlton, of Vic. Bruce Townsend
retires from the field at last, after having
been prominent since 1904, when he made
171 (to Bolling’s 311) in the college match.
In club cricket lie has made over 4000 runs
and taken 300 wickets. For big cricket he
Was a bit too reckless in his smiting; but
he plavcd for S.A. over 30 times, and made
117 against N.S.W. in December, 1921.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The Tennis Council’s alloca-
tion of the profits from the 192 S champion-
ships was not to the liking of the Sydney
body Sydney accordingly circularised the
other capitals urging them to have the
council’s decision cancelled and a fresh
arrangement made. The secret document
somehow got into the hands of the Federals,
and it was expected that there would be
another civil war. However, the lederals
magnanimously decided to take no discipli-
nary action.
* * * ?
“Rev. Knucklebone”: A painful incident
took place in Sydney lawn-tennis circles
recently. Two prominent racqueteers, one
a tennis official who writes for an afternoon
paper, had to play a match in the metro-
politan championships. Unable to do this on
the date fixed, they privately arranged to
have it out on a convenient date, when the
official unexpectedly won. The “stipes,” how-
ever, declared it no race, and the pair were
compelled to play again. This time the
loser of the first match turned the tables.
That was bad enough, but matters were
not improved by the insinuation of the ulti-
mate winner that his opponent had “talked
him out of” the first game. So far the
charge has not been answered, but those who
know their onions are eagerly scanning the
columns of the evening paper.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Derwent”: Back in Tasmania, after
cleaning up the pick of Australian and Maori-
land golfers in the Australian amateur cham-
pionship at Sydney, Len Nettlefold set to
work to add the Southern Tasmanian title
to his string. The lion in the path was
l’apa Nettlefold, also a mighty golfer, who
gave his offspring such a willing go when
the pair met that the 36 holes finished with
scores 150 all. In a six-hole play-off, how-
ever, junior got home by one stroke. The
pair won the State foursomes, but it- T.
Brown downed Len in the singles by 8 up
a,ld 7 ‘* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Teams of Australian ex-
ponents of nearly every variety of game
played in this country have invaded Britain.
Goif is almost the sole exception, though an
occasional player has gone as a free-lance.
The Australian Golf Union has decided to
attempt the getting together of a team of
amateurs to visit Britain in the next tour-
nament season, and also to see if a visit from
an English team cannot be arranged. Messrs.
Clarke and Pope (Sydney), Robert Nettle-
fold (Hobart) and .T. AV. Trumble (Mel-
bourne) have been appointed a committee
to go into ways and means. It is high time
we started golf Tests with the Old Country.
The stalwarts of croquet did it some years
ago, and golf and ping-pong seem to be about
the only hangcrs-back m sight.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Players at a Sydney golf
club the other day were astonished to find
that they were under fire, several bullets
falling near them. The pair retired hurriedly
on their supports. It is supposed that a small
hov with a pea-rifle in the adjoining scrub
■was at the bottom of it all; but , “ e JJp
r><in tell Tt is auite on the cards tnat rn
franc tireur was some hapless clttfen driven
off his head by the continual golf jabber
fellow-passengers on the ><oith S
“Hamilton”: The Royal Queensland Golf
Club is particularly proud of a silver di ,
a gift from the Royal and Antient. at M.
Andrews and supposed to be the only thin»
that eminent institution has ever parted w
for nothing. The annual battle for: the
trophy was won the other day by Hi. • •
Mnrnhv He will not get the driver, nor an>
other reward for his skill, but has wr>n
rio-ht to attach a silver golf ball to the renc
as it hangs on the wall. This he will have <
pay for himself, so it wou.d seem that it was
not for nothing the driver hails fiom St.
Andrews.
“Old Q.”: A. S. McArthur (B. 19/9>/J2S)
has been replaced as instructor at McWhir-
ter’s golf school in Brisbane by young Dick
Carr, who while still in his ’teens won the
Queensland open championshm m 1926. G»ri
has been in charge of the Sand»ate Glut) s
course on Moreton Bay, a dozen miles or so
from Brisbane.
“Brassey”: The machine-like precision of
the professional golfer wkn lie is on ns
game was well illustrated in the hnal of th;
News of the Would professional tomnev,
played last week in England. The last pa
were C. A. Whitcombe and W. Cotton, tin
former winning by 4 and 2. The first 9 hoßs
were halved; then Whitcombe came home
in 31, finishing with a round of 68 to Cot
ton’s 72 on a course bogied at lb. In tn
second round Cotton took o- t° l t e •
nine holes, which squared the match. Mli t
combe came again, and took the next live
holes with a 2 and four os. loi the 34
holes played the average was 12 undei 4 s
miraculous figures.
❖ * :,t
“Slow Back” : Those golfers who occasion-
ally waste valuable time on the surfing
beaches might find a new thrill m beach
golf,” an American innovation. Greens aic
laid out with buckets for holes, and bunkers
are dug in the sand. A large, soft rubber
ball is used, and one club —a wooden affair
that looks like a cross between a hurling-
nlaycr's “pook” and a battle-axe that has seen
better days. The game has caught on well
on the American beaches, and may serve to
distract attention from the monotonous array
of underclothed flappers which are the great,
drawback to our own. In any case, it s
better than no golf at all.
“Tlie McHaggis”: The Rules Committee
of St. Andrews has postponed once more
the vexed question of a larger and lighter
golf ball. One of the reasons given was
that it was intended to take the opinions ot
Dominion clubs, which have proved loya
to St. Andrews,” the implication being, ot
course, that European and American goiters
are not. The committee has again refused
to sanction the steel-shafted club, which is
permitted in America, and we still have the
curious anomaly of these shafts being manu-
factured in huge quantities in England and
being exported to America, where they are
fast supplanting the wooden shaft, the ot.
Andrews ban prevents their use in Australia,
Act they would seem eminently adapted loi
play on the flint-like fairways of many Aus-
tralian clubs, especially those of the out-back
areas.
“Budge”: The old Victoria course, now
known as Sandridge, is a great training-
ground for Melbourne players with nerves.
As one approaches a green an ocean liner
appears to be cutting right through the iaii-
way. As you bend down to putt the rifle-
range behind you opeus fire with the vicious-
ness of a cluster of machine-guns. Aon
might get used to these things; but what
does worry you is the persistency with whiqh
the regular fleet of manoeuvring aeroplanes
come at you. They behave like giant mag-
pies in the nesting season. Why not use
Sandridge for a training-ground for gallery-
shy youngsters?
* * * *
“Bloggs”: One of the royal press-agents
who has beeu spreading himself in Sydney
Sun on the Prince of Wales as a sportsman
says that the future monarch’s golf handicap
is 14. If so, it is one of those complimentary
assessments by which the choleric pride of
aged admirals and generals is soothed and
flattered in fashionable English golf clubs.
\ v hen I was in England last summer the
Prince entered for a workers’ tournament,
and his first opponent was a sexagenarian
gardener. They played level, and the oldster,
whose handicap was 18, won by 4 up and
8 to play. If any club committee had the
temerity to give the Prince a genuine han-
dicap it would be in the neighborhood of 2-1.
(Continued on next page.)


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up Beautiful
lighting effects A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Itomano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS.
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
What Teivim Players
f
Want-
The A.K. SPIRAL
RESTRING
THAT
OUTWEARS ALL
OTHERS.
Retains its High Tension.
Specially
Recommended for
Hard-court Players.
Guaranteed for 3 Months.
25/-
(Postage Paid.)
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.
11-13 MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
MAN NEWS
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Lea] Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
wide will
not sag ; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
30/-
Post Fret
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Queen Street, Brisbane.
World's Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Old Q.” Queensland Automobile Club s
big reliability contest from Brisbane to
Katoomba, by way of the Northern table-
lands of N.S.W., was won by Roy Bulcock,
driving an Alvis super sports car wlucli
scored 508.3 points of the possible—a fine
performance considering the length and varied
nature of the test. J. W. Whatmore, with
a Fiat 503, was second, scoring 775,04. R. P.
Randall’s Chrysler, with 771-69, was third,
so honors were divided among British, 1 tan an
and American cars. The thing extended
over six days, and comprised, in addition
to the long run, two liill-climbs, two speed-
tests, two acceleration-tests and one flexi-
bility contest.
* * * *
“Gearbox”: Motorists who have had to
cross from Queensland to N.S.W. and t’other
way about have found the passing of the
border rabbit and cattle fence a confounded
nuisance, especially at night time, when the
gatekeeper or the chap in charge of the
cattle-dip has had to be roused up to let the
wayfarers through. Not long ago an open
gate fitted with cattle- and rabbit-proof grids
was installed at Killarney, and proved a
great convenience. Another has now been
put in at Stantliorpe, an alternative route.
It is hoped that before long all gates on the
main-road routes between the two States will
be superseded by the motor grids.
:«= tic >!= $
“Garry”: The latest disclosures concerning
the Robertson gear, which has been made a
standard feature of the larger Armstrong-
Siddeley cars, show that earlier descriptions
were very misleading. It is not a goarless
transmission; it is not infinitely variable,
and it does not automatically adjust itself
to load. It is actuated by a pointer mounted
on a quadrant on the steering wheel. Six
positions are marked: reverse, neutral and
four speeds forward. You move the pointer,
step on a pedal, and that’s all. What’s
inside the gear-box is not revealed, but as it
is claimed to be noiseless it is probably a
gearing of the constant mesh type, changes
being made through the agency of a series
of internal clutches. Many gears of that type
have been patented, one of the latest and
most interesting being the Ilumfrey-Sand-
berg.
* >;< -!= *
“Chevroford”: No family driver should
teach other members of his domestic estab-
lishment to drive. Once he does so their
peace of mind and his own are gone. There
is no agony like sitting beside another driver
in fast and difficult traffic. It does not mat-
ter how much one trusts the person at the
wheel, one is all the time subconsciously
anticipating what lie ought to do and won-
dering whether he will do it. Sometimes
this anticipation may even attempt to realise
itself in action, as happened the other day
near Melbourne. A woman sitting beside
her driver-daughter fancied she was going to
do the wrong thing, seized the wheel and
precipitated the accident she aimed at avoid-
ing. She was killed. The daughter was
uninjured.
* * * *
_ “Whizz”: The Australian contingent of
dirt-track motor-cycle riders still continues
to thrill a public somewhat sated with the
tin hare. English Motor Cycling refers in
fervent terms of appreciation to the per-
formances of Billy Lamont, Vic Huxley and
Frank Arthur, among others. All of them
lead English and American competitors in
the points scores which have been instituted
by English journals for the fascinating sport.
How fascinating it is is shown by a passing
reference to a minor casualty which occurred
to Lamont. He came down heavily at a
turn, and his foot was caught in the still-
running chain of the machine; this cut
through his boot and deep into his instep.
Fortunately, the metal toe-cap, which, as
the English recorder cheerfully remarks,
was “blued by the heat,” saved him from
losing his foot. The same journal records,
that Lamont appeared later “on crutches”
to present another Australian, Arthur John-
son, with a trophy which the latter won in
Lamont’s unavoidable absence.
* * t. *
“Whizz”; Things livened up a bit at the
Brisbane Speedway when Harry Mangham,
the Maoriland rider, who had just won the
Golden Gauntlet, started in another race.
At one of the turns Henry’s machine skidded
and butted the fence so hard that out he
went. As one chronicler put it with water
ing chops, lie “lay like a log.” The young
man came round “some time after,” but
didn’t ride again that night. His machine
was unable to get a fair go at the spec-
tators, as in the days of yore. The new
fence was too strong.
* * * *
“Garry”: Who really invented the pneu-
matic tyre 18. 12/9/’2B) ? J. 81.B 1 . Dunlop’s
patent was the first to be commercially ex-
ploited, but Sampson Edward Murray, of
Gundaroo IN.S.W.), hit upon the same idea
about the same time as Dunlop did. Murray
was refused a patent because a search of
the English records showed that a Londoner,
R. W. Thomson, had obtained protection
for an air-inflated rubber tyre 40 years
before, in 1845. Dunlop’s patent was given
him on the ground that he had materially
improved upon Thomson’s specification. Har-
vey du Cros, a great financier, backed Dun-
lop, and the rest was easy. But Thomson
and Murray deserve a share of the fame 1 .
Miscellaneous
“Billy. the Goose”: W’ile youse coves in
Kidney-pie ’as bin orl worked up over the
pony ring-in at Victorier Park, I’ve ’ad
an ’eavy job o’ the same sort on me ’ands
up ’ere in Brisbin. There wmz a goat won
a maiden at Davies Park lars’ week, ’n the
way the ole orange-blossom come ’ome on tne
bit woke even the stipes up. Me, bein’ an
outstandin’ expert, wuz called in. The billo
wuz down on the card as Flytox fr’m
Townsville. As soon as I run the rule over
’im I jerried ’e wuz a Rocky animile wot
lised ter ’ave Admetus fer ’ees monniker. Orl
I ’ad ter do wuz ter place ’is nashunality, so
ter speak. Then I run through the Rocky
goat-racin’ calendar and ’ad me nibs quick
an’ lively. Yer might like ter know ’ow I
tumbled ter w’ere ’o come from. It ain't
ev’ryone ’oo ’as me natchural gift, so 1
don’t mind tellin’ ver it’s by ’ees bookay. A
lotter blokes c’n tell w’ere a wine comes from
be sniffin’ it. I’m the same way with goats.
A goat fr’m Townsville has a naromer, owin’
ter the sea air, that one fr’m Rocky, miles
up a river, c’n never erkwire. In the same
way a goat fr’m Bogantungan or Camoo-
weal is diff’runt from both uv ’em, and so
on.
>!< >!« * *
“Bumpk” : In this motoring age the feat
of J. Lewis, of Melbourne, in the 10-hours’
walk organised by the Vic. Walkers’ Club
sounds colossal. He covered 53 miles 350
yards in the allotted time, his closest com-
petitors being J. Pretty (Malvern) and 11.
Cavell (St. Stephens), who each tramped
a trifle under 51. Nor did they have the
possibility of a change of scenery to spur
them on. They did their Marathon round
the Amateur Sports Ground.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : On Saturday last Maoriland
formally terminated the agreement with Aus-
tralia which constituted the Amateur Ath-
letic Union of Australia and New Zealand
31 years ago. It is withdrawing because it
has been granted national status by the Inter-
national Federation. Another reason is that
the Dominion has never been able to get its
best teams together for the biennial trips to
one or other of the Australian States, while
its own turn for a meeting at home came
round only once in 12 years.
* * * #
“Altcar”: The run-in greyhound that was
the means of taking down the unsophisticated
sportsmen of Ulster (B. 5/9/’2B) was not
the only one of his kind. A dog is much
harder to identify than a horse, and the
number of ringtails that Australian coursing
RUFUS STEWART, the South Aus. pro-
fessional golfer, who recently returned
from a tour of Europe and America.
has known would take an adding machine a
week to tally. The N.S.W. National Cours-
ing Association is insisting on the branding
of all tykes in future. The actual method
has not yet been settled, but it will probably
take the form of tattooing a mark or brand
on the ear with a punch of the kind used for
earmarking stud sheep. What will happen
if a dog is sold is not clear. Since the tin-
hare craze struck the country dogs have
changed hands so often that even a blood-
hound’s ears would not be big enough to
hold separate brands for every owner.
“Wig”: Though the Bar Council has
neglected to take notice of the fact, “Judge”
Swindell has returned to Sydney. His
Honor came to us from America a year or
two ago and introduced the tin hare, a deed
which has surely earned him grateful recog-
nition from the Bar, which in one way and
another has benefited from the ingenious
device, if no one else has. Swindell, J., left
these shores intending to bestow his robot
on South Africa,, but unhappily the Afrik-
anders, an unfeeling and forthright people,
did not accept the boon with the enthusiasm
shown by “advanced” N.S.W. Labor poli-
ticians. And while his Honor was having it
E. M. PEARCE, owner of Mollison.
out with the Dutchmen, the tin hare fell
on evil days—got the strangles, as it were —
in Sydney.
* * *i=
“Shell” : So far Westralia, pre-eminent in
eight-oar rowing, has not figured prominently
in sculling events. Indeed, the only win for
the western State in the series which began
in 1892 wa3 achieved by E. I’owell, a Vic-
torian, who lifted the Australian title for
the Cabbage Garden in 1895 and repeated
the trick two years later as a W.A. repre-
sentative. In K. Langley, who won the West-
ralian championship the other day, the Jar-
rahlanders consider they have a lad who could
make even Bobby Pearce travel. The race
was over two miles, Langley registering the
good time of 12min. 37 2-ssec. The lhd will
represent W.A. in the Australian champion-
ship on the Swan next May.
* ■!* * *
“Hotham”: The llenley-on-Yarra regatta
will make rowing history this year. All
the States will be represented: Westralia
has entered two crews from the Swan and
the West Australia clubs; South Aus. wall
have three—Torrens, Port Adelaide and a
crew from St. Peter’s College; Mosman will
again represent N.S.W. in the Grand Chal-
lenge Eights; and the Union club of Wan-
ganui will send a four after the Stewards’
Challenge Cup, wiiich is held by the Waite-
rnata crew. Jackson, a sculler, is also coming
from Maoriland.
* * * *
“Crown Green”: Woman has invaded the
bowling greens as well as the golf links and
the cinder tracks, and the bowlers of Britain
are in revolt. In the north of England the
feminine contingent is cutting heavily into
the profits from professional tourneys; as
a result the professionals have decided to
give up exhibitions on public greens and con-
fine themselves to those where women will
not be allowed to intrude—the public-house
greens, an institution peculiar to the north
of England. In days gone by no pub in the
outskirts of any of the big manufacturing
towns was complete without its green. For
the price of a pot the tired wayfarer might
refresh himself with bowls as well as beer,
there being always one or two gentlemen of
no apparent occupation ready to oblige him
with a game, especially if he was willing
to have a little bit on the result. The suave
folk who frequent billiard-rooms in the same
accomodating way could show no points to
the pub bowler when it came to skinning
a flat.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman” : Bowls is to come under
the control of an International Board, which
will have its headquarters in Britain. Aus-
tralia, Maoriland, South Africa and Canada
are to be represented, and other countries
will be roped in in due course. The Ameri-
can association has already made application
for membership, but consideration of the
request has been deferred. No doubt the
founders are in doubt as to whether players
belonging to a nation that has adopted pro-
hibition can really be considered bona fide
bowlers.
Pot and Palette.
A. H. Knighton Hammond is an amiable
English water-colorist who is introduced with
a fervid foreword in the catalogue at the h ine
Art Gallery, Melbourne. As far as this show
can be used as evidence he is of no particular
distinction, though two view's of V\ indsor
Castle and a bridge are sparkling things.
“Teleco”: Three of the employees of
Brisbane Courier have put in over oO years
of service, and another dozen or so have
passed the 25 mark. Charles Melton, who
recently retired after 70 years in harness
in connection with the Queenslander, still
writes of the history of old Brisbane, of
which he has a wonderful knowledge.
Horace Yelland has been moved up to the
editor's chair of the Adelaide News ; John E.
Davidson, the king pin of the co. which owns
the News, is editor-in-chief of the co.’s entire
string, which stretches from Broken Hill
to Perth. Yellaud began his press life on
the Barrier Miner, and early developed a
fine news-sense. His equally fine horse-sense
was born with him.
Geoffrey Rawsou, whose sea-novel “Eight
Bells” has been running in Sydney Mail, is
the only staff man in Australian journalism
with the right to inscribe “R.N. (ret)” after
his name. The bluff and democratic old
admiral who established a record for popu-
larity in N. S. Wales as Governor 20-odd
years ago was his uncle. Geoffrey has been
one of the star men of Melbourne Herald
for half a dozen years.
“lan C.”: Melbourne Inky Wayfarers are
mourning an old Argus journalist in Herbert
Anthony Winton, who died the other day.
Winton was political and departmental
roundsman when Tommy Bent was Pre-
mier, and got on remarkably well with that
heavyweight. Leaving journalism about a
decade ago he helped to found the Tax-
payers’ Association, and became secretary.
Winton was president for a while of the
Vic. district of the A.J.A.
Monte Holcroft, of Christchurch (M.L.),
who had a yarn that ran well up in The
Bulletin’s first novel competition—it was
‘‘highly commended” —received an offer of
Australian book publication, but could not
accept, as he has contracted to give John
Long (London) the first offer of his next
three novels. Long will publish Holeroft’s
first story, “Beyond the Breakers,” this
month, so it should be in Australia and
Maoriland well before Christmas.
The best nude in Charles Wheeler’s cur-
rent display at the New Gallery, Melbourne,
is the only one divorced from landscape and
calmly studied indoors. It is amazingly
well drawn, if somewhat lacking in depth.
The most persuasive of the landscapes are
those in which Wheeler gets most poetic
feeling as well as a high degree of natural
truth. Of such are his studies of smoke and
mist in the Fitzroy Gardens, in which is the
richness of a crayon drawing, and “Day’s
Last Dream,” with its wistful gums brooding
in an evening atmosphere subtly aglow. His
landscapes in full light invariably look
shallow.
Some dahlias by Percy Leason are the
outstanding picture in the exhibition at the
Athenaeum of the Twenty Melbourne Paint-
ers (of whom there appear to be 25: this
is known as a painter’s score). For sheer
virtuosity the flowers would be hard to beat.
They punch a hole in the wall they hang
on and make the landscapes adjacent look
as if they were not more than a few inches
deep. This stereoscopic quality—the three-
dimensional illusion—is what artists who
are not able to achieve it decry as realism,
but it is beautiful in itself; and when it
is married, as here, to charm of color and
arrangement the effect is sensational in the
extreme. In “The Critic’s Wife” (a good
likeness) the same artist has obviously had
to lower his octave half a tone owing to
the silver on the sitter’s cloak being shriller
than the shrillest note of the white paint
at his command. The transference, how-
ever, has been faithfully done, and the lady’s
face appears occasionally to move. This
year’s Bolshevism, by Frater and Shore, is
sadly lacking in the right revolutionary
punch. The young men are merely giving
encores from the fag-end of a repertoire
that does not seem to he unduly large. They
recall Yarrabankers repeating a couple of
sentences they have learnt from a press
review of Karl Marx. Frater specialises in
nudes, who all appear to have sat down
on a freshly-painted seat. One has no fea-
tures, and is hence the first egg-faced woman
to live to maturity. Shore has No. 118,
“The Letter Rack,” a still-life study of a
batch of unpaid bills. August Cornehls has
a strongly modelled but harshly painted
bust of a young man, and Mrs. A. M. E.
Bale has given Miss Mollie Agnew an in-
teresting air and a well-painted scarlet coat.
Clarice Beckett supplies her usual glowing
still-lifes and her thoughtful and beautiful
studies of Melbourne in a mist.


BRITON—MAKER OF MEN
How Do You Look
in a Bathing Suit? £
want he-men for their
husbands and sweethearts. None
of this chorus-man stuff for the real
girl. She wants to be proud of his
physical make-up; proud of his figure
in a bathing suit; she knows it’s the
fellow that is full of kick and vitality
that gets ahead in this world. He’s got
the physical backbone to back up the
mental decisions he makes. He’ll
win out all the time!
A
B
R
I
T
O
N
»
LOOK YOURSELF OVER!
How do you shape up? Are you giving yourself a square deal? Have you
got good, solid muscles, that mean health and strength inside and out? The
stamina that gives you the ambition to win at everything you start? Make
that girl admire you first and foremost for a real he-man, and the hardest part
of winning her is over.
WHAT I CAN DO FOR YOU IN JUST 30 DAYS!
In just 30 days I can so alter you that she will
hardly know you. I’ll put a whole inch of solid
muscle on each arm in 30 days, and inches
across your chest. I’ve done it for hundreds and I
can do it for you. I don’t care how weak and
sickly you are. It’s my pleasure to get them weak,
because it's the hopeless cases that I work with
best. It gives me a lot of joy to see them develop,
and the surprised look in their eyes when they step
before the mirror at the end of 30 days, and see
what a miracle I have worked for them.
ď
YOU’LL BE A HE-MAN FROM NOW ON!
And it’s not a temporary layer of muscle I put on you. It’s there to stay!
With those newly-broadened shoulders, that powerful neck, and great, manly
chest you can maintain your self-respect in any society. Every woman will
know that you are what every man should be—a forceful, red-blooded he-man!
I WANT YOU FOR 95 DAYS!
If at the end of 30 days you think you have improved, wait till you see
yourself at the end of 95 days. Then the friends you thought were strong will
remind you of something the cat dragged in by comparison. I’m not called
the “Man Maker” for nothing; my system scientifically builds real muscle
faster than you ever imagined.
Send Now for my New Free Illustrated Book. Full of pictures of pupils and
athletes and myself. Crammed full of information that will amaze you.
It’s the finest art gallery of strong-men ever assembled. Take out your pen or
pencil, and fill in the coupon below. Don’t wait, send it in to-day—NOW!
GET THIS AMAZING BOOK—NOW! IT’S FREE.
Dear Sir,—Please send me absolutely Free and without any obligation on my part a copy ol
your latest book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—And How to Acquire It.”
I enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. H, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
(Known throughout the Southern Hemisphere.)
ROMA OIL SHARES RISE!
ROMA ORALLO
OIL SHARES
AVAILABLE AT PAR
NOMINAL CAPITAL £125,000
DIVIDED INTO 250,000 SHARES AT 10/- EACH
(MINIMUM NUMBER PROCURABLE, TWENTY).
PRO VISION A L DIRECTORS:
W. H. WILSON, Esq., Granite Build-
ing, Queen Street, Brisbane.
H. H. DEAN, Esq., Merchant, Roma
Street, Brisbane.
W. SHAILER, Esq., Freeholder, City
Chambers, Edward Street, Bris-
bane.
A. E. DALWOOD, Esq., Company
Director, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
(One more to be appointed.)
Roma Oil shares are on the up grade.
Big developments can be expected any
time now. Invest at once in Roma Orallo
Oil Co., with shares at par. Their hold-
ings are in the absolute centre of the
Roma Oilfield. Surrounded by the blocks
owned and operated by Australian Oil
Industries, Ltd., in which company shares
are not available to the public. In Roma
Orallo Oil. Ltd., ten-shilling shares
therefore lies your opportunity. When
the Company commences operations they
will have as equally good prospects of
success as any Company now operating
because they are located in the Middle
Walloon series underlying the principal
artesian water zone and overlying the
principal petroliferous zone.
SEND THIS APPLICATION NOW!
To the Directors
ROMA ORALLO OIL LTD.,
C/o W. H. WILSON, Granite Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Gentlemeiv— Sha res in ROMA ORALLO OIL,
LIMITED and I agree to accept the same or any lesser number that may be allotted to
me. 1 authorise you to register me as the holder of such shares, and I agree to be bound by
the Rules and Regulations of the Company.
I enclose £ being the application money of 1/- per share, and i
agree to pay 1/- per share on allotment, and to pay the balance in instalments not to exceed
1/- per shars per month, and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of the Company.
Dated this day of 1928
Name in full . .
Address in full
Signature *
Occupation *' .........
N B —Payments made by cheque should be crossed “Not Negotiable” and made payable
to “Roma Orallo Oil, Limited,” and the word “Bearer” struck out. Exchange should be added
to country and inter-State cheques.
SOCIAL PROBLEMS
fd
A, having wisely placed the tenner entrusted to him by his Companions
on the certain winner instead of on the hopeless outsider chosen by them on
account of its kind face, sees the said outsider come in at 100 to 1.
What should A do ?
1 see you have guessed it already - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA.
superb Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


Under
Royal
Warrant
Tom
Kin<£
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limltad
SYDNEY
CmampaghC
Qarleslleidsieo^
REIMS
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
uaufl >t-iew °1
fcASH’S NAMES are destinctivc,
lyef neat —* fadeless and durable^
Actual Size
Style No. 6
ď
Prices: 12 do*. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADINC DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular ta
J. & J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
85 Cubitt St. . Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES,
QsHii)
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING'
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
The centre o/ Queens /onc/e
Qs c//st>ngu/sf>&G/ Soc/o/ Lire.
\emovß
Motel
Magnificent B a 11-
room, Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
r
o
Grosvenor’s unex-
celled service,
modern equipment,
and delightful
cuisine cost you
less —and contri-
bute to a perfect
holiday. T, a r i ff
from £3/10/-
GROSVENOR
c. Adelaides Finest Unlicensed Uiotel
Opp. Railway Stn North Terrace I _cAjw^Ma]Jgg^
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kaisser
LEATHERETTE
GLEOVES
♦ .
A blue pearl of a day swinging on the
silver chain of a cool breeze was worn by
Spring at Randwick on Saturday when the
A..T.C. .opened the week’s tourney in her
honor. In keeping with the lady’s soft and
glowing aspect the stands bloomed like vivid
parterres, the lawns were tremulous with
fluid color and design. Woman had drained
the nations and the ages for the dyes and the
symbols that fashioned her race attire. Here
floated that limey green worn by Sappho’s
maidens as they walked by the Aegean;
beside it a scarlet-and-gold outfit urged on its
coral-lipped wearer by, some Romany lass
ancestress; near by a hat with em-
broideries agitated as the politics of the
Balkans. Here were the reds and yellows,
but not the purple (that and even its frail
sister mauve stayed away from the meet-
ing altogether), of Tyre. And in between
the Niagaras of color trickled and leaped
and babbled the gentle waterfalls of pale
greens and blues and delicate pinks. The
scene -was delicious, fittingly bound within
emerald lawns with borders of brave yellow
marigolds. Of course, black had its devotees :
for this year, if you are not as many-colored
as Joseph’s coat, you wear black, and are
thereby doubly dowdy or dangerous, to quote
fashion expert Jo O’Keefe.
Every second frock in that enormous
gathering on Saturday had its coat; and it
was much the same on Monday. Even the
most diaphanous of the ever-recurring
flowered chiffons. Mostly these ended just
an inch higher than the dress they covered.
Many were hip-length, and were the com-
plement of the sleeveless jumper suit. Little
hip-lengtli capes, too, billowed out in the
breeze, and the shoulder scarf was so popu-
lar that one can sec the best frocks reject-
ing it. Shagreen, as a result either of Mr.
Michael Arlcn’s “Charming Shelmadene” or
of the growth of the shark industry, was
flaunted in the frightfully expensive shoes
and handbags. Mrs. Kelso King and news-
paper-knight Denison’s lady carried bags of
this soft leather beloved of Marie Antoin-
ette. Hats, droopy and wide as to brim,
which in the best straws is a double affair;
the underneath layer of the softness of georg-
ette. Such a one was Mrs. John McKelvey’s,
whose wide and shallow-crowned black Pari-
buntal was lined with ivory straw of the
silken-soft exotic family. A black satin coat
over a suit whose jumper was heavy white
crepe de Chine and the skirt black were
the other ingredients of this smart race-
goer’s outfit. A floppy black hat shaded Mrs..
Harry Clayton, who was otherwise high-
necked black satin; still another of the
striking wearers of black was the golden-
haired Mrs. Reggie Stafford, from Cassilis.
Lace, as was forecast in this Letter some
months ago, made its entry with the grand
air, and a coat of mixed macrame and Car-
rickmacross that would have been remarked
at Ascot enwrapped Mrs. A. C. Godhard.
Millinery among the men was more varied.
Top hats are being affected by some of
Sydney’s young scions of brand-new families.
This Letter counted four on Saturday, apart
from the grey, flat-roofed toppers of those
members of the committee who stood to
attention at the arrival of the G.-G. You
might say what are four among these thou-
sands ; but silk can indicate the way the
wind is blowing just as well as straw.
Monocles, too, worn on a black cord around
the neck, came into the picture.
Lieutenant-Governor Cullen and daughter
Ailsa presided over the vice-regal pen, and
into this they beckoned law in the person of
the Chief Justice Streets and the Langer
Owens, Premier Bavin with his wife and
newly-returned Shirley, Mrs. Colin Stephen
and the Harry Budges. Ailsa Cullen’s
flowered green chiffons suggested a bush path
glimpsed through summer haze. Beige pink
was the soft color tone of Mrs. Bavin’s
outfit, and Shirley’s lobelia blues, topped by
a floppy crinoline hat, had all the charm
of an old-fashioned miniature. Priminister
Bruce was one of the guests star-scattered
on the grass. Mrs. Bruce was with him in a
gaze-taking hat of delft blue; and Mrs.
Colin Stephen’s brown hat, with its flat, soft
eathers, achieved that rare combination, dig-
nity and cheerfulness.
Black with steel embossings made up Mrs.
Harry Drainsfield’s striking three-piece.
Mora MacCormiek was one of the meeting’s
pretty creatures, as was the vivid Jean
Anderson in salvia-red. Jessie Tait was a
striking argument for futuristic art in her
queerly-patterned green and bronze chiffons.
Knoxes and Allens were there, and the grace-
ful Naomi Waters.
On Saturday night it was on with the
dance in every cafe and ballroom in Sydney.
The Wentworth, Romanos and the Ambas-
sadors were all packed, and when the theatres
closed, dancing, which had been difficult
enough in the early part of the night, be-
came just about impossible. At the Ambas-
sadors Maorilander Charlie Mclndoc, whose
horse Prince Humphrey had snatched the
Derby from Mollison, was the most pointed
out. Racehorse owners seemed to be at every
second table. Joan Norton added the flash
of her diamond bracelets to the new pear-
shaped crystal lamps—Stewart Daw 7 son and
liis lady sat in their mellow light and called
the assembly blessed. A standard of red
roses like a Morris decoration rose on the
table where the A. A. Mackens dispensed
hospitality with a grand gesture. Mrs. Syd-
ney Field entertained with a free hand. Ivory
and black in excclsis w r ere w r orn by Miss
O’Keefe.
Some priceless information has been given
before the Industrial Commission now sit-
ting in Sydney considering the rural basic
wage. One lady produced a hat at 19s. lid.
which she assures us should last any of us
two years, and a tailored coat and skirt at
£4 6s. 9d. which should do us for four. And
there was a nightdress at ss. 9d. which
would be still a thing of use if not of beauty
six years from purchase. But sh-sh-sh! Not
a word about it! A nightie at ss. 9d. good
for six years would mean ruin to many
a deserving draper, and this Letter would
hate to see his wife obliged to exchange her
voyagings in Europe for an occasional excur-
sion trip around the harbor.
Some art; born to herald others’ exploits
to the world. Of such is Margaret Swann,
the lady of this May Moore picture, one of
the most ardent members of the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society and a past presi-
dent of that Separate little body, the Parra-
matta Historical Society. A few years ago, in-
fluenced by her surroundings—her home is the
Elizabeth House Farm, once the residence of
the sheep-growing Macarthurs I—she 1 —she set about
discovering for posterity the life story of
Elizabeth Macarthur, that remarkable woman
who seems to have had the brains and enter-
prise of a business Napoleon. Fascinated
by her explo-
rations, Miss
Swann decided
to do a similar
service for
other women
notables soon
after the
founding of
his Majesty’s
Convict Settle-
mejit of Bot-
a n y Bay.
W riters,
artists, actress-
es. they flour-
ished gently in
this new 7 land,
the dishearton-
in g distance
from older
civilis a ti o n s
o n 1 y proving
the words of
the Psalmist:
“You can’t keep a good girl down.” For a
good example of that there is the little Win-
stanley girl, who was born in Ivent-street,
became a Shakspearean actress known
to the London of her times, and is credited
with founding Bow Bells, a sort of early
Family Herald, and of writing many of its
serials. So far Miss Swann has published
only one of these biographies in book form.
It is a life of Caroline Chisholm, who gained
the title of the Immigrants’ Friend, the same,
in the lS4o’s, being no recommendation to
the Government House invitation list. Now
she is busy on Louisa Atkinson and Louisa
Meredith.
The woman in tow r n for the races is rush-
ing “Interference” as much to see the slim,
golden-headed Zillah Bateman’s marvellous
clothes as for any other reason. Zillah
makes her first appearance, having returned
from shopping in Bond-street, in a lace frock
of the heavy macrame family. This is short
in front, but gradually sweeps to ankle-length
at the back. The skirt is godets, godets all
the way round. These are narrow in front,
but increase in width and length. A narrow 7
belt of rose-du-Barry kid confines this crea-
tion, w 7 hich is built on a soul-satisfying foun-
dation of floral chiffon patterned in pink.
In the second act the gold-topped lady stands
up looking like a daffodil to the Blackmail
scene in an evening frock and coat of the
new absinthe green. The frock is long, and
its component parts are floating segments of
green chiffon in handkerchief points of vary-
ing lengths. From the deep V of the neck
to the hem there falls a long rope of uncut
rubies—costly enough, in seeming, to have
built, provisioned and launched the Spanish
Armada. Over this, to keep her warm, she
draws around her length-witliout-breadth a
coat of the same green chiffon. Into this is
let from shoulder to waist a deep V of
beaten gold lace. Deep cuffs of the same lace
finish off the dolman-like sleeves. But the
real glory of the coat is in the high collar
of skunk! Every hair of this*is tipped with
2‘2-carat gold, and the effect of this aura
about the lady’s own gold, unshingled head is
worth the hypnotised stare that every woman
present turns on it.
A nifty smoking-suit worn in the same
show by Maie Collins is worth the cost of a
paper pattern. It is in black satin, the
long loose coat coming well below the knees.
The trouser-legs are laced into the ankle
with a silver cord, and this same silver cord
appears in the lacing up the front of the
tunic. A silver monogram under the left
arm serves as a good laundry-mark.
Herewith Ruth Portrate, vdiose rich
dramatic so-
prano is well-
known to lis-
teners in. Ruth
is a Brisbane
girl, and next
year is bound
for Italy and
the study of
opera. She has
had a little ex-
perience with
Grand Opera,
having been
one of the Aus-
tralian girls
picked to sing
in the chorus
an d und e r-
study small
parts with the
Gonsalez com-
pan y. He r
voice is Wag-
nerian in di-
mension, and singing teacher Roland Foster
says it has the same quality as Florence
Austral’s. Elizabeth in “Tannhauser” is
Ruth’s favorite role.
You wouldn’t think Brittish manufacturers
had any cause to complain of the tariff if
you judged by the way their representatives
in Sydney.staged a British Industries Ball
last week in aid of Sydney Hospital; the
dressing was sumptuous, and the jewels of
the highest voltage. Chief Commissioner
Fleming and Brigadier-General Lloyd passed
judgment on the competitors, and fellow-
Commissioners Morton and Garlick were at
hand in case a conference was needed. Jus-
tice Street’s lady, the president of the com-
mittee, was away keeping an appointment
with the ’flu: but Premier Bavin’s wife
made a glittering entry in silver and green
lame. Mrs. W. Anderson, whose husband is
president of the Australian Association of
British Manufacturers, upheld Old England’s
fame with jet sequins cunningly woven into
a frock; green chiffons scrolled with gold
beading was Mrs. A. B. Shand’s frocking,
and Mrs. Kelso King’s black laces were
among the much-admired. Olive Kelso King
was smart in black velvet; and Morna Mac-
Cormick was' one of the younger .hostesses.
Ruth Eldershaw and Marjorie Barnard,
who gained a £5OO prize in The Bulle-
tin’s first Novel Competition, were the hon-
ored guests at the Society of Women Writers’
lunch last week. The two were radiant, the
one in spring leaf-green, the other in palest
pink, and were full of plans for the placing
of “A Llouse Is Built” in London. Miss
Eldershaw, who is from Wagga way, is a
real out-of-doors girl, having lived on a
station all her life till a passion for teaching
lured her to the city. She is, by the way,
a cousin of the Windeyers. Another notable
at this gathering was the keen-eyed and
sagacious Comtesse de St. Pierre, visiting
French journalist and secretary to the Count
de Yanville, dressed in the demurest black,
with walking shoes that had soles for real
walking. The courtesy of her farewells was
a thing to make note of.
Allan Canny, the brilliant young Sydney
doctor who set out for London a few months
ago to continue his studies, has had two
thrilling moments since his arrival there.
One was the award of a Rockefeller Research
Scholarship, worth about £5OO a year; the
other his marriage last week to Miss Ebs-
worth, the Sydney girl to whom he was
engaged before his departure.
Over 200 guests were at the wedding feast
in Woodton, Quirindi, after Ruth Wilson and
Hamilton Merewether, of Double Bay, had
undertaken to share the same telephone num-
ber for life. This wedding was the grand
affair of the week at Quirindi, as the bride’s
family is one of the oldest in the district.
The table decorations and the bouquets were
sent from town, and several of the guests
undertook the same long journey—and were
not quite so fresh on arrival as the flowers.
St. Auban’s was decked for the wedding with
arum-lilies, roses and fruit-blossom, and
against this background the bride’s ivory
Chantilly laces struck a note of spring-like
grace. The skirt was of the fashionable
irregularity, longer at the back. The V neck
was outlined in rhinestones and crystal,
and the sleeves were long and close-fitting.
The veil was of plain tulle, but the train was
of tulle mixed with Venetian point lace.
White lilac and orchids formed the bouquet,
and from it trailed sprays of orange blossom.
Bride’s sister Betty and Helen Ross ’maided
in primrose and bronze georgettes, George
Merewether best-manned and Mrs. J. H.
Wilson hostessed the large party, apparelled in
black lace covered by a coat of black and silver.
Arum-lilies, cool and detached, remindful
of Browning’s line about beauty being
beauty’s sole duty, decked the chancel rails
of St. James’s when Gwenneth Muston
(Parramatta) and John Percival (Strath-
field) sought the benefit of clergy on their
matrimonial adventure. Up an avenue of
pews that bloomed like some sweetly-flower-
ing hedge, the white-satined bride drew a
length of white and pink tulle train. A
Limerick-lace veil was kept in place by the
usual orange-blossom rivets, and an armlet
spilling lily-of-the-valley and hyacinths was
one of the prettiest effects. The three
bridesmaids, in sunset blues and pinks, car-
ried posies of forget-me-nots, from which
sprayed trails of tiny pink roses, Mrs. Mus-
ton, wrapped in black velvet and sable, hos-
tessed a big party later at the Cavalier.
A mist of mauve and yellow flowers
breathed incense about the chancel of St.
Philip’s on Church Mill while Marion Wright
murmured her will to John Charles Gordon,
of Kirribilli ; and it wasn’t till next day this
Letter discovered that he may be a baronet
any moment. Marion is a Neutral Bay bud.
one of the three daughters of the Wrights
of Springfield, and John is the only son of
Sir Robert Charles Gordon, of Ulladulla
Flats, Kirribilli, the eighth baronet, who
nears his sixty-seventh milestone. Ivory satin
and Limerick lace of flauntable age on
wrapped the bride, and mauve, pink and
primrose tulle and lace ruffled about Jean and
Peggy Wright and Sylvia Forrest, who sup-
ported her.
Hilda Milsom, elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. S. J. Baker, of Manly, and one of
J.C.W.’s brilliant pianists, is flashing a five-
diamond ring—placed there by Charles Ros-
enthal, eldest son of the General.
The engagement of Dr. Marjorie Dal-
garno to Dr. McCredie, both of Prince Alfred,
calls attention to the growing frequency of
the decision of masculine and feminine
medicoes to work together. Dr. T. W. Bur-
gess recently married Dr. Jean Mealy, Dr.
L. L. Holland made Dr. Lorna Beveridge
liis wife, and Dr. Ossian Roberts and Dr.
S. R. Stafford both have life partners quali-
fied for the same profession as themselves.
The kirk at Mosman didn’t stint the elec-
trics the other night when Helen Macdonald,
who hails from Gundowring (Vic.), changed
her name to Macpherson. The bridegroom,
who has a D.S.O. and an M.C. to his credit,
is a son of the Ewan Macphersons of Goul-
burn. Yellow broom and golden orchids were
unusual neighbors in the bouquet carried by
the bride, who was otherwise soft white
satin and wide white hat. Brother lan
handed her over, and later he and his wife
entertained a family party at the Went-
worth.
Mrs. Burrows did not many weeks survive
Peter, the well-beloved and frequent Mayor
of Mosman and president of the Golf Club
that looks out from breezy George’s Heights.
Refusing to take any further interest in life
after her husband’s death, she was per-
suaded to set out on a visit to her sons
on the land, and had got as far as Kiama
when pneumonia gripped her, and the end
came swiftly.
Helene Esserman, the Sydney Jewess who
has been scoring new triumphs in Paris since
her debut there, is a lady of Titian locks
—a type less common amongst the Chosen
than it used to be. Before Melba’s encour-
agement sent her to England she was best
known as a swimmer; as a girl at Fort
Street High she won many races for her
school.
Douglas Davidson, a son of the late Gov-
ernor of New South Wales, was married in
London last week. He is a son by Sir Wal-
ter’s first marriage, and the lady was .Mar-
garet Grace, a daughter of Colonel Charles
Lyon, of Chester. St. Margaret’s, ’West-
minster, was the scene of action.
Mrs. Norman Lowe is a lady of ideas.
In aid of the Appeal for the Deaf and Dumb
and Blind she will stage an exotic matinee
at the Royal on October 25. The inimitable
Dulac’s illustrations of “Omar Khayyam”
will be produced in tableau —a replica, as far
as possible,, of g matinee Mrs. Lowe produced
when she lived in Bangkok. Then the King
of Siam supplied the scenery and Eastern
robes; that part in Sydney will be filled
by E. J. Tait.
Now there is a feminine skipper who takes
part in sailing races on the harbor. Clarice
Hamilton is the daughter of old aquatic
identity LI. A. Hamilton. Her 12-footer.
Kestrel, has won races with the Middl ■
Harbor Sailing Club, and the 18-year-ol;!
girl has ambitions in bigger inter-club events.
In her first race Clarice had a capsize, but
she extricated herself in a mermaid-like man-
ner, and was picked up by a launch.


A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
fd
A. SAUNDERS’ Ladies’ 9ct. Uoid Jewelled Lever Watch, Silk
Wrist Band, £6/10/-, others £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-,
£5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
ALL GUARANTEED.
ďf
d
A. SAUNDERS’ Oct.
Gold Links, 20/-,
heavier 25/-, 30/-
15ct. Gold £2,
£2/10/-
fd
A. SAUNDERS’
Single Diamond,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum Set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£4.
ď
A. SAUNDERS’
3 Diamonds,
Hexagon-shaped
Platinum Set,
Bct. Gold Ring,
£l2/10/-
fd
A. SAUNDERS’
Wedding Ring,
18ct., White Gold,
hand chased,
30/-
8 HOUR ART UNION
DRAWN NOVEMBER 17, 1928.
We supply first prize (
DIAMOND TIARA,
Guaranteed Value £lOOO.
SEND FOR LUCKY NUMBER.
Tickets: 1/- each, post free
/
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Nickel, Open Face
Keyless “Imperial” Lever Watch, 25/-
Higher Grades 30/-, 40/-
GUARANTEED.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
ďf
A. SAUNDERS -
Oct. Gold Links, 25/
Heavier, £2.
d
A. SAUNDERS’
5 Diamonds,
Octagon-shaped
Platinum-set,
18ct. Gold Ring,
£lO.
ďfd
A. SAIANDERS’
4 Diamonds, Set
Platinum, 18ct.
Gold Ring,
ď
A. SAUNDERS’
Diamond Circle,
All Platinum
Wedding Ring,
£35, £3O,
£35, £4O.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
-II Ml
uzu
BRISBANE
Now again under the
personal supervision of
MRS. A. CAIN
Wire or write for
reservations NOW.
Telegrams:
Lennon's, Brisbane
’Phone 5780.
vXv I ,
I
A Comer of
the Eastern
Loitnctt
I,
M
3*
M
£
u
z
tSF
Looking from roe Fb/tnCourt
to the ballroom
HELP YOURSELF TO THE SUNSHINE OF LIFE-
SWEET MELODY MAKES HAPPY HOMES
Be Wise in Time —
Here’s Fun That
Builds a Future.
This Charming Picture of Musical home life
tells its own story.
TO THE AMBITIOUS MAN OR WOMAN.
This is an appeal. THINK OF IT! The
Picture here presented is a happy family group.
They were like you three to six months ago.
Not one of them played any one of these
Musical Instruments, except Piano. Now they,
all play well for their own pleasure and
their friends. Their home life is wonderful,
and they are the most popular people in their
country district. Indeed, if necessary, they
could all obtain payable engagements, earning
big fees. The MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS
were provided by ALBERTS, and, with the
aid of the finest and most successful progressive
Postal Course of Instruction, with every move-
ment profusely illustrated (in fact doing away
with all drudgery and simplifying the learning
of the SAXOPHONE by the most inexperi-
enced), the rest was easy.
'io previous knowledge of music is necessary, and any "
one can play the SAXOPHONE, or these other popu-
lar instruments, in a few weeks with ALBERT’S
WONDERFUL FREE POSTAL COURSE OF LES-
SONS, assisted by the expert
teaching staff of the
ALBERT COLLEGE OF
MUSIC.
The CONN SAXOPHONE is
one of the easiest instru-
ments in the world to learn.
The BANJO, TRUMPET,
CORNET or DRUMS—a
playing knowledge of these
is most simply and easily acquired. Your home
playing can be made a valuable asset to yourselves
and friends.
BANJOS —The popular all-round Instrument for
Pleasure and Profit—All kinds and types from
63/-, 105/-, 147/-
SAXOPHONES —The best-beloved of the Modern
Musicians, equally suitable for Home and Orchestra.
We stock the world’s best —CONN’S —from
£37/10/-, including case and all accessories.
I
7~~- :
J
i
m
PARENTS! Keep your children happy and contented
in the Home. The Empty House is not the happy
Home. Form the HOME ORCHESTRA with
ALBERT’S POPULAR EASY-TO-PLAY INSTRU-
MENTS. This offers the
solution. What a wonder-
ful Education for SONS and
DAUGHTERS! What a
Gift when they go out into
the world as MEN and
WOMEN!
BUY a BANJO for Bill, a
SAXOPHONE for Charlie or
Susie. (Yes, Girls can play
them!) A TRUMPET or TROMBONE for Tom, and
VIOLIN for Winnie, a set of DRUMS for Dick, and
see the difference in your Home life.
J. ALBERT & SON,
MUSIC PUBLISHERS,
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT IMPORTERS,
BOOMERANG HOUSE, MID KING STREET, SYDNEY.
TRUMPETS AND TROMBONES—Just the Best again—
CONN’S—at £27/10/-, with case. Other reliable
makes from £B/8/-
VIOLINS. Still very popular, and not so difficult as yea
perhaps imagine, with our Modern Methods of Teaching.
Complete Outfits, in our famous Strad and Guarnerius
models, from 49/6, 90/-, 149/- , , ,
DRUMS —CONN DANCE OUTFITS are specialised, from
£l6 Others from as low as £3/3/-
MANDOLINS, from 35/-
BANJO-MANDOLINS, 50/-, 84/-, 105/-
In addition to the Instruments featured here, ALBERT S
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS DEPT, carry ample stocks in
most varied range, of all Modern Musical Instruments,
all priced to suit your pocket and purpose.
You are cordially invited to ’phone M 4321, or write for
full particulars of any Instrument in which you feel
Experts will select and test each Instrument on 'receipt
oi remittance. If further particulars desired, a small
deposit will entitle you meanwhile to the FREE
LESSONS, and Instrument required will be held in reserve
for you.
All kinds of instruments repaired or exchanged. Why
keep one you don’t like if you can exchange it for
a Popular Instrument, easy to play?


Be Guided by Catanach’s in Your Choice
of the Engagement Rings
fd
24,844. —Distinctive design,
17 Diamonds, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings,
£2O
ď
24,842 —Choice King with
12 Fine Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum Set-
tings, £27
fd
24,829. —22-D i a m o n d
Cluster, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings, £2O
ď
24,849. All Platinum
Cluster, with Diamond-set
shoulders, set with fine-
quality, Brilliant Dia-
monds, from £4O
Their expert knowledge of Diamonds and long experience in
Diamond buying enable them to offer the very Choicest of Gems
at the Keenest Possible Prices. Every Catanach Diamond Ring
carries a WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Diamond Ring Catalogue post free on request.
Cor. Royal Arcade & Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl,
fd
24,851. All Platinum
Solitaire Ring, set with
fine Brilliant Diamond,
from £3O
ď
24,835. —Dainty 5-Diamond
Half-Hoop, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Settings, £l5
fd
24,839. Fashionable 7
Diamond Ring, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings.
£2O
ďf
24,894. —Diamond Wedding
Ring, 18ct. Gold ami
Platinum Settings, £2O
White Gold and Platinum
Set, £2O
W-WcP.
Melbourne
Chatter
Roses, mostly red, made a gay showing at
Moonee Valley racecourse on Saturday
against lawns that were like emerald velvet,
and trees that wore their spring coats of
pale green. The luncheon given by chairman
Alister Clark and the committee was the
usual pleasant function. Naturally there
were some well-known sports missing—they
had heard the call of Sydney’s Randwick,
but there was a good crowd at the Valley
for all that. Amongst those who patrolled
the lawn were the J. O. Fairbairns, Mrs.
Norman Falkiner, Mrs. Lempricre, who was
accompanied by Irene Palmer; Mrs. Merson
Cooper, who had with her Eileen Byrne,
whose kasha frock had attractive embroidery
of blue; the Kimptons, Mrs. Rupert Green,
Mrs. Ben Chaffey and Miss McPherson.
The Uni. Con. greeted Dame Nellie Melba
with* instrumental music and tea in the
Tallis wing of the building on the occasion
of the diva’s ceremonial visit. Prof. Heinze,
Chancellor MacFarland and the handled
James Barrett spoke the Con.’s and the
Uni.’s words of welcome to the distinguished
visitor, and Marie Magan, president of the
students’ social club, handed over a sheaf of
wistaria, tulips and other blooms, and said
“Pleased to meet you” for her associates.
James Barrett enumerated some of tin* diva’s
good works—the foundation of the Bush
Nursing Association, based on the proceeds of
a concert given by Melba; the gift to the
Uni. of Melba Hall, and her generous dona-
tions to the Lady Northcote Fund. Dame
Nellie, who had black and white embroidery
and tassels on a black gown beneath a
musquash coat, with a black velvet hat,
announced that she had given her first sing-
ing lesson at the Uni. Con. at the request
of Mrs. G. Franklyn Petersen, and had pro-
mised to look in frequently on her return
from a two-years’ sojourn in Europe. John
Simons, to-day’s principal pianistic hope of
the Con., played a Rameau suite, and Isobel
Carter contributed a movement of the Chopin
Sonata in B minor. The last section of the
Wieniawski Sonata in B minor was the
offering of fiddler Marjorie Schmitt, who is
booked for study abroad. The Song Queen
personally thanked and complimented the
talented trio. Amongst those who applauded
were Mrs. Herbert Brookes; Mrs. Hill, of
W.A., whose son has just received his medi-
cal sheepskin at the hands of this Uni.; Mona
Mcßurney and Shirley Tweddle, secretary of
the Students’ Social Club.
Prior to Dame Nellie’s arrival, the Con.
staff wished Prof. Heinze a pleasant six-
months’ jaunt, and backed up the hope
with a pair of military brushes. Later the
students, through Marie Magan, came for-
ward with a leather engagement-book, and
Weston Pett was deputed by the Symphony
Orchestra to hand a travelling-bag to the con-
ductor.
The members of the huge audience that
clapped, cooed and shouted its appreciation
of Dame Nellie Melba’s grand-opera ex-
cerpts on Thursday afternoon, at His
Majesty’s, have a very pleasant memory to
look back upon. As Desdemona in the
famous bedroom scene of “Otello” she sang
“Salon,” and was heard also in the beautiful
“Ave Maria.” The curtain rose and fell
many times upon the diva, who looked sur-
prisingly youthful in her flowing white
robes, upon which glittered a cross of rubies
dangling from a long rope of diamonds.
An immense sheaf of arum lilies reposed on
one arm as she waved adieu with the other.
The crimson draperies of the four-poster bed
formed a picturesque background, and the
forefront of the stage was piled with floral
designs, a great star of golden brown pan-
sies being the most striking. As Mimi, in
“La BohSme,” a role she created under the
direction of Puccini himself, the years slipped
away and the diva renewed her youth. At
the conclusion of the Puccini numbers Dame
Nellie paid tribute to the art of her Aus-
tralian colleagues Browning Mummery and
John Brownlee, calling for cheers for the
latter, who was to leave for Adelaide that
day on his way back to Paris. The Geelong
baritone’s parents and two sisters, with some
other folk from his home town, left the
theatre to bid him good-bye for four or
five years. Elena Danieli. the only sup-
porting singer, was charming as Musetta,
and looked prettier still in the long grey
velvet gown of Emilia in the Verdi opera.
Everyone of any note was in the house.
The State Governor was in the managerial
box with Lady Somers, who wore a pale
pink hat with her bois-de-rose suit. Next
door was Irene Vanbrugh, who joined the
vice-regals during the interval. She had a
large berry-red hat obscuring her features,
and was in black. Prudence Vanbrugh’s
metal cloth jumper fitted so snugly that a
tiu-opener seemed the only way out. Mrs.
Geoffrey Syme, in black, with a broad-
leafed black hat, was in another box with
a daughter. The George Armstrongs and
small daughter Pamela, Mayoress Morell and
Sheila, sundry consuls and their women-folk
and knight-of-tlie-brush John Longstaff were
well to the fore. Mrs. Fritz Hart was there,
receiving congratulations on the achievement
of her husband in putting on so successful
a show with a scratch orchestra and only
two rehearsals.
Saturday night’s audience at the Comedy
gave cordial greeting to Irene Vanbrugh, who,
as Miss Nell of New Orleans, assumes the
buoyancy and irresponsibility of IS as
charmingly as she portrays the dignity of old
age. In a cream net flounced frock with the
ribbon ruches and floral garniture of ’B6 she
looked quite radiant, a contrast to the ample
flowered silk gown and mantilla-like head-
dress worn as the dowager of a longer past
period. As a stylish middle-aged woman
Miss Vanbrugh appears in a dashing frock of
cardinal with a dado about the waistline of
black headed with huge gold spots. Gwynne
Whitby, as a miss of to-day, sports pretty
covering. Prudence Vanbrugh’s most strik-
ing attire is of deep apricot hue with picture
millinery of the same tint. A garden that
is mostly roses and wistaria climbing over
walls and porch is the only setting, seen in
moonlight, sunlight and storm. Robert Best
and his lady, Mrs. C. J. Ahern and her
younger daughter, the Bruce Meads and Mrs.
Hamilton Fitts were first-nighters.
The Schubert centenary celebration
arranged by the Uni. Con. wound up with a
recital by mezzo-soprano Elisabeth Pinschof
(Mrs. W. M. Finley), supported by Rita
Hope at the piano, with additional items by
painter Arthur Streeton’s wife and her
fiddle. Numerous sheaves of early roses and
carnations were handed the trio. The singer,
who gave all her numbers in German, looked
handsome in a swathed gown of
The audience included the Mitchell and
Masson ladies, Mrs. Edward Stevens, Prof,
and Mrs. Ernest Scott and Mrs. Alex. Gunn.
For Maoriland’s coming of age as a
Dominion there was rejoicing at the N.Z.
Government Offices in William-street, when
Trade Commissioner H. J. Manson and his
wife held celebration. After a welcoming
tea-brew, visitors were taken for a run
through Fernland, per medium of some fine
movies, and were invited to admire the
standing collection of products, manufac-
tures, Maori weapons, native dress and such.
Mrs. Manson’s black satin was brightened
by a posy of pink blossoms. Her daughter
Myrtle played assistant hostess in a frock
of beige pink, with darker-toned millinery.
Here’s a Campbell who is coming. lie
doesn’t look much like a landscape painter,
but his first show, at the Sedon Galleries,
brought out a spectacular eruption of red
spots. His front name is Robert, and he was
born in the
land o’ lochs,
but has been
in Melbourne
long enough
to be reck-
oned a good
Aust r a 1 i a n.
Prac tic a 11 y
self-taught, he
oxhi bited 86
pictures of
land and sea
in oil, water-
color and pas-
tel. “All sold,”
was posted up
almost before
Donald Mae-
kinnon a
brither Scot,
ye ken—could
say the open-
ing words, and
recommend
tile efforts of a brilliant novice. Rupert
Bunny, who has taken Campbell under his
wing, is hurrying him off to France to learn
all the tricks and dodges he hasn’t picked
up for himself. Campbell’s water-colors are
after the style of those of the great Hilder,
and purchasers pat themselves on the back.
They reckon they’ll never buy Campbell’s
work so cheaply again in their lives.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Brookes paid court
to literature and music at a mingling of
intellectuals and patrons of the Arts staged
at their South Yarra home, Winwick. Dr.
R. S. Conway, of Manchester’s Uni., was
given greeting; and Prof. Bernard Heinze,
whose passport is ready for a six months’
tour, had to listen to a eulogy of the work
accomplished during his short reign as head
of the Uni. Con. Medical-knight James
Barrett and the host did the speechifying.
Prof. Heinze, with his violin, and Edward
Goll, at the piano, furnished musical enter-
tainment with sonatas by Dohnanyi, Cesar
Franck and Brahms. Daffodils played a
leading role in the decorative scheme: Mrs.
Brookes wore a gowm of lupin blue with a
bridge coat of gold and black brocade. Among
the guests were Mrs. Alfred Deakin,
Mayoress Morell and daughter Sheila, Mrs.
Edward Stevens, Prof, and Mrs. Scott and
Prof. A. Gunn and his wife.
The smile belongs to Mrs. R. McCann,
who, as a painter, is best known as Mar-
gery Withers
Her father, the
late Waite*
Withers, hail
a very high
niche in the
temple of
Australian art
Mrs. McCann
was a Nat-
ional Gallery
student and
an art-teacher
at Swinburne
College for
some years. In
the present
show of the
Twenty Mel-
bourne Paint-
ers she is re-
presented by
live pictures.
Marietta made
the portrait.
Though the wind blew shrewdly and rain
came down at intervals in drenching show-
ers, the annual musicale staged by Laura
Nyulasy at Graeme, Toorak, for funds for
St. Martin’s Boys’ Home, had no lack of
patronage. The lady, who is president of
the St. Kilda Auxiliary, has for several
years made this gathering a means of sup-
plying a good percentage of the auxiliary’s
quota of financial aid. Mrs. Chris Cowper
and others provided wonderful flowers lor
sale, and a few attractive gifts were raffled.
Virginia Perry, the leading lady of “The
Desert Song,” a study in black, and Lorna
Helms, of the same co., were sales-ladies.
The afternoon’s songbirds were Ainslie Wil-
liams, Joyce Forde and Joseph Foster; and
Hamilton Bateman brought, his violin. Miss
Nyulasy, who had an able lieutenant in her
sister, Mrs. C. R. Cowper, wore a frock of
gloxinia pink that was topped by millinery
blending deeper shades.
For the latest rally of the Music Club
at the Lyceum Club rooms the programme
was arranged by Rita Hope, the pianist’s
brilliant playing of Grieg and Leschetizky
being the star turn of the evening. Violet
Somerset sang French and English songs,
accompanied by Katie Liddle. With Rita
Hope at the piano, Franklyn Stonham and
his clarinet were heard in a Brahms sonata,
Canon and Mrs. E. Snodgrass, the H. J.
Robertsons, Mrs. Barraclough, Gertrude
Healy and her sister, and the club’s secre-
tary, Muriel Campbell, were among the list-
eners.
Mrs. Cleve Kidd and Mrs. Clarence Mar-
riott were chief directors of a bridge after-
noon at the Rex, which added substantially
to the banking account of the Queen Victoria
Hospital. The management came to the aid
of the party with tea and cakes; other friends
of the Q.V. sent the spoils of their gardens
for sale, and there were sweets and other
trifles to tempt the opening of purses. Mayor-
ess Morell was one of the many players.
While the Q.V.H. was being assisted by
bridge, members of the South Yarra branch
of the Melbourne Hospital Red Cross Auxi-
liary were using the same means to help
their institution along. Mrs. Ernest Pool-
man’s picturesque home housed the gather-
ing, which was unusually cheery and well
attended. Mrs. Norman Falkiner and Mrs.
Edward Hallenstein provided the afternoon’s
refreshments, and expenses were nil. Mrs.
Fred Krcrouse, Mrs. 11. Bremner-Lewis,
Mrs. John Oussen and others conducted
sales of flowers and so forth. The Mauds-
ley lady, president of the auxiliary, and
Dorothy Mollison, lion, sec., were energetic
workers.
Inter-State members of the Australian
Federation of Women Voters sipped tea amid
the rhododendrons in the Botanical Gardens
on Thursday afternoon, at the invitation of
the Victorian Women’s Citizens’ Movement.
The day was a public holiday and was blessed
with gorgeous weather, so the alfresco
gathering was wholly successful. Welcome
was given to Mrs. Jones, who has just got
back from England with her husband, the
Rev. John Jones, of All Saints'. St. Kilda,
she having attended the British Common-
wealth League Conference. Miss Gilman
Jones, president of the V.W.C.M., wearing
a sapphire blue gown and dark grey velour
hat, gave hand of greeting to the guests.
Delegates returned from the Pan-Pacific
Women’s Conference at Honolulu were en-
tertained at the Allied Societies’ Trust Hall
during the week. Mrs. B. Rischbieth, presi-
dent of the Australian Federation of Women
Voters, who led the Australian delegation,
and Miss Gilman Jones, president of the
Victorian Women’s Citizens’ Movement, hos-
tessed the gathering, and Mrs. Waterworth
of the Apple Isle, in the chair, managed
matters so adroitly that eight or nine speak-
ers had their say in an hour and a half. TL
delegates are unanimous that the most bril-
liantly clever woman at the conference was
a Chinese representative, Dr. Ting, and that
the most charming was a Samoan lady.
Galsworthy’s “Loyalties,” presented by
the Little Art Theatre at the Queen's Hall,
was quite a good attempt considering the
tiny stage and its lack of settings. Dudley
Riddick, as the daring Captain Ronald Dancy,
gained chief laurels, and Reginald George
showed a sense of comedy in the role ol
Gilman, the grocer. Joan Wisdom and
Daisy Bradley were happily placed.
A variation among the numerous art show,
of the week was that of the Professional Photo-
graphers’ Association, at the Queen’s Hall,
which was set rolling by Irene Vanbrugh,
arrayed in beige. Vincent Kelly, president
of the association, said the thanks of the
pyro-portraitists with flowers.
The C. T. Ristroms, who lately trans-
planted their family from Lockhart (N.S.W. t
to this city, on Thursday evening conducted
second daughter May Edith to the Methodist
Church, Sydney-road, where Leslie William,
onl‘y son of the W. Pearces, of Coburg,
awaited. A Brussels-lace veil floated over
the bride’s ivory satin gown, and there were
yards of pink tulle train. Sisters Alma ana
Lena, in apple-green satin frocks and hats
relieved with pink, provided a touch of
color as attending maids. A dance at the
Palms wound up the day.
The W. Dickensons are soon to part with
another daughter. The knot between Edith,
better known to her friends as Chick, ami
Johnnie Walker will be tied as soon as
our Cup festivities have died down. Her
fianefi, whom she met in this city, is on his
way across the sea. After visiting her sister,
Mrs. Rutherford, in India, recently, -Miss
Dickenson sailed to South Africa to meet
her in-laws-to-be, who extended a warm wel-
lier in-laws-to-be. Our younger set will b*
shorn of one of its most attractive orna-
ments when she leaves for her future hone ,
a sheepfarm outside Durban.
Audrey, eldest daughter of Prof. W. A.
Osborne, of our Uni., and of Dr. Ethel
Osborne, announced the other day her en-
gagement to Leslie, son of the C. K. Culm
couple, of Moonee Ponds. The youthful
Miss is a graduate in agriculture.
Last week a Chatterer, noting the retire-
ment of Mrs. Humphreys (Alice Mills) from
business, said she had “slipped quietly out
of life’s arena.” It was one of the things
that might have been put differently: tin-
arena Melbourne’s old-established photo-
grapher has quitted is happily only the arena
of business life.
Mrs. Alice O’Hara has decided to conn-
home. Life abroad failed to impress her.
Most of the time was spent in Paris with
her sister Maud, but the whirl of life there
was too rapid and rather mixed for a quiet
taste. The cosmopolitan circle headed by
Krishnamurti, the budding Messiah of tin
Theosophists and his followers, who crowded
Maud McCarthy Foulde’s receptions and
Indian song recitals, filled Mrs. O’Hara with
bewilderment. Finally she fled for peace-
ful thought to a Dublin convent, where plans
for a sailing back by the Cape route wer<
matured.
Adelaide society is preparing reluctantly
to hand over to us Colonel Vaughan ami
his family as permanent residents. He is
a banker, and business interests are behind
the move. Mrs. Vaughan is a member of
the Sandy clan, of Sydney. Her brother, a
famous airman, met a tragic end dur-
ing the Great War. The Vaughan girls,
Phyllis and Mildred, and a son have arrived
at the age where they can add to our dancing
quota, and friends here have a cheery wel-
come ready.
Booked for departure early in the New
Year are Mr. and Mrs. W. L. Timmins, who
are leaving their Brighton home to take a
family ready for educational polish across
the ocean. A Parisian seminary is their
objective, and Mrs. Timmins proposes to find
shelter near by in case of need during the
school period, vacations being reserved for
wider inspection of Europe.
Amongst the January voyagers to Eng
land, will be Dr. Hugh L. Murray and his
bride —she was Bea Oddie. The pair, who
have just returned from their honeymoon
have acquired a flat for the few months they
will be tvith us. The question of a perma-
nent home will be taken up upon their
return.
lan, eldest son of General Cliauvel and his
lady, left on the Narkunda with a number of
sokliers-in-the-making from Duntroon for
India, for further training. The youna
man, who has just reached his majority,
is likely to link up with the Fourth Hussar-.
Dr. R. S. Conway came here the other day
under the banner of the Classical Association
and the Uni. Extension Board. The learned
one, who is the president of the Classical
Association of G. 8., began a course of four
lectures at the Uni. on Thursday. Under
the title of “Rome’s Master Mind,” lie in-
troduced Virgil in so pleasant and enter-
taining a manner that there is likely to be
a boom in the ancient one’s best-sellers.


v ij' +
PULLY PASHIONED
ou may pay a lly
Fashioned Hosiery by Prestige, but these
creations give entire satisfaction and that exclu-
siveness necessary to a woman of refined taste. 18^11
c An <JlushaUan Cveatioru


d . cr-tzi gys
Nrc*
m
R
•'v
55^
** '
ss
~ .w.
as
tes
SWSS?**
5S*
*W*N£S
3SS
SI
-rfVS
C^"a
SUM
--^•.JSgyxgCSa**
K-'-SsSSSc^i:---
S£4
a?*
...;i*« MiV&SKf
45?“<s.
-.^cuin>i»^UWK'»*."
-• nY ~ t , t uj^
SS.
■-;S»a
•MB
jftßwpfeWqj
?s
:
*su
Mitt*. •:
i
•^>^'v
spsa
Eh
i
a
..n-l.
11
In Nelson's day the
flag was nailed to the
mast ere the ship
engaged in battle.
There could be no
surrender!
the G)lors to the c Mast
Eighteen years have passed since the
J. H. Sharwood enterprise was
launched. The standard nailed to the
mast then still flaunts bravely in the
breeze of prosperity. Though the
shoemaking industry has been passing
through a period of depression the
extensive plant in the Sharwood works
is never idle, for the business has been
built on a sound policy—i.e., to main-
tain the highest ideals of manufactur-
ing. The passing of the years has not
dimmed the ideal which inspired the
young man who set out to make better
boots and shoes than had ever been
made previously in this country. It
is that fact which has resulted in the
production of an article which is
genuinely good and which continues
to increase in popularity all over
Australia.
In the making of Sharwood Shoes only
the finest materials are used. No
fabric which is in the slightest degree
defective is permitted to enter the
factory. Workmanship is exceptional
because the craftsmen have been speci-
ally trained over a number of years.
The goods are available in a great
range of varying shapes (made in true
half sizes), so that for any normal foot
there is a perfect fitting. Moreover,
a Sharwood shoe will retain its original
shape for a lengthy period.
“The shoemaker owes a duty to the
public” is the emphatic opinion of
J. H. Sharwood. “It is his duty to
protect the consumer against the evils
of shoddy footwear. The purchase of
a defective boot or shoe entails in the
long run a montary loss. In addition,
the wearing of faulty footwear
(according to medical testimony) is
a menace to health. I hold that the
manufacturer who makes bad boots is
guilty of a serious offence against the
public. There is but one way for the
purchaser to safeguard himself, and
that is to insist on having an article
which bears the brand of the maker.
I will not permit my name to be in-
scribed on a shoe unless it is as near
perfect as human skill can make it.”
Idle boasting is not the object of this
advertisement—it is to assure the
public that behind the Sharwood pro-
ducts is an ideal—a policy—which has
been tried and tested in the battling
of eighteen years. More than once in
the past this manufacturer has faced
possible disaster by his refusal to get
down to a lower grade—but the colors
were nailed to the mast —there could
be no surrender!
When next you need a pair of boots
or shoes—try Sharwood’s. They are
made for both men and women, in
welts and pumps, in many shapes and
many shades. There is no need to
have shoes made specially when you
wear Sharwood’s—they cost a little
more, but you will find them surpris-
ingly comfortable and durable. The
name is on every pair—look for it!
Ijobs of ftofmenratf.
Obtainable leading stores throughout Australia. Any difficulty in procuring will be overcome by getting into touch with
the Sharwood Service Bureau, Box 7, Post Office, Abbotsford, Melbourne (’Phone J 3104—3 lines).


SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL, SUMMER HILL
Abergeldie Estate. Abergeldie Estate. Abergeldie Estate.
The Choicest Subdivision of the Year. The Choicest Subdivision of the Year.
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
157 EXCELLENT BUILDING ALLOTMENTS
having frontages to . ,
Old Canterbury Road, Dixson Avenue, Arlington Street, Hugh, Johnson
and Elizabeth Avenues.
ON THE BORDERS OF SOUTH ASHFIELD, HURLSTONE PARK AND DULWICH HILL.
Formerly the Grounds to the Residence of the late Sir Hugh Dixson.
This magnificent Subdivision has every facility for the making of a Model Garden Suburb.
The streets have been kerbed, guttered, metalled and tailed.
TERMS- 10 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS,
l ljxvivio. au INTEREST 6 PER CENT.
BUILDING COVENANT TO PROTECT BUYERS. TO RRE N S TITLE.
TORRENS TITLE. „ T „ TORREjSiS IIILE. TTHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE. LITHOGRAPHS V
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 20th OCTOBER, and on SATURDAY, 27th OCTOBER,
at 3 p.m.
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON and CO. al '® TO ESTATE.
S C CALDERWOOD, SURVEYOR.
LOCAL AGENT: C. 11. CRAMMOND, AT THE STATION, PETERSHAM.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, Limited, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUCTIONEERS. ( No - 663 >-
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at 365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 80 Fleet Street, London.
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
GLORIA SWANSON in SADIE THOMPSON, a United Artists’ Picture.
Also, DIAMOND HANDCUFFS, a Mctro-Goldwyn-Mayer Picture.
EMPIRE THEATRE,
■*“ l Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square,
Nightly at 8. Matinfies Wed. and Thurs. at 2.10.
SECOND monster double bill.
The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Super Production,
ANNIE LAURIE,
To be preceded by a 90-Minute Musical Comedy,
ERIS,
With an all-star cast and the Famous Empire
Pony Ballet.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Reserves MAIOOO.
And all City Booking Offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S.: STUDENT PRINCE.
ROYAL :INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: LAP OF THE CODS.
Commencing Saturday.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MISS NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
The Three-act Comedy,
SATURDAY’S CHILDREN.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley.
ORINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Fullers Theatres, Ltd.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6.
ALLAN WILKIE.
With Miss Hunter-Watts and his Company of Thirty
Picked Players in the PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
First Production:
THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR.
JJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
VICTOR McLAGLEN in
HANGMEN’S HOUSE.
ALSO
THE LIFE OF NELSON
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
THE DONOVAN AFFAIR.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
ESTELLE TAYLOR in
The Master Picture,
LADY RAFFLES.
How a Scotland Yard Lady Detective turned the
tables on a band of crooks.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopatovs Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Missing Friends.
HTHE next-of-kin of MICHAEL JOHN
HEALY also known as JOHN GLFjN.
late of Hume Weir, or any persons knowing
their whereabouts, are requested to get in
touch with the Public Trustee, 67 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydneys
FOR “LATE NIGHT”
STOMACHS
A late night, with ever so little to drink,
is poison to many. Next morning the
head aches, the tongue is bad, and the
stomach is worse. What to do? Take
Para-Pepsin! Quick as a- flash it calms
the stomach, freshens the mouth, sweetens
the breath. Appetite comes, irritability-
goes. It’s worth a trial! Once a stomach
sufferer tries it lie never goes back to harm-
ful anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is sold in tablet
form, any chemist’s, at 2/- and 3/6. For
a real and quick return to stomach health
you must have Para-Pepsin.*
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' 1 is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. IJOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knotOt
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Ascot found
the course looking its best. The flower-beds
were a blaze of color with scarlet salvia,
mauve larkspur and bright snapdragons.
Dressing was summery. Mrs. Cecil Palmer
wore a patterned frock of black and white
chiffon voile, finished with lace collar, and
a blue hat; Mrs. Stanley Chapman was in
beige mariette, with fancy straw hat to
match; Mrs. E. R. Tully wore navy-blue
pussy willow and blue straw hat. Mrs.
Baynes chose figured crepe de Chine, and
Mrs. Goddard black satin cr@pe.
Lady Goodwin was the guest of honor at
the Brisbane Women’s Club on a recent
afternoon. The vice-presidents, Mrs Sydney
Martin, Mrs. Harry Cameron and Eva Mer-
chant, received, and a bouquet of pink stocks
was given to her Ex. Barbara Sisley, Mabel
Zillman and Eunice Cochrane contributed
to the programme. ,
Ailsa Longland, when she married Alan
Archibald, made a very pretty fair-haired
bride in her white satin frock embroidered
in frosted beads. Slic had long, tight sleeves,
falling loose from the elbow. Sister Essil
and Jessica Archibald ’maided in white
pussy willow and blue hats. reception
was held at the home of the bride’s parents
at Yeerongpilly.
With bridge and dancing, Mrs. Phil Prior
entertained young friends at Selwyn House.
Shaded pink lights and bowls of boronia deco-
rated the ballroom. Several New South
Wales visitors were in the party.
Herewith a picture of Mrs. A. E. Moore,
wife of the leader of the Opposition, whose
home is in
J o n d a r yan.
Th e Country
Women’s As-
sociation i s
her hobby,.and
she devotes a
t r e m endous
amount of her
time and
energy to this
work, because
she fully real-
ises the re-
el uirements of
the women in
the bush. Im-
m e di at cly
after her mar-
riage she went
out to a farm
and assisted
her husband,
not only doing
the work in
I lie house but helping with the harvesting.
Mrs. Moore is president of the Brymaroo
branch of the C.W.A. and one of the vice-
presidents of the Southern Division.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
We are still shaking ourselves free from
the grit of what record-keepers say was the
worst storm for 24 years. The Hore-
Ruthvens battled in the teeth of it to Gawler,
where the Show and a civic reception awaited
them. At Cheltenham ardent racegoers, in
the intervals of keeping their umbrellas
right side out, peered through dust or driv-
ing rain at the Amateur Turf Club’s events.
Dressing was mostly tailor-made, topped by
the wary with raincoats. Mrs. Benson, who
was hostess at the official lunch and tea,
was in befurred black.
Our festivities of late have been largely
inspired by charity. A bridge party, after-
noon and evening, for funds for the St.
Peter’s College Mission, was run by a com-
mittee under the presidency of Mrs. F. J.
Fisher. A dance was held at St. Peter’s
for that suburb’s free kindergarten; and a
Blue Triangle fete was opened by Lady
Hore-Ruthven in the Sidney Kidmans’ gar-
den at Millswood with the object of making
up the deficit, or some of it, of £3oo' on
the year’s working. There has been an-
other house-dance at Kooyong and another
of the Victoria League settlers’ welcome
teas at the Botanic Park. Her Ex. was
at the V.L. affair, where the guests were
a hundred or so of English and Scottish
women settlers with their children.
Mrs. Lavington Bonython lent her garden
for the display of Margaret Morris dancing
by Nora Stewart’s pupils—proceeds for St.
John’s Day School —a really charming per-
formance, with its flitting of vivid frocks
against the cropped green of the lawns. The
Bonython daughters were among the
dancers, one as a soloist in Brahms waltzes
and the other, with Jean Hayward, in
“The Wind and the Rose,” Tickets sold
briskly, and the audience included Lady
Hore-Ruthven.
For the rest it has been operas, whole
operas and nothing but operas, and many
of our ardent spirits have not missed h single
one, with matinees thrown in. “The Barber
of Seville” drew the biggest house—indeed,
many were turned away—which may be be-
cause of our mounting love for Toti dal
Monte, or because we turn with relief to
something a shade lighter than the rest of
the season’s fare. There has been a v.-r.
party on most nights; the Rev. K. J. F.
Bickersteth with them for “Tosca,” and for
“II Trovatore” Miss Livingston, the Girl
Guides’ camping expert, who has been stay-
ing at Government House. The announce-
ment, not utterly unexpected, that Melba
was to come after all was made by Nevin
Tait when Mrs. Bonython entertained the co.
The marriage of the Edward Hawkers’
youngest daughter, Patience, to Roy Howard
was in the old church on the Bungaree estate.
It was built by her grandfather, G. C. Haw-
ker, and witnessed another family wedding
about six years ago, when oue of the Walter
llawkers’ daughters was married to Dr.
Kyle Gault.
A recently announced engagement is that
of the David Gordons’ younger daughter,
Jean, to Victor, son of the E. V. Days, of
Hawker’s-road, Medindie.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Though there was a lake in the middle of
the Belmont Park course and the soggy sad-
dling paddock was ruinous to dainty footwear,
a fine day dawned for the Hunt Club Cup.
There were three faces for hunters, and Green
Poet, ridden by his owner, J. Geneve, was
first home in the race of the day. His Ex.
was there with Lady Campion the latter in
a brown fur coat over her black lace dra-
peries, son Simon and aide Davidson-Hous-
ton. Mrs. J. S. Duffy wore blue and a
French-grey felt, Mollie Taylor kept warm
in a black velvet coat collared with chin-
chilla, and Mrs. Rupert Monger chose a
scarlet hat and a tweed coat. Among the
smartest turnouts were striped jumper suits
of wool and metal rep worn by Violet and
Mavis Holmes. Mrs. Sid O’Neill wore a
ciel'-blue felt above a grey costume; Moira
and Olive Blake were in grey tailor-mades,
and Dixie Herbert braved the chilly breeze
in a flared frock of burgundy crepe de Chine.
At the Gala Night in the Piccadilly
Cabaret there were fancy caps for everyone,
and though punkahs flapped untiringly many
men’s foreheads were streaked with green
and blue after a hectic crocodile round the
room. Peggy Wood wore draperies in two
tones of pale pink georgette, and her sister
Betty was in primrose, beaded in gold and
silver. Mrs. Clarkson chose turquoise orna-
mented with platinum beads, Elsie Paxton
black silk net sewn with hair lines of tiny
gold beads, and Dr. Holloway a black lace
gown with tight sleeves. Moyra Tivey’s
georgettes, lightly beaded in gold, resembled
in color the froth on a strawberry squash.
Black satin was chosen by Mollie Lloyd and
pale pink over shrimp by Flora Shaw.
Youth and beauty motored to Darlington
for the Lesclianailtia Ball. This is the
gayest week-end in the hills, and the hall
was dressed up for the occasion with spring
wild flowers and gay streamers. Eva and
Vera Saw, who have a house in the vicinity,
brought a party. The Frank Cockshotts were
there, also Margaret Duffy, Joan Good, Stella
Meagher, Sandra Chase, Bunny Rex and
Buck Norrie.
Military weddings are rare nowadays, and
the bestowal of Padre Riley’s blessing on
tlie heads of Doreen Winterbottom and
Campbell Milne caused more than a flutter
of interest. The ’groom and his supporters
woi'e blue undress uniforms, and a band of
fellow-officers formed an arch of swords out-
side the church. The bride’s period gown
was a parchment ring of velvet embroidered
with pearls, her veil was of exquisite lioni-
ton lace and her velvet train was lined with
pale gold georgette. Betueked skirts of georg-
ette, velvet corsages and floppy hats
were worn by the all-in-lemon brides-
maids, Faith Flintoff and Dolly Bolt. Two
small trainbearers, Doris Wheatley and
Norma Wilkie, were in fluffy lemon frocks
and bandeaux of primroses. The feasting
was in a giant marquee.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
To fatten the Citizens’ Forces Athletic
and Coinpetition Fund, Mrs. Cox Taylor and
Miss Turner organised a bridge and mah-jongg
evening at the Imperial. A cold night made
an enormous wood-fire welcome, though it
contrasted a little strangely with the masses
of spring blossom in the decorations. Thirty-
eight tables were filled; sweets and cigarettes
brought in a considerable sum. and prizes
were won by Mrs. J. Risby (highest score),
Col. Cox Taylor (lowest score) and Mrs.
C. Boag (mah jongg).
The All-Tasmanian song afternoon held at
the Lyceum Club was varied by Margaret
O’Grady’s three items, which did not bear
the local brand. Mrs. Chepmell and W. P.
Harwood sang their own compositions, both
words and music, and several others gave
selections guaranteed “made on the premises.”
The Repertory Society broke new ground
during its last season by putting on four one-
act plays, each produced entirely by a mem-
ber of the society. The experiment drew
full houses. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady
were at the second performance. The plays
were Yance Palmer’s “Black Horse,” pro-
duced by Mi-s. Brigden (the first Australian
play the society has yet handled) ;
“Alison’s Lad,” by Beulah Mary Dix, pro-
duced by R. Dobbie, with an all-men cast;
“For the Love of a Lady,” an amusing
sketch adapted from Merrick’s “Suicides of
the Rue Sombre,” and produced by \V. E.
Fuller; and “The Grand Cham’s Diamond,”
a comedy by Allan Monkhouse, under Fred
Brough’s management. Olive Wilton may
feel that the chickens she hatched are turn-
ing out quite good birds.
Two engagements of interest to Tas-
manians are those of Mary Nettlefold, daugh-
ter of the A. J. Nettlefolds, formerly of
Hobart, now of Sydney, to Thomas Carter,
Lancashire, England, and of Greta, second
daughter of the A. Bungeys, of Launceston,
who has promised to take the plunge with
Boyce Youl, second son of the Charley Youls,
of Simmons Plains, Perth.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
A fancy-dress frivol in aid of the Metho-
dist Church was held at the residence of
Mrs. W. Lucas lately. And £BO was raked in
from a moon light Ifete in' the church grounds.
The four British Southhampton super-
marine flying boats came and went un-
noticed. The town council was pre-occupied
with other things.
.Toan Kelly, who is leaving by this month’s
boat to keep her marriage appointment with
J. Marks, has been farewelled by several of
the local hostesses, and has been showered
with presents from her numerous friends.
Two of our local girls have lately been
receiving congratulations, Cesca, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. Bleezer. whose
engagement to Henry Jacomb Foster, solici-
tor. Darwin, has recently been announced,
and Jean, eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. Osborne, who has given her promise to
Eric Magaffin, also of Darwin 1 .


Close Australia's Gate.
i Cj
a-
<§*
<\ l V
IliH^
i 1
IBS
i, a
a
I
Stl
n s
a a
s «
?L
mi
/Z
IfUMPORTt)
-VI
wwifiinr
h
\
h
Boa
/
'it
JS
A
r u.
>IT.
I*/
r U
5®
fill
5^
s'
S>4
fM3. - ~„)
\&h tjj.'iKv'i
' MEi9o>n<i
0
t
noiauvt
DiRAI DiSTi'iEB^SFS
lBOo«H( —AUVTTTA-TIC
against unnecessary
whisky importations
PREJUDICE and unthinking purchase lose Australian
A whisky users nearly £2,000,000 per annum.
It’s a high price for a comparatively small community to pay
for one of life’s incidental pleasures. Yet, if legislation closed
the national gate against this waste, the individual’s pleasure
would not be lessened.
Australia produces whisky superior to any in the World —
OLD COURT WHISKY.
If hundreds of thousands of good Australians did not realise
this already, the loss quoted above could be at least doubled.
Those responsible for the loss —and it’s out of their own
pockets—are those who have not tried Old Court; they are
those who heed the voice of Prejudice or who order their
whisky unthinkingly.
To them, we suggest the 'test of taste. A trial of Old Court
usually results in the conviction that it is second to none. And
—every convert protects both his pocket and an industry
employing an army of Australians.
Cl
iOTmkti
tfhc Vorlcfc Purcsb ( 1
PRICE
BERRY


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
'phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Dsherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
7t\
Fine/t Inland Golf"
Link/ inAu/tralia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
COONARDOO.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £5OO PRIZE STORY.
By- Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PhRCIVAL.
Synopsis: After the death of his mother, Mrs. Bessie Watt, who had carefully
managed her station , Wytaliba , in the north-west of W,A, 9 Hughie , born ana
brought up on the station, except for his schooling at Perth, takes over control,
and,'as his mother had done, allows the aboriginal station-workers to live their
accustomed native life. Deeply depressed by his mother's death he is out muster-
ing when he icanders from the camp, becomes bushed and finds that Coonardoo,
a fine aboriginal girl who is married to Warieda, has followed with the idea of
guarding him. They stay there until next day, when Hugh becomes seriously
ill with fever, and is carried bank to the homestead. Sam Geary, a station
owner who includes gins in his household •, his friend Bob Hall and haul Jlaray,
who once owned the station, find Coonardoo looking after Hugh, a circumstance
from which Geary draws his own shrewd inferences. Geary thinks he sees m
Hugh's illness a chance to realise his old ambition to own Wytaliba.
CHAPTER XII.
GEARY and Bob camped
on the verandah for the
night; Saul went to his
own room. Mrs. Bessie’s
door remained locked. Hugh
did not have it opened, though neither Bob J
nor Geary would have cared to sleep in it.
In the morning Coonardoo grilled steaks
and made porridge, tea and toast. It was
difficult to believe Mrs. Bessie had not
superintended the getting of the breakfast
as usual.
Expecting the buggy from Nuniewarra,
Warieda had gone out after a killer, cut
up the beast and given everybody in the
uloo his or her share.
“Oh well, Youie, have it your own way,”
Geary said, smoking over his meal. “I only
come thinkin’ I could do something for you
—take you down, may be.”
“Thanks, Sam,” Hugh replied, “my own
boys’ll take me down in a day or two.”
“And who’ll look after the place while
you’re away?”
“Saul, of course! Cripes, he would be
sore if I left anyone else in charge—though
Warieda and Chitali know as much about
running things as I do. Besides, I won't
be so long gone.”
“The blacks say Mrs. Bessie’s still keepin’
an eye on the place.”
A faint wispish smile moved Hugh’s lips.
“She seems to have thought of everything.”
“Coonardoo says Mumae told her what
to do if ever you were sick,” Bob said.
“She would,” Hugh agreed.
“Well, we’d better get a move on if you
won’t come along with us,” Geary remarked.
“We’re mustering just now, Youie, and I
left the boys holding a mob on the Gidgee
Well.”
“It’s damn good of you, Sam,” Hugh re-
plied, “but I’ll get the boys to rig up a
stretcher in the buckboard
and go down in a day or two.”
Coonardoo had washed and
ironed clothes, packed them in
a suitcase as Hugh told her,
and fixed the tucker bags. She
would have liked to go to the
coast with the boys. But Hugh
said no to that. He knew the life
of the coastal towns too well
to wish her to go near them.
She had lain on the floor
near him, wakeful, watching or .
sleeping lightly, all the time he
was ill, and had done every
service for him. As she helped
him to wash that night before
he was going away, Hugh said:
“What pretty hands you’ve
got, Coonardoo!” So elegant
and delicate the slim brown
fingers were. "I’d no idea you
had such pretty hands—and
feet.”
He glanced down at the
small brown feet, which were
as straight and well-shaped as
her hands.
Coonardoo looked shy at
the words of praise. Her eyes
covered Hugh with unfathom-'
able tenderness.
And next day she watched
him go, lying on a mattress on
the floor of the buckboard.
She had filled his water bag
and put Mumae’s umbrella
beside him to keep off the
sun, warning the boys to travel
rest during the heat of the day.
With Meenie, Bandogera and Saul Hardy,
Coonardoo stood looking on while the fresh
horses Warieda had brought in swirled and
plunged, then turned carrying the four-
wheeler away over the plains. She watched
till her eyes could not see the clouding red
dust and creek trees through which the
buggy disappeared.
As a child she had suffered to see Hugh
go away. And something of the old desper-
ate anguish returned to her now. It was as
if her entrails were being dragged as the
distance grew between her and Hugh. When
she could not bear the tension any more, a
fibre snapped in her. The intensity of her
following sense failed; it was as if life
had receded from her.
Coonardoo felt that Hugh would not die.
She had guessed the fighting instincts Geary
roused. If she had not done the right thing
in sending for Saul Hardy she had done well
in bringing Geary to Wytaliba. Coonardoo
guessed Plugh was determined to get well
if only to defeat Geary. Hugh would come
back to Wytaliba. He would come back
well and strong; not so much a stranger as
before, but part of it; of the country and
of her. He belonged to them.
Instinctively Coonardoo knew these
things as she sat gazing out to the sky that
was blue-grey, iridescent, with fuchsia-
colored mists against the hills like the bright
feathers in a crested pigeon’s wing. He
would bring a woman with him, as he had
done before. Not the same one; she would
be different. But he would bring a woman
slowly and “‘This is Coonardoo,’ Hughie told his wife. ‘You know, I told you, she was mothers
pet girl, and looked after me when I had the fever.'"
The spirit of Mumae would rest more easily
then under the white-barked gum-tree near
the creek. Coonardoo would be there also.
Always she would be there, where Youie
was, to watch over and care for him as
Mumae had said she must. The white
woman would come and would go, Hugh’s
woman; but Coonardoo would be there.
Always she would be there where Hugh was.
The happiness of the thought comforted
her. She must sweep the verandahs, brush
down the spider webs and chase fowls from
the verandah; keep the house as Mumae
would have liked it kept for Hugh’s woman,
the white girl he would bring back with
him for a wife.
Hugh never remembered that journey to
the coast except as a nightmare in which
he had swayed and jolted endlessly across
the plains, un the steep walls of table-
lands, red and bare where the surrounding
country had subsided from them, through
the grey seas of mulga, stretching away
and away to the sky.
Bare red earth and ironstone gravel,
black under a sky film that was clear as
water, he had seen through half-open eyes.
Mulga, with narrow leaves withering, grey-
green and brown, upstanding, scratching the
sky; and quandongs; and stunted shapes
of dwarf firs. Hq closed his eyes on those
drought-stricken stretches of country where
the mulga, bare and beaten by sun and sand
through years of dryness, shone silver and
platinum in the hard white light. Every
germ seemed to be sterilised in the still
air. Only a hill in the distance, lumped
like a giant blue whale along the horizon,
promised life and hope.
Snippets and scraps of the country he
passed through wove a patchwork over
Hugh’s brain. He saw wind-grass growing
among the rocks, tufts as fine and yellow
as mulga blossom, beaten away and driven
to dust against the shingle. They came
to the ruckled earth of a river flat; here
grass flowed, luxuriant and wheel-high, under
blood-woods and light scrub. Wild flowers,
magenta and mauve, swirled
to the foot of rugged hillsides,
as if a bright-patterned old-
fashoined shawl had been
thrown down there. Trees
along a river bed flung a bil-
low of green, very fresh and
delicious to look at.
As if they had been newly whitewashed,
creek gums sidled and swayed nymphishly
beside the dry sand of their watercourses;
the green, soft and young, of their crests
telling of water beneath the creek bed, of
coolness and shadow there; flash of birds,
the blue wing of a butterfly.
Through the dust and heat of the long
journey Chitali and Warieda drove by turns.
While one had the reins the other sat beside
Hugh, put wet rags on his forehead, moved
Mumae’s black umbrella so that it shaded
him from the sun, and sang, or told him
aboriginal legends of stones and hills they
passed.
There was the story about that crag at
the end of Nungarra Range, a solid mass of
granite which could be seen against the
sky miles away.
"Before my mother grow,” Warieda said,
"before her mother”—he waved his hand
vaguely for "a long time ago big black-
fellow kill people and eat ’em. Wallabee
[young blackfellow] come. Old fellow tel!
’m hide in trees, kill all blackfellow and
eat, ’em. Young blackfellow make smoke,
tell other blackfellow. Old blackfellow see
smoke; very sulky. Chase young fellow, want
kill ’m and eat ’m, too. Young fellow mov-
ingar [magician] make cloud, send light-
ning, tear-up old fellow, send him into earth.
He make stone—big stone over there in
hills, Nungarra.”
When Warieda first saw. a steam engine
galloping along rails, one time he had gone
down to Karrara with cattle for Mumae, he
had made a song about it. He sang it to
Hugh often as they bumped on over the
long track to the coast: —
“ Me-ra-rar ngar-rar ngular-gar
gartha-gara !
[Calling with steaming head!]
Mooranger nar-ra-ga mille-
gidgee!”
[Coining! Passing! Gone 1 ]
Each day Hugh became
weaker, more exhausted. He
could only drink the water he
had told the boys to boil and
cool off for him; and although
the fever abated, his heart,
seemed to swim all oyer his
body, his breath came in such
faint windy gusts that he lay
Without speaking more than
ho had to. At Illigoogee and
Karrara the boys got fresh
horses and drove on again,
more anxious than Hugh, and
set on getting him to the
coast without loss of a
moment.
A dream it had all been, but
the horror and oppression
lifted always by the presence
of those two dark, protecting
figures. Towering as trees they
had loomed before Hugh some-
times, and merged with the
darkness shrouding his brain.
But how they had cared for
and attended to him—with
such gentleness and sympathy,
patient and alert, singing and
talking to while away the
time!
Hugh had come at last to Lala station,
a hundred miles from the coast. The Burn-
hams of Lala owned a truck and insisted on
lifting Hugh on his mattress into the house,
and feeding him with beaten eggs and milk
before taking him on into Onslow.
Hugh sent Warieda and Chitali back to
Wytaliba from Lala, and told them to obey
and work for Saul Hardy as they had when
he owned the place. They would get on
very well with Saul; there was nothing to
worry .about on that score.
John Burnham and a couple of his boys
carried Hugh on to the boat, and those
(Continued on page 58.)


A SNAP FOR SPORTSMEN
D.-B. Hammer Gun, back action, English Walnut Stock. Barrels
30in. Nitro proved. Bored full choke modified. Chambered for
Cartridges.
Made in 12, 16 and 20 gauges. Price, £7./10/-, post free.
Fully Guaranteed by
COWLES & DUNN,
The Gun House of Australia, 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
»
Si
»
»>
BY APPOINTMENT.
GMftr
G®irdl®iiii 9 &
Gm
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded for over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World.
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
GORDOBS !
dry Gin
©asmiiULeK'C
LIKPMj
. ffTAMBWIiIUW’ 11 L *» J
A
A
Jr
Everywhere
Obtainable
4
3
F
i
Mr
IV
* » r
No More
RHEUMATISM
or BACKACHE!
There are many ways of temporarily relieving the pains of rheumatism,
backache, swollen joints and other uric acid disorders, but very few
ways of obtaining lasting relief.
Reason —Most remedies deal merely with symptoms instead of causes.
Many backache and bladder preparations claim to “ reach the cause,
but examination shows that but one has such success in treating the
cause as could form the basis of a complete, worth-while guarantee.
The one preparation that does give a definitely protective guarantee
is Harrison’s Pills, and this is the one remedy that cannot fail to
reach the cause!
Quick Relief!
Harrison's Pills dispel the uric acid
much as hot water dissolves sugar. In
many cases actual deposits weighing
several ounces are quickly eliminated,
and these deposits may actually be seen.
What this means to the backache and
bladder sufferer sutiject to "stones,”
gravel or urinary irritation need not
be stressed.
Real Relief!
Harrison’s Pills give quick, sure, safe
relief —lasting relief —from any form
of uric acid disorder or bladder and
urinary trouble. Harrison’s Pills will
quickly stop Backache, Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Inflammation or
Irritation of the Urinary Passages,
Scalding Pains, Sediment, Joint Pains,
Swellings, Heaviness of the Limbs,
Loin Pains, Excessive Urination, etc.
Since these are serious symptoms, Harri-
son’s Pills form a rea 1 safeguard of
health and life.
Letters from Users:
One user writes: “Received immediate
benefit from Harrison’ft Pills. Was full
of uric acid, and scarcely know myself
—within a week l”
Another: “My daughter was a com-
plete nipple from rheumatism —could
not hold anything, her hands were all
screwed up, also her feet. By the use
of Harrison’s Pills she is now walkin'*
about and doing beautiful fancy work
with her hands.”
Even cases of long standing rheumatoid
arthritis have reported wonderful bene-
fit from Harrison’s Pills where other
things had completely failed.
No Risk!
£lOO will be paid to anyone proving this
is not a safe, effective remedy, bearing
a genuine London doctor’s signature.
Further, the price paid by anyone for
their first bottle of Harrison’s Pills will
be refunded without question if marked
and undeniable benefit is not obtained
within 3 days! Of all good chemists
pud stores at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
<1 NRRISOVc.
PILLS
For Rheumatism, Backache, Bladder, Neuritis, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Arthritis, Stiff or Swollen Joints, Uric Acid and Urinary Troubles
AM ALGA MA TED LAB ORA TORIES,
Kcmbla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.


,< 4
Keen as a razor
shaped and
tempered for out-
door service, mod-
eled to fit the hand
with a sure, easy grip
pointed to find its
way quickly —double-edged
to follow through. Just the
knife you need for cutting your way
through underbrush, for sharpening tent stakes, for
slicing bacon, dressing game or doing any of the other
innumerable jobs a sportsman asks a knife to do.
No. 49—Leather Handle, 4KJ.nch blade, c
with Leather Sheath _ . . O
AT YOUR DEALER’S.
MARBLE'S IDEAL KNIFE
The thick, strong blade relieved by hollow
grinding provides proper balance for
weight and size. Strength of back is neces-
sary for splitting, kindling and digging
holes in hard ground or ice. The hollows
aid quick sharpening. Blade adapted to
sticking and skinning. Back of point
bevelled for breaking small bones. The
IDEAL is an every-purpose knife.
Leather Handle with Hilt
Furnished with Leather Sheath.
No. 45 —4J-inch blade 10/0
No. 45 —5 -inch blade 11/0
No. 45—6 -inch blade 112/0
No. 45 —7 -inch blade IJt/O
No. 45 —8 -inch blade. 14/0
The above are the prices at which these
knives can be obtained at your dealer’s.
Marble’s Products are sold by most
good dealers.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOK, 48 pages.
Handy pocket size. Shows the complete
Marble Line.
MARBLE ARMS& MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Av., Gladstone. Michigan, U.S.A.
f
Representatives:
MOLDEN WEBER & CO., Box 1349 J, Sydney.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
EAM
ofYEAST
dll Ckemisis. Vn.3'6 £> 5 f 9
GROCERS
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
For Sale.
FOR SALE.
TOWNSVILLE’S LEADING CAFE.
T JNEQUALLED position, splendidly fur-
nished and fully equipped, all in good
condition. Exceptional business.
Takings over £ll,OOO yearly. Owner
retiring.
.Liease 10 years at reasonable rental.
Terms may be arranged up to eight years.
Can strongly recommend.
Further particulars from
T. L. HEATLEY, LTD.,
Commission Agents,
Townsville.
“HOME and BEAUTY.”
The only kind of beauty which is really
worth having is the “home-cultivated
kind. Apart from artistic considerations it
is far too risky for any woman to depend
entirely on her coiffeur, her complexion
specialist, and her corsetiere for her looks.
At any moment circumstances may deprive
her of their services—and of her dearly-
bought looks! The simple treatments sug-
gested below will, it is hoped, supply a
long-felt want.
BEAUTIFULLY WAVY HAIR.
Too many women are the slaves of their
hairdresser. Are you one of the indepen-
dent souls who coax their hair into its
attractive waves with silmerine, instead of
bullying it with curling tcngs? Silmerine
is a clear, harmless liquid; it doesn’t make
the hair at all greasy, and, if used regularly
the results are really wonderful.
WHAT CONSTITUTES A
GOOD COMPLEXION?
Pink-and-white cheeks, though charming
enough, are not necessarily more beautiful
than cream, olive, or even brown skins.
As long as the skin is clear, smooth, fine-
grained, and free from blemishes, the actual
color- matters little. That is why it is use-
less to try to tone up a poor complexion
by applying cosmetics. The outer skin,
which has grown coarse and dirty with con-
stant exposure, is the main trouble, but
can easily be remedied.
Smear some pure mercolized wax over
the face at bedtime, wash it off in the
morning with warm water, rinsing finally
with cold. After a few days of this treat-
ment, the oxygen in the - wax will have
absorbed the discolored outer skin, leaving
the clean, new skin beneath free to breathe.
This is the only scientific way to obtain a
really good natural complexion. Nothing
is better for the neck and arms, of course,
than to treat them in the same way.
A VERY UGLY THING,
and one that will ruin any complexion, is
the obnoxious presence of blackheads. The
simplest and best way to remove them is
to bathe them in a little warm water in
which a tablet of stymol has been dis-
solved. They will then come out, without
forcing, on the towel.
The texture of the skin depends on the
size of the pores. When the pores are
over-enlarged, the skin becomes coarse and
“shiny” and blackheads form on the face.
To keep the skin fine-grained an occa-
sional astringent is needed,, and an excel-
lent one will be found in parsidium jelly.
BANISH GREY HAIRS NOW!
To those of us who know how easily it
can be remedied, the spectacle of an other-
wise attractive woman whose hair is marred
by ugly streaks of grey is terribly sadden-
ing. One wants to tell her, “Oh, it is so
easy to touch your hair from time to time
with tammalite; so easy and so marvel-
lously effective in banishing grey hairs.
Why don’t you do it?” Women, and men,
too, use tammalite who wouldn’t dream of
putting dye upon their hair. Dyes gener-
ally are so horrid to apply, so uncertain
of effect, so readily detected. And dyes
can injure hair. After all, all one needs
to do is to restore the natural color to grey
hair. A different color dyed into the hair
accentuates wrinkles and harsh lines. Let
your hair again possess the pretty, natural
tints all your friends admired once. Banish
grey hairs now. Get from any chemist
pure concentrated tammalite in bottles
carrying simple instructions. Begin to-
night to beautify your hair.
THE “LINE OF BEAUTY.”
Nowadays more than ever, a woman
must be slim to look well. The modem
straight frocks lose their beautiful “line”
at once if the figure below is too bulky.
Nevertheless, when trying to reduce super-
fluous fat, do not be too violent, or you
may do yourself more harm than good.
Have you tried taking a few clynol berries
after each meal? They have wonderful
digestive and absorbent properties, and are
quite pleasant to take, reducing super-
fluous fat in a quite harmless manner.- You
can obtain them from most good chemists.
ONALITE FOR TIRED FEET.—
Buy from Your Chemist.—Advt.
days on the freshening blue seas to Gerald-
ton were like lying in a cradle and being
rocked to sleep after the long journey from
the station.
There was no milk on the boat, bu.
oranges, plenty of oranges. Hugh ate
oranges. He sucked at the golden rind,
lying gazing out over the blue dancing ex-
panse of southern ocean, sleeping, dream-
ing, not thinking. .
Wytaliba was a mirage on the horizon
of his consciousness; all the distraught pas-
sion, loneliness and suffering beyond the
flowing miles of plains and tableland. And
Coonardoo. Coonardoo.
The name came to him soothingly. It
brought a sense of peace and stilled suffer-
ing. As if all the pain and struggle of life
were over; there were no need to strive, to
be too strong, too good, any more. Just to
live, and take life as you found it, was
enough; being decent, but having no fixed
ideas to dig into your brain and drive you
insane with their poisoned thorns. Better a
Coonardoo under a starry sky any day than
a china doll with nothing in her but a little
futile soul wailing about the roses of life s
garden.
“Oh, I’d so much rather
All life’s roses gather
In the garden of to-day.”
Hugh could hear the blacks singing be-
side their camp-fires in the dark, the frail
eerie melodies winging over the dark plains,
under a wide sky on which the stars were
dim as rock crystals. The throbbing on one
note, high flight, ,fall, and reiterated rhythm
and melody, quivering, infiltrating, had
always stirred and excited him. He told
himself that he liked to hear the blacks
on Wytaliba singing because it showed they
were happy, that life was good to them.
But there was more in it than that. The
blacks’ singing was a communication, a
language of the senses, remote and abo-
riginal. Infinitely, irresistibly Hugh felt
it; he had never imagined it to himself
before; but that was what moved him, he
told himself. And always he could hear
Coonardoo singing above the rest of the
women; her voice thin and clear, with eerie
high notes falling to the beat and murmur-
ous flow of the refrain.
The Centurion made her way to Gerald-
ton with leisurely lurch and stride. The land
looked dark and menacing after the peace
of the sea. White lines of surf and beaches
flashed from the lightening bluffs and head-
lands. Hills, trees and green swardy slopes
were conjured out from them. Sea-birds
swooped screaming abofit her when the
steamer bumped the piles of the jetty.
was nobody he had seen before in
the gaily-colored little crowd which
assembled to meet the boat. But Hugh felt
as if he knew everybody; everybody was
glad to see him. Geraldton was a place you
dreamt of and talked about a great deal
on Wytaliba. Coming to it again was like
dipping into his childhood. Hugh had been
in the township before when he was going
down to school. Eustace Fairweather, the
doctor in Geraldton, an old friend of his
mother’s, had come to the boat and taken
him away for the day.
Hugh asked the steward who had been
looking after him to send for a car as soon
as the boat arrived, and in the car he told
the driver to take him to Nurse McGill-
varay’s cottage hospital, which he remem-
bered having heard his mother speak of.
In a bed of the neat small house, tucked
away behind plumbago hedges and pink
oleander bushes, with a stout middle-aged
woman and a girl who was learning to be
a nurse fussing about him, Hugh began to
feel really well—to laugh at himself for all
the fuss he had made about “a go of fever
and a headache,” he said.
But Dr. Eustace Fairweather, who over-
hauled him, was not so amused. He realised
the experiences of his patient and the dis-
tance he had come for treatment.
“Oh yes,” he said, “you’ve had ty., all
right, my boy. You ought to have died.”
“That’s what Sam Geary said,” Hugh told
him smiling. “But I wouldn’t—to spite
him.”
CHAPTER XIII.
How many moons was it since Youie
had gone? Coonardoo had seen the slim,
shining kylie [boomerang] of anew moon
in the sky, had seen it belly and wither
ten times; she had scarred the bark of a
creek gum with a sharp stone for every
one.
She had watched the plains and trees
along the creek, every dust-wind that puffed
and swirled, far out, where the track dipped
to the crossing and was hidden among trees,
grey-misted against blue pale sky. Her
eyes were birds which had a nest there,
so they hovered and whirled round the
place. She knew every tree and rut at the
crossing—how horses came down the steep
red back opposite, pebbles slipping and
flying under their feet; how a buggy rattled
across the stones, jolted and bumped as it
climbed the soft, ruckled earth, rising
steeply and veering on the other side.
Eeh-mm. Youie would call to his horses,
fling out his whip, making it crack joyously
as he drove over the creek! Birds would
fly out from the trees, and the horses, which
had been waiting at Lala all these months,
smelling the home drinking-troughs, jaded
though they were with their long plod
through the ridge, would swoop out and in
to the lower gate, comins to a standstill
before the house, dust red and baked with
the sweat on them. Youie would be red
with dust; buggy, wheels, harness, the
ground-sheet over the luggage roped on at
the back of the buggy—everything near and
beside him would be powdered with red
dust of the plains.
He was not dead, although he did not
come, Coonardoo was sure.
Mumae’s house began to look as if no-
body had lived in it for a long time. Saui
Hardy lived in the Leighs’ hut for a while
when Hugh was away. Not for more than
a month or so, however. Wytaliba those
days gave him the creeps, he said. He
swore it was as the blacks said—the place
was haunted. He had seen Mumae trotting
along the verandah, in her white dress and
low-heeled black shoes. And the white
cockatoos nearly drove him demented, they
screeched round the house so.
Once during Hugh’s absence he had come
over from Nuniewarra, bringing Sam Geary
and Cock-eyed Bob with him.
They camped in the Leighs’ hut. Saul
called up the blacks, dealt out flour, sugar
and tea; then all three, Saul, Sam and
Cock-eyed Bob, had driven back to Nunie-
warra in Sam’s new motor-car. Saul declared
Mumae was calling him all night. She had
trotted up and down the verandah, crying
“Saul! Saul!” just as she used to.
Sam Geary said he could not stand it. Wy-
taliba had such a deserted air; there was
something weird, uncanny, about it.
Meenie and Bandogera swept round and
scrubbed 7 the verandahs of Mumae’s house
now and then when the white hens made a
mess of them. But they were afraid to go
into the rooms. Spiders wove their grey
films there and red dust was heavy on
everything.
Every morning at dawn white cockatoos
rose in a cloud before the house and flew
off screeching against the sun. They roosted
in the white-gum beside the verandah, and
in the old tree down near the creek under
which Youie had laid Mumae. It was true,
as she had said, that Mumae’s spirit had
become a white cockatoo which was always
flying round the place.
No one from the uloo would have dared
to go into the house or break open the
store, although everybody was hungry wait-
ing for Youie to return. The tribe had
gone back to its old way of living, hunting
kangaroo and snaring bungarra and birds,
while the gins husked and pounded grass
seeds or dug for coolyas [wild potatoes].
Once Warieda killed a bullock, but the white
cockies screeched so, and almost everyone had
pains, or was sick from eating too much
meat. Meenie declared, and everybody be-
lieved her, that Mumae had made the food
disagree because she did not approve of a
beast being killed without leave. Warieda
explained that Youie had told him to bring
in a killer and feed the uloo as usual; but
Bandogera and Meenie were sure Mumae
was against it.
All through the long hot days the uloo
waited and watched for Hugh. Red haze of
dust-storms hid the homestead and winning-
arras [whirlwinds] spun, dancing in long un-
steady columns from over the plains.
One of the windmills had broken in a
storm and flapped its fans forlornly. Coon-
ardoo tried to mend it. Climbing the iron
stays to discover what was the matter,
she had caught the fan, and with a piece
of wire had swung and fixed it into posi-
tion again.
The mill kept water running, in little
channels, through the garden, so that the
green things there would not die. Coon-
ardoo weeded and guarded them from the
sun with brushwood screens as she had done
for Mumae. By-and-bye when food was
scarce she rode out and brought in a
cow with calf and milked her. There was
no harm in that, in taking some of the
milk from the calf, the old women agreed,
though they would not have done it them-
selves. It was then Coonardoo had been
caught in a winning-arra [whirlwind], and a
cooboo dropped into her; it grew quickly
during those summer months; and before
the rains she and Bandogera had walked
away from the camp along the creek
together.
Bandogera made a fire in the warm,
silvery sand of the creek bed, and she and
Coonardoo sat down at a little distance
from the fire. Bandogera had made Coon-
ardoo lie down on the warm white sand and
rubbed her body all over with thin per-
suasive fingers, singing and muttering
movins [charms] against any evil spirits
which might be hovering near.
Coonardoo had gazed through the drift-
ing leaves of the river trees, fluttering their
long dark fingers, sooty and innumerable,
out of the night about her. She had looked
up at the stars, the glittering crystals of
stars which made air of the sky, all shining
as a wide stretch of water. The stars had
fallen into her, darkness, and those flut-
tering fingers of the leaves. Bandogera
chanted more fiercely. She warmed her
hands at the fire, took a handful of dead
ashes still warm, and rubbed them over
Coonardoo’s body.
It was a sturdy little creature Bandogera
laid in the sand and covered with warm
ashes. Coonardoo exclaimed with delight
when she saw him sprawling beside her so
fat and vigorous. Bandogera, too, was
pleased with the result of her labors. She
knew everybody in the uloo would agree
it was a fine cooboo the winning-arra had
given Coonardoo.
Warieda, with two little girls, had desired
a son, and well-pleased the winning-arra
had given his woman the spirit of a man-
child.
(Continued on page 58.)


From China to Peru.
Smoke.
• ——
J he ninth report of the Imperial Economic
Committee deals with tobacco, of which
the world’s total production in 1926 was
4.900,000.0001 b.—a pipeful or so. that is to
say, under 2,200,000 tons! Of this the
l .S.A. and the British Empire'contributed
approximately one-hall. Some of the couu-
Iries which are the largest producers are
;'* s ? Ike largest consumers India and
China, for example and there fore only a little
more than a quarter of the world’s crop
enters international trade channels.
Over three-fourths of the total export
surplus of the world in 1925 was provided
by Uncle Sam. John Bull and his family
consume the greater portion of their own
smoke and a good deal of Uncle’s; in 1925
one-third of the total American export was
consigned to the United Kingdom. “The
competition which Empire tobacco has
to meet in the British market is
almost entirely from American-grown
tobacco, the report says. But a Cus-
toms preference on Empire tobacco
was accorded m 1919, and already there js
a trend that way; since 1924 there has
been a distinct increase in the percentage
ol leaf impolted into the Lnited Kingdom
from Empire ports and a corresponding
decrease of leaf imported from ‘old V.r-
guvny and theieabouts.
There was a day when the Britisher glow-
ered over his pipe at the smoker of cigar-
ettes. But the cigarette is no longer among
j?, a mai v j eithei the foieignei oi the
dilettante. In the last two decades there
las been a rapid increase in the produc-
tion and consumption of tobacco m the
world generally. In the United Kingdom
Ih® average consumption has risen from
-Alb. a head in 1914 to 3.41 b. in 1927. It
is a very respectable showing yet not quite
equal to what Germany, Belgium and the
United States can do. But—and this is
where Victoria the Good would weep—the
people of the United Kingdom are to-day
the greatest cigarette-smokers in the world
—owing largely to “the widespread adop-
tion of the smoking habit by women.”
Chewing seems to be quite dead in the
British Navy; the consumption of cigars
has fallen strikingly; pipe tobacco holds its
own stolid way; but cigarettes—! In
1907 they sent up the incense of 23,766,0001 b.
of tobacco; in 1924 they more than trebled
this record, the consumption reaching
77,458,0001 b. Even the well-ordered and seri-
ous-minded Dominion of Maoriland gets
through 415 cigarettes per caput in the
year.
Millions and millions of pounds gone up
in smoke! Ex jumo nihil fit— something to
smoke a quiet pipe over indeed!
~ , ~ U Z? . , ..
The Dutch Rediscover Australia.
While grateful in one way, Singapore is
rueful over the fact that the Dutch have
stolen a march en the British and got the
contract for a Singapore-Java air service,
The British scheme fell through owing to
Government apathy, so there was no option
but to close with the Hollanders.
Flying in Java is very active, in spite of
the "spiked nature of the landscape and
the fact that swamped ricefields are almost
continuous throughout the island. A 10-
minutes’ flight from Batavia to Bandoeng
costs no more than 6s. By the end of the
ANOTHER CASE OF CHILD ENDOWMENT.
year all the main towns will be linked
not only with one another but with Sum-
atra and British Malaya. The next step
will be an extension throughout the archi-
pelago, including, it is claimed, a service
to Australia. The company’s capital will
be £5OO 000 and, like the Royal Packet Co.,
it will enjoy a subsidy from the Dutch
Govemment—in this case £lOO.OOO annu-
uuvtiiimu
aI Y; .. , , • A.rotvniin rinimr? Ai-P
let’ the Netherlander, ™n our
an as veil as our
Wanted Simplicity in Religion.
The amenities of the Christian churches
have been twice interrupted during the last
few days Once it was by high ecclesiastics
of the radical school in England, who de-
dared that the Christian church must grow
more simple and sincere before it can hope
ma k e any considerable progress. And
aga ; n j t was by the still, small voice of
the holder 0 f an alien faith. This was the
gh e ik Abdullah, an apostle of Islam in
N g Wales, who called attention to the
fact tha t all the triumphs of evangelism
did not attach to Christianity. He was
moved to this assertion by the remark of
]q s } 10 p Chambers, of Tanganyika, made in
gyffney, that Mohammedanism is a menace
in Africa, killing and blighting the native
races.
There is much in the good Sheik’s con-
tention that Islam has its superior points,
jt not only enjoins religious observance,
but requires it. ‘ The Moslem who dodges
regular attendance at the mosque, or omits
\ x [ s regu i ar routine of prayer and cere-
nionial, save in cases where he is tempor-
ar j] v absolved by circumstance, is as rare
ag |j ic Christian who does not do the oppo-
site To the Moslem the ban on forbidden
f ood and the practice of usury is a real
one and the tenet that all men are equal
j n the sight of God, one that is also a fuu-
Hameiital of the Christian faith, is accepted
ag an axiom . A s a result of this and other
ddngs Islam appeals to the primitive and
the pagan-as the Bishop of Tanganyika
ruefully admitted) the faith is spreading
throughout heathen Africa and far out-
in| the Chr i s tian teaching, though the
]at(:er fe has behind it money and organisa-
tjon which Islam cannot boast,
i s ] am » s simplicity and definiteness appeal
fo tho simple intellect, and perhaps if the
(Christian churches could take up the same
woapone> and put into practice in the eyes
Q £ dlo discerning pagan exactly what the*
, thcir succe ss with him might fc.
g rea f er than that which is certainly attend-
■ the Moslem evangelists.
An object-lesson from Borneo.
'
The people who advocate a chartered com-
pany for North Australia might usefully
study the career of the British North
Borneo Company. This curious survival
of a once-popular institution owns and
administers the affairs of 300,000 persons,
ranging in culture from tree men to white
Europeans. Its vast territory contains the
mountain Kinabalu (nearly 15,000 ft.) and
a system of mighty rivers. The British
Crown has never interfered unduly, and
the 8.N.8. has much the same natural
a dvantages as the Philippines, Java and
the F.M.S. Yet while those countries have
doubled and trebled their populations and
multiplied their production many times,
t j ie privately-governed 8.N.8. has pot-
tered along, a placid, picturesque but stag-
nant backwater of the Empire.
The tTOuble se ems to be that in these
days of humanitarianism and open trade,
a body of shareholders cannot run a nation,
khc chartered companies of the past made
their profits out of the blood and tears
of their abject subjects. Nowadays if a
8.N.8. official pushes a Hylam housebov
there is an uproar.
The company has made several meur-
sions into industry, and the results have
not been cheering. Nowadays it is con-
tent to get the bulk of its revenue from
taxes and leave the native to his own
devices. Last year there was a small divi-
dend, the first for many years. It came
mainly from the sale of land to Chinese
peasant farmers. Ah Foot is steadily add-
ing the 8.N.8. to his other conquests.
,
An Example from Italy.
, .... ~ , T , , .
The popular superstition that Italy is over-
degraded beings whose ch ef
aim 1S to exde themselves m Australia
must go. The Italian Ministry is dis-
Italy has already fallen 50 per cent.’ Dur-
ing the past decade about one Italian has
come to the Commonwealth to every three
Britons; thus, in the quarter ended June
30 last, according to the Commonwealth
Statistician, 1153 Britons arrived to stay,
as against 363 Italians. Only 45 of the
latter breed arrived by the Caprera the
other week, and the Principe di Udine, the
biggest Italian ship that has visited these
shores, is returning to the S. American run
chiefly because there are so few immigrants
coming to Australia.
What is happening is that the Italians
are staging a great national act, another
renascence; and it is one that Australians
might advantageously copy. They are sink-
ing their social and industrial differences
and prejudices, and are combining fer the
enrichment and glory of their native land.
AT HIS TIME OF LIFE.
OLD P IPPIN: “Be an Eve and tempt vie with an apple.”
YOUNG PEACH: “ Hadn’t you better make it a banana? You’d slip easier on that.”
It may be that the driving force is being
applied by one who could not function in
a democratically-governed land, but that
does not take away from the fact that the
drive is in the right direction. Strikes and
lock-outs have stopped in face of arbi-
tration laws which are obeyed. The Italian
is again what the Australian once was in a
small way, a ship-builder; and other great,
Italian industries, which might be great
Australian industries, are represented by
the manufacture of cars, artificial silk and
wool textiles. Some further benefits which
the Italians have handed themselves by
means of work, discipline and co-operation
ars an immense decrease in unemployment,
a reduction in the number of taxes, a re-
formed civil service, and a diminished
national debt—from a deficit of billion
lira in 1923 the Treasury went to a surplus
of 2\ billion lira in 1926.
An interesting feature of the phenomenon
is that much of Italy, in its climate, in its
products and industries, in its dependence
on sea communications and in its proximity
to tropical races, bears a resemblance to
tlie populous oarts of Australia. What the
Italians arc doing in industry under diffi-
culties could be done’here with triumphant
ease if we only had the renascent spirit.
O
Death-traps.
The recent mock air-raid on London, which
resulted in the theoretical destruction of
the more important centres of the sprawling
city and the nominal extirpation by poison
gas of thousands of its inhabitants, is full
of the liveliest interest. Though the bomb-
ing ’planes came from known directions,
they easily penetrated the defence in the
darkness of the early morning, and in some
instances in broad daylight, the raiders get-
ting off practically scot-free. The defence,
on the ground and in the air, was easily
avoided; the attackers had the advantage
of knowing their objectives, while the de-
fence had to find theirs.
The lesson, rammed home in the war,
that ground defences are nearly worthless
was again emphasised, while even in the
air-fighting the attackers avoided most of
the dangers that threatened them. When
only a few feet above the housetops the
anti-aircraft guns could not be trained on
them, while the defenders, above them in
the air, dare not dive, since to do
so would inevitably entail crashing. This
low-flying practice on bombing raids was
first resorted to by British bombers over
the Rhine towns. It gives the attacking
’plane almost complete immunity, while
rendering the defender almost helpless.
The result of a modern air raid on Syd-
ney, for instance, by a fleet of fast bombers
from the aeroplane-carriers with which
every modern navy is equipped, would be
even more disastrous than that on London
was adjudged to be. Sydney would have
one advantage, certainly, over London—the
attack would be launched from a naval
force. The ’planes would have to return to
the carriers, when they would be particu-
larly vulnerable, and a large and efficient
air force might be able to deal with them
adequately, provided it was in existence.
But in the present condition of our defence
forces as a whole, and that of the air ser-
vice in particular, and. in view of the
indifference of the great majority of the
nation to the question of defence, it is well-
nigh impossible to imagine the existence oi
such a force, should the time come when it
will be needed.
In any case, Sydney, or whichever of our
coastal cities the raiders chose as their
objective, would be in ruins and its inhabi-
tants in extremis, for the most part. Taking
one thing with another, the growing Aus-
tralian habit of flocking in to the great
coastal cities seems likely to acquire a most
unpleasant setback some day. unless some-
thing in the nature of a miracle takes place.
+
Have Australians Any Taste?
“M.G.S.”: I utterly repudiate "White-
hall's assertion (B. 19/9/’2B) that Aus-
tralians have no taste. We have plenty of
taste. We are ready to taste anything.
A near neighbor of mine has two wooden
balls flanking his front gate. They are
relics of the feudal habit of sticking human
heads on pikes at the entrance to baronial
castles to indicate that the inmate had the
power of life and death over his villeins.
Half-way up the drive is a Japanese torii.
originally a memorial to virtuous widows
who refused to re-marry. (Incidentally, my
friend’s wife has been married thrice.) On
his lawn is a vase of the sort the Etrus-
cans deposited the ashes of the departed
in. His floors are covered with genuine
hand-made Calcutta rugs manufactured by
machinery in the Nanking-road, Shanghai.
His wife goes to the theatre with a Javan-
ese skirt wrapped round her shoulders. His
house is Spanish, and has grilles to all the
windows to keep out gallants, though when
the young man comes to court his daugh-
ter he drives up in a Bugatti and takes her
for a joyride. In his sitting-room are many
curious objects, including a handsome
wooden workbasket of the sort used in
China as a slop-pail.
My friend’s wife is fond of cooking. She
gets German, Italian, French and Russian
recipes over the radio, and burns much
good tucker to make a mess of alien pot-
tage.
I don’t see what can be done about my
friend. He is caught, like the rest of us.
in a cosmic whirlpool. He is the child
of his century, and the century happens
to be one of wireless, cinemas, aeroplanes,
cheap postage and rapid and inexpensive
sea communications. Civilisation is en-
gaged for the first time in its history in
fusing all its diverse cultures simultane-
ously. The process of fusion is already far
advanced in Europe owing to the motor-
car. A person magically transported to a
street comer in Madrid, Paris or Helsing-
fors would be hard put to it to say where
he was. He would see the same hurrying
midges in imitation Stetsons, their legs
chastely enclosed in tweed drain-pipes.
Even in Kioto the police have to draw
their swords to prevent the modest
mousme’s skirts from creeping above her
kneecaps.
It looks as if the world was in for a
period of universalised culture. I have
no remedy, supposing a remedy is needed.
P.S.—I have this moment caught sight of
my neighbor. “How to make a Japanese
garden” has just been broadcast. He is
already in earnest consultation with his
gardener.


fcrnrirrt< r,,,,T1 '
7o be healthu-
drink
the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
m i hi nm m m i im i m 1111 ill
fORMAHINT
The Germ-killing Throat tablets
Of all Chemists ~-"3/6 per bottle.
THE
PORT OF HULL
for reception of
Frozen Meat exported to
Great Britain.
Cold Storage, 890,000 Cubic Feet.
Prompt Despatch in Refrigerator
Waggons to All Parts of the
Country by Express Trains of the
London and North-Eastern Railway
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
L.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway in
the World.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
A
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE LAST DARMAND.
By - JOHN CRISP.
IN those days there were only three plain-
clothes men, Nat Brooks, Gus Darmand
and myself. Inspector Redacre was our
chief, so you can reckon for yourself liow far
I am going back. We three young detectives
hit it off well. We were not only colleagues,
but mates. Nat and I had joined the force
together, and were plodders, and together
we were promoted to plain-clothes. Gus
Darmand came later, but he shed liis uniform
after little more than a year’s service. An
exceptional man, lie early caught the inspec-
tor's eye, and no one in the service felt
injured because of this early recognition of
his merits.
Darmand w 7 as an Englishman, and an
original. He was not typical of any class
of men within my experience. Even in a
policeman’s uniform he did not look like a
policeman, though he might easily have been
mistaken for an English lord going to a
fancy-dress ball. Not a big man as police-
men go, nor a man whose strength was
aggressively obvious; his head extraordin-
arily Byronic, and every movement lithe as
a leopard’s. He had, too, poise; and you
felt lie was a man who would give his last
ounce only in the last ditch. He always
had his own opinion about things and fear-
lessl.v expressed it. He never baa’d with
the flock. A great reader, he would enter-
tain Nat and me by the hour with recita-
tions, always tragical. I believe that man
knew by heart the best of “Hamlet,” “Mac-
beth” and “Othello,” and I'll confess I
thought Sliakspeare dull until I heard him
recited by Gus Darmand. His bedroom was
quite a library, and you may be sure Edgar
Allan Poe was well represented. Gus used
to say that after reading “The Murders in
the Rue Morgue” he felt more like
a real detective. But. for that matter,
he seems to have read everything that
had been written, fact or fiction, con-
cerning crime and criminals.
He took his job very seriously. By
advancing a theory which led to the
solution of a series of mysterious
burglaries, his talent for detection was
first prominently brought to the notice
of the department. Thereafter his
opinion was more than welcomed ; it
was invited.
But was there ever such a moody
man—a man who; took so
much knowing? For days
together, sometimes weeks,
he would hold himself aloof
from everyone, doing liis job,
of course, but doing it like a
prisoner or a penitent. His
face would become grey, his
cheeks and eyes sunken, and
his walk almost a shuffle —
like the movements of a som-
nambulist. We thought.
Nat Brookes and I, that
he suffered from a complaint which took
him periodically; but, as he offered no
explanation, we did not care to invite a
snub by inquiring. Although he was our
mate he never gave us the. whole of himself.
There was always the line across which we
did not presume. Then one morning he
would come back and be again the alert,
entertaining, genial Gus, and again he would
accompany us for supper to the little parlor
of the Maid and Magpie.
A murder in those days was what God
intended it to be —a stroke shatteringly per-
sonal to every member of the community.
Not an impersonal item of sensational news
welcomed as a piquant accompaniment to
the' breakfast sausage. So the early com-
munity breathed again when Nat Brooks and
I laid by the heels John Fenton and George
Burgess three days after the murdered body
of their mate Sam Woods had been dis-
covered in a mangrove swamp near Fly
Creek. Because we were the senior men, the
ease had been assigned to Brooks and me.
Darmand meanwhile carried on the routine
work.
Sitting in the little parlor of the Maid
and Magpie one evening, a few days after
the suspects had been arrested, Nat arid
I, feeling pretty good, were discussing our
catch. We had handled the job
like tradesmen, and felt we were
standing well with the department
and the public. And then Darmand
stepped quietly into the room and
dropped a bombshell.
The beautiful suburb of to-day known as
Everard was, at the time I speak of, a
primeval forest and black. The branches of
the trees, ages old, so interlaced as to per-
mit little light on even the brightest day
to penetrate its darkling depths, and it
stretched thus through all that beautiful
country which lies between the hills and the
sea.
Graziers and farmers used the forest as a
common for running cattle, and, as you can
well imagine, it was no kind of a job at all
to steal them. As a fact, cattle duffing had
been rampant in the forest from the earliest
days.
Sam Woods and his mates Fenton and
Burgess were well known in the town and
throughout the district as good workmen who
could turn their hands to most things. All
were old lags, and were well known as
such. Woods hailed from New South Wales,
Fenton and Burgess from Tasmania.
The whining ring of butcher’s knife on
steel arrested the attention of two mounted
troopers, who were using as a short cut to
the hills a bridle track that skirted the
forest. The troopers tethered their horses
and investigated. They discovered a clear-
ing where three men by the aid of slush
lamps were dressing two beasts. The
troopers rushed the butchers, but two
escaped. Sam Woods was taken. The
troopers could not swear that the escapees
were Burgess and Fenton, but they had little
doubt of it. Woods was lodged in the town
gaol. He stayed there only long enough to
“When Nat and I had eased him to the floor he
was quite dead.”
h a couple of mc ,is, a nd then made his
over t ' he wall T ’ the disgust of the
puf)]ie W()odg was the sixth prisoner who
had escaped within a year, and Simon Kitch,
prorn j no nt townsman and prosperous but-
£her> led a deput ation to the authorities to
demand the erection of a new gaol.
_ , c , ,
, am Woods hid himself to such purpose
J} iat we did not get a sight of him for more
than a month, and when we did see him he
was dead. The back of his head was laid
opem. Ihe body was found by Gus Darmand
ant * a blacktracker.
Inspector Redacre agreed with Brooks and
me that Woods was murdered to secure his
silence—-dead men tell no tales. We knew
that Burgess and Fenton had been the dead
man’s partners in the cattle thefts. We had
reason to bedieve that Woods after h£s
escape from prison had sought Ills partners
and claimed their aid. We held to the
theory that Burgess and Fenton secreted
Woods with intent to smuggle him out of the
colony when the police had become less
diligent; that they became nervous when
they found their movements were. closely
watched; that they were constrained to
help Woods to save their own skins, fearful
that, should he be re-taken, he would give up
the whole truth and implicate themselves.
At any rate, we felt that if sufficient evi-
dence was not forthcoming to convict them
we had taken the right men. I'll admit
we were relying to some extent on one or the
other turning Queen’s evidence; to that end
we caused them to be kept severely apart,
to be given rations sufficient only to keep
body and soul together, and we examined
them twice a day, and intended to continue
doing so until one or the other made a clean
breast. We had no sort of doubt whatever
that before trial day a confession would be
in our hands. That is why Nat and I,
full of confidence and at peace with the
world, were enjoying a quiet evening at the
Maid and Magpie, when. Gus Darmand
joined us and spoiled it all.
“Haw! Haw!” he called, framed in the
doorway. “So we’re taking a little refresh-
ment and a little rest after duty well done,
eh?”
“Come in and have a drink, old man,” said
Nat. And I added jovially, “Come and tell
us all the good news.”
“Thanks,” smiled Gus, “but I think you
chaps ought to have one with me. And if
you’ll be advised by me for once in a way,
have stiff ones. Ring the bell.” Gus be-
strode the hearthrug, his back to the fire,
lb* might have been a Chancellor of the
Exchequer pregnant with an undelivered
budget.
“Well,” I said—“what is it? Spit it out!
Have Fenton and Burgess escaped, or has the
Queen”
“Fenton and Burgess,” Darmand inter-
rupted, “have not escaped. Why should
they, seeing they will be released to-morrow?”
“Who’ll be released?”
“I said Fenton and Burgess will be re-
leased to-morrow.”
Nat jumped to his feet, gulped his whisky,
and barked, “The man’s mad.”
Darmand regarded Nat with condescension.
“Give it a rest,” I urged. “Gus has some
news all right, and if he’ll only sit down and
talk sense we’ll be glad to hear it.”
Gus seated himself at the table end, picked
up the little bell, rang it, and suggested
that we should have another. Nat and I sat
one at either side of the table, the lamp
between us.
Gus Darmand, fingering his glass, and with
the air of a patient superior began, “Gentle-
men, however much you may dislike it, the
truth is great and will prevail.”
“For God’s sake,” growled Nat thumping
the table with liis fist, “cut that out. If
you’ve got anything to say, say it.”
“Very good, then,” drawled Darmand.
“Burgess and Fenton did not murder Sam
Woods. This evening at seven o’clock I
arrested the man who did—Simon Kitch.”
“Simon Kitch!”
“Precisely. Simon Kitch.”
Across the lamp I saw Nat slump into his
chair; and a tense silence followed. I heard
the watch ticking in my pocket, and then
Darmand was talking again.
“Sorry, my friends, to have shocked you,
but the facts are to blame, not I. Sensa-
tional, of course; prosperous tradesman;
leading townsman and all that sort of thing.
Now, do sit up and I’ll explain the steps I
took to arrive at the truth.
“The person most interested in slaughtered
cattle in this colony is Simon Kitcli. For
some years past he* has maintained a chain
of shops in the town and throughout the
district, all of which have prospered exceed-
ingly. For more than five years he has sold
meat at cut prices, and to-day he has all
but a monopoly of the retail meat trade.
Now, when a man can so undersell liis oppo-
sition as to put them out of business, the
fair question is, how does he do it? Add
this striking fact: Since the arrest of Sam
Woods for cattle stealing, beef sold in
Kitch’s shops has advanced in price. The
price of cattle has slightly decreased, lias
the retail beef-market been affected by the
cessation of cattle stealing? Was Simon
Kitcli the purchaser of the carcases of the
stolen beasts? Unthinkable, of course!
Good citizen and all that! Iluh!
“You’ll remember that because it had
rained between the time of the murder and
the finding of the body we could make noth-
ing of the footprints that were discovered
beside the body in the mangrove swamp.
Eight days later I returned there with Joe
the tracker. The weather meanwhile had
been hot. The tracks in the swamp were
perfect. Dentist’s wax could not have re-
tained a better impression. We dug out
six sods each holding a footprint. I kept
them locked up in a box for future use. The
outstanding feature of the footprints is that
the boots that made them had high heels.
Several nails, too, were missing from each
of the soles. We know that Simon Kitcli
frequently wears Wellington boots with high
heels. I therefore had no difficulty in making
a mental picture, as the soles of Simon’s
Wellington boots nicely fitted the footprints.
“From that point I assumed that Simon
Kitcli was the man. I mentally re-
constructed the events as they would happen
after Sam Woods escaped from custody;
and, as it turns out, I made few mistakes.
Simon Kitcli before the inspector this even-
ing admitted everything except the murder.
That lte strenuously denied*—-said that
Woods left his home alone to walk to Port
Lawler. At that stage I produced the foot-
prints, and Kitcli produced his Wellington
boots. The prints and the soles tallied to
a nail, and-—Kitcli fainted.
“You rightly assumed that Woods when
lie escaped sought an accomplice; but un-
fortunately your perceptive faculties did not
carry you beyond the penniless Fenton and
Burgess. Woods did nothing so foolish. He
went straight to the place where you would
last think of looking for him —the home of
his accomplice, the well-to-do and philan-
thropic Simon Kitcli—and he charged
that gentleman with his safety under pain
of exposure. Hating the man and trembling
for his own safety, Kitcli hid Woods in the
cellar of his home and kept him there for
five weeks. Kept him there until the even-
ing before the Isabelle, one of Kitch’s own
barquentines, sailed for Sydney out of Port
Lawler. That same day Kitch drew from
his bank two hundred and fifty'pounds in
gold, which lie gave to Woods.
“Now the Crown will submit that Kitch
after nightfall set out with Woods concealed
in his buggy to drive to Port Lawler. That
Kitch had also concealed in the conveyance
a meat-chopper or a like implement, and
that on the high road near Fly Creek he
murdered Woods and . dragged his body to
the mangrove swamp. As for motive, there
was plenty of it. Kitch would recover liis
two hundred and fifty sovereigns, and put an
end to his own daily dread of exposure and
ruin at the hands of the blackmailing
Woods.”
Darmand stopped. Nat Brooks seized him
by one hand and I by the other, and our con-
gratulations lost nothing in sincerity because
his success ensured our failure. We were
young enough not to have lost the genero-
sity of youth.
The Colony had never experienced a sen-
sation such as that caused by the arrest of
Simon Kitch, and during the days of the
trial men had little taste for their own
business.
The prisoner refused to be represented by
counsel, saying he would rely on the facts
and the grace of God. On the last day he
gave evidence in his own behalf. He con-
fessed that for years he had been purchasing
from Samuel Woods the beef of cattle stolen
from the forest, and that much of his pros-
perity was due to that fact. He admitted
that, he had harbor :d Woods after liis escape,
that he had given him two hundred and
fifty sovereigns, and had arranged a passage
for him to Sydney in the Isabelle. He would
go no further, but he called on God to wit-
ness that no man’s blood stained his hands,
and he sturdily maintained under cross-
examination that Woods set out alone in the
night to make his way to Port Lawler and
that lie Simon Kitch saw him no more.
Simon’s protestations were all in vain. The
(Continued on page 57.)


Rankins, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £3,369.905
Aggregate Assets at 30tli June, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SIIELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
I'IIANK N. YARWOOD; 11. If. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.I). ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGfE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock ..
Preference Shares
Long Term MortgSigc Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and) Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
616,210
3,750,000
3,732,525
ou Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and /Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES /DEPOSITS S* el]
and transacts all 'other usual Banking
interest for
periods
business.
y\LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
■ r * should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia' and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
\
\e»
o^ c
e ,
<£W e
v e
tfv®
\\c a
\\ e ?
t> a u M
WALNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
(GREY
HAIR
WOOL®
SPOIL
IT#
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by aii classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
KBIC B. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone XolB7.
(3. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
iiStt' *
Sir
r W
y\
SV>' >
JeL
&
icHncu)
\uu
Pacific isles are Calling
HONOLULU EXCURSIONS
SPECIAL Excursions to Honolulu via Auckland and
Suva will be run from Sydney by the magni-
ficent ocean liners Aorangi and Niagara.
EXQUISITE Hawaii, embowered in blos-
L - J som, offers jragrant welcome to her
Australian guests. A thousand sights
enchant, and fascinating contrasts extend
from the surfing beach of Waikiki to the
great precipice of the Pali.
Return Excursion Fares
From Sydney £75 (First), £55 (Second).
Aorangi, Nov. 15. Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
Alternative Excursions
to Raratonga and Papeete are but
£55 First Saloon and £4O Second.
Particulars and literature from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR ’ from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and
Information apply: —
ď
f
d
ďf
7
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY
d
đ
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Thomas B
Charles B
James M.
Robert L.
, ~ . „ Directort:
■uckland, Esq., President,
innie. Esq.
Dunlop, Esq.
Faitnfull. Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadoeedle Street, E.C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiii PaDua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world ’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world. °
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offi es at London Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank ulfcrs the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
f
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
iCeramic .. . 18,500 tons, Oct. 16
*Ulysses .... 15,000 ~ Nov. 13
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 27
*Anchises. . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 10
*Ascanius. . . 10,000 ~ Jan- 7
JSuevic 12,500 ~ Jan. 23
fEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 28
JRunic 12,500 „ Feb. 19
Nestor 15,000 ~ Mar. 18
-i'-Ceramic .. . 18,500 ~ March 26
’-First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. !
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd. J
Joint
Agents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
dm: class only.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Ca; al
VIA SOUTH AFRICA. | VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BEN ALL A . . Sails Oct.
BELTANA. . ~ Nov.
HA LH AN A LI) „ Nov.
12
2
21
BARBA BOOL Sails Feb. 27
BARADINE „ April
BALRANALD„ May 1
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. BG7OI. 5 O’Comiell Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveni.ig:
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALUIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker Lim
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers,
j For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
i Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
d
ďf
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu<t
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Oflicei: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
SAFE with GUYATT’S !
ď
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is the latest
and most efficient Elastic-
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8., 257 a George St., Sydney.
Or>r>c>«ite Bridge Street.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


m
mm
Miss
J OY CLEAVER,
n Charming Rexona
Girl, writes: “l
use nothing else
hut Rexona Soap,
for it stands alone
for Health and
Reality
x
Gulf/J{uhiiyyZur£)Gau&
Vltq Only Rgxona/oap
Nothing mills In ii girl's iiliin in ami homily move than an exquisite skin and perfect complexion.
To obtain this, anil to retain it, there is nothing to equal Rexona Soap. It your skin is
sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both surprised anil delighted with the good results
obtained from the dailj use of Rexona Soap for the toilet and hath.
Right out of every ten women in the better walks of life have adopted Rexona Soap for their
personal hygiene and know there can lie no real beauty without a clear skin and perfect
complexion, and it is only by daily and continuous use of Rexona Soap that the bloom of
youth ean be retained even until and past middle age.
'Rexona
Soap
%or J4<zalih.
J and
Bexaity
S*s«
f os
1/
■
t
Mailed to you the d
day they are made
fd/ietfamous Bed Bcoc oP QkocoladeS^^-cr^
osb free bo any
'address in Qnstralia.
Wz.
ET
k>
(PATON)
Bi
PlfL ICES
3A 5/6 , G f , 10/-, 124,
. 20/-WrvcL3o4
S^SP
L 4
ES
cm oc o
162-166 Pitt Street
SYDNEY
SEND FOR. CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF OUR. CONFECTIONERY I
footprints, the circumstances, and the fact
that his life had been a lie wrecked his
hopes. He was found guilty.
I was appointed with Gus Darmand to
represent the police at the hanging of Simon
Kiteh. I have steadily refused to attend
another. We stood, the police, the reporters
and the others, in a semi-circle before the
gallows. Simon stood pinioned upon the
scaffold. The noose was adjusted about his
neck. It was the instant before the bolt
was drawn. The silence, tense and corro-
sive, was stressed by the chirping of a
sparrow, the droom of a distant clock strik-
ing the hour, the patter of the hangman’s
feet stepping quickly about the planks, when
the breathing of the spectators which had
been audible suddenly ceased. The doomed
man's face had become strangely illumined
as if by a lire within, and the eyes seemed
to scorch in his head. Those eyes were turned
full upon Darmand, and, with a voice that
reverberated, he called out “To-day for me,
to-morrow for thee!”
One year had passed. The Ivitch case
had dwindled in importance as a conversa-
tional topic. Gus Darmand had been pro-
moted to the new rank of Chief Detective,
and Nat Brooks and I worked to his instruc-
tions. Darmand had come in for quite an
avalanche of congratulations from the press
and the public at the conclusion of the
trial. Promotion and praise he took in
his stride, without any apparent .quickening
of the pulse and as being his just due. That
man certainly had poise.. Hig periods of
depression, however, had become more fre-
quent, and, as the year wore on of longer
duration. Those moods were punctuated with
days of hectic geniality too obviously affected
to be pleasant.
But I never saw him in higher feather
than he was on the night of the supper
which lie gave in the little parlor of the
Maid and Magpie to Nat Brooks and
myself. Nat and I walked together to the
hotel ynd made the parlor on the stroke
of nine, the appointed hour. Our host
received us with a clasp of the hand, a pat
oil the back, and with all the words and
signs of health and good fellowship. He
placed us one on either side of Hie table, the
lamp between us, and took his seat at I la-
head of the table. Our positions reminded
me of a night in the little parlor I would
much sooner have forgotten.
Being a man who touched nothing that he
did not adorn, Darmand s supper was in the
nature of a gourmet’s triumphal progress,
and when at its mid he said “Gentlemen, 1
wish you to drink to me in a bumper,” Nat
laughed, “Gus. old man, is this a birthday
gathering or what?”
A shadow passed momentarily across the
face of our host before he replied: “No,
Nat, it’s a death-day supper.” Then he added
brightly, “Come, gentlemen, fill your glasses.
To-day is the first anniversary of the hang-
ing of Simon Ivitch. Look you, mine is
full to the brim; it remains only to add the
medicine. I have tried in my time many
drugs, most of them of no avail, but I some-
how think, this one will work a cure.” Dar-
mand emptied a small paper packet into his
glass.
“Gus,” I interposed, “you have never
before mentioned that you sometimes suf-
fered.”
Darmand, giving no sign that he had heard
me, _ continued: “Gentlemen, it is fitting
to-night that we speak of murder —murder
and the motives for murder. I suppose it
is safe to say that gain holds first place,
with jealousy a good second, and a half-
dozen or so less common motives bunched in
the ruck. But tell me, have either of you
ever heard of a murder being committed for
vanity’s sake?”
Nat shook liig head, and I said : “Sounds
like a good story.”
“Let me tell it,” replied Cliief-Detective
Darmand.
"He was the last of his race—and what
a race! The last of a line whose blood
was tainted. Most of the male members of
the family had been for generations sadists.
Cruel as fiends, they derived an exquisite
pleasure from the sufferings of others. Few
of their women-folk lived beyond the thir-
ties. I suppose a merciful Providence saw
to that. Not for six generations had a male
member of the family reached old age. Seven
died in restraint, six suicided, one, serving a
long sentence for cattle-maiming, died in
prison—the only one unable to conceal his
hereditary urge. The men mostly were
clever; clever and as vain as peacocks.
That was the side they showed to the world,
their cleverness and their preposterous
vanity.
“The last of the line tried to defeat his
hereditary curse by putting as much land
and water between him and the environment
in which he was reared as is possible on this
earth. Settling in Australia he joined the
police force, thinking that by a life devoted
to the protection of others he would cleanse
himself of the inherited taint. He soon
discovered that no finer field existed for
exercising and developing the lust that was
in him. They made him a detective. They
pandered to the vanity he was trying to
stifle. He lived in alternate periods of
shameful indulgence and bitter repression,
and he felt himself grow weaker with every
fall.
“At last, throwing aside all restraint, he
gave himself up, like the madman Nature
intended him to be, to the terrible lusts his
b'ing ached for. He walked by night in
lonely places, seeking some breathing thing
to torture. One morning, before the dawn,
lie saw the figure of a man emerge stealthily
from the back gate of Simon Kitch’s home.
Lithe as a lynx, he was beside the figure
before the man knew he had been sighted.
It was Sam Woods—wanted for cattle theft
and gaol breaking!
“Before Woods awoke to his plight he was
handcuffed. In an ecstasy of grief Woods
pleaded for his liberty, and as an incentive
offered one hundred pounds to the detective,
to be paid from two hundred and fiftv
pounds that Simon Kiteh. under pain of
i-xnosure, promised to give him the evening
lie fore the Isabelle sailed out of Port Lawler.
Woods recounted the whole story of the
slaughtering of beasts in the forest and
the complicity of Simon Kiteh.
“The detective's brain functioned true to
the race whence it sprang. His prisoner
stood manacled before him. The detective
turned his face aside lest the man should
read his thoughts. The prisoner never ceased
to plead, and to bewail the bad luck that
permitted him to be captured on the only
occasion that he had left Simon Kiteh s
cellar in search of exercise. But his cap-
turer was busy conning the possibilities of
the case. He was thinking—here are the
makings of as fine a murder case as one
would wish for in a lifetime, the town’s lead-
ing citizen in the dock. A man whom the
whole colony regarded as the soul of honor,
the ardent churchman, the public benefactor,
proved by a great detective to be worthless
clay, the confederate of robbers and at the
last, fearing exposure and ruin, the mur-
derer of his accomplice! Splendid! Fx-
quisite!
“The detective turned to his prisoner:
‘Sam, I'll give you a chance, and I’ll take
not a hundred pounds but fifty. When does
the Isabelle sail?’
“ ‘Saturday morning,’ Sam sobbed as lie
wept for joy.
“‘Ah, then, you’ll leave here Friday even-
ing. ’Tjs a good twenty to Port Lawler.”
“ ‘You’re right, sir. I leave Friday night
just as soon as it’s dark and Simon’s handed
over the two-fifty. But, sir, I can
hardly’....
“ ‘Never mind that, Sam, but listen. Has
Simon an old pair of Wellington boots about
Hie house?’
“ ‘There’s four or five old pair in the out-
house that lie’s finished with,’ whispered Sam.
“ ‘Then bring the best pair with you on
Friday evening. I’ll tell you why as we
drive to Port Lawler,’
“ ‘You’ll do that —drive me to Port Law-
ler?’
“ ‘Why not? Why not? Seeing that I’m
letting you go I don’t want anyone else to
catch you. Now bold out your hands and
T’ll take those bracelets from you. Meet me
Friday evening at the back cud of the plan-
tation on the clay road. Now get back to
your cellar. It’s breaking day. And don t
forget the boots. Good-bye!’
“ ‘Good-bye, sir,’ said Sam Woods wring-
ing the band of his benefactor, ‘and God
bless you for a real gent.'
“The last hour of Friday night saw Sam
Woods die instantaneously on the high road
near Fly Greek, and Simon Kitch's Welling-
ton boots, under the weight of the murdered
body, printed their owner's death warrant in
the mangrove swamp. ’Hie bag of gold the
detective did not value. But the arrest,
the trial, the hanging of Simon Kiteh, the
public acclaim of the great detective, the
super-detective, the agony of the condemned
man—here was indeed food to satisfy the
madman’s lust.
“One year ago to-day gloating at the gal-
lows foot upon the last dread act,” Darmand
continued, “be heard through the condemned
body of Simon Ivitch the voice of Samuel
Woods call from eternity: ‘To-day for me.
to-morrow for thee!’”
Nat and I were noiselessly, inch by inch,
drawing our chairs closer to the madman.
He sensed our intention. Quick as thought
he drained his glass, jerked himself to his
feet and cried: “To-morrow is come, gentle-
men ! Won’t you drink good night to the last
of the Darmands? The last”——-
When Nat. and I had eased him to the
floor he was quite dead.
Impromptu.
Cold, cold winter! In a breezy shed
With sighing winds and crying winds
And rushing winds around me.
Rain on a tin roof
Crashing down
Smashing down —
Hear the raindrops splashing down,
Sounding all around me!
And my stripped apricot-tree
Lifts bare arms to Heaven :
Gnarled, witchy, knotted arms,
Like the Hell-worn hag who grieves
For her long-lost elfin charms—
Lost, autumn-rotted leaves!
Rain, wind, grey-black sky ;
Wet slate roofs in a wan, wet light;
Nature stripped—not a flower in sight;
Nature gagged—not a bird’s shrill cry:
Only the sound of the dull rap-rap !
As the rain drips weary from the roof to the
ground.
Rap-tap-tap!
Rap-tap-tap!
Rain drizzles slow; now stops like a gun—
Now, no sound.
Sad, sleepy winter ! Lifeless, cold !
Grave of the seasons; bed of the world!
Waft men’s thoughts to a long sleep, curled
Deep in the warmth of the singers of old!
Bring back the dreams of the summers long
gone,
Back to be looked on and loved once again.
Let me live in their warmth; for none
May build new fires in this cold, dank rain!
Oh for the spring and the warm, bright
skies!
For the sparkling sea and the froth of the
surf!
Oh for the sunbeams flashing through the
branches
To the bright spring turf!
Skeleton winter! Long gaunt bones
Wet with the tears of the brooding skies;
Whistling high, in wild, shrill tones,
As the south and the west winds roaring
pass
With wraith-like cries,
Tortured moans.
Shuddering sighs and pain-wracked groans;
And an awful screech
Is clearly borne
As of gulls forlorn o’er a lonely beach
Oh for the song of the gag spring life!
For the quickened pulse of the warm blood
surge!
Oh for the laughter, trilling high and ring-
ing
To the spring’s wild urge!
Harsh-souled winter ! Dim, dark, grey—
Tall Gothic spire to the heavens' lost
height—
Long stab of light
Up through the night.
Lost in the gloom, finding naught in its
way !
Thought all unfleshed, abstracted, done;
Ideas enmeshed—a turbulent host:
Minds unrefreshed, and young Fancy fled—
Gone!
Lost!
Dead!
N.S.W.
RONALD McCUAIG.


PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
Are some of the advantages of a Life Policy with The
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
No Shareholders. All Surplus divided annually amongst the
participating members.
Policies effected to cover payment of Federal and State
Probate Duties.
Funds, £68,400,000. Annual Income, £10,500,000
ENQUIRIES INVITED.
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81522.
Makes
New Running Cars
of Middle-Aged Carsl
Avoids 80%
of Repair Bills
Repair men know that many
good cars grow old before
their time. From one chief
cause —lack of proper lubri-
cation.
Then come big repair bills.
(Tabulated reports show
80% of all repairs are due to
neglected or improper lubri-
cation!)
But now every car owner can avoid
this. A new lubricating system makes
it possible. A tested system that is
employed on 15,000,000 of the
world’s cars today.
High Pressure Lubrication
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high-pressure lubri-
cation works wonders with every car.
Renews the riding qualities and com-
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80% of motor car repairs —if
h-'l*'
%
velleT* o ™ ll *****! Ith el or *
ml!i eci Parham an & *}%* tra
vein,,. own make riT el 1
S? ha Ps 90 to fno
ception a ij y Pe^o r mance Is'
capable of and it
00C
i
■IT J - Pa tera
you will but tend to it every 500
miles or so.
Your Car Can Be Alemite•
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
f
d
T he Alemite Fittings
Modern dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
4>
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come in two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle—the Alemite-
Zerk ‘'gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
ď
T he Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
High Pressure Lubrication
©T. B. M.Co, Beg. U. S. Pat. Off.
No. 831.
Overjoyed with the baby herself, Coon-
ardoo sang to him, wandered along the creek
hunting bardies and honey ants, digging for
coolyas with all the other children in the
uloo. The days were not so long; her eyes
watched the plains less for dust flying out
from the mist and shade of trees by the
crossing.
Pink-eye on Wytaliba that year was not
as lively and uproarious a function as usual.
The moppin-garra came from Nuniewarra,
and milli-millis [messages] sent, before
Mumae died, to tribes within hundreds ot
miles brought a great gathering along the
creek, at the time white people on all the
stations were pink-eyeing [feasting] too,
after their fashion, eating, drinking, sing-
ing and giving each other presents.
Usually Mrs. Bessie had been generous
with rations for pink-eye. She had given
bags of flour and sugar for the gathering,
content that her people should not wish to
wander. In all her years on Wytaliba they
had not been away on pink-eye once. Now
and then old Joey and his gins would “go
bush” for a month or so. Chitali had
roamed off several times, and come in to
the uloo wild, naked and lningry-eyed. But
Coonardoo, Bardi and several of the
younger boys and girls knew no country
beyond the station boundaries.
This year there was no Mrs. Bessie to give
flour and sugar, and blacks from other sta-
tions had become accustomed to these food-
stuffs. Visitors were for raiding the store-
room, but Joey Koonarra would not hear
of it. No man or woman of the Gnarler
would consent to break Mumae’s law. They
told how her spirit still watched over the
place and what the vengeance would be
should her will be disregarded or disobeyed.
But food was scarce and hunger cast a
gloom over celebrations and ceremonies
which had been carried along so often be-
fore on. full stomachs, with the strength and
glee of a well-nourished priesthood. The
men had gone out hunting and brought in
some kangaroos, * but most of them were
so poor that they could not be used and
had to be hung on a tree as a warning to
the spirit responsible for growing kangaroos
that, this was all the goods she was pro-
viding were fit for.
The Nuniewarra moppin [magician] had
saved the situation to a considerable extent
by declaring Mumae’s spirit had come to
him and told him that Wytaliba men must
go out, and bring in a fat bullock, as they
had always done for the pink-eye. It was
Mumae’s wish.
Great was the rejoicing when the beast
was brought in and killed, and his flesh
divided among the families from far and
near. After roasting and eating the fresh
meat, someone made a song about the red
steer and the spirit of Mumae. Always the
song said the spirit of Mumae had decreed
a red steer was to be brought in, roasted
and eaten during the midsummer pink-eye
on Wytaliba.
The rains had come early that year. For
days and days it rained. Nobody doubted
Mumae had sent the rain, knowing how
badly it was needed. Water came sluic-
ing down out of the sky, flooded the plains.
Soon the creek was running.
Coonardoo with her children took refuge
in the big shed near the stockyards. She
watched the showers, laughing, running
about excitedly with the naked children.
Every hut in the uloo had water lying in
it, all round it. The roofs were sieves
through which the rain poured. In an inter-
val of the showers Coonardoo tried to patch
up open places in the roof of her wongo with
pieces of tin and hide. The huts looked
all festive as if her people were celebrat-
ing the rains by garlanding their shelters
with fresh green branches.
Coonardoo knew how pleased Youie
would be. She did not like the rain much
herself —not if it lasted too long, and there
was no dry place to lie down in at night.
Under the tin-roof of the buggy-shed, with
its open sides, she was very comfortable.
She could hang up her wet clothes and
Warieda’s trousers and shirt to dry.
While the men were sheltering on the
verandah of Mumae’s house during a willy-
willy and thunderstorm one day, Warieda
made a song about the rain. Everybody
joined in while he was singing, following
the lead of his clear mellow voice, in sub-
dued accompaniment at first, clucking and
chuckling. For hours they sang, smoked
and sang, one man picking up rhythm and
melody as another dropped it, striking a
higher note, singing above the others, until
all joined him. Warieda turned the melody
into a minor key and the voices flowed with
him, repeating each phrase again and again.
Warieda sang and the men chanted after
him: —•
“Parandalah gnunga, willy-williree, wilbee-
wilberee, chidelah tarra-murra,
Wonga coolah, kangee, weerungunoo babba,
bookerilla munda,
yird billee moolungoonah.
1 >nnderilla, yierra-barnmunma, yierra-
barnmunma,
Gnieba yierra, midgelerrie-midgelerrie
Wonga cubba yiding-garra.”
[We shelter in the verandah while the wind
blows in gusts, rain running from the roof
and springing up from pools on the ground.
Loud thunder shakes the earth; lightning
flashing through rain dazzles the eyes so that
we cannot see the hills over there. All
happy, clicking teeth, one after the other,
we enjoy looking on, smoking, showing red
tongue, white teeth, talking, all in a row!]
All happy indeed they were sitting there
singing and smoking, while thunder rumbled
and cracked among far hills of the To-
morrow Ranges, and lightning flashed and
threw glittering, mysterious koodgeedas
[snakesj across the sky. Warieda’s new song
was a great success. For days men and
women went singing. Thin and high,
through the nose, fretted and quavering,
fragments drifted: —
“Parandalah gnunga , willy-williree, wilbee-
wilberee ’’....
In the distance somebody would tune-up
and go on:—
“Wonga coolah, kangee, weerungunoo babbn,
bookerilla munda”
The rain had made a great sea of the
place where Mumae’s house stood. The
house and the trees were like a little island
in it. But still the white cockatoos roosted
there, screeching wildly. “She’s afraid what
the water will do to the house,” Coonardoo
thought, knowing how Mumae had loved
the white roof apd walls of her home.
Long ago this place had been all water,
Coonardoo knew. There was a song about
it. Wytaliba homestead reared itself from
the floor of a dead sea, really. There were
hills all round still, and the sea had been
made from waters draining out of them.
Pebbles on the ground were still waterwom.
Coonardoo sang and played with her
children under the roof of the buggy-shed
until the sun shone again and the rain-water
disappeared, soaking down into the earth,
where it whispered to seeds of the grass.
Soon there was green down everywhere on
the plains.
Did Youie know there had been rain?
If he knew there had been rain on Wytaliba
he would come quickly, Coonardoo guessed.
Soon he would be coming.
White cockatoos had taken possession of
the homestead. Always they were shriek-
ing and flying restlessly about it. Feeding
in drifts in the garden, they rose with that
swift silken flash of wings against the light,
so that Coonardoo was dazzled, afraid, and
cried “Yukki!” as they turned and wheeled
in the air past her.
The day came when, about sunset, Coon-
ardoo’s glad cry roused the uloo.
“Youie cornin’!”
Dogs flew out barking; men and women,
young and old, ran down to the gate.
The dust at the creek crossing swirled
and swung in.
Coonardoo stood where she had first seen
it. It was the Wytaliba buggy which had
been waiting for Hugh at Lala, right enough.
Coonardoo knew the horses Hugh was driv-
ing, the bound and swing of Nessus and
Paris, the punch and plodding sway of
Demeter and Saturn.
Wanna and Mick flung the lower gate
open and the buggy drove on. Coonardoo’s
head swam and her eyes would not see.
Then they got Hugh in mass and outline.
He was not alone. She had known he would
not be. The woman she had thought he
would bring was there beside him—Youie’s
woman.
White cockatoos feeding in the garden
flew up and away, whirling against the sky
with their thin shrieking cries. They would
feed no more in the garden, roost no more
in the gum-tree beside the verandah, Coon-
ardoo knew.
As she went down to the house, her
cooboo in her arms, the joy of her life
was pressed into this moment. Youie had
come again; she would see him. He
was well and strong; she could hear him
shouting out to Joey and Meenie, as people
from the uloo came swarming up to the
garden in front of the verandah to meet
him, a dirty draggled crowd, their clothes
in rags.
Coonardoo was pleased to remember she
had been to the shower-house under the
big windmill that morning. Every morn-
ing lately she had been down to the shower-
house because she knew Hugh might come
any day now, and he would not like to find
she had not washed, or soaped her hair and
dried it in the sun, as Mumae made the gins
do every day before they came into the
house.
Hugh had thrown the reins to Warieda,
who went to the horses’ heads. He jumped
out of the buggy, was calling everybody.
“Hullo, Warieda! Chitali! Meenie! Ban-
dogera! Joey! Wanna! Mick! Toby! Pinja!
What’s the matter with you all? You look
half-starved. This is—-the new missus!”
The bundle of clothes which had been
sitting beside Hugh on the seat of the buggy
under a green gauze veil and big hat, got
down and lifted her veil; and a round, good-
natured little face looked out at everybody,
eyes laughing.
“Hullo!” she cried. “Who’s who, and
which is which, Hugh? This Meenie? Which
is Bandogera? And where’s Coonardoo?”
Coonardoo had: come up behind the
others, her eyes filled with Hugh.
Warieda grinned happily. “Coonardoo
grow ’m cooboo,” he said. “Winning-arra
boy coobinju [baby boy the whirlwind
brought],” he explained proudly.
Hugh stood beside Coonardoo, looking
down at the child, knowing as he did so
that this was his son, knowing what the
blacks did not suspect, as if someone had
twisted the fibres of his being, giving them
a sudden wrench and tightness. Coonardoo
looked at him, and then down at her baby.
But Hugh had seen her eyes, waiting for
him, asking nothing, expecting nothing,
ready, he knew, to serve his wife, this white
woman he had brought to live with him, as
tenderly and devotedly as she had him and
his mother.
“This is Coonardoo,” Hughie told his wife.
“You know, I told you, she was mother’s
pet girl and looked after me. when I had the
fever.”
(To be continued.)


,: S
mf
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES * CHLIiCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WEST N S WALES
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington ’ ’
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, >lelbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. KLOER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide
S.A.
THE MERCURY.
Tasmania’s National Daily.
(ESTABLISHED 1854). Price l^d.
Published at Hobart, The Mercury has
by far the largest circulation in Tas-
mania. Delivered by fast motor-cars it,
reaches Launceston (121 miles), Delo-
raine (140 miles) and 'all intermediate
towns before breakfast.
Per inch, per thousand of circulation,
The Mercury advertising rates are the
lowest in the State.
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL.
ESTABLISHED 1577.
Published Wednesdays. Price 6d.
Everywhere—all over the State, in
Town and Country-—this popular weekly
goes regularly into the homes of the
people, and each issue is eagerly read
by over 70,000 men, women and children.
THE BRIGHTEST WEEKLY
IN THE COMMONWEALTH.
No Tasmanian advertising campaign
is complete without these publications
DAVIES BROS., LTD.,
Head Office: Macquarie St., Hobart.
"THE AGE.”
Established 185 -
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their atten-
tion that which is required in their home or
business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial newspaper,
with an atmosphere of individual and personal
appeal.
Price l£d. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
2(J pages of 8 columns (each 24-J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
161 pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER ’* may be
obtained at all inter-state agances of
Messrs. Cordon and Gotch, price l£d.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE:—
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available on
and after September 15.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt St., Sydney.
62 Flinders St., Melbourne.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
- paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never he without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Streec, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4-jj Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, Afternoon Teas, Dinner..
p DeUvMjul 25-minute trip from City Y3(n2 , 4 Lines .
p t
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY. England.
fd
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAK.
Representatives:
NORMAN BARER & LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
1369.
WONPER,
fvioV
' I WON ~ P £g -
t Wonder, how
M & ?le £p / 1
n
mt PROBLEM MEVEQ. WORfcIES ME
"Vs.
\
/
A
r
Vs
J
V
r
Z'
■w
/
4
/
«
QUEENSLAND'S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative.
74 Pitt Street.
•Phone 85007.
Published by th<S
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.”
If any illustration in “The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
THE MARK OF
A GOOD RAZO
y/Mm.
3%
Y
THE
PLU
Aik any man vou know who use* a PLUM—
ask him if he doeia'l think it the best
Razor he has ever used. Hear him
answer. "Why, rather !*’
Sir
SUPPLIED SET READY FOR USE
GUARANTEED AND KEPT IN
ORDER FOR TWO YEARS FREE
O Post Free.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
654 Georg* Street, Sydney.
<r
tr
4
o°
6>
#•
&C 1
(S e ..*• ..•'
.••*’*’ ..*•**
. . •* .•* je^ 0,
0< .** .•• o*' “<** *o^
,*>V


The New
EaMbdijlit
»( •
Kc
n
'*r «
■. isrsws*
; a.~ 3
s *
i
.... w- fr*.
i
H§|
»s a*
> - 1
m
; * « >Biran i
f \\ « | /I
' \ xx rHNs§
\\ Y/S
CO
«
Af/GVV
A/Tgd
fwO^V
®N
kvco
I os
LOW-PRICED KNIGHT- ENGINED CAR
“T3ETTER than ever” is the judgment of all who see the
new Falcon-Knight models. And that is praise indeed—
so splendid is the service being rendered by cars of this
make sold here a year ago.
Behind the Falcon-Knight owner—satisfaction is the
double-sleeve-valve engine, the only motor car power-unit
that actually improves with use.
Until the advent of the Falcon-Knight, this type of engine
has been found only in cars costing anything from £lOO to
£l,OOO more. Now, appreciative motorists can obtain the
world’s finest and most efficient type of engine in an up-to-
the-minute car selling for under £4OO.
In addition to many refinements of detail and equipment,
the new Falcon-Knight bodywork is of the type hitherto
associated with cars of far higher price. And the very latest
vertical duo-tone colour combination on the tourer provide
the last word in attractive appearance. Y
STANDARD EQUIPMENT INCLUDES:—
Automatic fumer for easy starting;
Twin-beam headlights, toe controlled;
Bex dee shock absorbers; Tryon shackles;
Skinner oil rectifier; Air cleaner;
Indirect lighting to instrument panel;
Electric petrol gauge; Petrol filter;
Mechanical, internal four-wheel brakes;
Five balloon tyres, 29 x 5.50 inches.
ff
£VI
Come in—see
Falcon-Knight.
newest of the 1928 cars—the new
V^A**'*^
KNIGHT MOTORS (N.S.W.), LTD' 136 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
KNIGHT MOTORS (VIC.) PTY., LTD., 124-26 Russell Street, Melbourne.
KNIGHT MOTORS (QLD), LTD., Q.T.C. Building, Petrie’s Bight, Queen
Street, Brisbane.
KNIGHT MOTORS (S.A.), LTD., Franklin Street, Adelaide.
KNIGHT MOTORS (W.A.), LTD., Murray Street, Perth,
