

urfwmsinir aa
IINNHOr
PUBLIC OPINION
is the infallible guide
to the best whisßy
jyjORE people call for Johnnie
Walker Whisky than for any
other whisky in the world. That’s
because they like it better, and
that’s because it’s the BEST
WHISKY in every way.
Maybe you’ve never actually tried
Johnnie Walker. Why not find out
why this choicest of all whiskies is
so universally popular?
ecr
%
|
I
$
m
V>
j
rs
3.
awards
j&
11.
2? 1890 .f^ 1315 ees
•W°hS^ ,OV ' Bs '
, J*SD SMMt 1 , STt "U«O* S 0
'-’c.hcut •*?*/ Quality
i ah
8®
T*mp
1
\
s^aYt;
JB
3;
w,
>
3_ r
V/
/
M
/?.
lOi
/
«
t~-Z
\
IA
f
/
tf'V
%
r J
A
{? '
£
W
s.
V
rv
t\
r*
w
\
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock*
The Bulletin
Ct /Covnjh itds; xftoiy/ ftoAudcrfyA
Vol. 49.—N0. 2540.
Wednesday, October 17, 1928.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'T’HE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Storu Writing
jJ * Ui V> at HONE
THis BooK FREE to YOU l
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
Your New Car—
a 100,000-Mile Car
or a 30,000-Mile Car?
You can make it
either one!
Improper lubrication
and cheap “grease” will
rush it to an early death.
Proper lubrication will
keep it trouble-free in-
definitely. The choice is
up to you.
Tabulated statements
from thousands of gar-
ages and repair stations
show —80 % of all repair
bills are due to one thing
—improper lubrication.
J L Jk
An improperly lubricated car soon
begins to squawk and rattle. Then
burning friction eats out bearings
and gears. At the end of 30,000 miles
the car is a wreck.
A properly lubricated car avoids all
this. Runs smoothly as new*, is quiet,
avoids most repair bills. At 100,000
miles it can still be in good condition.
A Lubricating System Tested
on 15,000,000 Cars
A high pressure system of chassis
lubrication has been perfected to
help you get the most from your car.
The Alemite system—used on 15,-
000,000 cars today.
Your Car Can Be Alemite*
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprisingly
low cost. A fitting costing only a few
pennies will save a bearing worth
many pounds. The Bassick Manu-
facturing Company, Division of
Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
è
é
ê
ë
ē
I
a
it
I 118
The Cigar of generous size and weight.
Supreme in flavor and aroma.
At all good hotels and
tobacconists.
ĕ
Box prices:—
10 Cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-)
25 „ 12/- (posted 12/6)
50 „ 23/- (posted 23/9)
100 „ 45/- (posted 46/- )
Sampler Box, containing 2 Cigars,
1/- Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS F_
CLUB REIL CIGAR FACT
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will cuote you price" for the original.
If.
2- anc^
POWDER I s
imvcJ.Ji-'JLr
y< \ ' i ..
■■
S , V_-
iVv
V..
2fj
s.
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/6 or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Illusion
The flaunting of us in ourselves, the flush
Of our loves here,
Is as the very singing of a thrush
Upon a bier;
That, as the dead man’s borne unto the
tomb,
A spirit goes
Cliaunting the beauty of the world, the
bloom
He no more knows;
As in the wonder of ourselves wo sing
With mystic breath,
Though we are as the very flowers that
spring
In a field of death.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Who Wants a Mermaid?
Not long since, in London, a gentleman
took it upon himself to reiterate the un-
poetie belief that the mermaid of our
ancient mariners was but the dugong or
manatee, seen at a distance through un-
tutored eyes.
It may be so. Yet I, for one, refuse to bo
disillusioned. The passion for stuffy accu-
racy is becoming more and more pro-
nounced in a world already over-weighted
with dollars and facts. We are too nude-
nothing is left to the imagination. And it
is all wrong. Fable and myth are the very
essence of poesy, and the mind that has
no faery lore to leaven its erudition is like
a pudding without powder. It is not the
physics of the rainbow that so delights us,
but the colors of its strings, and the pot
of gold at its end.
Maurice Hewlett used passionately to
affirm his belief in nymphs and fauns. But
for that belief we should never have known
the slender charm of the Forest Lovers.
As for mermaids, our forefathers believed in
them most, thoroughly. Ancient chronicles
teem with captures of mermaids and mer-
men. By all means let us smile at the
naivete of those times, so long as we retain
its imaginative beauty.
Delving through some old records re-
cently, I was overjoyed to encounter the
following seventeenth-century advertise-
ment :
In Roll Yard, on Ludgate Hill, is to be seen, at
any hour ol the day, a living Mermaid, from the
wajst upwards of a party color, from thence .down-
wards is very strange and wonderful.
What modern showman could improve the
cunning of this conclusion?
In 1747 a London paper thus records a
rare find:—
We hear from the north of Scotland that some
time this month a sea creature, known by the
name of Mermaid, which has the shape of a human
body from the trunk upwards, but below is wholly
fish, was carried some miles up the water of Devron.
One of the quaintest accounts is that
of Hollinshed. He relates how a merman
caught in Suffolk, in the reign of King
John, was kept alive for six months on raw
meal and fish, until, tiring of this diet, he
“fledde secretelye to the sea, and was
neuer after scene nor heard off.”
A stuffed mermaid was exhibited in Lon-
don in 1830, and was sketched by George
Cruikshank. A woodcut of this was in-
cluded in Morley’s “Memoirs of Bartholo-
mew Fair.” A year or so earlier a live
mermaid was exhibited in Fleet-street,
About this particular maiden is a haze
of mystery. She was “a comely lass with
flaxen hair,” and she disappeared suddenly
from the vulgar gaze. 11l gossip had it that
she had found the “protection” of the Lord
Chancellor.
Insisting upon my mermaid, I take com-
fort that as late as 1857 she sailed, as it
were, the high seas of credulity. In the
Shipping Gazette of June 4 of that year
appeared a statement, signed, sealed and
delivered by canny Scotch sailors, to the
effect that off the North British coast they
had individually and severally seen an
object “in the shape of a woman, with full
breast, dark complexion and comely face.”
Let all dugong-ites take notice of that
“comely face.” Surely where the lasses are
concerned Jock Tar is an authority.
At all events, the old dramatists had no
doubts about it. Both Ben Jonson and Shak-
speare mention the mermaid and merman
—as the press notice has it—favorably. The
taverns of London abounded in mermaid
sign-boards, the Bread-street tavern being
foremost. Incidentally, in 1603 Sir Walter
Raleigh established in this tavern a literary
club, said to be the first in England. The
membership included Beaumont and Flet-
cher, Ben Jonson and Shakspeare.
Encouraged by* such goodly evidence,
mermaidens continue to sing and to comb
their shining tresses upon a rock in mid-
ocean, regardless of the bobbed and shingled
imaginations of the modern-minded.
Can we afford to 'dismiss these lovely
ladies lightly? Are they not part of that
other world where tread the feet of man’s
fancy, and where spring the flowers that
deck the garment of his material existence?
Mermaids? To be sure; And all the
others of that halcyon company. The
nymphs and fauns, the dryads and satyr 3,
the sea-serpents and hydras, the dragons,
salamanders, cockatrices and unicorns.
Even the bunyips and Tantanoola tigers.
For of such is the kingdom of the arts.
BERNARD CRONIN.
Bathos
Bathos has always been an outstanding
feature of English literature, and particu-
larly of English poetry. It is on the uncon-
scious humor of so much English verse that
the Americans chiefly base their charge that
the English—not the British—have no sense
of the ridiculous. It is a curious fact that
all the leading examples of bathos in verse
and prose are from essentially English pens,
though Bret Harte, a 100 per cent. Ameri-
can, was responsible for a horrible example:
Far and near the people gathered to the costly
banquet set,
And exchanged congratulations with the English
baronet.
Nature-lovers are notorious purveyors of
bathos. Alfred Austin, who was appointed
laureate by Lord Salisbury for his services
to the Unionist party as leader-writer on
the London Standard, and who was about
the best journalist and worst poet who ever
held the job, was pre-eminently a nature-
lover. “The Garden That I Love” won a
certain amount of guarded praise from
Browning, who was usually contemptuous of
Austin’s verse. But Austin’s raptures pro-
duced some frightful lines, as, for example:
Winter is gone, and Spring is over ;
The euckoo-fioweis grow muuver and inauver.
Wordsworth, the greatest of the nature-
lovers, was also the greatest—or, anyhow,
the most consistent—producer of bathos.
Different readers have different favorites;
mine has always been: —
For Mill the more he works, the more
Do his weak ankles swell.
Religious verse has been prolific of lines
akin to the above. As an emotional state-
ment, of the obvious Hymn 575 from the
Anglican hymn-book takes some beating:
They do not hear when the great bell
Is ringing overhead.
They cannot rise and come to church
With us, for they are dead.
Hardy had no ear for the melody of
language, a handicap which he shared with
other great writers. His admirers had
accordingly to accept such quatrains as:—
The inner 1 O, care for then,
Yea me, and what I am,
And shall be at that grey hour when
My cheek begins to clam.
Thousands of lines which are bathetic
now were not so when they were written.
Lytton was a polished man of the world,
and very nervous of appearing in an absurd
light, yet he wrote:—
The moon on the tower slept soft as snow.
And who was riot stirred in the strangest way,
As we heard him sing, while the gas burned low,
“Non ti scordar di mai?”
Gas bills, gas explosions, gas-boxes, etc., had.
not become subjects for merriment when he
wrote; in fact, gas was a romantic illumi-
nant.
The poetry of patriotism and war has been
responsible for such floods of bathos that
certain writers devote much of their time
to parodying it. D. B. Wyndham Lewis, of
London Daily Mail, was responsible for
the classic effort in this line. It is no worse
than plenty of verse that is recited or sung
about a British soldier’s life, nowadays;
in fact, it is typical:—
THE 10.34.
The 10.34 had just started,
A poor woman stood there in tears;
A young soldier there on the platform
Asked her the cause of them fears.
Ilis general strolling beside him
Noticed the action well-bred,
And placing his arm round that young soldier’s neck,
And raising his helmet he said:
“Always be kind to a woman,
Never strike your wife,
Always respect your mother,
Tr what gave you life.
Always salute your gen’ral,
Like soldiers brave and true ;
And then you will find that your general kind
Will always be good to you.”
The bathos of English prose is concerned
chiefly with sport and love. But it may
be that examples of the former, consisting
usually of technical mistakes made by
writers ignorant of sport, are not true cases
of bathos. When “Ouida” made her under-
graduate hero leap into a boat and stroke
it to victory, though untrained, and when
Hall Caine, in “The Christian,” had a Derby
winner brought into the. we)ighing~room,
they were making pathetic rather than bath-
etic slips. It would be futile to begin
quoting the bathos that has been written
in English about love; to do justice to that
subject many pages would be required.
J.B. DALLEY.
Musical Taste To-day.
A middle-aged gentleman named Elisha
once said that the modern generation was
going to the dogs with extreme rapidity.
He also moaned exceedingly over the fact
that when he told these youngsters of the
error of their ways, they merely retorted,
( Continued on page 5.)


••Truth in Advertising** applies to all our announcements .
Anthony Horderns'
for all your
SPORTS NEEDS.
at Sydney’s lowest prices
Wool Bathers.
Men’s One-Piece Surfing Cos-
tumes. Ribbed Knit. Low cut
neck and armholes. The colors are
Black, with various Plain Club
stripes around chest. Also Plain
Black. Sizes 34, 36, 38,
40, 42 in. chest. Price
1 A|/J
X V//0
To fit bigger men. Sizes 44, 46,
48. Price 11/6
Size 50in. Price 12/6
Surf Costumes
with skirt. In all wool Cash-
mere, fine knit with low cut
neck and armholes, shaped to
the waist. The colors are Sky,
Saxe, Nattier, Sand and Tobac, with
contrast stripes around skirt and
chest. Sizes 34 to 40 in.
chest. Price
12/6
Wool Bathers.
Men’s Surfing Costumes, in fine
ribbed elastic knit all-wool. This
is a super-quality costume with
skirt. Perfect in fit and finish, with
low-cut neck and armholes. The
colors are Royal Blue, Sand and
Powder Blue, with contrasting stripes
around bottom of skirt. Sizes:
Small, Medium and Out-
size Men’s. Price, each,
19|6
“Palm Beach.”
Men’s Palm Beach Costumes. A
two-piece costume with belt. All-
wool fine Ribbed Knit. Colored
tops, black knickers, white belt.
Colorings of tops are Sky, Saxe,
Sand and White, with contrasting
stripes around chest and all-black
knickers. Chest sizes: 34 and
36 inches. Price,
each
1 Q IfJ
L£tj\J
Chest size, 40 inches. Price ea., 13/6
USE OUR “D-P.S.”
( Deposit-Purchase System ).
Simply leave a small deposit.
Pay the balance in instalments
to suit yourself. There is no
extra charge whatever.
GETA&A&
h
GOLF CLUBS
CL/t”
166
eac
k
BRASSIES, DRIVERS, SPOONS, MID IRONS,
MASHIES, PUTTERS, MASHIE NIBLICKS.
Walter Hagen says of each of these clubs: “I have
personally approved this model and do not hesitate to
recommend it as a club of proper design and con-
struction. Both materials and workmanship are of
the best, and it is a club of real merit. I’m sure it will
serve you with satisfaction.” Try these clubs at the
Practice Nets in our Sports Department, Second Floor.
We Pay Carnage on Golf Goods.
The Complete Set, £4/15/-
Complete sets of Walter Hagen “Getaway” Clubs,
including Mid Iron, Mashie, Putter, Mashie Niblick,
and one wood club (either Driver, Spoon or Brassie),
together with two golf balls and good canvas bag.
The set £4/15/-
“Blue Bird” Golf Balls also now offered. Price, ea., 2/-
Per dozen 21/-
Herbert Sutcliffe Bats
These Stuart Surridge Herbert Sutcliffe first-class match
bats are perfectly balanced, suitable for private bat
or turf wicket cricket.
Herbert Sutcliffe, 1 Rose Price, 34/6
Herbert Sutcliffe, 2 Rose Price, 40/-
Herbert Sutcliffe, 3 Rose Price, 48/6
Herbert Sutcliffe, 4 Rose Price, 57/6
DUKES’ CRICKET BALLS, "UNI.” MATCH
Frice, each 12/6
P.K.D. Price, each 14/-
Carriage Paid on These Goods.
Cream Pullovers.
All-wool, ribbed knit, with club
stripes around V-neck. Almost
every club collar is represented
in this year’s collection.
Price . .
13/6
Cream Half Hose.
Cashmere Viyella make, unshrink-
able. A durable make which re-
tains its original soft-
ness. Price, per pair
3/11
Also I. and R. Morley’s make of
Cream All-wool Ribbed Knit, stout
make. A most durable half hose,
unshrinkable. For general
sports wear. Price, pair,
5/6
Tennis Shirts
with collar and pocket attached.
Fulness and excellence of finish are
predominant features of these shirts,
which are made in our workrooms.
In White Mercerised Twill, 5/3, 6/-,
6/9, 8/6 each. In White Matt, 8/-,
8/6 each. In White Mercerised
Drill, 9/- each. In White Striped
Matt, 7/6 each. In Cream Twill
French Flannel, 27/6 each. Natural
Fuji Silk, each 17/6
Sports Shirts
Made with smart roll-back sports
collar and pocket attached. In
white Mercerised Twill, 6/9 each.
In White Poplin de Luxe, 7/6, 9/6
each. In Natural Fuji Silk, each,
16/6, 17/6.
Sport Coats.
In All-wool Tweeds, specially
selected for their durability.
Designed with patch pockets and
belted backs. With or without
vents. Obtainable in the latest
designs and colorings. Price from
30/- to 75/-
OPEN UNTIL 9 p.m.
EVERY FRIDAY.
Slazenger’s “1.Z.” Tennis Racket
Slazenger’s well-known favorite racket, “1.Z.” This racket is strung by
Slazenger’s with English Gut. Is perfectly new and in perfect
order. Price
A{\in
Alexander Master Tennis Racket
The famous made “Alexander Master” racket, strung with the best
English or Armour Gut. The frames of this racket can be selected, and
the gut chosen, and will be strung within an hour, if
required. Price
£3/15/-
Spalding’s “National” racket, strung with Spalding’s “Universal” Gut.
Price £2/12/6
Spalding’s New* Model “Champion.” Price £2/12/6
Spalding’s New Model “Matchless.” Price £3
Spalding’s New Model “Sunshine.” Price £l/15/-
e
(Carriage Paid on all goods in this advertisement.)
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


Re-emphasizing
Victory Beauty
Beauty, a leading feature of Victory construction, is
emphasized in the Victory Touring Car.
The body is mounted directly on the chassis frame. Rakish
lowness is made possible through elimination of body sills,
while ample road clearance is retained.
And the same exclusive engineering advancements that
make the Victory more beautiful, make it safer and more
economical, too —a triumph in motor car design.
Dodge Brothers complete line of six-cylinder passenger
vehicles includes the Standard, the Victory and the Senior*
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne •
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .
'Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z.
Qossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N.Z.
Six
DUjD
17/10-2*


■
J4^ki
approx. 3 LBS in weight
Exactly as smart as
your regular suit—
the only difference
is their amazingly
light weight.
Light weight Worsteds
TROPICAL SUITS
Every Summer you’ve sizzled in the heat, dragging round a
tiresome burden of heavily-weighted clothing. But here’s a
new Summer Suit! We call it a Tropical Suit, because the
hotter the weather, the cooler it seems. The suiting is of a
special porous all-wool Worsted chosen by David Jones’ in
an attempt to end the Summer discomfiture of heavy clothing.
The designs are the newest, and the colors the popular greys,
blues and fawns. Made-to-measure. Price, 7 & 8 Guineas.
At the Two Men’s Stores of David Jones’
Lower Ground Floor, New Store
and Branch Men’s Shop, Opp. G.P.O.
DAVID JONES’
“Go up, thou bald-head!” Later on an-
other middle-aged person, called Cicero,
uttered a similar wail beginning with the
words, “O temporal O mores!” a free
translation of which is “Things were very
different when I was a young lad.” Elishas
and Ciceros are ever with us; but the world
is automatically progressive, and a syn-
onym for progress is alteration—•alteration
of thought, deed and life. The keen-minded
are able to keep up in the race; the stag-
nant-minded get left, and eventually give
off a poisonous moaning gas intended to
asphyxiate the bolder spirits who are forg-
ing ahead.
In accordance with the above principles,
there are to-day people who assert that our
musical taste is not only not what it used
to be, but definitely worse. They declare
that the advent of the radio and the gramo-
phone has killed musical appreciation. They
deplore that people no longer go to
concerts with enthusiasm, and they speak
of the ogre Jazz in voices of hushed
horror. But, though it may be true that
we are suffering from a surfeit of jazz, it
is certainly not true that the world’s musical
appreciation is getting any less. As many
able musical critics have pointed out from
time to time, jazz per so is sometimes quite
entertaining. What matters is the excess
of it to the exclusion of other things. But
the average broadcast programme represents
a cross-section of the musical mentality
of the man in the street, and in it there is
very little jazz, quite a lot of “muck,” and
a few examples of good music. When broad-
casting first came in it was not uncommon
for the average person to rush to the wire-
less set and switch off as soon as anything
he termed “classical” was being put over.
Education is the one and only route to
appreciation. To appreciate the best in
music takes much time and not a little
thought. I maintain strongly that the public
musical taste is being educated by means
of the radio in a way that has never previ-
ously been done.
One of the disadvantages in going to a
concert a few years ago was the fact that
you had to leave your warm fireside or cool
verandah, according to season, put on a
boiled shirt and a collar high enough to
give you an irritative eczema, and sit on
a profoundly uncomfortable chair for two
hours. It was a pretty stiff price to ask
the average man to pay, and he did not
very often rise to the occasion. Nowadays,
seated in an armchair, clothed in a dressing-
gown and thoughtfully blowing clouds of
smoke from his pipe, the average man is
in the best possible state for the reception of
musical ideas. In thousands of homes all
oyer the country the wireless is going from
eight o’clock onwards every evening. The
public is slowly but surely being educated
in the right direction, and there seems to me
to be not a shadow of doubt that the
musical taste of to-day is much higher than
it was just after the war.
There is, of course, room for improvement
in our broadcasting programmes. One has
only to glance casually at those of stations
in other parts of the world to see how far
behind we are in some respects.
KETTH BARRY.
The Man Before the Mast.
Before the end of this year the dodo will
have illustrious company; the square-rigged
sailing-ship will have finally disappeared
from the British register. But the man who
sailed before the mast and his ships—trim,
grim and otherwise—will not disappear from
literature overnight; no doubt they will
continue to hold these seas, skippered by
good writers and bad, until the white whale
and the burning Judea plunge down into
literary oblivion. And writers who now
cannot, with Melville and Conrad, gain
their experience at first hand will find such
personal documents as The Man Before
the Mast, by G. Sorrell, A.B. (Methuen),
remarkably useful.
They will not get any great exhilaration
from the reading of this particular book.
It is a straight, unadorned autobiography of
a man who, in 25 years, sailed in 45 ships:
heavy in much of its detail; unexciting as
books of the sea go; written from memory
by a man who has gone through most of
his life and forgotten all the high lights.
As a commonplace account of existence
before the mast, however, it has unusual
merit. Truth is not sacrificed to keep
romance alive. The general impression it
leaves is that, though the sailing-ship had
its glories, its passing is not a bad thing.
The book holds peculiar interest for Aus-
tralian readers, too, since many of the
ships in which Sorrell sailed—the old
Indiana (afterwards the Great Queensland),
the Maria, Annie Lisle, Rob Roy and
others—took the wind in these waters.
Moreover, Sorrell did some of his voyaging
on the Murray and Murrumbidgee in days
when Echuca, Albury and Hay were little
more than names. It is a pity that his
memory has lost track of such mere tricksy
things as dates, for some of these pages
could have first-class historical value. The
craft in which he navigated 1700 miles of
the Murray was called the Lady Daly. He
records towards the end of his book return-
ing years later to the Murray and seeing
that vessel stranded, not on a mudbank,
but high in a tree. No doubt there is now
little enough left of either tree or Ladv
Daly.
The authenticity of the book is vouched
for by that fine woman writer of the sea
C. Fox Smith, whose saltwater ballads have
a masculine strength not seriously over-
shadowed by those of Masefield or of Brady.
As writing, her vivid introduction contrasts
strongly with the prosaic account which
follows; it is the best part of the book,
and that is a rare virtue in intro-
ductions. Not many men have her sym-
pathy for the sea. She feels for ships as
did the one who wrote, ‘‘When she went
eight knots everything cracked aloft, and
we tied our caps to our heads; but mostly
she strolled on at the rate of three miles
an hour. What could you expect? She
was tired—that old ship.” She has a gener-
ous friendship for them, as Conrad had.
It seemed impossible, she says, that the
sailing-ship should go altogether; “there
must always, surely, be some cargoes in
the competition for which she could hope
to hold her own. There were nitrates, there
was grain, there was coal, there was lumber.
Then, one by one, these also slipped from
her grasp. There came a year when no more
sailing-vessels were built. One by one (hey
were sold, or wrecked, or scrapped. The
Panama Canal did its part. The war gave
her a brief respite; but it was only the
jast leap of a dying fire before it sinks down
into final darkness and ashes. Suddenly
people realised that the sailing-ship was
going—nay, she was gone!”
The book is illustrated with a dozen or
so page pictures of the vanished or vanish-
ing ships.
A Satchel of Books
A Handful of Dreams, by E. Hall Hains
(Cecil Palmer). Simple, easily-read verse,
expressive of admirable, if commonplace,
ideals. An example :
I pray you, place no flowers on my grave,
Nor laud my virtues deep in quarried stone.
Is rest less sweet where wild, sweet grasses wave?
Are deeds more worthy for their being known?
That is, of course, some little distance this
side of poetry.
The Great Bear, by Lester Cohen (Jar-
rold’s; Dymock’s). The story revolves
around the passion of Thane Pardway (a
“bear” in the Chicago wheat-pit) for his
private secretary, daughter of a former
employee of Pardway’s, who just before he
dies gives her into the “bear’s” charge to
help and care for. Pardway takes her, as
lie has taken many another woman, and
thinks he can drop her as easily. In the
development of this affair, and from the
conflict in Pardway’s emotions that follows,
the author makes a novel of above average
merit. His careful study of Pardway falls
short of the first class, because it over-
balances on the physical side, and yet it
has strong qualities not at all common in
general fiction. A very masculine novel.
The A ffair at Eureka, by Nathan F. Spiel-
vogel (John Fraser and Son, Ballarat).
Although the actual fighting was a muddled
business, the Eureka affair had real drama-
tic action. The gigantic Peter Lalor. his
savage oratory, his tenderness, his disap-
pearance, his sensational arrival at a land
sale while a price was on his head, his
no Jess sensational arrival as member for
Ballarat in the very Parliament his rebel*
lion had brought about —these are the true
dramatic goods. Will the present squalid
rows at every Australian port be turned by
the historian of the future into romantic
epics? It is doubtful. The present book
is an attempt to recreate the atmosphere
of the revolt, rather than record its bare
facts. It is modestly but excellently done.
The writer is an old Bulletin contributor,
the son of a man who lived through those
stirring times, and the printer was born in
a tent a few chains from where Sir Robert
Nickle camped on December 5, 1854.
A Bookman's Essays, bv Scott Mac-
donald (Angus and Robertson). A book-
man, says Mr. Macdonald, makes his read-
ing subservient to the enjoyment of life;
a bookworm is out of touch with practical
life. Accepting this definition, it seems curi-
ous that Mr. Macdonald, who calls himself
a “bookman” and who writes as an Aus-
tralian for an Australian paper, the Bris-
bane, Courier, has devoted not one essay
of his 30 to Australian life, writings or writ-
ers. He has, however, a fine and whole-
some friendliness for English literature of
last century and beyond. His criticisms are
not strong nor strikingly original, but lie is
friend rather than critic; a cheery, open-
hearted fellow strolling around the book-
shelves, the taverns and the coffee-houses,
gathering all sorts of illuminating oddities
of writings and personalities and retailing
them in a conversational style that makes
very pleasant reading. He rates next to
sleep itself the “effectual benediction of a
good bedside book.” His own is in that
excellent company.
The Childermass, by Wyndham Lewis
(Chatto and Windus; Dymock’s). Vol. I
of an alleged novel in three volumes; the
other two, it is hoped (by the publishers),
will be ready before the end of this year.
The author is not concerned with Herod's
December 28 massacre of the children of
Bethlehem, but with souls—particularly the
souls of two Englishmen—who have reached
the encampments about Heaven and come
before the Bailiff for judgment. Given such
a setting a writer of Wyndham Lewis’s
ability cannot help but explode some strik-
ing and original ideas, and anyone who is
prepared to stagger through a lot of jam-
tin jangling pretentious preciousness, happy
to listen for occasional explosions, should
find entertainment in the book. But any-
one who asks of a writer reasonable direct-
ness, reasonable comprehensibility and Eng-
lish that doesn’t look as if it had been dragged
over a switchback railway will find it very
wearisome. The dialogue is clever, but in-
credibly redundant, the mis-use of English
irritates and then bores, the thought is mostly
of a kind that has been emanating from
poetasters and coffee-house oracles for ages
and the Heaven is rather uninteresting It
would not matter two straws if Wyndham
Lewis had not long ago proved himself a
brilliant writer; it is always a pitiful spec-
tacle wmen anything that looks like genius
uses itself as a tickler to titillate the pre-
cious intelligentsia.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Xame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.G.H.: Next Bulletin Novel Competi-
tion will close December 31, 1929... .Ernest C.:
Much obliged to y0u.... Theodore W.: A good idea
there; but it won’t do as it stands. Make friends
with a C'.I.D. man and ask him about it. ...W.S.S.:
Words, only words... .P.W.8.: Your “little effort”
is a saddening one....Erne); Life is too brief to
debate the difference between a rondel and a rondeau.
....An Interested Reader; That is a purely German
explanation of the beginnings of the Great War.
It is the German pose that a huge mystery is in-
volved, and that geological periods may elapse before
wo really know if it wasn’t the Belgians who invaded
Germany.... Bean: The drunk who offered to pay the
lobster's fare is becoming a weariness.... M.R. A.:
It doesn’t sound credible....Tomjee: A matter of
opinion; but probably the average motor-car speed
is lowest in Adelaide and highest in Melbourne —a
shade higher than in Sydney... .C.T.: Has been
done better—much better... .8.L.: Wc don’t believe
you... .E.G.D.: If the Sentimental Bloke read that
you’d have to head for Peru... .0.A.J.: As uncon-
vincing as a bad ventriloquist... .W.M.8.: Not even
a pub piano could produce worse discords.... J.K.:
The chestnut mare is not the only chestnut in your
verse... .W.C.: Empty as a punter’s purse....
J.A.W.: Feeble... .G.T.M.: No; it can’t “go in the
scenter of The Bulletin”. .. .Laurence 0.: Artificial
and p00r.... Herbert M.: The plum-pudding story
is indigestible... .5.8.: A little promise in each;
no performance in any... .T.R.E.E.: Optimist!....
A. : Closure applied to that debate. .. .A.L.:
Since you insist that it must go into the Red Page
as it is, or into the basket, the basket wins
U.C.: Verse is verse, prose is prose; your work is
neither... .Neptune: Used to have a soul like that
ourselves, but chained him up....H.L.: Had to buy
a microscope to read the stuff... .James It.: You
give the deceased a good finish:
He has gone to the Home of Eternal Repose,
Where a Cadger’s as good as a King.
. ...R.J.C.: No need to revive that after 50 years.
Let the dead past bury its dud W.T.S.: Spasms
of delight about seeing the girl’s garters are be-
wildering nowadays. .. .F.S.S.: No sparkle in “The
Diamond”... .Rupert S. P.: Painfully hammered out.
. ...L.B. (Toowoomba): “Good Company” could be
made better.... Mark: You don’t quite get the effect
you aim at... .3-to-6: Too long for the much-used
jape... .Mrs. C. 0.: Not crisp enough... .Horace W.:
Forced humor about Monte Carlo has no appeal here.
W.M.B.: Try again —.M.McG.: The train
journey tired us out Sol E. Shism: If, you can’t,
quite, do the punctuation, yourself, leave it to us —
that’s a sample of your method... .Stella G.: Twinkle,
twinkle... .8.5. R.: No need to bang the big drum
for a piccolo tune... .D.P.T.: Breathless narrative
lies panting in the w.p.b Comma: Full-stop....
B. : Too much water in “The Milk” C.E.N.:
Fails... .W. 5.8.: A real heart-throb:
It’s a little Old Bark Humpy,
That is built beside a Creek,
And it makes my throat all lumpy
As I hear the Old Door squeak.
E.J.C.: A wild gallop G.D.M.: Glad y<
can still enjoy your pint; but the news isn’t wort
ten verses... .F.E.W.: “Unrest” cannot rest here....
M.1.M.: Promising.... H.H.W.: No pay dirt.... The
Dog: “G-r-r-r to you !... .Alphonso: Poetic slops. ...
W.S.: Why preach about it, if the day be sweet ?
H.C.: Your hail is not in the pigeon-egg class
—tom-tit, rather. .. .2BL Speaking: Yes, you arc
much too —late speaking; the thing is almost for-
gotten. ... V.E.: Wait till you have something t 0 say,
if ever F.K.: The G.P.O. earns l*d M.M.:
“It’s for those the stark grove grieves.” Why add
to its misery a line like that?. .. .Woodbox: Treat
it gently? Very well ; we’ll let it flutter to the
w.p.b., instead of throwing it... .E.L.M.: No apology
needed for handwriting; wish we could say the same
of the verse.... D.L.:
His sense of brotherhood was real.
Has loved and sought our love.
He often went without a meal,
But now he’s gone above.
Where, of course, they keep a jolly good restaurant.
. ...5.L.0.: Leave larks alone and write about
toucans; the poets have neglected them shamefully.
... .Commercial: Story returned l/9/’2B to your home
address... .Ben G.: An idea, yes; but you treated
it rather cruelly... .W.M.8.L.: Y T our metaphor was
old many years B.A J.F.; Not bad —dreadful
W.G.A.: We’ve read worse first attempts.
. ...C.8.C.: You’ll have to do better, but we can’t
see you managing it....M.C.: Do you really mean
that you wouldn’t be ashamed to take money for
that? M.P.M.:
Should you chance to hear an unmusical row
Produced in a hideous manner,
we’ll know someone is reciting your verse....
Patch Pants: “Bellerive” has rarely done better....
G.V.: True to type, your “Old Driver” is too long-
winded. .. .Bruce: If that’s your idea of trying, you’ve
never seen a spider... .Walkington: Unionist verse
declared “black” on grounds of public futility....
L.L.: Christmas fare without substance and without
pliims.. ."‘TW.S.F.: Story of a lpve that “has its
roots in Eternity and reaches into Infinity” suggests
Euclid and demonstrates rejection... .C.M.M.: Brush
up your grammar and composition before you call
again.... S.H.: Sordid.... L.E.: Wanders and loses
its way....X5A: Merely an attempt at humor....
J.C.T.: “Ship” lies a wreck in the w.p.b
Augustus: How could you?... .1.P.G.: Went to sleep
three times whilst reading it. What are you—a
cure for insomnia?. .. .M.S.T.: Your “Hook” catches
no fish Gloria: Drab verse A.S.M.: All you
tell us is that the British won Waterloo.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Laroth: There should be a prohibitive tariff on
cars like those in your pictures... .G.P.: Your
waterside worker is like nothing on earth F.L.:
And you threaten to send more!.... D.M.L.: The
worst joke of the week. .. .H.D.N.: No parking space
for any of that 10t....H.L.: Crude G.C.: You
can’t draw legs... .L.N.H.: Juvenile attempt to
illustrate ancient gags A.E.: The padre is not
well enough done V.S.: You’re like the youngster
in the second drawing—on the wrong road... .N.D.:
Back-fence gossips fail to amuse Blade: Admire
your courage but not your sketch.


9
v
■
■
, ■
lilll
mm
, ; ;
■
v ::'
.
/
■
wmmm
wm
L:
V
m
.:.'■■■■:>
j, * M
fe # -’ - j ■ < i
s :•■
13##'
? ■ .
/ :
* *
1
.:■ /
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 49.—N0. 2540.
October 17, 1928.
AUSTRALIA AND ITS PESTS.
BRER RABBIT: “To think of the war they wage on us, my dear; yet they don’t seem to take a bit of notice of THAT firebrand!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
tli George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2 49 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Ovehseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.:
each additional Jfoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
A PAGE DRAWING by Leason 7
EDITORIAL 8, 9
Justice for Digger Settlers •• .. 8
BLACKLEG LABOR LEADERS . . .. .. 8
OUR HOT-AIR DEFENCES
—A cartoon by Percival .. . . .. .. 9
POLITICS (with four caricatures) .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) . . . . . . .14
“The Crows”
—A cartoon by Scorfield .. .. .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
David Jones’s Finances •. .. 18
THE LINCOLN MILLS 18
BROKEN HILL SOUTH ..19
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 26
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT . . . . . . 25
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOItE-OH 82
POVERTY POINT 34
POT AND PALETTE 37
Sydney and Melbourne Racing .. .. 39
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. ..46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“COONARDOO” si, r»3, 58
Complete Story by Randolph Bedford
56, 57
VERSE 57
TTuffyullefon
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1928.
BLACKLEG LABOR LEADERS.
A little over two years ago political stu-
dents were saying that British Labor was
out of the Parliamentary picture for a
decade. It had become identified with
the general strike, with the Communists
and with the anti-Capitalistic howls of irre-
concilables. The Minority movement, in
accordance with the direction of Commu-
nists’ Leagues and International Seamen’s
Clubs, preached disaffection amongst ex-
peditionary soldiers and sailors; and the
electors blamed the Ramsay MacDonald
party. A stage arrived when Labor decided
to drop the pilots from Moscow. The repu-
diation was accomplished with such sudden-
ness and vigor that, though the party has
practically no press in the U.K., the nation
quickly understood what had happened.
Labor’s stock started at once to rise.
Liberals of the type of Captain Wedgwood
Benn, D. 5.0., who won North Aberdeen
a few days ago, began joining the party.
Inside two years there have been by-
elections all over England, from Land’s
End to the Clyde and from Lancaster to
Hull. In this miniature general election,
which has been fought between the autumn
of 1926 and the summer of 1928, the Con-
servatives have won 1 seat and lost 10;
the Liberals have won 4 seats and lost 2,
and the Laborites have won 11 seats and
lost 1. Labor has performed this miracle
almost entirely by hitting extremism
wherever it has raised its head.
*. * =6 *
It is the one political manifestation which
is common to the whole civilised world.
In the French general elections last April
the Reds lost 13 of their 27 seats in the
Deputies. In the Irish Free State extrem-
ism, represented there by anti-Englishism,
is moribund, if not dead. At Hoopstad
(S. Africa) the other day General Hertzog
warned his party that “to insert a republi-
can plank in the Nationalist platform
would be to ruin the party at the coming
election.” In Australia Mrs. Walsh (Adele
Pankhurst) is growing as denunciatory of
Communism as she once was of Capitalism,
and so is her formerly revolutionary hus-
band. In short, the world is as sick of
strife in 1928 as it was in 1918. This is
particularly noticeable in Australia where
manual and other workers foregather. In-
dustrial unrest has hit these classes fright-
ful blows. In the last six years Australian
workers have lost in wages, through strikes,
over seven millions sterling. In the year
ended June 30, 1927, alone they lost
£1,676,696. A big strike has the same
reactions as a war—it banishes trade, and
sometimes the trade never comes back.
N. S. Wales’s coal problem is partly due
to the trade the State has lost to S. Africa
by strikes; and Argentine opposition in
the meat business, which has half-killed
the N.T., has been much strengthened by
work-stoppages on the waterside. Yet
Federal Labor’s campaign director is
Theodore, who got the Dailey nomination
under questionable circumstances last year,
and immediately lost 2000 good Labor
votes there; and Theodore’s coadjutor is
Garden, of the Shanghai branch of the
Communist International. Even the
veteran Anstey can do no better than this:
“My advice to the waterside'rs is, ‘Get back
to work now and make it lively on the
job for the volunteers’!”
* * * *
It is time to tell the leaders of Australian
Labor who will not bash these extremists
that they are blacklegs. They are carry-
ing on with a policy which British and
other Labor leaders have repudiated. And
while the new British Labor policy is bring-
ing British Labor back towards office with
incredible swiftness, the Australian blackleg
policy is carrying Australian Labor further
and further into the desert.
THE BRUCE-PAGE PROGRAMME.
A political duke of the last generation was
noted for interrupting the flow of his own
dull sentences by yawning heavily. The
Prime Minister did not yawn during the
delivery of his policy speech at Dandenong,
but it is recorded that he “apologised for
the dullness of his address.” So much of
the effort was commonplace in style and
matter, and so many were the references to
“development,” “organisation” and “co-
ordination,” that the apology was no more
than the audience deserved. Twice during
the evening, however, there were bursts of
cheering which were obviously the expression
of deep feeling. The first was evoked by
the statement that the Government
is determined to put an end to the
repeated hold-ups of shipping and “will
not yield to threats or lawless vio-
lence”; the second by the announcement
that the coastal clauses of the Navigation
Act are to be repealed.
$ * *
Two members of the Parliamentary com-
mittee which reported on the Navigation
Act recommended that British and foreign
shipping should be readmitted to the coastal
trade subject to the national fiscal policy,
duties being imposed in respect of cargo
and passengers. The Government has
decided upon this course and will ask the
Tariff Board to say what the duties should
be; and from the revenue thus obtained it
proposes to subsidise services to the
Northern Territory and other remote parts
where the appearance of a steamer is an event.
It will not be easy to arrive at duties which
will protect Australian shipping without
shutting out the British steamers which
used to trade between port and port; but
clearly the domination of our coastal trade
by selfish mobs on the waterfront cannot
be allowed to go on. What was intended
to be a help to the shipping industry and
to industry in general has proved a disaster
to both. Tonnage has persistently declined;
fares and freights have soared sky-high;
and in the general uncertainty about coastal
sailing dates, the result of almost incessant
strikes, a vast volume of trade has gone
abroad. The Waterside Workers, the
Marine Cooks and the Seamen and Firemen
have added flat contempt of Arbitration
Judges to the injury they have done to the
Commonwealth and their mates. It is
claimed on their behalf (and objectors in
the unions are overawed) that they can
strike whenever they please, the law not-
withstanding; that the worst time for Aus-
tralia — i.e., when the wool sales are about
to be held and the milled sugar has to be
shifted and the new season’s wheat is nearly
due—is the best time for them, and that if
union men won’t work no other men shall.
The Scullin party shudderingly accepts
these doctrines, and the Bruce-Page party
has been very tardy in resisting them. But
it is resisting them now, so it must be sup-
ported if the waterfront is to be saved from
anarchy and the country from a financial
crisis end eventual civil war.
* * * *
On the subject of defence, the Prime
Minister mentioned the two 10,000-ton-
cruisers and promised “a more intensive
development of the air arm.” which his
Government has shamefully neglected. A
British air-marshal has recommended a
capital expenditure of £2.000,000 on per-
sonnel and equipment and an annual ex-
penditure of £650,000 additional to the
£530,000 voted this year. The Bruce-Pages
say they will accept the British authority's
recommendations “as far as the financial
position will permit.” This is in no way
thrilling, and the absence of any reference
to the serious case of the Commonwealth
Military Forces, as revealed in General
Chauvei/s reports, is also noted with dis-
satisfaction. The best that can be said for
the Bruce-Page defence policy is that it
is better than that of Scullin-Theodore,
which is based on the belief that armed
steamers can account for cruisers like the
Sydney, and that soldiers and munition
factories are not needed till war has broken
out. There was so much talk of “develop-
ment” at Dandenong that the tariff got
little attention; the orator kindly remarked,
nevertheless, that “the expansion of our
secondary industries is essential,” and under-
took to take measures against dumping,
which has experienced a revival since
Pratten died. He also announced the
welcome discovery that “the problem of
the development of North Australia cannot
be solved solely by Governmental action,”
wherefore Private Enterprise is to be in-
vited to enter the field. But Private Enter-
prise will hesitate to enter this or any other
field until the Government makes it more
unmistakable that the country’s laws will
be enforced.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Justice for Digger Settlers.
Early this month matters of urgent import-
ance to soldier settlers were sanely dis-
cussed in Sydney at a conference attended
by delegates from all parts of N. S. Wales.
The settlers speedily overturned a some-
what general impression that they were
after something for nothing. All they want
is the establishment of a set of circumstances
in which it will be possible for them to
meet their obligations.
Most important of all is the question of
a home-maintenance area. Many settlers
are struggling hopelessly on blocks too small
to make a living from, even if they were a
free grant. Hand in hand with this is the
question of capital value, which, together
with all other accumulated debt to the
Crown, must be fixed at a figure fair to the
settler, and with due regard to land values
in his district. The terms of repayment
must be such that a settler can face his
liabilities after having met his living
expenses and the cost of keeping his holding
in a revenue-producing state.
These points are doubtless conceded in
a general way, yet so far departmental
methods have not secured the desired results.
The Re-Appraisement Board appointed some
years ago has not been able to cope with
the work. Many applications lodged over
12 months back have not yet been heard,
while great disappointment has been the
outcome of most of the board’s decisions.
In other cases, where departmental officials
have persuaded the settler to accept a com-
promise valuation without going before the
board, dissatisfaction is generally manifest.
The soldier-settlement scheme was
launched when prices for primary products
were sky-high on account of the war, and
land and stock values were based on those
prices. When prices fell, soldier settlers
had to face obligations created in a period
of inflation with income produced in a
period of economic depression, often from
holdings which through the vagaries of
climate were drought-stricken. Good seasons
have come in their turn, but the prices of
primary products have not approached the
mark ruling at the close of the war.
Some settlers have contributed to their
own failure, but the men who still stick at
their posts after battling with adverse con-
ditions for the past eight or ten years are
worthy of the utmost consideration a Gov-
ernment can extend them. The circum-
stances in which they find themselves are
fiot of their own creation. Had the State’s
most successful graziers or agriculturists
been put on holdings under similar condi-
tions, their defeat would have been certain.
What chance, then, has the comparatively
inexperienced soldier settler?
The present Minister is sympathetic; but
sympathy is worthless to the Digger if he
cannot have it applied to his own case.
Therefore, it cannot be regarded as un-
reasonable that these settlers at their con-
ference should request that a board of three,
consisting of a representative of the depart-
ment, one of the soldier settlers and one of
the public, should be set up in each district
to examine each case and advise the
Minister as to what action is best, in order
to prevent any further forfeiture of holdings.
To expedite the matter an assistant Minister
might be appointed to deal exclusively with
these reports. There are as many soldier
settlement problems as there are settlers,
and no two are alike.
Even if sacrifices are needed the Govern-
ment must make them in an effort to keep
these men on the land as assets,; rather than
allow them to be burdens on the State in
the ranks of the unemployed. God knows
they made sacrifices enough for the rest of
us in the awful years that followed 1914!
*
The Catch in Democracy.
There was a Nationalist pre-selection con-
test in Martin to decide who would be its
next M.P., the candidates being a son of
the late representative and an elderly
member of N.S.W.’s junior Bar. Actually
there was only one in it—Mr. Pratten.
The constituency might have had a giant
in intellect and a saint in character anxious
to represent it. His chances would have
been nil , for the Party machine, which
orders these little functions, is inclined to
distrust any capacity but that for political
obedience.
The results of this system, exploited over
many years by both parties, are to be seen
in the national Parliament at the present-
time. It has not contained so many duds
since it opened 28 years ago; and it is
significant that the most conspicuous are
comparatively new arrivals. Bruce’s team
is a byword for meek ineffectiveness. This
is due in part, no doubt, to his bland deter-
mination to run the entire show himself;
but without pre-selection, and the supply
of humble mediocrities which it ensures,
he could not hope to impose his will on his
party and on the House for long.
What, is happening in all the elected
assemblies of Australia seems to be a form
of Gresham’s Law—the bad political money
is driving out the good. How can it be
otherwise? As Aldous Huxley put it
recently:—
“Only the most mystically-fervent demo-
crats, who regard voting as a kind of reli-
gious act, and who hear the voice of OOD
in that of the people, can have any reason
to perpetuate a system whereby confidence
tricksters, rich men and quacks may be
given power by the votes of an electorate
composed in great part of mental 1 etek
Pans, whose childishness renders them par-
ticularly susceptible to the blandishments
of demagogues.”
The most damning criticism of modem
elected bodies surely is that the moment
a real crisis arises they are pushed aside,
and their powers handed over to a few
experts. It happened in all the belligerent
countries during the late war. It happened
in Sydney the other day, when, after a
quarter of a century of maladministration
by elected amateurs, trained professionals
strode over the corpse of civic democracy
and proceeded to run the Town Hall on a
business basis.
It is too much to expect that those quali-
fications will ever be demanded of the men
who direct the State which are required, as
a matter of course, in those who direct
battleships, or mail steamers, or businesses.
But the electors should at least be given the
opportunity to vote for Parliamentary candi-
dates approximating to this type. They
would get it if pre-selection were abolished;
if they don’t get it, political conditions are
likely to grow progressively worse.
♦
The Cadis of Canberra.
The aura of supernaturalism which en-
wrapped the Federal Capital Commission
when it first set its hand to its task has
been thinned to a scarcely palpable vapor,
and the last shreds are blown away by
Senator Kingsmill’s Parliamentary com-
mittee, which investigated housing and
building costs. The committee finds that
the Commission’s administration has been
unsatisfactory and extravagant in many
respects, that the designs for Government
officials’ homes, built at remarkably high
cost, are not acceptable to the occupants,
and that, valuable advice on the subject
tendered by the Government of South Aus.
was scorned by the Commission. Every
hotel and boarding-house in the territory
has been run at a loss; the brickworks show
a deficiency of £30,000; the cost of Govern-
ment House was “very excessive”; the
method of land sales adopted has led to
inflation of values, and the scale of rentals
and repayments is almost double that
under housing schemes in other parts of
Australia.
It is a pretty crushing indictment, soft-
ened only by reference to the fact that
the Commission was not responsible for
all the conditions that made for losses and
high costs, and that it has accomplished,
in a comparatively short space of time and
in the face of many difficulties, a tremen-
dous amount of work.
Most of the Commission’s errors of judg-
ment seem to be traceable to a grandiose
obsession. Into the origin of that obsession
it might be profitable to inquire, be-
cause there is reason to fear that the same
causes are producing like results in other
bodies. First and foremost, Canberra is
the most artificial town in Australia—pro-
bably the world. It doesn’t grow anything,
make anything. It talks in millions; it
is encouraged to “think in continents.” It
is supported by, a parent with what we
have come to regard as unlimited resources.
There it is hardly ever a question of
whether you can do without something;
it is oftener a question of whether you can
do with it.
It is an appalling mistake to carry on
the government of a country such as Aus-
tralia in a capital such as Canberra. It
would save Australia millions if the work
of government and administration had been
dropped into a thrifty city—like Adelaide,
for instance—where people are not ashamed
to mention ha’pence, or look after them,
either.
The Commission is merely the victim of
its circumstances. The great misfortune is
that the Commonwealth Government is in
the same boat.
*
Where Can It End?
When a pedestrian is going down a grassy
slope with a fall of one in ten he is apt
to remark that he can stop any time, and
when he gets over an unexpected dividing-
line and finds himself on a slope of one
in one and a half he is apt to realise that
he can’t. Various of the Australian States
appear to have got on to a sudden and
unexpected angle. N. S. Wales hasn’t
struck any outstanding disaster, yet look-
ing at three months’ figures the Treasurer
has found:—
That the revenue is £216,236 less than
for the corresponding quarter last year.
That more taxation was collected, but
the return from business undertakings
■ (built with loan money) was £394.49S less,
which suggests that far too many of these
“permanent and reproductive works” are
duds.
That it cost £72,211 more to run these
undertakings which produced £394.49S less,
which holds out little promise for the future
unless the Ma State can get measured for
a different kind of future.
That it cost £215,936 more to pay the
quarter’s interest on the. loan money in-
vested in the undertakings which cost
£72,211 more to work and earned £394,498
less. The three items added together make


OUR HOT-AIR DEFENCES.
“Sir John Salmond’s report has stigmatised the Australian Air Force as absolutely
unfit for war.”
THE AIR CHIEF: “Here comes the enemy, and the old ’bus Is absolutely unfit
for fighting purposes.’’
THE POLITICIANS: “Never mind. Perhaps it can take up copies of the speech
on the Brotherhood of Man that Jock Garden is rehearsing for the
enemy landing.”
the State’s business undertakings appear
£682,645 worse than for the corresponding
quarter last year.
A few working men may be revolution-
ists and think they would like to see Aus-
tralia come a financial crash; but nineteen-
twentieths of them want to see prosperity
and not the other thing. Certainly
nobody who lived through the terrible pov-
erty and distress which followed the finan-
cial crisis of the early ’nineties will wish
to see such things again.
Is there any financial authority in the
wide world whose judgment on this matter
the rank and file of the Labor party will
accept? If there is, then for Heaven’s sake
let the Government arrange for represen-
tatives of Labor to meet that authority,
so that this great party may have the
means of measuring up and checking its
policies.
+
“The Bulletin” and the Bush.
Dear Bulletin, — I want to say thanks im-
printing that par. asking readers of The
Bulletin to send on old copies to the In-
land Missions. The response to that
appeal was splendid. To myself alone by
the first mail after the paragraph appeared
(22nd August) 58 copies of The Bulletin
came, and by the next mail 109. But we
can use them all, and three times as many.
When our hospitals have done with them,
they will be welcomed at lonely bush
camps and watering-places throughout the
North.
I also desire to thank friends who have
so generously responded to the call for
literature, and I can assure them of the
sincere appreciation of the inlanders. I
have received many letters from contri-
buting friends which I will answer as time
permits, but would here intimate that
copies of The Bulletin or magazines may.
be posted to any of the following: The
Sisters in Charge of Hall’s Creek. Marble
Bar and Lake Grace A.I.M. Hospitals,
West, Australia; the Sisters in Charge,
Maranboy and Victoria River Downs
A.I.M. Hospitals, Northern Territory; and
the Sisters in Charge,'Beltana, Oodnadatta,
Alice Springs and Birdsville A.I.M. Hospi-
tals, South Australia. Their bush patients
are all hungry for literature. —Yours faith-
fully, W. E. Dorin, The Manse, Carnar-
von, W.A.
English Disestablishment Approaches.
Lord Birkenhead, in a letter to London
Times, has touched on the only aspect of
the Prayer-book row which interests the
Dominions—“if it continues it will lead to
disestablishment, with profound injury to
the Conservative party.” Disestablishment
might injure Conservatism; the two arch-
bishops and 20-odd bishops who sit in the
Lords are Conservatives almost to a man.
But their departure would not worry th§
rank and file in Britain, where their presence
in Parliament is recognised as an anomaly.
England, Scotland and Wales, in addition
to about 3,000,000 R.C.’s and 300,000 Jews,
have at least 20,000,000 Nonconform-
ists and unbelievers, and none of them
have representation, as such, in Parliament.
But the hopelessness of the British Con-
stitution’s attempt to blend politics and
religion is recognised even more poignantly
by most Anglicans. The best brains of the
church spent 21 years preparing the
“Deposited Book.” Out of 43 bishops only
four dissented from it when it came before
the Commons at the end of last year. It
was recommended by the saintly Archbishop
of Canterbury, and by brilliant English
laymen of the stamp of Viscount Cecil.
Then the House of Commons, after one
day’s debate, threw it out by a majority
which included Scottish, Welsh and Irish
dissenters, Jews, atheists and the Parsee
Communist Saklatvala.
At present Anglicanism in England is
torn by hatred and insult. The Rev. C.
Milnes, secretary of the League of Loyal
Churchmen, claimed lately that “the bishops,
by promoting the 1928 Prayer-book, were
guilty of seditious conspiracy,” and should
be prosecuted. And the other side say
that, Bishop Barnes should be prosecuted
under the Blasphemy Laws for his “gorilla
sermons,” and, failing to persuade the Home
Office authorities to agree, engage in brawls
when he preaches.
At the root of the whole disturbance is
the truism that, whereas ceremonial is
abhorrent to one type of mind, it is essen-
tial to another type. In ceremonial-starved
America there are 800 secret societies, with
30 million members. Half the population
of the U.S.A. carry a watch-charm or a
badge of some sort. The Anglican Church
wants to have it both ways—to keep its
ceremonialists and also its prestige as a
subsidised State Church. The anti-cere-
monialists in the Commons, who, though not
Anglicans themselves as a rule, yet represent
those who have to find the money to sup-
port, the State Church, will never agree to
that. So England may be expected shortly
to follow the path traversed by Ireland in
1869 and by Wales in 1920.
♦
The Struggle of Australian Drama.
The reception the press of Sydney gave to
Louis Stone’s “Lap of the Gods,” produced
under J. C. WTlliamson auspices, furnishes
an opportunity to reassess the responsibility
for the failure of Australian drama to make
progress in its own country. In this case
the firm which hitherto has had to bear
almost the whole blame for that failure
paid for the production; but the Sydney
papers, as their subsequent notices showed,
were standing with uplifted boots to put
in the kick that was almost unanimous.
It was largely the reaction of the public
to the papers’ attitude, varying between deri-
sion and contemptuous patronage, that
caused the play to be withdrawn after one
week, and a revival of an imported pro-
duction substituted. Louis Stone’s play
is not dramatically strong, but it is far
stronger than many imported plays the
Sydney press has treated quite reveren-
tially. It has, at any rate, literary quality,
which many of these other plays lack.
If it was only one man’s play that has
been hit in this fashion it would not
matter so much, but the throwing of cold
water upon Australian drama is habitual.
In Melbourne—where the attitude is much
the same as it is in Sydney— Gregan
McMahon has produced, mostly under
Williamson auspices or with Williamson
encouragement, some score of plays, many
of which, in his opinion as an expert, would
have succeeded if it had not been known
that they were written by Australians.
They all suffered the usual cold water, the
only one receiving any encouragement
being “Mrs. Pretty and the Premier,” by
Arthur H. Adams, which subsequently was
produced in London; and even Adams, who
had many editorial friends, had to work
very hard to win their sympathies.
Obviously the blame for the failure of
Australian plays must be shifted, at least
in part, from the theatrical managements
that have found them unprofitable to the
press whose anti-Australian attitude has
made them so. The effect of the latest push-
outrage is likely to be far-reaching; the
failure of this play has been so definite
that it is unlikely any more Australian
productions will be tried, and this
shelves, amongst others, one by even so
distinguished a writer as Katharine
Prichard.
♦
The Intervener in Divorce.
As far back as 1860 English Statute law
recognised intervention in matrimonial suits,
The Queen’s proctor, or any other person,
was allowed to intervene in any suit for
the dissolution of marriage on the ground
that the parties had been guilty of collusion,
or that material facts had been suppressed.
The principle is recognised by the States
of Australia, though hitherto the interven-
tion has been confined to the Crown. A
new precedent was recently created in N. S.
Wales when, the Crown “having declined to
thrust itself into the matter,” a person
described by the trial Judge as “a puppet”
filled the vacancy and was ignominiously
cast in costs.
It is a subject for congratulation with th(*
increasing multitude who go down to the
divorce courts that the innovation lias been
thus squelched. Had it not been, soon no
hearing of a petition would be complete
without its intervener. So a new profession
would arise, as in old days a sort of profes-
sional jury used to hang round the Coroner’s
court. To go out then and fee an inter-
vener would be as easy as to go out and get
an alibi or “additional evidence” in an
appeal to Quarter Sessions from a police
court.
Justice Owen is fortunate, for his own
sake as well as for the public’s, that he was
able to nip the lay intervener in the bud
and thus check a very undesirable plant
from blossoming into a possibly fruitful
source of malice and corruption.
♦
How Demos Goes to the Poll in U.S.A.
‘Thirty-fifth Street” : The fundamental
factor in our Presidential election is not
the idealism of Mr. Hoover or the altruism
of Al Smith. The radical question is
whether Republicans will have more to
spend on election day than Democrats.
Election-day money is quite different from
campaign cash. The campaign cash is
mainly wasted. It is all wasted if on elec-
tion day there is a shortage in the party
coffers.
The leaders of one party would give their
immortal souls to know exactly how much
their opponents were holding in reserve for
election day. If they knew that they would
probably win—if they could beat up a
larger sum. If they couldn’t they might as
well “sky the towel.” There have been
cases of candidates in a single district
winning an election against opponents who
spent more money on voting day, but they
are exceptional.
America is divided into States, the States
into districts and the districts into precincts.
The average number of voters in a precinct
is 400. Approximately half of these go to
the polls. In the typical precinct, then,
there are only 200 votes to be considered.
If 99 self-governing Americans vote Demo-
crat, it only needs 101 to vote Republican
for the Republican man to get in.
It is the business of the campaign manager
in each precinct to discover and control the
floating vote which will set the balance
swinging in one direction or another. There
are in any precinct a dozen or so men pre-
pared to sell their vote. Their names are
known to the precinct managers, but nothing
can be done with them until the polling day.
On that day the precinct managers receive
instructions from headquarters-sunless they
know the worst already—as to how much
they are to bid for the support of these
floaters.
The average cost of capturing a dubious
precinct is about 100 dollars. There are
150.000 precincts and if contests threaten
to be close in 100,000, it is a simple arith-
metical calculation how much the narty
leaders in Washington must have in hand
when the great dav of Demos dawns.
+
The Cheapest Fuel in History.
A Brazilian scientist is reported to have
discovered the cheapest fuel in history. He
proposes to burn water. This will obviate
the necessity of coal mines, and coal strikes,
and firemen, and bunker coal, for every
shipman will be able to drop a bucket over
the side and haul up bunker water. It
should greatly facilitate sea carriage, for
when a ship isn’t dragging vast quantities
of carboniferous rocks over the oceans it
will have more space for cargo. And there
should be an end to the dirty, nefarious
practice of throwing ashes overboard to
suffocate fish and silt up one of the most
beautiful of the works of God, and flatten
down the globe; for it is really burnt globe
that is going overside. Thus the Brazilian
genius should postpone the coming of the
dreadful day when everything will be
equally flat, and a shoreless but shallow
sea will tumble round the world.
There remains, though, the question
whether the water which is burned by the
Brazilian phenomenon will ever return as
water, or will remain for ever a puff of
smoke and possibly a little ash. In the latter
case prospects may be less brilliant than
they seem. It would be a dreadful thing
if we ran out of water the day also we ran
out of atmosphere, the latter having had its
nitrogen all used up and turned into
manure.
«
The unlicensed hawker is everywhere a per-
son calling for action. A Brighton (Vic.)
houservife recently took a census of her
hawker-callers. The highest number in one
day was 12 and the total for three weeks was
72. Not one brought her goods that she
could not obtain at a near-by shop. Later
she learned that one of her callers was a
notorious thief. The licensing of every
“travelling salesman” is called for. At pre-
sent all that a thief has to do is slip a
business pamphlet picked up on any city
counter in his pocket and fare forth on his
investigations.


Further Successes on
PENRITH SPEEDWAY—Ist October
The Winners of—
C.O.R. MOTOR CYCLE CUP (including Fastest Time of day)
C.O.R. 1100 c.c. CAR HANDICAP
EFFICIENCY MOTOR SCHOOL’S CUP
All Used 1
Motor Oils
SHELL OILS!!
SPEEDWAY ROYAL—29th September
SILVER GAUNTLET MOTOR CYCLE RACE-
-Ist, 2nd and 3rd Riders, used SHELL OILS
BIG NINE SCRATCH RACE-FINAL— Ist and
2nd Riders also used SHELL OILS
i/
SHELL
MOTOR OILS
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED 5661
!>
W
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hope was the keynote of the N.S.W. Bud-
get, though as Bavin and Stevens are men
of different calibre from Slang things may
turn out better than they look. Revenue is
estimated at £3,471,650 more than last year.
Though “new and unavoidable expenditure”
is to rise by two millions, total expenditure
is to go up by only one million, the rest being
saved somewhere. A surplus of a few pounds
is anticipated. The railways are to show a
tiny profit instead of losing £1,609,267 as
they did in 1927-28, but so far the returns
from “business undertakings,” which are
mainly railways, have been doing a drop. “A
readjustment of the basis of the income-tax”
is expected to drag another £767,533 from
some people. It seems probable that more
will be wanted later on, and more after that.
“Jupp” Gardiner.
N.S.W. Labor Sena-
tor Gardiner-, who was
pushed out of “the
movement” because he
would not crawl to the
mob in control, is to
contest the Dailey seat
against Theodore, who
saved himself from
being pushed out by
crawl i n g. Gardiner
was a Labor member
when Theodore toddled
to his first school, and
for two years (1920-
22) he was the only
Labor man in the Sen-
ate. With a'Nation-
alist in the field as
well, the veteran
doesn’t seem to have
m ucli chanc e. but
strange things have
happened in Dailey,
especially after the
Melbourne Cup.
In hot pursuit of the
delusion that a coun-
try can be made rich by spending money
borrowed at high interest on new works
which seldom earn the interest, N.S.W. is
going to splash up £14,000,000 of borrowed
wealth this year. The State interest bill
is almost exactly a million more than it was
a year ago, and the £14,000,000 will mean
a thumping addition. Loan expenditure of
the six States jumned from 13 millions in
1919 to 37 millions in 1921. There has been
no gleam of sanity since.
Victoria’s Premier Hogan obviously takes
himself for a saving body, but his Govern-
ment added 12 millions to the public debt
last year, and proposes adding another eight
millions this year. The State will then owe
about £3 per acre, or nearly half of all the
unimproved land values.
The Prime Minister was unusually and
refreshingly definite in his statement at Dan-
denong that the coastal clauses of the Navi-
gation Act must go, so that the almost-
chronic deadlock may be ended at last. He
presented a colorable imitation of real states-
manship when he coupled this with a resolu-
tion to maintain the new industrial laws
under which the wharf-lumper is beginning
to lump with some measure of security and
regularity. In the matter of the Northern
Territory, however, he was just a well-
tailored gentleman hesitating before a micro-
phone.
Bruce announces that the Northern Terri-
tory, comprising more than one-sixth of the
Commonwealth, isn’t a place to be “developed
solely by Government action,” though only
Government fossilisation has been applied;
and that his Cabinet is willing to let some
syndicate try its band. If there is really
money in sight for a megalomaniac house-
building scheme it would be better, and a
more honorable fulfilment of a bargain, to
spend some of it instead on a standard-gauge
line from South to North, and give the step-
daughter province a fair deal.
Victoria already lias a Senator Elliott
(the Diggers’ “Pompey”), and the Country
party proposes to give
it another. In place
of Senator Andrew,
who is too sick to
stump the country, it
has nominated R. D.
Elliott, chairman of
the Civil Engineering
Construction Co. and
trustee of the Mel-
bourne Public Lib-
rary, but better known
for his close associa-
tion with Treasurer
Page. Elliott stood
for the North-Western
Province at the last
Leg. Council election,
but Page could not
help him much then.
It was different when
the Vic. Cocky party
had to choose a sub-
stitute for Andrew;
and now the doctor's
friend will be No. 3
R.D. Elliott.
on a ticket that was
70,000 votes to the good in 1925.
The wharf war has saved the Queensland
Dole Department many pounds. When the
call for labor was made able-bodied cadgers
found their weekly supplies cut off, and
were politely informed that there was plenty
of work on the waterfront. Disgusted at tins
evidence of capitalism, the old nobility of
dossers packed up and headed for the bush.
It was characteristic of the unlimited ver-
bal stodge of this great country, with its
bounding natural racehorses, that Labor-
leader Scullin should promise to restore the
little 10 per cent, which the Bruce-Page
Government took off the Federal graduated
land-tax. “Much of the land held by these
monopolists should be cut up and put to
better use,” shouted Scullin. The “mono-
polists” include everyone with a £6OOO allot-
ment in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane, Perth or Hobart. Most politicians,
even if they aren’t Scullins, take a turn at
tlie story about the necessity of subdividing
these vast estates, and the tale seems never
to lose its freshness.
The Chinese Revolution started with a
republic and an excessively loquacious Par-
liament. Then it tried mob rule, followed
by military despotism. Now it is going in
for rule by a committee, the chairman of
which will also be head of the army, navy
and air forces. Where it differs from other
revolutions is in its continued reverence for
learning. Bodies of students are running
three-quarters of the country. _ Most of them
are at an age when Australian schoolboys
are still in the classroom, and all are
expected to resign when they reach 30.
The Bruce scheme to “establish a uniform
law for divorce and matrimonial causes”
has a powerful odor of the party lamp. It
is designed to get material results without
ecclesiastical tears. No State will be asked
to change its divorce laws, but an Australian
domicile is to be substituted for a State one,
where required. An effect may be to make
Sydney the local equivalent of Reno or Paris,
but Ma is unlikely to object. It should be
worth almost as much to her in tourist
traffic as an additional Spring meeting.
Thirty deaths from alcoholic poisoning and
something approaching a hundred bad cases
which didn’t die immediately, all in one
week-end among the waterside parts of New
York, should help Smith's candidature for
the Presidency. The story goes that the
police were moved to close some of the worst
speak-easies (so called because the customer
doesn’t call for his liquor at the top of his
voice) in the hope that the quality of the
bootlegged drink would improve, or because
the proprietors were stingy. Then the trade
passed into the hands of still worse prac-
titioners who haven’t been located, either
because they pay the police better or because
their customers speak easier.
A storm of indignation fell on the head
of the N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture when
word went round that he had visited Sydney
Botanical Gardens without notice to see if
the staff was working to a reasonable extent.
But after all it is the most ordinary sort
of comment by all sorts of people who view
a construction job from a passing motor-car
or otherwise that only half the workers work
at once. Seven miles of single line from
Richmond to Ivurrajong took several years
to build, and cost £18,792 —some say
£20,000 —per mile, after which it proceeded,
in eight months, to earn £2720 at a cost
of £6776 in working expenses, besides £4626
in interest.
No Federal party programme is complete
without an allusion to the necessity for a
unified railway gauge. It is an imposing
subject, for to bring all the lines to the
4ft. Slin. standard would mean the radical
alteration of between 18,000 and 19,000 miles
of track and the boiling-down of an alarm-
ing quantity of rolling stock. And it would
mean putting a fresh mortgage on top of the
over-plethoric one which exists already.
Bruce makes no wild promises about rushing
the work offhand as Scullin did, but lie bus
aspirations, though he is building a narrow-
gauge line hithself and thus not improving
the position.
The output of British motor-cars increased
between 1923 and 1927 from 83,000 to
209,000. Bull has now a protective duty of
£33 6s. Sd. per cent, on motor vehicles and
all accessories and component parts, and
with his comparatively low wages that -s
sufficient. The Australian tariff subdivides
cars and parts into a number of categories,
varying from “British preference, free,” up
to something quite moderate. The list of
Bull’s more or less protected articles occu-
pies 71 closely-printed columns of “Whitaker”
this year against 5i in 1923; yet his Harold
Coxes and other proud Freetrade nuisances
are increasingly arrogant about the Austra-
lian tariff.
One of these duststorms which are always
arising in Sydney with ex-Premier Lang as
a centre has to do with Slang and Industrial
Commissioner Piddington. otherwise “Good
old Piddo.” The question is whether Whang
fell into a state of consternation when lie
realised how much expense his basic wage-
cwm-child endowment legislation, interpreted
by “Piddo,” might lead to, and used slang-
whanguage about “Piddo” at a two-House
conference. Premier Bavin, Ashton, M.L.C.,
and ex-Minister Cann were witnesses that,
lie did. and Clang, in a state of excitement
bordering on frenzy, was his own witness that
he didn’t. The matter is of minor import-
ance, but it illustrates the fact that ex-Pre-
mier Bang has few unruffled moments.
Recent events on the waterfront have had
so dispiriting an effect on Tas. Labor that it
looks as if there will be no Labor candidates
for Darwin, Franklin or Wilmot, and only
two for the Senate
(four vacancies). But
John Gellibrand is to
have two opponents in
Denison, if the pro-
mised amendment of
the Navigation Act
doesn’t frighten them
out of the field. The
two are C. E. Culley,
former Labor Assem-
blyman, and T. M.
Jude, who has made
two attempts to enter
Federal politics by way
of Bendigo. Neither is
as strong as Dave
O’Keefe, whom Gelli-
brand beat three years
ago, and who there-
upon gave politics best
and joined the exodus
to Westralia; and the
silent man who entered
the A.I.F. as captain,
and left it as major-
general is not worry-
ing.
John Gellibrand.
As a “basis for negotiation” an indignation
meeting at Melbourne Trades Hall produced
these five propositions
Removal of all free labor from every port and every
ship. (This reads as though non-unionists of every
sort were to be chased inland, but that might be only
reckless composition.).
Suspension of the Beeby award.
Repeal of the new Federal Transport Workers’ Act.
Reinstatement of all unionists who have lost their
jobs through not working at their jobs.
Release of seamen who have been gaoled for refusal
to obey orders.
And all that was offered in return was
the old job-control in all its pristine splen-
dor !
Westralian Premier Collier is no longer
a hero to the Reds of the waterfront. After
praising him effusively for siding 1
strikers—the Brisbane mob said he was
class-conscious to the finger-tips, whereas
McCormack was hopelessly “boorjoice
they made the disgusting discovery that
he had “put the State before his mass.
What happened was that, after a bad begin-
ning, the W.A. Premier’s com monsense re-
asserted itself and lie used liis influence with
the Fremantle lumpers to register under tile
Transport Workers’ Act. They all took out
licenses and the idle fleet has since been
unloaded, while the shipowners have re-
moved their embargo on the port. At Col-
lier’s instance, moreover, the Westrauan
Labor Congress has rejected the Australian
Council of Trade-unions because of its con-
nection with Shanghai and Moscow. > o
the Communists have given him up as a bad
job.
There are wage-payers who still believe in
compulsory arbitration, but William Brooks,
Sydney master-printer and M.L.C., has never
had any use for it. llis
presidential address at
the Brisbane confer-
ence of Employers’
Federations was de-
voted to an attack on
the system; “let us get
hack to conciliation,”
he said, “and round-
table conferences.”
While the delegates
were digesting Brooks’s
remarks Chief Justice
Doth ridge, of the Fed-
eral Arbitration Court,
supported them to the
extent of suggesting
that “employers and
employees should get
together and have a
heart-to-heart talk.”
His Honor went on to
explain, in words which
deserve to be remem-
bered, that lie didn’t
mean “the sort of talk
Brooks, M.L.C.
we have in this court
—talk for the sake of getting a decision.”
Optimistic Page estimated that the tariff
revenue, which dropped heavily in 1927-28,
would rise again like Lazarus, hut it is
dropping further. For the first quarter of
1928-29 it fell at a pace which may leave
the Treasurer £4,000,000 short of his esti-
mate. That only means getting back to
about the figure of 1925-26, and there was no
earthly reason to expect anything better.
In the period between June, 1925, and June,
1926, the tariff revenue was pretty good be-
cause Australia imported goods to the extent
of £35,000,000 more than it could pay for
without the aid of foreign loans. Next year
it was better because Australia imported
goods to the value of £53,000,000 more than
it could pay for with its own money. To
speculate for revenue, as Page did, on the
hypothesis that the country would be still
madder in 1928-29 was worthy of Bedlam.
In their efforts to make the wharfies’
strike more of a plague than circumstances
have allowed it to become, the people who
claim to be “controlling” the mess-up have
thought it safest bo lie doggo. It's
an offence to do anything with an illegal
strike save stop it, and neither the wharfies’
federation, the A.C.T.U., the maritime
unions’ conference nor the “central strike
committee” has displayed the least anxiety
to reveal its personnel. The average wharfie
probably hasn’t had the least idea <of the
identity of the gentlemen who have been
disciplining him, or the slightest proof that
they have any right to interfere with the
dispute in any way.
Hedley Vicars Rogers, the Nationalist
who is barging into the fight between Jupp
Gardiner and Theodore in Dailey (N.S.W.),
is probably the best man who could have
been selected for the job. Rogers has done
many things, and is equally fluent with
tongue and pen. It was a series of special
articles upon what had gone wrong with
the Labor party that caused the Nationalist
Association to send for him and make him
an organiser. At the last State elections he
stood for Glebe, and surprised even the
Laborites by the votes he got.
Recently a Sydney mob, described as 400
strong, combined in a whole-hearted effort to
murder a policeman for making an arrest.
In London a Robert, when thus beset, blows
his whistle hard, and bobbies converge on
the scene at a canter; but the Australian city
cop has to depend very largely on the chance
that someone will communicate the facts to
a police station. The constant preaching by
tin; Red elements of revolution, violence and
hatred of the luw, and the impunity they
enjoy, is tending to make the local mob some-
thing quite beyond the capacity of the
skeleton police forces to handle.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
.T. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
IF PI lino FIAS ANOTHER GO.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“James Ashton, M.L.C., in a letter to the S. M.
Herald, reveals that during last year’s conference
between the State Houses on the Child Endowment
Bill, Lang, then Premier, admitted that he bail
no idea where he would find the money to finance
the public service ‘if that chap Piddington ever has
another go at the basic wage.’ ”
“ ’Tis Labor’s job,” quoth lie, “to keep
Each wage-plug free from want’s grim
pang,
Wherefore contented toilers heap
Their nightly blessings upon Lang.
They have no call to fret or chafe
Like hapless folk in other lands;
They know the basic wage is safe
In good old Piddo’s kindly hands.
Eut just how long we’ll pay our way,”
He added, “that I hardly know;
’Twill cause some Treasurer dismay
When Piddo has another go.
“A smiling land,” quoth he, elate,
“ ’Neath our regime, a happy realm
A deftly-handled ship of State
With Lang and Labor at the helm,
And up aloft a cherub set
Quick to detect, alert to foil
The knaves who’d make their fellows sweat
At unremunerative toil.
But ask me not,” he added, “how
The Government will find the dough
To pay what Piddo deems enow
If Piddo has another go.
“A regular election trump.”-
Quoth he, “with his judicial sense,
Ilis erudition and his bump
Of practical benevolence.
Interpreting industrial laws
And settling knotty points thereon,
An asset to the Labor cause
Of weight and worth is Piddington.
’Tis well he makes employers rage;
But even the State,” he added low,
“Will be, I verily engage,
Hard put to pay the basic wage
If Piddo has another go.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hayband”: Talking about train delays
reminds me. It was a Queensland “pick-up”
and there was a lot of shunting. At Wal-
lumbilla the fireman, who temporarily had
charge of the 1,0c0., wasn’t moving back as
fast as the waiting guard desired. “Come
THE NEW SEX.
"Hullo! Another little typist?”
on,” said the latter testily, “you’re not
driving a hearse.” The fireman squared up
and in two secs, the battle was on. The first
round was a very even one and at the end of
two minutes a sporting station-hand called
time. The second round saw the guard
punished like a truck-buffer. For a while
he took it gamely, but finally an uppercut
outed him and finished the fight. The train
lost 20 minutes. “We’ll call it a couple of
hot-boxes,” said the driver thoughtfully.
The insertion of an “r” would have made it
the literal truth.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : An unusually odd will has just
been certified O.K. by the Supreme Court of
S.A. An Anglo-Australian, killed in France
in 1917, left his Adelaide property to any
one or more of his English brothers, sisters
and cousins who should within five. years
settle in Australia, or even be employed by
the Australian Government elsewhere. The
bait did not bring even a nibble. The time
ran out without a claimant; so did a further
three years authorised by the will. And now
the puzzled executors have asked the Court
whether they really are to follow the alter-
native instruction, which was to hand over
the lot, on any terms they may think fit to
impose, to the University of Adelaide, or the
Corporation of that city, dr the Common-
wealth Government, at their absolute discre-
tion. And the Court replied—in proper
legal phrase, of course—Go ahead.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The fire-brigade at Eltham, a pic-
turesque township about 10 miles from Mel-
bourne, had a stirring time one recent
evening. A call brought it out with unusual
promptitude, but when it arrived on the
scene no fire was observable. Another part
of the town, however, looked to be fiercely
ablaze, and the gallant fighters limbered up
and dashed off again. When they got to
the new locality, the conflagration had
mysteriously transferred itself back to the
original spot. An ancient inhabitant then
caustically pointed out that the firemen were
chasing a particularly fine display of the
Aurora Australis.
;J: * * jJ:
“Shep”: We got our introduction to the
bobbed-hair fashion at Charleroi long before
the Australian flapper had considered part-
ing with her crowning glory; in this case,
however, it was not a voluntary movement,
as we soon discovered. During the years of
the German occupation, dominated by a mili-
tary system, it was only natural that some
of the girls would become friendly with men
in the ranks of the enemy, who, after all,
were billeted in their homes, but their more
patriotic sisters were powerless to step in
till the days of the German retreat. Barely
were the Fritzcs out of the town, on their
way back to the Rhine, than a raging band
af females made a flying raid on the girls
who had philandered with Germans, inflict-
ing on them the punishment of a boyish
crop to proclaim their indiscretion to all
whom it might concern.
# * * *
“Tuppence”: A recent Bulletin cover
advertisement showed a well-known brand
of ham and bacon being distributed all over
the map of Australia; in the Northern Ter-
ritory part a ’Ghan camel-man was depicted
with a load of it. If the artist had known
the difficulty of getting a Pathan to carry
pig in any form, he might have been more
cautious. The story is still told in Queens-
land of a ’Ghan and his camel-team taking
loading from the Duchess, then the rail-
way terminus, to a station on the Georg-
ina. Within a few miles of Urandangie
the turbaned person discovered a side of
bacon in his loading when packing his camels
one morning. He hitched his team and drove
away, leaving all the cargo on the ground,
although he had already carted it 150 miles.
And, on the W.A. goldfields, an Afghan has
been known to jettison his whole load merely
because lie found that it contained ham in
tinned form.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Hubert Wilkins, the Aus-
tralian explorer, in his book “Undiscovered
Australia,” reports that the tailed man has
at last been located in the Crocodile Islands.
It seems to me a pity that a picturesque
story which has haunted the imagination of
mankind since the earliest ages should thus
be removed from further speculation. The
myth was universal. The first white men to
land in parts of Africa and South America
were regarded with suspicion, since their
wearing of trousers plainly indicated they
were anxious to conceal their close relation-
ship with monkeys. The men of Kent, accord-
ing to an ancient legend, were popularly
believed to have tails by the more civilised
inhabitants of the neighboring counties. I
think it was Marco Polo who reported having
come upon a land honeycombed with potholes,
the excavations being there to enable the
population to sit down, their caudal append-
ages being long, stiff and pointing down-
wards. A captured specimen would have
died of exhaustion on shipboard had not his
kindly captors bored holes in the planking.
Possibly the story first arose in Java when
the ape and the ape-man were almost indis-
tinguishable. My friend Norsa, of Borneo,
tells me that the orang-outang, which actu-
ally means “man of the woods,” is a tailed
human being who conceals the fact for fear
of being put to useful labor by the white
man.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: It is unjust to
blame the pernicious influence of the movies
for all juvenile escapades. Last week two
little girls of Westmead (Sydney), aged
ten and six, took their school lunches, their
WAS THAT MOTHER?
Daughter (newly wed ) : “Oh yes, Joe’s a dear old thing and all that, but sometimes
he won’t listen to reason.”
FATHER: “He’s an idiot. Not many married men get the chance.”
pet dog, their dolls and a few shillings from
their joint Savings Banks account and made
a plunge into the outside world which set
a whole district apprehensively scouring its
bush in search of the lost ones. At midnight
the kiddies, with the dog guarding them,
were found lying peacefully sleeping on the
sands at Manly. It appears that the elder
girl, Kathleen, is a keen reader, and has
recently been immersed in Shakspeare. Im-
pressed, no doubt, by “Twelfth Night” she
decided to embark on Sydney Harbor in
search of adventures. Although no ship-
wreck was provided, and she probably did not
even speak to the honest sea-captain, let
alone make friends with him, she doubtless
felt that, when cast ashore on the foreign
strand, she would be taken into the em-
ployment of the Duke of Corso, as page,
and employed as his emissary to the Lady
of French’s Forest, with romantic results.
It is possible to blame the “movies” too
expansively.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Various were the pets carried
“on tin; strength” by A.I.F. units. Stray
dogs were always secure of a welcome and
a travelling home; one lot of Divvy Sigs.
had a cat which used to move with them on
the route-march from place to
place, and a young porker
which became a tem-
porary pet led to ructions with
some Tommies suspected of
slaying and devouring the ani-
mal. The Ist Battalion adopted
a young goat for a while, a
playful beast which could not
resist the temptation to butt
good and hard any Digger it
caught bending. That playful-
ness led to its finish; a brass-
hat, making an inspection of
the camp, was stooping over
the big dixies of stew and tea
about to be served out, when
something like an avalanche
struck him in the stern, pre-
cipitating him into the hot food-
stuff. Diggers who witnessed
the incident and heard the barrage of blas-
phemy reckoned that it was worth the loss
of stew and tea, but the kid had to dis-
appear after that.
# ❖ ❖ ❖
“Morkrum” : The other day a Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) man wired to a Coogee residen-
tial to inquire if there' was a flat vacant,
and was amazed to receive for reply: “No
fat. bacon at present.” Over the ’phone the
words sound alike. The mischief was done
between the residential and the G.P.O.
phonogram-room.
* * * *
“D”: “This is the most astonishing case
I have ever heard,” declared the Westminster
(London) coroner lately, in reference to
a young man who cut himself while shaving.
Having exclaimed, “This is the last straw,”
he suicided over a balcony. In Sydney, some
years ago, a coroner sat on the corpse of a
youth of similar mentality who, while dress-
ing, uttered the complaint, “So many but-
tons to do up; so many buttons to undo
again.” and cut his throat. Such tragedies
may be termed the bulls of felo de se —-they
are perfectly insane on the surface and yet
it is riot hard to see the reasoning processes
which underlie them.
“Oxmead”: Among the various achieve-
ments, commendable and otherwise, credited
to Dickens and recently resurrected, nobody
seems to have mentioned that he helped to
bring back beards to the chins of his coun-
trymen soon after the middle of cen-
tury. In 1860, according to Edmund Yates,
“clean-shaven faces were uncommon in Lon-
don : mutton-chop whiskers were dc rigueur;
mustachios were never seen save on a
cavalry officer or a
dancing master, and the
cultivation of a beard
was wholly confined to
foreigners.” The “beard
movement,” however, did
not come until just after
the Crimean War, when
men returned from the
rigors of the Russian
winter to set a fashion
that was to last for at
least 40 yeays. The
movement was immensely
assisted by an article in
Household Words, then
edited by Dickens, tersely
entitled “Why Shave V”
So the “appalling razor,”
as Yates calls it, fell out
of its own until another
generation brought it
into vogue again.
“P.X.”: The Prince of Wales is alleged
to have picked up fragments of a native
language in East Africa. He may find them
handy when he gets home. The present Lord
Loch, after spending his boyhood in Vic-
toria, went to S’Africa with dad, and got
a good working knowledge of several lan-
guages. During the war he had a staff job
in Ireland, and being a big genial chap got
on well with the natives. One of them, a
jaunting-car driver, complained to him bit-
terly that the oppressors had now made it
an offence for him to even speak to his
children in the language of their land. Pad-
raic almost wept to think of the infamy of
it. “Too bad!” said Loch —“let's have”
(dropping his voice) “a little talk.” And
with an Irish accent lie poured out a torrent
of Kaffir. Padraic was a sport. Putting
his hand on his hip he roared with laughter.
“Whirra,” he said, “but ye’ve got me. I
can’t shpake a wurrud of my own mother
tongue.”
* * * *
“Clifford Snook” : The modest and blushing
Foster, M.L.A. for Vaucluse (N.S.W.), was
considerably embittered by suggestions, made
before the Industrial Commission, that save
for the vanity so much condemned in Holy
Writ people could wear their clothes much
longer than they do, and thus reduce expenses
and the adverse balance of trade. But he
was moved to the depths of his soul because
certain goods were used to illustrate points
of the case, and his protest was thus re-
ported in the press:—
I consider it as a most degrading and horrible
spectacle that women’s clothing should be exhibited
in the courts of the land.
What the good man thinks of the exhibition
of the duds of the gentle sex in shop win-
dows or drying on a line is not on record.
But lie is evidently a very good man; in
fact, a best man.
* * * *
“Gad”: The short and simple annals of
the poor have been enriched by a cable
announcing that an Indian menial, attached
to the Royal Air Force Aerodrome at
Quetta, has won a lottery in India worth
£9500. The lucky man, who has been
accounting, himself well-paid on a wage of
£1 per month, on being asked what he in-
tended to do with the money, replied that
he intended to buy a new bed. The news
has not only a psychological interest; it also
sheds light on the 1i.c.1. problem from the
viewpoint of our Indian fellow-subjects.
“Loai”: I am sceptical about those three
youths in London who had never worked in
their lives and yet contrived to draw the dole
and to own a pleasure car (B. 26/9/’2B).
No one is allowed the dole without having
previously worked continuously for four
months; he, or she, must show a card
stamped by the employer during each week of
employment. The rate of payment for single
men is only 15s. per week, not much towards
the upkeep of a car, the taxation of which,
in Britain, is £1 per horse-power. In fair-
ness to those drawing the dole it should
be remembered that the system is an insur-
ance against unemployment, and that, if
workers are compelled to pay weekly contri-
butions while in work, they are entitled to
expect benefit, while out of a job, without
being designated “work-shy.”
THIS UNFORGIVABLE SIN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He muttered curses as lie strode and his
brow was black with hate ;
He looked as a man might look who comes
from the grave of a murdered mate,
A man who has sworn, however far he goes
and however long
It takes, he will have revenge in full for
some foul and hideous wrong.
And quick I sensed, as his nervous hand to
his sagging pocket stole,
What lay therein —grim evidence of the
stress in his anguished soul.
“Come, come,” I ventured and gripped his
arm—for I know him fairly well —
And sought to steer him towards the bar of
the Dog and Duck hotel,
“Has some lying journal done you wrong
and dragged your name through the
dirt?
Or some smooth-tongued, perfidious friend
run oft' with your bit o’ skirt?
Take it from me, there are better ways of
getting home on both
Than fooling round with a shooting-iron.”
He shook me off with an oath.
"Has some wily bucket-shop buccaneer made
you,” I asked, “his prey?
Or some racecourse spieler cooked your goose
in the old time-honored way?
Such things may hap to the best, beset by
the city’s bandit bands,
But he is a fool who takes the law into
his own two hands.
Can only the blood of your foe atone for the
insult on you thrust?
Must you stretch a bleeding corpse at your
feet?” “Too right,” he said, “I must.
“There are crimes,” he told me, “with gold
or gaol a man may expiate,
But I’ll brook no stigma on aught that’s
mine like this, I tell you straight.
I’m hot on the track of a slander vile and
a slanderer black with sin,
And I’ll make him eat his evil words before
I do him in.
I’ll fill him colander-full «of holes and I’ll
blow the ruffian’s head.
So help me God! into Irish stew.” “But
what is it for?” I said.
“Oh, I have a wolf-hound pup,” he growled ;
“they call ’em chiens-loups
Away where the hills of old Alsace are
tinted a misty blue.
The finest breed in the w r orld. And this
defamatory hog
Hinted that Towser was one-part wolf and
only three-parts dog!
And the poor dumb brute he can’t rebut this
slur on his pedigree,
So that devolves” —and he tapped his gun
with a meaning snarl —“on me !”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Murkah”: Radio is responsible for some
amazing experiments. Recently I was taken
to where a hollow “plunk, plunk” was
echoing through a room in Summer Hill,
Sydney. It was a Melbourne girl’s heart
beating, and the idea was to listen to her
changing her mind —600 miles away. Some
pieces of music had been named and a sort
of combination microphone-stethoscope placed
over the young woman’s cardiac organ.
Suddenly the ticks slowed like a stopping
clock, “That’s the ‘Dead March,’ ” said
someone confidently. “Eileen always hated
it.” Shortly afterwards Eileen accelerated
and someone offered to bet that they’d put
“The Mikado” on. He was right. Tosti’s
“Good-bye” produced another reaction and
the change wrought by certain well-known
books were equally marked. If this form
of investigation is developed doctors may yet
diagnose the case by its “radio heart” before
they see the patient. Cancer may be com-
pelled to disclose itself at the beginning,
instead of at the end, of the years which
handicap the surgeon. Who shall set a
limit?
❖ Jjt sjc i|c
“Bouragi” : The cable recording that the
Prince of Wales delighted a gathering of
East African natives by addressing them in
their own language reminds me of a one-
time Administrator of, say, Cafetaria, who
had a weakness for the same affable prac-
tice. His trouble was that he was a poor
linguist, also his satrapy included many
strange peoples speaking diverse tongues, so
lie was accustomed to get a speech in the
local lingo compiled and written up phoneti-
cally for him by the District Official. This
worked all right until his Ex. came to a
MORE WATCHFUL WAITING.
BLUE: “Perce never stops quarrelling with mother when she comes to see us.”
BROWN: “My, that’s awkward! Whatever side do you take?”
BLUE: “Oh, neither. I simply preserve an alarmed neutrality.”
place where the Resident was a worse lin-
guist than himself; accordingly an immoral
and unscrupulous trader who spoke all the
known languages of Cafetaria was called
in to help. He wrote the address out, ami
the potentate delivered it in due course.
After the opening two lady mis-
sionaries departed without ceremony. Half
way through, the remainder of the mission
staff followed. His Ex., busily reading the
screed, did not notice these incidents, and
was greatly gratified at the reply of the
local headman, whose words, after being
translated by the trader (the D.O. having
a sore throat), hardly seemed to justify the
unrestrained abandon with which they were
spoken, or the applause with which they
were greeted. But the Administrator did
wonder mildly why the D. 0., after a hurried
word with the trader, had frenziedly shooed
off a large canoeload of female beauty which
had come post-haste up the river from a
near-by village, as if in response to a hasty
summons. Another disturbing item was that
when he passed the Mission on his way down
the river to his yacht not a soul appeared
to give a parting greeting to the represen-
tative of the Throne. But if his Ex. ever
did find out what he said in that speech,
he never divulged it.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Two thieves, exerting much
effort and exercising much ingenuity, lifted
a couple of heavy cases out of a motor-
car in Melbourne recently. When they
found a spot sufficiently' secluded they
opened their find and were delighted to dis-
cover it consisted of new boots and shoes.
After they had tried a few on, however, two
disgusted Sikeses faded away, cursing, into
the shadows. The footwear consisted of
travellers’ samples, and were all odds.
* He * *
“Adelaide”: S.A. Supreme Court has
given a rather unexpected boost to the Eng-
lish theory that a Judge is not supposed to
know anything (in the way of Fact) unless
it is proved in court before him. The S.A.
case was one in which a Tramways Trust
’bus collided with a dray, and a woman
passenger, who had two ribs broken, brought
a claim for damages. Judge Paine said, in
dismissing the case, that he had made a
personal inspection of the scene of the acci-
dent and estimated the distances. And, on
appeal, the Supreme Court held it fatal that
“the Judge had received evidence without the
knowledge of, and in the absence of, the
parties, and allowed his judgment to be
affected by it.” New trial ordered; and
Judges warned, by implication, to be deaf
and blind outside the limits of their court.
❖ # * *
“Bloggs”: Re the inadequacy of our
Judges’ salaries (B. 26/9/’2B). A big house
on Potts Point, with a view down the har-
bor, has been made into two flats which
return over £lOOO a year apiece. It was
built by the late Chief Justice Martin, and
he lived there for years with a large
domestic staff. Incidentally, he also kept
up a big place on the Blue Mountains. How
many Judges without inherited means (Mar-
tin was, of course, the son of a poor man)
can support water-frontage mansions and
mountain homes nowadays? Most of those
whom I know, or know of, are living frugally
in outer suburbs.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Yallourn (Vic.), where the brown-
coal miners have their being under the
benevolent despotism of John Monash, has
gone into the pub business, and any doubt
as to whether the magnificent hotel provided
would fill a general need was dispelled when
170 thirsty souls rushed the bar immediately
it opened. The new hostel sets something
of a standard for the country Bung to aspire
to. It has a septic tank and hot-air systems,
and 14 bathrooms for 23 bedrooms.
* * * *
“Avoncliff”: Not only in the matter of
lady Parliamentarians does Australia lag
behind the U.K.; she-mayors are almost
unknown in these parts, whereas in the Cold
Country they are becoming more and more
frequent phenomena. The Lord Mayor of
Liverpool—a spinster—was recently reported
as giving some excellent advice on the bless-
ings of matrimony to a party of domestic
servants about to leave for this country, and
almost simultaneously I read of the return
from a trip to America of the Mayor and
Mayoress of Southampton, in this case a
married lady and her married daughter,
Apparently a she-mayor, who does a man’s
work, has to have a mayoress to do the
woman’s work, but this phase of the matter
is a little puzzling. However, since a
woman can sit in Australian Parliaments
there can hardly be anything to prevent her
sitting on municipal councils; it is remark-
able that there should be so little competi-
tion. Perhaps it is a pity, too; if there
had been two or three alderwomen among
Sydney’s civic bosses, the stories of black-
mailing and bribe-taking might have leaked
out a lot sooner.
* * * *
“H.S.” : The Port Jackson Co.’s new
ferry-boats were reported off the coast of
Java last week, en route to Sydney, which
draws attention to the fact that all ves-
sels desirous of a dead calm trip approach
SPEAK ILL OF NO ONE.
VISITING FOREIGN MISSION SECRETARY: “Oh no, dear lady. Our natives gave up eating
our missionaries many years ago.”
LADY (determined to be agreeable ): “Really? But I expect they are useful in other
ways.”
Australia’s east coast from the north. To
one who has travelled between Sydney and
Singapore and has also journeyed by the
Cape and Suez routes with their long,
rough and deadly dull sea-stretclies, it is a
mystery why European travellers do not
favor the trip by Northern Australia more.
Between Singapore and Sydney the tourist
is rarely out of sight of land for more than
a day. During much of the time he has
land on both sides, and efichantingly beauti-
ful most of the views are —lovelier, in many
ways, than anything to be seen on the Italian
lakes or the fjords of Norway. In the right
seasons the sea is calm the whole way, the
ports of call are interesting and the journey
only a few days longer.
* # * #
“Shep”: The risks of fire are great in
any big city, but they may be greater when a
big industry is being carried on away from
the beaten track. At a picturesque spot on
the foreshores of Lane Cove, the Cumber-
land Paper Mills had an unusual setting of
virgin bush, which was mainly responsible for
destruction last week of property valued at
over £300,000. The dice were loaded against
the firemen. When engines from surround-
ing suburbs raced to the call they found the
bush a raging inferno through which the
engines could not penetrate; instead of try-
ing to save the works their efforts had to
be confined to keeping the blazing scrub in
check. A fire-float, rushed up from Sydney,
couldn’t get near the fire owing td the shal-
low’ depth of the water from Fig Tree
Bridge onward. As a last resource fire-
engines were loaded on a punt at Sydney
and towed to the scene, but the punt had
to wait for a higher tide to get over the
mudbanks en route , and arrived too late to
save anv of the buildings.
* Si* *
“Q.N.”: I am not sure that the law is
the only profession in which a man has
to begin at the bottom twice (B. 3/10/’2B).
The doctor who has been a successful gen-
eral practitioner and who aspires to a
Collins-street or Macquarie-street practice
is in much the same boat as the newly-
fledged K.C. And the medico hasn’t even
the chance of a minor judgeship to fall back
on if he doesn’t make good in his new sphere.
sic * * *
“Lex”: • An argument in favor of the jury
system is that the good men and true know
more collectively than any Judge. This was
exemplified at Newcastle (N.S.W.) last
week, when a bootmaking juror interrupted
the Crown Prosecutor with technical inform-
ation about the marking on a shoe, which
was among the exhibits. The Judge there-
upon had him sworn as an expert witness.
But, as a rule, the knowledgeable juror plays
a mute inglorious part while in the box, and
is only able to indicate the strange lack of
worldly knowledge that distinguishes the
officers of the court -when he retires to the
jury-room. Hence the saying, “A Judge for
a good case but a jury for a bad one’’ —the
idea being that it is easier to humbug the
latter. However, the more I see of life the
more I doubt this theory.
$ * * *
“Incog”: In England there are still
cranky testators, and lawyers ready to
indulge their strange propensities. Quite
recently a Supreme Court Judge had to deal
with a will made in June, 1921. The tes-
tator, using, as the report has it, “a well-
known common form.” directed trustees to-
tie up his capital until the expiration of 20
years from the death of the last survivor of
all the lineal descendants of her late Majesty
Queen Victoria who should be
at the time of his (testator s) death,
The learned Judge decided that, although the
existing lives selected were very numerous
and it would be extremely difficult and expen-
sive in the future to ascertain the date of the
last survivor’s death, it could not be
said to be impracticable. He was therefore
compelled to hold that the trust imposed by
the testator’s freakish whim was valid,
though he expressed something very like a
hope that his judgment would be upset on
appeal. Even in that event, with costs
coming out of the estate, the testator’s five
children will have little cause to bless the
draftsman of their fanciful parent’s testa-
ment.
♦ H* ♦
“Hamer”: The trouble in Abyssinia
during the war, arising from German
intrigue, resulted in the deposition of
Lij Yasu and the proclamation of Men-
elik’s daughter Zanditu as empress; the
lady, it was recently announced, has
decided to give the recognised heir, her
nephew, Has Tafari, now 37 years old, a
share of her throne. It is a throne, if tradi-
tion is reliable, which makes most European
ones look like mushrooms; the Abyssinian
monarchy claims descent from Solomon and
the Queen of Sheba, although the Bible
makes no mention of their son Menyelek.
The prince was sent to visit his father when
he attained manhood, and given an escort
of sons of leading Israelite families when
he was returning, and he is said to have
carried away the Ark of the Covenant and
subsequently to have had it with him in
all his wars. His Jewish companions became
an Abyssinian aristocracy. The whole
curious story is told in the “Kebia Nagast,”
a sacred book, the manuscript copy of which
was found under the pillow of Theodore
when he suicided upon the British storming
Magdala in 1868. It rested in the British
Museum for some years, but was subsequently
returned where it belonged.
* =’= * *
“C.R.8.” : One of these bulls (B. 26/9/’2B>
stalked into our branch of the Telegraph
office last week. It was telephoned as fol-
lows : “Don’t ship oranges if boats nol
running.” The telephone attendant laughed
and the sender, who is Irish, asked what
the devil there w T as to be amused about.
* * * *
“E.E.” : The convict who blamed the game
laws for his transportation may seldom
have deserved to be believed (B. 3/10/’2B).
but many persons suffered in the early days
for offences every bit as trivial as snaring
a rabbit. When I was a girl I knew, in
Picton (N.S.W.), an old woman who claimed
to be a centenarian. She could not read nor
write, and she was fond of telling that she
had been sentenced to transportation for
seven years when she was only 16 for steal-
ing one handkerchief. Her story was inves-
tigated by a local worthy and found to be
absolutely correct, except that she had
slightly overstated her age.
A CAMBRIAN K.O,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“James Williams, a Welshman, when motoring in
Asia Minor, was held up by three Turkish brigands.
He laid out two with a right and left, and
applied the half-Nelson to the third. Finally he
completed their discomfiture by rating them in
Welsh.”
An impecunious Turk
Who’d rather steal than work
Espied a Lizzie stalls 1 among the dunes.
He signalled fo li.'s cobbers,
Unshaven shifty robbers,
“If Allah wills we’ll plunder him eftsoons.”
Poised on his hefty hams
Sat Shimmy Will-i-ams,
A native of Llandudno or Llanfair.
Examining the wheels
Sunk axle-deep, he feels
His brawny back the focus of a stare.
He quickly turns. “Well, poys,
How is it wit’ you?” Ploys
Like this are lost on villains such as they.
Three carles immersed in sin,
They clamor for his tin.
“So dat’s de nigger in de ’oodpile, hey?”
A dirty left and right
Put two out of the fight;
A semi-Nelson served the third to squelch;
Then Shimmy with his tongue
A final broadside flung,
Gave them the knock-out with a stream of
Welch.
The desert stars stole out....
But still they lay about.
Yet reason reels, imagination quails
The bandits’ plight to figure
Had Williams been a Digger,
Versed in the dialect of Note South Wales!
victoria.
WAWHERESH.
IF YOUTH BUT KNEW.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The friends we’ve missed, good fellows passed
Along life’s road unrecognised;
The girls unkissed, that now at last
We know were what we then surmised:
The tips that won we feared to follow:
The heights we might have once attained:
The beers begun we failed to swallow
Until the last sweet drop was drained:
The blessings lost we now r would prize;
The beauties that w r e might have had
But counted cost, so mean and wise
We now must walk in dulness clad....
But worst of all the memories
To life’s drab evening allotted,
Is the nnnalling thought, of these —
The blokes we should (and could) hav-
swatted!
Queensland.
MACESS.


Wherever Hats are Worn
BATTERSBY HATS are recognised
as supreme in Style, Value and Finish.
THE well-dressed man pays special attention to
his hat. It is the most noticeable and distinctive
article he wears. For over 60 years Battersby Hats
have been known all over the world for their smart
style, fine finish and flawless material.
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
SOLD BY THE BEST HATTERS
Actual Makers: BATTERSBY & CO., LTD., STOCKPORT.
For further particulars, writ*
SYDNEY:
BOX 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE:
BOX 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
BOX 763.


iflf
13
vvir
Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You'll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 6, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 6.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.tn. ’Phone: M 4131.
AN OUTSTANDING SUCCESS
e
The Latest Model of the Famous
ROSS
GLASSES
England’s Best—the World’s Best.
This newest production is of the Ross extra-wide field type, and has a
magnification of seven diameters with convenient screw focussing adjustment.
An excellent racing glass, while at the same time it has plenty of power
for other purposes. Price £l5/15/-
All Ross Glasses are sold at English Catalogue prices by the Australian Agents:
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Jewellers and Opticians,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL SYDNEY
Manager: HENRY S. PEISLEY.
Accommodation 500 Guests.
The Holiday City’s Largest
and Most Modern Hotel.
Hot and Cold Water and Telephones in
Every Room.
The Hotel Valet Service Cleans and
Presses Day and Night.
There are Electric Pressing Rooms
throughout for the Use of Lady Guests.
Half-acre of Delightful Roof Gardens.
80ft. above the City Traffic.
A Floor Especially Reserved for Ladies.
Inclusive Tariff from 19/6
Bed and Breakfast from 13/-
Telegrams: “Otelsydne.”
Telephones: M 2251 (16 lines).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Harold Luxton, Melbourne’s Lud Mayor-
elect, is the youngest member of the City
Council, and will be the first returned soldier
to wear the robes. He is chairman of direc-
tors of McEwan’s, the' hardware merchants.
A Bendigonian, Luxton left Australia with
the 4th Field Artillery Brigade, and served
with it until 1916, when lie transferred to
the Royal Air Force, collecting his pilot's
wings. He was afterwards shot do.wn and
badly wounded. He was educated at Mel-
bourne Grammar School, and, like the retir-
ing Lord Mayor, is a rowing enthusiast.
His eldest son stroked “Grammar” in the
last head-of-tlie-river race.
“0.K.”: L. A. Adamson (B. 26/9/’2B)
went to Wesley College, Melbourne, as resi-
dent about 1887, but left to become head-
master of the University High School. He
returned to the St. Kilda-road college as
Lieut.-Governor
and Chancellor
WILLIAM
CULLEN, who
at the Sydney
University’s anniver-
sary dinner last week
had the joy of
announcing Mr.
Bosch’s gift of
£220,000 for medical
research.
head at the be-
ginning of
1902. I can
speak feelingly,
as I was one of
the first boys
he caned in his
new job.
. George Bosch, who made much money by
importing medical, surgical and dental appli-
ances, has given another £220,000 to Sydney
University (he had previously given £30,000)
to establish full-time chairs in Medicine and
Surgery, among other things. The donation
11 lip of a Castlereagh-street property
and solid securities which are bound to
increase in value, so Bosch’s benefactions
may prove greater than those of J. H. Chai-
hs, which amounted to £276,000.
Langdon Bonython, proprietor of Adelaide
Adwibtiseb, was 80 on Oct. 15. Knighted in
1808. the same day as the late James Read-
ing Fairfax, of S. M. Herald, Bonython is
now the oldest knight resident in Australia.
Joining the literary staff of his paper when
“1 “ 1S early teens, he became part-owner in
18/9, and subsequently editor and sole pro-
prietor. He is on deck every afternoon and
night, and generally sees his paper out before
he leaves his office. He has steadily poured
his later savings into Government securities
and is now said to have £BOO,OOO in his
name.
Truby King, of Maoriland, most note-
worthy of the band of medicoes who have
devoted themselves to the study of infant
life, has decided after 21 years of it to
relinquish his job as medical director of
the Plunket Society—he has enough to do as
Director of Child Welfare for the Dominion.
His mantle falls on Dr. Derrick, of Auckland,
a Fernlander by adoption since 1913. Dr.
Derrick served in the pioneer baby hospital
at Karitane, Dunedin, and has recently
undertaken a three-years’ post-graduate
course in Edinburgh and London on lines
and at institutions recommended by Dr. King.
Ivingsford Smith and his companions had
rotten flying conditions for their return
journey from Maoriland. A head wind wor-
ried them all the way across the Tasman;
then they ran into a heavy fog above New-
castle —and it was a cloudy, moonless night.
Whilst they wandered, officials at the Rich-
mond (N.S.W.) aerodrome worked despe-
rately to put the big flood lights, which had
gone out of action, into order, what time
a crowd 20,000 strong shivered with antici-
pation as to what might happen if they
failed. A makeshift was provided by the
concentrated headlights of cars, a powerful
sun-arc lamp and flares, and the birdmen
made a perfect landing at 2.15 on Sunday
morning, after 23 hours’ flying. Kingsford
Smith and Ulm were fagged out; McWil-
liams, the wireless operator, could not hear
a sound; and there was. said to be only
three gallons of petrol in the tank.
Bob Elliott, the Vic. Country party can-
didate for the Senate, is one of the few
prominent Melbourne men with a notable
collection of pictures. His Toorak house
contains some of the best-known works of
Orpen and Augustus John —both artists are
personal friends of his. Elliott’s collection
is only rivalled in Victoria by that of his
father-in-law, Theodore Fink.
A subscription-list is going round for Her-
bert 11. Brown, who was M.L.A. for Durham
(N.S.W.) long before there was payment of
members. The old-timer is 90, and is not
able to get about. lie claims to be the most
ancient J.P. in N.S.W., and has held the
Queensland commission for half a century.
Lord Lonsdale’s new K.G. preserves the
ancient rule that there shall be “no damned
merit” in question when this highest of all
British orders is conferred. The red-faced,
gingery and side-whiskered old earl, whose
whim it is to dress like a groom, has never
done anything of a public nature but hunt
(he lias been M.F.H. of several packs), race
(lie is a Jockey Club steward), present
championship belts to pugilists and judge the
coster-mongers’ donkey-shays at London’s
annual Horse Show. He smokes more and
bigger cigars, knows more costers, belongs
to more famous clubs and is the patron of
more livings than any man in the Kingdom.
In pre-war days he was an initimate friend
of the Kaiser.
The appointment of E. Milner Stephen to
a N. S. Wales acting-judgeship gives this
remarkable legal family what is probably a
world’s record. It can now point to mem-
bers on the N. S. Wales Bench in four
successive generations. John Stephen was a
Supreme Court Judge in the very early days;
his son Alfred was Chief Justice, and
Alfred’s son, Matthew Henry, was a
Supreme Court Judge. Stephens have also
risen to the Bench in M.L., Victoria and
Tasmania. The present head of the family
is Sir Herbert Stephen, 2nd Bart., who has
been clerk of Assize on the N. Circuit for 40
years. His brother Harry was an Indian
Judge, and their father was the famous Sir
James Fitzjames Stephen. The Stephens
have been renowned for a century and a
half for intelligence, probity and the capa-
city to live to tremendous ages.
When Speacock began to read the Lord’s
Prayer for the first time in Vic. Assembly,
Hon. Minister Webber, who disapproves of
mixing religion and politics, walked out as
a protest, and was followed by comrade Cain.
Col. Knox, at whose instance the prayer was
introduced, was absent. Apparently he and
other members expe.cted that Speacock would
give a day’s notice of the orisonical prelude.
Wellington (M.L.) G.P.O. carries on its
pay list a real Russian general. The ex-
potentate is Boris Merlin. He was educated
at the Royal College of Pages and
was page to Alexander lll.’s Tsarina,
sister of Queen Alexandra, and just
dead. When he grew too old for
paging he entered the Staff Military College
at St. Petersburg, and as a staff-captain
saw service in the Russo-Japanese War. He
got his commission as general during the
Great War, fought under Admiral Kolchak
after the revolution, and became Governor
of Eastern Siberia. When the red tide
broke through, Merlin, his wife and staff
escaped from Vladivostock aided, by liis
old enemies the Japanese. For five years he
has held a job with the M.L. Postal Dept,
as translator, statistician and clerk.
Death has deprived Port Adelaide of
Walter Wadlow, a kindly little old man
with a white beard who spent 44 years in
the Customs. He was fond of relating his
experiences, the strangest of which befell him
in the early ’eighties when he .was examining
a large chest from a steamer which had
called at Fremantle. Inside the case, alive
but not exactly kicking, with fragments of
biscuits in his beard, was a ticket-of-leave
man from Westralia. He said he had been in
the case for eight days.
Checked his last invoice, at 60, Norman
Drummond, chief storekeeper for Electrolytic
Zinc Co., at Risdon, Hobart. He was one
of the Broken Hill men whom H. W. Gepp
took to Tasmania in 1017 and was known
from Charters Towers to lvalgoorlie—sev-
eral years of his strenuous life were spent
on the Westralian goldfields. Hard-doer and
good Australian, Drummond worked till the
last, although insulin had to be pumped into
him daily.
CYRIL S. POWER .
Cyril S. Power, whom the Vic. Hogan
Government has appointed to be poor-man’s
lawyer, entered the Public Service in 1910,
qualified for a clerk of courts job in 1911,
and, after an interlude with the 60th Bat-
talion, during which he acquired 16 wounds,
returned to a police magistracy in 1921.
It was not until 1927, however, that he
qualified as a barrister and solicitor. He
is a brother of Stella Power, the singer
whom America knows as the “little Melba,”
The visit of Lord Lascelles and his royal
spouse to Ireland was heralded by the burn-
ing of the remaining fragments of Portumna
Castle, the Irish seat bequeathed to the
Yorkshireman by his queer old uncle the last
Marquis of Clanricarde. Claftricarde was
hated in. England as well as Erin. He
never went near Ireland, which probably
accounted, for the fact that he lived till
84, but his closing days were clouded when
the British Government resumed his estates
under the Wyndham Acts, paying him a
mere couple of million for them. His hobby
was the collection of antiques and the wear-
ing of the most awful clothes in the peerage
or out of it. The antiques, with most of
his possessions, went to Lascelles; the
clothes were probably cremated with him—
at any rate, popular opinion was that they
should have been.
Though partially paralysed in both legs
for 50 years, Hugo Friedlander, who died
at 79 in Auckland (M.L.) recently, did as
much work in a day before he retired from
business as two ordinary men. He was a
very rich man—in Ashburton, where he
spent the greater part of his life, he was
reputed to be a millionaire a quarter of a
century ago, and he never ceased to accu-
mulate. A .Tew from Prussian Poland, Fried-
lander, with two younger brothers, set up in
business in Ashburton as grain merchant and
auctioneer. He was a member of many
public bodies, gave generously for educa-
tional purposes, raced horses —he owned Fin-
land, sire of Bovikoff —and made scores of
friends and few enemies.
Charles Rolling, whose proposal to endow
a school for the orphan boys of Masons was
rejected by the N.S.W. Grand Lodge because
of the stern disciplinary clauses contained in
the deed of gift—the institution is now being
conducted by the Masons themselves—finally
left his fortune to his widow with the request
that she should distribute it according to his
wishes. The lady gave £16,000 to the Sydney
University for the provision of a travelling
scholarship in mechanical engineering; now
the Rolling business, the Link Belt Co., Ltd.,
has been handed over to seven employees,
who will form a trust for its future conduct.
Mrs. Rolling is also bestowing £lOOO on each
of 11 hospitals for the endowment of cots in
perpetuity.
Louis Stone, whose play “The Lap of the
Gods” was lately produced at the Sydney Pal-
ace. is a native of Leicester (England), but
arrived in Sydney at 12 years old. A teacher
by profession, he was trained at Fort-street
and spent three years at the Uni. He is now
first assistant at Coogee public school.
Bondi (N.S.W.) has lost its oldest inhabi-
tant through the death at 90 of Hugh John-
son, who had lived thereabouts for 60 years.
Johnson saw a village grow up about what
was known for years as “The Tea Gardens ’
and is now Bondi Junction, and drove in his
buggy to the official opening of the first
Eastern suburban tramline. This ran as
far as Queen-street, Paddington; a single
track was later taken out as far as the Tea
Gardens, the Bondi and Waverley extensions
coming much later. From Rose Bay to
Coogee was almost entirely bush when John-
son first knew the district; and what is now
Bellevue Hill • was chiefly haunted by
gatherers of “five-corners,” a native fruit
almost forgotten nowadays by city dwellers.
Dr. Macgillivray, the Broken Hill natural-
ist, who lately took a caravan north into
the remotest backblocks of Queensland, re-
newed acquaintance with Dick, an abo. whom
he knew when he wqs a youngster, and who
even then was locally famous for having been
one of the trackers who searched for Leich-
hardt. Dick, who must be at least 90, intro-
duced Laura, his 14th wife, to the visitors.
Ages of Sydney University professors—
Brereton 57, Carslaw 58, Chapman 49, Chafrteris
49, Cooke 65, Cotton 44, Dakin 45, Dawson 37,
Fawsitt 50, Holme 57, Mackie 52, R. C. Mills 42,
Nicholson 53, Osborn 41, Radcliffe-Brown 47, Sadler
45, Wallace 46, Wood 64, and Woodhouse 61.
After what must be close to an Australian
record for continuous residence in the one
house—7s years—Richard Oke has passed on
in Geelong. In the three-quarters of a
century he was never absent from the old
home in Noble-street for more than a week
at a time.
Sir Oswald Mosley, M.P., who, at the age
of 32, comes into the family baronetcy and
estates, is about the most effective Parlia-
mentarian in the British Labor Party after
Snowden, who is a very, sick man these
days. Mosley is a handsome and exquisitely-
tailored young man whose life is completely
compartmented. On the one side he is a
fighting Laborite, always in his place in Par-
liament when he is well (he was badly
wounded in the war and still suffers a good
deal) ; and on the other he is a member of
one of the most expensive West End sets,
and a frequenter of White’s Club, of which
he is the only Socialist member'.
Captain Ratcliffe, who returned to Aus-
tralia on the Cathay, has held for many
years the most onerous job in the wide world
of clubdom. As secretary of the Royal
Automobile Club he has been largely re-
sponsible for many years for the astonishing
growth of the huge caravanserai in Pall
Mall, with its great golf club near Epsom
and its wonderful organisation in the in-
terests of British motorists. He is a born
organiser, a live wire, a first-class musician
and an ex-soldier of distinction; he joined
up with the British forces, as he happened
to be in England in 1914. Though no one
might think it to look at him, he is a good
Australian and an enthusiastic booster of
Australia abroad.
Bob Menzies, who succeeds George Swin-
burne as member for the East Yarra Pro-
vince in Vic. Uppah Chambah, is a leading
member of the Melbourne Bar. As there are
only five lawyers in both Houses, opportuni-
ties for Ministerial
office are greater
than they used to
be, so the new re-
cruit may some
day politically boss
his big brother
Frank at the Law
Depart ment —
Frank is Crown
Solicitor. Robert
inherits a taste for
politics from his
dad, who was mem-
ber for Lowan in
Vic. Assembly for
several years. An
uncle, Sydney
Samp s o n, was
M.H.R. for Wim-
mera in four Par-
liaments.
THOS. B. WEIR,
South Australian
manager of the
Commercial Bank
of Sydney. The
drawing is by
Autori, the Italian
artist with the
Melba-Williamson
Opera Co.
M. J. Pettigrove, who knows a trifle
about music as well as finance, succeeds the
late Herb. Winton as sec. of Vic. Taxpayers’
Association. Fred Knight will continue to
thunder (more or less effectively) at the
Governmental tendency to overtax and over-
spend ; he lias been re-elected president for
the tenth time.
TILE LAST ROAD.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a brave farewell you made. With
clear, unclouded brain
You took the road, the last long road, that
no man treads again.
I looked upon your closed eyes that held the
brighter view,
And would that God had fashioned me one-
half as brave as you.
“But time will heal the wound,” they say .
“and God,” they claim, "is .just.”
“And it is written in the Book that dust
returns to dust.”
I only know that life goes on, that men still
work and play;
And you, who loved the things they love,
are far, so far, away.
The sun unclouded gilds the morn, the sun-
set as of old
Like a glad spendthrift lavishly flings out
its wealth of gold.
And Antares and Arcturus still gleam in
frosty air,
And still the planets wheel, but now your
gaze is otherwhere.
The tracks that we together trod still wind
o’er hill and plain,
Still bend the trees before the blast, still
falls the freshening rain.
May there be birds among the trees, may
there be blossoms blown
Across the road, the long last road, where
you have gone, alone.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


THE CROWS.
"A league “being formed to secure simplification of the laws and of legal proceedings. It is pointed out that the courts are existing more and more for the
benefit of legal practitioners, and the seeker for justice, even if successful in litigation, may find himself a ruined man ”


The finest materials exhaustive
research can discover, knitted into
a stocking of texture inconceivably
fine yet so strong ; such is TVestike
“ 100.”
Purest Silk surface , reinforced
with fine Rayon , in every shade
that Fashion decrees. <x*
5/n
rc?
m
L»
v
a
up
HOSIERY
c 'An
cAuflralian
Crecbt io ru
llrrstiQr


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fugo
Detonators
Cartridgeg
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hacltields’ Manganese Steel Wearing: Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries J Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office J T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
nm«m
m
m
4
Everlasting Never-leak Blow-off Valve
2 YEARS’ GUARANTEE.
NEVER FAILS TO GIVE COMPLETE SATISFACTION.
Reference to innumerable users throughout the Commonwealth.
Made only Dy-
/
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD,
CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
Illustrated Catalogue cannot fail to interest you.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Ms dame Pompadour
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy ’
Palace (com. Saturday) • • “The Pigeon’
Empire “Bubbles
Tivoli Vaudeville
Recent .... ’ ’ Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s .. “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans”
King’s “Whispering Wires”
Princess Shakspearean Plays
Athenaeum “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic ......... Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
♦ —
Changes made in the cast since the former
production of “Madame Pompadour” have
not favored Beppie de Vries for her last
fortnight in Australia. In the revival at
Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday, the
principal addition, Russell Scott, made a
frigid wooer of Rene, the young husband,
who went to town and forgot his wife in
the less rustic presence of Pom-pom-pom-
padour. Beppie, altogether better suited
than she was in the late “Student Prince,”
makes it evident enough why the young man
should want to woo her, but the vice versa
aspect of the affair isn’t so understandable.
The Dutch lassie, who sometimes sings when
she should be speaking and speaks when
she should be singing, makes a refreshingly
light part of Pompadour. Vera Spaull,
spry and sinuous as the maid, is one of her
strongest supports; she never wastes a second
of her time. Nor does Arthur Stigant, though
he often goes perilously close to forgetting
the sex of his Calicot and allowing that
synthetic Malvolio to lapse into a blousy
pantomime dame. P. Cory’s version of
Louis XV. returning to find the compro-
mising gentleman in Pompadour’s room is
not very majestic, but improves by the time
the monarch’s girl friend has produced Rene’s
wife in her sister and has talked herself
out of an awkward hole. The chorus does
not seem to be as strong as it was formerly,
but it still does justice to Leo Fall’s light-
hearted music, and the production all round
should see its brief run through without
causing the Firm any remorse. It’s a color-
EVE ORMONDE, who used to be Nancy Atkins, of Adelaide,
and is now Mrs. Leon Gordon. She is making her first
stage appearance in “Interference” at Sydney Royal.
ful, well-dressed, excellently produced piece,
with plenty of light laughter in it.
* * ¥
Another week-end revival saw Drink-
water’s “The Bird in Hand” once more
tickling a large audience at the Sydney
Palace. The Grogan McMahonites will
run the comedy for a week; on Saturday
they make another change—to Galsworthy’s
“The Pigeon.” Both “Interference,” at the
Royal, and “The Patsy,” at the Criterion,
look like lasting indefinitely. “Interference”
is billed as a “terrific drama,” but it isn’t
a masterpiece; Leon Gordon, however, still
wears much of the reflected glory of “White
Cargo,” a piece that he threatens to revive.
“Rio Rita” is said to be coming to an end,
but that might not be reached for weeks
yet ;• the Fullers have lost nothing over
bringing Gladys Moncrieff back. Pending
outbreaks at the Town Hall include Heughan
to-morrow (Thursday) and on Saturday;
Xenia Belmas, next Wednesday; and on
November 1, Shura Cherkassky with the sup-
port of the Conservatorium orchestra.
T
If it did nothing else the change rung
in the Sydney Empire programme on Fri-
day night provided the Hai-bor town with
its most assorted show. Much of the bill
is vaudeville; there is a bright, brief revue
called “Bubbles,” and there is a picture
called “Trooper O’Brien” which has some
good acting in it, but is crude enough in
places to remind one that the Empire has
absolutely the best seats in the city in which
to go to sleep. The avoirdupois and gurgling
voice of Violet Elliott make the pick of the
vaudeville; the lady with the smile like a
water-melon has a great advantage over the
others —she acts as if she thoroughly enjoyed
doing it, which applies also to the part of
a lubra that she handles well ill “Trooper
O’Brien.” “Bubbles” is very light fare, but
it is tuneful, goes with a ripple, and has
quite as much in it as many a similar show
that fills out a night’s programme.
v v v
China with gold-topped cane and tooth-
brush mo., and China smelling fragrantly of
the cabbagee and beetloot, help nightly to fill
Sydney Tiv., where Long Tack Sam is going
strong on another of his perpetual return
appearances. Sam’s is a good turn all right,
even though his linguistic efforts are a bit
noisy. Barnes and Barnes, a male simul-
taneous dancing turn well above the aver-
age of such tilings, and the Harlequins,
horizontal-bar cawrters, are new items on
a pretty good bill, which on Monday night
lost Barbette, the most polished turn the
Tiv. has held for a long time. In Barbette’s
place now reign Tom Katz’s saxophone
blowers. .
The change of programme at Sydney
Fullers on Saturday night served to confirm
comedian-producer Ike Delavale and his
company in the affections of thp habitues.
Though the new revue, “College Days,” is
as much like its predecessor as one egg is
like anot h er ,
“parts of it are
excellent.” Its out-
standing feature is
the Eleven Won-
ders, a party of
children who give
an attractive dis-
play of acrobatic
dancing and tum-
bling.
New pictures
screened in Syd-
ney over the week-
end included “The
Head Man,” one
of the best light
comedies the Hay-
market has had.
Its head man is
Charles Murray,
who makes of the
local attorney in
TJ.S.A.’s comic-
opera municipal
politics a part
ouite away from
the common hack-
neyed versions. At
the Capitol, Clara
Bow is the leading
lady among the
“Ladies of the
Mob.” She proves
herself a versatile
lady, too, for she
does as well in
this serious crime
story as she has
ever done in her
customary light
roles. Another of
the war pictures,
“W hen Fleet
Meets Fleet,” is
the new offering at
the Lyceum. It is
concerned mostly
with the Jutland
affair, and intro-
duces the late
bitter enemies, England and Germany, in a
curious comedy that might be entitled “You
Tell Your Yarn, and I’ll Tell Mine”—the
spectator gets both versions of the scrap on
the one length of celluloid. The result is
interesting and the photography uncommonly
good, but it takes a master mustard-plaster
brain to draw out a clear idea of the plot.
The other naval picture, “The Exploits of
the Emden,” is still holding out well at the
Prince Edward. At the Regent a sprinkling
of vaudeville helps the exotic “Fazil” over
its last week. *
After the mystery, crook and sex-problem
plays and the* comedy and drama featuring
Yankee slang and flattened vowels, Shaks-
peare by the Allan Wilkie company at the
Melbourne Princess rises as a lily from a
dust heap.. The Bard seems almost as a
new playwright, with a craftsmanship that
does not sacrifice all for the whims of lead-
ing lady or man. In “The Merchant,” the
excellent Shylock of Allan Wilkie, the
delightful Portia of Miss Hunter-Watts, and
Alexander Marsh’s Bassanio must be re-
STRELLA WILSON, who plays the leading feminine part in “The Vagabond King,”
which takes the place of “Madame Pompadour” at Sydney Her Majesty’s on
Saturday week.
viewed together as almost a single part,
about which the Antonio of John Cairns, the
Gratiano of Dennis Barry, the Jessica of
Lorna Forbes and the rest fit like the bits
of a jig-saw puzzle. “Henry V.” on Satur-
day proved further the excellence of the
company. Adequately, though not elabor-
ately, staged, with a fine chorus in Lorna
Forbes to link the scenes, the play found
great favor. For the next three evenings
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is the bill:
Saturday night will see a first performance
here of “Coriolanus.”
* ¥ *
“The Family Upstairs,” by Harry Delf,
which previously had amateur airing in the
Yarra town, had a professional debut at
Melbourne Athenaeum on Saturday, and
promises to be a good consoler for unsuc-
cessful punters of the racing carnival. It
is one of those “human documents” of the
working class so dear to the American stage.
The female parent of the Heller family is
terrified that her eldest offspring, Louise,
having reached the mature age of 21 without
showing any preference for the opposite sex,
is going to be left, and is therefore over-
joyed when the maiden finds a young man and
proceeds to snare him'. Unfortunately, Ma,
presented by Mary Curtain, impresses Charles
so much with their affluent position and the
numerous imaginary admirers of her daughter
that he flits, appalled at his own audacity.
Then Dad (Wyrlie Birch) takes a hand, and
the curtain descends with everything in the
garden lovely, and the nice maiden —a part
that fits Leona Hogarth prefectly—engaged.
Leonard Dole is a beau any young girl would
like to have around, and Elizabeth Mears
and Raymond Van Sickle are happy as the
younger members of the family. Eve
Dawnay, Evelyn Wade and Archie Haslam
assist in raising the laughs.
¥ * *
At Melbourne Comedy on Saturday the
Boucicault-Vanbrughs submit Frederick
Lonsdale’s “On Approval”—its first showing
in Australia.
¥ ¥ *
In spite of the poor showing of a trio of
imported artists, “The Desert Song” is
making good running at Melbourne His
Majesty’s, and bookings are already heavy
for the Cup season. The success of the show
is due to Lance Fairfax, Herbert Browne,
Lorna Helms, the chorus, which is mostly
male, and the ballet.
* # *
Newly-billed turns at Melbourne Tivoli
include clever trick-skating by Wayne Bee
man, partnered by Alma Grace. Tom
Mahony, an “Irish comedian” who wears
the uniform of the foorce, says nothing very-
new. The Ingenues, after being headliners
for six weeks, pack up their instruments to-
morrow night (18th) .■
“Declass€e,” at Melbourne King’s, lias
flopped, so “Whispering Wires” will be.
that theatre’s attraction for Caulfield Cup
night (Saturday).
* „ . ¥ , .
Wirths’ Circus, with a complete new
company,” opens in its old location, the Mel-
bourne Olympia, on Friday night and will
proceed to celebrate the brothers’ jubilee,
* * *
At Adelaide Royal Frank Neil unfolds the
intimate garment that was found in Mabel’s
room, but at the picture houses women and
their accessories are merely a sideshow. The
Regent relies mainly on a tremendous
attempt to picture the Falkland Island naval
battle. At the York, Emil Jannings acts
finely—though too slowly—as a Russian
general, reduced later to a small “extra”
part at Hollywood. Rex the horse is also
at this house. At Wondergraph, Richard
Barthelmess as “Little Shepherd” holds all
the screen, while at the Pav. is Lewis Stone
in one of the Foreign Legion _of desert
dramas induced by P. G. Wren’s success.
“C. 8.”: In my opinion, Bill Ayr’s version
of “East Lynne,” at Melbourne Palace, is
preferable to Muriel Starr’s. Muriel played
the rickety old bromide with intense serious-
ness, whiie the Australian staged it with a
don’t-give-a-damn air that was well-nigh irre-
sistible. I wonder no one has ever publicly
produced the thing as a burlesque. During
her previous season Miss Starr performed it
at a private matinee for the profession. All
the company except her indignant self played
it as a farce, and a delighted audience nearly
bawled the roof off.
“Top Rail”: Nearly every second vaude-
ville act is billed as sensational, but the
adjective isn’t out of place against the name
of Barbette, lately starring at Sydney Tiv.
The turn is sensational; it wrings “Ohs”
and “Ahs” from male and female in the
audience, and runs honest shivers down even
the masculine spine. Moreover, it has polish,
the thing upon which most vaudevillains fall
down, and though it pulls the leg of the
audience, it pulls it in a legitimate way.
Apropos of this, a male dancer on at the
same time did his leg-pulling in the other
way. The audience named the dance and he
did it, and he had repeated the one cycle of
dance steps half a dozen times in response to
different requests before all the audience woke
up: even then it might not have wakened
if he had not volunteered the information
that it was being a bit of an ass.
“Spokeshave”: The packed and worship-
ping house which assembled to see the pre-
miere of “Turandot” in Melbourne was not
listening to the last notes of Puccini, but to a
score written by the utterly-unknown sisters
Frida and Goldina Rubinsohn, of Tel Aviv,
near Jaffa, in the Holy Land; this, any-
way, is the exciting announcement recently
made in Paris’s leading musical and dramatic
daily. The suspicions of the ladies, it is
alleged, were aroused by a description of
the opera, and when they sent for the score
they found it note for note a plagiarism.
The two pieces were then played over before
a roomful of musicians, who signed a state-
ment that they were identical. So satisfied
are the Misses Rubinsohn that they have
been imposed on that they have put the
matter in the hands of a leading New York
lawyer. Their score was published in 189(1
in Hamburg.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1927,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment- of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
ii CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, n.s.w.
Even well-informed people are often amazed to learn that
the average age of men enrolled in the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute is 37 at the time of enrolment; that 60% are
owners or officers of businesses; that 25% are department
heads and that 15% are clerks and assistants.
The most famous
little book on
business
ever written.
We will gladly
send you a
complimentary
copy.
è
Name
Business Address
Modern
Queensland
insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
llurirlary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney).
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Net Prefs. Prefs.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
275 765
1920. .101,249 9000 10 p.c. = 40,980 227’,034
Surplus from sale of property, £9OOO .. 230,034
Provision for depreciation of stock, £60,000 176,034
1921.. 3,984 9000 8,573 ,7Ap.c.= 37,090 125,355
1922.. 85,262 9000 8,485 10 ~ „ 49,453 143,679
1923.. 90,107 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 166,760
1924.. 95,776 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,453 195,510
1925.. 97,989 9000 8,573 10 „ „ 49,876 226,050
1926. .104,789 9000 9,911 10 „ „ 50,000 261,928
Premiums on shares, £25,000 .. .. 286,928
1927. .106,885 9000 13,330 10 p.c. - 52,764 318,719
1928.. 98,136 9000 18,403 10 „ „ 59,537 329,915
That is not a bad result, all things con-
sidered. After trading at the corner of
George and Barrack streets since 1838, the
co. uprooted itself and moved to fine new 11-
storeyed premises which it had built front-
ing- Elizabeth; Market and Castlereagh
streets, overlooking Hyde Park and oppo-
site St. James (City Railway) station. The
move was made at the end of last November.
Doubt was whether, with a much larger sum
locked up in premises, sales could be in-
creased sufficiently to show a satisfactory
profit. The board says that the additional
space lias resulted in an increase in turn-
over quite up to expectations.
Even those retailers who have worked
uninterruptedly have found trade hard
during the past year; to David Jones’s,
with disturbance and dislocation and the
handicap of new premises and to a large
extent a new staff, the period must have been
one of extraordinary difficulty. Moreover,
for five months of the term a large amount
of money, much of it interest-bearing, was
quite unproductive in the new premises. All
these handicaps contrived to pull down the
year’s net profit £8749 below the 1927 figure;
and it is a wonder it was not more. After
satisfying the two lots of prefs.—they called
for £27,403 —enough remained to pay 11.8
p.c. on the average ordinary capital com-
pared with 16, 17.1, 16.1. 15.5. 14.6 and 13.7
p.c. hack to 1922.
Given normal conditions the current year's
results should shovV improvement on last
year’s figures, hut to what extent remains to
he seen. It is not the firm so much as it is
the shop that very many women like or dis-
like ; so there is always a considerable risk
about a big shift like David Jones’s, even
though it he inescapable. The co. continues
to trade in men’s wear at the old address
in George-street, but whether this section of
the business is a profit-earner is not stated.
Part of the old premises, held under lease,
was taken over by Board, Watson, Ltd.,
and. some of the old leases which fell in
during the year were not renewed. Still
there is a tidy sum represented by the old
freehold, which can’t be giving the co. much
of a return.
At July 31 fixed assets represented 60.1
p.c. of_ the balance-sheet total as against
only 45.5 p.e. two years earlier: obviously
turnover needs to he much livelier if satis-
factory profits arc to he maintained. Over
the same period the new premises and plant
visibly swallowed up £695,247. and share-
holders were called upon for only £225,000
of it, including £25,000 of share premiums.
This comparison of balance-sheet figure's
shows the bi.ff changes that have taken place
since the co. bought the freehold of the
Elizabeth-street property in 1920:
1920. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. ... £559,804 £965,044 £1,000,000
Deposits .. .. 14,369 10,374 50,716
Overdraft . . . . 287,259 100,761
Sundry creditors .. 121,620 173,024 211,352
Mortgages, etc. . . 203,585 209,074 465,437
Total liabilities .. £626,833 £392,472 £828,266
Fixed assets .. .. 520,250 993,259 1,324,273
Stocks . . . . . . 669,308 438,954 597,766
Book debts . . . . 199,632 239,227 274,015
Investments, cash, etc. 49,470 43,779 6,002
Chief movements last year were in connec-
tion with premises and stocks. To the book
value of the former £331.014 was added, and
to the latter £158.812. To do this and carry
£34,788 more of hook debts the board went
outside' for an extra £435,794, of which
£276,657 was tacked on to the mortgage
(£452,532) and £100.761 was on overdraft.
The net increase in the more or less liquids
(£877,783), including stocks, was £155.823,
so the more or less liquid surplus (£49,517)
was £279,971 poorer than at the previous
balance. However, there was nothing uneasy
in the financial position. The floating debt
(£375,734) was well covered. The mortgage,
by the way, has al5 years’ currency. No
hint is given as to the basis on which stocks
have been taken into the sheet, and much
depends upon that and the buying. A drop
of £20,293 in the London credits (£12,906)
suggests that no big buying programme was
afoot when the books were ruled off.
The round million of paid capital is in
150,000 6 p.c. first cum. prefs., 250,000
7£ p.c. second cum. prefs. and 600,000 ords.
A year ago the market paid 30s. for the
ords., but rumors of one kind and another
had depressed the figure to 23s 3d. in March
last. Since then there has been a consistent
strengthening in the price; recent sales were
at 275. 3d. The return at that figure, after
allowing for the final div. (Is.), is 7.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
backing is 30s. lid. The prefs., which rank
in tlic order stated, have priority as to capi-
tal ; the net tangible backing for the firsts
is £8 17s. 4d., and for the seconds £4 14s. 5d.,
and last year’s net profit was 3£ times their
combined annual requirements. The 6 per
cents, are priced at par, and the 7i per
cents, at 225. At the latter figure the return
is 6.8 p.c.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends ,
Pref. Towards
June, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
11,341
1922.. 16,284* 7,571 8713 2,628
Loss.
1923.. 1,380 - 4,008
1924.. 1,169 5,177
1925.. 934 6,111
Capital written off, £322,104.
To Re-
Profit. serves. Reserves.
1926.. 19,308 f 18,000 1308 1,308
1927.. 36,041 36,000 —, 41 1,349
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 1,611 262
*Three months. fßix months.
This co. owns all the scrip in Lincoln Spin-
ning Mills and Lincoln Knitting Mills. It was
formed in 1922 when the two operating con-
cerns decided to free themselves of their
dependence on outside money and provide
for expansion. The public put up £400,000
in 9 p.c. cum. prefs. for the purpose, and
profits of at least £98,875 p.a. were spoken
of. Estimates, however, went all awry, as
the figures in the table show. Then a fire,
which destroyed most of the knitting mills
in 1925, made reconstruction inevitable. In
the clean up £BO,OOO of goodwill gnd £27,241
of acumulated losses were wiped out and the
fixed assets were written down to wliat was
considered their then worth. To balance
the books £322,104, equal to 16s. per £1
share, was struck off the ord. capital, reduc-
ing it to £80,527. The prefs. suffered no
capital loss, but agreed to forego £133,000-
odd of accumulated divs. In return they got
a 10 years’ right to an extra 3 p.c. out of
the profits of any year after the ords. had
collected 10 p.c.
But even with the deadwood cut out
and a flying start on the manufacturing side,
things have not worked out as was. expected.
Here is a comparison of the combined trad-
ing results of the two mills since the recon-
struction
1926.* 1927. 1928.
Gross profit .. £52,693 £115,305 £116,398
Exes 26,729 76,444 79,498
Net profit . ■ .. £25,964 £38,861 £36,900
Divs. paid .. .. 22,000 37,500
*Six months!
After setting aside £22,320 for depreciation
the profits were £1961 less than in the pre-
vious year, and only £9OO more than the
amount necessary to meet the holding co.’s
pref. requirements. But no distribution was
made: instead the two operating companies
kept the profits in the business in order to
strengthen the finances, so the holding co.’s
exes. (£1611) showed up as a loss in its
accounts.
The Knitting Mill appears to be the
trouble. For the year to June 30, 1927.
production was not up to expectations and
many orders had to be cancelled. It paid
approximately 5 p.c.; the Spinning Pty.
paid 10 p.c. The board blamed the manage-
ment and a change was made on July 1,
1927. How much each mill contributed to
last year’s profit is not stated, but the
spinning section is said to have been well
and profitably employed. The knitting fac-
tory, with practically all new plant, again
faiied to show the results anticipated. Of
course competition is keen and efficient, and
the management, no doubt, is having diffi-
culty in repairing the damage that lias been
done.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the tw T o operating cos. Paid capi-
tal in the Spinning Mill is £282,650 and in
the Knitting Mill £186,472: —
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £469,122 £469,122 £469,122
Advances.. .. .. 32,284 49,909 12.309
Trade creditors .. 147,533 231,105 278,929
Freeholds .. .. 98,348 101,206 99,463
Plant .. .. .. 225,267 242,217 235,098
Stocks 208,180 282,018 318,026
Book debts, etc. .. 121,103 130,020 149.997
The year’s surplus earnings and the. net
increase of £10,224 in the debt went mostly
into stocks (£318,026, up £36,008) and
book debts (£149,997, up £19,977). Thus
the more or less liquid surplus (£176,785)
was strengthened by £45,761. Much de-
pends upon whether the Knitting Mills por-
tion of the stocks have been written (Jown
sufficiently.
During the year Mr. Gaunt, of Bradford,
who held approximately three-quarters
(300,000) of the ordinary shares and over
a Quarter (116,900) of the prefs., unloaded
liis entire holding on the Australian market.
Under pressure of selling orders the prefs.
(the ords. are not listed), which were
priced at par. or thereabouts a year ago,
sagged to 12s. shortly after the close, of last
accounts, but have recovered to 16s. since the
publication of the sheet. These shares carry
Is. 9d. accrued dividend. After allowing for
this the net tangible backing amounts to
235. 9d., of which plant represents 11s. 9d._;
freehold, 55.; surplus liquids and semi-
liquids, 7s.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 37,605 10 p.c. = 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59.296
Reserves disappeared, £164 .. 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40,005 8 „ „ 25,098 14,907 109,622
1922.. 39,931 8 ~ „ 25,098 14,833 124,455
June,
1923.. 26,993 8 „ „ 16,732 9,261 133,716
1924.. 40,282 8 „ „ 25,098 15,184 148,900
1925.. 40,158 84 „ ~ 26,667 13,491 162,391
1926.. 41,356 94 „ ~ 29.803 11.553 173,944
1927.. 42,317 10" „ „ 31,372 10,945 184,889
1928.. 45,058 10 „ „ 31,372 13,686 198,575
Last year’s movements in the advances and
property items were insignificant. In the
previous term the book value of advances
had 1 moved up no less than £54,407, com-
pared with a growth of only £7130 in the
year before that, and freeholds, etc., on the
other hand, contracted £10,791, together an
indication that the co. had been successfully
unloading its subdivisions and making ad-
vances to buyers for building purposes. Last
year’s saving in rates and taxes alone
amounted to £4026 ; but the declared profit on
transactions (£71,286) was £1246 less than
in 1927, so the spring in the net profit was
only £2741. This was 14.3 p.c. on capital
compared with 13.4, 13.2, 12.8 and 12.8 p.c.
back to 1924. When the books were last
ruled, off there was 13s. 3d, of visible re-
serves to assist each £1 of paid capital
(£313,724). That. is. to say, shareholders’
funds had to earn only 6.1 p.c. to pay a 10
p.c. div. Actually average funds netted
5.9 p.c. last year.
The co. has been subdividing Sydney
suburban properties and financing horn -
builders for the last 43 years, and for 20
years past, at any rate, lias made a wonder-
ful success of the business. The boom in
land values, largely created and maintained
by a lavish expenditure of Government loan
moneys, and the house shortage, largely a
consequence of the Fair Rents Act, have
helped to make things easy for cos. like
the International, whose alert management
has made the most of opportunities. In 1910
paid capital was £56,122. During the fol-
lowing decade £247,266 of bonus scrip was
handed out; the last lot (£78,277, in 1919)
came from inner reserves and it is reasonable
to presume that similar provision against
a slump in values and other contingencies
has been made out of more recent profits.
Amongst other things this should simplify
the payment of dividends under adverse con-
ditions.
The net comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the steady progress of the busi-
ness :
Property Cash
and aYid 1 n-
Liabilities. Advances. Premises, vestments.
1915.. £49,324 £224,499 £57,947 £6,863
1920.. 25,947 289,499 84,740 86,896
1922.. 17,404 360,990 67,837 55,805
1923.. 20,098 368,737 73,854 56,378
1924.. " 25,044 379,429 94,786 54.103
1925.. 18,428 405,333 81,379 44.271
1926.. 18,088 412,463 85,185 47,694
1927.. 32,739 466,870 74,726 33,941
1928.. 22,633 466,641 74,834 37,843
One of the features of the co.’s acounts is
its independence of outside finance, and that
is a very desirable state of affairs in this
class of business. Last year £10,106 was
clipped off the debt, reducing it to £22,633.
At the close of accounts there was 335. sd.
in cash and public securities, etc., alone to
meet every £1 coming to creditors, who had
only lid. at risk in the business for every
£1 owned by shareholders. The book value
of advances and properties (£541,475), re-
puted to be well protected internally, is equal
to 345. 6d. per fully paid £1 share. That
includes the taxation and public risk re-
serves (£28,500), which are not included with
reserves in the introductory table.
On the market buyers offer 335. for the
pound shares, and sellers ask 365. At the
middle price the return is 5.8 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profits. (Prefs. and Ords.) serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
19X8.. 14,771 12j p.c. = 7,500 7,271 21,654
191 y. . ' 23,726 10 ~ „ 12,091 11,635 f 28 396
Written off, £4893 )
1920.. 33,999 15 p.c. = 25,312 8,087 37,083
Co. reconstructed: £90,000 of
bonus shares issued (one in three).
Accounts for 1921 not available.
1922.. 57,513 121 p.c. = 41,203 16,310 6,421
1923.. 71,096 121 „ „ 46,500 24,596 31,017
1924.. 75,207 10' „ ~41,625 33,582 64,599
1925.. 39,838 8 „ „ 36,750 3,088 67,687
1926.. 64.981 10 „ „ 50,000 14,981 82,668
1927.. 79,813 11 „ ~ 55,000 24,813 107,481
1928.. 71,600 10 „ ~50,000 21,600 129,081
Last year trade was dull, and retailers felt
the pinch. That meant, amongst other
things, that the textile manufacturer’s order-
book was not so full as it had been in the
previous term; also the fact that business
was harder to get put an edge on competi-
tion, which did not help overhead. A.K.M.’s
gross profit from trading (£63,532) fell away
£BOB2 and exes. (£24,164) were £1597
heavier, but the blow was softened a trifle
by the extra £1465 received in divs. from
Yarra Falls; thus the net shrinkage, in the
final figure was £8213. Still enough was
earned to show 14.3 p.c. on the capital com-
pared with 16, 13, 8.7 and 18.1 back to
1924.
Nevertheless the board, which took a
cautious view of the position, chipped a
point off the div., reducing it to 10 p.c., and
sent nearly 30 p.c. of the year’s net earn-
ings to reserves, making them £129,081 in
excess of the goodwill (£25,000). That
amount has been accumulated during the
eight years since the reconstruction in 1920,
when four new shares were handed out for
every three previously held; over the same
period shareholders have averaged a whisper
over 9 p.c., equal to 12 p.c. on old holdings.
And things probably would have been .better
only for the fire which destroyed part of
the plant in 1924 and seriously affected
trading profits. The saving feature was
£44.500 of bonus scrip received from Yarra
Falls in the same year. However, the
recovery lias been rapid, and, encouraged by
a little tariff assistance, extensions to the
factory and plant have been made in each
of the last two years. Thus the co. is iu
a position to take advantage immediately of
any improvement in the market.
In its first four years as a public co.
A.K.M. plodded along in a small way. Then
the war provided it with the opportunity to
win a market, and the co. dug itself in
securely. Primarily to provide the knitting
factory with yarn the Yarra Falls" Co., in
which this co. holds 315,500 of the
750,000 £1 shares, was formed in 1918,
and it has been extraordinarily success-
ful. A.K.M.’s progress since may be judged
from the fact that in 1918 paid capital was
£60,000; it had grown to £500,000 in 1921.
since when it has remained steady. The hold-
ing in Yarra Falls, paid to £293,020, stands
in the books at par; as the last quote for
the spinning co.’si scrip was at 355. there
is a tidy inner reserve there. Last year
Yarra Falls’s profit (£87,019) dropped to
12.6 p.c. on average capital compared with
15.2 p.c. in the previous year, and the
div v was reduced from 111 p.c. to 10 p.c.
A.K.M.’s share of the final div. will be
included with the current year’s figures.
During the year the board nipped £31,281
off the debt; that and other movements are
seen in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1918. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital.. £60,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 3,484 49,203 75,215 43,934
Property, plant
and machinery 28,914 202,182 246,009 273,965
Stocks . . 18,996 104,641 125,814 111,708
Book debts .. 18,896 66,837 76,219 52,511
Cash, etc. . . 29,832 26,028 553 18,086
Shares in
associated cos. Nil 293,020 318,500 318,500
Book debts (£52.511, down £23,70S during
the year) are lower than at any time since
1924. This may be a reflection of the
duller trading conditions, or it may be
largely due to altered credit arrangements.
Stocks (£111,708) are down £14,106, and
that is a move in the right direction. The
more or less liquid surplus (£138,371), in-
cluding stocks, was further strengthened by
£10,700. The additions to buildings and
plant rsn into £27,956. On the other hand,
£18,955 was reserved for depreciation, mak-
ing the total so set aside £67,754, which is
not included with the lay-by in the table.
Shares in other cos. include 25,480 £1
shares in Austral Silk and Cotton Mills, Ltd.,
formed a little over a year ago, and in
which Yarra Falls and British textile in-
terests are also interested. It commenced
operations in October, 1927, and at June
30 had made a loss of £4398; prospects,
however, are said to be encouraging.
For A.K.M. scrip the market pays 305..
at which figure the return is 6.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The book value of the
cover figures out at 255. 2d. in net tangibles.


THIS IS PUBLISHED FOR INFORMATION ONLY.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
THE FIRST NATIONAL INVESTMENT
TRUST LIMITED
TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS OF N.S.W. 1899-1918.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £1,500,000
DIVIDED INTO
900,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each and 600,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each.
PRESENT ISSUE:
500,000 Ordinary Shares, payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and the balance in monthly instalments of 2/6 each as and when
required.
100,000 Cumulative Preference Shares, payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and the balance in monthly instalments of 2/6 each
as and when required.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir HENRY BRADDON, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Sir GRAHAM WADDELL, K.B.E.
Chairman of the Australian Wool Council, late President of the Grazier
Association.
A. E. BARTON, Esq., M.8.E., F.C.P.A., Consulting Accountant, Sydney.
F. CULL, Esq. Messrs. Geo. Cull & Son, Ltd., Sydney.
F. E. BRYANT, Esq.
Chairman of the Union Trustee Co., Sydney, late Manager Union Bank
of Australia, Sydney.
TWO OTHERS TO BE APPOINTED.
BANKERS •
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. YARWOOD VANE & CO., with G. MASON ALLARD.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Mr. H. J. BRIGDEN, F.1.C.A., Wigram House, 1 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS:
To establish in Australia an Investment Trust on the model of similar institutions which have had a remarkable record of success in Great
Britain extending over sixty years, and now rank in importance close to commercial banking.
CO-OPERA-
TIVE
INVESTMENT.
An Investment Trust is a co-operation of Investors who
combine their funds for investment, under expert guidance,
in such a way that risk is reduced to a minimum and a
relatively high return assured in spite of fluctuations in
the individual securities in which the funds are invested.
PRINCIPLES
OF
OPERATION.
The principles of operation may be reduced to three:
1. Careful investigation, before investment, of individual
securities by a staff of experts under the personal control
of the Directors.
2. Distribution of the funds over a wide diversity of sound
securities, with the object of insuring against loss by
diversification.
3. Close supervision of the individual investments with th
object of taking advantage of market conditions an
realising profits on turnover.
a. n
WHAT THE
LONDON
“FINANCIAL
TIMES”
SAYS (1925)
The private investor is undoubtedly beginning to realise
more and more the advantage of placing his money in
the securities of the investment trust companies, where not
only satisfactory dividends can be counted on, even in bad
times, but where the risk of loss of capital, inherent to
any business, is reduced to a minimum through the sound
distribution of risk, both geographically and in the varied
nature of the investments held.”
CONDI.
TIONS RIPE
FOR AN IN-
VESTMENT
TRUST IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Directors are satisfied that conditions in Australia are
entirely suitable for the establishment of an Investment
Trust. Investigation discloses that there is an ample range
of investments in the Commonwealth and New Zealand,
both for the spreading of risk and the making of profits.
A GILT-EDGED SECURITY.
A Share in the First National Investment Trust Limited differs materially from Shares in other Companies. It stands not for one security
or enterprise, but for a great diversity of all the most stable and profitable securities available. It has behind it the continuous earning power
of the individual securities, but, owing to diversification, is freer from the risks and fluctuations to which every separate enterprise is subject.
In the last resort, a Government Bond has no sounder basis.
PROFITS OF
BRITISH
INVESTMENT
TRUSTS.
Operating on the above principles, British Investment Trusts
have demonstrated not only that safety of principal is
secured by diversification, but that relatively high and
stable returns are obtainable with no more risk than i 3
associated with public bonds.
In 1925, of 35 representative British Trusts, 23 paid divi-
dends ranging from 10% to 23%. The remainder averaged
over 7|%. The actual earnings on the ordinary stock
were much higher.
1 1 earned between 20% and 36%.
20 earned between 10% and 20%.
It is the general policy of British Trusts to set aside a large
part of earnings to reserves. The Directors of the First
National Investment Trust, Limited, intend to follow the
same sound policy. Even during the War period, eight
Trusts averaged dividends ranging from 10% to 20%, and
the average dividends of 48 were 64%* Several issued
bonus shares for large amounts.
The Consolidated Trust, Ltd., one of Viscount St. David 3
group of Trusts, declared the following dividends during
the period 1922-26:
MONEY
FROM
OVERSEAS.
The ordinary stock of nearly all the great British Trusts
stands at a premium ranging up to 400%. The Trust,
with its connections in London and New York, will have
no difficulty in obtaining relatively cheap money for its
own Debenture issues and for investment in Australian
securities, public and private.
WHY YOU
SHOULD
INVEST IN
THE SHARES
OF THE FIRST
NATIONAL
INVESTMENT
TRUST, LTD.
1 . Through union ol capitals and diversification you secure
safety and a good return, even in bad times. A share
in a well-managed Investment Trust is a gilt-edged
security, but differs from most gilt-edged securities in
its capacity to earn higher dividends.
2. You obtain the service of an expert Organisation, able
to watch the Trust’s investments closely and to take
advantage of market conditions.
3. You share in the advantages of co-operative buying vm
a large scale.
4. You participate in the profits of a very large number of
enterprises without the risk that attaches to investment
in any one of them.
5. By putting your surpluses in an Investment Trust, you
are to that extent insuring yourself against the risk which
is associated with any single speciality.
The Golden Rule of Investment is not to put all the eggs
in one basket, and a Trust enables you to carry out this
rule to the fullest extent.
ECONOMY
OF MANAGE
MENT.
An Investment Trust, it is well known, can be operated on
very economical lines. It does not require a staff on any-
thing like the scale of Banks and Insurance Companies.
BROKERAGE
AND
EXPENSES.
The Trust will pay all expenses incidental to incorporation,
including printing, advertising, legal and registration
expenses, and brokerage.
CONTRACTS.
The only Contract entered into is with Australian Investors,
Ltd., organisers for the flotation, relating to underwriting,
brokerage, etc. This may be inspected at the offices of
the Trust’s Solicitors.
It will be observed that there is NO VENDOR’S CONSIDERATION and no issue of Shares except for payment in cash
APPLICATIONS
Applications and cheques to be sent direct to the Secretary, or to any of the Branches of the Union Bank of
Australia, Ltd., in N.S.W. Applications submitted through Brokers should be stamped with the name of the
firm. Country and inter-State Cheques should include exchange.
INFORMATION
Prospectuses and illustrative pamphlets may be had on application to the Secretary, or to Australian Investors,
Limited, Wigram House, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ASK FOR FULL PROSPECTUS!


INSURE, WITH THE
I
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS* COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory . Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUOIvLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
O. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
OCTOBER NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(5.
Principal Newsagents, or The Buleei'lN
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, 1 ertn.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred tiroes
as much.
We stock 4- GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
# * $ *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Svvanston Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* *
Furniture-makers. “The Arnold” Spray is most
economical for paint, varnish or lacquer. Australian
made. Booklet from R. W. Cameron and Co. Inc.,
24 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Roma-Mooga Oil Fields, N.L.—50,000 Shares
applied for. Twelve companies boring or preparing
to bore in the vicinity. Shares, 5/-, 6d. application,
6d. allotment. For Prospectus and Shares, Meudell,
Sharebroker, 135 William-street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
As an aid to land development, Pioneer Wood
Pipe is of wonderful service. Its initial low cost,
ease of transport and installation on account of
lightness and simplicity, its ability to carry any
class of fluid, non-corroding quality and long life
combine to make Pioneer Wood Pipe the ideal
conduit for irrigation schemes, dairy work and all
general farm and station purposes. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting r
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtaih Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. .
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
‘ Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ »
1918 .. £334,976 £240,000 £65,005 £781,470
to. reconstructed —•
Special div., £60,000 .. •• '21,470
Returned to shareholders, £(>8,832 .. C5-.,C08
Plant written up, £340,805 ..
Transferred to capital, £705,000 .. 288,44.,
Other writings up and adjustments
making reserves .. • • • • 390,041
Profits. Dividends.
1919 .. £344,113 15 p.c. = £120,000 614,204
1920 .. 2,766 Nil 616,9*0
LOSS. -oo , i n
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 068,419
Profit. ~-Q
1922 .. 296,060 Nil °64,4<y
1923 . . 354,232 35 p.c. = 280,000 938,711
1924 . . 497,633 35 „ „ 280,000 1,156,344
IG9K 521 590 50 ~ ~ 400,000 1,2</,904
Jit ;; III:™" os ;; ”, 520:000 1,270,183
1927 .. 355,207 45 „ „ 360,000 L 260,390
1928 .. 233,855 22?/„ „ 180,000 1,319,24 y
This is the third year in succession that
falling metal prices have cut deeply into pro-
fits. Over the period covered by the last
accounts the average price of lead fell away
£7 6s. Id., or 255. sd. more than the fall m
the previous term; the drop in the price of
zinc was £5 Is. Sd., and that was 21s. Bd.
bigger than the previous year’s drop.
Measured in net profit, the year s result
was a backslide of £121,352; the downward
movement in the previous year was £157,042.
Last year larger tonnages, better recoveries,
the, fact that the co. is practically unaffected
(until 1930) by movements below £3O per
ton in the price of zinc on account of the
contract with the British Board of Trade,
and improved returns from investments all
helped to absorb part of the shock. Divs.,
which were cut in halves, called for a bit
more than three-quarters of the net earnings.
The profit claimed by the accounts was
only £208,362; the difference between that
and the figure in the table represents net
additions to the various reserves, which have
moved in this way over the last three years :
1926. 1927. 1928. _
Special reserve . . £269,311 £270,844 £264,595
General reserve ... 165,870 173,611 192,010
Debenture reserve 149,291 162,904 176,517
P. & L. balance.. 237,891 140,583 121,530
Total .. -. £822,363 £747,942 £754,652
Depreciation reserve 346,149 375,777 402,922
New plant and
development re-
serve . . . . 101,671 141,671 161,671
£1,270,183 £1,265,390 £1,319,245
But a mining co.’s reserves are seldom what
they look. The mine ultimately becomes a
hole in the ground, and often the plant
turns out to be worth not much more. In
the South’s books mine and plant stand at
£84,608 and £858,073 respectively. Of the
latter figure £425,000 represents the written-
up book value, less £70,000 lire losses, after
the, 1918 reconstruction; the remaining
£433,073 is the amount spent over the last
10 years.
Perhaps a clearer view of the position is
to be had from the next comparison:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Assets other than
mine and plant. £1,091,197 £1,360,238 £1,364,113
Liabilities . . 200,405 178,923 133,599
Excess assets . . £890,792 £1,181,315 £1,230,514
The surplus assets apart from the mine and
plant are equal to 30s. 9d. per £1 share.
Five years back over half the working pro-
fits came from the treatment of old slime
dumps; last year the proportion from that
source was 6.6 p.c.:—
, Marketed •, , —Gross Profits—,
1923. 1928. 1923. 1928.
Products o f
other years £61,373 £19,909 £61,373 £19,909
Metals from
crudes .. 496,307 784,708 117,227 151,319
Metals from
slimes . . 276,063 58,802 204,305 12,106
£833,743 £863,419 £382,905 £183,334
Only 60,000 tons of refractory crusts now re-
main for treatment. As the old dumps were
worked down the production of crudes was
quickened. It has stepped up from 203,659
tons in 1923 to 335,566 tons last year, when
23,893 tons more were raised than in the
previous term. Last year’s crudes assayed
13.7 p.c. lead, 10.8 p.c. zinc and 5.20 z. silver,
an improvement of .7 p.c. in the lead con-
tent. All that and the splendid work done
by the metallurgical staff, who have in-
creased the lead recoveries (now 93.1 p.c.)
by no less than 6 p.c. over the last three
years, have helped to pull down costs: —
1923. 1927. 1928.
Crudes raised. .203,659 tons 311,673 tons 335,566 tons
Extraction .. 255. 11.3 d. 265. l.Od. 245. 10.2 d.
Development . . 2s. IO.Od. 2s. 11.6 d. 2s. 3.8 d.
Treatment . . Bs. 0.3 d. 7s. 3.1 d. 6s. 2.1 d.
Cost per ton . . 365. 9.6 d. 365. 3.7 d. 335. 4.1 d.
The lead bonus to employees ceased in Dec.,
1926, and that' also has helped the average
down, but the most important factor was
the larger tonnage.
Still the co. is in a high-cost industry.
Although its mining methods and drilling
equipment are abreast of the world’s best,
the increase in the quantity of pre broken
per stoping miner per week since 1913 is
not more than 20 p.c. Over the same period
in one of the Cornish lode tin-mines the in-
crease was 82 p.c. and in typical African
concerns 66 p.c. The difference is mainly
due to a 35-hour week underground at the
Barrier. That and high wages require large
production, big recoveries and fat metal
prices if profits are to be won.
The remodelling of the co.’s 20-years-old
concentrating plant, to be completed by Feb-
ruary next, should reduce costs there. Also
a Worth-while saving in power costs is pro-
mised from the establishment of a central
oil-driven generating plant, details of which
are being discussed by the South, North and
Zinc Corp. Their present steam-driven
plants would be retained as emergency units.
Here are balance-sheet figures
1923. 1927. 1928.
Debentures .. ..£101,200 £46,300 £32,700
Other liabilities . . 99,205 132,623 100,899
Mine account . . . . 84,240 84,512 84,608
Plant, etc 771,434 843,990 858,073
Shares in other cos. .. 454,770 481,470 475,220
Public securities . . 10,000 10,172 10,172
Stocks and stores .. 436,273 322,781 370,124
Book debts . . . . 19,547 23,860 11,773
Cash 170,606 521,956 496,823
Metal stocks (£238,343) were £32,905
heavier than they were a year earlier.
Readies have been taken in at £l9 per ton ;
recent spot quotes for the metal, the price
of which has strengthened during the last
few months, were £22 Is. 3d., and further
sliglit improvement is anticipated, though
without any great confidence.
Interests in other cos., the book value of
which is equal to 11s. lid. per share, com-
prise the following:—
B. H. Associated Smelters. . . . . . £245,000
British Metal Corporation .. .. 21,250
Electrolytic Zinc .. .. .. .. 150,000
British Australian Lead Manufacturers .. 20,000
Globe Proprietary Timber .. .. 11,250
Zinc Producers’ Association .. .. 720
B. H. Co-operative Coal .. .. .. 600
Australian Ore and Metal.. .. .. 400
British Australian Lead 7J p.c. debs... 26,000
Total £475,220
The debentures are in at cost, the rest of
the holdings are in at par. During the year
6250 £1 shares in New Metallurgy, Ltd.,
were written off. That lot and some sundry
income turned in £101,633 last year as
against £82,750 in the previous 12 months,
or enough to pay a 12.4 p.c. div. Work on
the new shaft (lift, x 22ft.) at the southern
end of the mine has been resumed. This is
to go down to the 2070 ft. level, and will be
equipped to raise 8000 tons of ore per week.
It is intended to serve for the remainder
of the life of the mine, and with the new
mill will probably mean the outlay of more
than £300,000, rpread over several years._ Esti-
mated ore reserves are unchanged at 4,250,000
tons; thus at last year’s rate of extraction
there is more than 12 years’ work measured
up. Also ore bodies are knowii to exist
which are not included in the estimates.
The price of the scrip follows pretty
closely the movements in the lead market.
The highest mark reached on ’Chang'e during
the last two years was 84s. 6d. in Sept,
1926. A year ago 395. 6d. was paid; recent
quotes were buyer, 47s 9d.; seller, 48s. 6d.
“W.1.U.”: Reference to the sub-artesian
bores sunk and being sunk between Broken
Hill and the Darling (B. 3/10/’2B) reminds
me of a splendid opportunity lost by go-
getters for forming oil cos. and unloading
unlimited stock on a credulous community.
While boring at Joulnie station recently a
pocket of gas was struck which blew out
the gear and threw debris skywards. The
gas ignited, and issued from the bore for
days. There was a lot of talk about oil,
and reports were asked for by the Common-
wealth Government. Analyses showed, how-
ever, that the gas was nothing more
than sulphuretted hydrogen. State-geologist
Andrews found, by the way, that the water
was let through to the basin by the sand-
stone rock of Scrope’s Range, not so far
from Broken Hill.
* * * *
“ J. 8.”: Re tests made of lode material
from the find on Hoppy Clarke’s New Guinea
Gold and Osmiridium leases (B. 3/10/’2B).
The nine samples were assayed, and Warden
Mac Lean satisfied himself as to the genuine-
ness of the assay before giving his O.K. to
the Administrator on Sept. 15, 1928. The
reef is in the bed of Namie Creek, 3000 feet
below the main field on the Upper Edie.
The quartz is a compact formation carrying
manganese, the gold being visible in each
piece of stone. The stone is quite different
from that of the Kaindi or Day Dawn, and
belongs to a genuine reef formation. Although
the Upper Edie is practically finished from
an alluvial point of view, excepting the
“Big Six’s” ground, development work on
leases on the Bulolo, Koranga and Namie
creeks has shown that the deposits of wash
are much greater than were thought at first.
* * * *
Negotiations for the sale of Yampi iron
ore (W.A.) to the Japs have been broken
off. Early this year Jock Thomson visited
Tokio, where some ironmasters were pre-
pared to purchase hundreds of thousands of
tons of the Yampi product per annum at so
much a ton. Thomson hurried to London
and secured the necessary backing to deliver
the goods. Later the Japs, after inspection
of the iron, wanted to cut the price, but
Thomson’s backers would not consent and
withdrew their support. Thomson is now
considering the advisability of asking the
State Government to financially assist him
to break out the ore and deliver at the
amended quote.
* * * *
Chairman Darling and general-manager
Essington Lewis, of the B. H. Prop., have
been looking at the Horseshoe manganese
deposit in the West. The Prop, is one of
the biggest shareholders in the local co.
working this show, and if results from
sampling and development at depth are O.K.
it may increase its holding. The Horseshoe
is the deposit which State mining-engineer
Montgomery estimated to contain 13,000,000
tons above the surface and to be of first-
rate quality.
•i* 'l* :1s
What has happened before has happened
again in the West. Winter and party, who
acquired one of Oroya Links’s abandoned
leases at Kalgoorlie, have just extricated
£l5OO worth of gold from 65 tons, and claim
to have a lot of payable stuff which was
either overlooked or left behind by the former
owner of the block.
As new reefs and lodes are scarce around
Kalgoorlie local gamblers have formed a
syndicate to prospect for deep alluvial. A
subsidy on a £-for-£ basis has been promised
by the State Government. A lot of gold
was won from the Adeline lead between
Kalgoorlie and Boulder some years ago, and
there are other spots worth testing not far
from there.
* * * *
Holden’s Find, beyond Meekatharra
(W.A.), has just been looked at by Harry
Urquhart on behalf of the Eastern crowd who
have sunk money in the show. The reef is
big enough, but it isn’t free milling, and that
has been the trouble so far. Urquhart has
made certain recommendations.
Wiluna Gold Corp. is looking around for a
general manager and other officials with
South African experience, and negotiations
are in train. Meanwhile mining operations
at Wiluna are proceeding under the super-
vision of Vail, general manager of Lake
View and Star.
* *
Boulder Prop, is slowly building up profits.
For the first eight months of this year the
surplus was £16,000-odd, which was substan-
tially better than that for the coiresponding
period of last year. The co. has not paid
a div. since 1924, but shareholders should
not have to wait long now.
Maranoa Co. (W.A.) lias disposed of
50,000 of its forfeited shares, mostly to
Perth and Kalgoorlie speculators, and is
preparing to spark up again. The trouble
for some time has been the inability of those
in control to fulfil promises and the conse-
quent difficulty of collecting calls. Results
of recent developments at depth, and dia-
mond drilling, have brightened the outlook,
and the shifting of control from Adelaide
to Perth is expected to do the rest.
: i= * * *
Glenelg Hills goldfield, in which about
£20,000 of Westralian capital has been sunk
and about which a lot of puff pars have
appeared fnom time to time in the Perth and
Adelaide papers, is down and out. Inability
to obtain water for crushing was the last
straw.
When Tinsongkhla’s dredge began digging-
last month it bottomed without finding any
tin oxide worth mentioning, though the
dredgeable area was estimated to average a
pound. N. H. White, a prominent Malayan
engineer, was then called in. Boring four
lines across, he discovered the lead to be
only two chains wide, though values measured
up to 21b. per c.y. Outside this old creek-
bed was very stiff clay and sand going about
half a pound a yard, and in his opinion
c[uite beyound the capacity of the dredge in
its present condition. His advice is to turn
the dredge into the lead and work up steam
towards country that is shortly to be test
bored. It seems to be the logical thing to
do. The co. has a paid capital of £141,500
in 255. shares paid to £1; for these buyers
offer 11s.
* * # *
Burma Malay Tin has secured under lease
mining, agricultural and other rights over
2,000,000 acres of land in Pahang (F.M.S.).
The title to the area is derived from J. H.
Irving, who holds from the Maharajah Perba
Jelal, who, in his turn, holds from the
Sultan of Pahang. The British Government
has. the final say in regard to these and
similar deals, but it is not expected that it
will interfere. The Sultan has endorsed
Irving’s lease. E. N. Mulligan, Burma
Malay’s chairman and mananging director,
is confident that the area contains sections
rich in tin.
* * # $
Changkat, Alluvial Tin’s last and best
beloved, has already joined the list of divi-
dend payers. Recoveries have measured so
close up to prospectus estimates that, since
digging began in April last, the big dredge
has averaged in the neighborhood of ISIK
a yard. Paid capital is £130,000 in £1
shares. The market’s opinion is that these
are worth about 495.
* * # #
In September Takuapa’s No. 1 dredge
got to the pound-a-yard stage, digging
140,000 yards for 62.5 tons of t.o. Selayang
recovered 22.8 tons from 105,000 yards, the
average dropping to .481 b. as against .6olb.
for August. Jelapang, which maintained, the
steady improvement begun in July, dug
94,000 yards for 35 tons; average .831 b.
as against ,781 b. for August. Yardage costs
were 4.88 d., Selayang; 5.31 d., Jelapang.
* * * *
Of the Austral Malay group, Kampong
Kamunting ran true to recent performance,
taking 63.5 tons from 130,000 yards, and
averaging 1.091 b. as against 1.071 b. in
August. No. 1 dredge, at Kamunting, is
shortly to be dismantled and shifted to the
new Karangan property, where a new pon-
toon has been launched in readiness. Asam
recovered only 23 tons from 80,000 yards,
an average of .641 b. The August average
was ,521 b. Ulu Yam lias been in compara-
tively lean ground for some time. Septem-
ber figures were 16.5 tons from 74,000 yards,
an average of ,491 b. The August turnover
yielded .521 b. per c.y. Tliabawleik kept up
the improvement which has marked its re-
coveries since the beginning of the quarter.
From 80,000 yards 49.5 tons were recovered;
the average being 1.391 b. July’s average
was .951 b. and August’s 1.201 b. Costs: Kam-
pong, 5.1 d. ; Asam, 5.8 d.; Ulu Yam, 7.2 d. ;
Tliabawleik, 9.3 d.


■J
%
w
llip^
‘Jins modern Ice Man calls once
> ——. the Ice stays always I
•it —to
Frigidaire not only preserves foods,
but improves them in keeping—
this is particularly true of raw
meats. Lettuce, celery and other
salad vegetables that have become
soft in summer heat regain their
crispness in the Frigidaire cabinet.
TTRIGIDAIRE comes to your home just once. It is permanent refrigeration
—automatic, dependable, economical electric refrigeration.
Frigidaire brings with it a new and delightful convenience. All foods are
kept colder,, better and longer, enabling you to buy provisions to last for
many days without spoiling. It provides an ample supply of sparkling ice
cubes, or you may use the Frigidaire Freezing Trays to make many new and
delicious desserts.
Frigidaire is infinitely better than any ice-chest. It is unaffected by outside
heat. There is no dripping water, no dampness, no odor. Frigidaire cold is
crisp and constant —in this cool, dry temperature, even salt and breakfast
cereals are kept free from moisture.
You simply connect Frigidaire with an ordinary power point, and from that
moment it operates permanently and silently, month in, month out. When
you purchase a Frigidaire you do not become a partner in an experiment,
for Frigidaire incorporates the practical experience of over seven years of
service throughout the world, and many years of laboratory research before
that.
There is a Frigidaire to suit your home—and you can enjoy its advantages
even if you live where there are no electricity supplies. Instal Delco-Light
and the convenience of Frigidaire is yours. Delco-Light is the self-contained,
dependable plant that supplies unfailing electric current for household and
farmyard purposes.
Instal Frigidaire this Summer! Inspect the various models in our showrooms.
If unable to call, fill in your name and address below, post this advertisement
to your nearest distributor, and free literature and full particulars will be
forwarded.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
Product of General Motors
tn
r
w
n
H f
V
lIIIIMMiniIIIIHIII
u
111111111111111 l
111111111111111 l
JO
jo
pi'
lIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIfItIiI
?3
i— i •
jii'tiii
o
pi
7*
IVIIIIIIIIVNIVI
>
191V9V911191VV91
r


WUITWOtty
AHEAD OF
DATE
m
1
■
H
136
mm
IfH
mm
warn
1 Id
H
I ' ,
iie-<4MnBMUr
A Point
Worth noting about
A rmstrong Whitworth
is that , if they promise
delivery by a certain
date , they endeavour
to k ee P the promise
and, if possible, im-
prove on it.
As witness:
Vessel.
Delivery
Promised.
Delivery
Made.
Ahead of
Date.
“Teakwood” . 10/11 /’27 i 5/8/’27
•‘EI Aleto” .. 23/1 /’2B 26/8/’27
“British
Endeavour” 30/1 1 /*27 14/10/’27
“British
Progress” 31/12/’27 ■ 4/11/ 27
| months
J months
I \ months
1 \ months
ARMSTRONG
WHITWORTH
FOR
SHIPS
AND
MARINE
ENGINES
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD .
SALES ORGANISATION:
KINNAIRD HOUSE, PALL MALL EAST, LONDON/ENGLAND
WORKS AND SHIPYARDS - - - NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE
Sole Representatives for Australia: Messrs GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd.,
Melbourne, Sydney & Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING


SS&s*—
I Jr. I u
•' J Ms (; si i: s*&», m
'
|
?Wr
* i
7/5 Quality Never Changes .
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: It TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
«t' j
T he purest tobacco only ,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made e(C Uhe Qreys” the
best "Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Tobacco that matters!
GREYS
to for 9«t. CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Up Top”: When the N.Q. Binghi falls in
love and the lady is coy, then if totem re-
lationships are legitimate he hies to the sor-
cerer, offering the necessary pre-
sent. A love charm is made, of light
wood about eight inches long and
two inches wide, shaped like an eye
and smoothed almost flat. Burnt
into it are mystic signs which re-
present the love of the stars for
the moon, and ochred bars repre-
senting an enamored he-cockatoo
and other fowl. The sorcerer mur-
murs incantations over the charm
and breathes into it, so he says,
a feeling of life which will mag-
'netically attract the senses of /the
girl. At night Romeo retires to
a romantic spot some distance from
the camp, threads a liair-string
through one end of the charm, and
commences to whirl it round his head
while facing towards his lady’s gun-
yak. The charm vibrates with a
soft but penetrating noise, and
Romeo speaks with it impassioned
words of love while glaring through
the darkness. All his mind is on
the girl, and the vibrations of the
charm are supposed to convey to
her his pent-up feelings. The first
night she may only stir uneasily in
her sleep. The second night, if all
works well, she should vaguely
dream of him. Romeo spells for a
week, but at daytime with every
opportunity lie says things to her
with his eyes. If she is still cold,
he tries the charm again. She
dreams frequently of him. finally
stretches out her arms and calls his
name in sleep. She wakes up,
trembling but deliciously warm, her
mind full of the idea of what a fine
fellow Romeo is. One night she
wakes up, crawls over her father’s
body, glares unmentionable things
at the domestic dog. and sneaks
out of the gunyah. Romeo knows
she is coming, for a thrill rises from his
toes up. lie whirls the charm frantically so
that his rising love will guide and draw her
to him.
* :■! * *
“Taveta”: Unlike Willy Wagtail, who
tries to fight the looking-glass (B. 5/9/’2B),
the little hook-billed honeyeater is extraor-
dinarily fond of it. I have a small mirror
on the wall of my back porch, and a pair
of these birds are continually hovering about
it. If undisturbed they will settle on the
frame and admire their reflected charms.
Several seasons ago they built a nest. close
to the glass, and by adding a few bits of
lining from time to time they keep the home
in readiness for their regular production of
two infant hook-bills. When the young
sters are able to fly about they also get the
glass-gazing habit, but the parent birds con-
sider it bad for the young, or something, and
shoo their offspring away.
TIIE DIAGNOSIS.
PARSON: “I haven’t seen your neighbor Brother Peberdy at worship these two Sundays.
I trust he, too, isn’t suffering from indifferentism.”
BROTHER NANCARROW: “Somethin’ o’ the soort, Passon. Caan’t call to mind name they
put to it exactly, but it gives Thomas ’Enry tumble pains in the middle
purts.”
“Gundy”: An old chap in a N.-E. Vic.
township has found a novel method of getting
even with a too-persistent noxious-weeds
DIPLOMACY!
ISAACSTEIN: “Vat makes you employ such stupid-looking salesmen in your varehouse,
Aaron?"
COHENSTEIN: “Diplomacy, mein friendt. Der customer looks at dem and den feels
he can easily get der best of der bargain."
inspector. He owns a block badly infested
with St. John’s wort, and for many years
has been getting regular. notices from the
inspector, but efforts to eradicate the pest
have long since been aban-
doned as hopeless. Came a
day recently when the, hap-
less owner received his hun-
dredth notice, threatening
dire penalties. In a fit of
rage he rushed to the local
solicitor and had a will made
bequeathing the weed-infested
property to the relentless in-
spector. This done he went
across to the pub and stood
drinks all round. “My hap-
piest day,” he said, with a
twinkle in his eye, “will be
when I look down from
Heaven at that blasted in-
spector serving notices on
himself.”
* * *
“E. 8.” : Some bushmen de-
clare that crows can count,
but that their counting is
limitecLfo three. Here’s some
evidence in support of the
theory, Three woodcutters
in Central Q. were greatly
annoyed by an old crow'
which used to sit in a large
tree about a hundred yards
away from their camp and
watch until they left for
Avork, when it would fly down
to see what it could get.
Often one of the party would
stay behind to shoot it, but
the crow was too cunning to
venture near. He had counted
two go off, and knew the
third was still in the camp.
Its career was ended when
a four man joined the camp.
They tested the crow’s count-
ing abilities by letting him see all four of
them walking about. Then three of them
went off and the fourth stayed in camp.
Down flew the bird, thinking all was clear,
and fell an easy victim.
“Gola” s The Australian magpie is übi-
quitous in Canterbury (M.L.), where the
many plantations of pine, gum, elm,
poplar and willow, which have altered the
appearance of the country and, to some
extent, changed its climate, afford numer-
ous nesting-places. Maggie has, however,
been slow to adapt herself to one new condi-
tion at least, the 12,000-volt electric trans-
mission lines from Lake Coleridge. Mag
took a long time to find out that standing
on the cross-bar and touching the wire was
a quick method of suicide. In the early
stages deaths were frequent, and even now
there is a heavy toll of but the
bird has at last discovered that the thing
is dangerous, and the knowledge is spread-
ing. Mag is held by many to be the worst
enemy of the grass grub, which in its turn
is probably the worst enemy of the farmer,
ruining annually scores of acres of prime
grass land, but the thrush is well in the run-
ning in the grass-grub destruction handicap.
i\z Hs ❖ *
“Iv.D.S.” : There is one big station in the
North where Binghi never touches the sheep.
On that place no white man is allowed to
touch game. The owner feels that he owes
the tribe their living. They consider in re-
turn that the run, being theirs and his in
common, must be cared for by them, and
they see to it that no sheep-stealers, white
or black, lift stock.
* * * *
“Pfella” : The gamest rooster I ever laid
eyes on might have come out of any egg.
Ilis shape and decorations suggested a mix-
ture of Indian and Malayan game, with a
look in from a brown Leghorn. A human
being had to take a waddy when entering
his pen, and it was necessary to be nimble
at dodging rushes. No child dared to nose
inside the wire-netting. Once a lioary-
lieaded old bull wandered into our back yard,
and over the netting partition flew Spurs,
attacking without any warning. The old
gentleman took the bird as a joke at first,
but early found out his mistake. He was
soon bleeding at the eyes and ignominiously
turned tail and bolted. The rooster flew
after him and, landing on his back, danced
a fandango of victory. Then he came back to
see that his flock was all 0.K., and, in pass-
ing. gave me a taste of his spurs.
(Continued on page 25A
A JUT AHEAD.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Me shoulder’s crook with the screws again,
an’ me leg don’t feel too good,
An’ before too long it’ll start to rain, the
same as I said it would ;
An’ me boots are done, an’ me feet are sore,
an’ me swag’s as ’eavy as lead.
But the good old spot that I’m makin’ for
is only a bit ahead.
It’s gettin’ dark, an’ the clouds are low, an'
the wind is blowin’ strong;
But it ain’t much further I’ve gotter go, an'
I’m kiddin’ meself along.
It’s an uphill track as ever I struck, but the
longest ’ill must end,
An’ a man is due for a change of luck as
soon as ’e rounds the bend.
I oughter been further along by this, but
that don’t matter a lot;
I’ll soon be givin’ me woes a miss, an’ me
worries’ll be forgot,
For a bit ahead there’s a bonzer sight to
gladden me poor old eyes.
A man’ll come into ’is own all right as soon
as lie tops the rise.
The track’s as rough as a man will find, an’
me leg’s against me, too,
An’ I ain’t been leavin’ the miles behind the
same as I useter do.
For I can’t keep on at a faster bat, like
once on a time I could,
But, lumme, a man’ll make up for that as
soon as the goin’s good.
For it’s not the miles that ’e leaves behind,
an’ it’s not the miles to go;
They leave no load on a feller’s mind though
’e’s travellin’ fast or slow.
An’ it’s not the things that ’e’ll do or see
on tracks that are old or new,
For nothin’ troubles a man when ’e ’as some 1
thin’ that’s good in view.
So let it rain if it wants to rain, the same
as I said it would,
Though me shoulder’s crook with the screws
again an’ me leg don’t feel too good,
An’ me boots are done an’ me feet are sore,
an’ me swag’s like a lump of lead,
For me goal, like ever it was before, is only
a bit ahead.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Beauty
Power
Economy
K
V
m
m
re.
rn i in 11 mmmc*
i
H
tfi
m
F
The simple, harmonious beauty of line that has
always characterised Hudson design, and the flash-
ing power that has made Hudson performance
notable, are now combined with an economy of
operation that makes Hudson the outstanding value
of to-day’s automobile market.
New, smarter body designs by internationally famous
custom builders; new brilliance of performance
with the patented “F-Head” motor; new refinements
in the exclusive Super-Six principle which revolu-
tionised automobile design a decade ago—these
advantages are yours in the new Hudson Super-Six
at an economy of purchase price and up-keep cost
that are nothing short of phenomenal
The nearest Hudson-Essex dealer is anxious to show
you Hudson beauty and to let you prove for your-
self the power and economy of the new Hudson
models.
All New Costly
Car Details
Higher radiator with vertical
lacquered radiator shutters.
Wider, heavier mudguards.
Colonial-type headlamps and
saddle-type side lamps.
Four-wheel brakes.
Silenced body construction.
Wider doors, for easy entry and
exit.
Worm and tooth disc design
steering mechanism.
Electro-lock type of theft pro*
tection.
Fine grade patterned mohair up-
holstery.
Wider, higher, form-fitting
seats.
N ew instrument board, finished
in polished ebony grouping
motometer, ammeter, speedom-
eter, fuel and oil gauges.
Steering wheel of black hard
rubber with steel core, and fin-
ger-scalloped.
Horn-button on Steering
Wheel.
HIUDSON. Super-Six
HUDSON,
127 in. Models.
Standard Sedan « . £550
Landau Sedan ■. 590
7-pass. Sedan 685
118 in. Models.
Tourer, Colonial Body 445
Coach, American Body . . . . 500
Coui-e, „ >, .... 510
Sedan „ » .... 520
Five Balloon
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. t LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER .


*THERES ♦
NO THROAT HARM
IN A MILLION
s"
20 for 1/6
z
%
SWEftPRKS
IVORY TIP
ARDATH TOBACCO
Ca,LTD M LONDON
“Yufu”: Is a rat-cat cross possible? A
neighbor of mine, attracted by a patch of
blood soaking through the plaster ceiling,
investigated, and found a freak lying on a
bit of straw. It was seven inches from
ears to end of tail, about as thick as a
thumb, and had a covering of grey rat
hair; it had a rat’s feet and scissor teeth,
but the head was feline. The thing was
alive, and when disturbed made a sound
like a mingled squeak and mew. As the
house is new there is not the slightest
chance of a cat getting under the roof;
therefore the credit goes to a rat mother.
Can any Councillor throw light on the
mystery?
* * *i* *
“Sea Nomad”: In the early days a sur-
prising number of white men carved out
island kingdoms for themselves in Torres
Strait, New Guinea and the Malay Archi-
pelago. They were mostly survivors from
wrecks, with a leaven of adventurers and
escaped convicts. Only about one in thirty-
escaped massacre by the natives, but these
used their heads and rose on the superstitions
THE FIRST BEAUTY SPECIALIST.
Satan: “Umph! And how did you persuade Eve to eat the apple?”
THE SNAKE: “I told her it was good for the complexion.”
of their hosts and the cupidity of the chiefs,
and often wound up as boss chief. > They
ruled with a rod of iron. On large islands
shared by different clans the chiefs were often
at war, and the lone castaway took advan-
tage of this by training his hosts to slaughter
the other fellows with but small loss to them-
selves. After one such victory the position
of the castaway was assured, blit he had to
step warily to avoid entanglement in the
intrigues of chiefs and medicine-men. Large
islands occasionally harbored two or three
castaways at a time. These were given
full liberty save that they were not allowed
to see one another, the chiefs fearing a
combination of whites against the natives.
Tales are told of the heartburnings of such
castaways when knowing that a fellow white
was living almost within coo-ee. On the
other hand, convicts, fearful of apprehension
by the authorities, ruthlessly opposed the
presence of any other whites, even ordering
their native warriors to massacre castaways
landing on the beach. Such a one was Wani,
of Badu, but there were quite a number of
others. These white kings were given regu-
lar harems, and the fiercest of them took
their pick of the prettiest young girls from
each tribe, and left as many children as
Methuselah.
* * * *
“Buna”: The whitebait season is one of
the yearly events that put life into the sleepy
villages of the Papuan coastline. To spawn,
the fish in their thousands make their way
through the reefs and into the quiet coastal
streams. From the watchers in their canoes
or on the reefs comes the call that the shoal
of midgets is making towards the shore,
and in an instant the female population is
rushing to the stream the fish are making
for, armed with triangular hand-nets. The
bucks, for whom the sport is too tame, bring
up the rear to supervise operations. Stanj-
ing side by side in the shallow waters, the
women scoop up the tiny fish in their nets,
never ceasing in their efforts until the rush
of whitebait from the sea eases off. The
landing of the catch is followed by days of
feasting, any surplus being presented to
tribes away from the coast.
“Simple”: Recently a Melbourne doctor
and bis family were staying with me. His
daughter badly scalded her foot, and he
asked me if I had any tannic acid in the
house. As I hadn’t, I suggested trying the
gum from a stringy-bark tree, which con-
tains tannin. He tried it, dissolving about
an ounce in a cup of warm water. Not
having a spray, he applied it by squeezing
a little from a sponge over the scald every
half-hour. In about two hours the desired
scab started to form, and a remarkably
quick healing followed. The pain disap-
peared after almost the first application.
* =!= =l= *
“Two Eyes”: South-west of the Mitchell
(N.Q.) the abos. stage a picturesque raiu-
making ceremony at which many tribes con-
gregate. The show being spread over 10
days the majority of the players are kept
busy hunting foodstuffs for the camp. Others
build a large gunyah, and prepare stage
material. Within a wide circle of singing
people the witch doctors commence the play.
Their naked bodies, well greased, flaunt
ochre bars and tufts of dyed grasses;
they bear armlets of clinking shells and
bones. Their mumbled incantations rise
from a whining dirge to a crescendo of
screaming song as they rush and slash one
another with knives. As the blood flows
other performers throw handfuls of birds’-
down into the air, which, forming a soft
cloud, slowly sinks amongst the dancers,
clinging to their bloody figures, or being
INSIDE INFORMATION.
TEACHER: “Oh, stop, stop! Be a man! I’m sure even your mother wouldn’t cry for
just a little pain.”
BUB-BOY WHO'S NOT FUF-FEELING VERY WUW-WELL: “Wouldn’t she? She starts to
howl before ever Dad bangs her.”
trampled underfoot. The blood symbolises
the rain of life, which must dry up if the
Great Spirit fails to quench the thirst of his
children; the down representing the rain
clouds. While this is going on, a stream of
workers carries stones into the gunyah, thus
signifying the gathering of the clouds. The
spectators then arise and, circling round the
gunyah, dance to a slow chant imploring an
answer to the efforts of the medicine-men.
The men whose bodies have collected the
most down then take some of the stones
into the branches of tall trees. Should
these drop, it symbolises the falling of the
clouds. Should real clouds form, it is a
sign that the Great Spirit is responsive.
Joyfully the tribes mass in a circle around
the gunyah, entwine their arms and with a
yell charge into one common centre and
burst through the gunyah. The bursting of
the hut symbolises the bursting of the clouds
and its fall is the fall of rain.
* * * *
“I-luffin-Guffin”: Notwithstanding “Bad
Australian’s” disbelief in my bush-fire theory,
that it burns the tops of heavily-timbered
country first (B. 19/9/’2B), I repeat that
in favorable circumstances it happens. I saw
it in the summer of 1895 or 189(5 at Korum-
burra. South Gippsland (Vic.). The forest,
within a few hundred yards of the railway
station, was so dense that the treetops—
-200 feet above the earth —were as an almost
solid bed of green. In a fierce north wind
the fire simply roared through this. The
timber was chiefly blue-gum.
* * * *
“Vero”: The abo., in his own primitive
manner, was by no means a bad cook. Wild
ducks, pigeons and other edible birds were
coated with clay, and placed in the middle
of a hot fire. In about 15 to 20 minutes
the birds were taken out nicely cooked, the
feathers coming off with the clay envelope.
Black swan and wild duck eggs were baked
in hot ashes, and the contents eaten out
of the shell. If the eggs had chicks inside,
Binghi was all the better pleased, but lie
drew the line at addled eggs.
“Bad Australian”: I regret that my plain
unvarnished tale of the kangaroo-dog fence
should stick in the gizzard of “Pick” (B.
26/9/’2S), who makes the amazing state-
ment that dogs will not keep watch against
or pursue marsupials at. night, and that
kangaroos often invade bush camps while
the dogs are asleep. The dog that does not
raise an alarm when a night prowler of any
description approaches the camp or refuses
to pursue an animal at night has no place
in the economy of the bosh, and his portion
is usually a charge of No. 2 shot. “Pick"
appears to be confusing the habits of the
kangaroo with those of the kangaroo-rat.
Every bushman knows that the friendly,
docile little animal is an indefatigable
skirmisher after the scraps from the cook’s
galley, but what attraction a camp, particu-
larly where the dogs are kept in kennels,
could hold for a kangaroo, which is notor-
iously timid in its natural state, is not at all
clear.
* * * *
“Hardial”: Those topnotchers among
shearers, W. Hannah, of Hannah’s Bridge,
and Tom Blackman, of Cooyal (N.S.W.),
have been making the fleeces fly lately. At
Booyomurra station, near Mudgee, they
averaged 2.10 sheep a day each for severaj
weeks; their weekly earnings ran from £25
to £3O each. They reckon on making £BOO
to £lOOO for the season.
:Jc * * *
“Sliinjukai”: Since “Carisbrook Jun.’s”
day (B. 22/8/’2B) the method of fumigating
pearling luggers in W.A. has completely
changed. A quarantine officer is stationed
at Broome, and serves notices each year
on all master pearlers to submit their
vessels for fumigation. The officer generally
uses the hydro-cyanic acid-gas method of
fumigation. He drops sticks of cyanide of
potassium into a 25-per-cent, solution of sul-
phuric acid, pops the stuff in the hold, bat-
tens the hatches, bangs the cabin-scuttle
close and jumps for his life. The method
mentioned by “Carisbrook, Jun.,” of allowing
a boat to fill on the incoming and drain on
the outgoing tide, was abandoned many years
ago. It was a most unsatisfactory way of
ridding a boat of cockroaches, lice, rats, etc.
Eggs were hatched out in full force a couple
of weeks later, and vermin climbed on to the
standing gear and masts as the boat sank,
and came down when the tide went out.
* * * *
“Horsesense”: Can horses talk? When we
were picking apples at an orchard in the
Somerville (Vic.) district all inferior fruit
was thrown over a fence into a lane leading
from the stables to the lower paddocks. An
old horse, Punch, was the first to discover
them, and he ate all lie could hold, after
which he leisurely strolled across the pad-
docks and joined the other horses a mile
away. Ten minutes later there was a thun-
dering of hoofs across the paddock adjoining
the orchard, and every horse on the home-
stead was there —bar Punch. Did he tell
them, or did they smell his breath?
HORSE AND SADDLE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In tlie summer dawn astraddle,
For the joy of horse and saddle,
Man and maid
Briskly troop with tugging bridle,
Where hush creatures browse and idle
Half afraid.
By the gum-clad hills we rattle,
Scattering the timid cattle
On our way,
In the hush before the chorus
Of the bush birds nestling o’er us
Greet the day.
Over creeks that know no bridges,
Winding tween the greening ridges
Far aloof;
Plunging through green reeds and rushes,
Where the water leaps and gushes
Underhoof.
To the bellbirds’ notes we listen,
While the dew begins to glisten
On the grass,
And a dingo leaps for cover
To the crying of the plover
As we pass.
At the road of mail and rover,
Brisk we turn, and leaping over
Log and hole,
Down along the broken courses,
How our fresh, impatient horses
Caracole!
Airy station chimes commingle
With our stirrups’ clank and jingle;
Thus do we
’Mid a gust of playful banter,
Spurting homeward, end our canter
Merrily.
è
E.S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to the
service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
.To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject it
a time.
Engineer, certificated, desires position
station, go anywhere; conversant all types
engines, farming implements, windmills,
pumps, cars and tractors. (To F. G. Rat-
cliffe, People’s Palace, Rockhampton, Q.)
Young man, medical and dental experi-
ence, would like position station or mis-
sion Northern Territory, anywhere.—6909.
Youth (22) would give services for pas-
sage to England about Christmas; sober,
good athlete, willing worker.—6925.
Australian (25), healthy, athletic, wants
job in Pacific Islands, Papua or Malaya.
Not afraid of work.—6934.
Boy (16) wants position on N.S.W.
station, cattle or sheep; good rider, handy
with horses. —6932.
Englishwoman (31) seeks position on
N.S.W. station as companion -help ; good
dressmaker, would teach children piano, refs.
—6930.
Y\ oman cook wants temporary position,
station, N.S.W. No laundry work.—6903.
Cattleman, many years’ experience Q’land,
knowledge land and stock values, wants posi-
tion in stock and station agency.—6891.
Young man offers services to anyone re-
quiring good steady mate, handy with tools,
engines, windmills, pumping plants; Nor :
thorn Territory or Islands preferred.—6917.
By young married couple, one child, work
on N.S.W. sheep station ; husband belongs
to Hereford, England.—6942.
Name of literary work containing the
following passage: “I am walking by a
path by which I shall not return.... and
only the grave lies open to me.” —6869.
To correspond with Bulletin readers in
Africa, . F.M.S., Pacific Islands and Argen-
tine, view to obtaining information con-
cerning prospects of getting position in which
engineering and agricultural experience could
be utilised.—6905.
Whereabouts of George B. Clasper. for-
merly of Ewingsdale, Byron Bay, and Alfred
K. Barrow, one time of Lismore (N.S.W.).
(To F. H. Beighton, Ablingi, Gasmata,
New Britain.)
To sell correspondence course's in short-
story writing and journalism ; 24 books, £4 ;
cost £21. Or will sell each course, 12 books.
£2.-6898.
To sell “The History of New Holland,”
by William Eden (1785), and two “Rem-
brandt Heads,” etchings by Worledge.—
6910.
To sell original copy of “Dolly Dialogues”
by Anthony Hope. First-class condition.—
6955.
To sell Casanova’s “Memoirs,” 12 vols.,
quarter-parchment, £12 12s. —6944.
To buy dictionary, by Asche or Bailey.
—6933.
To buy John Hassall correspondence course
in drawing, or any good course.-—6919.
Information Sought,
How can I yet a position on a liner as
assistant purser, or similar position offering
prospects ? —6705.
Oversea lines prefer to train their own
men in their London offices, but inter-State
lines make outside appointments. Clerical
and shipping experience ii essential. Write
to the cos., stating your qualifications.
_ Can you tell me the difference in time of
high tide at Fort Denisori, South Head,
and Merimbula ocean beach (N.S.W. South
Coast) ? —6703.
The time of high water at South Head
is about 23 minutes earlier, and at Merim-
bula about 22 minutes later, than at Fort
Denison.
Docs painting a roof red affect the water
for household use? —6451.
Not if you choose a paint with an oxide
base. Ordinary house paints with a lead
base are not recommended for roofs. Several
makes and shades of suitable red-oxide paints
can be obtained.
(1) Under the block system of railway
signalling, can a train leave a station while
a train travelling in the same direction is
at the next station? (2) Is a “section ” from
starting signal to starting signal, or from
starting signal to home signal? (3) Does a
train have to stop at the distant signal till
“line clear” is given, or does it only stop,
whistle and then go on? —6499.
(1) No. (2) From starting signal to
starting signal. (3) A distant signal in
N S.W. gives only a “caution” indication and
drivers are not required to stop, but must
proceed cautiously, ready to apply brakes.
(1) What is the main teaching of Chris-
tian Science? (2) Is it a recognised re-
ligous teaching or cult, with many followers?
—6756.
(1) It is based on the principles that
man’s nature is spiritual, and that matter and
sickness are subjective states of error—
delusions which can be dispelled by mental
processes. Ordinary medical science, using
drugs and surgical instruments, is held to
be wrong and irrelevant. (2) It has a large
following in America.
I was bailiff on a place but got the sack
eight weeks ago. The boss said I could lire
in the hut as long as I liked. I’m still living
there. Can I sue him for wages while I am
living in the hut? — 6788.
No, your employment as bailiff came to
an end eight weeks ago, and since then you
have not been entitled to wages. You are
a tenant at will, and can be turned out at
any time.
Can you recommend, a medium for thinning
coal tar? —6644.
Use coal-tar middle oil, which may be
purchased from the Australian Gaslight Cos.,
Haymarket, Sydney. The quantity of oil
required would not exceed 10 per cent, of
the tar. It is added to the tar, and then
heated until white fumes commence to come
off. The mixture can then be applied with a
brush.
Would the Repatriation Department con-
sider giving a straightout sum instead of a
fortnightly pension of £3 15s\. which includes
icife and two children? —G 613.
Judging by the amount of pension stated
you are suffering more than 30 per cent, of
total disability, and therefore you are not
eligible.
How to wax-polish the top of anew maple
counter? —6782.
If the grain is open, fill by rubbing in
wet plaster of Paris and wiping off before
it sets. Stain with any good wood stain
procurable from a paint shop. Dissolve
brown shellac in methylated spirits to the
consistency of thin paste, and apply several
coats with a rubber made of cotton-wool
inside a piece of stout linen, renewing the
linen as it becomes too soiled and hard for
use. Between each coat, sandpaper the pre-
vious application as soon as it is dry, to
secure a very smooth surface. Patience and
much rubbing are necessary for a good job.
A method of making liquid soap? —67G7.
Take any toilet or other soap, shred finely
and boil up with glycerine. The consis-
tency of the liquid will depend on the quan-
tity of glycerine used, and this can be
determined during the process or by experi-
menting with a small boiling. Glycerine may
also be added to any of the standard soap re-
cipes. Its use tends to reduce the lathering
qualities of the other ingredients.
(1) Are there any openings in the Aus-
tralian Navy for men over 2i years of age?
(2) What are the rates of pay? (3) What
is the nearest office in which I could enlist?
—6508.
(1) There are a few vacancies for black-
smiths and bandsmen. (2) The rates of
pay for all branches are sot out in the
booklet: “How to Join the R.A.N.,” obtain-
able free from address given below. (3)
Naval Staff Officer, Edward-street, Bris-
bane.
(1) When do they call for cadets at Point
Cook Flying School? (2) F'or how long
docs a cadet sign on? (3) Do they receive
wages when training, and if so how
much? (4) What is the age-limit? (5)
After completing the course and getting a
pilot’s certificate, is a cadet qualified as a
commercial pilot? —6Bs9.
(1) November and December of each
year. Applications close with the Secretary
Air Board, Melbourne, on December 31 for
entry in April of the following year. You
must apply on a special form, for which
apply to the secretary. (2) About seven
months, after which they arc liable to serve
for a period of at least eight years, being
first appointed to short-service commissions
of four years’ duration with the rank of
pilot officer in the Permanent Air Force, and
unless granted permanent commissions, an-
other four years in the R.A.A.F. Reserve.
(3) Cadets receive an allowance of 10s.
per day, Is. of which is deferred and pay-
able at the conclusion of the course. Pilot
officers are paid 18s. per day with 2s. de-
ferred pay. (4) Between 48 rmfi 25 at
the time of entry. (5) An R.A.A.F. pilot
may, on leaving the service, be accepted
without further test for issue of a civilian
pilot’s passenger-carrying license.
(1) Can islands ivithin the Barrier Reef
( Q .) he purchased outright or leased? (2)
Have any of these islands natural fresh-
water supplies and s’oils suitable for the
growth of coffee, cocoa, vanilla, etc.? (3)
Is there information available regarding
rainfall, temperatures? (4) Does Queens-
land in any way invito or encourage the
development of. these islands? (5) Is there
any information available regarding the
natural growths on these islands? —66ll.
(1) Queensland Government won’t give
a freehold, but grants annual occupation
licenses and leaseholds up to 30 years.
Terms could only be quoted if you made
application in respect of a specific unoccu-
pied island. (2) Many have a good water
supply and are well wooded, but they are
very mountainous and unsuited to cultiva-
tion. (3) Can find no records. (4) Not
to any great extent, as their uses are so
limited. (5) They are usually identical
with those on the nearest mainland.
A method of making so-called “invisible”
writing-ink ? —6821.
A small teaspoonful of sugar of lead dis-
solved in half a wineglass of water makes
an invisible ink that burns black when treated
with a solution of any sulphide. Rice-water
makes an invisible ink that will turn blue
when treated with a small quantity of iodine
tincture mixed with 20 times its volume of
water.
My horse suffers from corns. The black-
smith put his shoes on loosely and cut away
as much as possible, but without doing much
g00d. —6893.
Corns result from undue pressure between
pad and wall in the region of the heel.
What is called “loosening” or “springing”
the shoe at the heel is not recommended.
Use a three-quarter shoe, so that there will
be practically no pressure on the part. If
there is any sign of suppuration, the horn
should be pared away and the foot placed
in a hot antiseptic bath for a few days;
then shoe with a three-quarter shoe as sug-
gested. Never cut the frog except to remove
ragged refoliating portions.
A patented article is being manufactured
and sold on a royalty basis. What check has
the patentee? —6B9o.
Actually the patentee is dependent upon
the good faith of the licensee. There is,
however, usually a provision in the royalty
license that the books of the manufacturer
shall be open to inspection by the patentee
or his agent. In dealing with a reputable
firm a patentee can generally reckon on a
fair deal.
(1) What is the fare to Norfolk Island?
(2) What accommodation can he obtained for
a long stay there? —6678.
(2) Nine pounds each way (only one
class) ; deck berths 10 per cent, extra. (2)
Seven boarding-houses provide good homely
accommodation ; tariff, fi-om 30s. to £2 2s.
p.w.
I took a lease of a house for 12 months.
The lease was not stamped nor registered.
Finding the house insanitary I left before
the year was up. Can the landlord sue me
for rent for the balance of the term? —6834.
Yes, if the lease is otherwise in order,
lie can have it stamped and registered and
can then enforce the claim at law.
My dog has a dry itch on the back and
open sores on his under parts. Cause and
cure? —679l.
The symptoms point to a form of eczema,
Give the dog a laxative and diet carefully,
letting him have only meat, vegetables and
gravy, no starchy or sugary foods. Use this
lotion on itchy parts: sulphur, half ounce ;
oil of eucalyptus, two drachms; fish oil,
six ounces. Leave on for three days, then
wash off and re-apply. Dust sores under-
neath with iodoform 1 part, boric acid 7
parts.
(1) What is the, correct method of neu-
tralising a six-valve neutrodyne receiverf
(2) / am using a three-mile telephone line
for an aerial. Would any harm result from
people ringing at the other end? (3) Where
can I purchase “Lightening Fasteners,” and
who are the Australian agents? —6B7o.
(1) Switch on the receiver and carefully
tune in a station. Switch off and tempo-
rarily disconnect one of the filament leads
on the socket of the first valve. (Don’t re-
move valve.) On switching on the receiver
it will be noticed that the station is still
heard but more faintly. With a long-handled
screwdriver adjust the neutralising con-
denser connected to the grid of the first
valve until the signals are eliminated or re-
duced to a minimum strength. Now switch
off and replace the filament connection on
the first valve, and repeat the operation with
the second and then the third valve. The
tuning controls must not be altered during
these adjustments. (2) Harm,' will result
to you if you go on using it. Telephones
and telephone lines are the property of the
P.M.G. Dept., and must not be interfered
with by subscribers. (3) From Hoffnung
and Cos., Ltd.; 165 Pitt-street, Sydney, the
agents.
(1) Does the N.S.W. Government or any
other State Government give financial assist-
ance to intending settlers on the land? Where
can / get full particulars? (2) The average
weight of a merino fleece? (3) Capital
needed for 1000 acres, 1000 sheep and neces-
sary implements? —6B43.
(1) For the purpose of effecting improve-
ments, obtaining stock and plant, etc., a
settler in N.S.W. may obtain an advance from
the Government Savings Bank. The loan is
repayable by half-yearly instalments, includ-
ing interest and principal, spread over terms
up to 31 years. Advances to establish set-
tlers are made by the N.S.W. Lands Dept,
for the purpose of purchasing wire-netting;
they are repayable over periods up to 20
years. In necessitous cases, supplies of
seed wheat, sacks, fodder, etc., are advanced
by the Rural Industries Board. Similar
assistance is extended by the Governments
of other States (in Westralia generous terms
are given through the Agricultural Bank),
and particulars can be obtained from their
Lands Dept. (2) From 7 to 8 pounds.
(3) This question cannot be answered in
round figures, as the requirements of settlers
vary in accordance with the state of the
market, the price of the land and the amount
of plant required.
At a meeting of our tennis club a motion
was brought forward and carried that before
any of our rules could be altered or
rescinded a two-thirds majority must be ob-
tained. Must we obtain a two-thirds majority
to pass that motion? —6731.
No. The standing order relating to the
two-thirds majority would not come into
operation until after the motion was car-
ried, so a bare majority would suffice.
Can you give me names of Australian
correspondence colleges that give courses in
journalism ? —6684.
Stott’s Technical Correspondence College,
70 Pitt-street, and International C.S.. 140
Elizabetli-street, both of Sydney, and the
Charles E. Taylor School of Journalism, 434
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Information Supplied.
6491. —The meaning of the aboriginal word
“wendouree” is “be off” or “off you go.” It
was originally spelt “wendaaree.”—“Coot.”
6409. —For a good preservative for farm
buildings and gates, apply linseed oil, let it
soak in thoroughly and coat with tar.—“ Let
Go.”
6330. —To polish tortoise-shell. First clean
it thoroughly ; then use pumice-powder; after
that, a soft cloth dipped in sweet oil and
rubbed well and evenly over. Finally, a good
polishing with a dry, soft cloth or velvet
pad.—“N.B.”
6755.—T0 repair cracks in a plaster wall.
Clean all loose plaster out of the crack and
thoroughly damp inside with clean water. To
the consistency of butter mix plaster of Paris
with kalsomine that matches the color of
the wall. Fill in the crack and smooth over
with a wet putty-knife.—“Wrash.”
661.9. —To teach a dog to turn a back
somersault: Get the dog jumping to catch
a ball thrown above him. When he does so
readily, attach the ball to a rod with three
feet of string. Toss it over his head, and
as he leaps swing the ball so that he will
have to lurch backward to catch it. After
a time he will throw back somersaults in
his eagerness. Gradually discard the ball
and teach him to go through the performance
by a swing of the hand.—“ Bill R.”
Does Anybody Know?
How to clear muddy water without making
it hard or unsuitable for washing purposes,
other than by using lime?—6B6s.
Brief Answers.
W.L.Q.: You’ll probably find it much
harder to get out than to get in—that’s the great
drawback to that type of investment. .. .S.M.P.:
No, don’t touch it if you want safety... .A. E.M.:
Sorry, but you are not likely to get anything at all.
. ...M.G.H.: Shares not listed; regret information
unavailable. .. .Mac (Forest Hill): The cause of your
horse’s cough could be diagnosed only by examina-
tion. If tire cough is chronic an ounce of Fowler’s
solution of arsenic in the evening feed for ten
days, and then twice weekly, if required, might
prove beneficial. For a non-chronic cough one ounce
of hyposulphate of soda in the drinking water twice
daily is recommended.... R.M.S.: Symptoms of cen-
tipede poisoning vary with the season and in differ-
ent individuals. Not many cases are recorded, but
the average patient appears to have considerable
swelling on the bitten site and a feeling of being
“out of sorts.” Scarify the spot, and rub in potassium
permanganate... .F.E.J.: Cannot trace. The U.S.A.
Trade Commissioner, 14 Spring-street, Sydney, would
make inquiries on your behalf if you asked him to.
. ...D.J.W.: The copies are of no commercial value,
nor are they likely to become valuable. .. .E.M.Q.:
Cannot And “Gunn’s Index” in any of the American
press directories... .W.J.S.: Carew and Cos., Ltd.,
Rosa, Shahjahanpur, U.P. of Agra and Oudh ; East
Bengal Sugar Mills, Ltd., 3 College-square, Cal-
tutta; and Deccan Sugar and Abakri Cos., Ltd.,
Parry’s Building, Ist Lino Beach, Madras. Ambalal
Purushotamdas Parikh, secretary of the Sugar Mer-
chants’ Association, Khand Bazaar, Bombay, would
be able to advise y0u.... J.It.H.: Fuller Brush Cos.,
Ivembla Buildings, Margaret-street, Sydney. . . . J.K.:
Blowers for liquid insecticide are made by several
manufacturers in Sydney, including S. T. Leigh
and Cos., Ltd., Balcigh Park, Kensington. .. .E.L.:
If you were 52 last birthday, the A.M.P. Society
would grant you an annuity (payable quarterly)
of £34 12s. 6d. for £SOO or £69 ss. per annum for
£IOOO ; the Mutual Life and Citizens’, £34 16s.
Bd. and £69 13s. 4d. ; the A.P.A., £34 16s. Bd.
and £69 13s. 4d. ; the Australasian Temperance
and General, £37 Is. Bd. and £74 3s. 4d. ; the
Colonial Mutual Life, £36 Bs. 4d. and £72 16s.
Bd. ; the City Mutual Life, £3B 10s. and £77....
F.H.: Unless there is a standing order stipulating
that notice of amendments must be given, the
amendment would be quite in order F.T.8.: The
Prothonotary, Supreme Court, Sydney, will advise
y0u.... Ascot: The horns should be mounted with
the ends pointing downwards. . . .S.W.R. : We can't
undertake to say what was in his mind when he
made the statement. .. .C.C.S.: Write to the Naval
Staff Office, Edvvard-street, Brisbane, for the free book-
let, “How to Join the R.A.N.” Providing you are
suitable, you should find no difficulty in joining.
Promotion depends upon ability and conduct....
N.K.: There is no set scale of fees. For a small
country dance anything from £1 Is. to £2 2s.
would be a fair charge... .A.V.H.: (1) and (2) Bur-
mah Oil Cos., Ltd., Britannic House, Finsbury Circus,
London, E.C.2 ; Indo-Burma Oilfields (1920), Ltd.,
Finsbury Pavement House, London, E.C.2 ; Indo-
Burma Petroleum Cos., Ltd., 25 Merchant-street,
Rangoon. (3) The first-named co. has an interest
in the Anglo-Persian Oil Cos., Ltd J.S.N.Z.:
Write to the Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court,
Klizabeth-street, Sydney... .C.C.: “Ben Hall,” by
Charles White, obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall
Cos., Sydney; price Is P.P.; Communicate with
Dr. W. M. Sinclair, Toowoomba (Q.), who is re-
ported to have been experimenting along the lines
indicated... .E.M.8.; Get your bootmaker to build
the thing up slightly, so that the inclination will
be lessened. If there is no response to this treat-
ment, see your doctor... .Roff: We don’t know
a certain cure. If j - ou smoke, stop for a while, and
see if that improves you. Get a boat-shaped nasal
douche and a bottle of glycothj'moline. Use morn-
ing and evening as directed by chemist. .. .J.E.C.:
N.S.W. newspapers are debarred from publishing in-
formation concerning sweeps conducted beyond the
State... .M.E.M.: Old prayer-books are of no great
value unless there is something special about them ;
those of the period mentioned are not in demand.
. ...J.K.K.: Try the Vic. Public Library, Swanston-
street, Melbourne... .H.W.: In view of the intes-
tacy it may be necessary to take out letters of
administration. Ordinarily, in such cases, one-third
of the estate goes to the widow, the remainder being
divisible amongst the children. It would be wise
to consult the Curator of Intestate Estates and fur-
nish him with particulars... .C.E.8.: (1) Sydney
Morning Herald and Melbourne Argus. (2)
Monthly stock-and-share lists issued by W. Tilley
and Cos., 684 Pitt-street, Sydney, and J. B. Were
and Son, 349 Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .Iv.L.: (1)
Yes. (2) 2 Bond-street, Sydney. 12s. per annum.
(3) A full list can be obtained from the Alliance
Francaise Library, Fraser House, 42 Bridge-street,
Sydney, which lends French periodicals to sub-
scribers. .. .8.P.; That odd volume has little or no
value... .H.A.C.: The measure would be worth from
£ 1 Is. to 30s. if real pewter; about 10s. 6d. if not.
. ...0.5.; If the lock ring was in order before it
was taken off, it must have been strained out of
shape in the process of removal. Carefully trued up,
it should fit correctly when again installed... .L. 8.8.:
Paling’s, Sydney; price 10s H.F.N.: N.S.W.
Fresh Food and Ice Cos., Ltd., 25-33 Harbor-street;
Direct Fish Supply Cos, Gibbons-street, Redfern;
Cusack Brothers, City Markets —all of Sydney. State
Fishery Business, South Brisbane (Q.) .. . .W.C.:
See reply to 6648 (B. 3/10/’2B). Also write to
the secretary, Air Board, Department of Defence,
Melbourne, for free booklets telling how to join
the R.A.A.F J.R.: Approximately two acres....
F.C. J.: Write L. A. Lucas, Cremation Society,
Tavistock House, Melbourne... .R.C.: An IOU
is a mere acknowledgment of a debt; it
does not require a stamp. You should have
taken a promissory n0te....A.M.M.: “War-
rienbah” is probably a variant of “warramba,” mean-
ing “a turtle”... .J.Q.: Your draught horse is evi-
dently suffering from fistula. Apply a red iodite
of mercury blister (1 to 7). If that doesn’t reduce
the swelling, time being allowed for recovery of
tissues, it will be necessary for a vet. to operate....
A.T.S.: (1) Purchase “Ferrets and Ferreting” (25.).
from Sir Robert Bear’s Bookshop, Sydney. (2) Yes,
A. L. Turner, 476 Pitt-street, Sydney; or Bickley’s
Bird Shop, 304 Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, could
supply them. ... J.M.: Your chance of getting one in
Australia is remote. Advertise... .V.S.: Each manu-
facturer has his secret formulae.... G.G.: (1) Write to
the Bush Book Club of N.S.W., 161 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. (2) It stands for denatured alcohol.
. ...W.L.: Ask the Mitchell Library, Sydney. A
brief bibliography is published in the “Common-
wealth Year Book.” The catalogues issued by
Francis Edwards and Maggs Bros., of London, will
be found helpful... .J.D.H.: (1) Yes. (2) Write
to A. L. Kelly, Club Chambers, Phillip-street, Sydney.
(3) No newspaper reveals the name of a contributor
without the latter’s permission J.CL: The agents
are P. E. Carpenter and Cos., 343 Sussex-street, Sydney.
... .W.M.McP.: No specific provision. Communicate
with the District Registrar of the High Court,
Hobart.... (Many others mailed.)


B*
é
Road
Concrete Road Reinforcement in Australia originated fourteen
years ago with B.R.C. Fabric; it still remains the most correct
reinforcement for Road Work.
A concrete road six inches thick reinforced with B.R.C. Fabric
has more than double the life of the same thickness unreinforced.
Every important road must eventually have a reinforced foundation.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Co. Pty., Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
Normanby Chambers, 430 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone: Cent. 8861. Works: Ballarat Road, Sunshine, Victoria
:
U
Fabric
in
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES ... J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair (Brisbane), Ltd.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Limited, Perth.
TASMANIA Hume Pipe Company (Aust.), Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND A. C. Gillies & Laird, Ltd., Wellington.
I
W JL
Fabric
ê


PEAPES!
Clothe men AND their sons.
To buy at Peapes’ is to enjoy j
the satisfaction of obtaining j
QUALITY, VALUE and SERVICE
in every article for men’s' and j
boys’ wear.
Prices are DEFINITELY low
throughout the year, not being
affected by periodical “sales.”
i,
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street, j
Sydney.
Write for Peapes’ New Catalogue,
now available.
CONSIGN YOUR WOOL TO
PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL
AND PRODUCE SELLING CO. LTD.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £200,000.
The Hon. FRANK CHAFFEY, M.L.A.,Grazier,
Tamworth.
E. E. COLLINS, Esq., Grazier, Wagga.
W. GORDON McKINNON, Esq., Grazier, Junee.
A. A. MACKENZIE, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
C. W. L. MURCHISON, Esq., Grazier, Gunnedah.
LESLIE P. DUTTON, Esq., Grazier, Guyra.
lIARROLD COWLISHAW, Esq., Merchant,
Sydney.
G. H. HARDING, Esq., Company Director, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The object of the Company is to offer at auction, within 21 days after arrival in store, all
wools consigned to it for sale, whether they be large or small clips, late or early shorn,’free
or faulty, in order of arrival.
Don’t run the risk of having to wait longer for your wool to be catalogued, but have it
offered promptly by the PRIMARY PRODUCERS WOOL AND PRODUCE SELLING CO., LTD.
Consignment notes will be forwarded on application.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES ARE INVITED.
Top
Prices
-Si-iy
SEND YODR
SKINSS
to
SINCHCOMBE | -
'%z~
mBM
s
are the attraction. Rabbit, Fox and every
other class of sk'n make full values at
Winchcombe, Carson’s auctions.
Address Letters;
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Salesmen, I*TD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WHEN TO CUT FOR HAY.
“Nomis”: That wheat is at the best
stage for hay a few days after flowering,
is the opinion not only of the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture (B. 19/9/’2B), but
of Sussex-street, which insists that the best
wheaten hay or chaff must contain no grain.
With oats for hay, however, the presence
of grain appears to be no barrier; in fact,
grain is expected in the chaff. If oats are
cut for hay when the top grains are fully
formed and the lower grains still in the milk
stage—that is just when the crop is on the
turn —then a good quality is obtained. The
main reason that oats are cut at a later
stage for hay is, I believe, due to the bitter-
ness of many of the older varieties of oats
in the youthful stage. Varieties such as
Algerian and White Tartarian are not palat-
a-ble to stock in the early stage, but after
the grain commences to set the bitterness
seemingly disappears. The more recent and
earlier varieties of oats, such as Sunrise
and Mulga, are not similarly unpalatable to
stock, and cutting at an early stage leads to
a quicker and more even curing.
TO KEEP MICE OUT OF HAY.
“Nomis”: The suggestion of “Tuan” (B.
26/9/’2B) that mice may be kept out of
a haystack by sprinkling fib. of sulphur to
each ton of hay as it is stacked does not
appear practicable to me. His further sug-
gestion that the stacks may be protected
by the use of corrugated-iron is sound, but
he is going to extremes when he states that
the 6ft. sheets must be 3ft. in the ground.
The 6ft. sheets of corrugated-iron should
be placed lengthwise end to end and, of
course, slightly overlapping and firmly bolted
together; care should be taken at the corners,
so that no openings are left for the mice.
The sheets of iron should be erected with
a slight outward lean (away from the stack)
if possible, and they should be placed about
9in. to Ift. in the ground. The wall should
be erected as soon as the stack is finished,
and a space of a yard or so should be left
between the wall and the stack. To enable
the water that runs off the stack during
rain to drain away, small holes should be
made at the ground-level of the iron ; holes
of fin. diameter will be sufficient. The wall
will answer its purpose well, provided it
receives attention occasionally. Any loosen-
ing of the sheets must be immediately recti-
fied. Be careful not to leave anything lean-
ing against the wall or stack, as that
renders the whole defence useless.
If rats are numerous, a wall sft. high
will be needed. This can be made similarly
to the above except that the sheets of iron
are placed on end instead of on their side,
and they should be at least Ift. in the ground.
STACKS v. SILOS.
“The Welkin”: The storage of hay is
coming in for a deal of attention in England.
Compressed grass-cakes, composed of young
blades, are being made, and they are said
to be richer than any concentrated food.
It is not unlike the baling method, except
that the grass-cakes are compressed by
machine power and preservatives are added.
Compressed packing would appear to be
the essential principle in successful preser-
vation. The air cannot gain access to the
tightly packed hay, whereas in the loose,
open and shed-housed stacks, it is allowed
detrimentally to circulate. In an underground
silo, however, there is less to be feared, and
the grass can be compressed. Over-fermenta-
tion is a problem; but, even so, pit silage is
better than haystack straw, since it retains
the saccharine to a far greater extent. Salt,
too, a good and cheap preservative, helps
considerably in counteracting over fermen-
tation. The pits need to be well lined, pre-
ferably with concrete, for the rain-soakage
won’t help preservation; and a pitman can
carry out compressed packing. The open-
stack method is still generally practised,
though wrong, especially so with green hay
(lucerne, etc.), and the farmer is robbing
himself by continuing it.
OATS NEED MANGANESE.
Up till recently nobody supposed that the
metal manganese was essential to the health
of any plant, but its presence in the soil,
albeit in very minute quantities, seems to be
necessary to the sturdy growth of oats. If if
is absent “grey speck” sets in, a disease
known in some districts as “road take all”
and in others “the grubs” or “oat trouble.”
It has been known in S.A. and W.A. for
years, and in practically every case on vol-
canic soil. It is also well known in Europe,
on alkaline soils. The symptoms are a
dying of the bottom part of the leaf, allow-
ing the top part to fall over, showing a sharp
kink. The first leaf formed is but rarely
affected at the outset, the first symptoms,
little grey specks, appearing usually on the
second leaf bo mark its arrival. In severe
cases the whole plant dies.
Experiments by the Waite Institute with
the soils in which the disease occurs and
with various correctives established the fact
that it can’t appear in heat-sterilised laud
(a fact that doesn’t help the farmer much) ;
that it is made worse by liming; alleviated
by sulphate or chloride of ammonia; and
can be completely cured by application to the
land of sulphate of manganese. Best results
in actual field experiments were obtained by
sowing 751 b. of sulphate of manganese to
the acre, with a subsequent top-dressing when
the plants were two months old. An
untreated plot adjoining was a total loss.
The yield from the treated plot was 681 b.
of grain from an area 18ft. by 33ft. A
similar area that was merely top-dressel at
the same time as the treated plot yielded
441 b
EXPLOSIVES ON THE FARM.
"Simple”: To shift a tree or stump, get
a light crowbar about 1 iin. in diameter and
sink a hole in the ground alongside, slanting
well towards the centre of the thing aimed
at. The depth of the hole should be gov-
erned by the size of the tree or stump; the
larger it is the deeper the hole. A good rule
is to make the charge hole the depth of the
diameter of the stump at the ground-level.
Press the plugs of gelignite to the bottom,
using a stick. Strip the paper off the last
plug and with a pointed bit of stick, pencil
size, make a hole an inch deep in one end
of it. Get a detonator and a piece of fuse
18 inches long; shake all the sawdust out
of the detonator and put in the end of the
fuse, squeezing on with pliers. Then insert
the detonator, with fuse attached, in the hole
made in the last plug, and put it down the
charge-hole. Fill this hole with loose soil,
and when about three-quarters full start and
tamp with a stick lightly; then add more
soil gradually, tamping harder until full.
Now light the fuse and get well away behind
another tree until the blast is over.
The quantity of gelignite required is,
roughly, three plugs to every foot diameter
of stump at ground-level. For post-hole sink-
ing, half a plug of gelignite with detonator
and fuse attached is put into a charge-hole
15 inches deep. For a big gate or telephone
]*>st-liole a plug of gelignite is required.
A man can do 200 to 250 holes a day at a
cost of about l£d. per hole for material.
For dam-sinking, make a charge-hole about
10 feet deep, putting in about 20 plugs of
explosive; this will blast out a hole from
15 to 18 feet in diameter and about the
same depth, according to the nature of the
ground. By this method a man on his own
can make a 200-cubic-yard dam in a day at
the cost of about £4 in explosives.
ADVANTAGES OF DEPTH IN SILOS.
“Paul O.”: Within reasonable limits a
high or deep silo has many advantages over
a pit or silo of the same cubic capacity but
broader or lower. In the first place a greater
quantity of silage can be stored in a deep,
narrow receptacle than in a wider one of
the same nominal capacity, because the pres-
sure being greater in the one case the con-
tents pack more closely. Also the extra
weight of ensilage in a deep silo excludes the
air more thoroughly, and consequently makes
the silage of better quality. When it is
being fed to stock, the smaller the surface
area exposed each day the less there is to de-
teriorate. The deep silo, too, requires less
foundation wall, less roof and less cemented
floor space.
TOP-DRESSING POOR PASTURES.
The greater part of the land in south-
east S.A. is poor—a great deal of it only
suited for grazing, and capable of carrying
not much more than one sheep to the acre.
Most sheepfarmers in the area are awar -
that top-dressing with any fertiliser that
contains lime and phosphates considerably
improves the pasturage, and most of them
resort to this method of remedying the soil’s
deficiencies.
For the last nine years the Government
experimental farm at Kybybolite has been
experimenting to find out to what extent
the carrying capacity of this land can be
increased, and the best means of doing it.
Some very surprising results were obtained,
and these, expressed in a very attractive and
easily-understandable way at the recent
Adelaide show, aroused a great deal of
interest. The experiments have been very
thorough, and though some of the conclu-
sions drawn from them may be modified by
experience over a greater range of years,
the lessons already learnt are extremely valu-
able to the district and indeed to graziers
in all parts of Australia whose holdings
have a small carrying capacity.
An exhaustive soil analysis confirmed the
general view of farmers that the soil lacked,
more than anything else, lime and phos-
phates. It was also noted by the investi-
gators that livestock on these south-eastern
pastures developed but poorly as compared
with stock on the richer soils of the North,
so that not only sparseness but quality of
pasturage was involved in the problem. Six
experimental plots, each of 34 acres, in
natural pasture—mostly wallaby grass—
were set aside. The fertilisers used were
low-grade aluminium and calcium phosphates
of local origin, burnt lime, and 36 per
cent, superphosphate. One plot was left
untreated.
Two methods of fertilising were adopted
in the case of the local phosnhates—to give
the land a heavy dressing of fertiliser one
year and then pay it no further attention,
and to apply a moderate dressing one year
and follow it up with small dressings each
subsequent year. Slightly better results were
secured by the annual re-dressing, but the
difference was not of importance. The plots
were dressed first in 1919. The sheep-carry-
ing capacity of the unfertilised land was
estimated at 1.11 sheep per acre in 1921-22,
the first year in which records were taken.
It fluctuated according to the favorableness
or otherwise of the season from year to year,
reaching 1.36 in 1924-25 and slumping to
0.56 in 1926-27. The mean carrying capa-
city for the period 1921-28 was 0.86, showing
deterioration.
The two plots treated with aluminium
phosphate had an average carrying capacity
of 1.58 sheep per acre in 1921-22, rose
to 2.73 in 1924-25, fell to 1.66 in 1926-27,
and averaged 1.81 for the period 1921-28,
showing a progressive improvement. The
two calcium phosphate plots averaged 1.41
sheep to the acre in 1921-22, 3.03 in 1924-
25 and 1.72 in 1926-27. The average for
1921-28 was 1.77, which also, showed that
the soil was improving.
The most spectacular results were attained
on a plot treated in 1919 with 1 ton of burnt
lime, followed each year with a dressing of
lcwt. of 36 per cent, super, per acre. In
1921-22 the carrying capacity was 1.84 sheep
to the acre, in 1924-25, 4.25 ; in 1926-27. 2.58.
The average for 1921-28 was 2.85. The
capacity had increased in seven years by
one sheep to the acre.
The cost of the low-grade phosphate treat-
ment was ss. per acre, and of the lime and
superphosphate 11s. Bd. per acre. In one
case the carrying capacity was doubled ; in
the other it was trebled. Changes in the
nature of the pasture occurred as the result
of fertilisation. The percentage of wallaby
grass decreased, and the percentage of natu-
ral grasses and legumes largely increased.
The un manured plot in 1927-28 carried
16441 b. of vegetation to the acre, the low-
phosphate plots 27621 b., and the lime and
super, plot 36101 b.
PASTURAGE AND CONCENTRATES
“Lac” : Breeders of stock and farmers will
find much instructive matter in the 1927-28
Report on the Victorian Government Stan-
dard Herd Test, which deals with the ques
tion of feeding. It is held that in the past
too much reliance has been placed on con-
centrates for the production of milk and
little or no allowance made for pasture.
It is now realised that the young grasses
and clovers are far more valuable as a milk
factor than any concentrates, and that milk
extracted from grass-fed cows and the re-
sultant dairy products are more valuable as
foods than those from stall-fed animals.
“Indeed,” says the report, “the fact should
be stressed when Australian butter is being-
marketed overseas, that it is the product
of cows fed in good clean pastures all the
year round, and consequently is of greater
food value than that of countries not so
favorably situated.”
It is pointed out also that hitherto in
feeding concentrates the actual mineral re-
quirements have been completely overlooked.
“The breaking down of cows was attributed
to an over-supply of concentrates, whereas
it was really due to the fact that the meal-
and grains, by increasing the flow of milk,
had created an extra demand for mineral
matter which the concentrates were unable
to supply.” Nor does all pasture provide a
sufficiency of mineral matter. Lime, for
example, is frequently lacking in Victorian
pastures. A common sign of mineral
deficiency is bone-chewing. To overcome
this, bone flour should be fed to cows regu-
larly and slaked lime also may be given,
“It is always a good plan to allow stock to
have access to a trough containing lime-
water.” The quantity of this external supply
of mineral matter varies with the condition
of the pasturage. The mineral content of
leafy green grass, for example, is relatively
high, but decreases as the grass becomes
dry. Cows should always be able to obtain
a liberal supply of salt; “this is necessary
for the formation of acid in the stomach so
essential an aid to the digestion of food.
Comment is also made upon the useful quali-
ties of iodine, and the following mineral
mixture is prescribed: Bone flour, 401 b.;
lime, 251 b.; salt, 401 b.; sulphur. 151 b. ; and
potassium iodide, soz. It is suggested that
the mixture be placed in a convenient place
where the cows can have access to it when-
ever inclined.
Another point emphasised is the necessity
for an ample supply of clear running water.
Cows will both milk and thrive better where
so supplied than when they have to draw
their requirement from muddy, stagnant
waterholes.
STOMATITIS AND APHIS.
“Tuan”: Small ulcers occur on the inside
and outside of the mouth and nostrils, and
especially on the tongue. Early symptoms
of the complaint are dribbling, blood-stained
and sticky saliva in small quantities and
offensive breath. In many cases the animals
will not feed on account of the pain, and fall
away in condition. Afterwards the ulcers
break out in scab form.
The trouble is most frequently discovered
among lambs, but older sheep are sometimes
attacked also. The cause as a rule is eat-
ing rough fodder, such as thistles and rough
grasses. Trouble can, however, often be
traced to the aphis on rape and other crops.
The aphis, when bruised, exerts a strong
irritant action, especially if the rape is wet
with dew or rain. The irritant substance
gains easy access to the skin by means of
the water present. The full effect is not
noticed if the sheep are kept off the rape
until the sun has dried up the moisture.
The disease is not infectious, but as a rule
most of the flock are attacked at the same
time. My experience is that washing the
mouth with boric acid, one teaspoonful to
the pint of water, and smearing the ex-
ternal sore parts with carron oil, proves most
effective. English remedies are laxative doses
of Epsom salts, and local applications of
borax and honey; alum solution ; and tinc-
ture of myrrh. A little nitre added to the
salt lick will also help to cure the disease.
In mild cases removal of the sheep to other
pastures often effects a rapid cure.
Aphis is very prevalent this year in many
parts; so owners should be on the watch.
BUCKWHEAT.
“T.W.”: Why isn't buckwheat grown in
Australia? Nine out of ten American visi-
tors interested in agriculture ask this ques-
tion. The plant grows and yields well here ;
it is easy to cultivate; gives an abundance of
grain, and matures its seeds in about two
months. What’s wrong with it, then?
Neither drought nor heat will affect it. You
can sow it as late as December in well-
worked ground ; and it is especially suitable
as a pasturage for the bee-farmer. It gives
great honey. From September is 4he best
time to sow ; the soil should be fairly good,
and the seed sown thinly. A September
sowing should be ripe in January. There
ought to be little trouble in marketing for
domestic use. English agriculturists have,
however, a still better use for buckwheat.
Sown heavily on poor and “invalid” land, it
is ploughed in when it has attained a growth
of about eight inches, and is said to be the
best of green manures.
THE APPLE-LEAF HOPPER.
“Noscon”: One of the most destructive
orchard pests last season was the apple-leaf
jassid, or leaf-hopper. Another severe infes-
tation iri the coming season is feared.
The jassid, when in large numbers, is
capable of causing considerable damage by
defoliation. This has a very serious effect
on the vitality of the tree, and conse-
quently on the quality of the fruit. Also,
it coats the fruit with an unsightly excre-
ment, which has to be removed to render
the apples saleable.
For the past few weeks the young jassid?
have been emerging from eggs laid beneath
the surface of the bark.
The newly-hatclied hoppers possess no
wings, but crawl on to the under surface of
the leaves, where they shelter in the vicinity
of the main veins. After a series of moults
the winged stage is reached, and it then
becomes most difficult to secure satisfactory
control of this pest, as it flies readily when
disturbed.
Attack in the early wingless stages is,
therefore, essential. The spray recommended
is nicotine sulphate (blacklcaf 40), used
at the rate of 1 pint to 75 gallons of
water, and directed from below to reach tin*
under surface of the leaves. Early, careful
and liberal spraying is essential.
KIKUYU AS A WEED KILLER.
“Teuter” : Kikuyu grass appears to be the
greatest enemy of noxious weeds yet dis-
covered. In Maoriland, where the black-


>-
31
ET
m
Built for easy walking
A pliant Abbey Shoe of supple
black velour calf, low-cut at sides
for greater comfort and better fit.
It never bulges at the ankle.
One of its chief comfort-features
is the arching where it laces over
the instep. The fcot’s natural
curve is fitted without strain. This
shoe allows the fullest muscle free-
dom.
Order by Post .
You get as good as a made-to-
measure shoe, because each full or
half size is available in three fit-
tings, narrow, medium and wide.
Specify width when ordering. Ask
also for a supply of Abbey quick-
shining Black Polish.
Price 42/-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georgs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
L 94. SYDNEY.
GROCERS.
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, “made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 1/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
The NEW Wieneke!
e
The Gulf
Champion,
£l5/15/-
Complete.
Posted any-
where in Aus-
tralia for 10/-
Stock Saddle-
Here is the
dream of
every Stock-
man —the
wonderful
Genuine Wieneke
Perfect in shape
for horse and rider
Send for my new
book —150 pictures.
Post Free.
Yours, always working,
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
and
432 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
ROPEWORK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Learn to Think and Speak on Your Feet.
The power to make others grasp your ideas and act upon them—in other words the ability to
speak convincingly—can be developed in anyone. Directors, Secretaries, Salesmen and all ambitious
men who desire to improve in speechmaking should send for particulars of “SPEAKER’S
NOTES” (the wonderful Home Study Course in the Art of Speaking) to PHILIP O’BRYEN
HOARE, M.8.1.M.5c. (London), Specialist in Speech and Speech Defects, 56 Brisbane Arcade,
Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales $ WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
YV&W26.
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN *
è
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
berry curse has stirred the Government into
offering a substantial prize for the best exter-
minator, it is first in the running. It burrs,
thistles, etc., are cut down before seeding
and kikuyu planted about two feet apart on
the site, a dense growth soon spreads, exclud-
ing sunlight, thus making life impossible tor
any stray seed. The cost of the plants 1, the
kikuyu does not seed) is not large, and plant-
ing is easy. Kikuyu is a most nourishing
fodder for all kinds of stock. Chopped up
and fed to the hens, it will make them lay
better; and included in the grunter’s rations,
more and better pork will result. Another
virtue, and one which the cattleman will
appreciate, is that the plant won’t blow
stock.
WHY IMPORT ASPARAGUS?
“Ceres”: Why are we importing huge sup-
plies of asparagus from California when we
could grew enough ourselves up on the N.S. W.
North Coast to supply half the world?
Between Coff’s Harbor and Boambee beach
there arc thousands of acres of flat, sandy
loam, rich in salt, and generally ideally
suited for the growing of this delicacy. The
port facilities are excellent, and another
thing in favor of the place, from, the point ot
view of asparagus production, is the warm
climate and complete absence of frost. Some
of the finest asparagus I have seen was
grown in the Coff’s Harbor district, and a
syndicate seeking a highly profitable indus-
try to develop on large lines could do worse
than give it consideration.
WOUNDS IN THE FROG.
“Curlew”: Taken in hand early, I do not
see that wounds in a horse’s frog need be
as bad as “Cuchulain” (B. 12/9/’2S) sug-
gests. I agree, of course, that the wound
should be protected from contamination, but
I have not gone the length of making a
wooden sole with a greenliide boot.
I have had a deal of experience with such
wounds. Some months ago a small bolt
was drawn from the foot of one of my horses.
Next morning I inspected and found a hole
right through the horn not far from the
frog. There was only slight lameness. I
applied turpentine to the wound, and after-
wards the horse went painfully lame. I
then stood the foot in a hot bath of pretty
strong permanganate of potash and carefully
opened the wound with a sterilised awl. Into
the opening I poured a little peroxide of
hydrogen. When the bubbling had ceased a
pad of cloth was put on and kept in position
by a bag boot, which excluded dirt and
allowed drainage. Twice daily the wound
was carefully probed and treated with per-
oxide, and in five days the horse did road
work in a buggy. It was some time before
the horn grew together, but I had no trouble.
By all means use Condy’s crystals and per-
oxide of hydrogen for wounds.
When using turps on an animal you
should, to avoid giving pain, apply oil or
vaseline on top of it.
SUGAR-CANE REFUSE AS MANURE.
“March”: Sugar-cane as it comes to the
factory is often very dirty. The dirt is
filtered out of the juice by squeezing the lat-
ter through strong canvas. When the filters
are broken down, chunks of dirt resembling
oilcake are thrown out. At one time the
employees of Broadwater (N.S.W.) sugar-
mill made a good thing in extra wages re-
moving this refuse. But one man used his
head. Taking up a block of uninviting heath
land, he arranged to run the sugar-dirt over
a light trolley-line to it and used it as
manure. Now he has a flourishing market
garden, with every plant right up in the
champion class, and he’s still extending his
cultivation.
RAM-COUPLING DEFENDED.
“Rastus”: “Breed” (B. 19/9/’2B) speaks
of “torture” in connection with coupled
rams. There is no torture involved, as they
become quite used to it after two or three
days. They should be kept close at hand
for that period. After that there is very
little danger of the rams becoming caught
in scrub or around posts, etc. I have had
15 years’ experience with six or seven pairs
of rams coupled all the time, and the only
one that died had fly-blow-. There were no
odd lambs. The hobbling of one fore and
one hind leg is effective in many cases, but
not all.
HOT-AIR AND EARLY TOMATOES.
“Go Do” : The electric heating of tomato-
seed beds (“Lectro,” B. 19/9/’2B) has two
disadvantages, one being cost and the other
non-control of the heat. I have this year
been using a frame supplied with hot air, the
system being the same as that used in up-
to-date brooder-houses. The heat is sup-
plied by a very small smouldering fire, and
is conveyed along pipes through the beds,
smoke and fumes being drawn off by a chim-
ney. The pipes are surrounded by sand,
which holds the heat. It is rarely necessary
to keep the fire alight by day. To prevent
overheating and forcing it is wise to have a
thermometer in the beds and- keep the tem-
perature at about 85deg.
Transplanting takes a good deal of time
and occupies a lot of ground in sheltered
positions. But this method gives results. If
correctly carried out the plants are stocky
and sturdy, and don’t look back.
SELECTION OF MALE BIRDS.
“Blowfly”: The selection of young male
birds at three months is important, as it
enables one to weed out the culls for market.
When hens and cockerels of different types
of pelvic bones are mated it wall be found
that their progeny will not be such high
producers as the progeny from a mating of
wide pelvic bones in both sexes. It is, how-
ever, not advisable to choose birds having
ifiis quality in the extreme, as their stock
usually falls short of expectation. The aver-
age width of the pelvic bones for females
is about 2in. and for males l£in. Hens with
straight pelvic bones are estimated to pro-
duce about 20 per cent, more than those with
curved ones. The male carries the character-
istic of straightness in bone dominantly. It
is important to pick cockerels at this age
with as large an expansion at the rear of
the skull as possible, this being an effective
gauge of size prepotency—that is, the bird’s
pow'er to transmit his qualities to his pro-
geny.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“G.L.C.”: To prevent grasshoppers eating
leaves from an orange-tree, spray with kero-
sene emulsion and scatter bran saturated
with Paris-green thickly on the ground
around it. To keep the bran moist add
loz. of salt to each pound of bran.
“Oofti” : To cure scaly legs on fowls, brush
the legs well with soft soap and then hold
them in kerosene for half a minute. If, in
a week’s time, the scales have not dis-
appeared, repeat the dipping, this time for
20 seconds.
“Amicus” : To protect cherry-trees against
the cherry slug, spray as soon as the first
brood has left the tree —it hatches out about
the middle of October. A second infestation
will come about December, and it must be
guarded against. Use a solution of lead
arsenate, lib. to 40gals., and add a little
nicotine sulphate. Don’t spray when the
cherries are ripening or ripe. The slug also
attacks pear-trees. In this case apply the
arsenate-of-lead spray used for codlin moth.
Spray as soon as the first slug appears, and
watch closely for any others.
“T.W.”: Usually the piglet is allowed to
forage too much for himself from an early
age. Wean him from the sow’s milk grad-
ually ; working in the little extra pollard or
whatever meals are favored, and don’t for
get the skim milk from the start. Mix it
with the grain and potatoes, after making
sure that there are no gas bubbles in it.
Don’t be stingy with the green stuff.
“Poker”: White diarrhoea is a common
disease of young chickens, and kills many
It is mainly caused by leaving stale food
lying about in the sun, chills and warm
drinking water. A good remedy is glycerine,
two teaspoonfuls, oil of cinnamon, oil of
eucalyptus and oil of thyme, each 10 minims.
Give two drops in a teaspoonful of milk to
each chick once or twice a day, according
to the severity of the disease.
“Armi”: A good worm powder for dogs
can be made by mixing, in the case of a
medium-sized dog, 5 grains of santonine and
25 grains of areca nut. The quantity can
be increased in the case of a bigger dog.
Give the mixture to the dog on an empty
stomach. Repeat in another week. The
dog should then be thoroughly cured.
“Green-feed”: The average poultry-farm
feed-bin could be improved. Grain and
cereals will not retain their sweetness if
keDt in air-tight bins. Grain should be taken
from the bottom, not the top, and the con-
tents stirred occasionally to allow free air
circulation. If cereals are kept in bags, it
should be on a concrete or brick floor.
“Salambo”: In my tomato work I dig a
trench 18in. or more deep and enrich the
subsoil with compost; the tops are just be-
low ground level. When grown about a
foot I put in a little more soil, say sin. or
6in. r and so continue till the trench is filled.
This increases root action. Liquid manure
when the fruit is formed will improve
results.
“Sheik”: Girth gall can be alleviated by
well-mixed lard and kerosene applied two or
three times daily. If possible the horse
should be spelled.
“Bluey” : To make the best cow-feed, oats
should be cut for hay when coming to a
head. Not only is it more palatable, but it
contains less fibre and carries a higher pro-
tein content than when cut in the “milk” or
“dough” stage. Though the crop is a little
harder to cure at this stage, owing to the
higher moisture content, the better feed re-
sulting will more than make up for the
greater pains necessary in making it.
“Bill R.”: Sheepskins and dead wool
should be protected from the weather, but
should not be stored in the woolshed. They
breed microbes that at next shearing would
be liable to affect cuts on the sheep and
cause losses through blood poisoning. Ready
application of tar thinned out with turpen-
tine may prevent septic condition, but if
such develops a liberal sprinkling with iodo-
form is the surest check.
“T.W.”: I don’t hold with “Mick Q.’s”
idea of stabbing blown beasts (B. 26/9/’2S).
Of all so-called cures the knife is about the
worst. The simplest and most effective
remedy is to give your beast a drench of
raw’ kerosene, about a cup at a time. I’ve
applied it in the last stages, and in 20
minutes the beast was well and being milked.
“N. 8.” : A stallion that has been worked
during the off season needs to be well looked
after. Feed him with crushed oats and
bran sparingly for awhile, then gradually
increase the quantity. He should be fed as
much hay as he wants. Give him chaff, cut
long, as this will compel him to chew and
thus assist digestion. Beans in small quan-
tities are good, and a little boiled linseed
once a week will help digestion and give him
a good coat. A few carrots daily, clean
water and good grooming are necessary.
Exciting drugs should be avoided.
“Pick”: To eradicate sweet briar wait
until the ground has been thoroughly rain-
soaked ; then pass a ring-ended bullock
chain around the clump, bringing the hook
end through the ring. To the hook hitch
a team of bullocks. As the team straightens
out and starts to pull, loosen the earth
behind. The briar w’ill generally come away
to its remotest roots; any rootlets or
suckers that sprout can be fed off by sheep
or goats.
“Lucerne”: In reply to “B-Gar” (B.
22/8/’2B), my experience with bore water
has been more successful. I dug up a patch
about 33ft. x 15ft. with the pick, and went
through it a fortnight later with a garden
fork. Then planted about -Jib. seed, and
watered it with bore water pumped from a
hole in the bore drain, about 6J miles from
bore head. Nearly every seed seemed to grow.
I followed on with two more patches about
the same size, just marking out the beds,
and flooded them with water, having a drain
all round them. Plenty of weeds grew, but
the lucerne soon cleaned them out. The
more water I use the more the lucerne
grows. I cut every six weeks, and have
done so for 2J years. The lucerne is as
good in the unprepared beds as in the pre-
pared one. The country is open downs, and
the water is as good for humans as stock.
I used Hunter River seed.


Hi
s m .
.
mm iB
m
m
■
lip
i
*fy
<dtff % "I
.#
Isi JsfcL
»
.
■
M
111
M
I
•: H
MMHI
• .
■
m
■MU
”Swl
■H
/3 9h
Ji
\
m
■MI
III!!! 11 ...
■ i i
fc.:.
..;-:::'s'
ill
m M
mm
mm
/
11 ■
I ISI wm
Ifl
m
■B
Wmmm
M ."W J
■
»' yf?fi ■•
11
' v I iSy* /Blf
li ill
■h
l p
H
lit!
:
mJkik
«
, » - -mr&
*f,, . -..m §foi mmmm^m^m
jr y Pllr 1 mm, JwfF
r- 4 ;, mm
2&4 ..... '
*
~ V.,;
mm
i '
-L'-.-airiii
-
.........
ms
.
r *<>,
-ii *' :S .iotm
i
fy
.. fe.
.<
?
*...y
P
m
A,!...:i111i:
i l M
\ " /? "* -
:
-
»
P
m
Ifiu
Hi
V
. .■•:
1
m
m
mr msmm
Jlii
1
I
an
-
H
*«?
,ls-
HR
■
r ; _4
/
CHEVROLET
V


T
ife>
jag
HB
1 m
' -* * '*» * -.,.■£
■■
■i'.:
- ' : . ' . V
mm
.
■ m
Slilflil
m
mmmmmmmmmfflmm
;
* J £
*.*SJ
ix l_' ’
JMHI
ffptfll
ran
■
; :i- ■ .
sjßlSiii
PUP
For all the family to enjoy —
D EVEALING in its beautiful bodies the comfort, style and elegance
* that women all admire .. . offering the drive, dash and stamina that
men demand in a motor-car. . . and so easy and safe to handle that every
mile at the wheel is a joy—the Bigger and Better Chevrolet is bringing a
new measure of motoring enjoyment to thousands of families everywhere.
No other low-priced car so admirably meets the needs of every member
of the family. Built on a wheelbase of 107 inches . . . equipped with
powerful, non-locking 4-wheel brakes . . . and with its worm - and - gear
steering mechanism fitted with ball-bearings throughout it introduces
into the low-priced field an entirely new order of beauty, comfort, safety
and handling ease.
Visit your Chevrolet dealer to-day. Learn for yourself why families
everywhere are unanimously choosing the Bigger and Better Chevrolet.
QUALITY AT LOW COST.
THE TOURER
£205
Standard
Roadster
Sports
Roadster
- - £205
.. £226
Two-door
Sedan
£285
Four-door
Sedan
. £315
Buy from Your Local
Dealer.
WARRANTED
FOR
ONE YEAR
Metropolitan Distributors:
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Exhibition Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd'., Adelaide Street.
Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
Adelaide: Mann’s Motors, Ltd., Franklin Street.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., Hay Street
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
gBBV v *^lB
.
r\
It
ns
-,
ft
!■
iTi


r J n he first puff convinces you
of the superior quality of
io
for
9 a
Army Club
CIGARETTES
20
for
1/6
in pure ribbed watermarked rice paptp,
CAVANDERS Ltd., London (Est. 1775), Pioneers of Hygienic Cigarette Packing.
©s
h
1
J.
w
m
ms*
o
CORK TIPPED
or PLAIN
SMOKE-OH!
SHE DIDN’T MIND TELLING HIM
NOW.
Pat (after the wedding): And do you
still think marriages are made in
Heaven?”
Sue: “Well, if all men were as slow as you,
most of them would have to be.”
The urger said to the punter, “Put your
money in your pocket. It’s a mug’s game
trying to pick winners.”
—From the late Ananias’s “Table Tall:.”
H- *
The human race is a wait for age event.
Federal politicians have a shifty look
these days.
* *
Sir John Salmond says Australia has
three climates in the one land. Pooh ! that’s
nothing! Melbourne often has five in one
day.
* *
CULTURE.
The famous author stalked into the house,
his tall, looming brow corrugated with
annoyance.
“Not a publisher to touch it,” he growled,
hurling the work of genius across the room.
“Simply because it isn’t rubbish! That’s
what the public want! Trash ! Drivel!
Garbage! Let’s go to the theatre for a
little diversion.”
“Yes, dear,” said
Mrs. Dante McMil-
ton eagerly. “Shall
I book seats for
the opera?”
“You know I
don’t care for that
heavy stuff. We’ll
go and see the new
crime play. It may
rest my intellect.”
And the great man
once more became
absorbed in his
lofty thoughts.
Tli e renowned
virtuoso sank
wearily into his
chair after the
opera.
“Another emnty
house to-night,” he
exploded. “Muck!
That’s what they
want. Give ’em
muck, and they will
fill the theatre to
the roof. Oh, pass
over a book, and
let me forget all
about it.”
“Yes,” said the
devoted Mrs. Puc-
cini-Handcl. “Some-
thing by McMilton”
“No, no!” and a frown of distaste flitted
across the great man’s brow. “You know I
never read that ponderous stuff. A good de-
tective yarn is more in m.v line —something
with a murder or two in it”— —
Memphis.
* *
It is hoped that the threat to tax single
men in N.S.W. will make many bachelors
double up.
Jock Garden was perfectly right about dead
men telling no tales. It is why so many
widows re-marry.
“WHO’S WHO” ON THE WATEBSIDE.
Potowski Jehasuerus (“Josh”) : Profes-
sional Upheavalist; b Psmirrk, Poland. Only
son of Miseha Potowski, who, while a politi-
cal refugee in London, received sentences
totalling over 150 years for work (chiefly
arson and bomb-throwing) on behalf of down-
trodden British proletariat. Educ.: Nowhere.
Publications: None. Arrived in Australia
Aug., 1925. Joined Drain-flushers’ (sea-
going) Union Sept.; organised strike Oct.,
and expelled union same month. Sentenced
to three months Nov. for hitting union sec.
on head with bottle. Joined Marine Dish-
Washers’ Union Jan. Attempted to organise
strike Feb., but was thrown into harbor and
declared bogus. Engaged thereafter in
various activities in interests of suffering
Australian toilers, culminating in attempt
to organise general strike by amalgamation
of city and suburban razor-gangs. Was
“vagged” oftener in 1927 than any citizen of
the C’wealth. Recreations: Speech-making.
Social and political uplift.. Atheism. Heir:
None. Clubs: None. Present Residence:
Long Bay Gaol.
Preditorius, Israel Emmanuel : Ist
Baron. Cr. 1926. b The Levant, father and
mother perishing shortly afterwards in
Armenian massacres of 1871. Became natu-
ralised Englishman 1900. Shipowner. Un-
married. First to suggest doubling freights
and fares between England and Australia.
Formed th.e “We Will Never Forget Our
Splendid Workers League” during the World
War. (0.8. E. and thanked by H.M. the
King.) In 1919 raised fares on all his
steamers on patriotic grounds (the idea being
to help the Income-Tax Department), and
simultaneously introduced system of com-
pelling passengers to pay fees to ships’ doctors
and many other reforms on similar lines.
Publications: “Does Unionism Deserve to
Live?” by “England My Own”; “The Greed
of the Working-man” by “British Philanthro-
pist” ; and over 100 letters in the press,
under different pseudonyms, urging employers
to show more of the sturdy fighting spirit
which has made the white race what it is.
Recreation: Working for England. Clubs:
British Imperial, True Blue, etc. Present
Residence: Preditorius Ho., Park-lane.
Smith Jim : Waterside worker, b Mar-
rickville, Sydney, 1884; 4th son of Bill
Smith, wharf-lumper, m 1905, Lizzie, 3rd d
of Sam Brown, of Pyrmont. Four sons,
three daughters. Educ.: State-school. Started
work at 16, and has continued to work ever
since, except during World War (3 years’
service, n.c.o.’s rank and M.M.), when ill or
A CANDID OPINION.
HUSEAND: “Hush, listen! I heard footsteps—l think there’s a
man in the house.”
WIFE ( witheringly): “I don’t.”
when called out on strike. Publication: A
letter in Labor periodical pointing out ad-
vantages of poisoning, or machine-gunning,
militant employers and employees on whole-
sale scale. Recreation: Trying to get out
of debt. Present Address: “Ruo Emoh,” Mar-
rickville.
J. D.
* *
She was just a slip of a miss,
Of figure and features plain,
And ’twas just the miss of a slip
That made him eye her again.
Koala.
* *
No wonder husbands won’t go to parties
with their wives. The wives always make
them smart for it.
# *
Doctors have been called to the case of
an imported actress who, though she has been
here six months, has not yet declared Aus-
tralian audiences to be the most lovable
and appreciative on earth.
* *
According to statistics, spinsters live longer
than . married women. Apparently while
there’s hope there’s life.
* *
A Sydney man is trying to buy a replica
of Ned Kelly’s suit of armor. He thinks it
is either that or dropping his plan of a trip
to Melbourne.
# *
Cabled that Conan Doyle got in touch
with the spirit of Lord Haig at 10.15 p.m.
Sydneyites find it hard to get in touch with
the spirit world after 6 p.m.
%•
A notice has been painted on the rubbish-
bins in Sydney streets, “Keep your city clean.
Penalty £10.” After carefully studying the
notice we decided we wouldn’t.
THE FABLE OF THE RECALCITRANT
One evening a man said to his trousers :
“Gentlemen, I perceive that by wearing
braces I am causing you to remain stationary
at a set elevation while my legs are in
motion, a condition of affairs which results
in a continuous friction being concentrated
on the self-same portion of your cloth, the
said friction producing that distressing
malady, known as ‘bagging at the knees.’
To obviate this I have now resolved to wear
a loosely fitting belt, so that, with every
movement of my body, you, my dear trousers,
will be able to slip a degree or two, thus
distributing the friction of my knee motion
over a larger area.”
Next day the man presented his br c
to an asylum for the braceless. .
Looking at the trousers again,
eighteen months later, he was annoyed to
find that they resembled nothing so muc
as an elephant’s hind legs. . <<T *
“Ungrateful wretches !” he exclaimed. JJo
you still bag at the knees despite all mj
forethought?” , ,
“Sir,” replied the trousers, “althougn by
wearing a belt you prevented friction from
devastating utterly the one fixed frontal spot
usually so adversely affected, yet now a
larger area has been puffed and bagged. Vv e
would remind you that we are nearly
all cotton, otherwise you wouldn’t have been
able to buy us at the price, and, further-
more, you have worn us diurnally far beyond
the allotted span of even expensive trousers.
And yet, sir, you expect us to remain beau-
tiful for ever!”
Thereupon, in a paroxysm of despair,
the trousers took themselves off, and before
their owner could secure another pair he
was arrested for remarkable behavior.
Moral: You can’t please everybody.
Les. B.
* *
The cottage was a tiled one,
The outside fair to see,
A nd everything within that cot
Was purchased on T.P.
A scientist says that “the cackle of a
hen when she lays an egg is akin to laugh-
ter.” And with some of the eggs we get
it is not hard to guess what the bird was
laughing at.
* #
A new invention keeps a car in a hori-
zontal position when the side wheels are
driven on to a seven-inch kerb. It is felt
that motorists will get more pleasure out
of driving now they can run over a pedes-
trian without fear of capsizing the car.
* ¥
JUNIOR lIOWLERS.
The Italians say, “See Naples and you’ll
die.”
A goblet is a young turkey.
Dan ton kept an inferno.
Fencing is slang for receiving.
Explorers go to the Poles to see if they
can get back.
Chopin was an early Australian actor.
Bagdad had the Forty Thieves before they
came to Bourke-street.
Windsor was an English king who had a
lot of merry wives.
A pitcher plant is a place where films are
made.
Bustards are heavy drinkers.
Charlie Chaplin was in the gold rush in
Victoria.
Watts Byton Hughes.
¥ #
A hen a Royal Commission is appointed
pressmen are always anxious to ascertain
the scoop of the inquiry.
THE APOLOGY.
WIFE (thoroughly disgusted): “I am sorr y
I married you!”
HUSBAND (not a bad sort): “Well, now—
hie—since you’re so decent about it, I’ll
try to for give you!”
To the sufferer from indigestion Hell
knows no fury like some women’s scones.
* *
“A hundred years hence we’ll get all the
news by tabloid,” said a Perth magistrate.
But even then some of the news-stories will
be too hard to swallow.
* *
Ex-Premier Lang, of N.S.W., has
announced his absolute refusal to speak on
behalf of Federal Labor candidates during
the coming election campaign. We are
pleased to inform readers that the elections
will still be held as previously arranged.
That Anglican cleric who complained of
Australia’s blunted sense of humor evidently
has not seen our telephone operators chuck-
ling to each other as they plug into the
wrong numbers.
THE GOLFING MOTHER.
“At Kooyonga (S. Aus.) on Saturday, the 19-
year-old State amateur champion won the club
championship. His mother could do no more than
annex the women’s championship.”
An aged pro. was walking, wiili his pupil, a
mere boy;
His voice that once had made the fairway
ring
With yells of ‘'Fore!" designed each bun-
kered "rabbit" to annoy,
Was dulcet now, as he these words did
sing:
"Never lay a stymie for your mother;
Don’t in matches down the good old, dame •
Fell yourself yen’ll never have another,
And do not put her silv’ry locks to shame.
When you didn’t wear plus fours, but binders,
W 7 ho teas more considerate than she?
So see your card is always well behind hers.
And let her win one up—or two—or three.”
"But, say,” the lad objected, “that she goes
right off her game,
As golfing mothers very often do.
Must 1, if she fluffs all her shots, proceed
to do the same?
Admit the truth —if she ivas yours would
you?”
“Once, like you, I had a mother, laddie —
One whose chief delights were golf and
me.
As she neared the club house ev’ry caddie
, Used, for fear of being booked, to flee.
Then I took her on and soundly beat her
(I dould always do it on my head).
What a cruel way it was to treat her!
Now• —excuse me while I weep — she’s
dead.”
The tyro, at this statement, joined his men-
tor in lament.
Their cries of grief resounded loud and
long,
Until the pro., deciding his remorse had
had full vent,
Resumed the dismal burden of his song:
“Never sink a ten-foot putt while playing
’ Gainst the one to whom you owe your
birth.
If you’re in the rough, remain there, saying
Words like ‘pish!’ and ‘tush!’ as you the
earth
Slash in vain, the while she grins with
pleasure }
As is the winning golfer’s soothing way.
Had I but done so, my maternal treasure
Alight be alive, and missing drives, to-day.”
N.S.W.
PYM. B.
CHOICE OF EVILS.
“A - Sydney weekly states that toeing out, when
■ walking, causes internal troubles.’’
We must turn in our toes, or be
Attacked by some dread malady;
Walking with toes turned out is sure
To cause disease that’s hard to cure.
And turning up our toes might come
From changing gaits. So we are glum.
It seems that e’en should Death not smite us,
We’ll suffer from appigeonitis.
N.s.w.
MARY AITCH.


!
9
THE
V '
v.
Spirit
Supreme
gymKDEg
350MEDAB
¥ Perth!
f * 1
v tf pom ™ tNTT X">T r * f «'*« M
m
sljKr
fr »iu~ JJ
\smg0 1 FINE
iwarfc
""“•i'.ii, 5
5O
9 ED TO TH E
5 Ih)gst6nD Clubs
* Joiml)ewarsSoi\sli
Distillers PERTH, (Scotland)* LONDON
cuS TO»S
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE COM mONWEAL™


m
m
“A clear spotless skin de-
notes health from within.”
Health from Within
Ri&ht through the Trying Season
A regular course of Yeaston Tablets, liv-
ing yeast free from drugs or chemicals,
is the natural way to prevent or remove
the skin disorders and blood impurities
which are so rife in Spring, weather.
Yeaston Tablets will clear your skin,
purify the blood, improve appetite and
digestion, and tone up the whole sys-
tem. They are safe , health'builders.
No other kind of yeast will do.
Bottles of 36 - - 2/3
Bottles of 100 - - 4/9
Look for the letters “ROX” which are stamped on
genuine Yeaston Tablet.
Write for the wonderful Yeaston Booklet to
“Yeaston,” Box 2682 EE, G.P.0., Sydney
each
e
“Nature’s
Corrective
Tonic Food”
Poverty
Point
“M.G.S.” : The report that a screen cap-
able of displaying pictures in perfect tone
in the open air and in full sunlight reminds
me that the first movies I ever saw were pro-
jected under the moon of Java. The screen
was set up in the middle of the Aloon-Aloon
or public park. Chairs for Europeans cost
50 cents, seats on the grass in front for
inlanders cost 20, and seats at the rear 10.
ON A NICE LONG JOURNEY, TOO.
THE TENOR (aside): “Are we going all
right?”
THE SINGING SOUBTTE: “Judging by the
managers expression — yes!”
ment tax. Actually, his admission charges
are 2s. and Is., but to save paying a tax on
the 2s. tickets he admits the crowd and
charges 6d. and Is. At half-time he shunts
everyone out, and admits them again to
what he calls “another performance,” charg-
ing another 6d. and Is.
“Sebrof”: The heroine of one of Robert
Service’s novels is a girl who had a job
feeding a troupe of performing fleas. I saw
a show at Calais where fleas performed and
fed simultaneously. A bare-backed girl sat
facing away from the spectators, while the
proprietor of the show dexterously picked,
fleas, one at a time, out of a small box
held in his left hand, placed them on the
girl’s back, save them just time for one
nip, and then back into the box. By these
means he produced red outline drawings of
celebrities, and they were not bad like-
nesses, either.
“Cauboy”: “Richard Garwyn” says (B.
;!/9/’2B ) I was wrong in stating that the
Gong Theatre in Melbourne has s'*t on*
to produce a new play every fortnight and
run throughout the year, and lie quotes his
booklet in confirmation. Well, the same book-
let remarks that "each production will run
for 12 nights, necessitating a change of bill
on every alternate Saturday.” If this does
not mean what I said it did, what does if
mean? The Gongers end up with the usual
implication of inefficient amateurs that if
they are not patronised the fault will lie, not
with them, but with the public. “Surely,”
they say, “in a city of a million, a city known
for its culture and intelligence, there are
sufficient people to support our venture?”
Well, as a person of quite equal culture to.
and probably (judging by performances to
date) more intelligence than, most of the
Gong-bangers, I should say that the answer
is in the derisive negative.
“C.R.”: In acquiring the rights of “Drac-
ula” the Firm is determined to spare us
nothing. Written in epistolary form, the
novel from which the play is taken is pro-
bably the most gruesomely realistic and de-
pressing piece of fiction in existence. The
story of the vampire count who kept himself
alive from one generation to another by
sucking the blood of innocents has been freez-
ing London’s marrow for two years, while
five companies have been doing the smalls.
So many people fainted or had fits (during the
initial weeks that doctors and nurses were
kept in attendance. Latterly the audiences
have become more hardened.
“R.R.F.”: I am not an Australian, but
I have been 10 years in this country, and
I should like to direct attention to the amaz-
ing list of Australian playwrights whose
work has been produced in Sydney and
Melbourne since I landed here: D. 11.
Soiiter, Arthur H. Adams, Mrs. Dale, R.
Buchanan, Louis Esson, Helen de Guerry
Simpson, William Moore, Halcott Glover,
Blamire Young, Mary Wilkinson, Mrs. Dear-
den, E. H. C. Oliphant and Louis Stone.
And the whole lot has been done by one
man—Gregan McMahon!
“Hamfat”: The unkindest cut of all in
regard to Louis Stone’s literary but un-
dramatic “The Lap of the Gods” was the
notice given it by the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph Pictorial. That paper slashed the
play more eagerly than any of its contempo-
raries did; nobody on its staff apparently,
Remembered that the same piece was the
one to which the Daily Telegraph awarded
its prize for an Australian play in 1923.
The script from which the play (which was
written in 1915} was rehearsed was typed
from the Telegraph’s own columns-
“Mako”: Mention of the predilection of
certain children of genius for scribbling
their efforts on odd scraps of paper (R.P.
3/9/’2B) recalls that J. M. Barrie thus
sorely tried his early play-producers. Sir
John Hare’s first acquaintance with the
afterwards successful “The Professor’s Love
Story” was per ancient envelopes and other
discarded pieces of paper, and on grounds
of its general untidiness he turned it down
practically at sight. “How could I tell the
fool was a genius?” he growled later. “The
stuff was scrawled all over the place.”
“R. J.R.” : Tell “L.H.P.” that Mrs. Scott-
Siddons did not get a run out of “The
Scarlet Letter” (8., 26/9/’2B). The Haw-
thorne piece caused quite a social uprising
when first staged in Sydney (1878). The
best people deserted the theatre ; the outcry
forced the drama off the boards. There
was only the one performance. A news-
paper critic of the time'howled this: “It is
everywhere conceded that Mrs. Scott-Sid-
dons has immense nerve to appear on any
stage with the brand of infamy on her
breast.” The lady’s reputation was not
greatly affected, however.
“Rob P.” : Almost every town worthy of
the name in U.S.A. has its symphony orches-
tra, besides one or more brass bands. Akron,
Ohio, has an organisation consisting almost
entirely of medicoes which dabbles exclu-
sively in symphonic music. Another unusual
body is the Tama Band, whose members
are all full-blooded redskins. Some idea of
Uncle’s seriousness in musical matters can
be gained from the fact that at its birth the
The rear-seaters saw words and action re-
versed, which, however, didn’t matter. As
the moon sailed in and out of the cloud-rack
the figures on the sheet came out sharp and
hard or faded away into gesticulating ghosts.
As the luminary got lower the shadow of a
palm-tree was flung into a French interior,
and a dazzled flying-fox, with shrill screams,
tried to pass through the heroine. The
natives sniggered as the tale of Western vice
and adultery unfolded itself; while the inces-
sant twittering of the bats, the drowsy
swearing of the monkeys and the distant
shriek of a wild pig being killed by a tiger
provided the weirdest orchestra a movie-pic-
ture of domestic intrigue ever had.
“P.R.” : The proprietor of a country pic-
ture-show in the Speck has discovered a
shrewd way of dodging the Federal amusc-
members of this ensemble, with the excep-
tion of the conductor, could neither read
nor speak English, and all lessons had to
be transposed into the Indian tongue. This
band has been going for five years and
giving concerts for three. To encourage
amateur ensembles, American music pub-
lishers issue folios of tuneful and not over-
technical compositions. This is an idea
Australian publishers should copy. Recently
I played with a municipally subsidised
orchestra and for an E-flat instrument was
given, through lack of any other, parts in
F and E natural. If music publishers and
conductors gave more thought to the techni-
cal limitations of amateur orchestras, we
would get better music and much more
enthusiasm.
“L.H.P.” : A newspaper picture of the
officials in Doggett’s Coat and Badge Race
recalls interesting theatrical history. Dog-
gett was a partner with Cibber and Wilks in
Drury-lnne— the famous triumvirate that for
two decades made theatre enterprise more
prosperous than it had ever been in London.
“the PATSY," AT SYDNEY CRITERION.
Demonstrating that “The Patsy" is a true “Cinderella" play Patricia, the Cinderlla
(lrene Homer): Papa, the good fairy (A.S. Byron); Sister and Ma, who do
their stuff in true “ugly-sister” style; and Tony, the Prince Charming ( Bran
don Peters).
Doggett was so enthusiastic a Whig that in
his will he left a sum of money for a coat and
badge to be annually rowed for by Thames
watermen on August 1, to celebrate the acces-
sion of the House of Hanover. On Dog-
gett’s badge Dibdin founded his opera “The
Waterman,” which charming work was often
in the bills of Sydney theatres up to 1880.
“Cauboy” : “Flaming Youth” (B. 3/9/’2B)
is at sea as to the reason for the failure of
the Fuller sougandancer “Good News.” It
didn’t clash with two opera seasons in Mel-
bourne. For one thing, it opened in the
very theatre that one of the opera crowds
had vacated; for another, opera doesn’t
usually interfere with American jazz comedy
The reasons for its failure were (1) it dealt
with a phase of American college life alien to
Australia; and (2) producer Ernest Rolls
pathetically pinned his faith to the delusion
that actual youth can give an atmosphere
of youth to a play, whereas everybody knows
that only an actress well over 40 can simu-
late adolescence satisfactorily (for example,
the Vanbrugh and Renee Kelly). As a mat-
ter of fact, the season did improve towards
the end of its Melbourne run. That was
after a seasoned Australian comedian had re-
placed an American infant in a juvenile
part and an English actress with a bearable
voice had been substituted for an American
child with an utterly intolerable warble.
“Lever de R.”: When John Brownlee
took to grand opera the. world lost an ori-
ginal comedian. His Marcello in “Bolieme”
was full of the subtle suggestion so rarely
included in the equipment of the popular
farce merchants of the day. When Mimi
Melba lay dying on her bed, as a mere
acquaintance of her lover lie busied him-
self, as acquaintances at such a time would,
in unostentatiously tidying up the room. The
belief that death likes to find things tidy
when he arrives to claim his own is rooted
in the psychology of the whole human race
- —a dozen examples crowd into the mind.
It is touches like these that mark the true
comedian —not the mouthing of hand-me-
down and irrelevant gags.
“Cine Ma”; An attempt is just now
being made in Melbourne to foist on to
picture-goers an alleged dramatisation of
one of Marie Stope’s best-known books. It
is the story of a working-girl who refuses a
fireman because she has been born into a
squalid family of 14, and does not want to
repeat her wretched mother’s distressing his-
tory. Torn with unsatisfied desire, she
attempts suicide, and is rescued and intro-
duced into the home of a well-to-do citizen
with the appropriate allotment of tlire ®. „ h]
cared-for kids. Here she might conceivably
have stumbled on “Wise Parenthoo
some other of Marie Stopes’s works, and a
few quotations would have given the . y
some point. Instead, a fire breaks out,
fireman rescues her, and she marries >
apparently still ignorant of the key
small and select family. For this, ujider-
stand, the Australian censors are to
and it is curious to find them thus fol ow-
ing the British precedent which declares
that family limitation may be preached in
expensive tomes to the people who already
practise it, but teaching it cheaply to the
populace who don’t is a punishable otlence.
“Cauboy” : I don’t think it matters either
way to a strong drama whether the scenery
is there or not (B. 26/9/’2B). After the
first gasp of admiration at the scenic artist s
work, the background to tlie action of a well-
constructed play is speedily forgotten. It
is not generally realised that even the most
perfect stage illusion does not cover the
whole ground. Its power to recreate an
atmosphere different from that which the
audience is physically dwelling in is limited
by a lot of things. Among things that a
dramatist may have to make a spectator
forget are that his dress-shirt has just shot
the head off a patent stud into the hair ot
the lady in front; that the girl four seats
away is burrowing for another chocolate-
cream ; that the prompter’s voice is clearly
audible ; that the producer’s left leg is visible
0.p.; and that the conductor of the orchestra
has a wart on his neck. One of the most
thrilling performances of the late grand-
mv'ra season was “Madame Butterfly.” and
Minghetti’s new boots squeaked right through
it. \
-Ilamfat”: Dot Brunton, in spite of some
triumphs in England, has not had the best
of luck, but her alliance with Harry Welsh-
man in the leads in “The White Camellia''
should alter that. Managing the show is
Alfred Turner, who toured Australia with
Cyril Maude and married an Australian,
Shirley Huxley. After the London season
the combination may come south. Turner
had Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard with
“So This Is Love,” which is to make way
for the new piece; hence his management can
be regarded as an Australian strong-point
in London.
“O. Kay”: A cinematographer named
Segerberg “shot” the Melbourne Cup of
1896, so he was five years earlier than Fred
Murphy (B. 26/9/’2B). Harry Rickards
showed the picture at the Melbourne Opera
House (now the Tiv.) on the night of the
race. Segerberg is still going strong; he
lately told the Film Commission a few
things about what could be done in cine-
matography in Australia.
“C. 8.” : A feature which struck me in “The
Adorable Outcast,” the Australia-crtm-Holly-
wood drama lately released in Melbourne,
was the stream of water played on the crowd
of beachcombers in one of the scenes. The
pressure would have satisfied even the ex-
acting requirements of a metropolitan fire-
brigade superintendent, yet the locale of the
story seemed to be a small town in a South
Sea island.
“L.H.P.” : Why are pressmen on the stage
made such imbeciles? The latest libel is
contained in “Interference,” but I have
seen scribes in “Dolores,” “The Great Lover"
and many other plays that were all cari-
catures. Even the war correspondent in
Suppe’s fascinating opera “Fatinitza” is a
silly libel.
SCREEN TALKS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the first ‘talkies’ exhibition in London....
all the artists on the films could be heard singing
and acting.”
“The tumult and the shouting dies,
The captains and the kings depart”;
But still the tortured echoes rise
In wayes of pain; my eyelids smart;
My ears are throbbing agonies—
I grow, I fear me, faint pf heart.
I, who have tended long and well
To Screendom’s sacred, flick’ring lamps ;
I. who for years have dared the spell
Of baleful glares from baby vamps;
Who e’en the destiny could foretell
Of custard pies —my ardor damps!
I, who am cognisant of all
The devious ways of “crooks” and
“frails”;
Whom “sob-stuff” mothers can’t appal
With miles of close-up woe and pails
Of tears: who know stout villains fall
To heroes slim —my courage fails!
For I have watched them year by year,
These movie inyenues and leads;
No critic I, nor boding seer,
Yet prophecy within me breeds—
They’ll never find the words, I fear,
Foolish enough to fit their deeds.
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


c Pericles —
's myselfthe
yre7\
y\W
“Pericles'* Act. V., Scene 111. Pericles, on
revealing his life story before the alter of
Diana of Ephesus, is re-united to his wife
and daughter after believing them dead for
twenty years.
%
w
m
iii
*
X
\
m
‘wm: x» >IV
La N
vk ll ! 1
m
m
/ Sr
M
/A
Xl
X
I
AAa
*
m
*
■*?
mm
■
i
&
W*
111
IK
II
r s
m
m
«*a° e
**/>
4
AR
/^CL'A'S'SW
Barnet Glass
BARNET GLASS RUBBER COMPANY LIMITED


. v YOKOHAMA'
v/\> ■ ■%“*
MCLBOURN
FRANCISCO
-/
Hawob
O PAGO PACO
* Samoa
UVA
YDNE
SYONEV
AUCKLAND
/Vf iy Zealand
See the World
Under Matson - Oceanic
Auspices
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO
By the speediest, coolest and most varied scenic route.
Delightful calls at Fiji, Samoa and the Hawaiian Islands.
First Class - - £73 Single, £125/10/- Return
Second Class - - £5O/10/- Single, £B7 Return
ROUND THE WORLD
First Class £235
Second Class £176
Available for two years.
SYDNEY TO LONDON (via America)
First Class Single From £ll2
Second Class Single £92
First Class Return From £209
Second Class Return £176
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via AMERICA,
AND RETURN via SUEZ OR THE CAPE
First Class - £235
All transportation, reservations, insurances, etc., arranged by
expert officers of the Company. Consult us personally or by
letter before deciding your route.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
Sailing Every Third Saturday
His mbanic pkaamniip qo.
AAATOON UK
12 Bridie Street, Sydney. H —2B
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacham Ltd , 94-96 William Street. Melbourne; 117-119 Kini-
William Street, Adelaide; Fremantle. Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane
H mmmhh
iMBSON&Sot,
n r's>
ijfts
un
/ ft •’
JOHN JAMESON
★ ★ ★
WHISKEY
ALL JOHN JAMESON'S
Dublin Whiskey is made
from the finest procurable
malt and barley, and dis-
tilled by the same ex-
pensive process that the
Jamesons used in 1780.
This is the secret of its
wonderful smoothness and
ripe, rich distinctive
flavour. Drink it slowly,
and taste it carefully !
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PERKINS & CO., LTD., BRISBANE, Q.
MILNE & CO., PERTH, W.A.
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
è
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on hie for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND?
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir.?*
(Next G.P.0.).
NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
THERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
ITS majestic fiords and sounds, its uncanny thermal
wonders never fail to impress the keenest and most
critical observer. Its trout and deep-sea fishing, its
deer stalking and native game provide the best of sport.
NEW is reached by palatial steamers,
i and the visitor on arrival is welcomed
and cared for by those whose duty it is to see that
he has a good time. He is taken care of from the time
he sets foot on shore until he steps on board his
steamer at the conclusion of his tour.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to he seen
The COST involved
may be had on
application to the
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
"t\ G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Booked. Tours Planned


X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
to introduce
i4«t(KStW)p
Shaving Cream
For a limited period only
If
s£>
V
m
look fabtluf
fioJiqcuM Offlehm
ifovJi djzai&if kruidow
"jjjyl
“Valet” Auto Strop
Razor, the razor
which possesses the
simplest and most
effective self-strop-
ping device ever
invented for sharp-
ening a razor blade.
A genuine “ Valet ”
strop.
Genuine “ Valet ”
blade completes the
outfit. The whole
in strong and service-
able case.
3'-
There’s “life” in this
carefully perfected
Auto Strop Shaving
Cream. Its lather is
spontaneous, sooth-
ing and safe. Made
by the “ Valet ”
people, whose only
object is to give the
best blade its best
possible chance.
The same size of
tube as the more
expensive creams.
QJUL f&riti&A
YhoJcA
lfc
5
THE
WHOLEYCOMPLETE
for 2^9 ,F
BOUGHT TODAY!
TO MORROW MAY
BE TOO LATE!!
Managing Agents for Australia: PHIPSON & Co , Ltd , 181 Clarence St., Sydney
BAGSHAW’S
II BAGS HAWS
//f ASTHMA
ill POWDER
i/;
ASTHMA POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Pot and Palette.
A last-minute decision alters the title
of the pending Fane-Lofting book. Instead
of “Thomas Tucker, Vocalist,” it is to be
called “The Happy Vagabond,” as being
mpre clearly indicative of the yarn’s nature
and content.
Carlyle Jackson, who has hung his artistic
harp in the Hordern Gallery, Sydney, has
made it an instrument of 47 strings. On
some of the 47 he plays unheard ihelodies in
oils—better oils than those usually produced
by the habitual water-colorist. He found fit
subjects in the foothills of the Dandenongs.
Crisp, even work, this of Jackson’s; not
very ambitious, perhaps, but full of sincerity
and making no violent assault on the eye.
“C.Q.”: That keener interest is being felt
in the A.J.A. in Victoria was shown in the
recent election of officers. Allan Fraser, who
has been secretary for two years, was returned
as president by a large majority. Fraser
has represented the Victoria district on
numerous meetings of the Federal Council,
and was largely responsible for the annual
Journalists’ Ball. Charles Lynch, district
treasurer, who combines red hair with cold
tea, defeated four opponents for the post
of secretary.
, Mary Gaunt’s new story, “The Lawless
Frontier,” will deal with the Abyssinia
which for story-making purposes she has
made almost her own. The tale at present
on the stocks is about the Mutiny of the
Bounty—the Australian novelist, nowadays
settled in Italy, has been attracted to it by
her brother, Admiral Guy Gaunt, who is
superintending the construction of the naval
part of it.
“P.X”: Tom Honey, late editor of the
S. M. Herald, could have written a better
yarn than anybody else in Australia about
what Charles Dickens’s children thought of
their father. While he was fitting himself
for editorial work on the Herald Heney
took the job of editor of the Western
Grazßer, at Wilcannia, then a lively little
town where Ted Dickens had some sort
of a _ pastoral-agency business. One of
Heney’s jobs was to learn all he could about
land laws and land settlement; and as an
agent, regularly appearing before the Land
Boards, Ted Dickens was his early preceptor.
Will Ashton’s annual pursuit of the same
sort of weather in various parts of Europe,
temporarily lodged at Melbourne New Gallery,
is this year distinguished by the inclusion "of
one or two Australian landscapes, and the
Australian landscapes are distinguished by
an almost total absence of Australian atmo-
sphere. A certain gaudiness, as if the place
had just been in the hands of the art deco-
rators, may be excused when it appears in
renderings of France or Switzerland; but
when it crops up in the soft distances that
shroud the flanks of Terrigal and the sands
of. Narrabeen it is open to the charge of
being an alien immigrant. A study, liow-
evei% of a snowbound farm on Kosciusko is
full of glittering frigidity.
Veteran ex-Customs Controller Norman
Lockyer, knighted for his work in the de-
partment, made one of his rare visits to
Sydney lately, and had to look in upon
The Bulletin. Lockyer was a friend of
Archibald’s, and helped him with the early
numbers. In those days the young Customs
clerk was an aquatic enthusiast and had
been writing rowing notes for the Sydney
Mail. When his friend’s paper was
launched he doubled the part and wrote
sporting notes for it. Nobody has a livelier
recollection of the paper’s first establish-
ment, its furniture consisting of a table, a
chair and a high and rickety three-legged
stool —the stool specially bought, Archibald
explained to Lockyer, for the benefit of
creditors who might call and want to wait
for their money-
The Berry group of newspaper magnates
have bought up the three chief South Wales
dailies, all Liberal; they will now come
under the control of the Western Mail,
which is Tory. The price of the three was
over a million sterling. The last big pur-
chase of this group, which already has its
fangs in the throats of the London mono-
polists Rothermere and Beaverbrook, was
London Daily Telegraph from Lord Burn-
ham. The Berry group now own, in addi-
tion to the above, a dozen morning dailies
and the same number of evening dailies
(mostly in Manchester and the north), six
Sunday papers, about a hundred weeklies,
and over 200 magazines, annuals and child-
ren’s papers. Lord Buckland, one of the
Berry brothers, all of whom are multi-
millionaires, is understood to be the director
of more companies than any other man on
earth. Their father was an obscure Welsh
estate-agent.
This month The Bulletin said good-bye
to two of its oldest inhabitants —Tom
McMahon, accountant, and W. 11. East,
head of the eomposmg-room. Each had well
over 45 years’ service in the office. Tom
McMahon helped to skirmish up the agents’
money which paid the earliest contributors
to the paper—that was in the days of
Haynes and Archibald, in 1880. When
Haynes left, Tom left, too, but soon he re-
turned and thereafter made up the pay-
envelopes for over 40 years. Nobody living
has come into contact with more Bulletin
contributors. “Bill” East has handled the
“copy” of The Bulletin’s four editors
(five, as a matter of fact, for at the very
stari of things Haynes was nominally editor,
and not Ai-chibald) and of more famous
writers than any other man in Australia.
Both in their day and their sphere did
valuable work for the paper.
“F.S.”: A long and acrimonious dispute
has closed with the resignation of Frank
Rinder as London buyer for the Felton
Bequest. Contemporaneously with his retire-
ment a long article appeared in London
Daily Telegraph traversing the treasures
acquired by Rinder for the Vic. National
Gallery and lauding his judgment. There
are some grounds for the panegyric. Rin-
der spent many tens of thousands of the
b’-quest money, and amongst his purchases
were some pictures of decided merit. But
judgment implies a standard, and taking the
collection as a whole no definite standard is
revealed. Some pictures were bought on
names, some on technique and some oq the
philatelic principle that rarity gives value.
Rinder paid £450 for Manet’s lamentable
“Melon.” Owing to the operations of re-
storers there is little of Tintoretto in the
“Doge Pietro Loredano,” which cost £14,000
and made European dealers wonder why they
had parted with better examples of that
master for as little as £3OOO. Rinder, in
fact, displayed the mentality, not of the
artist, but of the connoisseur, who if his
hobby happens to be palaeolithic flints raves
about the exquisite art of a stone spearhead.
The annual exhibition of the Melbourne
Women’s Art Club, which one remembers on
previous occasions as being mainly a display
of Art in rompers, is this year distinguished
by one or two examples of what look like
adult observation and moderately mature
achievement. Of such are “The Flowered
Screen” of E. B. Pearcey, a vigorous nude
study of a lackadaisical lady, full of char-
acter and emphatic drawing, if somewhat
lacking in atmospheric quality; the delicate
“Evening Mists” of Clarice Beckett and “The
Old Shed,” intimately rendered by Nora
Gurdon. Aileen Dent’s portrait of the Rev.
W. S. Pcarse is to be commended for its
rigorous searching for the idiosyncrasies of
an interesting ecclesiastic. “Near Dande-
nong” shows that Miss M. Holgate is
developing. Mrs. Hurry is in haste as usual to
proclaim herself a disciple of Max Mel-
drum in a self-conscious choice of the
deliberately gawky landscape ; though in the
head of a child she has applied the best pre-
cepts of that very competent painter to good
advantage. The Mcldrum influence is very
obvious in this show, especially in the still-
lifes, and it gives body and substance to a
display otherwise largely devoted to framed
chocolate-box covers.
The quarterly Art in Australia and
Art in New Zealand for September re-
semble each other in nothing except size and
make-up. A. in A. long ago secured a sepa-
ration order from Literature and took
Art only to spouse ; A. in N.Z. is more Liter
ature than Art. It is serving two publics,
and, on the promise of this initial issue, is
going to serve them well. A. in A. is a
one-man show —the pick of Harold Her-
bert’s fresh and sunlit water-colors and a
few of his etchings and pencil drawings. It
is perhaps asking too much of a journal that
is doing art such a very great service to
suggest that all reproductions of color should
be in color; one or two of the 14 black-
and-white reproductions are excellent, but
in the others almost everything worth while
in the pictures is lost. Herbert’s art is
discussed rather heavily by J. S. MacDonald.
The same writer contributes to Art in New
Zealand, which includes some verse, a play,
word sketches, a bright, full-lipped head of
a woman by M. E. 11. Tripe, and a living
splash of zinnias and chintz by Miss D. Iv.
Richmond.
“Tilburina T.”: Mention of Australian
sculptors (B. 26/9/’2B) impels me to ask
why Dora Ohlfsen’s name should not be in-
cluded. Her statue, “Sacrifice,” in memory
of the Italian soldiers who fell during the
war, stands in the city of Formia, chosen
from models received from all over Europe.
It is an exquisite piece of work —the expres-
sion on the upraised face is haunting in its
poignancy. Daphne Mayo is another Aus-
tralian lady sculptor who has some fine
work to her credit.
This resolute-looking individual is Alan
John Villiers, who though not a Tassie by
birth —he was
published in
Melbourne 25
years ago—is
a rema r k-
ably good one
by adoption.
Everyone who
read his arti-
cles on his
voyage round
the Horn in
the Herzogin
Cecilie can
judge of his
j : o’ u r n alistic
capacities. His
father, Leon
Villiers, was a
frequent con-
tributor to The
Bullet in’s
Re d Page.
Alan has had
a varied career.
He went to sea in 191 S, was with Oapt. Lar-
sen on liis pioneer voyage to the Antarctic,
and has served under Finnish, Norwegian,
Peruvian and English flags. Ho has published
three books—“ Whaling in the Frozen South,”
“The Wind Ship” and “Falmouth for
Orders” —and his novel “The Sailor” was
highly commended in The Bulletin com-
petition. In 1924 he joined the staff of the
Hobart Mercury, and with the exception of
the time occupied on his trip in the Her-
zogin Cecilie, has been there ever since.
“Prax”: The late J. F. Archibald left a
provision in his will for the purchase of a
fountain to commemorate the association of
French and Australians in the Great War. It
was specified by the testator that the sculptor
should be a Frenchman, to be chosen by the
president of the British Boyal Academy! The
choice fell on Sicard, one of the leading
French disciples of Rodin. Those who have
seen the completed work, which is to be ready
for shipment in December next, say that
there is nothing like it for nobility and
beauty in Australia. Nevertheless one wished
that some of our own brilliant young
sculptors like Lynch and Parker might have
had a chance to show what they could have
done with a subject which carries such an
intense appeal to every Australian artist.
“Spokcsliave”: The latest Australian to
make an indiscreet allusion to the taste of
his fellow Australians is Norman Lindsay.
The indiscretion was printed in London.
“As for this place, Australia.” it runs, “it
is a moribund hole, hardly above the men-
tal level of backwoods America, and little
is to be expected of it for many years.
It is a relief for me, after years of an
extremely depressing struggle with its an-
tagonism, to be able at last to send work
out of it.” When a Melbourne newspaper
attacked him and ran around collecting tin'
tinpot opinions of invertebrate local artists
on these awful words, N.L. might have
stuck to his guns. Manx a man has said
worse in private letters about the country
he loves. Instead the recluse of Springwood
merely passed the onus on to the publisher
—son Jack, who runs the Fanfrolico press
in London.


m
1
■
V,
m
k
'/s
a.
%
Ml
HE distinction of the MILLS Hat
will win your approval on sight.
The name MILLS rises supreme
the realm of fashion. It is a
m
guarantee of quality, of perfect style, ex-
quisite craftsmanship, and, above all, of
durability. Through all weathers, in every
season, the MILLS retains its shape and
smartness.
Hat that suits your lersonalhty
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD-
A PRODUCT OF


World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1923.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Don't wish for the Best—get it,
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHIDP & CO., DTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, DTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
J-&
"ft* Rnc/t Inland Golf*
link/ inAu/tniia
Are to be found it the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management —G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone; 86491.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
With three-year-olds and weight-for-age
horses above the average in number and
quality, Australia is witnessing some excep-
tionally fine racing this year. The three-
year-olds are an unusually interesting lot;
in this respect 1928-29 may be ranked by
the turf historians with 1924-25 (Heroic,
Windbag, Spearfelt and Nigger Minstrel)
and 1919-20 (Artilleryman, Richmond Main
and Eurythmic). A month ago .it was be-
lieved that Mollison was in a class of his
own, but the gelded son of Seremond —Molly’s
Robe met his master in the A.J.C. Derby,
and was beaten out of a place in the Caul-
field Guineas on Saturday. At Caulfield, on
the other hand, Gothic redeemed his repu-
tation, tarnished |in the V.R..C. Oqtobe:r
Stakes, by accounting for a very much better
field than he had met at Flemington. The
big crowd present at the V.A.T.C. course
found the recent alterations very much to
its liking.
The Caulfield Guineas was the forty-
seventh race of the series and one of the
most memorable. On returning from Sydney
Mollison had shown signs of soreness, but
he was believed to have shaken it off; at
all events, E. M. Pearce was satisfied with
his condition. Despite a bad marble, the
brilliant bay was always at odds-on; “I’ll
take six to four,” was the final cry. Sol
Green’s colt Strephon was second favorite
at 7 to 1, Ramulus was at 8 to 1, Fara-
manch at twelves, Merab at 20 to 1, and
Balmerino at 25 to 1. This son of All
Black—Anna had run disappointingly in the
Stand Handicap at Flemington the previous
Saturday. Great was the surprise when he
cut down Ramulus and beat the Sydney
repx-esentative by half a head. Ramulus had
run away from Mollison (second most of
the way) approaching the home turn, and
looked unconquerable in the straight. A
great many people thought Mollison was
third, but the judge decided that Merab had
finished in front of him. Strephon, who came
home well, was fifth; the time was lmin.
39 J sec.
If Mollison was really third, his supporters
may take comfort from the fact that Rich-
mond Main was third in 1919 and then
first in the Derby. They certainly need
all the comfort they can get. Perhaps he
has grown tired of chasing Ramulus, who,
with Mollison away, might have won the
A.J.C. Derby. In any case Balmerino’s fine
performance has restored him to favor for
the V.R.C. Derby and the Melbourne Cup.
for which event he was an early fancy—
he is not in the Caulfield Cup. He is owned
by J. Edmond (not Tiie Bulletin’s J.
Edmond), is trained by Dave Price and was
ridden an excellent race by Ashley Reed.
The Caulfield Stakes was popularly
reckoned a match between Gothic and
Amounis, and so it proved to be. There was
little between the two cracks throughout the
betting, but in the end it was 5 to 4 Gothic,
and 6 to 4 Amounis, Vaals being at eights.
Vaals made the running with Gothic fol-
lowing and Amounis not far behind the
black. They turned for home in that order,
but once in the straight Pike shot Gothic
up on the outside and Green’s horse passed
the pacemaker like a flash. There was a
roar of “Here comes Amounis,” when the
Epsom winner was seen to be making a great
run, but despite Munro’s strong finish Gothic
was too good, and Amounis was licked by
a length, Vaals being three lengths further
back. The Banker (100 to 1) was fourth,
and Hynanna, who gave his best display in
Australia, next; the time was lmin. 53sec.
After the race Gothic was a very strong
order for the Caulfield Cup, and there were
no mutterings about Jimmy Pike’s finish on
this occasion. Amounis has never won at
Caulfield.
As usual, there was a big field for the
Debutant Stakes. Parkwood, the Maribyr-
nong Trial winner, despite his 101 b. penalty,
was favorite at 10 to 9, and though he
dwelt a little when the gate lifted and was
not well placed at the turn, he got an open-
ing when some of the leaders ran wide.
Duncan made the most of it, and the son
of Backwood and Yoorala won, all out, by
three-quarters of a length from A. I’. Wade’s
Gallamine, a chestnut son of Top Gallant —
Desmine (12 to 1), and Bel Rouge. Back-
wood's son is trained by the veteran Frank
Musgrave for C. Baillieu and W. 8. Robin-
son. He covered the four furlongs in 48isec.
BROKE TO THE GAME.
BELLA: “Isn’t that a new member, caddie?”
BOY: “Yes, lady. Swore 'imself in yesterdee.”
On form, Kalloni looked the bet of the day
in the Toorak Handicap, and visitors from
Sydney were pleasantly surprised at getting
9to 4. Highland, on whom Pike had the
mount, and New Hope were in demand at
sevens, and Black Duchess at eights. Dun-
can, on the favorite, had drawn No. 1
marble, and hopped him out smartly. Pass-
ing Myarin at the turn, he drew right
away, and went on to w’in by four lengths
from Highland, who finished from a long
way back, Reputed King (50 to 1) being
another half a length away. Kalloni ran
the mile in lmin. lt is strange that
he wasn’t nominated for the Epsom Handi-
cap, in which he would have been a good
they with anything below 7st. 71b. —and he
might have got in with less than 7st. He
wasn’t even entered for the Cantala Stakes.
On Caulfield Stakes running, Gothic (9st.
71b.) holds Vaals (9st. 61b.) safe in the
Caulfield Cup, for which there looks like
being a large field, but Vaals is not likely
to be the favorite’s most formidable oppo-
nent. Hynanna (9st.) showed good form
in the Stakes and has a chance, and Maple
(Bst. 71b.) is an honest mare. Horoscope
(Bst.) is well handicapped, as also are Black
Duchess (7st 101 b.) and Sharp Son (7st.
21b.). Sharp Son cleared away with the
Spring Handicap at the Hawkesbury, beat-
ing Oratrix (second in the Metropolitan)
by many lengths; and he was a bit unlucky
in the Metropolitan, in which he ran third.
If little Pike can get him to the front in
the first half-mile, he will take a lot of
catching. This Page places them: Sharp
Son, 1; Maple, 2 ; Gothic, 3.
* * * *
Otway Falkiner’s colors were conspicuous
at Randwick on Saturday. They were car-
ried to success by Don Moon (6 to 1) in
the City Tattersall’s Handicap, and by the
Maoriland-bred Fool’s Paradise (6 to 1)
in the Club Welter; and Clan David (10
to 1), whose jockey also sported yellow,
black braces and black cap, was a fast-
finisliing second to Twinkle Star (5 to 1)
in the Two-Year-Old Handicap. Clan David
is a brown gelding by David out of that
good mare Fluency, and admirers of a great
old Australian-bred racehorse are pleased to
see David beginning to distinguish himself
at the stud. A gamer horse was never
saddled up, and, unlike a lot of the cheap
English sires imported of late years, he repre-
sents very valuable staying blood.
Bartle had a very easy ride on Don Moon,
who was followed home by two outsiders,
Dion and Valamita ; the favorites, Resource
and Vallino, failed ingloriously. Tiiere was
some hooting when Don Moon came in, his
improvement being too sudden for people who
had backed him in the A.J.C. Final Handicap
on the previous Saturday. In that race,
however, the little Don Reynoldo gelding
palpably got a bad run ; in any case, he is
probably better at a mile and a quarter than
at a mile nowadays,
. . . ,
.
. Another lioise that improved remarkably
thmng the seven days was Beckwith. In
[J 118 < ; ase f l . < ' stipendiary stewards decided
t t . le prumal had been pulled by Reggie
Marsden in the Chester Handicap and rubbed
t , K ‘ J° c kcy out for two ’’ears. W ltli Coutts
aboard on Saturday, Beckwith (0 to 1) was
? close second to Golden Voice (11 to 2)
* n e Flying Handicap, beating Violian (2
t°.4) mto third place the same pair had
nmshed many lengths in front of him in the
Chester Handicap. There was a protest on
the ground of interference, and Beckwith
got the race. Perception (9 to 2), trained
by F. J. Marsden, Reginald’s uncle, ajid
ridden by F.J.’s son. won the first divi-
sion of the Novice Handicap; and Baver-
wrack (5 to 1), also trained by F. J. Mars-
den, carried off the second division, so it
was an eventful day for the family. Baver-
wrack is a three-year-old gelding by David’s
sire, Baverstock, and promises to turn out
a stayer.
ijt sje * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Park Stakes: The Grindstone; next,
Student Prince.
Flying Handicap: Canberra Florin or
Whitta; next, Magnetic.
Highweight Handicap: Canberra Florin
or Black Douglas; next, Prometheus.
Canterbury Handicap: Lady Mulyan;
next, Prince Colugo.
Ashbury Handicap: Flinders; next,
Hustler.
* & # >K
Ilivoli, one of the handsomest horses that
ever raced at Randwick artd Flemington,
was represented by a winner at Eagle Farm,
Brisbane, on Saturday, and the winner of
the Queensland Guineas at that- —Hourly, by
Rivoli—Regular Hours. Hourly was a bit
lucky, inasmuch as Royal Flavor, favorite
and close second, was knocked back last in
the first furlong and finished much the
faster of the pair; but these things will
happen in racing. Hourly’s price was 10
to 1; he is owned by W. IT. Reynolds.
* * * *
“Silver P.” : Of what use to punters are
the reports of “the gallops” which appear in
every daily and a good many weeklies for
weeks before the big meetings? Timing nags
that may start anywhere and finish any-
where is far from being an exact science;
then the tout is necessarily ignorant of the
weights carried and the trainer’s instruc-
tions to the boys. As likely as not these
are, in the case of the hope of the stable,
“keep a good hold of his head all the way,
and I'll skin you alive if you let him hit the
front.” In his last gallop before the autumn
meeting Winalot was beaten by Glenariff,
each, according to one account, “carrying
about 7st. 71b.” The “beaten” animal went
on to prove himself, next to Limerick, the
best horse at the meeting, whereas Glenariff
proved himself one of the worst. On Sep-
tember 18 Statesman and Fondant galloped
a mile and a quarter, Statesman winning
in 2min. B|sec. One paper made the margin
“a neck”; another said “half a length” ; two
others “a length” ; a fifth “four lengths” ; a
sixth and a seventh “several lengths.” These
are some of the things that try punters’
souls.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Melbourne Stadium was the scene of
another joke on Saturday night, Charles Von
Reedon (Bst. lOJlb.) making a decidedly
clumsy attempt to convince those present
that lie had been knocked cold by Kid Socks
(Bst. 6|lb.) in the fifth frame of a scheduled
15-rounder. Referee Val Quirk upset cal-
culations by declaring it “no fight.” The
preceding rounds had been marked by Socks
capering round the ring with Cllarles lum-
bering in pursuit. Then there was a sudden
change in the betting, Socks, whose chance
on form looked very poor, becoming odds-on
favorite; immediately afterwards the
Yank staged his Dying Swan act. Maybe
the ease with which wrestlers have pulled
the legs of Aussie crowds gave the young
man the impression that they would stand
anything; but he has a long way to go be-
fore attaining the theatrical perfection of
some of his country’s grapplers.
ff ifi *
Harry Mason, the English welter, who
was beaten by Tommy Fairhall at Sydney
Stadium a few weeks ago, rehabilitated him-
self on Saturday night by knocking out
Billy Richards in the same arena. Mason,
who scaled lOst. 91b., was 71b. heavier than
his opponent, and could have dispensed with
the extra poundage, though he made a
greatly improved showing. Richards opened
the scoring confidently, but a series of
rights to the jaw and straight lefts shook
him up. A right to the chin in the seventh
round was the finishing punch.
“Miaow”: The female of the species
dearly loves to get her scratch in, and the
athletic variety is no exception to the rule.
In the annual report of a women’s swimming
club occurs the following slap for some other
set of hussies, name unknown: —
We were fortunate in escaping those petty
squabbles which seem to be part and parcel of some
other clubs.
I am now keeping my eye cocked on the
flapper press for the answering shriek of
rage.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: R. H. Bettington, the ex-
Iving’s School boy who captained the Oxford
Eleven and played for Middlesex during his
residence in England, is back in Australia.
A hard-hitting batsman, Bettington made a
great reputation for himself as a googlie
expert in the Cold Country, and the chances
of his being asked to play for Australia are
by no means remote. He is in a curious posi-
tion in that, though he is eligible to play
for Australia by reason of his birth quali-
fication, the Sheffield Shield rules debar him
from appearing for N.S.W. until he has been
residing in the State for six months.
(Continued on page 41.)
THIS GARTERED EARL
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Earl of Lonsdale lias been made a K.G.”
With kings and princes lo! he takes his
stand.
Statesmen and dukes, a goodly company,
Decked with the highest order in the land,
The gaud denied to many a proud grandee;
Even of bishops only two or three
Trot in this class, go thus adorned to Court.
What though it be but frill and filigree,
’Twas time they gave the Garter to a sport.
How will he feel in this illustrious band,
E’ifty at most, by some unwrit decree?
Full many and many a k.o. he has scanned
In half a century, the new K.G.
E’ew can have heard more ringside roars
than he
Or known so well the haunts where bloods
resort
To chase the glowing hours. But verily
’Twas time they gave the Garter to a sport.
Will he enlarge—or seek to—and expand,
Raised to the highest grade of chivalry,
The store of horsey lore at his command
That’s made him such a matchless judge
of gee,
From barb to Clydesdale? That can hardly
be.
The bare suggestion would make costers
snort.
He has no more to learn —but all agree
’Twas time they gave the Garter to a sport.
From Cumberland to Bow and Battersea,
Wherever horse is talked or pugs distort
Each other’s dials, there’ll be this on dit:
’Twas time they gave the Garter to a sport.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CHRYSLER
presents
entirely new style creations
in the low-nriced field
m s
Plymouth 4-Door Saloon
PLYMOUTH
LL Chrysler research, engineering
A and manufacturing have been in-
spired by the fundamental motive of
giving ever greater quality and value.
Now with a new product—the Plym-
outh—Chrysler is the first to give at
so low a price the advantages of per-
formance, riding ease, dependability
and full adult size which characterise
fine cars of higher price.
The Plymouth finally Answers the
search for quality in the low-priced
field. The Plymouth assures in its
advantages the full measure of quality
and value to which buyers of low-
priced cars have long been entitled.
We believe there has never been a car
anywhere near its price that can ap-
proach the Plymouth for power, pick-
up, smoothness, easy handling, safety,
quietness and roominess—nor that can
equal it in beauty and style.
PLYMOUTH MOTOR CORPORATION
Division of
CHRYSLER SALES CORPORATION
DETROIT. MICHIGAN. U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W.: Larke Neave & Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney,
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
fv'.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington,


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
lira
gaiHram»amiMum:.-Arf«r/nnititT»m*im
A-
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
IYMAN IprSIGHTS
for practically every gun made
.250
65 GRS
Complete line of bullet
moulds and gas checks
for all calibres. Price,
10/6 per 1000 up to
26 c.; 12/6 per 1000
over.
ACCURATE HAND-LOADED AMMUNITION.
Ideal Reloading Tools give excellent results and save you money:
Shooters—open the way to more hunting and target shooting. Reload
your favorite cartridges. You’ll find Ideal Reloading Tools turn out
the work easily and cleanly. Every reloader needs the Ideal Hand-
book giving complete information. Sent on
receipt of 2/6 or Free Folder.
e
IDEAL No. 3
_ WITH
double adjustable
k CHAMBER
Ideal new improved single bullet
mould with interchangeable blocks.
Price, 25/- each.
Ideal No. 3 Adjustable Reloading
Tool, for cartridges such as .22
C.F., .25-20, .22 Hi-Power, .303
British, etc. Price, 39/6 each.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries jor literature to our exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LIMITED, P.O. Box 966 GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP., 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chef, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS.
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines').
{Also under the personal supervision of Romano.)
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
The Ins and Outs
The Australian cricket season begins iu
real earnest this coming week-end with tlnei
important matches at Perth, Melbourne a *
Brisbane. In Westralia, the Englishmen
will make their debut m a g a ™
against the State team, while Melbourne will
see the all-important trial match between
an Australian Eleven and The Rest winch
should decide the personnel of our first xesu-
matcli side. At Brisbane two teams ot colts
from N.S.W. and Queensland will play the
first engagement of this kind between the
two States. On present appearances the
outlook is not very hopeful for Australian
cricket in the coming Test series. Nevei
before has Australia been so short ot realty
class bowlers. Outside Grimmett and
Blackie it cannot be honestly said that theie
is a first-class man in sight. Gregory may
regain all his old skill, but lie has had a
longish run as fast bowlers go. I here does
not seem anyone up to even Ins present
standard among the young fast bowlers otter-
ing, though Wall, of South Australia, may
turn up trumps, as a’Beckett, of \ ictoria,
may do among the medium-paced men.
Neither will appear in the Trial game, but
their Sheffield form may give them a chance.
Batting is very powerful, but there are gaps
in the fielding, notably on the boundary,
unless Taylor can recover his batting suffi-
ciently to justify his selection.
As far as English form goes, the visitors
are far and away the strongest all-round
side seen in Australia since the war years.
Australian conditions may affect some of the
players, but for the most part they may be
trusted to justify their selection. Their
bowlers did uncommonly well during the
English season, and the success of even one
or two of them may make all the difference.
However, Australians ave been notable m
the past for ability to rise to the occasion,
and they may do so again.
>|s‘ :\i 'V' *
“Shrewsbury” : Recent portraits of A. P.
F. Chapman, skipper of the English team,
show that the long, lithe youth we first saw
iu Australia with Maclaren’s amateur side
lias filled out into a burly giant who dwarfs
his companions in the photographs. Never-
theless, liis fielding, especially in the slips,
is said to be as good as ever. Against
the West Indians in the last Test he took
four catches in their second innings : —two in
the slips, one at square-leg and the other
at mid-on, running across from mid-off to
get this last; so he is still fairly useful.
Otherwise he is probably the bulkiest cric-
keter we have had from England since the days
of the mighty “W.G.” Those newspapers now
so busy discussing cricket might vary the
monotony by holding a symposium to deter-
mine the biggest and beefiest first-class cric-
keter in history. Grace would probably be
the general choice, though Mordecai Sher-
win, the old-time Notts and England pro-
fessional, would certainly bear off the bell
for the fattest wicket-keeper.
* * * ❖
“Tenth Slip”: The vacancies in the Rest
of Australia team caused by the dropping-
out of Taylor and a’Beckett have been filled
by Queenslanders Thompson and Notkling.
Thompson was selected as twelfth man, so
his inclusion was natural, though the N.S.W.
press is objecting, as usual. He is a fine
punishing batsman who has made some big
scores for Queensland in Sheffield Shield
cricket, and he is a first-class field in the
country, as well as a useful change-bowler.
Nothling is the ex-N.S.W. Rugby Union
full-back, and has represented both N.S.W.
and his native State. A hard-hitting bats-
man and a good slip field, lie is a right-
hand medium spin bowler who can get the
best of them out, especially on a wicket
showing signs of wear, as his 5 for 39
against N.S.W. at Sydney last season showed.
“W. G. Snort”: Metropolitan cricket ex-
perts rightly complain that lack of skilled
coaching is the downfall of many a budding
country cricketer, who thus falls into in-
correct methods of style and play, and never
fulfils the glowing promise of his youth.
There is evidence of this in the performance
of a young fellow named Weakley, who made
65 runs in 18 minutes the other day in
a Hunter River (N.S.W.) match. The
thoughtless lad hit seven sixes and four fours
iu his innings, and actually smacked. 38 off
one over. Misguided ability of this sort
is enough to break one’s heart. Think what
that youth might become if a really modern
coach were to instruct him in the finer points
of first-class cricket, and bring him to under-
stand that scoring at such a preposterous
rate simply does not obtain among the high
gods of the game. When he had been trained
to get his rate of scoring down to 65 runs
in 18 days, say, he might even hope for Test-
match selection —that is supposing that he
were old enough by that time, and held a
bathchair-driver’s license.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally” : The retirement from first-
class cricket of Arthur Mailey, though not
untimely, is a genuine loss to the game in
Australia. As an exponent of the always
expensive “Bosie” he was probably the equal
of any of his predecessors and contempo-
raries, and he was an invaluable last-wicket
batsman, as well as a really good slip. His
175 wickets in Sheffield cricket cost 32.48
each, but he was always a potential match-
winner. and the same can be said of him
in the Tests, in which he bagged 86 wickets
for 34.12 runs apiece. Perhaps his greatest
feat was the taking of nine wickets in Eng-
land’s second innings in Melbourne against
Douglas’s team of 1921. No other bowler
has done that in a Test.
“Rabbit” : The Mary-le-Bone C. C.’s pro-
posal to alter the l.b.w. rule has set English
cricketers by the ears. The counties have
been circularised and asked to reply to the
suggestions. There are two amendments pro-
posed. One is that a batsman shall be our
to a ball that pitches straight and, though
touching first the bat or hand, would have
hit the wicket but for the intervention of
the batsman. The other is that the batsman
shall be out to a ball pitching on the oft
which would have hit the wicket but for the
intervention of the batsman if he is standing
in a direct line between wicket and wicket.
Whatever the counties may think about it,
99 per cent, of the world’s cricketers, in-
cluding the class in which I am proud to
place myself, will protest bitterly, if for no
other reason than that the proposed changes
would hideously augment the Satanic procli-
vities of the umpire. A vast proportion of the
night-skirted brigade are temperamentally
unable to resist answering an appeal for
l.b.w. in the affirmative, and this is especially
true of umpires outside very big cricket. _ If
any other proof of the reputation of umpires
in general in this respect were required it can
be found in the fact that the batsman who
has acquiesced in the l.b.w. decision against
himself has never yet been encountered, even
NOT A WELTER.
STUMPER: “Flow’s ’at?”
UMPIRE: "Norrout."
STUMPER: “Why the”
UMPIRE: “Yer gotta coupla outs already; ave a eart!"
in the wildest fiction. To arm the natural
enemy of every batsman with greater powers
for evil would be a tragedy.
•
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : T 1 ic English tennis team is
to arrive in Sydney in the Marama on
November 13, and will go on to Brisbane the
same day, returning to Sydney on November
20. Matches in Sydney will be played on
November 22, 23, 24, and the party will
then pass on to Melbourne. Evidently the
N.S.W. tennis heads are doubtful if the
team will draw full houses, for the prices
of admission are much less than for the
French tour, while they are actually to be
reduced to spectators arriving after 4 p.m.
on the last two days. Also children will be
half-price, which is another astounding con-
cession.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : While the Australian
Tennis Association seems to have been quite
in the dark as to coming visits from over :
seas tennis-players, Norman Brookes, just
back from Europe, says it has been
definitely arranged to bring out a French
team next year, and it is probable that
Lacoste, Cocliet, Borotra and Brugnon will
all be able to come. In that case our players
are in for a hot time. Tilden had agreed to
come to Australia with Hunter before his
disqualification, but the visit is now in doubt.
Finally, Helen Wills, Miss Ryan and the
beauteous Spaniard D’Alvarez have also
promised to visit us, and have crossed their
hearts on it. Altogether, it looks as if our
Australian tennis amateurs, boys and girls,
won’t have much tinie for mere work in the
coming year.
if. *
“Cut Shot”: Though young, the English
tennis-players due in Sydney next; month
are a clever all-round lot, and will pro-
bably astonish some of the locals who are
inclined to take them lightly (B. 10/10/ 28).
Austin, who was acclaimed as a coming
world’s champion while at Cambridge, has
not quite fulfilled his promise, but he lias
plenty of time yet. He is the best singles
player in England. Gregory is another high-
class young player of the Tilden school,
while Higgs and Collins are leading ex-
ponents of doubles play in the Cold Country.
* * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The lot .of a selec-
tion committee is not invariably roses all
the way in the best of circumstances. When
the selections it has to make are of the
feminine gender this truth becomes; alarm-
ingly apparent. The three mere mates
appointed to select the women’s team to re-
present N.S.W. in the inter-State matches
are realising it. The ladies have asserted
with some emphasis that the trio have barely
troubled to put in an appearance at the
Sydney metropolitan championships, which
are looked on as the tests for the candidates
for selection. Also they are asking in a shrill
and indignant voice wliafe is going to be done
about it. and suggesting that people who
cannot take the trouble to do the work they
were appointed for had better get out and
let others take their places.
:’fi $ v #
“Glenelg”: A South Australian tennis
official has been bewailing the failure of the
younger generation to improve as they
grow older. Lads of great promise de-
velop faults in style and stroke and grow
confirmed iii them as time goes on, without
any attempt to rid themselves of them. The
obvious remedy is a professional coach, avail-
able to the youngsters for a small fee, in
addition to his salary. There would be some
incentive to eliminate errors with a skilled
instructor to go to. Eradicating faults by
oneself is a difficult business, and a wean-
some one to boot. The South Australian
Association is not wealthy, but it could do
worse than make a special effort in this
direction. Queensland and Westralia are in
much the same case. The large number of
high-class amateurs in Sydney and Mel-
bourne who do a lot to advise promising
youngsters and the numerous private pro-
fessional coaches are largely responsible for
the outstanding superiority in tennis ot
N.S.W. and Victoria.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Inconsistency is charged
against womanhood, but the golfing woman is
often an exception. It is a rare thing to find
a male golfer winning a series of big events.
With women it is rather the rule, as wit-
ness the long list of championships to the
credit of such associate players as Mrs.
Triglone, Mrs. Gatehouse and others. Mona
McLeod, of Victoria, is another case in point.
Last week she won the Victorian women's
championship, after being, apparently, hope-
lessly out of the hunt. From 1926 inclusive
the Victorian associate has won three Vic-
torian and two Australian championships.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : The gods of golf are no
respecters of reputations. Last week Walter
Hagen, open champion of. Britain and five
times in succession professional champion ot
America, was beaten by a comparative out-
sider in the quarter-final of the 1928 eliam
pionship. The victor, Diegel, had the cliam,
pion five down in the first nine holes, but he
recovered to be only two to the bad at
eighteenth. Hagen fought hard, but Diege
held him, though at the 3pth Hagen was
only 1 down. Both played the first shot
to within four yards of the pin—-it was a
155yds. hole. Diegal sank his putt; Hagen
missed, lost the match and with it his
title. *
“Bertha Brassey" : Like other associate
members who have been submitted to the
bigoted banalities of “Colonel Damunze, 1
would like to give him some advice m return
for his assurance that housework is a better
remedy for feminine nerves than golt (,!>.
10/10/’2B). The choleric old brass-hat is
evidently suffering from high blood pressure
complicated by overfeeding and a sluggish
liver. Let me point out to him that an hour s
hard work with a spade in his garden every
moi’ning will make a new man of him, and
that, in my opinion, the transformation is
well overdue. The only digging he apparently
does at present is in bunkers and on the
fairways. If he took to the garden variety
lie will get roses or cabbages, as his fancy
dictates, as a return for his labors. On the
links lie raises nothing but clouds of sand
and the bitter animosity of the greeukeeper
who has to replace his divots. If the Colonel
hasn’t got a garden, I shall be glad to let
him have the use of mine. Indeed, 111 go
further and lend him the spade and a pick-
axe as well, for there is some hard clay
ground I want broken up for new beds.
“The Mcllaggis”: Reference to the rules
of golf (B. 10/10/’2B) recalls the tragedy
that befell my lifelong friend the Master of
Ferintosh. After a liberal Scottish lun-
cheon at the nineteenth —a Southron paid
for it—he was foolishly persuaded to wager
a half-crown a hole in the subsequent round
with his host. At the very first tee he
drove off magnificently, the ball skimming
over the rise which hid the hole. AN hen he
came to play the secoud no trace of the
ball could be found, in spite of a most
thorough search, and he, perforce, gave up
the hole. His opponent proceeded to play
out and holed in three, when it was dis-
covered that Ferin tosh’s ball was in the
tin. The Master never entirely recovered
from the apoplectic stroke which prevented
the match being played out. *
“Iconoclast”: Someone has been writing
indignantly to a Brisbane paper complain-
ing that golf players do not use correct lan-
guage. lie was not referring to the popular
idea of golfing persiflage, but to the classi-
cal terms which are part of the ritual. Aus-
tralians are apt to call clubs “sticks,” and
have been known to ask “Shall I go out?
instead of “Shall I hole out?” Similarly,
they frequently mention the number of
strokes they have played instead of saying
"I have played the like,” or “One off two,” or
“Two more” as ceremony demands. Wretches
have even been known to ask “Shall I hit
off?” instead of “It is my honor, is it not?”
It is a shocking state of things. If players
get into the slipshod habit of com-
prehensible English about golf the. glamor
will be stripped from the great obsession, and
it Avill stand revealed for the grim jest it
really is.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: X. S. Wales golfers, like
their confreres in other States, arc finding
the burden of representative honors rather
more than many of them can bear in these
intensive days. In the past it has been the
custom for amateur players attending cham-
pionships in other States to bear the whole
expense of the journey themselves. Nowa-
days it is difficult to get a really represen-
tative side together, since a certain propor-
tion of those who are chosen cannot afford
the time or the expenditure entailed. This
was made plain at the annua] meeting of
the N.S.W. Country and Suburban Associa-
tion last week. A proposal was made that
each golfer in the State should contribute
2s. annually to a fund for the advancement
of the game, and this was endorsed by the
meeting. It is intended to devote the money
raised to paying the expenses of golfers not
able to support the expense of selection to
play in other States. Maoriland has already
adopted the system with satisfactory results.
* * * $
“Marino” : Adelaide is to be the venue of
the next Australian golf championships,
which are to be held on the Royal Adelaide
Club’s links next year; the date is to be fixed
before January next. In addition to the
open and amateur events, a professional
championship will be staged for the first
time, the Professional Golfers’ Association
having specially requested this. The fixture
will be something of a departure from pre-
cedent as far as Britain and Australia are
concerned, though America has long ago
recognised the claim of the professional
players to a blue ribbon contest of their very
own.
(Continued on next page A


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence o( Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Juj
Rl
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
e
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
w Depend On 1
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Foil's Years, Manujacturers of Qua tils
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roojs £
Car and Cycle
“Trembler” : The results of the 1150-mile
sealed-bonnet reliability tour from Sydney to
Melbourne and back, which was conducted
by the Sydney Bicycle and Motor Club, let*,
the latter in a quandary. Out of the
cars which started 21 won full points, white
two of the three teams entered also scored
the maximum. The puzzle is how to allot
the prizes, including a special trophy for
an outright winner in the private
driver section, in which there were four ties.
The outstanding feature of the trial was t.ie
success of the two "Babies’ in the A section
for cars under 1000 c.c. In this, an SoU-c.c.
Triumph, driven by W. G. Buckle, and a
747-c.c. Austin, steered by T. D. Nelson, tied
with full points. There were ties in all the
sections of the trial, including those for
private owner-drivers, novice drivers and
drivers of 1925 models or earlier, The two
American teams, Chrysler and Oldsniobile,
also finished without losing a point.
* * * *
“Pram” : What is claimed to be the pio-
neer drive from Perth to Sydney in a small
car was put up last week by the well-known
Westralian motorist P. W. Armstrong, who,
with a companion, drove a Triumph Seven
across the continent in 8 days tihr. 30min.
The distance travelled was about 8000 miles,
and in spite of heavy thunderstorms in the
Perth-to-Adelaide section the little car gave
no trouble, apart from one or two tyre punc-
tures.
* * * *
“Torque”: The N.S.W. Royal Auto Club's
big event of the year, a nine-days’ reliability
and touring contest from Sydney to Mel-
bourne and back, starts on Friday. The con-
test will finish in Sydney on October 20,
by which time 1400 miles will have been
covered. Point-allotment will be based on
formula?- which will indicate the general per-
formance of the car rather than the featur-
ing of outstanding performance in any single
particular. In the subsidiary events the
testing of every quality of the car under
touring conditions will be tin; objective.
* =;= ' * *
“Ula”: Before the controversy on the
invention of the automobile closes (B
2U/9/’2B) : Daimler invented a small high-
speed gas engine in 1884. lie followed with
a single/cylinder enclosed crank and flywheel
engine in 1885. His internal combustion
motor using petroleum was the first actual
step towards the modern automobile, but it
was the Frenchman Levassor who first recog-
nised and w r orked on the system; this was in
3887. Actually Levassor “made” Daimler;
he secured the, patents for France, and im-
proved the system out of all recognition.
He devised the transmission system, which,
in general principle, is unaltered to-day, and
changed the positions of the parts and car-
riage. It is to Levassor, in fact, that the
credit of having been the originator of the
modern car is due.
“Ananias”: Truth has once more over-
taken fiction. The ancient legend of the Car
diiver who rewarded the policeman for
charging him with driving too fast cropped
tin in a slightly altered form in England,
recently. Fined for speeding, defendant
asked the beak for a certificate that he had
been doing 35 m.p.li., since he had had an
offer for the car if he could prove it could
do over 30. Ilis Washup looked at him hard
for a few moments; then, remarking that he
w'ished he had made the fine heavier, lie
advised defendant to get while the going was
good.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: One of the most remarkable
motor-cycling „ records ever made was the
achievement of C. W. G. Lacey in riding
103 miles 532 yards in one hour on Brook-
lands track (London) recently, his mount
being a 500-c.c. Grindlay-Peerless. The 500-
c.c. hour record is one of the most coveted
by racing motor-cyclists, and the keenness
of competition is evidenced by the fact that
Lacey covered 35 miles more than the holder
of the record in the early part of 1920. In
the intervening seven and a half years the
record has been broken 23 times. Only once
in the period has the honor gone to a foreign
machine, the single exception being M.
Richard’s 88.45 miles on a Peugot in 1924.
The latest record is notable because Brook
lands track at its best w’as regarded as
unsafe for speeds in excess of 100 miles
an hour, and it is now very rough and
bumpy.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australia’s big road-
cycling event, the 130-mile race from Payne-
ham, a suburb of Adelaide, through a circuit
bringing the riders back to Enfield, outside
Adelaide, ended in the unusual spectacle for
a race of this length and severity of the
winner getting home by a bare bicycle-length.
He was A. Smith, of Wallaroo. With a
handicap of 45 minutes, he was caught when
80 miles had been ridden by 11. Mason, of
Mt. Gambier, who had a start of 26 minutes.
The pair rode neck and neck for the last
50 miles. Mason getting fa'stest time with
7hr. lOmin. 2sec., or 19 minutes better than
the winnev.
Miscellaneous
“Tape”: The alleged world's professional
sprint championships held in Melbourne last
year are to be repeated at the Motor-
drome in February next. Fast time they
brought into prominence that great Queens-
land sprinter Tom Miles, who now holds
the honor, such as it is. As before, there
will be four events, over 75, 100, 130 and
220 yards. Tim Banner, who was unex-
pectedly downed by the Queenslander, will
probably have another shy at his successful
rival, while a Sheffield Handicap for £lOOO
is also inviting the attention of the spiked-
shoe fraternity.
“Clock”: That miraculous runner Nurmi
recently announced his impending retirement
from the cinder track. He is evidently bent
on setting his successors a tough task to
better his performances before he goes. At
Berlin the other day he covered 19 kilo-
metres 31 metres (12 miles) in the hour,
cutting out the first 30 miles of the
journey in 50min. 15sec. The first beats
the record of (>2min. 23sec. put up as long
ago as 1803 by L. Bennett, the American
who ran as “Deerfoot.” The previous best
for the 30 miles was 50min. 40 3-ssec. by
the English runner Shrubb.
“Spike”: Les Drift’, manager of the Aus-
tralian Olympic team, had some interesting
things to say about his party on his return
last week. Not the least intriguing of his
conclusions was that it was the general
opinion among the various Dominion team
managers at the Olympiad that it was “most
undesirable” to have men and women travel-
ling together. Evidently the diplomatic Duff
found his mixed team hard to handle, but
his is no new experience. The Board of
Control did not put its famous ban on
cricketers’ wives without reason, and anv
manager of a theatrical company can tell
hat a thorn in the flesh is lovely woman
in such circumstances.
“Bumpkin”: No less a person than Presi-
dent Hindenburg has started off the latest
athletic absurdity, a German runner named
Franz Dziadck, who proposes to sprint
around the world. Whether he will do it
in one sprint or a , series of sprints is not
divulged. Anyhow,' he is going to land
in Australia and “run across the continent”
to Sydney. These stunts appear to be the
lineal descendants of the religious pilgrimage.
Pious Hindus still traverse India cn route
to the Ganges by measuring their length
along the ground, much as a builder moves
a footrule, and they are at least logical.
They cheerfully get corns on the stomach in
the belief that they are going to be re-
warded with eternal beatitude.
“Blade”: Fred Foster, president of the
North End Rowing Club. Dunedin, was in
Melbourne recently to place orders for 15
new boats of various types for his club.
The latter’s shed was destroyed, with all the
boats, by fire some months ago, and the
Dunedin residents took the happening so
E. a’BECKETT, the young Victorian
Bowler, who is one of Australia’s
“hopes” gaainst the Englishmen.
much to heart that they got busy and col-
lected £9OO in short order. It makes one
wonder how Dunedin ever got the reputa-
tion of being a close-fisted community.
“Shell”: Bob Pearce is to be dined by his
fellow oarsmen of Sydney at the week-end.
The Olympic sculling champion was invited
to America after the Olympiad by the
backers of the American champion Myers,
who want him to meet their crack and
others in a series of races at Boston and
Philadelphia next year. According to a Syd-
ney press report, Robert has been asked to
sign a contract to that effect, but has not yet
made up his mind. Contracts are something
new in amateur sport, and the amateur auth-
orities in Australia and Britain, at least, will
be apt to look coldly on such an innovation
if there proves to be any truth in the story.
“Hotliam” : Entries for Henley-on-Yarra
regatta closed last week, and were the
heaviest yet received. Mosman, which will
represent N.S.W. in the Grand Challenge
Cup, of which the Sydney club is the holder,
will be opposed by no fewer than five Vic-
torian crews, including the State champions,
Melbourne, while the Tamar Club from
A.L. YUILEE, recently appointed Keeper
of the Australian Stud Book.
Launceston will be Tassy’s candidate. The
Maori landers hold the Stewards’ Challenge
Cup, the leading four-oar event of the re-
gatta, and a crew from the Wanganui Union
Club will do its best to keep the trophy
on the other side of the Tasman. The big
attraction promises to be the meeting of
Olympic champion Bob Pearce in the Yarra
Sculls with A. Jackson, whom the Maori-
landers consider capable of making even the
big N.S.W. sculler go his hardest.
“Fitzcray” : The writer of that paragraph
giving the totals of the attendances at Mel-
bourne football matches during the past
season overlooked a statistical point of even
greater interest —the amount of money taken
at the gates. I hasten to supply the omis-
sion. The League pouched £53,413. The
Association had to be content with a paltry
£5.626.
“The Mcllaggis” : Hunting in Scotland
may be a joke (B. 10/10/’2B), but it is not
one that appeals to the Scottish farmer,
the best of his kind in the world. Ilis sense
of humor is not in accord with that of the
Englishman who maintains that young crops
are all the better for being ridden over by
a large field. His practical mind cannot grasp
the appeal of an alleged sport which sends
people plodding across country on horseback
far in the rear of a congregation of yelping-
tykes and fighting bitterly for precedence at
the various gates, gaps and bridges which
enable them to continue their wild career.
I will admit that there is a trifling per-
centage of horsemen and horsewomen who
really ride to hounds in the traditional sense
of the phrase, but they are as rare as dis-
interestedness in an alderman. Much is mad;'
of hunting’s usefulness in inculcating good
horsemanship. Many nations that have never
seen a pack of hounds are nowadays turn-
ing out horsemen as fine in all respects as
any that come out of Leicestershire or the
Blackmore Yale, so that old bubble is
pricked. Allowing for all the claims of pre-
cedent and tradition, it is difficult for any
unprejudiced person to deny that hunting
is not only a joke in Scotland, but every-
where else.
jji sj: ❖ sjc
“D.” : E. P. Fleming, Sydney’s Civic Chief,
who died with such shocking suddenness the
other day, seems to have been another victim
to the craze for physical fitness which so
often attacks energetic men in middle life.
Herbert Maitland, the famous Macquarie-
street surgeon, was a vital man in the early
fifties of the same powerful build as Fleming.
Like the late Commissioner he w’ent in hard
for physical culture —-though he did not,
like Fleming, actually attend classes —and
his end was even swifter. Of course both
were intensive brain workers, and Fleming
gave away a few points to Death some
weeks ago by letting a speeding car hit him.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hayband” : Recently struck an astonish-
ing proof of the durability of Australian
hardwood. Two piles, portion ot an old
Sydney wharf, had been raised from the
positions into which they’d been driven Su
years previously. A clout with an axe
removed the clustering shells and other
marine growths; the next smack brought
to view the corn-beef color of Australian
red-gum. Even the characteristic odor
hadn’t departed and long immersion hadn t
left a mark.
;j :Jt v -!•
“Graeme”: The distinction of having
pioneered the scooter industry in Australia
is claimed by 10. W. Cox. head of a Mel-
bourne furnishing firm and some-time presi-
dent of the Automobile Club. When the
first line of these juvenile velocipedes arrived
from England they sold at 15s. apiece.
Cox’s firm went in for mass production and
turned them out at 55., capturing the trade
during the first Christmas season of the
vogue.
“FY7” : The French liner Cepliee has
taken away 200 stud rams and ewes, which
are to be utilised in establishing, wool-
growing on modern lines in Algeria and
round about Timbuctoo. T. A. Fisher, who
is looking after the emigrants, is a N.S.W.
station manager. Two years ago he took
50 merino rams to Algeria for the same
interests. With him are two more N.S.W.
experts in sheep management, J. Donnelly
and A. W. Wood.
* * * *
“Verri”: Maoriland has visions of dis-
pensing with imports of jute sacks from
India by manufacturing sacks on its own
account. The material used is the native
flax ( pliormium tenax). Hitherto this
strong, flat-fibred flax has never given the
Dominion much of a return, though in dis-
tricts where it is grown almost every, little
stream has its moaning flax-mill; but if the
stuff can be made into marketable sacks,
equal in durability and no higher in price
than tin' importations, a new era will dawn
for the flax industry.
* * * *
“Clefget” : “Old Q.” is off the track when
he says (B. 8/10/’2N) that celotex factories
have not been established in Queensland be-
cause of a hitch over American patents.
The real cause is that the celotex people are
unable to pay for megass as much as it
is worth to the millers. Megass has a
definite fuel value; a ton of it is worth about
half a ton of coal. Even if the celotex manu-
facturers could pay the fuel value of megass,
and something over to compensate the mil-
lers for the cost of making alterations to
stokeholes and furnaces, there would still
bo difficulties in the way.
* * * *
Koonamore station, north from Yunta on
the Broken Hill line, has been sold by
auction in Adelaide. It was taken up in
1863 by Freeman and J. C. Murray, and
since 1889 has been in the names of Hamil-
ton and Wilcox, with J. P. Henderson
manager the last 20 years. On Koonamore
is the scrub-reserve, dedicated to Adelaide
University for Prof. Osborne (now in Syd-
ney) to study the growth of native plants
when not eaten out by stock. The station, of
728.000 acres, has been cut into 11 lots,
the smallest 32;000. The homestead, with
132,000 acres, went to 11. E. 11. Hope, at
7s. 3d. an acre, or nearly £50,000; the
highest price was 7s. 9d. for Oopina block —
same buyer.
:!: * *
“J.H.W.”: The statement that the yield
of rubber plantations can be doubled or
trebled by a system of grafting (B. 12/9/’2B)
is more like Yankee propaganda than estab-
lished fact. Certainly Dutch planters claim
to have obtained extraordinary results from
grafting, but it is yet too early to say
whether their discovery is going to prove of
permanent value. Meanwhile our American
cousins have been moving heaven and earth
and spending huge sums in Brazil and else-
where with the avowed purpose of crippling
the British rubber planters in the Malay
States. In fact, one of the candidates
(Hoover) in the present Presidential cam-
paign has been inveighing against the use
of Malay rubber, and advocating the recon-
ditioning of old tyres, so that the price of
new latex would not flow into the British
Treasury.
=5 * * *
“Geer” : Sending meat to America would
seem like forwarding firewood to Gehenna,
but the U.S. embargo on imports from Argen-
tina and other countries where foot-and-
mouth disease is prevalent lias provided an
opportunity of which the Maoriland Meat
Producers’ Board has taken advantage. The
American has a prejudice against frozen
meat; however, it is hoped the high quality
of the Maoriland meat will offset that.
From October to May this season, 28,000
quarters of beef, 32,000 lambs and 8,250
sheep went from MX. to New 7 York.


:-XvX*
Wmm \
m
Wy/
mm.
w
ggv
lIIHI
apra
■
:
gfl
ImK
■
1!
#
§&
: . :
m
5
' m
mm
wmm
isma
'im
wsm
-mm
mmm
DEEP DOWN IN CELLARS COOL
Down below the level of one of the world’s
busiest streets—deep in the cool, quiet cellars
of the Kent Brewery Nature, the master
chemist, is silently, slowly, surely continuing and
perfecting the work of man. Week after week —
month after month—Time, like the alchemists of
old, is transmuting into mellow golden lager the
stored K.B.
Here, within a stone’s throw of you as you pass, in great glass-
enamelled tanks, K.B. Lager is passing through its final stages
of maturing, acquiring those distinctive lager characteristics
—the delicious flavour—high food value—refreshing character,
which it possesses when it reaches you in all the sparkling
glory of its rich maturity— the perfect product of man’s
science and nature’s care—a TRUE Lager.
t
a true
MGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO- LIMITED,


Under
Royal
Warrant
CHAMPAGNE
Charldleidsiedi
mmiMß
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
ToH.NL
Kin^
GeorfSeV
CNAMPACHt
'-karieslleidsiecfc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
U 1 for
you
Telegraphic, Cable, and
Wireless Address:
"Austraotel,” Sydney
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected com-
forts and surprising features
—atmosphere and resources
that are rightfully world-
famous.
A magnificently-illustrated book-
let tells of the manifold attrac-
tions that await you at "The Aus-
tralia”—write for your copy if
you are coming to Sydney.
e
Capital Paid-Up, £422,100
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
The centre of Que<?ns/onc/&
* Soc/o/ l-ife .
BRISBANE
è
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Plum pudding? Of course there was
plum pudding at the University’s thanks-
giving dinner on Thursday night. And
stuffed with plums, 220,000 of them; golden
plums! Jack Horner’s discovery fades into
insignificance beside the cache found by the
Senate of Sydney University, a.d. 1928. The’
man who put tlxe plums into the pudding
was George Bosch, of the fii’m of Bosch,
Barthel. And then, like the modest soul
he is, he didn’t even drop in to the cele-
brations in the Great Hall. A heautifully
rounded-off sum, £220,000. Try saying it
over and over to yourself, pretending it is
yours. It’s like a Hallelujah Ghorus! The
sift takes the form of St. James’s Chambers,
in Castlereagh-street, along with a sheaf of
shares in public companies.
There were 300 guests at this dinner in
celebration of the University’s 76th anni-
versary. Two women were named amoixg
the benefactors who had given £lO,OOO or
more. They were Mrs. Hva Rolling and
Joan Norton. Previous gifts by Mr. Bosch
to the University amounted to £27,000. The
University Senate enjoyed its dinner.
Mrs. Rolling—-this Letter would like to
give you a portrait of Mrs. Rolling, but it
hardly dares to expect to do it. Quakcrly
old souls, she and her late husband, and
utterly careless about appearances. Having
no children, and not knowing the first thing
about spending money, what could they do
but accumulate it? Mr. Rolling died a few
years ago: he had made most of his money
out of mining machinery and the like. The
widow carried on the business until the
other day; then she handed it over to the
employees.
Johnny Hunter, of the wide smile, was
the cause behind the new gift to the Univer-
sity, so even in death the science of which
he was so amazing a student owes him af-
fection. Thirty years ago, when Mr. Bosch
was a watchmaker’s apprentice, his greatest
friend died of creeping paralysis. He then
resolved if ever he could help research
into this dread disease he would do so. The
results from Professor Hunter’s experiments
brought such reixown to the Sydney Medical
School that Mr. Bosch is persuaded his
wealth can do untold good in helping its
research work forward.
Ringsford Smith and Charlie Ulm have
added another week-end resort to Sydney’s
lists. It is pretty hard to estimate the size
of crowds in the dark, but some say that
25,000 people motored out to Richmond on
Saturday to watch the airmen land, and
thousands went on waiting till the follow-
ing week—the actual arrival was at 2.15
oix Sunday morning, six hours beyond
schedule time. And more thousands who
stayed at home missed much of their sleep.
While the Southern Cross groped around,
after making landfall near Newcastle, the
wireless people, who knew no more than
the rest of us, threw out little scraps of
hope as the clock made its weary round.
Their ingenuity in keeping things going
almost matched their patience.
Grey waters and squally blasts tore a
hole in the opening of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron’s season on Saturday. Dress-
ing was of the warm and snug order. Mrs.
Leo Quick was one of the smart befurred.
and cream cloth coats and tailor-fashioned
made one group of girls look as though they
had mistaken the address for Cowes. “None
shall part us fi’om each other” played the
band on the lower slopes of the garden,
and David Garment, with his binoculars,
passed down the path to the archway formed
by two ribs from the whale that swallowed
Jonah —they look bleached enough for that,
anyway. Dear old David Garment hasn’t
missed an opening for over 50 years. The
Rear-Commodore Yorks were the afternoon’s
hosts. The Alberts were there, father and
son. and slim, good-looking F. White, the
Rudolph Valentino of the club. Judge
Backhouse brought his schoolgirl complexion,
and Charlie Westmacott, Surgeon Alexander
MacCormick (revelling in the cutting wind,
no doubt) and Captain H. P. Cayley were
among the male pointed-outs who looked on
the gaily-dressed light craft, the busy row-
ing-boats and the straining sails of the
scudding yachts that turned the Harbor-
front into a scene of animation to which the
brush of Charlie Bryant might do justice.
Thei-e was tea on the upper lawn in the
shelter of a thicket of pink and white and
red roses. The deep balcony of the club
was used later on for dancing.
A girl just back from London wore a
pair of diagonally-striped satin shoes at a
private dance last week. They were apple
green and the stripes were silver. With
them went a frock of the billowy, frilly
order of water-green net mounted on
mauve. The skirt dipped in the front and
ended above the ankles at the back. With it
she wore a wrap in green and silver, collared
in fur. The best evening frocks, she says,
are made with their own special wraps.
Spots still persist and are pervading the
thicker materials; even velvets are coin-
dotted, and Poiret shows velvets in tartan
designs. Lots of lace and insertion are
cunningly worked into afternoon and
evening frocks. The latter are practically
backless to the waist, but still have a general
tendency to the peacock line —ankle length
at the back and knee length in front. Fur
collars and cuffs are on day and evening
coats. Bows stiffened by horsehair into
bustle effects appear on tulle and lace frocks,
and frills flat or pleated are übiquitous.
There is one Sultan in the Dutch East
Indies who has lost some of Iris faith in
the security of the harem. When the young
American manager of the hotel persuaded
a world-flier to treat him to a flight in
liis ’plane, then directed him to fly low
over the Sultan’s palace grounds, all the
harem ladies scurried out to get a good view
of the intruders, who were themselves
making the best use of their eyes.
Sydney has been as busy this last week
as the old woman who had so many children.
But now, fresh from the yearly health week,
and unlike the poor creature who lived before
the golden era of the film, the radio and
hygiene, she knows exactly what to do. She
knows how to put the vitamines in the
kiddies’ dinner and lunch. No milk or meat
that is not in perfect health can henceforth
find a place in her ice-chest. The racial
hygienists have had a word in the schoolgirls'
ear with their film, “The Gift of Life.”
While the National Council of Women
and the doctors were deciding the best way
to make us well whether we wanted to be
or not, those two clever ladies at Blackfriars
Infants’ School, Miss M. Simpson and Miss
K. Stevens, were demonstrating the wisdom
of catching them young. To the great
delight of the Children’s Welfare League,
health crusaders of five and six showed an
intimate friendship with the good little vita-
mine. They know just why baths, morning
sunshine and fresh air are good for them.
Milk is their favourite drink, and they can
tell you why, while handsomely acknowledg-
ing the benefits to be gained from water.
They are keen on these matters because they
are all bits of the health game that they
play from the day they enter the school
gate.
But please don’t think that all this means
stepping on towards civilisation. It seems
that civilisation is what’s really the matter
with us. Hence Dr. Purdy tells us when
we take a holiday to “go bush” as far as
possible. Well, now, in the way of clothes,
what would the good doctor suggest we
discard?
How would you like to steadily super-
vise the clothing of 300 kiddies who range
from five to sixteen? The task holds no
terrors for Mrs. R. S. Cropley, the lady in
this picture. In 1922 she started, for love,
to help develop an ideal—the William
Thompson Masonic schools for the orphans
of the craft,
and the child-
ren of such
brethren a s
had fallen on
hard times.
Since 1922, of
course, the
schools have
grown, an d
to-day a staff
of 50 is
needed to look
after the nine
cottage homes
in which 250
happy child-
ren live. Mrs.
Cropley is the
daughter of G.
R. Evans, a
former secre-
tary of the
A. J.C., and
before the
William Thompson claimed her was a
voluntary worker at the Children’s Hospital.
Her husband’s father founded the footwear
stores that bear the name of Cropley. The
pair devote all their thought and energies
to the welfare of the schools.
Black Opal refused to be unlucky when
she went to the ball named after her for the
little Deaf and Dumb and Blind ones at
Darlington. “Pouf!” she said to her big
sister Broken Mirror, who was helping her
to dress, “we can’t always be consistent. We
have hearts just the same as other people.”
So she called for Good Luck on the way, and
the ball was the success of the month. The
Ambassadors was. crowded, and everybody
was in the best of spirits and clothes. There
was a constant running about from table
to table. Women told one another how nice
they looked, and everybody had a drink out
of his neighbor’s bottle.
The Coombe lady, who had been the night
before at the Retford Hall party for the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital, related how
she had set to and made sweets for the
Black Opal Ball after her return home in
the small hours of the morning. They were
very good sweets, and sold briskly from the
trays carried by half a dozen pretty girls.
Gold and green and a rope of pearls shim-
mered about the handsome president, who
had scarcely time to eat an oyster pate,
so busy was she announcing the numbers
that had won theatre-tickets, and, most
important of all, the number that had won
the black-opal ring, the subject of the guess-
ing competition. This lucky number was
3313; it had been made up by Kelso King
just to prove what thirteen and black opals
together can do. Percy Marks gave the
ring, which brought £lOO to the fund : and
lie cleverly designed the frocks of the Black
Opal ballet. The Premier’s lady was a late
arrival. Dr. Eakin’s wife had pearl car-
rings wrought in an old-fashioned grape
design, and was otherwise black and white
chiffons, starry as the night with diamente.
Mrs. Percy Marks wore a vivid pink shawl
with a Carmen air. Dr. Storie Dixson was
among the frivolous; Mrs. Osborne England
wore roseate chiffons; and tall Marjorie
Jacobsen, in sweeping rose taffetas, and Gwen
Coombe, in petalled organdy, were two of
the night’s sweetest confections.
A few persistent playgoers with very long
memories who have looked in at Sydney
Majesty’s since Saturday have been surprised
to see an old friend in “Slap’s” place as
musical director —Howard Carr. The very
well-known musician of a long time ago has
been away for 20 years, and has done well
in England, but he has been lured back
to conduct “The Vagabond King,” and has
had a preliminary canter, so to speak, with
“Pompadour.”
A subtler influence than the mere joy of
the game drew Sydney’s best-known to bridge
at David Jones’s on a night last week. It
was not an ordinary bridge party; it was
an Empire-builder, draped in the Union
Jack, so to speak, being indeed in the
interests of that stronghold of Empiah the
Victoria League. Mrs. Walter Swinson was
cigarette dispenser-in-chief, aided by Shirley
Bavin; Mrs. Swinson a study in yellows and
ambers, the Premier’s daughter in black
georgette on which flower-heads were scat-
tered. Clare Curlewis, Mollie Street, Valerie
Cox and Joyce Meares purveyed sweets to
the ruminative multitude. The night’s
treasurers, Mrs. Royston Davey and the
Hugh Denison lady, both wore black lace of
the best weave and expensive cut. The
knight sat opposite his lady, whose black
mandarin coat is a forerunner of the back-
to-Cliina vogue which is threatened for
evening affairs. Miss Macarthur Onslow, the
president of the Victoria League, turned up
early in business-like beaded black, and other
redoubtables, Mrs. James Ashton, Beulah
Bolton and Tom Hughes’s lady, went like-
wise soberly. A brocade smoking-jacket in yel-
lows and red browns such as might be
worn by a dryad in the burning-off season
was Mrs. Dundas Allen’s wrap. Matron
Keliett, of the lint-white locks and the pink
and white complexion, looked like a modern
Fragonard. Handsome and outstanding Mrs.
Tom Rolin (they say Longstaff is painting
her portrait) aired black and white; Muriel
Lee dressed herself to match her jade ear-
rings, and Miss Hine Haycock displayed
a graceful line in Madonna blues and silver.
That little human adding-machine Miss
Newton Russell brought a class of eight
kiddies from the Glenmore-road School at
Paddington to show the feminists the arith-
metic game she has patented. Rainbow
arches, train signals and gay little clocks and
blocks make adding, dividing and subtract-
ing a gay adventure for the pupils of this
sympathetic lady. Even the littlest of them
all found square roots and juggled with deci-
mals in a manner worthy a Napoleon of
Pitt-street. Mrs. Evelyn Grieg arranged the
afternoon’s programme of music, in which
Dorothy Ewbank and Elaine Pennifold, the
present holder of the T. E. Rofe scholarship,
were star turns.
St. Philip’s, the fashionable marriage
mart on Church Hill, sees other sides of life
as well. Its days are not all billows of tulle
and centuries-old lace. The embroidered
guest-towel, the gift hanky and kiddies’ play
aprons were displayed beneath its hoary
walls the other afternoon. The ladies of the
parish were holding their yearly sale-of-work,
for the first time under the open sky. On
the sweep of green sward between church
and rectory the -well-stocked stalls drove a
thriving trade. Above the rectory verandah,
on which the Chief Justice’s lady stood to
declare the fete open, browm and gold
streamers flirted with the spring breeze,
and a venerable oak-tree flamed anew with
the green fires of spring. Coadjutor-Bishop
D’Arcy-Irvine turned a benignant gaze on
the labors of his flock, in company with Miss
Angus.
A frock of filmy Chantilly and a Honiton-
lace veil which rippled into a tram were
borne with satisfactory results by Main.
Martin, a pretty bride of the week. Man _
is the daughter of the G. H. Martins, o
Bellevue Hill, and St. James’s provided tne
background for her wedding garment and ner
vows. The vows were responded to manruliy
by Alan Gould Kesterton, of Neutral Bay;
and the seal was applied by Padre .J. Russell.
Two ’maids, Rita Martin and Hot Turner,
in pale gold frocking and wide lily-leaf green
hats, followed the bride. Afterwards mother
and father did the handsome thing at tne
Ambassadors. , , r
The beautiful lady in this May Moore
study is Mrs. Thirkell, a daughter of 1 ro-
fessor John William Mackail, the authority
on literature from the ancient to the modern.
Mrs. Thirkell’s
mother was the
only daughter
of the artist
Burne - Jones,
and, much as
the subject of
this picture is
like the type
that great Vic-
torian created,
her mother
looked, moved
and had her
being exactly
as though she
was one of the
slim lily-crea-
tures Burne-
Jones had
painted. Not
many artists
create a type
on canvas and
have it come
to life in their own daughters. Much of
the romance of literary and artistic London
of the late- and mid-’eighties to the present
day clings around Mrs. Thirkell. Alma
Tadema, Rossetti, William Morris, Robert
Louis Stevenson, Henley—all were close
friends of her grandparents. At the present
time she is working a panel of embroidery
designed by Morris, that rebel against the
ugliness of life who dreamed the world could
be revolutionised by beauty. This embroid-
ery, with the silks dyed by Morris him-
self, was given to Mrs. Thirkell’s mother
by Mrs. Holiday, wife of the man for whose
romantic and much-reprinted picture of the
meeting between Dante and Beatrice it
might be claimed, even as for the British
Empire, that upon it the sun never sets.
Denis Mackail, whose “According to Gib-
son” and “What Next” put a chuckle into
a down-at-the-mouth post-war world, is Mrs.
Thirkell’s only brother. “Angela Thirkell”
she signs herself in the Cornhill and Black-
wood’s. The lady is now an Australian by
marriage, having met her future husband,
a Tasmanian A.1.F.-er, at a canteen where
she was V.A.D.-ing. Melbourne is her home,
but at present she is visiting Sir Hugh and
Lady Poynter at Waliroonga.
Lebby Hordern, who died in his sleep a
few weeks ago, left over a million pounds.
His widow, who was Frances Barry, a
daughter of Gerald Barry, the solicitor, gets
a quarter of it. His first wife, who was
Olga Monie, will continue to draw her £BOOO
free of income-tax during her life. Every-
thing else goes to the 14-year-old Lebbeus
Anthony, the son of his first marriage.
From a returned Australian: —
Not one sultan but three gave the farewell party
to Governor Van Kempen, of Sumatra’s East Coast,
held in the banquet-room of the Hotel de Boer,
Medan. Hosts, the Sultans of Deli, of Serdang, of
Langkat; tables, banked with chrysanthemums;
speeches, rather damped by the impatience of the
dancing residents of Medan who gather at the hotel
on Saturday nights from the rubber plantations.
After suppressing the jazz band for two 20-minute
speeches, when the Governor’s turn came to reply
the Medanites didn’t exactly count him out, but
there wasn’t enough silence to encourage any more
speaking, so the Royal party had to give up and
join in the Saturday night’s revel. Round about
three the band sounded a bit wobbly, but the planters
were up breakfasting at 6.30, with their cars waiting
to take them back to toil.
No ordinary motive lias turned the face
of Mrs. R. Dwyer, of Glebe Point, to Rome.
Her son Vincent is to be ordained a priest
in the City of Seven Hills, and mother
intends to be present on the great occasion.
To say happy journey to Mrs. Dwyer, who
has been a consistent worker for charity,
a group of old friends arranged a cabaret
last week at the Ambassadors, and when the
guest of honor arrived the big ballroom was
already crowded. A cheque and a very
handsome and complete writing-case were
packed in Mrs. Dwyer’s liome-going car, as
well as an armful of roses and lilac.
E. J. Brady and his wife have been in
Sydney this last week on a sad errand. On
a sudden call the poet and his lady tried
to dash through from Mallacoota to his
mother’s bedside in a day; but brake trouble
beat them at Nowra, and when they reached
Sydney the dear old lady had died, at just
on 90. She was still well enough to
take a very lively interest in the Eucharistic
Congress only a month ago.


A. SAUNDERS’
EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY.
é
ê
ë
ē
ĕ
ė
JStiWftßtßßifuffm
MmMmjfc
jsg
mm
stem
.
SUS
mmm
mm
ijiiif
m
saga
SHwass!
A. SAUNDERS’ Gent.’s Gold-filled Hunt-
ing Keyless Imperial Lever, 10 years’
Guarantee ease,
£2/10/-
Higher Grades £3, £3/10/-
20-year Case . £5
25-year Case £6/10/-
9ct. Solid Gold £B/10/-, £lO
ę
A. SAUNDERS’ 9ct. .Gold
Links, 25/-
Heavier, £2.
ě
e
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller-—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Safeguard Yourself
against tHe FIRE
Hazard by using the new
è
SUPER AUTOMATIC SAFETY
IRON
Automatically cuts off the
current when Iron is left on
unattended, and the Iron
remains OFF until switched
on by the operator.
BLACK
BUTTON
TURNS
CURRENT
OFF
RED
BUTTON
TURNS
CURRENT
ON
é
Make your toast at the
table. It is much more
convenient, it is cleaner
and is nicer toast than
you have ever tasted before.
Universal Toasters are made in a wide
range of designs, and will improve the
appearance of your table.
W. G. Watson & Co. Ltd
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
53 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
29 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street, Perth
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
S er %
lunch
Frozen Tomato
Soup
Chicken Salad
Orange Ice
Fig Mould.
i ;
mm P!f
& W m
I,
¥
m
ill'! II 11/I 1 /
'-‘//■■ 111 h
V 5
n *
V A
Price from
£75
Porcelain
Lined.
CS3
(S)
ihf\
“ Freeze with
Ease.”
WITH ElectrlCE, the new
Electric Refrigerator, your
reputation as a hostess
need never be in doubt.
ElectrlCE makes possible
many new delicacies imparting
zest to daily menus.
Ice worries and damp insani-
tary conditions are entirely
dispelled by the dry, constant,
1o w temperature of this
Refrigerator; saving time,
saving food and safeguarding
health.
Quiet, dependable and auto-
matic ElectrlCE looks after
itself, creating hours of luxury
and leisure.
Many styles, various sizes,
capacities and prices, there is
an ElectrlCE for every home.
Write or ’phone for our free,
illustrated recipe book; or,
without obligation to purchase,
call, see an ElectrlCE work-
ing and inspect our Model
Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET
(top of Barrack Street, near G.P.0.), Sydney.
’Phone 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
AN EMMCO PRODUCT.
Made by ELECTRICITY METER MFG. CO., LTD.


e
9li(asyk
mam
jfenen
OR ANY WOOLLEN ARTICLE WITH
CASH'S NAMES
"A Few Stitches and They're on
Fadeless
and
Durable
K.S.Talboh
Actual
Size of
Style No. 2
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
j. & J. cash pty. ltd
AS CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND
MELBOURNE.
tUStSSEEm
fprncEp
12 do;. • 7 r t
6 doz. - S''
k 3doi ■ 3'6'
k,
è
K 36
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
KRAFT
CHEESE
CHEESE AND
APPLE PIE
Eat Kraft Cheese with apple pie. Kraft Cheese gives
piquancy to the flavor of the pie and adds very much to
its dietetic value.
‘Allenbunys*
Glycerine &
Black Currant
PASTILLES
Protect the mouth and
throat against infections,
allay irritating coughs
and clear the voice.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 2/- and 2/9
per box
I
*5
I
Hi
P
#4
P
1
111112
Melbourne
Chatter
A bitterly cold wind upset dressing calcu-
lations on Caulfield Guineas Day, and there
was very little new frocking to be seen,
though here and there a stray Spartan
braved the blast in silk or even chiffon,
unshielded by furs or wraps. Sheltered by
the stands, the new lawns, where it was
sunny and warm, were a very popular par-
ade-ground, especially as the band was trans-
ferred there. The Governor-General occu-
pied the v.-r. pen. A cheery note in dress-
ing was struck by coat posies of lilies of
the valley, always a feature of Guineas Day.
The committee’s ladies’ box held nearly its
full complement, including the wife of the
chairman, Mrs. James Grice; her daughter-
in-law, Mrs. Claude Grice; Mrs. T. A.
Tabart, whose golden-brown gown had a
lengthy coat of black lace braid, topped by
a biscuit-toned hat; Edna and Pixie Tabart
and Mrs. Clive Leonard.
Mrs. Charlie Lyon, who is off in Novem-
ber to Europe to establish her trio of daugh-
ters in a Paris school, was smart in putty-
colored satin,. with fancy kasha coat and
felt millinery of the same shade. Mary
Winter Irving, who was her companion, wore
frock and hat of wine color. A good deal
of bright blue of the shade known as Lido
was noticed, Mrs. G. Bowcher being one
of those who favored it. Prof, and Mrs.
Scutt; the R. E. Hopes, from S.A., whose
gee-gee Merab got a place in the Guineas;
Mrs. James Purves, her sister Mrs. Rolls,
Mrs. Harry Cuming and Mrs. W. M. Robins,
who had mink furs with a navy blue gown,
were others who helped to make up the big
crowd.
The Caulfield Council cannot lament the
purchase by the V.A.T.C. of the section of
Station-street which is now absorbed in the
150 acres that form the Caulfield course.
The metalled road of five months ago is now
a green lawn with beds of flowering azaleas
and inviting garden-seats. A fountain is
also planned. The approach to the bird-
cage now lies through these green pastures
and patrons no longer have to crush through
the crowd about the betting-ring. A kiosk
has sprung up beneath the oak-trees, where
cooling drinks are dispensed by girls in white
linen coat-frocks. Members and their friends
now lunch in the huge upstairs room of
the stand, where a comfy lounge has been
installed. The flat has also had a good deal
of attention paid to it and beds of crimson,
pink and yellow pig’s-face make bright spots
around the lake.
The Town Hall last week was nightly the
scene of a pageant, “Australia and the Call
of the World,” organised by the Board of
Missions, and produced by Joseph Cunning-
ham. Scenic effects and lighting were
handled by the J.C.W. firm. To a choral
accompaniment the progress of Christianity
was traced, St. George, represented by Julian
Ferninger in the trappings of a Crusader,
introducing the founders of the Church.
Then followed a stream of figures illustrating
the missionary work of the Church in Aus-
tralia. Speaking roles were those of St.
George, the Narrator (Rev. C. H. Murray),
garbed as an Arab, Truth (Mrs. L. Arnold)
in white Grecian robe, and a Voice in the
Distance (Rev. R. Sherwood). There were
2000 participants drawn from colleges,
schools, orphanages and other denominational
institutions. Most effective was a Chinese
group, wearing national dress, which
approached the stage' from the front of the
hall to the accompaniment of a Chinese band,
and with weird chanting and incense offered
homage to Confucius. St. Gregory marched
in accompanied by slaves from the Roman
market —kiddies from St. John’s Boys’
Home. Tableaux were arranged as trans-
parencies within an immense rock that
almost filled the back stage. That of the
Nativity was particularly beautiful.
On the first night Lady Somers was
present, accompanied by Major Drake
Brockman, and a company of Girl Guides
formed a guard of honor in charge of Mrs.
F. W. Spry. Mayor and Mayoress Morell
and Sheila were in the v.-r. circle.
There was a “back-to-schooldays” gather-
ing at the P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Club the
other day in honor of Dame Nellie, first
president of the association, who had the
distinction of being the first guest officially
entertained at the splendid new rooms
over the National Bank. The nowadays
president, Mrs. J. P. Bainbridge, wearing
frock and hat of deep burgundy hue,
said words of welcome and handed a bunch
of crimson roses to the diva, who wore an
ensemble gown of beige and black, and a
shiny black straw hat. Elena Danieli, who
accompanied her, was in black piped in seal-
ing-wax red, with harmonising broad-leafed
millinery. Several of the club members
assembled were old classmates of Dame
Nellie’s, and there was a regular fusillade
of “Do you remembers?” Mrs. T. Purves,
Frances Fraser, Mrs. Carty Salmon (who
represented the P.L.G., Sydney) and Anne
Fortune, the club’s hon. sec., made up a small
fraction of the party. Melba sported the
Union Jack jewelled brooch presented to her
by George Rex, and Mrs. George Buchanan
wore the wee diamond gee-gee and jockey
that commemorates the occasion when hei
entry, Alawa, won the Melbourne Cup.
Dame Nellie Melba motored out to Heales-
ville the other day and set arrangements
moving for a concert to reduce the debt on
the local Soldiers’ Memorial Hall, in which
the entertainment will be held. The diva,
who is paying all expenses, will also lift
her voice in operatic numbers. The lofty
village promises to be particularly gay that
week-end, as the Golf Club’s championship
matches will be played on the Healesville
Country Club links. Helen Rennie is hon.
sec. of the concert, aided by Mr. Greener
and Mr. Callaghan, and the residents are
doing their best to ensure that the appear-
ance of Dame Nellie in their midst —they
have been angling for her for years—shall
be a huge success.
Upon pale blue banners the crest and coat-
of-arms of the great Cardinal Newman met
the gaze of Cardinal Cerretti when the Papal
Legate was welcomed by the Newman
Society at Malvern City Hall. His Emi-
nence had just been bustled up to the council
chambers and given a civic reception by
Mayor Hattam. The City Hall presented the
appearance of a small art show, a number of
oil and water-colors by Australian artists
having been borrowed from the New Gallery
to warm up the otherwise rather bleak walls.
As the Knights of the Southern Cross were
waiting to offer hospitality to the Cardinal
his stay with the Newmanites and their
friends was just long enough to hear
violinist E. Lambert, baritone Harold
Browning and pianist Edward Goll, and
meet some of the members. In thanking
president P. F. O’Collins for his welcome,
the Legate issued a general invitation to
the members to come and see him if they
were ever in Rome.
The ladies’ committee comprised Mrs. P.
F. O’Collins, who carried a posy of lilies of
the valley against a black taffeta and tulle
frock; Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy, wear-
ing gold lace; Mrs. T. C. Brennan; Mrs. M.
J. D. Page and her daughter Madeleine, the
latter in a charming saxe-blue frock; Quecnie
Willis; Mrs. Esmond Downey, in gleaming
robe of blue and opalescent sequins; and Mrs.
Frank Coffey. Mayoress Hattam, Amy and
Eileen Castles, Dr. Eileen Fitzgerald, Mrs.
Arthur Moore, whose handsome gold brocade
coat covered a black gown, and Mrs. Kenny,
whose husband, Dr. A. L. Kenny, was in the
Legate’s suite, were a few of the womenfolk
present.
Mrs. Napier Waller, pictured here by
Marietta, shares the artistic proclivities of
her painter husband. She is a former Gallery
student whose
efforts in oil
and water-
color received
f avorable
notice, but of
late years she
has specialised
in the design-
ing of stained-
glass windows.
She lias fulfil-
led many com-
missions, o f
this nature,
amongst the
most notable
being two win-
dows of St.
Jude’s, A 1 -
phington, and
lias so far ad-
vanced in the
practical side
of her fascina-
ting craft as to undertake the firing of the
colors. His wife’s success has tempted
Napier Waller to stray occasionally into this
field of art.
Mrs. Septimus Miller’s garden party last
week was one of the very few unofficial func-
tions which have been attended by th‘e Papal
Legate, and, the weather being beautiful, Car-
dinal Cerretti should carry away with him
a very pleasant recollection of his last enter-
tainment in Melbourne. Cantala, Dande-
nong-road, possesses fine grounds, sections of
which have been left in natural bush, and
guests found plenty to interest them. A
string band made melody, and tea was
served beneath gaily-striped umbrellas. The
hostess wore spotted raiment in fawn and
black, topped by a berry-red hat. Her school-
boy son Damian aided his mother in enter-
taining. The robes of Archbishop Mannix
and members of the Papal suite lent color
to the scene. Mrs. Herbert Power, Mrs.
Albert Miller, the R. M. Cutlibertsons, Dr.
and Mrs. A. L. Kenny,, and the C. J. Aherns
were in the throng.
Out of this window looks Gippsland-born
Mary Fullerton, whose verse and prose
occupy an honored place in Australian liter-
ature. Her first two books of verse, “Moods
and Melodies”
and “Breaking
F u r r o w s.”
were published
in London, and
in this city a
few years ago
“Bark House
Days,” a col-
lection of
prose sketches,
was sold out
on publication.
Since 392?
she has resided
in England,
where, through
A. M. Philpot,
she has pub-
lished a novel,
“People of the
Timber Belt.”
J. M. Dent
commissioned
her to write
“The Australian Bush” for the Outward
Bound Library. She has become a popular
contributor to many leading newspapers and
magazines on the other side of the world.
The election of Councillor Harold D. Lux-
ton to - the mayoral chair of the city was
expected by everyone in civic circles and
it has come to pass. At a luncheon at which
the Governor-General was present the Mayor-
elect, who does not assume the robes and
chain of office till November 9, received con-
gratulations. The new chief magistrate’s dad,
the late Thomas Luxton, was Mayor of
Prahran on four occasions, and was also
M.L.C. for South Melbourne. Mrs. Luxton
is a daughter of the late Harry Lewis, a well-
known lawyer.
A burlesque mystery play, “Playthings of
Passion, or the Blood-stained Aniseed
Ball,” was a diverting three-act curtain-
raiser to the Gallery students’ dance on
Friday night. Jean Pearson, who wrote the
play, appeared in the role of a vamp, and
M. Officer made an amusing butler. Later
Hector MacDonald and Jean Pearson
appeared in a burlesque on grand opera.
Mrs. Hume Turnbull, of St. George’s-road,
Toorak, bade many friends to afternoon tea
one day last week. The weather being fine
most of the time was spent in the garden,
where banks of lilies of the valley and
bowers of roses flourished. The hostess was
in black with platinum spots and a black
hat, and most of the feminine guests also
chose the mourning hue, diversified with beige
or white. Mrs. Albert Yuille, mother of Mrs.
Turnbull, was there; also the Irvine lady,
Mrs. G. A. .Chadwick, Mrs. Philip Hudson,
and Frank Clarke’s lady, whose snuff-brown
frock and hat struck about the cheeriest
note in the dressing.
Doreen Berry summoned several young
folk to her mother’s home at Brighton last
week to say au, revoir to Marjorie Schmitt,
who sets off with her mother and sister for
Europe next week. Many of the guests were
fellow-students of the fiddler, who is going
abroad for further tuition.
On Saturday the James Westlakes, of
Williamstown, brought daughter Vera to
Middle Park kirk and gave her into the
keeping of Henry Ivor, younger son of the
J. M. Aldridges, of Blackburn. Over the
bride’s arm was slung the side train depend-
ing from her gown of primrose satin, and a
Limerick lace veil was draped into position
with sprays of orange blossom. Sister Joy
attended, sheltered under an almond-green
hat.
Primrose shades are now invading bridal
trappings. Doris Robbie’s long gown of
ivory satin frilled to the waistline caught
a deeper reflection from her primroso-frocked
’maids. The bride is a daughter of the C.
Robbies, of Brighton, and her bridegroom,
Jack Hill, belongs to the same district. The
knot was slipped at St. Joan of Are Church
on Saturday, Sister Mai and .Nancy Hill
acting as bridesmaids.
Of much interest in Anglican circles was
the marriage of Mary Elizabeth Sproule,
daughter of the late Rev. G. E. W. Sproule
and of Mrs. Sproule, and the Rev. Philip
Barclay Haymhn, eldest son of the late
Archdeacon Hayman and of Mrs. Hayman,
of North Brighton. Bishop Armstrong per-
formed the ceremony, assisted by the Rev.
Bright Parker. The bride, who wore white
ninon, lace and tulle, was attended by Jean
Woodyatt and Patricia Duigan, whose frocks
of floral patterned chiffon were topped with
pink hats. The after-rejoicing was at the
home of the H. McL. Duigans, the bride’s
mother being an invalid.
_ A full house at the Athenaeum on Saturday
night found “The Family Upstairs” much to
its liking. The comedy provoked continuous
laughter, and at the finale there was a dis-
tribution of gorgeous flowers all round,
mainly roses. As most of the characters are
working folk, there is nothing very spec-
tacular in the dressing. Leona Hogarth, as
a typist, wears a simple sleeveless white silk
sports frock, then a pretty little cream
jumper suit with pastel stripes, and lastly
a black coat and skirt and a lemon-colored
felt hat. Elizabeth Hears, as a schoolgirl,
is dolled up in a frilled white muslin frock,
socks and an outsize in pink bows perched
upon her black shingle. Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Timmins, the J. C. V. Behans, the Louis
Nelkens, Mrs. Charles Weuman, and Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Sanders were first-nighters.
Bridge, safest of stand-bys, was resorted
to by the Toorak and South Yarra branch
of the Alfred Hospital Auxiliary when it
found it needed money to buy material to be
made up for the institution. Mrs. George
Russell’s Toorak home was the rendezvous,
the chatelaine of Edzell giving greeting in
attire of black and white. Sales of flowers
and sweets helped to garner the guilders,
Dr. Stanley Argyle’s wife (the president),
Mrs. Russell Grimwade, Mrs. G. Gatehouse
and Mrs. Hubert Parker being salesladies.
Mrs. Stuart Love and Phyllis Walsh were
joint lion. secs.
Italian composers, ancient and modern,
were drawn upon to furnish the programme
for the Musical Society’s latest concert.
Enrico Bossi’s trio for piano, violin and
’cello was played by Rita Hope, Coral
Trenerry and Edna Hattenbacli. Pianist
Phyllis Parlett’s contribution was a sonata
by Carlo Albanesi, and Muriel Cheek and
Winnie Roberts were heard in songs of
various periods. For the next concert a
Schubert programme has been arranged.
Though suffering from a bad cold Irene
Vanbrugh turned-up at the Lyceum Club, in
accordance with promise, to launch Mrs.
Elsie Barlow’s show of water-colors and mar-
queterie. As the mummer , was nursing her
voice for a matinee a speech was dispensed
with, and buying commenced right away,
Miss Vanbrugh securing a pair of charming
book-rests. Instead of the usual posy the
painter presented the leading lady with a
little picure of a fine old gum-tree. Since
her last exhibition Mrs. Barlow has gone in
very largely for painting on wood, the colors
being burnt into the material. Very pleasing
and unusual were landscapes on plaques of
Huon-pine from which dangled small calen-
dars. Others with quaint Dutch scenes and
figures were intended as suggestions for the
embellishment of nursery-walls or furniture.
Decorated hoxes for every possible use also
supplemented the brave array of pictures
that occupied the walls.
One of the principal reasons why
the Williamson firm was asked to pay
through the nose for its grand-opera artists
was the alleged enormous fees they would
miss by taking the Australian trip. But
some of the artists are showing no wild
desire to rush back to those fees. Xemia
Belmas, who was practically a passenger
with the company, has stayed to give con-
certs and may linger; Autori has decided to
remain in Sydney indefinitely; and Ming-
hetti, one of the best tenors, will give con-
certs in Sydney and Melbourne. Gonsalez,
who got at least a few performers that would
compare, given an equal background, more
than favorably with many of the J.C.W.
crowd, secured them for salaries insigni-
ficant beside those of even the minor people
on the Firm’s pay-list.
Mrs. W. H. Williams, wife of Judge
Williams, with her daughter Ainslie, who
is having a little home-life again after two
years travelling with the Gilbert and Sul-
livian Comic Opera Co., has gone to Sydney
for a holiday. They’ll be back again for
the Cup festivities.
The annual summing-up of the British
Music Society was diversified by Rita Coo-
nan, who sang groups of songs by modern
British composers, and by Rita Hope, who
contributed some brilliantly played piano
pieces. Franklyn Stonham, with his clarinet,
joined the pianist in a well-liked offering. A
concert of Italian music is to be a B.M.S.
exploit of next month, for which programme
Mrs. Jimmy Dyer is sending some works
new to Melbourne audiences.
The Anglican Church is getting ready to
receive Archbishop Harrington Lees and his
bride, steaming homeward by the Maloja,
which is due here about October 29.
From the Albert-street Con. these days
flow snatches of the cheerful Mozart opera
“Cosi Fan Tutte,” which will be the before-
vacation offering of the Con.’s Melba Opera
Society. This is the only body of musical
students in Australia which tackles yearly
the presentation of a whole grand opera.
Fritz Hart and Mary Campbell intend that
this year’s season at the Playhouse shall
run a full week.
Mrs. E. Johns, of St. Ivilda, who has been
looking at London and picking up the latest
rules of bridge, will leave Naples shortly on
her homeward journey. When the mail left
she had just completed a tour that ran from
Norway to Belgium, and intended putting in
some time in Switzerland before saying good-
bye to her friends on the Continent.


i*
0!7
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious —
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
é
ê
FAtITLE/f
rCCTWEAR
/4,
?\
Jv^rd
up
yf
0*
ft L
>:S
J I
j
£
~/~vY"S
»
? ~ ;
/-v
\WW T
yLif
*
S^l
®Hi|f.
(■mb i
v\^
y aAJV >
o-E-t
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau, Abbotsford,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring both men’s
and women’s shoes.


I sent for this strange
success-compelling book
Personal Magnetism,
the Power that Qets Things!
Personal Magnetism, creator of New Beings — a
radiant, vivid thing that sweeps you up on the top
wave of prosperity —that gives you a new fire, a
new faculty, a new weapon of achievement —a
new money-making power.
XTOT long ago I was like a drowning
man grasping at any straw in an
effort to save myself. But I seemed to
be going under.
I was making no headway in business.
I was getting "nowhere" in my contact’
with others. No matter how hard I
worked —no matter how much abijjty
I thought i had, others passed me by on
the homestretch to success. Then too,
at social gatherings people didn't seem
to "warmup" to me. They were
tolerant but hardly cordial. They
shared their fun and conversation with
me just as little as possible. Others
had something that 1 lacked. At least
J was not blind to that fact.
1 had almost come to the conclusion
that I was "born to take a back scat.”
when I heard reports of a strange
Volume that was remaking personalities
and putting hundreds and hundreds of
people in the front ranks —financially
and socially. I" consulted some friends
as to the advisability of sending for this
promising book. They didn't say it in
so many words but I knew they thought
that I was a fool to even consider such
a thing.
But 1 had a hunch and I made up my
mind to follow it through, so I purchased
a copy and read it trom tirst page tc
last.
Let me tell you —the day I made this
decision was the day I took a new grip
on life. With each new chapter l
experienced a new 6urge of personal
power. Guided by the principles which
this remark&ble volume expounded, my
personality became magnetic .
dominating—my ideals more definite—
my nerves steadier —my determination
more persistent. I found myself mak-
ing hew friends wherever 1 went. In a
few months I was holding down a posi-
tion at a salary that I could really
brag about. At last I was tasting the
sweets of life. Believe me I was no
fool to send lor this strange success-
compelling volume.
• o » * * 0
This is not merely the story of a suc-
cess achieved by a single individual It
is symbolical of the heights to which
thousands have climbed —whose hopes
were dimmed—whose ambitions were
shattered. Accomplishments that were"
made possible through this unique but
profitable volume.
Men Marvel That
Thi# Book Can
Change Them So
Completely!
No matter what, your
personality, this astound-
ing book will make you
magnetic.
Ves, magnetic! Well-
liked wherever you go, con-
Cient, attractive, irresistible 1
Imagine how the Magnetic
Personality will multiply your
earnings. How it will increase
your friends. How it will make
you more popular, more success-
ful —more of a personality!
Won't you read this amazing
book ? The cost is so small in comparison
to the results.
This singular book seems to cast a
spell over every person who opens its
covers and turns its pages!
And why arc people so profoundly
affected —so anxious to get a copy for
themselves? Because this volume re-
veals the way to develop a Magnetic
Personality instantly. Because it shows
the way to acquire overnight the per-
sonal charm that attracts friends—the
self-confidence that insures success in
business. It points the way to multi-
plied earnings.
One man writes, “I would not give
up what Shaftesbury has taught me for
£100,000!"
W.hat Is This Uncanny Volume?
Edmund Shaftesbury, famous student of
the human mind, discovered important
secrets of Personal Magnetism more than
forty years ago. He applied these dis-
coveries to his friends, and results were
astonishing!
Shaftesbury's methods seemed to trans-
form people into new beings! His fame
spread. Among his first students and ftriends
were such names as * Gladstone. Queen
Victoria, Edwin Booth, Henry Ward
Beecher. Cardinal Gibbons. The secret was
for many years confined to a small .group—
those who could afford to pay £25 to £5O each
for Shaftesbury’s instruction books. But
now Shaftesbury's whole amazing secret of
Instantaneous Personal Magnetism, all that
t ' ' N \' f§ |/ ,§
’ ‘ ’ : ':y- V
:m
ss«
mu
.*]
mm
w
ë
In answering this advertisement it is desirable that you mention this magazine.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
lias always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE .
Legal advice, Doctor's advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming q
New South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily.
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
is
The Great Creating Force in Business
If you wish to increase the efficacy of your
advertising expenditure in Victoria use
“THE AGE.”
“THE AGE” Publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually
and enters the homes and offices of
123,533 SUBSCRIBERS DAILY.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
XLbe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
ē
How so daintily white ?
Not by accident are beauty of form, exquisite lightness, and
snow-like purity of colour seen in the Dainty White China Tea,
Coffee or Breakfast sets and other chinaware which bear on
each piece the name of Shelley. The special hardness of
texture peculiar to English Bone China, and 175 years of
hereditary craftsmanship, have made Shelley China the
delight that it is.
As{ to see the latest Shelley Tea Sets, Shelley Dainty White China,
Shelley Nursery Ware by Mabel ’Lucie AttweU and- Hilda Cowham,
Shelley Domestic Ware, and Shelley Jelly Moulds—all British, let case
of any difficulty in obtaining write to: — T. W. HEATH
& CO., LTD., zjz CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
CHINA
Look for the name Shelleq on each piece of China
ĕ
Weak and depressed,
Assailed by stomach ills,
Recruit your strength
By taking
ė
w
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Do you feel weak, languid, despond-
ent, thoroughly out-of-sorts and fit
for nothing ? Get a box of Cockle’s
Pills. As a tonic restorative they are
simply wonderful. Take two pills at
bedtime and in the morning you will
wake up keen for breakfast, with a
clear head, cheery spirits and more
life and energy than you have had
for a long time. Be sure to try them.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
THE, AUSTRALASIAN
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.


►arc
beauty
and
Fidelity
THE rich, exclusive appearance of ELGIN
watches is but an indication of the internal
beauty of workmanship. The world’s finest
craftsmen are engaged upon the production of
these masters of time. ELGIN watches fulfil
their allotted task with a fidelity and exactness
that leave nothing to be desired.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
(£>/<gin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
/%/> Jrade Mark Mfflw in the Watch Care
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
COMMENCING SATURDAY.
JOHN GILBERT and RENEE ADOREE in THE COSSACKS.
A METRO-GOL! W YN-MAYER PICTURE'.
Also KARL DANE and GEO. ARTHUR in DETECTIVES.
PMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday.
Presenting the French Comedy Revue,
BUBBLES.
Preceded bv
LIGHTNING VARIETIES.
Complete first part of high-class specialty acts.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
CJYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S :
MADAME POMPADOUR.
ROYAL: INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: THE PIGEON.
Commencing Saturday. ,
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MISS NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Thursday and Saturday.
ALLAN WILKIE with Miss HUNTER-WATTS and
his Company of Shakspearean Players in
THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
Change of Programme Twice Weekly.
Box Plan at Glen’s and Theatre.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
DOLORES DE RIO in
RAMONA.
ALSO
TOM MIX and CARL LINCOLN in
HELLO CHEYENNE.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
MURIEL STARR in
WHISPERING WIRES.
•
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
THE MASTER PICTURE
THE GIRL FROM CHICAGO.
Featuring
CONRAD NAGEL and MYRNA LOY.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
■JH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class ot play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
ÜBILEE OF WIRTH BROS.
60-YEAR AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC ENTERTAINERS.
To celebrate this, our Jubilee Year as caterers of
Amusement to the Australasian Public, we —Messrs.
Philip and George Wirtli, Governing Directors' of
Wirth Bros., Limited —will open in the
OLYMPIA, WIRTHS’ PARK,
MELBOURNE.
NEXT FRIDAY, the 19th INST.
with absolutely the Finest Array of Circus and
Vaudeville Artists ever brought together in the
one programme in this or any part of the world.
We have searched the whole world for these Novelties
and Wondrous Acts, and secured at enormous salaries.
Matinees Saturdays, Wednesdays and all Holidays.
FIRST GRAND MATINEE, SATURDAY, 20th.
Prices as Usual. Box Plan Now Open at Glen’s.
Victoria Racing Club
Flemington.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY
CUP DAY
OAKS DAY
STEEPLECHASE DAY
NOV. 3
NOV. 6
NOV. 8
NOV. 10
STAKES WILL AMOUNT TO £43,000
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and
Gold Cup of 200 Sovs.
£5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
I Contains everything a woman needs to know.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin opened the Southport
Show and commented most favourably on
the exhibits, especially the wealth of flowers.
He said he wished Lady Goodwin, a great
flower-lover, could have been with him, but
she was at the fete at Bisliopsbourne to
add to the cathedral fund. A posy was handed
to her Ex., and the ancient gum-trees about
the ’bourne did their best to give enough
shade to make a hot afternoon bearable.
Despite dust and dry weather roses bloom
gloriously. They flourished at Holy Trinity
Church’s flower fete, which was declared
open by the tlhief Justice. And the Metliodies
have been welcoming the Rev. F. H. Raward,
from N.S.W., at Padre Wheller’s home at
Auchenflower. Bougainvillaea and roses made
a cheery show, and Mrs. Wheller wore
ficelle chiffon voile, with hat of blue Baku
straw. There are 60,000 Methodists in
Queensland, and quite a lot of them were
at the party. t
Nine debs, were presented to Sir John
and Lady Goodwin at the Dalby Ambulance
Ball by Mrs. Russell, assisted by Mrs. Shaw
Thompson. Palms and ferns and three
shades of yellow decorated the hall.
Bribie Island is to be gathered into the
Anglican fold. Dean de Witt Batty did the
stuinp-capping ceremony for the new church,
and Archbishop Sharp hopes to consecrate
it in about a month’s time.
Douglas Graham presided over the Shaks-
peare evning in the Women’s Club rooms.
Barbara Sisley arranged scenes from the
plays in costume. Dr. F. W. Robinson, of
the Uni., made some introductory remarks,
and Leo Guyatt was an imposing Cardinal
Wolsey.
Murrumba’s M.L.A., R. J. Warren, has
taken a N.S.W. girl to wife, Maud Parry,
of Moree. The knot was tied in the Albert-
street Methodist Church and . Marie Perry
’maided. The bride was a war nurse. She
and her husband will live on his dairy farm,
Bungengary, Caboolture.
At Sandgate the official opening of the
Sandgate Yacht Club at Bramble Bay was
rounded off by a supper party at Seaview
cafe, and a flannel dance in the Town Hall.
Commodore Plumridge did the talking.
Here’s a lassie wi’ locks o’ gold who will
be very indignant if you speak of attacks
recently made upon the memory of Charles
Dickens. She does a great, deal of character-
acting for the Dickens Fellowship, and is a
member of the Shakspeare Society, too, mak-
ing a sprightly Mistress Ford in its recent
performance of
“T li e Merry
Wives of
Windsor.” Her
parents are
Mr. and Mrs.
Frank John
Trundle, the
South Bris-
bane, and she
is a grand-
daughter o f
Mr s. Jo h n
Trundle. the
oldest living
resident of
B r i sbane.
Miss Trundle
was educated
at the Girls’
Grammar
School and the
Uni., and took
up elocution
as a profes-
sion. She holds diplomas of associate and
licentiate in elocution from Trinity College,
London, and, though she is only a bit of a
girl, has been six years a teacher. Her
pupils have won many honors in competi-
tions. She successfully played the name-part
in “Peg o’ My Heart” at the Royal in a
recent charity performance, and has dis-
tinguished herself in Barrie roles, but she
is never happier than when she is imper-
sonating Sam Weller or Betsy Prig.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
Waves of tense excitement vibrated
through His Majesty’s when the velvet cur-
tain rose on the opening gala performance
of “Tosca,” and wild enthusiasm accom-
panied its fall after every act. A box was
decorated for Toti dal Monte, but the plump
little lady preferred to rest after her weary-
ing train journey. Lieut.-Governor McMil-
lan, with his lady, who wore black and
accepted a pink carnation and fern bouquet,
occupied the v.r. box. With them were Mr.
and Mrs. Reg. Forbes, she in a gold lame
cloak, and the Mayor and Mayoress, Mrs.
Franklin in a purple wrap. Lady Hirst, in a
mole-coat over leaf green, sat with Lady
Clarke, who was in black with diamente
shoulder trimmings. Kitty Gillies looked
striking in cherry and a black wrap. Mrs.
Farmer was wrapped in a rosy shawl and
Mrs. C. P. Smith’s neck was swathed in
a rainbow fluff of tulle. Among other first-
nighters were Dr. and Mrs. Patou, Hugh
Norman, the Joe Skinners, Leily Davey, Dr.
and Mrs. Carter and the Horace Joneses.
A reception was held at Parliament House
in honor of the operatic principals. Toti dal
Monte dangled her tiny feet from the seat of
a tall leather chair on the dais and chatted
with the Speaker. She wore a black velvet
coat and her black felt hat was decorated
with rhinestones. There were tea tables
decorated with pots of maidenhair fern and
vases _ of lupins and larkspurs. In the
Premier’s absence the Munsios and Mrs.
Collier did the welcoming. The L.E. Shap-
cotts were to the fore, she in navy satin-de-
soie. Mrs. McGibbon was in black with
white facings. Mrs. Taylor-Thomas wore
navy piped in cherry, q pink feather-posy
cheered Mrs. le Tessier’s fawn ensemble,
Kitty Gillies wore a navy tailor-made and
Elsie Pittai'd a smart frock in two tones of
blue. Lina Scavizzi and Hina Spani wore
velvet cloaks and skull-tight felt hats.
We’ve been entertaining the “Big Four,”
who have come to size-up the economic pos-
sibilities of Australia. We found Sir Arthur
Duckham, leader of the mission, a man of
strong personality with a keen sense of
humor. His confreres are Sir Ernest Clarke,
Sir Hugo Hirst and D. O. Malcolm. Wives
accompanied them, but Lady Duckham
travelled straight through to Melbourne.
The visitors have been given a civic recep-
tion, lunches and dinners, and there have
been teas for the ladies and a country trip
embracing our best-known beauty spots and
places of interest.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The races brought the first decent day we
have had for ages. A warm sun tempted
lovely woman to sport spring finery, though
as the breeze strengthened in the afternoon,
it was tucked away under coats and furs.
Lady Hore-Ruthven was in bois-de-rose and
brown and Mrs. Verney’s grey tweeds were
topped by a blue hat. One of the youngest
set, not long back from Paris, looked trig in
navy satin with a snug felt hat, her smartly
cut black coat being relieved by a maize-
colored collar.
Lady Hore-Ruthven and Denise Daly went
on from the races to a gift tea in Mrs.
Chapman’s garden at Walkerville, an effort
for the Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club.
Mrs. S. H. Clutterbuck (who was ill and
unable to be there), Mrs. C. E. Todd, Mrs.
Arthur Waterhouse and Mrs. Dudley Hay-
ward were prime movers in the affair. The
Club girls ran a stall, and there was dancing
on the lawns by Guides and Brownies.
Golfers made their usual exodus to Victor
Harbor, where there was golf by day and
dancing by night under the wing of a com-
mittee headed by Mrs. Dudley Hayward and
Mrs. Kenneth Duffield and including a dozen
or so of the younger set.
Her Ex. opened an All-Nations Fair in
aid of St. John’s Church, where helpers
included Mrs. Lavington Bonython, Aliss
Lloyd Roberts, Mrs. North-Ash and Mrs. J.
Dempster. It was a drenching day, and the
strike was in full swing, but there was a
big crowd and business was brisk.
Two excellent concerts were given at the
Con. .recently—a recital by Harold Denton,
who is Clive Carey’s successor and has a
delightful voice, and a violin recital by
Harry Hutchins, a young violinist for whom
his teacher, Charles Schilsky, predicts great
things. John Horner was on the programme
at the Denton concert and Alice Meegan and
Edna Lawrence helped with the other.
The Governor, who opened the Society of
Arts show, had a special word of congratu-
lation for the prize-winners, Leslie Wilkie,
who annexed the Melrose portrait prize, and
L. H. Howie (the society’s president) and
Robert Waden, who won the society’s own
prizes. Works by M. J. McNally, J. C.
Goodhart and Allan Glover caught the eye
of the buyers for the gallery.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The amateur golf championships have been
played in true golfer’s weather except for the
opening day, which was unexpectedly warm
and sunny. Players, of course, are supposed
to be impervious to discomfort, but the
onlookers didn’t relish the strong southerly
breezes and frequent showers. T. Brown’s
victory over Len Nettlefold was something of
a surprise, and the midlands are rejoicing. A
good many country folk and a few
northerners were in town to witness the
matches. Ladies’ champion Lily Barclay had
as opponent in the final her sister Grace.
Bellerive, the little over-the-water suburb,
burst forth into a fancy-dress ball in aid
of its Town Hall piano fund, and a very
successful function it was. The O’Grady
and daughter Margaret and a big contingent
of Hobart dancers rolled up, the v.-r. party
being received by James Murdoch and his
wife and Warden and Mrs. Chapman. In
the party were Capt. and Mrs. 11. W. Strutt,
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Giblin (who judged
the ladies’ costumes) and Miss Chapman,
Margaret O’Grady danced in coral red chif-
fon with vandyked skirt. The prize went
to Mrs. K. Rule, who was a lady of the
early nineteenth century, her costume being
the real thing, made in 1808.
The Shakspearean Society closed its mid-
year season with a sort of tourney, in
which the main item was a quotation com-
petition conducted by Catherine Cullinanc.
Dorothy Bowden was winner in the women’s
section, and P. P. Bowden carried off the
men’s prize. Mrs. Bailey, Edna Twibell,
Mrs. Allan Limb, Keith Semple and Allan
Limb made music, and Margaret Fletcher
recited “Then and Now,” by a Tasmanian
writer, W. K. Mitchell.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The two days’ bazaar held for the building
fund of the Convent School was a most
successful affair, resulting in a profit of
£7BO. The school is far too small for the
number of scholars attending, and exten-
sions are urgently needed.
The annual exodus southward has begun,
but these departures have very little effect
on the general life of the place. March will
see the tide flowing northward again.
The races, formerly the event of the year,
evoke little interest now, due, perhaps, to
the abnormally dry seasons that have been
experienced during the last three years. Very
few entries have been received, and there
has been some talk of postponing the meeting
till next year, in hopes of better seasons to
come.
Died recently, after an operation, W. R.
Pennifold, whose wife (formerly Enid Be-
sanko, of Adelaide) was assistant-secretary
to our branch of the Victoria League. He
was on the staff of the 8.A.T., and had
been married only eighteen months. His
wife and infant daughter return to Ade-
laide by the boat that carries this letter.


A New BURROUGHS
BooßKeeping Machine
■UUn:
■. -
mm
err?
m
m
r
sr
. '.:
§>•l
%
S>
rfc
B
■
m
v
: ...
:1
: s
“ii
i-
M'
■
'
9
■This feature marces it possible for
this machine to do work that
formerly required two or more
operations. Figures automati-
cally accumulated or stored in the
extra set of adding wheels can be
subtotalled or totalled by the
operation of this lever.
Requires
Fewer Operations
THE New Burroughs Dupex-Subtractor
Automatic Bookkeeping Machine requires
fewer operations, saves time, prevents
errors and offers positive proofs of accuracy
such as have been hitherto unavailable in
machine bookkeeping. For Accounts payable
and Receivable, for Distribution, Stock
Records, Payroll, Banks, and a host of other
applications, the New Burroughs Duplex-
Subtractor affords new and greater savings.
Only a thorough demonstration can give you a
true picture of this machine’s value to you on
your own work. Write or call for more
information.
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. 8C A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
'Phones: FL2671 (five lines).
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Newcastle
Rockhampton
Auckland
Dunedin
Christchurch
IVellim^on
□
JT
□
□
o
Adding
Bookkeeping Calculati
Machines


ẁ
4%
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 3|% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
From one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose x\ccounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
llllvUu,
Make the Grosvenor
your Adelaide Home
\A
u-
Over 300 taste-
fully furnished
rooms, spacious
writing room,
cheerful lounge,
beautiful dining
hall, perfect
cuisine; every
attention. Ade-
laide’s largest,
most modern
hotel. Tariff
from £3 10/-
weekly.
Write for infor-
mation booklet.
r Tjdelnides Finest Unlicensed JioteL
Opp. Railway Stft. North Terrace. tMSwifi -Manager
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
COONARDOO.
By-Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PERCIVAL.
“Sam Geary looked back at Sheba and guffawed. The light in his eyes rippled, broken into, little leaves
by the tides of alcohol and amusement. ‘No,’ he said. “No. I don’t think I will!"
Synopsis : After the death of his
mother, Airs. Bessie Watt , Hugh, horn
and brought up on Wytaliba station,
in the north-west of W.A., takes over
control, and, as his mother had done,
allows the aboriginal station-workers
to live their accustomed native life.
He also provides a home there for Saul
Hardy, who once owned the station.
Out mustering, Hugh wanders from
camp, and finds that Ooonardoo, a fine
aboriginal girl , wife of Warieda, has
followed to guard him. When they
return to camp next, day Hugh is
seriously ill with fever; and Bam
Geary, a station-owner, whose gin-
mistress, Sheba, drives his car, sees
a chance of realising his old ambition
to own Wytaliba. Hugh, however, goes
to Geraldton and recovers. When he
returns many months later, with his
young wife ( Mollie ), Coonardoo has
a, son, Winning-arra. Hugh knows this
infant is his child, but hides the fact
from Mollie, though Geary, who calls
at Wytaliba, knows the truth well
enough. Mollie bosses the blacks, and
is gently laughed at by Hugh. She
is already disappointed with station
life, and is heartily glad to see Geary's
car arrive.
A VISITOR and motor-car! Mollie
could scarcely believe her eyes. But
there was Geary’s new Ford, already
red with dust and looking as if it had spent
many years on the road, standing out be-
yond the guatdian line of kurrajongs, and
a woman with him. Mollie could not see
more than her pink dress in the car.
She did not know who the man was.
And Hugh was woi'king in the smithy with
the boys. But Mollie was very delighted
and excited to see a visitor, put her hand
to her hair, wished she had time to change
her dress.
“How do you do, Mrs. Watt?” Geary
hailed in a thick, jovial voice.
Mollie came towards him across the ver-
andah. She put out her hand.
“My name’s Geary—Sam Geary. We’re
neighbors.”
“Oh, yes,” Mollie fluttered. “Won’t you
come in, Mr. Geary? But,” she added,
“won’t you bring in the lady, too —Mrs.
Geary, is it?”
Sam Geary looked back at Sheba, and
guffawed. The light in his eyes rippled,
broken into little waves by the tides of
alcohol and amusement.
“No,” he said. “No, I don’t think I will.
She’d .rather stay where she is. That’s
Sheba, the Queen of Sheba. Haven’t you
heard of her? Oh, well, you will. She
gives ’em something to talk about in this
part of the world. Don’t you think I’m
rather a good Samaritan to give ’em some-
thing to talk about?”
“Of course,” Mollie agreed nervously.
Geary sat down in the little sitting-room
which held the enlarged photograph of Mrs.
Bessie, disconcerted by catching a glimpse
of her staring at him grey and wraith-
like from the walls. He did not know
what to say next. Mollie did not know
what to say. She sat down opposite him,
taking in the huge slack bulk of the man,
his red, perspiring face, thin, wet hair and
cunning eyes.
“But where’s You?” Geary asked. “We
been to Milli-Milli races. Should’ve been
there, Missus. It was a great turn-out,
Saul.”
The old man had steered his way to the
door of the sitting-room, and stood look-
ing in, some vague idea of propriety dis-
turbing him. What did Geary want with
Hugh’s woman? But the sitting-room
looked too small to hold anyone else.
“Won’t you sit down, Mr. Hardy?”
Mollie inquired politely.
But Saul had seen Hugh coming down
from the smithy and harness sheds. “No,”
he said —“no, I don’t think I will.”
“Got back all right, Saul?” Geary gibed.
“Youie left him in charge, Missus, but he
wouldn’t stay by himself. The place gave
him the jim-jams, he said. Mrs Bessie kept
calling and calling him. Bad as the blacks,
Saul is. Lived so long among ’em; gone
native, as you might say.”
The old man cursed under his breath;
his stunted, creaking figure moved off along
the verandah.
Mollie heard Hugh’s step. His head and
shoulders shut off the light as he stood in
the doorway.
“Hullo, Youie!” Geary heaved himself
out of the chair. “How’s things? Came
to pay me respects to the bride.”
“Good day, Sam.”
Hugh’s greeting was short. It was evi-
dent that he was not the least pleased to
see the visitor.
“Cornin’ along the track from Milli-
Milli races, thought we’d better turn in
here,” Geary made conversation obligingly.
“My, it was a great meeting! Should’ve
been there,' Youie! There was about a
hundred turned up, and Milli-Milli home-
stead isn’t no bigger than this. Where
they put everybody to sleep Gord knows.
Found meself turnin’ in with a mother and
twins, and wasn’t there a hullabaloo!
Should have heard it! They haven't
stopped laughing on Milli-Milli yet, I’ll
bet. We don’t get many festivities in this
part of the world, Missus, but we make
the most of ’em when we do get ’em. A
Nuniewarra colt won the Creek Cup.
You”
Geary babbled on, refusing to notice
Hugh’s lack of cordiality.
“Staying the night or pushing off?” Hugh
asked.
“Oh, well, since you are so pressin’”
Geary’s malicious humor was equal to even
that. On the whole, he thought he had
better not push Hugh too far. “But per-
haps I’d better be moving on.”
“You’ll have some tea, though,” Mollie
jumped up to go to the kitchen.
“That’s all right, Missus,” Geary mur-
mured suavely. “Youie knows better.
There was a corner in her own special cup-
board Mrs. Bessie kept for me.”
“Bring a couple of glasses, Mollie,” Hugh
said.
Mollie went to the kitchen for the glasses.
Hugh opened the little old-fashioned
cheffonier in which Mrs. Bessie kept whisky,
and put a bottle on the table. Mollie re-
appeared with glasses, a jug of water and
a biscuit-barrel on a tray. Geary poured
himself out a drink, and lifted his glass
to her.
On the whole, Mollie did not think he
was as bad as he looked. He had a kind
of rough geniality.
“You might find it a bit lonesome up
here, Missus,” he said. “See Youie don’t
forget to give you a run oyer to Milli some
time. They’d be real pleased to see you.
I’ll run you over in the car, Youie—you
and the Missus —some day. Takes a week
or so with horses, but we do it in a co.uple
of days in the car. Or you might come
over to Nuniewarra. I got one of these
ding-dong gramophones up, and we could
have a bit of music.”
“Oh, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Geary, ’
Mollie exclaimed, feeling grateful to him
for thinking she might be lonesome some
time, and would like a run over to Milli-
Milli Creek or Nuniewarra.
Through the door of the sitting-room she
could see the blacks standing round the car
talking to the woman Geary had called
Sheba. Warieda was there, Meenie, Bardi
and the children. They got into the car
and she drove out across the plain with
them. Through that narrow opening of
Mrs. Bessie’s sitting-room Mollie watched
the car turn and come toward the house
again, the girl in the bright pink frock
and red hat with flowers having given folk
from the uloo a ride in Sam Geary’s (to
iliem) new and strange vehicle.
Going down to the gate, Geary stumbled.
Mollie heard him swear and pull himself
up.
“By Gord, Youie, lucky devil, aren’t you?
Real sonsy little woman, I call her. But
I say”
Stalking down to the uloo Coonardoo's
straight, lithe figure caught his eyes. Coon-
ardoo, carrying her baby, was going down
to the uloo so that she should not see Sam
Geary again.
Standing with Hugh at the gate, Geary
seemed to be enjoying himself hugely.
Laughing and chuckling, he jogged Hugh’s
elbow. Mollie could not hear what he said,
but she guessed Hugh was angry about it.
He wrenched himself away from Geary, and
stood taut and square confronting him.
“But how about Coonardoo?” Geary
burbled. “How about Coonardoo, Youie?
And Coonardoo’s cooboo? By God, that’s
as good a joke as ever I heard. Give you
my word. Now there’s some of us don’t
pretend to be saints, good Lord—but them
as do ain’t no better than the rest of us.
And I reck’n you owe me a case of whisky.
You.”
“Look here, Sam,” Hugh glanced across
at the verandah where Mollie was standing,
his face wrenched with passion. “Stop that
—once and for all. Do y’ understand?”
Geary chuckled.
“That’s all right, Youie, me boy! Eleven
I’ve got—eleven of ’em! Talk about the
patriarchs. But I know when to keep me
mouth shut. Understand? I understand.
She’s a real decent little woipan, and I
don’t blame you. Rather have Sheba me-
self, or Coonardoo. Gins work out better
in this country. They don’t rouse, and you
know where you are with ’em. They know
where you are when you’ve got a bit in.
No, I wouldn’t do you for your wife, but
I’ve always had a fancy for Coonardoo, you
know. I don’t mind takin’ on Coonardoo
any time you like.”
Sheba drove up to the gate again,
Warieda and the children scrambled .out
of the car, chattering and exclaiming at the
wonder of it.
Judging that he had reduced Hugh to a
state of speechless fury, Geary took his seat
beside Sheba. The car jerked, snorted and
swung off.
(Continued on page 58.)


~\>
a
%
1
r
*
here Mount
/OYUmT MEET
You find some of the world’s finest
scenic gems in the heart of the
famous Canadian Pacific Rockies.
That majestic train —the "Trans-
Canada Limited” —wends its way
through winding valleys of loveli-
ness and encircles snow-tipped
mountains. Each turn of the iron
trail discloses views of breathless beauty.
Coupled with the charm of changing sights and the warm hos-
pitality of friendly folk is the personal attention and travel com-
fort which is forever linked with Canadian Pacific Service on
steamers and trains.
This way —the Canadian, Pacific
way —is the better way to Europe,
Canada and the United States.
Write to-day for the illustrated literature
which tells you everything about the “All Red
Route” to Europe. Any office of Union S.S.
Co. of N.Z., any Tourist Booking Agency, or
J. Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia and
New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Railway Com-
pany, Union House, 247 George Street,
Sydney, will gladly give you information.
sw/im
-SaIMIJ ilu
Canadian
m
XL
IT SPANS THE WORLD
Pacific
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
p
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO.,
FLAG BRAND CUTLERY.
Sheffield,
England.
Registered Trade-mark.
BRITISH
SCISSORS of
HIGH QUALITY. _
SOLID STEEL. A LIFETIME’S WEAR.
Representatives :
NORMAN BAKER ft LONGHURST, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, and Wellington, N.Z.
6981 ’Oil
Beyond an HH VPortable
hi
bu
tare
on
S
3
Specialising tnH.M.V Portables,
til cash or terms arranged
The TALKE RJ ES
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, -write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Missing Friends.
J-JANSEN-KNARHOI. —Anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of HARRY HANSEN-KNAROHI (also
known as Harry Hansen), last heard of at Bruce
Rock, in February, 1927, kindly communicate with
ARTHUR ROBINSON & CO., 377 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne.
MAN NEWS
4K
Wvs
tr
mxJ 1
The
“WILD WEST”
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
wide will
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weather?.
30/-
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Sire.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.


This Razor will
last a Lifetime
Kropp Razors are hand-forged from solid bars of special steel by the world's
most expert cutlers. They take a finer, keener edge than ordinary cast steel
or machine-stamped razors.
ROPP
never
requires
grinding
It makes shaving a pleasure- Your face will be smoother, cleaner and more
comfortable when you use one of these wonderful razors.
mm
ALL - BRITISH
Sheffield made and world famous. Individually tested, and fully guaranteed.
From the usual dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite handles.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
The Practical Test
The ‘Swan’ passes this, the
most searching test of all
! 1884 * 1885 ■ 1886 * 1887
! 1888 • 1889 * 1890 • 18SI
• 1892 * 1893
1896 * 1J
IQ €3
190*5
an
a
£24
•rair2r r l9fc»*»
1.925 -1926»1927 [
YV7HEN a ‘ Swan ’ leaves the factory,
’ ’ it goes into the world equipped for
a life of toil and industry.
It passes successfully the most exacting
of all tests, the test of daily use, year in,
year out, responding readily to whatever
call its owner may make upon it.
“Swan” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & OS, Oxford St., London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Defidt :
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird” Pens, " Swan ” Ink and
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
ose itnou) ~ use ii a lifetime
for
SWAN
ani(
ẃ
PENS
ALL PENS
G.E.6.
“Why, Hugh, what’s the matter? What
did he ’say?” Mollie hopped up beside
Hugh as soon as the car moved away, and
gazed with amazement at his torn and pas-
sion-wrought face.
“Oh, he’s a foul-minded brute!” he told
her. “I loathe and detest him. What he
wants to come here for I don’t know
except that he likes to make me mad. He
always has, ever since I can remember.
God, how I hate him! If ever I murder
a man it’ll be Sam Geary.”
“Hugh, for goodness sake!” Mollie was
frightened, although she was curious, too.
“But the girl, was she a half-caste? She
looked it; she had a pink silk dress on,
and did you see her wristlet watch and the
gold chain round her neck?”
“I didn’t,” Hugh said.
“Is she a half-caste?” Mollie insisted.
“No. Oh no. She’s pure-blooded all right,”
Hugh said bitterly. “That’s Sheba, the
Queen of Sheba he calls her. Geary gives
all his gins Old Testament names.”
“Goodness!” Mollie gasped. “But I never
thought they treated gins like that.”
“Some do,” Hugh said savagely, “and
some just clear out and let ’em starve.”
“But fancy him giving her silk dresses and
a wristlet watch!”
“Why shouldn’t he?” Hugh rasped. “She
earns ’em, goodness knows!”
“Some men don’t give even their wives
a wristlet watch or silk dresses,” Mollie
said. There was a sting in her words.
Hugh looked after her as she went back
to the house. More than once he had
glimpsed the small mind whirling as if a
wasp had built its clay nests within that
neat compact body.
For weeks afterwards Mollie talked of
Geary, asking questions about him, and
about Sheba, or Tamar her predecessor. She
asked Hughie what happened when you
went to Nuniew’arra, You don’t go to
Nuniewarra, Hugh said. At least, white
women don’t.
By careful inquiry Mollie found out that
Geary had one house for Tamar and an-
other for Sheba. Tamar was old and looked
after the youngsters, though some of the
boys went out with the stockmen now, and
the girls had been given to passing team-
sters or drovers.
Sheba looked after Geary, Saul Hardy
said—cooked for him and washed his cloth-
ing, or saw that Tamar and some of the
girls did it for him. She was his favorite
woman for the time being. He could not
get along without her; she was manager of
Nuniewarra really, kept the storeroom keys,
and guarded the whisky and tobacco when
Sam was drunk.
If a man went to Nuniewarra it was
Sheba who came out to meet him, did the
honors, showed him to a guestroom in which
she kept clean sheets, a towel, soap and hair-
brushes. She was a remarkable woman,
everybody agreed, intelligent and useful—
drove Sam’s car for him. When he went to
the port he took a room for Sheba in the
best hotel in the township.
On one famous occasion, of which there
was still gossip, he had taken apartments at
a pub for both Tamar and Sheba, and there
was no room for Charley Leigh and his wife
and children when they came along. The
gins got on well together, were quiet and
unobtrusive, and Sam Geary’s custom was
worth too much for a publican to offend him.
But Mollie could not get over it. So
much fuss to be made about a gin! Of
course, at most places where there were
white women, Sheba did not come into the
house. She had to go to the woodheap with
the other blacks. Mrs. Bessie, Mollie
understood, would not have Sheba to sleep
in the house. She had to go to the kala-
miah or uloo at Wytaliba, and Mollie
decided that was one rule of Mrs. Bessie’s
she would always enforce.
She had tried pumping the girls about
Geary. Meenie, Bardi and Coonardoo, in
turn, she plied with questions, but only
Meenie told her anything. She said with
pride that Geary had wanted Coon-
ardoo ; he had offered horses and rugs
and a gun to Joey Koonarra for her. But
Coonardoo had been promised to Warieda,
and Joey was afraid to displease Warieda and
Mrs. Bessie, who had said Joey was not to
give Coonardoo to Sam Geary. When Youie
was away Geary had come and offered
Warieda a rug and horse for Coonardoo.
But Warieda would not give her. It was
before the cooboo was born. Geary had
laughed when he saw Coonardoo and gone
away.
Coonardoo scowled as she heard Meenie
talking.
“She doesn’t like him, Coonardoo?”
Mollie asked.
Meenie shook her head, laughing, the
glimmering light of sunset in her wise eyes.
“Coonardoo Wytaliba girl,” she said.
“And he’s after Coonardoo, the old
blackguard,” Mollie told Hugh. “Meenie
says”....
Hugh’s face, heavy and thoughtful, stirred
under the skin.
Mollie watched hirn suspiciously. “I
remember,” she remarked, “you told me
some men out here go with gins. But you’ve
tried to keep yourself clear of that sort of
thing. You’d never”
“No.” Hugh faced the inevitable lie,
fairly and squarely. “I’ve never done any-
thing of that sort.”
The gin came to me, was the cynical salve
he gave his conscience. But why make
trouble for himself? It was impossible to
say: “Coonardoo’s child is mine also. She
doesn’t know. Nor anyone, except Geary.
He guesses.” Mollie could not be expected
to understand or like it. She would resent
the sight of Coonardoo about the place—
would demand that she be sent away.
And Coonardoo could not be sent away
from Wytaliba. Had she not grown there?
And Warieda. It would mean losing him.
The station could not afford to lose Warieda.
Wytaliba came first with Hugh.
But he had so assimilated the aboriginal
point of view that he felt no need for hos-
tility between himself and Warieda because
of Coonardoo. Hugh had a real affection
for the big handsome aboriginal. Almost
all he knew of cattle, tracks and country
he had learnt from Warieda in the great
open book of the plains and the ranges.
His feeling for the black was more respect
and admiration than anything else. Had
not Warieda stood by him in his great need
—sent Coonardoo to him even? There was
no deception about that, although Warieda
believed Winning-arra was his own son;
any child of Coonardoo’s would be his son.
Through his love of the country and of
Wytaliba, Hugh realised, was woven his re-
gard for the people who had grown in and
were bound to it. To the country he had
attached himself with a stubbornness there
was no thwarting or denying ; and the people
who served and fought it with him claimed
his loyalty, protection. Saul Hardy told
terrible stories of shootings, and the abuse
of native women in the early days. There
had been native retaliations, of course.
There still were; but on these inland plains
the tribes were peaceful and conservative,
avoided contact with white people other
than those they knew and had become
accustomed to. Neither Saul Hardy nor
Mumae had ever experienced trouble with
the Wytaliba blacks. Generous, kindly, their
relationship had been, in an overlordship
imposed gradually and imperceptibly, until
the blacks recognised and accepted it by
agreeing to conditions of work for food
and clothing.
The aboriginal sense of justice recognised
the bond. It had never been broken. That
was why Hugh believed Wytaliba blacks
were different from those on so many other
stations. Poor degraded wretches, treated
like dogs —worse than dogs—they were on
stations further south and nearer the coast.
Dirty, diseased, ill-natured, lost to their
tribal laws and customs, he had seen them,
remnants of a dying race, drifting about the
up-counry towns and settlements along the
coast. As Saul and his mother had dealt
with the Wytaliba folk, so he would deal
with them, Hugh promised himself. He
would keep faith as they had kept faith
with him—and the Gnarler people would
sing round their camp-fires in the uloo
through the years ahead as they had done
for all the years he could remember.
“It’s a good sign, Hughie,” his mother
used to say, when she heard the blacks
singing round their fires in the evening.
“I’m always glad when I hear them singing
like that. Shows they’re happy and satis-
fied.”
And Warieda Was chief singer, leader in
the corroborees. Hugh remembered his song
of the steam engine, how it had remained
with him and haunted him while he was
ill, on the boat, and in Geraldton.
“Me-ra-rar ngar-rar ngatcir-gar gartha-gara
Moonangar nar-ra-ga mille-gidee.”
He went about trying to whistle it, and
caught the gleam of Warieda’s eyes, lighted
to pleasure and amusement.
CHAPTER XVII.
Winter on Wytaliba was no more than
a season of keen, cold winds. For a few
months after the rains the air cooled and
freshened each day. In the early morning
and at night it was so cold that the blacks
went shivering in their thin clothing. The
old women wandered about carrying fire-
sticks to warm them.
Mollie laughed to see Bandogera driving
the big red and patchy-white cows Hugh
had brought in for milking, towards the
yards, at dawn, crouched over the glow-
ing end of a firestick. The old woman
scuttled over the stones on her bare feet,
throwing stones at the cows to make them
hurry, a drab, stooping figure in an old coat
and felt hat which had belonged to her
man long ago.
But Mollie was glad to huddle into a
woollen jacket and stand over a fire her-
self. She spread meals in the kitchen,
shutting the doors and window to keep out
the biting whip of the wind. The wind
was keen all day during June and July
sometimes, although usually the sunshine
played brilliant and warming at mid-day,
coats and jackets were shed, and a sky,
soft as smoke from the blacks’ fires, deepen-
ing towards the zenith, spread over hills,
trees and plains finely etched, delicately
toned, in the still bright air.
After the dust-storms and first rain,
clouds floated white and hard from behind
Nungarra peak, drifted across the sky like
pieces of wadding, scattered and vanished.
There were days of diminished light and
a tepid greyness during the rainy season.
But a cloudy sky over the wide plains,
how everybody watched and exclaimed at
it! From the moment small clouds broke
flowering at sunrise from behind the bluff
of Nungarra, until they massed, threaten-
ing and thunderous, reflecting the sunset,
all eyes followed their pageant.
(Continued on Page 58.)


TShe SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
mmm
V *
H
■*. Jr.
RS
I
SS?;
IB
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Gets the maximum of grain from every condition of crop—light, heavy, weed-infested or down and tangled.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres m a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 1 0 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
ẅ
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


-for a good
/ nights rest
v/ take
w
it will ensure
a good days
work
In 4 sizes
ofall Chemists
and Stores
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE.
With offi es at London, Canbei’ra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
HULL
Britain's Third and
Cheapest Port.
The Natural Gateway
to a large Industrial Area of
12 MILLION PEOPLE.
11 DOCKS
Owned and Served by the
London 8 North-Eastern Railway
MODERN EQUIPMENT,
RAPID HANDLING,
LOW CHARGES.
EXPRESS GOODS TRAINS
to all parts of the country.
Regular Fast Steamship Services to the
Continent of Europe for Re-Export Trade.
AUSTRALIAN SHIPPERS are invited to
inquire for further information at the offices
of Messrs. BURNS, PHILP k CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney; and Branches.
Agents throughout New Zealand:
J. A. REDPATH & SONS, LTD.
E.N.E.R.
Largest Dock-owning Railway
in the World.
SNAKES AND FLEAS
ALONG the red road to Yungaburra the
timber-waggon made its slow and in-
evitable progress behind twenty very
deliberate bullocks drawing four thousand
feet of log maple to the railroad, to begin its
long journey south and its piling up of costs,
until 18s. a hundred at the railhead had grown
to a shilling a foot in the timber-yard. Red
road, red bullocks, red logs and the waggon
dyed red; and a red-haired man in road-red
moleskins to complete the color scheme.
Under the washing-day blue sky and the
white sunrays intense as a floodlight, the
moving things in the scene flared like an
enamel of Japan, so naturally intense as to
seem overdone. The red-haired bullock-
driver was tall and spare, and would have
been old but for the tremendous vitality
that motored and lighted him. A man to
look at twice and yet again ; five feet eleven
of wire and whipcord, and the red in him was
iron. The eyes contradicted the red beard
and hair —they were grey, not blue. His
right hand gripped the long whip-handle by
its middle; the stock of the handle was held
in the armpit, and as he swung the whip
over the team you saw that his left sleeve
was empty. To do that work with one arm
made the red man unforgettable. A slow-
thinking, steadfast, trusting man; never
lying down to difficulty, because he couldn’t
think quickly enough to recognise difficulty
until he had beaten it, fighting it to the
finish.
Blake spoke as our horses headed the
bullocks, and got into the cleared track
again.
“Wonder wdiere the other two are?”
“Three of them, were there. What’s the
yarn ?”
“That’s Carey—of the Sleeping Lizard.”
“The chap who got sixty thousand pounds’
worth of tin in one pocket?”
“That’s the man. His mate’s dead —died
without a copper. And then Carey had his
arm blown off, and got that bullock team
on tick. He’s nearly paid for it. Ever heard
of McEntee?”
“I know of him —luckiest man in the
world.”
“Carey started him. He didn’t know it at
the time, but he started him. Now he’s
got stations and a chain of butcher’s shops
and the richest cane-land in Australia. It fell
into him over a mortgage. It’s a delta;
down comes the river as regularly as pay-day,
floods it just enough, and leaves just enough
soil on it to grow the champion yield of
cane.”
“I knew McEntee; a plump man with
very black eyes and very black hair and
long, trailing, thin moustaches like black
bootlaces—one of those dark subterranean
men whose humor is malice; dark, and
wicked as the fair-haired Lombardians super-
stitiously believe the Sicilians are. Mines
he had, and sold them the inevitable day
before the ore cuts out; cattle- and sheep-
stations ; sugar farms and stores; would play
poker for a baby’s rattle and win it. Yes,
I knew McEntee; but not the other two
of the triangle.
“Bid lie always have the luck, Blake?”
“No, Carey was his luck, and McEntee
had the dice loaded. Before that he was just
a battler; a bullock here and a bit of tin
there; drive a bullock over to a new camp
and cut him up there while the stream-tin
lasted and take tin for it —at half the price
of the market. Had a shanty for a bit until
the police hunted him ; and the boozers and
ore thieves could always get a billyfull of
beer for a billyfull of wolfram or molybdenite.
Metal is no good to an urgent thirst. Then
he came back broke to Watsonville; just
as Carey and his mate dug sixty-thousand
pounds out of the Sleeping Lizard, and he
went after that and got it —or most of
Carey’s half, anyway. Carey’s mate gave his
away with both hands —backed all his
friends and frauds, and melted his own
money, and then laughed, and went back to
work; and died after a year or so of it.”
"But tell me how he got Carey’s?”
“With a horse. Carey had a horse ho
swore by, and McEntee laid him a hundred
he had a horse that could beat it.”
“But a hundred isn’t thirty-thousand
pounds!”
“Oh ! It wasn’t as crude as that. There
were by-ways and alleys in it, but Carey got
there a]] the same—down to Broke-street.
Two heads win ; and Carey held the kip, and
rang in the greys.”
“And who was the other Head?”
“Althorpe. He was the billiard-marker,
and left there broke.
“So his head was no good?”
“He’s a crook, too, but lie trusted Mc-
Entee ; and McEntee held the kip—always
has held it since that day.”
At dusk Carey’s logging team came crawl-
ing in, and Carey left his loaded waggon in
the railway yard for the night. Having fed,
Blake and I strolled over and watched Carey
unyoking.
“I hear there’s a new find on the Sandy
Tate,” said Blake.
Carey threw a bow down and said in
quiet resignation:—
“Streamin’ an’ me’s parted for keeps.
What’s the good o’ me findin’ another Sleep-
in’ Lizard—somebody’d take it off me. The
world’s full of Careys. Wonder where that
swine’s tellin’ a tale now?”
“He’s in Sydney—one of the millionaires,
they say.”
"The sandy-haired waiter brought the wine.”
_ “Oh, well, he’ll slip his hobbles when his
time comes. He’ll die when the fleas leave
him —all snakes do. So long.”
He drove the bullocks away to grass.
* * * *
A month later, in Sydney, Walter Rossi-
ter, whom I had not seen for many months,
met me in the street of Magic, and we were
botli glad of the meeting. He uttered the
formula, “Come and have a pitch.”
In the careless Australian way our little
party of two became ten, and in the general
conversation the “pitch” we were to have
was adjourned sine die. So the afternoon
lost itself in dusk, and we were still there,
and then one of Walter Rossiter’s friends
roped us in for dinner.
We were at the oysters when a waiter
came to ask our host to dinner with a party
in a smaller room, and to bring his guests
with him; and, all denials proving useless,
we left the just-begun dinner and went to
the smaller room to make a new beginning.
There the new host proved to be a plump,
dark-eyed man, his
face uncovered but
for moustaches like
boot-laces McEn-
tee, with a score
or more of guests!
He had forgotten
me and the intro-
duction was as of
stranger to stran-
ger. He looked
more than ever
one of the black-
eyed p e o p 1 e—
searching, brilliant,
beady eyes; cold
and hard eyes to
make warm-blooded
men fear.
But he did things
well; or, rather,
the hotel, knowing
its mark and hav-
ing no limit,
had done things very well, from the iiors-
d’oeuvres to the half-way house of Punch
Romaine, and on to the bitter end of the
too-well fed. McEntee looked even plumper ;
high living had swollen his full eyes so that
they were almost protuberant. And his wel-
come of everybody was effusive ; he was open-
handed as if lie had never known greed or
avarice, and as if lie had never a care or
an enemy in the world.
He could carry a cargo, too; drinking with
everybody and carrying his load as well as
—well, Walter Rossiter. Walter was such
a hefty man where corks were drawn that at
midnight he was still in the first flight of
the survivors. Now that fifteen guests had de-
parted, quidtly, uproariously, gaily, voci-
ferously, according to their ways, we were
but six.
After-dinner stories had become tiresome,
and wine and vain-glory made the conver-
sation more and more personal. One man, a
softgoods merchant, had told the storv of
his business beginnings—told it grandilo-
quently ; an epic of some such thing as a
lucky purchase of blankets and manchester
goods after a draper’s fire. Another, with
a cry in his voice that called all men to
worship, told of his beginnings as a fish-
oil merchant. Yet another related his pur-
chase of a forest of cabinet timber at the
price of firewood because the farmer didn’t
know maple values.
The wrtfuprs grew sleepy and flatfooted and
bored; only a thin, weedy, blue-eyed, sandy-
haired man seemed to hold any interest in
this exhibition of braggart and vain-glory
-—vanity enlarging the banal until to the
vain-glorious it seemed epic.
“Let’s clear out,” said Walter to me;
“this skite makes me sick.”
lie rose as if to make his escape polite
with conventional thanks for the entertain-
ment, and I was about to follow him, when
McEntee, who had been smoking and listen-
ing for hours to anybody and everybody, sud-
denly claimed attention in the only way pos-
sible to him —by taking it.
“I’ll tell y’ something,” he said, “that’ll
make you great traders look like flies.
There’s nothing much in buying something
that everybody wants, and then selling it
when somebody wants it most. That’s why
there’s something sneaking about trade —it
never takes a risk like a decent burglar does,
and it never has an idea. The peddler’s
mind—that’s it: the peddler’s mind.
“Now I’ll tell you about my start. It
was ten years ago. I had plenty of starts
befoi'e that, but they were all ftjse starts—
starts that dropped me on my crupper-bone
two minutes after lifting me. I’d done
lots o’ things. Many a cleanskin wasn’t a
cleanskin once I got a fire lighted. Swap-
ping beef for stream tin at five times the
price of beef; selling beer for twenty times
its weight in wolfram: buying a butcher’s
shop and faking a trade and selling out;
playing poker with anybody who had a bob
—and making the bob mine.... Fill me
glass, boy—give the other gentlemen a
drink.”
The sandy-haired waiter brought the wine,
which Rossiter and I barred ; but McEntee
drained his glass as soon as it was filled,
and held it up for re-supply.
“And I’d. buy a bit o ’lumber and sell it
before I had to pay for it —all the trade
tricks. You know,” he added, winking qt
the most highly respectable huckster in the
company. “But I could never get a reserve
fund; always eating my brownie before it
was cooked; and often broke to the wide.
And when I was right to it I played two-
up, and I always held the kip if I could and
rung in the grey in the right kind of school.
One day I heard of two boobs of miners
hitting a patch of tin—sixty thousand
pounds’ worth it was—on a claim called the
Sleeping Lizard.”
I sat up suddenly and began to listen, to
the exclusion of any other interest on
earth.
“I went over there and I find the two
miners with grog in the camp and open
house, and I thought I saw the way to a
divvy. I had to have somebody to help.
Carey, that’s the name of one of the miners
—a big red-haired cove. I forget his mate’s
name —somebody else made him poor.”
I felt Rossiter about to rise again—could
see the indignation in his face, and nudged
him with my knee.
“Quiet, Walter ; I’ll tell you after.”
Rossiter was quiet again; the merchants
there felt that they should not listen to
the kind of story McEntee’s promised to be;
but money is cowardly and makes cowards,
and McEntee had so much of it that these
highly respectable citizens did not dare to
moralise. But I could feel that the honesty
of Rossiter was being outraged by even tile
silent acquiescence of remaining one of tlie
audience, and my elbow warned him to be
careful.
“Carey, that was the chap—a big, silent,
fat-headed cow who didn’t know his clothes
were stolen until he looked at himself aud
saw he was naked. I had to have some
help to start the game—just as I said. It
was too blasted crude to shake a kip in
front of him and say, ‘Come on, you’re drunk
—come on and I’ll pick y’r
bones!’ I might as well
have shown him the greys.
I see a little bloke there
with a straggly, sandy beard,
and I knew he was a spieler
on sight.
“ ‘What’s the game?’ I
says to him.
“ ‘Whatever it is it’s
mine,’ he says; ‘I found
him first.’
“ ‘He’s mine. A little
game <o’ two-up,’ I says.
‘You button.’
“ ‘Good enough,’ he says.
‘Split profits. Two heads are better than
one.’
“And to it we go.
“Half an hour and I had seventy-eight of
Carey’s. He was too drunk to play, and
just fell over like a log. and there was too
many there to make a direct business of it.
So Carey woke up enough to tell us he’d
meet us in the town to-morrow, and we knew
ttiat was right, because from Cedar Creek
to the Gilbert he was known as a man who
never broke his word. And just as we
were clearin’ out to the township he comes
after us and says that he’s got a horse that
can win the Melbourne Cup, and he’ll back
it against any nag that was ever floated and
for all the tea in China. So back we go—
the little spieler and me—what was his
name? Altliorpe—that’s it —Althorpe. An-
other piece of bubbly water, waiter!
“On the way back Althorpe says to me,
‘What’s the divvy?’ and I says, ‘Thirty-nine
quid. But don’t take it out of the pool, I
says.
“ ‘Wliaffor?’ says lie.
“ ‘Just this,’ says I; ‘thirty-nine quid’s no
good—not while the Sleepin’ Lizard has got
thirty thousand. Carey’s mate I didn’t
like the look of —he looked the sort of man
that would kick like a steer if you got to
him; but Carey was slow, and you could
take lollies out of his mouth and he wouldn’t
know it. So Carey was my meat. I says
to Althorpe, ‘I can get a little horse that’s
good for the five-furlong spring-cart race,
and if we can stop his horse runnin’ we can
clear up a hundred; not thirty-nine.”
“ ‘Leave it in the pool then,’ he says.
‘What next?’
( Continued, on page 57.)


Bunking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £3,369,903
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W„ G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 010,210
Ordinary Shares . . . . .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and tiansacts all other usual Banking 1 business.
THE
UNITED insurance
11111 I tmU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE V HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
ns'
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Ltd.
if you have
Woo! 8c Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
1
\
,>p-c „ ¥>.
9- _ \S.* V -»o8& s9°i..
<.V»V‘ «9%,»
<%- \> e , s^y^vA
tf.
I m\, ol f tV-‘
%>A?»
/U
4f
Qi/W STAm
REMOVES THE GREY
5K
<GWY
haijr
would
SPOIL
IT#
Shipping, etc.
Visit
Pacific
Isles!
SYDNEY SAILING DATES.
SYDNEY SAILING DATES
To Honolulu.
Aorangi, Nov. 15. Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Fob. 7.
To Tahiti.
Tahiti, Nov. 29. Makura, Dec. 27.
Tahiti, Jan. 24. Makura, Feb. 21.
/
LT
i
Special
Holiday
Excursions
Honolulu is brought within
easy reach of Sydney— at
the cost of a city holiday—by the
Canadian-Australasian Excursions,
£75 (First Return), £55 (Second).
The magnificent liners Aorangi,
1 7,490 tons, and Niagara, 1 3,41 5
tons, offer an ocean holiday, call-
ing at Auckland and Suva.
Tahiti, embracing Raratonga and
Papeete, is a delightful alternative,
the round trip costing only £55
and £4O. This holiday tour is
made by the favorite Union
Liners, Tahiti and Makura.
Literature of either excursion from
Union Steam Ship Company
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS.
PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”) fi~'
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via
Queensland Ports,
Torres Strait,
Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and,
Information apply: —
*
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses .... 15,000 tons, Nov. 13
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 27
*Anchises. . . 10,000 ~ Dec. 10
*Ascanius. . . 10,000 ~ Jan. 7
ISuevic 12,500 ~ Jan. 23
f Euripides . . 15,000 ~ Jan. 28
tßunic 12,500 ~ Feb. 19
*Nestor 15,000 „ Mar. 18
iCeramic .. . 18,500 „ March 26
"First class only. fFirst and Third class.
:|:“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. ]
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd. j
Joint
Agrents
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Cai al
VIA SOUTH AFRICA. | VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BELTANA.. Sails Nov. 2
BALRANALD „ Nov. 21
BALLARAT „ Dec. 28
BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
BARADINE „ April 1
BALRANALD „ April 29
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.,
Tel. 86701. 5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
me
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
Huddart ParkerL
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER U MITHD,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney. ’
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY: ..
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tbreadoeedle Street, E.C. 2.
»« 8 branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evem.ig;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CHALETS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbanp.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union dub and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
SAFE with GUYATT’S!
w
The improved Guyatt
Elastic Truss is tile latest
and most efficient Elastic
Truss on the market to-day.
It has been altered and
improved in several import-
ant points of construction,
until its strength, efficiency
and durability have been greatly increased. A careful
examination of this Truss will prove every claim
made for its advantage over others.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/-
GUYATT & CO.,
Expert Makers of Surgical Appliances,
Dept. 8.. 257 a George St., Sydney.
Opoosite Bridge Street.
Youthful Charms
Enhanced By Cuticura
Soap and Ointment. Regular use
of the Soap, assisted by the Ointment
as needed, will keep the complexion
fresh, clear and youthful and the hair
live and healthy. Cuticura Talcum
is fragrant, cooling and refreshing, an
ideal toilet powder.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
“*• For sample Soap and Ointment address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
HEWS- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
m
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Represeaiuiive.
Telephone X 6187.
G. N. BEDJJALL, Argus Building, .Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


c
r-
-3§j|E
Tm
cs
Ryfe'l
' Y«
1
VKoL
“CU^i
£
Miss QUEEN IE ASHTON,
a beautiful Rexona Girl,
writes: "I am a Rexona
Girl, and use only Rexona
Soap, which 1 consider the
one and only soap for the
shin and hair.”
w
(? Iris/Why o°+ Eoj°y
Qood (oMplexior)^
You cannot if you do not care for ilie delicate skin of the face. When you wash your face
do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the dirt, hut that your skin needs a,
soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from blemish? Scented
toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware.
Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate
texture. Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the skin, but
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the
same principles as the famous Rexona Ointment, which is known throughout Australasia as the
Rapid Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for Ilie
skin and face what cosmetics are supposed to do,
by ensuring' not only a clean face but a pure and
healthy skin, and thus gives you a clear
complexion.
'Hexona.
(Soap
7 or Jkalik
cuid
Bexmti/
ily does lor the
) supposed to do,
; but a pure ;
m
deal
W
, AS .
'fimHu
m
V
M
Mailed to you the
day they are made
\Jke famous RecL Box of GkocohdteS
fosh fre
' ree. lo any
address in Cdslralia.
Y .
(paton)
PHICES
3/- 54 , 6/~, 104 124,
20/-^c1304
HILL
9
C H O C O LAI E S
addoess— ,62-166 Pitt Str-eet
SYDNEY''
ŵ
SEND FOR. CATAUXJUE lULUSTRATED WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF OUICOONFECTIONEIVf IN COLOURS
“ “I’ve got: another eleven,’ I says.
‘That’s eighty-nine pound. You find twenty
or so, and we’ll put up a hundred. We can
beat Carey’s horse and have enough to
square the boy.’ ”
“‘Who’s the boy?’ he says.
“ ‘Carey’s jockey, whoever he is,’ says I.
‘l'll square him if he was as round as an
apple.’
“Well, we got to it. Pound where Carey's
horse was in the town, found the boy who
rode him, and found that the horse was a
racin’ engine. Carey came in next day and
talked thousands, but I fixed with Althorpe
lie was to do all the betting and his limit
was a hundred. I made myself stakeholder,
and Althorpe hands me the hundred quid
with Carey looking on ; so Carey doesn’t like
to object, and ho hands me his cheque for a
hundred quid—and it was a harder job for
him to write that cheque than it would have
been for him to sink a foot in diorite. 11 is
tongue was following the pen and nearly on
the paper ; but at last I got the cheque, and
Carey goes to look at his horse and have
some drinks—more drinks than horse.
“Soon’s I got the cheque I got an idea.
I says to Althorpe, ‘lt seems a pity to let
him off with a century—what’s a century
to thirty thousand?’ And I says, ‘l'll go
an’ cash the cheque—give you the hundred—
you find him and tell him y’ want another
hundred on and we’ll get another cheque and
cash it, and keep the game going till a
thousand looks nearer. You shout every
time you get a chance and he’ll come easy.’
"Well, we did it—we kept him going with
noozo for a week, and we kept on raising
the stake with his own money. The bank
manager sent for him once, but he was
clumsy, and Carey roared that he wasn’t a
child and that he’d shift his account if his
cheques were breathed on, and at last we had
three thousand quid on and all of it was
his except eleven pounds. Althorpe wanted
to divvy and clear out, but I knew better
than that—none of that, larceny business
for me. I was within the law if it came right
—-and I'd fix it to come right. I thought
Althorpe didn’t trust me, either; but it was
too soon for him to find out he was too right.
“I squared Carey’s boy with fifty quid—
ten down, and forty if he lost; but I wasn’t
taking any risks. I put Althorpe in the bush
with a gun at the finish of the rough track
they call a racecourse and I says, ‘lf the
boy looks like selling us, shoot the horse—
we’ve got to win.’ Y’see, I thought Carey
might have given the boy more to ride
straight, but Carey never thought of the kid
pulling his horse, and the boy pulled him so
well that my spring cart thoroughbred won
fairly easy.... So I won the three thousand.”
"You mean you and Althorpe won,” said
the softgoods man who had sung the epic
of the blanket purchase.
McEntee laughed loudly, brutally.
"He thought he did,” said McEntee. “But
I was stakeholder and I put him off the
divvy till the next day, and next day I was
away at daylight with the coach. He fol-
lowed me and I laughed at him. He talked
of law and I got him by the neck, just as
you’d scruff a mongrel, and I says, ‘Open
your mouth and you’re in for fraudulent
conspiracy,’ I says, ‘an’ you’ll stay in till
your long sandy beard grows again after the
gaol barber gets you first.’ So I bounced
him out of it and slung him his twenty
quid and put him out of the partnership.
Gimme a drink, waiter.”
The sandy-liaired little waiter supplied
him; he gulped the wine and continued.
“And after that; not a look-back. Every-
thing came sweet —a copper show, and
stations and shops and mortgages and the
finest sugar property in Queensland. Well,
we’ll all go now—-it’s a fair thing.”
“And what of Carey?” asked Walter Bos-
siter.
"Back to the shaft, and on to duffers ever
since, my cobbers tell me.”
“Good night,” said Walter Rossiter, and
went out—rudely for him. I followed him
to the door and turned; to say something that
sounded like politeness to this host whose
hospitality I hated. McEntee had risen and
the sandy-haired waiter brought his coat.
McEntee distributed his tips from a roll so
big that it could have been carried mainly
for advertisement.
“A fiver for you, waiters, and a quid for
the little one.”
He handed the sandy-haired waiter the
note, the while seeing him no more than
if lie had been a knot-hole in the door panel.
“Send the bill to my flat—you know,
Macquarie-street North.”
“I’ll give you a lift in my taxi,” said the
singer of the blanket epic.
“No, thanks—l’d like to walk. It’s only
Bligh-street and up Bent-street, and I’m
set. Good-night, all.”
Rossiter and I got away ahead of him.
“By God !” said Rossiter. “If I were in
the bush with that chap it would be one of
us for it. Why did you keep me there
listening to that filth? You’ve given me a
dirty taste in the mouth.”
He spat as if the dirty taste were physical.
“Because I was interested, falter —be-
cause I know Carey. And I told him what
I knew of the one-armed bullock-driver. And
what surprises me, Walter, is that Carey
knows—and yet lie’s never got square with
McEntee, although he could break him with
his one hand.”
“Carey’s too big,” replied Walter Ros-
•siter. “I know these bushmen —the pros-
pector’s the best type of them all. He was
too big and lie’s judged himself so harshly
that he’s accepted the sentence pronounced
by that crook, McEntee. God! What an
able-bodied contempt Carey’s contempt must
be! He could break McEntee with one hand,
and he won’t lift the hand.”
It was next day that McEntee was dis-
covered in a lane near Macquarie-street,
stripped of all valuables, and his skull so
hopelessly fractured that he was never con-
scious again.
None of his. guests were at his inquest or
his funeral; as Carey says, all the fleas
leave the snake as soon as the snake dies.
Six months later I was back in the North
and in a mining camp in its roaring stage. I
saw Blake again, and told him of McEntee’s
end.
“Carey knows,” said Blake. “He just
said ‘Ho the fleas left him,’ that’s all." And
Althorpe turned up three months ago. He
must have made a bit of a rise, because he’s
got the pub here and he’s making a prisoner
of every bob and rising steadily in respecta-
bility. Carey smiles when he passes him.
He knows Altliorpe was left on the rocks,
too.’’
I saw Althorpe, the new publican, that
night, and then I had to recognise the sandy-
haired little waiter, now free of the dis-
guise of uniform that makes one waiter look
like another waiter. 1 had not any virtu-
ous desire to identify him. It is easier and
more just to leave him to Circumstance,
Coincidence, Luck —though the uncertain
thing we call Nemesis be as slow as the wrath
of God. Anyhow, all snakes die at sundown
at the latest.
Carey drives his red bullocks along the
red tracks and swings the great whip with
one hand, a big man, eating with hunger
to sauce his meat.
The Lamp.
The light alive in a lamp
In a tavern or fane
But burns for itself still,
Yet not in vain.
If saint or sinner sees
What he would do
By the light of that that lives
As a dreamer who
Finds in himself the joy
For which he yearned
Ere a lamp of beauty lit
Within him burned.
n.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.
Midsummer Carnival.
The stalwart centaurs wheel from out the
shade.
Wearing: tlu> blossom-chains the nymphs have
made,
And with some clamor
Brush the dark, calloused holes of giant
trees,
Where falls the glamor
Of noon, like wine that’s golden to the lees.
Midsummer ! Trump of Carnival! The time
When dullest clown perforce is moved to
rhyme!
In distance now
Glimmer those muscled arms; the long tails
sweep ;
While from low bough
And undergrowth brown nymphs with laugh-
ter creep.
This maiden, light as pod on stem,
With scarlet mouth ’neath eyes wide-set
and black,
Calls to the galloping herd, and follows
them ;
With slim hands grasps the hindmost; draws
him back.
Rise, ye strong winds! Take boughs for
castenets!
Dance, dance, and strew the velvet sward
With blossom-carpets! Rife has no regrets
For these young pagans.... Love is their
one lord!
The chestnut turns upon the black-browed
maid—
lie would have asked no dearer bliss
Throughout all luoary Time than this!
Oh, sweet to be alone in this still glade!
In stray sun-bursts that cleave the dense
blue shade
His body glistens red;
lie bends his head.
He has a tail of silver, and his hooves
Are burnished to dull gold ; but in the length
Of his burnt arms is lodged his greatest
strength.
Now clasps he, while each bird and blade
approves,
Her form, her wondering face
In rigid, close embrace;
And, reeling ’neath his impact, she is bent,
As springing grass beneath a falling limb
Is crushed, till, pale and spent,
She leans along the swarthy arms of him.
His seeking lips her deepest sweetness
plumb;
Find first her throat, and then her mouth
above,
Scented with honey that the striped bees
rape
From groves in Arcady, and render numb
That scarlet bow. . . . She had a gentle love
Yvho sighed (but never kissed!) and tuned
his reed,
Nor ever was o’erwhelmed by this strange
greed,
This poignant, this sweet anguish of desire
That now saps life, now chills, now sears
with lire!
Dimly, as from another, lesser world.
They hear the shrilling of the revellers;
Then her jet ringlets with his own are
curled—
He bends again, and blends his mouth with
hers.
“Lean down a space!”.... “Ah, make this
one embrace.
As oceans deep; gold centuries as long!
(Since you are young and fair, and I am
strong!)
Brown girl! Your merry youth is like a
song!”
Thus, thus her gentle love she soon forgets!
He must go tune his reed and vainly blow.
Piping in the cool green vales below:
Since lie gauged not such fevers and such
frets,
Love’s high carousals lie will never know.
And while he pipes (full wistfully, it
seems!)
For these all things beneath the reeling sky
Dance, and the fierce sun downward teems
Through the thick foliage, till the revellers
sp.v
l pon the pair they left so far behind.
And find them to the world both deaf and
blind ;
Kissed mutually into drunken dreams.
Red centaur and brown nymph, who loved
to dance.
Caught in the scarlet fringes of Romance!
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


in Spring?
I HE simplest way to get rid of pimples, rashes, eczema,
* roughness and irritation, is to cleanse carefully and
anoint with Zam-Buk Balm.
Zam-Buk, being so highly refined, soaks into the pores and
purifies the underlying tissues. Eruptions and itching soon
subside under this natural treatment, and the skin is thereby
restored to a sound healthy state.
Nothing is so good for the skin as Zam-Buk, whether it be
a simple spot, or for eczema, ulcers or other grave disfigure-
ment. Being free from animal fat and insoluble mineral
drugs, Zam-Buk does good in serious cases where a fatty
ointment would be absolutely useless.
The outstanding success of Zam-Buk is due to its unique
herbal character, purity, high refinement and unusual pene-
trative power. A handy box of Zam-Buk is an excellent
first-aid for cuts, bruises, burns, etc., and a real insurance
against skin disease. 1/6 6* 3/6 all chemists.
r if
AS
Vj
ScV
7
“L-lAVING 16 years’ experience with Zam-Buk, I can
1 1 confidently pronounce it the finest soothing and
skin-growing agent it is possible to employ.
“I was burnt from head to foot, during research
work, and for a long time was in the hands of a well-
known surgeon. It was only Zam-Buk that caused strong
new skin to grow when I was told my body would need to
be permanently bandaged.”
Mr. A. NASH,
Associate of the Institute of Chemistry.
T7'D T 7 L 7 flf V ou have not yet tried Zam-Buk Balm and
rIXILiLL l Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, send a postcard to-day
to Messrs. C. E. Fulford ( Aus .), Ltd. Sydney, and
you will receive free samples of both. Mention Bui letin t7fio/’2S
'am-Be R
For PIMPLES, RASHES, ECZEMA, BOILS & SORES.
Sometimes the clouds brought rain, hail-
stones, thunder and lightning; and some-
times the beautiful white vapors just piled
up and curled across the sky for days,
wreathing beasts, mysterious landscapes,
colossal towers with shadows, the mauve and
tawny-grey of the smoke from bush-fires.
Hugh called Mollie to show her a gigantic
polar bear pawing the air, and a snow-white
peacock with long splayed tail, star-eyed.
Lake lands, alps, avalanches, glaciers; silver,
glittering; immaculute forests and seas of
islands—all these gleamed and misted away.
When the clouds played about like that,
the blacks said they did not mean business.
There would be no rain. Coonardoo told
the children stories about the great kood-
geeda who lolled there in the clouds and
rolled out of sight. After a few days of
bare blue skies, the clouds would come
tgain, but darker, hustling and jostling each
other from beyond the hills, late in the
afternoon usually, and pursued by thunder.
Lightning cast wriggling electric worms
across the screen of the smoke-dark sky,
the blue of volcanic basalt. Showers
slanted, veiling the hills. The first drops
sped outward, and down came the rain,
sluicing and splashing, with a low moan in
the distance, with rattle and clatter of hail-
stones striking pebbles far out across the
plains.
It was warm and comfortable in the big
kitchen at night during the cold weather.
When Hugh and Saul Hardy had finished
their evening meal, Mollie washed the
dishes, and Hugh took a towel and dried
them for her. Saul pushed wood into the
range, making a fire big enough to roast
a bullock; then he and Hugh sat yarning
and smoking before it, while Mollie fixed
up her yeast and the sponge for bread-
making next day.
Fluttering and spluttering, a carbide light
on the table flickered over her busy hands.
Broad ruddy gleams from the fire struck
the dresser of china on one side of the
room, the piece of chintz she had nailed
over a small square window beside it, and
the huge w'ooden bins of flour, sugar and
tea in the darkness of the room behind her.
If the room got too hot and stuffy with the
smoke of mulga, minnerichi and tobacco, she
opened a door, and its black woodwork
framed a panel of night sky, clear blue-
green, thick with, stars.
“I don’t know what’s the matter with this
bread,” Mollie remarked when her bread
would not rise during the cold weather.
“The last lot of hops we got off of old
Ben was real bad,” Hugh comforted her.
“Mrs. Bessie used to put rice water in
her yeast, or the water she’d boiled potatoes
in,” Saul remarked, sitting on a straight-
backed chair, hunched over his knees and
staring into the fire. “She used to put the
sponge in a blue billy on the end of the
mantelpiece here, this time of the year,
Missus. It’s parky just now, though ordi-
narily she would just leave it on the comer
of the table like you do.”
“Oh well, I don’t suppose bread could be
expected to rise if I didn’t make it just
the same as Mrs. Bessie,” Mollie exclaimed
tartly. She put the sponge in a big blue
billy on the end of the mantelpiece, and
went to the dresser for her basket of sewing.
“Where’s the teams now, Mr. Hardy?” she
asked.
“Been near three months on the road,”
Saul meditated. “I’ve known ’em sixteen
weeks cornin’ from Karrara.”
“No wonder Ben Alsop says loading for
Wytaliba don’t pay.” Mollie settled herself
before the fire to sew.
“At ten pounds a ton”- - Hugh mur-
mured, his chair tipped, legs stretched and
heels on the bricked sides of the range.
“Camels bogged down by Five Rivers, I
suppose,” Saul went on. “They was stuck
there for two weeks once. Cock-eyed Bob
was camel-punchin’ with Ben then. Ben
cleared off to the pub and left Bob with
the camels. You should’ve heard Bob curse
when he was tellin’ about it. But he pulled
the waggon out of the river and on to the
road again.”
There was nothing Hugh liked better
than to get the old man yarning as they sat
beside the fire in the kitchen, and a keen
wind, blowing over the plains, thrust its
way under the doors and up through the
flooring boards.
“Ever have any trouble with the natives
—out here, Saul?” he asked once.
Saul shook his head and smiled into the
fire. “Mind, I don’t say I didn’t get one
or two scares.” His eyes glittered in the
firelight and he smoked as the memories
stirred. “Was lookin’ for stray cattle up in
the To-morrow soon after I settled here.
Had gone out with old Bandogera’s man,
Stinker. We separated, followin’ tracks,
and I managed to get slewed. Camped for
the night, made a fire and was boiling me
quart when I looked up—and there was a
mob of niggers all round me.”
“Goodness!” Mollie glanced aside from
her sewing.
“They had spears enough to sink a ship,”
Saul said. “Where them blacks come from
Gord knows, though Stinker’d been a bit
nervous and scary the day before. I’d
hobbled me horse out, and they could have
made a pincushion of me any moment they
liked. There was nothing to do. I didn’t
even have a gun. Why I don’t know—
except that I thought I knew the country
and the people. But these were strangers.
I w r ongied [talked to] ’em a bit, and shared
out me tucker—though there wasn’t much
of it. Then I sat down by the fire and went
on eating as if they weren’t there. They
watched for a bit—then lit out. When
I lay down by me camp-fire I never
expected to leave it alive. But, Gord,
I was that sleepy I dozed off. And that was
the last I see of ’em—till next pink-eye here
on Wytaliba. Caught me horse in the morn-
ing and rode off. They were Pedongs, it
seems, some of Bandogera’s people.”
“You were so helpless they didn’t think
you were worth bothering about, I sup-
pose,” Hugh commented.
“The blacks are like that, I reck’n,” Saul
agreed. “They never kill for sport—only
for food or vengeance. I’ve always treated
’em fair and honest, let their women alone
and never had an}' trouble with ’em.”
“You don’t know when you may be reap-
ing some other man’s vengeance,” Hugh
observed. “That’s the worst of it. Though
if you get a reputation for square-dealing
yourself, you’ll be all right, Mum used to
say.”
“That’s right.” Saul moved to his memo-
ries. “And the blacks has plenty of rea-
sons for vengeance, Youie! Thirty years
I’ve been in this country, and there’s things
I’ve seen no black ever did to a white
man what white men have done to the
blacks.”
Mollie wrinkled her forehead. She was
impatient of the way Saul went on talking,
laying down the law. Coming from one of
the coastal towns, she had acquired the be-
lief that it was a divine right of white men
to ride roughshod over anything aboriginal
which stood in their way.
“But, Mr. Hardy,” she said, “the abos.
are filthy and treacherous. I thought you
had no time for them.”
Saul looked at her. Words formed to
contradict her flatly; but he w r as timorous
of getting to holts with a woman, more
particularly this one. He watched curi-
ously the obstinate little “mug” Mollie
had drawn her face into. He was no sen-
timentalist, old Saul; a shrewd, hard-doer
he had always been; but something of dis-
may struck him at the make-up of the
little woman sitting there stitching with
quick, steady flashes of needie and forearm.
Hugh stared at Mollie, too. He did not
know why she had interrupted. She knew
nothing about the blacks, really. She had
wished to assert herself, he decided. She
often spoke like that, quite irrelevantly
and off the subject, in a way which made
you hopeless of reaching her mind and
combating what she had said.
“No, girl,” he said quietly. “They’re not
treacherous—except when they’ve been
treacherously dealt with. And filthy? You
never saw a wild black look as dirty as
a native about the towns. And, cripes,
when Coonardoo’s done up Warieda’s white
moles you’d hardly call him filthy, would
you?” _ . T a >+
“But you’re quite right, missus. 1 cion t
like ’em, and never did,” Saul put
to save Mollie any discomfiture. I don t
know why. It’s just being different, I sup-
pose. All the same, you can’t help seem
when a thing’s as plain as the nose on your
face. You can’t help seein’ the blacks
point of view. White men came, jumped
their hunting-grounds, went kangaroo-
shooting for fun. The blacks speared cattie.
White men got shootin’ blacks to learn
’m; blacks speared a white man or two
police rode out on a punishin’ expedition.
They still ride out on punishin’ expeditions.
“Didn’t police in the coastal towns get
Is. 6d. a head for abos. the}' brought in?”
Hugh asked.
“Reduced to a shilling after a bit,” Saul
replied. “The police was makin’ a good
thing out of ‘punitive expeditions.’ Used
to bring the niggers in, in chains, leather
straps round the neck, fastened to their
stirrup-irons. Twenty or thirty like that,
and I’ve seen the soles of a boy’s feet raw
when he came in. Never spent eighteen-
pence a nob on ’em either. Police’d let one
or two men hunt for the rest—‘bring in kan-
garoo.’ And there was black-birding, too. I’ve
seen blacks brought in, in chains, for the
pearlers’ crews. Only on a certain part
of the coast, though. One crew of Swan
Point boys that a pearler I knew black-
birded, was so dangerous he had to drive
’em overboard when he got to sea—he and
his mate, with loaded guns behind the
nigs.”
Sometimes Mollie sat and sewed before
the range when Hugh and Saul were yarn-
ing, or moved their chairs up to the table
for a game of cards. As often as not,
though, she went to bed as soon as Hugh
took the pack of cards from a corner of
the kitchen mantelpiece. She wished she
could enjoy herself as thoroughly as they
did, turning over a greasy pack.
The teams had been sixteen weeks on
the road when they reached the homestead
that first year Mollie was on Wytaliba, and
it was Ben who carried word to Milli-Milli,
Illigoogee and Roebourne that Hugh Watt’s
missus was a “pepper-pot, by God!”
Hugh had got up in the night when the
camels went prowling round the house with
their bells on, and the missus could not
sleep.
“If you don’t take the bells off of those
blasted camels, Ben,” he roared, “I’ll cut
their throats.”
But there was a reason for the fractious-
ness and uncertain temper of Hugh’s good
lady, Ben intimated up-country and round
about. She would be going down to Gerald-
ton before the hot weather set in.
(To be continued.)


m
m
m
,Ck,
vs
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured t<3' suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— itOLJllss a> (JHIKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ETHER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 22S
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus"
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,"
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24:} inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16* pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L, WILSON, 228 Pitt Street', Sydney.
Telephone "MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
QUEENSLAND'S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
•Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen , Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Everv
Wednesday
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates «nd
other particulars, please apply to: —
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone 81522.
CONSTIPATION
Worth a
Guinea a Box .
When you’re “feeling fit” and “in the pink” you will have
noticed perhaps that your skin is free from all unsightly
blotches and pimples, and your eyes are bright and clear.
Dull eyes and discoloured complexion, betray bad health.
They tell others that you are constipated. Now con-
stipation is one of the evils of civilisation and is the source
of many ills from which you suffer. From it arise headaches,
biliousness, indigestion and if neglected, will probably lead to
much more serious trouble.
The finest thing you can do is to take Beecham’s Pills—the
favourite corrective medicine for these troubles. Purely veget-
able—they never fail to do what
they are asked, and bring back the
sparkle of health.
Start to-day—taking the pills as
directed. You will quickly feel the
benefits.
Beecham's are the Pills that
conquer Constipation—they
are the remedy for Stomach
disorders and sluggish liver
—they relieve Headache,
Biliousness, Dyspepsia,
Flatulence and Indigestion.
[REMOVE
THE
CAUSE
'he
PLUM
RAZOR
made in
H
The morning shave is never a trial if you use a PLUM,
the razor that shaves close, clean and sweetly smooth,
no matter how wiry your beard, however tender your
skin.
Black Vulcanite Handle . . 12/6 eacli.
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle .. .. 21/-
Satin-lined Double Case free with pair of razors.
Seven Day PLUM Razor Sets:
Black 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory 140/-
per set of 7 Razors.
Rach razor set ready for use and guaranteed and keDt
in order for two years free of charge.
PLUM Razors are supplied in two widths; gin. and gin.
—Post-paid Prices
Razor Strops, ready for use, 10/6, 12/6, 15/3
each. Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST SYDNEY
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. The most sheltered soo* the
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine e
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds an ;«• • .v . a& i
Winter Tariff from 4£ t
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons, A
Delightful Zo-minutes* trip from City by Fer
P. KESRI v N; • I.
ẁ
.9
.**’


TO MAKE A GOOD AUSTRALIAN FENCE
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed Even, Reliable and Regular. Well
Galvanised, Full Weight and runs out Straight and Flat.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA TO SUIT AUSTRALIAN CONDITIONS
FROM “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL.
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS
BILLETS
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
TIE PLATES
BEAMS
CLUTCH BAR
CHANNELS
ANGLES
ROUNDS
TEES
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
ẃ
IRON
and
STEEL
PRODUCTS
(Continued)
SQUARES
FLATS
OCTAGONS
REINFORCING
BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR
TOLUOL
SLAG
SOLVENT
NAPHTHA
NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
Produced at
Newcastle
Steel Works.
THE CELEBRATED “8.H.P.” NEWCASTLE STEEL
is used in the production of
FENCING WIRE
nest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world. Will stand the severest straining test—always
even and reliable in Quality.
“WARATAH 8.H.P.” STAR-SHAPED STEEL FENCE POSTS
1 hese posts mark an entirely new development in steel fencing. They are extraordinarily rigid— -are fireproof and weather-resistant. They obtain a good
hold in either hard or soft soil. Made in sft. and sft. 6in. lengths, (Special lengths can be supplied.)
WHEN BUYING, ALWAYS ASK FOR “WARATAH” BRAND
Every coil carries the “Waratah” identification disc.
