

VTie 'Ruling Preference
19
\ wt
m
:i : :h
m
-'/
S&2M. !
m
wmm
k l#
• •
vm
•>
W
2
0
<w
J ,4..' *- 1
gPPg *
h||Hk^
! V1
.
rc*
s«°
“ - .
•fw*
»JR
[ l ‘»mte3t€Ci ,,i^ t *
\t*
cfc°
&orqs
IV
(gold label)
The Bulletin
ln Pcc^t
Vol. 49.—N0. 2543.
Wednesday, November 7, 1928.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Rejected by the Editor—Why^
Helpful Criticism and Practical Advice.
SHORT STORY WRITING.
Write to
METROPOLITAN BUSINESS COLLEGE,
338 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
1 1928 is now ready, and will be for-
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story Writmq
This BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
SIOTPS Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
LYSAGHT
R
D
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported
Right - T
fora Lifetimes
Writing
A 8/
X
TOOO
o
z.
&
IS.
V
u
m
i
IIIUWII |)
Wv '
1
A PPRECIATION of a
“ Swan ” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
years of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. For the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
Choose it now—use it a lifetime
‘W
A useful companion to the
“SWAN" pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
no sharpening,and is useful
for presentation purposes.
Price* from
7/6
Swan Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.l.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service DepSti
PHIPSON Sc CdMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Swan” Pens “ Blackbird” Pens, " Swan ” Ink and
Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
wn\
«•
- •*
’mmm
vrn
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
KILLS FLIES
m
m
<**
&
4L*
The Red Page
"The Bulletin” Novel Competition
The prizes, for the second Bulletin
Novel Competition, for which entries will
be received up till December 31, 1929,
have been fixed at
First £4OO
Second £250
Third £lOO
Apart from the fact that serial merit will
be considered in judging the novels, the
conditions do not differ from those of the
first competition.
A novel which goes beyond 100,000 words
is not suitable for serial publication; some-
thing around 80,000 words has been found
most suitable.
The prize stories are to be available for
publication serially; but apart' from that
the copyright of every story will be re-
served to the writer, to whom all profits
on the publication of the story in book
form will belong. Cinema and dramatic
rights also will belong absolutely to the
writer. Competitors must be Australian-
born or bona fide resident in Australia.
(Australia, for the purposes of this para-
graph, includes New Zealand and the
Southern Pacific.)
Members of The Bulletin and Woman’s
Mirror staffs will not be eligible to com-
pete.
Every story for competition must be sub-
mitted under a nom de plume; and the
name and address of the writer, with the
nom de plume, must accompany it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published.
No restriction has been placed upon the
location or style of novels. While typed
MSS. would be preferred, no objection will
be taken to MSS. written clearly and legibly.
If stamps are enclosed MSS. that do
not gain a place will be returned to their
authors promptly after the decision is
made.
Competitors whose entries do not gain a
prize, but whose work is considered suit-
able for serial publication in The Bulle-
tin or Woman’s Mirror, will be notified to
that effect. But no entries will be retained
for that purpose without the permission of
the author. Competitors will be permitted
to withdraw entries before the closing date
if they so desire.
The Bulletin will be pleased to supply
any further information upon request.
"Maurice Guest”
In a very illuminating monograph on the
future of the novel, John Carruthers singles
out a few indubitable masterpieces of the
older generation of novelists—“ The Egoist,”'
“The Return of the Native,” “Nostromo,”
“The Man of Property” and “Maurice
Guest.” Even the average reader would
find it a soft snap to name the authors of
the first four of these novels. But what
about “Maurice Guest”? And the author
of “Maurice Guest”? You will not find
the name of Henry Handel Richardson in
the columns of literary gossip, or staring
at you from the suburban bookshop window.
“Maurice Guest” is the sort of book that
has to wait a long while for its public.
First printed 20 years ago, it was given
no particular attention by the English
reviews, although a handful of people re-
ceived it with enthusiasm. That handful
mainly consisted of writers who were inter-
ested in their art, and the fame of “Maurice
Guest” was passed along by word of mouth.
I have never come across articles about it
in English (with the exception of a note
on the Red Page) till Robert Hichens wrote
about it recently, though it has stimulated
Continental reviewers to long and exhaust-
ive criticism. _ What has kept it alive has
been the passionate admiration it has won
for itself among writers, and its influence
has been out of all proportion to its sales.
It may be said [writes Hugh Walpole, in an intro
auction to the last edition] that with the certain
exception of the books of Mr. E. M. Forster, and ihe
possiWe exception of Miss Dorothy Richardson’s
Miriam, there has been no work by a modern Eng-
lish novelist that has so deeply and persistently influ-
enced the writing of the younger generation.
All this would seem to imply that “Maurice
Guest” is a writer’s novel, chiefly interest-
ing for its technique and lacking in popular
appeal. But no! On the surface there
appears no reason why it should not have
at least as wide a public as “The Constant
Nymph,” a book that seems to have been
directly inspired by it, in treatment and
subject-matter. “Maurice Guest,” unlike
some of Henry Handel Richardson’s other
work, is intensely dramatic. It has an
absorbing story—a love-story, in fact.
Nothing could be more exciting than the
way interest is worked up in. Louise before
her “entry”—an entry postponed until
nearly a hundred pages have been passed.
It stimulates the imagination of the reader
so that he shares all the expectations that
have been aroused in the heart of the young
pianist, Maurice Guest. And the story-
telling faculty, that indefinable narrative
power that fuses events and carries even a
reluctant attention along, is evident on
every page. The question of what will
happen next is continually clamoring at
the doors of the mind. Will Louise, now
that Schilsky has left her, surrender to
Maurice Guest? Can he manage to hold
her? Will this absorbing infatuation for
her, that destroys his musical ambitions,
last when he learns the whole sordid truth
of her relations with other men? No;
there is emphatically no lack of popular
appeal in the story.
What has probably made the average
reader shy off the book (though there is no
real importance in the question) is the
severely classical treatment that makes the
whole work stand out like sculpture at the
end. There are no concessions to senti-
ment; no mitigations of the tragedy. The
truth is told about Louise, about Schilsky,
about Maurice Guest himself, as it very
rarely is told in English fiction. In the
restraint of the method there is a hint of
Flaubert. “Both Flaubert and Henry Handel
Richardson,” says Hichens, “have succeeded
in somehow raising the incompetent, the
ordinary, the totally undistinguished, into
high tragedy.” Though Louise moved
through the sophisticated musical life of
Leipzig, and Emma Bovary among the
rather stolid bourgeoisie of a French pro-
vincial town, there are likenesses between
the two women. Both were romantic, both
a little exotic, and their figures gain vitality
from being seen through the plain, trans-
parent glass of a pure style.
Now that “Maurice Guest” is being recog-
nised as a masterpiece, we may as well
claim it as an Australian masterpiece.
Louise herself was an Australian, like her
creator, and this was part of the spell she
wove around Maurice Guest:—
On hearing the name of this distant land, on Nvhich
he would probably never set foot, a sense of deso-
lation overcame him. He realised again, with a
pang, what an utter stranger he was to her: of her
past life, her home, her country, he could know
nothing.
Not any more, in fact, than Australians
know of the work of Henry Handel Richard-
son, though it is one of our few claims to
literary distinction. The first volume of
“The Fortune's of Richard Mahony,” her
third novel, came out during the war, so
there was some excuse for the general
silence in which it was received, in spite
of its epic treatment of the early days Of
Ballarat. But the succeeding volume, “The
Way Home,” was received in a like silence,
and to this day I don’t believe 20 copies
have been sold in Australia. Whose fault
is it? The reviewers’? The public’s? It
is hard to say. Anyhow, the trilogy is to be
completed at the end of this lty a
third volume, and its reception will prob-
ably decide whether Henry Handel Richard-
son will continue to write of her own
country. In the absolute sense that may
not matter, perhaps; literature is literature,
wherever its setting may be. In the immedi-
ate sense it matters tremendously. We have
not so many revealing pictures of our life
that we can treat with indifference the idea
of such an important writer turning to other
fields.
VANCE PALMER.
Henry Lawson and Bret Harte
In the review of "The Australian Bush”
(It.P. 19/9/’2B) exception was taken, and
rightly so, to the habit of labelling Henry
Lawson "the Bret Harte of Australia.” He
himself, in his “Australian Bards and Bush
Reviewers,” complained of being ticketed
"the young Australian Burns,” and threw
the brick of objurgation at the dragging
in of B. Harte, which became common at
an early stage of his career. It seems a
local habit; I can’t remember that the
Americans ever tried to classify a good,
bad or indifferent bard by ticketing him the
Alfred Tennyson of the U.S.
The comparison of the men seems con-
spicuously inappropriate in many ways,
and two may be mentioned. Bret Harte,
when 15 years of age, went to California,
a land with a picturesque Spanish history
dating back some 300 years, and a sketchy
aboriginal history before that, and a Mexi-
can and post-Mexican history after that,
and a store of monkish and other traditions.
To a considerable extent he belonged to
the past, hence his verses about the miracu-
lous arsenic spring of San Joaquin, and
about how the arrival of the good ship
San Gregorio at Acapulco Bay was delayed
(Continued on patje 5.)


"Truth in Advertising ” is your assurance and our guarantee of satisfaction.
Anthony Horderns:
for all your
FISHING TACKLE
è
yellow
color.
perch and frog
(YT 769)
5/-
YT 7 74.—Aeroplane Spinners
for Cod.
Size of Treble Hook-
is long. (YT
784)
5/-
long. Weight 5-Bth ounce,
tates a live fish in action.
Color, pike scale
6/-
Aluminium Bronzed Trout Reel.
(YT 662).
3in. . . . 25/6 . . .
Aluminium Trout Reel.
2fin
Farlow’s Semi-silent Trout
3 in
37/6
22/6
Reel.
57/6
Write for a Copy of our Fishing
Guide. It contains many useful
helps for the ardent fisherman.
Post Free on Request.
Fishing' Lines.
Genuine Mikado Gut Lines—
Nos.
40yd
80yd
I 00yd
Nos.
40yd.
80yd
100 yd.
Geisha Gut Lines-
-2
40yd. . . -/8
80yd. .. 1/4
Gut Lines should be soaked in cold water before
winding on cork or reel, as they are likely to kink and
crack. On no account must hot water be used.
The Blue Ribbon Bait-Casting Line (YT 723). Made
of very high quality selected silk, especially prepared
for this particular line. A square, solid braid line
made upon a peculiar braiding machine that gives
special construction. Put up on 30yd. black enamelled
spools, two connected. A mottled line in a pleasing
pattern.
6
Size
Dry Test
Per 100yds.
12
12/6
5
15
14/-
4
201 b.
16/-
Saline Enamelled Silk Fly Lines. The most popular
fly line ever mode. A solid braid line made of tHe
very highest-quality Silk, in a very popular medium-
dark pattern. The finish upon this line is a novelty
in enamels, and the process by which the finish is
obtained is protected by Letters Patent, and is the
result of several years of research and experiment.
Put up in 25yd. coils, 4 connected /v/nr 111 '
H.
14
2O-
/
Dry Test
Per l 00yd
(YT 722.)
G. F.
18 24!b.
22/- 26/-
“Kingfisher De Luxe” flexible enamelled Silk Level
Trout Lines. Color, light olive mist.
This is the last word in enamel lines. The enamel
is exceptionally smooth, pliable and durable. -ts
great durability, smoothness of finish, beautiful casting
qualities and wonderful suppleness make it the most
perfect of all heavy enamel lines. Put up 2 5 yds. in
a coil, 4 conected—l 00yds. in a box. (YT 7 l 5.)
Size H. G. F.
Dry Test 1 2 15 201 b.
Per 100yds 24/- 26/- 30/-
Farlow’s “Fosseline,” for Dry Flies 4/- btle.
Farlow’s Tapered, Invisible Gut Casts. 3yds. . . 2/9
Red Loop Gut Casts, tapered. 3yds 2/3
Cane Fly Rod.
Winchester Split Cane Fly Rod, 9ft., 3 joints, extra
case.
top Cork Grip,
(YT 622)
with
bamboo top
95/-
YT 74
12 G. Belgian D.B. Breech-loading Gun, with Quad-
ruple Webley-Greener bolt, best rebounding bar,
action locks, best quality steel barrels, reinforced
chamber, choke, matted rib, full scroll fence, neat
English engraving, fine walnut stock checkered.
patent fore-end, nitro-pvoofed.
(YT 74)
£6/101
Carriage not Paid on these Goods.
tftJNK
CUTTY
&
E 53
Donegal Genuine Cutty-hunk
Line, made from finest Irish
Linen Thread. 100 yd. spools.
(YT 706).
Akron Quadruple Multiplying
Level Winding Reel. A very
popular light-weight Reel, built
for wear, and has ample
line capacity. (Y 1 674)
30/-
French Creels (YT 848),
14/-; 1 7in., 20/-; 19in., 25/-
Creel Straps . 2/9
Hunting Knives.
Hunting Knives, made of finest
Sheffield Steel, heavy blade
adapted to sticking and skinning,
in leather sheath. (YT
436). 6in
»/-
YT 441.—The “Teddy” Stainless
Hunting Knife is built for real
service. It is sturdy, efficient
and rustless. The keen, hard-
tempered, substantial blade, mea-
suring 4f in. in length, makes
quick work of underbrush or the
toughest job of skinning. A
knife every hunter and out-door
man may well be proud
to own. Price
10/6
Trout Rods.
Farlow’s Blagdon Split Cane
Trout Rod, lift., 2 joints, cork
grip; weight about Bjjoz. Al-
though light, this rod is power-
ful and well PfAlflAi
balanced XIUJIV/-
Farlow’s Paris Tournament Split
Cane Trout Rod, 9 Jft., 2 joints,
cork grip, weight about
6oz
£9
We believe this to be the most
powerful 6oz. rod made.
American Split Cane Bait-Cast-
ing Rods, sft., 2 joints, with
finger hook for overhead cast-
ing, and Cork Grip
superior finish
13/-
Star Brand Pure Enamelled Silk
Lines. (YT 721.) A solid braid
Line made of No. I Japan Silk.
Color, Mottled Green. Put up in
25yd. coils. 4 conected.
Size G. F.
Dry Test 14 18
Per 100yds. 19/- 24/-
Use Our “D.P.S.”
(Deposit-Purchase System.)
Simply leave a small deposit,
pay the balance in instalments
to suit yourself. There is no
extra charge whatever.
Anthony Horderns 1
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal A c/dress
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


é
BROADLY speaking, the measure of any
I man's success is the size of the public
behind him.
He grows as his public grows—as his acts
are approved in increasing volume bv an
increasing public.
These few words tell almost all there is to
the Chrysler story—or give, at any rate, the
root-reason why Chrysler looms large on
the motor car horizon. Chrysler is present-
ing at this moment a group of cars sparkling
and shining with newness of performance
and appearance—cars which have again
captivated their public.
These brilliant new Chrysler cars have been
in process of creation for two years—they
will exert their influence upon the design of
all other motor cars for several years to come.
Chrysler has never halted or
hesitated, because Chrysler is free
and has no obligations to anyone
ê
but its own public-no limit except the
limit of its own creative powers, its own
energy and enthusiasm, its own faith in the
boundless resources of the nation*
Chrysler quite frankly confesses its inten-
tion to try to surpass other cars and other
manufacturers—quite frankly admits an en-
thusiastic ambition for continued leadership
in value giving—quite frankly intends to
leave nothing undone to earn and deserve
and hold the greatest motor car public in
all the world.
This, it seems to the Chrysler management,
is the urgent need of every manufacturing
institution which aspires to satisfy a swift-
moving public— to realise that it does move,
that yesterday is dead, that laurels wither,
that today is gloriously alive, that
tomorrow calls clamourously for
greater and greater endeavour.
K c W . A T U f\f ND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
gsSSSSSaSaasaa-
wttAust °m\l Koid Au Mot 7\ UL ' Flinders Sireet > AdeUid,.
Z. ■ Aus* Wdltam Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street Perth
Tas : LhUubutors Pty Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart. ‘
N.Z.. Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assislsnce to
Travellers.
ë
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON .
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildirf
(Next G.P.O.)*
bv unforeseen circumstances for four cen-
turies, though hope still remained. Law-
son wrote mostly of a raw land with no
past old enough to be worth counting.
Again. Bret Harte always gave me the
impression that he loved both the peop e
and the land of the West. When Lawson
wrote of the Bush lie seemed to love the
people (though those he depicted were
often under the influence of drink) but he
leaves the conviction that lie hated the
country with a robust hatred, and that it
didn’t “put its magic upon him so that lie
would love it.” Here are a few samples:—
Through Death and Trouble, turn about,
Through hopeless desolation,
Through flood and fever, fire and drought,
And slavery and starvation.
Th ' crops have withered from the ground.
The tank’s clay bed is glarin’,
But from my heart no tear nor sound,
For I have got past carin’.
The skies are brass and the plains ate bate,
Death and ruin are everywhere—
And all that is left of the last years flood
Is a sickly stream on the grey-black mud,
The salt springs bubble and quagmires quiver,
And —this is the song of the Darling River.
On the runs to the west of the Dingo Scrub there
was drought and ruin and death,
And the sandstorm came from the dread north-east
with the blast of a furnace breath.
No sign that green grass ever grew in scrubs that
blazed beneath the sun,
The plains were dust in Ninety-two and hard as bricks
in Ninety-one.
On glaring iron roofs of Bourke the scorching,
blinding sandstorms blew,
No hint of beauty lingered there in Ninety-one and
Ninety-two.
A dusty clearing in the scrubs of barren western
lands,
Here out of sight or sign of hope the wretched
schoolhouse stands ;
A roof that glares at glaring days, a bare unshaded
wall,
A fence that guards no blade of green. A duststorm
over all.
“Sunny plains!” Great Scott, these burning wastes
of barren soil and sand.
With their everlasting fences stretching out across
the land.
Desolation where the crow is; desert where the
eagle flies;
Paddocks where the luny bullock starts and stares
with reddened eyes.
Henry Lawson was an Australian, and
never owned a motor-car. He travelled at
leisure by wheeled or meat vehicle, or afoot,
and saw the land, perhaps in a too-pessi-
mistic spirit. The balance of his evidence
is that it is a place ugly, blistered, hateful
and accursed. Yet the legend persists that
Lawson was a sturdy admirer of the Bush!
But then it is quite likely that many of his
enthusiastic disciples never read him now,
and never did read him, though they may
have skimmed him once, or known some-
one who did.
J.E.
Australian Short Stories
In making the book Australian Short
Stories (Dent) George Mackaness under-
took a great and very difficult task—great,
because, except for “The Bulletin Story
Book,” no other effort had been made to
gather together a representative collection
of our short stories; difficult, because he
attempted to gather the best stories ever writ-
ten in Australia, and because many of those
best had never appeared in book form. It
would need years of careful reading, of pains-
taking sifting and weighing to resurrect
all that a book which aims so high should
contain—the best, and nothing but the best.
Evidence is slightly lacking that Mr. Mack-
aness has bent for those years over his
crucible. For example, the two selections
from Hermes and the light anecdote called
“The Parson’s Blackboy” are three at least
which are'not so good that they could not
have been bettered. But those who might
be staggered by such inclusions might
remember all that this editor attempted
and give him credit for having done re-
markably well.
Several broad general features stand out
in the book, as boldly as Cape York stands
out on the paper jacket: (1) The fact
that with only a few exceptions ail the
stories might have been written, say, 30
years ago; (2) the number that in a strict
reading of the term are not short stories;
(3) the many concerned with primitive feel-
ings or actions. The first is important,
because most of the stories were written
within the last 30 years; which means (and
this does not apply to this book only) that
Australian writings have as yet scarcely
been touched by the influence of what is
called the modernist movement. With pain-
ful examples of that modernism in mind
the first impulse might be to throw up the
general hat. A second thought restrains
with the doubt whether modernism, for all
its horrors and eccentricities, may not be
an essential to advance. If it is, Australia,
in so far as it lags behind the modernist
movement, lags behind literature, and will
be only beginning to be modernist when
the rest of the literary world is emerging
from this period of transition. On the other
hand, if modernism is unimportant, as so
many so-called “movements” have been;
if it is merely a gold brick urged upon the
world by a clever crowd of literary confi-
dence men; if there is permanence in all
clean, downright lucid English, then Aus-
tralia is acting very sensibly in keeping its
hands tightly in its literary pockets. But
there are two sides to the question.
The fact that some of these selections are
not short stories is less important. That
applies almost invariably to all books put
forward as collections of this kind of fiction.
It raises the question what constitutes a
short story. Is plot essential, or is it
enough merely to tell a tale? For example,
is « Pretty Dick,” by Marcus Clarke, a
short story? Is Lawson’s “The Drovers
Wife ” a short story? Or Mary Simpson s
»g anta Cl aus”? That these are all good
writing fe not questioned (there is nothing
, Drover’s Wife” in the
than
Bedford > s “Fourteen Fathoms by Quetta
Rock” Albert Dorrington’s “Castro’s Last
Sacrament/’ 6 * Prichard’s “The
Coobo -„ M Morris ’ s “One Little Life,”
Pa i me r’s “The Birthday” are
Rtones? TheS e, and some others, positively
stories-not parables, nor character
studies, nor sketches, nor fragments. And
of them the “Fourteen Fathoms” and “The
Cooboo” soar into the world’s-great cla^s
Perhaps the third outstanding feature tnat
h as been mentioned is curious more than
anything else. But violent physical action
and dea th are remarkably prevalent. 15
R merely that this is an easy sort of plot
to work, or is there a deeper significance
sav, an utterance of the primitive by a
primitive people? It must not be under-
stood, however, that these stories file
gloomy, depressing. They are not. Many
of them are quite hopeful, a few are
broadly funny, and, but for one or two, all
• are entertaining and satisfying.
T h e value of the volume for the Aus-
tralian library shelf is greatly enhanced by
brief biographical and bibliographical
which precedes each story. The book
merits a place on that shell.
A Satchel of Books
The Little Old Man, by B. J. Roberts
(Lothian). Graded exercises in phonics,
issued in booklet form in conjunction with
the Victorian Education Department, and
including a simple little story with pictures
that can be colored by the small reader.
How easy and pleasant the educationists do
make the child’s side of the job in these
maligned days!
Out of a Clear Sky and A Rover I Would
Be, by E. V. Lucas (Methuen). The chief
troubie with Mr. Lucas is that he would
also be an essayist, but has precious little
to say—little, anyway, that he has not
already said dozens of times. Perhaps more
books hold his name than hold the name even
of Edgar Wallace, The parallel cuts another
way: Mr. Lucas is about as good an essayist
as Mr. Wallace is a novelist, and, to those
who like such light fare, about as enter-
taining.
Prefaces and Introductions, by Anatole
France (Bedley Head). Exactly what the
title says, except that all of them were pro-
bably not by France, but by that ghost he
employed at times, Madame de Caillavet.
Over the pen-name of “Gerome,” which
France used himself, she carried out many
of his lesser commissions. France, however,
is responsible for the tine “Essay, on French
Poetry,” the most important thing in this
volume.
Everyman’s Library (Dent). In 22 years
25,000,000 books have been issued by Dent’s
in this library, which now sells in Australia
at 2s. 6d., a sum that once bought three
of its volumes. In that time no alteration
had been made in the get-up of the books
until a month ago, when the gilt design
which over-generousi'y covered the back of
each book was removed and a smaller one
substituted. There is still room for improve-
ment in the appearance of the books, but
what has been done deserves mycli praise;
the title and design now look well on every
color except yellow, whereon both are still
about as conspicuous as a sparrow’s second
toe in a duststorm. The first ten volumes to
appear in the new form (bringing the total
of works represented up to 822) are “Sense
and Nonsense” (an anthology), Ernest
Rhys ; “The Plain Speaker,” Hazlitt:
“Grace Abounding” and “The Life and
Death of Mr. Badman” (one vol.), Bunyan :
“Marriage,” Susan Ferrier; “Jorrock’s
Jaunts and Jollities,” Robert Smith Surtees;
“Eighteenth-Century Plays”; “Rubaiyat”
and “Six Plays of Calderon” (one vol.),
Fitzgerald; “Tour Through England and
Wales” (two vols.), Defoe; “More Fairy
Tales.” Hans Andersen.
Blake’s Innocence and Experience, by
Joseph 11. Wicksteed (Dent). To say that
this is a book that the student of Blake
cannot afford to miss is to say much, but
even that is not quite enough. It is a book
of price to anyone who takes a real interest
in poetry. It is a key, a new and sym-
pathetically made key, to the work of that
odd genius who, so it is recorded somewhere,
once called his wife urgently to bring him
pencil and paper because he had seen the
Devil through the window and wanted to
sketch him. If a key may be said to have
a keynote, the keynote of this is that
Blake’s is actually such modern poetry that
a full century had to pass after his death
before the world was sufficiently advanced
to understand some of it. Mr Wicksteed is
the long overdue interpreter. He inquires
closely and fully into Blake’s life and works;
sets up the original plates (some of them
in color) of “'Songs of Innocence” and
“Songs of Experience,” with the printed
text beside each plate and with a careful
study of each poem and its inseparable
illustration as distinct pieces of symbolism
and as parts of a symbolic whole; and he also
sets up several Blake manuscripts, not, as
has been done by sundry materialists, to
prove that the poet must have been mad,
but rather by way of helping to prove his
tremendous sanity. Incidentally, while of
course admitting that Blake found married
life unsatisfactory for a while, he makes a
very sound reply to the Australian Jack
Lindsay’s not-altogether uncharacteristic
discovery + hat Blake was actually unfaith-
ful to the vows against which he kicked
so savagely. Blake is not an “easy” poet,
except to those who are content to take
all of him at surface value, as they may
rightly take his perfect lyric “The Piper.”
But those who would have his beauty entire,
who would have the “gold and silver of his
speech deliver their message from his sub-
terranean depths,” must go below the slight
and often trite surface appearances, and to
«nch readers Mr. Wicksteed’s fine book can
be commended without a qualm.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted j and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N.G.: No tlirone for your Scotch Musso-
lini.... C. McE.: That anchor doesn’t hold W.C.:
Black tragedy blotted out... .W.H.R.: Pickled onions
not on the menu.... R.W.T.: Psycho-analysis of
dog filed... .W.M.8.: Pitiful incident, but scarcely
a storj.. .'.R.G.P.': Doesn’t quite clear the hurdle.
R.C.H.: Can’t carry the baby J.M.: Not even
with the polish N.A.R.: Too many flies on your
diary D.D.M.: You too ! Jock: All bad, though •
some are worse than others... .Z.V.W.: The closing
couplet would kill an epic. ... W.D.: Lacks interest.
. ...L.C.: Cheerful, if nothing else... .P.J.8.: Like
most fantasies, an excuse for saying nothing preci-
ously... ,R.C.: “A Tragedy Averted” only because
you live so far away Dudley F.: Your first syllable
describes it M.C.: Spirit delightful; verse
frightful H.C.: Verse exactly 112 lines too long.
E.F.: Doesn’t want renovation. What it needs is
demolition F.H.: Your “gentile murmuring” is
a world-beater in its class.... .J.M.S.: We’ve read
worse; but that’s not flattery Kowsara: Another
“Sure Thing” beaten by weight. .. .J.D.: Bad
rhymes may be tolerated in good verse; they merely
make the other sort worse H.S.: Remarks about
Tolstoy have to be startlingly original at this stage to
get a hearing Claude M.: Article on same subject
in type... .L. 0.: You don’t “add to the debate”;
you repeat some of it.... Pro Patria: The “None
Better” of your letterhead ad. cannot be written
against your verse... .S.L.A.C.: Do you live at a
morgue?... .A.A.: The “organ weird and loud” we
know; we’ve heard it at a picture show E.V.:
Afraid we’d have guessed your age, anyway
Rose C.: You might do worse, but we’re not opti-
mistic about it R.A.G.: The only message your
verse carries is that you badly need a new type-
writer-ribbon G.E.8.: Artificial sonnet E.B.W. •
“Passing Ships” supplied with lid. pilot
C.A.: “Fort Denison” fired... .J.P.11.: Five stanzas
that need six notes to explain them! Try them on
a Browning Society... .G.D.S.: Your “Billycan”
smells strongly of lamp-0i1... .L.R.W.: Commend-
ably brief, thought considerably empty J.W.:
Now I wonder, oh I wonder, will I ever see again
The flowing belt of timber and my hut upon the
plain ?
Not if you send us much more verse like that....
Arthur P.: “The Round” is about as musical as a
barrage Wifid: We wouldn’t risk the price of an
acid drop on your dinkum 0i1....J.P.: Knocked out
in the second round.... Jay Aitch: “Confession”
read. Don’t you even play ping-pong?... .R.H.W.:
You may do better later on —anyway, we hope so.
... .G.C.: Proves that brevity is not the whole of
wit S.K.: Even the w'.p.b. refused it W.T-W.:
Sonnets are poor vehicles for light verse... .A.A..
We’ve seen things like that ourselves, over the
shoulder of a cray Mercury: As a special favor,
we have put “To Her” in the ladies basket. ...
Blacksmith: Something attempted, nothing done, has
earned your “Light” repose... .Kid: Fairly close
Ashni: Tourist-department verse’ J. 0.: So
even and monotonous that it might have been
written by a circus horse... .Fed-up: Strike no
-ood- verse ditto... .Patch Pants: Not much worse
than ’usual....H.H.H.: Heavy and humdrum....
Rustic: Very J.H.: Ancient idea R.S.L.:
W.p.b. thanks you for including stamp... .A.E.G. :
Blirne, Bill, yer don’t arsk hus ter belivc hay
bleedin’ Horssie spikes that wy, does yer ?... .W.T.:
“The Healing” has lines in it, but not very good
lines The Poor Poet: Yes, perhaps you’re right.
W.J.S.: Still too weak; the others are weaker.
S.H.: Enclosing the answer you’d like to have
is original, anyway... .H.F.8.: Congratulations on
getting all that out of your system E.C.L.:
You’re young; your verse is younger W.T.W.:
No room in the gallery for your study in the nude
E.C.B.: Can’t And any method in the old man’s
madness. .. .0.0. N.: Too much milk for this staff.
. ...W.P.T.: Skating home... .E.R.R.: Still a bit
short of achievement.... Educo: You “desire to con-
vey certain educational facts in readable form.”
Have received some alleged facts, but the education
appears to have been lost on the way... .Jimmy
P.: No use for “After the Poll” Cadre: No
use for daily-paper pars slightly altered Suby:
(1) “Elzevir” ; (2) he did the Deakin biography,
not that of Forrest. A Life of Forrest has yet to be
written, and a man like Murdoeh could make it as
interesting as any novel... .Streph: He is the third
son of Charles Gavan Duffy, of “Young Ireland”
celebrity, subsequently Premier of Victoria; he
married a daughter of the late Allan McLean, Vic.
Premier and afterwards Commonwealth Customs
Minister Fallacy: The criminal classes don’t agree
with you. In nine cases of housebreaking in
N.S.W. last year, finger-prints were practically the
only evidence; the accused all pleaded guilty....
A.A.: There is no duty ; books, newspapers, periodicals
and music all come in free Bolo: Reminiscent of
Soft and sweet as summer tides
Flow thy verses, Euripides!
But not such a perfect thing... .Elmo: Sidney B.
Mver. He gave Melbourne Uni. 25,000 £1 shares
in the Emporium, Ltd., and asked the authorities to
hold them until they were worth £4. . . .C.G.E.N. :
Posted on; Angus and Robertson, Sydney W.F.:
Westralian Speaker Walker has written several plays;
two, “Marmondelle the Moor” and “Voices of the
Night” (or something like that), were produced in
Sydney, with the dramatist in important parts. He
edited Perth Sunday Times and Sunday Press
(deceased) and Kalgoorlie SUN....M. Farm: There
were 72,667 Diggers receiving war pensions on June
30. Limbless cases numbered 3183; tuberculous,
2827; heart, 6551 ; war neurosis, 2624 ; mental,
329 ; blind, 131 ; malaria, 1644 ; eye, ear, nose and
throat, 4529 ; asthma and the like, 6011 ; gunshot
wounds, 28,264.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC!
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.W.: Drawing doesn’t carry it... . A.W.0’11.:
Ancirnt gag. .. .M.H.M.: Wash drawing; washy
joke. . . .E.D.: Poor pun is not worth illustration —
and the illustration is not worth anything. .. .G.L.S.:
Presumably the rotten kidney in the background is
meant to be a map of Australia. .. .S.P.A.: Yes, you
can draw a bit —but not a cheque. .. .V.8.C.8. ;
Sketch of two juvenile freaks doesn’t make the pale
gag appeal. .. .T.M.: Joke inadequate ; drawing ditto
.. . .B.B.: Not at all striking. . . .S.McG.: Dad’s head
is like a pumpkin; the boy’s is like a pea. . . .E.A.D. •
How did the tall girls climb into that toy car?....
F.L.M.: Beginners, eh? At spelling, too. “Origanal” is.


9
5
■
m
4
.
m
■■■. ;. ;
I
■
■
I
I
m
■m
m
€%
m
m
mm
1
V
r
•: " :
;■:
;■?■=
m
i
r
II
■
'•
:
in
'
'
1
■
.' T-
; :
• -
;
mm
m
m


The Bulletin
VOl. 49.—N0. 2543.
November 7, 1928.
THE LOCK-OUT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, • Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.) 6 months,%l2s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: \oz. to 10oz., lid. :
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Flsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
£750 in Prizes for Stories .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 5
A PAGE DRAWING BY LEASON . . 7
EDITORIAL V, 9
The Referendum—What it’s about .. 8
’Ogs
—A cartoon by Percival .. .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11 l->
PERSONAL ' ' ■’ jl
Armistice Day ( Nov. 11).. .. 14
Mr. Stevens and the Income Tax
—A cartoon by Scorfield . . . . . . . . 15
POVERTY POINT . . . . 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. .. "17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Electrolytic Zinc 18
Farmer’s
Marcus Clarks .. .. 18
North Broken Hill 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 23
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 37
New Movies • • .. 37
The Cup Meeting .. 39
SPORTING (illustrated) .. .. 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc ..42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“COONARDOO” 34, 57, 58
COMPLETE STORIES—
“The Raider’s Nose”
—By Aly s Brown ' 51, 53
“A CORKSCREWED PROTEST ”
—By Henry G. Lamond .. .. .. .. 55
VERSE 55
T/ie'^zilldz/rt
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1928.
A CALL TO NATIONALISTS.
Section 105 of the Constitution said: “Par-
liament may take over from the States
their public debts as existing at the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth... .and the
interest shall be deducted from the surplus
revenue of the Commonwealth payable to
the States, or if there is no surplus, then
the deficiency or the whole amount shall
be paid by the several States.” The electors
were asked by the Deakin-Cook Govern-
ment to approve of the words “as existing
at the establishment of the Commonwealth”
being struck out, and approve they did
by 715,053 votes to 586,271, the only dis-
sentient State being N. S. Wales. At the
same time they very decidedly rejected a
Deakin-Cook proposal that an arrangement
obliging the Commonwealth to pay the
States 255. per head per annum should go
into the Constitution in place of Section 87,
under which the States were to receive
three-fourths of the net customs and excise
revenue for “ten years after the estab-
lishment of the Commonwealth and there-
after until the Parliament otherwise pro-
vides.”
* sS * *
This was in 1910. The Labor party, which
had supported the State debts proposal and
opposed the other, came in then with a
sweeping majority in each House. Armed
with authority to take over the State debts
and to retain all the customs and excise
revenue for the Commonwealth from the
end of 1910-11, it could, with vision and
courage, have ushered in a new era of
Government finance. The State Ministries
were at its mercy; had they been told that
the former surplus revenue would be held
for interest on aTtd gradual repayment of
the debts to be Federalised, and that they
would have to do their future borrowing
through the Commonwealth Government,
which would fix the State sinking-fund con-
tribution and have a general right of veto,
they would have had to submit. Unfor-
tunately the Fisher Administration, useful
as it was in other respects, fell down on
this part of its job. Yielding to the State
Rights crowd, it dropped the idea of taking
over the State debts and put through a
Surplus Revenue Act allowing the State
Governments 255, p.h. p.a., with an addi-
tional grant to Westralia, for 10 years “and
until Parliament otherwise provides.” Aus-
tralia has had to pay heavily for this sur-
render to provincialism. Commonwealth
control of borrowing would at least have
been a check on State prodigality; in its
absence the gross State debts soared from
£257,623,000 on June 30,1910, to £679,223,000
on June 30, 1927. Interest rates have been
forced higher by reckless competition in
a restricted market; and the tax-free im-
position has been earned to scandalous
lengths.
* * * *
The Bruce-Page Government has done
unwise things, but it must be given credit
for an honest attempt to bring order out of
financial chaos. After tedious negotiations,
unnecessarily prolonged by the Common-
wealth Government’s reluctance to drive
home the argument that it could suspend
the 255.-p.-h. payments at any time, an
agreement was arrived at, whose leading
features are:—•
The Commonwealth will take over the
State debts on July 1, 1929. The States will
pay the annual interest on their debts less
£7,584,912; the Commonwealth will be re-
sponsible for this amount for 58 years from
July 1, 1927 —it is almost equivalent at
present to the 255. p.h'.
The Commonwealth will also contribute
2s. 6d. p.c. p.a. (practically £1,000,000 p.a.)
for 58 years towards a Sinking fund' of
7s. 6d. pi.a, on the net State debts as at
June 30, 1927; the States will furnish ss.
p.c. p.a. for 53 years.-
Commonwealth and States will establish
a sinking fund of 10s. p.c. in respect of all
new borrowings after July 1. 1927, and each
will contribute ss. p.c. for 53 years.
All borrowings to be controlled by the
Loan Council, on which Commonwealth and
States will each have one representative.
The agreement is not wholly satisfactory
(for one thing, it does not give the Com-
monwealth, which undertakes such heavy
responsibilities, a controlling voice on the
Loan Council), but it is heaps better than
the old disorder. It will not of itself make
our Government finance sound, but it is a
necessary preliminary. At the least it will
admit of substantial savings being made by
redemption, at the earliest possible date, of
grossly expensive State loans—among the
debts to be taken over are £56.287,000 at
6 p.c., £16,166,000 at £6 7s. p.c, £16,237,000 at
6i p.c, £2,465,000 at 7 p.c. and £5,808,000
at 7i p.c.—and of substantial sums being
added to the revenue by the abolition of the
tax-free swindle. The agreement has been
approved of by all seven Parliaments, and
the Commonwealth Government is paying
the stipulated amounts; but that does not
finalise the matter. Before the arrangement
can be made effective and unalterable ex-
ceot by common consent of the contracting
parties, the power granted to the National
Parliament at the State Debts referendum
will have to be supplemented. The Bul-
letin trusts that the people will grant this
supplementary power by recording a Yes
majority at the referendum on November
17, and thus prove themselves as national
in spirit as the electors of 1910.
WHAT WILL SCULLIN DO WITH THE
BANK?
There is a question on which Scullin
might supply information without any allu-
sion to revolution and bomb-throwing. He
has declared over and over again that the
Commonwealth Bank has become a
“Bankers’ Bank,” though he doesn’t in the
least know what this means, with disastrous
results which aren’t specified, and that his
party, if it achieves power, will knock all
such nonsense on the head and create a
“People’s Bank” in its place. He promises
to remove the bank from “political control,”
which means that the management, instead
of being appointed for a fixed term by the
people’s representatives and then given a
free hand, will be appointed by other parties
who will be non-political because they don’t
represent the people. Short of selling the
institution to Private Enterprise, it couldn’t
be made more non-political than it is in
any other way. As 1,200,000 inhabitants
have their savings in the institution which
was founded in Andy Fisher’s time,
Scullin should explain exactly what tricks
he intends to play on it.
* .-is* * *
The most obvious first sendee a bank
could render to a Red Government in diffi-
culties would be to print paper money
with which the Government might meet
its liabilities and redeem its promises. The
idea of a lavish paper issue “secured on all
the public and private assets of the coun-
try” was urged by Communists as far back
as the war time, and Communists haven’t
improved since. Russia took to the device
because it was mad, and Germany because
it pretended madness, like David at the
court of Achish. Germany paid its em-
ployees in newly printed paper, and the
internal debt was ultimately paid off in
paper. When depreciation became violent
people paid off their mortgages in paper,
and those who had paid when it was worth
6d. in the pound regretted bitterly that they
hadn’t waited till it was down to Id. or
less. Being more astute than the Garden
push, and having some foreknowledge of
the future, German bankers pressed the sale
of depreciated currency abroad to unwise
folk who thought the position would right
itself some day. It is reckoned that the
Hunland made a profit of something
approaching £400,000,000 in this way.
* * * *
But the experiment couldn’t be repeated,
especially by a small, isolated community like
our own with too many red flags around.
Hun wage-earners were not unfriendly to the
new arrangement at first, but presently came
to regard it as a vexation and a curse, for
the worker who got his frugal wage of a.
good many thousand pounds, based on the
price of money on pay-morning, was always
afraid that it might have fallen to one-half
or less before he got home and handed it
over to his frau to buy groceries with.
Finally, there was a cleaning up, £1 of
gold being given for £1,000,000,000,000 (a
million million pounds) of the old variety.
To avert revolution, however, local bond-
holders were given better terms, ranging
from Is. to 3s. in the £, provided they took
new bonds for old, and the episode Avas then
declared closed.. Russia, relying on its
strong strategical position, took a firmer
stand. It repudiated both its external and
internal debt, and issued new paper on
which it afterwards compromised for a few
coppers. The perpetration of a similar
cheerful iniquity with the external debt
would be difficult here; but many other
things are possible.
* * * *
If Australia takes any interest in big
national affairs as distinguished from mud-
slinging and Slanguage, it is its duty to
ask Scullin for particulars. He promises
to batter into new shape an exceedingly
profitable institution which is, among other
things, the source of the Commonwealth’s
currency. It is to be taken from the control
of the people’s representatives and put into
the charge of parties unknown. The change
is doubtless to lead to something; but does
Scullin himself know what that something
is likely to be?
TRADES UNIONISM IN CHINA.
That furtive organisation the Pan-Pacific
Secretariat, with which portion of the Aus-
tralian Labor movement is affiliated, has
lately moved its headquarters from Shanghai
to Hankow. The reason given is that the
“White Terror” established at the former
city provides an uncongenial atmosphere
for the furtherance of its ideals. The “White
Terror” is, of course, nothing of the sort.
It is certainly bloody enough, but is actu-
ally an attempt by the international lease-
holders and the Chinese capitalists to main-
tain some semblance of law and order in
an area which was rapidly relapsing into
chaos.
One of the staple industries of Shanghai
is kidnapping. If you want funds for a revo-
lutionary organisation, you rent a house out-
side the foreign settlement, stroll over after
dark and seize the first likely-looking
Chinese merchant you run across. Out of
reach of the Settlement police, you can
retain the gentleman with impunity while
you arrange about the ransom. If he turns
out to have no assets, you let him go,
first snipping a piece out of his ear, so that
future kidnappers won’t waste their time
over him; this is known as giving him a
flesh-ticket. If he has money and his
relations are slow in coming to the point,
a finger or toe of the captive pushed under
a relation’s door will often work wonders.
It was Chen Chi-mei, a highly respected
revolutionary, who showed the possibilities
of kidnapping in the early days of the
Republic by lifting a Korean prince from
the hotel in which I was staying. The
royalty, well pickled, was invited to step
out and see the bright lights of the Foo-
chow-road —and woke up in a dungeon in
the native city. The funds thus extracted
became the sinews of the civil war which
happened shortly after.
As Nationalist sentiment spread, the idea
became current that wealthy natives
sheltered in the foreign settlements to evade
taxation, and that kidnapping them was
a patriotic duty, like income-tax assessment.
Finally, extreme trades unionists carried the
argument to its logical conclusion. They
argued that the native capitalist had no
right to evade the application of their
socialistic principles by hiding behind
foreign policemen. Several of the more
radical unions owe their present favorable
financial position to energetic kidnapping.
Lately the exasperated foreign police have
extended their pursuit of the kidnappers
beyond the Settlement boundaries, despite
patriotic protests. Recently no less than
90 of them were in the foreign gaol awaiting
execution.
The Settlement police have thus made the
environs of Shanghai more difficult for law-
breakers; which explains why the Pan-
Pacific Secretariat has moved to Hankow.
Hankow is one of three great industrial
cities clustered together in mutual slum-
mishness 600 miles up the Yangtsze. It
is the depot for the Siberian fur and the
Russian brick-tea trade, and communication
by river, rail and coolie track with Soviet
territory is excellent. It is the natural
centre of China, much more so than Peking
or even Nanking. It is thus admirably
situated for the spreading of Communism
through China, and a general Communist
revolution, to begin in China, is the prin-
cipal plank of the Secretariat, according to
its printed constitution. Hankow is also
minus a British concession, that having
been handed over to the Chinese authorities
18 months ago. The absence of a British
police force would undoubtedly be regarded
as a blessing by the Pan-Pacific plotters.
The interesting thing about the organi-
sation is that the Chinese trades unionists
themselves repudiate it. Trades unionism
in China is older than the Republic; the
unanimity with which rickshaw-coolies in
Singapore have downed shafts as one man
in the past suggests that unionism is in-
grained in the Celestial. The Tongshan coal-
mines in Chihli province evolved the first
modem trades union. It now has 30,000
members, its own schools, reading-rooms
and periodical. The unions of Canton
number over 100, more or less merged into
One Big Union. They have scored some
notable victories, including the marine strike
of 1922, which tied up 280,000 tons of
shipping in Hong Kong; and the boycott of
1926, which inflicted enormous losses on that
militarily invulnerable British outpost.
Since the National Government decided
to recognise and legalise the unions instead
of chopping their heads off, the moderates
have been in the ascendant. A conference
representing 1$ million unionists which met
at Canton passed resolutions about co-
operation, workers’ education and arbitra-
tion which would receive the hearty endorse-
ment of the S. M. Herald, if passed by an
Australian conference. The section which
advocates the class war, sabotage and
world revolution is, like the Pan-Pacific
Secretariat, mainly in hiding.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
One Cause of Heavy Taxation.
It may be forecasted that the next Bavin-
Stevens budget will, unless there are radi-
cal and almost revolutionary changes in
the system, be more extortionate than this
one, and that for 1930-31 will be worse still.
A time is always liable to arrive when extra
taxes won’t bring in extra money—in fact,
when more taxes are liable to bring in
less money—by reason of the stream dry-
ing up. A tax of 100 per cent, on income
or property, for instance, wouldn’t produce
much after the first year.
Taking 1927 as a stopping-place, the
N.S.W. loan expenditure for 11 years was
£110,267,000. Of this authority classifies
some £86,000,000 as “reproductive,” and
gets over the difficulty by saying that
£24,000,000 was spent on “other works and
services.” But the allegedly reproductive
works include harbors, rivers, water conser-
vation and irrigation, which are a very
uncertain crowd, especially as one irriga-
tion work lost £300,000 last year. And the
railways and tramways were £451,618 short
of paying their way in 1927 (£1,609,267 short
in 1928); so they are not reliably repro-
ductive either.
If the “reproductive works” pay badly
and the “other works and services” pay
worse, they being all built with loan money
borrowed at increasing rates and some of
them being very foolish jobs to boot, the
taxpayer must pay or burst. Figures show
in a rough sort of way how N.S.W. interest
and taxation mount together:—•
Interest. Taxation.
1917.. £5,526,993 £3,629,404
1922.. 8,118,430 7,249,117
1927.. 11,215,341 12,574,320
The last item includes the new motor-tax
which is paid to the Main Roads Board
except when a Treasurer like Slang diverts
part of it. Progression isn’t quite regular
for various reasons. But the continuous
feature is that taxation goes up with the
interest on “development” loans, and if
the State discovers enough resources and
develops them in the orthodox way the out-
look is full of shocking possibilities.
The loan expenditure on undertakings
which even sanguine authority doesn’t call
reproductive was nearly five times as large
in 1927 as in 1917. This tendency the wrong
way helps to explain why a good Treasurer
to-day, if he can’t think out some way
of departing from the old poisonous tricks
of finance, may be more oppressive though
much more of a gentleman than a loud and
brutal one was a few years earlier. Con-
sidering the progress of the last five years
it is a matter of wonderment what a cap-
able and honest N.S.W. Minister of
Finance will be like in 1932, the signs being
that he will then be between a hotter devd
and a deeper sea than he is now; also
what an incapable and unscrupulous one
may be like in 1937.
The policy of piling all the extra bur-
dens on “those most capable of carrying
them” has its disadvantages. If more of
the load fell on the multitude of those sup-
posed to be less capable, such as strike-
leaders and their kind, they might possibly
revise their view of the situation.
O
The Bureaucrat in Government.
A young man when he enters the Public
Service goes there direct from his class-
room. His sole intellectual capital is a
body of scholastic knowledge. Of the busi-
ness concerns of the world about him, its
complexities and its difficulties, he knows
nothing. A regular and increasing income
thereafter trickles to his pocket for the per-
formance of strictly defined duties. He more
and more tends to draw his conclusions
with regard to the busy life outside from
indirect sources —newspapers, official reports
and so on.
As the years go on he develops a bureau-
cratic psychology. The departmental view
tinges everything. An effect is to develop
in him an autocratic narrowness with regard
to the external world. This world must bow
to the will of the department, and the
dispensation of its wisdom must not be
challenged.
It should be obvious to even the least
experienced of Cabinet Ministers that to go
to such a source for the framework of a
piece of legislation which vitally affects the
business, the industries and the economic
life of the community is not a mere indis-
cretion, but a rank injustice.
It was the mistake the Federal Govern-
ment made when in war-days it levied its


POINT OF VIEW.
“A tradesman sells his earning power in the highest market. A manufacturer also sells his goods in the highest market. Why should not public servants sell their votes to
the best advantage?”— E. Murnane, Postal Workers’ Union.
THE PROFIT-SEEKER; “Let people talk of green fields, and flowers, and beautiful sunsets. I don’t believe in ’em. There’s nothing ’alf as beautiful as ’ogs.”
own income-tax. Instead of placing the
method of imposing the fresh burden in the
hands of men saturated with experience of
the world's activities, it put it in the tender
care of a departmental mathematician who
exercised his academic ingenuity in the
evolution of a scheme so technical and
intricate as to be almost fiendish.
Mr. Bavin, of N. S. Wales, should have
been astute enough to have avoided a simi-
lar error. He wasn’t. His Assistant Trea-
surer is a retired public servant, who was
pushed to the front not so much by reason
of his own merits as to demonstrate the
demerits of his political enemy Mr. Lang,
and his income-tax bill was just what one
would have expected it to be.
No doubt Mr. Bavin has learned his
lesson. But it ought to be written on
tablets and put in the party room for his
successors. And especially for such of his
successors as happen to be lawyers.
The Navigation Act.
The timber workers of Westralia have
been notified that, in accordance with a
Federal Court order, they will have to sub-
mit to part time and an hourly rate. Wages
have risen, outputs have fallen, shipping lias
become liable to suspension when most wanted,
and inter-State freight rates stop on a high
peg. Cement, steel and fibre have cut heavily
into our timber business. In the huge pic-
ture theatres going up in all the big centres
of population, scarcely a plank of Australian
timber finds a place. Exports of Westralian
timber were valued at £1,658,000 in 1926-27;
in 1927-28 there was a slump to £1,265,000.
So things are bad ill districts where saws
ought to be humming merrily and locos, busy
running waggons of red, pungent wood down
to the wharves. —A Westralian correspondent.
The repeal of the Navigation Act, promised
by the Bruce-Pages, will improve the situa-
tion a bit. That ill-starred measure re-
served the coastal trade for Australian
shipping; its authors never dreamed that
they were fashioning a weapon for the
smiting of Australian industry. While
foreigners competing in the Australian mar-
ket are rarely interfered with by maritime
strikers (never when the seamen and fire-
men or the stewards or the sea-cooks come
out), Australian goods have been held up
with disastrous frequency, and generally for
months at a time. Naturally coastal rates
are inflated to meet the cost of past stop-
pages and to provide against those to come.
The result is that it costs more to ship
goods—certain classes of goods, anyway—
from one Australian port to another than it
does to bring corresponding cargoes from
the other end of the earth. The Tariff
Board gives the following comparison of
charges for delivering 100 super feet, of
timber: —
Inter-State (sawn hardwood): North-
west Tasmania to Adelaide, 11s.; Bunbury
(W.A.) to Sydney, Bs. 6d.; Bunbury to Mel-
bourne, Bs.; Brisbane to Adelaide, 10s. 3d.;
Brisbane to Sydney, 65.; Cairns to Mel-
bourne, 9s. 6d.; Cairns to Adelaide, 12s. 6d.
Overseas: Sweden to Australia, ss. 6d.;
Baltic ports to Australia, 6s. 3d. to 6s. 9d.;
Philippines to Australia, 7s. 3d. to 7s. 9d.;
Japan to Australia, 9s. 4d.
Instead of continuing the monopoly of
which such evil use has been made, the
Bruce-Pages propose to readmit British and
foreign shipping to the coasting trade, sub-
ject to duties on cargo and passengers. The
plan is good as far as it goes, but it ought
to be accompanied by an all-round increase
in the tariff. The existing duties were
framed in the belief that the industries to
which they apply, timber among others,
are substantially benefited by the so-called
“natural protection pf distance.” The
Tariff Board has shown that there is no
such thing.
* .
The Curse of Polysyllables.
As the signs go the Bruce-Page Ministry
will get to polling day, and emerge success-
fully at the other side, without stating a
policy or a scrap of policy as regards the
first problem of the day. The Prime
Minister had a chance to explain recently
at the usual lunch, and delivered himself
in the usual politely unsatisfactory way:—
“One of our greatest problems was the need
for general recognition of the fundamental
fact that we could not have a basically sound
prosperity in the city unless there was pros-
perity in the country districts. Bound up
with that was the problem of disposing
profitably overseas of our surplus products
.... With our wages standard and our high
standard of living it was most difficult to
sell our surplus products in oversea markets
at prices that would return a profit to the
producer.”
Put in less polysyllabic terms, that means
that this is a land of primary producers
where the cost of production has been arti-
ficially raised till it is hard to sell the
produce at a paying figure. And that is a
melancholy conclusion.
In 1925 Australia sold about three times
as much, measured by value, as in 1915.
There wasn’t any difficulty in finding
markets, and the prices were good. But in
1908 exports valued at 64 millions paid
all the country’s liabilities abroad and left
a surplus, while in 1925 exports valued at
162 millions failed to pay liabilities by
25 millions, which was added to the public
debt.
Prime Minister Bruce went on to say
that he had been for a year attacking the
problem (which is the problem of import-
ing so much more than the community can
honestly pay for that the receipt of 162
millions for exported goods left the country
practically beggared in 1925, while the
receipt of 64 millions a few years earlier
left it in easy circumstances), and had “the
best brains of the Commonwealth” to assist
him, with this result:—
“The total of it all was that they had to
have more information, which they hoped to
get by extending the compilation of statistics
and creating a department of the Economic
Council of Research.”
Possibly the brains were badly cooked, else
they might have pointed out that the
obvious and only remedy lay in reducing
imports to the extent that exports would
pay for them and for interest liabilities as
well. And the brains might have added
that, even if an extensive prohibition of
non-essential imports was involved, that
would be as much within the nation’s rights
as the prohibition of drink, opium or un-
desirable immigrants.
It wouldn’t have been amiss if they had
stated in a postscript that excessive import-
ing is necessarily a cause of unemployment,
and that the high standard of living is
mostly a deceptive name for the high cost
of living, of which external interest bills
are a part.
♦
Our Inland Sea.
Dear Bulletin. —The Bruce-Pages appear
ready to take an interest in almost any-
thing that is expensive, irrelevant and of
very doubtful utility. I would suggest for
their consideration something which need
not positively commit them to any great ex-
pense, which is of dashed doubtful utility
(though it might lead to something quite
unexpected)., which is original and pictur-
esque, and is sufficiently irrelevant to satisfy
anybody. I want our principal inland sea,
Lake Eyre, dredged, or partly dredged and
partly reclaimed.
This great geographical feature is about
10 times the size of the Dead Sea, but if
the two were upended the latter would be
the larger of the two, being about 1300 ft.
deep over most of its area, while its Aus-
tralian contemporary varies from an indefi-
nite amount down to about nothing, or
perhaps less. It is reckoned that seven main
rivers either flow or don’t flow into Lake
Eyre, including the Cooper with 39
enumerated branches; the Diamantina with
17 recorded tributaries; the Finke from
the Northern Territory. 1000 miles long and
the most regular of the family; and others.
Lake Eyre assimilates the streams, rivers
and torrents of 495,190 square miles of Aus-
tralia.
The lake’s normal condition is a bad
advertisement for a great part of Aus-
tralia. It gets abundance of water once in
a blue moon and a little in between, but
the fluid is spread out far too thin, and the
evaporation over the big area proceeds at
a furious rate, and it is also surmised that
there may be a hole in the underneath of
the basin and another loss that way, thus
burning the lake at both ends. In the
course of dredging and reclamation the hole
might be discovered and stopped, after be-
ing searched for any possible mineral wealth.
Then if the lake itself were deepened and
its area contracted to one-fifth, thus reduc-
ing evaporation to a minimum, it might
become a permanent and pleasing feature
of the landscape, a health resort, an attrac-
tion for tourists, and a possible shipping
centre, though that is obviously more doubt-
ful. What effect the change would have on
the climate of the interior it is hard to say,
but it couldn’t be a bad one, and there
might be political, social, commercial and
spiritual advantages in the establishment of
a new oasis on the road to the North.
I am sure this proposition would be suffi-
ciently staggering to take the attention of
the Prime Minister if properly presented to
him. If it diverted his attention from his
20-million-pound shack-building project,
that would be an unmixed blessing-
Yours, J. E.
♦
Over a Million in a Month.
A new record was made in October—before
the last week of the month was half finished,
over a million copies of the Bulletin Co.’s
three magazine-newspapers had been issued
from an Australian office. When The Bul-
letin decided last year that it was time
Australia produced a great deal more of its
own fiction, it expected a good response;
what has actually been received not only
from writers, but from readers, has been
gratifying beyond all expectation.
♦
Ip any report about a crematorium can be
called cheerful, the adjective belongs to a
document issued by the N.S.W. Cremation
Co. This body began its wholesome busi-
ness in May, 1925, and what gratifying pro-
gress the reform has made can be judged
by this statement of cremations in that and
the three following months of that and sub-
sequent years:—
May. June. Juy. August.
1925.. 1 6 6 6
1926.. 13 12 11 8
1927.. 30 19 29 30
1928.. 29 37 45 50
The money for the buildings, etc., necessary
for the carrying on of this hygienic reform
has come out of the pockets of a few en-
thusiasts. There is plenty of room for others
to join them, because further provisions, if
not indispensable, are very desirable.
♦
King Amanullah, of Afghanistan, has given
early proof that he learned a few things
from western “civilisation,” and especially
from that of Soviet Russia. He had occa-
sion lately to fall foul of a Holy Mullah
who, like most of his kind, was a profes-
sional trouble-maker. Pir Singh appears
to have been a sort of Moslem Jock Garden,
only not so comfortably fixed in the matter
of salary and motor-cars. He was, how-
ever, just as inclined to meddle in other
folk’s business. So Amanullah, lately
Moscow’s pupil, had him arrested and, with-
out extending to him the benefits of trial
by jury, caused him to be shot out of hand,
in the best manner of the Cheka. The
moral of all of which is that the man who
invents a new way of killing his enemy
also discovers a new way of slaying his
friend.


'tiiedc'c *
NO THROAT HARM
IN A MILLION
333
s"
20 for I/O
V/
=4
%
IVORY TIP
ARDATH TOBACCO
COuLTD.. LONDON.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ex-Premier Slang is apparently going to
fail his Ma State again. He told in the
House a thundering tale about a conspiracy
between the State Savings Bank and its
solicitors. As a member speaking inside
Parliament can malign any citizen with
impunity provided he is mean enough, nobbdy
had any legal redress, but the Premier
appointed a Judge to inquire, so that the
Slang-Whang man might prove his case or
the aspersed parties might disprove it. But
Slang took a high and injured attitude, said
he wouldn’t give evidence, threw epithets
about, and almost declared that the proposed
inquiry was an attempt to reduce wages and
break up trades unionism.
Dick Orchard, who
was M.H.R. for
Nepean from 1913 to
1919 and Minister of
Recruiting for the last
eight months of the
war, will get the
Bruce party's No. 1
vote for the Senate in
N. S. Wales, and has
a very good chance of
heading the poll. He
thought he had had
enough of politics
when he retired nine
years ago, but in 1925
he felt the lure again
and sportingly chal-
lenged old Jack West
in East Sydney, which
had been Labor for 15
years. And he polled
well enough to show
that, with diligent
nursing, East Sydney
could be won.
Arthur Duckham,
one of Bruce’s Four,
“can’t understand why
it should be necessary
Senate-candidate
Orchard.
to bring people from England while there is
so much unemployment here.” The real
question is why it should be necessary
(which it isn’t) to bring such an insane
quantity of goods from England and else-
where while there is so much unemployment
here. New people, if we find them employ-
ment, mean more taxpayers and money com-
ing in. Imports spell want of work and
money going out.
At this inappropriate hour Victorian poli-
ticians have gone wild about altering their
railways to the standard gauge, though they
rejected the proposal in 1921, when there was
more money about and less railway to alter.
Minister Tunnecliffe recently asked in an
intense fashion if the Commonwealth would
advance the money at very low interest. As
an untimely remark, that takes the cake.
Minister Gledson ruefully admitted in the
Queensland Parliament the other day that
Government station cattle with “duffed”
brands had been sold in Brisbane saleyards.
Queensland is paying interest on the loan
money with which the beasts or their pro-
genitors were bought; but its only regret on
hearing the news was that the gentry who
pinched the cattle hadn’t pinched the
stations too.
A magistrate at Parramatta has pointed
out, with costs, that political levies on N.S.W.
trade-unionists cannot be enforced in the
courts. This being the season when union
bosses are prodding the rank and file for cash
to fill the A.L.P. coffers, the lesson will pro-
bably be appreciated by unwilling contribu-
tors. All the same, few of them will refuse
to stand and deliver. “Solidarity” sees to
that.
Though Prime Minister Baldwin was suc-
cessful in the Glasgow University rectorial
election, an astonishingly large vote was
polled by Cunninghame Graham, who stood
in the Home-Rule-for-Scotland interest. Bald-
win led the old literary gent by a mere 66
votes in a poll of 2644; Liberal and Labsr
candidates also ran. The claim of the Home-
Rule-for-Scotland party is that Caledonia’s
interests are being callously neglected under
the Union. The party has at least a sense
of humor.
Old Tummas Henley
has been annoying the
N. S. Wales Bavin-
shaw Government by
pulling its measures to
pieces, the Income-tax
Bill and the proposal
to lend 90 p.c. on
boom-time houses
especially. Henley is
a Tory, but he has
plenty of pluck, and
is one of the few men
in the House who say
what they really think.
Also he lias a bound-
less contempt for the
“good-as-Labor” busi-
ness the bane of
Nationalism.
Says Premier Bavin:
“A Taxation Bill is
a measure for getting
money, and you must
’Enley, M.L.A.
get it wherever you can.” The same view
is held by the Soviet, which is about to have
another sale of stolen art treasures in Ber-
lin, and another variety of practitioner acts
on it when he steals a servant-girl’s wages
instead of breaking into the strongroom of
the Bank of N.S.W. The Taxation Bill
Sikes also gets it wherever he can.
It was reported in Wednesday’s papers
that the Labor M.L.A. for Melbourne, a
regrettable person named Hayes, had said in
Parliament that the free laborers on the
wharves had no right to police protection—
“ They have no right to be there.” Two days
later, cheered on no doubt by these words,
a mob of waterside unionists tried to storm
a Port Melbourne nier and “deal with” the
free laborers working there, stoning the sur-
prisingly small body of police who resisted
them. Roughly handled and in imminent
danger of being overwhelmed, the con-
stables unavailingly fired warning shots
in the air; then they fired at the
vanguard of the rioters, four of whom
fell wounded, though not gravely, and
the rest scattered. Hayes was not present
at this latest of many attempts to enforce
the doctrine that the public wharves belong
to the Waterside Stop workers’ Federation,
nor has he been heard from since.
In a statement to the press, the Sydney
Commissioners explained, as had been ex-
plained before, that their reason for throw-
ing the city garbage into the sea is that the
destructor is worn out. And if the cemetery
wears out through becoming too full it might
be equally good logic to throw all future
deceased inhabitants into the sea, and trust
that they won’t wash ashore too often or too
obtrusively.
The Hogans wanted to make the number
of Vic. Assembly seats 66 instead of 65, but
changed their mind at the first objection.
They now propose to reduce country and
urban electorates (39) by five and increase
metropolitan constituencies (26) by the same
number; the proportion of city to country
electors being 100 to 75. Five metropolitan
Nats, voted for the first reading and one
paired, so the preliminary stages were carried
by a majority of six. It looks as if the
Ministry will retain a narrow majority—if
it c&n survive its wobbly attitude to the
Wharf War.
Compared with Vic. Labor’s plan, Wes-
tralian Labor’s redistribution-of-seats scheme
is rather amazing. The central idea is to
take five seats from depopulated goldfields on
which there has been some pastoral settle-
ment and bestow them on Perth-Fremantle.
That will give Perth-Fremantle, with 108,866
electors, 17 members (average, 6404) ; the
agricultural districts, with 86,749 electors,
13 members (average, 6673) ; the mining-
and-pastoral areas, with 15,186 electors,
eight members (average, 1898), and the
noith-west, with 3288 electors, four members
(average, 822). It is an unwritten law in
Westralia that the tropical part should have
its four members, but why agriculture should
have so much less representation than min-
ing-and-pastoral, and less even than Perth-
Fremantle, is a mystery. The only conceiv-
able explanation is that agriculture doesn’t
go in for Labor members.
After playing the part of ally to Premier
Hogan for 18 months, Dunstan, leader of
the Vic. Country Progs., assumed the role
of candid friend when the Labor Government
moved for leave to bring in its Redistribution
of Seats Bill. Naturally the Opposition
relished the change, and the Hogan following
was visibly disturbed when Allan, who took
much the same line as Dunstan, suggested
that this agreement on one important item
might open the gate to a general under-
standing between the rural sections. Hogan’s
discomfiture was intensified by Dunstan’s
suggestion that the Government wasn’t sin-
cere on the redistribution issue, but was
trying to play up to the Age.
A remarkable catch-farthing device was the
decision that all produce from other States
sold per agent in N.S.W. yields the owner 5
per cent, profit, and the resolve to charge
him, per agent, income-tax on that alleged
profit. There was a rather mouldy law to
this effect, but its enforcement came as a
surprise. Many regarded the proceeding as
an absurdly illegal interference with the
Federal right to regulate trade and com-
merce, and also held that the taxing of
assumed profits is just the same as charging
rates against an assumed building on a sup-
posed allotment. Still the High Court (six
of it) has decided that the Act is valid.
The Bavinshaw Government’s tax on com-
pany incomes is to be graduated according to
the size of the profits without any regard
for the size of the capital. It is possible for
a joint-stock concern to earn £lOO,OOO profit,
and for that to represent 5 p.c. on capital;
and it is equally possible for another to earn
£40,000 and yet that to represent 25 p.c. on
capital. Everything depends on the amount
of the. capital. Under the unjust policy of
charging 3s. in the £ all round, the same per-
centage of tax is taken out of the £5 as out
of the £25; still the method has the crude
recommendation that it simplifies book-keep-
ing. The amended idea is to tax the £lOO,OOO
(which represents 5 p.c. to the investor) on
a higher scale than the £40,000 (which repre-
sents 25 p.c.) because there is more of it.
How much higher a rate the 5 p.c. is to pay
than the 25 p.c. is to be revealed in a sub-
sequent measure when it has been decided
how far it is possible to go.
The Four Big Britons whom Bruce
imported haven’t had, and won’t have, time
to learn any of Australia’s special problems
so well that they can give any advice worthy
of their four possibly tremendous reputations.
Very wisely, they don’t take reckless chances.
If No. 2, say, were carried away by a flood
of eloquence and alluded to the kangaroo as
a good table fowl the effect would be
injurious. So they have taken to preaching
Freetrade, which is a familiar topic to fill
up with, having an idea that if Australia
gave free admission to all Bull’s goods it
would be good for Bull. It would really be
bad for Bull, as the goods couldn’t be paid
for. The Duckliam of the party told us not
to have faith in Protection because it pro-
tected the efficient and the inefficient alike.
This remark would be equally true of the
police or the British Navy.
Dr. Nott’s defeat of
Theodore for the Her-
bert (Q.) seat was the
surprise of the last
Commonwealth elec-
tion. Theodore was
going to wait three
years and have an-
other shot, but on
second thoughts he de-
cided that Dailey
(N.S.W.) would be
easier, although a
Royal Commissioner
has reported that some-
body found it expen-
sive. G. W. Martens,
an A.W.U. man, is
now in the field for
Herbert, and the doc-
tor is in danger, albeit
he thinks he will win
again,, The 1925 con-
test was the closest in
Australia; the voting
was 22,385 to 22,117.
Dr. Nott, M.H.R.
The Associated Chamber of Manufactures,
talking at Adelaide, decided that Australia
buys abroad far more than it needs; that the
excess of imports is largely due to overseas
loans (really the imports largely cause the
loans —no man is driven by loans to ask
for an English instead of an Australian hat),
and that Australia can do without foreign
borrowing. It added an urgent recommen-
dation that the Commonwealth should “dis-
courage imports to the utmost extent, par-
ticularly luxuries.” The way to discourage
the arrival from abroad of superfluous lux-
uries is to prohibit them, and the way to
prove that Australia can do without foreign
loans is to make exports exceed imports, per
medium of this prohibition, by sufficient to
cover the interest bill.
Apropos of the Scullin party’s reiterated
promise to do something drastic and unspeci-
fied with the Commonwealth Bank, Laborites
in and out of Parliament have urged the
printing of a vast number of new notes with
which to pay off the public debt and save the
interest. This might work as regards the
local debt, the drawbacks being that the issue
of £550,000,000 of new paper would reduce
the value of same to 6d. (or maybe Id.) in the
£l, and prices would go up to 40 (or 240)
times the old standard, and very many people
would lose their jobs, their employers being
broke through highway robbery. But
£550,000.000 worth of external creditors
would refuse the notes, and would grant
no new loans, being offered only paper for
interest on old ones.
Federal Labor has heard disquieting re-
ports about Stewart, M.H.R. for Wimmera,
Stewart, M.H.R.
who was a Bruce-
Page Minister for 18
months and has never
got over the discovery
that the 8.-P.’s could
carry on without him.
Stewart’s success and
that of at least an-
other anti-8.-P. Far-
mer (there are four
altogether) is neces-
sary to the Scullidores,
who confessed their
inability to gain a
party majority when
they failed to contest
17 seats in the House
of Reps, and one in
the Senate. But the
Country party has got
hold of a good man in
J. S. Harris, a Digger,
who is making the
pace very warm for
Stewart. That sore-
headed politician is
sure of Freetrade sup-
port as well as of every
vote that Labor-Socialism can dig uo for him;
but he has never been so hard pressed.
The co-operative system, under which
workers undertake a job and share the pro-
ceeds equally, is making headway in Maori-
land. Several important tunnel contracts
have been carried out in this way, and now
the principle has spread to coalmining. The
co-operative mines are comparatively small,
but they contrive to sell coal cheaper than
big mines can, and are still able to pro-
vide those who work them with better than
award wages.
Premier Bavin uttered a howl of terror
when he learned that the Ballina-Booyong
railway, 12f miles long and several years
under construction, had cost £297,000 at
September, 1927—it was to have cost
£100,000. To help him on his thorny path
the Railway Commissioners put this in their
report (June, 1928) :—
Very little progress has been made with the
construction of the line between Boovong and Bal-
lina, but the work is now being pushed forward.
Private enterprise hustles a thing of that
sort because the shareholders get no dividends
till it is working, and not always then.
Public-loan enterprise begins paying big divi-
dends (5.j per cent, interest to bondholders!
from the day when Stodge, M.L.A., turns the
first sod or even earlier than that, and it
doesn’t hurry.
Another great sale of stolen art treasures
is being held in Berlin to replenish the
Soviet money-bag. Russia is a big country
with a population less dense than Victoria’s,
great mineral wealth, no foreign debt (that
having been repudiated), and a mode of gov-
ernment which moves Federal Labor’s noisy
friends to ecstasy, doubtless because it is as
bad a one as they could make themselves.
Still, famine is abroad again, or, in other
words, it is very much at home, and the
“bread line” has got down t.o serving cut tur-
nips. Trotsky’s firmly-suppressed book has
seen the light in Germany. It prognosticates
the end of the Soviet regime, but the trouble
with that, as with the end of the world, is
to know what will follow.
The British Government offered to lend for
settlement purposes as much as £34,000,000
at 2 per cent, for five years, 21 per cent, for
the next five years, and the whole lot of
interest afterwards; and the States are
reaching for the money like a drowning dog
after a bone. N. S. Wales has got approval
for the spending of about £1,500,000 on a
Lachlan irrigation scheme, and an uncertain
amount more on a stumpy out-west branch
railway, both of which will probably cost
double the estimate as usual. But even on
the bare estimate the loan will involve the
direct importation and “satisfactory” settle-
ment of nearly 24,000 people, one migrant
for every £75 of cheap loan being the big
trap attached to the attractive cheese. How-
ever, the comforting theory is advanced that
the operations need not be simultaneous, and
that it is possible to get the money and owe
the settlement until the Old Man makes a
row.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and J>mes Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
BALLADE OP PALE POLITICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the age of the pale election,
Robbed of the ruddier joys of old ;
Gone is the whirling interjection
Dear to the voter of days more bold.
Mobs become calm and a trifle cold,
Meetings grow flatter than last night’s dregs,
Candidates gabble unharmed, I’m told—
Where are the dear old hustings eggs?
Dull is the voter of circumspection,
Safe as a sheep in the party fold;
Dull is the counsel of new perfection,
Sneers to smother and gibes withhold.
Our sires were cast in a sterner mould,
It took some pluck to face them on your
legs;
Rarely convinced were they, never cajoled—•
Where are the ripe old hustings eggs?
This is the day of the drab election,
With ladies as w r ell as gents enrolled,
Which fact has possibly some connection
With scenes more orderly and controlled.
Blood there is none, nor the odorous gold
Treasured too long in some grocer’s kegs;
Peace and its virtues are over-extolled—
Where are those fruity hustings eggs?
Envoy.
Speakers still thunder and rant and scold,
Each little voter sits up and begs;
Ova virumque, I sing, unconsoled—
Where are the dear old hustings eggs?
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Tiki”: An enthusiastic experimentalist
with language tests for the alleged drunk
(B. 31/10/’2B) was the sergeant in charge
of Timaru (M.L.) station 20 years ago.
nor a long while his favorite was, “Around
the rugged rocks the ragged rascals ran a
truly rural race.” Nine out of ten suspects
said the race was “toolyooral” and qualified
for a five-bob fine next morning. But the
sentence with the ten r’s was reckoned to
have insufficient terrors for inebriates of
bcottish _ extraction, some of whom fairly
reveHed in it. So the sergeant substituted :
She stood at the door of File’s fried fish
shop_ welcoming him in.” That might be
still in use but for the fact that a too-inquisi-
THE LUCKY ONE.
"Did many of your family make brilliant marriages?”
“Oh, dear no—only my wife.”
tive magistrate, new to the district, inquired
the nature of the test in a defended case,
fell at the last three syllables himself and
thereupon dismissed the charge.
* * * *
. “I. Temple” There are some classic futili-
ties m the criminal-defence line, such as that
of the suspect who, on being asked to explain
the possession of a large sum of money, says
he won it at the races from an unknown
bookie on a horse of which he has forgotten
the name. The “I-must-have-been-drunk”
plea has always been popular. At Sydney
Central Police Court last week an accused
employed it to explain away th© unauthorised
acquisition of £22 worth of bathing cos-
tumes. But one William Lorger put up
something like a record for audacity when he
asked the same Court to believe that pro-
perty which he was suspected of having
stolen had been sold to him in the street
fi° r 2" £ sum which he could not recall, by
a tall, dark bloke” who had immediately
disappeared. The property consisted of
nearly four tons of salt!
“W. H. Elsum”: My young hopeful, de-
spatched to the Chinese laundry for a par-
cel of shirts and collars, had succeeded in
losing the ticket, and after reproving him
for his carelessness I sought the establish-
ment myself and endeavored to explain the
situation to the lady celestial who faced me
across the counter. “Allee samee,” I com-
menced hopefully, “me loosem tlicket; ten
collar, two shirt; you savee?” An immobile
stare, sufficient to freeze a street hydrant,
was all the response I got, and I tried again.
“You savee plurry bad pfeller ticket lost;
dam’ budgeree kid; no gottem collar, shirt.
What!” The reply came this time, in frigid
but perfectly-modulated sentences. “Pardon.
I have not the slightest idea of what you
are endeavoring to explain, except to suspect
that you have lost your laundry-ticket. If
so, then if you will kindly remove your collar
I shall be able to trace your laundry by our
private mark.” After a slow recovery I
feebly acquiesced.
* * * *
“Tails”: The myth about tailed English-
men had a vogue in other countries beside
Spain and Portugal (B. 24/10/’2B). Honest
John Bale, the reformer of Edward Vl.’s
time, deals with it thus: “John Copgrave
and Alexander of Essely sayth, that for
castynge of fyshe tayles at Saint Augustyne,
Dorsettshyre men had tayles ever after. But
Polydorus applieth it unto Kentishmen at
Stroud, by Rochester, for cuttinge off Thomas
Becket’s horse’s tayle. Thus hath England
in all other lands a perpetual infamy of
tayles, that an Englyshman now cannot
travayle in another land by way of mer-
chandyse, or any other honest occupying, but
it is most contumeliously thrown in his
tethe that all Englishmen have tayles.”
“Percy Pawnticket”: In spite of H.C.L.
and the ruinous expense of motor-hire, fear-
less youth plunges into marriage at an
increasing rate; last year of the 40,104
people in N. S. Wales who entered the holy
state of matrimony 12,000 women and
7700 men were under 25—a larger pro-
portion than has been known for many
years. Over 80 ’grooms were no more than
seventeen, and one of them was 15; six
girls were married at 14, 59 at 15, and 300
at 16. At the other end of life 15 brides
of over 70 faced the altar, one of them being
87; the oldest ’groom was 89, and four
others were octogenarians. Divorce showed
its hand early on at least two occasions,
judging from the union of a couple, each
aged. 20, who had both been freed from
previous conjugal bonds. Two ventures in
matrimony whilst still in legal infancy seems
over the odds.
* * if
“Graeme”: The unconventional ways oi
the Citizens’ Defence Brigade during the
recent wharf troubles at Adelaide remind
me of my term of active service during the
shearers’ strike in Queensland 37 years ago.
Our crowd (B Company, 4th Regt.) were
camped in the Murweh Divisional Board yard
at Chari eville, and one of our duties was
to provide a guard at night for the residence
of the P.M., whom the strikers had openly
threatened' to send aloft, along with police-
officer Geraghty. I was orderly-officer, and
on my rounds at 10 p.m. found the sergeant of
the guard fraternising with an old chap who
was brandishing a union ticket and a rum-
bottle. Both were as blithered as owls.
Being young and ambitious, I was about
to secure the enemy and report the incident
to h.q., when the sergeant interposed. “We’re
all right, sir,’’ he hiccuped; “ ’e’s me ol’
man!”
* * *
“Gouger”: Thursday Islanders regard
themselves as having a special proprietorial
interest in Captain Cook, for Endeavor
Strait washes their front doorstep, while
from the verandah they glimpse Possession
Island, where m 1770 the illustrious navi-
gator took possession, in the name of Kin-'
George 111., of the whole of the eastern sea-
board of Australia. A tablet marks the spot,
but few people know that when Cook and his
party landed on the tiny shingled beach they
stepped over a quartz reef with lumps of gold
rLa-. 6 S L ze °f r *! sins - Surveyor Embley
found it when landing to take observations
many years later. If Cook and his men had
only noticed that gold at their feet—and
there was a much larger goldfield within
easy distance—Australia might have been
populated from the north instead of the south.
* *
“Murkah”: Broadcasting promises to be
a good thing for the watchmaker. Steel is
magnetised by passing through it a steady
(r.e., one-way) electric current. The result
of this is to arrange the tiny particles of
steel in parallel rows so that they exert a
maximum “pull,” and we say that the metal
THE SPEED LIMIT.
MAS SPARKLEIGH : “Twins again. I hear, Mr. Snoarty? You pretty well keep a doctor
going, don’t you?”
MA. SNOARTY: “Doctor! Mrs. Snoarty don’t want a doctor. What she wants is a
traffic cop.”
is magnetised. Removed from the magnetis-
ing force, the steel slowly returns to its
higgledy-piggledy state. The pulsating cur-
rents of radio, by magnetising (as they rise)
and demagnetising (as they fall) endlessly
shake up the internal arrangements of the
watch-spring; consequently the magnetism
inherent in tough steel slowly vanishes; the
spring loses some of its resiliency and the
watch commences to drift.
**:!■*
“Mimosa”-: The biggest stampede of horses
I ever witnessed occurred during the war at
the Imperial Government’s Remount Depot
at Abbassia, in Egypt. It was the first day
of the Mohammedan Ramadan, when the
faithful must fast’and pray from 6 a.m. to
12 noon daily. A gun was fired every, four
hours from the Citadel at Cairo, as a signal
for true believers to turn
towards Mecca and prostrate
themselves in prayer. On this
morning a newly-arrived English
officer was in charge of some
9000 horses sent out for their
usual exercise in the desert.
When the gun was fired at noon
thousands of syces in their flow-
ing robes hurriedly dismounted
and prostrated themselves on
the ground. The fresh Austra-
lian and M.L. prads were badly
scared, as any horse unused to
circus work might well have
been, and a wild stampede fol-
lowed. The thunder of hoofs as
the maddened animals came over
the desert to their lines was
like artillery fire. About 7000
arrived in camp unhurt; the
balance galloped on towards the
Mokattum cliffs, and hundreds
went right' Over. At least 200
were either killed on the spot
or had to be destroyed; four or
five times as many were injured.
The casualties among the syces
were never published, but they
were undoubtedly heavy. The
authorities, however, seemed to
be much more concerned about the horses;
the reason possibly being that the cheapest
horse cost over £lOO, whereas a syce’s value
to the Allies was three piastres per
day.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Touching those who still enjoy
recalling the World War and the part, they
played in it (B. 31/10/ ! 28), you may see
coming off the Sydney central railway station
any morning an ex-Digger with the three
blue chevrons which signify that he was
thrice wounded sewn on the sleeve of his
light-grey civvy suit. His tailor has the job
of changing them over whenever he indulges
in a new rigout.
* * * *
“Atherton”: In the Desert campaign it
was easy to get lost at any time, but I well
remember on e night when a mist blocked us
even from steering by the stars. The- whole
regiment, rode like shrouded ghosts, the only
sound being the shuffle of hoofs, the squelch
of sand, and an occasional softly-whispered
curse. . Each horse of the 500 plodded on
with his nose thrust against the leader’s tail,
for it was impossible to see further. We rode
right up a sloping bank on to a screaming
medley of “Allah!” “Allah !” “Allah!” “Aus-
tral-ee!” “Austral-ee!” “Austral-ee!” As the
foremost horses stumbled down into the
redoubt, heavily-coated figures staggered up
with arms upraised. Three sharp revolver
shots, one shouted order, a machine : gun stut-
tering into the air, and the electrified regi-
ment had wheeled as one horse and were gal-
loping like a thundering avalanche. We pulled
up a mile away, mustered in marvellously
quick time and ascertained with the mini-
mum of vocal sound that not a man was
missing. I have often wondered whether
we or the Turks got the worse scare.
* * * *
“P.X.”: Thousands of Australian eyes
have had a first look, these last few days, at
a baby Polar bear. And not exactly a baby
either; but it has been shut away from
father for five months and has only just
been given a look at the world. Even now.
though the child is the size of a half-grown
Newfoundland dog and almost as ungainly,
pa is not allowed in the same enclosure.
Ordinarily the Polars are as silent as they
are treacherous (the keepers trust them les?
than any ether animals in the Taronga
Zoo) ; but Ma Bear is continually calling
to the kid as it scrambles among her legs—
not much of a call, but distinct. Some day
perhaps the attendants may hear even the
giraffes make some sound; hitherto the
quaint three have been completely silent.
Queerly enough, both the giraffes and the
zebras, supposed to be the wildest of wild
animals, settle down to zoo life more speedily
than almost any other animals, and become
cxtraordinarly docile. There has been, of
course, no natural increase yet in the popu-
lation of the giraffe colony, but the zebras
have quite settled down to domestic life —
disturbed lately, however, hy the deeply
regretted death of the male head of the
household, from pneumonia.
* ❖ ❖ sji
“Murkah”: Apropos the story of the coun-
cil which discussed the purchase of a con-
veyance that might be utilised as either
ambulance or hearse (B. 24/10/’2B). Years
ago my dad “had the burying” of the paupers
from Mooroopna (Vic.) hospital. The
cemetery was about three miles away and
the old man used to drive out his passengers
m a buggy. One day he discovered a youth
near the road with a smashed arm and a
dilapidated ear. His gun had exploded. Inside
of a minute Dad had turned out the
corpse, taken the cot-case aboard, and headed
for the hospital. Shortly afterwards
Mooroopna was amazed to see a bob-tailed
funeral doing 20 miles an hour down the
mam street. The man recovered, but six
months later he was fatally injured while
dynamiting stumps, and the old man took
him for a ride in the opposite direction.
* * * *
“Gregor”: No archajologist has vet solved
the mystery of the ruins of the great city
which once existed in the Caroline Group,
only a few days’ steam from Australia’s
northern shores. A portion of the site is
now . covered by the sea, but from what is
left it has bc-en deduced that the place was
inhabited by two separate peoples, a sub-
ject race, and their conquerors'. Amongst
the remains. of buildings still in existence
are some which are conjectured to have been
enormous slave-barracks and others which
were almost certainly granaries. As the
present island group could never have sup-
ported the population which the city must
have once possessed, it is a fair assumption
that the islands were originally a part of
a great Northern Pacific land-mass which
later became submerged by some cataclysmic
upheaval, as was the case with Easter
island. Nowhere in the Islands is there
to be.found any place from which the stone
used in the buildings could have been (mar-
ried.
CROWN AND ANCHOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Plonk it down, my lucky fellows. Give the
poor old man a start!
Here you are now! What about a little
flutter on the heart?
What’s the use of hanging to it? Fritz’ll
get you like as not,
And some squarehead will go through you,
and you’ll lose the blanky lot.
“Who’s got something for the mudhook? Now
a bit upon the crown!
Are you all done? Don’t be backward!
Come on, lads, and shower it down.
Any more before we lift her? Well, we’ll
see how much you knew.
Ah! the old man gets a skinner —and the
old man needs it, too.”
Through the night of fear and muddle oft the
“old man’s” laughter came,
And we knew that he was with us in a
sterner, bloodier game.
But we missed him in the morning when a
wan and sickly sun
Rose to look upon the mad things and the
sad things men had done.
And he tried to smile a greeting, though his
cheerful eye was dim,
From the deep and muddy shell-hole where
at last we came on him.
And his board was torn and dirty, and his
dice were stained with red.
"I was hoping that you’d find me ’fore I
lifted it,” he said.
And he whispered, when he heard us for the
( stretcher-bearers call,
“Don’t you worry. I’ll be good-o if old Pete’s
a sport at all.
I’ll just spread the board and play him for
the chance of getting through,
And perhaps I’ll get a skinner —and I guess
I’ll need it, too.”
W.A.
£
OSCAR WALTERS.


“Murkah”: A few rounds of recrimination
had ended by one councillor calling another
a liar. Asked by the chairman to withdraw
he said simply, “I reiterate it.” His oppo-
nent instantly became affable. “Any man
might get excited and call another a liar.
But when he reiterates it —well that’s all
right.” And he took up the burden of the
argument he had been engaged on before
the personalities began.
* * * . *
“Wang”: The hawker nuisance in the
Melbourne suburbs (B. 17/10/’2B) is a cruel
ordeal for unprotected women. All sorts
of deterrents and protective measures are
being resorted to, a favorite ruse being to
have one’s gate decorated with a “Beware
of the dog” sign even though there is no
dog to beware of. Other methods show more
originality. I know a lady with a brother in
the “foorce” who keeps one of his, discarded
helmets prominently displayed on the hall-
stand. She is rarely worried after the first
inquiry from the party standing on the
doormat'. A relative of mine has evolved
what she is satisfied is an even better
scheme. In a back room she always has a
gramophone ready, the record being an ad-
dress bv a resonant-voiced speaker. As soon
THE TREND OF FASHION.
DEPT. STORE MANAGER: “But we advertised for a fashion designer, and all these sketches
of yours are nudes.”
ARTIST: “Yes, but you mentioned in the advertisement that the successful applicant
doesn’t start until next month.”
as a ring comes • to the front door she sets
the machine going, throwing a sheet over it
to tone down the “tinny” sound. And when
the hawker starts his patter, she shouts
down the passage to Jack to “keep quiet
for a minute” and then says she wants
nothing. That preserves her from further
annoyance—till the next pedlar arrives.
* * * *
“Verri”: The resentment felt by some
Sydney hotelkeepers at the Salvation Army’s
Prohibition activities (B. 24/10/’2B) recalls
the experience of a Maoriland parson during
the agitation for the abolition of the book-
maker some years ago. One of the most gen-
erous supporters of the local church was a
wealthy ringman and moneylender; there
was no more regular attendant at services,
and his daughters were indefatigable church-
workers. One night he sat attentively in his
pew while the parson preached trenchantly
on “Tainted Money,” with some home thrusts
at usurers and gamblers. He made no com-
ment on the sermon, and when the parson
issued his periodic appeal some weeks later
the bookmaker’s envelope seemed as plump as
usual. But it contained no cheque—only the
bookmaker’s card and a newspaper clipping
of the sermon.
* * * *
“Ula”: “Oxmead” is wrong in assuming
“bo” to be the American abbreviation of
“brother” (B. 10/10/28). Actually it is
the abbreviation of “hobo” and was origin-
ally applied to tramps. Gradually it obtained
a wider vogue, though at first it was regarded
as somewhat insulting.
* . * * *
“Exdig”: There was so much tampering
with spirits in Egypt (B. 24/10/’2B) that
the “unrefillable” bottle gave prestige to the
whisky firm which introduced it. But the
Gyppos soon demonstrated that the container
with the patent top was as refillable as any
other. Their method was to drill a hole in the
bottom of the bottle, extract the genuine
contents and substitue the brummy stuff;
the application of heat sealed the hole when
the bottle was filled. But the pimple in the
glass remained as an evidence of tampering,
and knowledgeable Diggers soon began to
look for that before giving good money away
for whisky, even in “unrefillable” bottles.
* * * *
“Speero”: Mention of the locale of the
great cattle-duffing incident in “Robbery
Under Arms” (B. 24/10/’2B) prompts me
to inquire if there is any site which answers
to the supposed hiding-place of the Marston
gang, “Terrible Hollow,” located apparently
on the western slopes of the Blue Mountains.
He * He
“Billy See”: Among queer vehicles used
on the Westralian goldfields in the ’nineties
Tom Cane’s wheelbarrow ranked high as a
curiosity. Constructed entirely of rough, un-
sawn mulga, it possessed a wheel two feet
in diameter made of split saplings nailed
criss-crossways and then sawn to a circle.
Cane was fossicking at Nannine, on the
Murchison, when the report of Lake Darlot
came through; so, loading his shaker and
other goods on the barrow, he started off.
The distance was 150 miles across a desert
as dry as an ashpit, but Cane got there all
right. Then, finding the place over-rushed,
he decided that Nannine was best, after all,
and went back with his barrow. He was 50
years old at the time, and the barrow wasn’t
young.
* * * *
“Gregor”: Even from the dreaded “L’lle
Diable” French convicts still escape occa-
sionally ; there was a time when their pre-
decessors made almost as .sensational bolts
from lie Nou, the island just off Noumea,
where the transportees were mostly kept. One
of the most perilous voyages on record was
that made by two French convicts, without
the slightest knowledge of navigation, in a
frail cockleshell of a boat from their island
prison to one of the beaches just north of
Sydney. They endured terrible privations,
but their luck didn’t hold after they got
ashore; both the poor devils were re-arrested
in Sydney by a French detective, whose job
was to look out for runaway convicts, and
sent back to Noumea. Many escapees who
succeeded in getting to New Guinea had
less to apprehend in the days when William
Macgregor was Administrator; that worthy
held the view that so long as new arrivals
behaved themselves it mattered little whence
they came or what they had done, and the
French Government more than once pro-
tested in London at Macgregor’s refusal to
take steps to apprehend some runaway who
was known to be in the territory Ilis
successor, Le Hunte, proved a very different
proposition, and every escapee who could be
caught was handed over to the French Govern-
ment, while others disappeared into the
German territory 1 . Shortly afterwards
France ceased transportation to the Pacific,
except in the case of an occasional political
or military offender; the last of these was
sent out only about 18 years ago.
ALSO RAN.
"Are you the ’groom?”
"No—I was eliminated in the preliminary heats.”
“A.8.C.”: The Rcdfern (Sydney) council
which announced that darkness commenced
when the street lamps were lighted (B.
24/10/’2B) had a rival in a N.Q. local
authority. At a river which was forded by
the coach and other vehicles there stood for
years a signboard notifying all and sundry:
“When this sign is under water it is not
safe to cross this river.” '
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: There was material for
a historical picture in the first ferryboat,
the Experiment, built for the Parramatta
service in 1832. The paddle-wheels were
worked by horse-power. The mokes had a
wide space on deck, where they tramped
round and round for three hours each trip,
like the whim horses on the goldfields and
at backblock sheep wells. The Experiment
was a 2-h.p. boat, but the rate of progress
depended on the condition of the prads
and the weather. So far as I know, she was
the only Australian ferry-boat that the
driver said “Whoa” and “Giddap” to.
* * * *
“Flagwagger”: It had long been the custom
of many artisans at a Melbourne iron trade
factory to bolt their lunch and spend the
rest of the hours at penny nap, a'cause for
sadness to the religiously inclined deputy-
foreman. Recently, unable to bear it any
longer, he suggested to the gamblers that
they give up card-playing in favor of a rope-
quoit tournament to be held during lunch
hours. He would supply the quoits and
also donate a valuable prize. The gamblers
readiiy fell in with the suggestion, and soon
the tournament was in full swing. Finally
all hands gathered for the presentation of
the trophy. There were roars of laughter
when the. deputy-foreman presented the
winner with a very large . and handsome
illustrated Bible, a regular edition de luxe.
The mirth was occasioned because the re-
cipient is an atheist, fond of airing his
views and his hostility to all religions. But
no one laughed louder or longer than he.
* „ * „ . * T v
Mako : The Auckland (M.D.) Educa i
i^°at d last S to be allowed Sfollowßs natural
bent Henceforth -when a boy or girl shows
a decided inclination to write and work with
the left hand he or she is to be permitted
to do so and as such children will inevit-
ably learn to be almost equally capable with
the right a race of ambidextrous youngsters
is likely to arise in the next generation.
Experts have asserted that forcing the left-
handed child permanently to use the right
hand upsets the brain balance, and the old
superstition against the left hand has had
to give wav to modern research.
* * * *
“Gouger”: I never saw a man with such
a mutilated hide as that Islands celebrity,
the late lamented Nicholas the Greek. There
was hardly a square inch of his skin but
bore the brand of some desperate encounter
with man, fish or beast. In confidence
Nicholas used to say, with that wary grin
of his, that man was the least formidable
because one always met him in his own
element. One strip of Nicholas’s back car-
ried marks suggestive of the cat-o’-nine-
tails (which he had actually tasted), but
these scars were left by the claws of a New
Guinea alligator. A gash across his thigh
was the legacy from a shark, while a neat
hollow bitten clean out from a calf of his
leg was the work of a sea-snake. His “man
wounds” were beyond counting, inflicted by
bullet, spear, arrow, club, tomahawk and
knife. There were even a few razor slashes,
but knife wounds predominated, due mostly
to Nicholas’s acquaintance with excitable
Malays. Although he was usually ranked as
a dangerous desperado, Nicholas had quite
a number of good deeds to his credit. On
one occasion off the N.Q. coast, while trying
to save the life of a native girl, he found
himself up against 11 colored men with toma-
hawks and knives, and was badly carved up
before he reached shore through shark-
infested water. He was sewn up with a
packing-needle and thread.
* * * *
“Miro”: Further to the vagaries of coro-
ners’ juries (B. 31/10/’28), Maoriland has
on its official records a verdict that will take
some beating. It was produced by a thought-
ful panel which had been investigating a
suicide case, and was compressed into the
three words, “Jealousy and measles.”
* ifC *
“Morkrum” : A lady recently called at Syd-
ney G.P.O. to cash a postal-note issued in
1898! The amount was a modest two bob.
The clerk explained that liability had ceased
in 1904, and that in any case the search-fee,
which increases yearly, had swallowed the
last penny about 20 years ago. The lady
expressed keen annoyance and left, taking the
curio with her. It had been mislaid in a
Bible.
# $ * *
“Taveta”: The cabled statement that the
Prince of Wales delighted a gathering of
East Africans by addressing them in their
own language (B. 17/10/’28) suggests an
almost miraculous achievement. Between
the east coast and Nairobi there are many
tribes with quite different dialects, ranging
from Swahili to the “giddy Masai,” and most
of them would have representatives at sucli
a ceremony. Swahili is perhaps the best-
known dialect, and this was the lingo adopted
by the troops for communication with the
natives during the East African campaign,
but time and again, as I can certify, it
proved quite unintelligible. Genera] Smuts
kept with him a number of Somali inter-
preters with a fine flow and grasp of several
native languages, but it was no uncommon
thing for them to confess themselves stumped
by the patois of some obscure tribe.
LAKE POETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Discussing the much-written-of magic of the
Australian bush, “Sol Malaprop” draws attention (B.
24/10/’28) to “the conspicuous lack of a distinctive
school of Lake poets.”
I slept, and dreamed that a wireless came
From the shore of a waveless sea,
Where the myall hunts for his scanty game
’Twixt sky with a burnished orb aflame
And earth with a desert pea;
Aye, a message fluttered from far Lake Eyre
To say four poets were camping there
Under a kurrajong-tree.
There was Hartley, a gay and festive lad
With a healthy thirst a-tlirob,
And Sam, his slightly wild-eyed dad,
And Bill, the look of a saint who had,
And plodding, fluent Bob.
Who was it sent it, that message droll?
Well, it may have been a police patrol
Or some of a Reso mob.
Reincarnations, it seemed, the four,
From a hundred years ago,
Of bards with bays that they won and wore
For lays they lilted by Grassmere’s shore
Or under Helvellyn’s snow,
On Rydal Mount or by Ambleside
When the old world wasn’t a tithe as wide
As the world wa fellows know.
And they’d come to rattle the highbrow push,
Their threnodies amid,
With simple songs of the heart and the bush,
As a change from artificial slush
With its meaning darkly hid,
To lift the blight from a nation’s verse
And its shoddy tricks and its shams dis-
perse—
Just as their forebears did.
I dreamed they lay by a lake of sand
As salt as the wife of Lot;
And faint yet clear, as from elfinland,
Came lyrics a chap could understand,
Not high-flown, cryptic rot.
Yet the reeds that quiver beside Lake Eyre
And the lapping wavelets are mighty rare.
So how could there be a Lake school there?
A quaint dream, was it not?
N.s.w.
T. THE R.
DISARMING THE ZOO.
( Vide recent speech by Winston Churchill.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Animals in conference concurred
That warfare is abhorrent; nay, absurd,
Pourparlers in the basement of the Zoo
Were duly held. The Rhino said: “I view
With deep concern the use of teeth and
claws,
Hostility’s inevitable cause.
Yet horns should be permitted, in the sense
Of necessary weapons of defence.”
The Buffalo, the Stag, the Porcupine #
Said heartily Them sentiments are mine,
Whereto the Lion spoke with scornful roar;
When brains were given out, behind the
door . .
You and your pals were lurking surely,
w ., v T • „ ,
teeth or claws. A\ ith answering snarl
and yelp
Tigers and Cats and Leopards backed his
plea....
Arose a voice of ursine suavity:
"Comrades, you blither. Horn and fan,,
alike . ,
Are primitive survivals. Let us strike
The golden mean. A close fraternal hue.
bor instance. Screamed the Jui key-
gobbler, Thug!
Whereat confusion dire and disarray
Quashed the debate. De vobis fabliau
Ye plempos. who fashion peace-pacts. W ait
Until the jungle-urge we sublimate.
victoria.
WAWHERSH.


INVESTORS!
Now Offering—An Investment Which Is Safe,
Sound and Profitable.
All Motor Investments, practically without exception, have proved
Big Profit Earners for Investors.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
R. F. OLIVER 8 OLIVER
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER COMPANIES ACTS 1899-191 A.
Nominal Capital - - - £50,000
Divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
REGINALD FRANCIS OLIVER, Managing Director, 147 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
DAVID LYNTON WILLIAMS, Solicitor, Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney.
FREDERICK ENGLAND, Investor, Ritchard Avenue, Coogee, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, LIMITED, Castle- ,
reagh Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS: A. S. WiNTON & CO., F.1.C.A., Public Accountants,
79-81 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SOLICITOR: D. LYNTON WILLIAMS, Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
H. J. WALKER, A.1.1.A., 147 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The name of R, F. Oliver and Oliver, Ltd., is well and favorably
known in the motor trade of Sydney. The business of the Company
has shown steady and consistent progress, and it is now deemed
necessary to obtain further working capital to meet the expanding
turnover.
As some indication of the Company’s trade over the past three
years the following summary of motor-cars sold is interesting, viz.:
Year, Total. New Cars. Used Cars.
1925 . . . . 412 287 125
1926 . . . . 687 - 398 289
1927 . . . . 778 446 322
This shows an increase in the sale of cars from eight per week in
1925 to I 6 in 192 7—an increase of 100 per cent.
The tendency for increased sales of motor vehicles is shown in the
following table, taken from the weekly statement of Registrations,
as issued by the Traffic Department, Sydney:—
NEW CAR REGISTRATION.
December, 1925 26,467
December, 1926 33,215
December, 1927 38,411
It is reasonable to assume a continuance of this position for many
years, and that Oliver and Oliver (Australia), Ltd., will share in
this increased business. The capital required will be utilised in
the direction of handling this anticipated increase in sales.
AGENCIES.
The agencies to be taken over by the new Company from the . Vendor
Company are:—
1. —The Hudson-Essex Agency agreement, now current between
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., and R. F. Oliver and Oliver, Limited.
2. —The Buick, Oldsmobile and Vauxhall Agency agreement, now
current between Boyd Edkins and Co., Ltd., and R. F. Oliver
and Oliver, Ltd.
3. —The Reo and Wolverine Agency agreement, now current
between Reo Motors, Ltd., and R. F. Oliver and Oliver, Ltd.
TERM SALES.
Owing to the inadequate working capital of most motor companies,
the term sales, or cars purchased under hire-purchase agreement,
are carried by some outside organisation or discounting house, with
the result that the Company loses the profit on the term sales as
far as interest and insurance are concerned.
The Company desires to retain this very considerable profit for the
use of shareholders, and accordingly it is proposed to carry a large
part of its own term sales. The Directors believe that the profit
from interest and insurance derived from term sales alone will be
more than ample to pay a substantial dividend.
MANAGEMENT.
The Company is fortunate in being able to secure the services of
Mr. R. F. Oliver as Managing Director for a period of three years,
so ensuring a very desirable continuity of management.
An investment of this nature occurs seldom
in a lifetime.
SEND FOR COPY OF FULL PROSPECTUS TO
. F. Oliver £ Oliver (Australia) Limited
147-9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
STS).
iV'.ifcfe
Si&'m
11 . :l_
lIjmT , ® ,TT,-TrlT \
I
Wn
m J
*
DeliOers Dainties
Da|r
Calers tor Callers
Kgcps iheCbok
‘Freeze with Ease.'
Porcelain Lined.
WRITE FOR
PRICES AND
TERMS.
e a
ED
v,i
J 4,
m\
In these days of uncertain domestic
help, think of the relief of always
being prepared for unexpected
callers.
ElectrlCE, the up-to-date Electric
Refrigerator, reduces the labor of
food preparation to a minimum.
A supply of cooked food can be
prepared when you have time free,
and you can rely on being able to
serve it fresh and wholesome days
later.
ElectrlCE is quiet, dependable and
automatic —it looks after itself.
Made in various sizes, lacquered in
white and other attractive colors,
and sold at varying prices, there
is a suitable ElectrlCE for every
household.
Before you decide, call, see an
ElectrlCE working and inspect our
Model Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty., Ltd.,
137-39 CLARENCE STREET
(top of Barrack Street, near G.P.0.), Sydney.
’Phone 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
m
AN EMMCO
PRODUCT
Made by
Electricity Meter Mfg. Co., Ltd.
F
An Emmco Product Te/a - B w - ,3ia
MANUFACTURERS PRODUCTS PT? IT-
137CLARENCE S T ■— SYDNEY
PLEASE SEND FREE YOUR ELECTRiGE RECIPE BOOK
TO
Name ——
Street
City....
State.
8.8.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Beautiful Solid Gold
Cigarette Case
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Australian craftsmanship, as exemplified in
this fine gold work, has produced a cigarette
case of most pleasing and sensible design, which
will give lifetime service. The use of our own
gold, fashioned by local craftsmen, enables
Fairfax & Roberts to offer this desirable case
at £lO/10/-. There is no possession which gives
one more satisfaction than a gold cigarette
case, and the value represented at this price 1
will be recognised.
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET,
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
| IwßflMWil
Cigarette Case, solid
9ct. Gold, to hold
2 rows cigarettes,
£lO/10/-
7^
"ft* Finc/t Inland Golf"
link/ in Australia
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management—G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The first Federal Ministry in which
Andrew Fisher sat lasted from April to
August, 1904. Anderson Dawson, Gregor
• McGregor and Batchelor pre-deceased the
ex-High Commissioner; J. C- Watson, W. M.
Hughes and Federal Judge Higgins survive
him. And presumably Hugh Mahon, the eighth
Minister, does, too, though hai’dly a thing
has been heard about Mahon since he was
beaten at the by-election which followed his
expulsion from Parliament in 1920. Few
public men have fallen so completely out of
the public eye.
Bob Cook, who lost the Indi seat
to the Labor candidate through forgetting to
lodge his nomination, is a farmer with a pas-
sionate devotion to Strawberry. When an
enthusiast for Canberra was showing him
over the garden capital for the first time his
comment was: “Humph ! Doesn’t look as if
the place would be any good for cows.”
J. M. Niall, managing director of Golds-
borough Mort, has had a Mclnnes portrait
of him —a faithful job—presented to him
by the shareholders. A South Australian
by birth, Niall has been associated with the
great wool co. for 33 years, and in his last
10 years as managing director dividends have
amounted to £1,750,000. He is GS.
Tom Walsh, crowned with the Court deci-
sion that he is the lawful secretary of the
Seamen’s Union, is experiencing all the un-
easiness to which crowned heads are sub-
ject. When he attends his Sydney office
a police escort goes with him, and enraged
supporters of Jacob Johnson decorate the
neighboring kerbstones, to be handy to heave
insults and threats at the winner. Walsh
is a studious man—one of his recreations
is looking for bargains in the Castlereagh-
street bookshops. He has no use for
gambling in any shape or form. Johnson, on
the other hand, is an inveterate punter. An
argument on this subject -was probably the
start of their feud.
Dr. J. M. Creed, the N.S.W. Leg. Coun-
cil’s oldest member, will be 86 on November
21. When 25 he was medical officer to the
South Aus. Government exploring expedition
to North Australia.
After 51 years of service, T. E. Burrows,
a great builder of public works in N. S.
Wales, has retired. Much of the sea-wall
on Sydney Harbor foreshores was put up
under Burrows’s supervision when he was
quite a young engineer ; the big reservoir under
the hill in Waverley Park was also an
early job; Garden Island, Cook’s River and
the Hume reservoir show other results of
bis plans. Ho is a Sydneysider born, and
was an old Fort-street boy.
J. S. Harris, Country-party candidate for
Wimmera, was in the A.I.F. for four years.
He went away as a corporal in tbe 29th
Battalion, and ■was adjutant when knocked
at Vauxvillers on August 9, 1918. Like
Roland Green, of the same party, he lost his
left leg, and was a hospital patient for over
two years. When in hospital Harris wanted
to study for the Bar, but could not manage
it. After a year as secretary of the Kerang
Agricultural Society, however, the indomit-
able fellow set about realising his ambition,
find, with a partner, E. E. Davies, he is now
practising as a solicitor at Nyah West.
Jimmy Gardiner, who was Treasurer
under three Westralian Premiers—Leake,
Walter James and Lefroy—is dead after a
long illness. He had a good head for figures
and was a pithy speaker; also, he had a
way with him. Becoming representative of
the Midland Railway Co., he retired from
politics in 1904, just before the James Gov-
ernment was defeated, and next year nearly
brought off the sale of the Midland railway
to the Daglish Labor Government, but was
fated never to pocket the fat commission.
After ten years Gardiner returned to the
Leg. Assembly as a Country-party member,
but found that even office had lost its attrac-
tions. His great hobby was cricket, and he
was president of the W.A.C.A. for many
years.
Dead in Adelaide, at 89, Alexander Tolmer,
a link with far-past days in S.A. His father
and namesake was the Commissioner of
Police who organised a gold escort to bring
back safely across the mallee scrub (then
called “desert’.’) the S.A. diggers who bad
been successful at Ballarat and Bendigo.
Alexander the Second remembered this well
as an incident of his boyhood; also a fierce
fight with brandy smugglers in the sandhills
of Glenelg.
Hostilities were suspended in Vic. Leg.
Assembly the other day while Premier Hogan,
Opposition-leader McPherson and other lead-
• „ , . , . . . .. , ,
11 F S rJ? iem^M S v d their regrets at the death
of Tom Gilchrist, one of the ablest officers
the House has ever had. A little less than
two years ago Gillie left the job of Clerk-
assistant of the Assembly to become Clerk of
the Uppah Chambah. He retired at the
end of 1927, only to be recalled in April
to take the secretaryship of the Royal Com-
mission on railway management; this illness
forced him to resign a month or so before
he got the call aloft. Before becoming a
State officer he was the Argus political
and departmental roundsman, and in that
capacity wielded great influence; he was all
but _ an honorary member of two or three
~ _ . . _ . , ,
Congregational-minister Harris, who but-
toned his collar at the back for 33 years,
went gut the other day, after having been
chaplain of the Independent Cemetery at
Rookwood Sydney, long enough to bury
3000 people there But lie had happier
® 8 , ir i hls . llfe - A thousßnd weddings and
4000 christenings were among them.
Howard Ruff, dead in England, was a mili-
tant Englishman—if militancy can be applied
to such a mild little old man. For over half
a century he had talked and written Eng-
land as opposed to Britain or Empire—
and at lus death he was one of London’s
best-liked zealots. He founded the Royal
Society of St. George, which has branches all
over Australia, and it will get the whole
of his considerable fortune.
Cornelius Henry (Con) Curtain, of Laun-
ceston (Tas.), has gone prospecting beyond
the Styx. He had his first taste of mining at
Ballarat (he was born at Sebastopol), and
crossed to the Speck when he was 20. With
liis mate, Dixon, he pegged the ironstone cap
at Crotty, now the North Lyell. He was
one of the first at Zeehan, where he opened
up the Silver King, whose shares jumped from
£2 to £136 in a few weeks, and he after-
wards managed the Oonah. In 1902 he was
appointed inspector of mines. Retiring
last year, he spent his leisure writing a his-
tory of the West Coast.
Anglican-missionary. MacFarlane knows
Torres Strait and the Gulf of Carpentaria
as few men do. He is at sea ten months of
the year in the mission ketch; when eveu
the pearling fleet is tied up during the nor’-
west “blows,” the Herald, like a fluttering
gull, is thrashing her way to Boigu. With
his colored crew, MacFarlane will sail at
night through intricate passage-ways and
over tide-washed reefs that would make even
a Jap captain’s hair stand on end. The
prosperity of several happy Torres Strait vil-
lages is mainly due to tbe organising ability
and devoted work of “Mac.” The Bulletin
numbers him among its most valued contribu-
tors’.
JL S. Dane is back in Melbourne from
London, where he floated the Cocks Pioneer
show at Eldorado (Yic.) 22 years ago—
the mine is still being worked. Dane stayed
on and has been connected with several
important promotions, among them a Spanish
mine which produces copper, native sulphur
and quicksilver. He intends returning to
England in a few months.
Dr. Leslie Ilalberstater, appointed medical
superintendent of the. Townsville General
Hospital, Pne of the largest in Queensland,
is a Mount Morganite. He entered Queens-
land Uni. on a scholarship, and went in first
for science and engineering. Moving on to
Sydney Uni., he took up medicine. or
a couple of years he was in charge of the
j n f ec tj o us Diseases Hospital at Wattlebrae,
near Brisbane, and later was head of the
jy[ oun t Morgan institution,
, , £ ~ ~
Richard Buckley, the fust Aust a
command an American vessel m the Aus-
tralia-America trade, returned to Melbourne
recently as master of cargo-ship Jadden.
Joining the Roosevelt line eight years ago-
he was 34 then—as petty-officer, Buckley
was ma d e master in 1927. He is a native
0 f Melbourne’s Richmond. During the war
he was in the U.S. transport service, and
helped to move Czeclio-Slovakian troops from
yiadivostock to Trieste.
George Hetet, son of a French whaler, who
married Rangi Tuato hi, a chieftainess of the
Ma niapoto tribe, has gone to his account, at
§4 The o]d chap was head of the family
tha t founded Te Kuiti and Otorohanga in
the King count ry; he has left over 200 do-
scendants, including 86 grandchildren, 105
great-grandchildren and 11 great-great-
grandchildren. During the war 34 members
of the family served with the Maoriland
forces.
Two S. Aus. knights have put up what are
rc .garded as Australian records. Langdon
Bonytlion, proprietor of the Advertiser, who
was 8 q last month, has been a generous pre-
sident of Adelaide School of Mines for just
on 4( j years . an d Lancelot Stirling, 79 on
jy ov . 5; h ag been president of S.A. Leg.
Council for upwards of 27 years, witli
aggregate of about 46 years’ service as a
legislator.
Colonel Tom White’s book, “Guests of the
Unspeakable,” is having a splendid sale in
Britain. Tom White was one of the first
Citizen Force officers to learn to fly, and
went to Mesopotamia with the first Flying
Corps unit to leave Australia. During the
battle of Ctesiphon he and a companion
volunteered to cut the telegraph wires behind
the enemy’s lines. They did their job, but
tlieir machine- refused to rise again and they
were made prisoners. After months of cap-
tivity in Asia Minor and Constantinople,
White escaped to Odessa in company with
an Englishman, Batt. Odessa had just been
occupied by an Austro-German army, so
they had to escape all over again. After
many adventures they reached the British
lines in Bulgaria a few days before the
Armistice.
The pioneer of wireless in Torres Strait
was schoolmaster Hudson, recently of Yam
Island. His first audience consisted of a
hundred or so brown men, women and kids.
The older folk were retired skull-hunters, and
were profoundly impressed. But the young
fellows were men of the world, having voy-
aged as far as Cairns in the trochus-lugger.-, ;
and nothing could surprise them.
Old war wounds have settled another good
Digger—Captain P. C. Eckersley, of Clay-
field, Brisbane. A Maryborough Grammar and
Brisbane Uni. student, he enlisted at 20 and
served four years with the 31st Battalion.
He came of a military family; his father,
Major P. Eckersley, survives him.
Jack Gordon will not vote, at the N.T.
.election, or ever again. Jack came with his
people from Scotland and lived in Queens-
land and the Territory for upwards of 60
years. He had a fund of anecdotes of the
old times; few men knew the aborigines bet-
ter. The family gave its name to Gordon-
vale.
The bankruptcy of the Conservative M.P.
for Ashton-under Lyne has resulted in a
by-election which has handed the seat to
British Labor. Parliamentary life in Eng-
land has led to many bankruptcies, but it
has always been regarded as the proper
thing to resign before the bankruptcy arrived.
The one case in N.S.W. where a member
lost his seat through bankruptcy was that ot
Harry Peters, Labor member for Canter-
bury. Peters subsequently worked in the
country for the Forestry Department in order
to strengthen his eyes, the weakness of which
had caused his rejection when he tried to get
into khaki: eventually he enlisted under the
name of Murray, was wounded at Meteran
and died in England.
Ages of some more Australian knights,
from Johns’s “Who’s Who” :
Wm. Mcßeath 63, Prof. Mungo MacCallum 74,
Major-Gen. J. W. McCay 64, Surgeon Alex. Mac-
Cormick 72, Melb. Uni. Chancellor Macfarland 77,
W.A. Chief Justice McMillan 70, Wm. McPherson
63, Prof. D. Orme Masson 70, Prof. Douglas Mawson
46, Alfred Meeks 79, Edward Miller 80, barrister
Edward F. Mitchell 73, Jas. Mitchell (W.A.) 62,
Prof. W. Mitchell 67, John Monash 63, Newton Moore
68, Prof. Harrison Moore 61, Frank Moulden 52, S.A.
Chief Justice Murray 65, Hubert Murray (Papua) 67,
Dr. 11. Simpson Newland 55, Senate President New-
lands 64, Speck’s Chief Justice Nieholls 60, Speck’s
Governor O’Grady 62, Alec Peacock 67, Minister
Pearce 58, Dr. Quick 76, Lennon Raws 50, Arthur
Rickard 60, Arthur Robinson 56, Major-Gen. Rosen-
thal 53, Major-Gen. High Commissioner Ryrie 63,
Mark Sheldon 57, Keith Smith 38, Major-Gen. Nevill
Smyth, V.C., 60, Wm. Sowden 70, Baldwin Spencer
68, Chief Justice Street 65, Prof. Archibald Strong
52, John Sulman 79, Dr. Geo. Syme 69, Dr. Joseph
Verco 77, Wm. Vicars 69, Graham Waddell 51, Fred.
Waley 68, Major-Gen. Brudenell White 52, explorer
Wilkins 40, Victor Wilson 51, Edward Wittenoom
74, and Fred. Young 52.
Padre John Scott Macdonald, who is get-
ting just praise from the reviewers for his
“Bookman’s Essays,” is teacher as well as
preacher; he is senior English and classical
master at Clayfield College, Brisbane. He
came to Australia with an Aberdeen degree
in 1901, occupied Presbyterian pulpits -in
Queensland for 18 years, and was in Pales-
tine with the 14th Light Horse. Outside
literature his hobbies are arehmology and
travel, but five young Queenslanders
qualify his desires in that direction.
“F. Street”: Lord Birkenhead wrote of
Dean Inge last week as one “possessing great
gifts as a journalist, and who is a most
clever, without being an insincere, poseur.”
As if there could be a sincere poseur! Birk-
enhead’s English always reminds me of It. D.
Meagher’s; it has the same rococo floweri-
ness and the same disregard of the meaning
of words. Churchill and Inge could earn
big incomes as writers if they were un-
known ; and Baldwin, who is inarticulate on
his feet, is an artist when he writes. But
if Birkenhead were not Birkenhead editors
would shoot out his ponderous copy on sight.
“Goff L.”: Andy Fisher worked his pas-
sage to Australia along with two other young
Scots. The tyrant of the fo’c’s’le said that
one of the three would have to clean his
boots. Andy spoke up for the trio. “We’ll
work for ye,” he said, “but we’ll no black
y’r boots” ; and they didn’t! Twenty-seven
years later, when Fisher, as Prime Minister,
was on his way from his hotel to turn the
first sod of the Kalgoorlie end of the rail-
way from Port Augusta, there stepped out
to meet him a sunburnt goldfielder, Jock
Stewart. “D’ye remember?” he ventured- in
his broad accent; but before he could pro-
ceed Fisher had grasped his hand. Jock was
one of Andy’s two shipmates, and they had
not met since.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Since the farcical
storm over the “Sing-’em-muck” episode has
subsided, there has been time to touch ou
a point of omission in- Clara Butt’s biography
which many consider much more serious than
any of the sins of commission. Musicians
generally are unable to understand why no
reference is made to that very unusual inci-
dent of a quarter of a century ago when, at
the Leeds Festival, Ada Crossley was called
from the audience to take the absent Clara’s
place in the performance of “Elijah.” Clara
on that occasion had mistaken the hour of
commencement, and stayed in bed to take a
rest before her strenuous day’s work.
“Elijah” began at eleven o’clock, not at two,
as she had thought. All was ready, the
conductor was in the stand, but no con-
tralto and no news of her! Ada Crossley,
who was engaged to sing on another day,
was among the audience. In his dilemma
the conductor, Sir Arthur Sullivan, I think,
called from the platform, “Where is Ada
Crossley?” The Australian went on and,
despite the trying conditions, sang the first
part of “Elijah” so admirably that her repu-
tation as an oratorio singer was immediately
established. Clara Butt arrived in to
sing the second part, and in the biography
describes the occasion as the only one when
she was ever late. The omission of all refer-
ence to Ada Crossley’s part in the incident
is—well, unfortunate.
November 11.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T HEARD them talking when even-
' ing came
With golden taper and golden gown
Over the old and tired town,
And I stopped as I heard them call
my name.
And they came to me in the quiet
street,
Laughing aloud in the old, glad way,
Cried my name and called “Good
day”;
A dozen or more that 1 used to meet
Every day in the city's close,
Hurrying to and from the train;
I heard their voices and saw them
plain,
As evening went in grey and rose.
A dozen or more that I used to know,
Before the breaking of their years,
And only they had shed no tears,
They had not felt the brave hopes go;
S.A.
Only a wistful thought that stole
Over their faces as though once more
They saw the rich and sunlit shore,
And white waves breaking on the
shoal.
And as we joked, they one by one
Crept closer ere they laughed again,
And spoke of the swift southern
rain,
And hills beneath the southern sun;
And wattle blooming on the hills,
And wheat across the open lands,
And summer nights on moonlit
sands,
And days no coming day fulfils.
And one by one, as evening set,
They fell to silence; but there ran
A whisper on from man to man:
“Have they forgotten yet?”
D. P. McGUIRE.


Poverty
Point
THE POLITICIANS’ WAY OUT.
“The N.S.W. Government is proceeding with its Income-tax Bill, aiming to collect another £600,000 p.a., mainly from industry. The cost of government continues to
show an annual increase.”
MR. POLITICIAN: “My dear, we’ll really have to do something. We’re not earning as much as we’re spending.”
MRS. POLITICIAN (nee Stevens): “Well, there’s nothing WE can do without. The butcher and the baker will have to take 18s. in the £, that’s all.”
“Eebee”: What happens to Poverty
Pointers when they get tii-ed of waiting for
that “big-part-in-a-new-show-my-boy” which
somehow never seems to turn up? One of
them, once the leader in a thought-reading
top-line act which thrilled and mystified two
hemispheres, is snatching a good crust by
writing, publishing and selling “dream-
books.” Another, who for years had the
best conjuring act this side of the line, now
chalks up the fluctuations in Roma oii and
New Guinea gold on the blackboard at the
Sydney Stock Exchange vestibule; while a
tliird, imported by the Firm at “big ex-
pense” as “direct from the London Hippo-
drome,” packed his swag a few weeks ago,
and, with an erstwhile scene-painter, is
touring the Backblocks on foot making a
good thing out of—-rail and post sign-writing'.
“Morita”: Broadcasting stations in Eng-
land are trying out the public with a view
to giving selected dramas entire over the
air. The first - performance, “King Lear,”
gave listeners two hours of unbroken radio,
claimed as the longest individual perform-
ance on the ether. Future performances
will depend on the criticism of the first few
experiments, it being argued that possibly
the whole of the speaking part of any play,
-without the acting and scenery as a diver-
sion, would be too monotonous to the
majority.
“Prog”: Will not the fact that the
shadow-figures are in black and white rob the
talkies of the illusion of life that appears
to be aimed at? The query is prompted by
an exhibition of color films that I witnessed
at Kodak’s (Sydney) the other morning.
The color reproduction was so good that
while the figures merely moved or their
clothes were blown about by the breeze the
illusion of life was remarkably effective, but
when one of them stood and talked and no
sound came, life faded back into mere colored
shadow. Wherefore I fancy that not until
perfect color goes with perfectly synchronised
voice reproduction will the talkie touch the
high peaks of illusion. The color pictures
mentioned are as yet merely for amateur
use, because for one thing it takes about
five times more light to project them than
black and white requires. Edison and others
are trying desperately to overcome the
obstacles.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Percy Grainger’s con-
tributions to this year’s Hollywood Bowl (the
great open-air musical festival held close
by the famous film headquarters) were very
interesting. He was listed for four appear-
ances, and had with him six pianists, who
took part in some of his own compositions.
Apart from his own works, Grainger chose,
among other items, “Three Symphonic
Dances,” by Grieg,' who was a warm friend
and admirer, and “Brigg Fair,” by Delius,
whom the Australian considers England’s
greatest composer. Grainger’s own composi-
tions included the attractive and unusual
“Colonial Song,” with soprano and tenor
parts, “Warriors,” a ballet in which the
six pianists were engaged, and the wedding
music “To a Nordic Princess,” already de-
scribed in The Bulletin, and inspired by
his bride, to whom it is dedicated. The
source of the “Australian Country Tune,”
sung by Smallman’s Capella choir in honor
of the bridegroom, was not disclosed.
“N’York”: Since a Poverty-Pointer re-
marked recently that the talkies were being
praised by the critics in U.S.A. two criticisms
from Sam’s country have come my way.
“Fine photography marred by a lot of extra-
neous noise,” says one. The other quotes Shak-
speare: “A tale told by an idiot, full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing.”
“A’.G.M.” (Lond.) : The most interesting
recent' event in London’s stageland was the
opening as a theatre —the Embassy—of
the Hampstead Conservatoire, which a little
more than 20 years ago was planned as a
temple of music. The dreams of those days
have been exploded, and the Conservatoire
knows the professors and students no more.
It has been transformed into a very attrac-
tive theatre by Sybil Arundale and Herbert
Jay, both of whom belong to the intelli-
gentsia of the dramatic world. They had a
very auspicious opening night with a new
play of a very modern type, “The Yellow
Streak,” by a young Fleet-street journalist,
Mabel Ellams Hope. The piece was received
with immense favor, and has been excellently
reviewed, one critic declaring two of its
scenes to be the finest he had ever found on
any stage.
“John’s Wood’’ (Lond.) : Good luck still
keeps close on the tracks of E. J. Carroll;
the trial production of “Lucky Girl,” the
musical adaptation of “Mr. Abdulla,” at
Newcastle had a great first-night success.
As the mail goes out Carroll and his col-
league, Bertie Meyer, are on the hunt for
a London theatre to transfer the piece to
when it has had all its corners knocked off
in the provincial try-out. It is very strong
on the comedy side, since both Gene Gerrard
and Clifford Mollison have plenty to do.
Tom Reynolds, Marjorie Chard and Molly
O’Doherty are also in the company. Molli-
son is a younger brother of William Molli-
son, who did good work with Lady
Forbes Robertson in Australia.
“Peter Pan”: Whatever grievances the
brothers Fuller may have had against Hugh
Ward, they at any rate must bless the day
he brought Elsie Prince to Australia. En-
gaged for six months, she has now been here
four years, and her latest game seems to be
turning pieces which have been a failure
with other leading ladies into popular suc-
cesses. As “Mercenary Mary,” which both
Mai Bacon and Madge White had essayed,
she scored heavily in both Sydney and Maori-
laud, and she looks like having a record
run in “Good News,” in which she has lately
done splendidly in Brisbane. “Good News”
was a failure when played in Melbourne a
few months ago with a cast of Yankee
principals, all of whom were speedily re-
turned to U.S.A. without appearing else-
where.
“Hamfat”: Zillah Carter, who at a late
stage of “Interference” at Sydney Royal
stepped into the part of Deborah, has had
the curious experience of being considered
too tall for good parts. She could not be
matched with leads like Margaret Lawrence,
and simply had to stand out until given a
part with a Gregan McMahon show. At
one time the short actress, whatever her
talents, would hardly get a moment’s mana-
gerial consideration, except for soubrette
parts, and stars were mainly built upon the
massive Nance O’Neil or the tall, willowy
Maud Jeffries model. In those days act-
resses used false heels worn inside the shoes
to help them reach the required height.
“Heard Off” : It was not Gregan McMahon
who staged Arthur Adams’s “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier” (“Caesar’s Ghost,” B.
24/10/’2B). That was a production of the
first Repertory Theatre (Sydney, Nov., 1914)
under the management of Alfred Hill and
Downs-Johnstone. Others interested were
Monty Grover, W. B. Gurney, John Lane
Mullins and Roy Hendy. They ran an Aus-
tralian session, putting on “Mary Martin,”
by D. H. Souter; “Mrs. Pretty,” by Arthur
Adams, and three one-act plays—“ The Busi-
ness Girl,” “Trapped” and “Gertie’s Glad
Eye.” The short pieces were produced
anonymously, but “Trapped,” which has been
played several times since, was by Souter.
Fritz Hart came up from Melbourne to con-
duct his “Pierrette.”
“Dum Spiro”: I noticed in “Sundry
Shows” that the success of “The Desert
Song” is in great measure due to Herbert
Brown. Brown took far more trouble than
is usual in fitting himself for the “One
Flower” song. During rehearsals lie took
singing lessons for the first time in seven
years, for the four top C’s in the song
take some getting. As those who have, seen
the show know, he hangs on. the top until the
flappers get hysterics. He’s about the only
man on the stage in Australia at the present
time who could do it.
“E.E.W.” : Marie Ney, mentioned in Pov-
erty Point recently for her version of Kate
Hardcastle in Oliver Goldsmith’s fine old
comedy “She Stoops to Conquer,” in London,
drew a fine eulogy from Carados, the not-
easy-to-please critic of the Referee. “I have
seen all our stars play this difficult part
since early youth,” he wrote, “but this beau-
tiful young Australian is the best and
brightest Kate of them all.”
“Eureka” : As a generous singer, I advance
Alfred O’Shea. At Sydney Town Hall he
was billed to sing four songs—and sang 20
before he was allowed to go.
“Huffin-Guffin”: I don’t think Poverty
Pointers have yet fixed when the first mov-
ing pictures were shown in Australia. When
a boy at school I saw a moving-picture show.
One scene represented a mouse disappearing
down a cat’s throat; then the cat wiped her
whiskers, curled up and went to sleep. Don’t
know how it was worked. I left school in
1882.
“Hamfat”: Circus tragedies in Australia
have been rare, but the accident in Mel-
bourne in which Valma Harvey, of the newly-
arrived troupe of flying acrobats who call
themselves the Lamar troupe, was killed, adds
one to Wirtlis’ list. The girl failed to con-
nect with the hands of a girl swinging on
another trapeze, and when she fell she
bounced out of the safety net. The inci-
dent emphasises that doubts about the efficacy
of these nets have been more than justified.
Wirths’ previous big tragedy occurred in
Queensland four years ago, when the circus’s
ringmaster, Professor Cook, was crushed
to death by an elephant. It was believed
that the animal had nursed a grudge against
its victim for about 15 years. The most
sensational circus tragedy that ever occurred
in Australia involved the death of Professor
Peart, who, with the Fitzgerald show, used
to dive from the top of the tent into a small
tank. One night in Sydney, through a frac-
tional .misjudgment, he slightly grazed the
tank with his side. He went to his dressing-
room as if nothing had happened, but there
collapsed and died.
“O. Kay” : Has Australia an older screen
mummer than Jack Gavin, whose latest job
was with “The Adorable Outcast”? He
was playing in local productions about 1910,
when, strangely enough, Australia was pro-
ducing more motion pictues than it is now.
He has already had a term at Hollywood,
and the advent of the talkies Avill probably
take him back there, for, in addition to
being a good actor, he has a fine voice. His
wife was this country’s first regular
scenario-writer.
P.P.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is Bohemia nowaday
And the supposititious city of Prague?
Where, is hilarious Chowder Bay?
What does it waken but memories vague?
And seeing that we’re in ’twenty-eight
And the nineteenth year of the Lord’s
anoint-
Ed Georgius Quintus, tell me straight:
Where in the dickens is Poverty Point?
Corner o’ Market-street, wasn’t it, once,
Where the resting actor would glibly frame
Appeals for loans of a trifle of bunce
Pending engagements that seldom came?
In his fur-necked coat and his oft-cleaned lid,
“Hard times,” he would boom. “Avaunt!
Aroint!”
As he put the nips in. for half a quid,
Which is why they christened it Poverty
Point.
But the movies came, and the drama canned
Has sent him into the Ewiglceit,
The portly mummer who’d seize your hand
And cheerly hasten your lug to bite.
No more do your shoulders feel his tap
Or his “Laddie” ring through some glit-
tering joint.
He’s out of the picture, poor old chap,
Yet it stays on our metaphorical map,
His old-time haunt of Poverty Point.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Why Australian Roma Oil is the
best proposition in Roma to-day—
and why you should have an interest in it
Boring day and night, working three shifts per day, Australian Roma Oil Companies are leaving nothing to chance in the
effort to bring in oil. To-day shares can be bought for 10/-, payable 1/- down and balance over ten months. What will
shares be worth when the bores are reaching the oil level?
All scientific reports—all geological indications—the geographical location of the areas being actively prospected,
overwhelmingly indicate Australian Roma Oil Shares as the best proposition at Roma to-day. NO OTHER COMPANY
on the field has better chances of success than Australian Roma. Not one company has better or more authoritative reports.
IN.
)
1 O
'
nO
201
r oyv
*
8T tt
*9s
MAP SHEWING POSITION
OF AUSTRALIAN COMA
Oil ACTIVITIES
(MARKED IN BLACK)
ANTICLINE FORMATIONS
MARKED THUS *H»S
total area -
55000 ACRES
The approximate position of the anticlines is taken
from a draiving by Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc.
SECTION or ANTICLINE
showwc
OIL POOL
IOTICUNJ
■
m
m
LATER
. g
Showing formation of the
strata and how oil migrates
to the crest of the anticline.
WHAT AUTHORITIES SAY.
Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc., Consulting Geologist, in his report to the Company, says:
“The search for oil in Queensland was pronounced by Veatch, the
celebrated oil technologist, 1 6 years ago to be a venture in which the chances
of success were 30 in 100. The Commonwealth Oil Geologist, Dr. Wade,
about four years ago considered the chances of success 50 in 100. Up to
that time no structures had been delineated and no actual oil had been
produced in the Roma District. My own opinions have been definite since
1 completed my geological reconnaisance of the district in 1922. .Since
Dr. Wade’s visit structures have been more definitely located, and oil has
been actually produced by the Roma Oil Corporation. The chances of the
district becoming an oilfield are, therefore, to-day more like 75 or 80 in 100.
The probability is that several of the Companies sinking on good structures
will locate payable oil pools. The gambling risks are, therefore, greatly
reduced. The odds are so greatly in favor of ultimate success that speculating
in oil can no longer be regarded as in the same category as gambling in
lotteries and betting on horses. Moreover, every pound put into the search for
oil gives employment, increases our knowledge of the State, and helps to
develop the resources of the country.’’
ARCHBISHOP DUHIG, preaching at Roma on Sunday morning, October
21, said, in connection with the cost of construction of the new Cathedral at
Brisbane, he hoped to be able to pay off the debt by oil from the Mooga
(Roma) bore. He further said: “Oil is going to be found in abundance at
Roma.” At Toowoomba, discussing the permit he had taken up near Roma,
the Archbishop remarked: “We can promise them (the public) something
worth while.”
EXAMINE THE POSITION.
The map shown here indicates the location of the permits of the Australian Roma Oil
Companies. Since the issue of the prospectus the Company has acquired an option over
an additional area of 10,000 acres, block No. 128, and has already applied for its trans-
fer to the Company. These four permits total the tremendous area of 35,000 acres, which
are spread out to cover the vital points of the entire field, and which are proved to be exactly where it
is most probable oil will be struck in payable quantities. Note the lines running through or close to each
permit. These are known as anticlines, or, in other words, the high levels where oil naturally collects.
Each of the permits of the Australian Roma Oil is located where geologists have already reported oil
may be expected. One of the permits (No. 62) is located on the same anticline as that upon which the
syndicate in which Archbishop Duhig is interested recently struck a tremendous gas flow. Permit No.
61 has running through its centre the same anticline as that from which the Roma Oil Corporation is
drawing gas and oil. Permit No. 116 takes in part of the dome structure upon which Queensland Roma
Oil is now boring on the very boundaries of Australian Roma Oil. It requires little imagination to realise
what Australian Roma shares will be worth in the event of Queensland Roma striking oil. It will be
seen also that the chances of success do not depend upon one location, as the areas are spread well over
the field. No other Company has such strategical advantages.
Modern, high-speed rotary drilling equipment is on the way from America, when further bores will be
sunk. Every day brings us nearer the goal. a few weeks it is expected to reach the oil level.
Australian Roma shares cannot drop, because boring is going on now. Shares must increase in value——
they will be at a big premium when the bore is nearing the expected depth. Don’t wait until the list is
closed, as the shares are bound to be sold at a premium. Act right away. Put your money into Australian
Roma Oil.
What Australian Roma Oil Offers.
A reciprocal agreement exists between Australian Roma No. 1, Ltd., and
Australian Roma No. 2, Ltd., which provides for shareholders in either
company to participate in the profits of both. Should oil be struck on
either of the permits of Australian Roma No. 1, Ltd., the shareholders in
Australian Roma No. 2, Ltd., automatically become entitled to a share
of the profits—and vice versa.
SHARES 10/- each, 1/- payable on application, 10
months to pay balance, and no further liability.
SHARE LIST IS RAPIDLY FILLING.
Applications are treated in strict priority as received.
MINIMUM NUMBER, 20 SHARES.
Brokers: A. KUSSMAN & CO., LTD., Q.N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Streets, Sydney.
229 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: 8W6164.
AUSTRALIAN ROMA OIL No. 1-No. 2 LTD.
(STRIKE OUT ONE\
V NOT DESIRED /
(Registered under the Queensland Companies Acts 1863 to 1913, in the State of Queensland, Commonwealth of Australia)
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary,
c/o A. Kussman & Co.,
Q.N. Bank Chambers, Pitt and Hunter Sts., Sydney.
Dear Sir,
1 hereby apply for (state in words) Shares of 10/- each in the capital of the
abovenamed Company upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus.
And I hereby agree to accept the same or smaller number of Shares as may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register
me as the holder of such Shares.
I enclose herewith £ being 1/- per share on application, and I agree to pay 1/- per share on allotment,
and to pay the balance in calls as and when required, such calls not to exceed 1/- per share per month, and to be bound by the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 192
Name (in full) (in block letters) -
Address (in full) •
Profession or Occupation Signature - 1 „
Payments may be made in Cash, Postal Notes, Money Orders or Cheques. Cheques should be marked "Not Negotiable” and made payable to
"Australian Roma Oil No. 1 or No. 2 Ltd.” as the case may be. If more than one application desired, merely apply by letter, wording it in similar
fashion to the above application form.


KJ
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors; Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDER.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1)
(2)
Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
3 iiOOWUiftliWU - __
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond .King
Royal (com. Saturday) “White Cargo
Criterion .. “The Patsy
Palace “Rutherford and Son”
Empire “The Beggar Student”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Desert Song
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “On Approval’
King’s (coni. Saturday) “Cheating Cheaters
Princess Shakspearean Plays
Athenaeum “The Family Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia ..•••••••••••- *.. Wirths’ Circus
The birth of poor old Australian Drama
has been placed in divers times and places
by various authorities, but the event actu-
ally took place at Melbourne Playhouse on
Saturday night with the Repertory Society’s
production of “The Touch of Silk,” by Betty
M. Davies. Who Betty M. Davies is pre-
sent commentator wotteth not, but that she
is gifted with an uncannily mature and
subtle theatrical intelligence, as well as a
smiling insight into the follies, weaknesses
and strengths of the human heart, is sure.
That she has here written a beautiful and
abiding piece is likewise evident. Except for
a weak first curtain which could easily be
patched, the play approaches as near per-
fection in design as any but a congenital
grumbler could desire. In fact, it could
be lifted as it stands on to the commercial
stage, if the commercial stage deserved it. A
homely story, it deals with the post-war
marital vicissitudes of a Digger and the girl,
now his wife, who had helped him to forget
the horrors of the trenches during his spells,
of leave in Paris. The husband, maddened
by the failure of his farm, and his normally
trusting disposition turned to insane jealousy
by his war injuries, an interfering mother
and the smalltown gossip of his neighbors,
misinterprets his wife’s cravings for the
amenities of an older civilisation, her longing
for the “touch of silk” in a world of hes-
sian. If she could so readily accept his
love in Paris, would she not be equally com-
plaisant to the next rouseabout? A trivial
incident —a visit to a dance —appears to con-
firm his suspicions, and lie kills her com-
panion, the haberdashery traveller for a
local store. The final curtain descends with
the wife resolved to play in the witness-box
the part of harlot popularly assigned her, in
order to give her husband the benefit of a
motive for his crime likely to influence a
jury in his favor.
MABEL GIBSON, Villon’s tavern girl Huguctte in “The Vaga-
bond King.”
The core of the tragedy is centred in the
inability of the French girl to make anybody
but the traveller in dress-material under-
stand that her love of beauty—even the
beauty of a set of silk underwear-—is not
a sign of lawless longings. Her character
throughout is drawn without a solitary false
note, and hy a rare stroke of good fortune
and producer Clewlow’s judgment, the part
was in the hands of dark, vivid Lucy Ahon,
one of tne few amateur actresses—or profes-
sional actresses for that matter —capable of
understanding both its deeps and its shallows.
Jack O’Keefe, as the Digger; Betty Rae,
as his mother; and George Faulkner, as
the travelling salesman, were all good after
their kind, and it is not too much to say that
the regrettably small audience was moved
deeply.
*{•
It is rather a pity that Gregan McMahon,
who, whatever his unsuccess, has been
honestly trying to give the inhabitants of
the Harbor huddle something better than the
trashy, superficial fare that is their common
theatrical diet, did not begin his season at
Sydney Palace, instead of closing it, with
“Rutherford and Son,” which opened on
Saturday and is billed to end this week.
The play, a straight three-acter by Githa
Sowcrby, was written in 11)12. but might
have been written by one of the Brontes,
and could have been written to-day: inside
a century or so it carries no date. In one
or two respects its ingredients are possibly
peculiar to the north of England that is
its setting, but in the main it is concerned
with feelings, foibles and emotions that are
fundamental in the hotch-potch of air-
breathing bipeds who call themselves
humanity. John Rutherford, martinet
father; his son John, petulant and petty in
trying to throw off the paternal influence
and overbearing; the other son, Richard,
making a coward’s escape through the
Church; the daughter, Janet, driven by
unnatural suppression into giving herself to
Martin, Rutherford’s head-man at the works
for 25 years; Mary, the colorless city girl
whom young John marries and, after a
feeble effort to strike out on his own
account, brings back under the parental
roof —these and others in the party of
eight, not to mention Mary’s baby, are
moulded and driven by a local environment,
but are fairly universal in themselves'. The
action drags tediously in the first half of
the third act, but that defect is by way of
being a virtue, for it helps to heighten the
effectiveness 1 of a good climax.
sj: * ❖
The theme of the play lias been met in
many shapes—Midas and his_ gold; the
viticulturists of France and their vines and
lands; Rutherford and the Rutherford and
Son handed down by generations. The firm
shows signs of tottering, and is being driven
along only by the vigorous personality of
Rutherford, when young John invents a
process that will put new life into it.
Sharing none of his father’s obsession for
the firm—a monstrous black god which,
through Rutherford, has alienated the
sympathies of this new generation —he
offers him the pro-
cess at a price.
To Rutherford, im-
bu e d with the
Rutherford tradi-
tions, this is pre-
posterous, and he
has no scruple
about bullying 'the
secret out of Mar-
tin, whom the son
had trusted with it.
Then, having in
the meanwhile be-
come aware of the
relations existing
between Martin
and Janet, he sacks
bis head-rman and
drives his daugh-
ter from the house.
John, not content
to wait for Ruther-
ford and Son to
come his way, as,
re-established by his
process, it would
naturally have done
in time, breaks the
last thin thread
binding him to his
father by grabbing
the contents of the
cash-box and clear-
ing out, an action
which the old man
strongly resents.
Richard had slipped
away in Relieved
answer to a Church
promotion, and
Rutherford is left
with Mary and her
baby on his hands.
Mary then strikes
a bargain with
him : she will stay
on there and have
the training of her
son for ten years.
after w ,licl 1 1 . ewfLa
unconditionally to Rutherford to train
the ca, .yin 0 on of Rutherford <
Son. The play closes with this hard
bargain struck, and Rutherford and Mary,
seated with the co.d table between them,
hearing the child who will be Rutherford
and Son stir and waken.
The play is built with such a classic dis-
regard for unessential that it would not be
easy to hash it into a stage failure. But
the McMahon players, admirably cast and
assisted by careful production, do more than
merely avoid failure: they get out almost
every ounce of the dramatic gold with which
the piece glitters. Curiously, the name of
Rutherford’s fine interpreter is actually
Frank Rutherford. He does very well indeed
in a part which, for
all its domination,
demands rigorous
restraint: Ruther-
ford must rule and
subdue his family,
but there must
be the sugg e s-
tion that lie him-
self is ruled and
suppressed by
Rutherford and
Son; This sort of
dual characterisa-
tion invests nearly
everyone in the
play; it is this
quality more than
any other that lifts
the piece out of the
rut of mere clever
craftsmanship . on
to the level of true
drama. Janet
(Hope May ne),
Martin (Hugh Den-
ham) and John
(Edward Ashley)
all have this duality
well suggested.
Rutherford’s sister
Ann (Leal Doug-
las) lives outside
the dramatic con-
flict, but is vitally
essential to it. An
aged product of the
Rutherford and Son
environment, she is
ignored or tolerated
by all, and so is
made a futile figure
very necessary in
lightening the
severely dark atmo-
sphere that shrouds
the one room in
which all the
drama is played
out. John Burch,
as the parson-son,
has a minor part,
but is considerably better than he was
in a like role in the Galsworthy
piffle of the previous week; and Daphne
Deane, as Mary, is better cast than
she had hitherto been. This Showman was
less successful than he might have been, m
his important part, which consisted in sitting
as still as he possibly could on as
squeaky an abomination of a seat as ever
sang soprano in a dress circle (Cl 2).
# * *
The well-known and reliable firm of Allan
Wilkie (Australasia), Ltd., dealers in the-
atrical antiques, Princess Buildings, Snnng-
street, Melbourne, continues to offer attrac-
tive lines in Shakspearean goods at bargain
prices. There was a brisk run last week
on “Julius Csesar,” especially amongst
juveniles, but, despite the fact that it was
by special request and well up to sample,
“Coriolanus” aroused little inquiry. “The
Taming of the Shrew,” on Saturday, evoked
great public interest and Lorna Kathenna
Forbes was in such active demand that n
there had been less of her the supply might
easily have been exhausted. To-morrow night
“As You Like It” will be submitted, and
“Antony and Cleopatra” will be the attrac-
tion on Saturday. If Miss Hunter-Watts
appears in her celebrated Hollywooden in-
terpretation of the feminine name-part there
should be some spirited business.
The Bulletin received another shock to
its system in Melbourne on Saturday, "When
Knights Were Bold,” billed as the “greatest
laughing comedy ever staged,” proving to be
approximately as per advt. Likewise the
opening at the Palace was the best first per-
formance present Showman has had the
honor to witness for a long time. This paper
has frequently been obliged to speak severely
to Compton Coutts for intruding farce into
serious matter, but as Sir Guy de Vere in
the present issue Coutts was excellent. There
was a moist humor and a wagtail-like alert-
ness about the man that never flagged from
.curtain to curtain. He was ably seconded
by Walter Cornock, Scott Alexander and
Claude Carter, but only thirded or sixed
by a rather apathetic group of ladies.
V
Heughan (William) sang through a series
of concerts at Melbourne Town Hall last
week. A programme of the Scotsman’s is
as cosmopolitan as a street in Singapore.
French, Russian and American airs come
as easily off his lips as hielan’ ditties, and
one evening was distinguished by an example
from the work of the late Henry Tate. “The
Wood-splitter,” it was called, and the Vic-
torian composer’s graceful bit of bush de-
scription ruffled itself with the best of its
variegated on the lull.
, , . rocitnl at
Shura Cherkassky s farewell rec .
Sydney Town Hall on ’
a very cordial affair. oc) T n he , J}®w
doesn t regard himself . » 1 -
as an acolyte, and he wins i t 'on tiom i .
well as admnatiom Attet- ne
had played Bach, Liszt, Chopin, Mendelssohn,
JESSICA HARCOURT, who momentarily wears the sumptuous
robes of the Queen in "The Vagabond King” at Sydney
Her Majesty’s.
Grief? and Rachmaninoff with the authority
of Paderewski, the clarity of Carreno and
the delicacy—where delicacy was required
of the late Leonard Borwick, he delighted
the house with his playing of the bchulz-
Evler frills on the “Blue Danube.’ Then
the tide of encores set in. Many of the
audience left their seats to crowd round the
piano, and six numbers were added to a long
and tremendously arduous programme before
the youngster applied the closure by playing
the only-remembered work of Dr. John Bub.
* * ¥
At Newtown (Sydney) Majestic, Bill
Ayr’s bush players fell upon the audi-
ence on Saturday with yet another
edition of the theme which Steele Rudd
first woke up in "On Our Selection.’
Under the style of “The Sport from
Hollow Log Flat.” the characters whom this
afflicted country knows so well do all that
one has learned to expect of them. Bill Ayr
plays a fat swaggie’s part, and his female
clieild, round whom most of the feminine in-
terest revolves, is capably done by Lome
Bingham. A new note is struck—away up
in the treble clef —by the introduction of a
comic bookie and a city confidence man,
but there is no comic kangaroo, which may
be taken as a crowning mercy.
* * v
The George Sorlie players’ new offering,
“Bertie’s Cave Woman,” went off with a bang
—in fact, with about 70S bangs—at Sydney
Grand Opera House on Saturday. The fool-
ery and revolver-shooting are hung about
three members of the English musicomedy
aristocracy who get to a IJ.S.A. ranch and
are held there at the point of several guns
until the two females succumb to the charms
of a couple of local he-men, and young Lord
Mountcraven finds his affinity in the ranch’s
one feminine encumbrance. Sorlie, as a red-
thatched chauffeur; Grace Dorran, as the
ranch girl; Bernard Beeby, Connie Martin
and Barbara Birch, representing Great Bri-
tain ; the singing quartette who call them-
selves the Four Aces, with Brian Ewart. W.
Stewart and Goldie Stallard as cow-punchers,
are the personnel of the bright fallabout show.
V ¥ *
Sydney Tivoli bill, which hadn’t anything
very striking in it after the departure of
Barbette and Long Tack Sam, was given a
hefty uplift on Saturday by Horam and Myr-
till, a pair of flashing dancers, said to be
from Paris. The programme is a trifle
cluttered with footwork experts just now,
for it also includes a troupe of eight girl
steppers, Barnes and Barnes and several
others who number a tendency to get frisky
on the hoof among their accomplishments.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
CA
<2
SHfO
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout your plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH' AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson iJt Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Beautiful walls can be easily
kept clean if painted with
Bergers
MATONE
—it s washable and will not collect dust.
It "Keeps on Keeping On !”
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE
lIH
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
£ ■£■
1921 . . ' 5,068 257,623
Charged to Development account, £45,777 303,400
Debenture Flotation Costs .. £29,860 333,260
Profit.
1922.. 105,693 29,000 256,667
Charged to Development .. £8,343 ) or - nO .
Debenture Costs .. £ll J ‘ Jbo ' u ‘ 2i
Pref. Shares.
1923.. 398,073 8 p.c. = £149,116* 92,304 108,367
Vote to ltisdon Co-op. Council, £7,600 116,807
All Shares.
1924.. 461,953 9 p.c. = 169,131 212,020 t 35,005
1925.. 542,109 10 „ „ 216,269 148,536 142,240
Charged to Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1920.. 657,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 544,607 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 329,509
Charged to Development, £1369 .. 328,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312,000 145,452 384,420
"Including arrears.
flncluding special amortisation reserve, £lOO,OOO.
The drop of £5 10s. Bd. in the average price
of spelter (£26 7s. Id.) did this co. no
good, though its contract with the British
Government is a wonderful shock-absorber;
and poorer recoveries of lead, silver and cop-
per all contributed to the shrinkage of
£30,875 in the year’s profit. That it was not
greater was due to the fact that the co. buys
its concentrates at a rate which moves up and
down with metal prices. Gross profit
(£466,126) fell away £39,076, but the fall
was softened a little by a cut in management,
interest and taxation charges.
The accounts claim a net profit of £363,025,
and that is reconciled with the larger figure
in the table like this :
Profit and loss balance .. .. .. £363,025
Unexplained addition to sinking fund .. 5,255
Additions to depreciation and renewals
reserve .. .. .. .. .. 145,452
£513,732
In the first table additions to the depre-
ciation and renewals reserve are included
as profit and then shown as written
off. The £145,452 put by for depreciation,
etc., last year swelled the total provision
under that head to £971,529, a shade
over 27 p.c. of the £3,564,636 at which the
mine, plant and equipment stand in the books
—with trifling exception they are in at cost.
Reserves in the table include the equalisation
reserve (£160,000), appropriations for new
plant and development (£130,000), debenture
sinking fund (£88,921) and the balance of
the appropriation account (£177,589) ; the
lot (£556,510) less the cost of research and
development, in at £172,090 —the figure was
£207,994 in 1921.
The outlay on research, etc., has been sub-
stantial, but the rewards, though often only
negative knowledge, have been great. From
this work has flowed the marked success
reached in treatment and recoveries. Little
of value escapes; even the fragments of
cadmium and copper—about one-fifth and
one-quarter of one per cent, respectively:—
are captured, presumably at a profit. The
co.’s spelter, which is 99.9 p.c. pure, com-
mands a premium over G. 0.8. spelter in
free competition with zinc from other pro-
ducing countries. Lately the co. has renewed
its investigations into the production
of fertilisers from atmospheric nitrogen, but
just what the position is in that respect is
not disclosed. Previous experiments gave
satisfactory results as to quality.
The next comparison shows the progress in
production and recoveries over the last half-
dozen years:—
Cad-
Zine Silver Lead mium Copper
.. Tons. Ozs. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1923.. 31,283 691,062 4344
1924.. 44,768 890,500 6805 154 257
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1926.. 46,583 1,179,000 8000 180 261
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
The average daily output of spelter was
135 tons compared with tons in the pre-
vious year, the improvement being due mainly
to a slightly better recovery of zinc from
the lead-silver residues sent to Port Pine
for smelting. Owing to continued improve-
ment in recoveries by the Barrier mining
cos. these residues contain smaller quanti-
ties of the two metals than formerly, so the
silver and lead output was again smaller,
though percentage recoveries were better.
The copper content in the residues from the
cadmium plant was the smallest on record.
Production of sulphuric acid from the
gases liberated at the various roasting plants
is reported to be satisfactorily maintained,
despite the closing-down of two small fur-
naces at Broken Hill. The big contact acid
plant at Port Pirie is now turning out 70
tons of mono, acid per day, and that is in
excess of the rated capacity. At Risdon two
chambers were added to the acid plant in
anticipation of an increased demand for
superphosphate. The co. started to manu-
facture super, there in 1924, since when
production has moved along in this way:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Production .. 12,305 17,782 20,524 24,796
Sales .. .. 7,090 18,599 19,811
Last year’s sales were not disclosed, but
consumption is said to have been in excess
of previous figures, notwithstanding adverse
seasonal conditions.
The 1.250,000 tons of zinc concentrates
which the co. bought under contract with
the British Board of Trade from Broken
Hill are expected to be exhausted by 1933.
Meanwhile the directors are pushing ahead
with plans for the development and treat-
ment of the co.’s own zinciferous deposits—
the Read-Rosebery field on the Tasmanian
West Coast. The ore reserves there are put
at 1,400,000 tons of average grade, but new
ore bodies now* being prospected in the
Hercules will add considerably to that figure.
Thus far work has been developmental; last
year 39,698 tons ore was put through the
mill at Zeehan, the average grade being
23.2 p.c. zinc, 6.5 p.c. lead, 7.30 z. silver and
2.2dwt. gold. At one point in the new ore
body in the Hercules the assay was 32 p.c.
zinc, 6.5 p.c. lead, ll.loz. silver and I.7dwt.
gold. These ores are complex, but the board
has no doubt about being able to treat
them profitably, thanks to years of painstak-
ing research. The new mill at Rosebery,
which is to treat 100,000 tons of ore per
annum, is not expected to be ready for the
feed before 1930. The cost, including mine
equipment, etc., to raise at least 2000 tons
crudes per week, is expected to run into
about £200,000.
Balance-sheet figures suggest that share-
holders are not likely to be asked for any
of the money:—
1921. 1927. 1928.
Debentures and interest Nil £404,033 £404.033
Sundry creditors .. £38,604 151,838 132,361
Deposits and interest.. 177,150 263,326 30,556
Overdraft .. .. 158,079 39,047 40,838
Mt. Read-Rosebery mines 357,673 397,287 423,621
Properties, plant and
equipment .. .. 1,030,523 3,033,271 3,141,015
Book debts .. .. 87,654 361,014 255,518
Shares 48,859 38,950 32,700
Stocks 420,427 661,210 503,839
Cash, etc 20,320 160,914 240,856
At the close of accounts there was £1,000,218
in stocks, book debts and cash, etc., and the
floating debt totalled £203,745. During the
year £84,340 was spent on plant (total
expenditure, £2,925,879) and £26,334 was
added to the mine account.
The £2,600,000 of paid capital is in £1
shares, of which 1,500.000 are 8 p.c. cum
prefs. They have priority as to capital
and advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond that rate. On the markbt buyers
offer 345. 3d. for the prefs. and 325. lOd. for
the ords. as against 31s. and 30s. respec-
tively a year ago. On a 12 p.c. div. basis
the return at current offers is 7 p.c. on the
prefs. and 7.3 p.c. on the ords.
Farmer and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends >.
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profits. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 49,590 12,000 7,590 30,000 110,000
1919. 54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,000
Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 10,000
12h p.c. •
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32.500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570 33.816 61,393
Reserve for war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 .. .. 111,935
1922.. 78,304 12,000 19,570 33,816 124,853
Premiums on new shares, £2250 .. 127,103
1923.. 84,552 12,000 23,059 36,292 140,304
Premiums on new shares, £124 .. 140.488
1924.. 85,164 12,000 28,000 39,441 146,151
1925.. 93,530 12,000 28,000 39,442 160,239
Premiums on new shares, £2268 .. 162,507
1926.. 98,413 12,000 28.000 39,721 181,199
Discount on debentures, £17,600 .. 163,699
Insurance fund appears, £13,983.. 177,682
1927.. 102,506 12,000 28,000 40,000 200,188
1928.. 95,143 12,000 28,000 40,000 215,331
The public dipped into its pockets for its
cash and its lOU a little less freely last
year. Still, under the combined influences
of intensive advertising and cuts in seasonal
lines, some of which had been slow to move
owing to a mild winter, the big retailers were
able to maintain a good turnover, but on
smaller profit margins. These influences are
reflected in a backslide of £7368 in Farmer’s
disclosed net earnings, and that is after in-
cluding as profit an unexplained addition
of £4889 to the insurance fund, making it
£18.872. At the 1927 balance £13,983 was
dragged from somewhere in order to create
this fund, and some or all of it may have
come out of that year’s earnings.
All things considered, last year’s result
was a surprisingly good one. After attend-
ing to the various prefs., the balance of
profit was equal to 13.7 p.c. on the average
ordinary capital compared with 15.6, 14.7,
13.5, 11.4 and 13.6 p.c. back to 1923. And
this notwithstanding that last year’s takings
had to bear an interest charge of £29,227
compared with £3BBB in the previous year on
the £500,000 of 0 p.c. mortgage debenture
stock, raised in 1920 to finance the George-
Market streets section of the big new build-
ing programme. Moreover, the board’s bold
policy of purchase, which has made the co.
owner of an entire end of one of the most
valuable blocks in Sydney, has meant that
a lot of money has been unproductive. In
1920 freeholds and plant had a book value
of £573,762; at July 31 last they were in at
£1,235.894. Of course, as space becomes
available, the co. uses it, but only for a part
of the last term was a small portion of the
new building used for trading. As further
shopping areas in the new quarters are
opened up earnings can be expected to benefit.
Given normal trading conditions it is un-
likely that the 10 p.c. to the ords. will be
interfered with. The danger lies in the
money represented by premises, plant, etc.,
becoming in excess of trade requirements, as
might conceivably happen in lean times, and
then the burden of the debenture debt would
make itself felt, and, of course, the ords.
would be the first to suffer. However, the
co. has the advantage of an excellent shop-
ping position, and the management has built
up a very extensive goodwill that does not
figure in the accounts.
At the close of last accounts 65.2 p.c. of
the balance-sheet total was in fixed assets
as against 51.2 p.c. two years earlier; obvi-
ously trade needs to be large and very brisk
if satisfactory profits are to be maintained
on all the capital invested.
Here is a picture of the expansion of the
business since pre-war days, as reflected in
balance-sheet figures:—
1914. 1924. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £400,000 £994,415 £1,000,000 £1,000,000
Debentures 420,080 500,000
Other
creditors. 204,740 129,792 178,061 159,592
Freeholds
and plant 431,778 627,950 955,313 1,235,894
Leaseholds 14,356 1,700 1,400
Stock . . 174,659 467,002 403,692 410,620
Bonk debts 37,470 101,718 120,024 105,475
Cash and in-
vestments 66,048 91,708 337,899 142,934
Chief movement last year was an increase of
£280,581 in the book value of freeholds, plant,
•etc., and there is a tidy inner reserve in that
item. Stocks (£410,620, up £6928 during the
year) are claimed to be well bought, and to
consist of live lines. Much depends upon
that and the buying, and one can only form
an opinion about those matters from the past
history of'the co.
There is nothing uneasy in the financial
position. At July 31 there were more or
less liquids totalling £659,029 to meet a float-
ing debt of £159,592.
The debentures, issued at £96 10s. and
redeemable in 1939 at par, are secured by a
mortgage over the freehold. The stock is
worth £99 on the market; the return at that
figure is a whisper over 6 p.c. Of the round
million of share capita] £200,000 is in 6
p.c. first cum. prefs, and the balance in
equal amounts of 7\ p.c. second cum. prefs.
and ords. The market prices the first prefs.
at 19s. 3d., the seconds at 21s. and the ords.
at 295. 6d. The return at those figures is
6.2, 6.6 and 7 p.c. respectively, after allow-
ing for the final div. (Is.) on the ords. In
the same order the backing is £6 15s. 9d., £2
10s. 9d. and 30s. 9d. in net tangibles; and
last year’s net profit was nearly 2\ times
the combined annual pref. requirements.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd.
t Dividends
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinaries. Off. serves.
1918’.. 49,787 9,000 10 p.c. =20,000 4,233 122'e66
Reserves capitalised, £87,500 .. 35,166
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 71 p.c. 10 p.c.
1919.. 54,193 9,000 3,2 el 20,000 4,771 62,307
£60.000 (in shares) received for
goodwill of Bon Marche business.. 112,305
Less £3026 Bon Marche flotation
exes 109,281
84 p.c. 74 p.c. 124 P-c.
1920.. 78,174 12,750 6,562 25.000 4,861 138,282
6 P-c. 10 p.c.
1921.. 58,820 9,000 11,431 20,000 15,071 141,600
1922.. 50.060 9,000 13.125 20,000 5,131 144,404
1923.. 55,879 9,000 13,125 20,000 5,485 152 673
1924.. 69,976 10,723 13,125 22.861 4,982 170,958
1925.. 70,496 12,000 13,125 25,000 4,980 186,349
1926.. 67.826 12.000 13,125 25.000 5,126 198 924
1927.. 77,998 15,647 13,125 32,195 5,668 210,287
1928.. 78,002 17,507 13,125 34,532 5,732 217,393
Turnover was well maintained; but chiefly
because of a dry spell in those parts of the
country where the co. has a strong connec-
tion., added to disturbed industrial condi-
tions, business was difficult and more costly
to get. The result was a drop of £16,601 in
the year’s gross profit from trading
(£78,204). This, however, was very largely
offset by an extra £13,457 received in divi-
dends and rents (£33,897) ; exes-. (£34,189)
were cut back £4IS3, and after allowing
for movements in reserves there was no im-
provement worth mentioning on the previous
year’s profit.
The leap in the dividend income was mainly
on account of 8 p.c. received on the holding
in Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd.; which took
over the business of Craig, Williamson Ptyt,
Ltd.—a Melbourne drapery house with a big
mail-order connection —a couple of years
back. No div. was received on the holding
in the previous term. Also the Sydney subsi-
diary, Bon Marche, Ltd., lifted its ord. div.
half a point (to 8 p.c.) last year.
After visibly striking off £5732 for depre-
ciation, shown as written off in the table,
and attending to the'prefs., the balance of
the year’s net profit was 12 ptc. on the
average ord. capital compared with 13.5,
15, 16.1, 17.9 and 14,1 p.c. back to 1923.
But it has to be remembered that there was
something besides difficult trading last year;
no less than £200,000 of new capital was got
in, and £264,290 was added to the debt over
the last two years. The money was for the
most part used (thus far unproductively) in
building the co.’s new headquarters, now near
completion, in Central-square, Sydney, and in
the purchase of 153,000 £1 ordst in the
Victorian co. Also competition is becoming
keener. However, as space becomes avail-
able in the new building, earnings should
benefit; and trade has exhibited a somewhat
better tone since the close of accounts.
Building operations dominate the year’s
movements in balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1924. 1927. 1928.
£,££>£,
Paid capital .. 437,500 625,000 779,630 825,000
Mortgages .. 70,000 51,500 159,500 312,500
Other debts .. 213,710 210,553 207,143 370,192
Stock .. .. 228,475 228,385 177,242 262,801
Book debts .. 304,735 445,621 515,785 529,940
Freeholds .. .. 123,189 170,069 296,107 554,093
Leaseholds .. 68,738 57,377 65,038 57,397
Plant, etc. . . 22,860 19,948 32,198 53,428
Shares in other cos. 120,493 149,310 296,226 296,008
Cash, etc. .. 19,533 11,994 15,212 14,480
During the term £45,000 of new capital
came in, £153,000 was tacked on to the
mortgage and the co. was leaning on sundry
creditors for an extra £163,048 when the
books were ruled off. The money went mostly
into freeholds (£554,093, up £257,986),
stocks (£252.801, up £75,559) and book debts
(£529,940, up £14,156).. The latter, which
show steady expansion, are substantial and
reflect the co.’s extensive t.p. business. But
taking the past as a guide the risks do not
appear to have been underestimated. The
more or less liquid surplus (£114,529), in-
cluding stocks, was £227,067 lighter than at
the previous balance.
To ease the position and provide for the
growth of the business, those on the register
at Oct!. 27 were offered 50,000 ords. and
100,000 7 $ p.c. second prefs., at par—one
ord. and two prefs. for every 17 shares held.
When all the money on tliat lot is in, paid
capital will be £975,000 in 300,000 6 p.c.
prefs., 275,000 7 i p.c. prefs!. and 400,000
ords. The pref. requirements and 10 p.c.
to the ords. will then call for £6355 more
than was netted last year after allowing
for depreciation. The combined rights are on
offer at Ss. 6d. At that figure the ords>. are
worth 275. after allowing for brokerage (6d.)
and the premium (Is.) at which the 7) per
cents, stand on the market. The ords. have
been quoted ex rights at 275. 6d.; the return
at that figure is 7.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Including the new issue the back-
ing for the ords. is 30s. lOd.; for the 6 p.c.
prefs., £3 19st 6d.; for the 7£ per cents.,
£3 Is. 7d. in net tangibles.
Trufood of Australia, Ltd.
Net Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1924*. 42,142 26) p.c. = 32,812 9330 23,261
1925.. 17,948 12) „ „ 15,738 2210 21,0*1
1926.. 7,818 5 „ „ 7,500 318 20,733
1927.. 18,014 10 „ „ 15,000 3014 17,719
1928.. 26,791 12) „ „ 18,750 'BO4l 9,678
*lO months.
Earnings in this Vie. co., which manufactures
powdered milk, etc., are largely governed by
the seasons. The dry spell during the early
part of the last term allowed the manage-
ment to push sales to record figures, while
good rains during the second half brought
down the price of fresh milk, and thus re-
duced the cost of production. Improvement
on the technical and selling sides helped
also. The spring in the year’s gross profit
(£43,126) was £10,739; and, since exes.
(£16,335) were only £1962 heavier, the net
result benefited by £8777, reaching 17.8 p.c.
on capital compared with 12, 5.2, 14.2 and
33.7 p.c. back to 1924. The board added
2) p.c. to the div., which even then called
for only a little more than two-thirds of the
net earnings, the balance reducing the
amount of capital unrepresented by tangible
assets to £9678. Goodwill (£35,000) is not
treated as an asset in the tables. In addi-
tion to putting by £25,322 over the last five
years the board has handed shareholders an
average of 13) p.c. p.a. Not a bad per"
formance considering that paid capital
was increased from £30,000 to £125,000 by
bonus issues in the reconstructions of 1922
and 1923!
The poor showing two years ago was
partly due to seasonal conditions, but more
largely to the failure of. the subsidiary. Tru-
food Gelatine Pty., Ltd., formed in 1925 for
the purpose of manufacturing milk jelly, and
in which the Davis 'Gelatine Co. was also
interested. The new product failed to win a
market, and its manufacture was suspended.
Meanwhile the Trufood Co. had more than


THE RECENT DISCOVERY OF OIL AT ROMA MEANS
The establishment of a great national asset in Australia and
The enrichment of those with the courage and the foresight to invest in the early stages of
development.
ON THE EVE OF A GREAT OIL BOOM
EASTERN ROMA OIL FIELDS LIMITED
Offers to the general public this opportunity of investing in shares at their face value of £1
each.
The Company’s Oil Block is only one block removed from that of Roma Oil Corporation,
Limited, and £l shares in that company have already risen in value to £B.
By the time the tests are complete the shares will probably be of far greater value.
WONDERFUL PROSPECTS OF
EASTERN ROMA OIL FIELDS LIMITED
Situated on the main Railway Line, with ample supplies of wood and water for boring, and
Reported on by an eminent geologist in the most favorable terms,
The Company’s Block is one that demands IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
The nature and location of the block and its proximity to the centre of the oil activity on the
proven Roma Oil Field, and the fact that the Company has already received sufficient
applications for shares to justify immediate boring operations,
ALL COMBINE
To put Eastern Roma Oil Fields Limited in the very forefront of Oil Companies in Australia.
This opportunity to acquire shares should appeal very strongly to shrewd, far-seeing investors.
EASTERN ROMA OIL FIELDS LIMITED
was formed in the interests of Shareholders to* develop a GREAT NATIONAL ASSET and to
ENRICH those with the foresight to invest while the opportunity exists.
THREE POINTS ABOPT THIS COMPANY TO REMEMBER
1. —Proximity to Roma Oil Corporation activities,
2. —Splendid report from eminent geologist.
3. —Sufficient capital already subscribed to complete the bore.
APPLY FOR SHARES IMMEDIATELY AND GET IN ON THE GROUND FLOOR.
REFERENCE: BROKERS:
The Commercial Bank of Australia, Ltd., Messrs. Thornton & Pearce,
Queen Street, Brisbane. Thornton & Pearce Buildings, George Street, Brisbane.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES.(FiII in, tear out and post.)
The Secretary,
Eastern Roma Oil Fields, Limited,
252 George Street, Brisbane.
I hereby apply for shares of £1 each in the Capital of the Company upon the terms of the Company’s
prospectus. I hereby agree to accept the same or such smaller number as may be allotted to me.
I enclose £ being 2/- a share on application and I agree to pay 2/- a share when the shares are allotted to me, and
the balance in instalments of 2/- a share a month, and to be bound by the 'Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Name (in full )
Address
Signature
Occupation
pJ.B.—Applicants have the option of paying in full, in which case they are requested to write the word Cash after the amount enclosed.
Payments may be made by cheque, money order or postal notes. Remember that once shares have been paid for in full no further
liability exists.
EASTERN ROMA OIL FIELDS LIMITED
(Registered under the Companies Acts 1863 to 1913).
REGISTERED OFFICE: 252 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.


“THE WILD ‘CAT
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
Principal Newsagents, or The Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -j- GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
■**'**
■ “Arnold” Spraying Equipment. Paint, varnish,
lacquer. Australian-made precision instruments giving
perfect finish. Write for booklet “C” to R. \\.
Cameron and Co. Inc., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Unapproached in economy, Pioneer Wood Pipe
offers a service of wonderful efficiency. This modern
wood conduit is safe from corrosion of any kind,
will carry any fluid, is light, simple, easy to lay,
and cheap. It incurs no upkeep nor cleaning costs.
Full particulars and complete data book from the
.Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES —AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J, R. Reid and. Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
s>: * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
MOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
GILT-EDGED
FOR ALL
Raybestos
è
SECURITY
MOTORISTS
. Brake Lining
“SILVER EDGE”
I “GOLD EDGE” (Heavy Duty)
Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, Melbourne.
ft**
boord^son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
L Swift & Comimn.v Ltd., AuHtrulaniaii Agents, 26 30 Clurciice St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office i*v Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
doubled its stocks in anticipation of a
demand from the pup. Production had to be
curtailed and prices were cut in order to
reduce the uncomfortable size of the accumu-
lations in the storeroom. Also the loss on
the subsidiary has been written out of the
books. The thoroughness with which the
position has been cleaned up and the fact
that nature has been kind shows up in the
improvement in the figures over the last two
years.
Here is the position, with comparisons, as
balance-sheet figures disclose it:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital. . £144,762 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 15,747 5,242 9,028 15,160
Freehold . . 19,926 21,974 21,725 22,960
Plant, etc. . . 48,013 44,438 42,387 39,863
Shares in other
cos 850 1,100 100 100
Stocks .. 77,179 51,484 29,874 45,029
Book debts .. 1,395 14,986 18,651 23,660
Cash, etc. .. 1,457 2,466 42,491 41,645
The board took advantage of the low produc-
tion costs to build up stocks for future trad-
ing. Mainly because of that the more or
less liquid surplus (£95,174) was £13,180
stronger than at the previous balance. As
£41,645 of the surplus liquids is in public
securities and cash, the co. is well positioned
to face ordinary contingencies.
Lately the enterprising management has
been conducting experiments in the powder-
ing of fruit juices, and results thus far are
reported to be encouraging. Since the exist-
ing plant is suitable for this work, no large
capital outlay is likely to be involved until
the market for the new product, used mainly
for drinks and flavorings, has been tested.
Mindful of the risks the share market,
notwithstanding the big profit, pays no more
than 275. 3d. for the pound shares, which
were at 245. a year ago. At the higher
price the return is a shade over 9 p.c. as
long as the 12J p.c. distribution continues.
The net tangible backing amounts to 18s. Bd.,
of which 3s. 7d. is represented by freehold,
ss. 4d. plant, and 10s. 3d. is more or less
liquid.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1917.. 354,741 40 p.c. = 240,000 114,741 431,243
1918.. 392,244 40 240 000 )
Written off, £10,612 ) ’
1919.. 297,668 30p.c. = 180,000 117,668 690,643
1920.. 42 -82®. tten off Nil £l6 898 j 25,728 716,371
19-1.. 21>4 v^itten of f Nll £ lg> 3 oo | BA3O 724,501
1922.. 53,504 Nil 63.504 778,005
1923.. 304,980 30 p.c. = 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „„ 340,000 396.066 1.299.051
1925.. 939,262 76 „„ 525,000 414.262 1,713,313
1926. . 782,106 95 ~ ~ 665,000 ] -inn ciq i oio <i9R
Written off £16,493 ( 100 ’ 613 I>Bl3 ’ S2o
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „ „ 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
Profits follow prices for lead and zinc;
hence the fatness of the 1925 result, the
easier tendency in 1926 and the sharp con-
traction in each of the last two years. Aver-
age metal prices since 1923 have been: —
Lead. Spelter.
1923.. £25 17 1 1923.. £33 7 4
1925.. 35 40 1925.. 34 9 1
1926.. 33 17 5 1926.. 35 17 0
1927.. 2815 7 1927.. 3117 9
1928.. 21 9 6 1928.. 26 7 1
It is wise to remember that until 1930, be-
cause of the contract with the British Gov-
ernment, the Barrier cos. will not be seri-
ously affected by movements below £3O per
ton in the price of zinc; but nobody knows
what will happen after 1930.
Since the North took over its neighbor, the
British, in 1923, figures have been swollen
by bigger crushings; but operations at the
British became unprofitable when the price
of lead dropped to £23 per ton. • Operations
were carried on at a loss for a while; then
to relieve the position ore from the British
was railed to the North mill for treatment.
That commenced in Dec., 1927, and, although
results have exceeded expectations, a fire
at the head of Thompson shaft put a stop
to haulage for a month. One way and
another, the North’s return from mine pro-
ducts (£1,229,804) was £185,961 lighter than
in the previous year, and mine expenditure
(£896,157) was £30,247 heavier.
The £347,109 of.net profit claimed by the
accounts is reconciled with the figure in the
table in this way:—
Profit and Loss Balance .. .. £347,109
Added depreciation reserve .. 30,000
£377,109
Net reduction in other reserves .. 7,227
£369,882
Of that amount Bs. per share was handed
out in divs., making total divs. for the last
five years 655. per share. The balance was
sprinkled into the various financial reserve-
bins, a detailed view of which follows:
1923. 1927. 1928.
Depreciation . . £162,000 £342,000 £372,000
Equalisation .. 394,9611
Contingency .. 75,000 !- 850,764 903,060
Fire and Accident 6,941 J
Debenture Sinking Fund 9,861 9,667 10,672
New plant account 184,775 77,196 83,336
Unappropriated .. 69,447 538,337 538,77 s
Total .. ..£962,985 £1,817,964 £1,907,846
A mining co.’s reserves are, however, sel-
dom what they look; and perhaps a truer
idea of (1) the excess of earnings over out-
goings and (2) the book value of assets can
be hud from this comparison:—
1923. 1927. 1928.
Assets other than
mine and plant £1,036,016 £1,725,019 £1,702,970
Liabilities .. 198,629 191,125 132,687
Net liquid assets £837,387 £1,533,594 £1,570,283
The more or less liquid surplus at June 30
was equal to 445. lid. per share. Five
years ago the figure was 235. lid. Thus,
in addition to receiving the divs. referred
to above, shareholders arc visibly 21s. better
off than they were in 1923. But a repetition
of that performance on the same scale seems
quite unlikely.
The new flotation plant set in on the dumps
in January, 1927, and handled 38,785 tons
slimes in the next six months. For the year
to June 30 last 85,391 tons of dump material
was put through for a working profit of
£98,082. It is estimated that there is an-
other 12 months’ feed available.
Estimated ore reserves have remained at
4,000,000 tons for the last four years, though
1,698,068 tons crudes have been raised dur-
ing that time. At last year’s rate of extrac-
tion, estimated reserves will take over nine
years to exhaust; there are large ore bodies
known to exist that are not included in the
estimate. The 425,599 tons ore raised last
year was 15,601 tons less than in the pre-
vious year. That was chiefly because of
events at the British, already referred to.
Despite the presence of rhodonite in the
fine-grained ore from the British, there was
a distinct improvement in percentage re-
coveries. This improvement was more
marked in the richer ore from the North
mine, where about 80 p.c. of the ore reserves
are located. Recoveries at the North mill
from the combined feed of the two mines
during the second half of the term were 90.3
p.c. lead, 78.5 p.c. silver and 77.6 p.c. zinc.
And when the new crushing and table equip-
ment are completed still better results are
expected.
Despite the fact that the lead bonus to em-
ployees ceased in Dec., 1926, the cost of
production (38s. Bd.) showed an increase of
approximately sd. per ton. The saving on
milling was lost in the extra cost of mining
and development. However, a worth-while
saving in power costs is promised from the
establishment of a central oil-driven generat-
ing plant, details of which are under con-
sideration by the big producers along the
line of lode.
.Chief feature of the exploration work dur-
ing the year was the proving of the ore-
body below the 1700 ft. level. A new shaft
(21£ft. x 10ft.) is being sunk in order to
deaf with this section of the lode. The
work is expected to take about four years,
and the cost is likely to exceed a quarter-
million pounds. The cost is not likely to
cause the board any anxiety. At June 30
there was £614,387 in Commonwealth bonds
and deposits alone. Other investments out-
side the business were as follows: —
1927. 1928.
B. H. Associated Smelters .. £300,000 £300,000
Electrolytic Zinc .. .. .. 150,000 150,000
British Metal Corp 24,063 21,250
British-Australian Lead Manufac-
turers 2.0,000 20,000
Globe Proprietary Timber .. 15,000 , 15,000
New Metallurgy . . . . .. 6,250
Zinc Producers’ Association .. 1,470 1,470
B. H. Co-operative Coal.. .. 1,000 1,000
Australian Ore and Metal .. 500 600
British-Australian Lead, debentures 26,000 26,000
Total . . £544,283 £535,220
The lot stand in the books at par, and to-
gether with interest, rents, etc., brought in
£123,407 last year; that was £20,675 more
than in the previous term, and sufficient to
pay a dividend of 17$ p.c.
The North, Sguth and Zinc Corp. are dis-
cussing the formation of a special investment
trust —a public co. —to take over their re-
spective Australian investments, the aggre-
gate book value of which, including Gov-
ernment securities, exceeds £1,500,000, The
market value, of course, is greatly in excess
of that. One advantage claimed for such an
arrangement is greater flexibility in the
mining cos. finances.
The share market, which rightly puts
North’s scrip at the head of silver-lead stocks,
keeps a sharp eye on the price of the metals
—lead is now a few shillings above last year’s
average price—and values the pound shares
around £5 as against £4 a year ago, and £7
12 months before that.
Australian Roma Oil.
There are two cos., No. 1 and No. 2, and
a reciprocal agreement provides that both
shall benefit from either’s discoveries. In
each co. nominal capital is £250,000 in 10s.
shares, of which 400,000 are offered, the ven-
dors take 30,000 paids, 10,000 paids are re-
served for employees and the balance
(60,000 shares) are in pickle. The two cos.’
holdings comprise permits Nos. 61, 62 and
116 on the Roma field. Also it has been
decided to exercise an option over block 128.
The total area of the four permits is 35.000
acres. Two of the holdings are claimed to
be on the Bunga anticline, one on the Bun-
geworgorai, and another on the Blythdale-
Mooga. On permit 61 it is said that no
scout boring is necessary, and that the oil
sands are expected to be tapped at 2100 ft.
It lias been recommended that four holes
be sunk, on sites to be selected by Dr.
Jensen. American drillers have been engaged,
and high-speed rotary drilling equipment is
on the way. In each co. 20,000 shares have
been underwritten on a 10 p.c. basis. The
scrip is to be listed.
Mandated New Guinea’s long-heralded new
mining ordinance lias not filled local bosoms,
outside administrative circles, with enthu-
siasm. Warden McLean spent months in
Australia on the work, which has been
modelled on the Queensland Mining Act,
with variations designed to suit local con-
ditions. It repeals a quantity of previous
mining legislation, and contains some impor-
tant changes on previous practice. Ihe
alteration permitting any person or co. to
hold any number of leases has already raised
strong protests. Considerable powers are
delegated • to the Administrator, who may
impose penalties by regulation only, and lias
power to resume, under specified conditions,
a dredging and sluicing area on which a
reef has been discovered. The possible effects
of this latter provision upon dredging and
sluicing titles are being discussed with appre-
hension, though compensation is provided tor.
* * * *
Misima Island, 140 miles from Samarai,
Papua, will shortly again hear the stamps.
As a gold proposition it has had a chequered
career. Originally held by the St. Aignan s
G. M. Co., and later by B. H. Block 10, about
£400,000 is said to have been spent on the
proposition before it was abandoned. Latei
a New Guinea syndicate bought the remains
of the old plant, and put G. O. Wilkinson
in as manager. By throwing the softer
material in the cyanide vats without crush-
ing, he turned out in about four years
roughly 255. for every £1 share. Then exces-
sively wet weather and harder ore temporarily
prevented profitable treatment. Eventually
the show was bought outright by M lllunson
and F. W. Cutlibert, who are now about to
instal a 10-head battery and more elaborate
cyanide plant. Wilkinson is on the island
working suitable ore in the old primitive
way. Cutlibert is in Sydney buying the
plant, etc. A large supply of well-proved ore
has been opened up, and prospects look pro-
mising. Tower will be supplied by a (O-h.p.
Iluston-llornsby crude-oil engine, and sands
and slimes classified and treated separately.
The real magnitude and full value of the
lode are still only matters of conjecture, as
a large portion of it yet remains to be pros-
pected and tested. The local rainfall being
about 200 inches, shortage of water will
not be one of the troubles.
* * * *
Lawn Hill silver-lead field (N.Q.) may
be heard of again. The old mines and some
new leases have been applied for, and the
new crowd is in touch with moneyed men
in London who seek big tonnages.
* * * • -i=
A discovery of good antimony ore lias
been reported from Coonambula, in the Bur-
nett district (Q.). The find suffers from
inaccessibility, and though the ore grade is
good, quantities have not yet been proved by
thorough prospecting. Providing the ore lives
down, 7s. to Bs. a unit will make it an econo-
mic proposition, and at present there is a
fair demand for antimony.
* * * *
The new shoot on the porphyry wall at
430 ft. level in the Great Northern, Herberton
(N Q.) appeared to be making for the work-
ings on the last ore body. However, the
overhead stope has now risen something like
30ft. and passed the old workings on the
intermediate level. Shareholders can now be
assured that it is maiden ground to the sur-
face The top of the stope has been
extended 25ft. along the ore, which is sft.
wide, so prospects are rosy. Further, the
• ore exposed will average about 14 p.c. tin
oxide. Concentrates assaying 70 p.c. are
hanging round £125 on the field.
* * * *
A co. with London and Westralian back-
ing is being formed by Claude de Bernal es
to acquire the Lionel asbestos deposits, near
Nullagine (W.A.). About 1000 tons of stuff
from this show has been sold in recent years
for £46,000, and some selected lots realised
up to £220 a ton. Burbanks Mining Trust
of Perth and London has > also some good
asbestos in the same locality.
* * * *
Lake View and Star board has announced
that Dr. MacLaren, a geologist of wide ex-
perience and reputation, is about to inspect
and report on the co.’s Kalgoorlie properties.
As soon as his report is available share-
holders are to be called together and told the
policy which the board considers best to
adopt with regard to a more extended pro-
gramme of development. * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., has gone out-
side Australia for a general manager and
underground boss. The two men appointed
are said to be Yankees, with South African
experience, and to be used to big things. It
is expected that the extension of the rail-
way from Meekatharra to the
mines will be completed in about a year s
time, but it will probably be two years or
more before production is in full swing.
* * * *
October returns from Malayan dredges gen-
erally measure up to the averages for the
third quarter of the year, the latter being
shown in parentheses. In the Alluvial Tin
group Rawang’s dredge dug 120,000 yards
for 30 tons t. 0., averaging .541 b. (.421b.) ;
costs, 3.96 d. The sluicing plant recovered a
similar tonnage from 40,000 yards; average,
1.071 b. (2.011 b.) ; costs, 10.09 d. Ivun-
dang's 100,000 yards yielded 26 tons; aver-
age, .581 b. (.Glib.); costs. 3.383 d. Kampar
Tin Fields, with 150 tons from 517,000 yards,
averaged .641 b. (,621b.) ; costs, 3.79 d.
Changkat dug 97,000 yards for 55 tons;
average, 1.271 b. (1.641 b.) ; costs, 6.926 d.
Larut’s 66 tons from 343,000 yards averaged
,431 b. (.411b.) ; costs, 4.4 d. .Telapang’s 37
tons from 122,000 yards averaged .771 b.
(.781b.) ; costs, 4.24 d.
* s> * *
A. W. Gordon Smith, A.F.1.A., Public Accountant
and Auditor, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney, Sydney Repre-
sentative Salt Domes Oil Co., Ltd. ’Phone, MA1763.


THIS IS PUBLISHED FOR INFORMATION ONLY.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
THE FIRST NATIONAL INVESTMENT
TRUST LIMITED
TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS OF N.S.W. 1899-1918.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £1,500,000
DIVIDED INTO
900,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each and 600,000 Cumulative Preference Shares of £1 each.
PRESENT ISSUE:
500,000 Ordinary Shares, payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and the balance in monthly instalments of 2/6 each as and when
required.
100,000 Cumulative Preference Shares, payable 2/6 on application, 2/6 on allotment and the balance in monthly instalments of 2/6 each
as and when required.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Sir HENRY BRADDON, K.8.E., M.L.C.
Sir GRAHAM WADDELL, K.B.E.
Chairman of the Australian Wool Council, late President of the Graziers’
Association.
A. E. BARTON, Esq., M.8.E., F.C.P.A., Consulting Accountant, Sydney.
F. CULL, Esq. Messrs. Geo. Cull & Son, Ltd., Sydney.
F. E. BRYANT, Esq.
Chairman of the Union Trustee Co., Sydney, late Manager Union Bank
of Australia, Sydney.
TWO OTHERS TO BE APPOINTED.
BANKERS:
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Sydney.
AUDITORS:
Messrs. YARWOOD VANE & CO., with G. MASON ALLARD.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
Mr. H. J. BRIGDEN, F.1.C.A., Wigram House, 19 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS:
To establish in Australia an Investment Trust on the model of similar institutions which have had a remarkable record of success in Great
Britain extending over sixty years, and now rank in importance close to commercial banking.
CO-OPERA-
TIVE
INVESTMENT.
An Investment Trust is a co-operation of Investors who
combine their funds for investment, under expert guidance,
in such a way that risk is reduced to a minimum and a
relatively high return assured in spite of fluctuations in
the individual securities in which the funds are invested.
PRINCIPLES
OF
OPERATION.
The principles of operation may be reduced to three:
1. Careful investigation, before investment, of individual
securities by a staff of experts under the personal control
of the Directors.
2. Distribution of the funds over a wide diversity of sound
securities, with the object of insuring against loss by
diversification.
3. Close supervision of the individual investments with the
object of taking advantage of market conditions and
realising profits on turnover.
WHAT THE
LONDON
"FINANCIAL
TIMES”
SAYS (1925)
“The private investor is undoubtedly beginning to realise
more and more the advantage of placing his money in
the securities of the investment trust companies, where not
only satisfactory dividends can be counted on, even in bad
times, but where the risk of loss of capital, inherent to
any business, is reduced to a minimum through the sound
distribution of risk, both geographically and in the varied
nature of the investments held.”
CONDI.
TIONS RIPE
FOR AN IN-
VESTMENT
TRUST IN
AUSTRALIA.
The Directors are satisfied that conditions in Australia are
entirely suitable for the establishment of an Investment
Trust. Investigation discloses that there is an ample range
of investments in the Commonwealth and New Zealand,
both for the spreading of risk and the making of profits.
A GILT-EDGED SECURITY.
A Share in the First National Investment Trust Limited differs materially from Shares in other Companies. It stands not for one security
or enterprise, but for a great diversity of all the most stable and profitable securities available. It has behind it the continuous earning power
of the individual securities, but, owing to diversification, is freer from the risks and fluctuations to which every separate enterprise is subject.
In the last resort, a Government Bond has no sounder basis.
PROFITS OF
BRITISH
INVESTMENT
TRUSTS.
Operating on the above principles, British Investment Trusts
have demonstrated not only that safety of principal is
secured by diversification, but that relatively high and
stable returns are obtainable with no more risk than is
associated with public bonds.
In 1925, of 35 representative British Trusts, 23 paid divi-
dends ranging from 10% to 23%. The remainder averaged
over I\%. The actual earnings on the ordinary stock
were much higher.
1 1 earned between 20% and 36%.
20 earned between 10% and 20%.
It is the general policy of British Trusts to set aside a large
part of earnings to reserves. The Directors of the First
National Investment Trust, Limited, intend to follow the
same sound policy. Even during the War period, eight
Trusts averaged dividends ranging from 10% to 20%, and
the average dividends of 48 were 6J%. Several issued
bonus shares for large amounts.
The Consolidated Trust, Ltd., one of Viscount St. David s
group of Trusts, declared the following dividends during
the period 1922-26:
To 15th April, 1922 .. .. 15%
To 15th April, 1923 . . . . 16%
To 15th April, 1924 . . . . 20%
To 15th April, 1925 . . . . 22%
To 15th April, 1926 . . . . 20%
And 10% bonus in deferred stock.
MONEY
FROM
OVERSEAS.
The ordinary stock of nearly all the great British Trusts
stands at a premium ranging up to 400%. The Trust,
with its connections in London and New York, will have
no difficulty in obtaining relatively cheap money for its
own Debenture issues and for investment in Australian
securities, public and private.
WHY YOU
SHOULD
INVEST IN
THE SHARES
OF THE FIRST
NATIONAL
INVESTMENT
TRUST, LTD.
1 . Through union of capitals and diversification you secure
safety and a good return, even in bad times. A share
in a well-managed Investment Trust is a gilt-edged
security, but differs from most gilt-edged securities in
its capacity to earn higher dividends.
2. You obtain the service of an expert Organisation, able
to watch the Trust’s investments closely and to take
advantage of market conditions.
3. You share in the advantages of co-operative buying on
a large scale.
4. You participate in the profits of a very large number of
enterprises without the risk that attaches to investment
in any one of them.
5. By putting your surpluses in an Investment Trust, you
are to that extent insuring yourself against the risk which
is associated with any single speciality.
The Golden Rule of Investment is not to put all the eggs
in one basket, and a Trust enables you to carry out this
rule to the fullest extent.
ECONOMY
OF MANAGE-
MENT.
BROKERAGE
AND
EXPENSES.
CONTRACTS.
An Investment Trust, it is well known, can be operated on
very economical lines. It does not require a staff on any-
thing like the scale of Banks and Insurance Companies.
The Trust will pay all expenses incidental to incorporation,
including printing, advertising, legal and registration
expenses, and brokerage.
The only Contract entered into is with Australian Investors,
Ltd., organisers for the flotation, relating to underwriting,
brokerage, etc. This may be inspected at the offices of
the Trust’s Solicitors.
It will be observed that there is NO VENDOR’S CONSIDERATION and no issue of Shares except for payment in cash.
APPLICATIONS
Applications and cheques to be sent direct to the Secretary, or to any of the Branches of the Union Bank of
Australia, Ltd., in N.S.W. Applications submitted through Brokers should be stamped with the name of the
firm. Country and inter-State Cheques should include exchange.
INFORMATION
Prospectuses and illustrative pamphlets may be had on application to the Secretary, or to Australian Investors,
Limited, Wigram House, 19 Castlereagh Street. Sydney.
ASK FOR FULL PROSPECTUS!


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of
SALT DOMES OIL COMPANY LIMITED
ROADVALE-FASSIFERN
(To be registered under the Companies Acts of Queensland).
NOMINAL CAPITAL - - £215,000
(in 21 5,000 shares of £ I each),
150,000
shares of £1 each are now offered for public subscription, payable 2/- per share on application,
2/-per share on allotment, and 1/-per share one month from date of allotment, making a total
payment of 5/- per share. No further calls to be made except by a resolution of the shareholders
in general meeting.
50,000
15,000
shares of £1 each are held in reserve. (See prospectus.)
shares of £1 each fully paid up are to be allotted to the Vendor on a pro rata basis with the sale
of contributing shares. (See prospectus.)
This Company is being formed to acquire from the Rev. John Robert Fagan, of South Brisbane, his permit to prospect and obtain petroleum
from 10,000 acres of land at Roadvale, 28 miles west of Ipswich, registered as Prospecting Petroleum Permit No. 19.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
DR. MORGAN LANE,
Union Trustee Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
COLIN J. C. PHILP, Esq.,
Wyralong Station, Beaudesert, Grazier.
THOMAS J. TARLINTON, Esq.,
Virginia Avenue, Hawthorne, Financier and Grazier.
ALFRED UHL, Esq.,
Managing Director L. Uhl & Sons, Ltd., Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane,
v ARCHIBALD WATSON, Esq.,
Vice-Mayor of Brisbane, Governing Director Queensland Bedstead Co., Ltd.,
Milton Road, Brisbane.
LIEUT.-COL. F. M. O’DONNELL.
Lytton Road, East Brisbane, Importer.
CONSULTING GEOLOGIST:
H. I. JENSEN, D.Sc., Brisbane.
BANKERS:
THE ENGLISH, SCOTTISH AND AUSTRALIAN BANK, LTD.,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOLICITORS:
MESSRS. DELANEY & KING,
Brisbane and Ipswich.
AUDITORS:
M. A. CORRIE, Esq., F.F.1.A., F.A.1.5., A.C.1.5.,
Public Accountant, Parbury House, Eagle Street, Brisbane.
BROKERS:
QUEENSLAND UNDERWRITING & FINANCE CO., LTD.,
Union Bank Chambers, 324 Queen Street, Brisbane.
THE PROSPECTUS OF THIS COMPANY IS NOW AVAILABLE TO THE
PUBLIC, AND MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE BROKERS.
.On this property at 525 feet and 461 feet natural gas was met with under
pressure.
In order to give the investing public the best of information as to the nature
of the deposits on the area, the Promoters at their own expense have put down
a Scout Bore on the anticline in the vicinity of the site selected by Dr. Jensen.
This bore has been sunk to a depth of 350 feet, and the Driller’s Log records
the following:—
Overburden, 9 feet; calcareous sandstone, to 23 feet; limestone, to 72 feet,
interspersed by narrow bands of sandstone, iron, pyrites and coal. Shale was
encountered at this depth, and continued to a depth of 170 feet, interspersed with
bands of limestone, fine-grained sandstone and pipeclay.
Dark chocolate-colored shale came in at I 70 feet; various shale deposits were
encountered to 350 feet, interspersed with bands of pipeclay and limestone. The
bore is at present in limestone, and boring will be continued pending flotation of
the company.
As oil has been found in similar structures in various parts of the world
under the limestone, it is considered advisable to instal as promptly as possible
a full-sized working plant, capable of efficiently testing the ground to the depth
at which Dr. Jensen states the oil-bearing series should be encountered. For
this purpose capital is now being sought.
The following are material extracts from Dr. Jensen’s report, full copy of
which will be seen in the prospectus:—
“Introductory.—l am well acquainted with this area, having done a considerable
amount of geological work on it, both as a Government Geologist and subsequently
since entering private practice.
“Geology.—The belt of country incorporated in the Permit is of Walloon age,
consisting of the upper strata of the Lower Walloon and the lower beds of the Middle
Walloon. East of Purga Creek, between the Beaudesert railway and the area taken
.up by you, a great articline rises and forms the Mount Jubbera Range, with a
central cone of Bundamba sandstone, which is the formation underlying the Walloon
rocks. The valley of Purga Creek is on the westerly dipping western limb of this
anticline, and, owing to the development of a small north-south anticline, whose
axis practically coincides with the railway line between Teviotville and Blantyre,
the Purga valley is practically a syncline. The evidence of this smaller anticline
is physiographic between Teviotville and Roadvale, and from Roadvale to Blantyre
the physiographic evidence is supported by the actual dips of strata. So clear is
the reversal of dip at Roadvale that I have long been of the opinion that this
locality offers excellent geological attractions for the search for oil. In ’Bulletin
2 77’ and many minor publications, and in the 'Queensland Mining Journal’ I have
shown that it is the Lower Walloon rocks which, on all evidence available, are the
oil-producing and oil-bearing rocks of Southern Queensland.
The Lower Walloon series has been proved oil-bearing in the Roma district,
and, in my opinion, the oil obtained in Dun’s bore at Beaudesert also came from
Lower Walloon beds. The latter was actually drawn from superficial Tertiary beds,
but subsequent borings showed oil traces to persist into underlying Walloon beds.
The Walloon source of the Beaudesert oil was also indicated by the occurrence of
oil traces in widely-scattered bores into the Walloon series at many other points
in the Beaudesert district.
“At Beaudesert the structure was not good. At Roadvale the structure is ideal,
and there is also more cover on the Walloon beds than at Beaudesert.
“On the evidence available, it is not certain at what depth the oil-bearing
series should be encountered on the Roadvale anticline, but the depth should lie
between 900 feet and 1500 feet. Deep boring with a big plant is, therefore,
not essential. The area can be effectively tested at a comparatively small cost.
"One of the most important factors indicative of the occurrence of an oil
series in the Fassifern is the abundance of salt springs and salt wells and bores
in the district. Salt water and brine almost invariably occur in an oil series. The
Lower Walloon rocks throughout Queensland are saline, and yield brackish and
salt water in many wells and bores, but nowhere is the salinity so marked as in
the Fassifern district. Springs and soaks salter than the sea abound around Kalbar,
Boonah, Dungandan and Coulson. (Details of analyses appear in full report.)
“What is a striking feature of these analyses is the high calcium chloride
percentage, which is one of the salient characteristics of oil waters. The high
proportion of Magnesium is not so unusual in oil waters, but it is readily accounted
for by Magnesium content of many beds of Lower Walloon calcareous sandstone.
"Bore Site.—The site which you have already chosen is, in my opinion,
excellent.
“Summary.—The area which you have applied for is well worth the expendi-
ture of a reasonable amount of capital in the search for oil, being a very promising
area.
“Its recommendations are the following:
1. The anticlinal structure of a belt striking north-north-east from Roadvale
for a distance of nearly two miles is clearly defined.
2. The strata at Roadvale are the upper beds of the Lower Walloon or the
lower beds of the Middle Walloon, and represent an horizon about 1 000 ft. higher
than the Beaudesert oil horizon. There is a sufficient cover for oil to persist in the
anticline.
3. The region all round this structure is intensely saline, as evidenced by salt
springs, salt wells and salt bores.
4. The Lower Walloon beds in this area, as in the Roma district, are exceed-
ingly rich in organic matter, and have all the features of an oil series except actual
oil seepages.
“Conclusion.— l cannot regard the area as other than very favorable, and I
hope that you are successful in getting the capital requisite to put down
more bores.”
one or
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Provisional Directors,
SALT DOMES OIL COMPANY, LIMITED.
Dear Sirs, —
/ hereby apply for ...Shares in the Capital oj the above Company upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus, and I hereby agree to accept the
same or any less number that may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as the holder of such . shares.
I enclose herewith £ being 2/- per share on application, and I agree to pay a further 2/- per share on allotment, and to pay the balance
as provided in the said Prospectus, and to be bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this day of 102..
Name {in full)
{Mr., Mrs., Miss, or Title.)
Address {in full)
Profession or Occupation
Signature
These Shares cannot be called up to more than 5/- per share except by a resolution of Shareholders in general meeting.
QUEENSLAND UNDERWRITING & FINANCE CO., LTD., Brokers for “Salt Domes Oil Company, Ltd.,”
UNION BANK CHAMBERS, 82\\ QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Telegraphic Address: “SHARE,” BRISBANE.


STONEWALL"
SHOES for MEN
Hi
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
Stonewall” Riding Boot
8233%. —High-grade Black or
Tan Velour Calf, Welted
Soles, Reinforced Elastic,
35C
Black Leather 18/11
Heavy Box Calf .... 217-
Postage 1/-, Interstate 1/8
JACKSON'S U?
'STONEWALL’ STORES
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn S'? Sydney
è
Jhe purest tobacco only,
wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made t(C Uhe Qreys” the
best Virginia Cigarette.
It f s the Tobacco that matters!
GREYS
io for 9<cl CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“M. Brio”: The mystery surrounding the
birth of the kangaroo and other marsupials,
cause of much wordy warfare on this page,
has been very convincingly cleared up by Dr.
T. T. Flynn, who occupies the chair of
biology at Tas. Uni. Supporting his asser-
tions with documented evidence from unim-
peachable sources, Dr. Flynn shows that the
marsupial young have their genesis in a
minute egg which has a shell, the same as
that of a bird or reptile. But the egg is
THE COW HAD STRAYED.
LANY VISITOR: “I see you have
an eye for beauty, Mr.
Graseed.”
GRASEED: “Not exac'ly for Beauty, Missus — I was lookin’ ter see if I could spot ’er calf.”
not “laid.” Development goes on inside the
body of the mother till the embryo is about
an inch long, when it is delivered in the
usual wav, pink and hairless, and using its
forelegs, which are well developed, it makes
its wav’ unaided to its mother’s pouch. The
evidence all goes to show that the mother does
not, as many have asserted, place the young
in her pouch with her forepaws. In the only
case on record in which a marsupial paid
any attention to an infant at birth the
youngster was killed by a blow of the hind
foot. * * *
* * * *
“Wingella”: “Shed Hand” (B. 5/9/’2B)
should come to the North if he wants to see
white ants swarming. Here, on a dull even-
ing, with a light drizzling rain falling, they
stream from their nests by the million, and
fly off in an ever-increasing stream. There
are two kinds I have noticed; one very large
and strong, with bodies an inch in length,
and strong brown wings; the other small,
with whiter and smaller wings. They become
an intolerable nuisance at times, for they
make straight for any light and swarm
round it in heaps. The wings drop off very
quickly, and the ants then crawl everywhere
to form feasts for black and ginger ants and
fowls. One night so dense were the swarms
that all the Darwin hotels had to shut their
doors three hours before closing-time
(10.30). The ants swept into the bars
in millions; they dropped into the beer, they
crawled and eddied underfoot, they put out
the lights, and the sickly smell of then-
squashed and burnt bodies was overpowering.
The next morning the hotels were over-run
with ginger and black ants, feasting on the
bodies of the slain.
* * * *
“Ula”: Tell “Yufu” that the crossing of
a cat with a rat (B. 17/10/’2B) is quite
feasible. The result is commonly termed a
“dingbat” (Felina rodcnta). The. well-
known Batcatcher’s Daughter went in for
this kind of breeding of rats and cats, bun-
yips and tortoises, and also attempted a
mating of snake with platypus, .but was
never successful until she took to the Murray
River brand of pinky. The fair naturalist
was last observed two years ago about the
township of Gol Gol, when, with flowers in
her hair, she was noticed making damper m
a shag’s nest. Below the tree, waiting, was
a cross between a Brazilian anteater and
an iguana. Later, when intoxicated, she
divulged the secret of mating an eel and
a bootlace.
He * * *
“Let Go” : The soldier crabs, common on
the beaches of N. Q’land, are well named, for
in their parades across the sand they re-
semble a body of troops doing field manoeu-
vres. They gather in close formation and
at the first sign of disturbance spread out
into open order, to come, together again
when danger has past. With the incoming
tide they burrow deep into the sand and
remain dormant until the tide has ebbed.
Should there be rain or heavy wind they do
not leave their holes. They live hunted
lives. When the tide is out men gather them
for bait, and when the incoming tide covers
theim in their holes it brings shoals of fish,
which nose their way down into the sand
in search of the fugitives.
SOMETHING OUT OF THE BOX.
“’Ow’s Murry Ellen’s new baby, Maister Treloar?”
“Splendid, Missus. They weighed un ’pon kitchen scales, an’ ’e went eight pounds and
a couple av eggs.”
“Gouger”: A Papuan lad of eight was
howling his eyes out in the Sydney Museum
despite all attempts to pacify him. An artist,
trying to sketch him, had just about given
up in despair when a stranger entered. The
11 J Lmin rl A/j ■pr'ATll
child instantly bounded from
his seat, clutched the man
around the knees and howled
his woes as to a father. The
stranger quieted him easily,
suggested to the onlookers
that a cover be thrown over
the heads and other relics on
the shelves, and soon had the
boy smiling. How did that
kid instantly know that this
man, an official from the
Islands, would understand
his trouble? They had not
seen one another before. The
natives have a firm belief
that no matter how many
countries a man may live in,
he for ever carries about his
person the aura of each land.
It seems ridiculous, but there
is some unaccountable truth
in it. I have seen witch-
doctors take a stick, broken
spear or shell ornament and
give a history of the article.
Sometimes the whereabouts
of the owner would be told,
though he might be a hun-
dred miles away. As a test.
I have handed several of
these fellows a little keep-
sake given me by a girl who
has never been out of Sydney.
In four cases out of five the
giver of the token lias been recognisably
described.
* * * *
“Boronia”: “It’s loike this,” said Danny
in reply to the priest who had just
admonished him regarding his regular
monthly benders, “Oi goes into th’ bush
cuttin’ shlapers, which, shure, is harrd,
gruelling work, Father. The fust week iv’ry
blessed thing goes well, an’ I’m happy as
Larry. Th’ second week th’ divil a bit goes
roight, and thim shlapers seem to move off
th’ shpot where Oi put ’em. Come th’ next
week an’ Oi feel shure they do. Besides,
Oi detict ’em lookin’ at me with evil intint
an’ whisperin’ loike divils do when they see
holy wather. In th’ fourth week —well, now
your riv’rince, Oi ax ye, when thim spal-
peens uv shlapers shtand up an’ tark to me
loike Ould Nick, what’s lift but for to go
to th’ nearest pub an’ take a drop of th’
craychure?”
“Larrapinta”: “Catalyst” (B. 3/10/28)
is quite right: the flight of a spear is sound-
less In 1886, near the rink Lily Swamp,
on the Roper River (N.T.), a party I was
with was attacked by a big mob of wombiahs.
A shower of spears was our only warning,
and we hurriedly dived for cover behind
our dray. For the next ten minutes enough
spears to stock a museum rattled around us,
but neither men nor horses were even grazed.
All we could do was to take an occasional
potshot at a few flitting figures seen for an
instant among the screw-palms. Then the
attack ceased as suddenly as it began. Among
the spears which lay around us were heavy
barbed war weapons, three-pronged fishing
spears, hunting implements with prongs of
No. 8 galvanised-iron wire stolen from the
overland telegraph line, light reed-shafted
spears with heads of hardwood or of porce-
lain chipped from telegraph insulators. But
all of them flew past without whistling,
swishing or making any sound at all —except,
of course, when they struck the dray behind
which we crouched.
* s|s * *
“ J.W.C.”The common black liouse-spider
of Maoriland is poisonous to some people.
A Morrinsville (M.L.) farmer named
McLeod felt a sharp sting behind his ear
and quickly brushed off one of these insects.
A few moments later he was overcome with
faintness, his face became very hot and swol-
len, and a numbing sensation travelled up
his right arm. He became temporarily blind
and was removed to the local hospital, where
after treatment he recovered sufficiently to
return home.
* * * *
“Catalyst”: The abos. were not as well
informed in regard to bacteriological science
as “M.D.” (B. 3/10/’2B), but many tribes,
more especially those along the Murray,
knew that decomposing bodies contained
something that could be used to bring death
to their enemies. A piece of wood, or bone,
or iron about six inches long was sharpened
to a fine point. This was stuck in the
fleshy part of a corpse and left there for
days or even weeks. It was then withdrawn
and the infected portion wrapped in hair or
feathers saturated with human fat —more
especially the kidney fat. The enemy was
usually approached when asleep and pricked
in the foot with the neilyeri until blood
appeared. Sometimes it was driven in
between the ribs and left there. Blood
poisoning and death usually followed. The
old men kept the knowledge of neilyeri to
themselves, as it gave them much power over
the younger members of the tribe.
(Continued on page 25J
ON A MORNING LIKE THIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The mists drift up from the river, the
maggies are singing a treat.
The frost that the sun will soon scatter is
crisping the grass at my feet;
And though all his life he’s been giving the
parsons and churches a miss
A fellow just knows there is Something when
there comes a morning like this.
Last night by my fire I was thinking that
life isn’t much, after all;
That F'ortune but smiles on a fellow to give
him a heavier fall.
But now in the sunlight I’m catching a
glimpse of the purpose and plan
Since God’s sent a morning like this is to
gladden the heart of a man.
Last night when a chill wind was blowing
and ’twas looking as though it might
rain,
Old sorrows were sitting beside me, and
surely, I said, life is vain.
But now when the maggies are calling, and
hillside and gully are bright,
In the joy of the morning a fellow can
laugh at the cares of the night.
The near hills are glad in the sunshine,
the distant ones dream in the blue,
And down the long road through the bracken
I go with a courage that’s new.
And when all my travels are over, and the
days of my tramping are past,
I’m praying the Master will send me a morn-
ing like this for my last.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Home again
e \V
ofOV' .
,< V^ 9 we^'
,e<^
\»
<U' T-- &
V* °*
,'J®'
( o' v» A O<V "
5 V
.*<.**'
S *<
e<
id v.^e
* 6 '^ v ' e &>+
t «.A>> ,
° K e** \o#
>\® a=
v^ c
o< v* e >: c ;i <>> n<.
(X'l V>"V*\ ' V °
* ? c
V®
.*<<>< -
*^ e<v V e% *
oV o <v- \e* 9
<C
x> e<
after last week’s hurried departure
to food still fresh and ready to serve.
Wonderful—what Kelvinator will do.
After days away from home, what a relief to find that the dry,
constant cold of Kelvinator has kept your food fresh and whole-
some. There’s no need to dash out to replenish a depleted larder,
as you used to do. Kelvinator has done away with all that bother
—for, besides making cold, Kelvinator keeps it.
It has a reserve of cold which defies food spoilage even should
your supply of current fail suddenly. You always feel that your
foods are safe with Kelvinator.
Fourteen years ago the Kelvinator system took the lead. It still
has it to-day. No other make of electric refrigerator has been
so complete a success for so long a time.
Kelvinator is therefore proved, by time and by performance.
Kelvinator is the recommendation of qualified engineers for large
hotels and important institutions as well as for the home.
In justice to yourself, therefore, and to the days of future comfort
which you are contemplating, make a point of inspecting Kelvin-
ator before you buy any other form of electric refrigeration.
There is a Kelvinator model to suit every need. Write for further
particulars, or call in and inspect Kelvinator at the showrooms
of the agent in your State.
Kelvir
The Oldest Domestic Electric
tor
Pve frige rati on
14 Years of Quality Leadership
Sole Distributors for West Australia:
Malloch Bros.,
50-54 William Street, Perth.
Sole Distributors for South Australia:
Mechanical Supplies, Limited,
69 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Sole Distributors for Queensland:
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd.,
142-156 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Sole Distributors for Victoria:
Electra Ply-, Ltd.,
503 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Sole Distributors for New South Wales:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.


PEAPES
Clothe Men AND their sons
To buy anything, or everything,
for men’s or boys’ wear at Peapes’
is to BUY WELL.
Every article sponsored by Peapes
is characterised by the utmost
reliability, while Peapes sell at
a FIRM all-the-y ear-round bedrock
price, unaffected by periodical
“Sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
x-
L_|
/V
A-
riN
N a l-r^x
• .. .--
3_ w ,w..
<:.
* m ?
“//s Quality Never Changes. ”
AUSTRAUAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
e
in the sale of all classes of sk«s.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
“Valerino”: Those who are advocating
the destruction of grasshoppers by poison
should recall the slaughter of our insectivor-
ous birds by the poison carts which in the
’eighties and ’nineties were supposed to be
the only means of fighting Bunny. With
the clearing of the country for farming the
birds are finding it harder each year to
get nesting-places, and another poison cam-
paign would about exterminate them.
4c 4c % s|«
“G.S.M.”: The answer to a Service De-
partment query (B. 29/8/’2B) states that
the largest sheep-station in the world is the
group of Australian Pastoral Co.’s holdings
at St. George, Q’land. Thirty years ago
it was the same co.’s Bullaman station at
Thallon. It used to shear Nini, Cubby,
Nareen, Noolaman, Doondi, Gulanarba,
Oriel and Noondoo sheep besides its own.
All these holdings were owned by the A. P.
Co., and all of them were over 200,000 acres.
Bullaman, now over-run with pear, is still
unique for its pile of shears, 20 yards long,
15 yards wide and 7 feet high, dis-
carded by blade shearers of 20 and more
years ago; and also for its boundary gate-
posts, enormous pillars of gum or carbein
that were put there in 1864.
;S * * #
“Frigid” : “Piscid” is right when he says
Australian timbers stand alone as material
for fishing-rods (B. 10/10/’2B). In Queens-
land the saffron-heart has gained a great
reputation amongst fishermen. For tips and
middles it excels, and last year, when the
Yorks were here, they were presented with
rods made of this timber, the butts being of
tulip-plum. Red satinay is a favorite for
butts, being highly figured, strong and
quite durable. The Q’land greenheart is
strong and elastic, making excellent bending
sections, and has a pretty green and gold
appearance. Rods made of saffron- or green,
heart will hold almost anything.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Re “Yufu’s” inquiry as to
whether a cat-rat cross is possible (B.
17/10/’2B). A monkey-cat amalgamation
seems even more unnatural; yet it happened
in Regent-street, Paddington (Sydney). The
owner of the animals was so shocked when
pussy produced the monstrosities that she
promptly drowned the pair of them—the pro-
geny was, curiously, twins instead of the cat
tribe’s usual litter —and consigned the corpses
to the garbage-tin. The news of the strange
occurrence got abroad, and she was embar-
rassed by calls from people with a scientific
bent, who overwhelmed her with reproaches
for the destruction of the queer hybrids.
* * * *
“Peria Doray”: The Sepik River (New
Guinea) is famous for its skeeters. The
native dweller of certain parts of this river
upon evening approaching besmears himself
from head to feet with a goodly coat; of
slimy mud, valued for its adhering qualities.
By the time the first battalion of mosquitoes
has arrived the mud has caked hard and the
native is encased in an armored suit, Should
he be foolish enough to grin at the annoyance
shown by the foiled mosquitoes his nights
rest is disturbed by the enemy bombarding
the grin-cracks in the mud upon his face.
Other tribes dwelling on the same river
use sleeping-bags of woven fibre, the mouths
HE HAD SUCH TAKING WAYS.
"I suppose you miss your husband very much now he’s gone, Mrs. Snooper?"
"Yes, sir; it do seem strange to find money in the till.”
of which they tie when they are inside.
Some of these are one-man size; others are
family affairs. The brave warriors of the
Sepik prefer to come upon their enemies
nicely done up in their bags for the night.
They pin the bags and their contents to
the ground with their 12-foot spears.
ALL PART OF THE JOB.
"Isn’t he a noisy little wretch?”
"Oh well, mummy, you see he’s a watchdog, so lie has to practise up his barking."
“Billy See”: A plant that seems to rely
on the pneumatic tyre for the carrying of its
seeds abroad is that most infernal .pest
known in W.A. as the “double gee. Oiigin-
allv imported by early settlers as a substi-
i i. fminnon 14* Pgf'tl TlPtl
tute for spinach, it escaped
from the gardens around Perth,
and by means of its three spikes,
which are sharp enough to pene-
trate the frog of a horse’s hoof,
succeeded in getting a footing
all along the travelled roads of
the south-west. With the advent
of the goldfields and the bicycle
it made considerably more mile-
age, being carried to out-back
camps stuck in the tyres of the
machines which special mes-
sengers and others used for long
journeys into the desert. Now
it reaches out a spike towards
the distant Kimberleys, the
tyres on the wheels attached to
the Airways’ ’planes offering it
a means of locomotion over hun-
dreds of miles.
* *
“Pick”: “Bad Australian”
argues against himself when he
says (B. 24/10/’2B) that if the
kangaroo’s pouch can be closed a
big joey could not gain speedy
admission. The fact that the
young one can do so is proof of
my contention that the aperture
can be opened and closed. Other-
wise it must always remain
hanging open; and nothing then
would prevent the imprisoned
baby from being jerked out when
its mother lobbed after a bound.
“Bad Australian’s” assertion
that kangaroos do not undertake
long swims is absurd. Pursued
by dogs, they have often been
known to enter the sea and swim
long distances from point to
point, and they don’t leave their
young-carrying mothers behind.
The pocket that can exclude
water can also contain air, and
the joey is neither drowned nor
smothered.
“G.F.K.”: A motor-car, -the first seen in
the district, turned up at Turrawee station
(N.Q.) recently. The blacks showed keen in-
terest in the vehicle, and when one of their
number had been taken for a spin he was
surrounded by the others for his impressions.
Asked what it was like, Jacky replied:
“Suppose-em you ride to Bowalla, you get
there tea-time; suppose-em you walk, you
get there in the mornin’; suppose-em you go
in motor-car, you there now!”
if. * * *
“Billy See”: “Bad Australian’s” South
American miner (B. 10/10/’2B) who smelted
brass straight from copper-tin ore was not
so very unusual. The ancient Egyptian cop-
per chisels, hard enough to cut iron, were
produced in much the same way. European
smiths in olden times thought it a matter of
tempering the copper, and many a man spent
a lifetime endeavoring to learn the. secret;
but modern metallurgy reveals that in cases
where hardness was obtained it was due to
a probably accidental admixture of nickel
and tin. Nearly all gold contains a per-
centage of an inferior metal. The produce
of Westralian mines, for instance, invariably
shows a small content of silver, althougn
there isn’t a real silver-mine within a thou-
sand miles. In the palmy days of the Brown-
hill G. M. at Boulder enough silver was ex-
tracted from the bullion to make the chair-
man of directors a solid-silver dinner-service.
* * * *
“Drover”: What is the limit of a good
horse’s endurance? One prad I know of
carried its owner, Joe Hagen, 290 miles in
three days, from Maree (S.A.) to Birdsville,
S.-W. Queensland. The only feed the horse
had was when it was let go for a short time
whilst its owner boiled his quart. Day and
night for three days the horse plodded along,
and a good deal of the country over which
it travelled was heavy sand. Its rider was a
lightweight, but even at that the perform-
ance was remarkable.
* * * *
“Tapu”/Native recruits enlisted in Maori
War days learnt all manual exercises with
ease, but the quick march had literally to
be acquired. The Maoris in their barefoot
days used a short quick trot, termed the
toiha, but they never walked quickly. They
have always been good swagmen, but all
main paths were well supplied with taumate
—small clear space used to rest in, and,
on hill country, always at, a good look-out.
* * * . *
“Slushlight”: Tell “Mac-Ropus” (B.
12/9/’2B) that sleeping-bags of all descrip-
tions have been well tried in the bush. The
objection to them is that they are too hard
to get in and out of. I’ve known newchums,
after a week or two sleeping out, take a knife
and split their sleeping-bags open, after-
wards using them as ordinary rugs. The
bushman sleeping out always arranges his
blanket so that it covers his back and is
tucked under his feet. Then, after getting
in and tucking the open side under, he is
practically in a bag.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Though termites can make
their way through sheet lead, “Wingella”
(B. 12/9/’2B) is wrong when he states that
they secrete a corrosive acid. The termite
itself is not capable of this, but on the back
of each is carried a small parasite which
does the work. The termite squeezes this
parasite and forces it to eject a corrosive
acid which will eat through sheet lead, gal-
vanised iron or any similar substance.
MAGPIES IN THE MOONLIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft veils of pearl shut out the sunset fires,
Faint moonshine floods the sombre w r ooded
plain; , „
The dews along the threaded fencing-wires
Are thick as beaded chains of amber rain.
On such a night as this liow memory lingers
In dim lost vales by fairies sentineled,
Hearing in haunted glades the leafiand
singers
The magpies in the moonlight at Dunkeld.
All day long they fluted to the valleys.
Flung largesse of song across the blue.
At dawn and dusk along the red-gum alleys
They sang their matins, said their vespers
through. , , . .
Should they not be weary at day s winging,
Tired of'the gladness all the bright hours
held? , . . . ,
Or are September days too short for singing?
Is the moonshine sunlight for them at
Dunkeld?
The camphor-laurels lean across the garden,
The trembling briar scatters silver tears,
The guardian cypress still keeps watch and
warden;
Its shadow seem to point across the years.
I am caught between the now and yesterday,
Hearing, before my dreaming be dispelled,
The liquid minstrelsy, the wood notes gay.
In long moon-dappled shadows at Dunkeld.
The red-gums keep their royal splendor still,
The lilac’s green and silver after rain ;
Through leafy choirs across the quarried hill
The woodland music swells, and dies again.
And on the golden gales of new Septembers,
Like wind-blown jnagic, joyous, silver-
belled,
Faintly and far away, my heart remembers
The magpies in the moonlight at Dunkeld.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin readers.
Service 2 ’ * ncbld * ne information, you are invited to write to the
insidp” hnnt !rvkje i3 /i nt l re l y ree ' you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
Ane right of selection and rejection is reserved,
a time acib^ate searcb it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
Conscientious, hard-working Australian
wants immediate loan £100, reasonable
interest, to avoid sacrificing business.—7201.
Widow, home in Blackheath, would let
room and use kitchen to lady wanting rest
and quietness.—7293.
a I ° an i single, wants to return to
Australia from .England; would work pas-
sage-money and interest off on arrival Five
years’ experience station work in N.S.W.;
good references.—7184.
English girl fl8) would like to corres-
pond with Bulletin readers.—7231.
Young woman, graduate Tas. Uni., wants
Position as governess in Northern Australia.
—7186.
To meet a speculator, preferably with
mining experience and with moderate capi-
tal; to handle partly-developed mining propo-
sition at Broken Hill. Immense possibili-
ties.—7243.
.To y ’ , C0 J? y of "‘O. Henry and Me,” by
Ethel Lloyd Patterson.—6248.
t n To 5 uy '=°Pies Motor (English), June 12,
and 26, 1923, and June 10, 17 and 24,
1924.—7240.
To buy “The Life of the Rev. Thomas
Rogers.” (To T. Rogers Kells, Bracken-
street, New Plymouth, N.Z.)
• , To Jl uy tattooing machine and tattooing
ink.—6918.
. Hoy (16J), some experience, wants job as
jackeroo, N.S.W. sheep station. —7242.
To buy book or pamphlet on spaying.—
uool*.
.To buy 100 strong plants of tree lucerne.
(To L. M. Haynes, Box 214, P.O. Too-
woomba, Q.)
To exchange quantity of fairly up-to-date
dance music and songs. (To Kenneth C.
Brodnbb, Gladstone-road, South Brisbane.)
For sale, autograph letters, documents,
etc., Queen Anne, Pope Pius X., Labouchere,
Holman Hunt, Irving, Huxley, Gladstone,
Newman, Manning, Palmerston, George IY.
and Queen Victoria.—7170.
To sell land at Toongabbie (N.S.W.),
80ft. by 130ft. : £75.-7193. '
To sell Murray’s new Oxford Dictionary,
£35; cost £50.-7315.
_ To sell G. Papini’s “Four and Twenty
Minds,” new, 9s. 6d. —7252.
To sell two building allotments, Sorrento,
Vie. Moderate price.—7230.
To soR pure-bred male Airedale pups, Syd-
To sell 10,300 acres, 70 miles north Clon-
curry (Q.), fenced, well watered, rental id.
per acre.—7192.
To sell -J-h.p. Waratah motor-cycle, regis-
tered, in good order; also B-flat clarinet.—
7194.
To let furnished cottage, Manly (Sydney),
£4 4s. p.w6963.
Stamp collector desires to get in touch
with seamen calling Pacific Islands and
Singapore. (To A. Motham, 168 Melbourne-
street, North Adelaide, S.A.)
Copy of Henry Lawson story of two lost
children, containing the sentence “The
fairies in the bush look after children who
are lost.” (To R. Edwards, Darling-road.
East Malvern, Vic.)
Copy of story, “The Children of Judas,”
believe published in the Idles in the
nineties. (To Douglas Nairn, Omakere,
Waipawa, Hawkes Bay, N.Z.)
Words of poem describing the burial of
an aviator, in which an aeroplane is said
to have “mourned for its mate.”—6994.
Words of verse entitled “The Ginger-whis-
kered Cove.”—7207.
Words of “Stuffed Birds,” beginning “The
craftsman was ingenious and wise.” (To E.
Hulme, 17 Lang’s-road, Ivanhoe, Vic.)
Whereabouts of Nat Meehan, boot repairer,
once in business in Swanston-street, Mel-
bourne, and later in Vic. Mallee towns.—
7246.
Whereabouts of Sid Sharpley, formerly of
Dunedin, N.Z., last heard of in 1904. Adolph
inquires. . (To Rev. W. A. Wilson, Merino,
Vid)
Name and address of Australian agent for
H.M.G. Hamburg marine engine. (To F. O.
Moody, Morobe, via Salamoa, New Guinea.)
Information Sought.
How to scour md tan goatskins? —7048.
Soak them in clean cold water for a couple
of days; then over a convex surface, such as
a log, carefully scrape the flesh side to remove
any flesh or fat that may be adhering to the
skin. Make up a curing liquor of 6oz. pow-
dered alum and 3oz. common salt to each
gallon of water required to cover the skins,
and soak for three days. Then wash the skins
again and scrape the backs. Make up another
liquor of 3oz. alum, but no salt, and soak
again; this time for about two days. Before
taking the skins out make a small slit in
one near the neck and see if the curing has
gone right through the skin —it should show
grey-wliite. Wash in lukewarm water, using
plenty of soap and a little kerosene to clean
the hair; then wash in cold water and
allow to dry away from the sun and wind.
If the skins dry a little hard, wet again;
and when they are almost dry rub a little
vegetable oil into the skin on the flesh side.
Then dry right off. Don’t use oil unless it is
necessary. When .finished, trim the skins
into a regular shape.
Area and number of cattle on Victoria
River Downs station, owned by Bovril Aus-
tralian Estates? —7238.
Area is 13,060 square miles; cattle number
anything from 100,000 to 150,000.
From lohom can, I obtain information con-
cerning the Polworth breed of sheep? —7oßl.
From the secretary, Polworth Sheep-
breeders’ Association, 422 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne.
How to go about transferring a hive of
bees from a bow hive to frames in the case
of (1) a well-established hive; (2) a recently-
caught swarm? —7047.
(l) Turn the hive upside down, removing
the floor. Drum the bees into an empty box
placed _ over the now-exposed combs —the
drumming is done by beating on the sides of
the box hive with slats of board. The box
now containing the bees should be placed on
the old stand to catch the field bees. The
combs should be cut out, and the best pieces
of worker brood fitted into empty frames,
securing with pieces of string placed over
the top bar and under the bottom bar. By
careful dumping of the bees in front of the
new frame hive containing the frames of brood
they should readily enter and accept their
new home. (2) Leave the transference until
the other colony has settled down in its new
home. The bees then may be assisted by
giving them a frame containing brood from
the old colony, the remaining frames in the
new hive to contain full sheets of comb foun-
dation. Since the bees will have very little
comb built in the box hive their transference
should be an easy matter. Remove the comb
built, and shake or brush the bees at the
entrance of the prepared frame hive. Judi-
cious use of the smoker is helpful.
A method of tanning shins with alum. —
6086.
Stretch the skin tightly on a board, the
hair side downwards, and tack it in place
by the edges. Scrape off the flesh and fat
with a blunt knife and work in some ordi-
nary chalk freely with plenty of hard rub-
bing. When the chalk begins to powder and
fall off, remove the skin from the board and
rub in plenty of powdered alum. Then wrap
up closely and keep in a dry place for a
few days.
(1) How to malce yeast. (2) Recipe for
wholemeal bread. (3) Is a brick oven pre-
ferable to a stove or camp-oven for baking
bread?— 7lsß.
(1) 2oz. hops, -Jib. sugar, lib. flour, 4
quarts water, 1 tablespoon salt, 31b. boiled
mashed potatoes. Boil hops in water half
an hour. Strain and cool till lukewarm,
mix in sugar and salt, and then stir in flour
gradually till smooth. Let it stand three
days, and then add potatoes ; next day strain,
and it is ready for use. This is very strong;
half the usual quantity should be used for
baking. Will keep two or three months in
cool places. (2) 21b. flour, 21b, wholemeal,
2 tablespoons brewer’s yeast (or 1 of fore-
going recipe), 2 teaspoons salt, 2 pints milk
and water. Put flour in wooden or enamel
basin. Mix yeast smooth with half the milk
and water, and pour into a hole in middle
of flour. Stir in flour from the sides to make
a batter, and sift flour over the top. Cover
and stand in warm place for an hour till
fermentation cracks the top and froths up.
Mix in salt and remainder of lukewarm
liquid to a flexible dough. Cover and set to
rise. When two or three times its original
size, knead thoroughly but gently and enclose
as much air as possible. Shape into loaves,
place in greased tins, and stand in warm
place to rise before placing in oven. Oven
heat about 450 deg. Fah., decreasing to not
lower than 250 deg. F. (3) Brick oven is the
best of all, but good bread may be made in
stove or camp-oven.
The block next to mine is infested with
white ants. Would it be worth while to build
upon mine, and, if so, what preventive mea-
sures could I take? —6774.
Yes, provided you take necessary preven-
tive measures when building. All stumps,
roots and timber of any sort should be re-
moved from the soil in the vicinity of the
proposed structure, as frequently these are
sources of infestation. The flooring should
be raised well off the ground on concrete
or brick foundations, so that no timber is
in direct contact with the soil. There should
be good ventilation and sufficient room to
carry out an inspection of the flooring from
underneath. Treat all timber as far as pos-
sible by painting or soaking in creosote oil
(coal tar). Where timber has to be placed
in or on the ground it should be treated with
the creosote oil, either by impregnation under
pressure, heating, soaking or even dipping,
brushing or spraying. The ground around it
should also be saturated with the oil. Even
where the foundation timbers are well clear
of the ground they may be treated with creo-
sote as an additional protection in localities
where white ants are troublesome. The piers
supporting the flooring should be capped with
metal. According to South African experi-
ence, the best capping is a flat zinc com-
position plate, thick, projecting two or
three inches all round and cut with a square
edge, but the ordinary galvanised-iron cap-
ping can be recommended.
(1) Where can I obtain the necessary
information for the construction of a short-
wave receiver? (2) Also a reliable text-book
dealing with short-wave construction? (3)
Log of call signs, wave lengths and times
of operation of short-wave stations? —72l6.
(1) An excellent and easily-built three-
valve short-wave receiver is described in No.
8,, Page 50 of Australian Radio, obtain-
able from Wireless Newspapers, 51 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney*. (2) Know of no book
dealing solely with short-wave receivers. (3)
A list of Australian and M.L. coast and
broadcasting stations, as well as a list of
world short-wave stations, is published in the
19.28 Radio Guide, pages 185 to 204. Price,
Is. 6d.; from Amalgamated Wireless, 47
York-street, Sydney.
(1) The secretary of a country tennis club
makes purchases on behalf of that club with-
out the necessary funds being in hand. If
the club can't pay, or should it go defunct,
will the secretary be personally liable? (2)
Will the members of the committee? —7osl.
The answer depends upon the person or
persons to whom the tradesman gave credit.
If the secretary pledged his own credit he
becomes responsible; if he pledged the credit
of the club and that was accepted as suf-
ficient, the creditor must look to the club —
and the club is constituted of its members.
A boy wants to become an officer in the
mercantile marine; how would he go about
getting a second-mate's ticket? — 6923.
He would have to' go to sea for four years,
either as deckboy or apprentice. With ordi-
nary application and a certain amount of
study a deckboy dan go through the stages
of ordinary seaman and able seaman in four
years; he must then attend a nautical school
for a few weeks and then sit for his first
exam. An apprentice also serves for four
years; in his case a premium of about 50
guineas is required.
(1) I ovm freehold land in Vic. adjoining
Crown land controlled by the Forests Com-
mission. My fence was burned by bush-fires;
can they compel me to erect another at my
own expense? (2) Part of my freehold land
adjoins Crown land leased by a grazier from
the Lands Department. No fence divides our
properties; can they make me erect one and
pay for it? —7013.
(1) There is no liability on the part of
the Forests Commission under the Dividing
Fences Act; the whole cost must be borne
by you. (2) The same applies as regards the
Lands Department. In each case, however,
if the land is in a district infested with ver-
min, you may obtain wire-netting through the
Lands Department, and will be allowed a
rebate of 50 per cent, on its cost for the
full length of the dividing fence which
adjoins Crown and forest lands.
(1) Age limit for a position as health
or sanitary inspector in the Federal service?
(2) Qualifications? (3) Salary? — 6B79.
(1) Fifty last birthday. (2) Applicants
must hold the Royal Sanitary Institute cer-
tificate, and the Public Service Board may
require candidates to sit for examination in
ordinary literary subjects. (4) From £3lB
p.a. to £354 p.a. by £l2 increments.
A tramp offers to split a bit of wood in
retiirn for a meal. While so engaged he cuts
his foot. Am I liable under the N.S.W.
Workers' Compensation Act? — 7024.
It is improbable, though there is no cer-
tainty about it. Liability attaches only in
respect of a worker who is defined as a per-
son who has entered into or works under a
contract of service. A person whose employ-
ment is casual and who is employed other-
wise than for the purpose of the employer’s
trade or business is excluded from the defi-
nition, even though a contract of service
exists.
,How to mend broken celluloid? — 663s.
Take three parts of alcohol and four parts
of ether and keep in well-corked bottle for
several days. The mixture should be painted
on the broken surfaces until they soften, the
edges being then pressed together and a
weight placed upon them for 24 hours at
least. Or dissolve one part of camphor in
four parts of alcohol and dissolve an equal
weight of shellac in the solution so made.
This mixture, after having been left to stand
for several days, should be applied thickly
to the parts to be joined; these must then
be left until they have hardened.
Measurements of the four-masted barque
Lisbeth, formerly Pendragon Castle? — 7027.
Length overall, 303.9 ft.; beam, 42.2 ft.;
depth, 24.6 ft.; 2453 tons.
How to tan. sheepskins for floor mats? —
6043.
Soak the skins in clean cold water for 24
hours, or until quite soft; then scrape off
any flesh or fat. For thin skins make up a
liquor of 3oz. alum and 2oz. common salt
to each gallon of water and immerse for
eight hours; if heavy skins, a stronger liquor
will be necessary and a longer time. After
this immersion wash the skins and again
scrape. Then make up another liquor of
alum and water only, and soak away again
for a similar time. Hang the skins up to dry
away from the sun and wind, and when dry
rub a little non-smelling oil into the flesh
side, just sufficient to keep the skin from
going brittle. If the wool is dirty, kerosene
and soap worked up into a lather will clean
and fluff it up.
A recipe for salting peanuts. — 7239.
Place nuts in a single layer in a shallow
pan, and roast in a medium oven until they
have the desired appearance and flavor. To
salt, shell the roasted nuts, lay on a clean
cloth on a table, rub with another cloth until
the skins are loose and remove skins by blow-
ing or fanning. Put kernels into an earthen
basin, sprinkle with salt, mix up with wooden
spoon and seal up in neat paper bags.
i The 12 largest cattle- and sheep-stations
in Queensland? — 7227.
York Downs (5400 sq. miles), Dunbar
(3724), Strathmore (3500), Buckingham
Downs (3400), Vanrook (2940), Nocatunga
(2728), Warenda (2198), Keeroongooloo
(2170), Glenormiston (2100), Sandringham
(1849), Diamantina Lakes (1812) and
Milo (1642).
Is there an embargo on the importation
of the Abrams “oscilloclast” ?— 7IOB.
Yes; the prohibition covers any appliance,
belt or article which is alleged to produce a
therapeutic effect by electric or magnetic
influences or by the presence of radio-active
elements.
By what rate per cent, have railway pas-
senger fares been increased in N. 8. Wales
since 1923 P—6550.
There was a reduction involving a sacrifice
of revenue of £104,000 in 1924. In some
instances the revision did not result in any
alteration, but in others the extent of the
reduction ranged from 2to 27 per cent. In
1927 workmen’s weekly fares were increased
by 33 1-3 per centi., periodical weekly fares
by 7 per cent, and single and return fares
in Metropolitan and Newcastle suburban
areas by 7 per cent. In 1928 periodical
tickets (system) were increased by 6 per
cent.; periodical tickets (other than weekly
and system) by 7 per cent.
Information Supplied.
6865. —To make muddy tank water clear,
place two shovelfuls of wood ashes in the
tank and leave for two hours; clear, soft
water from the tap should result Clean out
the tank every time it gets empty, and repeat.
Huffin-Guffin.”
6956.—A wall built of rubble sandstone
and mortar would be unlikely to stand.
Break the stone into metal and mix
it thoroughly with sand and cement in the
proportions of 3, 2 and 1. Mould the con-
crete into blocks 2ft. long by Ift. high and
wide. Build the wall of the blocks well
cemented together. Plaster the face where a
good finish is desired.—“ Bill R.”
Does Anybody Know ?
How to make a weather-glass with two
bottles, one on top of the other? —7205.
Method of cutting off tops of square bottles
so as to make jam jars?—72l3.
How to renew the efficacy of a razor hone,
the pores of which have become choked with
metal ?—7057.
A good bait for mice in a hayloft?—626o.
How to build a grid for cars over which
rabbits could not pass?—72o4l
Brief Answers.
R.H.M.: We don’t know; and we don’t
know why they use a capital S either F.W.: You
made a poor purchase, but as six payments have been
completed, and as you would get only a small
refund, you’d better go on F.A.G.: A speculation,
since a thousand things may happen between now
and the earliest moment the co. can be productive,
many of said things being quite out of the co.’s
control... .A.8.G.: Yes, good possibilities... .U.H.M.:
Alek Sass died some years ago Lithgow: You ask
for assistance in circumventing an uncertificated
bankrupt’s creditors. It’s a service we can’t render.
. ...F.5.0.: Original is in the Sydney Art Gallery.
. ...JjL.F. : We don’t advise it....F.8.: Pyke’s
Drive Yourself Service, Circular Quay, Sydney....
D. 8.: (1) Detmold and Cos. (2) No. (3) Try W.
A. Wawn and Cos., 285 a Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(4) Not from U.K.; foreign, 10 p.c N.G.: (1)
“Nathalie” and “Natalie” are the same; “nat-a-
lee. (2) In most of the Slav tongues “th” is pro-
nounced as “t” R.T.T.: (1) Provided the statu-
tory exemption is the only deduction the lowest
taxable income would be £3Ol and the tax lOd.
(2) Not taxable M.N.: Ricks Brown, 26 Wool
Exchange, King-street, Melbourne J.D.: Lionel
Watch Agency, 272 Oollins-street; J. and H. Marks,
294 Little Collins-street; and Wilks and Sons, 350
Little Collins-street—all of Melbourne P.F.N.:
The superstition is that a sixpence turned over in
tho pocket at the time of new moon brings good
luck A.S.: (1) Final figures N.S.W. Liquor
Referendum: No, 890,752; Yes, 357,684; Informal,
13,661. (2) Under N.S.W. law publication of details
concerning sweeps conducted outside the State is
forbidden... .A.P.J.: Resubmit the question J.E.:
Try any representative commercial aviation co
0.5.: Apply Patents Office, Martin-place, Sydney.
Fees totalling £8 are sufficient to obtain protection
throughout Australia J.M.G.: (1) Not likely that
they would ; but it would be wise to protect your-
self first. (2) See reply to O.S. (3) Fees must be
paid in advance. (4) Applications must be made on
official forms. (5) Pelaco, Ltd., Goodwood and Gipps-
street, Richmond, Vic. J.8.T.: Sorry; cannot
make comparisons D.A.F.: The information is
tabulated in the N.S.W. Statistical Register, Section
11, Private Finance (Is., from Govt. Printer) ; you
will also find the “Wild Cat” Monthly helpful.
.. ..E.C.J.: Desertion without reasonable excuse for
three years or upwards is a ground for divorce in
N.S.W.; living apart under a deed of separation does
not constitute desertion... .A.E.W.: Under the Vic.
Dividing Fences Act you should tell the adjoining
owner the class of fence you propose to put up and
say you will hold him responsible for half the cost. If
you cannot agree, take out a summons for the Court of
Petty Sessions to decide M.L.F.: Try Asia, 461
Eighth-avenue, New York; Sunset, Pacific
Monthly, 1045 Sansome-street, San Francisco, Cal.;
Folk Lore, 265 High Holborn, London, W.C., might
also look at the legends... .R.L.: Attempts to
acclimatise buohu bairosena bitulina have failed in
Vic. Write to Dept, of Agriculture, Pretoria, South
Africa... .W.M.: Information not available; Licenses
Reduction Board, 42 Bridge-street, Sydney, may help.
. ...V.L.F.: Tost and Rohu, 26 Martin-place, Sydney.
. ...E.A.W.: “The Groom’s Story” is in “Collected
Poems,” by Arthur Conan Doyle, Murray, 25.;
Angus and Robertson, Sydney N.L.: By calling at
the union office, 84 Trades Hall, Sydney, filling in
the necessary form and conforming to the rules
governing applications for membership C.K.: (1)
The size of wire rope to carry across a valley 15
chains wide would depend on the sag that could
be allowed. If points of suspension are on the same
level and a sag of 25ft. were admissible, ljin.
circum. wire would suit. Cost would be about £l4,
f.o.b. or f.o.r. Sydney. (2) Bullivant’s Aust. Cos.,
331 Kent-street, Sydney M.H.: (1) Provided the
co.’s income is derived wholly outside Australia,
dividends are hot Federally taxable and returns need
not be lodged. (2) See Q’land Taxation Dept
L.M.W.: Get in touch with Chief Electrical Engineer,
Public Works, Sydney. The work could only be
undertaken by a private person subject to. license
under the N.S.W. Water Act; the fee would run
from £3 to £5, good for three years... .G.M.:
Your contract was with the Melbourne firm; expenses
were arranged with the local manager. The question
turns on whether the local manager had the necessary
authority. Before doing anything, ascertain the
ground on which they make their demand... .P.F.N.:
Cannot trace the quotation in the available diction-
aries of phrases M.C.H.: Austral Malay Rubber
Cos., Union Bank Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney;
also J. Larriat, 84 William-street; C. S. Anderson,
360 Collins-street; C. B. Norton, 20 Queen-street;
and Delamore and Doig, 422 Little Collins-street—
all Melbourne... .8.M.K.: Depends upon your age;
if you are young enough to be apprenticed you would
have to attend a Government Technical College and
receive instruction complementary to that provided
in the workshop. If you are above the age, get in
touch with Roper’s Engineering School, 246 George-
street, Brisbane; or Efficiency Motor School, Bowen-
terrace, Valley, Brisbane. Most schools do not
undertake to secure employment for pupils....
A.W.D.W.: Write Home and Territories Department,
Canberra... .L.J.L.: Try any of the papers using
photographic illustrations; payment varies according
to interest of subject and space occupied... .P.L.8.:
Australasian Pigeon Keeper, monthly; 126 Parra-
matta-road, Ashfield, N.S.W.. . . .R.C.H.: The rates
are mostly fixed by agreement; without knowing the
name of the publication is is impossible to say
whether or not you have been underpaid. Consult
the A.J.A E.S.: Any Sydney municipal council
may define any portion of its area as a “brick area,”
and prohibit therein the erection of buildings with
external walls other than brick, stone or concrete.
There are no published lists of declared areas; you
would have to communicate with the council con-
cerned.... (Many others mailed.)


J& -V /
■ &je& & * &&*J*? ‘2 “C
■a <<*»' i-2l /S' . /_ !i2* -t *>4
«d? J? __.
*&* <&p &? *3? * *&
_ _ 4E «?
/■
Ki
CjUnb
tw~”
sss
£SS
SF
y
«s<
.#
n
a
IS
9
?y*\
r?
p
«jv>s
w
wm,
*
y^y
Legions
of
Motorists
prefer and use
DUNLOP
They appreciate their big
mileage their reliability
and value. For real tyre
satisfaction use Dunlop
covers and tubes.
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP
~This new 'Ball V
is truly \
exceptional!
V, • •
•SPORTS DEPOTS STOCK IT


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
e
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS f/CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
==V> 114--120 CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY
THE
Farmers & Settlers’
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
WHEAT WITHOUT FERTILISER.
The winner of the Moree (N.-Western
N.S.W.) P. and A. Society’s wheat compe-
tition this year, W. E. Tonkin, of Myee,
I‘allamallawa, who entered three plots and
secured first place and tied for third and
fifth, grew his winning plot on land which
four years ago was covered with dense
prickly-pear. The area was ploughed last
December, harrowed in January and scarified
with a rigid-tined cultivator in February,
March and April. In the first week in May
the land was sown with 451 b. of graded dry-
pickled Waratah (obtained from Cowra ex-
perimental farm) to the acre. No fertiliser
whatever was used, as this land, consisting
in various parts of red, chocolate and grey
loams, does not respond to treatment with
super. Sheep had kept down weeds on the
fallows, and though there was practically
no rain in the three months before harvest
a yield of nine bags to the acre wak har-
vested. Mr. Tonkin’s success is a very con-
vincing demonstration of the advantages of
proper fallowing and seed selection.
THE GRASSHOPPER PEST.
“Sunny Hill”: The grasshopper that is
giving most trouble in Australia at pre-
sent is called Chortoicetes terminifera by the
entomologist and shorter but harder names by
the cocky. It is most prolific in dry seasons,
and breeds twice a year, though the different
dates at which young hoppers are hatched,
mature and lay their eggs give the effect of
a practically continuous hatch from late-
August until about May. At present the first
hopper swarms are hatching from the eggs
which have been nested in the ground through
the winter.
When the hoppers hatch out they are with-
out wings, and at this stage they can be
dealt with effectively. They hatch out in
swarms and travel slowly, devouring as they
go, until their wings mature, when they
spread rapidly. As up to 10,000 eggs have
been counted in a square foot of surface
earth, the swarms should be easily located,
and then prompt action will finish them off.
Two methods have been successfully used,
the first being to spray the swarm of wing-
less hoppers with a mixture of lib. arsenite
of soda, 41b. treacle and IGgals. water. Mix
the arsenite of soda and the treacle sepa-
rately in warm water, and allow to cool
before blending them and diluting to correct
strength. Before spraying on the swarm
itself, spray a strip of grass a chain wide in
front of the moving swarm. They drink the
poison and die. This costs about ss. an acre
for materials. In cultivation paddocks use
lib. Paris green, or £lb. arsenite of soda, 41b.
treacle or molasses and 251 b. bran. Mix
the Paris green and bran dry with a shovel,
dissolve the molasses in enough water to
make the whole into a crumbly, flaky mash
and mix in thoroughly. If using arsenite of
soda, it will be necessary to dissolve this
thoroughly in the water first, as the arsenite
will not mix well if dry. Take this mash and
scatter it over a strip about a chain wide in
front of the advancing swarm of hoppers.
Keep stock away for a few days till the
bran has become dry and unattractive, and
be careful to scatter the mash lightly in flakes ;
not in little heaps that will be eaten by stock.
DOES WHEAT GROWING PAY?
Evidence was produced by the Farmers
and Settlers’ Association before the N.S.W.
Commission that is investigating the rural
basic wage. Returns from 16 growers were
analysed, these being selected so as to show
an average yield equivalent to the State
average during the last 10 years. To the
actual cost of working were added wages
for the employer at £6 a week in cases
where he worked, interest on value of the
property and plant at 6£ per cent., and an
allowance for depreciation of plant of 10
per cent.
The farms concerned in the analysis had
areas of from 400 to 2137 acres, with an
average of 915. The value of plant was from
£6OO to £2OOO with an average of £l2ll.
The expenditure for the year, including
charges mentioned above, was from £667 to
£2282, with an average of £1467 10s. The
yield ranged from nil to 30 bushels an acre,
with an average of 12 bushels.
The cost of the crop per acre, averaged
over each farm, was from £2 Bs. 4d. to
£6 16s. 9|d. with a general average
of £4 11s. 9|d., and the cost per bushel
(excluding, of course, the farm whose
return was nil) ranged from 4s. 61d. (23-
bushel yield) to 16s. 7d. (7$ bushels). The
cost per bushel on the basis of 12 bushels
to the acre was 4s. sd. to 13s. 4d., with a
general average of 7s. 7£d. The price
obtained varied from 4s. l|d. to ss. a bushel,
with an average of 4s. 10d., so on this basis
of calculation there was an average loss of
2s. 9£d. per bushel.
The question arises, if the figures above
quoted are to be accepted as fair and accu-
rate, how the industry manages to carry on.
Even if the employers’ wage and plant de-
preciation allowance are deducted from the
calculation, there still remains an average
loss of 2s. OJd. per bushel. And if the land
be taken to average £6 an acre in value, and
the interest also is left out of the computation,
there is still a loss —Is. 44d. per bushel. On
the figures as presented it looks as if the
cost of production must be reduced by 50
per cent, or the price of wheat must rise
by 00 per cent, before the industry can
attain a sound economic basis. In Maori-
land they foster wheat-growing, as a measure
of defence, by guaranteeing the growers a
paying price; but in Australia, where so
large a proportion of the grain is exported,
the employment of better and more scien-
tific methods of farming seems to be the only
remedy for what —if the above figures are
to be accepted—is a sorry state of affairs.
On the other side is the recently-expressed
opinion of Sir John Russell, director of the
famous Rothamsted research station, who
visited this country a few months ago, that
Australian farmers get 20 to 30 per cent,
higher returns than their British brethren.
Owing to research and improved methods,
he said, Australia could grow wheat on an
Bin. rainfall.
CORAL, LIME AND SUPER.
“Noah Fraid”: “Morita’s” remarks on
“Coral as a Fertiliser” (B. 10/10/’2B) leave
unsaid a great deal that ought to be said.
Coral, shell grit and limestone are chemi-
cally all one and the same, and geologically
they have the same origin. Agriculturally,
their efficiency depends upon the fineness of
division,. They are essentially calcium car-
bonate (carbonate of lime) and should not
be regarded as fertilisers. They cannot be
compared from the plant-food standpoint
with Pacific phosphates (calcium tri-phos-
phate). The use of Pacific phosphates,
in the natural state, as fertilisers
is not recommended, nor is it the
practice in Australia. Practically the whole
of the phosphate importations are for
the purpose of manufacturing soluble phos-
phate—“Super.”—without which we would
be in a parlous condition. The raw phos-
phate from the Pacific Islands contains from
36 to 40 per cent, of phosphoric acid com-
bined with a little more than an equal weight
of lime. Coral or shell grit contains from
85 to 95 per cent, of calcium carbonate,
which is equal to approximately 50 per cent,
of lime. The plant-food content is infinitesi-
mal—the pliosphoric-acid content being about
one-tenth of one per cent.
Coral, shell grit and ground limestone
supply “mild lime,” and ard essentially soil
ameliorators). The poorest soils in lime (the
siliceous sands) would contain approximately
one ton of lime per acre-foot —quite suffi-
cient to supply the lime requirement of any
plant for centuries, irrespective of the con-
stant replenishment from modern agricul-
tural practice). Australian soils are world
renowned for their deficiency in phosphoric
acid ( phosphates).
In the Yic. Western District, where
immense deposits of coral sand (sand dunes)
and many smaller deposits of chalk (amor-
phous calcium carbonate) and marl (chalk
and clay) exist, “mild liming” has been in
vogue for half a century, but only on the
farms on which the deposit exists, or those
immediately adjoining. The dressing is any-
thing from SO to 50 loads per acre on hay and
pasture lands, and the effect is noticeable for
many years afterwards. Smaller dressings of
five loads per acre were proved to be too light
and were found uneconomical. Around Gee-
long 30 years ago a few farmers applied heavy
dressings of shell grit, but the practice has
long been dropped. Liming is all very well
(especially as a foundation for artificial
manuring) providing the ground coral, shell
or limestone is cheap, but owing to the cost
and the heavy dressing required its use in
the main must be regarded as an unecono-
mical proposition. Soluble lime phosphates
(super.) manuring, on the other hand, is
relatively cheap and effective l .
CARE OF FARM MACHINERY.
“D. J.H.”: Farm machinery, no matter
whether of wood or steel, should be under
cover when not in use, and regularly over-
hauled each season. If showing signs of
wear it should be given a coat of good non-
corrosive paint. Valuable time is lost when
an implement is needed for use, and it is
found a bolt is missing or a washer wanted.
These jobs could be attended to on a wet
day or in a spare hour. The wheels and
all parts requiring oil should be constantly
treated, and ploughs cleaned and the shares
or discs given a coat of grease or oil when
finished with. Shares and teeth of harrows
requiring a touching-up are better done
straight away. Any wood work, as in seed-
drills and planters, should have a covering
even if it’s only old bags.
A coat of paint works wonders with rusted
machinery, and many an old implement
picked up cheaply at a sale when so treated
is worth as much as —often more than —the
brand-new article the traveller wants you to
sign a hire-purchase agreement for. If there
is not room in the general shed, a lean-to
structure will serve as a machinery shed,
and is all the better if the weather side can
be closed in too. A handy thing is a bench
with a vyce, so that minor repairs can be
done on the spot.
ADVANTAGES OF BALED lIAY.
“Nomis”: Baled or pressed hay is of far
more value from the point of view of fodder
conservation than stacked, though some
stacked hay is necessary on the farm.
The extra. cost for pressing is more
than off-set by the fact that baled hay retains
its fodder value for a number of years, while
stacked hay is wasteful after a year or two.
Baled hay is proof against birds, is not easily
damaged by mice or rats, and occupies far
less shed space than stacked hay. .The
bales are easy to handle and there is a
ready demand for pressed hay during dry
periods, graziers naturally favoring a fodder
that is easily transported.
When feeding to stock it is a simple
matter to ensure that a definite quantity is
fed. In loading, use pitchforks with
the prongs filed down short; two men
pitching together one at each end of the
bale, will find no difficulty in handling. If
sufficient hay is carted out each time for
two days’ fodder the weaker sheep will have
an opportunity of competing with the
stronger for food. The bales should be
placed roughly in a circle. There is no
need to open up the bales —the sheep will
do that.
COWYARD MANURE.
“Paul C.”: Cowyard manure is a valuable
fertiliser, but it is often allowed to go to
waste, or is used when nearly all its efficacy
has been exhausted. If it is exposed in the
open yard to rain, it becomes washed and
loses considerable manurial properties, while
the liquid portion of the manure is lost
altogether, and this part, weight for weight,
is more valuable than the solids, being richer
in nitrogen. To prevent this loss as much as
possible, provide a covered and enclosed re-
ceptacle, in which the manure may be placed
daily. As the mass ferments and decom-
poses there must necessarily be a loss of
nitrogen, but, being sheltered from rain, it
will still retain a large percentage of phos-
phoric acid or potash. It is a mistake to
keep this manure unused too long. It should
be carted on to the soil and ploughed or dug
in at once, while it is rich in nitrogen,
phosphates and potash.
SODA IN THE DAIRY.
“Ichabod”: This should help to settle the
soda question. The last manager of the
Casino (N.S.W.) butter-factory was a
strong advocate of soda for cleansing all
dairy utensils, and had all clean pipes,
pumps, vats, etc., in the factory washed
with it. While he was in charge, Casino
scored third place for salted and first place
for unsalted butter at Islington in 1920, and
in 1925 the factory, under the same man-
ager, scored first place in both sections
with 100 p.c. marks for unsalted.
TROUGH WATERING.
“The Welkin”: When will pastoralists
realise the advantages of trough watering?
Little expense is involved in the setting up
of a line of troughs close by and fed from
a dam, A small pumping-machine is the
only other cost, together with a supply of
chloride of lime. With the slime, etc., that
sheep are forced to take with their water
from earthen tanks, it is little wonder that
internal troubles such as fluke, worms, etc.,
are so seriously prevalent. Troughs should
be reasonably deep and as far off the
ground as possible. The water should be
filtered when drawn from the dam, and the
infusion of the chloride of lime—which can
be mixed in a petrol-tin and enough added
to give only a slight taste —will purify it.
The troughs need to be shaded, canopy fash-
ion, and the tank will have to be fenced off.
Sheep may not take kindly to the idea at
first, but when they do the owner will find
that there will be less sickness and trouble
with them.
WESTRALIAN DAIRYING COSTS.
The Westralian Department of Agriculture
in its latest analysis of dairying costs and
profits shows some astonishing divergences.
The figures are based on records of 16 herds,
the size of which is not stated. The average
butter-fat return per cow from these herds
was 2811 b. in 273 days, a very satisfactory
return. The cost of feed per 1001 b. of butter-
fat produced ranged from £2 9s. sd. to £8 14s.
in the case of herds that showed a profit, and
in the case of a herd that showed a loss the
cost was £ll Is. 4d. The cost to produce
a gallon of milk varied from 3d. to Is. 3d.
per gallon. The cost of feeding per head
ranged from £6 4s. 6d. to £23 13s. 10d., the
average of the 16 herds being £l5 11s. 4d.
The margin over feeding costs of cows used for
butter production ranged from £2 Os. 7d. to
£l7 18s. 3d. per head, and in one case there
was a loss of £4 19s. 2d. per head. The
Shorthorn herd that showed a profit of only
£2 Os. 7d. per head on butter-fat production
had a margin of £l2 3s. lOd. per cow on
milk. Another Shorthorn herd that had a
margin of £l7 12s. sd. per head on butter-
fat made £33 Is. 4d. per cow on milk. Dairy-
ing in Westralia seems to be almost as much
of a hit-or-miss business as wheatgrowing.
MAMMITIS.
“R.X.8.”: Mammitis is the commonest
disease in the dairy herd. It may be localised
or contagious. The usual cause of the for-
mer is irregular milking, failing to strip the
cow properly, bad milking by a novice, or
naturally bad hand, or failure to strip the
cow by hand after she has been milked by
machine. The contagious form is caused by
a germ that thrives in swampy land, dirty
waterholes and damp ground. The affected
quarter must be continuously fomented and
milked, until all the milk has been stripped.
Then use a milk-fever outfit and inject water
that has been boiled and has cooled to blood
heat, adding three drops of lysol to a pint.
This serves to dissolve any thick milk left
in the quarter, and to kill any germs in the
tubes that have been the cause of the trouble.
Knead the quarter for a few minutes before
milking the solution out, and before you let
the cow go rub the udder with a mixture
made up of 4oz. of camphorated oil and loz.
of turpentine. The household tablespoon
holds an ounce; The cow should be fed
lightly whilst under treatment, so that she
may produce as little milk as possible.
Should several cows become affected at the
same time the trouble is fairly certain to
be in a contagious form, when the advice of
a qualified vet. should be taken.
This method of treating mammitis in cows
is also applicable to mares.
KIMBERLEY HORSE DISEASE.
The cause of what is known as Kimberley
or walk-about disease in horses has been a
mystery for 40 years, but it is a mystery
no longer, as the result of investigations
undertaken by the Westralian Department of
Agriculture in conjunction with the Common-
wealth Research Council.
The disease occurs in Northern Westralia
and the Northern Territory, and takes a
heavy toll. The symptoms are that horses
affected go off their food, leave the company
of other horses, and stand alone in a corner
or under a tree with the head down in an
apparently drowsy condition. Later muscu-
lar spasms similar to those induced by strych-
nine poisoning occur, followed by mad gal-
loping without sense of direction. In the
last stage the wretched beast, in many
cases but not all, totters about continually
but blindly, bumping into any obstacle, after
which the beast staggers, falls and dies.
A similar disease which made its appear-
ance in Southland (M.L.), known as the
Winton disease, was ascribed by Dr. J. A.
Gilruth to the ingestion of ragwort ( Senecio
jacobaea), but the weed is unknown in the
Australian districts v affected, and another
cause had to be sought. A study was made
of the weeds, eaten by horses in localities
where the disease was prevalent and in
others where it was not. As a result prac-
tical trials were made with seven varieties,
which were fed to horses that were kept
under observation. Six were found to be
blameless, but the seventh, known locally as
whitewood or.cattlebush and scientifically as
Atalaya hemiglauca, killed every- horse to
which it was administered. It contains a
relatively high percentage of the toxic drug
saponin, which induces the symptoms above
recorded'. Six horses were fed on this plant,
and all died after periods varying from 25
to 117 days.
The investigators recommend as a preven-
tive measure that a determined effort should
be made to eradicate the plant altogether—
on many stations this would be practicable,
they say—and where complete eradication
cannot be undertaken, cleared areas should
be prepared and horses kept on these between
September and the commencement of the wet
season. No cure can be prescribed, for the
reason that by the time the first symptoms
make their appearance the disease has a
firm hold, and the liver of the horse is in a
condition that renders death inevitable.


A boot of double
strength
The toughest leather available, in
twice the usual thickness, gives this
Abbey Cossack a sole that’s unsur-
passed for hard service.
The upper, too, is doubled, b«~». 6
lined throughout with a supple
leather that’s soft and restful to the
foot. Dust and grass seeds are kept
out by the flaps which attach the
tongue.
Cut lower at back of ankle, this
boot fits more easily and closely.
There’s a natural arching where it
lies over the instep
ORDER BY POST
Supplied at three prices—in black
and tan. Same sole leather for
all—the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of specially tough and
pliant calf. Ask for the correct
Abbey Polish (6d. per tin) when
ordering.
TAN WILLOW 46/6 & 41/6
BLACK 39/6
New enlarged catalogue free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
L 97. SYDNEY.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE Sd.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully earned
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/* each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6
16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
xCTV
The Freely-Lathering
Cuticura Shaving Stick
Insures a clean, refreshing shave
without the slightest irritation, even
when shaving twice daily. Containing
the medicinal and antiseptic proper-
ties of Cuticura, it enables tender-faced
men to shave in comfort and leaves
the skin softened and refreshed, and
free from any tense, dry feeling.
Soap la.. Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
**R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
jgjliy* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
A'-;..-
Beyond an HM VPortable
on buu furniture /
Specialising mrI.M.V Portables
£l2 cash or terms arranged
TheTALKERIES
477 Q V.
ositc Louies,
Adda
ADDAC
is the world’s most practical small addin
calculating machine. Weighs less than
g and
71b.
Anyone can operate; just pull down the dial. Full instructions and written
guarantee. Suits the pocket, too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Aus-
tralia. Capacity with farthings, £lO,OOO. Used in small stores, offices
and garages all over the country. Machines slightly used, £B/15/-.
Full cost allowed if exchanged for new make within 3 months.
ADD AC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. (Agents wanted.)
è
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
é
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
XOJf
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
THE JIBBING HORSE.
“Nota Bene”: Jibbing in a horse is a
very bad fault and can never be perma-
nently overcome. Whether it is an heredi-
tary weakness or an acquired failing is a
matter of opinion, but it is an almost sure
thing that a collar-proud horse in the hands
of a bad driver will soon develop into a
jibber. Overloading, also, will take the heart
out of a horse and result in him knocking
off work on small provocation. _ \ anous
remedies have been suggested and tried with
little success. Flogging is no good Dis-
tracting the horse’s attention by picking _up
his feet and tapping the shoe with something
hard for a few moments, following this up
with a few pats and soothing words, will
do more to move him than flogging.
CROSSBRED LAMBS’ WOOL.
“Breed”: There are two chief principles
to be taken into account when classing cross-
bred lambs’ wool —length of staple and
quality. The difference in the former is
more marked than in merino lambs, and.
when making the sorts both length and
quality must be combined and the sorts made
as even as possible. Pick the fleeces up
carefully and place on the calico-covered
tables, and after sufficient are there to form
an idea, determine your sorts. Pick out
the longest and finest portions of the fleeces
to make the A A sort, and for the A the
shorter stapled wool and that not quite so
fine. The stronger quality wool of the better
length will go into the 88, whilst the B
sort will be made up of the shorter and
stronger quality. Any extra strong wool
will be made into CC, and the balance, less
locks and stains, into the C.
The quantity of burr or seed the wool
contains will have to be taken into con-
sideration. It is far better to have a num-
ber of even lots than a few large lines of
mixed wool. Unlike fleece wool, buyers pay
attention to star lines of lambs’ wool, for
they do not expect to see big lines. The
brokers cater for the interlotting of crossbred
lambs, and advise that evenness is the first
essential if good prices are looked for.
READERS AND RAINFALL.
“Sikh”: “The Man on the Land’s Page”
is of great interest to us young Groper
cockies, who are avid for information, but
whether the information can be made applic-
able to our conditions depends largely on
rainfall. If contributors would make a point
of indicating the rainfall in th; district they
write about it would be possible for us to
determine whether a system, a grass and so
on would be suitable for our own climate.
PROFITS FROM POULTRY.
“A.A.G.”: On September 15, 1927, I
bought 200 day-old chicks for £B*. During
the first month I lost 9, leaving 191. At
Christmas I had 114 pullets and 77 cock
erels; sold 70 cockerels at the mart, gave five
away and kept two;' the cockerels realised
£l4 Is. 9d. clear. The pullets started laying
on March 12 last, on which date I received
five eggs. Thereafter they all began to lay
until, in the first week of April, I was gather-
ing 48 to 60 eggs a day. Up to September
13 last they had laid 9196 eggs, which
brought £63 9s. lO^d.
The cost of rearing and feeding cockerels
was 2s. 4Jd. each, and the cost of pullets was
9s. ll|d. up to Sept. 13. The cost of feed-
ing during the laying period, from March 12
to September 13, was ss. 6£d. per bird. I
now value the pullets at ss. each and the
cockerels at 7s. 6d. The pullets are still
laying, and the average weekly earnings
of the flock, clear of feeding cost, is 355.
I have cleared everything and have
114 pullets, 2 cockerels and £4 12s. 7d.
to the good, and only a small portion of my
spare time was occupied. The profit over
and above the cost of feeding during the
laying period was £32 Os. 6d., or £1 4s.
per week.
TOMATO DISEASES.
“Cwrw Bach”: Much confusion is caused
by the habit of referring to many different
diseases of the tomato as “wilt.” Many
growers have denounced wilt-resistant seed
because the plants were destroyed by the so-
called “spotted wilt,” and many more have
wasted time, effort and money in trying to
cure or prevent both the “spotted wilt” and
the fusarium wilt (or “sleeping sickness”)
by spraying. Neither of these diseases can
be cured by spraying, but since it has been
discovered recently that “spotted wilt” is
caused or communicated by thrips, it follows
that it can be prevented by spraying with
any of the standard contact sprays, such as
nicotine sulphate. If a plant shows the
characteristic bronzing of the upper foliage,
pull it up and burn it immediately, and
spray to kill the thrips. Another plant may
be put in its place.
Fusarium wilt is caused by a soil parasite
which attacks the roots and will persist in
the ground for many years. There are, how-
ever, varieties resistant to this. Norton, a
selection from stone, is perhaps the best for
southern conditions. Bowen (N.Q.), which
supplies Sydney with most of its winter
tomatoes, was nearly wiped off the map as
a tomato-producing district a few years ago
by fusarium wilt, but, thanks to wilt-resist-
ant strains, is now producing very heavily.
One variety, Bowen Buckeye, supplies Syd-
ney with about 90 per cent, of its winter
tomatoes.
TREE RENOVATION.
“Emel”: Many orchardists advocate the
drastic measure of destroying fruit-trees
which through age and incorrect treatment
have become worn out and yield poorly.
Such trees may be renovated and given a
new lease of life by correct pruning. If in
the winter the tree be cut back until only
a foot or two of the main leaders remain,
a vigorous growth of young wood will result.
The shoots may be thinned out in the sum-
mer, and next winter pruned with due regard
to shape and fruiting habit. This method
has the disadvantage of checking fruit-bear-
ing for a couple of seasons, but thereafter
the tree comes back into full bearing just
like a young one. Often, for various rea-
sons, it is advisable to renovate gradually,
and those whose old trees are becoming un-
profitable cannot do better than study and
apply what Quinn in “Fruit-tree and Grape-
vine Pruning” has to say on the subject.
SHADE IN YARDS.
“Anthony Gloster”: There should always
be a shady tree in a horseyard, as horses
are very susceptible to sunstroke. Sheep-
yards also need them, as the glare and strong
sunlight in a hot yard are very trying to
men crutching or wigging. There should
also be shade over the drafting gate at the
end of the race, as it is no fun to stand there
for hours on end while thousands of woollies
are scraping their way through if there is
a summer sun beating on the back of one’s
neck. Willows are ideal in the districts that
suit them, for they grow very quickly if there
is sufficient moisture. A stout branch of
willow should be sawn off slantingly, and
the cut end split upwards for a few inches
in the middle of the stem. This should be
placed in the ground in the desired position,
well rammed with soil, and, if there is no
rain to help it along, it should get a bucket
of water now and then. In two years’ time
it will show a profuse bushy growth. The
young trees need a guard of hessian or wire-
netting to protect them against the yarded
stock. In drier parts more suitable trees
are wilgas and pepperinas.
A SATISFACTORY CANE HARVESTER.
“Let Go”: Tests carried out by the new
Miller-Owen cane harvester at Mackay (N.Q.)
have turned out satisfactorily, and a new
era in cane-eutting is promised. At the
recent test a patch of 30 tons to the acre
of Clark’s Seedling was cut, and the machine
did all the inventors expected it to do. It
cut the cane just above the ground in an
even manner, picked it up and passed it
along to the topping blades, which in turn
conveyed it to an automatic carrier to be
dropped from there in bundles on to the
ground. The cane in this case was burnt,
but the inventors say the harvester will do
its work just as well in green cane. A com-
pany is to be formed to put the harvesters
on the market.
REMEDIES FOR HORSE COLIC.
“G.D.M.”: Colic in horses can most con-
veniently be treated with carbonated ammonia
in |oz. capsules. See that the capsules arc
unbroken during administration. If this is
not available, the following can be used as
first-aid:—
Baking soda: Give four tablespoonfuls in
a pint of water.
Ground black pepper: One _ tablespoonful,
well shaken, in a cupful of oil.
Powdered ginger: Two tablespoonfuls in a
pint of wai’m water.
Powdered charcoal: Any quantity is useful
in the case of flatulent colic. It may be
given in thin gruel.
Whisky: Half-pint, well diluted with
water, and two tablespoonfuls of powdered
ginger.
Turpentine: Two ounces in a pint of lin-
seed oil. Shake well when drenching.
The first five can be repeated, if neces-
ssary, several times at intervals of an hour.
The turpentine dose can be repeated once
after a four-hours’ interval.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Splitter”: An effective w r ay of preserving
posts is to dip the portion that is to go
underground in crude petroleum and burn
off the oil. The oil is driven into the post,
and this in addition to the charring keeps it
from decaying.
“Nota Bene” : When tempering tools such
as crowbars, picks, etc., the end should be
placed in the fire and brought to a red heat,
then about oue or one and a half inches of
the point should be plunged into water for
a few seconds. The steel will at first show
a greyish color, then a bronze-bluish color,
when it should be cooled off at once by plung-
ing the tool well into the water. Hard steel,
if it were found to be too soft when cooled
off at the bluish stage, should be cooled off
when the grey cdlor appears; if too hard it
should be left at the blue color a little
longer before cooling off.
“Bill R.”: When a lambless ewe is found l
each morning bleating dejectedly through the |
flock, the certainty is that a vixen with a
litter of young foxes has nightly been forag-1
ing the fold to replenish its larder. Diligent |
search should be made amongst the rock
crevices of adjacent hillsides, and the hollow
trees of near-by forests. Fragments of lamb
at the opening to some den will then reveal
the lair of the marauder. The rest may be
left to the finder.
“Bud-G”: To tell whether wool is tender
or not, when the fleece is rolled and ready
for its bin, pull out a staple with the thumb
and forefinger of the right hand, grasping
firmly. Then, holding the staple near the
liase with the corresponding fingers of the
left hand flick the middle finger of the right
hand across the staple two or three times,
using a little weight. Sound wool will
stand the strain, whereas tender wool will
give way'.
“Nota Bene”: No harm will result through
working a mare with a suckling foal, provid-
ing care is taken that the mare is not over-
worked, overheated or kept from the foal
too long. The mare should be well fed, but
a change of diet is not recommended, as it is
liable to cause scouring in the foal. If this
occurs, give the foal a teaspoonful of castor
oil, followed by a pint of warm gruel with
a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda stirred
up in it.
“Sucre”: A Service Department reply (B.
17/10/’2B) was to the’effect that the islands
within the Great Barrier Reef, which is
along the Queensland coastline, are not
adapted for agriculture. But in patches a
number of them are being used to advantage
—Molle, Hargest, Lindeman, Cid, Pentecost,
Haslewood, Upton, Hayman, Henning, Long,
Repulse, Palm, Dunk, etc. Sheep and Angora
goats are being bred successfully on several
of these.
“Silentio”: A breed of ducks that is going
to make itself popular in Australia is the
Khaki Campbells. Already prominent breed-
ers are satisfied that it is a useful dual pur-
pose bird—eggs and table. Hithero the Indian
Runner was regarded as the egg producer,
but the Khaki Campbell is going to run it
pretty close. In a recent English test a
duck laid 174 eggs in that number of days,
had a spell for one day, and carried on till
the finish of the test, 195 days. Tests prove
that it is well suited to our climate, and
will soon be a generally known breed on
the farms.


*A « .
~ ..
’ U - '
•c: rr-.'t •*
vymm nn
BSMancMinta
■
: X *
■i
.
Vf*S-\
m
4 ’ " f; fiiti+m
~
I
:
mamm
-
-A
■ i
■'
~-v;
V'-
.
«
■0 ■■ 5 ■
e
Ever since it flashed into the field Pontiac Six has been a
history-making car. Its first year was one of record break-
ing proportions. Its second saw even more spectacular
heights attained. And now, Pontiac Six is winning even
greater success, because to-day’s Pontiac Six in count-
less ways is a better car than its famous predecessors.
Combit
highest
&ineerii
Brakes a
comfort,
never b
and yoi
Metropolitan Distributors: *
Melbourne: Tarrant Motors Pty. Ltd., Lonsdale St. Sydney: John McGrath Ltd., Castl
Adelaide: H. C. Richards Ltd., Currie St. Perth: Skipper
PONTL4
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR


mu
/ -
"i
' C
;2gy3fe " %' 'V
g _ >*>,
■
m
i
~n
f -'-
&
if*
■
/
1
JIA« / -i
P# y?/
■r -»
»; 1® ...
I ft
::
■
>
I
1
if
■
'
J - I
p *1»
«i
fcil
M
:
L
HHHI
«
:
.
.
access
a masterly beauty of body, the assurance of
quality construction and numerous notable en-
advancements, and equipped with Four Wheel
“d Four Hydraulic Shock Absorbers, it provides style,
life and smooth six-cylinder performance such as
fore was available at prices as low as £270. Ride once—
will agree...... here is value that cannot be matched!
•ereagh St. Brisbane: Moreton Motors Ltd., Adelaide St.
Bailey Motors Co. Ltd., Hay St.
e
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.


South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Pipers
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort gi guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
#
f '
as
a 1
will appreciate
tke delicate
Bouquet and
mellow Flavour oF
MARTELL’S
BRANDY
SH/PP£O SOI fIV PROM the COGNAC oismtct
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
i
111
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
SMOKE-OH!
THE LEGAL STRIKE.
Sydney Barristers Meet.
Move to Involve Lower Branch of
Profession.
Sydney.
Feeling ran high at the usual weekly meet-
ing of barristers who are on strike against
Mr. Justice Bligg’s award, which consider-
ably reduces their fees. Such was the dis-
order, after discussion had been in pro-
gress for about an hour, that the chairman
(Sir Henry Goole) was left with no alter-
native but to declare the meeting adjourned
till Thursday next.
General Strike Urged.
When the men assembled at their rooms
in Phillip-street it was known that considera-
tion would be given to the question of call-
ing the solicitors out, and making the strike
Commonwealth-wide. Not all were in favor
of this proposal, however. “I can call
spirits from the vasty deep,” quoted Rorcus,
K.C., who is president of his suburb’s
Shakspeare Society. “But will they come
when Ido call on them?” The implica-
tion was that the spirits and the lower
branch of the profession were equally unre-
sponsive, and those present were disposed to
agree. The solicitors, it was remarked, were
SHE MISTOOK THE MAKE.
“Look here, Barbara, this is too bad—you said you’d marry me
as soon as we could afford it."
SHE: “Oh dear, did I say that? I meant as soon as we could
Rolls-Royce it."
on an extremely good financial wicket, and
stress was laid on the fact that, at the
previous week’s meeting, they had withdrawn
their delegates on the paltry plea that the
latter had entered for golf-club competitions
on that day.
A Scene of Disorder.
The sinister figure of the extremist, Bun-
combe, K.C., could be seen moving about in
the attempt to hearten his followers, but,
realising his design, the moderates became
thoroughly roused and bowled him down —
or tried to. Mr 1 . Buncombe claims, with
justice, to have one of the most resonant
voices in the city. It is said that his orations
have disturbed those engaged in meditation
and silent prayer in St. James’s Church. On
this occasion he extended himself, vocally,
and the effect was so ear-splitting that Sir
Henry Goole, after a few moments’ work
with ink, camel’s-hair brush and cardboard,
faced the infuriated advocates with a notice-
board inscribed “The Meeting is Adjourned.”
Clash with Free Workers.
Most of the strikers marched back to their
chambers in an orderly manner, but a body
of irreconcilables surged into No. 15 Jury
Court, where the breach-of-promise suit
Miggs v. Mugge has been in progress for
several days. Loyalists are appearing for
both parties, and their technical errors —
excusable in counsel who previous to
the strike had been respectively a Com-
munist speaker and a City alderman —
occasioned a good deal of unseemly hilarity.
The mirth of the men became uncontrollable
when Mr. Con Brownovitch —late of No. 2
platform the Domain —after hotly cross-
examining one of his own witnesses, pro-
ceeded to call Miss Amelia Miggs, whom he
is representing, a liar. The derision of Mr.
Buncombe, who was sitting near by at the
Bar table, proved so insupportable that the
mortified loyalist abandoned his professional
work and plunged into an address on pre-
datory capitalism, with particular reference
to those whom he styled “the enemies of
Democracy in our midst to-day.”
Batons Out.
In the ensuing mel€e, Miss Miggs had a
new set of false teeth—bought, she informed
our representative, specially for the case —■
practically ruined, while ex-Alderman
Ramp—an inoffensive spectator—was given
a stunning blow under the ear. “Not the
first time,” he observed philosophically as he
gathered up his brief and law-books, “that
I’ve been given something I never earned.”
Police reinforcements arrived post haste and,
regardless of the strikers’ cries of “Obiec’
Yerroner,” laid about them freely. They
claim that several of the men are nursing
sore heads to-day.
A Woman’s View.
“This Wretched Strike,” says an extremist’s
Wife.
Our representative visited the wife of one
of the striking K.C.’s at her harbor-side home
to-day. An air of gloom, almost one had writ-
ten of panic, hung
over the mansion.
No gardener
mulched the wilt-
ing roses; no
chauffeur washed
and polished the
Rolls-Royce limou-
sine, which could
be seen in the
garage yard near
the northern wing;
a hint of green
showed through the
gravel of the drive.
“I’m only able to
receive you,” said
Mrs. M , “be-
cause this is his
time for bridge at
the club.” A shadow
darkened her face.
“Heaven knows how
much longer he’ll
be able to afford
even that. The
points there are
ten shillings a hun-
dred and he’s a
rotten player,” she
waved her hand.
“You see what
we’ve been reduced
to. All the servants
have left except
t.h e cook, who
drinks, and an ut-
terly useless parlor-
maid. They said
they couldn’t stand
seeing him about
the house so much.
And now he has
started economi-
sing, if you please! Will you credit it
when I tell you that champagne has not
passed my lips for over a week?” Her eyes
glittered with unshed tears. “But it’s the
bairns who tear at my heart-strings,” she
sighed. “The poor innocent little mites
simply can’t understand. ‘Why have we to
go to the surf in a taxi?’ they ask. ‘What’s
wrong with oo’ Rolls?’ And there is none
who dares tell them the truth. Oh! this
wretched, wretched strike!”
In the course of further conversation the
afflicted woman confided that the incessant
marching, often under the burden of weighty
banners, is having a deleterious effect on
the health of the older men. Many have not
so much as played a game of golf for years,
and are completely out of condition. “Mr.
F ” (naming a well-known Equity silk)
“collapsed while leading the men of his
jurisdiction to-day,” she said, “and the old
fool is now in St. Gowl’s Private Hospital.”
Times Comment.
London: The Times says in a first leader
this morning: “The strike fomented by the
notorious firebrand, Buncombe, is an Im-
perial disaster of the first magnitude. But
if Australia will but to herself be true she
need not fear his machinations, nor those
of any other man. Fortunately the great
Dominion has at the helm to-day one who—
though technically on strike himself—is
thoroughly trusted by the Empire. Scio
THE WISDOM OF THE SERPENT.
BROWN: “My wife has been away for months and it
seems useless asking her to return!”
JONES: “Get one of the neighbors to suggest that it
might be advisable, my boy! She’ll be back soon
enough then.”
cui credidi. (I know in whom I have be-
lieved.) We look, with quiet confidence, for
the speedy termination of a situation which
is highly injurious alike to the public weal,
and to the name and fame of a great and
honorable profession.”
10-2-4.
* *
Labor is convalescent after its touch of
Theadoration.
* *
Government supporters in Indi are feeling
very sick; they recall that this is not the
first time a careless Cook has caused indi-
gestion.
* *
A wrestler in Adelaide was warned for
punching his opponent and kicking the
referee. If he had got really boisterous he
would have been rebuked, for they stand no
nonsense in S. Australia 1
SYDNEY.
Jugs .. .. . . The ’Loo.
Hugs .. . . . . Darlinghurst.
Mugs .. .. .. Randwiek.
Pugs . . Rushcutters Bay.
Thugs . . . . . . Surry Hills.
Shrugs . . .. .. Rose Bay.
N.S.W. W. P. T.
* *
Sydney News : “The allegations were unde-
servedly withdrawn.”
That is what we often feel about these
withdrawals.
* *
Rumored that the Egyptian vaudeville
artist who does not bleed when knives are
stuck in him is to be used by the Darling-
hurst police as a decoy.
This heroic man, who also reclines on a bed
of nails while a six-inch block of sandstone is
broken on his chest, was recently offered a
job as a football referee in Melbourne. He
only declined because his family refused to
let him face the risk.
V *
Chapman has a little hen,
He calls her Hobbs, for luck.
And hopes the first Test egg she lays
Will not hatch out a duck.
* *
These Federal politicians seem to be all
out to get in.
Ex-Premier Lang is expected to get to
Heaven in the capacity of a Nark-angel.
OUR ILLUSTRATIONS.
Another Daring Innovation in
Modern Journalism.
In pursuance of its policy of improved
service to readers, the Morning Moron has
made arrangements for the publication of
pictures to illustrate its exclusive items of
news.
London, Thursday: The lost airman, Wil-
liam (“Billo”) Smith, who has not been
heard of since he started on his attempt to
fly to the North Pole, is lost. The opinion is
expressed by experts that if not found soon
he will be lost definitely. (Our illustration
shows the village of Psneezitoff in Eastern
Siberia, where no news of
the missing airman has been
received.)
War is reported to have
broken out between two
tribes of tree-dwellers in Cen-
tral Africa. In a monster
battle the warrior-chief,
B’drioll, has been listed
“killed and eaten.” (The
accompanying photograph is
of Viscount Haig as a young
man. It was previously pub-
lished in error as that of
Mrs. Annie Besant.)
Professor Glumme, M.8.E..
after exhaustive research, has
announced his opinion that
the nutritive value of saus-
ages has declined .03 per
cent, during the last five cen-
turies. (Inset: The type of
sausage with which Martha
Helmsdodde poisoned her
husband in 1903.)
The Royal College of
Heralds has ruled that the
Mendelsolin-Moses family is
not entitled to carry a lion
rampant in its crest because
a former King of Scotland
pawned his jewels with an
ancestor. (In our previous picture the
sausage was drawn rampant to illustrate
the position of a herald: a lion in a state of
irritation.)
A dog, standing watch over its dead mas-
ter, frightened 15 policemen and two under-
takers in Manchester to-day. The faithful
but famished animal was lured away event-
ually with poisoned liver. (Illustration: A
typical Manchester goods warehouse in
Melbourne.)
Sixty-one pedestrians were run down and
killed by motor-cars in New York yesterday,
breaking the previous single day’s record of
59.27. (Our illustration shows a horse, at
one time used to draw vehicles.)
The Prince of Wales nearly shot an African
lion to-day. The Prince’s aim was good, and
if there had been a lion in his path it would
undoubtedly have heard the call of the Grim
Reaper. (Illustration: A domestic cat, which
belongs to the same animal family as the
lion.)
THE ALTERNATIVE.
“The woman next door’s got a hat just
like mine.”
“That means you want a new one, eh?”
“Well, it would he cheaper than moving.”
Bruce wants the Labor party’s policy to
be taken as Red.
* ¥
Where soft jobs are concerned our poli-
ticians go their hardest.
* #
Sydney Sun : “One of the sailors caused
amusement by tossing kisses to a girl on
the wharf.” Tossed his Good-bye.
THESE COOKS.
James Cook’s secure of fame for aye.
He showed his countrymen the way
Lony years ago to Bot’ny Ba /i <;
No dangers made him windy.
Time slowly passed away, and lo!
Into the limelight hounded Joe
To cut in politics a show,
And oft create a shindy.
And lastly Robert had a shot
At making history — eh, what? —•
The other day when he forgot
To nominate for Indi.
H.
FLEA FOR MORE REFINEMENT.
Some coves ain’t got no decency.
They’ll call a girl a “jane,”
A “tart” or “sheba,” “clue” or “wren”
It sounds ter me profane,
They’ll say, “Gee, that’s a dandy ’piece’!”
Or “Cripes, Bill! Who’s the ‘bint’?”
Or at some little “tabby,” you’ll
Be asked to “ ’ave a squint.”
A “sheila” of a “sort,” perhaps,
Will put ’em in a whirl,
Sometimes a “brush” they’ll bring along,
An’ intcrjuice “me girl.”
So, if yer asks me to a darnce,
And don’t leant ter git ’urt,
Do\\’t end your invite with the words:
“An’ bring your ‘bit of skirt’!”
n.s.w.
DORIC.


BLACK & WHITE
f-Tb,
s
-=5?
->£•
■M
C.
f
"■==•=. ?==~ •~=r^=-'
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


,‘Allenbinsys
ulycerine & _
Black Currant PAST ILLE S
Protect the mouth and
throat against infections,
allay irritating coughs
and clear the voice.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and 1/9
per box
a
K
1
mm
AHjI A
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
COONARDOO
"THE BULLETIN'S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
By-Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
C. H. PERCIVAL.
Synopsis : After the death of hi 3 mother , Mrs. Bessie Watt, Hugh, born
and brought up on Wytaliba station, in the north-west of W.A., takes
charge, and, as his mother had done, allows the aboriginal station-workers to
live their accustomed life. When, after a severe illness, he returns from
Geraldton with his hastily-wooed wife Mollie, he finds that Coonardoo, wife
of Warieda, has a son, and knows that the infant (called Winning-arra) is
his child. Mollie dislikes station life long before her first daughter, Phyllis,
is born, and by the time her fifth daughter arrives she openly resents it.
Though Winning-arra remains aboriginal in appearance when he grows into
youth, Mollie _ has vague suspicions concerning him, and these become fixed
when Hugh is visibly upset over the boy being thrown from a horse . She
forces Hugh to an admission, and insists that Coonardoo and the boy must
leave Wytaliba. Hugh refuses to send them away, so Mollie goes from
the station with Phyllis and the other girls. Coonardoo (who hates and fears
Sam Geary, a station-owner who has a gin mistress) understands why Mollie
and the girls went, and comforts Winning-arra, who, not understanding,
thinks he should have been one of their escort.
WHY did you
not go with
Hugh?” was
something of wha
she said to him, and
got the hurt of it.
“But he will come
ba c k,” Coonardoo
said when she had
heard that Hugh did
not want the boy.
“He will come back; and she has gone.”
Winni gazed with wonder at his mother's
face.
“Always now Youie will take us with
him,” Coonardoo said. “But she did not want
us. She said to Youie that Warieda, Coon-
ardoo and Winni must go away, anywhere.
Go from Wytaliba—go to Geary’s place.
Youie said: ‘No, Warieda, Coonardoo,
Winni not go away. Not go away from
Wytaliba. Coonardoo, Warieda, Winni
grow here, belong here.’ Missus Watt saj ?
she will go away if Warieda, Coonardoo,
Winni not go away. She has gone. Out
of the winning-arra [whirlwind] you came
to me, but it was the spirit of Youie in
the winning-arra.”
“Wiah!” Winni exclaimed, wide-eyed.
Coonardoo nodded.
The boy looked at her with the eyes of
his aboriginal intuition, instinctive wisdom,
his white man’s intelligence, reasoning. He
sensed the mystery, her reluctance to un-
veil it further. The feeling of power and
joy, which Coonardoo herself had, she com-
municated to him. Winni understood she
had revealed to him something of which
he must never speak, but that he had, for
himself to know and to hold on to. He
was not unhappy now. He looked out
over the wide plains as she did.
“Youie will not send us away,” Coon-
ardoo’s voice had the throb and cadence
of a song. “We will stay here, take care
of Youie, and he will take care of us, as
Mumae said.”
When the buggies came back to the
homestead, dogs from the uloo flew out
barking to greet them. But the house was :
quiet; no one moved out from it. Hugh
stayed at home for a day or two, pottered
about the sheds and the verandah, reading
or sleeping. The gins came up in the
morning, swept ‘and scrubbed and washed
dishes, gossiping and laughing as usual.
Coonardoo made bread and cooked. She
did not raise her eyes to look at Hugh
unless he spoke to her; then the shaft of
her devotion was deep and tranquil.
Then Coonardoo packed the tucker-bags.
Hugh was going out beyond the Kood-
geeda Gap. There had been no ram for
months, and he was anxious about the
cattle that side of the range. It was more
than likely he would be away from the
homestead for weeks, moving stock.
When Hugh went out he took most of
the horses and all the men, except old
Joey, with him. Coonardoo remained at
the homestead to ration the uloo [blacks’
camp].
When Hugh returned about three weeks
later, Don Drew had been and gone with
a loading which was earlier than anybody
expected. Warieda found tracks of his
camels beyond the Five-mile Gate.
The stores had been stowed away in
Saul’s old hut, and everything was in
order at the homestead except that Don
had taken Bardi with him. Hugh was wild
about it. Warieda and Wanna were for
going after him and bringing the girl back;
but the old women insisted that Bardi
wanted to go. She had run after the camels
and joined Don’s camp after Coonardoo
had shut her up one night in the bath-
room at the homestead. Don had left a
couple of blankets for Chitali, whose
woman Bardi was, and Chitali seemed to
prefer the blankets.
Coonardoo handed the keys of the store-
room and bins to Hugh. But he, weary
and red with dust, gave them back to her.
“You keep ’m, Coonardoo,” he said. “If
you’re not to be trusted, then nobody is.”
He slept a night on the verandah, then
“showered,” and ate the meal Coonardoo
made for him while the boys killed and
cut up a beast they brought in. As soon
as the meat was salted, the packs were
ready, and, horses spelled, Hugh had ridden
out with Warieda, Mick, Chitali, Wanna
and Winni again.
All through the summer and duststorms
it was like that. Hugh, away droving
cattle, would come in to the homestead
for a night or two, to sleep, get fresh clothes,
replenish his stores, and then be off and
away in the ranges for weeks again.
Coonardoo slept at the uloo, coming and
going to watch over the house, windmills
and the store-miah, giving flour, sugar, tea,
meat and jam to her people, and making
a note of what she used in the store-book,
as Mrs. Bessie had taught her.
“See,” she said when Hugh came in from
the back hills that first time after Mollie
and the children had gone south, “Mumae
come again!”
Hugh laughed to see how the myth his
mother had made
held still. He
wondered whether
Coonardoo really
believed Mumae’s
spirit was there
among the white
cockatoos. She
bore all the sur-
face marks, “out-
ward and visible
sign s,” of his
mother’s influence;
but her mind
moved still with
the traditions of
her people, he
thought, even if
there was a smile
“‘ Always now Youie will take us with him,’ Coonardoo said.”
in her eyes when she told him about the
white cockatoos.
He depended on her absolutely, too weary
and desperate to do anything else. And
Coonardoo moved about unobtrusively,
doing the work of the household, with
Meenie, as Mumae had taught her was
seemly and befitting.
From Geraldton had drifted north the
reason for Mrs. Hugh Watt’s leaving
Wytaliba. Hugh had taken a gin, it was
said, and Mrs. Hugh refused to live on
the place with her and her children.
Don Drew and Sam Geary carried word
of Coonardoo’s reigning at the homestead.
It was generally understood she was Hugh’s
woman. Hugh got the tail of the gossip
in a letter from Geary, intimating that a
case of whisky, long overdue, might be
forwarded at his convenience; but he paid
no attention to it. Coonardoo looked after
the stores, kept the house in order, managed
the washing and cooking for him. He was
grateful to her; but in those first years
after Mollie and the children went away he
had no personal feeling of any sort —no
passion or desire except to beat the drought.
Every breath and thought he was spend-
ing on moving cattle, tiying to save beasts
by travelling at night and turning them
wherever a picking was to be got.
CHAPTER XXII.
There were only forty-three points of
rain that year after Mollie and the children
went south. But the following year a down-
pour in January and February
revived the earth and brought
new life to men and beasts
inland along the tropic. Not
that all the stations fared alike.
Illigoogee and Britte got only
the tail-end of a couple of thunderstorms.
Wytaliba benefited sufficiently to right her-
self and steer a steady course for the fol-
lowing years. Hugh mustered four hundred
fats and got a good price for Wytaliba
beasts in the Midland yards.
Mollie had taken a house in South Perth
and the children were going to school. Hugh
was pleased with the cheque he could send
her, and that their lives had arranged them-
selves and were moving in a more or less
comfortable and satisfactory fashion.
Three years wheeled, with days so much
the same that but for the almanac, with
dates fixed for meeting a drover with cattle,
for mustering with Sam Geary or Milli-
Milli, Hugh could scarcely have known
how they passed when the weeks slipped
into months, and
months into years.
Once every three
months, if no loading
was due, he sent
Chitali and W anna
into Geary’s for news-
papers and letters
which the mailman
dropped into a box
on the Nuniewarra
boundary, though
few letters came Hugh’s way except from
agents for cattle sales or warehouse
accounts, and occasionally a note from
Mollie to say that her expenses were
heavy and he must increase her allowance.
Hugh saw few people but his own blacks.
Once he had gone into Nuniewarra for mails;
but every encounter with Geary raised the
fur of an internal irritation, and Cock-eyed
Bob was the only other man to talk to.
Bob had been out prospecting in the To-
morrow with two camels and came in to
get water and stores occasionally. He had
found a mate in a wild cut of a young
chap named Billy Gale. Gale had been
droving in the Kimberleys, and bought out
Big Otto, who had taken up a few thousand
acres on the northern boundary of Wytaliba.
The round of the days went tranquilly,
at a leisurely pace. Stock were mustered,
young things drafted and branded, fats put
on the road; horses rounded up, branded,
broken and gelded. Wells were sunk, tanks
and mills repaired or erected. When Hugh
set up a new mill he taught Winni all he
knew of the job, and found the boy as
eager to master the mechanism of wind-
mill-construction as he had been to know
and tame horses.
But Warieda—that was the severest blow
the dry years dealt Hugh. How it had
happened he did not know. Warieda and
Chitali were moving cattle from the top
end of the run to the Fifty-mile Well.
Hugh was further east with Winni and two
of the other boys. Warieda had found a
patch of good feed for his cattle, and the
mob was mooching along, coming in by way
of Nuniewarra, when the boys fell in with
some of Sam Geary’s blacks, and camped
by the creek with them. Old Munga, the
moppin-garra [magician], was with them;
and one of the Nuniewarra boys warned
Warieda the moppin had pointed a
bone at him. Warieda went sick almost
immediately, would not eat, moped discon-
solately and felt he was going to die.
Chitali brought him into the Wytaliba
uloo. In a day or two Warieda had lost
flesh, was weak and would do nothing but
lie about his own fireside. Nothing Coon-
ardoo or Meenie brought him made any
difference; he refused to eat.
Chitali himself rode out to find Hughie
and tell him of the calamity which had
overtaken the camp. Warieda had been
“boned” and was dying. Hughie came in
from the back hills, travelling night and
day for two or three days to reach the camp.
He tried jollying Warieda out of the belief
that he was going to die, and sent Chitali
into Nuniewarra for the moppin-garra to
come and take his magic off Warieda.
Warieda wandered about like a lost soul
until Munga arrived. From the good-look-
ing stalwart man in his prime, he grew
thin; every bone in his body stuck out.
He was dying slowly on his feet; dying
of the idea that he was to die.
In a few days the moppin appeared from
among trees along the creek bank. It was
well known he had a grudge against the
Wytaliba people because he was not as
welcome among them as at the uloo on
Nuniewarra. There was trouble, too, about
Beilaba, Warieda’s younger daughter.
Charmi had been given to a man on Milli-
Milli, and Beilaba was promised to an old
man of the Banniga on Nuniewarra who had
died during the year. Wanna—Banniga
also, and therefore, according to tribal law,
eligible for Beilaba, a Burong—begged
Warieda to let him have her. Munga’s
son, next by tarloo-right to the dead
man, claimed her; but Warieda gav*-
Beilaba to Wanna. Munga had threatene '
Warieda, the most powerful man in the
camp by the Coonardoo Well—Warieda.
the maker of songs, breaker of horses and
master of ceremonies. This was his revenge.
(Continued on page 57.)


HARDT'S
SRARZZJLZJVG


NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
Xi-V. . .
x -
Vi
«K
Southern Alps, New Zealand.
THERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to be seen
The COST involved
may be had on
application to the
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Booked.
Tours
Planned.
Feeling overstrained?
ff CA7S[ATOGE7S[ has a direct
U favourable influence on the whole
nervous system and in all cases acts
as a powerful stimulant to the
nervous system”
writes a physician in the “Medical Press
& Circular.”
Nerves, brains, blood and muscles, every cell of
them is charged with new energy and vitality by
Sanatogen.
Get back to splendid health and vitality by starting
your course of Sanatogen now.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food ™
At all Chemists —from 3/9 per tin.
GENATOSAN LTD,
LOUGHBOROUGH.
ENGLAND.
LYMAN
ê
SIGHTS
for practically
every gun made
ë
Confidence in each shot when you use Lyman Sights is
worth far more than their small cost. You’ll be sur-
prised at your improvement when you equip your gun
with the correct Lyman front and rear sights. There’s
a sight chart to guide you in the complete catalog, sent
for 6d. A line famous for 40 years.
No. 29$ —Windgauge Sight, for all Savage Lever-
action Rifles. Price 30/- each.
kVK«
,fW
No. 6—Folding Leaf
Sight. Price 10/6 each.
ē
Vo. lA—Tang
' Sight. Stays
“put” with thumb lock.
For all rifles. Price 21/-
each. 22/6 each with disc.
No. SB-
Hooded Front
Sight for all
Rifles. Price
10/6 each.
For prompt reply, send your inquiries for literature to our exclusive representatives :
ASHER SMITH, LTD., P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP. 60 West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
at * ome
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London,
England, by the original process of distillation
from the original recipe, the secrets of which
belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations.
It is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout the
World; having no rival for Purity or
Quality.
6 O IP <§ ® Ml’s
GIN
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England .
Gordons y
dryGih
twci.»wo.
[ TANQU«»'»V°OO^" O^C * L g--l
?«jacsn
WHITEST, PUREST
AND BEST
The Heart
of a Good
Cocktail
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE


m
mi
m
iH
wx
one blade
THERE is but one blade with a Rolls Razor.
And that one blade will give years
and years of smooth shaves. That is
because it is made from tested steel—just as
the old ' cui throat" was. It is not stamped
out in thousands Oy machinery as are wafer
blades. Mass production could never produce
a Rolls Razoi blade Only craftsmen can
achieve such > masterpiece. And skilled
engineers have devised a method by which
this blade is kept keen by automatic honing
and stropping in its cast. Do not buy a holdei
for wafer blade: Get a Rolls Razor and be
thrifty.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
e
mm
&
Xsc
12
10
Time is important
On all occasions, business or social, a correct
time-keeper is a prime essential. Into every
Elgin are built the finest parts by the world’s
best craftsmen, ensuring the creation of
watches of accuracy. Look for the name
Elgin.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
THE W\TCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/hi? /rade Mark
è
in the Watch Cas-e
104
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
\
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee.”
Pen and Picture.
Shadow Shows
The pictures that_ are screened at the
city houses and go in time all over the
country are first exhibited for the benefit
of theatre representatives at doll’s-house
theatres inside the distributors’ buildings.
There is no music—not _ always a disadvan-
tage—and the buyers sit in pews smoking
industriously and talking loudly of their
past failures and successes. Their criticisms
are frank and sometimes profane; they slate
stars as if those exalted beings were merely
mortal; orally, they tear Hollywood s
proudest efforts to bits —and then, Heaven
forgive them, they buy, and proceed to deck
these stars and products out in the vivid,
laudatory and often fulsome raiment of the
advertisements and puff pars. This Shadow
Showman will go along with them, because
The Bulletin believes frank criticism might
be a welcome change from daily-paper flap-
doodle, and might be a useful guide to any-
one, particularly anyone in the bush, who
wants to know what is going on or wants to
see only what is worth seeing.
Whether the public agrees or not, the
screen-makers believe that the popular taste
of the moment
BILLIE DOVE,
of “The Yellow Lily."
runs to pic-
tures with set-
tings that in-
volve elabor-
ate military
and other cos-
tuming. It is
a simple sub-
terfuge for re-
working old
and in most
instances posi-
tively dodder-
ing plots.
“The Yellow
Lily” (First
National) is
one of many
of the kind.
Its distinctive
features are
the faintness
of its plot
and its humor-
lessness. The
latter may be
accounted for
by the fact that it is chiefly set in a village
outside Budapest, where Archduke Alex-
ander rests with his retinue, and where his
lady favorite, because his admiration has
waned, drinks something out of a bottle. At
the village doctor’s the poisoning is revealed
as a fraud, and she ignominiously departs.
Alexander remains, becomes enamored of the
doctor’s sister, gets rid of the doctor with
a faked message of illness, and visits the
girl in her bedroom. She calls him Parlia-
mentary names, the doctor unexpectedly re-
turns, and in a struggle that ensues Alex-
ander, who had.just decided not to do what-
ever he had intended to do, is shot by the
girl. Doctor and girl are gaoled, Alexander
recovers, there is a touching scene in the
girl’s cell, and she and the Archduke walk
out arm-in-arm. That’s about all. Olive
Brook, as the forceful wooer, is on the stiff
side, but Billie Dove, as the girl, makes the
most of what isn’t a world-beater by any
means. For all the relation that the title
has to the story, it could quite as honestly
be called “The Variegated Onion.”
There is much more body to another of
these costume pictures—“ Tempest” (United
Artists). Moreover, it has humor. It is
costumed in the uniforms of the late Czar’s
army, one of which is worn by a sergeant,
who, given a commission, discovers a pas-
sion for the General’s daughter. She spurns
him to the extent of belting him with a whip,
and when at his first social event as an
officer he gets drunk, wanders into the girl’s
room and flops asleep on her bed, she finds
him, lies vigorously and has him dis-
rated and gaoled. It seems a lot to ask
any man to swallow, but Markov (John
Barrymore) swallows it and comes up look-
ing for more. At this stage the revolution
breaks, the General’s army is trounced and
Markov has the chance of passing death
sentence on his Tamara (Camilla Horn).
He returns her to gaol, is caught embracing
her there, and is summoned before the dic-
tator to explain his close-up with aristoc-
racy. He explains by flooring the dictator
and, with the help of bis sergeant friend
Hulba, takes horse and the girl for the Aus-
trian border. Barrymore’s acting, particu-
larly in the restraint shown in the drunk
scenes, is really good, and both Camilla
Horn and Louis Wolheim (Bulba) adequately
support him. George Fawcett makes a pol-
ished piece of work of the general; and the
picture, though its plot is not original,
has some dramatic quality. The humor is
mostly supplied by Wolheim, the bulky,
Cockney-looking gentleman who was a very
dirty dog indeed in “Sorrell and Son.”
“The Cossacks” (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer)
is in patches better than either “Tempest”
or “The Yellow Lily,” but only in patches.
Most of its figures, like those of the other
two, are made of cardboard ; the plot is only
moderate and the principals are not happily
cast. It has a mid-European setting,
not at all badly faked. The Cossacks who
take part in it, however, are the genuine
article; they were engaged to perform on
tour in America, and were collared by the
picture people before they got back to Russia.
Their riding is one of the best spectacles on
the screen at the moment. It makes amends
for the performance of John Gilbert, who has
been seen to much better advantage, and of
Renee Adoree, of whom the same might be
said without telling untruths about anybody.
Wherever horses and horsemanship are
admired “The Cossacks” should make a stir.
Still, it is a pleasure to turn away from
all these to something which is human ; some-
thing that attempts to get beneath mere
surface effects; which has a good plot; which
has characters that live within a bowshot
of life, and in which things happen more
or less because they have to happen.
“Ramona” (United Artists) is a fairly faith-
ful version of Helen Hunt Jackson’s novel
of the same name. It has what none of
those others has —a theme. In spite of Kip-
ling to the contrary, the familiar “twain”
do meet. They meet in “Coonardoo” —white
and black; and they meet in “Ramona •
white and Indian. The girl here leaves the home
in which she is a tolerated foster-child, and
the foster-brother with whom she has been
reared, to go with the red man. The foster-
brother, though his child-love is breaking
into something deeper, helps hereto get away,
and with her Indian she is idyllically happy
for several years, until their child dies. Be-
cause the doctor will not come to mere In-
dians, the settlement is attacked, and every-
one killed but herself and her man. He, too,
is killed subsequently, and she is left to
return to her former admirer. The Mona
Lisa face of Dolores del Rio is near perfect
for the part of Ramona, and both Warner
Baxter, the Indian, and Roland Drew, the
other lover, are convincingly alive.
The Palette
The W. B. Mclnnes portrait of L. A.
Adamson is the best thing in the Vic. Artist
Society’s show in Melbourne. It is an excel-
lent likeness, and the inclusion of a pewter-
pot is justified, for the artist has painted a
noble vessel. Among E. Buckmaster’s con-
tributions are two portraits; that of a girl
in a velvet frock is particularly well done.
A painting of a small girl in a pink frock
and sunbonnet is a happy effort of Esther
Paterson. Charles Wheeler shows a nude
study, “Interlude.” Colin Colahan succeeds
with a full-length portrait of Vera Burke;
Aileen Dent’s “Blue Bowl with Japoniea”
catches the eye; and dainty bits, mostly
flowers, by John Farmer, and “Roses,” by
Kate Allen, are also near to nature. John
Rowell, William Rowell, J. Beament and
Louis McCubbin weigh in with capital land-
scapes, and Herbert Rose’s “Near the Source
of the Murray” is soundly painted; while
J. C. Shearsby’s sunlit gums are reminiscent
of Heysen. Harold B. Herbert, Carlisle
Jackson (with the lowering skies, and lashed
sea of “A Sou’-Westerly”), J. M. Parsons,
H. W. Cotton and John Goldsworthy White
are commendable contributors to the water-
color section, to which Marguerite Mahood
and Harry E. Hudson also add some clever
stuff. Victor Cobb is the most noticeable
of the etchers; A. Halvey is represented by
unusual black and white; and Paul Mont-
ford, Margaret Baskerville, Douglas Richard-
son and Wallace Anderson are among the
sculptors. An unfinished portrait cast by
the late Trantliim Fryer shows fine work-
manship. The wood-carved plaques of J. K.
Blogg are attractive as one mounts the stair-
case. And Mrs. Penleigh Boyd’s dainty
miniatures are also remembered.
Mrs. Gwen Barringer, who recently re-
turned from an 18-months’ stay in Europe,
was in other days a pupil of her fellow-
South Australian Hans Heysen. Her varied
show of 45 pictures at the Sedan Galleries,
Melbourne, included bits of Italian, French,
English and Scottish scenery, Australian
landscape and still-life, and the venture has
been profitable. There is a sameness of tone
about her work; perhaps the lady is over-
fond of yellow, blue and pink. But there are
alluring studies of river gums, an apple
orchard, old almond-trees, gums in the sun-
light, blue daisies and a Chinese vase.
There is a notable show at the Fine Arts
Gallery, Melbourne. Lambert and Streeton
are well represented; Tom Roberts, who has
three effective oils; Bernard Hall, B. E.
Minns, Muir Auld and Will Ashton are of
the company (Ashton submits three snow
scenes), and so are Norman Carter, Maurice
Cohen, Harold Herbert and Leslie Wilkie.
And there was a delicate landscape by the
late J. J. Hilder, which found a purchaser
at once. Hans Heysen, moreover, has two
landscapes and some exquisitely painted
primroses. Roi de Mestre’s two contribu-
tions of futurist atmosphere suggest a view
from the air; Leslie Board has three Italian
pictures all colorful; Geo. Neville shows
fan designs, and Thea Proctor has a
water-color drawing. And the exhibition
gives Melbourne an opportunity of passing
judgment on Raymond Lindsay’s picture of
Major Johnson’s declaration of the arrest
of Governor Bligh. It is lent by Dame
Melba, who bought it.
The Inky Way
Alongside is a serious young man who
ALEC D. HOPE.
should be
heard from
later in this
country’s liter-
ary way. He
is Alec Der-
we n t Hope,
the James
King of Irra-
wang Scholar
(Syd. Uni.)
for 192 8,
and as such
he left a
few weeks ago
to continue his
studies of
literature at
Oxford: as a
student of
English and
philosophy he
topped his
classes every
year. He has
a 1 r e ady had
spme good
verse in The
Bulletin, and before setting out on his
travels was assistant editor of Hermes, the
Uni. magazine.
Timely Films, Ine., of New York, pick out
every week the most striking sentence of
the world’s press for film use. In a recent
week they starred this from The Bulletin :
Modern marriage is like a cafeteria; you grab
what looks nice—and pay for it afterwards.
“This excerpt,” Timely Films, Inc., write,
“will appear over the name of the paper on
the screens of 3000 theatres throughout the
United States and Canada before audiences of
States and Canada before audiences of
approximately 15.000,000 people.” The presi-
dent of the co. adds a few remarks about
The Bulletin which are good to read but
impossible for this modest journal to print.


555
58
m
■
i
❖
%
4
♦
0
t
c
&
Make this Test
■you’ll feel it grip!
Y°y. do not even have to
drive a Goodyear Tyre to
learn the positive gripping power
of its famous All Weather Tread.
There is a very simple test which
you, yourself, can apply with the
palm of your hand.
Take the All Weather Tread
Tyre just as it stands in your
Goodyear Dealer’s floor un-
wrapped, uninflated.
Press down on its treaded surface
with the palm of your hand.
Feel the responding grip and
pinch of those deep, thick, sharp-
edged diamond blocks!
In exactly the same way the All
Weather Tread grips and holds
the road surface. Eliminates
skidding and sideslip. Transmits
full power. Steers easily, steers
straightly. Rides safely!
The result is you get surer, safer,
swifter, easier riding when you
fit Goodyear Tyres with the
famous All Weather Tread.
GOOD
GOOD TYRES DESERVE GOOD TUBES—GOODYEAR TUBES


Firearms sent C.O.D.
Cheap Foreign-made D.-B. Shot Guns
are dangerous.
Why RISK YOUR LIFE with these
DEATH-TRAPS?
Purchase this English D.B. cross-bolt Hammer
Gun. built specially for me for Australian
conditions by Ward and Son, Birmingham.
Price £B/5/- Post Free.
Special Heavy English Hammer Guns
0 & £l3
£l2/10/-
£l2/10/-
£l2/10/-
£l3/10/-
Holloway & Naughton, £
Claborough & Johnstone,
Marson
Bonehill
Hollis "Foxey” • • • • .
These are noted LONG-RANGE GUNS, all
POST FREE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
Newlands House, 1438 Elizabeth
Street (near Market Street), Sydney
i-T.atn 110 Bathurst Street.) ’Phone: MA3540.
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[s
MAN NEWS
/Alim
/.Kit
9?
The
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
3Viins. wide will
30A
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In 2ueen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The V.R.C. Spring meeting opened maus-
piciously in point of weather, for the sun
was obscured and showers fell on the just
and unjust. However, the men didu t mind
the wet much, and a large number found
the afternoon's proceedings profitable,, a»
four of the six races went to favorites whose
prices were not prohibitively short, men
the provincial pride of the great majority was
flattered, for all six winners are trained in
Victoria, and three were ridden by the lead-
ing Victorian jockey, Duncan. Further, the
former Melbourne bookmaker, Sol Green,
who had not hitherto owned a Victoria
Derby winner, saw his chestnut colt btre-
phon decorated with the blue riband alter a
performance as dashing as any in the histoiy
of the race 1 . .
There bad been rumors during the week
that all was not well with Strephon, but he
looked a picture on the course, and hi>
trainer, Lou Robertson, reported everythin*,
in order. So the son of Saltash and Soldier s
Love was very firm in the betting; he
closed at evens, after 5 to 4 had been bet.
Of the other 10 starters Balmerino was most
favored, finishing at 9 to 2, while Sydney
support came for Oatendale at 0 to >
Prince Humphrey, at sevens, and Ramuius
(TO to 1) were also backed. There was no
trouble at the machine, from which Strogofl
was the first to move, but when they had
gone two furlongs McCarten took Ramuius
to the front in an effort to slow the field
down. This did not suit Pike, who soon
had Strephon in the lead, and as they passed
the mile post Green’s colt was a length and
a half clear of Ramuius, with Strogoh,
Kavalli, Yodelist, Prince Humphrey and
Balmerino following. Passing the abattons
The Happy Warrior, who had come up rap-
idly, was practically on terms with the
favorite, Ramuius being third and Oatendale
and Yodelist next. Strephon turned into
the straight clear of Yodelist, Ramuius, lhe
Happv Warrior and Oatendale, who ran
wide, and once heads were turned for home
the race was over. Galloping beautifully,
the favorite increased his lead, and nothing
was able to get near linn; he completed the
journey lengths clear of V.R.C. chairman
Sckinnon’s colt Yodelist (33 to 1), '«ko
showed that there was warrant for backing
him in the Caulfield Cup. Balmerino, who
came home well from the ruck, was third,
three lengths behind Yodelist; Ramuius was
fourth, Oatendale fifth, and Prince Humph-
rey, who was injured during the race, last.
Ramuius got rather a nasty bump, and he
is not built to stand bumps. Oatendale was
forced out wide by The Happy Warnpr, and
Balmerino could never get clear till it was
too late All the same, they could not have
beaten Strephon in any circumstances unless
he broke a leg and fell down. Pike showed
perfect judgment of pace in his riding of
the brilliant colt that Green got foi •>•-><»
guineas, and Trivalve’s time —2min. 33sec. —
was equalled.
Parkwood, the Maribyrnong Trial and
Debutant Stakes winner, was the only starter
amongst the dozen youngsters in the Mari-
byrnong Plate to carry a penalty, but that
did not stop the public from backing him—
at 6 to 4 mostly—nor the colt from remain-
ing unbeaten. The race was run in a shower;
Byama (6 to 1) led most of the way, but
Parkwood forged ahead a furlong from home
and, strongly ridden by Duncan, had enough
left in him to win narrowly from Ernest
Clarke’s second string Roc (14 to 1) and
Sinetre (12 to 1) in lmin. fsec. So Park-
wood has done what Mollison did at the same
stage of his career; and he should stay better
than E. M. Pearce’s gelding, being more
stoutly bred—he is by Backwood-Yoorala.
He is in the hands of veteran Caulfield
trainer Frank Musgrave; C. Baillieu and W.
Robertson own him.
Though there were only eight starters for
the Melbourne Stakes, quality was well re-
presented. Everyone was anxious to see
how Statesman would shape in his final
gallop for the Melbourne Cup, and whether
Amounts, who does better at Flemington than
at Caulfield, would be able to down Gothic.
Despite big Sydney money for Pearson’s
champion—a lady took £3OOO to £lOO0 —Sol
Green’s black was a 5-to-4 favorite, Amounis
being at threes, Winalot at fives, Maple at
sevens and Fourth Hand at fourteens. Only
speckers took the odds (33 to 1) about
Statesman, but some of them vowed after
the race that they were unlucky not to col-
lect. Nothing seemed anxious to make the
GREEDY COWS.
IRATE PUG: “’lt ’im! Blimey, ain’t I ’ittin’ ’im! Wot diye want for yer ’arf-dollars-
murder?”
pace until Textile tried to get a break on
the field at the back of the course; and with
54 furlongs to go the chestnut was four
lengths clear of Gothic, Burnaby being next
and Amounis and Statesman together in the
rear. Gothic had Textile settled at the half-
mile, and Pike took the beautiful black to
the front round the home turn, Amounis,
who had moved up, being third. Continuing
his run, Amounis challenged Gothic at the
distance and for a moment looked like catcli-
ing him, but Green’s champion was just a
bit too good—a neck the judge made it.
Statesman, however, gave the pair a sub-
stantial start and got to within three parts
of a length of Amounis when there was no
further occasion for riding. Ilis finishing
run was the talk of the course. Maple was
a fair fourth, but Winalot was galloped on
and cut up badly. The time was 2mm.
Sfsec. i
The Cantala Stakes showed convincingly
that Highland’s defeat of Gothic at w.f.a.
was no fluke on -the Queensland-bred geld-
ing’s part, and no error ot judgment on
l'ike’s. Carrying 9st. 81b., and going out
at 5 to I—-Karuma was favorite at < to 4
Highland gained another sterling victoiy.
Lady Beth (3 to 1) made most of the run-
ning, and three furlongs from home was a
length ahead of Kongoni, with Highland close
up. Karuma drew level with Lady Beth at
the three furlongs, but once in the straignt
Duncan drove Highland along, and Mrs.
Buxton’s gelding proved too solid tor ivar-
uma, whom he beat by a length and three-
quarters, the unfortunate Black Duchess (12
to 1), who met with interference, recording
another third. They made fast time —lmm.
37isec.
The Banker, topweiglit in the Melbourne
Cup, was favorite—s to 4 —for the Hot ham
Handicap, but those who preferred Epilogue
at sixes made a better choice. The Westralian
gelding Pica Pica tried unavailingly to lead
from barrier to judge’s box; Epilogue dis-
posed of him in the straight, and went on to
win decisively from two good finishers, V ala-
mita (16 to 1) and Canning Queen (7 to 1),
in 2min. 3ljsec. Epilogue is owned by
Lauchie Maekinnon, of the Aegtjs ; for the
rest, he is another of those Scobie-Lewis
horses.
This Page went to press wondering
whethpr Strephon would repeat Trivalves
achievement, or whether Statesman would
prove the trustworthiness of the maxim
“Third in the Melbourne Stakes and first in
the Cup,” or whether Scobie had another
King Ingoda (first in the Hotham Handicap
of his year) in Epilogue.
Williamstown Cup tip: Yodelist; next,
Nawallah.
* * * *
Followers of the Saturday meetings m
Sydney have had rather a had time lately,
but they suffered no great damage at Moore-
iield on' Saturday, though—for the third con-
secutive meeting—an outsider won the 10-
furlongs handicap. This was a mare called
Gwillian G. (10 to 1), who easily accounted
for the erratic Hard Chip (10 to 1), lun-
atic (6 to 1), New Sweet —successful at
Rosehill on the Wednesday—and others. She
is by Colugo—Soultoria. Speechmaker, a
chestnut gelding by Demosthenes, sire of
Statesman, out of Maltine’s Daughter, won
the Kogarah Stakes in a style which sug-
gested that he may do well in more select
company..
;J; :Jj $ -r
After her second to Jocelyn in the A.J.C.
Metropolitan, Oratrix was taken back to
Maoriland for the New Zealand Cup. This
she won on Saturday from Rapier and Hoy-
lake, though the papers say Rapier was
unlucky; and now the hardy mare may come
over for the Sydney Cup. She is certainly
a stayer.
* :!•- * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:
Maiden Handicap: The Grindstone.
Flying Handicap: Black Douglas or Beel-
gah.
Highweight Handicap: Black Douglas or
Jazz Baby. , .
Canterbury Handicap: Lady Mulyan;
next, Faultless.
Campsie Handicap: Bronze Fuze; next,
Rosso.
* * * *
“0.P.H.”: By a majority of six votes Vic.
Assembly passed the second reading of the
Tote Bill, and the measure was taken into
committee. Last year (Nov. 30) there was;
a majority of nine for the bill at a similar
stage. The thing will have a job to scramble
over the remaining hurdles, and then it will
have to reckon with the Uppah Chambah.
It looks as if more education or a stronger
Government will be needed to secure a majo-
rity for the machine in both Houses.
Me ❖ H* #
“Bumpkin” : Another line of business that
Chief Commissioner Clapp is steadily losing
to the motor is the conveyance of racehorses.
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, gees being car-
ried in vans are now familiar spectacles. The
latest addition to the fleet, built in South
Melbourne, is a handsome vehicle capable of
accommodating in comfort six prospective
winners.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two familiar figures in Ted Thye (12st.
41b.) and “Pinkie” Gardiner (12st. 61b.)
went through the too-familiar gestures of a
wrestling match at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday. Ted was to get a chance to re-
cover his “title” if successful, and merchants
of long odds about Gardiner offered in vain.
Ted concentrated on wristlocks, and with
one of these he scored first fall in the second
round. “Pinkie’s” turn came in the sixth,
Ted surrendering to a barred toehold. The
more or less glorious uncertainty of wrestling
was exemplified in the following spasm, when
Thye, imprisoned in exactly the same hold,
wristlocked Pink over for the deciding fall.
Sydney Stadium staged a wrestling bout
on Saturday night, the contestants being
George Zarynolf and the winner of.the Mel-
bourne-promoted “light heavyweight cham-
pionship of the world,” Clarence Eklund.
Zarynoff, who has found it difficult to get.
a match against any of the Americans in
Australia, made the alleged world's cham-
pion look rather cheap ; nevertheless he lost
the bout, a fall being given against him in
the sixth round. Onlookers swore that his
shoulder was inches away from the mat.
The Ins and Outs
Larwood confounded the critics of his
bowling in Adelaide when the Englishmen
met Victoria in Melbourne last week, the
Notts professional skittling the home side
with 7 wickets for 51. Five of his victims
were clean bowled, including Ponsford (14),
Hendry (6) and Ryder (25). Victoria’s
first knock totalled only 164, Woodfull, ill
with influenza, going right through the
innings for 67 n.o. The wicket was easy
and the ball greasy at times, conditions
being all in favor of the batsmen. Eng-
land's first essay brought 486, Jardine scor-
ing a faultless 104 and Hendren (100) getting
the hundredth century of his career in a spark-
ling innings, while Chapman had another
hurricane knock for 71. Larwood (79)
again showed himself a batsman to be
reckoned with. The disturbing feature of
the innings from an Australian point oi
view was the failure of Blackie, from whom
so much has been expected, the spin bowler
taking only 1 for 120. Hartkopf, now in
the veteran class, took 2 for 76 with his
slows, the best of the Victorian averages.
Fast bowler Morton (1 for 51) did not look
impressive.
* * * *
Ponsford and Hendry opened Victoria’s
second innings on Saturday afternoon, Wood-
full being too seedy to come out. At stumps
the Victorians had 135 on the board without
loss; Ponsford was 60 and Hendry 74. Rain
interfered with play on Monday.
(Continued on page 41.)
“The Gaffer” : Manager Les Duff’s report
on the Olympic team is saddening. When
he found certain of the young women
insisted on eating potatoes and other food
considered bad for training, he arranged
with the proper officials that these things
should be withheld from them. He reckoned
without the eternal Eve. Someone failed
in his duty under the temptation of bright
eyes or honeyed accents'. Too late the
manager discovered that the ladies were
eating cold potatoes ad lib. in the sanctity
of their cabins, and as a consequence were
in no condition to break records when
called upon.
IMPROVING THE BREED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“V.R.C. secretary Kewney, giving evidence before
the Vic. Parliamentary select committee that s
inquiring into turf matters, was asked if he »
the bookmaker and the tote operating toget e ,
either working alone, most to the im-
provement of the breed of horses.”
“No other sport,” he’d oft proclaim,
“It seems to me is worth a pm
Beside the good old racing game ;
And though I seldom have a win
And sometimes get a rotten spin,
I half suspect, on equine corses
Dead ’uns, that is—I merely grin.
It all improves the breed of horses.
“Sometimes,” he owned, “I drag my frame
’Way from the course without a tin
Or ev'n a dollar to my name.
I*Ve been the lamb for books to skin.
Yet oft as vain regrets begin
Intruding, I suppress remorse's
Voice by recalling that my tin
Has gone to help improving horses.
“My wife,” he told me, “is a dame
Who’s over-prone to nag and clnn.
She deems my flair for sport a shame
And gambling my besetting sin.
With acrimony feminine
Upon my losses she discourses.
And seems to reckon it a thin
Excuse I’ve been improving horses.
Uprose to heav’n the bookies’ din,
Totewards the crowd commenced to shin,
While he computed his resources.
‘‘My tip,” he said, “is Iiarlequinn.
Ev’n if we do our boodle in,
It all improves the breed of horses.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ Greatest Covering Capacity Longest Life. ’*
You Insure Your Home Against Fire
Why Not Insure It Against the Weather?
è
Rust and corrosion attack
all surfaces exposed to the
weather that have not been pro-
tected. Unless prevented, they will
cause decay and ruin! To insure
your home against these destroyers
you must keep it properly
PAINTED. Not with any paint, but
with FERRODOR Anti-Corrosive
PAINT. The tough film of FERRO-
DOR PAINT successfully resists
heat and cold; sun, rain and salt
air cannot penetrate it. Even
sulphuric acid cannot harm it in
any way! It will not crack, blister
or chalk off. It has great covering
capacity, and one painting will
keep fresh for many years. There
are cases on record of one painting
lasting from 22 to 25 years.
FERRODOR Anti-Corrosive PAINT is packed in paste form for greater
economy —you only max what you need —and has a range of 20 colors. Full
particulars and color card sent on receipt of the coupon below.
WIUMM ADAMS C COMPANY
LI M I T E P ■</
SYDNEY: - 175 Clarence Street (P.O. Box 2583 E)
BRISBANE - 93 Albert Street
ADELAIDE - '- - - - 157 Waymouth Street (P.O. Box 533)
MELBOURNE 521-23 Collins Street (P.O. Box 4304)
PERTH --- - 432-36 Murray Street
NEWCASTLE - -- -- -- -.--.--..17 Bolton Street
' 4*^
J
Ub
1
SZ
feiiiJ
.u>^
£
»J
r
inoali'ummiffl
m
&>.
Vr^— 1
• - : -
in
£
r\
ft* O’ Vca-b. -
<oj.
’Vo ,
,/' ! " «./«*(
<£>«>'
"M-
-<4?°*
'//■
7 <%.
•v
°H-
%/
4/J
/J 4‘
? %}
'*,■


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening’s Enjoyment.
Come Soon Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE. 7.30
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock .
12/6
8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 6, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Uii
r*
■■ i ■
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
£235,586
£2,750,000
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE. BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
The Equitable Life Assurance
Company of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne
FREDE. LEVY, Managing Director.
Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip” : On the eve of the selection
of the first Australian Test team there is
some interest in the quotas supplied by the
different States in the past to these sides.
Victoria tops the list with 51 players, N. S,
Wales coming next with 49. South Aus-
tralia has contributed 18, Queensland 9 and
Tasmania 2.
* * * *
“Hilary Hencoop” : When the Englishmen
were at the wickets in Adelaide someone
obtruded on the sight-board. Sutcliffe, who
was batting, called out, “Move away, please,”
but the onlooker remained in repose, Then
somebody else yelled from the pickets, “Tell
him to get out of the blanky way! Go on,
get out of it!” The translation into a fami-
liar tongue was effective, and the encum-
brance lumbered off.
* * * *
“Hotliam”: Victor Richardson’s double
century in Adelaide against the Englishmen
is the eleventh scored in matches between
English teams and the Sheffield Shield
States. Six have been scored by Englishmen,
beginning with Arthur Shrewsbury’s 232
against Victoria in 1887-88, and five by
Australians. Four of the Aussies, George
Gififen, Clem Hill, A. J. and V. Y. Richard-
son, played with South Australia. Tommy
Andrews, of N.S.W. (224), is the only bats-
man outside the Wheat State to do the trick,
llendren tops the English list with 271,
while V. Richardson’s 231 is the highest
tally for an Australian.
* * * *
The result of the Englishmen’s game
against South Australia did not flatter the
visitors’ attack, since the home side, with
524, were only 4 runs behind them on the
first innings. Still, it is worth noting that
two men—Richardson (231) and Pritchard
(119) —scored most of the runs between
them, the remainder of the side going for
184 runs. Freeman’s 5 for IHI was excel-
lent bowling on an easy wicket. Ear-
wood's failure to reproduce his English
form at the first time of asking is nothing
to be astonished about, for his mates were
all emphatic that he had struck nothing like
his real pace or nip. Ecyland’s knock for
114 in the Englishmen’s second innings was
another reminder of their batting strength.
« * * *
“Swan” : The Westralian cricket authori-
ties have asked the Board of Control to in-
clude the two colts Horrocks and Bryant
in the Australian Eleven, which is to meet
England in Sydney next week. Both these
players made an excellent showing with the
bat against the tourists, and Bryant is a
bowler of promise as well. The West has
little chance of mingling in big cricket, and
the match in question offers about the only
opportunity its players have of getting into
a first-class game.
* # * *
“Chucker” : Up to the end of the Queens-
land-N.S.W. Sheffield Shield match in Bris-
bane one thing has impressed itself solidly
on Australian followers of cricket form —
the absolute failure of our fast bowlers.
In the trial game in Melbourne, Gregory
was a washout in the Australian Eleven.
For the Rest, Nicholls proved eoually
harmless, as did Scott. The latter, though
he showed great pace in Adelaide,
never seemed to trouble the English batting
in the match against South Australia. In
Queensland, Nicholls, of whom so much lias
been hoped, again put up a poor showing.
It looks as if Gregory will be Australia s
sole reliance in the coming Tests. He is a
far remove from the Gregory of 1921, worse
luck.
* * * *
N.S.W. got a flying start on its Sheffield
Shield rivals by beating Queensland at Bris-
bane bv seven wickets. Queensland scored
324 and 322, and N.S.W.. with only 248 in
the first knock, was set 399 to win, a big
task for a fourth innings. Thanks to
Don Bradman, who had scored 131 in
the first innings and was undefeated
with 133 in the second, the job was accom-
plished. Kippax and Jackson also scored
well, while Thompson’s stand for 158 n.o. in
Queensland’s second go saved what looked
liked a collapse. Hooker, of _ Mosman,
bowled finely for the visitors, taking 10 for
118 in the match. For Queensland, E. Thur-
low, in his first Sheffield match, took 6
wickets for 59 in the first innings of N.S.W.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: The South Australian Cricket
Association is the only one of its kind in
Australia to control its own ground, for it
some time ago leased the Oval from the muni-
cipality for a long term of years. It has
now decided to make the job of secretary a
full-time one, his duties to include super-
vision of the ground as well as the adminis-
trative work. W. U. Jeanes, who fills the
double billet, is an ex-town clerk and sur-
veyor, and should have no trouble with the
new side of his job. He is also secretary
of the Board of Control, and is, in conse-
quence. a busy man just now. The S.A.
Association funds are in a flourishing condi-
tion. A lot of money was spent on im-
proving the ground for the English visit.
“Aigburtli”: Though it seems a bit early,
the English Test Board of Control is pre-
paring to confer with the Marylebone C.C.
on a proposal to extend the length of Test
matches in England to four days. There is
little chance of the change being made, for
it would upset the whole of the county cricket
programme, and that, after all, is the prin-
cipal thing in English cricket. In any case,
the suggested alteration is undesirable for
many reasons. Indeed, any change in exist-
ing arrangements should be in the direction
of shortening the long-drawn-out engage-
ments which are spoiling cricket for many
people who were once devotees of the game.
* ❖ * *
“Cash Amateur” : The annual report of the
Sydney Cricket Ground trustees shows that,
though the N.S.W. Cricket Association had
a fairly dull time last year with only the
Sheffield games as an attraction, it paid
£944 as its contribution to the Trust funds.
The N.S'.W. Rugby League, in spite of a
visit from an English team of brother pro-
fessionals, contributed only £2500, or a little
more than twice as much. Yet the donation
by the trustees of a sum of money to the
Cricket Association, for whose use the
ground was originally intended, has brought
a remonstrance from the League’s propagan-
dists in the pony press which would he hard
to match for impudence. They want to know
why, if the Cricket Association is granted
a share of the Trust’s profits, the League
hasn’t been offered a little bit of baksheesh
also. The answer to that question is pro-
bably the League itself and' all it stands for.
Racquet and Bawl
“Shrewsbury”: Tennis- fanatics in the old
country have been foaming at the mouth
over a controversy in the newspapers as to
SAFETY FIRST.
MOLIY: “What are you getting out for — sharks?”
POLLY: “No. Sheiks.”
the merits of tennis as a sport compared
with what one writer calls “the hardier
games.” It was reserved for a certain A.
F. Graves to fairly set the beehive buzzing.
He objected to the introduction of tennis to
the schools because it taught young people
to “cheat and be selfish,” which seems rather
overstating the case.
* * * *
“Top Spin” : The English tennis team which
will arrive in Sydney early next week will
go on to Brisbane, returning on Nov. 19 to
meet N.S.W. three days later. The team’s
first match in Maoriland against South
Island suggests that it is a much stronger
combination than has been supposed, the
visitors winning by 7 matches to 2 against
the strongest opposition M.L. could rake up.
Austin, who particularly impressed, beat the
M.L. champion, Olivier, in straight sets,
but Olivier beat Gregory. Higgs was also
beaten by Glanville, but the tourists won
all three doubles matches with ease.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The N.S.W. tennis team to
meet Victoria in Melbourne on November 30
consists of N. Peach (skipper) Jim Willard,
Crawford, Hopman, R. Dunlop and Donohue,
with L. E. Baker as emergency It is evi-
dently not the intention of the N.S.W. autho-
rities to give Crawford and Hopman a chance
to get away from competition tennis lor a
rest after the strenuous time the pair have
had for the past two years. They are indis-
pensable for gate-money purposes.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The returned Davis Cup
players have some interesting tales tp tell
of the American tennis atmosphere. Accord-
ing to one of them, in the country which
recently declared Tilden guilty of profession-
alism because he wrote for the papers there
are numbers of youths who toil not neither
do they spin, but go up and down the land
playing tennis. They call themselves college
men, but the only curriculum they follow is
that of the tennis courts. Their expenses
are paid by the clubs running the tourna-
ments, and they receive in addition “out-of-
pocket expenses,” these latter being their
living wage. It is a saddening picture to
contemplate, but not an unfamiliar one to
observant Australians.
* * :!•• *
“Top Spin”: Norman Brookes, recently
returned from Europe, lias been urging the
State tennis authorities to provide free courts
for young players in the public parks, with
paid coaches in attendance to supervise the
play of the youngsters, lie quotes the
instance of the French tennis headquarters
at Paris, where 30 courts are crowded all
day long by young players from 8 to 17
years old, all receiving instruction from
attendant professionals. No doubt some of
the States —N.S.W. and Victoria especially
—could afford the experiment, but it.is a
question of whether the game would be worth
the candle. In the opinion of many people,
there are many more useful ways of spending
money than in turning the x’ising generation
into tennis-players.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Casula”: One of the latest additions to
the list of N.S.W. golf clubs is that at Liver-
pool, w r hich is to be formally opened on
November 18. An invitation has been sent
to A-grade players of the Sydney clubs who
may care to attend, and others will be wel-
comed. The links are laid out oyer ideal
golfing country, and are now in first-class
order for play.
* * * *
The Elanora Country Club, which is
gradually taking shape near Narrabeen
(N.S.W.) } is something out of the w'ay
among Australian sports organisations. Pro-
vision is being made for tennis, bowls, croquet
and archery as well as golf. Elaborate club
house accommodation is to be provided, and
in the meantime a large house adjacent to
the links is to be'converted for the use of
members. A formal inspection of the golf
course last week showed ihat 9 holes of the
18-hole course will be ready tor pi y
April, while the layout of the course itself
has several new features. A new departure
is the issue to approved applicants of per
manent certificates of membership on pay-
ment of £5O, These will be transferable by
sale or bequest, subject to the payment of
annual subscriptions and the consent of the
management committee.
* * *
“Brassey”: Joe Kirkwood, the one-time
Manly (N.S.W.) caddy who has developed
into one of the world's leading exhibition
golf-players, is due in Sydney by the Aorangi
on Saturday next. He lias been abroad foi
eight shears, most of the time in America,
where his exhibition play lias been m great
and profitable demand. lie is here most y
for rest and change, but will play in Sydney
and Melbourne, where lie first figured as a
club professional.
* =l= * *
“Fluff”: The principle of catching 'em
young for golf got a good advertisement in
Sydney the other day when associate mem-
bers of the Australian and Moore Park clubs
organised a stroke and bogey competition tor
the caddies of the two clubs on the latter s
course. J. Cohen, a 16-year-old youngster
from Moore Park, won the stroke compe-
tition off scratch with the surprising figures
of ;!4 out and .'l2 home, or 66 in all tor
IS holes. He was certainly playing on ins
own course, but the feat would be a nomine
one for any player. The best of the A.G.G.
caddies was 14-year-old 11. Blandy who re-
turned a card of 74. Cohen won the Bogey
competition also, finishing •> up on the Golo-
nel in the Moore Park contingent. 11. Ciemin
headed the A.G.C. boys, 5 down.
# * * *
“Old Q." : One of those unusual happenings
so usual in golf occurred in the competition
for the Brisbane club Championship won by
W. F. Boyce recently. At the last hole (the
18th) of the final Boyce landed in a bunker
with his second. His opponent, Gardiner,
played his second and then discovered that
the ball played was not his, with the result,
that he lost the hole, though Boyce was
still snug in the bunker. Gardiner was
only one down, and had a good chance or
at least squaring the match, w 7 hich would
have had to go on until one or another had
won a hole.
>•: * * *
“The Mcllaggis” : According to Dr. Mac-
kenzie, the famous golf-course architect, a
golf course is an asset to the nation, and
more value is got out of the land given up
to the game than is derived from that devoted
to agriculture. If this is correct, it would
not be surprising. Everyone knows that
to get the best out of land it must be
thoroughly ploughed and turned oyer. I
doubt if all the tractor ploughs, in tins
country at least, shift more earth annually
than the vast mass of perspiring incompe-
ents who make up the great majority or
those pursuing the will-o’-the-wisp of a plus
handicap. Darwin gave the earthworm credit
for loosening up the world’s soil. I know
several golfers who could give the worm
points provided they had his leisure and
opportunities.
* * * *
“Waimata”: As to that Maoriland method
of raising funds to assist country golf clubs
and provide purses for professionals (B.
17/10/’2B), it should be said that it has
proved simple and successful, a large fund
having been accumulated without special
trouble. Each club was asked to collect the
levy of 2s. from its members. This was
done by adding the sum to the annual sub-
scription, which, instead of being, say, £5 55.,
became £5 7s. With the sum collected, pro-
fessionals are sent on tours of instruction
round country clubs which cannot afford a
professional of their own, with great benefit
to outside players. The fund is also utilised
for providing purses for regular professional
competitions to keep players in top form,
and a portion will become a nucleus of a
fund for sending representative teams away
for championship meetings, thus insuring that
the best players w 7 ill be able to make the
trips without regard to the expense, which
is often a deterrent.
% * *
“Keigh”: The country links were of the
sunbaked type. I had just niblicked my
battered Haskel out of a schist-lined crevice,
when the local cowherd approached and
drew my attention to a newly-painted sign,
upon which the. misspelt w 7 ord “trespussers”
was evident. “ ’Ere,” he remarked trucu-
lently, “if youse golfers is goin’ ter tramp
over me paddicks yer’ll ’ave ter pay me
compensashion fer th’ damage.” “What
damage?” I asked. “Ter th’ grass,” he re-
torted ; “th’ young grass yer tramplin’ down.”
“I wish you meant it,” I told him. “Your
paddocks are as bare as the hobs of Hell,
and a dashed sight harder.” “Yairs,” sneered
the cow-heeler; “an’ it’s th’ hobs uv Hell on
yer boots as is makin’ ’em so hard and
keepin’ ther grass from springin’ up!”
(Continued on next page.)


avraadns
é
'
HB'AVV
itismATim
cw.
OF
kiING
C.T.P.37
S&vzbi&pvo Soften GsjwoJl
less set- FSF Trim/f u VT wnVßnv’o W, J e ess enthusiasts and those about to instal a wire-
if™ i jPERIAL (ELECTRON’S Super Aerial) FOR YOUR AERIAL. Wherever
L U <rmL expensive your set—reception will be greatly improved, the volume will
g eatei, punty of tone will be improved, and those more distant stations will come in clearly.
is the easiest aerial to fix—is thoroughly well insulated with vulcanised rubber, which
prevents all leakage of incoming signals. ’
SUPERIAL (ELECTRON’S Super Aerial) is especially adapted for long-distance reception.
OBTAINABLE FROM YOUR WIRELESS
MELBOURNE: Kiernan & Co., 291 Elizabeth Street.
Kieman & Co., 50 Bourke Street.
Hartleys Pty., Ltd., 270 Flinders Street.
Lawrence & Hanson Electrical Co., Ltd.,
172 William Street.
DEALER, or through the following Agents:—
ADELAIDE... SCL Radio & Electrical Co., Ltd., Liberal
Club Building, North Terrace.
SYDNEY The Chartres Trading Co., Liverpool Street.
The Elcctroleon Co., 185 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE ... Canada Cycle and Motor Agency, Ltd.,
Corner Creek and Adelaide Streets.
ELECTRON
y&si ’Pj&HfeeX?
. QjUIAjoJL
Electron Wire is especially
suitable for use as an indoor
Aerial by simply hooking’ it
round the picture-rail, no
further insulation being re-
quired. For outdoor Aerials,
simply hang to a tree and
take down direct to set —no
insulators or lead-in tubes
necessary. 100 feet length in
carton.
Proprietors:
THE NEW LONDON ELECTRON
WORKS, LTD.,
London, England.
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: Australia will shortly enter-
tain one of the oldest identities in the cycle
and motor trade in the person of A. J. Wil-
son, a journalist who grew up with the cycle
and car boom until he came to be regarded
as a leading authority. Not the least inter-
esting item in his long career is the fact
that he took the first Dunlop tyres from Ire-
land to England.
« >l*. ❖ ❖
“Doggy” : The very latest thing in three-
wheelers (B. 31/10/’2B) is now adding to
the gaiety of British street and road life.
This is a foot-propelled tricycle, elaborately
disguised with body, bonnet, wind and side
shields, and all the other paraphernalia of
an up-to-date car, even to the steering wheel.
The gadget has two wheels in front and the
third behind, while there arc a three-speed
gear-box and hand and foot brakes.' What
other purpose the absurdity serves than sheer
swank it is hard to say. Somehow it recalls
the old story of the Irishman who took his
first cab ride. The bottom of the cab falling
out as it started, he was compelled to run
all the way to escape being knocked down.
His comment that if it wasn’t for the dignity
of the thing he might as well have walked
seems applicable in this instance.
* :Jc iji $
“Whizz” : Malcolm Campbell, the English
speed motorist, is still unable to make up his
mind as to where he will make his next at-
tempt on the world’s record. First he thought
of the Jutland Sands, then of the Syrian
Desert, and now he is considering a spot in
the middle of the Sahara. The Bulletin
has already suggested the dried up lake-bed
of Perkolili in Westralia, where many Aus-
tralian records have been put up. Now
comes news that Lake George, in N.S.W., has
indulged in one of its periodical “dry-ups,”
and affords a surface straight and smooth
for many miles, which the Goulburn motor-
cyclists are using for speed tests. In the
Syrian desert and the Sahara a military
escort would have to be requisitioned, and the
expense of transporting supplies would be
tremendous. _ On either of the Australian
runs everything needful would be close at
hand, the only bandits to be feared being
petrol retailers.
* * # *
“Kangaroo”: France is said to be growing
enthusiastic about a new form of motor-
driving competition. This consists in driv-
ing as fast as possible along a track strewn
with dummy figures of fowls, cats, dogs, pigs,
pedestrians and other livestock. The idea is
to make the fastest time with the fewest
casualties to the dummies. It sounds quite
sporting, but a lot of people whose occasions
take them about our streets and roads on
foot will wonder why the French have gone
to the trouble and expense of having dum-
mies made while there is plenty of the
genuine article available for experiment.
* * * *
Quadrant : Another good country-road
run is reported from Queensland. The car,
m this instance a Willys Knight model 70A,
covered _ the 983 miles from Brisbane to
Townsville, taking the coastal route over
typical bush tracks for the greater part of
the journey, in 37hrs. 42min. actual running
time,, or two hours faster than the mail
train’s time for the same journey. A sen-
sational feature of the run was the hurdling
of a large tree trunk across the road, which
was not observed until too late. The car,
travelling over 50 m.p.li., rapped the hurdle
hard, but cleared it, and went on unhurt.
Later, a collision in the dark with a large
rock caused a delay of ,2S£ hours in all for
repairs and righting, when the run to
Townsville was resumed. . The highest speed
was 72 m.p.li., and the running average 27
fn.p.li.
* * * *
“Gladiateur”: Ferdinand Charron, who
died some months ago in France, was the
originator of the new universal method of
selling motor-cars through agents. In the
early days of the trade it was the practice
for the manufacturer to sell direct to the
public. The result was that the demand for
a popular make of car frequently out-dis-
tanced production, and intending buyers had
to wait as long as two years to get delivery.
Speculators bought the cars and sold them
again at a high premium before they were
even built. Charron stepped in, secured the
handling of the whole of the Panhard out-
pot—that car was then in greater demand
than any other—and instituted the modern
system of car marketing.
=l= # * *
“0.H.V.”: There has been no alteration in
basic principle in the petrol motors used in
automobiles and aeroplanes in the last 20
years, but the experience gained in the
period has enabled designers to make vast
strides in efficiency. The best motors of
1908 developed 6 h.p. per litre of cylinder
capacity. The average to-day .is 20 h.p.
More suprising still is the change in the
ratio of engine weight to power output.
A typical 12-h.p. motor of 1908 weighed
about 3cwt., or 2Slb. per h.p. The Bristol
Mercury aero-engine of to-day, which
develops 900 h.p., weighs 6141 b., or 11
ounces per h.p.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: The Maoriland four-oar crew
from Wanganui Union Club, which won the
Stewards’ Challenge Cup at Henley-on-Yarra
recently, went back to Maoriland last week
without having a chance to give Australian
oarsmen another sample of its prowess.
This has been the club’s first appearance at
Henley, but it has a fine record in the
Dominion. In all, the club has won 27
championships, including a fours event at
Hobart as long ago as 1910.
* * =;• *
“Slide” : The Maoriland rowing authorities
have notified N.S.W. that they will be unable
to have an eight in the State championships
on December 22. They are willing, how-
ever, to send over A. E. Jackson, of Wan-
ganui, champion sculler of the Dominion.
Jackson had intended to compete in the
Henley sculls at Melbourne, but did not
come over when he heard that Pearce would
not be a competitor. He is very keen on
having a shy at the Olympian.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Henley-on-Yarra commit-
tee had hard luck in striking wet and windy
weather for its big event, which resulted
in a loss of £lOOO. It is to be regretted, for
the annual show has gradually grown to be
the most important rowing carnival in Aus-
tralia in its 22 years of existence. The out-
standing feature of the regatta was the con-
vincing manner in which Mosman retained
the eight-oar supremacy, and it would appear
that the club crew has practically selected
itself to represent N.S.W. in the inter-
state race for the King’s Cup at Perth in
May next.
# :1s *
“Te lvooti”: The modern tendency in
sport to subordinate all other interests to
the “gate” has been rousing the wrath of one
Hector McLean, a Canuck clergyman who
has been touring Maoriland. According to
him, the Dominion is sealed to Satan by
its obsession for all forms of commercialised
sport, and the reverend gentleman is as
gloomy as the All Blacks’ guernseys by
reason of thinking what the ultimate end of
the Enzeds must be. Apart from racing,
which is the same the world over, there
seems little reason for the padre’s fears
as to the Maorilander’s chances of a happy
hereafter. The great obsession of the country
is Rugby Union football, one of the cleanest
and least commercialised of all forms of
athletics. If he should come to Australia we
could show him something in the way of
commercialisation in sport, from cricket to
pony-racing. If, as he says, conditions in
Maoriland took his bteath away, he will need
oxygen treatment to bring him round when
he arrives on this side of the Tasman.
* $ •■!! *
“Full Choke”: Though the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment’s bill for the prevention of cruelty
to animals did not deal, as was hoped, with
the villainous “sport” of pigeon shooting from
traps, it is gratifying to hear that the atro-
city is shortly to be dealt with as it deserves.
Its continued existence is a blot on the
N.S.W. sporting community, since most of
the other Australian States have banned it,
while < it has been forbidden for years in
Britain and America. It does not improve
E. KENNY, secretary of the Henley-on-
Yarra regatta held annually in Melbourne.
the breed of pigeons, nor does it in any way
raise the standard of game-sliooting. It is
merely yet another medium for gambling, and
for a very shady form of gambling under
peculiarly callous conditions.
❖ ❖ #
“Ride Off”: Not every traveller returning
from Australian shores has a grateful remem-
brance of the hospitality usually accorded
to such people, or a good word to say of
the people who extended it, or of the country
they live in. A notable exception is Colonel
Melville, who was in Australia several months
ago in charge of the Army-in-India polo team.
In an article in the Pioneer, one of India’s
most famous journals, the Colonel has little
but good to say of the country, its people
generally, and its polo-players and ponies.
About the only fault he has to find is with
the Australian fashion of playing ponies in
snaffle instead of curb bits. As he points
out, the result is that the ponies are hauled
round with both hands instead of being man-
oeuvred by means of the “aids” supplemented
by the bit, thus leaving one hand free all
the time. He has a high opinion of the
quality of ponies and players. Given the
adoption of proper bitting, which he thinks
will result from the visit of his side, the
Colonel accounts them fit to rank with any
of their kind in the world.
V. Y. RICHARDSON, the South Australian
batsman, whose score of 281 in Adel-
aide is a record for games against
English teams in Australia.
Maurice Baldwin, who died in Brisbane
last week, was for many years one of the
outstanding figures in Queensland amateur
sport. A most competent organiser, he was
lion. sec. of the Queensland Rugby Union
in its palmy days, and managed more than
one Queensland side on tour, while he was
also prominent in the combined committee
which in those days supervised international
and inter-dominion tours of Union teams.
The revival of the Queensland R.U. recently
found in him a keen supporter. From the
Union he went to Queensland Tattersall’s
Club as secretary, and later to the Queens-
land Turf Club in the same capacity, mak-
ing a notable success of both jobs.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: It pains me to have to
record it, but bowls has lately been the
medium of a practice usually confined to the
lower sorts of horse- and dog-racing—l refer
to “ringing-in.” The unfortunate affair
happened in Victoria. One of the clubs had
a bye in the first round of the “A” grade
pennant, and yielded to the temptation
to ring in several “A” players for a
match in the “C” grade pennant. This was
equivalent to starting a high-class handicap
prad in a carthorse race as a genuine draught-
horse, and the sensation aroused by the
perfidious action is profound. What makes
matters worse is that there is no rule whereby
the stipes can deal with the offenders.
* :;i * *
“Splash”: A great old upholder of amateur
swimming has recently retired from the game
in the person of G. W. Hearn, the English-
man who has been secretary-treasurer of the
Federation Internationale de Natation
Amateur since its inauguration in 1908.
Hearn, who was one of the foundation mem-
bers, was farewelled by the representatives
of the 24 countries who make up the Federa-
tion, and received substantial recognition of
his services. The new secretary-treasurer is
Dr. Leo Donath, of Hungary, who will find
himself batting on a well-prepared wicket.
Ilearn, on the other hand, had a hard fight
at the beginning against the semi-professional
amateur spirit which then infected swimming
as it did so many other sports, and the pre-
sent satisfactory condition of things to-day
is almost entirely due to his energy and
determination.
Though not as bulky as “Wisden,” the
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s Year Book for
1927-28 is as complete a cricket annual as
has been produced in Australia. New fea-
tures have been added, the most notable being
a complete list of Sheffield Shield cricketers
with their batting and bowling averages since
the competition started in 1892. The work
is a credit to the compiler, H. Heydon,
secretary of the N.S.W.C.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“FY7” : Australian sheep-growers are look-
ing round for a market for superfluous fats,
and it has been suggested that a campaign
in favor of eating more tinned mutton might
meet the situation. Tinned beef is in strong
demand; not so tinned mutton. Yet ration
issues were rushed by troops in the war,
A.I.F. and Imperial alike.
* # :ts *
“8.-G.”: More and more shrewd people
are turning their attention to our fisheries,
and North Queensland is not being neglected.
Sheds are being erected on an island in Whit-
sunday Passage, with a view to smoking deep-
sea fish, particularly mackerel.
* * *
“Salambo” : After the late westerly gal°s
good finds of ambergris were made on Stewart
Island beaches. One piece of matured stuff
went 14oz. Ambergris fetches from ss. per
ounce for poor stuff to 41s. per oz. for
matured. In 1910 11,0000 z., worth nearly
£20,000, was picked up by the captain of a
Norwegian whaler off the Solanders, Foveaux
Strait.
>l= * :!: «
“G.W.T.’: Our fur trade has made rapid
strides. The manufacturing section is pro-
tected, and skins from all parts are dressed
and dyed in Australia as well as can be done
anywhere. Rabbit-skins can be dyed to any
desired shade, and as for “coney seal,” the
fabrication of which is a big industry in
France, Germany and Belgium, there are two
large, Australian firms producing an article
so good and in such quantities that it will
not be necessary to import skins of this type
in future.
>:■ >t * *
“Blast”: There are reports of dissension
among the parties to the (Continental steel
cartel, which Britain refused to join. The
Germans have discovered, so they say, that
Britain has arranged to supply France witli
armor-plate, and France to furnish Britain
with manufactured steels for warships; and
they denounce this as a breach of the cartel.
If that alliance breaks up, so much the better
for Australian steel-producers, who have
found the competition of its low-priced pro-
ducts a nasty hurdle to face.
* #
“Up Top”: What’s wrong with New
Guinea for paper-pulping mills? The island
is a mass of timber, from seaboard to sea-
board, and the vai’ieties range from the vine
to the giant out of which the natives chop
70ft. fighting canoes. And there are rivers
running 500 miles inland, down which rafts
could be floated to the sea. A finer field
for experiments there is nowhere to be found.
* * * *
“Cat’s Whisker”: If the Minister of Cus-
toms does Ms job, the manufacture of radio
apparatus is going to be a big industry. When
Sydney newspaper representatives talked
with New York pressmen last month the
whole of the receiving and transmitting plant
at the Sydney end was Australian-made.
* * * *
“Borom”: This dumping of city garbage
into the sea is wasteful as well as filthy.
Years ago a Paddington (Sydney) municipal
engineer devised a method by which refuse
was pressed into small cubes ideal for road-
foundations and the like. A plant was
erected, but the aldermen grew tired of the
novelty, and turned to something likely to
be more productive of votes. Since then
the Australian idea has been adopted in the
U.S.A. ; in fact, there are several cities where
garbage, after treatment to remove possibility
of infection, is utilised for road-making and
in the foundations of buildings.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Kauri gum-digging keeps several
hundreds of men—mostly Austrians—busy in
the Waikato and other northerly parts of
Maoriland. Though other working methods
have been tried, none has proved quicker or
less laborious than locating the gum with a
spear and then digging it up with a spade. But
now a mining engineer proposes to apply
the hydraulic process. Since gum-digging
started 60 years ago £22,000,000 of the stuff
has been unearthed, and there are good
pickings still.
* * * *
“A. Jack” : This is the reason why many
Australian workers won’t buy Australian
matches (B. 10/10/’2B). The possession of
matches that will strike may be a matter
of life or death to the miner, who often has
to work in damp surroundings or in wet
clothing. To keep their matches and smok-
ing gear dry it is the custom of such toilers
to fit the match-box across the width of
an ordinary 2oz. tobacco tin. The Aus-
tralian box is just a little too big for this;
the Swedish box is just right. Our matches
are as good as, if not better than, the over-
seas make; a handier box is the solution of
the problem.


BRITISH
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80 ( >'o
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
jS/
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: I!'. & G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO..
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive)
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
ft#
tv.'?
m
RSI
mm
’ • ■
m
S 38
£■
Worth-while Technical
Books
Posted.
Modern Ignition. Cross 5/10
Rotary and Motor Converters. Smith 10/6
Domestic Electric Heating. Solomon 4/9
The Decorator’s and Renovator’s Assistant 3/10
Practical Upholstery. Boreham 4/9
Operating Engineer’s Catechism of Steam Engineering. Gornston . . 16/6
Commonsense Handrailing. F. S. Hodgson 8/-
Car Maintenance and Repair. A. H. Judge 6/-
Dynamo, Motor Attendants and their Machines 4/4
Answers on Refrigeration and Ice-making. Audel 10/6
Automobile and Radio Batteries. Cross 4/9
Saws: Their Care and Treatment. Durham 7/10
Motor-Car Upholstering and Trimming 14/6
Practical Boat Sailing for Amateurs. Davies 10/6
The Ford Car Standard Electrical Equipment, Starting, Lighting,
Ignition 12/9
Modern Methods of Ford Repairing. Pile 15/3
The Austin-Seven Book for Driver and Owner 3/10
Saw Mill and Wood Converting Machinery: Notes on Construction,
Speeds, etc 6/10
Saw Mills: Their Arrangement and Management. Bale 20/-
Woodworking Machinery: Its Rise, Progress and Construction .... 14/6
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED.
The Book of Australian
Bungalows
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-
end Cottage, with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House.
The book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-date Plans and Drawings
with estimated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little
waste space as possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple
lines.
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/- 4d. Postage.
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Comer CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
YOSEMITB
VALLEY
California
America’s
All year Playground
Only 19 days away is California, bright land of blue and gold
Peaks that tower 14,000 feet into cloudless skies; fruitful valleys
below; mirror-clear lakes and rivers; beaches where surf-bathing
is safe and exhilarating—all these scenic elements enter into
delightful combination in California. Giant Redwoods more
than 300 feet high, and thousands of years old, flourish in
primeval majesty. The deep-cleft gorge of Yosemite Valley;
Lake Tahoe, a mile-high inland sea; Mount Shasta; the coast-
land of Santa Barbara; Feather River Canyon . . . there is
endless diversity in the wonders to be visited. All are reached
in ease and comfort by motor or rail.
San Francisco and Los Angeles are gay cities; and at the southern
metropolis you will view Hollywood, the heart of “Movieland.”
The thrill of a lifetime!
Visit California, either on a special tour, or on your trip to
Britain across the United States. Matson Oceanic liners will
carry you with speed, and comfort, calling at Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii on the way.
Fares: Sydney to San Francisco, first class, single, £73/-/-;
£125/10/- return. Other “economy” fares.
Booklet on California, and the illustrated travel leaflet, “Across
the United States,” are free upon request.
ê
S.S. SIERRA
S.S. SONOMA
S.S. VENTURA
ë
Sailing every
third
Saturday
12 Bridge Street, Sydney. A—2B
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 VViiliam St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth and Albany; Howard Smith Limited, Brisbane.
A.-. f.!
ii
H
Hu
H
f • go| • fcog • •f t c|* £og ’ go£ * £■)§• go
:i O.Ll.ioS |°|-H-| u i|o§-
H'H’Hl'N 0 ’
• Io«t sMJ•§(>?•&)«.
?*.. so
8. a
ē


24,876 —Dainty 7-Stone
Ring’, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Mille Grain
Set, £2O
24,870 Fine Dia-
monds, 7-Stone Bing,
with Square Centre,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings, £22
24,873 3-Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold and
Plat inum Settings,
Hexagon Pattern, £lB
24,874 —Pine Diamond,
with 16 Diamonds in
Shoulders, 18ct. Gold
and Platinum Settings.
£65
& Diamonds
MST
Diamond Experts buy ALL Catanach’s Diamonds—gems of perfect purity
and quality—so that, no matter what price you pay for the Ring at this
famous Diamond House, you are guaranteed DIAMONDS of QUALITY and
the best value in the Commonwealth.
Every Catanach Diamond Ring carries a WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Inspection cordially invited.
Diamond Ring Catalog post free on request.
9
Comer Royal Arcade and
Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, Cl.
24,900 —5-Stone Half
Hoop, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Hexagon Set-
tings, £l6
W*
24,849 —All Platinum
Cluster, with Diamond
set Shoulders, set with
fine quality Brilliant
Diamonds, £45
ĕ
Melbourne
Chatter.
The weather of Derby Day was about as
disagreeable as could be expected in view of
past performances. Occasional showers of
rain fell from leaden skies, and the atmo-
sphere was muggy. The dressing of the
immense crowd of womenfolk was of three
types. Daring sports took a chance on the
weather, flaunting georgette and lace; the
ordinarily prudent wore ensemble suits, and
the safety-first folk were clad in coats and
skirts, wraps and even fur coats. A great
display, of colored umbrellas, unfurled during
every shower, challenged, in their gaiety,
the boxes of cinerarias and yellow and purple
violas that completely fringed the front of
the stand. Most of the feminine finery was
in excellent taste, navy-blue-and-wliite and
magpie effects dead-heating for popularity,
with beige and fawn shades close up in the
running: In millinery, crimson, black and
navy had many backers, shapes ranging
from large shady straws to helmets of the
aviator mode. A cape wrap of black-
embossed velvet with white fur bordering all
outer edges was a startling bit of covering,
and a black knitted coat, patterned with
huge futurist tulips in gay colors, was some-
thing the eye couldn’t miss.
Court mourning precluded v.-r. representa-
tion at last year’s .Cup meetings, but this time
the Federal and State Government House pens
were occupied, their Exs. of W.A. and S.A.
being present as well as the G.-G. and the
State vice-regals. Lady Stonehaven wore
beneath a caped coat of black a floral-pat-
terned crepe de Chine frock which was topped
by a large black hat. Lady Somers was in a
simple frock of sapphire-blue cloth, with a
blaek-and-biscuit felt hat. Lady Hore-Ruth-
ven’s berry-red hat shaded a black frock
spotted in ivory and red, over which, at
times, was worn a black fur coat. Cocoa
made with plenty of milk was the hue of
the coat, skirt and millinery sported by Lady
Campion. Miss A. Hine-Haycock, an over-
seas visitor to State Government House,
was a study in navy blue; and Miss Daly,
who accompanied the Hore-Ruthvens, showed
a pale-green, frock beneath a mole-colored
coat. Rear-Admiral Napier; Mrs. Napier,
in bois-de-rose; General Chauvel and his lady,
she arrayed in bright blue; and Mrs. A. V.
Kewney and her son joined the Governor-
General's party during the afternoon.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald looked smart in
a picturesque black-and-white gown, her
white hair appearing beneath a sliiny black
toque. Mrs. Rosenthal’s choice was an en-
semble of sulphur shade. The Moulden lady
from S.A. was in navy blue. Premier Hogan
and his wife; Mrs. Harry Creswick, in a
jacaranda-blue georgette gown; the Keppel
Palmers, she looking smart in black and
white; the Clarke lady, a symphony in beige;
and the Taylor lady and the Spencer Brun-
ton’s from Sydney were strollers on the
lawn. Luncheon parties under the elms were
numerous, Mrs. Richard Turnbull being hos-
tess of one; and Mrs. Bullivant, Mrs. Val
Macdonald and Mrs. O’Dell Crowther poured
tea for many guests at four o’clock.
The Naval and Military Club Ball, which
was curtain-raiser to the social happenings
of Cup Week, was attended by the G.-G. and
Lady Stonehaven, the latter’s gown of Lido
blue being decorated with silver-beaded tabs,
and by Sir Alexander llore-Ruthven, Gover-
nor of S.A., and his very good-looking wife.
Lady llore-Ruthven wore mauve georgette
that dipped to the floor at one side. Miss
Daly, who accompanied her, was in sapphire-
blue lace. The Town Hall was a maze of
fairy bamboo, crimson azaleas and red
and blue drapery, and the v.-r. dais was
set under sheltering palms. Bright frocks
and the mess uniforms of navy, army
and air force filled the scene with color.
Colonel Semmens, who brought his daughter
Kathleen, General Blarney, Colonel ,C. V.
Watson and General Elliott were the hosts.
Mrs. Blarney’s black gown was encircled by
a dado of gold beads; Mrs. Elliott wore
filmy black; and Mrs. Watson sported the
smartest black robe in the room—it was
brightened by a trailed feather design in
rhinestones. Kathleen Semmens was in coral
pink.
Sir Hugo Hirst, of the economic mission,
and his wife joined the v.-r. party. Lady
Hirst’s grey hair was piled high, and a green
velvet and gold brocade coat covered her
pale blue gown. Others in the circle were
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Napier and General
Chauvel and his lady, the last-named in ivory
georgette, upon which gold sequins formed
sun-ray lines. Others in the throng of dan-
cers were Mayor-elect Luxton and Mrs. I.ux-
ton, she attractive in black lace; Colonel R.
Downes and Mrs. Downes, the lady in a
frock of plumbago blue; surgeon Ambrose,
of W.A., with his daughter; Claire Stuart,
from Deniliquin, whose black locks contrasted
against an apple-green robe.; Judy Fincb, in
black tulle flounces bordered with silver; and
Una Ryan, who wore red satin shoes with
a floral chiffon frock. Isobel Drake-Brock-
man, a visitor from England, combined black
taffeta and tulle in her gown. The Noel
Brodribbs, Leslie Rudd, the Harold Gar-
deners, General Brand and his daughter
Lorna and Radio-Commander and Mrs. Cres-
well joined in the jazz.
The Old Paradians gave a dance at Bibrous
last week as recognition of the help given
them by a number of womenfolk in social
activities. There was a full complement of
dancers and a great rustling of taffeta —
mostly green. Mrs. P. A. Matthews, whose
husband was president of the dance commit-
tee. wore bois-de-rose with a glisten of gold
sequins, and Mrs. Charlie Shiels’s nattier blue
frock had a border of silver lace. Nan Mow-
lan wore black taffeta attached to a yoke of
flesh-pink georgette, and May Phillips fav-
ored almond green. Dr. and Mrs. T. Daly,
the' Hillier-Browns, Dr. W. Butler, the C. E.
O’Connors, Molly Ames, with gold sequins
flitting over a petrol-blue frock, and Miss M.
Sleswick, wearing apricot-hued taffeta, were
jazzers.
An enjoyable dinner dance was held at
the Rex last week to gather funds for the
Queen Victoria Hospital Fete. The organisers
were Mrs. W. M. Robins, whose raiment
was black and gold; Mrs. Clarence Marriott,
who had traceries of silver on a begonia-pink
gown; and Mrs. Cleve Kidd, wearing bur-
nished embroideries on a white robe/ Mrs
Norman Price, Jean Clack and Aubrey Dye
w r ere helpers.
A big draw on the opening night of the
Stamp Show last week was the printing, on
the spot, of the first issue of tbe new three-
penny kookaburra stamp. There was a regu-
lar stampede to secure the novelty and get
it cancelled as early as possible. A post-
office box was installed, and postages of enve-
lopes that mostly contained Jflanks and were
addressed to their senders were very numer-
ous. Lieut.-Governor Irvine said the open-
ing words, and confessed that he was once
a collector, but had dropped the hobby years
ago. He was deputed to hand a reward to
R. A. Harrison, designer of the new king’s
head 1£ stamp. The collection of stamps on
view, garnered from 30 countries, was valued
at £250,000, and was closely guarded day and
night. The most valuable little lot sent from
overseas consisted of Cape of Good Hope
issues. The American owner of the rarest
stamp in the world, an 1861 British Guiana,
worth over £7OOO, sent photographic repro-
ductions of it in color and in black and
white. The Australian collections of J. R.
W. Purves and hon. sec. A. A. Rosenblum
were not the least important, and F. L.
Billinghurst’s display, grouped under headings
of monarchs, palaces, scenery and so on, had
many admirers. There were four women
exhibitors, prominent among them being Mrs.
J. Price, of Royal Park in this State.
This soulful gaze emanates from Vera Kelly,
daughter of the late Dr. Kelly, of Echuca
and Ballarat,
w li o has
carved out a
career for her-
self as a phar-
m a c e u tical
chemist. She
occupies the
i m port ant
position of dis-
penser at the
Eye and Ear
Hospital. An
ex-student of
Loreto, she is
the capable
hon. sec. of
the Loreto
Abbey Players,
who will make
their first pub-
lic appearance
at the Mal-
vern City Hall
on Friday
night in Houseman’s “The Chinese Lan-
tern.” Francie Young made the portrait.
The Austin Hospital benefits to the extent
of £7OO through the gymkhana conducted at
the Royal Melbourne Golf Club, Sandring-
ham, last week by a committee of women
sports, headed by Mrs. V. B. Trapp. The
programme included golf and tennis tourna-
ments. Stalls for the sale of home-made
dainties, flowers and other articles helped to
swell the harvest. Lady Somers donated a
golf trophy, and Mrs. A. Gatehouse and
lNorma MacLeod were among the directors
of the matches.
Dame Nellie Melba had some fairly busy
days before her departure, her activities
including an appearance at Geelong, a fare-
well visit to the Women’s Hospital and
attendance at the students’ concert of the
Albert-street Con. The assembly-hall of the
Con. was crowded when the budding song-
birds and pianists showed their paces. The
diva’s glittering browband gave an air of
opulence to the front row, and John Lem-
mone, Elena Danieli and the Fritz Hart
couple were also well to the fore. The
maidens, all clad in white, created a favor-
able impression, Icsis Brown, the most
advanced of the singers, distinguishing her
self in “Ritorna Vincitor,” from “Aida.”
Dawn Harding and Millicent Osmond, who
sang songs by Hugo Wolf, also earned high
praise. Of the pianists tbe work of Linda
Parker, Eleanor Clapham and Eunice Gar-
land won commendation.
Here is Betty M. Davies, whose play, “The
Touch of Silk,” commenced a five-nights’
season at the
Playhouse on
Saturday last
—a Repertory
Society effort,
directed b y
Frank D.
Clewlow. Miss
Davies is a
Victorian, and
her earlier
years were
spent in the
Goulburn Val-
ley, from
which locality
she has col-
lected some of
her material.
As Betty Mc-
Lean before
her marriage
with Ellis
Davies, an en-
gineer, she had
journalistic experience with Punch and the
Sun. During convalescence after a long
illness she turned thoughts to play-writing,
and “The Touch of Silk” is the result. The
portrait is by Jack Cato.
One morning last week Christ Church,
South Yarra, added bright illuminations to
the landscape as Vittoria .Colonna Roughton
stepped up its aisle to meet the W. Barrons’
youngest son, George Douglas. Mr. and
Mrs. E. 11. Roughton brought their second
daughter from Myrniong, Box Hill, by motor
.for the ceremony. Brocaded silver lamd
fashioned with billows of scallops formed
the bridal gown, over which floated a veil
of Chantilly lace lined with pink, lent by
the bridegroom’s sister. The bride’s sister
Marie, in a frilled frock of pink tulle, was
the one and only ’maid.
Limerick lace and tulle floated over the
white satin and silver gown of Gwen, a
daughter of the Walter Carnegies of Ivew,
when she became Mrs. Frederick Sheppard
Grimwade at Holy Trinity Church. Kew, last
week. The bridegroom is the elder son of
Dr. and Mrs. Sheppard Grimwade. of Gee-
long. The four attendant ’maids were softly
clad in green, with the same colored mil-
linery.
Lance Fairfax, Romola Hanstein, just back
from an overseas jaunt; Stephanie Deste,
Marie Bremner and Dennis Barry were
among the professional mummers who pro-
vided musical, fare at the Austral Salon one
afternoon lately, to provide sinews of war
for the Salon’s cafe chantant. Edith Harrhy,
Isobel Duncan and an orchestra also figured
on the bright programme, which was organ-
ised by Mrs. J. L. Stein.
Evidently “Julius Caesar” figures in this
year’s school curriculum, for three-fourths of
an almost full house that watched the Allan
Wilkie co. perform the play on Thursday
night consisted of schoolgirls and -boys, who
chattered like magpies between scenes and
chewed audibly between intervals. Miss
Hunter-Watts, as Portia, wife of Brutus,
wore her Roman swathings of white silk and
fringe with dignity, and Lorna Forbes, who
was Calpurnia, looked handsome in wrap-
pings of crimson. Mrs. Arthur Streeton,
Mrs. Thirkell and Eileen O’Keefe were among
the grown-ups who enjoyed the finely-acted
Play.
Betty M. Davies, otherwise Mrs. Ellis
Davies, had to bow many times to the
audience on Saturday night, when her Aus-
tralian play, “The Touch of Silk,” was per-
formed by the Repertory Society at the
Playhouse. Originally the piece was written
as a one-act play, but at Mr. Clewlow’s
suggestion Mrs. Davies expanded it into a
full night’s entertainment with good results.
The story of the French girl and her Digger
husband’s fight against drought out back
enlisted the sympathy of both actors and
audience. Carrie Haase, Mrs. Frank
Apperly, Mrs. T. W. White, Anna Brennan
and Mrs. H. L. Wilkinson were first-
nighters.
H. Septimus Power’s oils, water-colors and
peicil drawings make a fine showing on the
walls of the Athenaium Gallery. He continues
his partiality for horses and dogs, and has
added birds—gorgeous African parrots amid
rhododendrons—to his subjects. On opening
day Mr. and Mrs. Power gave greeting to
many fellow-painters and others, in the
throng being Maurice Moscovitch, M. Rene
Turck, Consul for France, and his daughter
Ninette, the David Fergusons, Mr. and Mrs.
C. B. Daly, Esther Patprson and Dr. Bob
Strong. Mrs. Power wore smart attire of
sapphire-blue georgette and lace, topped by
a straw hat of similar shade.
Eileen O'Keefe’s bevy of 13 girls was heard
one evening last week in the concerted reci-
. tation of old ballads, Elizabethan lyrics and
modern poetry. Wearing cyclamen mauve
costumes of Grecian mode, the 13, blending
high- and low-pitched voices, were especially
successful in two lyrics attributed to Queen
Elizabeth, and Charles Kingsley’s “The
River.” Miss O’Keefe, who recently returned
from abroad, spoke pieces by Thomas Hardy.
Her robe was of deep violet shade.
The meeting under the auspices of the
\v omen’s National League that was addressed
by the Priminister at the Town Hall was a
lively affair owing to organised interruptions
from about 20 women. The interjectors
attacked Stanley Bruce on all sides. The
basic wage, his £27,000 residence at Can-
berra, and even the fact that he has no off-
spring were commented upon. The only
time these energetic ladies could be induced
to keep their seats —all other moments a
policemen was kept busy pushing them gently
but firmly back into their chairs—was when
the Anthem was sung.
Jean Seymour Vale is displaying a sparkler
which connotes a wedding in London in
the near future. Her mother was the late
Colonel and Mrs, Ball’s eldest daughter
Kathleen, and a cousin of Dr. Stanley
Argyle. Marriage with Captain Seymour
Vale removed the lady from this social
circle. Her daughter’s fiance is Cecil Mans-
field Norman, and their future home will be
at Ivotagla, Ceylon, where he has a planta-
tion.
Golden-haired Zillali Bateman was amongst
last week’s departures. A London engage-
ment lures her hence, also a small daughter
whom she has neft seen for four years. With
her went her husband, Joseph Cunningham,
who is joining Vincent Erne in his mana-
gerial ventures.
Georgia Rivers, who wields a facile pen
as a writer of fiction, has been holidaying in
Adelaide, and, incidentally, interviewing
booksellers with regard to her second novel,
“Tantalego,” which is due here almost at
once.
When Johnny Douglas captained the last,
English XI in Australia he made a swarm of
Mends, many of whom have since received
cheery welcomes at the Douglas home in
England. Now his sister Mollie has per-
suaded her parents to sail over and return
some calls. Being an only daughter with
plenty of cash, globe-trotting is one of Miss
Douglas’s pet hobbies.
A Melbourne singer, Francesca Duret, who
went to Italy about five years ago and made
a place for herself there in opera, is due back
this week. She has been engaged as a prin-
cipal in the Gonsalez Opera Co., which has
completed a profitable tour of Maoriland and
will shortly begin a new season. Miss Duret
received her first training here from Ivor
Boustead, who also gave John Brownlee his
early lessons.
The site of the beautiful home of the late
J. F. W. Payne, Maritimo, Toorak-road, went
under the hammer in subdivisions last week,
realising about £52,000. The late owner’s
will ordered that the mansion should be
pulled down, with the result that the house
in which some of the most brilliant balls of
many Cup seasons were given is now but a
memory.
Archbishop Lees returned from his holiday
trip to England and the Continent, bringing
with him his bride, just in time to celebrate
his seventh anniversary as Bishop of Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Lees, who is known to many
people here, is a daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Herbert Linnell of Beckenham (England),
where the Archbishop was once vicar. She
has twfice visited Australia in recent years,
and was a friend of the prelate’s late wife.
She is good looking, young and a great
enthusiast in church work.
The most amazing thing about Friday’s
cricket, England versus Vic., was the vast
crowd of males. They were there in thou-
sands. One’s eye roved from the dull play
to the sea of felt hats, and one wondered
what these men did for a living. The Gov-
ernor-General, Lord Somers, and their Exes,
of S.A. were onlookers, and there were many
family parties scattered about the stands,
equipped with hampers and thermos flasks.
At the Lyceum Club one morning last week
Mrs. Herbert Brookes poured tea while the
preliminaries of the “Spirit of Music” page-
ant were discussed with the committee and
newspaper representatives.
To Geelong’s Art Gallery has been added
Raymond Lindsay’s historical picture, in
which Major Johnson is seen announcing the
arrest of Governor Bligh. Dame Nellie Melba
purchased this first big picture by the young
Australian artist when it was exhibited in
Sydney a few months ago, and has presented
it to Geelong as a compliment to Howard
Hitchcock, a resident there, who takes a
leading part in promoting the cause of music
and the other arts.


onmioii
UALITY
FINE
r%?
©
Ol
s*\
No. 306—£25
□ 578
B 577
No. 30S—£55
No. 300 —£20
HBjEpimty
No. 309-£3O
No. 307 —£65
\ orapie
■ ■
No. 305—£40
No, 304—£25
No. 303—£45
'Fixe Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring,
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
M.DRUMMOND G CO.
DIAMOND AND-PEARL - SPECIALISTS-'
344-346 COLLINS STREET
_ MELBOURNE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dikectors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \\ oild, this
Hank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
iurr*
■
ROLEX
inf
OU can trust a ROLEX
to stand by you tbrou&b
tbe toughest eighteen
1 boles, tbe fastest set of
tennis or the roughest ride.
The ROLEX is a thoroughbred through and through
distinctive both in appearance and performance.
ROLEX designs vary to meet varying, tastes.
The World’s Best by Every Test.
2LEX
For Men and
Women
WRIST & POCKET
WATCHES
From All Good
Jewellers
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
In infancy.
t
ir^sr
Food
A.2SU
Reg. TiiAUU Mark.
When mother is unable
to nurse baby, ihe best food
is fresh cows’ milk, suitably
modified. Benger’s has
proved itself to be one of
the best of milk modifiers.
Send 'or Benger’s Booklet, posl free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
A tasty lunch
For a quick and tasty lunch let
Anchovette help you. Its delicious
flavour appeals to everybody. Serve it
in sandwiches or on hot buttered toast.
Get a jar from your grocer to-day.
Peck’s
ANCHCWETTE
The delicious Fish Paste
V.'
PECKi
&
“Sold by the
World’s
Leading
Retailers
Model 855.
Model 855. Straight
back style modelled on the
latest lines, in splendid wear-
ing coutil. Fancy barmen
top with reinforcement over
busk. Four artificial silk
suspenders. In dove or white.
Sizes 24-32 inches. 0.5., 33*
40 inches.
Model
131.
Model 131. N ?
style for sports or daneii
wear, no boning, very
fancy material. Made in
pink. Sizes 23-30 inches.
fe bo
a
a
m
t'i f
t/J
Model 1256.
Model 1256. A wrap-
round corset in brochg batiste.
Reinforced elastic on hips.
Light in weight. In pink.
Sizes 24-36 inches.
QM
#<ed.
“ T wilfit r> is one of England s most popular Corsets
because of its comfort and smartness. They are designed
to show off the lines of modern dressing and to give just
that measure of support necessary for complete comfort.
They can be obtained from most of the up-to-date shops,
or a word to the Agents will bring the name of your nearest
dealer.
Retailers
Retailers may obtain full particulars from the Agents, who
will gladly supply literature. ,
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Melbourne Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Adelaide .. Arthur Glover. Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
NT.2


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
Tom
Kin*
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
champagne
Gtorleslleidsie<>
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
To Mark Linen
fcASH'S NAMES are destinctive,
{ye? neat -* fadeless and durable}
Actual Sue,
Style No. 6
e
Prices; 12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 6/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BV LEADING DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular
3. & 3. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St.. Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAMES
Guslis)
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co«,
Ul4 George Street, Sydney.
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
C —sgi ct/S tingu /sheet Soc/ot Life.
temottß
è
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney’s Six Hundred were invited to the
first party aboard the shining oyster-white
Australia before she left to show herself
to Melbourne. From half-past three Rear-
Admiral Hyde and his officers, in the white
ducks of summer, risked pneumonia in a
row at the head of a gangway that rose like
an Everest above No. 2 Wharf at Circular
Quay. Here an icy wind spat its derision
on the little straw hats of the naval padres
and the crepe de Chines and georgettes in
which a few misguided women had arrayed
themselves. The air was charged with poli-
ticians of every hue. The Premier’s wife
brought Shirley, in smart heather-mixture
tailorings. Mrs. Gordon Bennett, wife of the
newly-appointed Civic Commissioner, mixed
lace and georgette in her beige pink frocking.
Commander Hogan’s pretty wife was one
of the much looked at; so was the striking
Mrs. Hope-Da vis, Roman-striped (green and
yellow and red) as to the collar and cuffs
of her navy suit, and earringed in a fashion
unusual. These earrings dangled nearly to
the shoulder. They were tiny bunches of
grapes, purple and white and green, dropping
from a long emerald stem. Mrs. Leo Quick
displayed her usual dash of yellow in the
bunch of primroses on her lapel. The
Official Secretary Harry Budges were there,
he working out in the crown of his impec-
cable silk liat how much a ten-bob levy on
every wage-earning elector would bring
to the Government. Barbara and Janet
Knox looked across beautiful fur collars as
though they w*re a rampart over which taxa-
tion could never assail their peace of mind.
Frederick Waley’s lady wore a Persian
Garden toque in black and gold that sat
firm to the head; and Mrs. Roystone Davey’s
chin was snug above soft grey fur-. Bishop
D’Arcy-Irvine and his bride received con-
gratulations. Consuls and Consul-Generals
tripped over each other at every buffet.
Chief Justice Knox’s lady brought Elizabeth.
And all the guests who had been entertained
by the Admiral at lunch were still on deck.
The tea was weak and cold and long in
coming—Australia waited while the billy
boiled. In the bakery the daily 200 loaves
were coming to crisp and tantalising fulfil-
ment. Down in the officers’ mess there was
stern manliness allied to exquisitely polished
woodwork. Pepys, of course, has an honor-
able place in the bookcases; and no doubt
in the impressive works on seacraft buttress-
ing him, the Stuarts, who did so much to
build up the English Navy, get their meed
of praise. On the wharf before the gigantic
sides of the warboat, sailors paced with
erect rifles. On the quarterdeck Nelson’s
understudy, in white and with a telescope
tucked neatly under his arm (though why
in Heaven’s name a telescope at Circular
Quay !), kept the watch.
Because Armistice Day falls on Sunday,
the sale of poppies for the relief of the
maimed and ill soldier and his dependents,
and for the orphans and widows of those
who never returned, will take place on Fri-
day. A shilling will buy a poppy; and a
city’s shillings will buy fresh hope and
courage for men who gave not in pence but
in limbs, in health and in youth, that the
years might be shod with peace for the
women of their land.
Those interested in the movement for
according a more national and tangible recog-
nition to Australian writers will be wel-
comed at the Lyceum Club to-morrow
(Thursday) evening, when it is proposed
to found a Fellowship of Australian Writers
and Appreciators.
(The way to a “more national and tangible
recognition” of the Australian author is
plain enough, this Letter observes in paren-
theses. Let the members buy magazines
and papers which -buy and publish Australian
writing, in preference to American' and Eng-
lish publications. All other methods are
bogus.)
Sheila, Lady Loughborough, who was
Sheila Chisholm, a daughter of the late
Harry Chisholm, of Sydney, before a war-time
marriage made her the wife of the penniless
but fascinating heir to the Earl of Rosslyn,
is now engaged to Sir John Milbanke, “the
boxing baronet.” He is 26. The lady is
considered one of the beauties of
smart set, and is popular, vivacious, and
much in demand for the organising of big
charities.
Now it’s a woman from Westralia who
tells us that our men make so many spittoons
of our principal streets. Of course, there’s
V bylaw against the filthy and in some cases
deadly practice; But what is one bylaw
among a community which is taught to re-
spect no commandment? The Westralian,
Mrs. McDonald, declared to the Progressive
Housewives the other day that somebody
ensconced above Pitt-street had spat into the
void as she passed by his window. Her hat
interposed—as many another hat or costume
has done since Mrs. McDonald lodged her
horrified protest.
Opposition-Leader Lang entered into no
argument when Padre J. F. S. Russell put
the question to Eirene Grace Lang and
George Henry Herwig. In fact, J.T. signi-
fied his consent to the measure by leading his
daughter to the doorstep of matrimony. White"
satin, soft with layers of fine lace, and a
white foam of tulle for veil and train were
the ingredients of the bride’s pretty frocking.
Bridegroom’s sister Hilda, in vellum lace over
rose-pink, and bride’s sister Nellie, in China-
blue georgettes, also helped to decorate the
procession. The reception was in the Society
of Women Painters’ rooms, and here Mrs,
Lang, in rose-beige frocking and millinery,
directed the proceedings.
The Gonsalez Opera Company has also
had its wedding-bells; they rang for Nino
Algozzino and Reno Diotti in Auckland.
Ben Fuller, who went over specially, was
the heavy father at the ceremony. Ben is
quite an expert at this business now: it
seems to be an accepted thing that when a
theatrical lady far from‘home decides upon
matrimony her theatrical chief shall give
her away. And Ben has had some experience
as a god-parent, too.
Apple-green and rose-pink moire allied
with, gold net formed the happy frocking of
Jean Davidson and Gwen Lamond when
they ’maided at the wedding of Mabel David-
son and Allan Spence Lamond last week.
The principal lady was swathed in ivory lace
over pale pink georgette, which trailed off
into a long and graceful addendum of the
lace. A pink tulle veil like an early morn-
ing cloud was 1 a touch of the unexpected.
After Padre A. P. Campbell had duly re-
corded the vows in the double-entry books
of the Congregational Church at Killara,
the bride’s parents beckoned the guests to
the Killara Golf Club.
Morgan Baker, the reverend headmaster
of King’s, came to St. Thomas’s in North
Sydney on a little job of matrimony last
week. The bride was Hilary Clarke,
daughter of the Branthwaite Clarkes, of
Bay-road, and the man of her choice Thel-
wall Maurice. White satin and peaifls
shimmered, and a mist of tulle veil billowed
before them as the two ethereal pink and
blue ’maids followed the bride to the altar.
Celebrations followed at Branthwaite, the
bride’s home.
The lady with the Italian-looking head in
this May Moore picture is Theo Cowan, well
known to Australians as a gifted sculptor,
but not so well known as an artist. Sydney
(Swain’s Gal-
lery) is about
to have the
pleasure of
meeting her as
a painter of
vivid and deli-
cate wat e r-
colors on
November 14.
These pictures
are overflow-
ing with tro-
pical color.
They are little
bits of New
Guinea days
and nights
throbbing with
light and
deeply-scented
mystery. For
four months
Miss Cowan
studied the
little native fishing villages that cling to
the sapphire bays scattered below the wind-
ing Kokopo-road, the pride of New Britain.
Then, grown more venturesome, the Magic
Masks of the Sepik River formed the sub-
jects of her brush. A curious thing about
the Sepik River people is the high value
they place on newspapers. Yet not one
among them is named Fink, Denison or Fair-
fax. If you wish to barter on the Sepik
River, glass beads, colored cloths and pocket-
knives avail you not; but a plump Bulle-
tin will buy you half a village. An amus-
ing black and white in Miss Cowan’s collec-
tion shows a native boy on his way to lota
(church) in Rabaul. He is grandly enve-
loped for the occasion in a stiff white shirt
and a loincloth. Since the law ordains they
must wear a shirt on certain occasions—
why, the stiff white ones of their masters are
the least expensive!
Some of this city’s brightest young things
made their way to Newcastle to be in at
the wedding of Violette Clark and Major
W. M. Anderson. Both well known and the
bride popular, reports a girl friend of this
Letter’s; she the only daughter of the
N. J. Clarkes of New Lambton; her
D.S.O. husband a son of the M l . A. Ander-
sons of Singleton. The Newcastle Cathedral,
under the direction of Archdeacon Wood
and the Dean, shrined the vows and wore
the usual speckless lily round its brow. The
girl’s frock was of white satin draped in the
manner of the Maid of Athens a century
or more before Byron made her acquaintance.
A bow-clasp of rhinestones glitteringly held
the front fold of this de luxe wedding gar-
ment, from the right shoulder of which fell
a cascade of rhinestones like prisoned drops
of water. A veil of rare point de Gaze was
worn over a mist of cut tulle, and a sheaf
of lily of the valley and gladioli was an
added bit of beauty. Bridesmaids Cecile
Waley, Dulcie Harle and Mollie Hickson,
wore picture-frocks of primrose georgettes
featuring the new bustle bow, pale yellow
picture-hats and bunches of red roses. Major
R. E. Fanning best-manned; and Major J.
Lee and Captain A. O. Osborne were grooms-
men. Allowah, the bride’s home, rang with
the congratulations.
Greet the new Civic Commissioner’s lady,
who looks out vividly alert from this Bernice
Agar photograph. Mrs. Gordon Bennett,
like her Brigadier-General husband, is both
popular and
capable. Golf-
ing is her fav-
orite sport,
and she is pre-
sident of the
associates of
the club to
which she be-
longs—the New
South Wales
Club, whose
links at La
Perouse are
circled with
such wide and
far - reaching
views of the
Pacific that
Colonel Bogey
isn’t by any
means a weari-
so m e com-
panion, Motor-
ing is another
of Mrs. Gordon Bennett's amusements, and
she has driven her own Buick over a good
deal of this kState and her native Victoria.
But life hasn’t been all fun for this soldier’s
wife. She has four years of war work in
England to her credit. When the first Aus-
tralian troops went to France she went to
England, and was on active service in. can-
teen and hospital till the blessed Armistice.
Emily Maitland, of Hunter’s Hill, kept to
her own pretty river village for her wedding
on Friday night. Thistledown raiment of
georgette and tulle enveloped this bride,
whose veil floated away and piled into a
snowdrift about her feet. All Saints’ Church
bloomed with Dorothy Perkins roses and
Madonna lilies to greet the bride, who
stepped into the church on father’s arm.
Guy Berckelman, of Mosman, was the young
man waiting to be sworn into matrimony,
and Padre Hinsby was there with the book
of the words. Mrs. John Oxenbould and
Nancy Berckelman attended the bride, the
first in roseate georgettes sprayed with
crystal, the second swinging almond-green
chiffon draperies. Both carried floral fans
woven of delphiniums and roses. The G. El
Maitland home, The Eagles, was the eyrie
in which tire wish-bone was later picked.
The wedding that caused Sydney’s younger
set most thrill last week was the quiet link-
ing-up of Betty Dangar to John Reid, of
Newcastle. Betty is the only child of Neville
Dangar, of Darling Point, is something of
an artist, having been a pupil of Julian Ash-
ton, is attractive and jolly, and is very
good-looking in the healthy, open-air way.
The husband is a nephew of George Reid,
and his father is interested in shipping.
Died too soon, being only 41, Dr. Harry
J. Clayton, of Macquarie-street, and up till
1920 medical superintendent of Prince
Alfred’s. The doctor, who was an old Syd-
ney Grammarian, was noted as a footballer
and athlete before the war claimed him. He
left with the 2nd Australian General Hos-
pital, and was with the 4th Field Ambulance
on Gallipoli. His wife, who is one of the
squatting Bucklands, survives him.
One little fellow- who mourned the death
of Mrs. Louis M. Phillips first met her when,
apparently a hopeless cripple, he was being-
cared for at a day nursery in which she was
interested ; she whisked him off in her car
to see a leading Macquarie-street specialist,
and paid for months of treatment. The re-
sult was a complete cure. This was a typi-
cal action of a woman’than whom few were
kindlier. The wife of a member of the
wealthy Jewish clan of whom George Judah
Cohen is recognised head—a member who,
as president of the Sir Moses Montefiore
Jew'ish Home, has his hand constantly in
his pocket to relieve those the Home cannot
completely succor—Mrs. Phillips was a
leader in the activities of Jewish women, but
her charity was general. She helped to found
day nurseries in Sydney: apart from these
the Queen’s Jubilee Fund (this pays parti-
cular attention to educated women who have
fallen on evil days) and the District Nursing
Association were her pet activities.
Last week’s holocaust at suburban Rock-
dale was one of the most ghastly tragedies
Sydney has known. It claimed among its
four victims Mrs. Edith Palmer, one of the
well-known and beloved Cheer-o Girls. Since
the founding during the early war years of
this clever group of entertainers, whose work
was done in the interests first of soldier
causes and latterly of the city’s charities,
Mrs. Palmer had been the pianist of the
little company. To make the horror even
more like a classic tragedy, the discovery of
the dead and dying strewn about the break-
fast-room of that pleasant house among its
trees and lawns was made by Mrs. Bagnall,
an intimate of the family and Edith Palmer’s
greatest friend. She had called to take her
chum for a drive through the spring after-
noon. Another guest, suffering, it is sus-
pected, from religious mania, was responsible
for the horror.
Old trees, old ladies, shaven lawns and
clerical gaiters were recurrent features of
the 21st birthday party of the Home of Peace
at Petersham. This is a C. of E. strong-
hold where the dying seek sanctuary,
and which has grown from one little
cottage to a rooftree that can shelter
41 people. As unsectarian as its name,
the Home is the refuge of all creeds.
After Archgaiters Wright, Archdeacon
Royce and Canon Langley had rejoiced
over its record of service, the 300 firm
supporters of the institution sought tea
the other afternoon under a tent pitched
gaily on the lawn. A band played, and stu-
dents from the Con. added to the musical
potpourri. Nor was one of the aged guests
of the home lacking a place of honor in the
programme. She was Mrs. P. D. MacCor-
mick, widow of him who wrote the words
of “Advance, Australia Fair.” To her the
Archbishop handed a gramophone record and
a pianola roll of the anthem —trifles to plea-
sure the old lady in her latter days.
The shepherd of Pitt-street Church, who
sat in the porch one day last week waiting
for thousands to drop on him even 'as
manna from Heaven, had his faith justified.
Mr. Ruth expected £5OOO and nearly £6OOO
clinked into his begging-bowl before nightfall.
In all £45,000 is needed to pay for the new
Church House, now nearing completion. The
rents will net £3OOO a year, and city chari-
ties, medical and mission work throughout
the world, and the advancement of educa-
tion and religion in N. S. Wales are to share
in the profits. The largest sum brought to
Mr. Ruth during his vigil was £100; the
smallest two shillings—this from an elderly
working woman.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London:—
Amy Sherwin is back from America looking 25 years
younger than when she went there 12 months ago.
How she managed it is to be publicly explained
shortly in a series of lectures and demonstrations
with which she is sure to draw crowded houses from
among the hosts of women and men w r ho desire to
be beautiful for ever. Her complexion, which
came originally from Tasmania, was always wonder
ful. It is now more wonderful, and her silver hair
is more silvery. Among all the Australian artists,
musical, literary and dramatic, who have won inter-
national fame, Amy Sherwin must always come first
for vivacity, humor and sparkling conversation. Phil
May used to say that she could see a joke before
it was born, and she has ■ most diverting memories
of the days when her husband took the black-and-
white artist on a lecturing tour through Britain
She has a fine collection of colored chalk drawings
which he 1 made at that time.
Blue birds outlined in tiny diamonds
spread starry wings on the soft rose georg-
ettes worn by singer Xenia Belmas at her
second concert in the Town Hall. The bodice
was long and slightly pouched, and the skirt
was knee-high and full at the sides. With
this went a shawl-scarf of exquisite lace.
Sometimes when the lady became tempera-
mental this writhed and curled on the floor
of the stage, and when she cursteyed it
dropped a. graceful heap at her rose-pink
feet. Xenia is either growing her hair or
fastens a. back fringe on for the evening.
The hair is drawn flat to the head and
straight back from forehead and oars, and
then, caught together at the back of tin
neck, falls in an uncurled clump to the
shoulders. It sounds far worse than it looks.
An operating-table that cost £250 is one
of the many gadgets that make the new
theatre at the Mater Hospital in North
Sydney most up to date. One of Cardinal
Cerretti’s pleasant jobs was its blessing last
week, and while his hand was in he laid
the foundation stone of the new private
hospital. This is to cost over £30,000; but
the increasing demands of the last 10 years
have made the outlay imperative. It will
replace the sunny, wide-balconied, two-storey
house set in pleasant gardens that sufficed
the hospital’s needs in less-crowded years.
Bridge enthusiasts will have the oppor-
tunity of playing the game next Wednesday
evening, November 14, at the Hotel Man-
sions, Darlinghurst. A committee of the
recently formed St. Vincent’s auxiliary is
arranging the function; the objective is the
furnsliing of a ward now nearing completion.
Mrs. Fanning is president, Mrs. George
Flannery and Helen Barlow its secretaries 1 .


r
4
ALICKER
DOME
the largest and most clearly-defined OIL STRUCTURE on the
ROMA ORALLO FIELD
will be developed by Australian money on a scientific and economical basis.
Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc., and E. C. Saint-Smith, F.S.T.C., geologists of unquestionable integrity and wide experience
in the Roma district, state the oil and gas horizon from which Roma Corporation Bore draws its oil and petrol will
be found on ALICKER DOME at a depth of from 1400 to 1800 feet. Oil experts who have examined the Roma
Field are convinced that Roma will be the Los Angeles of the Commonwealth, and the Queensland Government has
turned down American money, RESERVING THIS RICH OILFIELD OF TO-MORROW FOR THE BENEFIT OF
AUSTRALIA.
INVESTIGATE
ROMA ALICKER LTD.
CAPITAL OF £250,000, IN
500,000 10/- SHARES,
of which
370,000 shares are now offered for the first time for public
subscription, payable as follows:
One Shilling per share on application, One Shilling per share
on allotment, and balance in calls not to exceed One Shilling
per month.
The Vendors selected P.P.P. No. 112 and 113 and have spent
considerable money in securing geological reports and have
accepted 30,000 fully paid up shares in Roma Alicker, Ltd., in
full payment for said permits.
The Directors have paid 10/- for each and every share subscribed
for—and have received
NO PROMOTION SHARES
from the Company—and are convinced that Alicker Dome offers
enormous possibilities.
100,000 Shares held in reserve for the Company for erecting
storage tanks, pipe lines, etc., when and as required.
PROSPECTUS and Detailed Geological Report will be furnished
upon request, together with map of P.P.P. No. 112-113.
DIRECTORS:
J. T. Wall, Esq., Real Estate, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. C. Jones, Esq., Managing Director, First National Pictures (Australasia),
Ltd., Sydney
F. Emanuel, Esq., Solicitor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. R. Oswald-Sealy, Esq., Managing Director, Piccadilly Theatre, Sydney.
Dr. Bede J. Harrison, “Beanbah,” Macquarie Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Two more Directors to be Appointed.
GEOLOGISTS:
Dr. H. I. Jensen, D.Sc.
E. C. Saint-Smith, F.S.T.C.
BANKERS:
Australian Bank of Commerce, Head Office, King and George
Streets, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLICITORS;
Tietyens, McLaughlan and Co., 14 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
SECRETARY:
E. S. Wolfenden, Esq., 56 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CITY OFFICE:
Roma Alicker, Ltd., 6th Floor, 14 Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
GAS FROM ROMA BORE
which is to-day producing petrol of the highest Quality , when connected to an absorption plant of sufficient size will
produce from 3000 to 9000 gallons per day—lo p.c. of all Petrol used in Australia is derived by absorption process.
é
Roma Alicker, Ltd., is an issue of
shares to develop one of the most promis-
ing Oil Structures yet discovered—in a
field which must be recognised as past the
experimental stage.
The articles of association of Roma
Alicker, Ltd., have been drawn up
by our solicitors, Tietyens, McLaughlan
and Co., in accordance with the require-
ments of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
ROMA ALICK ER, LIMITED.
(Registered under the Companies Act of N.S.W.)
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Roma A ticker, Ltd.,
H Martin Place, Sydney. . „
1 hereby apply for (State in words').... Shares of 10/- each m the capital of the abovenamcd Company
upon the terms of the Company’s Prospectus. . '
And I hereby agree to accept the same or smaller number of Shares as may be allotted to me, and / authorise you to
register me as the holder of such Shares.
1 enclose herewith £ being 1/- per share on application, and I agree to pay If- per share on
allotment and to pay the balance in calls as and when required, such calls not to exceed If- per share per month, and to be
bound by the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company.
Dated this
day of
192
Name (in full )
(State Mr., Mrs., or Miss )
Address (Mi full )
Profession or Occupation Signature
, SPECIAL NOTE TO INVESTORS.
The following points are specially commended to the attention of investors for the mutual protection of themselves
and of the Company.
Payments may be made in Cash, Postal Notes, Money Orders or Cheques. All Cheques to be marked “Not
Negotiable,” and to be made payable to “Roma Alieker, Ltd.,” and the words “or Bearer” struck out. The
Company will not be responsible for the loss, misapplication or misappropriation of any cheque which is not
so drawn. EXCHANGE MUST BE ADDED TO COUNTRY CHEQUES.


,c t ■ f i if I , .
>■:<s
v
ass««
--k-
-s.v«;>«c
ITt1 Tt
vr;
-u
"s' V
*
if i'
v~
55?4
W?
I ■ u
■ 1^
*3
*sft<
» 1
«2W'
> >*.
*
l^v*,
57?%
K&
I*K
sSS*sa
vT'ur*
A.
r
fcVit
mm
' v
■HflT'
4
r Svi'+
n
V'.'
ai\?£WHw
K
yswjfc
: ;f***<.
mi
£feBg»«
ttKifib
fW»£. v
V# &%
STRENGTH
Jgjfand,
UYLAND. LANCS.
THE strength of the Leyland Lorry goes
back to British materials and work-
manship allied to the acknowledged
superiorities of British engineering. The
most exacting tests are applied at every
stage of manufacture throughout the great
Leyland works. Every vital part is inbuilt
with a liberal reserve of strength.
Judge for yourself the measure of Leyland
strength by the arduous haulage tasks these
lorries are performing throughout Australia
—by their work on undertakings such as
the Metropolitan Railway Construction, the
North Shore Bridge, and for many of the
best known names in Australian industry.
Investigate the facts behind Leyland strength.
Send to-day for booklets giving detailed
specifications of the full range of lorries—
or, better still, call for a demonstration.
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
~ SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAM PERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951-8.7952 —TELEGRAMS LEYMOTORS-SYDNEY
Melbourne Depot: Cr. Villiers and Courtney Streets, N. Melbourne.
Brisbane Depot: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
OCiriaA
Ask Abur Jeweller
ROTHERHAMS
BWH^tches
WHAT CAUSES
BAD STOMACHP
Some say “acid,” but that’s only half an
answer, for “what causes the acid?” Many
things upset the stomach; acid merely re-
sults from the upset. That’s why anti-acids
fail. That’s why Para-Pepsin gives lasting
relief. For Para-Pepsin not only stops
the acid, but the cause of the acid. Hence
quick relief —real, sweet peace to your poor
angry stomach ! Para-Pepsin is a common-
sense remedy to doctors, but ordinary folk
have a childish faith in soda and bismuth-
magnesia, though anyone who compares
results says Para-Pepsin is much the best
for upset stomach. Its cost is small, too,
and any chemist can recommend it.
♦jrrnwi win tmmmrnmmummmmmmmmmm*
, -pj
'U.
WEI NZ
f>ean
UT
Sutter
l
’’'mXdTO bsew*
"J.HEINZ CQ. PITTSBURGH I*
A
Dainty
Delicacy
WITH afternoon
tea, serve dainty
sandwiches of Heinz
Peanut Butter. In this
choice brand the butter
is always firm and
creamy, with a rich
nutty flavour. Always
delicious and nutritious.
Easy to serve, easy to
enjoy, easy to eat more.
A real treat for young
and old.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London. Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Cam
*me of the
57
Varieties
HEINZ
PEANUT
BUTTER.
1489


$
A
1
.SKSiMpt iH
mtmua
1-* • r.-Bif
~--3
lit' I* *
h-
iMiMfeli
>V
m
m
m
N*
v\
A-.- 'X'
-!
I
m
5^
r§3fT:
gas-/
Wijai'Toc
r »j
CAIRO The Mosgue of kart T3ey
CEYLON - - EGYPT - - EUROPE
ORIENT LINE
2-4-6 SPRING STREET--SYDNEY
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
RAMON NOVARRO in A CERTAIN YOUNG MAN.
Also SALLY PHIPPS in NONE BUT THE BRAVE.
UMPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8. Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
The Russian Super Picture,
THE BEGGAR STUDENT,
With the three most distinguished screen artists of
the Continent in the leading roles,
HARRY LIEDTKE, AGNES ESTERHAZY and
MARIE PANDLER.
AND TEN ORIGINAL VAUDEVILLE ACTS.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6.
Matinee: 1/-, 1/6, 2/6. Children half-price.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S :
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: WHITE CARGO.
Commencing Saturday.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: RUTHERFORD AND SON.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
ON APPROVAL.
A THEN /E U M THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE HILARIOUS COMEDY,
THE FAMILY UPSTAIRS.
THREE ACTS OF LAUGHTER SPARKLING WITH
WITTY LINES.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Thursday and Saturday.
ALLAN WILKIE with Miss HUNTER-WATTS and
his Company of Shakspearean Players in
THE PLAYS OF SHAKSPEARE.
Change of Programme Twice Weekly.
Box Plan at Glen’s and Theatre.
JJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
KARL DANE and GEORGE K. ARTHUR in
DETECTIVES.
ALSO
GEO. O’BRIEN in
HONOR BOUND.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
MURIEL STARR in
CHEATING CHEATERS.
jtyjAJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
NEXT SATURDAY.
SHIRLEY MASON and WILLIAM COLLIER,
JUNIOR, in the Master Picture
SO THIS IS LOVE,
A Three-cornered Romance.
How to Make the Girl You Love Love You.
Box Plan at Allan’s and Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790
BROS.’ CIRCUS, LTD.,
OLYMPIA.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
Plan at Glen’s.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin paid several
visits to the Exhibition Oval to watch the
play in the Sheffield Shield match. The
Cricket Association gave them tea in the
dining-room of the Ernest Baynes grand-
stand.
St. Margaret’s Girls’ School at Albion
Heights has had its new wing officially opened
by the Governor and blessed by Archbishop
Sharp. An unseen choir melodiously chanted,
and the girls sang “City of God.” A proces-
sion, guarded by the Hamilton Girl Guides
and composed of their Exes, and a whole raft
of clergy, paced into the building by the
main entrance. Archbishop Sharp consecrated
each room separately. Sister Elizabeth and
other sisters of the Sacred Advent were pre-
sented to Sir John Goodwin, and afterwards
there was tea.
At the Albion Park race meeting summer
frocking prevailed. Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Pal-
mer had a verandah tea party.
The Masons were at home on a recent
afternoon in a setting of ferns, flags and
blossomry in the Masonic Club. President
Tonks and his daughter received, and a con-
cert was given by the Anglo-male quartette,
Mrs. Smales, Mrs. Stoddart and Miss
McDowall. Herbert Coulter was the pianist.
D. Lawson recited, Daphne Sapsford did
some fancy dancing and Mrs. Percy Sapsford
played the dance music.
The Governor presided at the annual meet-
ing of the Mater Tlisericordise hospital and
paid a warm tribute to the unselfish work
of the nuns. The Cancer Campaign Com-
mittee has bought a modern deep-therapy out-
fit for installation in the hospital.
The Repertory Society, to celebrate the
Ibsen centenary, performed “The Doll’s
House,” with Barbara Sisley and Rhoda Fel-
gate as producers. Norma Guilfoyle was
well cast as Norah, and three tiny tots,
Ralph Bick, Margaret Hawken and Joan
Sakeld, made a hit. A moss-green Fauntle-
roy suit decked Norah’s “son,” and the
smallest girl wore a white Kate Greenaway
frock. Mary Kessell was noticeably good as
Mrs. Linden. Early-’eighties frocking and
furnishing established the right atmosphere.
Colonel Cameron opened the Christ Church
Hall at Milton, where a ffite to help pay off
the parish debt was held. Archbishop Sharp
■was with the Colonel, and padre Hely-Wilson
did the introducing. Sabrina Cracs arranged
the concert programme. The hall was set
about with stalls and gaily decked with
flowers and flags.
Doris Waraker, now Mrs. Lewis Towns-
end, is staying with her mother, Mrs. E. M.
Waraker, at East Brisbane. Mrs. Townsend
has just published a book of verse, which has
charmed many.
Sir John’s late private secretary, Major
C. M. Wolff, is going on the land to try his
luck at banana-growing. His engagement to
Agnes, daughter of the Hubert Finneys, has
just been announced. She is a pretty girl
who is sometimes heard elocuting from 4QG.
WE STRATA A.
Perth.
We are very proud of Captain J. E. Bar-
rett, who against 40 other candidates gained
first place in this year’s examination for
admission to Camberley Military College in
England. Officers of the Staff Corps are
eligible, and
only two
entries to
Camberley and
one to Quetta
in India are
reserved annu-
ally for Aus-
tralia. Captain
Barrett, pic-
tured along-
side, gradu-
ated at Dun-
troon, and
seven years
ago took a
special course
of training in
England with
other Duntroon
students. Con-
gratulations on
his recent suc-
cess were
wholehearted.
With his wife he leaves by the Maloja,
commencing his two years’ course of train-
ing in February.
King’s Park tennis club was fortunate in
choosing a windless, moonlit night for its
dance. Young folk came in fancy dress, and
the pavilion was gay with festoons of col-
ored globes, paper lampshades and balloons,
with a cheery rising sun in the centre of
the room. Mrs. Fred Wood, wife of the
president, did the honors in eau-de-nil
embossed with gold embroidery and gold
lace. Mrs. Sinclair McGibbon wore an
opera coat of ring velvet lined with flesh-
pink georgette over her black gown. Among
dancers in fancy costumes were Vera Saw,
as a Russian, and her sister Eva, as a black
and silver night. Lei Barker was an emerald-
green and bead-decked gypsy, and Bae Bick
looked smart in jazzy crimson and white
stripes. Mrs. Edmondson wore powder blue
georgette, and Stella Meagher chose black
georgette trimmed with pintucks and Chan-
tilly lace. Peggy Pretty wore a green domino
and Mrs. Jock Morrison pointed tiers of
moss-green georgette beaded in platinum.
Edith Trethowan was in apple-green studded
with silvery beads; Dot Summerhayes, in
plisse flounces of blush-pink ninon; Betty
McCulloch, in black georgette; and Pauline
Burgoyne in a swirl of black taffeta orna-
mented with a bouffant how.
Iceland poppies and larkspurs struck a
cheery note on the tea table for Perth Golf
Club’s ladies’ day. The opportunity was
taken to say good-bye to a keen and skilful
player, Mrs. Edwards, who leaves shortly
with her husband and family for M.L. Vice-
president Mrs. Evans made a neat speech
and presented the guest of honor with a
grey suede golf-bag, a farewell gift from
club members. The captain, Mrs. Temperley,
also spoke. Little silver spoons were pre-
sented to the winners of the season, Mrs.
Clarke, Mrs. Eustace Cohen, Mrs. Edwards,
Mrs. Hadly, and Mrs. Turner and Mrs.
Biles.
A Repertory Club entertainment at the
Assembly Hall to help buy new furnishings for
the club rooms took the form of a children’s
play. Small Bertie Newman was the clever
little star of “Paddly Pools”; Jimmy Howes
was Soul of the Rabbits. Russel Cox was
Grandpa, and Sylvia Cox had most to do
among the bevy of small girls. Mrs. H. H.
Harper and Padre Bell trained the kiddies.
“Five Birds in a Cage,” produced by Jim
Ottaway, wound up the programme.
Though only arranged a few days before-
hand, the two orchestral concerts by the
members of the opera co. who are still in
Australia packed His Majesty’s. Bernard
Heinze came over to conduct and Frank Hut-
chens to play the piano. The “Peer Gynt”
suite, the overture from “The Barber of
Seville” and “Pomp and Circumstance” were
much applauded at the second concert. Frank
Hutchens gave a Chopin group, and Min-
ghetti was repeatedly encored. Harry Vowles
accompanied.
Mollie Ick, in flares of oyster georgette
and lace, had charge of the arrangements for
the musical afternoon at the Repertory Club.
Bowls of red poppies and a basket of phlox
decorated the tea tables. Songs were con-
tributed by Miss Wright, Miss Stubbs and
Mrs. Uren, and Miss Sharpe played her
fiddle.
Left by the Gascoyne for Singapore and
Hongkong, Mr. and Mrs. Jim Withnell. They
intend returning by way of Sydney and
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Prince Alfred College celebrated its dia
mond jubilee (the foundation-stone was laid
by the Duke of Edinburgh in ’67, and it
began work a year later) by opening its
memorial hall. The hall, an item of the new
wing which was finished about four years
ago, is to be used as a college library. Its
grey walls make an excellent setting for the
polished blackwood of its fittings and its
stained-glass windows. There are 860 names
on the honor roll, over 100 of them of men
who did not come back. The Governor
turned the key, and there were speeches from
the Rev. E. J. Piper and headmaster Bayley,
and a garden party at which the Bayleys
were hosts. Lady Hore-Ruthven wore a
black satin coat over her frock of putty geor-
gette, repeating that color scheme in her
black-crowned and putty-brimmed hat, and
Miss Daly was in blue, with grey fur at
the collar and cuffs of her coat. There was
a vast muster of ex-red-and-whites with a
sprinkling of official guests, some of whom,
including the Chief Justice, owed allegiance
to the rival institution.
There was a National Council of Women
party on the same afternoon; its setting the
grounds of Mrs. C. R. Morris’s house at
Hyde Park and its objective a furnishing
fund for the council’s newly-opened offices.
The Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven
were at Minghetti’s concert in the Exhibi-
tion, which was a delight from first number
to last, but which was not as well attended
as it should have been. The tenor was re-
sponsible for most of the programme, but
there was a Grieg sonata for violin and
piano by Alice Meegan and Charles Schil-
sky and solos by the latter. Irene Kemp
piayed a Dolmanyi waltz, and Alice Meegan
acquitted herself admirably as accompanist.
Some of our societies have been going
gay. There was a Royal Geographical con-
versazione to celebrate the Cook bicentenary,
an E.S.U. reception, and a Hallowe’en
muster of Caledonians. The Governor
and Lady Hore-Ruthven, who are off to
Melbourne for the Cup and come back in
time to stay with the Sydney Ayers for
“Back to Clare” week, were at the first two.
The E.S.U. frivol was in their honor, and
his Ex. was chief speaker.
The Walter Bagots have returned from
their two-years’ trip abroad, and Mrs. Dud-
ley Ryder, who is coming with her daughter
on a visit to her father, Mr. Charles Angas,
is due in mid-November. Parting guests we
have reluctantly speeded include Flight-
Commander and Mrs. Flower; they have
been on a visit to the latter’s mother, Mrs.
Whitby.
From England comes news of Alice Grant
Rosman, who made a hit in America with
her last book, “The Window.” It ran into
eight editions in two months, and was listed
as one of the six best-sellers.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
While the O’Gradys were at Launceston
for the Show, his Ex. opened the new wing
of the Children’s Hospital. Very bright
and cheery the wards looked, with their
small occupants in scarlet bed-gowns. An
orchestra made sweet noises on one of the
verandahs, and a representative crowd rolled
up.
Little boys played the wag from school
and bigger boys looked with longing eyes at
that trim little craft the N. T. Nielsen-
Alonso and her attendant Pols as they
steamed away down the Derwent in the
bright sunshine, followed by the cheers of
the crowd on the wharf. Thirty-six Tas-
manians shipped for the whaling cruise this
year, chosen from many hundred applicants
to whom the lure of adventure was irresist-
ible. At least one worried mother missed
two of her youngsters the night before the
sailing of the fleet, and a thorough search
was made through the ships for the supposed
stowaways, but they weren’t to be found. The
N. T. Nielsen-Alonso carries large supplies
of benzine and oil for the Wilkins Antarctic
expedition. Among the Tassies chosen are to
be found sailors, bank clerks, farm laborers,
wharf-lumpers and one Uni. student.
Prof. Orr, one of the first Rhodes Scholars,
has been here on a visit to his homeland,’
bringing with him a wife and bairn.


cdi Fhinin
w 3 w mmJf lE dr
PROGRESS
P* v*
3356
MORE
FACTORIES
FJVE YEAF
I(J U
J **' l4^*i
USUI
\
\ FREEDOM IM
t TRANSPORTATIOI
LAND
SEA
SECURITY"
/or
SHORES
AMD
SHIPPING
Lji«.; T?...
*
*" • I
*■ m
fWp»'
«|MgR
VA-'
■ 1 ■
MM
BETTER.
MARKETING
OF PRODUCE
' *<s}r
.f* .-. -*
;■..-< ■ ■:
-
W *
, / / ' Y»<
'//
U-
:
t f€.
0
oo 1
mm
*gM,
i 4l ■
\‘K V
lllli
fj4.000.
.000
/or
RURAL
DEVELOPMENT
<!,, *
■
5 .e-'fi ■ M
jMTAIN
prOGRESs
By Voting for
Your Nationalist Candidate
AND FOR
The Senate Three
[H ORCHARD, Richard Beaumont
[T| THOMAS, Josiah
[T] ABBOTT, Percy Phipps
Give [4] [s] [6] /o the others —You MUST
Vote in Each Square
Vote YES on Referendum
VOTING IS ,
COMPULSORY .
fOMOMQ
for
HOME BUILDING
IB
AUTHORISED BY H. W. HORSFIELD, 15 BLIGH-STREET, SYDNEY.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
4°/
NEW INTEREST RATE.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia will in future pay interest at
the rate of 4% on the first £5OO of deposits, 3\% on excess over this amount
up to £lOOO, and 3% on excess over £lOOO up to £l3OO.
Society Accounts, 4% on full balances.
PURPOSE ACCOUNTS.
Purpose _ Accounts may now be opened at any Branch of the Bank, to provide
for special expenditure, such as holiday expenses, medical expenses, Christmas
extras, higher education for the children, purchase of expensive articles, etc.
From one shilling per week, or fortnight, may be lodged for a period of three
months or more, and interest at 4% will be added.
Any number of Purpose Accounts may be opened, and the nature of the purpose
need not be disclosed.
Full particulars from any Branch of the
famonwealtl) Savings JBank of Australia
Invincible Marine Motors
Established 23 Years.
Stocked in 10 popular sizes:—
to 60-h.p.
£3O to £3BO Complete.
An Engine for every type of boat. More
“Invincible” Engines are cold in Australia
than any other make on the market.
THERE MUST BE A REASON.
Write for our 1929 Catalogues To-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED,
Head Office: 53 North George Street,
Sydney.
The Raider's Nose
BY ALYS BROWN.
THE moon had set. For a brief space
Oa-Malara, bright Star of Morning,
hung diamond-clear and sparkling
against the farthest wall of night, dimming
quickly as the first rosy fingers of dawn
reached out, and, groping twixt earth and
sky, lifted the pall of darkness from the
slumbering world.
In the dim half-light of dawning, Fefe,
only daughter of Kaiva, Chief of Kerepi,
arose from her sleeping mat and, scraping
out a stick of baked sago from the still-warm
ashes of the hearth, snatched up a paddle-
and slipped down the ladder of the hut.
Followed by Raura, the family pig, she ran
lightly along the quiet village street to the
mist-enshrouded river and stepped into a
canoe. With a satisfied grunt, Raura skipped
in, too, scenting a trip to the sago swamp
where she could root and forage in peace,
without having to share her findings with the
other pigs and dogs of Kerepi.
By the time the sun’s golden rim peered
over the far mountain top, routing the night
shades from the jungle and awakening the
village to life and another day, Fefe was
away, paddling swiftly upstream, crooning
softly to herself; her voice rising and falling
to the measured beat of the paddle.
She skimmed lightly along in her little
craft, wreathed in the rolling swathes of mist
like a newly-risen spirit of the river, a bronze
nymph, graceful and lissom, vibrant with
joyous happiness; wielding her paddle with
the swing and vigor of youth.
Now she drew in to the leafy bank to tear
down a trail of crimson parrot-flowers and
again to gather a handful of starry, sweet-
smelling jasmine or a spray of waxen stepha-
notis, lingering awhile to twine a wreath for
her crimpy black hair and a fragrant girdle
for her slim waist. She looped a chain of
blossoms over her naked brown hips to re-
place the grass petticoats left behind lest
sago-making defile them; studding with
flowers the wisp of grass which, twisted
round her waist and hanging with fringed
ends before her, served as a frail concealment
for the beauty of the half-blown flower of
her maidenhood.
An alligator, sprawling asleep on a sandy
spit, made her veer into the middle of the
river. She watched it with mischievous,
laughing eyes as she passed, tempted to hurl
a stick and awaken the drowsing reptile.
But prudence prevailed, and she paddled on,
raising her voice to answer with musical
mimicry the many bird-calls resounding from
the wooded banks.
As she rounded a sharp bend she ceased
paddling and stiffened. Before her lay a
broad, glassy reach—still waters with barely
a ripple to ruffle the calm. Against the
farther bank a stranded log, a fallen forest
giant awaiting the adzes of the canoe-builders,
btoke the mirrored surface, and on its huge
trunk, perched on slender stilt legs, w T as a
snow-white egret—her totem-bird.
The bird, alarmed at her sudden appear-
ance, was crouched, wings outstretched ready
for flight, watching the oncoming canoe
intently—so intently as not to see the winged
danger overhead, a fierce, grey eagle-hawk
hovering ready to swoop.
Fefe saw him fold his pinions and come
hurtling down, a grey streak of death.
“Maea-fi!” she screamed. “Maea-fU” —
the tribal cry of warning and sympathy for
an endangered totem. “Maea-fi!” and like a
flash she caught up the hard-baked roll of
sago and flung it with all her might at the
swooping marauder.
With a thin, reedy whistle of fear, the
egret leaped and sped to the sheltering
safety of the bank, whilst the discomfited
hawk, cheated of his quarry, zoomed upwards,
shaking a bunch of plumy white tail-feathers
from his raking talons.
As Fefe watched, one snowy egret feather
drifted towards her and settled on her out-
stretched hand. “Maea-fi 7” she breathed, and
gently smoothed the soft down, but shud-
dered with a chill of fear as a smear of
blood from the quill stained her finger. A
tear rolling from under her long, dark lashes
splashed on to the stain—blood of her totem!
Blood and tears! Truly an evil omen to
begin the day.
The sago-swamp afforded a fitting setting
for her gloomy fears. Bright splashes of
morning sunlight, filtering through the heavy,
dark-green fronds of close-clustered palms,
seemed but to illumine the dismal squalor
of the little clearing; lighting up the fes-
tering red-brown heaps of sour, rotting pith
and the scabrous husks of gutted trunks.
With a heavy heart Fefe took up her
gouging-stick and, scooping out flakes of solid
white pith from a peeled trunk lying beside
a leaf-spathe trough, began to flay, thrashing
the tough fibres with the heavy flail, beating
and pounding them to pulp.
She worked fiercely as if to beat away her
fears, dashing gourds of water into the
trough and kneading the sloppy pulp with
her hard little knuckles, trying to drive away
the cloud of depression that the portent of
danger and the gloom and brooding silence
of the swamp had wrapped round her.
Suddenly she paused,_ listening tensely.
The very air seemed to listen w T ith her; the
palm fronds hushed their whispering; the
wind ceased its sighing, as from the depths
of the swamp came the faint sound of tap-
ping. Was it a crested woodpecker search-
ing for his breakfast of grubs? She could
hear the loud beating of her heart as she
held her breath to listen ; her lips parted in
eager inquiry.
Again the tapping—now clear and dis-
tinct.
A tender smile broke over her face, chasing
away the shadows, as with the flail she struck
sharp blows —three times three—on the edge
of the trough, then resumed her kneading
with a pretty air of indifference.
Soon to her straining ears came the lisp
of bare feet, softly squelching on the rotten
bark, and without turning her head Fefe
greeted the comer. “Is it thou, Ipai?”
“ 'Thou must swear not to warn them,
Fefe. If thou wilt not swear’”
A tall stripling' with lean brown flanks,
naked except for a bark girdle girt tightly
round his waist, and a cane bow-gauntlet
circling his left wrist, peered cautiously
from behind a palm.
At Fefe’s greeting he stepped boldly into
the clearing, and with one bound reached
her side. Taking her into his arms, he
held her soft cheek against his broad, flat
face, crushing her to his breast, bruising
the scented garlands until a sweet fragrance
-wafted about them.
The first ardent embrace over, Fefe with
a deep sigh of content snuggled for a moment
against him, then, slipping from his encir-
cling arms, ran round the trough. Facing
her lover, a roguish smile dimpled her brown
cheeks; but the smile brought no answering
gleam to the youth’s dark face.
“I have no time for trifling,” he said
hoarsely, and pointed to the conch shell
swinging from his belt. “I may not stay.
The warriors of Paivera call on Ivovave, God
of War, and to-day I am a scout. Did they
know I had left my post, chief’s son though
I be, I should taste death before a man could
count his fingers twice.”
“War!” she breathed fearfully, gaiety gone
and fear returning. “But all the river is
at peace.” Looking the question she dared
not ask, she read the answer in his troubled
face.
“Against Kerepi?” she shrilled incredu-
lously. ‘-‘And thou? Didst thou do naught
to stay them?”
“Wouldst have me throw spears at the
moon?” he asked roughly. “Who am I, to
counsel warriors? An unblooded boy! It
is the matter of that canoe. Our messengers
returned from Kerepi saying thy father’s men
have eaten the pay we gave them a year
ago, and the tree for our canoe is not yet
felled.”
“They lie!’’ she retorted. “The tree lies
in the river at the bend. I saw it this morn-
ing,” pausing as remembrance flashed upon
her —her totem’s warning, blood and tears!
A dull splash followed by the suck of mud
startled them. They stared into each other’s
frightened eyes. Ipai grasped the handle of
his dagger, but in the silence which followed
came the snuffling grunt of a pig.
“ ’Tis but Raura!’’ said Fefe in relieved
tones. “But thou liadst better go lest my
uncle Bu-u comes and finds thee here.”
Ipai circled the trough and seized her
wrists in his strong grip., “Listen, Fefe!
When the scrub-hen calls to-morrow’s dawn
we come to Kerepi. Do not flee with the
women, but lie snug in thy hut, for I have
no mind that another shall take thee. When
the first charge is over I will come, for by
then I shall be a blooded warrior, so may
keep thee as my prisoner and save thy mar-
riage payment, thus killing two pigs at one
spear thrust,” and for the first time lie smiled
—a grimly complacent smile.
Fefe strove to wrench her hands free.
“And what of my people?” she demanded
passionately. “Am I to lie silent whilst
thy father’s men slay and burn sleeping
Kerepi, because thou dost grudge a mar-
riage payment? Dost think I love none but
thee, Ipai?”
He tightened his grip. “Thou must swear
not to warn them. Fefe. Because thy voice
whispered into the ear of
my heart, I came to warn
thee, but thee alone! I
have put my life into
thine hands, yet thy life
lies there, too. If thou
wilt not swear” —lie
loosened one hand and
drew his dagger, a long,
thin sliver of cassowary-bone ground • to
needle-fineness, and pressed its sharp point
to her breast. “Swear, Fefe !”
His face grew hard and his blackened
teeth grinned between thick, curled-back lips
as she stared fearfully at him, like a stricken
creature beneath the spear of the hunter.
Her breath came in sobs; and where the
point of the dagger lay, a tiny drop of scarlet
blood oozed.
“Swear, my pretty bird!” he urged. “Thy
death would not avail to save Kerepi.” And
the dagger pricked deeper into her flesh.
Now the sweat of terror dewed her fore-
head and ran down into her eyes. She read
only relentless purpose in his face. A wave
of hopelessness swept over her and she
struggled no more.
“I will swear!” she gasped faintly.
“By thy totem!” lie demanded.
“By my totem,” she repeated. “But oh,
Ipai! My spirit tells me that thou and thine
shall pay dear for this, though the oath
hath sealed my lips. Blood ever calls for
blood!” and she pointed to her bleeding
breast.
He slipped the dagger back in his belt and
drew her to him. His face softened. He
longed to snatch her up and carry her off to
safety before the raid, and cursed the scout
duty which prevented him.
“At dawn I will come, my sweet dove, to
cage thee; and when we wed there shall be
an ever-lasting peace pact between Paivera
and Kerepi. Now I must go. He flicked
the white feather in her hair. “Remember
thine oath, Pefe!” and once more snatched
her to him, the blood from her breast stain-
ing his chest. Then he released her and,
leaving her leaning against the trough, melted
into the shadows of the swamp.
For a while she stood brooding sombrely,
thinking of the coming doom of Kerepi.
Shame at her oath rose in her soul like the
floodwaters of a river. How could she
let her people sleep whilst death drew close?
Yet she dared not break that oath. The
very thought brought a cold sweat upon her
skin. To wait for death with eyes gone
blind, hair falling, bones rotting, was evil
fate enough. But even death brought no
peace to the breaker of a totem oath, whose
spirit was doomed to suffer eternally in the
swamps, struggling neck-deep in muddy quag-
mires ever striving to gain a foothold that
ever eluded, wailing for rest that never came
nor would coirte until the whole world died.
Better had Ipai’s dagger pierced her breast
than that. Yet her heart was split in twain
as the thought of her people’s fate thrust at
her tormented brain, stabbing and burning.
Wearily she took up her flail and resumed
her work; tor though war raged there would
still be hungry mouths to feed, and she
dared not return to the village without the
sago, or questions would be asked. She sieved
away the spent pith, gathering the soft
pinky-white sago granules from the goru-
spa the into a loosely woven basket to drain ;
working as if in a dream —a nightmare of
dire foreboding—until her task was finished.
Then calling “Ma! Ma! Ma! Ma!” she
shouldered the wet bundle of sago, and when
Raura, crunching a savory morsel of crab,
appeared in answer to her call, they set off
for the canoe.
As she pushed off,! Fefe caught sight of
rreslily bruised earth where the prow of a
canoe had dug deep into the bank, and
doubt seized her. Was it Raura they had
heard in the swamp? Pondering this, she
swiftly paddled down stream, never pausing
until she came within sight of the stranded
log, on whose rough trunk now squatted a
man, liis head sunk on his breast as if he
were asleep, a fishing-line trailing limply
from liis hand.
As she drew near she called to him. “Is
it thou, Bu-u, mine uncle?”
Bu-u the Noseless lifted his head and
to her, a welcoming smile spreading
over his scarred features, where two gaping
nasal cavities, unprotected bv lobe or sep-
tum, expanded hideously. Affection beamed
in his eyes as lie responded to her greeting.
“Thou didst not come to help me with the
sago,” she reproached, drawing in beside
the log.
Pointing to a bunch of silvery fish in the
bottom of his canoe, he replied, “Nay, little
one, do not scold. I saw a shoal of saravera
in the shallows and lingered. Keep away
that greedy thief Raura, or my morning
will have been wasted.”
Even as he spoke Fefe’s sharp eyes saw
smears of wet black earth on the prow of
his canoe and, though his feet were clean-
washed, a ragged film of green scum clung
high on the calf of one muscular leg. Now
she knew who had grunted in the swamp.
Not Raura, but Bu-u! Hope crept into her
breast like the first gleam of dawn after
a night of storm, for Bu-u the Noseless was
one of her father’s bloodmen—in times of
peace a master craftsman of canoe building,
yet when the tiparu called to war, a warrior,
fearless and bold ns a hornbill, cunning as
a black shag, knowing how to snare men as
well as fish. Kerepi would not be caught
sleeping when the raiders came at dawn, and
Fefe sighed with relief, yet, remembering her
oath, dared not speak.
She clambered on to the log beside him and
sat for awhile silently watching him re-bait
and cast his line.
“What ails thee, little one? Thou art
very silent!” he asked at last.
“My heart is as full of trouble as my
belly is empty of food,” she replied. And,
shewing the egret’s plume, she told of her
totem’s warning.
“May that omen be an egg without meat,”
he said, unwrapping a piece of boiled taro
from a plantain leaf. “Eat and forget, my
child! In my life I have had many troubles,
most of which never happened. When thy
father’s father brought me bound and captive
to Kerepi, I died a thousand deaths on the
way; yet I still live, for did not thine aunt.
Tiro, bite off my nose, and so. according to
the law, saved me from the cooking-pots to
be her man-—a true man of Kerepi? Thy
(Continued on page 59.)


AUSTRALIA.
COMMONWEALTH OF
NOTICE OF A REFERENDUM FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE
ELECTORS OF A PROPOSED LAW FOR THE ALTERATION
OF THE CONSTITUTION.
I HEREBY GIVE NOTICE that I have received a copy of a Writ,
issued by His Excellency the Governor-General, in the name of the King,
addressed to the Chief Electoral Officer for the Commonwealth, and to
the Commonwealth Electoral Officers for the several States, commanding
him and them to cause a PROPOSED LAW FOR THE ALTERATION
OF THE CONSTITUTION, entitled
CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (STATE DEBTS) 1928,
to be SUBMITTED, according to law, in each State, to the ELECTORS
QUALIFIED TO VOTE for the election of Members of the House of
Representatives, and appointing the following dates for the purposes of
the said submission :
1. For taking the votes of the Electors, SATURDAY, the
SEVENTEENTH day of NOVEMBER, 1928.
2. For the return of the Writs, on or before MONDAY, the SEVENTH
day of JANUARY, 1929.
Section 12 of the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act 1906-1928
provides that the POLLING PLACES appointed under the laws of the
Commonwealth for the time being in force relating to Parliamentary
Elections shall be polling places for the purposes of the said Referendum.
THE FOLLOWING IS A COPY OF THE PROPOSED LAW FOR
THE ALTERATION OF THE CONSTITUTION, ENTITLED
“ CONSTITUTION ALTERATION (STATE DEBTS) 1928 ”
A PROPOSED LAW
TO ALTER THE CONSTITUTION BY INSERTING THEREIN
FURTHER PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE PUBLIC DEBTS
OF THE STATES AND THE BORROWING OF MONEY BY
THE COMMONWEALTH AND THE STATES.
BE it enacted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty, the Preamble.
Senate, and the House of Representatives of the
Commonwealth of Australia, with the approval of the
electors, as required by the Constitution, as follows :
1. This Act may be cited as Constitution Alteration short title.
(State Debts) 1928.
2. The Constitution is altered by inserting after section
one hundred and five the following section :
“ 105a.—(1.) The Commonwealth may make agreements Agreement*
with the States with respect to the public debts of the U)VtaTe debts.
States, including—
(a) the taking over of such debts by the Commonwealth ;
(b) the management of such debts ;
(c) the payment of interest and the provision and management
of sinking funds in respect of such debts ;
(d) the consolidation, renewal, conversion, and redemption of such
debts ;
(e) the indemnification of the Commonwealth by the States in respect
of debts taken over by the Commonwealth ; and
(/) the borrowing of money by the States or by the Commonwealth
or by the Commonwealth for the States.
“ (2.) The Parliament may make laws for validating any such agreement
made before the commencement of this section.
“ (3.) The Parliament may make laws for the carrying out by the parties
thereto of any such agreement.
“ (4.) Any such agreement may be varied or rescinded by the parties
thereto.
“ (5.) Every such agreement and any such variation thereof shall be
binding upon the Commonwealth and the States parties thereto notwith-
standing anything contained in this Constitution or the Constitution of the
several States or in any law of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of
any State.
“ (6.) The powers conferred by this section shall not be construed as
being limited in any way by the provisions of section one hundred and-five
of this Constitution.”.
Dated the fifteenth day of October, 1928.
R. H. ALLARS,
Commonwealth Electoral Officer for the
State of New South Wales.
Backache?
Stiff Joints?
Rheumatism?
Here’s Quick Relief!
It doesn’t matter how severely you suffer ageing
aches, pains and consequent weak, worn-out spells,
a few doses of Harrison’s Pills will make a wonder-
ful improvement in your health ; and one bottle will
convince you there is nothing to equal them for
renewing healthy activity in men and women who
me beginning to feel their years. Hundreds of
genuine testimonials. One user writes: “I got a
bottle of Harrison’s Pills about a month ago, and
it was marvellous the good they did me.” —M.H.,
tit. Perry.
Another says: “I would have tried Harrison’s Pills
long ago but had been disappointed with so many
other things. My sister gave me some to try three
weeks ago, and I must say the pills are wonderful.
I am now quite free from rheumatic pains whicl,
have bothered me for years.”—M.T., Sydney.
Another writes: “My husband has had kidney
trouble for past 12 months; he has tried other pills
but got no relief and always in pain. On Thursday
last he bought a bottle of Harrison’s Pills and be
says they are wonderful. Since Friday night his
back has been splendid—it has not pained at all.
He cannot make out why they have cured him ‘e
quickly.”—Mrs. E. J., Hurlstone Park.
Remember: If YOU want to feel years younger
quickly and safely without a single ache or pain—
this is the signed remedy of a London doctor. Try
it! Any chemist can supply you. Satisfaction
within three days, or money back guaranteed.
Harrison’s
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS !
Of All Chemists and Stores. Trial Size 2/-. Medium Size 3/-. Economy Size, Sf-Z
If remote from Chemists or Stores, send your order by post to Amalgamated Laboratories, Dept. B„
Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
W. JNO. BAKER
Christmas Gifts.
THE HOUSEWIFE’S COMPLETE
SCISSORS CASE. Made of Fine
Roan Leather, for Lasting Wear.
No. I 7 Scissors and Knife; size
when folded, about 9in. x 4in. Con-
tains 2-Blade Penknife, 1 pair Bin.
Cutting-out Scissors, 1 pair 6in.
Lady’s, I pair sin. Lady’s, I pair
4in. Lady’s, 1 pair Nail, 1 pair
Embroidery, 1 pair Buttonhole.
Case with Fine Finish Nickel-plated
Scissors, 65/- complete, post free.
(K
1
LADY’S COMPANION, THE “COM-
PLETE OUTFIT.” Size when
closed, about Bin. x sin. Covered
with best Roan Leather and Fine
Leather Lined; containing Best
Steel 2-blade Knife, 3 pairs Best
Quality Nickel - plated Scissors,
Button Hook, Needles and other fit-
tings, 57/6 per case, complete.
Morocco Case, 70/- complete.
Post Free for Casli with order.
W. Jno. Baker
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
X
You can Wipe the Mort
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEV.
CAPTAIN CRAB
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
HOSTESS AND VISITORS
PLEASES
ALIKE
FREE RECtREBOOK AT AUL GROCERS
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
has always been
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
New South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Municipality of Glenelg.
1928 “Xmas Week” Beach Sites
are now available at
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S PREMIER
SEASIDE RESORT.
APPLICATIONS "ill be received by the undersigned
from Showmen for sites on the Glenelg Fore-
shore for Shows, Novelties, Gaines, Amusement
devices, etc., for period commencing, Saturday,
December 22, 1928, to Tuesday, January 1, 1929,
inclusive.
Only limited number available.
Prices are now definitely fixed, and all Applications
will be dealt with in the order they are received.
Plans and conditions obtainable upon application.
F. A. LEWIS,
< Town Clerk.
Town Hall, Glenelg, S.A.
AT LAST!!!
Clothes Pegs that will Not Break or Burn,
which means
Economy—Durability—Reliability.
“HOLETITE” PEGS.
ALL Australian patent and manufacture.
WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Sent POST FREE directly on receipt of POSTAL
NOTE.
PRICES: 3 doz. for 2/3, 6 doz. 4/-,
9 doz. 5/6, 12 doz. 6/9.
DIGBY PRODUCTS,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne
ë
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Away, sad moods!
Away, all stomach ills!
Enjoy good health
By taking
ē
ĕ
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Are you one of those who never
feel really well —always low-spirited,
nervous, languid, dyspeptic? That
is your sluggish liver. Be persuaded
to try Cockle’s Antibilious Pills. Get
a box to-day. Take two at bedtime
and see how amazingly bright and
well you feel to-morrow. Your
system will be cleared of all surplus
bile and your liver will be in good
working order.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD,, LONDON,


■ '
mmm
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE.
An Improved High-grade Stock Saddle, designed for
increased comfort to the rider. It has combined nap
and skirt sewn direct on to the seat, thus giving a
narrower non-chafing grip * and the pads being set we.l
up along the rider’s thighs give the greatest secuntj
for rough-riding. The materials and workmanship are
first-class throughout, and it is fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID
ORDER TO ANY
STATION.
FOR CASH WITH
N.S.W. RAILWAY
WRITE FOR OUR BIG SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
“K’BURRA” Stockwhips
Guaranteed Kangaroo
Leather Throughout.
w
WHIPS
Thongs.
12-plait .•
16-plait ..
20-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
26/6 30/- 33/6 38/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-; 32-plait, 22/-. Handles for 9ft. Thongs
are 1/G extra for loading. Post Free for Cash.
WALTHER S STEVENSON, LTD.
395 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
EVERY Onoto passes this test
factory before it is issued. A
machine whirls it round at 1000
tions a minute
in the
special
revolu-
ew
\\
entirely
ENGLISH
ŵ
So long as the valve is closed an Onoto cannot be made to leak even
if whirled round at terrific speed. Every Onoto has to pass this test
before it is issued from the works. Does vowr pen P ossess this umque
feature of PERFECT SAFETY ?
Ofiioio
PLUNGER FILLING
A joy to write with. Absolutely SAFE when not in use.
From 15/*
OF ALL STATIONERS AND STORES
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.. LTD.. LONDON.
Norman Baker & Longhurst. Ltd.. Sydney. Melbourne. Wellington, N.Z
USE ONOTO INK FOR ALL PENS
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
VICTORIA’S LEADING MORNING DAILY
NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING
Is the Great Creating
Force in Business.
For all advertising campaigns designed to
cover Victoria include “The Age.” It enters
the homes and offices of
123,533
Subscribers Daily.
and publishes over
1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
“The Age” is the BUSINESS BUILDER that
discriminative advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
Service Agencies in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN Cl. ÜBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising Agencies.
GOING !
. W
n. '?
'Vi-Olo.will
Stop it!
GOING!!
Vi-Glo wilt
Stop it!
GONE'"
To be bald or grey is to be a joke! Fate showers
her gifts on the alert, young-looking men and women.
Once your hair is gone, you’re considered beyond
hope—save it while you can. “VI-GLO” will do it!
This is a NEW, scientific, non-watery, non-greasy
preparation that gets to the hair roots and revitalises
them to such an extent that the new hair grown
actually possesses a smart, well-groomed and natural
waviness that improves one’s looks tremendously 1
“Vi-Glo” stops Dandruff! “Vi-Glo” stops hair falling
out! “Vi-Glo” stops Greyness! “Vi-Glo,
the hair new Youth, new Life, new HEALTH.
Price, 3/-, complete with special Free LUSTRE-\VAVR
“Bay-rum” Shampoo. Get your “Vi-Glo NOW
from any Chemist, Hairdresser or Store, or from the
VI-GLORIENT COMPANY, Department 8., Kembla
Buildings, Sydney. Satisfaction or mpney back
guaranteed. Don’t delay until it is too late.
sago saved thy totem and maybe an arrow
of mine shall yet fall that hawk. Rest here
with me and I will tell tliee of the days ot
my youth in that far-off village I shall see
no more, for thine aunt and thou have bound
me to Kerepi with ropes of love.”
As the day ebbed to its close, and the
shadows lengthened across the river, together
they paddled silently home along the placid
reaches, to be joined by canoes laden with
food —fruit of river, swamp and garden; nsh
from the traps; earthy heaps of taro, damp
bundles of sago; baskets of crabs and
prawns; crowned here and there with slaugh-
tered snake or iguana. .
The cheerful chattering procession ot
toilers called from craft to craft the news ot
the day, luck and mishap, losings, and find-
ings ; hearts were light though limbs were
weary with toil.
As they swung towards the village, the
setting sun bathed the canoes with a lurid
light as though a bloody hand had smeared
the river from bank to bank. Red as blood
was every face and every load; red the
water and the sky; and Fefe’s fears kindled
anew in that awful, crimson sunset.
Now red turned to purple and a wilderness
of stars glimmered from the darkening sky.
From the length of the village street, spirals
of smoke were curling upwards, drifting
lazily on the soft evening air. Round the
fires women squatted, stirring stewpots,
broiling fish, suckling their babes the while.
Small boys played with tiny spears, running
now and again to smell the. savor of the
pots, smacking hungry little lips; their sis-
ters helped with the cooking or played cat s
cradle; men lounged lazily on ravi plat-
forms, smoking and yarning—all happy and
content at the thought of the coming meal.
Before Fefe hurried off to her fathers
hut to prepare supper. Bu-u spoke softly m
her ear: “Sleep in peace, my sweet swamp-
lily. No rough hand shall pluck thee from
thy bed. Remember, ‘who grasps at two
pigs at once, catches neither.’ ”
Yet when the sleeping-mats were unrolled
Fefe could not rest. In the darkness of the
hut doubts once more beset her; she was
no longer sure that her uncle had overheard
Ipai’s warning; and, if he had, how would
her lover fare in the coming fray? Torn this
way and that, fearing for her people, yet
yearning for Ipai's safety, she rose from her
mat and, wrapping her lapa cloak around
her, wandered out into the night.
Crouching in the shadow of the hut she
saw dark figures hastening to the river,
swift and silent as cloud-wrack driving
across the face of the moon. She crept after
and reached the water’s edgu in time to see
the scout-canoes flit like giant bats across
the darkly shimmering river, to be swallowed
up in the distant shadows, while on the bank
was a scene of feverish yet strangely silent
activity.
By the dim light of a young crescent moon,
companies of ghosts were unsheathing the
mighty war-canoe!s, the pride of Kerepi,
from their mattings; bailing out the water
with scarce a splash; building afresh the
mud barriers in bow and stern, and with
swift, skilful fingers, weaving in the strength-
ening basket-shields of palm fronds. With
limepot and paint-stick they freshened the
two glaring eyes in the prows—those watch-
ful eyes that could see both banks. Crews
were softly imploring the spirits of their
canoes to carry them safely through the
coming fight. One by one the great dug-outs
were launched and pushed out into the
stream to float idly in one dark mass, await-
ing the signal.
Through all this hushed and silent turmoil
Fefe watched her uncle Bu-u, Bu-u the Nose-
less, the right hand of Kaiva, dominant and
unhurried; giving a sibilant order here, a
quick gesture there; his hideously scarred
face hard and set; a flash in his eyes and a
snap in his voice that made men spring to
obey l .
Stepping at last into his own canoe, the
mightiest of them all, fashioned of iron-hard
bwaho wood, Bu-u waved his hand. Paddles
dipped as one, with a single muffled splash,
and the fleet commenced to move. One canoe
after another shot from that dark, jumbled
mass to its ordained station, until it seemed
as if a monstrous water-snake went slither-
ing and gliding upstream in the track of the
scouts. The staring eyes in the prows seemed
to pierce the bushes where Fefe lay hid, the
painted jaws grinning fiercely, as the moving
line wound its sinuous way past her. At
last the tail vanished round the bend and
was gone. All was still again. Peace fell
upon Kerepi Reach —peace save in the
bushes where Fefe wept bitter tears for her
lover.
Below the stranded log the flotilla halted,
as the hurried beat of paddles sounded in the
distance. Scouts raced up and spoke to
Bu-u, at whose command the war canoes
ranged themselves along either bank, hiding
in the shadows.
One canoe alone remained in the moon-
light, slowly paddling up-stream, its paddlers
crouching low; Bu-u, a dark, solitary figure,
erect and motionless in the stern.
The trap was set.
A vague blot gathered in the distant mist;
took shape; grew rapidly into the oncoming
war canoes of the Paivera raiders. Care-
lessly they came, full sure of a complete
surprise and an easy victory over a sleeping
village.
On they swept, their leaders bunched to-
gether. the rest strung out raggedly. Sighting
the solitary canoe they hesitated a moment,
then with a yell gave chase.
Bu-u fled before them until they were
well within his snare; then leaning hard
over on his steering paddle, he turned short
and drove down upon them, throwing them
into confusion. Then and not until then
his great voice boomed out: “Now, Kerepi!”
The riight-air thrummed with vibrating
bowstrings as from either bank his bowmen
loosed their six-foot shafts and a storm of
arrows fell thick as driving rain. Like raven-
ing wolves the canoes leapt out of ambush
upon the flanks of the foe. and, dropping
their bows, the bloodmen of Kerepi, grasp-
ing their keen bone daggers, closed in with
a yell of fury and grappled with their
enemies, thrusting and stabbing with blood-
thirsty ferocity.
The fight raged the whole breadth of the
river, and through it all ranged Bu-u the
Noseless, helping, encouraging, directing; urg-
ing on the unblooded scouts to win their
right to manhood; yet ever questing, his
keen eyes roving the moonlit scene of battle
as if in search of some one man.
Suddenly he shouted to his paddlers. He
had sighted his quarry. Gathering way,. he
rammed one enemy from his path and laia
alongside another. Like a flash his greu.
steering-paddle rose; with a sideways swing
he knocked his man overboard and plunged
into the blood-reddened water after him.
Bringing his captive to the surface, lie
dragged him into the canoe, tied him hand
and foot and then joined in the pursuit ot
the now-fleeing Paiveras.
Not until they had far passed the boun-
daries of Kerepi lands did they abandon the
chase. Then Bu-u mustered his forces and,
making light of their many wounds, they
turned their faces homewards. The ambush
had been so complete that, though many
were wounded, no Kerepi man had been
slain, but fully a dozen Paivera dead lay
in the canoes of the victors.
* # * *
In the sacred temple of the ravi at Kerepi
all night long Kaiva the chief and his elders
called on Kovave, the Lord of Life and Death,
to help their warriors, invoking, propitiat-
ing, imploring. .
Before the dawning they, trooped to the
river bank to await the tidings. Kaiva,
leaning on the black polished haft of his
great stone-headed club, gazed into the mists,
immobile, tense; listening with strained ears
for the faintest noise of the conflict, if
conflict there were; for Bu-u had but told
him of a dream, in which the spirit of the
canoe log had warned him of a coming raid.
A cunning man and crafty was Bu-u the
Noseless, and though his words were few,
who could see into his belly?
Round their chief clustered the old men
who, though their fighting days were over,
grasped ancient weapons in their weak old
hands. Behind hovered crowds of women
armed with heavy sago flails and _ digging-
sticks, ready to fight for their lives and
defend their frightened children hidden in
the huts. Woe to them, even to the helpless
babe, if their warriors were vanquished and
the blood-drunk victors sacked the village!
One by one the stars went out, the moon
faded and became a silver wraith in the sky.
An early greyness suffused the shadows and a
cock crowed lustily from his roost. Fretful
children whimpered in the huts, and the
women began to fidget and whisper undtfr
their hoods.
Still no tidings from behind that curtain
of mist! . , , ~ - .
Grey turned to rosy pink, and as the. hrst
red lances of the sun pierced the mist a
scrub-hen called from the jungle to the listen-
ing world that the dawn had come.
Fefe, standing with her aunt Tiro, shiv-
ered. Ipai had said, “We come with the
dawn.”
Suddenly Kaiva moved, straightened, and a
grunt of relief broke from him. A canoe
appeared round the bend. Slowly and unhur-
riedly, on it came. Eyes brightened and drawn
faces relaxed ; a murmur of thankfulness rose
from the waiting crowd. Here was no de-
feated craft fleeing before the foe, but a
harbinger of victory.
All was well!
The canoe kept the middle of the river,
and then in two lines the fleet swept into
sight and came slowly on; the paddlers dip-
ping and swaying as one man, drumming
their paddles along the sides of the canoes
with a hollow, dragging boom, then flirting
them upwards to toss the water in a silver
spray at the end of the stroke. Cassowary
plumes waving; pubic shells gleaming—a
magnificent scene of savage grandeur and
power in the red light of dawn !
As the foremost canoe approached, from its
warriors burst a heart-shaking yell, a pamn
of victory, which surged from one canoe to
another along the line, a swelling ball of
sound, echoing and re-echoing as the wood-
clad banks gave back the clangor.
They swept alongside the village, where
greybeards and women thronged the banks,
and children, hearing joyful shouts, ran out
of the huts, bringing pigs and dogs to join
in the tumultuous welcome. Yelling, shout-
ing, screaming like frenzied madmen, they
hailed the victorious warriors who tossed
into their eager hands "the bodies of the
Paivera dead, to be borne away to the pots.
Bu-u came last, his dark, noseless face
aglow with savage pride and exultation as
he dragged his captive before the chief.
“Kaiva, son of Kono, Chief of Kerepi!”
he hailed, and at . the sound of his great
voice the clamor stilled and the crowd gath-
ered round. “The dogs of Paivera have fled,
licking their wounds. Many have fallen to
our daggers ; but here I have a pup of the
old grey dog—lpai, son of Muru, chief of
Paivera. What shall be done with him?”
“Thou has done well, O Bu-u the Nose-
less, once outlander, for long a true man of
Kerepi. Kill the pup!” And Kaiva handed
Bu-u his stone club.
The captive youth, though ashen-grey with
fear under the blackness of his skin, proudly
gave back glance for glance, never flinching
as Bu-u slowly swung the club; nor did he
give a sign when with a scream Fefe broke
through the ring of watching men and, fling-
ing her arms around him, cried, “Spire him,
father! I love him, and would have him for
my man!”
Her father shook his head. “Kill the
young dog!” he growled. “He shall be no
son of mine.”
Still Fefe clung desperately, pleading pit-
eously for her lover’s life.
Hearing her wailing, a little group of tot-
tering old crones, led by Kaiva’s white-haired
mother, pushed their way to the front. Tear-
ing off their scanty grass petticoats, they
stood before Kaiva crying, “See our naked-
ness, 0 Chief! We plead with thee for
this youth’s life. We, the mothers of thy
bloodmen, beg for mercy. Are there not
enough dead to slake thy thirst? Spare him
that he may become the father of men.”
“Away, women!” snarled Kaiva. “I have
spoken! He must die —a fitting payment for
Paivera treachery.”
Motioning impatiently to Bu-u, “Strike,
Bu-u!” he commanded, and, gripping his
daughter’s arm, dragged her aside.
Fefe looked with anguished eyes to her
uncle; saw him lay a broad forefinger on
the gaping scar of his face; with quick wut
grasped his meaning, and. tearing from her
father’s hold, caught her lover by the shoul-
ders.
“By the law I claim Ipai for my man
and a man of Kerepi,” she cried defiantly—
her white teeth flashed, and springing for-
ward she bit off his nose.


(oleman Quick-Lite
With stand, 102/6;
without stand, 84/-
"I"'
roleman
Gunn Stove
Adds
to the Joy of
Camping
A drive to your favor-
ite camping spot. Appe-
tites sharpened by na-
ture’s tonic—fresh air and
sunshine. And then “good
eats.” You’ll have them
“right now” when there’s
a Coleman Camp Stove
along.
NEW BEAUTY,
new quality, new
convenience. They
are ready for you. . .
handsome new
models of petrol
irons, petrol camp-
stoves, petrol Air-
O-Gas cooking
ranges of all sizes.
Newest of all Cole-
man Instant Starters
.... strike a match,
turn a valve, and they
are ready.
ffl/EVyinstant Lighting
Coleman Iron
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle”
PATENTS PENDING
LIGHTS INSTANTLY. NO PREHEATING.
Does the week’s ironing for Id. Price, 45/-
"LIGHT. HEAT AND COOK. THE COLEMAN
WAY
ẁ
Coleman
Quick-Lite
Lamp
and
Lantern
ẃ
Coleman
Radiant
Heater
ẅ
w
Coleman
Air-O-Gaa
Cook Stove
ŵ
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER-HARVESTER
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
m
i'*-Y
*4*
m
m
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
ẁ
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne
27>39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H, V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


w " Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing 'jj'les
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, fValls,
and Roofs A
liifernoctional
’Phones ;
FWim-8
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
100 Bedrooms.
BONDI
BEACH
a
u
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
" bulldog ~
HAMMCRLCSt
TH£
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOY/ PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns. Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.B. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 & £l6.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6. Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or write the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
A Corkscrewed Protest
THE STORY OF A JOCKEY WHO “CAME
TO LIFE," BY HENRY G. LAMOND.
THE bar of the Sportsman’s Arms Hotel
was full. The annual race meeting had
drawn that varied collection who toil
not and spin only pennies in the air, and to
whom a race-meeting is a baited trap to
catch the votaries of sport.
Among the crowd at the bar was Herbert
Brennan, Brennie for short, whose easy
assurance as he filled liis glass told of long
practise of the art. Herb was a jockey.
Apprenticed in his youth in Sydney, lie had
served his time and then drifted. He had
ability on a horse and judgment in a race.
As he led others in gulping his drink, so
he was first out of the barrier; as skilfully
as he shepherded a likely victim to the bar,
so he waited on others during a race; as
firmly as he grasped the bottle, so lie finished
down the straight. Brennie had drifted
solely on account of his fatal facility for
saying yes and following it with one word
—whisky. From Sydney he had gone north
to Brisbane, to Rockhampton, to Townsville,
to Charters Towers; always one step lower
in the standing of the meetings; then west
and bush, where races are promoted at the
whim of a publican, and where whisky is hot,
strong and easy to get.
Into the bar another figure swaggered,
loud-voiced and arrogant. As the new-
comer called for drinks, Brennan faded out.
“What’s up, Brennie?” Joe the Rat asked.
“Why d’yer slide when Duggan comes in?”
“Me an’ Duggan don’t lean against the
same post,” Brennan explained briefly.
“What’s between yer?” the Rat wanted to
know.
“I come to life on Swiveller on him at
Adavale,” Brennan explained.
“You what!” the Rat gasped, doubting his
ears.
Honor is expected among thieves, and
between the predatories of race-meetings
there is no greater crime in the sphere of
jockeydom than that of “waking up a
horse” on an owner or bookmaker.
“Yes,” Brennan explained, “Swiveller was
stiff. Dugay used t’ get me t’ ride him when
there was nothin’ doin’, and this time we’d
had a few words about a girl. I put me
few quid on Swiveller and come to life
when he was supposed to be dead. Course
there was a row—there always is, anyway—
an’ me an’ Duggy don’t sleep together no
more. But Duggan don’t own the whole
joint—there’s other places besides the
Sportsman’s. If you’ll lead me across to
Mother Malone’s I’ll have one with you.”
In the bar of the Great Western, Brennan
and the Rat leaned against the counter, and
the former was just framing the word he
loved above all others when he stopped
short, the last syllable of it imprisoned
behind his lips.
“You’d better come home, Bert,” an
authoritative voice warned him.
“Just this one, Mac,” Brennan pleaded.
“I’ll come then.”
“You can have as much as you like after
the races. You’re riding Lilacette for me
to-morrow, and you’ve had all you want.
Come home now.”
Brennan went, which was one of the
reasons why he was sober at the races next
day.
Brennan was riding Lilacette for Sam
MacDonald in the Flying Handicap. In
that same race, which was the big thing of
the first day and one leg of the main double,
Tom Duggan had his nomination, Toeball.
“Two to one bar one,” the bookmakers
shouted. “Even money Lilacette. Two to
one the field l . Three to one Toeball. Three
to one —yes, sir. Toeball? Threes. Can’t
take it? I’ll stretch a point then—fours.
Take it ? Right you are; twenty to five.
Even money Lilacette. Four to one Maidette.
Three to one Toeball and even money Lilac-
ette.”
“Duggan’s backing his horse,” MacDonald
whispered to his jockey. “But you’re safe,
Bert. You know the little mare. Get away
as well as you can, let her run along to
the turn and then come on and leave them 1 .
I don’t think there’s anything to trouble
you ; but if there is you needn’t be afraid to
use her. If they want fight you can give
’em all the bullockin’ they want on the
run home. You know her, and you know
what to do. There’s the bell.”
The horses went to the post; they played
a little as nervous horses will with excited
jockeys; the sun glinted and glanced on
dancing silks and satins, making a picture
which thrills always; then a roar and a gasp
from the crowd
“They're off!”
Blue and green and scarlet, brown and
pink and yellow, mixed and interwoven, shat-
tered fragments of a speeding rainbow! A
floating ribbon of dust streamed along the
circle of the track; and as the drumming
of hooves turned the straight, a mighty
babel broke from the spectators in roars of
encouragement.
“Spectre! Bluebell! Toeball! Com e on,
Maidette! Maidette! Maid—Lilacette! Come
on, Lilacette! ’Cette! Lilacette! Hooray!"
Brennan on a prancing aud excited Lilac-
ette was being led to weigh by the clerk of
the course. The crowd roared and cheered,
the bookmakers did sums in their books,
MacDonald grinned and awaited his mare,
and Brennan raised his whip in acknowledg-
ment of the applause.
Duggan was busy. Scowling fearfully and
blaspheming with strength and originality
he into the. secretary’s office.
“Gimme a pen and a bit of paper,” lie
demanded. “Here’s my ten-and six deposit
I want to lodge a protest against Lilacette
tor interference. Brennan pulled in on my
horse, Toeball, and stopped him just as
he was making his run at the turn of the
straight.”
That and much more, with additions and
embellishments, he poured on the listening
secretary. He' completed and signed his
objection, lodged his fee of half a guinea,
a**d, as the clerk of the scales announced
Weight for Lilacette, the bell rang and
the notice “Protest Lodged” was hoisted.
ihe stewards, honorary to a man and
honorable almost without exception, met to
hear the protest.
: Duggan had his say. He had backed
Toeball, as his betting tickets would show.
Goal business was the motive behind his
protest—though he and Brennan had had a
slight difference in the long ago, he carried
no malice, and lie had trained his horse
specially to win the Flying.
None of the stewards had noticed the
slightest interference in the running, and
almost they were inclined to dismiss the-
protest as frivolous, attributing it to dis-
appointment run rampant which backers
and owners sometimes show. Still, Duggan
:was too hard-headed a man, and had been
too long at the game, to- go berserk over the
loss of twenty or thirty pounds. They called
in Brennan.
Indignantly Herbert denied any molesta-
tion or obstruction of Toeball. In fact, as
the stewards could have seen, for themselves,
Lilacette took the lead within a furlong of
the start and was never afterwards troubled.
The protest, according to Brennan, was petty
in the extreme and lodged in spite.
“Didn’t you swing in on my horse when
he was making a run inside you near the
turn of the straight?” Duggan demanded.
Almost it was on the tip of Herb’s tongue
to reply that he had the running and the
right of the track, that he had not at any
time exceeded his right, and that Duggan
should go and play marbles if he didn’t know
the rules governing racing. Instead, the
slow light of understanding gleamed in the
jockey’s eyes and he shuffled and hedged.
Unwillingly he admitted he had pulled in
on a horse which was sneaking up inside
him, though he did not know it was Toeball,
and he explained, with some circumlocution,
that in the heat of a winning ride a man
was apt to do things like that. Still, he
really didn’t interfere with Toeball’s chance,
he pleaded, as the little mare held the horse
safe all the way.
Duggan and Brennan were dismissed while
the stewards considered the case. It was
a foregone conclusion, as all knew, and even
while the parties to the dispute were walking
to the bar to drown their differences for
the time being, the-“ Protest dismissed” signal
went up and the bell fang.
“I think it’s time you and me knocked off
sparring against one another, Bert,” Duggan
commenced in a conciliatory tone. “I
couldn’t have won with Toeball, as you
know. But you and me’ve been potting one
another so long I couldn’t help slipping one
in on you. We ought to be able to work
together. I’m doing the meetings from here
round to Oharleville. It’s a three-months’
run. How about coming with me? What’ll
you have?”
“Whisky,” said Herbert.
“I’ll pay Lilacette,” the books shouted.
“I’ll pay Lilacette. Pay Lilacette and bet
on the next. Pay Lilacette and evens the
field for the Welter.”
Brennan saw no more of Duggan, and Dug-
gan, with no desire to re-seal the new-made
truce with more whisky, saw to it that he
did not see Brennan.
Thus MacDonald, in addition to the
responsibilities of a trainer, had thrust upon
him the care of a successful jockey whose
longings were expressed in one word of
two syllables. But he landed his charges,
including his jockey, at the course in good
order for the second day’s racing.
“I’m not too shook on her chance, Bert,”
he explained, when saddling Lilacette for
the big race, the Mitchell Handicap. “The
mile’s just a few hundred yards too far for
hex-, and that seven-pound penalty makes a
big difference to a little thing like this. She’s
got a chance—just a chance. But don’t you
sink more than a couple of quid on her.”
“Put this couple o’ quid on for me, Mac,”
Brennan requested, handing over two notes.
“I’ll chance that much.”
“Where’s the rest of your money?”
MacDonald demanded.
“I give it to the Rat. I owed him a
few quid, an’ I squared up while I had it.”
“I saw the Rat in the ring a bit ago.
He was backing Toeball—rather, he was
asking the price and taking an odd bet..
What’s Toeball’s chance, Bert?”
“You seen what the little mare done with
him yesterday, didn’t you? That protest was
like two bulls fightin’—all bellow an’ wind.
Duggy wanted to slip one in on me, an’ he
don’t care how he does it. What they callin’
now ?’’
Brennan smiled and rode out on the track.
He did his preliminary and took his place
at the barrier almost directly in front of the
grandstand and ring. From there the calling
of the odds came to him.
“Three to one One 'Time. Six to one
Parsifal. Eight to one Backstop. Even
money Toeball. Three to one Lilacette and
even money Toeball.”
Bert smiled again, straightened his mount
from half side-on with a swing, and as the
mare was in movement and on her toes in
readiness the barrier rose.
Lilacette, quickest to find her feet, lay
in the lead for a few hundred yards while
her jockey selected his position. Then she
dropped back and others took up the running.
The field streamed along the back, made play
to the turn and swung into the straight.
“Lilacette!” the crowd shouted its joy.
‘‘Como on, One Time! Parsifal! Backstop !
One Time! Lilacette! Lil—Toeball! Come
on, Toeball! Toeball! Toeball!”
By three lengths, hard held, Toeball led
past the winning post.
Some there were who cheered, some who
said nothing and looked glum, and there were
a number who hissed and swelled that sibi-
lation to a groaning hoot. The full-mouthed
pack, ever ready to take sides against s»nv'-
body and snap at something—they were
mainly the half-crown bettors, the urgers and
touts—gave voice.
“Out him! Disqualify him! What price
Ned Kelly? Out him! Disqualify him!”
Through the babel of jeering and cheering
men and women Toeball returned to scale.
“Weight,” said the clerk.
For a moment the secretary hesitated.
Then he signalled two of the stewards and
committee.
“We’d better have some sort of an inquiry,”
he Avliispered. “It’s in and out running.
But we must take note of Duggan’s protest
of interference yesterday. We’ll hoist the
Enquiry board and hold a bit of a meeting.
What d’you think?”
The stewards hastily gathered in the com-
mittee room while the crowd outside surged
and shouted advice.
Duggan was called. He reiterated his
statements of yesterday. He was out to
win, and, in his opinion, would have won
hut for the interference which Brennan
admitted- 1 . His protest was dismissed yester-
day. _ Here was proof of the worthiness
of his allegations. Some people might
consider he had stiffened his liorse yester-
day to make a good market for him to-day.
Mr. Duggan refused to think that the mem-
bers of the committee had minds of that
sort. Toeball had come, to the meeting to
win the double. That he couldn’t do so
was solely due to the luck of the game.
Brennan admitted pulling-in and blocking
him yesterday—which the stewards con-
sidered he had a perfect right to do —and
which action had cost Duggan about thirty
pounds in straight-out bets, besides a fair
bit in double money. He had backed his
horse to win to-day—certainly he had,
though someone else had taken the cream
of the .betting before he began to operate).
Brennan was called again, and did nothing
more than repeat his previous statement and
ask the stewards’ clemency. Again he was
assured he was perfectly right in doing as
lie did, as a jockey of his experience should
know, and then lie was dismissed.
For a few minutes the stewards sat and
said nothing. They finished their cigarettes
and rose from their chairs while the crowd
outside, turbulent and impatient, waited their
finding.
The bell rang and the “AH right” signal
was hoisted.
Mingled cheers and groans greeted it.
Some tore up betting-tickets which they had
kept in fond hope of a disqualification;
others hastened to the ring where the books
were shouting their willingness to pay Toe-
ball. Othei-- horses were saddled, other bets
were made, and the Toeball incident was
forgotten.
That night, after stabling-down his horses,
Duggan paid a farewell visit to the Sports l
man’s Arms. In the back yard he stumbled
over a figure lying near the woodheap.
“Get to blazes out of this!” he snarled.
“Hulloa, Duggy,” a cheerful voice greeted
him. “That you, eh?”
“Brennan, you drunken sot,” Duggan ex-
claimed in disgust. “I ought to’ve knowm
it was you.”
“Have a good time, Duggy?” Herb asked
casually as he staggered to liis feet. “Won
a lot of money, eh? Poor old Brennie’s the
mug—you slipped one in on ’im when he
wasn’t lookin’, eh? Protest against Brennie,
eh ? Toeball wasn’t near me! I seen Toe-
ball ! Clarkic was pullin' his head off! Oh,
it’s a great joke you slipped in on poor old
Brennie! But don’t matter, Duggy. Bren
nie’s got whips o’ money now r . Come an’
have a drink with Brennie.”
“Wbere’d you get the money?” Duggan
asked sharply. “You won a few quid on
Lilacette. But that wasn’t enough to make
you talk. Wherc’d you got the rest of it?”
“Brennie’s a mug,” Herbert replied with
drunken gravity. “He don’t know a joke
when one's bein’ put on ’im. I never went
near Toeball. But when you tried to pot me
I seen your game. You was usin’ me to
clear things for yourself. So what I wmn on
Lilacette I give the Rat to invest for me.
An’ I got Jerry Scanlan —he’s the big punter
o’ this town —an’ worked him to do a bit for
me. I tried to borrow some, too, but me name
ain’t good enough to stand the weight xd
money. But it didn’t matter. What me
an’ the Rat put together, an’ the pile Jerry
swung in, was enough to do for us. We got
in early an’ took all the best there was.
An’ we put every penny of it on Toeball!”
Sonnet.
ẃ
N.S.W.
RONALD MCCAIG.
Magic Windows.
Just because the mood was on me,
And spring’s urge was in the air,
Yestermorn I turned my feet
From a many-windowed street
Stored with fabrics, rich and rare.
Gliding over shining waters
Rippled by a nor’-east breeze
Breathing warmth and gentleness,
In a golden hour or less
Came I to a place of trees.
There alone and yet not lonesome,
Feeling all at ease with all,
While gold lights about me played
Down long avenues I strayed
Under arching trees and tall.
Just where’er my mood would have it,
Hither, thither, did I roam,
Careless of the passing hours,
Knowing that among the flowers
And the birds I was at home.
Looking into magic windows,
Dressed by spring for man's delight,
I beheld, while joy was mine,
Wares of wondrous make and fine,
Many-patterned, lustred bright.
There I gazed on lace-like frondage
In the morning breeze astir ;
There, with pearly drops still dewed,
Swaying to and fro, I viewed
Webs of filmy gossamer.
Far and near with flower and plumage
Were those magic windows dressed ;
Now boronian pinks they showed,
Now, through wattle-gold that glowed,
Gleamed a parrot’s crimson breast.
Gazing through those magic windows
I beheld behind them floors
Carpete.d with living green,
And, with flower and fern between,
Arched and pillared corridors.
Wonders such as these beholding,
Hearkening bird-melodies,
Under skies of cloudless blue
Yesterday, the whole day through,
Strolled I in a place of trees.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Ranking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. -. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUiH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. ~ .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000 •
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone XSIB7.
G. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc,
Visit
Pacific
Isles!
SYDNEY SAILING DATES.
SYDNEY SAILING DATES
To Honolulu.
Aorangi, Nov. I£>. Niagara, Dec. 13.
Aorangi, Jan. 10. Niagara, Feb. 7.
To Tahiti.
Tahiti, Nov. 29. Makura, Dec. 27.
Tahiti, Jan. 24. Makura, Feb. 21.
ZJ
m
Special
Holiday
Excursions
Honolulu is brought within
easy reach of Sydney— at
the cost of a city holiday—by the
Canadian-Australasian Excursions,
£75 (First Return), £5 5 (Second) .
The magnificent liners Aorangi,
1 7,490 tons, and Niagara, 1 3,4 1 5
tons, offer an ocean holiday, call-
ing at Auckland and Suva.
Tahiti, embracing Raratonga and
Papeete, is a delightful alternative,
the round trip costing only £55
and £4O. This holiday tour is
made by the favorite Union
Liners, Tahiti and Makura.
Literature of either excursion from
Union Steam Ship Company
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
■
■
wmam
9/9
m
ill
at
M
mm
wK
At
Attractive Trips of from 8% to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP &> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
Janies Burns, Esq.
General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Office—finnree Street. T.nndon Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 3.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman) • Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Blanches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
ORUNGAL
BOMBALA
(Bris. only).
KANOWNA
ORMISTON
BOMBALA
(Bris. only).
CANBERRA
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
68 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
Howard Smith Ltd.
58 Margaret St.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afteinoon.
Both vessels fitted -with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office;
TOURIST BUREAU, CHAULIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LIE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship <
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailing*
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
ColiinsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Life Savers
ŵ
Water Can’t Wet
Your Matches
if you carry Mar
ble’s Match Box.
Only big as io-
gauge shell, made of
seamless brass nickeled.
Rubber gasket in cover
makes it wholly moisture-
proof. Can’t lose cover.
50 cents—may save your
life sometime.
Can’t Lose This
Trusty Compass
vvaterpioof screw case.
Double safety pin bracket—•
snaps on coat or belt TO
STAY. Won’t mislead, and
may save your getting lost.
This "Ideal” Knife
made of GOOD steel, handy In
shape, great for sticking, skin*
ning, or camp use. Light and com-
pact but hugely strong. Blades 5 to 8 in.
Marbles
Famous Safety Axe
Fits the pocket yet will fell an 8-inch
tree in five minutes. Lead-lined spring-
hinge guard precludes accidents. Staunch,
keen-edged and invaluable to campers.
These are 4 of 60 Marble Specialties you
should own, including Marble’s Great
Game Getter Gun. Drop in and see them,
or order now and your money back if
dissatisfied. 84-E
Write for illustrated catalog. Sent postpaid.
MARBLE ARMS & MFG. COMPANY
611 Delta Ave., Gladstone, Mich., U.S.A.
Representatives : Moklen, Weber & Co., Ltd,
Box 1349 J, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bi
ẁ
ẃ
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


ssri
o
%
\
L
x
: # r
Id
c
l
)V
\Q
Mr.
H. 0. WRIGHT.
“In gratitude / am
writing these jew lines to
inform you of the benefit
l have derived from the
use of Rexona Ointment.
“Recently I was spending
a holiday at Ballarat and
on my return to clerical
duties in Melbourne was
surprised and annoyed to
find a boil on my right
cheek. It continued to
swell and, though painless,
was embarrassing in its
unsightliness. I have been
unable to discover the
origin of the eruption but
was eager for it to dis-
appear. Instead of diminish-
ing, however, it increased
in size, hence I decided
prompt action was neces-
sary. I first applied bread
poultices and then Rexona
dressings, and I am pleased
to say the trouble soo>i
subsided. The boil was
obliterated almost im-
mediately and nothing re-
mains.’’
(Sgd.) Mr. HENRY Q.
WRIOIIT,
80 Ford Street,
Ivanhoe, Vic.
All Australia Uses
Rexona—the Rapid Healer
Never a day passes but that Rexona scores another triumph over those serious troubles of
life—Boils, Sores, Bad Legs, Piles, Eczema, Pimples, Blotches, Burns, Nasal Catarrh, and Rheu-
matism. The dainty little triangular pot of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, contains a combina-
tion of the most curative, antiseptic, soothing and healing properties known to science.
Rexona is the Skin Remedy of the Age, because it destroys the harmful germs that may
be present in a sore, pimple, or any abrasion of the skin, thus preventing any contagion of
the blood, and at the same time causes a new, healthy skin to grow. Rexona immediately
reduces the inflammation and pain ; it acts as a distinct stimulant to the pores of the skin,
and sets up a healing action immediately that increases day by day.
Bad leg-sores that have resisted every
other treatment succumb almost immediately to
its wonderful influence, while for Piles there is
nothing its equal. Rexona, the Rapid Healer,
sold only in Triangular Pots, at 1/G and 3/-.
K&xenci
Jhe Rapid
ftealer
A MEDICINE CHEST
IN ITSELF
14.
v; Ointment
LCD
.V
- Healing
Oijrni« -f Absolutely \&
st. Heals’ Reliable
\
%
□2
sma
' A rcclioble healer for all tropfions
and Irritations of fhc skm. Eczema Sore* Cuts.
Burns Bruises. Sores. Sciatica. Piles Stings of Insects
ond all Umds of Inflammalion
%REXONA DEP.VSHELDON DRUG CO L'PSVDNE^'
THE TRIANGULAR BOV
I
"m
Say it with Hillierfc/
Tbsted die day they are made
zJ/i£ famznjs
Red Box oP
Ghocolales
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
n /)n. 162-166 Pitt Stiveet
r* uifilueSL s y~t> n e y~*
ADDRESS -
" yLfl X
PR.ICES
546. 6/ 10/, 12/6.
20/ amcL 30/
ẅ
/(PATON)
A half-crazy skeleton of an old man,
naked but for the ashes of a camp-fire in
which he had been sitting and a hair string
with tassel dangling round his middle, down
and wild-turkey feathers stuck through his
hair, eyes as bright and glittering as a
hawk’s, he hopped up to the camp; and
everybody got out of his way. Everybody
except Coonardoo, and she, standing beside
her man, watched him with an unmoving
quiet gaze.
Hugh had told Winni and Chitali to let
him know as soon as the moppin-garra
arrived. He went down to the camp when
Winni told him Munga had come, to find
the old man crouched beside Warieda.
“Make him better, you understand,” Hugh
said sternly. “Warieda not die. What do
you mean scaring the life out of my mail?
I’d rather lose anything on the place than
Warieda.”
The moppin-garra, his lean snake-wood
legs twisted under him, leaned over Warieda,
muttering, making a queer clicking noise
deep in his throat, taking no notice of
Hugh. His eyes glittered, a crazy, malicious
smile writhing and twisting in and out of
his face.
“Tell him,” Hugh said to old Joey, trying
another tactic, “I’ll give him rugs and
nammery, a pipe and new hat—any damn
thing he likes—if he’ll take the bulya out
of Warieda.”
The moppin sat beside his patient; he
shook his head, signifying that nothing was
to be done. Warieda was to die. He was
a crazy old brute, Hugh decided, who had
seen men die in this way before, and rather
liked to see them die as evidence of his
power.
Ordinarily he would be sprawling all over
a sick man, kneading and scrabbling him
with frenzied fingers, then, putting his
mouth to the body, would suck out the
poison, spitting for everybody’s amazement
such a collection of rubbish—sticks, gravel,
chewed bark—that exclamations of horror
WARIEDA
and amazement went up. A bone or a
stone, exhibited gleefully as cause of the
illness, w r ould be presented to the sufferer,
who usually responded immediately to the
suggestion that he was going to be quite
well now.
Finding Munga was not trying any of his
tricks on Warieda, Hugh chased Munga out
of the camp, promising he would shoot him
if ever he found him pointing a bone at
any Wytaliba folk again. Old Joey and
Bandogera did not like this treatment of
the moppin, but they were too overcome at
the disaster which had overwhelmed the
camp to do more than mutter their depreca-
tion.
Hugh sent Coonardoo for whisky and
tried to make Warieda believe that old
Munga was no moppin-garra, really. Know-
ing it was forbidden for a moppin to eat
anything hot, Hugh swore he had seen
Munga eating hot meat and drinking hot
tea the gins gave him. His magic had left
him, therefore.
Warieda smiled faintly. “Liar, Youie,”
he said.
“You tell the old blackguard to go Hell,
Warri,” Hugh begged, “like Mumae did
when he wanted to throw water over Coon-
ardoo that time she had pneumonia—vou
remember, long time ago? ‘Throw water
over ’m; put the fire out!’ he said. And
Mumae wouldn’t let him. Coonardoo get
well. I make you well.”
But there was no moving Warieda’s mind.
He had been willed to die by rite and
magic; believed it inevitable that he should
die. And die he did, within a few weeks
of the moppin’s movement against him.
When the uloo wailed at dawn, there
was no one who, in his own soul, wailed
more than Hugh. Boy and man, Warieda
had stood by him. Warri had been his right-
hand man.. There was no on& like him
with horses in the whole countryside. Chitali,
probably, was a better tracker, better with
cattle. But Warieda, who made songs which
Coonardoo said the jinki told him; Warieda
who understood and talked like a white
man—Hush was going to miss him as much
as anybody.
It was a shock, too, that this trick of
the moppin-garra could have got Warieda.
Hugh thought Warieda had absorbed white
men’s ideas and -ways too much for “boning”
to affect him. Yet his superstitious fear
went, so deep, it had annihilated him. Hugh
knew, of course, that a black ordinarily
would succumb to a “boning.” But Warieda
—it seemed unbelievable he could be done
to death by a crazy old loon pointing a
bone at him.
The mourning for Warieda lasted for
weeks. Before every dawn Hugh could hear
Coonardoo, Winni and Meenie crying and
howling. But every morning Coonardoo
brought in tea, made porridge, cooked, and,
with Meenie, washed and Swept as usual.
Majestic and silent, she moved about, not
looking at Hugh unless he spoke to her, her
face a mask of sorrow; he had no doubt
that under her gina-gina her body bore the
gashes made by sharp stones as a mark of
grief for her man.
In the camp she would live silent and
retired for weeks as a widow; Meenie
also. Neither of them, as far as Hugh
knew, plastered their hair with mud or
whitened their faces. At the house they
went about their day’s work much as they
always did.
Coonardoo? Hugh wondered what would
happen to her. He knew Warieda’s brother,
who was one of Geary’s boys, was entitled
to claim her. He did not intend to sur-
render Coonardoo. Or Meenie, for that
matter. But Meenie was old now. It was
not, likely she would be sought or demanded.
Before he went back to the well where
Mick and Wanna were holding beasts they
had mustered, Hugh called Coonardoo and
gave her the keys of the store-room.
There was nothing for it, Hugh realised,
if she was not to go to Nuniewarra; if
Warieda’s brother was not to demand her
and pass her on to Sam Geary, he must
claim her himself.
“You will be my woman now, Coonardoo,”
Hugh said. “Sleep in the room at the end
of the verandah. Winni can go to the
buggy-shed.”
“Eeh-mm,” Coonardoo replied, quietly.
A few weeks later Warieda’s brother
claimed Coonardoo; and he left Wytaliba
with the gifts Hugh had made him, a horse
and pair of boots, a hat and silver-mounted
pipe-
Sam Geary, hearing that Coonardoo was
established in the homestead, came to call
on Hugh, to congratulate and crow over
him.
“Oh, go to the devil!” Hugh muttered.
“Come and have a drink.”
Coonardoo lived on the homestead ver-
andah at Wytaliba and was regarded as
Hugh’s woman. Only she could not imagine
why Hugh did not call her to him. She
watched and waited, knowing his loneliness,
the deep surge of his drawing to her.
Sheer cussedness, Hugh thought, deterred
him from doing what everybody expected
him to. A sullen anger grew in her eyes
because of it. She had come one hot, night
and laid her head on his feet, and Youie
had pushed her away. She did not under-
stand it. Hunger was in his eyes when he
looked at her; he did not wish her to go
away, and yet he moved away if she stood
near him.
He was kind to her; gave her the keys of
the store, and gina-ginas of bright new
dungaree. His eyes lighted as he sang out,
coming in from the back hills, or Karrara,
“Hi, Coonardoo! Coonardoo! Anybody
at home there?” And always her dark
quiet figure appeared from the shade of the
white flowering bushes, or on the kitchen
verandah, with eyes which shone their wel-
come. “Eeh-mm!” No surprise; no ela-
tion. Only the deep eyes and that murmur
with its flowing joyousness.
Next year Wytaliba missed the rain. Hugh
watched the thunderstorms working behind
Nungarra hills; they flashed along the
ranges, swept west to Nuniewarra, beating
along the horizon. Scarcely a shower to
lay the dust fell on Wytaliba. Sometimes
the ranges caught a few points when not a
drop fell on the plains.
Dust storms blew up, dark and threaten-
ing. Nobody complained. Hugh held him-
self with a tense insistence, praying w r ith
‘every instinct for the rain which sometimes
followed a dust storm. But again and again
the dust passed, moving in columns like
smoke along the creek-bed and towards
the river.
Hugh himself became gaunt as his beasts;
his eyes were bloodshot with the stinging
dust. His brain surged, sun-stricken, and
would not sleep. Sam Geary and Billy Gale
—whom he had taken on as head stockman
—finding Hugh almost insane on the roads,
hauled him over to their camp.
“Look here, me boy,” Sam said, “you’ve
got to let go somewhere. I know this
country. You’ve got to get drunk and
blot out, or you’ll go mad on it.”
Hugh drank their whisky and emerged
from oblivion with a sense of relaxation.
He believed, as Geary said:
“You can only weather this country, you
can only beat it, on its own terms. ‘ Serve
for it like Jacob served for Rachel. Wait
for her—seven years, if need be. If you’re
too hard on yourself, too strenuous you
won’t stay the distance.”
In order to fight the drought, Hugh had
to increase his overdraft; there was nothing
to do but sink more wells and keep those
(Continued on next page.)


dk
S?
m
Wm
-o*
r
“■Gvery picture
Veils a Story*
Comfort Old Age
by keeping the kidneys active
MUCH CAN BE DONE to comfort old people, for
backache, urinary disorders, sciatica, lumbago,
rheumatism, gravel and inflammation of the bladder are
too often suffered unnecessarily. The kidneys, pro-
bably, are the weak spot. They need the special
strengthening help of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This kidney stimulant makes the kidneys active; it
strengthens them and helps them keep the blood pure,
thereby preventing, as well as relieving, the symptoms of kidney disorder. Don’t run serious risks! No
matter what your age may be, an occasional course of Doan’s Pills will prove helpful. Doan’s act on the
kidneys; they do not affect the liver, the stomach or the bowels.
INTERESTING SYDNEY
EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
A MAN’S CASE,
Mrs. Pullbrook, sen., 42 May Street, St. Peters, Sydney, says: “For
six or seven years I was troubled with weak and disordered kidneys. Jhe
chief symptom was backache, and the pain I suffered was awful. When I
stooped the agony in standing up again was almost unbearable, and 1 olten
had to get someone to help me. Nothing I took seemed to relieve the pain,
and I used to wonder if I should ever be well, again. One day I was urged
by a friend to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it was a real friend s
advice, for a few bottles completely cured me. My experience proves that
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a genuine remedy, and I sincerely trust
that other sufferers will benefit by my experience and take these splendid
pills.’’
Fourteen years later Mrs. Pullbrook says: “I am still a great believer
in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills and would not like to be without them.
They are invaluable to the kidney sufferer.”
Mr. B. Preston, “Elsinor,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, says: “In con-
sequence of a cold settling on my kidneys I was almost crippled with back-
ache. My back ached terribly and every movement seemed to make the pain
more acute. My rest at night was disturbed, no position being comfortable
for long, and during the day I was tired and weary. The kidney secretions
were disordered, being thick and cloudy. My wife, who had taken Doan s
Backache Kidney Pills some time previously, with very beneficial results,
advised me to give the remedy a trial. I acted on her advice and am very
glad I did, for three bottles of the pills cured me completely. I feel splendid
now and have only Doan’s Pills to thank for my freedom from backache
and kidney trouble.”
Two years later Mr. Preston says: “I am still well and have not been
troubled with my kidneys since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
w
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers.
Foster-McClellan Co., Pro-
prietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
he had in good working order if he was
to beat the dry years. The banks had taken
over Illigoogee and Ivarrara Downs; Jim
Hyland was working as manager on his own
place. But “one good season will compen-
sate for seven bad years,’ Hugh assured him-
self, hanging to the Nor’-Wester’s article of
faith.
That the argument was sound he never
doubted. He had seen country bone-dry
for years flourish green as river flats after
two or three seasons of decent rainfall, re-
stock and throw off any “monkey” the
banks had on it. You needed faith in the
country and courage to hang on, that was all.
He had the faith, Hugh told himself.
Wytaliba was worth waiting for. He would
hang on; there was nothing else to do. Ho
could not keep up the fight at the pressure
he had been putting on himself, though; he
relaxed and made a habit of drinking off a
depression when the outlook was too bad.
So for seven years he lived and worked on
Wytaliba, with Chitali, Wanna, Mick and
Winni, who mustered and droved with
him; Coonardoo and Meenie, who looked
after the homestead, cooked, sewed, washed
and kept the place in order. Ben Alsop
stayed a few days when he arrived with a
loading, and Cock-eyed Bob came in now
and then. Hugh met other white men at
tL* sales in Karrara and Roebourne, or
during station musters. For the rest, his
life swung between the homestead and
cattle camps on the plains or in the ranges.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Mellow garish light was on the plains;
the jasper wall of the ridge had mists the
color of feathers on a blue pigeon’s wings.
Coonardoo coming down from the little
well, a smoke-blackened kerosene bucket
of water on her head, stopped suddenly,
and glanced behind her as though someone
had called.
Tall and straight in her blue gina-gina,
dark as the hills behind her, she stood
listening.
“Car coinin’!” she called.
Hugh rose from the chair on the verandah
in which he had been stretching and looked
out across the plains. He heard the distant
hum and bluster of a car; its rattle and
burr as it crossed the creek stones, two
miles away, climbed the opposite bank and
turned towards the homestead.
Children from the uloo were running out
to open the lower gate. As the car swung
in, Coonardoo knew it was not Sheba
driving; nor was Geary in the car. Hugh
himself exclaimed.
The car, heavy with dust and wayworn,
rocked over the pebbles. A woman wgs
driving. When it came to a standstill before
the verandah, Hugh went down to meet her,
and to his surprise and consternation a
girl looked out to him.
“Give vou three/’ she cried, as he stood
before her, “and you won’t guess who I
am.”
She jumped out of the car, hatless, a
fawny-grey dust coat over a dress the same
color. Hugh glimpsed naked-looking, silken-
clad legs and a short frock. There was a
suitcase in the car. She had come to stay,
no doubt. Her black hair was straight and
cut like a boy’s; she had greyish-green eyes;
there was something vaguely familiar about
her mouth and jaw.
“Phyllis!” It was Coonardoo who uttered
the little cry; and the girl turned to her.
Standing at a little distance from Hugh,
Coonardoo’s eyes were filled with joy.
“Coonardoo!” Phyllis cried. “Of course
you would know.”
She went up. to Hugh, put her arms round
his neck, and kissed him. “I’ve come to
stay with you, Youie! Bolted? Yes. All
by myself. How many thousand miles is
it from Perth? Thought I’d never get here.
Was bogged on the Gascoyne. But, Lord, I
wouldn’t have missed it for worlds. It’s
been great fun; everybody’s been so kind
telling me the tracks, and I smelt my way
along from Nuniewarra. Every inch of the
road was familiar. Felt I knew it all the
time.”
“Phyllis! Phyllis!” Hugh murmured, un-
able to accustom himself to the idea that
this was his daughter, this pretty young
thing who had, if she was to be believed,
motored over a thousand miles to see him.
“A cup of tea would save my life,”
Phyllis told Coonardoo.
Coonardoo turned and went back to the
house. Putting her arm through Hugh’s,
Phyllis steered him to the verandah, flopped
into one of the bag chairs there, felt in the
pocket of her coat for a cigarette case and
took out a cigarette, while Hugh gazed at
her, too bewildered to offer a match. She
lit up, crossed her legs and smiled up at him.
“There, that’s how it’s done, you darling,”
she said. “If you want to see a parent-
bird you haven’t seen for years and are
rather devoted to, nick a car, and—make
your own arrangements. Say you’re glad
to see me. I don’t believe you are, but”
“My dear, you know you can’t stay here?”
“Why not?”
“Oh well”—Hugh hesitated—“of course
they’ve told you the sort of old blackguard
I am. Live here with a gin—all that sort
of thing.”
“Do you?”
Phyllis looked him over, her young eyes
reading more than anyone else had seen in
Hugh’s—an obscure principle for which he
was immolating himself. She found some-
thing heroic and absurd in him; in his
stoutish figure, round pink face and greying
hair. Stupid and sentimental she thought
he might be, but altogether lovable in Ins
humility and stand-offishness.
“Wytaliba’s not a fit place for a young
girl these days.” There was bitterness in
the slow gentleness of Hugh’s voice.
“You think it’s fitter down there?” Phyllis
asked. “I’m fed up with it all, Daddy. You
don’t know how fed up. I really can’t stand
it any longer being cooped among houses,
your eyes full of walls, walls and walls.
I’ve ached to be home again. I’m sick for
Wytaliba.”
What queer happy dream was it, Hugh
wondered, to hear his girl talking like this?
As she lay back in the chair she looked,
as she said, as if she had been sick for the
country. Her eyes, wandering over the
plains, took in their vastness, the silence,
with an expression he understood.
“I’ve always wanted to come back. You
don’t know how I’ve wanted to come back.
I love being here.”
“Yes.” Hugh remembered her spirit.
“Mum wouldn’t let me come. She likes
living in town, of course. So do the girls.
And you didn’t answer my letters, so I just
saved all the money I could get hold of for
petrol and repairs—and here I am.”
“By God!” Hugh gazed at her admiringly.
“Sent Mum a wire to say I’d taken the
loan of her car to come and see you.”
Phyllis went on smiling. “You see, Dad,
it was the only way. You don’t know how
awful it is tracking round with her these
days.”
Hugh smiled his sympathy and amuse-
ment.
“Five of us, and Mum always trying to
marry us off—me particularly. And I won’t
be married off. I loathe every young man
she trots along and is nice to. If a man
speaks to me, she’s so nice to him I could
kill him, I hate him so. The married men
aren’t so bad. I can bear them because
they don’t think you want to marry them.
I get on with them well enough—too well,
that’s the worst of it.”
Phyllis knocked the ash end from her
cigarette, doubting whether to go further in
this confidence.
“Your mother’s rather a social success, I
understand?” Hugh’s eyes had a quizzical
gleam.
“She’s on every charity ball committee,”
Phyllis told him. “We hang round Govern-
ment House, cadge race tickets and theatre
passes, dance, play bridge, tennis, golf.
Cora makes her own frocks, and ours some-
times. She’s nretty; everybody likes her.
But I can’t sew —am damned useless in
the whole business, Dad. It makes me mad
to play bridge in the afternoon. I smoke
myself sick, lose my money, and when Garry
Macquarrie suggests a sail on the river, or
out to the islands, I’m so grateful.”
“Garry Macquarrie?” Hugh tried to
remember and associate the name.
Ever hear if him?”
“Garath Macquarrie? I’ve heard ot nim
all right.” . , .
The reputed millionaire, owner of a string
of popular stores, a racing stable and con-
siderable interests in mining properties, had
recently been divorced by his wife on sen-
sational evidence. ,
“Oh yes,” Phyllis exclaimed lightly,
“Garath Macquarrie! I’ve been getting my-
self ‘talked about,’ as they say, with him.
Garry’s such a damned fascinating man.
Oh well, the end was in sight, old dear,
when a girl I know rather well”
Hugh was looking so pained and uncom-
fortable that Phyllis faltered. It was funny
to feel so sorry for him. She laughed; the
flow of her confidence veered inconclusively.
“She told a few tales about Garry—and
here I am!” She hesitated; then went on.
“I’ve always thought of you as more like
a decent sort of elder brother than a father
—I ought to have been a boy really. I
hate this female sort of life so. Let me
knock round with you?”
Hugh felt a host of new and tender senti-
ments stirring.
“You could” he began.
“I couldn’t,” Phyllis interrupted, “stay m
at the house and look after the cooking. I
want to be out and away with you. Do you
remember the times you took me out camp-
ing in the To-morrow? I’m as strong as a
bullock really. If I were a boy you’d let
me. And I ought to have been your eldest
son.”
“There’s Winni,” Hugh said.
“Oh yes.” The thought did not disturb
Phyllis. “Well, won’t you do as much for
me as you do for him? He goes every-
where with you, they tell me. Let me knock
round like that. Forget I’m a girl. How
would you have liked it if grandmother had
wanted you to stay in Perth, go to the
uni., be a lawyer or doctor or something?”
“I wouldn’t have stayed.”
“Well, I won’t.”
In the silence between them the wind-
mills clanked. Phyllis could hear water
gushing into troughs beside the outer fence
where horses and cattle came to drink. A
flock of white cockatoos rose from a patch
of earth beyond the garden fence, wheeled,
the flakes of their white wings sequinned and
glittering against the twilight sky as they
flew to roost in one of the creek gums.
“There she is!” Phyllis rose, looking
after the white cockatoos. “If you knew
how I love them! Do you know what
Mum says?”
Hugh waited for her to go on.
Phyllis played her trump card. “I get
all this hankering after Wytaliba; after the
life here, from her.”
(To be continued .)


'I
Site?''
ss s “ s " ,
, ' V* . JBk
l 1 B !«&
■■;W
% jmmjWMj'irW *
■
L-2
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
£nsure minimum wear— ■
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES S CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Olflte—l)3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington^
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
V.'ctorian Olllce —“Chancery House/’ 485
South Australian Agent*: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH ft CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns -before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart,
SYDNEY OFFICE: F, L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24$ inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16$ pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all intet-State agances of
Messr.s. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street,. Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNO ON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
*
Full information,
Centre
The
of
ress
a n
HP • i
1 as mam a s
Prosperity.
‘‘THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner/’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne. '
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:-
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone 81522.
w
pm
More often than not the cause of
indigestion is faulty functioning of
the digestive organs, brought on by
constipation. Failure of the bowels
to act properly results in poison
accumulating in the system, which
upsets the stomach and give rise
to indigestion, headaches, bilious-
ness, loss of energy and appetite.
These are danger signals, and should
be followed by immediate action
before the complaint becomes
chronic and dangerous.
fake Beecham’s Pills—the remedy used
the world over to correct constipation,
sluggish liver and indigestion. They
tone and strengthen the stomach, liver
and bowels and bestow vitality, fitness
and health on all who take them.
Get a box and start a course to-day.
Worth a Guinea a box
ŵ
To secure the best of health and to be free
from Constipation, Sicfy Headache, Biliousness,
Indigestion, Flatulence, Torpid Liver and Dis-
ordered Stomach —fa£e
BEECHAM'S PILLS.
PERFORMANCE
Exceptional performance
under trying conditions has
proved conclusively that
dependability and economy
are built-in features of all
Kermath Engines. That
is why over 70% of all lead-
ing boat-builders use Ker-
math-Kermath is supreme.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U. S. A.
Her met h
MARINE ENGINES
/Mk?6w
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guai-anteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
i2a
ẁ
ẃ
s®
.p°°
G°^
2,\o 6 . 6> ,••••"
«f>l* .A®
T ...*•
S'^'i
#*•
s
s®
■ • X Af
#«><r AT
••** ' v V W v i


e Victory Six
-*r
if
r
Outperforms Every Motor Car
in its Price Class
You need not look far to ex-
plain the fact that Dodge
Brothers Victory Six out-
performs every motor car in
its price class.
The reason is an engine of
amazing flexibility and per-
formance, delivering more
powe 3 ;per pound of car
weigh* than any car in its
class.
This nishing flexibility
and performance is made
safe and practical in the
Victory by the quality of
Dodge Brothers materials,
the high character of Dodge
Brothers workmanship, and
the many new and advanced
features of Victory design.
Drive the Victory and you
will understand why this
unique Six is everywhere
proclaimed a Victory in
automotive engineering,
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville,
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
\muri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, W.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z.
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, tt.Z,
Newton King, Ltd. .. Hew Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. *. Wellington, 2).Z.
□ocee Brothers
MOTOR CARS
