

A
*2
<*>
Jb)
TJ
<*
I KM »7i! M
(Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Be ready for the days out-
of-doors—be ready for the
coming picnics and jaunts
and holidays. Be ready
with your Kodak to save
up all these happy days in
snapshot form,
For all their inexpensiveness and simplicity of opera-
tion, the Box Brownies are thoroughly capable. One
of these is just the thing for good pictures in the
easiest way at the smallest cost. Brownies are priced
from 11/3.
One of the latest model Pocket Kodaks will save
Springtime happiness for you with every “click” of
its efficient shutter. The No. 1 model makes pictures
2i x 3i inches—will give you good photographs from
the very first—and is splendid value at 54/6.
Another popular model is the No. la for pictures
2i x 41 inches. Price 60/»
Other Kodaks from 27/6. Ask for Catalogue.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
379 George Street and 108 Market Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, and 161 Swanston
Street, Melbourne.
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane, and The Valley.
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
Flinders Street, Townsville.
East Street, Rockhampton.
“The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The Bulletin
pf
/bacC ~~ (Z /dtbvy, 4w A&6itt
Vol. 49.—N0. 2539.
Wednesday, October 10, 1928.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-THE NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE for
* 1928 is now ready, and will be for
warded with full particulars and terms on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
df
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney Bclletix.
My Same
My Addrem
LYSAGHT
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
Macmillan’s
NEW NOVELS.
THE SILVER THORN.
A Book of Stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE.
| Immediately
A NEW NOVELIST.
THROUGH BEDS OF STONE.
A Novel. By M. L. HASKINS.
[Empire Library.
T.P.’h Weekly : “Rarely has the mental de-
velopment of a young gill of thoughtful dis-
position and idealistic: tendencies been described
with such charm and patient insight as in Miss
Hankins's first novel.’’
THE SPACIOUS ADVEN-
TURES OF THE MAN IN
THE STREET.
By EIMAR O’DUFFY, author of
"King Goshawk and the Birds.
[lmmediately
The adventures of Mr. Aloysius O’Kennedy,
a commonplace young man, in remote regions
of space, where he discovers a new world and
holds conversation with gods and devils. The
story is connected with “King Goshawk and
the Birds,” where O’gennedy is a minor
character, but these adventures of his soul form
an independent whole, which can be read for
itsdlf without any Acquaintance with the
previous work.
WHAT IS LOVE.
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[lmmediately
In this novel of modern society Miss Dela-
field describes what is perhaps the most elusive
and most evanescent emotion in life; that of
first love.
THE STORY OF KETH.
By LADY BLANCHE GIROUARD.
[lmmediately
It is only natural that the blend of poetry
and pungent native humor in this Irish phan-
tasy should recall the work of James Stephens,
but this is possibly both a compliment and an
injustice to the authoress, whose writing has
a beauty, directness and distinction of phrase
that are no borrowed attributes.
To bo Obtained from aii
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
m
Irgt
Empties with a
Thumb Pressure
There is no dirty, dusty bag to handle,
but instead a simple thumb pressure
drops the sweepings out on a paper or
wherever you wish to empty it.
And it is as simple to use—just run it
over the carpet —no wires, no compli-
cated mechanism.
Makes good sweeping easy.
Instantly ready for use.
Gets clinging litter.
Saves carpets.
Cost but little—and nothing to run.
Verily,a ball-bearing broom-on-whee!s
with its own long-handled dust pans.
Play size Bissells at trifling cost.
Sold by leading merchants everywhere.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
Export Dep’t—46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
nt*
g
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander and
“Sports Referee.”
Sure Death to Alt Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE”
The Non Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/* in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The Housefly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
Showing tM
rough hairs
body and
head and
lpgj, on
which
dfg
KILL
IiIAT FL¥
The Red Page
The Enemy of Art
Although women win prizes for writing
novels and also write the majority of books
that are published, there never has been
a time when the very greatest books were
written by women. Equally noticeable is
the fact that, though probably three girls
are taugjit music to every boy that is
taught it, the greatest musicians have
always been men; and very much the same
condition exists in the practice of the
plastic arts. As for such half-arts as philo-
sophy, theology, sociological speculation,
etc., the names of women among, practi-
tioners are gratifyingly rare. From these
facts shallow-minded males form judgment
to the effect that women are inferior to
men. The only evidence necessary to con-
fute this is a very clever man’s picture
of a very clever man engaged in the crea-
tion of a work of art (let us say a poem).
The poet is seen throbbingly enthralled
by the throes of a grand passion. He takes
the matter so very much to heart that he
dispenses, for the time being, with the use
of his head, and is alternately as miserable
as a hungry dog afflicted by mange, and as
happy as a lunatic obsessed by the illusion
that he is an Oriental potentate with an
extensive harem. As the benumbed mind
commences to function, however, there is
born in it the quaint notion that this pas-
sion is of such unique quality that a whole
race of men, as well as the progeny of
that race, even unto perpetuity, will be
interested in the details of the passion and
the particular manner in which it has
blinded the poor fool, warped his judg-
ment, and turned his whole life topsy-
turvy. Thereupon he commences to place
these details on record. But accurate
descriptive language does not satisfy his
tremendous egotism. He must exaggerate
even his illusions. Not content with be-
lieving the palpably untrue, he must assert
even more extravagant untruths than those
his befuddled mind has accepted, and he
must put them down in the pretentious
form of a lyric, spending hours polishing
his lines, amending his punctuation, alter-
ing the metaphoric language. Then he
must besiege a publisher, and very often
he pays to have these records of his aber-
rations bound in book form. The explana-
tion of the whole mad business, all fine art
included, is that the male portion of this
race is plagued with an incurable «ense of
self-importance that deludes each individual
into the belief that everything he does, feels
or thinks is of world-import.
No normal woman ever takes this game
with the seriousness needed to surpass at
it. She may like the game, and often does.
It probably fills in spare time quite plea-
santly, and in many instances it is found
to pay well. But a woman is more prac-
tical, less inevitably doomed to illusion-
ment, more clear-sighted in seeing through
the sham masks worn by the players. She
plays the game, but always realises that
it is a game only, and not the serious
business of life. Therefore, the artistic
outpourings of women never convey quite
the sublime folly of self-assumed divinity
required in great art. Woman is practical.
She either caters for the general public,
which is a sensible and profitable thing to
do, or she uses art as a means of inculcat-
ing into the mind of the populace the par-
ticular virtues and valuations that will be
of profit to her sex—for instance, love of
home, respect of women, the right of a
woman to do as she likes, the necessity
of allowing women to become the moral
arbiters of the race; each of which is very
sensible and has proved of great profit
to womankind.
Thus we find a Marie Corelli, an Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, a George Eliot using art
as a medium for tying the male of the
species a little more securely to the apron-
string; and the influence of these, along
with that of hundreds of lesser lights in
fiction, has proved so powerful that in many
communities, and particularly in the middle-
classes where such “literature” is taken in
solemn earnestness, men have been sub-
jected to an almost servile state, wench-
ridden from cradle to grave, their entire
outlook dominated by the influence of
“messages” retailed by women. On the
other hand, there is the vast army of Elinor
Glyns, Ethel Dells and so on to infinity
who, with perfect frankness, write to make
money, and make it. I envy them their
remarkable aptitude. They use what is
essentially a medium for entertainment for
no other purpose than to give entertain-
ment, and they receive their just reward.
Their work is not great art. It is pre-
eminently practical from the writer’s view-
point, and. in that sense, is typical of
womankind.
While man in his egotism soars, or at-
tempts to soar, towards stars of his own
imagining, woman tries to balance the
household account, and to keep him suffi-
eiently near earth to carry on the worka-
day world. That is why an artist should
never marry. His wife will see through his
hollow pretensions and will, in all likeli-
hood, eventually make him see through
them also. And as soon as a man com-
mences to see himself as the mean, squab-
bling, ridiculously strutting creature he in
reality is, his days as a serious artist are
over.
LESTER WAY.
A Hunt for Humor
A fair amount of time is spent by edu-
cationists, sub-cuitors, critics and others in
trying, directly or indirectly, to teach aspir-
ing writers to write clear, lucid English that
cannot be misunderstood. I would suggest
that there is also need on earth for some-
one who will teach readers to read clear,
lucid English with a little care and in-
telligence. I do not blame anyone who, like
E. M. Edwards (R.P. 26/9/’2B), mistakes
satire for serious statement; perhaps my
slating of that piffling book he referred to
should have been boldly labelled “This Is
a Joke.” But I can allow no such excuse
for Mr. Edwards when he reads into a per-
fectly clear statement of mine a wild notion
of his own. After asserting that the Aus-
tralian has humor in his fibre—which I re-
affirm here—l added (R.P. 22/8/’2B) that
the novel-story of to-day’s Australian that
ia without humor is to that extent untrue
to life.
I infer from Mr. Edwards’s article that
he saw in those remarks and in my com-
ment upon, the dearth of humor in the
manuscripts submitted for The Bulletin
Novel Competition a questing by me for a
humorous novel. I sought nothing of the
kind. I asked for humor in a novel. Now,
humor, Mr. Edwards says, is the rarest
quality known in literature. I reply that
there is scarcely any literature at all, cer-
tainly no good fiction, that is without humor.
More, the higher you go up the scale in
fiction the more humor you find in the
novel, until you reach the best and find that
humor almost predominates. But we are
not concerned here with a “Vanity Fair,”
a “Pickwick” or a “Don Quixote”; we are
some little distance this side of Olympus.
And I will ask Mr. Edwards, or anyone else,
to show me a moderately good novel that
is without humor. These Manuscripts that
I said were without humor were without it
absolutely. Serious, stiff characters stalked
earnestly through them without once smil-
ing. Mr. Edwards, have you ever gone
through a stretch of years—the -term of
the average novel—without once smiling
or without doing or saying something to
make somebody smile? And if by chance
you have, will you seriously ask me to be-
lieve that the average Australian has done
so? Will you ask me to accept that a novel
can be written without humor and still
faithfully picture flesh and blood people
such as these? If you do I shall be tempted
to tell you what I think of your ludicrous
argument that because novel-writing is hard
work it cannot embrace laughter, which is
the sort of logic I should be pained to find
even on the lips of a Domain orator. The
would-be novelist who can find no uplift of
joy in the work ought to go back to his
proper trade. Mr. Edwards adds that, though
Irishman means wit, in Irish (literature
pathos outweighs humor. Does this prove
that Irishmen and Irish literature are with-
out wit? That were to say that because
a man walks more often than he runs he
cannot run. I pass lightly and breathlessly .
over Mr. Edwards’s further statement that,
though humor may be part of his fibre,
“the Australian writer is not going to make
a fool of himself by putting absurdities on
paper”—probably the wildest finding ever
made outside of a jury-box.
The dearth of humor in these novels was
noticed also by my colleague Mr. G. Mack-
aness (R.P. 29/8/'2B). Like Mr. Edwards,
he blamed the Australian at large, whereas
I blamed the incompetence of the aspiring
Australian novelist at large. With all
humility, I have tried to indicate to these
would-be novelists one of their de-
fects. If I were convinced that these
triers in The Bulletin competition were
all good or even capable writers, I should
bow to inevitable logic and accept that
what they uttered was truth. But I deliber-
ately stated that more than 80 per cent,
of the efforts were clearly the work of
novices, and for the life of me I cannot
see how it must follow that the things such
writers wrote must necessarily be the true
things. I, for example, know nothing what-
ever about pen and ink drawing; I know
also that Low drew the face of Mr. W. M.
Hughes with artistic fidelity. Low’s Mr.
Hughes could be a very laughable picture,
because there are the ingredients of laughter
(Continued on page 5.)


** Truth in Advertising ** is your protection at all times .
Tents and Holiday Outfits
will cost you considerably less at
Anthony Horderns
:,ar
Mm
Reliable Tarpaulins Keenly Priced.
American Duck— . . . „ , , , Q
6xB Bxlo 10x12 12x14 12x16 14x18 16x18
EX .. 12/6 22/6 30/- 42/- 47/6 „„ ~ A 7 HI
15 x2O 18 x2O 18 x 22 18 x 24 20x 24 22 x 26 24 x 26
EX .. 79/6 92/- 102/6 110/- 125/- 147/- ] 6 , 0 . a
6xB Bxlo 10x12 1,2x14 12x16 14x18 16x18
FX . 16/- 27/6 39/6 50/- 60/- 80/- 90/-
15 x 2018 x 2018 x 22 18 x 24 20 x 24 22 x 26 24 x 26
FX . . 95/- 107/6 117/6 130/- 145/- 175/- 187/-
KKaki Birkmyre Waterproof Tarpaulins, Duck— —
6xBBxlo 10x12 12x14 12x16 14x18 16x18
No. N.. 24/6 42/- 57/6 82/6 95/- 120/- 145 ? "
15 x2O 18 x2O 18 x 22 18 x 24 20x 24 22 x 26
No. N . . £7/10/- £B/17/6 £9/15/- £lO/10/- £ll/17/6 £l4/7/6
Khaki Birkmyre—
-6xB Bxlo 10x12 12x14 12x16 14x 8 16x18
OM. ..31/6 . 52/6 75/- 107/6 1 2. 5 /* „ 16 9 2 / 6 * Bs^:
15 x2O 18 x2O 18 x 22 18 x 24 20 x 24 22x26
OM. . . £9/12/6 £ll/12/6 £l2/10/- £l3/15/- £l5/10/- £lB
All measurements less hems and seams. Any size made to ordeT.
American Duck Tents and Flys.
Manufactured from extra heavy Duck -
r\ 1;,., 6xB Bxlo 10x12 lZxl't
Walls 36in. Walls 39in. Walls 42in. Walls 48in.
rv 32/9 44/6 58/6 7^/"
4B- 66/- 87/6 112/6
FLYS TO MATCH.
11x9 12x12 15x15 18x18
Cx 17/6 25/- 37/6 53/6
ex :::::::::::::: 23/9 33/6 52/- 72/6
Carriage i\'ot Paid on These Goods.
s?
m
31**
>•■
HUV
KTIO —“Prairie” Tent.
Stencilled Cowboy and
Indian design, strongly
made from stout, un-
bleached calico. In
addition to keeping the
youngsters occupied the
play tent provides a
source for obtaining
needful exercise, fresh
air and warm sunlight.
Sizes, 4ft. x sft. wails,
24in. high. Price 12/-
Carriage Paid on These Goods.
All Wool Travelling Rugs.
Anthony Horderns’ carry a large stock of Travelling Rugs, which are
supplied direct from the mills. New patterns and designs arte con-
stantly arriving, shades of Grey, Brown and Fawn predominating.
Prices range from 21/- to 147/-
Carriage Paid on Travelling Rugs.
sdf
Motor Cases, made
from strong Fibre.
Capped corners,
and two strong
locks. Two wooden
battens right round
case. Lined through-
out.
26 28 30 in.
24/- 26/- 28/-. ea.
Carriage Not Paid on These Goods.
Auto Tents for Camping Out.
KTl6—Marquee Auto Tent. Size, 15x15 with waterproof Khaki Birkmyre
top. 6ft. duck walls, centre telescopic pole, with 1 1 poles 6ft. for sides, 24
small tent pegs and 15 large. Complete with ropes attached. Also Tent and
Pole Bags. Calico division dividing tent into twito rooms; front can be erected as
verandah for fine weather (as inset). This tent is very roomy
and enables one to walk about in comfort. Price
Other Sizes and Prices on Application.
£l2/15/-
Reliable Calico Car Covers.
Size 12x18 15x18 15x 20 15x 24 18x 20
JX 25/- 30/- 33/6 40/- 40/-
AX 29/6 35/- 41/- 50/- 50/-
DX , 42/- 52/- 57/6 69/- 69/-
Reliable Birkmyre Auto Tents.
KT23— Auto Tent, Khaki Birkmyre Roof. Calico walls and bonnet
cover. The whole car is covered. Includes four 6£ft. collapsible
poles, 4 poles 3ft. 6in., and 26 galvanised pegs £lO/15/-
Curriage Not Paid on These Goods.
KT I 1 —Special One-Man
Japara Sporting Tent.
Almost as light as silk and
as waterproof as heavy
duck. Makes a very small
parcel easily and quickly
erected by ridge rope
fastened to tree or fence.
Size, 5x7 feet, 12in. wall;
height, 6 feet. Weight
approximately 41b.
Price 49/»5
Tent, for two men, size,
6ft. x Bft., wall 2ft. 6in.
Price 59/6
&i!
m
y
te»
fr
Value in Calico Flys to Match.
Size, ft 11x9 12x12 15x15 18x18
JX 12/- 17/6 25/6
AX 14/9 21/- 31/- 43/6
BX 17/6 24/6 35/- 52/6
CX 19/6 27/6 38/6 56/6
DX 21/6 30/- 44/6 62/6
Other size Tents, Flys or Tarpaulins made to order at shortest notice.
All measurements less hems and seams. Any size made to order.
Carriage Paid on These Goods.
The “Palace” Motor Fitted Case.
AX— Suit Case Style,
for 4 persons, size, 1
X 12 X 61 inches,- con-
tains Stainless Knives,
Forks, Spoons, White
Enamel Cups and Plates.
1 screw-top jar, 1 quart-
size Vacuum Flask, 1
large Nickel-plated Food
Tin. Washable lining.
Covered Black Enamel
Duck.
Price £7/15/-
Fitted for 6 persons
as illustrated, £lO/10/-
g
Carriage Not Paid, on These Goods.
Use Our “Deposit-Purchase System
You Pay Only the Cash Price.
Anthony Horderns’
Telephono M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


JJ.r.
Hmni
*
Jk
P
7
‘My dear, you told me
REX-PYE is delicious.
And so it is.”
The reasons ? Only choicest raw materials;
clear,firm jelly; delicate spicing; en casserole
cooking to retain the natural juices and food
values; a perfect, hygienic, solderless can.
Recent visitors from the Australian Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures were
amazed at the up-to-dateness and cleanliness
of our huge canning room. “ I have seen
over 100 canning rooms in America,” said
one, “ and this surpasses them all.”
Put quality before cheapness. Buy REX-
PYE, the finest meat in the world.
In I lb. and lb. cans
Ss
REX-PYE
ft
m
®3B3Sg
FOODS
RE
Other REX Pure Foods
Üb. and '/ 2 lb. CANS
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce K»be-B (Kidneys, Beans
Lorraine Smoked Sausages and Bacon)
Pork Sausage Devilled Kidneys
Pork and Beans in Tomato Ox Tongue
Sauce Choice Soups (five kinds)
Üb. CANS ONLY
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice beef and
vegetables —a ready meal
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
FOCCITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of Unihed_. Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the choice REX Hams and Bacon


Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
dfg
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
1
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages w r hich can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
<?69 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildinr
(Next G.P.0.).
in Mr. Hughes’s face. I know those ingredi-
ents are there, but I have not Low’s com-
petence to portray them, therefore my Mr.
Hughes—l have just drawn him on the pad
beside me—is a very dry stick; moreover,
he is not at all like Mr. Hughes. Would
anybody who has seen Mr. Hughes say that
there is no humor in Mr. Hughes’s face
because I, a novice, cannot portray it?
Finally, I am sure that in these competi-
tions The Bulletin is trying to encour-
age the Avriting not of humorous novels, but
of no\ r els that have the truth of life in
(hem. I maintain that a novel that has no
humor has not that truth.
CECIL MANN.
Martin Mills’s Writing
In his enthusiasm for The Mont forts, by
Martin Mills, Hilary Lofting (R.P. 8/8/’2B)
was led to say that the book was too absorb-
ing for him to notice whether it was well
written or not. Before now he has pro-
bably made up his mind on that point, too:
it is extremely well written. Even if the
book had not achieved the impossible in
compression, presenting the experiences and
growth of a Melbourne family from the
eighteen-forties to the present time in a
novel’s mere average of pages, the sheer
writing from page to page Avould be a quiet
delight. Listen to these careful sen-
tences: —
Susan spent most of her days seated in the hotel
garden, gazing at the beauty of the lake and
mountains. She thought a great deal about her
baby and its being a girl....she would warn this
daughter-to-be against those mistakes which she had
herself made, against thoughtless frivolity and the
too keen appreciation of the pleasures of this world.
She was largely inspired to this sublimity of thought
by the lialf-magical beauty of the lake below the
terraces of the garden.
No over-emphasis, but a faintly flickering
smile! The quality of Martin Mills is
something we call “eighteenth century”;
something, indeed, which has been revived
in the writing of the present decade. He
has made a small comedy of manners,
touching exquisitely on the composite snob-
bery and sincerity that makes a man who
remembers his English ancestry both glad
and sorry to be an Australian. Nearly
every Montfort is faced Avith this touch-
stone at one time or another. There is
Dora, who as a young girl, living in Eng-
land for a while, about 1890, is caused,
against her wish, to be presented at Court: —
Dora, trembling, trailed her j*ards of white satin
past the grimly gracious figure of Victoria.
That is enough: the situation is made clear.
Martin Mills has perspective and propor-
tion, and the book is “Avritten.”
Incidentally, nobody has commented on
the very remarkable jacket worn by the
novel. What makes it striking is, at bot-
tom, the fact that the artist lias road the
book thoroughly. Then, with the whole
book held firmly in his mind, he has made
a design that sums it all up and also sug-
gests its quality and atmosphere. He has
drawn a bright green (family) tree, with
Montforts for root and trunk and branches
and finally twigs of the present growth.
1 hese Montforts are all colored like figures
in an old broadsheet ballad, and the artist
has chosen to represent only those of the
clan who are most vivid and symbolic.
Contrast this with the average jacket,
which shows, at most, some moment in the
book inaccurately “illustrated,” and for
which the w.p.b. comes as an immediate
resource.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Helping Hand
School-teachers often say they would be
willing enough to teach Australian litera-
ture if only it were not so hard of access.
They should like to have it in pre-digested
form, as the older literatures are. They
are busy and often tired people, and can-
not teach what they have never had an
opportunity to learn. So expert help in
the approach to Australian literature is
very welcome, and now comes A. G.
Stephens with an experimental “critical
review for the use of schools.” The first
issue is labelled “Henry Kendall,” and
rightly, for it gives a far-reaching account
of Kendall and his work. But it does more
than that: it gives a basis for the study
of poetry in general, such as could be read
by teachers or scholars, and this is followed
by an outline of significant Australian
poetry before Kendall.
It is humbug to suggest that Ave all know
so much about Kendall that only school
children would enjoy this neAV study. Ken-
dall is an unknown writer to most Austra-
lians, and here is a key to him for us all.
N.Q.
Some Choice Bookmaking
Five gift booklets hav r e just been issued
by Art in Australia, and it is proposed
to issue about seven more before the end
oi the year. In several important parti-
culars they differ from the bulk of similar
booklets imported annually round about
Christmas time. They are artistic, yet in-
expensive; their contents are Australian;
they represent something new in the encour-
agement of Australian writing and art.
Bound in stiff colored paper covers, they
are beautifully printed by Arthur McQuitty,
and the price—from 2s. 6d. to 3s. 6d.—is,
for four of them at least, almost absurdly
low.
The one failure is a collection of photo-
graphic studies of the Federal capital. The
photographs, by H. Cazneaux, are certainly
good, but the subjects are flat, formal and
hackneyed. Fortunately, with this one
booklet the Devil’s advocate can quit the
platform.
The list includes Odd Jobs, a collection of
the verses of “Kodak” (Ernest O’Ferrall),
who when he was with The Bulletin de-
lighted a great host of readers with the
brightness and the humanity of his humor.
The “Odd Jobs” are a series of verses that
he ran through Smith's Weekly just before
he died, and include such good stuff as
this:—
Gold braid and buttons for the proud Bandmaster,
Stirring up the music till they all play faster.
Softly breathes the woodwind, gently grunts the brass,
While the old folk linger and the young folk pass;
But his proudest moment, is when he himself
Takes a shining cornet from a hidden shelf;
Then ho puts the trumpet to his pursed-up lips
And he puffs out the notes till they fly like pips.
And the magpie dies and the lark falls flat,
For they know very well they could not do that.
Yes, he blows like an angel oh a mission blest.
And he looks like an angel, only better dressed.
Tite head- and tail-pieces by Albert Col-
line say admirably in line what “Kodak”
“Like an angel, only better
dressed."
said in his
chuckling verse.
Another good
verse-writer re-
presented is
Leon Gellert,
who in these
piping days co-
edits Art in
Australia and
the Home, and
seems to be liv-
ing apart from
the muse that,
gave him the
“Song s of a
Campaign”
and the later “Isle of San.” The former
had a great sale in its day, but the other,
which held some of his finest, lyrics, was
limited to 120 copies and is little known.
A few of the “Isle of San” lyrics, including
the fine “Helen,” are reproduced here, the
booklet, which is called Desperate Mea-
sures, being eked out with other lyrics
written a year or two ago. It is a pity
that such a vigorous poet as Gellert is not
one of our most active. It is not that he
has lost his touch, for this is a com-
paratively recent sonnet:—
When I have known you thoroughly through the
years,
And found each secret atom and piece of you.
And all your laughter has grown stale, and tears
Too regular—and' there is nothing new;
\\ hat hope will Death come offering us then ?
What: great surprise will wait behind the bars?
Will God renew our careless youth again,
High mid the swinging splendor of his stars?
Or will the painless hand come sneakingly,
Catching our hearts within a wintry hold,
To drag us out beside the eternal sea.
And leave us lying grey-haired in the cold?
I wonder what our prayers to Death will be
When we have grown so ugly and so old!
One or two of the slightly longer things,
notably the “Rejected Lover’s Address to
a Nightingale,” the “Song of Re-assur-
ance,” “The Bridegroom” and “Bluebeard’s
First Wife,” are even better, the last-
named reminding how rarely the pantoum
form, that “toy of a song” is used in Aus-
tralia.
Of the other two booklets in this first five,
one is Glimpses oj Old Sydney, a collec-
tion of etchings by Sydney Ore Smith (a
splendid one of an old house that stood
in York-street, and his “Argyle Cut”),
Lionel Lindsay and Hardy Wilson, with
letterpress by the Sydney Municipal Libra-
rian, Charles H. Bertie. The booklet has
special value in that most of the subjects
have gone or are going in the making of
the new city. The other booklet is Aus-
tralian Etchings, a representative little col-
lection by the artists already named and
Sidney Long, J. C. Godson, E. Warner, J.
C. Goodchild and H. Van Raalte. The
prints in both are uncommonly fine.
A Satchel of Books
Rhymes of the Road, by David Emrys
(Palmer). George Borrow found reefs of
gold in Welsh poetry that nobody else has
been able to locate, and no doubt somebody
will be able to fill a shammy in this Welsh
poet's claim. He suffers, no doubt, from the
necessity of writing in English, but that does
not altogether condone his use of well-worn
images and metaphors :
The banks were russet and red
With hazel and berry,:
Her cheeks like roses, her hair like gold, '
Her mouth like a cherry.
There is, however, much better thinking than
that in his book, and such things as the
mystical “Escape,” and the terror-filled
'Fugitive” are fine lyric verses.
I he Dawn of Catholicism in Australia, by
Rev. Lris M. O Brien (Angus and Robert-
s’oll). The early history of Catholicism in
Australia is largely th e story of Father
Uit lynn, as depicted here an absorbing
figure. He began his religious life
as a novice in an English Trappist monas-
tery. When his abbot left for the West
Indies, O’Flynn went, too, fell out with his
superior on the vovage, threatened to strike
him, and was excommunicated. He was in
Rome defending himself against the abbot's
charges when he heard that the flock in
Sydney was without spiritual guidance He
had himself secularised (authorised to live
outside the cloister and hi s order) and ap-
pointed Prefect of Botany Bay. Within
two years he was on his way back to London
having been arrested and deported at the
Governor's orders. Fathers Conolly and
Therry were appointed to Sydney i n the fol-
lowing year; Catholic emancipation followed
m England; and to-day by a decision of the
High Court (>*elan v.. Downes) the RC
Church stands on an equal footing with the
other churches. Father O’Brien has a clear
head and a melodious style, and the pub-
lishers have got the work up well, though it
is marred by “literals.” 6
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Warradulla: Your sentiments do you as
much credit as your handwriting, but you say
nothing fresh.... Danvers W.: The prima donna
doesn’t read real... .E.H.W.: Well enough done;
but an echo... .N.W.1.: Tangled. Strikes us you
made your plot as you went along... .G.F.A.: Sincere
but frenzied outburst... .P.F.P.: We damn it witli-
. out any praise.... Marg. C.: Awkward verse.....
Kitty M.: The wire is broken in places... . W.M.8.L.:
No space—or time—for “prose-poems”.... E.L.W.:
Alas !... .QX6: Every verse barks... .C.F.: Not so
much a poem as a disaster... .R.S.L.: You say
“Payment is neither here nor there.” It’s not here,
anyway... .May L.: From the way you handle “The
Recipe” you’re a poor c00k.... M.L.M.: It fades out.
. ...S.S.S.: No silver lining in your “C10ud”..,.
O. : You needn’t have apologised for not using
a typewriter; the handwriting was the best thing
about it... .L.L.G.: Verse starting “Oh nascent
hearth” declined with enthusiasm. What is a
nascent hearth, anyway?... .Scott L.: A rather dreary
narrative... .Callma: “Pilgrim” wanders home....
Maeq.: “Grit” swept 0ut....H.5.: Has been told
before—and better. .. .Brady’s L.: Too long for a
par.; not worth story-space... .F.C.D.: You fail to
make even its solitary point humorous. .. .Bernard
A.: You reach towards a fair note, but always fall
down on it. R.R.P.: The jury locked itself up for
some time before deciding against jour waiter....
P. : Par. value 0n1y... .A.J.J.: A vague business.
. ...8.5.G.: “Kismet” met the usual fate....
W.W.V.: Your drunk yarn is rum humor... .H.G.M.:
“An Impression” makes none... .W.F. (Longreaeh) :
Misses the mark... .H.S.M.: “Strove —abode” goes
into the worst-rhyme competition... .A.E.W.: All
fail.... Mel L.: Can’t follow it.... Elgar O.: The
doctor is incredible... .Lyle S.: Almost persuaded us.
....Con G.: Found the wandering a weary 0ne....
L.McG.; Sorr.v to turn your faithful cockatoo adrift.
. ...R.J.0.: “Shady Incident” not quite bright
enough... .J.J. (S. Yarra) : Nearty. Always double-
space your copj'.... Rob E.: The “clarion bells of
eve” shall not “ring their galaxies of song” here.
.... M.S.M.: A story needs a plot; yours merely
wanders.... Gert P.: Pleased to hear that “our flag
shall never wavered”... .T.S.J.: Your Conan Doyle
is a weak edition... .L.A.L.: “The chief's every other
word was the Great Australian Adjective.” One of
the powers that b -, in short.... R.R.E.: No room
for your hosanna... .S.F.G.: “Beauty Unadorned”
is clothed in rhythmic rags.... Cargo: Stow it....
P.8.P.: Decline to recognise you as the writer of an
Oliver Wendell Holmes verse... .Physic: Cast to the
dogs... .F.0.W.: Might make a pa.r„.... A..R.T.:
“What use to grope?” Ah, what, indeed!....
A.H.T.: Nothing in them.... Eileen R.: P00r....
AValter D.: Good material wasted.... Bay AY.: Heavj 7
and unreal. .. .T.8.P.: The sleuth just fails.. . .Ron
C.: Impossible to make it suit.. .. H.C.: First two
lines capital; rest, pointless.... Roberta N.: The
rebellion is orthodox, t 00... .Bernard A.: For one
thing, we didn’t like the idea of Heaven being
“furled” —but it had to be, of course, for a rhyme
with “world”... .M.C. (Toowoomba): It ends in the
air, so to speak.... Mich. B.: A silly story. AV e
suppose that the shopgirl had to prove an heiress
to be worthy of your snob... .T.AA’.S.: Wail about
the “noble blood” of the abo. loft us. c01d....
A.H.K.AA'.: “The Soft Patch” is a morass of words.
. ...F.A. (Tweed Heads): The first, second and
sixth verses would have done; but the ending is poor.
... .M.L.P.: Can’t believe the conversation... .F.S.H.:
The verse walks on stumbling feet... .C.D.C.:
Bathetic... .Jack Hal: Shy little verse. . . .Congupua :
Just heaved together... .L.L.8.: Sorry to have to
blast your hopes,... Van S.: Even comparison of the
magpie to Napoleon did not cheer us . ..E.R.R.:
Didn’t raise one (I) smile... .Citizen: If you think
“peered” is a rhyme for “appeared” you're not a
good citizen.... Mrs. L. G.: The repeated rhymes arc
monotonous instead of effective... .M.M.8.: Mere
words... .V.M.8.: A few good points, hut the
result is ineffectual... .J.P.H.: Don’t like the verse
with the “shapely, chastened cave” in it....M.G.:
Story of the Great Lie fails... .P.J.R.: Very amateur-
ish. .. .Hover: The mountain brings forth a mouse of
humor....A.M.Y.: Whatever it is, it isn’t verse
. ...11.C.H.:' Faint little, yarns about suburban
London; and you live in Java, which is littered
with things we want to know about... .G.L.M.: Why
the burst of wrath because the missus took his money ?
What are husbands for?... .N.P.S.: No use for
previously published stuff, wherever printed....
8.1t.T.: “Woe, unmitigated Woe!” Spell it whoa!
. ...A.W.A.: it returns... .Van S.: Rough versifica-
tion... .D.J.W.: Poor ending... .Sardonyx: “Night”
will not see the dawn of print... .Nor. L.: Jazzes
back E.E.: Still a long way off. ...V.8.: Do
you really think it’s verse?... .Apex: Not bad; but
not good enough... .Frank H.: Worn maxims roughly
versified. Are you the man who writes the copy-
boaks?.... P.L.M.: They end in smoke—not in
“Smoke-0h”... .C.R.E.C.: Sorry ; your elephant story
is a white elephant to us E.E.S.: Not far off
Vida M. N.: The bank story doesn’t carry sufficient
interest... .J.G.R. (Los Angeles): No luck J.W.:
Doesn’t end according to promise... ,R. de C.: The
workmanship is at fault. “Greater Love” could be
made a very good thing D.L.G.: Poetic outbreak
about bad smells declined... .0.P.F.: One side of
the paper, please!....Doris A.: No room here for
effeminate outlaws who burst into tears every third
paragraph.... Waw: May do elsewhere.... Suds : The
history won’t, wash... .A.B.F. (Rangiriri) : Not
much yarn in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.F.T.: That matrimonial battle will have to be
fought out elsewhere... .F.J.: You’d stand a chance
if you could turn out better jokes and drawings that
were less stiff... .W.G.R.: You belong to the
siather-um-whack school... .S.F.L.: You’re not fol-
lowing in the footsteps of the artist whose surname
j'ou bear M.C.: Slightly amusing, but the sub-
ject has ceased to interest Flam: We impounded
your collection of live stock J.M.C.: From what
museum did you pilfer that couple? C.F.A.: In-
coherent humor and hopeless drawings... .F.G.A.:
No cheque for the crystal-gazer A.C.IL: On the
bottom rung IT.AV.D.: The jokes that are not
old are weak J.R.Y.: Missed the target
L.M.G.: “Found in the Woods”-—no, ours is made
of wicker... .WAV.: Few are chosen—and you’re
not among them K.M.D.: The humor is under-
nourished... .H.D.: Hard study should land you
somewhere... . L.M.D.: An unhappy plungt! into
cubism, or something like that.


df
jB'kie
p 'titew'
$k 4 1
tr J
<,*** et *-»■*,
Brandy
a - SEPPEtT * SONS UMII
SOUTH AUSTRAIW"
gdf
gd


The Bulletin
VoL 49.—N0. 2539,
October 10, 1928.
GENERAL STRIKE; ALSO HIS WIFE AND CHILDREN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21 k George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: llk-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2k9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 ks.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
O' months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: koz. to 10oz., lid. :
each additional koz., Id. All Sea Route: 10oz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: k oz • or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A PAGE DRAWING by Leason 7
EDITORIAL . . 8, 9
The Crisis in Coal 8
“IN THE THIEVES’ KITCHEN”
(A cartoon by Percival) .. .. .. ..9
POLITICS (with four caricatures) .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL PARS (illustrated) 14
“The Harvester”
—A racecourse study by Percival .. .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. . i .. 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
SMOKE-OH 32
POVERTY POINT 34
POT AND PALETTE 37
GEORGE REID’S POLITICAL NEPHEW .. 37
Sydney and Melbourne Racing .. .. 39
SPORTING (illustrated) . . . . 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, etc 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP . . . . . . 49
“COONARDOO” 51, 53, 58
SHORT STORY—
“The Sentry,” by J. H. M. Abbott 55, 57
VERSE—
“THE HOUSE OF DESIRE,” by David McKee
Wright . . . . . • • - . . 57
ffuf fyulleim
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1928.
THE CRISIS IN COAL.
It was the N.S.W. Labor Opposition which
first demanded a day for discussing the
Newcastle coal situation at length; but
when the day was provided it appeared
that Lang, dictator and estate agent, had
ordered his subjects not to t£tlk. So they
sat with their pockets full of notes and
their stomachs of mixed feelings till the
strain became unbearable, and then ramb-
ling discourse set in.
* *
Premier Bavin, very earnest in this
matter, began by moving that the House
should approve of the plan fixed up be-
tween the Prime Minister and himself for
putting the coal business temporarily on
its legs—or on one leg, anyhow. There
could be no harm in the House approving
of that, or of the League of Nations, or
even of the Revised Prayer Book; never-
theless there are many difficulties in the
way. For example:—
There is an air of illegality about the
State subsidising of one coalfield out of
several in its territory, and one out of a
much larger number in the Commonwealth.
There is a worse aspect about the Com-
monwealth doing the same seeing that it is
expressly bidden that, in granting bounties
on the production and export of goods, “such
bounties shall be uniform throughout the
Commonwealth.”
It looks invidious to use the tax money
of six States so that one coal-producing
State may have a chance to undersell four
other States which dig out the same article
in their own territories.
The Constitution says that the States may
“grant any aid or bounty on mining for
gold, silver or other metals,” and also, when
it has got the consent of both Federal
Houses, “ion the production or export of
goods.” Whether the mining for goods
which are carefully omitted from the list of
mined articles on which State bounty are
permissible comes under the heading of “pro-
duction” is a matter about which the High
Court will probably have something to say
at the instance of coal-owners in other
States.
Seeing that the State and Federal subsi-
dies of 2s. and Is. per ton respectively are
to last only a year, the business isn’t worth
while, especially as the miners declare that
they won’t do their part by accepting a
small reduction in the hewing rate.
And assuming that the scheme worked
for a year despite what the miners say, it
would be impossible to make the subsidy
last much longer, because success would
mean more and more subsidy and the cost
would be ruinous. It isn’t worth starting
unless Bavin and Bruce know what work-
able, permanent and financially feasible
plan they will install when the year is up.
If they don’t know now they are not likely
to know any better when the year is up.
* * * *
Despite these and any other discrepan-
cies and anomalies there could be no valid
objection to the House approving the coal-
patching proposition; yet the Opposition,
when it began to talk, received the pro-
posal with unreasoning fury. Its capacity
for fury seemed unlimited. It was short
of alternative ideas, but it proposed, as a
first measure, that the Commonwealth
should put a heavy duty on imported coal.
That would keep up the price, and wouldn’t
help the local manufacturer, who finds the
price a difficulty already. It wouldn’t bring
back any of the lost export trade, or pre-
vent the loss of what remains. And it would
probably cause a very much embarrassed
State like South Australia, which has to
bring in coal, either from N. S. Wales or
foreign parts, to take stock of its railway
system, which is too large for the popula-
tion, and see what trains it could cut out,
and possibly what branch lines it could
close, and what labor it could throw over-
board. Having thus left the coalmining
trade worse off than before, the loudest,
Oppositionists urged that the combined
Federal and State subsidy, of about
£1,000,000 for one year only, should be de-
voted to employing the 4000 admittedly
superfluous coalminers at road-making
jobs. And when the roads were made and
began to incur repair bills, the present pro-
blem would recur in full force, provided it
had ever left off, which is more than doubt-
ful.
Sic * * *
It. wasn’t an informative debate, and
whether it ended in the coal-patching pro-
ject being accepted or rejected, or whether
it became a case of indefinite postpone-
ment, mattered very little. The question
is one of cheaper fuel and more regular
supplies, and the solution of that appears
to be a long way off. Yet the position isn’t
complicated. As Ti-ie Bulletin sees it:—
(1) Three or four thousand men must be
lifted out of the industry. But all sorts of
care must be taken to ensure that this is
accompanied by a reduced hewing rate and
a largely reduced selling price. (The men
left in the industi'y will, of course, earn as
much as before, because they will each pro-
duce more than they could when the hewing,
etc., was divided among 3000 more men.)
(2) The much reduced cost of coal will
greatly stimulate industry, especially if it
is accompanied by necessary tariff adjust-
ments. Hence —
(31 The problem is to find work for three
or four thousand men while industry is be-
ing stimulated as before mentioned.
LABOR’S OUT-OF-DATE LEADERS.
At the Melbourne conference of maritime
and transport unions J. S. Garden carried
a motion which, after the recitation of much
ancient stuff about “class-biased Judges”
and “unspeakable attacks on the workers,”
resolved that councils of action and picket-
ing squads should be organised in each
State with the object of extending the
waterside trouble. The protesting voice of
democi’acy was faintly audible pointing
out that “a fight would only end in the
sacrifice of loyal Laborites” and that “the
way to win was at the ballot-box.” But this
amendment was defeated and the stage was
thus set for another of those industrial wars,
so disastrous to the proletariat cannon-
fodder, which are begun because the muddle-
headed brass-hats of Labor confuse condi-
tions in Russia a dozen years ago with con-
ditions in democratically governed countries
to-day. If Australia had a Government of
tyrants who appointed “class-biased
Judges,” and “united forces with great in-
dustries to smash the workers,” there would
be no need to emphasise the outrages by
means of councils of action and picketing
squads; every newspaper and every elector
would be up in arms. As things are, the
talk of such men as Garden is meaningless,
except inasmuch as it portends another
attempt at a general strike. Yet the only
objection lodged by Federal Opposition-
leader Sctjllin to the scheme was that it
“may injure the election prospects of the
party,” and neither Theodore nor Anstey,
both of whom have discussed it publicly,
has said what should be said by such men
on the subject—that attempted blackmail of
this' sort never can succeed in a civilised
comm i mi tv.
* * * *
In England two years ago the Baldwin
Government was accused of conspiring with
the coal-owners to smash the miners. It
was claimed that “Judge-made law” affecting
unions reeked of class bias, and that there-
fore the unions could not look for justice
from the courts. The remedy was said to
be a general strike, and those who objected
were to be intimidated. The strike failed
partly because the orators of upheaval failed
to persuade the army, navy or public that
there was anything in their indictment, and
partly because it was proposed to hold up
the nation’s transport with the picketing
weapon. Britons of every type and class—
at least 85 per cent, of them in strong
sympathy with unionism—volunteered to
do the work of the strikers, as men of similar
types are volunteering in Australia now.
They refused to be brow-beaten into bank-
ruptcy and starvation. Lord Wrenbury, a
non-political Judge with no capitalistic affili-
ations, has expressed a sentiment against
the support of transport strikes by picket-
ing squads which is as Australian as it is
British:—
“There are some things which seem to me
so plain that no honest man could dispute
them. I put intimidation in the forefront.
Intimidation is a flat denial of freedom.
Intimidation means the substitution of a
reign of terror for a reign of reason. It is
absolutely alien to democracy.”
The Transport Workers Act is Australia’s
answer to a form of intimidation. It is here
because the maritime and transport unions
declared war on Australia—on the wool-
growers, farmers and others who keep the
country solvent—as definitely as an invad-
ing army. It is a measure of desperation
like our late War Precautions Act, or a Con-
tinental country’s declaration of a “state of
siege.” The law-abiding welcome it, but
that is not to say that they want it perpetu-
ated, any more than Sydney wants the per-
petuation of civic government by Com-
mission. The Commonwealth is proud of
its great unions, and of their records in
peace and war, and the last thing Australians
desire is to see them weakened. There is
plenty of public sympathy with union objec-
tions to the type of free worker—-so akin
spiritually to a war-time “conchie”—who is
willing to benefit by unionism’s achieve-
ments without saddling himself with any
of its obligations or loyalties. But the com-
munity is not going to have these or any
other workers picketed into bolstering up
a strike against the award of a Judge, an
Act of Parliament and the interests of the
producers. The workers can be rid of the
Act on simple lines—by getting back to
legality. And that is largely a matter of
dispensing with the disastrous leadership of
out-of-date blunderers of the stamp of Gar-
den. They have done it in Britain, where
the methods of Moscow have been found
impracticable, which accounts for the fact
that, almost at the same time as the Mel-
bourne Labor conference was registering its
confidence in the leadership of the Scottish
Communist, a conference in Birmingham
was “overwhelmingly carrying a resolution
against the admission of Communists to the
party’s ranks.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Scullinary Programme.
Federal Labor-leader Scullin opened his
campaign with a policy speech which isn’t
calculated to enhance his already poor
reputation. The brightest spot was his
promise not to tax the income from the
investments of life-assurance offices as
Treasurer Page, in one of his blundering
moments, threatened to do. But he
promised to re-impose the 10 per cent,
which the present Government took off the
foolish land-tax, which falls on every pro-
perty valued at over £5OOO, even if it is a
city allotment a few feet across, in order
to compel the owner to subdivide the
bloated estate for closer settlement. Scullin'
said that “the land held by these mono-
polists should be cut up and put to better
use,” and as he also promised to “collect
arrears long overdue,” there is a suspicion
that he intends to make his impost retro-
spective, after the disastrous precedent sup-
plied by Theodore in Queensland.
An old and foggy grievance about the
Commonwealth Bank loomed large in the
Scullin oration. That institution had, at
recent advices, 44 millions of Savings Bank
deposits, 2(ty millions at current account and
eight millions at fixed deposit; it had 70
millions out in advances and investments,
and its customers operate by cheque in the
familiar way. But there is a fixed convic-
tion in ScuLLiN-ary circles that the insti-
tution has, by some monstrous Tory juggle,
been diverted to wrong purposes and base
uses, and the Federal Labor leader gives
his promise that if Australia suffers the
disaster of his return he will “make it once
more a People’s Bank.” It is All-the-People’s
Bank already, doing all sorts of business
for them and returning them immense
profits, so it is difficult to see what change
the silly Scullin party can propose to make
unless it thinks of putting this magnificent
business under a board of trades union
secretaries, or diverting the funds to relief
works.
The realty monumental effort, however,
was the promise that the first Scullin
Ministry will get to work early at the uni-
fication of the raihvay gauges, and thus
“relieve the acute position of the unem-
ployed problem.” It is a very awkward fact
that the State railways, which carried a
debt burden of £10,210 per mile at £3 16s.
7d. per cent, in 1917, staggered under a load
of £12,252 per mile at £4 18s. 3d. per cent. m
1927. In 10 years, while railway mileage in-
creased only a little* the interest bill more
than doubled. A contributing cause was
the reconstruction of lines, not on business
principles, but to relieve unemployment,
which somehow always remained unrelieved.
If a breezy Scullin, with the old philan-
thropic relief idea in his mind, starts to
relay over 20,000 miles of line and convert
it all to the standard measurement, this at
a time of scarce money, depreciated credit,
high interest and high wages, the surest
thing possible is that the scheme will burst
on the road and leave the land covered
with debris. And, unfortunately, there are
many supporters of the Scullin ticket who
think a national bankruptcy highly desir-
able. Didn’t the Communist dictators in
Russia have one?
♦
E. P. Fleming.
Australia lost a very valuable man when
E. P. Fleming died last week. As Under-
secretary for Lands, as a member of the
Federal Migration and Development
Commission, and finally as head of the
Commission which superseded municipal
government in Sydney, he served his city
and his State and his Commonwealth with
rare ability, with an honesty that was never
questioned even in an atmosphere where
corruption had been rampant and with an
energy that knew no bounds.
Shortly after the Commission was
appointed The Bulletin saw that there was
an inclination to fasten on to the tremend-
ous business of city management the social
duties hitherto more or less attended to
by the Lord Mayor. It then voiced the fear
that the result would be disaster. It fears dis-
aster for the future. We get hold of a man
who has been a hard worker all his days,
with no inclination for what we call social
life, and we set him on a round of public
dinners and lunches and entertainments —
functions which a man used to such things
might enjoy, even while carrying on his
ordinary job, but which are a burden and
a distress to the man who has not been
trained in that school.
This paper is not going to say what
killed Mr. Fleming. But there is the fact
—a man who left his N.S.W. public service
job three years ago in the full vigor of
middle-age suddenly crumpled up and died
last week at the age of 53.
#
Seven Millions of New Debt and Eight
Miles of New Kailway.
Dear Bulletin,— All the State Treasurers
are taking stock of the railway situation,
as well as the other financial situations, and
are evidently wondering what hit them so
suddenly. My theory is that it is the same
thing which hit the Austrian Empire some
10 years ago; in other words, the accumu-
lated rottenness of years became top-heavy,
and if it hasn’t completely fallen it is at
least halfway down.
I will give a concrete instance from N. S.
Wales, which isn’t the worst example, only
I happen to have more complete figures for
it than for its neighbors. At June, 1927.
the loan money invested in railways open
for traffic was £112,789,149. (These are the
Railway Commissioners’ figures, which differ
a little from the Federal figures, I don’t
know why.) This meant an increase of
£7,551,481 'during the year, taking no account
of money invested in unfinished works
which were costing interest and earning
nothing. For this there were eight-and-a-
fraction miles of new railway to show, one
mile- in the city and seven miles on the
heights of Kurrajong. The Kurrajong frag-
ment had been under construction as a
relief job for about four years, and was dil-
apidated and under repair before it was
finished. It failed to pay any interest what-
ever, and also failed to pay half its working
expenses from the time when the first train
started, and being an extension of a very
old non-payer this was expected.
The Department, of course, didn’t spend
some £900,000 per mile on these two little
shows; most of the loan money went in the
patchy improvements and repairs and re-
placements which have become chronic.
The whole system, including the oldest ruin,
was carrying a mortgage of £1287 per mile
more at the end of the year than at the
beginning, the rise being from £18,328 to
£19,615, and there is no deafeningly visible
reason why it shouldn’t expand to £39,615.
The bill for interest, going by the Com-
missioners’ figures, increased in the 12
months by £53 per annum for each mile
working, from £914 to £967 per mile. It
may be £1967 or £2967 per mile one of these
days for all I know to the contrary.
These wild happenings would matter much
less if it was a local debt and a local
interest bill, but it is mostly an overseas
liability, and is becoming continuously
worse. If Bruce’s Big Four like big prob-
lems, this and five similar ones in other
States offer an unprecedented opportunity.
—Yours, etc., Sol Malaprop.
4
Wanted: A Large Spring Cleaning.
Another of its Eucharistic Congress visitors
has been telling Sydney, after a prolonged
inspection, that, despite its natural beauty,
it is a very dirty and an extremely untidy
city, apparently taking little or no pride in
itself. This is so true that something ought
to be done about it.
In Wellington (M.L.) they have a general
clean-up once a year, and the rubbish col-
lected would surprise anyone who thought
the city was clean. A month before the
day, residents are notified that they may
put out anything from a pin to a locomotive
boiler, and it will be carted to the tip free
of charge. Though a special staff is em-
ployed to do this work, the cost is very
little. Much of the. rubbish collected is
still of value if sold in the right quarter,
and the councils are in a position to find
the right quarter.
For a start, Sydney and suburbs could
follow the example of Wellington; the
results would be reflected, not only in the
appearance of the city, but also in the
health of the community. At the present
time the Coast Hospital is crowded out
with cases of infectious disease, and many
of the epidemics owe their origin to the
multitude of unofficial rubbish dumps.
Filling Up Western N. S. W T ales.
In Western N. S. Wales the hunger for
land is as great as elsewhere, and the con-
tinual cry is “Cut up the big stations."
But the big stations would have to be
compensated, and that means money.
The big stations, like all leaseholders in
that district, are hindered in their develop-
ment by the shortness of their leases, which
mostly expire in 1942. It is a common


IN THE THIEVES’ KITCHEN.
“During the waterside disturbance in Melbourne there were bomb outrages, jeopardising the lives of children in the homes of two foremen stevedores Theo-
dore, at the Sydney Eight-Hour banquet, spoke of the possibility of a ‘lethal conflict between employees and employers’.... The A.W.U. has suggested a campaign fora
return to sane unionism.”
A.W.U. (to Australian Unionist): “Pull yourself together, man, and come out! This is no place for you!”
thing to hear a leaseholder say of an im-
provement, “Oh, that is good enough; it
will last the lease out.” Likewise, when an
improvement is to be added, it is designed
tsr last till ’42 and no longer. This policy
of course is detrimental to the development
of the back country; and labor doesn’t get
jobs which ought to be available.
The problem is how to ‘give land to the
land-hungry, secure tenure to present
holders, and work to the unemployed.
Why not something in the nature of the
old Eighth Resumption Act? By this the
leaseholders who cared to come in were
given a further lease in return for the re-
sumption of one-eighth of their holdings
to be taken at the pleasure of the Govern-
ment. There is no visible reason why it
should not be tried again. Being voluntary,
those who did not care for it could stand
out. But probably most would come in,
even if one quarter were asked for, provided
payment for improvements on the resumed
area was assured.
It may be argued that it would be better
to wait until all the leases expire, when a
grand cutting up can take place. . But far
better avoid an upheaval—do a little at
a time and let the present holders know
where they stand. At present they can plan
for nothing beyond 1942.
If we take one quarter of all holdings
in the Western Lands District which carry
over 5000 sheep, it will give us many hund-
reds of thousands of acres to throw open
to selectors. By giving this land to experi-
enced men it will make work for many.
The selector must have a home built, fenc-
ing done, woolsheds and yards erected, and
perhaps wells and tanks sunk. Also, if
the area given the selector is large enough
to carry about 5000 sheep, he will need
help permanently. And, for their part, the
station owners will feel secure of that por-
tion of their leases left to them and will
not hesitate to further improve them.
It may be said that as the stations are
reduced in size they will require fewer hands
to wmrk them. This looks right in theory,
but is not borne out in practice. One
station relinquished 90,000 adres under the
Eighth Resumption Act. This area was
thrown open for selection some years ago,
but its excision did not affect the carrying
capacity of the station in any way nor
the number of men employed. Yet the
90,000 acres thrown open now supports three
families of selectors, and carries seven or
eight thousand sheep. Each family has
had a home built, woolsheds erected, and a
certain amount of fencing and well-sinking
done, apart from their shearing each year,
all by outside labor.
♦
Furs and Films.
The deflation of imports of finery and the
like to the point at which Australia can
buy without bequeathing the bill to pos-
terity will have to be tackled before long,
whether the Bruce-Pages like it or not.
Two items on which a start could be made
with advantage to Australian finance and
industry are films and furs.
Exposed and developed cinema films im-
ported in 1926-27 amounted to 36,158,000
feet, of which 34,834,000 feet came from the
U.S.A. This Hollywood stuff was valued for
customs purposes at £233,200, a preposter-
ously low figure seeing that the U.S. receipts
from Australia are admitted to be round
about £BOO,OOO a year. Australians are as
capable of making films as Americans, and
if this country took advantage of its oppor-
tunities the admitted £BOO,OOO a year (it is
probably a good deal more) could be cut
down to £50,000 or less. Indeed, there is
good reason to believe that a steady export
trade in Australian films could be worked up.
Imports of furs in 1926-27 were valued at
£533,000. Probably most of these furs in
the raw state were stripped from the car-
cases of Australian rabbits, whose overcoat
lends itself to hundreds of disguises; rather
remarkably, Germany bought from us
£58,900 worth of rabbit and hare skins and
sold to us £60,000 worth of furs. The West-
ralian member of the Le Souef family of
zoologists discoursed interestingly on this
subject in Perth recently. He said he had
bred varieties of rabbits with a very short
white fur which was prized in France for
“ermine” trimmings. (Incidentally, France
sent us £216,700 worth of furs in 1926-27.)
As for native animals, Australians sold the
skins for a song and paid fancy prices for
the finished product:—
“Opossum skins sent abroad come back
as ‘musquash’ and sell for as much as
150 guineas. The fur of the Westralian
black opossum is particularly valuable, but it
is never sold under its true name. The
skin of the big red kangaroo is transformed
into ‘sealskin.’ The fur of the rat-tailed
wallaby, common in parts of south West-
ralia, makes beautiful rugs, yet we sell the
skins for about a shilling apiece. Wisely
handled, this asset, which we are exporting
for next to nothing, would provide permanent
employment for many Australians.”
As Colonel Le Souef puts it, “overseas
manufacturers are amassing huge fortunes
out of the Australian fur trade,” and the
same is true of overseas makers of films.
Yet, if the tariff were anplied intelligently
and resolutely, we could keep this money in
our own country, and export where we now
import.
4
Medical Research Work in Australia.
Poked away at the back of the Melbourne
Hospital in premises too small for it is the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute. It isn’t
as well known as the Capitol or the Green
Mill, or even Parliament House, but it
does a lot of quiet work in its unostenta-
tious way. Its funds are scanty and govern-
mental assistance is conspicuous by its
infrequence, so a good deal of the work is
unpaid for and mainly done for the glory
and interest of it. Research students have
come at their own expense from as far away
as Bombay to study abstruse bacteriological
phenomena which, absurd as they may seem
to the lay mind, may be of incalculable
value to the health and prosperity of the
Australian people.
The institute covers an extraordinary ex-
tent of subjects considering the paucity of
room and the unimpressive appearance of
its equipment. Amongst matters studied
last year was the cause of the Bundaberg
tragedy, when a holocaust of infants occurred
after anti-diphtheric injection. Information
on hydatids in sheep and tuberculosis and
cancer in human beings has been advanced
considerably. An interesting though less
important inquiry has been conducted into
snakebite poisoning, and even in the current
3 r ear one or two old beliefs have been proved
to be fallacies. One, for instance, is that
the venomous snake expends all his lethal
material in one bite. The tiger-snake has
been found to express only a fifth of his
liquid murder in the initial stroke, and what
remained in one case was sufficient to kill
489 sheep or 40 horses. Snakes, by the way,
become less poisonous when kept without
water, so that for your snakebite you should
select a period of drought.
The specialist making his £3OOO a year in
Collins or Macquarie street is a middle-
man purveying the goods produced by
usually out-at-elbows investigators who
scarcely get the basic wage. Behind the
practitioner who bares a patient’s arm and
injects a million or so anti-bodies as a cure
for migraine or a common cold stretches a
long line of poorly-paid inquirers who by
their incredibly patient researches have
made the operation safe and possibly effica-
cious. The institute, which was established
by the far-sighted old Mt. Morganaire and
his life’s helpmate, is full of such financial
martyrs to science.
4
The Flatite’s Child.
Dr. Arthur, N.S.W. Minister of Health,
had an audience the other day of 200 health
inspectors assembled at the annual confer-
ence of the Health Inspectors’ Association.
To these he mentioned that Sydney is
developing new slums to reinforce the old
ones, which is true, for a block of flats is
only a tenement house on which the paint
is still fresh, and a tenement house is only
a collection of terraces stood on end, and
these potted or condensed domiciles are full
of possibilities. The lady who Sang of rlie
Shirt dwelt in one of them. And to all
else it may be added that the flatite’s child
has the street for a playground, the same
as the guttersnipe, though this drawback
may be minimised by having as few children
as possible.
“Decentralisation,” said the little doctor,
“is the remedy, and it can be brought about
by quicker and cheaper means of transit.”
That may be decentralisation, but it doesn’t
sound at all like the real article. It rather
suggests a fostering of the old Congestion
habit. If the growth of new towns led to
a diffusion of the people, something like
that in, say, Maoriland, it would be possible
to do without faster and cheaper means of
suburban communication for a long while—
perhaps till the arrival of improved methods
made it possible to fly from Sj’dney to Par-
ramatta for 2d., children half-price. In five
years the population of the 685 metropolitan
miles increased by 157,979, and that of the
Rest of the State (308,747 miles) by only
40,810. The nominal value of land is
absurdly high because of the number of
people on it, and the rates are high to cor-
respond, and the cost, including interest, of
hauling a train so that people may live in
cheaper parts, if there are such, has doubled
in 10 years.
So the flat habit grows and multiplies in
the corner of a State which averages about
one human being to 80 acres and with
“natural resources” which have been dis-
coursed upon at great length. And nobody
remembers that Dr. Arthur or his col-
leagues, either as Ministers or as members,
have attempted to create one new seaport
city in a desirable spot by providing a little
necessary equipment, and a railway connec-
tion, resuming some land if necessary and
offering it for sale as town allotments. No-
body recalls, either, that they have shown
any special interest in the subdivision of the
State so that new Governments might be
compelled to take the development of the
neglected outer regions in hand. It isn’t
even known that they have expressed a
pious wish to do anything of the least
practical value, though pious wishes are
cheap enough.
4
“Bloggs”: H. D. Ellison, of Australia
House, gets flayed every time a returned
tourist-politician thinks it opportune to
register rugged democracy. “Texas”
Green, M.H.R., is his latest assailant, the
charges being that Ellison wears a silk
hat and has an English accent. It is
Ellison’s job to angle for invitations to
Buckingham Palace, the Royal Enclosure
at Ascot, the Mansion House, etc., on be-
half of the innumerable Australian tourists
who lust to see their names in the papers
as guests at such places. Where he fails,
the fury of the slighted ones is comparable
to that of a woman scorned. Fisher, Cook,
Hughes and other ex-Laborites all had to
put up with these charges of foppishness
and Englishism, and now murmurs are
being heard against “Bull” Ryrie himself.
It is about time Australians realised that
this scandal, or whatever it is, is of their
own making. If they want their represen-
tatives to startle London by figuring as
characters out of a backblocks bellow-
drama, it should be easy to arrange; but
the effect on the flow of invitations is
bound to be bad, and if that calamity hap-
pens the remarks of tourist-politicians are
likely to be even more embittered.


THE PERFECT
IVORY TIP
#-
& *y-
Hj to
’ ■
> :";
* * -; -" "
ST4TE (&PRKS
333
%0 for 1/6
ARDATH TOBACCO}
CQ, LTD., ■>
POLITICAL
POINTS
After 5000 strikers had started to break
things, South Australia, watched the enlist-
ment of a spasmodic and temporary force of
amateur police to keep order. The arrange-
ment isn’t satisfactory in any way, for the
wrong kind of Government might fail to call
for the amateurs and the slow or paralytic
Government might not call in time. Then
the amateurs are under no legal obliga-
tion to turn up. The better way would
be to have trained State National Guards,
to a great extent under Federal control, after
the U.S. plan, ready to appear for instant
action when headquarters blows the foghorn
of alarm. To depend on improvising a peace
force after the war has started is unsatisfac-
tory, especially as a better-led crowd than the
Port Adelaide rioters might spoil the
improvisation.
In “Labor’s Cam-
paign Manual” Theo-
dore carps at the
Prime Minister for
“constantly urging the
need for a navy,” add-
ing in all seriousness
that “his Government
has parted with seven
.... auxiliary cruisers,
each more powerful
than the Sydney,
which sank the
Emden” The “Bay’
steamers, in _ short!
Scullin, for his part,
pronounces the com-
pulsory training of
youths “a sham,
which will be abol-
ished,” and visions
“munition factories
which shall ring with
the making of machin-
ery for the develop-
ment of our primary
and secondary indus-
tries.” And these
playboys think they
can run a continent!
J.H. Scullin.
It has been explained that the reason why
two foremen of a Melbourne stevedoring co.
were assaulted and the homes of two others
bombed was that class-conscious stalwarts
imagined them to be members of the steve-
dores’ association. Actually, it is pointed
out, they resigned from their union, as is the
custom, as soon as they had been appointed
foremen. The explanation, or apology, or
whatever it is, doesn’t seem to make things
any better.
About the time the A.C.T.TJ. in Mel-
bourne and Premier Collier in Westralia
were making themselves purple with indigna-
tion over the proposal to license lumpers,
a Vic. estate-agent was - being fined £25
for stating on a placard that he was a
licensed auctioneer when actually it was the
assistant he employed who had the license.
No Labor leader wasted any sympathy over
the estate-agent.
The season is at hand when Tasmania used
to make a harvest by entertaining the tripper.
To all inquiries the Tas. Tourist Bureau
replies that it doesn’t know whether there
will be ships or not, and unless the Naviga-
tion Act is repealed the uncertainty is likely
to be chronic. Any insurance co. which
wants to fool with the unknown might start
insuring tourists, each person who is de-
tained on the island beyond his intended
time to receive an adequate living allowance
and any other compensation that he likes to
pay premium for till he had a chance to
escape with reasonable comfort; But the con-
cern might burst and leave its clients on the
island.
According to Budget figures, the Vic. gen-
eral revenue was
£308.821 in credit
last year, but the
railways were
£532,174 in debit,
so there was a
shortage of
£103,353. Premier-
Treasurer Hogan
expects to wind up
1928-29 with a
surplus of £15,107
on a revenue of
£27,710,529, o t
which railways
are looked to for
£13,847,000. The
rain came just in
time to furnish
Hogan with a
note of optimism.
Premier Hogan.
Albany (W.A.) got a bit of its own back
during tlio waterfront upheaval. Its wkarfies
acquiesced very reluctantly in their federa-
tion’s repudiation of “the pernicious and
vicious Beeby award,” and returned to work
immediately the order was given. The Fre-
mantle lumpers, on the other hand, sullenly
remained on strike, so ship after ship
bound for Fremantle, mail steamers among
them, was transferred to the beautiful south-
ern port. Apart from one or two bad N.-Q.
cases, waterside labor in the outports does it:
job much more faithfully than the motley
collection of casuals in the centralised ports,
and this may lead to useful developments.
Prompted by Col. Knox, Vic. Assembly has
decided by 18 votes to 11 to authorise the
Speaker to recite the Lord’s Prayer at the
opening of each sitting, as the Uppali Cham-
bah has done almost since its inception.
Eleven Laborites constituted the minority;
the majority comprised units of all parties.
The last night Speaker Snowball, now under
the sod, presided he wanted leave to
open each sitting with prayer, but
was refused. Hogan then said he would
support a motion this session. ITe kept his
word, and sat alone on the Treasury bench
till McPherson and Knox came to keep him
company.
During the second reading of the “Razor
Gang” Bill in N.S.W. Leg. Council Dr.
Doyle served up the entire menu of ancient
platitude regarding flogging. But he did not
labor the cold fact that flogging is the only
reliable prophylactic against certain crimes.
Its effect on assaults for gain or revenge is
almost miraculous. Thirty-odd years ago
London had an epidemic of garrotting which
appeared as incurable as Sydney’s bottle-
bashing and razor-slashing epidemics. The
late Lord Brampton (then Sir Henry Haw-
kins) wiped it off the face of England inside
six months by ordering a flogging with every
sentence he passed on a garrotter.
Hogan announced in his Budget that he
would tap the Vic. Parliament later for
£300,000 towards meeting the expected de-
ficiency on soldier-settlement. The Tote Bill
has been reintroduced on almost the same lines
as in 1927, except that the £90,000 p.a. it is
estimated to yield is to go to charity and
metropolitan race clubs are to get 5 p.c. out
of the 10 p.c. deducted instead of 4-J p.c.
And another attempt is being made to pass
a sheep tax —it is now proposed to fix it at
a penny p.er head and not to earmark the
revenue specifically. Only a small minority
will raise Cain if the Second Chamber heaves
out the sheep tax again, but income-taxpayers
will heap maledictions on its head if it per-
sists in its mulish opposition to the tote.
“An excess of imports is natural in the
ease of a debtor nation” was the text of a
recent lecture before the Australasian Eco-
nomic Society. Another good subject would
be that an excess of dirt is natural to an
unwashed nation.
The succession of bribery scandals which
have rocked Japanese political life illustrates
how hard it is for the family system to adapt
itself to the modern democratic state. The
Briton puts the State before his family:
the Oriental puts his family first. This atti-
tude has its drawbacks, but it also has advan-
tages. There is no State workmen’s compen-
sation or unemployment insurance in Japan,
but last year employers voluntarily paid
over 400,000 claims simply because they
cannot get out of the habit of regarding their
employees as part of their domestic charge.
That very poor joke, the Federal land-tax
for the reduction of big estates, got another
bad advertisement the other day. The
N.S.W. Civil Service Stores had been forced
to find new premises, and for that and other
reasons it had such a bad experience that
the bonus to purchasers was suspended for
the first time in 40 years. The new business
site being disastrously expensive, the Federal
Land-tax Department fell on this co-operative
concern with an exaction of £4456 to encour-
age it to cut up its big estate. Measured by
the inflated price, which is how the Common-
wealth does the thing, it is a big estate.
Measured by size, it is a mere kitchen garden,
and quite incapable of subdivision without
destroying its usefulness. The great bulk
of the “cutting-up” tax now falls on city
allotments, where it fails to cut up anything,
though it adds to the cost of living.
The Adelaide watersidcrs made a false
start at handling cargo, having, they said,
been promised a conference with the employ-
ers, but left oif when the employers flatly
denied any such promise. It would injure
their dignity to go on without a conference,
the wlmrfies explained. That species of
reasoning ends in a deadlock. If a plain-
tiff takes his case to court, as the water-
siders did, and the judgment is generally
favorable though he objects to it in one par-
ticular, and he says he must have a private
and successful negotiation with the defen-
dant over that one particular else his dignity
will go to pot, there isn’t much to be said
save a decisive no. That was how the great
row began, and a lot of dignity has gone
astray since then.
Lord Hugh Cecil in his little book “Con-
servatism” lays it down that the cardinal
idea of that political creed is authority. It
is for the few to give orders and for the
many to obey, without any reasoning why.
An illustration of the principle was given
at the .Conservative conference at Yarmouth,
when a delegate moved that the leaders
should consult the rank and file before
embarking on any new policy. The chairman
said bluntly that if the rank and file inter-
fered with policy the party would soon be
down and out, and the conference heaved the
motion overboard. Every Australian Labor
leader will mutter “Amen”—Hebrew for
“Democracy be damned!”
Llewelyn Atkinson
had a bad quarter-hour
when he heard that ex-
Premier Joe Lyons
might stand for Wil-
mot (Tas.), for Lyons,
as was shown at the
recent State election,
gets a strong personal
vote. The Labor leader,
it has been announced
since, intends to stick
to State politics, but
Llewelyn won’t be easy
in his mind until he
knows definitely that
Joseph hasn’t nomi-
nated. Member for
Wilmot since 1906,
Atkinson was Liberal
in 1914, Nationalist in
1917 and 1919. Coun-
try party in 1922 and
1925 and Nationalist
again in 1927 ; so his
enemies now dub him
a Libnatcocky, and
wonder what he will
be next.
Atkinson, M.H.R.
The case of Jacob Johnson v. Law and
Order advanced another slummocky stride
during the week. It began when the Sea-
men’s Union elected Walsh to be secretary
and the defeated Johnson refused to give
up the premises, the job or the books. The
Court ordered a fresh election, and Walsh
was again elected by a large majority, and
Johnson again refused to take any notice;
in fact, Johnson's Reds pushed Walsh off
the premises. The Court made an order for
Walsh’s due installation, but the elected
secretary got the key of the street again.
Then the Johnson following held a small
and sudden local meeting at which they pro-
fessed to annul the all-Australian ballot,
and to dismiss Walsh and to disqualify him
in every imaginable way. It isn’t a tidy
way of doing business, but it is the only way
the Bolshevik knows.
The municipal council of Granville, close
rip to Sydney, has received a list of habi-
tations which ought to be wiped off the globe,
including a two-room-and-kitchen cottage in
which 13 people pigged harmoniously to-
gether. This is one of the natural results of
the local brand of Fair Rents legislation.
The Bavinshaw Government proposes to give
a little more scope to the cottage-to-let
builder, but not enough to make the busi-
ness worth while, and recognising that the
business won’t be worth while it also pro-
poses to lend out millions at low interest and
an almost invisible margin of security to
induce people to build for themselves. It
would probably be better to abolish the Bare
Rents at 12 months’ notice, and thus encour-
age the old type oflandlordt 0 go
fully for an orgy of building. In case tje
orgy might be insufficient *be btate g _ t
still make cheap advances , to nf h cent'
but not to the absurd extent of JO per cent.
of the boom co.it. .. ~
Tf A Mann who became a Nationalist
in 1922, to the surprise of his old pals ot
the Perth Trades Hall,
turned Independent or
something in the last
Parliament after
Bruce-Page had failed
to recognise his out-
standing merits. How-
ever, the Foreign-
trade gentleman is to
stand as a Nationalist
for Perth again, the
N a t.-F ed. executive
having “endorsed”
him. Perth is no
Labor seat, but a Pro-
tectionist candidate of
the Pratten school,
capable of ramming
home the truth that
foreign trade w ou 1 d
close up Westralian
factories wholesale,
and ruin fruitgrowers,
winemakers, poultry-
farmers and so forth
as well, would make
things very sultry for
Mann and his Nat.
Fed. friends.
Mann, of Perth.
Collier, the Westralian Labor _ Premier,
has not lived up to his reputation for saga-
city during the waterfront war. Poan-
mongering Governments cannot afford to be
associated with repudiation in any form,
and “repudiation of the pernicious and
vicious Beeby award” is a grave matter
from every point of view. Hogan (Vic.)
and McCormack (Q.) recognise this, and
liave played the game; but Collier—with
unsold wool piled up and the first of the
new season’s wheat due in a few weeks—
seems to have lost his head completely. He
openly sided with the Fremantle lumpers
(most persistent of the repudiators), de-
scribed the Arbitration Court’s judgment as
“the Booby award,” railed at Bruce and his
Transport Workers Act; in short, made a
very bad situation very much worse, on
while Albany, Bunbury and Geraldton are
working, Fremantle will continue to be a
dead port, for (the Seamen’s Union having
behaved as usual) Australian shipowners
say they can’t send steamers there, and
British and Continental shipowners say they
won’t; and there is no means of making
them. . , . ,
The unemployed situation m the United
States might be described as that of Aus-
tralia turned upside down. Uncle has a huge
surplus of exports to sell, and foreign nations
find it difficult to buy unless he lends them
a good part of the money. The £9,000,000
or so of gold which he produces in a year
piles up in the country because there is no
surplus of imported goods to pay for, and in
addition surplus gold pours in to pay for
Uncle’s exports (about £30,000,000 in 1927),
and piles up likewise. Banking profits suffer
because of the mountains of gold which are
earning little or nothing for want of decent
security to lend on, and yet Uncle col-
lects his war debts with avidity. It will
be a strange result if his acquisitiveness
leads to something approaching a world bank-
ruptcy in which he will be the unsecured
creditor. He can't seize a globe for default,
having no place to store a globe.
Fritz is beginning to sit up and take notice.
He proposes running an air service to pick
up passengers and mails from America at
Queenstown, southern Ireland, and race them
across Ireland and England to continental
cities. He also suggests conducting services
in England itself —that is to say, he contem-
plates these deeds unless J. Bull puts in a
veto. In the size of his air fleet and the
mileage it covers Fritz outdoes the combined
efforts of Britain and France, and his ambi-
tions for an atmospheric empire ai*e becoming
very pronounced.
THE BRAVER PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Before the Prime Minister sat down Anstey was
on his feet lashing the Government with a tongue
which has won many bitter fights for the workers.”
—Sydney Labor Daily.
They can talk about the heroes of the
greatest war of all —
How they hurried into action with a yell,
Got to grips with giant Germans ’ncath a
terrifying j»al 1
Composed of rolling smoke and flying
shell;
But the h< wls of Huns and Britons, as their
weapons clashed, I’ll swear,
Were no louder than the Hansard howls of
Anstey of the Hair.
All the world knows of the horrors which
the war-time writer paints;
Of the wretched lot endured by fighting-
men
Who abode in slush, and strode through
mud, and uttered no complaints.
Why no epic tales of brave old Anstey,
'then ?
Though through the mud he doesn’t tramp,
he slings it soft and hard;
Though underfoot no slush he treads, he
spouts it by the yqrd.
All that poison gas in Flanders may have
done much to augment
The rigors of existence in the line:
And what about the lethal gas put down
in Parliament
By day and night, in weather foul or fine?
Let’s forget such things as trenches —the
brave lads who make our laws
Take more risks on red-plush benches, where
they battle with their jaws.
N.S.W.
BLOGGS.
LANG’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lang attacked Mr. Bavin because that
gentleman had not enlightened him as to the doings
of the City Council while he (Mr. Lang) was
Premier.’’
As guileless as a country maid
From some way-back selection,
I sing of innocence betrayed
And ill-bestowed affection.
Of pure and unsuspicious mind.
There’s no one can excel me
For simple faith in human kind.
Oh, why did no one tell me?
Scarce credible though it may be,
While others held their noses
My City Council pals to me
Smelt just as sweet as roses.
And so I loved ’em much too long
Till something sad befel me,
And now—I sing this simple song:
Oh, why did no one tell me?
N.S.W.
ZECH.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“X.D.”: Influence of the movies again ?
The Melbourne Show produced a ndw type
of delinquents who robbed other small fry
of their . samples. The predatory juveniles
worked in gangs. When they saw an un-
escorted kid toddling away from the Show-
ground loaded to the plimsoll with pur-
chased odds and ends, they shadowed the
HOPEFUL.
The Old Bot (looking into her eyes ): “They are like two stars in a moonlit sky.
And do you know what else they remind me of?”
HELPFUL ANNE: “No, can’t guess—unless it’s a pair o’ diamonds in a platinum ring.”
infant until a likely side street presented
itself. Then they drove him down the alley
and despoiled him. They ran little chance
of interruption, since passing adults usually
bestow less attention on a mob of tangled
children than they do on a dogfight. Com-
plaints moved the police to inquire, and a
drove turned up at the Children’s Court
charged with the new banditry.
* * * *
“Unity”: The tale of the damsel who
sprinted into the Melbourne lift clutching
wildly at her clothes (B. 3/10/’2B) recalls
the experience of a well-known Sydney
restaurant proprietor, who was astonished
one morning recently to see a good-looking
young woman dash into his premises and
dart behind a screen. With what he now
admits was unwarrantable curiosity he
looked over the top, whereupon the young
woman fixed him with a chilly eye and said
tersely, “Go away, you idiot. My suspender’s
broken.”
**!]!#
“Ming”: Some years ago when a small
steamer was loading fruit at a North Queens-
land river port the skipper had an alter-
cation with the cook. Presently the “old
man” hauled off and hit out, and the hash
artist, dodging, overbalanced against the rail
and plunged backwards into the river. He
began to swim to shore round the ship, and
a deckhand threw him an empty fruit-case
by way of first-aid. Clutching the case, the
cook drifted into the stream. Just as they
were launching a boat, the horrified watchers
saw a big crocodile appear and head straight
for the swimmer. Holding the case before
him, the cook met the croc, head on ; there
was a collision, a great commotion in the
water, and when the spray cleared off the
approaching boat could see the head of the
crocodile jambed in the case, while the cook
clung to the outside. They picked up the
man and later secured the still-jambed croco-
dile. The cook now keeps a store in Sydney,
and the croc, adorns the Brisbane Museum.
* * * *
“L.A.L.”: “D.’s” explanation of a bull (B.
19/9/’2S) is more accurate than “Sol M.”
(B. 26/9/’2S) is inclined to admit. The
best definition is surely O. K. Chesterton’s:
“A bull is only a paradox which
people are too stupid to under-
stand. It is the rapid summary
of something which is at once
so true and so complex that the
speaker, who has the swift intel-
ligence to perceive it, has not.
the slow patience to explain it.”
The “obvious truth” is really
the essential feature of bulls;
they are compact summaries
which are too true to be con-
sistent. And race does matter.
Wasn’t it Bernard Shaw who
said : “I am a typical Irishman:
my family came from York-
shire !” ?
“Macko” : I enter this Irish “bull” against
any in the stables of Boyle Roche or “D”
or “Sol M.” “Casey, you’re dhrunk!” “Be
gobs, if I wuz sober, you wouldn’t say thot
to me.” “No, me bhoy, and be hivens, if
you tons sober you wouldn’t denoy it.”
* * * *
“Lalage”: The best Irish bull left on per-
manent record is surely that found on the
wall of St. Patrick’s, the Dublin cathedral
where Swift was once Dean. The inscrip-
tion read: “Here are engraved the arms of
the Duke of Blank, together with the arms
of such of his daughters’ husbands as were
married.”
:i: :'r >j: *
“D.”: Woollalira House, the last of Syd-
ney’s palatial Georgian mansions to be occu-
pied by a private family, has been sold for
£57,200. The late Thomas Longworth—a
Great Cobar plutocrat and father of Tommy,
the long-distance swimmer bought the
house' and five acres of water-frontage
grounds shortly before the war But the
estate he secured was a mere fragment of
the original. When the house was built
close on a century ago to the order of Daniel
Cooper, of the Waterloo Stores Market
street, its grounds extended over practicallv
the whole of Point Piper. Several Cooper
generations lived there. ■ and it was let for
many years to the widow of Chief Justice
Martin. After Federation, when a search
was being made for a State Government
House, there was talk of buying the Cooper
property, but the price asked was too great
and Cranbrook, with smaller grounds and
no water frontage, was chosen.
“W.K.”: Here is a nut for those inter-
ested in medical research to crack. The
Maori is prone to every “itis” known to
doctors, also fevers, with one notable excep-
tion, diphtheria. There is no known instance
of a Maori having contracted this disease.
I wonder if diet has anything to do with
it?
* * * *
“Myles O’Reilly”: The most concise and
lucid description of character I ever heard
came from an elderly Cornisliman at the
now defunct Wallaroo mines. He
was steadily swinging his long Cor-
nish shovel, cleaning a “fleeoor,” and
doing it better than I could have
done with a broom, when a young
fellow of whom I had no great
opinion passed by. “Mr. Manferd,.”
I asked, “what sort of a chap is
that young C —?” “What, him?”
said Manferd, very deliberately.
“Wc’e’ell, Maister, he da b’long to a
damn bad lot.” He paused a
moment before adding “An’ ’c idden
the best o’ they.”
SENSIBLE GIRL.
“What do you do with your clothes when you wear them out, darling?”
“Wear them home again, dear.”
“Q.N,”: In a Melbourne court recently
counsel was opposing, on behalf of the bene-
ficiaries under a deceased man’s will, an
application by the widow, who had been cut
otf with the traditional shilling, for the statu-
tory allowance which the Court has discre-
tion to grant her in such a case. The appli-
cant went into the witness-box, and the
barrister, in his attempt to discredit her as
much as possible, managed to extract an
admission from her that the only child of the
deceased and herself was born _ before they
were married. Now, had the child been legi-
timate, the maximum amount the Judge could
have allowed the widow would have been the
income from one-third of the estate.. But
where there are no children —and an illegiti-
mate child, of course, is films nullius in law—
the maximum allowable is the income from
half the estate. And this the Judge announced
that he proposed to give. Vainly counsel
pleaded that his questions had been directed
to “credit” only; ’Sonah informed him that
he had brought the fact out and must abide
by the consequences.
“Stellsby”: I am in the habit of changing
my bit of light fiction at the local news-
agent’s library every other day, and men-
tioned, a trifle apologetically, on my last
visit that I was a glutton for “thrillers.”
But the lady librarian promptly reassured
me. “You’re mild,” she declared. “Why,
there’s a sick Judge round at the private
hospital up the street who reads two every
day. The other morning one of the nurses
was waiting on the doorstep at 6.30 to
change the tripe. Next , week he’ll have to
take on cowboy stuff. He’s read us clean
out of murders.”
* *
“Uramao”: A brotherly Rotarian, who
always tries to live up to the motto “Ser-
vice before self,” saw an old man making
heavy weather dragging a ponderous port
manteau from the railway station to the
wharf at Wellington (M.L.). Stepping up
he manfully insisted on relieving the ancient
of his burden, but presently he was observed
to be noticeably groaning under the load.
“Yes, sir, it be a bit ’eavy. It be my son’s
tombstone,” cheerfully chirruped the man
whose burden was being shouldered.
Nt :!: # t-
“St. John”: Those football barrackers
who blithely jeer the blue uniformed “Zam-
buk” as he hurries across the field on his
errand of mercy little realise the long pre-
paration and the searching ordeal of exami-
nation that an intending ambulance man
must face before he is loosed on his task.
At the recent Queensland examinations a
viva voce question was put concerning the
treatment of a small boy who had fallen
from a tree while bird-nesting. The injuries
sustained and symptoms exhibited were de-
tailed on a blackboard, and each candidate
was called up and asked to detail his treat-
ment of the case and his deduction from the
symptoms. These last set out that the
patient showed an agonised and distorted
visage, with a yellowish fluid draining from
his mouth. Only one candidate supplied the
right answer. This was that the kid had
put the bird’s egg in his mouth, that it had
broken in the fall, and that it was addled.
$ $ * $
“Feng-Shui”: Australia’s old acquaintance
Krishnamurti is now permanently installed
in Holland in a huge old castle, presented to
the new Messiah by one of his Dutch dis-
ciples, Baron van Pallant. Here recently
foregathered nearly 3000 of his adherents.
The conferences are held in the open air,
the devotees sitting on pine logs round a bon-
fire while the young son of the sub-collector
of revenue of Madras expounds his revela-
tion. If the truth must be told, Annie
Besant’s choice is not giving the fullest satis-
faction. He will talk to press interviewers
about his fondness for golf, tennis and radio.
A Redeemer in plus-fours seems incongruous
to people who are unable to realise that even
a Messiah must be the child of his century,
and this happens to be a century of radio
and plus-fours. They want what the journal-
ists call a “good story” during the Great
Teacher’s lifetime. They forget or don’t
know that the stories of previous humans
with allegedly divine attributes have been
less the creation of their originator than the
imaginative efforts of innumerable subse-
quent sub-editors. A case in point is the
first Buddha. The Higher Criticism has
lately been busy with the hallowed history
of the tender and lovely Sakyamuni, and
what remains is the veriest tatters. Even
Sir Edwin Arnold’s non-supernatural narra-
tive of the royal youth who renounced the
bosom of the beautiful Yasodhara in order
to save the world is fiction. All we know
for certain is that there was a person who
may have been called Sidliartha, and that he
preached—something or other. For all one
knows to the contrary he may have been the
champion plus-one golfer of Kapilavastu ; so
Krishnamurti need not necessarily despair
of the verdict of posterity.
* * * *
“Ituna”: There was a pompous and offi-
cious J.P. who succeeded in keeping an
Auckland suburb in a state of incessant tur-
moil by his complaints about neighbors. One
Sunday morning he rang up the police sta-
tion and angrily reported that the calm
of the Day of Rest was being disturbed by
the hammering of an enterprising young
schoolmaster, who was making alterations to
the wash-house. The result was that a
uniformed figure presently loomed up in the
quiet street, and the amateur carpenter had
to cease his activities. But the complain-
ant had reckoned without the schoolmaster’s
little wife. Next Sunday the hammering that
arose roused the J.P. to fresh fury, and
his language on the ’phone was so forcible
that the police hurried to the spot by motor-
cycle. There they discovered the school-
master peacefully gardening, while, inside,
his wife, armed with an enormous hammer,
explained that she was merely breaking open
a few nuts to make a walnut loaf. As this
domestic employment was obviously quite
outside police jurisdiction or the range of
any Sabbath observance statute, the Law
retired to explain the matter to the com-
plainant. It was noticeable that the lady
seldom hit a nut under 30 or 40 strokes,
but, as the operator smilingly explained,
women are notoriously bad shots with a
hammer.
s': sJt si: if
“Bad Australian”: I always regarded a
brass-mine as being in the same category
as the Valley of Diamonds and the Lode-
stone Mountain until I met an old half-
breed prospector at a little oasis in the
Desert of Atacama, South America. He
informed me between copious swigs of
“pisco” that he was working a copper lode
somewhere out in the desert, and he assured
me—“por Dios”—that in some parts it con-
tained so much zinc-blende that, when the
ore was smelted in his primitive “horno,”
the resulting product was “bronce” or brass,
instead of copper. Although I didn’t know
enough about mineralogy to determine
whether zinc-blende occurs in association
with copper I intimated that he might try
me with another one, but when he swore by
the wounds of the Redeemer and the soul
of his mother that he was telling me the
exact truth, I simply had to believe him.
:fc
“El. V.” : The übiquitous Australian ! On
a recent journey from London to India I
found that the secretary of the British Royal
Automobile Club was a countryman and the
secretary of the Automibile Association a
Maorilander. I encountered an ex-Digger
keeping a shop at Boulogne and another
(a native of Cairns) acting as a guide to
tourists at Metz. At Munich we were greeted
by no less than four ex-A.I.F. men. At
Sofia a man from Longreach (Q.) was run-
ning a motor business. At Constantinople
the chief interpreter at the British Embassy
was one Leeper, who went to school with
Stanley Bruce. One Edwards, formerly a'
Molong photographer, is director of the big-
gest British firm in Turkey (G. and A. Baker)
and head of the carpet firm of Edwards and
Co. Another Australian resident in Turkey
is Major Henry, one of the first white child-
ren born in the Gulf country. On the Iraq
border Jack Ryan, sometime of Redfern
(N.S.W.), does a brisk business as a carrier
of pilgrims, and the only white officer we
met in. western Beloochistan was Captain
Harris, a product of Ipswich (Q.). When
you get into India proper, almost every regi-
mental mess seems to have at least one Aus-
tralian.
A TEN-MILLION POUNDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Gene Tunney married Miss Lauder, heiress of the
late Andrew Carnegie and reputed to be worth
£10,000,000, at Rome on Wednesday.”
The nineteenth-century swiper—
He for whose fistic whirls
Rich patrons paid the piper,
The pet of belted earls—
Engaged in combat gory,
One doubts not, con amove;
But not for him the glory
Of winning Golden Girls.
Deaf Burke and co. were bruisers
Whose deeds would once enchain,
Game victors, gallant losers,
But ’twould have been a strain
To picture Gribbs and Maces,
With battered, homely faces,
Clasping in their embraces
Ten-million pounds of jane.
O long-dead Tipton Slashers
And Bristol Bustlers, too,
And various other bashers,
Hibernian to Jew,
From Farnborough to the Durdans
You bore the prize-ring’s burdens,
But there, were no such guerdons
As these for pugs like you.
When Heenan strove with Sayers,
Or Mitchell dodged John L.’s
Assaults, that here were stayers
Of note their record tells,
But not for them the sunny
Experience of Tunney,
To quit with stacks of money
To chimes of wedding-bells.
A slugger and a scholar
His fame o’er earth resounds;
He packed a million-doRar
Punch in a score of rounds;
And now the ringside racket
He’s left, against liis jacket
He strains a little packet
Priced at ten-million pounds.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Oxmead” : “Say, Bo,” is quoted or satir-
ised as an Americanism in “Wawlicresh’s”
admirable vignette “Miscalled” (B.
•!/10/’2B). Yet, “Bo,” which I assume to
be an abbreviation for “brother,” a variant
for “Bud” and “Buddy” and a synonym for
“Mate,” was used in Australia more than
a century ago, if Marcus Clarke is to be
relied on. The author puts it more than
once into Gabbett’s mouth when that
worthy is addressing his fellows in “His
Natural Life.” And Gabbett doubtless
brought the term with him from London.
A good deal of modern American slang is
really dead-and-resurrected English stuff.
❖ ❖ ❖ jJ:
“Morkrum” : One of the most famous mes
sages in the annals of N.S.W. telegraphy
is known as the Raw Rabbits wire. In
1916 a Kiama (N.S.W.) lady telegraphed to
a Sydney doctor for guidance concerning her
baby’s diet. The line was quiet, and shortly
afterwards the Sydney telegraphist concocted
and sent a reply: “Feed baby on raw rab-
bits and advise progress.” The Kiama man
wrote the message, saw the joke and left
it lying there. A few minutes afterwards a
bustling messenger grabbed the scrap of
paper, enveloped and delivered it. The lady
promptly wrote to the department asking
what the message meant. As a result the two
operators had to part £1 apiece.
)Jc * * #
“Cleeve Rocks” : Few State Treasurers (or
any other sort) find more money coming in
than they know what to do with, yet that
was the pleasant experience of Westralia’s
Bigjohn Forrest in the mid-’nincties. From
all over the continent and the world adven-
turous souls were flocking to Coolgardie and
the Murchison, and the revenue, from mining
leases, customs duties and a dozen other
sources, went up from month to month like
leaping flames. Bigjohn, being a shrewd
political campaigner, distributed as much as
he could in largess, especially on the gold-
fields, where the Groperland Administration
was viewed with no enthusiasm and some
FOR THE LAST TRUMP.
MR. SMITH: “Bridge, bridge—out to bridge again! You’ll kill yourself with all this
bridge!”
MRS. SMITH: “Then if I do, dearest, I want to be buried with simple honors.”
hostility. When Forrest or any of his col-
leagues visited the goldfields settlements they
came with open hands, and the wider a pro-
gress committee opened its mouth the more it
would get. If the district didn’t hanker after
a courthouse or a public battery, some
public-spirited citizen would suggest that a
grant of £lOOO would cover the cost of an
up-to-date recreation ground or a slap-up
miners’ institute, and Bigjohn would nod
approvingly and * make a note of it. One
result is that there are decayed mining town-
ships in W.A. to-day with public buildings
that would be a credit to any city, and places
with the remains of racecourses and cycling-
tracks that have almost reverted to the
bush Government batteries could be, and
mostly were, shifted when there was no more
stone to crush, but it was different with
massive courthouses and spacious ovals.
• * * *
“Amity”: A juvenile suffering from an
insatiable curiosity was haled before the
Children’s Court in Christchurch (M.L.)
the other day, and charged with setting fire
to summer cottages at a neighboring holiday
resort. When questioned by the magistrate
lie admitted that his sole object in fire-
making was to see the flames go up and
the brigade come out, and apparently the
plentiful conflagrations he had caused were
entirely bo his satisfaction. A previous exploit
was cutting launches adrift, presumably to
see what they would do when left to their
own devices. The Court instructed the pro-
bation offcer to take the youth in hand and
curb his morbid impulses until he is 21.
* * * *
“Murkali”: The “atonceness” of radio!
Sitting in a room in Summer Hill (Sydney)
we heard the Melbourne G.P.O. clock com-
mence to boom 10 p.m. That clock-strike
had crossed Bass Strait and the Speck’s
billowing ranges; been picked up at Hobart
and shot across the Tasman to
Christchurch; amplified and
flung thence to Wellington.
“Built up” there, it again leapt
the Southern Cross sea and was
picked from the maze at Mel-
bourne. On an altered wave-
length its last ether journey
brought it to us at Summer Hill
—five solemn booms. My friend
hastily switched to 2FC (Far-
mer’s), and Sydney G.P.O. came
in with the last five. Despite
their wanderings the Melb.
strikes reached us instantly, so
that we hadn’t lost a blow. The
time “lost” by a radio signal in
seven circuits of the globe is
slightly under one sec. Mel-
bourne and Sydney clocks both
work on a seven-secs.’ space.
Therefore, were the strikes sent on thai
world-girdling merry-go-round, we would, in
a similar experiment, he unlucky to lose one.
* * * *
“Adelaide” : The old-time marked advant-
age in numbers of the Wcsleyans in South
Aus. has dwindled, if the latest figures can
be relied upon. (And probably they can,
because the old-time official way of setting
down “C. of E.” against any doubtful case
has been abandoned.) The Anglicans now
have one-tliird of the State’s population, the
Aesleyans one-fourth, the Roman Catholics
one-eighth. Presbyterians, though prominent
in everything, are under 5 per cent.; and
the same remark applies to the comparatively
new body that calmly assumes the title of
“Church of Christ.”
* * * #
“M.S.”: As far as Victoria is concerned,
it is melancholy that the only problem
presented by the aboriginal is how decently
to arrange his winding-sheet. Practically
all that is loft of him is now concentrated
at the Lake Tyers station. There are still
a few at Condah and Coranderrk, but their
numbers have so dwindled that the Hogan
Government expects no opposition to its pro-
posal to transport them to the lake depot
and throw what have been their 10,000
acres open tor closer settlement. Those who
are too old and feeble to be shifted or who
cling to their old begging-rounds will be
accommodated with a few acres. A full-
blooded abo. is seldom seen nowadays in
Melbourne, so it was a curious coincidence
that, when the worshipping crowds poured
out of the Melba farewell at His Majesty’s
the other afternoon, a grizzled Binghi,
slightly the worse for liquor, should be
standing in the gutter raising the cracked
voice of the soi-disant King of Morning-
ton peninsula, presumably in tribute to the
white song queen.
* * * *
“Geordie”: In One of its lighter moments,
the Empire Forestry Conference lately sitting
in Brisbane discussed the identity of the
first forester. All manner of folk were
named, from Robin Hood upwards, but no
one seems to have recalled Collingwood, Nel-
son’s famous lieutenant. It is still recorded
of the Admiral in the North Country whence
he came that, during his short spells ashore,
lie never went out without a bag of acorns
in his pocket. As lie went through the fields,
he would thrust liis stick into the ground
and plant an acorn, so that the U.K. might
never go short of material for new Vic-
torys and Britannias. The advent of iron
HAVING A BIT BOTH WAYS.
MABEL: “Why are you taking such pains to open that letter?”
MAUD: “Oh, I’ve had a quarrel with Harold, and I want to see what he has to say
before I return it unopened.”
and steel rendered his foresight of no parti-
cular avail, as far as naval requirements are
concerned. Still, it would be interesting to
know how many of the Admiral’s acorns
are flourishing trees to-day.
:|i >!« ❖ ❖
“Exdig”: The thirst of the A.I.F. and its
appetite for tinned fruits and the like pro-
vided the canteens with a profit of nearly
three-quarters of a million, which was ear-
marked after the war for grants to deceased
soldiers’ dependants and ex-Diggers in dis-
tress. The sum of £745,764 has now been
paid out in nearly 50,000 grants, and this
source of benevolence is exhausted. The Can-
teen Fund was entirely separate from Repat.,
which, though its importance is being gradu-
ally diminished, still exists to pay pensions,
give medical assistance to men suffering
from war incapacities (an obligation that
will last for a generation), handle the
special fund for the education of deceased
soldiers’ children, and endeavor to collect the
big amount still owing on loans made to
Diggers.
* * * *
“J.”: In a narrow street in the heart of
Sydney I noticed a number of cars parked
wheel to wheel against both pavements,
just about halving the width of the thor-
oughfare. In a small opening, designed to
give pedestrians access to the road was
a board with a police order —“No vehicle to
stand within ten feet of this notice-board.”
And against the board, completely blocking
the traffic, leant a motor-cycle! It was
a fine object-lesson in Sydney’s contempt of
domestic regulation; a phenomenon which
is also noticeable in the citizens’ disregard
of the ordinances against littering the streets
with rubbish. It is the spirit which makes
Sydney one of the untidiest of white men’s
cities.
* * * *
“D.”: Few Australians realised, pro-
bably, till a cable arrived last week men-
tioning that Sir John Jackson, Ltd., had
secured the Singapore dockyard contract,
that Malaya’s most-discussed enterprise is
still in the embryo stage. The elaborately
fenced-in site, which is on the narrow penin-
sula between Singapore and Johore, gives
little evidence of any work having been
done on it. So far, the coolies have con-
centrated chiefly on sinking the shafts which
will contain the foundations of the' great
machinery shops of the future. Next year
—the floating dock which is now en route
having been installed —work will start in
earnest, and will go on at an expenditure
of over a million sterling p.a. for seven
years. During the same period the mili-
tary establishment, especially on the artil-
lery side, is to be greatly strengthened
* $ * *
“El V.” : The will of an aged philanthro-
pist who died in Ontario (Canada) a few
weeks ago seems to open up a new field in
testamentary activities. He left a fortune
of £300.000-odd, all of it to go to the Ontario
ladv w r ho presents her husband and a grate-
ful country with the largest number of
children between now and tlie end of 1937.
All Ontario is agog with the news; it would
be interesting to hear some of the comments
on the offer at afternoon-tea tables.
* * * *
“Mephisfco’ 1 ’: Motor-car exhaust gases/
may not b" 1 harmful to the ordinary citizen
(B. 12/9/’2S), but they affect the police-
man on point duty. There is a lot of low-
gear work at street corners, with resultant-
heavy exhaust discharges, and several Johns
have told me that after a heavy day their
throats were sore and burning and their
eyes were running so that they could hardly
see.
* * * *
“Centurion”: In proportion to their num-
bers. Australians are probably as widely
scattered over the earth as Scotsmen, as is
emphasised by the latest report of the de-
partment administering the issue of the A.I.F.
war gratuity. Though these payments have
now been in progress for eight years, many
claims are still outstanding,
cations continue to arri J e .„];<,* includes
corners of the earth. Last war
claims from Algeria, Chili, Koiea, L .j.
Madagascar, Manchuria, 4 eru, Lithua-
pines, Russia and feingapoie. lin ssiblv a
nian and Russian applic a n .. n into
couple of the naany Lurop as> mo st of
the melting-pot of the A.i.
the others can easily be accounted for, save,
perhaps, the Madagascar resident. In that
carefully-fenced preserve of France there
has been room in the past for only one type
of Australian —the mining prospector. The
chances are that this places our man. If
he were a Frenchman he would have served,
not with the A.1.F., but with his national
army.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: The British fleet didn’t enter
the Dardanelles after the Armistice (“F.5.,”
B. 26/9/’2B). It entered before. More-
over, it was an Allied fleet. I know, because
I was aboard one of the ships. Both Turkey
and Bulgaria bad thrown in the towel before
Nov. 11. Will Longstaff’s picture of the
1915 evacuation showing warships and trans-
ports hull down on the horizon en masse, and
leaving an empty Peninsula, is all tosh.
There were still some Tommies at Helles
days after the Australians had left the beach.
The Navy saw much that imaginative
daubers were not privileged to see.
%i ❖ ❖
“Aileron”: The Maorilanders have re-
corded the first air crossing of the Tasman
in graceful fashion by a memorial slab of
granite set on the ground at Wigram aero-
drome, where Kingsford Smith and his crew
made their landing. It bears the inscription:
“They came on the wings of the morning.”
If (apart from the Adelaide reminder of the
early Smiths) Australia has done anything
of the sort to commemorate the flight of
Ross and Keith Smith from Britain to Aus-
tralia, Hinkler’s solo flip over the same
route, or even Kingsford Smith’s dazzling
transit of the Pacific, the matter has been
kept very quiet. It is true that all these
were rewarded with hard cash and other
material benefits, but the M.L. tribute, over
and above the money, is a graceful and appro-
priate one.
* * *
“Exdig”: England reports the reappear-
ance of another Enoch Arden, a soldier
named Peachey,. w T ho came back after 10
years’ absence to find his wife remarried and
the mother of four children. After the war
he appears to have strayed to America, and
a head wound impaired his memory. Curi-
ously, the shock of the wanderer’s reappear-
ance so affected a brother who regarded him
as dead that it cured him of a partial dumb-
ness. Cures of such ailments from sheer
shock are not uncommon. A noteworthy
case was that of a shell-shocked Digger who
was only able to speak in an extremely pain-
ful stammer. He was being returned to Aus-
tralia on the Ballarat when tbe transport
was torpedoed, and when he was picked up
by a t.b.d. his speech was completely re-
stored. Perhaps he would have preferred to
keep the stammer for a time—his recovery
led to his being returned to duty at A.I.F.
H.Q., London, although he was not asked to •
go back to France again.
* * * *
THE ROADS OF MORNINGTON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little roads of Mornington run on beside
the seas,
Comrades with the countryside, and friendly
"'ith the trees.
You and I that footed them are leagues and
leagues apart;
But the little roads of Mornington go running
through my heart.
Morning Town was rightly called, full well
the name belongs;
Sweetly comes, the rosy dawn across the Dan-
denongs;
And never went our tale of days to such a
merry tune
As when the roads of Morning Town ran on
to afternoon.
Even then we never heeded, we could not see
the signs,
Never dreamed of pain or care among the
singing pines.
Time went by on soundless wings, we did not
heed him flying.
Until across our little day the afterglow
was dying.
Long ago, and long ago, yet never springtime
comes
But I see the bay in silver and the sunlight
on the gums;
Long ago, and long ago, and far are we
apart—
But the little roads of Mornington run right
across my heart.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
THE RULING PASSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Moft certainly a woman always tries to look
her best, even if she is committing suicide.’’
— Doctor’s evidence at recent Sydney inquest.
When lovely women stoop to take
A dose of strychnine or of laudanum,
They wish their last farewells to make
(So that the world will be applaudin’ ’em)
For charm and beauty and the rest—
They always like to look their best.
No maid, whatever her despair,
With razor-blade ln\r throat starts, severins
Until she’s neatly combed her hair
And nicely bloomed her cheek, endeavor-
ing
(By love impelled or dire remorse)
To make herself a charming corse.
The passion still in woman stays
Unchanged by daf-k griefs or modernity.
Upon the Gap-brink she delays,
Ere plunging headlong to eternity
And facing Peter at the gate.
To wonder “Is my hat on straight?”
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


hHhHHk
A
▲
o
£
T 3
O
>
X
n
: v
'
:
M
■
' :
■
\K
M
« jjais *>
ml ■
*
£ i i:
0
PH
■
i
:
:
;
\
;
H
'
;' ', ;;
4


USHER'S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Gable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
DIAMOND & PLATINUM WRIST WATCH
m
£l2O.
An exquisite ornament and dependable timekeeper. The watch movement is a
selected model from a world-famous maker chosen for its euitability to Australian
conditions. The pure platinum case is made in Australia perfectly finished and
studded with fine blue-white diamonds imported direct from the cutters. Com-
plete with ribbon and snap. Superb value at the price.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LIMITED,
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES. 23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
CASH ONLY.
r
J
%
Th* Finwt Inland Golf"
UnkrinAu/halid
Are to be found at the
finest Country Hotel
in Australia the
Management —G. M. Lievain
ROBERTSON
Inclusive Tariff, from £l/1/- per
day, and from £6/6/- per week.
Sydney Booking Office: 84 Pitt Street.
’Phone: 86491.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sydney did not know
E. P. Fleming very well
until he became Chief
Commissioner, but it soon
grew to regard him as
a companionable soul as
well as a devoted public
servant. He was in the
Lands Department for 35
years, rising to Under-
secretary in 1922. Gepp
picked him as member of
the Development and Mi-
gration Commission, and
he left that body to be-
come Chief City Commis-
sioner at the end of last
year. He was born in
Parramatta, and was only
53.
The late
E.P. FLEMING.
Lawson’s retirement from Vic. Assembly
to stand for the Senate leaves the House
with four ex-Premiers instead of five. Spea-
cock, Bowser, Prendergast and Allan are
the others. The number may be five again
before long, as distinct progress has been
made with the job of reducing Hogan to the
rank of “ex.” McPherson, the Opposition
leader, gave a luncheon to Lawson on the
day his former chief retired. All the mem-
bers of both wings of the Opposition were
there, and old scores were wiped out over
the walnuts and the wine.
Under an Act passed a few months ago
the Parliamentary allowance to members of
the House of Reps, will not, as formerly,
cease with the dissolution, hut will be paid
t.o*tliose standing for re-election right up to
the date of the poll. Thus the successful
will go on drawing it without a break. The
only member of the old Parliament whose
pay will stop with the dissolution is Matt
Charlton. To the other 75 the change 'will
mean a little over £l2O apiece.
Cardinal Cerretti has obtained leave from
Rome to spend another month in Sydney.
Born in Orvieto 56 years ago, the Cardinal
knows the languages and literature of five
countries. Though his most notable work
for his church was done at Pai'is in healing
the breach between the French Government
and the Vatican, he counts the two and a
half years spent in Australia as the happiest
of his life. “To be here is to be home,” was
the Cardinal’s public declaration the other
day in St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Josiah Symon, eminent in S. Aus. law and
politics, had his eighty-second birthday the
other day. Symon topped the Senate poll
at two Commonwealth elections. It is
44 years since lie declined a Supreme Court
judgeship—it was offered to him by the Col-
ton Government on the death of Justice
Andrews —and 47 years since he became
Attorney-General. He was sworn in as
A.-G. before he was elected to Parliament
as member for Sturt.
J. O. Fairfax, who died while playing golf
at. Rose Bay, passed most of his £781,371 on
to son Warwick, who is carrying on the
family line on the S. M. Herald directorate
The High Court—Learned Brothers (from left to right) Isaacs, Knox (C.J.) and Duffy
(as seen for T HE BULLETIN by Autori, the Italian artist).
and writes a readable article occasionally.
Sydney University gets £lO,OOO, and a simi-
lar sum goes to Sydney Grammar School —a
bequest straight from the heart, for Fairfax
adored his old school. A thousand goes to
general-manager Connelly and several five-
hundreds are handed around the establish-
ment.
Roland Green, M.H.R. for Richmond
(N.S.W.), who is short of a leg (the left),
will probably be able to swap trench yarns
at Canberra next year with a Digger who
left his right leg at Flanders. This is Cap-
tain Cooper, whom the Queensland Nationa-
lists have added to their Senate ticket —and
they haven’t lost a Senate seat yet. Cooper
served throughout the Gallipoli campaign
with the 15th Battalion and wag knocked at
Pozieres. Discharged from hospital, and
determined to see the thing through, he
secured a transfer to the A.F.C. and event-
ually reached Cologne. He is a Winton
grazier.
Otto Schomburgk, just retired from the
Sheriff’s office in S.A., is the son of a fine
old botanist who settled early in Adelaide
and was held in honor by all European bot-
anical societies. The son, prominent always
in military matters in S.A., was so obviously
a good Australian that he continued as
Sheriff all through the war bitterness with-
out needing to change his name (which
comes down from William lll.’s pet gen-
eral). S. G. Blackman, who has already
acted sometimes as Deputy Sheriff, gets the
position at 41.
Sir Philip Sassoon, Under-Secretary of
State for Air. who is visiting all the It.A.F.
stations outside Britain by ’plane, is the
richest bachelor in England—a Sassoon of
Bagdad on one side, a Rothschild on the
other. He had a genius for getting staff
appointments under rising generals, and the
Armistice found him covered in decorations
and private secretary to Haig himself. Apro-
pos of which a famous London hostess who
had lost two sons in action sent him an
embittered wire on Ascension Day, 1918:
“The Lord has risen. Apply at once for
job.”
The Westralian State politicians, who get
on very well together in spite of waterside
brawls and the like, had a death in the family
last week; the call came to Labor-member
Heron while he was reading a newspaper in
the Parliamentary library. Heron was one
of a band of goldfields legislators whose
humorous boast it is that they know every
constituent personally. It is not so extrava-
gant as it seems, for the member for Menzies
represents 267 electors, the member for Mar-
garet 483, the member for Cue 511, the mem-
ber for Hannans 635 and the member for
Magnet 879. Heron represented 655 in
Leonora, and most of them addressed him as
Tom.
A “carefully-guarded war secret” has at
last crawled out and is sunning itself in the
open. On September 28, 1918, when Cala-
mity was shrieking on the housetops, Luden-
dorf, it is alleged, had a fit in a hotel, and
afterwards telephoned the Kaiser to ask for
peace. In its essentials it is a sufficiently aged
narrative. A brighter story is to the effect
that Chancellor Hertling told his imperial
master to go into the trenches, like Albert
of Belgium, and if he died there respectably
his son might have a chance to succeed.
And the Kaiser was so broken that he didn’t
even throw his helmet at this ghostly
adviser.
Another skirted prospector has arisen. At
the last Lithgow (N.S.W.) Warden’s Court
Miss Ilorence May Phyland was granted
permission to enter a property to search for
Cornish stone and fluorspar.
The Bishop of Birmingham, who packed
the Cheltenham building in which the Church
Union met last week, is the best speaker in
the C. of E. He crowds every church in
which he appears. With his darkly hand-
some face and his beautiful voice and articu-
lation, he suggests some great actor. The
bishop is a Labor sympathiser—Ramsay
MacDonald appointed him —and yet he is a
great personal friend of Labor’s sternest
clerical critic, Dean Inge.
Passed on at Glenhuntly (Vic.), just short
of the 70 mark, John Bartholomew, one
of the finest citizens that Maryborough (Q.)
ever knew. He was elected Mayor of the
Bananaland town just after the bad ’93
flood, when the municipal finances were in
a pretty sad state, and every old hand re-
members the great work he did before he
left town politics for the State Assembly.
Hailing from Glasgow as a very small fry,
he was brought up in the Wide Bay district,
which, incidentally, has been a stepping-off
ground for many good Australians, including
Brudenell White, Victor Sellheim, Tommy
Dodds, Andy Fisher and C. H. Brand.
Sixty-five-year-old James (“Schoolmaster”)
Fawcett, Commissioner Clapp’s chief archi-
tect since 1919, who has retired, came from
the north of England 48 years ago and joined
the Vic. railways as an architectural
draughtsman. He designed the Flinders-
street railway station, the two storeys that
were added to Spencer-street head office and
the sub-station buildings in the electrified
area. He always had a good eye for effect,
and was responsible for the fine railway deco-
rations in honor of the Duke and Duchess
of York last year, of Edward Windsor in
1921. of the two American fleets, and of
the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York
in 1901.
Launceston (Tas.) lost one of its oldest
inhabitants when James French died lately
at 95. He was one'of the first directors of
the Equitable Building Society.
Michael Stirling Grant, one of the oldest
identities of Sydney’s Union Club (he was
a member of the house committee for
years, and his picture by Longstaff adorns
the smoking-room), has died aged 76. He
belonged to the set of well-known Sydneyites
of the Victorian era who used to entertain
famous visitors every Sunday at The Hut
on the Greycliffe estate—then the property
of the Wentworth family. He was a
bachelor, a former secretary of the Com-
mercial Banking. Co., and a most unusual
combination socially—a leading figure in
N.S.W.’s most prominent racing clique and
the staunchest of Presbyterians. At the
time of his death he had been on the staff
of the Presbyterian Church office for eight
years.
N.S.W. Premier Bavin, once an icicle in
debate, is beginning to show signs of strain.
He lost his temper the other day when Lang
interrupted him, and again when Lysaght
interposed, Prime Minister Baldwin has a
more effective technique in face of unworthy
provocation. He looks up from his chaos of
notes, stops mumbling and directs a slow,
patient, puzzled stare at his critic. With-
out saying a word, he conveys that the
enemy is one whom any honest, pipe-smoking
Briton (such ai himself) must find incre-
dible in his sordid dishonesty. Then he pro-
ceeds as if nothing had happened. But Bald-
win, unlike Bavin, is a fit man, who leaves
a lot of work to his colleagues, and takes
frequent holidays.
Frank Russell, of Melbourne Herald, has
landed the biggest job ever handed in peace-
time to an Australian journalist; he is to
tour the world and interview the' great ones
thereof for his employers and a line oi syn-
dicating journals. Russell, who deserted the
Bar for newspaper work, demonstrated nis
ability by ghosting the Herald's Saturday
evening articles by leading Victorians. A
bigger chance came when he was sent to Syd-
ney to cover the Eucharistic Congress.
Having social address as well as a keen eye
for a story, he turned out a series which
has since been issued in book form.
Ex-Minister George Swinburne (Vic-) left
just on £OO,OOO. Subject to the widow s life
interest, the estate will be divided among
four daughters. Swinburne did not forget the
tech, school he founded at Hawthorn ; £-000
goes to that institution, £lOOO to Queen s
College and £lOOO to Melb. Hospital.
Though his last years were spent in the
land-agency business, Charles Williamson,
just dead at 91, brought off the first big jour-
nalistic scoop in Maoriland. He came from
England to Auckland at the age of 24, and
joined the staff of the Southern Cross as
reader, compositor and reporter. Two years
later the tide of the Maori wars reached
the Waikato, and Williamson • found himself
a war correspondent attached to General
Cameron’s forces. His account of the battle
of Rangiaohia, where General Nixon was
killed, was in print so many days ahead of
all the others that his colleagues must have
gone pig-shooting instead of watching the
war. Williamson was at the capture of
Orakau pa and heard the heroic Rewi Mania-
poto bellow his defiance to the British: “We
will fight on for ever, and for ever, and for
ever.” (“Ake-Ake-Ake.”) He became man-
ager of the Southern Cross, and was one
of the founders of the Auckland Star.
Dr. Percival Cole, who has been appointed
visiting Carnegie Professor of International
Relations to the University of Hawaii, was
a Sydney High School boy and went on to
the Uni., where he took his M.A. /degree and
became tin; Woolley Travelling Scholar. The
Ph.l). he carries was picked up at the Col-
umbia Uni., where lie was Lecturer on the
History of Education for two years after
receiving it. Cole, who is 49, has written a
number of books on social and educational
subjects.
All Australian seafaring men who enter
Singapore roads know Captain A. 11. Chal-
mers, senior boarding officer of that clam-
orous port; after 35 years of it he is now
retiring to Victoria. Like Joseph Conrad
(and at about the same time), he started in
the shallow seas navigating vessels for
Chinese companies. A kindly man, he was
spending his furlough in a Victorian town-
ship a couple of years ago, when he heard
that the local postmistress and lollipop pur-
veyor had fallen ill. He volunteered to
look after her shop. A serious operation had
to be performed, but Chalmers stuck dog-
gedly by his offer, and continued to sell
stamps and chocolate biffs until the lady
returned nearly six weeks later.
KNIGHT HENRY BRAD DON.
When the next Federal Parliament
assembles a familiar face will be missing
from the House of Reps.: T. Alonzo Hadkin-
sor. will have retired after a service on the
staff dating back to the birth of Federation.
There were valedictory speeches at the close
of the dying Parliament, supplemented by
letters from the Prime Minister and Speaker.
John Quinlan, who has served continuously
in the Yea Shire Council (Vic.) for 54 years,
probably holds the long-distance municipal
record in his State.
THE SCAPEGOAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Federal Capital Commissioner Butters told a
Sydney audience that lie and his colleagues were
cursed for everything in Canberra, even for its
magnificent distances.”
In-screw I draw a tidy bit,
And in prestige as well.
As stately Canberra’s civic It
And boss Sir Oracle.
Withal it breaks a fellow’s sleep
And spoils his jaunts and flutters
The curses deep and loud they heap
Upon the head of Butters.
With many a sanguinary damn,
In terms that sear and trounce,
They rate me for a Great I Am,
A Thing of Bluff and Bounce.
Like priests of Baal who beat their joss,
Their dark and evil mutters
At me they toss —wlioever’s cross
At Canberra batters Butters.
Hard drinkers banned me for their woes
The Liquor Ref. before;
Now Prohibitionists, I s’pose,
Will objurgate me more.
I’m just a kindly autocrat ,
Despite sporadic splutters,
But nought o’ that they reck who’ve spat
Contumely at Butters!
Strangers who in our city vast
Get bushed, as many get,
Assail me with a blithering blast
Of blazing epithet.
You’d think I made the rambling roads
Or planned the skimpy gutters,
As each explodes in lurid loads
Of obloquy for Butters.
E’en men that frame the nation’s laws,
Who’ve somehow got the spike,
Are apt at me to gnash their jaws
Like one who kicks his tike.
Into the hostels lob the narks,
Before they close the shutters,
And make remarks, before my clerks
Disparaging to Butters.
Wherever Canberra whiners whine
Or grumblers go off pop,
The humble scapegoat’s job is mine;
I am the whipping-top.
The very golfers at their play
Whose shots with cleeks or putters
Have gone astray reserve, they say,
Their most acidulated bray
Of blasphemy for Butters.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE HARVESTER


m
-
4^’v
m
i
11. S.
3*.
‘HADDON RIG” SELECTED FLOCK RAMS FOR THE LAST SYDNEY SALES.
“HADDON RIG.”
“Haddon Rig,” the property of Mr.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, is situated about
20 miles from Warren, in the Central
Western Plains of N.S.W., and in all
comprises 76,000 acres.
The foundation of the present stud rests
on a line of 1900 aged ewes and 30
rams, purchased in 1882, many of the
latter being sired by the famous Wan-
ganella Rams Premier and Warrior.
From then onwards various importations
of the best Wanganella blood were
made, and to-day the stud is a great
example of the large-framed, plain-
bodied Wanganella type.
Haddon Rig sheep are noted for their
remarkable uniformity of type, and have
proved their hardiness and wool-growing
capabilities in all States of the Common-
wealth, as well as in South Africa, New
Zealand and the Argentine.
Meggitt’s Linseed Sheep Nuts
Play an important part in the feeding'
programme on this Property.
Follow the lead of the Great Studs!
MEGGITT LIMITED
Commonwealth Distributors.
N.S.W.:
Meggitt, Limited,
26 King Street, Sydney.
And all Pastoral Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA:
New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd.,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
Currie Street, Adelaide.
:■ - : .
m
i
tA> :
A.
m
mm
ml
*■:
-.V:
1
111
“HADDON RIG” SPECIAL STUD RAM.
Commonwealth Distributors.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Sub-distributors —
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
QUEENSLAND:
All Pastoral Houses and Agents.
Also
Denhams, Ltd.,
Brisbane.
Denham Bros., Ltd.,
Rockhampton.
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd.,
Townsville and Cairns.
Corser & Co.,
Maryborough.


gdf
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), WM. TILLEY (Deputy Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN, ALEX. KING and Dr. C. A. THELANDEIt.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life .Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the eveut of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES.
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Managrer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (com. Sat.) “Madame Pompadour’
Royal “Interference”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Palace “The Lap of the Gods”
Empire (com. Friday) “Bubbles”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Regent Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
liis Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “The Silent House”
New Comedy “Miss Nell o’ New Orleans”
King’s “Declassee”
Princess : Shakspearean Plays
Atiienjjum “Saturday’s Children”
Tivoli Vaudeville
.Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
,
“The Lap of the Gods,” the fantasy by
the Australian novelist Louis Stone, which
John Galsworthy read and enthusiastically
praised, was produced for the first time in
Australia by Gregan McMahon at the Syd-
ney Palace on Saturday. The vast crowd
that roars for the production of Australian
work mostly stayed at home, and might have
missed more than it did, for the piece just falls
short of being first-class. It is undoubtedly
a library—rather than a stage—play; but the
Greganites might have done better by it.
The theme is picturesque and the plot has
some originality. Hermes, after receiving
instructions spoken bewilderingly through a
throaty megaphone from Olympus, visits
earth in the guise of a modern Greek,
and grants the life desires of some members
of an English family, whom he meets motor-
ing in Greece. As their guest in England
he witnesses their finding at the top of the
tree of achievement the dust and ashes that
are said always to wait there. One who
covets Cabinet rank gets it and ruins his
life; another, a charity fanatic, gets a for-
tune and turns miser, and so on ; the moral,
which is mentioned in the Commandments,
being obvious.
❖ 4 j|: si:
It is material for excellent fantasy: the
Greganites mostly make it realism and fail
in their seriousness. They fail, too, because
Hermes, the key oart, is only moderately
well done by Youly Marca-Rosa. Lacking
the command that he should sway, all the
others play separate, watertight parts, and
there is no unity. As individuals, however,
BETTY ROSS CLARKE, grand-daughter of Marcus, who, having
come to Australia for the Firm, is now touring with her
own company. She was recently at the Princess, Mel-
bourne (Photo by Ruskin).
they nearly all do well, with Eardley Tur-
ner’s Puncheon, butler to the English family,
the best on the male side, and Leal Douglas’s
Mrs. Forrester, friend of the Cabinet Minis-
ter, the best on the feminine. Frank
Rutherford, as the contrast who doesn’t
want anything out of life but what he bas,
is only a shade behind Turner, and Edward
Ashley and John Burch, two of the cov-
etous, justify the ways of man to the god.
Gregan McMahon does not appear, and he
might do worse than give some of bis spare
time to devising a muffler for the thunderous
switch that turns on the electric-lighting in
the prologue and shatters whatever chance
of being impressive that rather windy intro-
duction possesses.
# * H-
As far as one could judge from an even-
ing of varied and remarkable depressions,
“Declassee” (Melbourne King’s) is the
story of Lady Helen Haden (great-great-
grand-daughter of the Earl of Staffordshire),
how she married a titled and vulgar butcher,
how the marriage was dissolved, how she
got into low company in Cairo and how
she was saved from the humiliation of
marrying an xlmerican millionaire by being
run over by a taxi. Miss Starr is reported
to regard it as a great play, and it is just
the kind of play Miss Starr would regard
as great. Like good King Arthur’s famous
pudding, it contains large lumps of fat for
an actress who, though she has genuine
talent for crisp, emotional dialogue, unfor-
tunately harbors the delusion that her forte
is moralising. The play has three dull acts
through which Muriel’s bell-like but mono-
tonous voice rings almost continuously.
“Declassee” is elaborately staged, and its
tone is excessively doggy, a bright item
being a ’phone call from Buckingham Palace,
with the King and Queen asking after the
health of Lady Helen. What leading actress
could resist such an opportunity? Zoe
Atkins, the author, is stated to have written
several plays known to fame. This one
might find a place in The Bulletin's
“Answers to Correspondents” column.
* * ¥
“The, Merry Wives” was the opening gun
of the new Shakspearean offensive at Mel-
bourne Princess. Generalissimo Wilkie is
the same old agate, but more highly pol-
ished. Alexander Marsh is a valuable rein-
forcement to Dennis Barry, Hunter-Watts,
Dulcie Cherry and the rest of the young
and old Contemptibles. And Lorna Forbes —
was ever an actress more splendidly equipped
to represent voluptuous, full-blooded Shaks-
pearean woman? Gone —some will say, un-
fortunately—are the old sable hangings and
the call to an audience’s imagination; in
their place is real painted scenery. An
admirable performance! On Thursday,
“The Merchant.”
¥ * *
“No. 17” is being surveyed by dazed audi-
ences at Melbourne Palace. It is a mystery
play whose chief mystery is how it ever
came to be produced in London, not to
mention Woop
Wo o p on the
Yarra. The author,
J. Jefferson Far-
jeon, gets himself
into a fine muddle
trying to get the
characters out of
theirs. The usual
request to the
critics not to re-
veal the secret was
not required - in
the case of The
Bulletin, at any
rate. This paper
grimly sat right
through tbe per-
formance without
discovering why
Mr. Smith was
murdered before
the play started.
Perhaps he was a
Federal income-tax
collector. Walter
Cornock, as Ben,
of the merchant
service, was, as
usual, excellent. So
were Scott Alex-
ander and Comp-
ton Coutts and
Jack Settle and
Norman Wis t e r
and Agnes Dobson.
They were all
splendid. But J.
Jefferson Farjeon
was too much for
them.
* *
The fine Bar-
bette turn goes off
the Sydney Tivoli
boards this week,
leaving that con-
summate showman
Long Tack Sam in
charge, with his
first-class male
support and more
quantity of women than quality. Sam
is something of an artist, for he persists
in putting on difficult items that are not
spectacular when he could easily win more
general kudos with the easy things that
merely look marvellous. His turn is as fine
as ever.
* * H-
Fullers’ changed on Saturday night to
revue-vaudeville, headed by Ike Delavale, a
Jew impersonator whose humor smacks of
the New Jerusalem that is builded on Man-
liattan Island. Tom Dale and Freda Spry,
with Reg Hawthorne as the chauffeur who
nowadays takes the place of the old-time
valet, and Elvie Stagpoole as the maid ser-
vant that never was by sea or land, help
to eke out a good show in which the jesting
is comparatively wholesome.
# * *
Alfred Gordon Kalmikoff continues to
make an interesting study of the villainous
brother in Schiller’s “The Robbers,’’ with
which he began a
five nights’ season
at Sydney Conserve -
torium last Thurs-
day. The opening
performance
showed few ama-
teur loose-edges,
Grant Cooper,
Phyllis Magrath,
Alan Dare, A. ,T.
Watson and Wil-
liam Parsons being
particularly effec-
tive.
# *
“The Student
Prince” goes on
vacation from Syd-
ney Her Majesty’s
on Friday; on
Saturday “Madame
Pompadour” will be
revived to permit
Beppie do Vries to
sparkle for another
fortnight before she
leaves the country,
after which “The
Vagabond Kin g”
will continue the
run of royalty by
going into residence
with “16 Scottish
archers, 34 tavern
frequenters, 33
court ladies and 15
dancers.” “The
Patsy” goes on
crowding the Cri-
terion, where the
gods are still asking
Irene Homer to
talk a little louder,
please. Leon Gor-
don continues his
“Interference” a t
the Royal, but “Rio
Rita” might shortly
ride away on the
back of the ballet
that has carried it through a surprisingly
long run at the St. James. Red-headed folk
can have something for nothing this after-
noon (Wednesday) ; the color of their thatch
will admit them to “My Pal Ginger” at the
Grand Opera House. At the end of the
week the Empire gives up pictures and re-
turns to comedy revue with “Bubbles” and,
of course., the ballet.
Pepito, the Spanish clown, at Melbourne
Tivoli, has a large part and a small hike,
and his polite deportment suggests that
clowning is a genteel profession in liis coun-
try. The aged Fred Bluett gets more laughs
than Pep; in fact, he gets almost as many
as does the talented Bluett, jun. The Club-
land Choristers, billed as Melbourne’s leading
glee singers, would not set the Yarra ablaze,
or even the Darebin Creek; and a somewhat
dull programme is concluded with the Inge-
nues waving cowbells in an entirely com-
plete change of business.
A hit-and-run performance of “East
Lynne” concluded the otherwise sudeessful
season of Billayr’s Bush players at Mel-
bourne Palace.
On Friday a play of many excellences,
“Saturday’s Children,” will finish a poor
run at Melbourne Athenaeum, and “The
Family Upstairs,” a comedy of American
domestic manners, will succeed.
* * *
“Miss Nell o’ New Orleans” will occupy
the Comedy, Melbourne, for another week,
after which “On Approval,” by Frederick
Lonsdale, will be a new production in Aus-
tralia.
¥ # *
Adelaide provided consistently big audi-
ences for the opera season at the Royal,
where Toti was immensely popular in a
range of parts. Melba ended tbe season with
a persona] appearance before a packed house
as Mimi and Desdemona. The school-child-
ren’s concerts known as “The Thousand
Voices” have just proved once more that
Australian kiddies sing by nature, and act
jolly well with a little training; musical-
comedy choruses of the future have plenty of
material showing.
¥ * ¥
Sydney Regent, which had some fair runs
with heavyweight pictures early in its
career, has latterly made sharper changes.
The latest, “Fazil,” an exotic story of a
Sultan’s delegate who falls in love among
the gondolas of Venice, introduces that ex-
cellent screen actor Charles Farrell, with
Greta Nissan in support. The picture is in-
teresting, but unconvincing. The ancient
nude ladies look down from their niches in
the Capitol walls at very modern Bebe
Daniels stepping it brightly through a good
piece of farce that only remotely resembles
its title, “Hot News.” Anyone with an
absence of taste for a spot and an unlimited
capacity for pulpit statistics can spend a
gorging time at Adyar Hall, where the.
demon drink gets it in the neck throughout
the German moralising picture “Crime and
MISS PHYLLIS NICHOLSON, who has helped “Rio Rita” to
run six months at the St. James.
Alcohol.” There’s much lighter fare at the
Lyceum, in the drugs and honeymooning of
“The Rush Hour,” with Margie Dolan doing-
most of the rushing.
The State Theatre going up in Flinders-
street will break several Melbourne re-
cords. It will be 86 feet high, as well as
47 feet deep, 16,700 feet of material, mainly
solid rock, having to be removed to achieve
the latter dimension. It will have a tower
159 feet high, and the main girder of the
d.c. will weigh .4) tons and span the 120-foot
frontage without a solitary obstruction. The
order for electric juice placed with John
Monash will be the largest ever submitted by
a single concern. The completed outfit will
cost £500,000, which is more than any build-
ing in the city has ever cost, not excluding
the G.P.O.; and 1,300,000 nails will be
driven into it. Instead of having to bump
their august heads climbing through a little
door, the lords of the saxophone will rise
magically into view seated on an ascending-
platform, like the soup of Louis XY. when
he supped in the altogether with his mistress.
Amidst all the babble of pars, announcing
this display of blatant ostentation there has
been no suggestion that the place will be de-
voted to anything but the production of the
stereotyped goods of Hollywood. Yet Mel-
bourne, which prides itself on beine- a cul-
tured city, cannot find a few measly thou-
sand for a permanent symphony orchestra.
“The exhibitor who succeeds in the
world is the man who attracts atten-
tion. Attract attention by doing something-
new! Universal has done it!” So runs
the legend on the cover of a brochure just
issued by that film-house, and asserted to
contain its “policy for 1929.” Well, if it
is new in the picture business to issue adver-
tisements in colors that shriek hideously to
Heaven, to slop down a lot of jargon of
which “seductive,” “disillusioned,” “the
wrong flat” and “the wrong girl” are com-
mon words and phrases, and altogether t >
produce a publication that is blatant from
cover to cover, then this certainly fulfils the
above-mentioned platitudinous conditions.
The brochure is issued for the guidance of
exhibitors in Australia and Maoriland, and,
as it contains little but the old, old hugs
and kisses, cabarets and the like, the pic-
ture-goer can settle down assured that the
same old feelings will be tickled in the same
old way in 1929. That the brochure was
wholly produced in Australia is, in the cir-
cumstances, scarcely a virtue. The-pity is
that perhaps quite half these pictures will
be well worth seeing; no picture is as bad
as it is advertised.


Longer Service, Better Service, Cheaper Service
03HSI
<2
a
«
These are the three essentials you expect from
your belting equipment—and where sheer effi-
ciency is the goal, the best belting is always the
most economical.
You can instal
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
throughout vour plant with the full assurance that it will give 100 per cent, satisfactory
service, provided the right belt is used on every drive. Our expert advice is always at your
disposal.
TtiT A XTTT1? A nnrTT'DT?r» n'NTT.V
J. C. LUDOW1CI (EL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McNeil & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Bookkeepers’ Institute of Australasia.
Degrees and Examinations,
This Institute functions in most respects as do other Secretarial and Accountancy
Institutes. Examinations for the degree of Fellow (F.A.8.1.) and Associate
(A.A.8.1.) will be held in all the capital cities of the Commonwealth and IS .A.
early in December.
The Institute has received the support of many public Accountants in Australasia,
and members of most of the other Secretarial or Accountancy Institutes in
Australasia have become members of this Institute. Application has been mad
for affiliation with the Institute of Bookkeepers, London.
SPECIAL EXEMPTION FROM EXAMINATIONS.
Special exemption will be granted to a limited number of persons from sitting
for the examinations on the grounds of experience—this policy lias been adopti
at times by several Institutes, including a w r ell-known chartered Institute. Dn y
applications from persons who can supply documentary proof of their ntn
to be admitted on this basis will be considered by the Council. Application form..,
syllabus of examinations, etc., obtainable from the Victorian Registrar, Sui
56, Capitol House, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Perdriau Rubber Co.
To Re-
June, Piofits. Dividends.* Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 30,873 121 p.c. =20,006 4,867 49,347
1919.. 38.048 12 i „ „ 29,946 8,102 57,449
1920.. 43,667 12J ~ „ 36,412 7,255 64,704
Loss.
1921.. 924 5 ~,, 21,512 42,268
Profit.
1922.. 58,612 10 „ „ 49,086 9,526 51,(94
1923.. 66,718 121 „ „ 66,710 8 51,802
Deficit.
Transferred to Capital, £54,849.. 3,047
Premiums on new shares, £2023.. 1,024
1924.. 83,299 12J p.c.= 82,276 1,024 —■*
Reserves.
1925. .100,172 12i „ „ 91,375 8,797 8,797
, —Prefs.— N Ords.,
7 p.c. 8 p.c. 121 p.c.
1920. . 137,431 3500 5890 102,084 25,951 34,748
1927. .183,181 3500 8000 120,039 51,642 86,390
Assets written up, £141,169 .. 227,559
1928. .213,393 3500 8000 126,063 75,830 303,389
'lncluding to 1925 7 p.e. on £50,000 of prefs.
Big changes show up in Perdriau’s latest
accounts. Chief cause is the revaluation of
the assets. It represents the first definite
step in the contemplated merger with the
Dunlop Co.; and there that matter stands
until Dunlops issue their figures, which will
be on a revaluation basis also.
For the year to June 30 Perdriau's
accounts claim a net profit of £141,335, or
£41,840 less than in the previous term, and
only £3772 more than the pref. requirements
and the usual 12| p.c. to the ords. called
for. But that was after £72,058 had been
dropped from somewhere into the general
reserve, making it £135,000. Whether the
whole of this addition, which is included
with profits in the table, came from the
year’s earnings the “Wild Cat” cannot say
definitely; part of it may represent revalua-
tion increases in asset figures. The
£213,393 thus netted was 18.5 p.c. on the
average capital (pref. and ord.) employed
compared with 16.9, 14.6, 13.3, 12.2 and 12
p.c. back to 1923.
It is an astonishingly good result con-
sidering the collapse of prices in the raw
rubber market, where the fall amounted to
Is. per lb., approximately 62 p.c., during
the third quarter of the term. The trade
got practically no warning of this, and
heavy forward buying in big. manufactur-
ing concerns like Perdriau’s is inevitable;
also raw rubber represents well oyer half
the cost of the finished article. It is plain,
therefore, that the co.’s stocks had been
taken in at a conservative figure. At June
30 they represented over 43 p.c. of the
£1,972.164 of tangible assets, and their value
was thoroughly sound, the chairman said.
The £141,169 by which assets are shown as
written-up in the table represents the year s
addition to the fixed assets reserve
(£166,169). How much, if any, of this came
from unearned increment in the freehold
is not visible in tlie published accounts; but
it is clear that in the past the board could
have written profits at bigger figures if they
had wanted to. Something of the sort was
evident from the fact, to which the Wild
Cat” frequently drew attention, that since
1914 the ords. have only twice failed to re-
reive 12i p.c., the average being 11.8 p.c.,
though the visible support was thin and
margins slender; also, except for 1921, earn-
ings have visibly escaped damage from erra-
tic markets.
Last year £125,695 (ss. per share, making
10s. paid) was got in on the 502,782 con-
tribs., and £35,886 was added to the debt.
That and the revaluation are visible in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital.. £373,927 £1,080,147 £1,080,147 £1,205,843
Liabilities 90,239 197,206 349,377 385,263
Stock . . 225,768 531,382 695,804 855,406
plant, etc. 161,655 491,390 618,354 878,671
Book debts 160,748 348,613 269,019 23<j,428
Other assets 2,944 4,149 4,384 4,659
Freeholds (£425,560) were up £194,591, and
£65,726 was added to the book value ot
plant (£453,111), a total increase ot
£260,317. The net increase in reserves was
£216,999. so additions were evidently made
to the fixed assets during the year. Owing
to an increase of £159,602 in the figure at
which stocks were written into the sheet,
the more or less liquid surplus (£708,200)
was £88,400 stronger than at the previous
balance. . J _. , ,
The market, anticipating a satisfactory
deal with the Dunlop Co,, prices the fully
paid ords. at 335. The backing amounts to
295. 9d. in net tangibles; thus the market
puts a goodwill value of £656,000 on the
business. The return at 335. is p.c- on a
124 n.c. div. basis. The pref. capital com-
prises £50,000 7 p.c. firsts and £lOO.OOO 8 p.c.
seconds. The market values the firsts at
21s. 3d., and the seconds at 225. 6d.; the
return being 6.6 p.c. and 7.1 p.c. respec-
tively. Both lots are well protected.
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
. —Dividends— s
Prefs. Ords.f Towards
July, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1926*.. 436,099 290,715 145,384 104;616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 174 p.c. Reserves
1927 .. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
*lB months, flncluding employees’ shares.
After providing for the taxgatlier,. whose
demand for £55,502 was £12,297 heavier than
in the previous term, the year’s declared net
profit was £53,217 short of the 1927 figure.
Still, after satisfying the prefs. and the 10
p.c. staff-partnership shares —they called for
£61,677 —enough remained to show 15$ p.c.
on ordinary capital, or 4 p.c. less than in the
previous year, and that, all things considered,
was very good. In fixing fhc div., however,
only 3$ points were clipped off, reducing it
to 14 ‘p.c. The board’s policy of making
distributions close up to earnings, coupled
with the fact that visible reserves are only
£29,584 in excess of the £250,000 of goodwill,
makes the dividend rate. sensitive to trade
fluctuations, and it is likely to remain so
until capital gets a lot more tangible support.
The co. aims at a lively turnover on small
margins of profit, and despite difficult trad-
ing conditions last year sales were pushed
to within 2* p.c. of the previous years
record figure. It is a fine testimony to the
energy of the management, which probably
had to cut margins a bit finer in order to
hold business. Another feature of the year s
trading is that the co. reduced its imports
by over £300,000, thus quickening the out-
put of its local workrooms and factories.
(The policy of the banks in maintaining the
T-T buying rate on London at a premium
is reflected there.) Partly because of this
the associated cos., the woollen and knitting
mills, which have also won markets for their
products in Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane,
were so busy that the parent had to advance
£50,629 in order to finance the brisker trad-
ing. And that is pretty certain to have
meant a tidy manufacturing profit; in addi-
tion, there was a retail profit on that portion
of the output which the parent sold. . What
proportion of their profits the subsidiaries
have distributed is not disclosed. The book
value of the assets is claimed to have been
written back vigorously, and the rapid growth
of city property values in Melbourne has
also created some inner reserves in the free-
holds. „ , ~
Last year the co. bought the freehold
of Robertson and Moffatt’s property, which
it formerly held under lease, in Bourke-
street. The deal ran into about £200,000.
Another site was bought at Carlton for
£27,500, and a building, expected to cost,
about £53,000, is going up on the spot. The
idea is to reduce overhead by moving the
garage and parcel-delivery sections from the
costly city premises where they are now
housed. When this is done it is probable
that the property concerned in Lonsdale-
street will be sold. The two purchases sent
the book value of freeholds up £264,123. That
and other movements are reflected in balance-
sheet figures :
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £1,676,978 £2,041,839 £2,064,697
Mortgages . . 531,014 574,469 734,229
Sundry creditors .. 588,451 350,457 332,229
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. .. 1,266,536 1,340,223 1,604.346
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 217,687 195,299
Shares in other cos. 180,997 187,197 237,626
Stocks . . . . 962,486 1,104,084 1,014,327
Debtors .. .. 233,105 276,146 231,985
Cash, etc. .. 8,094 10,256 8,240
To finance the property deals and reduce the
overdraft (£188,048, down £133.122 during
the year) the board leant on depositors
(£144.183) for an extra £114.895, tacked
£159,760 on to the mortgage and drew upon
liquids for the balance. Thus the more or
less liquid surplus (£188,093), including
stocks, was £277,467 lighter than it was a
year earlier.
Sidney Myer moved his business into
Bourke-street only 17 years ago, yet the
public did not become interested until as late
as 1920. when Myer (Australia) Ltd., a
holding co., was formed and 150,000 prefs.
issued; and meanwhile woollen mills had
been bought at Ballarat. The present co.
emerged from the reconstruction in 1925,
since when the public has become interested
in the ords., the business of Stephens and Son
Pty. has been absorbed and the Lonsdalc-
street warehouse built. And the expansion
continues. This side of the close of last
accounts lies the purchase of the whole of
the 200,000 £1 ords. (price paid not dis-
closed) in James Marshall and Co., Ltd.,
an old-established Adelaide business in which
the public holds 397,000 7 p.c. A and B
prefs. For the last three years Marshall’s
business has not shown very flattering re-
suits, but with the new control a lively
expansion in turnover can be looked for,
and profits might be expected to benefit.
In Melbourne, how T ever, keener competition
is looming. .Coles, coming into Bourke-street,
will probably affect Myer’s sales in some
lines; and the trek of Foy’s and others from
the suburbs into the city can hardly do
Myer’s good.
A year ago ord. scrip was at 3Ss. on the
market; the price dropped to 345. towards the
close of accounts, at July 31, but after pub-
lication of the sheet strengthened to 395. 3d.
After allowing for the final div. the return
at the latter figure is a shade over 7 p.c. on
al4 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to 20s. sd. The well-protected prefs.
have been fairly steady around 275.; at which
figure the return is a shade over 65 p.c.
News, Ltd. (Adelaide).
/ Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 2,019 8000* 75,485
(6 p.c.)
1926.. 16,227 4000 8,340 3887 71,598
(10 p.c.)
1927.. 22,793 ‘fOOO 13,970 4824 66,774
1928.. 28,091 4000 18,575 5516 61,258
*Jncludes arrears.
Notwithstanding the trade depression which
prevailed during the term, income from all
sources (£220,938, including dividends on
shares in the Perth Daily News, Ltd.) in-
creased £9834, but heavier exes, consumed
£4537 of this. Net profit thus improved
£5297. But owing to the special circum-
stances under which the 1927 profit was
earned, last year’s improvement is not as
great as it looks. There was an unusually
heavy charge against the 3 927 _ earnings for
depreciation of obsolete machinery. There
was a net reduction of £.17,612 in the book-
value of plant in 1927 as compared with
1926.
Nevertheless, taking the adverse circum-
stances into account, last year’s profit was
very satisfactory. After allowing for the
pref. div., it was equal to 12.8 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital compared with 13.5 and
S.B p.c. in the two preceding years. After
handing the prefs. their 8 p.c. and repeating
the 10 p.c. div. to the Opus., the £5516 of
profit that remained reduced the deficit
(made up of goodwill and establishment
account) to £61,258. Income is not dis-
sected; the total represents revenue from
the co.’s Adelaide papers—the News (even-
ing) and the Mail (weekly)—and from the
two provincial journals—the Barrier Miner
and the Port Pirie Recorder-— also dividends
on shares in the Perth Daily' News, Ltd.
Apparently all these publications continue
to be satisfactory investments. Since the
discontinuance of the Ilobart News in 1926
(up to that date the co. lost £17,345 on that
experiment), profits have moved in an en-
couraging manner. The directors wisely
took advantage of the favorable year in
1927 to wipe out the loss on the Ilobart
venture, and apparently .depreciation of
plant has been generous. This account moved
down from £67,500 in 1925 to £41,574 in
3927. Last year, owing to the purchase of
new presses, £5183 more was spent under
this head than was written off, increasing
the book value to £47,057.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1023. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £151,875 £191,090 £244,856
Debentures .. .. 84,610 64,144
Creditors .. .. 18,243 28,765 3(,901
Freehold premises .. 39,322 56,635 82,035
Plant and fittings .. 53,980 41,874 47,057
Stocks .. .. 26,109 23,336 17,519
Book debts, shares in
other cos., etc. .. 7,082 124,858 119,(43
Cash, etc. .. .. 4,248 30,977
As was reasonable to expect, many holders
of the 7| p.c. “A” debenture stock took
advantage of their right to convert three-
tenths of their holdings into ord. shares
during the year. Altogether 20,466 shares
had been so taken up at June 30, when
4644 shares still remained under option.
Managing-director J. E. Davidson also exer-
cised his option over 8300 shares, being
the balance of 10,000 reserved for. this
purpose in 3923. A further 25.000 shares
were taken up by the underwriters of the
debenture issue. Altogether paid capital in-
creased £53.766, making it £244.856. With
the exception of those shares still under op-
tion to the debenture-holders, all options
granted have now been exercised, which
clarifies the position from a shareholder’s
point of view.
Other balance-sheet movements include an
increase of £25.400 in the book value of
freehold. This is due to building extensions
at Adelaide and the purchase of an adjoin-
ing freehold with a 44ft. frontage to Hindley-
street. The property is at present under
lease to W. H. Bruce, Ltd., with 114 years
to run. Stocks (£37.539) show a reduction
of £5837, and book debts, shares in other
cos., etc., are down £5315. The real liquid
position is obscured by the lumping of
shares in other cos. with book debts. _ But
including this item the more or less liquid
surplus (£66,194 after allowing for the
debenture debt) improved £30,375 during
the year.
The News (Adelaide) is no th do^ t
the largest money-spinner for * Ue - tal and
the one evening paper in the &--“-• formerly
none other is even talked about
there were two, the EXPRESS and
NAL, one published by the ADV ®® th mere lv
other by the RESIST.*, and both
keeping the nest warm. W hen Jn. .
appeared on the scene he clear e vears by
two potential competitors for their
paying each £lO,OOO. They both keep g their
publications alive by the issue ot P
day editions. What will nothina-
of 10 years nobody knows. Probab y
For the profs., which have a net ■tangible
backing of £3 13s. 6d., the. market pays
around 235. 6d.. thereby obtaining
of 6.8 p.c. For the ords., with a backing of
13s. 9d. in net tangibles |os. is paid. The
return at that figure is 5. i P c - 01 a p
div. basis.
Henry Berry & Co. (Australasia), Ltd.
Dividends. ' To Re rI
Aug., Profit. 7p c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
4 5 «’|? 2] £ 394 5 P-c.= 14,700 4 235 J. 235
ilii;: «I» f® lO,OOl S o,m
1924.. 51.813 21,394 81 „ „ 24,990 ->,4/» 60, A 8
1925.. 57,143 25,044 8* „ „ |4,990 '.109 42 947
1926.. 71,335 25,462 8* „ „ 24,990 20,883
1927.. 67,824 26,045 8J „ „ 24,990 16,189 80,019
1928.. 71,393 31,391 84 „ „ 24,990 15,01/ 9...U31
This is a bolding co. Its funds are in-
vested in ' operating cos., which trade l
butchers’ supplies ami do a wholesale groceiy
and provisions business throughout. Austin a
and Maoriland. Like most holding concerns
Henry Berry does not publish /he health
charts of its subsidiaries, and its w
accounts do not tell much more than they
have to. So for the most part the market
has to back the management, which thus
far, appears to have handled a diihcult lin
of business very successfully. .
Since tbe present co. was formed in 1.1/0,
in addition to satisfying the pref. require-
ments the ords. have had a regular 84 p.c.
for the last six years, with 7§ p.c. p,e :
in the two years before that; and £90,031 ol
reserves have been visibly accumulated. Over
the same period the bolding co. handed the
subsidiaries £241,000 in share and deposi
money in order to finance the expansion or
their’ respective businesses. Pref. share-
holders put up £155,000, depositors £35,303
and the balance was provided out of undis-
tributed profits. .
Last year 80,000 A prefs. were issued,
making paid capital £754,640 m 280,000
A prefs., 180,640 B prefs. and 294,000 ords.
The public is interested only in the A shares.
After paying a handful of exes, accounts for
the 12 months to June 30 show a net profit
£3569 in excess of tlic previous year. But
the figures include £lO,OOO transferred from
the Brisbane property reserve. This appa-
rently represents the profit, or part of the
profit, on the co.’s Brisbane property, which
was resumed by the civic authorities early
in the year. The subsidiaries evidently sent
in £6431 less than in the previous year from
ordinary trading. Of course they may not
have distributed all they earned during the
year. The board says that turnover sub-
stantially increased and that results were
up to expectations. It adds that ample pro-
vision lias been made for all contingencies,
and that the business is in so solid and
healthy a condition that the future may be
regarded with confidence. The published
figures are too meagre to allow us to judge
of this for ourselves.
Excluding the transfer from the property
reserve the year’s income was 7.6 p.c. on the
combined book value of shareholdings and
advances compared with 9.8 p.c. and 10.5 p.c.
back to 1926, when a large volume of addi-
tional trade was won. The holding in sub-
sidiaries (£514,111, at cost) moved up
£73,210, and advances (£324,944) were
£40.342 heavier. That is to say, at June
30 the co. had £113,552 more at work than
it had a year earlier. The substantial cash
holding (£73,309) increased £2069. To do
all this the board went outside for only
£19,859 of extra deposits (£35,353). That
was in addition to the new capital.
The A shares rank equally with the B's,
and both lots are entitled to a cumulative
7 p.c., with the right to an extra 1 p.c.
when the ords. have had 12 p.c. or more.
Last year’s net trading profit (£61,393) was
approximately twice their minimum annua!
requirements; the visible backing amounts
to 365. lOd. per share, subject, of course,
to any intangibles there may be in the sub-
sidiaries. The market prices the A shares
around 215., at which figure the return is
£6 13s. 4d. p.c.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
r Dividends N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 22,349 2262 8 p.c. = 18,418 1669 22,14?
1926.. 23,202 3100 8 „ „ 18,5 5 7 154 5 23,694
1927.. 24,510 3496 8 „ „ 20,68 4 32 9 2 4,024
1928.. 18,992 3499 7 „ „ 18,9 2 9 20,588
This Brisbane co., which has a big mail-order
connection, does a general storekeeping
business. Owing to duller trading conditions


A New BURROUGHS
Bookkeeping' Mackine
X
S 3
<*>
w*
<£•
&
w
s' ft?
V
v
r
Hur
as
->
V
®sp
5^
V
©
<■-
&
'
£
?'V
1
II
;
■
II
«■>
S';
:V
i
u
v' /:
■i
.
■ Mit,
.V" -f
H
kt»*
s
<
Requires
Fewer Operations
This feature maices it possible for
this machine to do work that
formerly required two or more
operations. Figures automati-
cally accumulated or stored in the
extra set of adding wheels can be
subtotalled or totalled by the
operation of this lever.
THE New Burroughs Dupex-Subtractor
Automatic Bookkeeping Machine requires
fewer operations, saves time, prevents
errors and offers positive proofs of accuracy
such as have been hitherto unavailable in
machine bookkeeping. For Accounts payable
and Receivable, for Distribution, Stock
Records, Payroll, Banks, and a host of other
applications, the New Burroughs Duplex-
Subtractor affords new and greater savings.
Only a thorough demonstration can give you a
true picture of this machine’s value to you on
your own work. Write or call for more
information.
Sole Distributors:
IRA L. & A. C. BERK LTD.
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Themes: FL 2671 (five lines).
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Hobart Perth Newcastle
Rockhampton Auckland Dunedin Christchurch Wellington
□
□
□
kke
B
oo
Adding
epxng
Calculating
Machines


“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY”
The Great Australian
Guide to Money-making
In this period of Financial uncertainty
no Investor, Trustee or Business man can
afford to be without it.
OCTOBER NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/(».
Principal Newsagents, or Tills Eulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Leith.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GF 4- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Municipal Loans Negotiated. Geo. E. Dicken-
son, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria Buildings,
Swanston Street, Melbourne. —Anvr.
* * * *
“The Arnold” Spray Equipment. Australian made.
Designed by engineers with long experience in making
precision tools. Booklet from R. W. Cameron and
Co. Inc., 24 Bond Street, Sydney.— Advt.
Roma-Mooga Oil Fields, N.L. —-50,000 Shares
applied for. Twelve companies boring or preparing
to bore in the vicinity. Shares, 5/-, 6d. application,
6d. allotment. For Prospectus and Shares, Meudell,
Sharebroker, 135 William-street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
As an aid to land development, Pioneer Wood
Pipe is of wonderful service. Its initial low cost,
ease of transport and installation on account of
lightness and simplicity, its ability to carry any
class of fluid, non-corroding quality and long life
combine to make Pioneer AVood Pipe the ideal
conduit for irrigation schemes, dairy work and all
general farm and station purposes. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.AV. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Jjc * ❖ *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. AVrite
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
GILT-EDGED
FOR ALL
SECURITY
MOTORISTS
dfg
Raybestos
“SILVER EDGE”
Brake Lining
“GOLD EDGE" (Heavy Duty)
Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71, Melbourne.
&
» pOORD&SOiy
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
fa
DTO
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Ascents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office* Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office i*t Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses •from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, ii 3 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
turnover fell away over 3.3 p.c. last yeai,
but the slide in net profit was £oolB, or
no less than 22.5 p.c. . Stocks were the
trouble. Capricious fashion again. in<
amount written down, the chairman says,
shows a considerable increase over the aver-
age for the two previous terms, the lines
mostly concerned being some taken over irom
Chapman’s, Ltd., more than a year ago.
Whether even now the writing back has been
sufficient remains to be seen. Stocks repre-
sented nearly 40 p.c. of the total assets at
July 26 • and the directors believe that actual
value, as ascertained by stocktaking, is
slightly in excess of the book estimate
(£173,122).
After attending to the prefs. the balance
of the year’s net profit was only 5.7 p.c. on
the average ord. capital compared with B.l>.
<S.G and 8.7 p.c. back to 1925. Notwithstand-
ing this, 7 p.c. was handed out, and . tho
already attenuated reserves were dipped into
for £3436 to do it. That implies a con-
fidence in the future on the part of the board
that is certainly not to be gathered from the
figures.
The policy has been one of expansion.
In 1926 the business of the Civil Service
Stores, including a freehold, and that of Mar-
garet Halstein were bought; toward the close
of accounts in 1927 Chapman’s Ltd., a
neighboring drapery business, referred to
above, was absorbed. Also a subway connecting
the co.’s Adelaide-street and Queen-street pre-
mises has been built, and last year further
improvements and extensions were made to
buildings. Thus far profits have not reaped
much benefit from all this, but as trading
conditions improve, and the process is likely
to be a gradual one, better showings should
be made.
Since 1925 shareholders have put up
£52,152, and £48,695 has been added to the
debt, and for the most part the money lias
gone into fixed assets. The next comparison
shows that and other movements: —
1925. 1927. 1928.
Capital £269,200 £319,404 £321,352
Loans and overdraft .. 50,613 62,925 84,433
Other liabilities . . 41,212 57,530 56,087
Premises and plant .. 156,513 213,179 234,215
Stock 153,960 176,263 173,122
Shares in other cos. .. 20,984 21,296 21,296
Investments . . .. 10,550 550 550
Debtors . . . . .. 59,981 64,954 63,121
Cash, etc. . . .. 484 5,098 2,854
Last year £18,536 w T as spent on premise.?
and £5402 on plant, and £2902 was written
off; thus their combined net increase was
£21,036. To do this £21,508 was tacked on
to the mortgage. This, of course, affected
the financial position; the more or less liquid
surplus (£99,127), including stocks, was
£27,283 lighter than at the previous balance.
In addition the co. holds 26,915 £1 shares
in Stuparts, Ltd., Maryborough, in the books
at £21,296. This co. paid 7 p.c. last year,
and at July 26 had reserves of £2301 to
assist a paid capital of £52,595, of which
£13,900 is in 5 p.c. pref 3.
On the market sellers ask 21s. for the
ords., and there are buyers at par. The
backing amounts to 21s. 6d. in net tangibles.
The prefs., which carry a cumulative
7 p.c. and have priority as to capital, are
tightly held. Their cover in net tangibles
figures out at £6 16s. 9d. per share.
The Australian Distillery Co., Ltd.
This is a holding co. with a paid capital
of £150,000. It merged its interests with
four other distillery cos. in the Federal Dis-
tillery Pty., Ltd., about five years ago. The
shares held in the operating co. stand in
the books at £164,825 (cost), equal approxi-
mately to a 29 p.c. interest, on which to
date no dividends have been paid. So
shareholders af this co. have had to go
hungry. Their first lean period was for
five years, while satisfactory trading stocks
were being accumulated: that was imme-
diately after the co. was formed in 1911.
During the next five years an average of
10 p.c. was handed out, and reserves began
to accumulate; they were £21,214 in 1920.
Then the war profits tax gobbled up £12,600,
and from one cause and another no div.
has been paid since 1921. Thus over the
whole 17 years of the co.’s existence dis-
tributions average only 31 p.c.
It is not surprising, therefore, that sliare-
nolders have grown impatient at the delay
of the trading co. in distributing portion
of its profits. In 1926 £12,500 of 8 p.c.
debentures was issued in order to wipe out
the overdraft and other liabilities. These
debentures have the right bo convert into
shares at face value until July, 1930. How-
ever, owing to the absence of an income,
the co. has had to go to the bank again
to pay the interest. The overdraft at July
31 was £2006; there was £lBl9 coming to
the Federal Co. and £575 to sundry credi-
tors. The debit at p. and 1. was £2159.
At the annual meeting a few days ago
the chairman disclosed the silver lining,
drawing the veil from the balance-sheet
figures of the Federal Co. as at April 30
last. These were freehold and plant,
£240.962; stocks, £321,874; book debts,
£69,339; goodwill, £148,000. On the other
side was an overdraft, £82,267; sundry
creditors, £15,855; accumulated profits,
£117.158. So paid capital is evidently
£564,895. All things considered, that is a
very satisfactory position after less than four
years of effort. Assuming that nothing has
been written off goodwill, the co. started
with ss. 3d. of each £1 of its capital intan-
gible. Since then it has had to win a market
for its products, and that has meant a stiff
overhead. Also a lot of money is tied up
in whisky stocks, which are put by tor hie
years to mature, and additions have been
made to the fixed assets. When the books
were last ruled off each £1 share was repre-
sented by fixed assets, Bs. 6d.; stocks, los.
5d.: book debts, 2s. 6d. —the lot less os 6d.
liabilities. Thus the net tangible backing
was 18s. lid. a visible improvement ot 4s.
2d Incidentally, it is expected that the over-
draft (2s. lid. per share) will be wiped
out during the current term.
Stocks are the all-important item; future
profits are stored up there; and much,
obviously, depends upon the figure at which
they have been taken into the sheet. A year
ago the whisky stocks alone were said to
have been covered for £750,000. Old Couit
whisky, the co.’s principal product, is
claimed to now be the best seller on the Aus-
tralian market, and additional stocks are
being laid down in order to provide tor future
expansion. Since the close of accounts the
co. has put a new line, Crystal Court, a
dry gin, on the market, and results thus
far have been encouraging. .
The Australian Distillery Co.’s interest m
the surplus earnings in the trading co.
amounts to approximately £34,000, or 4s. Gd.
per share. Hopes are that a div. will be
received during the current term, presumably'
out of current earnings. Last year the Dis-
tillers’ Corporation l*ty., Ltd., a pup of the
big Distillers Co., Ltd., Edinburgh, regis-
tered here with a nominal capital of
£250,000. It is erecting a still near Mel-
bourne, but it will be a few years before it.
can market an Australian-made spirit; and
meanwhile the Federal Co. has a free field
and an excellent opportunity to further build
up its goodwill and strengthen its finances.
The market value of the Australian Dis-
tillery Co.’s scrip has been very sensitive to
the activities of the Scottish co. During the
last 12 months prices have fluctuated be-
tween 20s. 6d. and 16s. 9d. Recent sales
were at 18s. sd.
Hitherto it hasn’t been posible under the
Queensland law for a foreign co. to enter
into the .oil-boring business in that State,
or for foreigners to control the operations
of an oil co. The intention was good. Aus-
tralia is a great customer for foreign motor
spirit and it might pay the foreign producer
better to keep his Australian market than
assist in creating a competitor. There was
a good deal of justification for the fear.
Whether they were fools or rogues, some
American drillers certainly did things which
hindered the progress of certain bores, and
in one or two cases made further progress
either impossible or very difficult. cir-
cumstance not only justified the btate
authorities in proceeding with caution, but
required it.
Now, under the pretext that progress in
drilling is too slow and that Australian capi-
tal is too scarce, the Queensland Government
is proposing to throw the industry open to
the outsider, whether he be interested m
developing it or in making a pretence of
showing that it is not worth developing. What
has produced this remarkable change of
front will perhaps never be known for cer-
tain. It is quite possible, however, that it is
part of the price we are asked to pay for
the privilege of getting Queensland State
loans in the TJ.S.A.
It is true that money has not been rushed
into the oil-exploration business in Australia.
Yet we have made very substantial progress,
and with such developments as may reason-
ably be expected from the cos. now at work
there is every reason to expect that all the
necessary capital will be procurable to carry
on. At any rate, Australia has not fallen
down on the job, and until it does so the
prospecting ought to be left in the hands of
people who can have no motive for wanting
to make it a failure. This is certain ; that
if, say, one or two American cos. are allowed
into the business, and for any reason what-
ever do not succeed, it will be exceedingly
difficult to get further Australian capital in,
most or all of that already invested may be
lost and the discovery of wells in Australia
may be delayed indefinitely.
Two years hence will be quite time enough
for Queensland to decide that Australia can’t
do the job itself and call in the outsider.
* . * * *
Roma-Mooga Oilfields, N.L., holding per-
mit No. 111, about 25 miles north-east of
the Roma No. 6 bore, has been floated by
Stringer and Moore and G. D. Meudell, of
Melbourne. The 200,000 shares offered were
over-subscribed. The borehole on Stewart’s
permit No. 53, alongside the Roma-Mooga
oil area, has been drilled to 800 feet and has
passed through four flows of petroliferous
gas. Dr. Jensen believes the oil horizon
may be reached between 1000 and 1200 feet
in Stewart’s borehole.
Having exhausted its funds in the erec-
tion of plant, Australian Shale Oil Corp.
has amalgamated with the L. and N. Brown
Coal, Ltd., an English co. The capital of the
new co. will be £300.000 in £1 shares, of
which each of the amalgamating cos. takes
100,000 paids. To enable the Corporation to
meet its liabilities the “L. and N.” co. has
bought 7500 of the former’s new holding at
par. The English co. has undertaken to
raise a debenture of £lOO,OOO on the assets
of the new co.; £50,000 of this will be
used to install an L. and N. distillation plant
capable of treating 100 tons of shale per day
with, it is stated, a yield of 50 gallons of
oil per ton, from which 20 gallons of lubri-
cants will be refined, besides other by-
products. The property of the co., at
Latrobe (Tas.), 10 miles south of Devonpoit,
consists of 10,000 acres, of which 704 acres
are freehold. The Australian Shale Oil
Corp. was formed in 1924 to use the Bron-
der retort at Latrobe, which seems to have
been a failure. It issued £275,000 of capital.
The new plant is being constructed in Eng-
land, and shipment is expected in November.
The reserves of shale on less than half of the
freehold area are estimated at 2,200,000 tons.
The shale lies in three seams, the middle
one being mostly mullock.
* * * *
lie Placer Development’s interest in New
Guinea goldfields (B. 3/10/’2B). This com-
prises an option over Guinea Gold’s southern,
central and northern groups of dredging
leases on the Bulolo. About a year ago en-
gineer Tom Horton put in 11 days checking
the results obtained on these areas by Guinea
Gold’s engineers. These results he found to
be reasonably accurate, and added that “with
an efficient bucket dredge under good man-
agement, 30d. per cubic yard would yield
handsome profits anywhere. Provided the
dredge digs a satisfactory yardage I have
no hesitation in recommending this property
as a 40 p.c. mining investment.” In the
southern and central groups, together about
six miles long, not less than 12,000,000 c.y.
of 2s. dirt and a like quantity of Is. dirt
ha 3 been spoken of. Costs were estimated
at 7d.
* :ic V
Guinea Gold’s London representative has
cabled that the option granted over the co.’a
Bulolo leases to W. 11. Corbould has been
extended until June, 1929, on payemnt of
£2OOO cash in Adelaide. A further extension
to December, 1929, can be had on payment
of another £2OOO. The option covers the
leases the co. has been working, with some
success, on Kaili and Koranga creeks, and
has no connection with that granted to Placer
Development over areas on the Bulolo River
itself. Other areas on Edie Creek, adjoin-
ing the reported lode discovery on the Kaindi
holding, ai’e also said to be included in the
option taken by Corbould, who is acting for
Leslie Urquhart. The consideration for the
leases was 50,000 paids in a £2,500,000 co.
to be formed to work all holdings on the grand
scale. Flotation is held up owing to doubt
about the lease titles, due to the inadequate
provisions of the mining ordinances. This
last matter is being remedied by the Adminis-
tration.
* :J: ❖
Vegetable Creek Tin (N.S.W.) is another
Australian show which has been feeling the
pinch of low prices. It made a loss of
£2901 for the year to April 30. The debit
carried forward was £1143. The shortage
of water held up production while the market
was at its best. Since January the mill has
been running regularly and is claimed to
be still earning profits. For the first quarter
of the current term 2765 tons of ore. were
treated for 32 tons 12cwt. of t.o. averaging
60 p.c. metallic tin.
* « * *
In spite of improving recoveries, Thabaw-
leik is not yet ready to resume the pay-
ment of ln addition to the fall
in tin prices, the dredge worked difficult
ground for the first six months of the year,
which meant smaller turnover and poorer
recoveries, and costs have averaged over a
shilling a yard for some time past. In July
and August recoveries rose to we]l over the
pound a yard. If this rate can be main-
tained distributions should not be long de-
layed. Ulu Yam, another Austral Malay
offspring, is to hold up its divs. until
January. Here again the dredge is in low
grade ground, and recoveries have been drop-
ping steadily. This is inevitable under
bucket dredging conditions ; better showings
may be looked for when the plant has eaten
its way into a richer paddock.
* * * *
Siamese Tin, one of the oldest and most
prosperous London concerns dredging in
Asia, proposes to open an office in Melbourne
next month. It has acouired options over
two areas on the New Guinea goldfields;
these are to be tested. Another option has
been taken over a large gold-dredging area
in Southern Maoriland, and the co.’s agent
has crossed the Tasman to investigate the
property. # *
Muang Tin, now assembling its pontoon, is
expected to begin digging by the middle of
next year. As the co. was floated only a year
ago, this looks like good going. The property,
in Siam, holds about 12,000,000 yards ol
dredgeable ground. Bore values touched ti-
21b. mark in some sections. Since ‘
other areas have been acquired; lat< r o
of these may be the subject of another
flotation. Chairman Joseph Tomlinson leU
Sydney on a visit to Malaya last week.
Muang’s paid capital is £lOO,OOO. *
Returns from Alluvial Tin’s Malayan
dredges for September show an improvement
on the previous month's output where
Itawang is concerned. The dredge turned
over 125,000 yards for 30 tons of t.o. as
against 20 tons from 130,000 yards in
August, the average per yard jumping from
.341 b. to just under ,541 b. The sluicing
plant also did better with 30,000 yards put
through for 35 tons of t.o. The average
rose from 2.101 b. in August to_ 2.61 b. last
month. Kundang slipped with 27 tons from
100,000 yards, August’s figures were 40
tons from 135,000 yards, and the average
.061 b.; this time it dropped to .601 b. Chang-
kat, with nine working days lost through acci-
dent, dug 67,000 yards for 45 tons. In a
full run for August, 120 tons came from
135,000 yards. The average for that month
was 2.221 b.; for September it was 1.501 b.
The Kuala Kampar dredges turned over
485,000 yards for 130 tons. For August
the figures were 503,000 yards* for a recovery
of 140 tons and an average of .621 b. Sep-
tember’s average was .601 b. per yard. .Costs
per c.y. were: Rawang Dredge, 3.58 d.;
Rawang Sluice, 21.46 d.: Kundang, 5.35 d.;
Changkat, lOd.; Kuala Kampar, 3.7 d.


d
«v m PC* ”
In lrarhc
P OWER alone is not enough
in a modem commercial
vehicle. Rapid accelera-
tion, easy steering, faster and safer
driving are pre-requisites.
Republic saves hours on the road
and thus cuts down pour haulage
costs.
The Republic driver can ‘ handle”
his truck with a minimum of effort.
The time he saves means money
saved to you; in time, petrol and
depreciation.
v .
That easier handling is among the
many proved reasons why there
are more Republic trucks on the
roads than those of any other
exclusive truck manufacturer.
See the Repuhic
dealer in your terri-
tory — it’s a step
towards safe, sure
and economical
haulage.
f
S'
m
LI
X V" -x
Qk
:»*U
5:5
It
n
Si
pi
i
'
t=?
re
*
z.
&
wM
VS/Ja
w
i
-ct
1
t 2
1=
A —
m
w
m
m
r.
r
Vwfi
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD.,
Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.


JOHN JAMESON
* *
WHISKEY
JOHN jameson ** * Whiskey is made in
Dublin, by the old and expensive Pot
Still method —as we made it in 1780.
That’s how we get the flavour, the
glorious smooth John Jameson flavour.
Yet we sell it at the price of an ordinary
whiskey—But taste the difference!
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
B. Seppelt & Sons, Limited .... Melbourne Victoria
Perkins & Co., Ltd Brisbane, Q.
Milne & Co Perth, W.A.
(grrai Austral Nu. 5 Art llniau
(By Permission of the Attorney-General, N.S. IV.
FOR THE
LIMN
ROVIDENT
FUND
3
FIRST PRIZES
1 HUDSON COACH .£499
2 99 99 *499
3 99 99 *499
and 131 other Valuable Articles from £275 to £5
including Player Piano and Linen Chest
BUY ONLY THE PURPLE TICKET-ACCEPT NO OTHER
Trusted by the people and with a reputation gained by the conduct of
our last four Art Unions, which paid full prize money and were drawn
to time, the Limbless Soldiers will again keep faith.
The proceeds are in aid of the Provident Fund of Limbless
Soldiers’ Association, and are invested at interest by Trustees to
provide for the old age of limbless returned men.
TICKETS 1/- Vn'
b TICKETS 6/- POST FREE
O. BEYERS, Hon. Secretary, 19 Bligh Street, Sydney
-Ii HI
-ui
y
AZ
i "■ V
-e
BRISBANE
/Vou) again under the
personal supervision of
MRS. A. CAIN
1
Loung
n
n
:3,
M
&
op
P
gg-'UW
A Comer of
the Eastern
Look inti from the Palm Court v a>' •
LOOK,r V - t0 the Ballroom (ggg)
Wire or write for
reservations NOW.
Telegrams:
Lennon’s, Brisbane
’Phone 57 80.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.


STONEWALL”
SHOES for MEN
“STONEHIDE” CLUMP
SOLE BOOT.
B 20/65 Black Box Hide.
Plain toe or toecap. Unlined.
Reinforced 3 dec. clump
"Stonehide” Sole. Water-
tight Tongue.
Post 1/3 ; interstate 2/2.
' w ?,'£P i 2E»!PE-
Write Desk B jor Catalogue.
JACKSONS a?
"STONEWALL" STORES
Cnr Pith. £ Goul bum S^ s Sudneu
\®
It is only the purest tobacco wrapped
in snow-white paper without any
trimmings that has made “The Greys”
the Best Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters.
nt
THE 100% VIRGINIA CIGARETTE
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO., LTD., Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co., Ltd.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Gouger” : Along portions of the Gulf and
N.T. coast there still are tribes that fashion
the Stone Age fish-hook. It is made of pearl-
shell. The shell, several inches in diameter,
lias first to be reduced to fish-hook size. The
thinner edges are carefully chipped around
with flints and quartz until the thick and
tough inner shell is reached. Then the shell
is ground on a flat rock with the aid of
water until the rough outer covering is worn
away, leaving _ a -J-inch thickness of irides-
cent shell. This is carefully ground on stone
until it is reduced to a disc a little smaller
than the old five-shilling piece. Then comes
TWO TO CHOOSE FROM.
“No, Lizzie, I ain’t got much longer here. Til soon be a nangel.”
“A nangel! Nonsense! You just try to look on the bright side of things an’ be a
noctopus.”
the most skilful work. Hardwood sticks
the size of knitting needles are warmed in a
slow fire until they glow. One is with-
drawn and quickly placed on the very centre
of the shell. The squatting worker leans over
and blows a steady stream of air upon the
point, which quickly glows with intense
heat. Stick after stick is thus used until
the centre of the shell is a mass of fine
cracks. This is pierced with a needle of
lmrd coral, after which another coral is used
—a very hard variety shaped somewhat
like a small pointed carrot. This, with
the aid of water, continually enlarges
the hole until it is the size of a
shilling piece. Then comes another ticklish
operation, for the ring has to be broken
through in one place; this is done by apply-
ing the firesticks and filing with coral. The
broken circle is now carefully filed away
until it resembles a crescent, with one end
sharply pointed and turned inward. This
is the finished hook. It is attached to a
line of twisted fibre. With a shell hook, I
have seen an abo. land more fish than a
skilled white man using modern tackle, both
angling at the same spot.
❖ * * s|:
“A.H.8.”: Henare’s powers of memory,
even to-day, are extraordinarily keen. They
are the result of the former lack of any
written record, combined with a strong desire
to preserve tribal history, racial myths,
ritual and traditions. Any Maori claimant in
the native land courts can recite his ivhalca-
pap (pedigree) back to the original canoes,
if need be. Twenty-five years ago Elsdon
Best obtained 400-odd songs in one place,
all dictated by one old man of the Tuhoe
tribes. Another veteran recited the genea-
logy of his whole hapu for generations,
bringing down each branch to include all
living members. In many cases marriage
connections also were recorded, together
with a general tribal history. This feat in-
volved the recital of over 1400 personal
names.
*
“Atherton”: In the silent scrubs of the
Daintree range there lives a lively lizard
who spends half his life in the water. He
is 18 inches long, with tall hind legs and a
tail that is an excellent rudder. He likes the
shaded streams where they ripple over
stones. His happiness is in leaping from
scrub to scrub across the water, taking flying-
jumps to the big boulders, but running through
the shallow water With his head held very
high. He seems to propel himself off the
small stones with his hind legs and tail.
Water running very fast makes but little
difference to him; in fact he seems to get
an added impetus by dashing at an angle
through swirling water. This lizard is fairly
common along some mountain streams, but
I have never seen him in the lowlands.
* * * i(.
“Wingella”: Does anybody know why
the paddymelon wears a claw on the end of
its tail? Other ’roos have a small bare
patch of hardened skin on the termination
of tlicir narratives, but the paddymelon has
a genuine claw. Is it an ornament for the
males alone?
❖ * :J: *
“Tarago”: Allow me to step into the
witness-box on behalf of “Huffin-Guffin” (B.
29/8/’2B) against “Bad Australian” (B.
19/9/’2B). I. have seen Gippsland in its
worst bush-fire moods, notably in 1898 and
1925, and have seen a fire burn as “Huffin
Guilin” describes it. But he errs in
thinking that the ground fire is ignited and
kept going by the falling debris from the
inferno in the tree-tops; it is the other way
about. The heat-draught from the blaze in
the scrub and undergrowth withers the
leaves sufficiently for the top fire to carry
on. If “Bad Australian” wants a fair
representation of what a fire can do in tops
of green eucalypts. let him view Longstaff’s
“Gippsland, 1898,” in the Melbourne Art
Gallery.
“Wrash”: Dogs that are expected to serve
two masters are, as a rule, useless to either,
but Grip is an exception. Bill, who worked
the timber teams abush, found him a dud,
and gave him to Bob. Bob, unable to teach
him to shoo the cockatoos off the corn,
belted him, and the animal fled back to Bill,
THE BUMP OF LOCALITY.
WIFE: “How do you know whereabouts we are, Henry?”
HUSEAND: “I can tell by the depth of the potholes!"
Bill booted him off the premises, and he
returned again to the farm. The mails were
in with a letter for Bill. Bob tied it to
Grip’s collar and chivvied him across the
paddock, and he arrived at Bill’s with the
letter, also with his real occupation made
manifest. Carrying messages, mails and
bottles of beer between the farm and the bush
camp he has since been the hardest-worked
tyke in the country.
* * *
“Bad Australian”: When I was hunting
timber for mill-logs I always shied clear of
a tree that showed ant nests or dry knots
or stubs of limbs protruding from the
barrel. In the majority of cases these indi-
cate the presence of more or less dry rot
inside, and dry rot is no good to a man
paid at per thousand “off the saw.” When
the tree shows a good clean
barrel without ’possum holes
and with a top free from dry
limbs or twigs, it is considered
to be sound, but it is always
tested by sounding with the
blade of the axe, which is driven
into the trunk with consider-
able force. Even with these pre-
cautions faults are often re-
vealed when the log is broken
down. The grain of a tree is
indicated by more or less ver-
tical depressions in the bark, but
in. some, such as the white gum,
these are absent. The depres-
sions are no indication what-
ever of the splitting qualities
of the tree. A perfectly straight-
grained log may take half a
dozen wedges and much hard belting and
profanity to quarter it, or it may be so
tree that billeting up or running off may
be done with the entering wedge or the axe.
The only sure way to tell a tough tree from
a free one is to cut a good-sized chip out and
quarter it for inspection.
* * * *
“Venturino”: Tell “Animbra” (B.
19/9/28) that his method of finding north
with a watch would be useless north of the
.Tropic of Capricorn. But, anyway, why
all this fuss with watches, matches and
shadows? In the southern half of Australia
we may say, roughly, that the sun is east
at 6 a.m., north at noon and west at 6 p.m.
If you have a watch and no compass you
can easily form an estimate of direction, and
if you have a compass and no watch you can
make a pretty fair guess at the time.
* * * *
“Chork”: “Bert the Carpenter” is right
when he maintains that the she-oak has a
beautifully grained timber (B. 12/9/’2B)
It is probably the handsomest of _ all our
Australian woods. But I think he is wrong
when he says that it could be used in the
manufacture of furniture. I spent several
years in the Wyong (N.S.W.) district,
whence large quantities of she-oak are sent
away to Sydney as bakers’ firewood, and I
more than once remarked to buslimen that
it seemed a pity it could not be put to some
other use where its grain would be appre-
ciated. The answer was invariably the
same: its tendency to split precludes its
being used for anything but fuel and shingles.
As I write I can see, in an adjacent allot-
ment, a hut shingled with she-oak over 30
years ago, and, according to the owner, as
impervious to the weather now as on the day
it was built. Large quantities of shingles
are used in Sydney, but they are made of
imported redwood. The building trade has
apparently never lieai'd of the local article.
* * * *
“Smithy”: Catching brumbies is good
sport on the sandplains between Yanchep
and Moore River, 35 miles north of Perth.
The little wild horses are scattered in small
mobs all over the district and on occasions
you find broken-in hacks, gone bush, among
them. With a good mount it is tip-top fun
to single out one of the best-lookiers, give
him a run (they are rather shortwinded
over the first mile) and turn him over by
the tail. Then the halter. Result—quite a
respectable little hack inside a week. Strange
how quiet they become tool
* * * %
“Gola”: A crime laid to the door of the
imported fox is the total destruction of the
kangaroo-rat in localities where it was
numerous not long ago. During a recent
visit to the Upper Hunter (N.S.W.) I
missed the friendly little marsupial, and was
told by bushmen that the fox was the culprit.
The small animal’s habit of nesting in a
clump of tussock or high grass made it an
easy prey. The rock-wallaby, too, has dis-
appeared from haunts where he used to be
numerous, and Reynard is again responsible.
❖ $ i’fi jj»
“Lew W.”: I agree with “Bun” (B.
39/9/28) when he questions the accuracy of
Darwin’s statement that the acquired charac-
teristics of a parent cannot be transmitted
to offspring. Engaged in building, I used
an aluminium dish to hold nails, which dish
eventually collected some sawdust. I saw one
of our Orpington hens hovering near the
dish as I knocked off for lunch. On re-
turning I noticed that most of the saw-
dust had gone and that some of the alu-
minum had been pecked off the dish. Later
on, the Orp. having hatched a brood of chicks,
I discovered that they all had wooden legs
and aluminium propellers. It was amusing
to watch the little blighters taxi-ing across
the fowlyard, and a week or two ago they
took wing in a southerly direction. I still
have the dish and some of the sawdust to
prove my story true.
(Continued on page 250
A LONG TIME AGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We cared not for their censure once, we
recked not of their praise;
No word of theirs could turn us from, or
keep us on, our ways;
For we knew all, and more than all, what
men could need to know,
So very sure we were of things a long, long
time ago.
When life was new, and we were strong,
and high the bright sun rode,
In splendid self-sufficiency along our ways
we strode;
To our own arms alone, we said, our
triumphs we would owe,
When we were very sure of things a long
long time ago.
Now like a healing balm it comes, above
the fret and fuss,
To know that somewhere somebody is think-
ing well of us,
And now how glad we are to take, within
the sunset glow,
The hand we were too proud to grasp a
long, long time ago.
For little goes the way we plan, and nothing
heals the sore
Like cheery words from somebody who went
that way before,
Who, too, went down as we have gone—yet
rose beneath the blow—
Who. too, was very sure of things a long,
long time ago.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


jgSNfe
Kelvination
w
14 Years of Quality Leadership
Kelvinator Model 272, for
the small family.
11l
1111
Sill
■
Kelvinator Model 64, suit-
able for larger households.
OU are taking no mere salesman’s word for
dependability when you instal a Kelvinator.
Kelvinator is the pioneer successful system of
electric refrigeration for the home. It was a fully
proved success before any other existing system was
on the market. The Kelvinator installations made five
—six—seven—even twelve years ago are still operating
as efficiently as ever. Kelvinator, therefore, is proved
and can be purchased with complete confidence.
Kelvinator, too, has always been noted for the beauty
of its cabinets. Just as to-day’s mechanism is simpler
and more efficient than the original Kelvinator unit, so
the cabinets offered exclusively with Kelvinator
maintain the standard of quality unequalled by other
refrigerators.
Kelvinator, of course, ends food waste. Even cream,
milk and butter keep perfectly fresh and untainted in
a Kelvinated cabinet.
Then there’s the comfort of having ice just as you
need it—of always having cold, crisp foods on the
hottest day—and cool refreshing drinks.
Let us send you full particulars of Kelvinator —the
quality leader for fourteen years.
Kelvinator
The Oldest Domestic Electric! T\_e frige rati on,
6
From Cottage to Mansion-sizes and types to suit every need
Sole Distributors for West Australia:
Malloch Bros.,
50-54 William Street, Perth.
Sole Distributors for South Australia:
Mechanical Supplies, Limited,
69 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Sole Distributors for Queensland:
Queensland Machinery Co., Ltd.,
142-156 Albert Street, Brisbane.
Sole Distributors for Victoria:
Electra Pty*, Ltd.,
503 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Sole Distributors for New South Wales:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
QUALITY —VALUE-
SERVICE.
Throughout the year Peapes main-
tain a consistently low price, no
allowance having to be made for
periodical reductions, as Peapes
do not conduct “sales.”
Thus it is that everything for
men’s and boys’ wear can be
obtained at Peapes’ with the
assurance that every purchase
is an example of excellent value.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
i i
1 J
/X -
■ ...... a '■■*» «nir:x
N/
: HR i
M SB. v. ..
<:.
j x
“Its Quality Never Changes. **
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: SL TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The
Stock
Owner
'•Nt»
W
who consigns Cattle, Calves, Pigs, Sheep
or Lambs to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
for sale takes a step which safeguards his interests
to the utmost, assuring him top values for his con-
signments and thorough care for his business in
every particular.
Rail or Ship Stock to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD.,
SALESMEN,
Homebush Yards, or Encggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
“Golt”: The New Ireland natives not so
very many years ago practised a custom very
like that which “Feng-Shui” (B. 20/6/’2B)
attributes to the Dusun of North Borneo.
When a New Ireland chief died his re-
mains were placed in a canoe in one end of
which a hole had been made and plugged
with a piece of wood. At the periodical cere-
monies of initiation the young bucks were
led to the canoe, where the chief’s remains had
by this time dissolved into liquid, and were
invited to drink a large quantity of decom-
posed chief. Those who were unable to do
so were looked upon as weaklings and were
practically ostracised by the tribe. Mission-
ary and Government intervention has now
put a stop to the gruesome business.
* * * *
“Bud-G.”: Between Oodnadatta and Alice
Springs is a station run entirely by women.
With the aid of several gins, two unmarried
sisters do all the work required, including
horse-breaking, mustering and branding.
When fats are ready to go away, one of
the sisters takes the track with a couple of
gins. Travelling bag,men calling at the
station will get a hand-out, but the move-on
sign is always flying. Men are not wanted.
* $ * *
“Gonad”: “C.’s” Black Orpington hen (B.
19/9/’2B) which suffered an apparent change
of sex is not an isolated case. The ovary
sometimes undergoes degenerative changes re-
sulting in its complete removal, and one
effect is an approximation towards the oppo-
site sex. In one case on record, after dis-
appearance of the ovary, there was a regen-
eration of a sex gland, but it was a male
gland.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: “Atherton” (B. 5/9/’2S) says
the seeds of plants have shown mankind
all the different ways of travel, and in-
GOING TO THE DOGS ALL RIGHT.
“Dad, kin I take every other Sundee aft’noon off? I gotta girl.”
“Take every other Sundee aft’noon off! C arn’t ya gitta girl without makin’ a bloomin’
Bolshervik o’ y’self?”
stances flying as the star performance. But
I know of no seed which travels against the
wind without help from some living creature.
About the cutest seed-traveller is the blue-
grey herbage seen along Pacific coasts. The
germ pod is surrounded by fairly stiff-grown
legs radiating about three inches outward.
The land breeze dislodges the conveyor from
the parent stem and whirls it straight into
the sea, which carries it according to the
prevailing currents and tides. Washed ashore
elsewhere, it merely awaits the drying sun,
then bowls for miles along the wide and
A.D. 1950.
Picture of a citizen qualifying for hits walking license.
almost level beaches until finally a few sand
ridges are climbed and a halt called. Gradu-
ally the spoke-legs rot underneath, and,
sinking, form a little layer of manure which
sustains the initial root growth.
* H« *
“Tarago”: 'i have a 24-year-old pony mare
that has just dropped her first, foal. There is
no doubt about her age; I made her acquaint-
ance over 20 years ago, and she was well
broken into saddle and harness then.
He H« He
“Mephisto”: The advice given by “Win-
gella” (B. 5/9/’2S) to use cloudy ammonia
as an antidote for Portuguese man-o’-war
stings may safely be taken in the case of
almost all insect stings. Ammonia is an
alkali, and a penetrating one at that, and if
applied quickly it neutralises the painful
acid of the sting before the injected poison
has time to get properly into the blood. Bee-
keepers usually have cloudy ammonia handy
to apply to visitors when the bees start to
express displeasure.
“Bad Australian”: “Wild Dog” (B.
5/9/’2B) reminds me of my first pig-hunting
experience. Much longer ago than I care
to remember I was one of a party engaged
on the survey of the Strathbogie Tableland
(Vic.). The country was covered with heavy
timber and dense undergrowth infested with
wallabies, wombats and wild pigs. On the
first Sunday after our arrival we went out
after the pigs, and about half a mile from
camp started four half-grown animals and
opened fire on them as they scurried off
through the bracken. We stopped one, and
another went off down the gully squealing
like an unsuccessful candidate at the declara-
tion of the poll. We were in full cry after
the wounded hazel-splitter when a large,
angry and excessively whiskered old chap
rushed out of a half-humpy, half-dugout and
came at us, demanding what we meant “be
massercratin’ a man’s pigs—the on’y pure-
bred Berkshires in the ranges.” We did our
best to pacify him, explaining that we
thought there was no harm in shooting what
we had every reason to believe were wild
animals. “Gorramighty!” he roared. “Ain’t
I never goin’ ter git no rest from you cows
wot ain’t got no ideal' o’ doin’ ’arm? I kern
out ’ere ’ter git outer the ways of wombat-
’eaded swine like yous, an’ I ain’t ’ardly bin
on the crik for a coupler years w’en I ’as
yer on top o’ me agen.” It was only by
inviting him up to our camp and promising
him the freedom of the rum demijohn that
we managed to pacify thq old misanthrope.
* -i‘ ❖
“S.T.S.”: There’s a pest of wild horses in
the Peake district (S.A.), and Archie
McLean, a runholder in the locality, is trap-
ping them. When the horses are trapped he
culls out the brumbies, which he destroys,
from the good sorts, which he brands. In
one of the yards recently were the re-
mains of 350 horses which were destroyed
last summer. The yards are now being
fixed up for this year’s trapping.
* .!• sis *
“Wandi”: No water bird has been more
argued about in the bush than the musk duck,
the debated point being the manner of its
coming and going. Musky is often seen in
sole possession of a small lagoon, but nobody
sees him come and nobody sees him go.
When forced to use his small wings at any
time between dawn and dusk, lie rarely does
more than flutter along the water. Generally
he prefers to escape by diving. Being a poor
flier, he usually travels at night, and so
takes no chances with hawks and eagles.
When very fat he can’t fly at all. In such
a case, if he wants to get to another water,
he has either to fast for a while or walk,
and if he walked lie would be an easy prey
for wild cats.
* * * *
“Pick”: Domestic animals gone wild
quickly revert to primitive characteristics.
The dwarfed and ill-shaped brumbies that
once roamed in hundreds along the Snowy
and over the Kiandra country were the off-
spring of good mares, lost by fossickers, and
a blood stallion that escaped from New
Providence station and was never recaptured.
The scrubber cattle of the N.S.W. South
Coast ranges, with shaggy coats and immense
horns, were in appearance a type distinct
from the dairy herds down the mountains
from which their progenitors had wandered
abush. Berkshire pigs that had strayed from
a neighboring settlement ion.ce made the
swamps and thistle flats of Jincumbilly their
haunt. As they increased in numbers they
entirely lost their domesticity and developed
lanky shapes, long snouts and even the cus-
tomary reddish color of wild pigs. Their
ferocity led ultimately to their destruction.
Fowls that went wild in the jungles ot Mt.
Dromedary in a few generations became more
like curlews in form, color and habits. They
could run with astounding speed and tly
great distances across the gullies. Their
cackle changed to the chortle of the wild
bush-bird.
* * * *
“Muudowie”: On the upper parts of the
Richmond River there are still a few of the
good old houses that were built long ago
of sawn hardwood and cedar, cut in sawpits.
Building with sawn timber was slow and ex-
pensive, but the finished house was something
to talk about. Pit-sawing was then a lucra-
tive trade. Hundreds followed it, working in
scrub and forest. The sawpit was a long,
narrow excavation, with a few stout pieces
of hardwood laid across, on which the logs
were rolled. The long saw was worked by
two men, one standing on the log, the other
in the pit. When the little bush mills arrived
the trade joined the host of dead things. A
partially-filled pit can still be seen here and
there.
$ * ■■!: *
“Quiz”: The recovery, years ago, of an
upper set of teeth from the stomach of a cod
bears out the statement of “Bad Australian”
(B. 29/8/’2B) that these fish will bite at
anything, from a wood grub to a dead ’pos-
sum. The teeth belonged to old .Terry Dean,
a Swan Hill (Vic.) identity. He was just
breaking them in when they slipped out of
his mouth and disappeared while he was
crossing the Murray. Several weeks later a
hotel cook discovered the grinders inside a,
large newly-caught cod.
* * # *
“Nitric”: An Australian invention de-
signed by S. Can tie, of Moree (N. S. Wales),
to fight prickly-pear has proved its practica-
bility. It is a freakish motor-vehicle made
from the remains of five old Cadillac cars,
with sundry additions. It is five feet long,
has a front-wheel drive and steers on four
wheels. The iron front wheels are fitted with
angle-iron , spuds, and sprung to allow them
to turn at any angle to the axle. A plough-
share ram fitted under the front axle throws
pears under the wheels. At the same time
two pumps at the rear of the machine spray
poison on the crushed plants. A high-pres-
sure pump is driven off the gear shaft, and a
low-pressure pump off the magneto drive.
Hs * * *
“Ascot”: Re “Nota Greeing’s” nag (B.
5/9/’2B) that found its way home. Isn’t
that a case of homing instinct rather than
intelligence? I had a horse that accidentally
pushed open the yard gate and escaped.
This became a habit with him, but it was
OBVIOUSLY.
soon checked by re-lianging the gate so that
it opened inwards. He never learned to
pull it open instead of pushing it.
* * * *
“Piscid”: Australian timbers are out on
their own for the manufacture of fishing-
rods. I recently bought a beautiful little trout-
rod from an enthusiast at Healesville(Vie.).
The two top-jointg are of red ironbark and
the butt is of wild-cherry. The balance and
play of the rod are far superior to those of
any imported greenheart rod I have ever
handled, and any fish that gets away from
it will be big enough to write home to mother
about.
$ '4* *
“Wayfarer”: “Boronia” (B. 19/9/’2B) is
right; a combo is a man who lives with a
black gin. The word originated in Westralia.
I first heard it at the Kimberley rush in the
’eighties.
MONARO FEVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are lofty gum-trees standing with
their swaying tops together,
Far from fuss of train and city, and the
rowdiness of men;
There are plains and gullies waiting in the
sunny summer weather,
For the men who love the silence to be
treading them again.
Seas of emerald are shining o’er the country
wide before me
And the rainbow blooms are peeping from
the thick, sweet grass.
Soon again will Ibe faring through the
far-flung lands that bore me
And the scrub that softly crackles ’neath
the hidden feet that pass.
Loud the swaying gums are calling with
their lofty heads together,
Far from artificial gardens and the
pettiness of men ;
And the plains and slopes are warming in
the sunny summer weather—
Oh! I’ll know the joy of livin’ when I’m
treadin’ them again !
VICTORIA.
W. TEARE-WATSON.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service 0 f Bulletin readers.
If you want anything, including information, you are invited to write to tbe
Service Department.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to attach the coupon from the
inside back cover of last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
To facilitate search it is desirable that questions be asked on only one subject at
a time.
Man (27), married, wishes to get in touch
with Sydney painter and decorator who
would teach him the trade. Wages secondary
consideration. Good refs. —6832.
By licensed mechanic (23), well educated
and acclimatised to tropics, position in
Islands. Undertake all classes mechanical
work, handle labor, keep hooks.—6822.
By ex-English public-school boy (22), job
as jackeroo on N.S.W. station. Hard worker,
ambitious, three years’ exp. sheep, cattle
and station work. Refs. (Reply to R. Mark-
wick, Meringur, Vic.)
By embroider ess, work on trousseaus, any
fancy needlework, lamp-shade making, etc.
Charges reasonable.—6837.
By domesticated trustworthy woman, posi-
tion on station or farm (Vic.), as companion,
housekeeper to gentlemen, or help to lady.—
6828.
State public servant, (under 21), in good
department in Brisbane, wishes to get in
touch with country officer, with a view to
an exchange of positions. State name of
department.—6827.
By lad (17) job on farm or station. Go
anywhere. Three years’ experience Gatton
Agricultural College (Q.) ; can drive Ford
truck and any tractor.—6861.
By well-educated young man (Vic.), job
anywhere; do anything. Wages secondary
consideration. —6881.
By young journalist (Wellington, M.L.),
engagement as correspondent for Australian
journals.—6852.
By middle-aged lady, position as house-
keeper and companion to adult family, Moree
or Glen Innes (N.S.W.).—6858.
By married man, (Vic.), experienced
C.R.B. forestry, good working knowledge
of materials, position as overseer. —6874.
Young man, contemplating trip around
the world, 1929, would like to communicate
with Bulletin readers in Britain, America.
Denmark, etc., with view to obtaining in-
formation about places of interest and accom-
modation. (To Charles Robeke, G.P.O., Gis-
borne, M.L.)
Partner, young woman or active older
woman, to go shares in cut-flower business in
N.S.W. country town. Small capital pre-
ferred, but not essential. —6802.
By experienced oil-driller (43), just re-
turned from Brit. North Borneo, analytical
and electrical- training, wide geological know-
ledge. conversant with all American types
of oil-rigs; speaks Dutch, Malayan and
Chinese dialects, position with Q’land or
New Guinea oil-prospecting co. —6794.
By ex-public-school boy (18), 12 months'
farming experience in Gippsland, good horse-
man, position on sheep or cattle station, any-
where, in Australia. —6813.
By returned soldier (46), light work, Syd-
ney, small salary. Twenty years in various
offices. Good refs. —6737.
By owner of good wool-growing country in
northern New England district (N.S.W.),
present carrying capacity 1200 sheep and
100 cattle, partner with capital to stock and
develop. Would carry at least 3000 when
sufficiently improved.-—6757.
By man (35), work in Islands. Can run
smail auxiliary craft up to 35 tons. Prac-
tical experience of ship repairs, carpentering,
plantation and store work, also M.O.P., tro-
chus, beche-de-mer and turtle fishing. Wages,
com., or both. —6759.
Directions and specifications for building
a home-made incinerator suitable for private
residence.—6846.
Directions, with diagram, for making
boomerang out of three-ply wood. —6801.
Words of recitation, “Lasca.” (To P.
Moore, Anna Creek, S.A.)
Photograph of officers and n.c.o.’s of 59th
Battalion, taken near Parenty, via Deures
(F ranee), in the snow, January, 1918. (To
F. G. Stephens, Lakes Entrance, Victoria.)
To sell to Sydney printer, for royalty of
10 per cent, on net profits, sole rights of
simple patented bookkeeping system, which
facilitates the keeping of lay-by accounts by
small retailers who employ no clerical staff.
—6844.
To sell 272 acres freehold land, fenced,
15 acres cleared, 4-roomed house, barn yard,
milking-shed, all implements, plough and
saddle horses, two milking cows, windmill,
running stream, 7 miles from Mareeba (Q.),
£480, or £300 and take over Agricultural
Bank mortgage £180. —6839.
To sell “The History of the Catholic
Church in Australasia,” by Cardinal Moran,
in good order, £10 10s.—6860.
To sell Art in Australia, series II.. Nos.
1 and 2; series III., Nos. 1 to 10. —6788.
To sell “Trial of Oscar Wilde.” very rare,
£25.-6797.
To buy catalogue of stamps of the British
Empire, 1928 (Gibbons). —6723.
To buy, in any condition, books on Galli-
poli by German authors. —6806.
To buy, wild-fowl gun, 12-gauge, good
make and in good order. ■ Also, 20- or 40-
gauge.—6779.
To buy copies of Aussie, issued in the field
in France. —6805.
To exchange block of land at Woy Woy
(N.S.W.) for light car worth about £90.
Would make small adjustment.- —6772.
To exchange violin in case, worth £4. for
banjo-mandolin, same value. (To Oliver
Stephens, Kynuna, Maxwelton, N. Q’land.)
To correspond in French with Bulletin
readers outside N.S.W., preferably in New
Caledonia, on topics of general interest. (To
Teacher, School, Upper Horton, N.S.W.)
Whreabouts of Mrs. Alice Baker (nee
Gunner), who left Tooting (England) 13
years ago. Sister inquiring. (To Mrs. Eliza-
beth Anderton, 493 Latimer-road, London,
W. 10.)
Whereabouts of John Edwin Johnson, for-
merly of Stratford (M.L.). Left steamer
Ayrshire at Sydney 16 years ago. (To J.
Revile, c/o Box 23, P. 0., Pahiatua, M.L.)
Whereabouts of John Edwards, wheel-
wright, late of Bersham, North Wales, and
one time resident of Melbourne. Daughter
inquiring. (To Mrs. Mary Haynes, 95 High-
street, Uhos, near Wreyham, North Wales.)
Information Sought.
11 ow much tin did the world produce in
1927 V—6743.
About 156,550 tons.
I have a gun which is badly balanced,
being too heavy in the stock. There is a
leaden slug under the butt plate in the stock.
How can I remove sufficient lead to make
the gun balance while leaving the remainder
of the lead tight, so that it will not rattle?
—6780.
Bore the lead out with an ordinary brace
and bit. testing balance after every few
turns.
(1) In what countries is asbestos mostly
found? (2) Is it mined at depth or worked
Mice a quarry? (3) How is it treated to
make it marketable? (4) Is it ready for
sale as soon as treated? (5) What are
approximate current prices? (6) Do prices
fluctuate violently? (7) Is the present
world demand keen? (8) What is the
annual World’s output? (9) What, are the
market prospects for the next three years?
—6528.
(1) Canada, Rhodesia (South Africa),
Russia, Cyprus and the United States. (2)
Both. (3) The longest material, whicl) is
graded as Nos. 1 and 2, is broken from the
rock by hand, and is not passed through the
mill. Mill stock, which is obtained after
the rock is crushed, is passed through beat-
ers and the fibre removed by screening or
air separation. (4) Yes. (5) It is mar-
keted in several grades, according to quality
and length of fibre, and prices range from
a few pounds to £9O per ton. (6) Prices
fluctuate, but not violently. (7) Yes. (8)
The output for 1926 was over 200,000 tons.
(9) No information available.
How can I rid a grain-shed of weevils?
Fumigation is out of the question. —66sß.
The shed must be thoroughly swept and
the walls brushed down. If possible the
ground beneath should be cleaned up and all
litter and sweepings burnt. Spray the
ground with a strong kerosene emulsion and
then dust thoroughly with lime. The floor
and walls should then be sprayed with the
emulsion. Thoroughness is essential.
A sergeant in the A.I.F. was killed in
action early in May, 1917. Ilts widow was
notified in July, same year, that he was
“missing.” Her allowance was stopped and
a widow's pension substituted. In Decem-
ber of the same year the widow was officially
notified that her husband had been killed
in action. Should the widow hare con-
tinued to draw the allowance for six months
after the death of the soldier? If so, as
she did not, could she now make application
for the difference between the pension and
the allowance?— 66s4.
The law of the matter is that the widow
was entitled to payment of the allotment
for two months after she received notice
that her husband had been posted missing,
or until a war pension was payable, which-
ever first occurred. As in your case the
pension was granted at once you have no
claim.
Where can I obtain the necessary circuits
and instructions for building an efficient
short-wave receiver, delivering the necessary
strength for reception on the loud-speaker?
—6783.
The “Go-Gettei-,” a simple and efficient
short-wave, three-valve receiver is described
in Vol. 1, No. 8, page 50 of Australian
Radio. A more sensitive instrument is the
“All Empire” receiver, described in vol. 2,
No. 2, page 22 of the same magazine. This
is a four-valve instrument, harder to build
and operate than the other, but the results
obtained are well worth the extra trouble
and expense. Back numbers of Radio are
procurable from Wireless Newspapers, Ltd.,
Williamson House, 51 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
I cut a branch off a walnut-tree about a
month ago and since then the sap has kept
up a constant dripping from the wound.
What is the best treatment to avoid the
death of the tree? —6746.
Sear the severed end with a red-hot iron
and then apply a coating of bitumen.
Ifow deep can a diver go in diving-dress
with safety? —6B4s.
Depends on the physical condition of the
diver and his fitness for his task. The
record, as far as we can ascertain, is 51
fathoms (306 ft.), at which depth divers
inspected a sunken U.S.A. submarine at
Honolulu a quarter of a century ago. Aus-
tralian divers descend to 45 fathoms fre-
quently, but at that depth the stay below
is limited to three minutes. At 20 fathoms
a diver could stay down for two or two and
a half hours.
(1) Is kerosene shale an indication of
oil country? (2) Has it ami commercial
value?— 673s.
(1) Kerosene shale is not a shale or earth
impregnated with oil as is often imagined.
It is a deposit probably of organic origin
more closely resembling coal than shale.
The presence of kerosene shale is no indica-
tion of the existence of oil. (2) Owing to
the fact that the destructive distillation of
kerosene shale yields oil, it has a prospective
value. At the present time it cannot com-
pete with natural oil, chiefly owing to the
high cost of mining the shale. In most
countries kerosene shale is regarded as a
valuable insurance against the time when the
natural oil resources of the world will have
been exhausted.
I borrowed money from the Q'land Agri-
cultural Bank to effect improvements on my
farm, giving a mortgage on the land. Later
l borrowed money from the bank to buy
cattle, and gave a stock mortgage. I bought
■more cattle with my own money, and now
want to sell all the cattle. Must the bank
discharge the stock mortgage if I repay the
amount I borrowed tinder it, or will the first
mortgage complicate the matter? —(>o67.
The bank states that it does not neces-
sarily follow that a stock mortgage given in
favor of the bank by a borrower would be
released on receipt of a sum sufficient to
liquidate an advance granted for the pur-
chase of stock. The mortgage given by a
borrower from the bank contains a covenant
to the effect that at any time when
called upon to do so he will execute a
stock mortgage and bill of sale over all
stock and plant owned by him. This docu-
itient would cover not only stock purchased
with an advance, but also any other animals
acquired from a borrower’s own resources.
(1) What form does an oil seepage takef
(2) Would a black, sticky substance that
seemed to come out from under a rocky
surface and stick stones together indicate an
oil seepage? —o7sß.
(1) The seepage may take any form from
a definite flow of oil to a small surface cover-
ing of matter resembling pitch. Occasion-
ally an oil film on the surface of water may
be seen, but the presence of iron is often
mistaken for oil. (2) It might be an indi-
cation of an oil seepage, but most samples
of the kind received indicate the presence
of bats or wallabies rather than oil.
(1) Do the Canadian North-West Mounted
Police ever call for recruits in Australia?
(2) To whom should I apply for informa-
tion as to how to enter the service? —6120.
(1) No. (2) Commissioner, Royal Can-
adian Mounted Police, Ottawa.
Some time ago The Bulletin reviewed c
book dealing with the vanished civilisations
of the Pacific. Title, author and price? —
6689.
“Peoples and Problems of the Pacific,” by
.1. Macmillan Brown (2 vols., 505.). Rob-
ertson and Mullins, Melbourne.
What was the name of the ship upon
which liurke and Wills came from England
to Australia?— 6762.
Wills arrived in Victoria in the Janet
Mitchell on January 1, 1853. Burke arrived
in Tasmania in 1853, but there is no record
of his ship. In an article in the Melbourne
Herald of June 30, 1927, a Mrs. Legge,
living at Kew (Vic.), stated that her father,
James Wynne, came to Australia with
Burke. If you could get in touch with the
lady through the Herald she might be able
to help you.
Is an old-age pensioner debarred from act-
ing as deputy returning-officer or poll-clerk
or in any other public position in N.S.W.
by reason of being a pensioner? —6696.
An old-age pensioner may act as deputy
returning-officer or poll-clerk, but would be
ineligible for employment in the N.S.W. civil
service by reason of his age.
My dog has an abscess in its ear. I have
tried sugar of lead, Condy’s crystals, per-
oxide and warm olive oil. Is there any cure?
—6752.
This is probably a form of canker. Cleanse
thoroughly with peroxide of hydrogen, then
apply a solution of silver nitrate, 4 grains;
distilled water, loz. Gently swab part with
cotton-wool saturated in solution.
I have a seven-year-old gelding who teas
kicked on the nose, breaking or fracturing
a small bone just below the eye. The bone
has honeycombed and is discharging through
the nostril. Is there any remedy? —676l.
An absorbent blister such as red iodide of
mercury might be tried, but it would be
safer to consult a vet.
I ivish to market a preparation for the
cure of colds, influenza, etc. The base con-
sists of prickly-pear leaf. (1) Can I legally
make it? (2) What will it cost me to get
a license in N.S.W. and register trade name?
(3) To whom do I apply? —6449.
(1) Yes. But you mustn’t advertise, on
the wrapper or elsewhere, any misleading
statements about it. (2) You can get
a guarantee under the Pure Food Act gratis.
Application fee for registration of trade-
mark is £l, and you pay £2 when registra-
tion is granted. (3) For Pure Food Act
guarantee, Receiver of the Treasury; for the
other, Patents and Trade-marks Office, both
of Sydney. Advise you to obtain copy of
Pure Food Act from Government Printer,
Sydney, and ascertain your legal obligations.
Is there any method of treatment or posi-
tive cure for varicocele? —6753.
If mild, a suspensory bandage will 1 relieve.
A certain cure is effected by a suitable opera-
tion in practically every case. Consult the
nearest surgeon.
What are the Federal and N.S.W. State
income-taxes respectively on £lslO of income,
all from property?- —6605.
Federal, assuming the averaging provi-
sions do not apply, £lOl ss. The rates of
N.S.W. income-tax for the year ended June
30 last have not yet been fixed by Parlia-
ment. At present rates, £72 15s. 7d.
Information Supplied.
6502.—T0 make prickly-pear whitewash
the leaves of the pear must be sliced and
macerated and left in water for 24 hours,
when a solution of creamy consistency is
produced. Lime is then added in the pro-
portion of about 101 b. of lime to two gal-
lons of solution, and well mixed in. It
dries with a beautiful pearly white appear-
ance and will stand rain and frost. —
“R.N.D.”
Does Anybody Know?
An effective preparation for marking the
lines of an asphalt tennis coqrt and whether
white enamel over white paint would be
serviceable ? —6777.
Brief Answers.
A.T.0.: The pieces were made about 1847-
55 and the designs are usually in attractive color-
ings. They are worth about £1 Is. each to private
collectors... .R.H.M.: (1) The line “Dead men rise
up never” is from Swinburne’s “Garden of Proser-
pine.” (2) W.A. State Shipping Service receives a
subsidy of £5500 for monthly service to Derby and
60 days’ service to Fremantle. Burns, Philp and Cos.
are paid at poundage rates.... W.A.C.: (1) No
charge is made for withdrawals. (2) Yes.
(3) If transferred to a bank in the same town,
no charge. If to a bank elsewhere, usual rates
of exchange are charged. These vary. Ask
the bank... .C.S.J.: The daily papers published at
New Orleans are Times-Picayune (morning).
States (evening) and Item (evening)... .J.L.C.:
There are cases on record where very old mares proved in
foal. Work or exercise is beneficial.... L.S.: ‘"flic
American Women’s Club Cookery Book,” compiled
by Pearl Droste Plogsted and published by Putnam.
Not obtainable yet in Sydney, but you should be
able to get it later from Angus and Robertson....
P.G.H.: W. Cullen, Werribee Poultry Farm, Werri-
bce; T. L. Eastaugh, Pt. Nepean-road, Moorabbin ;
Wingood Poultry Yard, 8 Peel-street, Kew—all of
Vic. There is no such breed as Khaki Runner. A
leading breeder of Khaki Campbell ducks is M. G.
Leach, Trevallyn Poultry Farm, Sydney-road, Canip-
bellfield, Vic.. ... J.11.W.: Fook’s “Plain and Orna-
mental Lettering” (4s. Cd.) ; Littlejohn’s “Examples
of Lettering and Design” (55.) ; and McMutrie's
“Alphabet” (Cs. Cd.) ... .E.G.11.: Santos Casani’s
“Self-Tutor of Ballroom Dancing” (3s. 10d., posted)
and Victor Silvester’s “Modern Ballroom Dancing"
(2s. 10d., posted). Both are illustrated....
J.lf.McE.: Ask the Shire Council to explain the
demand. Fees for sanitary service are not payable
on vacant land.... W.R.L.: There is a market for
fefined metallic bismuth at 7s. 6d. per pound. Ore
of the grade of the sample mentioned by you would
probably be worth £265 per ton, but the impurities
will have to be carefully determined. Open up your
lode, get a thoroughly representative sample from
about I ton of the ore, and send it to Frank Ilam-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney... .J.M.J.: If the
drain was put in by private owners the Council is
not in any way liable. If it was constructed by the
Council the Council must deal with it... .G.T.:
Write to the R'egistrar-General, 11. M. General Regis-
ter Office, Edinburgh, Scotland. .. .A. 8.: Cannot trace
any firms that retail sterilised milk in Victoria.
Various brands of dried milk have now been sub-
stituted for it... .W.H.W.: You may be able to
obtain a merry-go-round and razzle-dazzle from W.
li. Beecroft, 44 Service-avenue, Ashfield, Sydney.
They are mostly constructed by the showmen them-
selves. .. .W.J.L.: (1) 5$ acres. (2) 7 acres. (3) 104
acres.... W.F.: (1) There is little employment offer-
ing in any of the islands. Most of the labor is re-
cruited locally, with the exception of a few technical
and administrative positions which are generally
only obtainable by application to the Australian
offices of the companies operating there. (2) Malaria
i.i prevalent in most of the islands that are close t:>
the equator. (3) The main occupations in which
white men are engaged are in connection with
plantation management, trading, sea-transport and
mining. (4) High compared to Australia, but there
is usually a compensating rate of wages. (5)
Depends where you want to go to. Ask Burns-
Philp, Bridge-street, Sydney, about sailings. .. .
D.J.W.: There are no literary agents in Aus-
tralia to our knowledge. The firm you mention
has gone out of business... .H.F.: (1) 1887. (2)
Webster and other authorities say that the distinction
is that “egotistic,” which means mainly self-
conceit and self-assertion, is a more offensive term
than “egoistic,” which may be employed to indicate
that a person is self-centred or prefers his own
standards of judgment to those of others... .Tall a-
- The first seven are abo. names. Biloela means
cockatoo; thangool, opossum; argoon, kangaroo;
jambin, porcupine; goovigen, box-tree; joozo, a
road. The meaning of callide cannot be traced.
Rannes is a Scottish name, given by J. Leith Hay
to his station in 1855, in honor of an ancestor,
Andrew Hay, of Rannes... .Wattle Blossom: If the
rent is not more than £3 per week, it comes under the
N.S.W. Fair Rents Act. If the tenant is paying his rent
regularly you will have some difficulty in getting
rid of him unless you can prove your charges of
destruction and neglect. The Act is full of pitfalls for
landlords, and it would be wise to consult a solicitor
if you contemplate action... .G.S.W.: On agreement
for the sale or conveyance of land in N.S.W. when
the value of the property does not exceed £SO,
stamp duty 7s. 6d. ; where it exceeds £SO but
does not exceed £IOO, 155.; for every £IOO and
also for any fractional part of £IOO of such value,
15s. The penalties are: For not stamping instru-
ment within one month from date of execution, 20 p.c.
of duty; for not stamping instrument within two
months of execution, 100 p.c. of duty. The pur-
chaser pays the duty and the fine. H.F.M.: The
“hill and dale” process of phonographic recording
records the sound vibrations in a plane vertical to
the surface of the disc, while the more usual method
of recording bears the sound vibrations on a horizontal
plane. “Hill and Dale” process records are exempt
from duty because such records are not manufactured
in this country E.8.C.: (1) On the facts as
stated, the agent is entitled to commission on the
full number of sheep sold as a result of his intro-
duction of a purchaser. (2) The agent can claim
commission on the sale of the horse, which he did
contemplate, but not on the sale of the property,
which was not in contemplation by him....N.8.:
An ace-high flush of any suit beats a king-high or
lesser flush of any suit.... J.N.11.: Wash the floor
with warm soapy water, and when dry apply a
coating of beeswax and turpentine dissolved to a
thin paste. A stiff brush should be used for the
roughest parts. When dry, paint on a mixture of
brown shellac and methylated spirits dissolved to
a workable paste. If the boards are very rough,
you could have them smoothed by an electric floor-
planer. George Hudson, Ltd., Bridge-road, Glebe,
could advise... .S.H.S.: Kangaroo meat is excellent
for billtong. Cut the meat into long, thin strips
and trim off every particle of fat. Thread the
strips on a wire and suspend them as high as pos-
sible in the sun until of the appearance and hardness
of dried bark. Put them under cover if there’s
going to be rain. When thoroughly dried, sprinkle
with pepper or otherwise guard against weevils.
Soak well before using... ,F.K.: Chromium oxide is
not made in Australia. Small quantities are made
by the chemical manufacturers in Europe, and im-
ported into Australia. The price is about 2s. per
pound. Get in touch with Frank Hambridge, 22
Bridge-street Sydney.... Kip: A gamble; what you
should do about it depends entirely on your position.
If you can’t afford to lose the lot you should sell.
H.C.W.: Apprentice him to steam engineering, motor
repairing, plumbing, building or furniture-making,
whichever the boy likes best K.P.: (1) John
Murray, Allen and Unwin, Ernest Benn, William
Heinemann and T. Werner Laurie —all of London....
(Many others mailed.)


*
V
*
o
o
e
V
\
C
fee
\
!/Sj
t ■?
•>!/,
7
4b
o
>1
n
a
lii
X)
/
<x>
«
irr
jt
n
<
KEEP THE
PRESSURE
RIGHT
with a reliable gauge
and ensure
Greater mileage
Extra comfort
Easier steering
Better car balance
Care-free travel
Do it - every Friday!
See that your car is '
equipped with tyres
that will ensure the
enjoyable and econ-
omical motoring
you desire.
you can rely on
DUNLOP
GET THE BEST
OUT OF GOLF
BY PLAYING
DUNLOP MAXFLI
always J
A definite assurance
goes with every Dunlop tyre an
assurance of quality-staunchness
and freedom from tyre worry...
There are Dunlop tyres available
for every make of car.
5000 Garages stotft Dunlop I


Woolgrowers!
Get full value
for your star lots of wool.
Have them classed and inter-
lotted with similar small lots.
Big Even Lines
Get the Buyer’s
Attention.
For Particulars and Waybills write
The Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Company, Ltd.,
23-25 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
r. C. Wilson,
Manager.
J. E. Scape,
Wool Expert.
dfgdf
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
114--ITO CASTLE RE AQH ST. SYDNEY n£=j
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
IMPROVED PASTURES.
“Ekib”: The substitution of introduced
grasses and subterranean clover for the indi-
genous herbage has enabled Mr. O. E. Prell,
of Gundowringa, near Crookwell (N.S.W.),
to increase the carrying capacity of his land
by two to three sheep to the acre. The
sheep are always in good form, and produce
a bigger, bulkier and heavier fleece than
those fed on native grasses, besides grow-
ing larger frames and being healthier than
sheep run under ordinary conditions. Lambs
fattened under such favorable circumstances
are suitable for export.
The cost of thus improving these pastures,
including clearing, is about 30s. an acre,
but the owner farms his land for a couple
ot years, and this more than pays for the
necessary work, besides sweetening the soil and
providing a good clean seed-bead. Stock are
kept oft' the pasture until it makes a strong
growth in the spring, the seed being sown
in the autumn. The land reaches its maxi-
mum capacity in about three years, requiring
to be fertilised the first and second years,
and then every second or third year.
Mr. Prell has proved by experience that
on 500 acres of unimproved land 500 sheep
will give a gross return of £551, whereas it
is possible to run 1250 sheep on the same
area of improved pastures, the gross return
being £1845.
A balanced ration is ensured by sowing,
after the first autumn rain, a mixture of
perennial rye, Phlaris bulbosu, tall oat, Wim-
mera rye and subterranean clover, using
lewt. of superphosphate to the acre. The
clover is also broadcast over land that it is
impossible to cultivate.
The sheep and cattle under these condi-
tions furnish an object-lesson on the success
of the methods adopted. They are in good
condition all the year round, in dry season
and in wet.
BURNING OFF.
“Meum et Tuum”: There are several
points to consider when burning off your
old grass. The most essential point is the
time. Don’t burn off before the frosts are
over. It is advisable to do the job in the
spring after rain, as then the roots of the
grass will not be injured, and only a small
percentage of the seed will be destroyed. Also
logs in timbered country will not then catch
alight, perhaps to start a bush-fire a week
or a fortnight later. The posts of the fence,
too, will be reasonably safe. The danger
in burning off when there is only a little
moisture in the ground is that sheep, especi-
ally aged ew’es, will keep on the burnt
country and starve rather than go into the
dry grass. Make sure that your herbage
has finished seeding, otherwise you will soon
be without any. Burn off in your gullies
after rain and when the weather is fairly
warm, as the grass will then soon shoot and
save the rich soil being washed away. Where
you have hilly country do not burn off unless
it is absolutely necessary, as the stock will
keep the young grass down, whereas if you
burn you may find your soil being washed
on to your neighbor’s property. You will be
able to keep your wire- and spear-grass in
check if you burn in the autumn, and on
sandy spear-grass country will have good
picking for the sheep if you get winter rains,
Never burn off black-soil country later than
a couple of days after rain.
THE USE OF BORE WATER.
“E. J.S.”: Those who attempt irrigation
with bore water (B. 22/8/’2B) without first
getting an analysis are looking for trouble,
and usually finding it. Artesian water is
apt to carry a high percentage of chemical
content, one Queensland bore showing 120
grains of soda-carbonate per gallon. State
Government analysts for a nominal fee (in
Queensland, anyhow) will report upon the
quality of samples in regard to boiler, irri-
gation, stock or domestic uses. Not less
than one gallon should be sent and care
taken that there is no possible contami-
nation from other sources.
“Noah Fraid”: Writing in reference to
bore waters for irrigating lucerne (B.
22/8/’2B) “B-Gar” has struck a problem.
These waters are always more or less
charged with soluble salts; mainly common
salt, which is decidedly toxic. Agricultural
chemists condemn (for irrigation) all bore
waters containing more than 70 grains per
gallon of soluble solids, and mighty few
inland bore waters pass this standard. On
the Mornington Peninsula (Vic.) there are
bore waters —used sparingly for irrigation —
that contain up to 100 grains per gallon of
soluble solids, but these are temporary hard
waters, and the soluble solids are mainly
lime and magnesia salts. Irrigation waters
should be as near rain water as possible
and where it is proposed to use them for irri-
gation a sample should be submitted to an
agricultural chemist (during the summer).
It may be taken as a general rule that any
bore water with a taste will be returned as
unsuitable for irrigating lucerne, or any
other plant.
CORAL AS A FERTILISER.
“Morita”: If the phosphate problem (B.
5/9/’2S) were seriously considered, Banana-
land could curtail a number of shipments of
this fertiliser from the Pacific Islands.
Experiments have proved that coral after
burning and treatment is a rich fertiliser,
and gives practically the same results as
the Pacific phosphates. With hundreds of
miles of coral reefs along the North Queens-
land coasts, such an industry once started
would have illimitable resources. Another
scarcely touched wealth of our seas lies in
the heavy deposits of shell grit found around
the coasts, piled up by the tides for cen-
turies. Some of the varieties of shell if
kiln-burned and specially treated yield lime
that should be rushed by the market-gar-
deners, as it will yield far better results than
the article prepared from limestone.
STOCK FENCES.
“L.S.L.”: Most stock kneel to negotiate
a fence only after trying all other methods,
the first of which is bringing pressure to bear
on the top wire. “N.M.L.’s” posts (B.
15/8/’2B), only 2ft. in the ground and the
top wire plain, would be quite ineffective
against such attack. The top wire must be
barbed, and for horses must be placed along
the tops of the gates as well. A three-wire
fence of the “N.M.L.” description, with two
posts to the chain and two battens, is only
a challenge to the well-fed cow bent on mis-
chief, especially the dehorned cow. The
minimum number of wires in the cheapest
fence is four —three of which should be
barbed. Posts ought to be four to the chain,
with two droppers between posts. Strainers
should be footed and sunk at least 4ft.,
and then be well stayed. Then, if the wires
are strained thoroughly tight and well
stapled to the posts and droppers, Strawberry
may be kept at home. “N.M.L.’s” fence
would mean torn teats, bad habits, endless
worry and probable loss of stock from bloat-
ing. Three more wires need to be added
to the four-wire fence to keep calves and
sheep at home.
FARMERS’ WOOL CLIPS.
“Breed”: The suggestion by “Mouton” (B.
12/9/’2B) to solve the difficulty of classing
farmers’ mixed clips by sending an expert
into the country per motor-car during shear-
ing time would receive little encouragement
from scores of farmers. It might, indeed,
meet the same reception as I did some
years ago, when in the wool business, and
that not from one farmer alone but from
many. When I suggested heavier skirting,
and gave an idea of the correct lines re-
quired for the fleece wool, I was often told
to mind my own business ; in fact, one farmer
with a flock of 5000 sheep advised me that,
seeing he owned the sheep, he’d class the
wool as he liked. He did, too, for, with
sheep varying from merinos to Lincolns and
every grade between, he made three classes.
What chance would an expert have with
these gentry? If a farmer will not allow
the broker to re-class a mixed clip, or allow
interlotting of star lots, how is a travelling
expert going to persuade him to alter his
unorthodox method of classing? After all,
it’s the farmers’ own funeral, for buyers bid
on the safe side when competing for mixed
lots, and both they and dealers reap the bene-
fit. Ample propaganda spread amongst all
farmers by the combined wool brokers, set-
ting out simple instructions as to the get-up
of small clips, would do more good than
travelling experts. There are farmers who
won’t listen, but they’ll read.
SHEEP ON THE COAST.
“Eureka” : There is no logical reason why
sheep should not be grazed on the coastal
areas with the same amount of success as
on the Riverina. Many years ago sheep were
numerous on the far South Coast of N. S.
Wales and did exceedingly well. In tlie
fertile Bega district there were more sheep
than cattle, and that large area now known
as the Kameruka Estate grazed sheep in
thousands. The wool was of excellent quality
and heavier than wool from sheep grazed
on the inland areas. The coastal land took
five times as many sheep to the acre as
the inland plains, and even in the most severe
droughts losses were comparatively small.
The reason for the change over to dairying
is hard to understand. It came about gradu-
ally without the people quite realising that a
change was taking place. The dairying
industry seems to be the predominating one
along the coast, but it is not in the prospei-
ous condition people imagine, and dairy-
farmers would readily adopt any change that
would be likely to benefit them. Most of
the South Coast farms could even now take
a few hundred sheep without it materially
interfering with their dairying. The sheep
need not be grazed with the cattle, but could
be kept on separate lands. All that is needed
is someone to make a start, and we may yet
see the day when the coastal areas run more
sheep than cattle and market wool of a
class superior to any yet produced on the
inland areas. There exists a fallacy that
cattle will not graze on land that has grazed
sheep. Southern Monaro, where sheep sta-
tions have been converted into cattle sta-
tions and vice versa , and where both sheep
and cattle graze alongside one another, has
proved this to be incorrect. At the present
time South Coast butchers have to get their
sheep from Monaro while good sheep country
lies right at their doors.
PRESSING THE WOOL BALE.
“Breed”: Graziers should not allow
the pressei's to overpack heavy conditioned
wool, for when this is done it opens
up badly on the show floor, and the yolk and
other excess matter lias a tendency to make
it lumpy. Therefore with the different fleece
wools, see that the light conditioned wool is
not underweight, and judge the other heavy
wool so as not to exceed 4001 b. in a bale.
Judicious pressing is all to the grower’s
advantage, and should be one of the chief
thoughts of a careful classer. The same con-
ditions apply to the minor sorts of wool, and
any exti-a expense in purchasing packs to
obtain a uniform set of weighted bales, is
amply repaid in the wool cheque.
LAMB MARKING.
“Bud-G.”: A diversity of opinion exists
as to which is the better knife method when
castrating ram lambs, that of splitting each
side of the purse, or of cutting the bottom
off. Many graziers maintain that by
slitting, the purse remains intact and shows
fat wethers off to better advantage. One
possible disadvantage with the slitting
method is, however, that the purse is not
liable to drain as well as if the bottom were
cut off. Whichever method is used, the
withdrawal of the testicles must be thor-
oughly and carefully done, and for that pur-
pose the lambs must be held in a suitable
position for the operator. Tails should be
cut off at a uniform length from the butt,
and both the ewes and wethers earmarked
correctly. A liberal application of a fly-
proof antiseptic should be daubed on both
tail and purse. Before turning ewes and
lambs out of the yard, give the latter a
chance to mother. Burn all the contents of
the marking pen each day and don’t give
the flies a chance to deposit eggs.
GRAZING RECORDS.
“Patea”; At least one returned-soldier
dairy-farmer is doing exceptionally well on
the rich, swampy land of the famous Hau-
raki plains, Auckland province (M.L.). Mr.
M. A. Carter has established what is pro-
bably a world’s record. His returns are cer-
tified by the Herd Testing Association as
2581 b. of butterfat per acre. On 80 acres
he grazed 49 cows, two horses and a bull
for nine months, and for the rest of the year
38 cows and two horses. The stock were
fed entirely on the grass pasture. The herd
is of pedigree and grade Shorthorn. The
cows are not covered nor housed. In Sep-
tember about 51b. of grass-seed mixture is
harrowed in all over the farm. During Janu-
ary it supersedes the old pasture, obviates
turnip-feeding and maintains a permanent
pasture. A feature of the grazing system
is the keeping of the pasture three or four
inches high all the time. The farm was first
occupied nine years ago, and was then in a
virgin state. It has had no manuring nor
ploughing. The pasture has been kept sweet
by very careful attention to a drainage sys-
tem.
BRAHMIN CATTLE.
“N.Q.”: Reference has been made (B.
5/9/’2B) to Brahmin cattle being introduced
into Australia to improve the hardiness of
the local herds. The Zoological Gardens,
Melbourne, can supply the bulls. About the
year 1913 the late William McDowall, of
Christmas Creek, Upper Burdekin (Q.),
introduced two bulls from Melbourne into his
Christmas Creek herd of Shorthorns. One
of these was a black or dark brown, and dis-
appeared without leaving any stock.
The other was of a different type, being
taller and more active and creamy color. He
left his brand among the station milking
herd. The bullocks of the progeny were
inclined to show plenty of daylight under
them, but the heifers, which were spayed,
grew into fine fat cows, and a pen of both
bullocks and cows was shown at Townsville
about 1922 and greatly admired. Their beef
also proved excellent. The bullocks were very
active and able to jump out of most yards,
and could do 16 to 20 miles a day on the
road. They ought to have made ideal
workers. There are still many of the second
and third cross of these cattle knocking about
Townsville, easily recognised by their slight
hump, cock horns and creamy color. The
third and fourth crosses are certainly immune
to ticks, but whether because of the thick-
ness of their hide I am unable to say, Two
years ago about 20 young bulls of the second
cross were shipped to New Guinea, but 1
have not heard how they fared there. They
are very hard cattle, and should do well in
a dry climate.
I'IG AND PODDY MARKETING.
“Silentio”: Modern conveniences can
revolutionise pig and poddy marketing.
For a couple of shillings a lorry now calls,
collects my vealer or pig, and lands ir
right into the pens. It beats the railways.
In the past I had to order half a sheep
van, get it when the railway felt inclined
and load the pigs in the heat of the early
afternoon. That cost ten bob. Now the
lorry, for ss. or 7s. 6d., according to size
of the pig, backs into the race on the morn
ing of sale day, and a couple of hours later
is in the abattoirs yard 20 miles away. But
no matter what your conveyance may l>e
always have a loading race; it saves time,
temper and, incidentally, the condition of the
pig, and consequently means a bigger cheque.
GREEN VEGETABLE BUG.
“Paul C.” This pest is shaped somewhat
like a shield, and is about three-eighths of
an inch in length. It is commonly found on
the foliage of tomatoes and French beans.
The eggs may be seen in patches side by
side on the leaves; the young bugs being
black when hatched, but changing color as
they mature, until the last moult leaves
them in the adult stage of green bugs. As
they live through the winter under rubbish
and grass all such shelter should be removed
from the garden. The clusters of eggs are
easily seen and may be rubbed off, or the
young bugs may be destroyed by spraying
with kerosene emulsion; but with the fully
grown bug this spray is not effective unless
made so strong as possibly to injure or
destroy the plants. If the insects are very
numerous they may bo lessened by shaking
them off the plants in the early morning
into vessels containing water and kerosene.
Preventive measures are good cultivation,
thorough cleaning up, and the burning of all
rubbish during the winter, as the bugs do
not begin to lay till early summer.
SIDE-LINE” FRUIT-GROWING.
“XSA”; Having recently travelled over
practically all the fruit-growing centres of
N.S.W. I am convinced that the fruit indus-
try is being ruined by the side-line grower.
In N.S.W. there are many men who make
quite comfortable livings from cows or
sheep and yet keep a few acres of fruit trees,
generally one or two hundred trees of great
variety but doubtful worth.
The owner argues that the trees are there
and do no harm, quite forgetting that _in
nine cases out of ten they are spreading
innumerable diseases and perpetuating an
inferior type of fruit.
Because the cash isn’t badly needed lie
accepts what he can get for the crop, and
often gives the fruit to his children to hawk
round the local centres at prices which defy
legitimate competition.
I base my case principally on the fact
that over 25 per cent, of registered orchards
in N.S.W. are under three acres in extent.
Of these 90 per cent, should certainly have
been rooted out years ago. One can under-
stand a struggling small farmer thus filling
in his leisure hours, but when well-to-do
graziers plant three of their thousands of
acres with fruit trees, I sincerely hope it is
in ignorance of the damage they are doing
to brother men on the land.
WATER-MELONS FOR THE MARKET.
“X.5.A.”: A good bed of water-melons
will always pay the costs of clearing and
fencing the occupied land, and many men
have made a very good start by planting ex-
tensively on new ground for the early mar-
ket. Having cross-ploughed and broken the
land well down, drill out furrows at 10ft.
intervals and cross-drill at the same _ space.
This gives the exact spot for each hill and
allows for cross and diagonal cultivation if
necessary.
The hills are best prepared by a little
spade work deep and wide enough to take
(Continued on page 31.)


W
\-0 '
Wv>
D/ 'V—O r» .
&
t 7 7 V\7 IN
ym
v/m^
77 7s7|^
HMfc.
- /
N. .
Tourists Demand Hot Water
Guests Appreciate It.
The “Ideal” System is sure, simple and
economical. Hot water in bathrooms, sculleries
or bedrooms, day or night. The “Ideal” has
an international regulation throughout Britain,
America, Europe and Australia.
Write for free booklet, mention number of points to which hot
water is required, and we will give you an idea of the price.
IDEA
«*■
Domestic
BOILERS
John Danks c.SonP^W
324-330 Piii Si. Sydney
391-403 Bourke Si.. Melbourne
NLY at Eton do we still behold the
full glories of the once übiquitous topper.
Times change—but not so human nature.
To-day, as of yore, men take trouble in buying a
new hat —be it a bowler, soft felt or the jaunty
snap-brim. For no man can look well dressed
in a shabby hat.
Buy a Battersby. It is a hat known all over the
world as standing for the best British make.
S
BRITISH
HATS
FOR MEN
Sola by the Best Hatters.
Actual Makers: Battersby & Co., Ltd., Stockport.
For further particulars, write —
SYDNEY: Box 1655JJ, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 364, G.P.O.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.: Box 763.
e% G sunshine auto header-harvester
12ft. Cut.
Self
Propelled.
4-Cylinder
Power Unit
Incorporated.
:
■if.i
wm
\
1
II \
*-iv
* -
m
i : ' : r'
P
m
Cuts Its Own
Tracks.
No Need for
Binder.
No Crop
Wasted.
Will rescue the grain from badly-lodged and thistle-infested crops.
A fair day’s work = 40 acres in a ten-bag crop.
The cost in fuel = 8 to 10 acres on 4 gallons of petrol.
Besides its efficiency in harvesting the standing crop, the Sunshine Auto Header-Harvester does splendid
work as a Stationary Thrasher at the stack.
Also the Engine is available for general belt work throughout the year.
Write for descriptive literature, price and particulars of extended terms.
„
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
102-105 North Terrace, Adelaide.
Cor. Murray & King Streets, Perth.
H V, McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.


Your Transport Problem Solved!
The Sentinel Steam Waggon
Running costs are the lowest on record in
Australia; the fuel cost approximating id. per
ton-mile under normal conditions. The “Super-
Sentinel” has fewer moving parts than any
other steam or petrol road vehicle. All engine
parts are totally enclosed, and are slow-running.
The engine revolves at 240 r.p.m. when a
standard waggon is travelling at 12 m.p.h. It is
a one-man waggon, and extremely easy to handle.
The New Traffic Regulations will Permit
Super - Sentinels to Operate in the Metropolitan
, Traffic Area.
Full Particulars and Prices Obtainable from
SOLE AGENTS:
/HVdVIOX? SWVQi WMTIIM
SYDNEY: 175 Clarence Street (P.O. Box 2583 E).
BRISBANE 93 Albert Street
ADELAIDE: 157 Weymouth St. (P.O. Box 533)
MELBOURNE: 521-23 Collins St.(P.O. Box 4304)
PERTH 432-36 Murray Street
NEWCASTLE - - - - - - 17 Bolton Street


Modified brogue,
with rubber sole.
Hard to find a more durable,
more resilient type of sports
shoe. The sole is of the springi-
est crepe rubber, sewn to a stout
leather foundation that preserves
the shape of the shoe. The low-
cut upper of supple calf is of a
rich tan and glosses easily.
Arched to curve naturally at the
lacing—fitting the foot closely
without tightness—this Abbey
golf shoe has a non-chafing heel
that grips comfortably.
It’s built for easy, cushioned
walking for hard wear and
sporting looks.
Order by Post
And ask, also, for a supply of Abbey
Dark Tan Polish just the right
coloring for this shoe.
BROWN CALF, 35/-
Catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
1.93.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR."
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE OA’ FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE FT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
mm
''■O
-a.
••
/*>
Cuticura Helps to Retain
The Freshness of Youth
How lovely the natural skin,
kept clear, fresh and healthy
by daily use of Cuticura Soap
assisted, now and then, by
touches of the Ointment to
soothe and heal the first signs
of redness or irritation.
Soap ls.,Talcum 1t.3d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment ad-
dress: “ R. Towns & Co.,Sydney,N.S.W.”
UMP"* Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
0 Beyond an HM VPortab
you buu fa
iture/
Specialising in H.M.V Portables.
£l2, cash or teems arranged
TheTALK.ER.IES j
477 Q.V, Bui fOpposite Lowesi
Addon
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful “Addac” weighs less than 7lb. Anyone can operate;
just pull down the dial. Splendid for calculating - . Suits the pocket,
too. £l5 Cash with order; free delivery in Australia. Capacity with
farthings, £lO,OOO. Written guarantee. Used in small stores," offices
and garages, all over the country.
ADDAC SERVICE CO. (Dept. B.),
1 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. (Agents wanted.)
tA
M
sss
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
PRICE:
£35
B.K.
yamiuiinnuninnm | _~y*p«mimimrrm «
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. BTg, Light Square, Adelaide.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
WJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. If gives prestige to your transactions.
4- It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
'Site'j'Vi mans nk_ of lustra Ita %
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
at least half a kerosene-tin ful of well
rotted, wet manure —cow for preference.
This should be well chipped into the bottom
of the hill, and the surrounding earth should
he drawn up to cover-in with.
Sow four or five seeds in each hill, and
allow three or four vigorous plants to remain ;
(lo not transplant, as transplanting has noth-
ing to recommend it. Should the land be situ-
ated in a warm (N.S.W.) locality, the plants
may be above the ground in early October;
if so, lightly chip. Early appearance may be
the result of natural germination, or be as-
sisted by shooting the seed prior to planting.
An incubator is just the thing for this purpose,
but if the seed is laid between wet sacks
and placed in a warm manure heap, two
days will do the trick. When the young
vines begin to cock up prior to running,
plough two furrows along each row, dusting
a mixture of blood and bone and super,
along each. As the plants progress continue
the one way ploughing and fertilising till
all the ground has been worked.
The vines should be trained to run out
in rows parallel with the ploughing, and
convenient clods will keep them in position.
This makes cultivation easy.
If the land has ploughed up y r ell, give
merely a light harrowing between the rows,
and then only after a shower. Melons do
not require much moisture and heavy soak-
ing will scald the vines, hence good drainage
is vital.
The plants will subsequently cover all
the ground and it is well to remember that
harvesting the crop will be made an easy
task only where provision has been made for
the lorry to cross at intervals.
BACON CURING.
' “Tanta-Tyga” : “Theo’s” method of curing
bacon (B. 29/8/’2B) is primitive, to say the
least of it. Brine-cured bacon is better and
easier to deal with. Make a brine strong
enough to float an egg, and for every 71b. of
salt used add lib. of white sugar—though
dark sugar improves the flavor —loz. of salt-
petre and loz. of carbonate of soda. If pump-
ing the hams and shoulders is not convenient
the principal bones should be taken out.
Cover the meat with the brine, and turn
it every other day for the first week; then
twice a week will do. Two weeks will do
for the middle pieces, but better three weeks
and all that time for the hams and shoulders.
When the curing is complete, soak the meat
m cold water for at least 12 hours to
remove the surplus salt, wash out in warm
water, using a scrubbing-brush for the flesh
side, and scrape the hide with a blunt knife
Hang in a cool, airy place to dry, and if
desired smoke, preferably with pine sawdust.
Bacon cured by this method swept the board
at three country shows last year.
BORING THROUGH SAND DRIFTS.
“P.X.”: Over a great part of the Aus-
tralian back country the search for artesian
water was handicapped by sand drifts, which
fell in and choked the borehole. These
things no longer have much terror for the
driller. A sand-screen is nowadays simply
dropped down into the hole. The drilling is,
as a rule, continued until impervious rock is
met, so that the sand may not get down
under the casing; where that is not possible
an impervious plug is dropped to the bottom
of the hole. At this year’s Show in Adelaide
Horwood-Bagshaw’s drilling rig had a con-
stant group of onlookers, and the information
distributed about successful bores put down
in the Broken Hill and Wentworth country
(West Darling) made many an old hand
who had quitted those parts reflect on what
he’d missed.
SODA IN THE DAIRY.
“Max”: In Taranaki, a Maorilaud pro-
vince in which dairying has been brought
•to a high state of perfection, the use of
soda for cleaning cans is condemned. New
suppliers are questioned at the factories re-
garding their cleaning methods, and are
warned that the use of soda may cause their
cream to be refused. Soda can be an ex-
tremely dangerous and dirty material in
careless hands, setting up a state of slime
and filth difficult to cleanse. If cans and
utensils are never neglected, but are properly
washed, first in cold water and then in
boiling water, there is no need for chemicals.
The man who has dirty or troublesome cans,
or whose cream is constantly graded low.
has himself only to blame.
OAT CROPS.
Norms” : Oats are valuable as a rotation
crop _with wheat; but varieties such as
Algerian mature too late for the average
h eat district. In the central west of
N.S.W. the harvesting of the Algerian
variety would not only clash with the gather-
ing in of the main wheat crop, but also in
three seasons out of four affect its yield.
The growing of oats in the representative
area of Trangie was not a feasible proposi-
tion until early varieties such as Sunrise
had_ been evolved ; the breeding of still earlier
varieties such as Mulga and Buddali have
enabled oats to be included in the farming
system without clashing with the sowing and
harvesting of the main wheat crop. These
varieties have given good results for hay
and grain, though Sunrise requires to be fed-
off m a good year.
The value of oats as a silage crop, also,
should not be overlooked. With sheep on
the more progressive wheat farms, crops
for silage form an essential item. If oats
are sown, then in average and good years
the crop can be conserved. In dry years
the growth can be utilised as a fodder
crop especially for the ewes and lambs,
the silage later taking the place of the
green feed if dry conditions continue. A
hundred tons of silage can thus be put
down from 15 to 20 acres in a normal season.
In this district an average yield of 7 tons
< P vreen fodder for silage per acre has been
obtained from these early maturing oat
varieties, during the last four or five years,
being 2 tons per acre better than any wheat,
crop yield during the same seasons. The
varieties named respond well to feeding off;
they are not bitter, and are thoroughly re-
lished by sheep both as green fodder and as
silage.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Oofti”: To give fowls a glossy plumagi
for show purposes try this: Let a smal
quantity of linseed simmer for two or thre*
hours, and put it in the morning mash abou
three times a week in the proportion of abou
one-tenth of the whole. This treatmen
should be commenced two or three montln
before the show, as the effect is not notice!
till about six weeks after starting on tin
diet.
"Bronze": Systematic and regular culling
of weaklings and non-produceffs makes
poultry-keeping more profitable by cutting
down expenses. Begin with the chickens, anc
get rid of any that are deformed or delicate,
and are developing more slowly than the
rest. They will be the first to catch disease
and bring it into the flock It is a mistake
to try to fatten them ; send them to market
straight away. The egg-laying capacity of
a pullet cannot be judged properly until
she is fully developed, but one that matures
slowly, and mopes about instead of search-
ing for food, never becomes a profitable
layer.
“Emel”: For apple-trees infested with
woolly aphis, try the effect of driving ordi-
nary nails into opposite sides of the tree
trunks. It sounds absurd, but apparently
the iron helps the trees to combat the pest.
A few Rome Beauty trees upon which the
experiment was tried a couple of seasons ago
are now remarkably free from the aphis,
though not so their nailless neighbors.
“Nota Bene”: Instead of the unsightly
piece of bag or sheepskin on the trace
chains to prevent chafing, try a piece of
rubber-hose the diameter and length re-
quired. The right method is to attach one
end of a piece of wire to the last link of
the chain, thread through the hose and fix
the other end of the wire to a post, pulling
the hose over the.chain to the required place.
“Sheik”: Should your ewes get inflamma-
tion of the udder after lambing, a good treat-
ment is to keep the lamb right away and milk
the mother about six times daily. The udder
should be fomented with warm water and
afterwards rubbed with the following mix-
ture : loz. turps and lOoz. olive oil. If
abscesses form they should be lanced when
ready, and poulticed with linseed. Ewes
should be kept in sheltered quarters while
affected.
“Tuan”: Sheep are frequently pecked in
the eye by crows. I have found a good
remedy in a pinch of dry powdered borax
put into the injured eye as soon as the
animal is discovered. Sometimes it is suf-
ficient to use water only, holding the eyelids
back with two fingers and pouring the warm
water in a small jet from a height of about
two feet well into the eye, thoroughly clean-
sing the socket.
“Meum et Tuum”: A simple cure for
badly fly-blown sheep is first to dress them
with a weak solution of any of the well
known fly oils and then dab, not rub, on a
mixture of kerosene and ordinary ashes
mixed to a paste. I have dressed success-
fully with this simple remedy sheep that
had been bitten by a dingo and were badly
blown.
“Poker”: A good way of removing scurf
from the skin of a pig is to wash it daily
with buttermilk. Keep on doing this until
all the scurf has vanished. This will he
useful when preparing pigs for the show.
“Citizen”: A good treatment for chronic
arthritis in sheep is 3-grain doses of sali-
cylate of soda administered twice daily with
a little milk. The symptoms of the disease
a re: The lambs first become lame and then
their hind legs begin to swell till event-
ually all their legs become swollen.
“Amicus”: The beginning of the hot
weather is the time for mulching. Anything
that will readily admit of water percolation
will suffice, such as grass cuttings, well-
broken manure, leaves, etc., or, best, of all,
mulch-paper! if you cannot procure mulch,
then break up the surface soil once a week
to a depth of about two inches.
Re a recent report that an Alsatian houud
had killed 50 sheep at Toodyay (W.A.) and
been shot by the owner, the editor the Doa
Wokld (Sydney) writes to say that the
animal was definitely proved to be, not
an Alsatian, hut a Borzoi-kangaroo cross.
Ah the same, the Alsatian has to go.
“Lily-Beale”: What is believed to be a
world’s record has been established by a
Romney-Lincoln cross ewe on a farm at
Mercer (M.L.) in giving birth to 10 lambs
in just over 12 months, five at each lambing.
“Cuchulain”: I question “Edward S.’s”
theory (B. 5/9/’2S) that the color of a
horse has a bearing on its nature or action.
A horse doesn’t jib because he is grey, chest-
nut or any other color, but because he is
handled wrongly by the man who is riding
or driving him. Bays, browns and blacks do
not. in my opinion, make noticeably better
hacks than those of other colors. Good and
bad horses are to be had in all colors —and
the percentage in each color is fairly even.
“P.M.”: As to “Rastus’s” idea of coupling
two rams together to keep them out of mis-
chief (B. 22/8/’2B), a neighbor of mine
tried it last year. Next morning the rams
were gone. When he found them a few
weeks later, thejr had been through four
fences, and, as subsequent events proved,
accounted for 175 ewes between them.
“N. 8.”: The blowfly pest is increasing
in the northern parts of Victoria. This, with-
out doubt, is due principally to carelessness
and indifference displayed in the destruction
of the carcases of dead animals. Small
wonder that sheepmen are having such
trouble. Surely some action could be taken
by the shire councils to deal with the matter,
and thus reduce the losses.'
“Tanta-Tyga”: To deal with a seedling
apple-tree which is a shy bearer B.
r try a graft on a vigorous tree in
full bearing, and maybe a new and good
kind of apple will be the result, as in the
case of the Rokewood or Bullock’s seedling in
Victoria.
“The Invalid”: A leading cattle-breeder in
our district has an effective method of in-
ducing a reluctant cow to foster a calf. He
turns Strawberry and the poddy into a small
yard and. set 3 a vigorous dog on to the calf
Very soon the cow takes a hand in defence
of the youngster, after which the dog may
be called off and the adoption will be whole-
hearted.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder
f!
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
BRANDY
<StaruJUfbi (2ge 6
oM. ox/eA tkn Wcfifid
South Australia’s Most Modern
Hotel is
Hotel Richmond
128-130 Rundle St., Adelaide.
Now Open to Receive Guests.
Hot and cold water and telephones
in every bedroom.
Rooms with private bath. Every con-
venience for comfort of guests.
Tariff, inclusive Board, 22/6 per day.
Private Bathrooms extra.
A limited number single rooms 20/-
per day.
Telephone: Central 606.
W. A. PIPER, Proprietor.
SMOKE-OH!
A United States visitor says Australians
boast more than any other people. So there
is at least one world’s record that the Yanks
have lost.
* *
For abusing a pedestrian a Melbourne
motorist was fined £5; He had no right to do
more than run the man down.
* *
It seems that the strike on the waterfront
was caused by the stevedores’ failure to
observe the Beeby award littorally.
* *
Pagan reflection : Women’s clothes may go
to extremes, but thank Heaven they no
longer go to extremities.
A Mrs. Miller of Elsternwick, who was
tossed by a cow, sued the owner before
Judge Woinarski, and was awarded £3O.
The owner lost the toss, as it were.
, * V-
A well-known politician was elected to the
N.S.W. Parliament ten years after migrat-
ing from England. This is one of the few
horrors that Dean Inge has refrained from
warning intending migrants against.
* *
“Dead-un’s” snarl:—
Those who are continually bawling that
there is no death should go to a few Back-
blocks race meetings, and prove their sin-
cerity by backing the favorites.
* *
A Brisbane publican has attributed his
bankruptcy to giving credit. But we always
thought a publican got his cash on the spot.
SO GLAD HE CAME.
“Behold, I am the slave of Aladdin’s magic lamp!”
“Then do bring me a cocktail."
A Sydney magistrate says that, if a woman
nags, her husband can surely walk away.
But so often a man has to take his wife s
nagging lying down.
¥ *
Dressed in his heavy clothes, with a tight
collar round his neck, a Sydney man feels
very like a mug this weather.
* *
“Auld Lang Resign” is the song some
Laborites are again singing.
* *
PROFITS FROM POETRY.
Mr. J. Spring-Lamb (Poet).
Dear Sir, —We acknowledge receipt of
your poem “Springtime,” and propose pub-
lishing it in an early issue. Before doing
so, however, we must remind you of our
inflexible rule, “Cash before publication,"
and call your attention to the enclosed
account.
Yours faithfully,
D. (). REJECTEM,
Editor Mugs’ Weekly.
, A/c.
Mr. J. Spring-Lamb (Poet),
In a/c Mugs' Weekly. Or.
By poem “Springtime” .. .. £0 10 0
Dr.
To Transport of poem from P.O. £0 0 6
~ Office boy’s time reading same 1 0
„ Editor’s time reading same 4 Oj
~ Carpentering 2nd line, Ist
verse . . . . . . 2 11
~ Complete new line, 3rd verse 17 8J
~ New rhyme, 4th verse . . 4 9
~ 4J hours understanding sth
verse (editor) . . ..200
~ Office boy’s assistance under-
standing sth verse . . 7 11
~ Space, printing and sundries 3 11 44
£7 10 2$ £0 10 6
To Dr. Balance, £6 19 8|
Rob P.
* *
SIMPLE ARITHMETIC.
The Man Who Knew All About Racing
was in the bar, but too broke to buy him-
self one. Suddenly the Mug dashed in full
of cash and enthusiasm, and asked him to
name it.
The M.W.K.A.A.R. gulped his astonish-
ment with his beer before asking where the
notes had come from.
“I followed your advice in the big race,
said the Mug.
“My advice !”
“Yes, you marked my racebook for me —
have a good bet on number 3, and save on
number 9, you said.”
“Yes, but”
“I know; they were both scratched, so, I
couldn’t back them. But I added your nujn-
bers up and put a tenner
on number 12. It rolled
home at 33 to 1.
And the Man Who
Knew All About Racing
agreed presently that that
was perhaps as good
a way of picking them
as any, and borrowed a
tenner.
Percy Pawnticket.
* *
An American zoologist
has arrived in Sydney to
collect strange birds for
the New York Zoo. Pre-
vious visitors from the
U.S.A. have concentrated
on the common or garden
oof-bird.
* *
The doctor said his
patient was suffering from
syncopation—a dictionary
term meaning “an irregu-
lar movement from bar
to bar.” But alcoholic
Alf’s wife points out that
it is a wrong description
of her hubby’s ailment,
since his movements from
bar to bar arc absolutely
regular.
* *
Callan Park contains a
patient who tells of how
lie was out in a storm,
with no refuge, when flood
waters swept over the
flat countryside. He only
escaped, he explains, by
climbing on to the roof
of his mouth and staying
there till rescued.
* *
The expedition which
recently motored around
Australia used six-wheeled
vehicles on the journey.
It is understood that they
were experimenting to
find out whether six
wheels would prove more satisfactory than
four for use against pedestrians.
Nelson cracked hardy; then Hardy kissed
him.
* *
There are lots of shady coves, in Sydney.
* *
ADVICE TO CONTRIBUTORS.
Choose your subjects carefully. For
example, the novel idea of a ghost which
turned out to be a white goat. Or you might
try an exciting adventure ending with the
amusing climax: “Then I woke up.”
Having decided upon your theme, proceed
to work it out with an eye to space rates.
Don’t stint your words. Leave nothing to the
imagination. If you find you are using too
much paper, write on both sides: this is a
great economy.
If you type the effort, use a very old rib-
bon : it may strain the editor’s eyes, but
it will keep his fingers from being stained.
Send with your contribution a long, inter-
esting letter explaining how you came to
write it. Tell the editor you are sure it will
please liis readers, and so that he may know
A GREAT CHANCE MISSED.
HUSBAND: "If I had known you were going to have
that steak-and-kidney pudding I’d have asked o'd
Jones in to dinner.”
Wife (surprised and flattered ): “But I thought you
didn’t like old Jones, Dad?”
HUSBAND: “I hate him!”
with what sort of person he is dealing, give
him the story of your life, telling him all
about the prize you won at school for com-
position.
Conclude by stating that, if your story
is accepted, you will become a regular sub-
scriber to the paper. Be sure not to enclose
a stamp. Then sit down and await results —
and go on waiting.
A REV.
* *
DOMESTIC NOTE.
Monday's mostly soap and bubble,
Mum boils, wrings and groans,
Dad comes home to frightful trouble,
Cold stew, tea and scones.
s.a. Cro.
“What is wanted in Canberra is a bureau
where tourists can receive the information
for which they are
thirsting,” Sydney
Sun. Owing to a
record heat-w a v o,
tourists have been
thirsting for more
things than infor-
mation, and yet a
callous Govern-
ment has made no
move towards licen-
sing the hotels.
.V. X
THE LAST
SHOTT.
Another Thrill-
ing Episode in the
Life of one of the
Most Remarkable
Characters in Fic-
tion .
When Jim Garet
fort in the War he
was offishally reck-
ernised as the
Bravest Man in the
Brittish Armies.
But Bad Luk had
dogged him since
his return. F’our
fore days he had
not tasted food, yet
the site of Bewty
in distress had revived all his Ivurridge and
Shivallry.
The bewtiful girl on the foming steed had
tolled him all about it.
“This faithful Black,” she said, pointing
to the panting Abo. boy by her side, “has
brought me word that Dan Daley and his
Dred Gang intend to attack the Stashun in
the Absence of my Farther.”
“Let me ride for help,” cried Jim impull-
sivly.
“Much obliged,” she replied with alakritty.
"Take my horse and gun.”
No sooner sed than done.
Presently Jim enkountered the Dred Gang
with which the villanus Daley had intimer-
dated the districk. A volley of shots tolled
him that he lufd been Seen.
He replied with his Borrowed Gun, and
in as many sekkunds fore of the Ruffins bit
the Dust in Mortial Aggerny.
And now Jim realised that
he had But One Shott Left.
( Hence our Title.) The per-
sition seemed Hopeless. But
Jim was not Done Yet. Far
from it.
Putting Spurs to his
trusty hoarse, he Dashed
Away, Lading contempshusly
as tiie Bullets Spat Harm-
lessly after him.
The Bushrangers were en-
devoring with vile Cunning
to Head him off. Should he
rely to stop them on his
Last Remaining Shott? No.
To reach the Spot for
which he aimed he would
have to leap a Yawning
Kasm. Unforchinately the
Kasm meant Death hundreds
of feet below, being too wide
for any Steed to leap, how-
ever Trusty. Yet.
Jim did not Flinch. As he
neared the Dread Spot he
sprang jauntily into a stand-
ing position in the Saddle.
With a grieving Thort for
his Gallant Mount, he put
it at the Kasm, and nobly
it Lept. All in Vane. Its
forefeet scaresly touched the
opposing Cliff.
But now is Seen the rea-
son for Our Hero’s Stratigy.
Ere the Hoarse fell to its
Ilidjus Doom, he, too, lept;
and the addishunal jump
was just ‘Enough to land
him in safty on the other
side.
But the danger is Not yet
Over.
Dashing towards him, in
single file owing to the nar-
rerness of the Road, come
Dan and his Gang once
more. Rifle at his Shoulder,
Our Hero prepares to sell his Life deerly.
But why does he llessitateV Soon it. will
be two Late! Has his Hart failed him?
It has not! As the Last Shot Rang Out
the reason for his delay became Plane.
lie had waited to get all the Bushrangers
in an Exakt Line. At the crack of his rifle
the whole Aate dropped from there hoarses,
Pierced through their Harts.
Jim was Indeed a remarkerble shot.
The last of the Ate was not quite as
dead as the others, as the bullet, when it
reached him, had Spent some of its Fors.
But he was in his Death Throws.
Cursseing vily, he rose on his elbow and
pointed to the Cliff, above which the Face of
Jim’s Trusty Hoarse was Peering. The
Animile had not fallen into the Gulf after all,
but had saved himself by holding on to a
Tree. As the Last of the Bushrangers died
ITS GREAT ADVANTAGES.
“You seem very fond of jazz music.”
“Yes, I like it best of all. You see, you don't have to listen to
it, and nobody asks you who wrote it.”
the Hoarse clambered over the Cliff and gal-
loped joyisly to Jim’s side.
And now loud Shouts were herd, and the
Bewtiful Girl, her Farther and his men
Dashed up.
“Brave fellow!” cried the Squatter. “For
this you shall have my Dorter's Hand and
all my Estates.”
So Our Hero’s bravery Once More Estab-
lished his Forchune.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


*6
TT/ie Puling Preference
99
fm)
',.VT
:y\«
«•• v:.j
(C -X, / //
<ir.?
\\ «
r ..,„ . W&#
, , -•>:£.? Jl
gsgy //
«1§
)♦«
?!
saE ' .:
98
« y :■ ■
■> w-
MS
TO
tvi.s.H
/
Cv.
5^
:
W
aa
»■
■r:.i
fS
c,o v
I iSS*
II
« is*
m
w
■
v
A .
,Cjr
gragfi
c-yyiM
Pi
1#
-X'
m
l/W
7^7
y
1
e
M
m
w
fp§ssgl
m
.
■■ r <s> <w
\
SOT
#
(gold label)


UNRIVALLED Accommo-
dation at this Modern
Hotel. Rebuilt at an expendi-
ture of £ 1 00,000.
BYERS’
HOTEL WINDSOR
Three minut ;s from Circular
Quay and Central Railway
Station, in the heart of Theatre-
land.
MODERATE TARIFF.
Hot & Cold Water in Every Room.
Tel: City 6907, MA 187 4.
Corner Castlereagh and Park
Streets, Sydney.
Telephone reservations made.
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
gd
•N
V _Ar
GW
\v e
**
c _ tS to
rt'f
& .eg?*
fg
Poverty
Point
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The announcement
that another coming star has been discovered
in Alban Whitehead, of Footscray, and that
“his future is assured” because Melba and
others think he has a good voice, makes me
grieve. In every district of London there are
several of these “discoveries” who have left
A NERVOUS FISH.
ELSIE: “I know he’s dying to propose.”
GERTIE: “Why don’t you give him some
encouragement?"
ELSIE: “Encouragement! Why, I’ve even
told him I’m so dithery about him that
if I was married I’d poison my husband
for his sake—and still he won’t bite.”
Australia only to find disillusion and dis-
tress, instead of an assured future. Most
of these disappointed exiles are good singers
with fine voices, for whom no opportunity
can be found, simply because no opportunity
exists. If it were not that it would injure
their chance of making a living anywhere, I
could name a score, indeed more, of alleged
successful Australian singers who would
jump at any engagement that would bring
in £5 a week.
“Spokeshave”: They can't give it up! I
am indebted to a Singapore file for the infor-
mation that Pavlova intends to visit us again
next year in the course of a world tour with
a company of 40. This is to be her farewell
visit —like the last one.
“L. de R.”: One of the biggest scoops
ever made in the gramophone business was
the casual recording by a company of the
voice of Ernest Lough, singing Mendelssohn's
“Hear My Prayer.” Lough is a 17-year-old
chorister of the Chapel Royal who is i-eceiv-
ing free education at the City of London
School. The Benchers of the inner Temple
made the contract with the gramophone
people, and have received royalties on over
1,090,000 records.
“Lever de R.”: Moiseiwitsch set a prece-
dent at his memorial concert in Melbourne
Town Hall to Al-
berto Zelman which
other virtuosi
might adopt. In the
middle of his play-
ing of Bach’s Chro-
matic Fantasia a
devilish hammering
broke out some-
where in the build-
ing, and Moisei-
witsch promptly got
up and left the
platf o r m, thus
showing his con-
sideration for the
audience and mov-
ing the management
to a realisation of
its duty. Last year
one concert after
another at the
Auditorium was
ruined by the up-
roar of workmen
on a neighboring
building, and the
performers involved
ploug h e d o n
through the _ din
apparently resigned
tn tho inoviinhlo.
The concerts were Tait concerts, and the
operations that were interrupting them were
on a Tait building.
“Morita” : Critics who saw the first releases
of the boosted movietones in U.S.A. reported
that all difficulties had been overcome, and
foreign sounds eliminated. “Lights of New
York” is one of the first completed, and in
its 7000 feet there is not a single sub-title,
the different characters being introduced to
the audience by the conversation of the film
actors. A cabaret scene has been faithfully
reproduced, from the music of the jazz band
and the items of various singers down to the
applause and talking of visitors. Street
scenes are accompanied by the sounds of cars,
the pattering of feet on the pavement, the
cries of newsboys and so forth. In the talkie
studio there is no shouting of the producer
and no clicking of the camera. A sign lan-
guage is' the solution for the former, while
the camera-man is installed in a sound-proof
box.
“Flaming Youth”: A mummer travelling
recently in Queensland on picture business
was surprised at one big centre to find that
the porter who handled his luggage at the
railway station was an old friend —Tom
Coogrove. The survivor of the theatrical
brotherhood, the “Flying Cosgroves,” was a
dumpy, amiable fellow, but only a moderate
comedian; it was the dead Jack who was
the real actor. , Still, the chubby chap had
one brief season in Sydney as “the great
imported English comedian.” In their varied
career the brothers had one venture into
grand opera: in Adelaide they made a chance
for a bushed Italian co. which had come to
Australia on spec and stranded. The end
came quickly; the manager of the Italians
went before the curtain and attempted to
explain to the sparse audience that Jack
Cosgrove’s advertisement of a new opera for
each night was not with his consent, and
was impossible, while Jack, at the other end
of the stage, talked him down, and Tom,
simulating public opinion in the auditorium,
made remarks about Dagoes, monkeys and
nuts. The episode finished by Jack announ-
cing that the great, novel laughing success
“Fun on the Bristol” would be played by
Cosgroves’ own reliable company on the fol-
lowing night.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Pessimism with regard
to the future of the drama in England has
received fresh impetus from ..Sybil Thorn-
dike’s statement at Johannesburg that
“theatres have gone, or almost so, and no
longer matter except to a few of us.” This from
England’s greatest tragic actress is almost a
tragedy in itself. Another authoritative pro-
nouncement on somewhat different lines is
from the critic James Agate, in a notice
of the revival of “She Stoops to Conquer” at
the Lyric, Hammersmith, in which Marie
Ney plays Kate Hardcastle. Agate says:
“Miss Ney is enormously handicapped by her
versatility. She is not one of those lean
cigarette-smoking gawks who now fill the role
of ingenue on the English stage to the ex-
elusion of artistes competent in their
business. Miss Ney is an actress rich
in artistic sensibility and accomplishment;
and that, one presumes, is the sole
reason why she is never seen on the West
End stage.” Still another side-light on the
present state of the English stage is pro-
vided by the enthusiastic reception of “Good
News” at the Carlton Theatre, where the
noise of the production is so great that an
air raid could not disturb the audience, and
where there is little else to mark the show
from any mediocre performance of the last
dozen years. Noise, and more noise, and
less grace and wit in each succeeding scene!
“Ca'sar’s Ghost”: The question whether
elaborate stage settings are necessary (B.
26/9/’2B) reminds me that for one theatrical
small-towns tour practically ail my scenery
ALL DRESSED UP
“Has Maisie gone on to supper?”
“I think so. I couldn’t see her shoes and beads about.”
consisted of rolls of chintz. Tacked to the
usual badly painted and stale “interiors.”
which almost tevery hail possesses as
stock scenery, the material gave a very fresh-
looking effect. The only painted pieces car-
ried were those necessary to back doorways
and windows, and there was more chintz
for furniture covers and curtains. Out-
plays were pieces requiring only interiors,
and the company always got a special word
for its staging.
“Q.N.”: Old-time Australian favorite
Fanny Wiseman, who dropped this page a
line the other day, has just celebrated her
eighty-second birthday at. Melbourne. She
was the first to play here the r6le of Topsy
in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
“Cine Ma”: With the opening of the
Regent Theatre in Collins-street and the
State Theatre in Flinders-street 7000 more
seats will be clamoring for occupants in
Melbourne. Both film-haunts will be wired
for the speakics, which cost anything up to
£5OOO to instal. The State is on the site
of the old Bulletin office, and as it over-
looks the busiest intersection in the world
and the spot where 250,000 railway pas-
sengers pass daily, its amazing facade, in
49 styles of architecture, will speak for it
“Hamfat”: Gus Neville is one of those
who have found that picture work can pro-
vide some rough bumps; while playing for
the camera in Bananaland he fell 30 feet
and found a rock for each foot. His injuries
included broken leg, broken jaw and broken
arm. Now, after seven months in bed, he
is convalescing at Toowoomba, and he ha-s
a special word to say for the kindness of
Allan Wilkie, who has acted the part of
good friend as well as be acts Othello.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The sparkling work of
Vera Spaull as Gretchen in “The Student
Prince” at Sydney Her Majesty’s shows that
the young lady is moving on; association
with Beppy de Vries has polished her. Vera
was the pathetic little' Bobbie in “Seven
Little Australians” when Beaumont Smith
adapted Ethel Turner’s book for the stage
and produced it at Sydney Palace.
“Ula”: Tell “Adsum” (B. 19/9./’2S) that
one of his “plucky Italians,” Countess
Filippini, is a Sydney girl and one of the
few women conductors of opera in the world.
And besides wielding the baton she looks
after the needs of her two youngsters.
“Hamfat” : Less than three years ago Bob
Chisholm said farewell to his friends in Mel-
bourne ; he is now reported to be receiving
1000 United States dollars a week as the
leading man in “The Golden Dawn.” More-
over, Charles Friml, composer of “Rose
Marie” and “The Desert Song,” has
been commissioned to get busy on a new thing
written especially for him. Chisholm did
some fine work in “The Maid of the Moun-
tains.” For that he will chiefly be remem-
bered here.
“John’s Wood” (Lond.): Diana Wilson
has returned to the West End stage in
“Knight Errant,” an amusing and interest-
ing play by a new author, Eric Forbes Boyd.
It was very well received by the first-night
audience at St. Martin’s. Miss Wilson shared
in the final ovation. As she has to wear
the same frock throughout the play, she had
no special chance to denote the autumn
modes, but the one gown presented—a jade
green georgette with diamente stripes—lost
nothing through her manner of wearing
smart clothes with distinction.
“Warded”: I met Rosie Fitzgerald the
other day, just returned from England. She
was the Alice of the 1908 J.C.W. production
of “Alice in Wonderland,” and the Bluebell
of “Bluebell in Fairyland” the next year;
both acted by kiddies. And what clever
kiddies they were! In the cast of “Alice”
wci-q, besides Rosie, Lizette and Elsie Parkes,
Clyde Cook. Vera Pearce, Marjorie Soper.
Mae Baird, Nellie Payne and Louise Larson,
all of whom were more or less successful
later on. I wonder if we shall see her act-
ing before she returns to England? She was
a clever little thing.
“Uramao”: Just died at Christchurch
(M.L.), Emma Kent, in her 84th year, 77
of which had been spent in the Flat City,
ller first husband was George Beatty, who
died many years ago, leaving a large family,
two of whom were Maude and May, bright
stars in the Pollard Opera Co., when
romance was buzzing in the heads of people
now in middle life. Maude (Mrs. Kibble)
is now in Buenos Ayres, and May (Mrs.
George Lauri) is in Sydney. Mrs. Beatty’s
second husband was H. A. Kent, who has
been in the news department of the Christ-
church Press for 52 years.
“L.H.P.”: Heath Burdock’s amateur re-
vival of “School for Scandal” reminds one
of how rarely Sheridan’s so-called master-
piece lias been staged by pros, in Sydney.
Since 1901 we have had only Allan Wilkie’s
revival at the Royal and Cyril Maude in a
brace of scenes. At the old Royal in 1876,
Mrs. Scott-Siddons made a charming Lady
Teazle, and was followed by Myra Kemble
(1878), Louise Pomeroy (1882), Marie de
Grey (1884), Mrs. Brough (1888). Mrs.
Bernard Beere (1892), Mrs. Brown Potter
(1897) and Nance O’Neil (1900). Our best
Sir Peters have been B. N. Jones and Jimmy
Cathcart. I have affectionate memories of
the debonair Wybert Reeve as Charles Sur
face in 1878. Morton Selten, the Charles
in the De Grey show at the old King-street
Opera House, is playing now “Tell Me the
Truth” at the London Ambassadors. Kyrle
Bellow was excellent in the role. Titlieradge
was the Charles in the B. and B. show.
“L.H.P.”: What a wonderfully versatile
actor Bland Holt was before he settled down
to the comedy roles of his Drury-lane-Prin-
cess-Adelphi productions. I recall him as
Wah-No-Tee, the Indian, a great pantomime
part in “The Octoroon,” Dogberry, Marks,
the comic lawyer in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,”
Paul Pry, Roderigo in “Othello,” and as an
excellent clown in the nights when they knew
how to make the liaidequinade really enter-
taining.
“Flaming Youth” : The turning of success-
ful plays into musical comedies goes on.
“The Vagabond King,” one of the new things
J.C.W. has in store, is the musical adapta-
tion of “If I Were King.” the play in which
Julius Knight used to Villon-ise. Rudolph
Friml, the music-maker of “Rose Marie,”
is responsible for the score.
“INTERFERENCE,” AT SYDNEY
THEATRE ROYAL.
Leon Gordon as Philip Voaze, a drunken
invalid, murders blackmailing Deborah
Kane.
“E.E.W.” : Clarice Hardwicke seems firmly
established in London. From musical comedy
she has stepped into a straight part in “Dam-
sel in Distress,” a very promising piece by
P. G. .Wodehouse and lan Hay. One authority
said she was the greatest comedienne Lon-
don had seen for many a year. She was
allowed to slip away from Australia pro-
foundly discouraged.
THE COMPLEAT PRODGCER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Never did I carry any but real flowers when
playing Desdemona.... Mr. Asche is a great and
artistic producer.” —Doris Champion (B. 26/9/’28).
When Wilkie eminence achieves
As Sliakspeare’s king or clown,
There must be lots of make believes
To keep the exes, down —
A mighty lot of pasteboard trash,
lie never stoops to that, does Asche.
Since “Chu Chin Chow,” whenever he
The public taste has hit,
She is invariably She
And it as surely It,
And he, for either paunch or pash,
Is as unquestionably Asche.
No phantom onions and sage,
No ghostly goose they chew
Whom Oscar puts upon the stage,
As you have had to do
In Repertoire mayhap— and I.
His puppets get the real McKay.
The steak they tackle, sizzling hot,
Is rump beyond dispute,
Or fillet possibly, and not
A specious substitute.
You feel, as into it you tear,
This is no Barmecide affair.
ilie fizz and cocktails that we sink
In Oscar’s plays, quant, stiff.,
Are real, sure-to-goodness drink,
Not toast-and-water stufi.
Aye, and the very flowers that win
You people’s smiles are—genuine.
N.s.w.
T. HIE R.


*r'
m
w.
wMM. .
m
Mm
The “Valet” alone among safety razors
possesses the secret of giving you a quick,
clean shave with the same blade, day after
day, week after week. That secret is first
a blade made of the finest steel brought to
the finest edge, and, secondly the power
of retaining that edge by ten seconds
daily stropping.
Any user, and their number is legion, will
tell you what that combination means to
the comfort of his before-breakfast shave.
“VALET”
Safety Razor
British Made. . Of all dealers.
No. 50—Nickel Set. Contains
heavily - silvered razor, 12
blades and strop in hinged
container. Complete in
highly polished /
nickelled set
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON (EL COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
New Zealand Agents:—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch.
NEW ZEALAND
for Your Holidays!
I ’HERE is no country that offers more varied
attractions within a limited compass to the
Holiday-seeker than New Zealand; and Australians
contemplating a change should keep this in mind.
ITS majestic fiords and sounds, its uncanny thermal
wonders never fail to impress the keenest and most
critical observer. Its trout and deep-sea fishing, its
deer-stalking and native game provide the best of sport.
|V[EW is reached by palatial steamers,
1 and the visitor on arrival is welcomed
and cared for by those whose duty it is to see that
he has a good time. He is taken care of from the time
he sets foot on shore until he steps on board his
steamer at the conclusion of his tour.
Particulars of
The TIME it takes
The SIGHTS to be seen
The COST involved
may be had on
application to the
NEW ZEALAND GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank
Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
South Aus. Tourist
Bureau,
ADELAIDE.
T. G. Dewar, Esq.,
79 Queen Street,
BRISBANE
285 Queen’s Buildings,
Murray Street,
PERTH.
Illustrated Literature Free for the Asking.
Tours Booked.
Tours Planned.
“Sanatogen has a
direct favourable
influence on the
whole nervous
system,”—
wrote Prof. Rodari,
of Zurich Univer*
sity.
Buoyant Health
—with Sanatogen
NERVE-STRENGTH and buoyant
health, that’s what Sanatogen will
give you.
Sleeplessness, listlessness, loss of appetite —
all those signs of weakness will very soon
disappear, in fact, within a fortnight you
will notice a remarkable change for the
better in your health.
START taking Sanatogen to-day. It is
sold at all Chemists from 3/9 per tin.
sanatogen
The True Tonic-Food
IfPK,, GENATOSAN LTD.. LOUGHBORO*. ENGLAND.


(pieman Quick-Lite
With stand, 102/6;
without stand, 84/-
rpieman
(Mb Stoys
Adds
to the Joy of
Camping
A drive to your favor-
ite camping spot. Appe-
tites sharpened by na-
ture’s tonic—fresh air and
sunshine. And then “good
eats.” You’ll have them
“right now” when there’s
a Coleman Camp Stove
along.
NEW BEAUTY,
new quality, new
convenience. They
are ready for you. . .
handsome new
models of petrol
irons, petrol camp-
stoves, petrol Air-
O-Gas cooking
ranges of all sizes.
Newest of all Cole-
man Instant Starters
. . . .strike a match,
turn a valve, and they
are ready.
CQBffllnstant Lighting
Poleman Iron
The Iron with the
Cool Blue Handle*
PATENTS PENDING
LIGHTS INSTANTLY.
Does the week’s ironing for
NO PREHEATING.
Id. Price, 45/-
"LIGHT. HEAT AND COOK. THE COLEMAN
WAV
dfg
Coleman
Quick-Lite
Lamp
and
Lantern
df
Coleman
Radiant
Heater
£££
Coleman
Self -Heating Iroo
Coleman
Air-O-Gaa
Cook Stove
g
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.
>C 9~rxr>f'
c-c^r»
OCtwrn
swaiaoHd
/
///
IVIDOS
A, having very kindly undertaken to drive Aunt Sophia down to her
destination in the country, finds, when almost there, that her luggage
is no longer on the carrier.
What should A do?
* * • * • • r#
It stands to reason - - LIGHT AN ABDULLA
supers Cigarettes
TURKISH EGYPTIAN VIRGINIA


One Cost
THE first cost of a Rolls Razor is
the last cost. It is not just a
holder for holding those wafer
blades which are turned out in
thousands by machinery. Skilled
craftsmanship and engineering genius
have produced a safety with one blade
that is always keen. This blade is
hollow ground from tested steel. It is
as good a blade as was ever found
among the old-fashioned “cut throats.’’
It will give you years and years of
perfect shaves. It is kept keen by
automatic honing and stropping in its
case. Buy a Rolls Razor now and pay
for it in the money you save on
blades.
ROLLS
RAZOR
The ONE-blade Safety
SOLE AGENTS:
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Sydney. Melbourne. Brisbane.
Adelaide, Perth
BAGSHAW’S
ASTHMA POWDER
ASTHMA
§
POWDER
(2/6 All Chemists)
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Post Free, 2/9, from The Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emera'ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
SI
MmmiM
40 1120,-i
H
m
Ease
I with
Elegance
liiffliiiil
w
m
THE ELGIN fits your wrist so com-
fortably and naturally that you scarcely
know it is there. But the ELGIN is
not merely an adornment—it is the master
of exactness, the ever ready servant at your
service at all times.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
&lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
Jli? ‘Jrade Mark
i®
In the Watch Cape
101
Pot and Palette.
Only two of the pictures with which
Robert Johnson decorated the walls of the
Grosvenor Gallery, Sydney, last month went
back to the Maoriland artist’s studio. Sales
topped the £lOOO mark.
The sound water-color work of Harold
Herbert provides a refreshing exhibition at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. A view
■of the Dandenong country under rain is ex-
cellently studied, and in “Winter Morning,”
“Morning Light” and “Gums and Sunlight”
Herbert shows his usual skill in the treat-
ment of light effects. A couple of seascapes,
capitally done, are a departure.
Tom _ Skeyhill, the Digger signaller who
was blinded on Gallipoli, turned lecturer,
recovered his sight in America and then pro-
ceeded to Avrite and lecture harder than
ever, is still in the U.S.A. Between lectures
he has lately completed two books, one of
which Doubleday Doran Co. (N’York) will
publish this month (October), the other in
March.
“Red Jacket” : No need to tear the cover
off The Bulletin in order to send it safely
through the post. I send the paper into the
heart of New Guinea and into Central Aus-
tralia by just slicing about half an inch off
the margins of the covers and turning it
inside out, folding it backwards. Then if
you wrap it neatly in a piece of brown
paper and paste it down well it will gen-
erally reach its destination safely.
Tom Hunt, proprietor of Kilmore Free
Press, who is still able to do a good day’s
work in any department of his paper, re-
cently passed the 88tli milepost. As far
as can be traced he is the sole survivor
of the Vic. Legislative Assembly elected in
1874. He held his seat till 1892. Then
lie had a spell for 10 years. Returning to
the fold in the early part of 1903 he had
another innings of nearly six years. Tom
Bent gave him his last big job in politics—
the Lands portfolio.
Another inkstained veteran is W. J. Dwyer,
who has just completed 50 years of continu-
ous service with Brisbane Courier. Born
in Ireland in 1866, he came to Queensland
as a child, and set in with the Courier as
a printer’s apprentice in 1878, drifting in
due course to the literary staff. The Bris-
bane journal seems to make a hobby of
long-distance employees. Recently Charles
Melton retired after 70 years’ service with
the paper, and the present publisher, H. C.
C. Woodhouse, has been 53 years in the
office.
Blamire Young, the artist who knows how
to take liberties with nature without being
offensive, has hung a collection of his color
harmonies on the walls of David Jones’s
gallery. The artist’s decorative sense and
feeling for design keep him, even if he uses
colors that are not seen in nature, from util-
ising them jarringly; his hues are tuned
nicely, and give an effect of calm. “The
Grand Canary” has purple hills that make
a vast frame for the delightfully patterned
buildings of the foreground; there are some
South Sea pictures not in vivid hues, but a
small study of evening light and “The Inn
Yard” are the exhibits which charm most.
This solid-looking face belongs to J. F.
Reid, nephew of Dry Dog George, and
Labor’s hope
for Maranoa
in the Federal
elections. He
is a journalist,
whose papers
have included
the Da 1b y
Leader and
Aussie in
France, where
he was an
artillery lieu-
tenant. He
edited the
(} u eensland
Agricultural
Journal.
wrote “Stud
Stock Studies”
and was a
f o u n d a tion
councillor o f
the Banana-
land Authors
and Artists’ Association, lie broadcasts for
4QG, and has represented the north State
for five successive years in the Australasian
yachting championships.
“Pom”: Conan Doyle’s Spiritualistic
Museum, in which Will Longstaff’s picture
“The Eternal March” has found a home, is
one of the oddities of London. It is a small
room under a spiritualistic bookshop in
Victoria-street, behind Westminster Abbey;
and the exhibits consist of evidences of the
faith professed by the 100,000 Britishers
whose prophet is Doyle. On the walls are
spirit pictures painted by persons without
previous art-training under the influence of
spirits, and it may be added without irrev-
erence that most of the works look it. Else-
where are photographs of spirits and fairies
and other properties of the creed. One
shows a faultlessly-attired gentleman going
feet-foremost out of the window of a fifth-
floor flat, and in another he is shown re-
turning, head foremost, by an adjacent
window, to the mild edification of a couple
of friends. This is claimed to be the most
remarkable example of levitation on record,
the manifestation being confined, as a rule,
to insensate articles, such as tables. That
spiritualism is a true religion is suggested
by the growing truculence of believers. They
are tired of being slighted, arid have started
to hit back.
Dora Meeson (Mrs. George Coates) is
exhibiting specimens of her later work at
the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney. It is a
mixed show of water-colors and oils; in
the former section “The Sultan Hassan
Mosque and the “Mosque el Rifayeh, Cairo,”
is spaciously conceived, and there is vigor
in “Building Adelaide House, London.” But
“Balloon-seller, London,” is not very attrac-
tive —there is no sense of buoyancy in the
colored objects the dispirited-looking young
woman is selling. The oils show the artist’s
predilection for wandering among English
gardens. “Sunshine in Kent” is a satisfy-
ing study. “London Bridge,” which won
honorable mention at the Paris Salon, is
full of movement, although the tug which
is drawing barges under the bridge looks
a toy affair. “Snowstorm in the Strand,
from Adelaide House” does not quite escape
an iced-cake effect.
After many years spent in the bush lands,
John Shaw Neilson, who has made his name
as a writer of verse, now has a city job in
connection with the Country Roads Board.
Born in South
Australia, he
began to pen
poems when
about 20 years
of age* and
The Bulle-
tin printed
some of his
first efforts. He
lias regularly
contributed to
the Bookfel-
low, and has
published
three books —
“Heart of
Spring,” “Bal-
lads and Lyri-
cal 1 J oem s”
a n d “N e w
Poems.” Th e
picture is by a
Marietta cam-
era.
The Sydney Fine Art Gallery, now moved
to well-lighted rooms at Beaumont Chambers,
has been opened with a show of water-
colors by C. E. S. Tindall, who, if he lacks
particular distinction, is always workman-
like. His show is full of variety, going back
to a picture of Circular Quay as it was in
1894. This picture suggests bustle and
movement; but there are many in which
the slumbrous charm of hot days lies upon
the enchantingly displayed scenery. “The
Forest Track” is the work of a man who
loves the bush and, so to speak, idealises
its realism; “A Drover’s Life” is another
admirable bush subject, and there is capital
treatment of the light effects in “The Waning
Day.” One may almost smell the gum
leaves in some of these pictures; in others,
among them “Port Macquarie,” the artist
changes his perfume to the smell of sea-
breezes.
Melbourne Professional Photographers, in
exhibition assembled at the Queen’s Hall,
reveal the aching desire common to all of
us to escape from the round of a soulless
routine and express our individuality. It is
surprising how well some of them do it, con-
sidering the nature of the average production
of the studios. There ik a definite struggle
to render tone correctly, notably in the
portraits of verse-maker C. .T. Dennis and
art critic J. S. MacDonald; and there is an
absence of faked efforts to imitate other art
media. The only nude is a curiosity. The
photographer has evidently realised that the
camera is not a satisfactory means of re-
vealing the undressed figure, so he has con-
siderately blacked the sitter’s face out.
With over 50 of his canvases bearing red
wafers before the show at the Sedon Gal-
leries, Melbourne, had officially opened,
Robert Campbell, who is now on the high
seas en route for Europe, should be satis-
fied that he has struck the popular fancy.
Provided he is not satisfied that there is
nothing more to learn, the young man should
go far, judging by the sharpness of the
■observation shown in “Collins Street” and
“Elizabeth Street,” two of the best portraits
Of the city the present writer has seen. The
quick impression appears to be the artist’s
chief forte. Carried further than the mood
of the rapid glance his landscapes tend to
become dull. A brilliant piece of work,
obvious in its appeal, is “Haystack, Frosty
Morning,” in which the atmosphere is thor-
oughly chilly. The water-colors reveal a
Sturgess-Hilder influenced painter with his
head in the roseate clouds of romance, but
his feet on solider ground than either of
those poetic ones.
“Avon”: David Low had a most un-
conventional home life. His boyhood
was spent in Christchurch (M.L.) in
a rambling old house with plenty
of land round it, and he and his
brother and sister were, as his mother ex-'
presses it, “allowed to run wild.” She
had been a sufferer from over-strict home
discipline, and determined to give her own
children a loose rein. David started to
draw as soon as he could hold a pencil,
and it was the dearest of his hobbies. But
he liked to be alone when indulging it, and
chose as his studio the fowlhouse. And
he drove the chooks out before he started
his labors. He first saw his work in print
when he was eight, and at 71 lie had a
contract for two cartoons a week at £1
apiece with the Christchurch Spectator.
At school he just managed to pull through
decently: among the subjects he failed in
was—drawing! When he left school he
took a staff job with the Canterbury
Times, and then passed on to The Bulle-
tin. And his mother wanted him to be a
parson!
SPRING ODE —No. 1001.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A thousand bards have tried their hand
In every climate, age and land,
Including Shakspeare, Keats and Burns,
And written of the Spring by turns.
So give your socks an upward pull
And dodge the basket of the Bull.
Unleash the Remington, old thing;
Stir, stir the think-tank: ’tis the Spring!
Rhode Island Reds and Orpingtons
Yield new-laid eggs by millions.
Up, sluggard! Take the kitchen pail,
And hunt by candle-light the snail.
The sheets are flapping in the breeze;
The starlings nip the early peas ;
The lambkins frisk in railway trucks;
'Fhe whir of the electrolux
Annihilates the dust. Who blames
At such a time the droves of dames,
The washing done, the ironing eke,
Who bust the earnings of a week
At sales? Although it may be true
The same old hat must do for you
Reblocked and cleaned, and always did,
Grudge not thy spouse her new Spring lid.
With banzais, warbling, toots and hochs
Greet ye the Spring! Pull up your socks!
victoria.
WAWBERESH.


Jo buyers
dio look
beneath the
J found —
wm
mm*
fe»
mm
1
i
1
xn
V s
n
s
i,
ia
THE man who looks beneath the bonnet of the New
Oakland Six promptly realises the reason for its
amazing popularity,
A superb power plant; a clean uncluttered example of
advanced engineering design! That’s what you think when
you lift the bonnet of the New Oakland Six. That’s why
this brilliant car is amazing everyone who takes the wheel.
Remarkable engine, indeed. With a 79-pound crankshaft
—crankcase and cylinder block of “bridgetruss” design—
generously large connecting rods and other vital parts.
With many other notable advancements —G.M.R. cylinder
head—fuel pump—full pressure oiling of moving parts.
And the same throughout the chassis. Quality construction
everywhere. Deep, rigid frame. Big, self-adjusting clutch.
Smooth shifting transmission. Velvet-action four-wheel brakes.
Famous for conquering the stiffest mountain grades—never
finding a road too rough or a pace too trying.
Yet for all its wealth of power, it is silent and satin-smooth. And for
speed and snap and handling ease —you must drive it to appreciate it
fully.
Arrange for a demonstration.
THE TOURER.
£375
Sports
Roadster
. . £425
Two-door . .
Sedan -- - - £445
Four-door 0 -
Sedan -- - - £485
Landau
Sedan
-... £515
WARRANTED FOR
ONE YEAR.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
Metropolitan Distributors
Melbourne: Tarrant Motors Pty., Ltd.
Brisbane: Moreton Motors, Ltd.
Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd.
Adelaide: H. C. Richards, Ltd.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
OAKLAND Six
{OAKLAND'


Repairs.
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS,
OUR ARMS MEAN MORE GAME.”
RELIABLE ENGLISH
HAMMERLESS SHOT GUNS
All of the following are built to suit
Australian conditions.
Holloway & Naughton, £l7/10/-,
£2O, £25, £32, £65. Claborough
& Johnstone, £22/10/-, £65.
Webley & Scott, £2O. Greener,
£2l. Cashmore, £2O.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith & Importer of High-grade Firearms,
Note New Address:
NEWLAND HOUSE,
1438 Elizabeth Street
(Near Market Street), Sydney.
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
MAN NEWS
AH
"r*
7
'.I
y
“WILD WEST’
A Qreat Big Wide Leaf Hat
to Wear between Sunrise
and Sunset.
Pure Fur Felt; leaf
wide will
30/-
not sag; High Crown,
will stand all weathers.
Post Free
Mail to Desk “5.8.” State Size.
PIKE BROTHERS
LTD.
In Stteen Street, Brisbane.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Saturday was a day of sensations in the
racing world. At Flemington Gothic, the
Caulfield Cup favorite, and at Randwick
Winalot, the Melbourne Cup favorite, were
beaten at weight-for-age by horses reckoned
to be far below their class. Gothic’s defeat
was accomplished by Highland in the Octo-
ber Stakes. It has made no material differ-
ence in the Caulfield Cup betting. The
public has decided that Jimmy Pike, once
he hit the front on Sol Green’s stylish black,
held the opposition too cheaply, and found
it difficult to get his mount going again
when Highland ranged alongside. This may
be so, but Pike doesn’t throw races away
in Sydney, though he has been known bo
cut things very fine.
The “powerful” ring of newspaper fancy
is strangely nervous these days, and with
very few exceptions it would only do busi-
ness on the October Stakes on a 1-2 basis.
(The tote never gets cold feet.) The nomi-
nal quote at the close was 10 bo 1 on Gothic,
Highland being 10 to 1 against and Hynanna
15 to 1. Duncan, riding the race of his
career on Highland, caught Gothic a short
distance from the post and beat him by
half a neck, Margaux (20 to 1) being four
lengths away. Highland has proved an
excellent speculation for Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton, but this was, of course, his star achieve-
ment. The Queensland-bred gelding, who
looked a ball of muscle, is not in tlm Caul-
field Cup. Hynanna was fourth; the time
was Imin. 401 see.
A number of horses Gothic will have to
meet in the Caulfield Cup were starters in
the Stand Handicap, which attracted the
large field of 23. The All Black colt Bal-
merino, a Melbourne Cup fancy, was the
early favorite, but the money came strongly
for Sol Green’s chestnut colt Strephon
(Saltasli —Soldier’s Love), and he finished
up first choice at fours, Balmeririo being
at 9 to 2, Sea Pilot at 5 to 1, and Fara-
manch at 7 bo 1. It was a very interesting
race. Sea Pilot’s backers were on good
terms with themselves as the field turned
for home, but he dropped out, and Strephon,
finishing brilliantly on the outside, caught
the leader, Alfred the Great (20tol), and dis-
posed of that South Aus. gelding and Horo-
scope (15 to 1) like a good one. Nawallah
was fourth, and Maple next; Balmerino
was in the van early, but showed no dash
at the finish; Faramanch was another dis-
appointment. Strephon, a good-looking colt,
had spreadeagled a field at Aspendale a few
weeks ago. He is in the Derby, and is in
the Melbourne Cup with 7st. lib. Little
Howes rode him. The time, 2min. 7|sec.,
looks ordinary, but the course was holding-
after the rain.
For the colts’ division of the Maribyr-
nong Trial Stakes, Duncan’s mount, Park-
wood, a nice-looking brown colt by the
Melbourne Cup winner Backwood out of
Yoorala, was at 9 to 4, and he did not give
his backers a moment’s anxiety; he won
easing up by lengths from Bel Rouge (10
to 1) and Meadow King (33 to 1). But
punters missed the mark in the fillies’ divi-
sion, which went to a 20-to-l shot in
Byama (Australian Sun—Beaupona), one
of Wren’s, Regalette (Crowdennis —Regal-
ity), being second, and Ellesdee third.
Byama, who scored very easily, was one
of the bargains of the sales, costing only 70
guineas.
There were 27 starters for the Paddock
Highweight. Sol. Green’s bay horse Bache-
lor’s Temple was favorite, but Leyshon’s
King Off a gelding, South Austra (12 to 1),
won in capital style from Aga Khan (8 to
1) and The Wensum (5 to 1). Fullarton,
who has been trying his luck over the
battens, rode Leyshon’s neddy, who is a
useful sort and was w r ell backed at nice
prices.
* * * *
The opening day of the Caulfield Cup meet-
ing will give Mollison and Gothic an oppor-
tunity of avenging recent defeats. Nothing
will be backed with confidence to beat Mol-
lison in the Guineas, but Amounis, Vaals
and Fourth Hand may be among Gothic’s
opponents in the Caulfield Stakes, and they
are better horses than Highland at nine fur-
longs. Highland is in two races —the Stakes
and the Toorak Handicap. For the handicap
Kalloni looks a fair thing. Fancies: —
1010 Welter: Nawallah; next, Southdown.
Debutant Stakes: Parkwood; next,
Byama.
Caulfield Stakes: Fourth Hand; next,
Amounis.
Guineas: Mollison.
Toorak Handicap: Kalloni; next, Blade
Duchess.
# # >S *
That gruelling race in the Spring Stakes
on the first day of the A.J.C. Spring meeting,
THEIR WATERLOO.
VISITING CRICKETER ( surveying crowd): " Plenty of grandmothers being buried to-day."
together with the strain of galloping on
uncommonly hard tracks (it has been an ex-
ceptionally dry season), left its mark on
botli Limerick and Winalot. The heel which
bothered Limerick in 1926-27 went back on
him again. F. D. Jones, the trainer, thought
it might be all right for the Craven Plate on
the third day, and Limerick took his place
in the field and was favorite at 5 to 4 on.
But fourth was the best he could do in the
circumstances, and there was blood on the
shoe when he came in, so he was scratched
for his remaining Australian engagements.
All lovers of a good horse hope to see him
back in Sydney at Easter. With Limerick
below par Amounis (7 to 4) had an easy
task in the Plate, but the public was sur-
prised to see Fourth Hand (50 to 1) out-
stay Prince Humphrey (8 to 1) in the run
home. The Derby wanner may also be feel-
ing the effect of the hard tracks.
The eleventh-hour run on Bacchus for the
Metropolitan was rather because Munro was
up than because William Kelso was confi-
dent, and Kelso gave his horse no chance
against Winalot (9 to 4 on) at w.f.a. in the
Randwick Plate. A few speckers, however,
took the odds (20 to 1), and many ladies
backed Munro’s mount on the machine. So
gleeful squeals w r ere mingled with the shouts
of excitement when Winalot, having disposed
of the pace-making Spearfelt (apparently a
light of other days), was unable to shake
off Bacchus, and went under by a head in
3min. 27-fsec. for the two miles. Bacchus
is a game horse and a stayer; still, even
allowing that Toohey made too much use
of Winalot, as he did in other cases during
the meeting, it wasn’t the Sydney Cup win-
ner at his best. He may be able to re-
capture lus Spring Stakes form, but one
can’t help recalling that he went off at the
very same period last year, and he doesn’t
now look an attractive proposition in the
Melbourne Cup with 9st. 41b. Bacchus, who
gave him 41b. on Saturday, has Bst. 41b.;
Kelso’s other Cup candidate, Statesman, who
has been beating Bacchus on the track, and
who won the Sydney Handicap very easily
with Bst. 71b., has Bst. in the greatest handi-
cap of the year. As a tliree-year-old lie w r as
sixth with 7st. 41b., and he is a good deal
better now.
Fondant, The Bulletin’s choice for the
Metropolitan, got away badly in that race,
and though he made up a tremendous lot of
ground over five of the last six furlongs, the
task was too great. In the Waverley Handi-
cap on Saturday he jumped out first, made
all the running and, though tackled first by
Octember (7 to 1) and then by The Pied
Piper (3 to 1) in the straight, was going
away from the pair at the end of 14 fur-
longs, run in 3min. lsee. Ridden the same
way, Fondant would probably have won the
Metropolitan, especially as Jocelyn’s subse-
quent form was nothing great; but he got
away badly, and that’s the end of it. The
hardy little Cyllene More gelding is in the
Caulfield Cup with 7st. 21b., but is an
unlikely starter,
•
Fondant went out at 7 to 1, and Kelso
furnished a winner at 10 to 1 in the Final
Handicap—Spruiker, who had run second to
Nepean (5 to 1) in the Suburban Handicap
on the Wednesday. So the Randwick owner-
trainer wound up the meeting in a blaze of
glory and collected a cheque for £4515 from
the A..J.C. C. G. Macindoe, who sent Prince
Humphrey to Australia, headed the list of
successful owners with £6957- Jocelyn
credited J. S. Brunton with £5365, and
Amounis’s two wins were worth £5232 to
W. Pearson. H. A. Knight’s collections were
comparatively moderate—£l267 10s. Munro,
with seven wins and a third, was far and
away the most successful jockey. On per-
centages he was entitled to £976, but he
would get a great deal more than that. Race
after race was thrown away by jockeys of
the hell-for-leather type; Munro scored by
waiting for the last run and then getting
the last ounce out of his mount with his
strong hands. The best two-year-old at the
meeting was Gold Tinge, a very smart Paper
Money colt, owned by G. J. Barton, another
Maorilander.
* # * *
For City Tatt's meeting at Randwick: —
Flying Handicap: Royal Tune or Beck-
with ; next, Genuine.
Novice Handicap: Energique; next, Rose
of York.
City Tatt.’s Handicap: Leadight or
Blather; next, Vallino.
Club Welter: Rosso; next, Leadight or
Quince.
$
The South Australian Derby, run at Mor-
phettville on Saturday, provided a unique
situation, since the places were filled
by fillies. Mount of Olives, a chestnut
filly by Lucknow —Sister Olive, owmed by
L. F. Aldridge and D. C. Cudmore, won
by a short head from M. Cummins’s Opera
Queen. Third place was filled by Yassmin,
also owned by Aldridge and Cudmore. Time
was 2min. 37sec., and the dividend £2 14s.
Lucknow is an imported horse, winner of the
Caulfield Cup in 1919. while Sister Olive’s
Melbourne Cup of 1921 is still fresh in
memory. Sister Olive has evidently imparted
the family staying powers to the Derby
winner, her first foal.
jJ: i' t i # ijt
“Mulga”: Ned O’Connor, a Mt. Gambier
(S.A.) amateur, rode the winner of the
local Hunt Club Cup in 1911. At the club’s
recent meeting he steei’cd bis tenth winner
of the event. Another brother has won
the thing twice, and a third brother once,
and the family has been concerned in the
ownership of seven other winners of the
race. E. J. Locke, himself a dashing ama-
teur rider in his younger days, has not
missed seeing the Hunt Club Cup since 1873.
M. (and Rafferty) Rules
Those of the crowd who believe in fairies
were greatly excited at Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night, when “the light-heavy-
weight wrestling championship of the world’’
changed hands. Despite the fact that Clarence
Eklund (12st. 51b.) had to get the odd fall
(points don’t count in “championship” wrest-
ling) , betting gents., with their amazing
foresight, were eager to lay 6 to 1 on Eklund ;
and Clarrie was not found wanting. To
give Ek. and “champion” Tliye (12st. 4|lb.)
their due, they worked really hard to make
the show entertaining. Imprisoning Ted s
arms with his well-advertised legs,. Clarence
forced Edward’s shoulders down in the sixth
round for the only fall. From that point to
the finish it was all Thye, but the bell twice
saved Clarence, and he was proclaimed the
winner —and the champion.
❖ * ❖ *
Harry Mason’s illness prevented the Eng-
lish boxer from meeting Australian Bill
Richards at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. A mixed programme was put on, but
the big event, scheduled for 15 rounds, be-
tween Bill Truscott, of Melbourne (Bst.
9Jlb.), and Archie Hughes (9st. 21b.) caine
to an abrupt end in the second round. Trus-
cott was hit low and collapsed, and after
medical advice had been sought he was de-
clared winner on a foul.
(Continued on page 41.)
The N. S. Wales G.P.S. athletic meeting at
the Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday
saw only one senior record cracked, M. E.
Harrold, of Armidale, running the mile in
4min. 39 4-5 sec., 1 1-5 sec. better than
Maguire’s record which had stood since 1916.
King’s retained the senior championship with
51 points, Grammar being second with 40.
The triple win of F. A. Coventry in the
100, 220 and 440 yards helped the Parra-
matta school considerably, though he estab-
lished no new times.
❖ * ❖ *
Adelaide football has closed excitingly,
partly through the vagaries of the weather,
partly through the late run of Norwood,
third on the season’s list, with a bigger
record against the better teams than against
the weaker ones. It outed Port Adelaide
(minor premiers) badly, in a dust-whirling
hurricane. In the so-called final, it beat
West Adelaide after a hard fight, in a violent
thunder-storm that flooded the ground at
three-quarter-time. Port, of course, chal-
lenged, and on Saturday settled the ques-
tion bv beating Norwood by 104 (15-14) to
56 (7-14).
THE GIRL WHO GOBS THE LIMIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She overdoes it in a score of ways,
The girl I’ve come to count as good as
mine.
Too oft about her mouth the lipstick plays
Its crimson contours to incarnadine.
To paint the lily were as asinine,
I tell her, but she scorns my reprimand.
And when at bridge as partners we combine
My lady always overcalls her hand.
Her nether limbs are dainty as a fay's,
Yet surely there’s a place to draw the line;
Her shapely kneecaps now the world surveys
And reckons them exceptionally fine,
I doubt not, yet it makes me saturnine,
The way her skirts (and bathers, too) are
scanned;
Her leg shq over-stresses in the brine,
Just as at bridge she overcalls her hand.
Short hair for maids I deem a passing craze;
The tresses round her head that once would
twine
Will yet return, after these dismal days—-
Meanwhile my angelface, my columbine,
The close-cropped limit goes, while I repine
Because I cannot make her understand
Her neck so nakedly she shouldn’t define,
Just as she shouldn’t overcall her hand.
She overdoes it. Fashion she obeys;
Nay, she outruns it, till it beats the band.
And this annoys me, worst of all her traits:
At bridge she always overcalls her hand.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


Everything for the Man
on the Land at
9
NO Firm is more thoroughly qualified
to supply the needs of the “Man on
the Land” than Murdoch’s. By
selling direct, all middlemen’s profits and
costly freights are eliminated—and these
remarkable values result.
Riding
Breeches
Skilfully made from
“T oughite’’ (Reg’d)
Tweed s —a special
Breeches fabric. Perfectly cut
with cross pockets, medium
balloons, strapped
knees and laced
legs—Ready t o
wear. Price ....
2
In Khaki Drill 19/6
In Fawn Gabardine Twist, 27/6
“Toughite’Wdi
Work Shirts
The King of Working Shirts!
“Toughite” is an English Twill
Harvard of amazing strength.
Big roomy cut —double sewn
—gusseted. Light or
dark pattern effects.
Price
616
ifr' *f i
\ ' \
SI
mm
Write to
Desk R for
M ur do c h’s
U T o u rfliite”
Folder—Free
on request.
“Toughite”
Overalls
Heavyweight “Toughite” (Reg’d) Blue
Drill Overalls for men. Double seams,
patent metal brace fittings, cross hip,
breast and rule pockets.
Straps for hammer. Bib
and brace. Price ......
9/11
fg
The Famous ,
Drover
AN ideal hat for the Man on the Land
—protective and comfortable.
Made from pure Felt with wide
brim, plaited leather band. Fawn shade.
Sizes to I\. “Kookaburra” quality.
211-
Celebrated “Toughite” Trousers
No Trouser fabric ever excelled Murdoch’s “Toughite” (Reg’d)
Working Trousers. Fashioned from quality cotton
Tweed, with side or cross pockets and plain bottoms,
in smart striped effects. “Mill to Wearer.” Price,
12/6
As above, with reinforced knees
15/-
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing, be sure to state size, and address your letter to Desk R.
BaUlc]!#o£!iS
InParkS!l?s Sijdjneij
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store”
(omfort i
n
cgdl
ness
v\
ir
rrrrrri
Price from
£75
Porcelain
Lined.
1 Freeze with
Ease.'
After the strenuous “set,” what is
more enjoyable than a cool drink?
ElectrlCE, the modern Electric
Refrigerator, keeps bottled drinks
and foodstuffs in a perpetually cold
state and makes a constant supply
of sparkling ice-cubes.
ElectrlCE entirely eradicates ice
worries, prevents moist insanitary
conditions and eliminates the ice
drain.
Quiet, dependable and automatic,
ElectrlCE looks after itself.
The grind of housekeeping is in-
finitely lightened with ElectrlCE, for
several meals can be prepared at a
time in the cool of the morning and
—days in advance.
Not merely a luxury substitute for
the ice-man, ElectrlCE is a necessity
to health and well-being.
Many styles, various sizes, capaci-
ties and prices, there is an ElectrlCE
for every home.
Write or phone for our free illus-
trated Recipe Book or, without obli-
gation to purchase, call and see an
ElectrlCE working and inspect the
many labor-saving devices in our
model Electric Kitchen.
Manufacturers Products Pty o , Ltd.,
137-39 Clarence St. (top of Barrack St., near G.P.0.),
Sydney.
’Phone: 8W1328.
GENERAL AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS.
Ji
m
AN EMMCO PRODUCT.
Made by ELECTRICITY METER MFG. CO. ? LTD.


9M9
Scott’s has always
kept abreast of the times
in its repleteness with every
W modern convenience and equip-
f ment, among which are electric fires
and direct and inter-communicating
telephones in all bedrooms.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and Breakfast
Rate.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne.”
’Phone: Cent. 9011 (10 lines).
m
Wm
■ I
[\nw
m
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Paton & Co.)
Sole Importers of the Famous Ericsson Telephone and Switchboard
Apparatus, for Magneto, Common Battery and Automatic Working.
WIRELESS APPARATUS,
139 Clarence Street) Sydney; 509 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Ins and Outs
The Australian Eleven to meet The Rest
in the trial match beginning in Melbourne
on October 19 is to be led by Woodfuli.
Other Victorians included are Ponsford,
Blackie, Hendry and Ryder. .R. Oxenham
will represent Queensland, Grimmett bouth
Australia, and Oldfield, Ivippax, Gregory and
Andrews N.S.W. Queenslander Thompson
will act as twelfth man for either team.
The batting is powerful, the bowling fair to
good, though Hendry and Ryder are doubtful
quantities in this respect. Slip fielding is
likely to be poor, and good outfielders have
been overlooked in the selection. The Rest
has Vic. Richardson, of S.A., as skipper, with
Kelleway, Bradman, Jackson and Nicholls
from N.S.W. O’Connor, of Queensland, will
keep wickets, and others are Harris and
Soott, of South Australia, and Ironmonger,
of Victoria. Taylor (N.S.W.) and a’Beckett
(Vic.) were unavailable. Here again
the batting is strong, but there is
little variety in the bowling. The inclusion
of Ironmonger, a bowler long past his prime
and a horrible field, is the surprise of the
selection. Hornibrook, of Queensland, a fine
slip as well as a good left-hand bowler,
would have been a better choice. Arthur
Mailey, having announced his retirement
from first-class cricket, was not considered.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: A cricket veteran who cele-
brated his 71st birthday last week is A. E.
Goldman, who played for Quensland in the
first intcr-State match —“inter-colonial” in
those days—in which the Northerners
engaged. It was played in Brisbane in
1893, and the Bananalanders won by 14
runs. Going to Africa, Goldman figured
with great success in the Transvaal, and
his score of 297 at Jo’burg is still the big-
gest knock in the records of Afrikander
cricket. He is a brother-in-law of Charley
Turner, Australia’s greatest bowler, in spite
of all the arguments put forward by the
Spofforthites, to whom I fling defiance.
►5 * * *
“Shrewsbury” : An echo of old cricket days
fell on the ears of many Australians when
it was announced that Sir Kynaston Studd
had been elected Lord Mayor of London.
As J. E. Iv. Studd he was one of that
famous family of cricketing brothers who
bulked so largely in the English cricket of
the 1880’s. Like his brothers, he was an
Etonian and a Cantab, and played county
cricket for Middlesex. Australia will best
mnember the name in conection with the
English Eleven of 1882-83, led by Ivo Blig'h,
afterwards Lord Darnley. C. T. and G. B.
Studd were members of that team.
:j: :j: * ;|:
“Bramall Lane”; It is just 21 years
since ,J. B. Hobbs made his first trip to Aus-
tralia with an English team, that captained
by A. O. Jones. The controversy as to
whether he or W. G. Grace is the greater
batsman will probably rage until the last
of the Grace adherents are gathered to their
fathers, but few will deny that the improve-
ment in pitches during the past five and twenty
years has done something for the present-day
idol. He finished the English season with
over 50,000 runs, and should surpass the
famous doctor’s aggregate of 54,000 runs
in first-class cricket before he calls it a day.
* * « *
“Lansdowne”: It was inferred in a recent
paragraph that McDonald, so strikingly suc-
cessful as a bowler for Lancashire, had been
excluded from the annual Gents v. Players
contests because he is an Australian. Yet
Murdoch and Ferris, if I remember rightly,
both played for the Gentlemen after settling
in England, and Albert Trott for the Players,
and probably there are other instances. The
omission of McDonald is much more likely to
be due to the disfavor with which the M.C.C.
regards an Australian getting into a county
side by the back door of League cricket.
Anyway, the fact that McDonald was always
available for Lancashire probably gave it
the championship. Other counties had to
surrender their best men for the three Tests
with the West Indians and the two Trial
games, as well as the Gents v. Players
matches; Kent and Notts., which finished
second and third, were persistently deprived
of their match-winning bowlers, Freeman
and Larwood, but Lancashire never lost
its star wicket-taker The loss of the best
batsmen mattered much less to any shire in
a season where wickets averaged something
like 40 runs apiece in county cricket.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The usual post-mortems
on the selection of the English team for
Australia have given rise to some quaint
suggestions. One ardent partisan selects
17 of the omitted men and calls on his
fellow-countrymen to subscribe the money to
send them to Australia to show that they
are as good as the picked peas. The idea
is impossible under present conditions, but
something of the sort has happened before.
In 1887-88 there were two English sides in
Australia at the same time: one, an M.C.C.
team' captained by Lord Hawke and later
by G. F. Vernon; the other, a side brought
out by Shaw and Shrewsbury as a financial
speculation, C. A. (“Round the Corner”)
Smith being captain. The teams went
through their programme without clashing,
and combined for three matches against
Australia, all played in Sydney and won by
England.
.1: * * *
“Shrewsbury” : The columns of the English
sporting press still continue to welcome indi-
viduals with a deep conviction of the low-
down cunning of the Australian cricketer.
The aristocrat who some time ago pointed
out the undesirability of appointing any per-
son of gentlemanly habit as captain of an
English side, since he would be at a dis-
advantage against the unscrupulous Antipo-
dearis, has been followed by the discoverer
of a hideous plot, aimed at the English
bowlers. He points out that the reason the
Australians are insisting on the eight-ball
over in all matches save the Tests is that
they hope by this means to sap the energies
of Tate and his confreres. “Knowing tin;
Australian mentality in sport,” sums up this
escaped Bedlamite, “I am convinced that
this is a move to put a spoke in England’s
wheel by somewhat curbing Larwood’s
speed.” Considered as an attempt to draw
a seething red herring helter-skelter under
the rose, to continue in the path of appropri-
ate metaphor, it also can claim attention.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Now that the cricket season
has commenced, Tasmania Mill again see a
family team in action. The Beaulah cricket
team consists of the 11 sons of Mr. and Mrs.
David Dawkins, and they have a record of
which any competition side might well be
proud. In addition to these 11 sons, Mr.
and Mrs. Dawkins (both alive and well)
have four daughters M r ho can also play the
game.
* * * *
“Elless”: An unusual record is that held
by Frank Johnson, chief engineer of the
WHAT REALLY MATTERS.
YOUNG THING: “Fancy, Nancy’s baby weighed nine pounds!”
GOLF FIEND: “That doesn’t mean much to a bachelor. What’s bogeyV’
North Coast steamer Wollongbar and, years
ago, slow bowler for North Sydney, who
has figured in Sheffield Shield cricket —he
was in the winning N.S.W. side for two
consecutive seasons (1902-04). Johnson just
missed selection for England, but as his em-
ployers had a ship building in Scotland he
accompanied the team and played several
games in the counties until his vessel was
launched. He was chosen for N.S.W. against
A. O. Jones’s XI of 1907-08 at Sydney, but
was unavailable because his ship was bar-
bound in the Richmond River.
“Bowen Bridge”: While the Melbourne
C. C. and the Sydney Cricket Ground have
languidly intimated that the reserving of
seats for the Test matches played
on those arenas was quite out of the ques-
tion, the Queenslanders made no bones
about it. Though the ground on which the
Test in Brisbane will be played is not its
own, the Q.C.A. opened a box plan last
week for reserved seats, and was on the
verge of selling out at last advices. This
in spite of the fact that the booking charge
is 255. over and above the usual admission
charges.
“Lancaster Park” : Summing up last cric-
ket season in Englarid, a leading English
journal says, apropos the West Indians’ tour,
that Maoriland cannot in future be denied
Test cricket status, now that this has been
accorded to the West Indies. It can be fairly
said that the All Blacks are better entitled
to the honor than the West Indians, for the
latter made the poorest of showings in the
Tests and did no better in their other
matches than the M.L. side. Indeed, with
the exception of a match-winner like Con-
stantine and one or two others, the West
Indians were not as good a side as the All
Blacks where batting and fielding were
concerned—in bowling the men from the
Islands could claim superiority, though their
attack lacked variety. They had no stumper
to compare with James, or a batsman in the
class of Dacre or Blunt. If M.L. continues
in the path of cricket at the present rate
of improvement, another half-dozen seasons
should see them well up to the class of
►South Africa, at least.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: That matter of the N.S.W.
squeal for a larger cut of the tennis profits
(11. 3/10/’2B) has not been forgiven by the
Australian Tennis Council by any means. A
meeting of that body the other day referred
to the secret circular as “couched in terms
of innuendo and bitterness, lacking in logic,
and parochial in the extreme.” Also it was
determined to deal definitely with the matter
at a future meeting. So it looks as if the
Ma State insurrectionists are going to get
their wrists slapped.
# # * #
“Milton”: Brisbane tennis club has built
itself a lordly pleasure-house and grounds
at Toowong, up the river from the city
proper. In addition to eleven courts, six
of which were formally opened the other day,
a two-storeyed club-house has been erected.
The club will take on a social as well as a
sporting aspect, and there is a special danc-
ing floor, with dining-rooms, kitchen and
other features, on the top storey. The ground
floor is devoted to dressing-rooms and
baths. The new departure should be imitated
by other Queensland sports organisations,
which, apart from one or two of the golf
clubs, do little in the way of providing mem-
bers with comfortable and well-appointed
quarters.
* * $
“Top Spin”: The English tennis team
which is. to tour Australia ended its
itinerary in America and Canada last week,
and sailed by the Makura from San Fran-
cisco. The side, which lost its final match
against Northern California, has been rather
roughly handled in the American tourna-
ments, and should present no particular
terrors to Australian players. It makes one’s
heart bleed to think what the tennis authori-
ties will feel like if the visitors fail to draw
good gates, as seems not unlikely on their
American form.
Sf si: *
“Cut Shot”: The French Tennis Federa-
tion has announced that entries for the next
Davis Cup tourney will close on January
31. The inter-zone final is to be played on
July 19 to 21, inclusive, and the challenge
round on July 26, 27 and 28. If the
Australian tennis heads are going to send a
team, it is hoped that the members will
not be allowed to play themselves stale
before leaving, as was the case with Craw-
ford and Hopman, both lads of under 20,
who had been trotted all over Australia for a
year previously in exhibition and tourna-
ment tennis.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Taparora”: A recent edition of the
Papuan Government Gazette announces that
an area of land near Port Moresby has been
allotted as a public golf links. It is a sinister
happening to strike an innocent community.
The infant whose aspirations were once
aimed at becoming a “missionary boy
will now be tempted by the meretricious
attractions of caddying. Instead of hymns
he will learn to recite the satanic
ritual of the links. On the white population
the effects will be even more distressing.
They are, most of them, scaled to Belial
in any case, but even one of the cloth must
shudder to contemplate the stimulus golf
is certain to give to the already redundant
tendency to imaginative romance that is
characteristic of the species.
* * * *
“Spoon”: America, always in the lead
with alleged improvements in golf, has re-
cently evolved what is, literally, a parti-
cularly bright idea. Short-sighted and long-
swallowing golfers have complained that
they have a difficulty in sighting the ball
properly when addressing. The result is a
ball which is made to appear much larger
than it really is by utilising an old optical
trick and dotting the surface with dabs of
red, green, blue and black. It is now on the
market, and if any player who has spent
an hour or two at the Nineteenth before
going out comes suddenly on a lost one in
the rough, he will be able to realise that
his first impressions were quire without
foundation.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. country golf
championship was won last week by O. D.
Meares, who hails from Coolah. In spite
of a boisterous westerly he returned a card
of 160 for the 36 holes, two better than the
runner-up, C. F. Garrett, of Narrandera. The
winner gets little practice—G’oolali has only
recently been able to boast a golf club —
but seems to be one of those not infrequent
golfers who shape all the better for an en-
forced absence from the game. This is the
fifth time he has won this tourney. On the
first occasion, in 1919, he went straight from
the transport which brought him back from
the war, borrowed a set of clubs and col-
lected the trophy—all in a day.
* * *
“Colonel Damurizc”: An article Sin a
weekly publication on the prevalence of
“nerves” in the female golfer moves me to
suggest finer ways wherein those of the fairer
sex desiring exercise and interest may tread.
Can there be anything more absorbing than
doing the washing up? Much is made of
mashie shots as strengthening the wrists.
Peeling potatoes excels the short approach in
this particular. Another assertion is that the
long swing improves the figure, and thereby
adds to the general health. Curiously enough,
the vigorous use of the household broom has
an even superior effect in that regard. If
the woman golf player will refer to Abe
Mitchell’s “Essentials of Golf,” and study the
diagrams of the stance and the position of
the hands for the drive off, she will find
that they exactly fit in with the use of the
broom. This advice is entirely gratuitous
and meant in the kindliest spirit. I cannot
bear to think of those poor girls suffering
from golf nerves when they might be allaying
the trouble by doing their obvious duty to
their husbands arid families.
“Ananias Junior”: Golf is remarkable
for unusual happenings; it has long out-
distanced fishing in this respect. Take a
recent case reported by a N.S.W. golfer.
He played his ball out of long grass
with a heavy niblick, and when he climbed
a slight rise which hid the green from
him he found his own ball had been joined by
a complete stranger. His opponent, who
was within sight of the green, asserts that
there was no ball lying there before the
shot was played. The more or less accepted
explanation is that a lost ball was lying in
the grass under the player’s and that the
one swipe landed them both on the green.
The situation is particularly interesting in
the light of the rules as to playing with
the wrong tall.
■“Brassey”: The American is never satis-
fied with a good thing. His latest is “aero-
plane golf,” a freak foursomes method played
with two of the players in aeroplanes and
their partners in just plain boots. The
’planers sailed round the course and dropped
balls. The unhappy partners trudged after
them below, and played the dropped pills
when they found them. Details are lacking
in the account of this game, but it is stated
that one flier dropped his ball on the green
every time, leaving his partner down below
with nothing to do but hole out. The other
chap, on the other hand, dropped most of his
in the rough, and with his partner lost the
match. What the partner on foot said to
his erratic friend in the air when it was
all over is not chronicled. Just as well,
perhaps.
(Continued on next page.)


m
m
Wonderful Artificial Limbs
WITHOUT HARNESS.
The greatest advance in artificial-limb c (instruction the world has yet achieved.
THE NEW BLATCHFORD LIMB is a world-wide patent, constructed of Duralumin, in a manner to give
great strength and durability. Manufactured in London. Supplied and fitted in Australia under MR. O. M.
SHAW’S SUPERVISION. It is necessary to remark that expert fitting is absolutely essential, and differs
entirely_ from the usual method of fitting a limb. This wonderful leg has an air valve and grooved inner
socket, into which the patient is trained to expand the muscle, so that no movement in the socket takes place
when walking.
In most cases the control is so perfect that the leg cannot be pulled from the stump by force unless the
wearer voluntarily relaxes his muscles. The illustrations give some idea of the strength a patient lias over
the control of this artificial limb.
No hot woollen sock to wear, and no body restrictive harness. The limb is, of course, eminently suitable for
Ladies, owing to the entire absence of body encumbrances.
THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO RISK. A patent socket is fitted before the limb is made, thus eliminating
the use of woollen socks or harness. No other limb like it in the world.
ORDERS RECEIVED NOW FOR FEBRUARY DELIVERY.
ABOVE AND BELOW KNEE LIMBS ON VIEW.
Oe M. §I""I $ Limb and Surgical Appliance Specialist,
Department B, Ist Floor, “Margaret House/’ 284 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone 81561
M
:
mi
Car and Cycle
“C.T.”: There’s nothing startling in
“N.Q.’s” account (B. 26/9/’2B) of the con-
quering of North Queensland roads by a
gang of Victorian motorists. The writer set
out alone from Sydney in February, and has
since visited every town in Queensland below
and including Townsville and Gloncurry. The
speedometer registers 10,000 miles to date;
extra equipment carried consisted of a water-
bag and a set of chains. The car is a
224 cwt. American four-cylinder of the 1926
vintage. Other knights of the sample case
have motoring experiences that eclipse mine;
“Aspro” representatives Northey and Lynch,
for instance. But we commercials are gener-
ally too busy to write anything but orders,
though we get a lot of fun reading of the
exploits of “stunt” motorists.
* * * *
“Brasso": Following the American pre-
cedent, this year’s crop of new models in
Britain contains a much larger proportion
of six-cylinder jobs, and straight eights are
mounted on many of the more expensive
chassis. The supercharging principle,
adopted with much success on many small
French and Italian sporting cars—it con-
siderably increases the power derivable from
any given cylinder capacity—has been used
this year by half a dozen British manufac
turers for their sports models. The spring-
ing of each wheel independently, instead of
springing the axles, is making headway, and
many improvements in gearing are to be
given a commercial trial. Popular among
these is _ the free-wheel type, which allows
the _ engine to be disconnected from the
driving gear, with an automatic slowing
down of the motor to idling speed.
* * 3>s :Jc
“Chev”: There is one motor manufacturer
who advocates worse roads. He is Leslie
Walton, the chief of the English firm of
Vauxhall, now in Australia. Walton com-
plains that so many unemployed were put
on to roadmaking in England after the
Armistice that roads in that country became
nearly perfect. The result was that the
breed of British motors deteriorated. He
advocates three years’ neglect of English
highways as the best means of creating a
class of car robust enough for Australian
arteries.
* * *
“Whizz”: J. M. White, the famous Ameri-
can car and engine designer has been
startling the motor world with some hereti-
cal opinions on body design, for he scoffs
at the now generally accepted “streamline”
theory. White says that tapering lines to
minimise air pressure aye worthless for
the purpose, and that the main essential is
to give the car power and weight enough to
shove its way through any air pressure
developed. As the designer of the car
which holds the world’s motor-speed record
his opinion must be received with respect.
At the same time, his theory, carried to a
logical conclusion, would enable one to sew
on a button more conveniently with an egg
than with a needle, provided the egg was
liard-boiled enough and backed by the neces-
sary push, and, somehow, that doesn’t sound
convincing.
* ❖ ❖ $
“Garry”:.A motor-car gearing that didn’t
necessitate step-by-step changes and allowed
the engine to rev. at its most efficient speed,
unchanged no matter what the load, was
patented by George Innes, of Sydney, 20
years ago. The speed of the driving shaft
could be regulated from nil, when the car
would be at a standstill, to the same speed
as the engine. It could be reversed at any
speed. The mechanical means employed to
bring this about, although relatively simple,
couldn’t be clearly explained without dia-
grams, but it may be said that the method
of control was to vary, by means of valves,
the amount of oil contained in pistons that
were part of the transmission system. The
essential features of the Innes gear have
been incorporated—with variations, of
course—in dozens of subsequent patents, and
there can be little doubt he was on the
right track. He gave his gear a thorough
practical trial on a 12-h.p. car, with ex-
tremely satisfactory results, but an attempt
to get capital to exploit the invention failed.
* * *
“Rangitata”: Maoriland’s big road race
for push bikes, the 100-mile run from
Timaru to Christchurch, was won last week
by B. W. Arnst, who, with a 50-minutes
start, covered the distance in shr. 7min.
40 2-ssec. The Arnst family has figured
successfully in this event before, that mighty
pedaller Jack Arnst, well known in Aus-
tralian cycling in bygone days, being num-
bered among the winners. •
*** . *
“Fitzcray”: Three of the Australasian
team which rode in the Tour de France'
road race returned to Melbourne last week,
Opperman following later. The chief handi-
cap encountered hy the tourists was the
unfamiliar method of riding road races in
France. In Australia a fairly high pace is
maintained all the way. On the Continent
the races are ridden in a series of fast
bursts, which are upsetting and tiring to
those used to Australian methods.
“Sprocket”: Another world’s cycling
record was cracked on the famous Montlhery
track in France last week, when Leon V an-
derstuyft covered 76 miles 504 yards in the
hour, behind motor-pace. This is a furlong
better than tli e previous best by another
Frenchman, Brunier. It is the second
time Vanderstuyft has annexed the hour re-
cord, the first being in 1925, when he covered
71 miles 476 yards.
Miscellaneous
“D.” : The Americanisation which “Bloggs”
(B. 26/9/’2S) identifies in Sydney’s maga-
zine world is even more noticeable in the
sporting columns of the papers, and it seems
to be spreading to the cables. For example: —
When he heard of the theatre holocaust in Madrid,
in which 500 of his subjects perished, King Alfonso,
who was hunting in Scotland, immediately can-
celled all engagements. .
There is no hunting in Britain in Septem-
ber, and, anyhow, a first-class cross-country
performer like the Spanish sovereign would
not go to Scotland for the purpose. Scottish
hunting is a joke. Actually, Alfonso lias
been deer-stalking, and also, probably, doing
a bit of late grouse-shooting —in Yankee par-
lance, “hunting with bird-dogs.”
# * * *
“Old Q.”: To the non-expert the most
interesting feature of that goat ring-in (B.
3/10/’2S) was the defence put up when
the owner faced the stipes. He admitted
having owned the goat when it was known
as Admetus, but said he had lost it. A year
later, strolling past a boiling-down works, he
spotted a likely-looking sort in a mob which
was ready for the pot, and bought the animal.
When told after the recent rumpus that the
new goat was really the same old one, lie
professed to be overcome with astonishment,
and asked the stipes what they knew about
that. They answered the question in the
manner customary with narks of their kind,
and the incident may now bo regarded as
closed.
* # * *
“Koolonga” : This rowing season the Banks
Club (Vic.) is testing the much-debated
swivel and the experiment is being
watched with great interest. Swivels may
mean greater length before and behind the
’rigger—and the Banks crews in question
are all big, powerful men —but it is doubt-
ful if that advantage overcomes the psycho-
logical effect on the crew caused by unsure-
ness at the catch, the trouble entailed in
getting the hands away smartly, and “dirty”
blades at the finish. In fact, most of those
who have experimented with swivels have
gone back to fixed tholes, win or lose.
:!: * * H:
“Blade” : The Nepean Rowing Club, formed
at the end of last season, held high holiday
last week, when the new club-house at
Penrith (N.S.W.) was opened with due
ceremony by 11. Alderson, chairman of the
N.S.W.R.A. He told his hearers that in
the event of the Maoriland oarsmen being
able to visit N.S.W. this season they would-
row on the Nepean. The club-house and
the land it stands on cost £250, all locally
raised, the members themselves putting up
the boatslied by voluntary labor, while two
fours and two eights have also been bought.
It is a creditable performance, and one that
other N.S.W. towns with fine rivers at hand
might emulate.
W.A. OLDFIELD, the Australian Eleven
wicket-keeper, rated as the world’s best
in the position to-day.
“C. Bumpkin”: Outboard motor-boat rac-
ing, mentioned recently in The Bulletin,
has caught on in Melbourne. Any Saturday
afternoon now one may see the curious
sawn-off craft frisking in and out under
Prince’s Bridge, to the terror of the rowing
fours and eights. Judging by the behavior
of some of the youthful owners they acquired
their notions of marine etiquette from riding
motor-bikes. The fastest movers are not the
largest and most elaborate but the smallest
and cheapest. An eight- or ten-footer shaped
like a suitcase can get up to the rate of 35
m.p.h. in a few seconds. There are three
firms in Melbourne building the concerns,
and they are unable to keep pace with
orders. There are to be some races at the
Cowes carnival in November.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Omitting the finals, 2.375.189
people attended football matches in Mel-
bourne this season. Soccer adherents made
up 320,354 of this.
IVOR WARNE-SMITII, of Melbourne
F.C., winner of this year’s Brownlow
medal for the best and fairest player
of the season.
“Hotham” : The friction between the Vic-
torian Football League and the Australasian
National Football Association came to a head
the other day in a motion at a special meet-
ing of the V.F.A. that the State body secede
from the Council. There was a big vote
against the proposal, however, only the mover
and seconder supporting it. Loafing on the
job and too t'ght a hold on the purse strings
were the chief charges levelled against the
Federal controlling body.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union
team returned from Maoriland last week.
Though they lost five of the ten matches
played, including two of the Tests, they
scored 42 tries to 22 on.the tour, and ten
to six in the three Tests. Poor goal-kicking
lost them match after match, and in this
respect the injury to Caldwell in the opening
tussle, which made it necessary to drop him
for the rest of the tour, was a big handi-
cap. Maoriland journals are loud in praise
of the spectacular open game played by the
tourists, and in this respect are in strong con-
trast with some of their Sydney brethren with
a tenderness for the professional League code.
❖ * ❖ ❖
“Backwoodsman” : Recent happenings sug-
gest that the supposedly placid bowler has
his occasional hour of stress and fury, like
other mortals. A short time ago the
“straight-woods” controversy nearly led to
bloodshed, and further strife threatened when
a comparison of Victorian and ■ N.S.W.
bowlers, which was uncomplimentary to the
latter, appeared in the press. Then a Syd-
ney club became bitterly divided over some
question of religion, and several estimable
citizens resigned in high dudgeon. The
Maoriland authorities added to public alarm
by passing regulations forbidding swearing
and gambling by bowlers under its juris-
diction. As I write, Victorian and Fijian
bowlers are indulging in a heated controversy
because one of the former wrote to the papers
complaining that the Suva green, on which
the recent Pacific tourney was held, was full
of “bare patches and potholes.” It all goes
to emphasise the truth of the adage about
still water —if one may refer to water in
connection with bowls.
* * * * *
“Ped”: Maoriland is making up for its
withdrawal from the Australasian Athletic
Union, (B. 3/10/’2B) by bringing over a
team of American athletes to add variety to
the local competitions. The party, three in
number, will arrive in January next, and it
is possible that they may come on to Aus-
tralia. The star of the team is John Kuck,
the Olympic shot-putt champion, who also
holds the British title and the world’s record.
C. Borah, one of the American Olympic
sprinters, and Leo Lermont, a middle-dis-
tance runner, make up the side.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Max": “M.G.” (B. 26/9/’2B) can set
boronia perfume at 3s. 6d. a bottle in any
of the capital cities. In Perth it has long
been known. A magnificent bottle of it was
one of Westralia’s presents to the Duchess
of York.
* * * *
“Clerk": Railwaymen at the Newport
workshops (Vic.) put through a quick job
a week or so ago, when they assembled a
"Climax” 2ft. 6in. gauge geared locomotive
in five working days. The diminutive 25-ton
locomotive was imported by the Forestry
Commission for timber hauling on the Moe-
Walhalla fine in Gippsland. It can haul
25 tons up a one-in-ten grade.
* * * *
“Nota Bene”: Discussing the “Buy Aus-
tralian Goods” slogan with a recently re-
tired country storekeeper ’totlier day, lie re-
marked that in 30 years’ experience he had
had only one customer who insisted on Aussie
goods. I expressed the opinion that men
like that should be encouraged, but he shook
his head gloomily!. “The cow,” he concluded,
“didn’t pay for ’em —stuck me for over four-
teen quid!”
* * * *
“Wholesaler”: “W. 11.5.” (B. 19/9/’2B)
writes a glowing paragraph about the sales
of Australian matches in Launceston (Tas.) ;
unfortunately it is hardly in accord with
fact. Shortly after the A.N.A. appeal my
firm purchased a supply of the best Aus-
tralian brands, and made a special canvass
of the city retailers on the Australian-made
racket. For June our sales were about even,
for July about ten imported to one Aus-
tralian, for August about 28 to one. Re-
tailers complained that, notwithstanding the
lower price, ' their customers refused the
Australian product. The only remedy is to
make matches a prohibited import; then
perhaps the Swedish combine may think of
employing Australian workmen in Australia.
* * * *
Myer’s, of Melbourne, have bought a
controlling interest in Adelaide’s biggest
Rundle-street concern, James Marshall and
Co., Ltd. Marshall’s started in 187!) with
Marshall and William Taylor, who took in
Porter, Fry and Lakeman. The last-named
is the only survivor-, but sons of the first
three are on the directorate now. The original
drapery shop has spread into a large hard-
ware and softgoods store, mopping up the
old Globe Hotel and a large slice of Rundle-
street incidentally. Donald Reid, already
on the Adelaide board, will be managing
director.
❖ * * $
“Newlywed” : Of all the dingy pests that
come hawking around suburban homes the
woman who scents a marriage from afar is
surely the worst. The gentle creature who
suggested to my three-weeks-wedded wife that
the “emancipation of woman made these
articles most necessary” probably regretted;
as she bounced down the stairs, that some
city firms allow their employees four weeks
for a honeymoon. But she had the last
word. “She’ll learn,” she threw over her
shoulder as the door closed on her.
* $ * *
“Fitzwilliam”: Lang might do better to
pay for legal advice when he wants it in-
stead of relying upon friends. At least, he
might then have an action for negligence
when they led him astray. Take his last
outburst. Any practising lawyer could have
told him that the mere fact that Bavin and
Arnot were registered as holders of the
Ivhancoban land, in joint tenancy made it
practically certain they were trustees and
not partners. The peculiarity of the tenure
is that if one dies the survivor takes the
lot, without, any bother about probate. Con-
sequently, it is necessary and proper to
register trustees in joint tenancy, and any
competent lawyer, when he finds a ease of
joint tenancy, assumes at once that the
parties are trustees only, without any bene-
ficial interest.
* * # *
“Philanthropist”: The placing by the
British Post Office of a £60,000 order for
copper-wire, in Germany has raised a storm
of indignation from British manufacturers,
to. which the P.O. has retorted that the
existence of a British cable-wire ring has pre-
vented the submission of reasonable British
tenders. British firms admit that the ring
exists, but they claim that it ensures a
first-class product, has raised wages 175 p.c.
and has increased employment by dividing
surplus orders among slack firms'. It is the
old question as to whether it is better to pay
yourself £2 for doing, a job or stay idle and
pay somebody else £l.
* * * *
“Rotom”: The motor-car lias killed three
trades in most wayside hamlets —those of
the hay and. corn dealer, the harness maker
and the. farrier. These businesses were once
the mainstay of the embryo township, and
farmers always found ready sale for their
hay and oats.


life
*
*
H4'
a
o
>
THE
FITTI
BRITISH
H BRITISH
BALL4ROLLER
■BEARING?
MEANS
SMOOTHER RUNNING
GREATER, SPEEDS
LONGER LIFE and
THE ELIMINATION of
BEARING TROUBLES
TO YOUR CAR,.
SYDNEY:
225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE:
Hunter Street West.
r A
Bur British Bearings
TASMANIAN AGENTS—
W. & G. GENDERS PTY., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —
ADELAIDE HARDWARE CO., LTD.
Flinders Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS—
EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane and Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
(Automotive)
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth.
(Industrial)
FLOWER, DAVIES & JOHNSON, LTD.,
Perth.
is
■
MB
A Good Cun
Deserves a
Good Cartridge.
NOBE
289 a
SPEED, PRECISION
SAFETY, RELIABILITY
are the advantages of
ALL-BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
The keenest sportsmen and the
world’s leading shots
USE ONLY
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
A ll British from Cap to T urnover
Obtainable all Gunsmiths and Dealers
throughout Australasia.
Wholesale Only:
AMMUNITION (NOBEL) PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
380 Collins Street, Melbourne.
277 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand:
L. H. Labone, Jervois Quay, Wellington.
WORTH-WHILE TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR EVERY TRADE.
Commercial Art Practice. Text Book for all who Produce, Buy, Sell
or Use Art in Commerce. Knights 20/-
The Human Figure. John Vanderpoel 20/8
The Art of Pen Drawing. Manual for Students, Illustrators and Com-
mercial Artists. Ellwood 16/2
Sketching in Lead Pencil for Architects and Others. Jasper Salwey 11/-
How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Harry Furniss 6/6
More About How to Draw in Pen and Ink. Furniss 6/6
Art of Shading. Complete and Graduated Guide. William Mann . . 6/6
First Steps in Water Color Painting. Gleeson 12/8
Metal Plate Workers’ Workshop Companion. Manual of Workshop
Practice. Turner 9/-
Educational Metalcraft. Treatise on Repousse, Fine Chasing,
Silversmithing, etc. Davidson 10/8
A.B.C. of Plastering. Telling 12/3
Practical Joinery and Carpentry. Greenhalgh 8/-
Book of Lettering. J. K. Robertson 2/4
Decorative Writing and Arrangement of Lettering. A. Erdmann . . 14/2
Rotary and Motor Convertors. Handbook for Operators and
Attendants. E. Smith 10/6
Amateur Electrician’s Manual. Saunders 4/-
Electrical Equipment of Automobiles. Handbook for Motor Mechanics
and Motorists. Smith 6/-
Automobile, Carriage and Waggon Painting. Practical Instruction
Book. Vanderwalker 8/-
The Mixing of Colors and Paints, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated.
(Description, Properties, Theory, Harmony and Management
of Colors.) 10/6
House Painting Methods, by F. N. Vanderwalker, illustrated. (With
the Brush and Spray Gun, Industrial Painting on Steel, Iron,
Cement, Brick and Wood.) 10/6
Motor and Carriage Painting. A. Bates. A Practical Manual, New
Edition 7/10
Automobile Painting. F. N. Vanderwalker. Covers every detail of
latest and best methods for average painter and car-owner .... 7/10
Practical Cabinet-making. Henry N. Phillips 7/-
Paint and Color Mixing. A. O. Jennings. 1 7 Colored Plates. Con-
tains over 300 samples of actual oil and water paints and various
colors, and upwards of 1500 different mixtures 16/-
Diesel Engines, by David Louis Jones 26/-
Modern Carpentry. Hodgson. 2 vols 16/-
Mayes’ Australian Builders & Contractors’ Price Book 15/3
Book of Australian Bungalows 5/4
Henley’s Twentieth-Century kook of Recipes, Formulas and Processes 21/-
Dykes’ Automobile Encyclopaedia. New 15th Edition 31/6
A Dictionary of Modern English Usage 11/3
Modern Practical Carpentry, by Ellis 37/6
Modern Joinery, Practical. A very comprehensive treatise on Practice
of Joiner’s Work by Hand and Machine. By Ellis 55/9
Complete Woodworker. By Jones 12/10
Audel’s Carpenters’ and Builders’ Guide, in 4 vols. Set 31/-
Practical Cabinet Maker and Furniture Designer. Hodgson 10/6
Commonsense Hand-Railing. Hodgson 8/-
Steel Square. Practical Treatise. Hodgson. 2 vols. Set 15/10
Woodworking Machinery. M. P. Bale 14/2
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
Corner AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Capt FRANK HURLEY
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN PAYS A
WONDERFUL TRIBUTE TO HEENZO
In the list of great Australians must be
included the name of Capt. Frank Hurley,
His photographic records, taken whilst on
exploration expeditions, and his work as
official photographer during the Great War
must surely be counted amongst the
nation’s treasures. That the world might
be enriched by such records, Capt. Hurley
has faced hardships and risked his life so
often that, were his biography written, it
would certainly prove that truth is
stranger than fiction. An illustrated book
of travel by this great explorer would cer-
tainly be an asset to our educational sys-
tem if used as a standard work in schools,
for it would fire in all privileged to read
it the wish to see and know more of this
great world. To converse with Captain
Hurley is certainly an inspiration.
When I paid a visit to Farmer’s Broad-
casting Studio recently I had the pleasure
of meeting Captain Hurley, who was just
about to deliver one of his popular adven-
ture narratives, which, by the way, are
amongst the most instructive and enter-
taining items yet heard by the medium of
broadcasting. By him was an open attache
case, filled with voluminous notes and
native sound-making “gadgets.” “These are
my essentials,” he remarked, and, lifting
all from the case, I observed in the bottom
a tin of Heenzo Cough Diamonds and a
bottle of Heenzo. Opening the tin, he
offered me a jube, saying at the time,
“Great stuff, these; they are my 'prime
essentials’; they tone up the vocal instru-
ment, and clear the throat and head. I
have to speak miles of words, not only by
broadcasting but also in the theatres. 1
have tried everything, and that’s why you
see Heenzo with my essentials.”
“Do you mind if I tell this to the Heenzo
people?” I queried.
“Well,” he good-humoredly replied, “I’m
always shy of advertising patent medicines;
but I guess I’m no different to anybody
else, and, if Heenzo and Heenzo Cough
Diamonds are good for me, then they must
be good for other folk.”
At this moment the Studio Announcer
called the Captain to the microphone, so
I retired to the nearest loud-speaker, to
be thrilled, with countless thousands of
2FC’s listeners, by his wonderful talk on
the Head-hunters of Papua.
Don’t hope for the best —
GET IT by taking
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
People suffering from nerves, neuritis, insomnia, fatigue, ansemia, loss of weight
and other ailments, caused by overwork, worry, exhausted nerves and poorness
of blood, can quickly regain their health and strength by taking a few boxes
of HEAN S TONIC NERVE NUTS, the finest health-restoring tonic known
to medical science. HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS give you plenty of “pep”;
they make you eat, sleep and be well. Start to-day on the road to health by
taking NERVE NUTS. They cost only 3/- per box at all chemists and stores.


Where Perfect Cuisine, Beautiful
Surroundings and the Spirit of
Revelry Combine to Make a
Memorable Evening's Enjoyment.
Come Soon :: Come To-night.
You’ll be glad you came.
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY, FRIDAY.
DINNER DE LUXE, 7.30 12/6
SUPPER, from 10 o’clock 8/6
SATURDAY-
LATE NIGHT OF DISTINCTION.
A Superb Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
Special Supper, 10 o’clock .. 12/6
True Relaxation, Substituting Joy and Delight.
DELIGHTFUL TEA DANSANT, WITH
SPARKLING CABARET,
3 to 6, 4/-; 6 up, 3/6.
Saturday, 3.80 to 6.30, 51-
Order Wines before 6 p.m. 'Phone: M 4131.
Missing Friends.
WILL JOSEPH HOWARD, aged about
50, son of John and Eliza Howard,
of River House, High Street, Hornsey, Lon-
don, who migrated to Australia in 1013 and
returned to England and served as a Muni-
tion Worker during the Great War until
1919, when he returned to Australia at the
instance of the Australian Government, and
whose last-known address was P. 0., Sydney,
communicate with the undersigned; or infor-
mation concerning his whereabouts or death
will be rewarded by
LAST, RICHES & FITTON,
18 Bolton Street, Piccadilly, W. 1.,
London, England;
or
LAWRENCE & LAWRENCE,
B.N.Z. Chambers,
Corner George and Wynyard Streets,
Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
STOP
INDIGESTION
THIS SAFE, EASY WAY.
Instant relief from stomach distress and a
quick return to complete stomach health —if
you take Para-Pepsin. You cannot get such
good results with anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is a
natural remedy that ensures the proper digestion
of the food and stops the possibility of harmful
stomach acidity. But if you take anti-acids you
simply stop the result of the trouble —while
the trouble itself goes on. Para-Pepsin is a safe,
sure remedy for indigestion, gastritis, dyspepsia,
gas and pain after eating. It lets you eat what
you want when you want it and costs but a
trifle at any chemist’s. Note the name Para-
Pepsin carefully if you want a really prompt
and effective remedy.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers’
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
V. D. POWELL, Manager.
Melbourne
Chatter
The roses at Flemington made a better
showing on Saturday than the patrons did,
for the attendance was poor and feminine
dressing was a matter of winter left-overs,
the weather being fickle and perverse. Red
roses scattered their petals upon the stair-
ways, and the serpent-like hedge that borders
the straight was freely sprinkled with white
blossoms. Beds of yellow and purple violas
and Iceland poppies made islands of color
on the green sward. The V.R.C. has stone-
flagged and drained the full length of the
lawn at the foot of the big stand to the
depth of a few yards, and the damp will
now no longer penetrate light soles, nor will
high heels mhke furrows in the turf. The
broadcasting on the course of descriptions
of the races during the running was a suc-
cessful innovation. Mrs. J. I. Winter Irving,
Mrs. Bruce Mead, Mrs. ,T. A. Wallace
arid Mrs. A. V. Kewney, who had some
friends for luncheon, were among those in
the committee’s ladies’ box. Mrs. C. J. Hen-
derson, Premier Hogan’s wife, and Mrs.
Bullock, from Mt. Gambier, S.A., also were
lawn-patrollers.
It is long since such aftcr-the-sliow ex-
citement was seen as there was at Amy
Castles’s concert last week. The operatic so-
prano has been making but few appearances
lately, but she knows now that she hasn’t
worn out her welcome by a very long chalk.
Slie had to be rescued from the throng by
the police and unceremoniously lifted into
her car. Her sister Eileen, making frantic
efforts to reach the footpath, was robbed of
her flowers en route and left behind. A
self-appointed guardian, a middle-ago|d
woman, created a diversion by using her
umbrella upon the clutching hands of the
blossom-grabbers. Special interest was given
to the concert by the presence of Cardinal
Cerretti and his suite, Archbishop Mannix
and several visiting prelates. An Indian lady
in Hindoo national dress, white with a
border of silver, also gave the audience some-
thing to look at when the stage wasn’t occu-
pied. The famous singer, now quite slim of
figure, looked extremely well in long black
draperies dotted with cut jet and crystal.
Eileen Castles was demure in all grey that
glimmered slightly. Both wore long flowing
sleeves. The Melbourne Symphony Orches-
tra, under Fritz Hart, and baritone A. C.
Bartleman received almost as warm recog-
nition as the two popular sisters.
Manor Park, once the country home of
the Chirnside clan, at Werribee, has under-
gone many changes since it was acquired
in 1923, for £75,000, as a seminary for the
training of Australian youth for the Roman
Catholic priesthood. Known now as Corpus
Christi College, an additional wing, which
includes a temporary chapel, a huge refec-
tory, many bedrooms and a clock tower,
has increased the value by £lOO,OOO. In the
future, no doubt, the cloisters will form a
quadrangle enclosing a central grass lawn.
The original fine stone residence remains,
giving a touch of old-world stateliness to
the college. Though the new wing, the debt
on which is well on the road to extinction,
has been completed some time, the official
opening and blessing was reserved until the
visit of Cardinal Cerretti, the function draw-
ing about 70,000 upon a dusty Sunday after-
noon. A fine marble statue of the Sacred
Heart, set upon a tali pedestal on the front
lawn, was also blessed by his Eminence.
Afterwards from the balcony the Cardinal,
wearing cape and mitre, bestowed upon
the kneeling multitude the papal blessing.
It was six o’clock before the amplifiers
ceased to broadcast speeches from the dais
in the grounds, where sat beneath a crim-
son canopy the Cardinal, in his crimson robes,
surrounded by other visiting- prelates and
clergy. The rector of Corpus'Christi, Father
Power, no doubt breathed a fervent sigh of
relief at the end of his busy day, which be-
gan with the entertainment of 270 guests at
luncheon.
A garden party to honor the Papal Legate
held at St. Mary’s Hall, the hostel for
Roman Catholic girl students of the Uni.,
threatened to be a wash-out, for rain de-
scended steadily in the morning. Luckily
after luncheon the clouds showed their silver
lining, and visitors were able to wander
about a rather damp lawn and a garden glow-
ing with tulips, roses and wistaria. The
robes of the prelates and the academic gowns
of the Uni. heads put the quite sombre attire
of the womenfolk right in the background.
The Mother Superior, the Rector of Newman
College, Father Murphy, and Uni. Chancellor
John MacFarland stretched out hands of
greeting to Cardinal Cerretti and accom-
panying archbishops and bishops, the students
of St. Mary’s and Newman in caps and gowns
forming a guard of honor. St. Vincent de
Paul’s youthful orchestra played while the
guests were introduced to the Cardinal. Four
o’clock tea was wisely spread indoors. Pre-
mier Hogan and his wife, the Mayor Morell,
his lady and Sheila, and Alex. Peacock
and his lady were in the throng.
The dinner of the P.L.C. Old Collegians’
Association and its after-theatre party, which
were events of last week, proved an immense
success. Nearly 200 diners gathered at the
Wattle, where the tables were gay with Ice-
land poppies and tulle, and the college colors
tied the attractively-designed menus. Mrs.
W. Gray, wife of the principal of the P.L.C.,
had the distinction of being the only official
guest. Office-bearers present included the
president of the O. C. Association, Mrs. J.
Bainbridge wearing grey and vellum-toned
brocade and georgette; Mrs. J. H. Mirams,
secretary of the association; Mrs. H. A.
Thomas, who looks after the finances; and
Essie Mollison, president of the O. C. Club,
whose black gown was brightened by a red
rose. Anne Fortune, the club’s hon. sec., who
featured gold tissue gleaming beneath rose-
red georgette, was responsible for the capital
organisation of the evening. The theatre-
party for “The Desert Song” involved reserv-
ing the whole of the d.c. of His Majesty’s
save one row, and that must have taken quite
a lot of wangling.
Cardinal Cerretti had to face yet another
formal welcome on Friday night at the
hands of the Australian Catholic Federa-
tion. Ilis crimson robes made a cheerful note
behind the pot plants on the Town Hall
stage, about which the papal white and gold
was entwined, upon the back curtain being
the Vatican flag, flanked by Australian en-
signs. Eileen Castles, in glimmering pink,
and tenor Walter Kirby sang operatic num-
bers and ballads; Edward Goll contributed
pianoforte solos, and St. Vincent de Paul’s
Boys’ Band played selections. F. J. Corder,
president, and the committee of the A.C.F.
received the Cardinal, who was accompanied
by his suite and Archbishop Mannix. Gowns
were shrouded in cloaks and shawls during
the prelates’ presence, but after their depar-
ture wraps were shed and there was dancing.
Mrs. Corder held a presentation posy against
a black velvet frock; and Mrs. T. J.
McGlade’s lido-blue robe had crystal embel-
lishment. T. C. Brennan and his wife, the
G. W. Vanlieems, Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Brady
and the T. Shortills were in the official
circle on the dais.
Here is the latest picture of Mona McLeod,
taken in action in the golf championships
last week, when she once again secured the
title of woman
champion o f
he State,
and with
Lady Somers
won the four-
somes. A
record gallery
of enthusiasts
followed the
final rounds
when Miss
McL eo d op-
posed Susie
Tolhurst, who
at one stage
of the game
wms ahead of
the champion.
T he tourna-
ment this year
was unusually
well attended.
Lady Somers
was a player
in several of the matches. Her Ex. is an
excellent performer on the links.
The laying of the foundation-stone of the
new wing of St. Vincent’s Hospital was
assigned to Cardinal Oerretti, who attended
to the job on Saturday afternoon amid a
great deal of celebration and rejoicing. After
the speechifying tea was served in Brenan
Hall of the hospital, which was transformed
into a white and gold draped bower, aglow
with daffodils and arum lilies.
The huntsman’s horn summoned members
of the combined four hunt clubs to the end-
of-the-season dinner at Menzies’ on Saturday
night. Always one of the most enjoyable
of the year’s social functions—that’s largely
due to the popularity of R. M. Cuthbertson,
chairman of committee, and Norman Wood,
lion. sec.—the gathering on this occasion
was pronounced the best to date. The fields
of white damask were diversified by crimson
tulips and carnations surmounted with gilded
horns, horseshoes and whips, with sections of
green hurdles and sliprails, and the pink
coats of the hunters—pink in this instance
means anything from the faintest blush to
geranium red —furnished a cheery color-note
amid evening gowns that ran mostly to black,
apple green and gold. Mr. A. Watkins led
the singing of favorite old ballads of the
chase, and Fred Bluett and a string orchestra
also made merry music. The quartette of
masters present were A. T. Creswick, of Mel-
bourne Hounds, who presided ; W. C. Knight,
of the Oaklands; Hubert Miller, of Fiiulon
Harriers; and Dr. A. E. Syme, of Yarra
Glen and Lilydale Hounds. Mrs. Syme, with
gold embroidery upon a black robe; Mrs.
Cuthbertson, in white, beaded in gold; and
Mrs. C. Gordon Lyon, also in black, were
at the official table. Mrs. Beau Fairbairn
was a good-looker in a flounced frock of
vellum-hued guipure lace. Fail-lie Hagen-
auer’s red Hari coat over a gilded gown
was arresting. Major-Gen. G. J. Johnston
was accompanied by his daughter Gwen,
wearing blue. The J. B. McArthurs. Alec
McCrackens, C. D. Gavan Duffys and Major-
Gen. Blarney were diners.
La Fayette here pictures Mrs. Thos.
Baker, wife of
the new presi-
dent of the
Melbourne
Rotary Club —
he’s one of the
great lights of
Kodak’s, Ltd.
She is p r e s i-
dent of the
Austral Salon :
and her phil-
anthropic in-
terests are
many and
varied. She
was the hos-
tess at tin;
recent very
successful
gathering of
Rotarians at
Scott’s.
The Chinese community claimed the atten-
tion of the city for a couple of hours on
Friday afternoon, when they staged a pro-
cession for the benefit of the Mayor’s charity
appeal. The bright pageant, headed by a
wondrous dragon, was accompanied by much
beating of tomtoms, gongs and drums.
Young Chinese girls in beautiful robes with
lotus blossoms and gorgeous head-dresses on
shingled locks marched amid a gay array of
banners and weird trophies. Later these
gala-clad Orientals joined the bunch of girls
who were selling lucky envelopes.
Irene Vanbrugh played a new role before
a full house at St. Ivilda Town Hall when
she launched the Field Naturalists’ Club’s
wild-flower show. She was in an ensemble
of raspberry hue, with large millinery to
match. Very varied was the array of blos-
soms, the local collection being supplemented
by supplies from W.A., sent in cold storage,
South Australia, Queensland and N.S.W.
Even the Malice was represented, Sturt’s
brilliant desert-pea being its chief offering.
The air was heavy with the bitter-sweet per-
fume of boronia and the honeyed scent of
gum-blossom. There was a fine assortment of
ground orchids, delicate, fairy-like flowers,
burdened with fearsome botanical names.
Numerous schoolboys and -girls, looking
frightfully learned, dashed around with note-
books and pencils, making acquaintance with
botanical baptisms and even sketching the
exhibits. The show is considered the best
the F.N.C. has ever got together. As well as
flowers, there was a collection of insects,
grubs, fungi and other bush products, and
Amy Fuller sent paintings of Australian and
South African blooms.
Mayoress Morell was president of a chil-
dren’s fancy-dress hop which brought finan-
cial help to the Austin Hospital last week.
It was at the Town Hall, where, besides jazz-
ing and nice things to eat, there were
movies, a Punch and Judy show and other
jolly entertainment, including a ballet by
pupils of Jennie Brenan. Prime movers in
the afternoon’s happening were Mrs. Eric
Harrison, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. Napier,
Wing-Commander and Mrs. Spicer, Mrs. Lort
Smith and her sister, Marion Montgomery,
If the fashions displayed at Cowes are
repeated at our Henley-on-the-Yarra, a hor-
rified outcry from shocked souls can be con-
fidently expected. Amazing tennis shoes worn
over silk socks rolled round the ankles were
special features of feminine attire at the
English water carnival. Legs were bare, and
those on view didn’t all belong to youth.
Only slender ankles can survive the roll
ordeal with credit, but thick ones, looking
worse than usual, braved the new fashion.
Hats were replaced by bright bands of rib-
bon. Berry-brown complexions are fashion-
able now in the Old Dart, and the once
despised freckle is being cultivated. The
“cream and roses” face is regarded as “too
horribly feminine.”
The matrimonial linking of Elizabeth, only
daughter of barrister W. F. Weigall and
Mrs. Weigall, of Carnoustie, Maple-grove,
Toorak, with Dr. William Edward Donald-
son, was a social event of last week. The
bride, who lately returned from a trip abroad,
had billows of tulle over a long-sleeved white
satin gown that ended in a scalloped hemline,
showing more white tulle trailed with orange
buds. Hope Syme, the chief ’maid, wore a
frock blending mauve and pink topped by a
largish hat, also assisting being two small
girls, Valerie Crowther and Prudence Wilt-
shire, similarly dressed save for brow-bands
of flowers. About 200 guests assembled at
the bride’s parents’ home for the rejoicings.
Dr. Donaldson is a son of the late J. E.
Donaldson and of Mrs. Donaldson, of Bris-
bane.
There was further marrying in the Archi-
bald Johnsons’ family the other day, when
Gwynneth Marguerite, their eldest daughter,
was united to John Roland Adams. Cere-
mony and celebration were devoid of fuss.
The bride wore a Brussels-lace veil over her
sparkling white georgette robe, and her sis-
ter Joyce, in blue, was her attendant.
Evelyn, a daughter of the Manners-Sut-
tons, of Marnook, Kew, was a bride of last
week, when she promised, at the C. of E.
Grammar Chapel, to love and honor John
Kenneth Finlay. Two ’maids, wearing begonia
pink frocks, were in attendance on the lead-
ing lady, who was in white sprinkled with
gold and other sparkling adornment over
which cascaded a veil of tulle.
Wilfrid, elder son of the Herbert Brookes
couple of Winwick, South Yarra, was mar-
ried in England early in the month to Betty,
youngest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Albert
H. Ileal, of Oxton Hall, Birkenhead, Chesh-
ire. After a honeymoon in Switzerland the
newly-weds are expected here about the
middle of next month.
“Declasse,” which was introduced to Aus-
tralia on Saturday night at the King’s,
should, apart from its dramatic interest,
appeal to feminine playgoers on account of
its wealth of dressing. A card-gathering at
the home of an earl’s daughter who is on
intimate terms with the Royal family, a
party at a millionaire’s home and an after-
noon-tea sipping in the lounge of a smart
hotel afford extensive opportunities, and some
lovely evening gowns and day frocks are on
view. Muriel Starr comes down the baronial
staircase in black lace, pours tea in a grey
ensemble suit with silver fox collar and a
close-fitting hat of fawn with touches of
black, and makes her final exit in an even-
ing robe of cornflower blue sparkling all
over with steel and crystal. Beatrice Day
clothes her part of a white-coiffured lady of
high degree in black satin and diamente,
a powder-blue gown and a travelling suit
of golden brown that is topped by delightful
millinery. Nancye Stewart is most alluring
in a gown which has a hem of amber tulle
attached to a sheath of silver and gold
pailettes.
The attendance was only fair. Hugging a
lovely Lenci doll and flowers, Muriel Starr
gave thanks for the reception accorded the
new piece and the many other ladies of
the cast smiled over regular mounds of
posies. Mrs. Edgar Dye and her daughter
Aubrey, Mrs. Addison, and Prof, and Mrs.
A. Gunn were first viewers.
Marjorie Schmitt made a very good show-
ing in her presentation of violin classics at
her farewell concert at the Town Hall, last
week. Technique is this auburn-haired young
student’s long suit, and she seems to revel
in intricate passages. The Bach Chaconne,
the Paganini-Kreisler Caprice and the D
minor Concerto of Wieniawski were cap-
ably played, the fiddler having Lorna Trist
as her accompanist at the piano. The con-
cert, which was arranged by the Uni. Con.,
drew a crowded and appreciative audience,
and loads of garden stuff were handed up to
the leading lass. Pianist Edward Goll and
singer Alexander Raff rounded out the pro-
gramme.
Melbourne furnished the only tragedy of
the Yorks’ Australian tour —the fearful aero-
plane accident on their arrival—and the
same city . has contributed the only very
serious incident yet recorded in connection
with the Eucharistic Congress invasion. This
was the appalling railway-crossing collision
near Geelong, wherein five people were killed
outright and several injured whild return-
ing from the Corpus Christi College celebra-
tions. At the Amy Castles concert the
Papal Legate and Archbishop Cattaneo wore
garb less magnificent than their robes of
state as a sign of condolence.
The memory of the late Dr. R. J. Bull
has been honored by two sections of his for-
mer colleagues during the. last few days. A
tablet in the Bacteriological Laboratory of
the Uni., where lie directed research for 20
years, was unveiled by the Chancellor in the
presence of Mrs. Bull, her son and daughter,
and an almost full muster of the late doc-
tor’s former Uni. associates. At the British
Medical Association Hall the president, Dr.
J. Newman Morris, uncovered a bronze
plaque, by sculptor Paul Montford.
Adelina A. Levey is a recent arrival in
Melbourne who is teaching the art of speak-
ing verse. She is one of a trio of sisters
who were famous in vaudeville both in Lon-
don and America in their youth. When
Carlotta married and May Lilian went into
the movies Adelina invaded the concert
stage, and during the war was an enter-
tainer much in demand in soldiers’ camps
and Red Cross hospitals. After the war
she came to Australia, and has lived in Too-
woomba (Q.) for the last six years. Irene
Vanbrugh, Dion Boueicault and George
Highland, who know the lady’s talents,
advised her to hang out her sign here.


cm
FINE
»©
UALITY
DJ^
No. 306 —£25
578
577
Na 30S - £55 £s2s#
No. 300—£20
N £3O
No. 307 £65
No. 304—£25
No. 305—£40
No. 303—£45
The Diamond Rin?>,s illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s rin&
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Rin& Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND G CO.
DIAMOND ANDPEARLSPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
, MELBOURNE
jaw
/
m
h'-'i
<N i
nn iimrinh
a
K2LEX Ike Ideal ‘Watch for the
Business Man!
R
> E » Rolex "is the smartest
mrist match on the market.
Ifet for all its good looks "Rolex"
is built to stand hard knocks—a
silent ticker that neuer fails you—
almays accurate and dependable.
Jlny leading jemeller can shorn
you a full range of "Rolex "
both mrist and pocket matches.
Look for the name “Rolex'' on the dial,
or the movement, or inside the case
Resolutely refuse substitutes.
‘Wrist and Pocket Watches
lor Men and Women
The world’s best by Observatory test l”
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
A Saunders S yanej
A. SAUNDERS’ 8-day Marblette Clock, Bronzed
Pillars and Mounts, Strikes Hours and Half-hours on
Cathedral-tone Gong. Width, 12in. Height lOin,
35/-
112
10
A. SAUNDERS’
FAMOUS
CLOCKS
n 1
A. SAUNDERS’ Bedroom Clock, Pink
Alabaster, Highly Polished, Accurate
Timekeeper.
12/6.
a
in
nuiiimi
Mnmm
A. SAUNDERS’ 30-hour Alarm Clock, Walnut a. SAUNDERS’ 400-day. Gilt Presentation Clock,
Case, Silvered Dial, Dependable Timekeeper, Porcelain Dial, Glass Dome,
17/6. £3.
WE GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
A. SAUNDERS
Watchmaker —Jeweller—Optician,
805-813 GEORGE STREET (opposite Central Railway Station), SYDNEY.
The delicious Fish Paste
Ho tk&
kiddies liduttl
Just try them ! Give them Ancho
vette sandwiches for their school
lunch and see their eyes sparkle !
It’s good for them, too, and so little
trouble to prepare. Get a jar from your
grocer to-day.
A change to Benger’s
has been the turning
point in the life of many
a backward baby.
Unsolicited testimony.
"Baby weighed only S I A lbs. when a
fortnight old. We tried several foods
then we discovered ‘Benger’s.’ Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She gained 12
ozs. the first week. She is now 8 months old,
and weighs 16 lbs. — a happy, plump, and
healthy little girl.”
dfg
Food
is always prepared for
use with fresh new milk.
'U-'lUlfj
m
m
m
- N
i
%
Benger’s Food is sold by
Chemists and Stores every-
where.
Bender’s Booklet for Mothers,
post free from Benger’s Food, Ltd., 350, George St., Sydney.
Sole Manufacturers: Benger’s Food, Ltd., Otter Works, Manchester, England.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Mk? ,
To H.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1917.
CHAMPAGNE
J
lasiecK
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limitsd
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
Tg2^
PELU3SOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ofel International
’Phones ;
FWim-S
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
In New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
BEACH
ilCEOfa
\ M
100 Bedrooms.
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 250. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
7hp cen/re o/ Queens /anas
c//'s/t'ngu/sf>ec/ Soc/o/Life.
W>oU\
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
roorh. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’Sj Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
df
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney sweltered, choked and burned
through one of the blackest week-ends in its
history. A gale whose hooves struck de-
struction and death galloped over the
city and most of the State all day. In
passing it tore roofs from church and rich
suburban home and week-end shack. Elec-
tric wires fused and cars were overturned ;
windows were smashed, and trees and chim-
neys crashed. Woy Woy was almost wiped
out in the worst bush-fire Sydney’s northern
seaside places have known. The Mountain
roads sizzled, and the glare and the smoke
from the bush-fires mixed with the roar
of the wind and sheets of dust were the
least mis'ery faced by the week-ender who
had to be back for Monday morning. A
crowning inferno was the destruction of
the .Cumberland Paper Mills at Lane Cove,
whereby £250,000 of damage was done, and
200 workers thrown out of employment.
As usual, the tales of self-sacrifice and
heroism equal the tales of disaster; and,
indeed, only for the persistent dogged fire
fighting by volunteer bands as well as the
brigades, Sydney’s loss, now estimated at
over a million pounds, must have been
vastly more.
For its Spring meeting the A.J.C. certainly
spread a sumptuous party ; and even though
every guest had to pay both on the swings
and the roundabouts, there’s a general feel-
ing that somebody—Colin Stephen, for in-
stance—should be canonised, or at least
O. for services rendered.
Until the grime and bluster of the week-end
interposed, clothes got richer and more
dazzling as the days went on, and all materials
showed a strong bias in favor of spots and
dots —the Morse Code meeting, one country-
man called it. Fur on the wrists or hem of
lace and georgette coats was a new feature,
and won prolonged applause on the beige lace
ensemble worn by Mrs. Stuart Osborne.
Beige lace and georgette mingled in Mrs.
Malcolm Maekcllar’s most notable raiment.
This was topped by a hat large and
droopy and wreathed with ivy. Mrs.
George Vivers made her very first .appear-
ance as one of the spotted sisterhood.
Her spots were royal blue, and were shaded
bv a hat of this same trying shade, only to
be dared by the fair of complexion. Mrs. D.
P. O’Brien (Rockhampton) and Mrs. Hors-
burgh, wife of the Commissioner of the
Northern Territory, kept each other com-
pany, and Mrs. Dick Dangar combined beige
and caramel brown with satisfactory results.
Ilorse-entlmsiast Una Clift, of course, went
out every day; she seemed to the fevered
imagination, as she stood atop of the official
stand stairway in her efficient blue frocking,
to be holding it as Horatius held the bridge.
Smart people from Melbourne who orna-
mented the stands were the John Winter-
Irvings, the Henry Rosenthals, various Bail-
lieus and the Norman Shepherds. Mrs. Ros-
enthal, one of the exponents of black and
white, smiled while daughter Elva received
congratulations on her engagement to Denys
Goring O’Connell, of the 4th Hussars, India.
The wedding is booked for next year and will
take place in London.
Ladies’ Day proved the Waterloo of the
large hat. It rose on end, it tore suddenly
from Marcel, permanent or the less-expensive
natural-born wave; it scudded before the
breeze; it flopped a roguish eye at its neigh-
bor. It whipped through the unbuttoned fronts
of topcoats, and then gallant little chiffon
dresses suggested the Botanical Gardens in
a tornado. Nearly everybody who mattered
swallowed an oyster or two amid the tulips
and lilac on the Nigel Smiths’ board in the
garden pavilion ; several thousand others had
the usual four-and-sixpenny cold (with salad)
in the luncheon-rooms. The G.-G. Stone-
haven picked his midday bone with Colin
Stephen and his henchmen.
Legs this day were worn palely pink, and
owing to the wind gave up all their secrets.
Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones was intensely blue-
eyed above a lobelia-blue woven silk suit.
Mrs. John McKelvey, looking like a jacket-
cover for a Cynthia Stockley romance, was
sternly grey. Mrs. Sep Levy, too, chose
grey, but hers melted into wistful, mist-like
tones wrapped in squirrel. The beige luxury,
the ermine’s summer coat, was wrapped
around the cool jade-green chiffons of Mrs
J. J. Smith. Mrs. George Macarthur Onslow
was fur-coated and black-hatted. Mrs. Henry
Rosenthal was noticeably mustard-toned, and
daughter Margot was one of the fawn clad.
Morna MacCormick was radiant above lime-
greens, while sister Mrs. John Martin stuck
to black of severe cut. Valerie l’urves (Mel-
bourne) was one of the few who seemed to
think a kite-high w r orld a bit of fun. Faith
Macartliur Onslow was smoothly green—a
Granny Smith’s grand-daughter. Mrs. Storey
Gilman, a London visitor, was Ascottish in
metal-thread cloth of black and gold, on which
green rhinestones glittered.
The last day of the races was torn to rib-
bons by another howling gale. Cool dresses
and wide hats were the only wear; and in
spite of the burning sun arms were bare
to the shoulder. Scarves were drawn pro-
tectingly around every throat. Naomi Waters
and Pliyl Haley looked as cool as their
names in lotus blues, and that was a dis-
tinction on an arid day.
Up to the Union Club purred all the best
cars after the mid-week races. When the
guest’s cards had been collected, and he hau
been impressively greeted by president C.m-
sett Stephen and Shepheard Laidley, he
passed into the depths of the mellow-tiled
hall, and awaited the coming of his breth-
ren. Seen from the foot of the stairs, the
three actors at the door, the old retainer
who swooped down on the cards and the
grey-liaired hosts who O.K.’d the guests,
were as three diehards fighting for their
stronghold against the merciless onslaught
of the city’s progress upon the grey-walled
building within its large and pleasant
grounds. Three puppets on Time’s strings,
advancing, retiring, bowing to a tune from
Gilbert and Sullivan ! For at the G. and S.
period the musical taste of the club seems
to have come to a full stop.
This year there was a' dearth of flowers
in the hall and the reading-room, whereas at
the last party even the Venus on the stairs
wore a lily in her hair. Early arrivals
grape-vined among the cavernous easy-chairs
in tin; smoke-room, taking their glimpse of
the De Loitte Venetian glass in its little
shrine lit. into ruby-red effulgence by a sti’ong
electric light. From the wall by the do>or-
wuy a great Gruner canvas brooded reflec-
tively. But the tea is really the great affair
at these gatherings. It is laid on many tables
and a long buffet in the dining-room, and
the whole animal and vegetable worlds have
been scoured for fillings for the sandwiches.
The other afternoon stalwart beef-eaters. and
sturdy muffin-men and town-criers supported
the. menus. The room soon became a blur
of ices and strawberries, cocktails, crackers,
coffee and, in between the good things, in
high-handled baskets gay with satin ribbons,
old-fashioned flowers, verbena, wallflowers,
buttercups, mignonette and geraniums,
glowed and languished their lives away.
The Governor-General didn’t arrive until
after the last race, and with him entered
Ailsa Cullen in an attractive rig of rose
beige. Mrs. T. R. Bavin, in black raiment,
came with Shirley, who was grey and furry.
Of cool sand shades were Mrs. Nigel Smith’s
three-piece and hat. Miss Eadith Walker
hobnobbed with Lord Stonehaven. Major-
General Macartliur Onslow brought his wife
and daughter Faith. Japan’s Consul-General
Tokugawa was in the throng. The president
of the Australian Club, with his wife, looked
in. Allens and Knoxes were on every side;
the Dettmanns were in company with the
Mungo MacCallums; Enid Riddle was among
the oyster-pate samplers against the back-
ground of her father and brother-banker Mac-
kenzie Lees.
Saturday night was given over to the
dance at the Rose Bay Golf Club. Here,
where waratahs and arum-lilies stood sen-
tinel and poppies grew between, came the
girls who had alternately clutched their
hats and their flimsy skirts all afternoon on
wind-torn Randwick. Two other festivities
of the week to be noted were the dance
staged by Surgeon MacCormick and his lady,
at Ivilmorey, their Point Piper home, and
the dance organised by the Cumberland
younger set of the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation. t
The lady in this picture is Mrs. W. Turner
one of Sydney’s best-looking young matrons’
and a pianist of ability. The programme
which she will
play at her re-
cital in the
Conse r v a-
torium on the
30th has been
arranged under
the guidance
of Moisei-
witsch. who is
an intimate
friend. In Syd-
ney her studies
have gone for-
ward under
Lawrence God-
frey Smith, but
before she mar-
ried her West-
ralian Mrs.
Turner ha and
passed through
the musical
mills of Milan
and Munich.
The musician makes her first public bow
to this city’s audiences at the Persian Gar-
den matinee on the 25th.
If Ginger Mick had strolled into the
Ambassadors the other night he'd have felt
quite at home, for the good old Australian
adjective was indicated on every side. You
simply couldn’t miss the silver “B.B.” worked
into the floral decorations and standing
jocund though erect on many a table. Prob-
ably the committee of the Big Brother
Ball didn’t mean the initials to ring with
tlieir Australian mintage, even though it was
race week, and Secretary Ronald Duncan
looked like a startled fawn when cross-
examined about the centrepiece on his table.
But to the pure of heart like G.-G. Stone-
haven, the letters flashed no sanguinary
meaning. A committee of social tonnage had
worked hard for this money-spinner, which is
to help the Big Brother movement, one of
the most kindly offshoots of the Migration
Scheme.
All Sydney’s best frocks had an airing.
Earrings that rivalled the new pear-shaped
crystal lamps dangled from a few ears, and
lace of the best weave meshed the night.
Mrs. C. B. Berge, known as the vice-presi-
dent who attended every meeting, was ter-
raced in frills of beflowered pink chiffons:
and as Mrs. Arthur Allen, the president of
the dance, did not arrive, the posy of pink
carnations and delphiniums which Mrs. Berge
held all ready was thrust upon Mrs. T. R.
Bavin, another vice-president, and the official
hostess of the evening. Then Mrs. Berge
retired to her table, where a tall and leering
monkey, in his hand an enormous club, re-
presented the original big brother of us all.
Lord Stonehaven arrived quite early with
Captain Nichols; but Premier Bavin, very
tired-looking, came late and went early.
Morna MacGormick, in dazzling gold plum-
age. danced with his Ex., and presently Mar-
garet Allen, in peacock-blue sequins, took the
floor with the nobility, lie evidently ehooses
his partners for their glitter. Mrs. Bavin,
in rose and gold brocades, sat with a party
in which were son John, about-to-be daughter
Marcia Allen, and sister Margaret. The Clive
Joskes shared the same table, as did the
Ken Winchcombes. Graceful Pliyl Haley
looked as fragrant as a pink tea-rose. A cape
floated from the shoulders of Jean Ander-
son’s black-lace frock. Philippa Stephen
and Mrs. Denis Allen were others of the
lace-clad, and Nancy Kitcliing Was rosy above
turquoise frills. Captain Thornton, a Big
Brother from London, was among the
dancers, and the George FitzPatricks; but
there were vacant places where poor Ted
Fleming and his wife, who was one of the
vice-presidents, should have been.
Sydney was shocked last week at the sudden
collapse in the Outer Domain Kiosk, fol-
lowed by the swift death, of its Chief Civic
Commissioner, Ted Fleming. It is not
quite a year since the appointment was made,
and during that time Mr. Fleming not only
worked hard and fearlessly, but was
called upon to take part in an undue amount
of the social activities of the city. His good
chum, Mrs. Fleming, and the one little daugh-
ter of whom he was so very proud are left
to mourn his untimely passing.
Last week Prince Alfred’s added two more
outposts to its ever-spreading defences
against the onrush of disease. They are the
departments for radium treatment and deep
X-ray _ therapy, the two modern ways of
attacking and resisting cancer. The Com-
monwealth Government is supporting the
work of the Cancer Research Committee, and
the radium is being supplied by the Federal
Government through the University. The
clinic includes a radium outpatient depart-
ment ; but should a patient reqhire the appli-
cation of radium for periods longer than eight
hours he will be admitted to the hospital as
an in-patient. Lieut.-Governor Cullen per-
formed the official opening last week, although
the clinic had really been busy on the good
work since early in September. Surgeons
Alexander McCormick and Jarvie Hood were
two of the great medicine-men who were wel-
comed on the memorable afternoon by Prince
Alfred’s chief, Cecil Purser.
The committee of the Kindergarten Union
knew what it was about when it dated its
dance for midfvay through Race Week. Every-
body, even the over-worked Premier, seemed
to have gathered at the Ambassadors by
ten o’clock for the junketing. Mrs.. Bavin
was president of the committee and was
sleek in black velvet. Black velvet with a
hem sown thick with silver sequins in
K'.ypsyish fashion was worn by Mrs. John
McKelvey, a vice-president; and secretary
Mrs. Pat Levy was bejewelled and fragilely
fair in her mulberry georgettes. Chinese
blue sprayed with sequins decked the Dres-
den shepherdess charm of mother-in-law Mrs.
Sep Levy. Justice Halse Rogers (inter-
rupted in the task of thinking up quips for
the Bar dinner, which was held in his honor
a few days later) was brought to the party
by his wife, who wore bright grey eyes above
cameo-pink chiffons. President of the Kin-
dergarten Union S. S. Cohen brought a
party of revellers; and Mrs. Bill Crossing,
who was Evelyn Mackellar, wore one of the
new cape collars on her beige lace frock.
An interesting visitor to Sydney is Jean
Seton,' film-actress and authoress. Her
father is the Scots baronet Sir Bruce Gordon
Seton, the author of many scientific works,
in the writing of which his daughter has
assisted. Her uncle is the Father Seton who
represented the R.C. clergy of Scotland at
the Eucharistic Congress. Jean appears as
a member of Ixmdon’s smart set in the film
“Tanami,” which has a Far Northern set-
ting.
Mr. Charles Ivropacsy is an arrival in
whom Sydney women are interested. He is
vice-chairman >of the celebrated Eugene, Ltd.,
the Eugene who has crowned the womanhood
of the world with the permanent wave.
He states with authority that the women of
Europe and America are not growing their
hair long. The shingle, though, is being
worn longer and fluffier, and the severe Eton
crop went out with the boyish silhouette.
The girl with the clear-cut profile in
tliis Dayne pic-
ture is Mar-
cia Allen, who
was a hard-
working mem-
ber of the
Younger Set
committee for
the Big Bro-
ther Ball. That
she put up a
record for at-
tendance a t
the meetings
had, of course,
nothing at all
to do with the
fact that her
b e t r o thed,
John Bavin,
being one of
the secretaries
of the dance,
was at all of
them. too.
Mrs. E. G. Theodore, who worked hard on
many committees for the Limbless Soldiers
in Queensland, arrived at David Jones’s on
Thursday in company with a travelling
grocer’s shop. Her taxi was packed with all
sorts of tinned goods for the American tea
organised by herself and Cecilia Walsh for
this State’s Limbless Soldiers’ Provident
Fund. Flowers from Mrs. Theodore’s Ivirri-
billi garden were sold for the good of the
cause, and altogether the party, one of those
where you take a gift and buy a gift, was
Quite a success. Bridge was another of the
afternoon’s enterprises.
Faith Macartliur Onslow, like the high-
bred Persian in the nursery rhyme, has been
to London to visit the Queen, and is just
therefrom, having given George Rex as well
as his Queen a bob. (And have the Royal
Windsors become sovereigns from all the
bobs dropped before them in their drawing-
room?) I,ast week Major-General and Mrs.
Macartliur Onslow staged a dance at the
Rose Bay Golf Club for their young
daughter and her friends. The flowers,
brought specially from the Camden Park
gardens, combined a blaze of color and an
old-world charm unrivalled at any other race-
week function. Here were heavy sprays of
lilacs; tulips, yellow and pink; velvety red
roses ; orchids and armfuls of the unbending
waratahs in company with the stately arum-
lily. Fine lace, the gold of pale honey,
formed Mrs. Macartliur Onslow's frock,
while the subject of the party wore a chiffon
rhythm in rose pink.
Another dance to the glory of the rising
generation was the Esmond Friends’ for
daughters Jean and Elizabeth.
America may outlaw war and Geneva
draw a flowering picture of world peace,
but when the scarlet and gold of the mili-
tary flash and kettledrums roll and trumpets
sound, it’s aces up for Mars. The First
Cavalry Division, a fine body of upstanding
men, being aware of this, came with full
wardrobe and properties to the Ambassadors
last Friday. It was the second annual fore-
gathering of the division, and this vear
soldier-men came to it from all parts of the
State. The Governor-General’s arrival put
an extra glow into the night, and Faith
Macartliur Onslow in her favorite pinks
took the floor with him after his Ex. had
given her father, the Major-General, the
countersign. Mrs. Macartliur Onslow’s georg-
ettes looked as expensive as platinum. Other
bigwigs of the night were .the Major-General
Cox couple, the Colonel Hardies, the Colonel
Spains, Mrs. Dodds and Colonel and Mrs.
Storey. Storkey, V.C., and his wife were
in the Major Fewtrell party, and Marcia
Grace was a well-dressed young thing in
old-rose taffetas. The secretary responsible
for the night’s smooth working was Lieut.
D. Hall.
Vera May Willard, of Gordon, became
Mrs. David Scott Beveridge, of Gilgandra.
in a quiet and cosy fashion last week. The
usual mixture of white chiffon and tulle
floated about the bride, who was further
embellished by two ’maids and two tiny
flower girls in pink chiffons as ’fluffy as
a summer cloud. Padre Hugh Patou tied
the knot at the Gordon Methodist Church,
and afterwards the wedding guests just
stepped into the social hall attached and
made merry. No trouble with taxis or
parking cars or anything. The bridegroom's
mother is one of the C.W.A. strong sup-
ports.


< ' 7
r~~rr^
: i,nX\ w
SB
V%'
mi
• ~-
■<
’. s® m
:-i\o
N 3
i m
i 'i
Wm
lllllllllllllillllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllinilllllllllllllilimiillllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllMlimiMllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllltllllllllilillliimiiiiimillliii
It is very late
—but how
wonderful it
was!
Enjoyable dances, excel-
lent company, dazzling
music. Now —a brisk
bath to which is added
plenty of ten
minutes in the warm
aromatic water, and the
next morning milady
gaily hastens to tennis
or golf, refreshed and
strengthened for the
whole day by
Only genuine with the original
“ 4711” blue and. gold label.
Since 1792 the standard of
excellence —the unrivalled com-
modity of an original recipe.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL
LEADING CHEMISTS AND
DEPARTMENTAL STORES
o
msß
*V x
%


m
m
m
mm
m
m
Amazing'
Effect of Jim
Yeast Treatment
Remarkable medical discoveries have re-
cently been made. Great scientists, like
Voronoff and Steinach, have combatted
the problem of premature old age and the
decline of health and efficiency in the
human machine, with astonishing results.
Perhaps still more striking, from the view-point of every-
day utility, has been the success attending the introduction
of vitamines, through the medium of a special type of Yeast.
It is now established that these "vitamines” form the key-
stone of Life and Health —without them real
health (to say nothing of clear skin) becomes
impossible! Scientific experiments have proven
beyond doubt that active yeast contains an
element of amazing restorative, life - giving
power.
Rapid change from ill-health to
forceful Youth and Vigor
By means of a tiny proportion of this con-
centrated yeast substance (1/15 -thousandth of
an ounce ) paralysed pigeons have been cured
in a few hours! 200 lbs. of active yeast produce less than
an ounce of the super-active substance, which is the real
lif e-giver ! This is, as it were, the vital part or “Cream”
of the Yeast — quite different to brewers’’ yeast —a super-
concentration that can bring about the rapid magic change
from ill-health to forceful Youth, Vitality and Vigor.
Yeast is Life
The Most
Effective
Form is
Cream of Yeast
A Phenomenon —Yet Scientifically proven
beyond doubt
Consider what the capturing of such a wonderful substance
means to weak, jaded, run-down, men and women! And it
has been captured! In Cream of Yeast, active yeast is now
harnessed to other medicinal agents of known value, in a
form which makes it the ideal remedy for everyday ills!
The organisation manufacturing “"Cream of Yeast” is the
largest in the world producing any form of activated yeast.
It has the largest staffs of scientific chemists; has the
greatest chemical and financial resources, and actually made
several millions of vitamine tablets in the course of work
leading up to the great triumph achieved in “Cream of
Yeast.”
Cream of Yeast a great advance on
other forms of Yeast
Since only a tiny proportion of the yeast is
especially valuable, it will be understood why
“Cream of Yeast” is so superior to any other
kind of yeast available. “Cream of Yeast”
supplies, in bandy tablet form, the most active
known concentration of effective yeast and
recuperative agents “Cream of Yeast” so
scientifically incorporates the vital active yeast
with other acknowledged restorative, energy-
giving and pain-quelling agents that the power
of the yeast itself is vastly increased and the promptness ot
benefit greatly accelerated. Not only will Cream of Yeast
calm the nerves of the most hysterical; not only will it
bring sweet, refreshing sleep to the sleepless, but it will
quickly clear complexions, and will make anyone feel fresher
and brighter in a few minutes. Further it offers the
following unrivalled advantage
Some of the Remarkable Benefits available through Cream of Yeast
"CREAM OF YEAST” WILL STOP
Acidity, Heartburn, Indigestion, Dyspepsia in 3 mins.
Headaches, Dizziness, Neuralgia, etc., - - in 4 mins.
Depression, Irritability, Brain Fag, etc. - - in 8 mins.
Periodical Pains in 12 mins.
Influenza, Catarrh-Colds, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, etc., within --15 hours
Clears Boils, Pimples and Skin Eruptions, usually within 2 days.
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist, Grocer, or Storekeeper for Genuine
Qhe Super
‘Yeast Clonic!
Be sure to see your
Package looks
like this
CREAM
OF
YEAST’
The Perfect Yeast
Tonic
Compound
SURE. SAFE
STRUNG! H GIVER
AsL'trm. Can*
■ nfl Ordinary
»p*>inf Pama.
no Hatxi
c*
5l
i<P5
c>C> c
\\&
Three Sizes: 1/11, 3/6 and 5/9
If remote from Chemists or Stores, send your order by post to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kernbla Building, Sydney


0:11,
f
fMsfc-sa« m mjp
PiiJiM
p
!•?>,
ft
Viii'Bix
a
rff
Inclusive overland tours to London can be arranged for
passengers disembarking at Naples, thereby enabling
them to visit many of the attractive places on the
Continent before reaching England.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ
Amusements.
THE REGENT
Australia’s Most Luxurious Theatre.
(Direction Hoyt’s Theatres, Ltd.)
The Home of
the Superior Motion Picture
and the Effective Presentation.
CHARLES FARRELL and SUE CARROLL in WIN THAT CTRL.
GRETA NISSON in FAZIL.
J7MPIRE THEATRE,
Saunders’ Corner, Railway Square,
Nightly at 8. Matinfies Wed. and Thurs. at 2.15.
OPENING NEXT FRIDAY EVENING AT 8.
The Gay Parisienne Comedy Revue,
BUBBLES.
With Dorothy Dewar, Stellar Collier, Gladys Hermes,
Bertie Wright, Keith Connolly, Morey Barling, and
the Famous Empire Pony Ballet.
Prices: 1/6, 2/6, 4/6. Reserves MAIOOO.
And all City Booking Offices.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. I .TO., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
MADAME POMPADOUR.
Commencing Saturday, at' the Matinfie.
ROYAL :INTERFERENCE.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: THE LAP OF THE GODS.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S : THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL: THE SILENT HOUSE.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
MISS NELL O’ NEW ORLEANS.
ATHENAEUM THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Frank Talbot Pty., Ltd.
Lessee: E. J. Carroll.
The Three-act Comedy,
SATURDAY’S CHILDREN.
Direction E. J. Carroll.
By arrangement with Richard White and Eric Edgley.
ORINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: Fullers Theatres, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
ALLAN WILKIE,
With Miss Hunter-Watts and his Company of Thirty
Picked Players, in the PLAYS OF SIIAKSPEARE.
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
IJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ELEANOR BOARDMAN and CONRAD NAGEL in
DIAMOND HANDCUFFS.
ALSO
FORD STERLING and NANCY CARROLL in
CHICKEN A LA KING.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MURIEL STARR in
DECLASSEE.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
THE PICTURE OF THE YEAR,
WHEN FLEET MEETS FLEET.
JUTLAND BATTLE SCENES.
Earl Jellicoe’s endorsement.
An appeal to every Britain’s heart.
Box Plan at Allan’s & Theatre. ’Phones: 7076 & 7790.
JHEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
Legal Notices.
yo HERBERT JOHN GODKIN, formerly of Acacia
Street, East Camberwell, Victoria, and of Southern
Cross, W.A., now of parts unknown. TAKE NOTICE
that your wife, Lillian Godkin. has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of a
repeated act of adultery committed by you. Unless
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court of Victoria on or before the
tenth day of November, 1928, the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
PAUL C. NUNAN, 440 Chancery Lane, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
D E DANIEL PATRICK CANNON.—
D Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
the above-named, last heard of at Innisfail,
Queensland, kindly ask him to communi-
cate with his brother, or advise John
Cannon, 21 Albert Street, West Geelong,
Victoria, so that he will hear something
of benefit to himself.
The Little Sisters
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The event of the week was the opening of
the Ambassadors. For months we have been
growing accustomed to the pink and old ivory
exterior, but were not prepared tor the
interior, which represents a Florentine gar-
den filled with statuary, plaques and cun-
ningly-hidden lights. There are stars that
twinkle, clouds that float, fir-trees, doves,
climbing roses and a babbling fountain. A
seides of velvet, gold lame and rhinestone-
embroidered curtains tittivate the stage.
There is a Wurlitzer organ, a permanent
ballet and good ventilation, and one sinks
up to one’s ankles in the pile of the carpet.
Premier Collier made the opening speech.
Though instead of spring this year we
have had a long-drawn-out, wet and windy
winter, there was a Town Hall full of blooms
for the Wildflower’ Show. This year McMil-
lan, C.J., who did the opening, was given
tea by the president and Mrs. Richards, other
guests of honor being the McMillan and Hirst
ladies and knight James Mitchell and his
wife. Quantities of Geraldton wax-plant,
everlastings, kangaroo paws, myrtle and blue
leschenaultia were for sale. Seventy speci-
mens of orchids were on show, including
monster spiders, perfect purple blooms, num-
erous parrots and donkeys and the more ordi-
nary yellow species. A knobby pitcher-plant,
a curious blanket-plant and a eucalyptus mac-
rocarpa were among the unusual exhibits.
There were water-colors, pastels and pressed
flowers and a table of queer beasties made
from banksia-nuts.
The biggest wedding of the week was. that
of Kathleen Taylor and Norman Robinson
in St. George’s Cathedral. A. sparkle, of
silver ornamented the bride’s picture frock
of ivory georgette worn over mother-of-pearl
pink. The veil was a mesh of tulle and
the train, a froth of white and palest pink,
was borne by two wee maids, Shirley . Wil-
liams and Marjorie Stewart. Lucy Whitfield
and Valmai Wood ’maided in shrimp pink
and hats of French beige. Mr. and. Mrs.
Willie Burges entertained the guests in the
Y.A.L. Hall.
Moonstones and pearls glimmered on the
bridal gown of Bebe Angelo when she ex-
changed vows with Gordon Craik at St.
Mary’s, Collins-street. Her Spanish-lace
train was lined with palest pink georgette,
and her veil was of Limerick lace. Sister
Babs attended in ivory with a sprinkling of
pearls and silver beads, and the bride’s
niece, Judy Bodington, was train-bearer in a
souffle of white georgette and lace.
This pensive-faced miss is Norma, a daugh-
ter of J. J. Brennan, a Perth money-mag-
nate. She is the stage’s latest recruit from
social circles, having previously scored many
successes as a member of the amateur opera
company o f
the W.A. capi-
tal. When the
family went
over to sample
life in Europe
for a couple of
years, Miss
Brennan
seized the
opportunity to
study dancing
and voice-
production at
a Kensington
College, a' n d
so blithely did
she learn to
trip that an
engage ment
was offered
her at a West
End theatre.
But parental
authority
would not allow her to remain behind, so
she came back to Australia still set upon
a career behind the footlights, to which
Fullers have opened the way.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady went north to open the
very fine display of Launceston-made pro-
ducts in the Albert Hall. Many of the
exhibits were not only made in Launceston,
but were of entirely Tasmanian materials,
and the results were most gratifying to the
pride of all Apple Islanders. To W. Pierson
goes the credit of most of the organisation
of the affair. After the official opening his
Ex. was entertained at tea by the Fifty Thou-
sand League, the tea-tables being decorated
with daffodils and mauve peonies.
No traditional bridal white for Audrey
Edginton, daughter of the F. A. Edgintons,
when she walked down the aisle with Frank
Sorlie Cole, son of Dr. Cole, Deloraine. Her
wedding gown was of sky-blue grenadine
satin, ankle-length and scalloped round the
hem. Each scallop bore a design in roses
and true-lovers’ knots, done in silver beads.
Her veil was worn Capette fashion, and in-
stead of the usual bouquet she carried a
basket of pale yellow primroses. Mary Hall,
a young cousin, ’maided in primrose georg-
ette over crepe de Chine. A big throng gath-
ered at the home of the bride’s parents after
the ceremony.
Nancy, only daughter of the A. G. Rymills,
Adelaide, has annexed Tom Giblin, one of
Hobart’s young bachelor medicoes, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Wilfred Giblin, as her partner for
life, though the wedding will not take place
immediately. The junior Dr. Giblin proposes
to put in a year or so at specialist work in
England, and Ilobart hopes. that he will
bring his experience—and his bride—back
to his native city.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Against a background of blue river and
bluer sky the Queensland yachting season
opened with a flutter of white sails that
made a very pretty picture. The official
launch for the afternoon was G. W. What-
more’s Stradbrhke, on which many guests
viewed the racing and enjoyed tea.
The newly-formed Brisbane Tennis Club,
which has established itself at Toowong,
invited Sir John Goodwin to perform the
opening ceremony. There are 11 courts ready
for use, and the club-house contains spacious
dressing-rooms and an attractive tea-room.
President M. S. Herring welcomed his Ex.
Mayor Jolly the other day tolled the mid-
day hours for the first time on the big bell
which has been obtained at a cost of £BOO
for our City Hall. It weighs 4 tons 3cwt.
For the purpose of the test it was placed
at the end of a cable suspended from a
crane, and the Mayor took off his coat and
lambasted the bell with a sledge hammer.
From Ireland came the dress worn by
Nita, daughter of the J. 11. E. Waters, when
she was married to Arthur Thorp. To musi-
cal circles this wedding was of special in-
terest, as the bride possesses a lino contralto
voice often heard on the concert platform.
Lena Hammond sang during the ceremony.
The bride's parents entertained afterwards.
Peggy, eldest daughter of the J. S.
Richardsons, Ashgrove, Gore, who was a
bride last week, chose an ivory satin char-
mante frock with long sleeves and finished
with a cascade panel on each side of the
skirt. She married Colin McDougaJl, second
son of B. J. McDougall and the late Mrs.
McDougall, of Coogee. The ceremony rook
place at St. Luke’s, Toowoomba, which had
been decorated by friends of the bride.
Sister Lorna was bridesmaid, in delphinium
blue French voile. The after-rejoicings
were at the Club Hot eh
The clever face under the Elizabethan coif
belongs to Mrs. P. J. Symes, of this city,
as she appeared in the name part of Drink-
water’s “Mary
Stuart.” She
has lately been
visiting her
sister, Mrs. C.
Woodhouse. at
Claremont
(W.A.), and
produced ex-
cerpts from
the piece at the
Berth Reper-
tory Club and
in the Clare-
mont parish
hall. Her re-
cital of mod-
ern poetry at
Claremont was
something new
to Westralians,
and Mrs.
Symes got a
great reception.
She is a clever
actress, and takes a great interest in every-
thing pertaining to the stage. Her favorite
sport is golf, and she also finds time for
charity work. Helen Ogden snapped the pic-
ture.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The strike and a record storm wrote a
good deal off the anticipated success of the
Children’s Hospital Ball and the .sale. of
invalided soldiers’ handicrafts at Keswick.
So many of our men being- in camp, the
audience for “Bohbme” was chiefly feminine.
Lady Hore-Ruthven opened the Keswick
sale after a preliminary word from Mr.
Glover, who told how the handicrafts shop
in its 10 years has used up £lO,OOO worth of
materials bought by the Red Cross, and has
handed back over £24,000 to the men. Her
Ex.’s appeal to those present to make
up for what they lacked in numbers by
proving their quality as buyers was so gene-
rously responded to that takings were well
up to the usual level.
The Children’s Hospital dance suffered
more heavily. One bald-head cannot con-
vert himself into half a dozen youths, how-
ever benevolent his intentions, but things
brightened a little when the Government
House party arrived after the opera, bring-
ing with them Dame Nellie Melba, as fresh
as a daisy, in white georgette and ready to
dance with the best of them. As a pre-
liminary to the ball Mrs. Villeneuve Smith
and Mrs. Laybourne Smith were joint or-
ganisers of a bridge afternoon at the former’s
house —proceeds for the novelty stall.
Thanks to grey skies, it was winter dress-
ing at the races. Melba was in reseda cloth
with a befurred cape to match and a snug
black hat, and mole furs and a mole velvet
hat were adjuncts to Denise Daly’s coat of
warm red. The violent storm that broke
in the afternoon was tactful enough to hold
off till after the Cup had been won by Mr.
Tennant’s Kallora.
Melba, who brought with her Mrs. Arm-
strong and Elena Danicli, stayed at Gov-
ernment House while she was here and was
with his Ex. at the Hunt Club races. In
the evening she beamed approval on “Andrea
Chenier” from the Government House seats,
with Toti dal Monte and her husband, Nevin
Tait and the Autoris, also beaming, in stage
boxes. At “Pasquale,” her farewell, Toti
was fairly smothered in flowers, and after
“Boheme” and “Otello,” the miniature gar-
den that sprang up on the stage about
Melba included a laurel wreath that she
flung, with a neat flick of her wrist, over
Bavagnoli’s head. And there were more
flowers for Seavizzi, smiling down from a
box; she is as prime a favorite as the little
Toti, and that says much. So ended
grand opera, leaving us exhausted of funds
and emotions and bankrupt of adjectives.
The engagement is announced of Kitty
Bennett, of Childers-street, North Adelaide,
to Claude Heywood Smith, of Kensington
Gardens; and of Yvonne Dale, daughter of
the Hylton Dales, of Melbourne, to the E.
H. Bakewells’ son Donald.
Jack Rymill and his two brothers have
added >their names to the list of South
Australian pastoralists in the West, and
have bought a station 200 miles north of
Mefredin. He stays here, and his brothers
go over to manage.


CHRYSLER
presents
entirely new style creations
in the low-priced field
Plymouth 4-Door Saloon
PLYMOUTH
LL Chrysler research, engineering
n and manufacturing have been in-
spired by the fundamental motive of
giving ever greater quality and value*
Now with a new product—the Plym-
outh—Chrysler is the first to give at
so low a price the advantages of per-
formance, riding ease, dependability
and full adult size which characterise
fine cars of higher price.
The Plymouth finally answers the
search for quality in the low-priced
field. The Plymouth assures in its
advantages the full measure of quality
and value to which buyers of low-
priced cars have long been entitled.
We believe there has never been a car
anywhere near its price that can ap-
proach the Plymouth for power, pick-
up, smoothness, easy handling, safety,
quietness and roominess—nor that can
equal it in beauty and style.
PLYMOUTH MOTOR CORPORATION
Division of
CHRYSLER SALES CORPORATION
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U. S. A.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
ft.S ■W.: Larke Neave 8> Carter Ltd., Grenville House, William Street, Sydney
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Chrysler House, Collins Street, Melbourne. *
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z*; Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellingtor^


Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings'
Wunderlich Roofing Tiles
Wu-nderlich “ Durabestos” Bulldifig
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
Fbr Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
17.
A BANK ACCOUNT
gives you power and safety. Apart from its positive stimulation
of the sense of Thrift, a Bank Account simplifies your operations
and widens their scope. In or out of business hours, it facilitates
your transactions and surrounds all your dealings with dignity,
impressive on your clients and associates.
A Cheque Account is a record of payments, practically a
Book-keeping System in itself.
Additionally it introduces, to your service, the innumerable
banking advantages and facilities that a modern banking institution
provides.
(Tommonwealtb Eant of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Live Stock,
Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Com-
pensation. etc., etc.
COONARDOO.
“THE BULLETIN’S” GREAT £500 PRIZE STORY.
By-Katharine Susannah Prichard.
Illustrations
by
C. H. PERCIVAL.
Synopsis: After the death of his mother, Mrs. Bessie Watt, Hugh, horn and
brought up on Wytaliba station, in the north-west of W.A., takes over control,
and, as his mother had done,, allows the aboriginal station-workers to live their
accustomed native life. Out mustering, he wanders from camp, and finds that
Coonardoo, a fine aboriginal girl, icife of Warieda, has followed to guard him.
When they return to camp next day, Hugh is seriously ill with fever. Back at
the station Sam Geary, a station-owner who includes gins in his household,
his friend Bob Hall, and Saul Hardy (who once-owned Wytaliba) find Coonardoo
looking after Hugh, and Geary draws his own shrewd inferences. Geary secs
in Hugh’s illness a chance, to realise Ms old ambition to own Wytaliba, but Hugh
goes to Gcraldton and recovers. When he returns many months later, with his
young unfe ( Mollie), Coonardoo has a son, Winning-arra, Hugh at once knoics
the infant to be his child.
HUGH was gazing at the
long verandahs, the
closed doors and dust-
dimmed windows of the house
before him, white of the walls
and roof under red-ochre dust.
“Lord, doesn’t it look neg-
lected!” he exclaimed.
But plants his mother had set were blos-
soming in the strip of broken earth out
from the verandah, punti showering fragile
trails of little flowers like yellow boronia,
fragrant and exquisite. Bird-bush held
branches of green flowers as if small birds
were clustered and swaying all in a row;
and at the end of the verandah, tall and
dark-leafed, oleanders drooped under thick
milk-white bloom.
“They have kept the verandahs scrubbed
and swept round the house,” he added.
“If there’d been a chance to send word and
let ’em know we were coming, and to clean
up inside, Mollie, I would have. But I don’t
know whether they’d have gone into the
house, anyhow.”
“Not gone into the house?” Hugh’s wife
asked. “Why on earth?”
Hugh laughed. “You see mother thought
she’d put the fear of goodness into them,
and told them that she’d always be watching
over the place, looking after it, and if any-
body took advantage of her being away, to
pinch sugar or tea, and didn’t behave well
to me, they’d better look out for themselves.
She said her spirit would jump into a white
cockie, and always she’d be flying round to
see all was being done as it ought to be
until another white woman came. Then
she’d leave Wytaliba in peace. And they
would have to obey the other white woman
as they had her. So, as a matter of fact,
everybody’s very glad to see you.”
Hughie walked along the verandah,
throwing open the doors, went into
the rooms and unlatched the win-
dows.
“To-morrow everything’ll be fresh
and sweet as anew pin,” he said.
CHAPTER XIV.
Stars were still in the high dark
although the sky was sheening in the
east as a coolwenda called from the
fringe of distant mulga. His two
notes dropped in the silence rang
pure and slow far over the plains.
Coonardoo, beside the embers of
her fire, stirred and sat up. Already,
streaking across the rough, stony
earth towards the homestead, she saw
the tall, straight figure of Meenie,
and Bandogera, stooping a little as
she hurried. She was getting old,
Bandogera. So quickly the light grew
that Coonardoo had no more than
raised her baby’s head to her breast,
and he, shaking his round, fair hea (y
and bucking, settled in against her,
than the sun jumped over the far
edge of the trees, round and brilliant.
At the same time everybody in the
uloo was awake. Warieda stretched,
and stalked away down to the creek.
Fires were kicked, embers thrown to-
gether ; there were exclamations;
dogs yelped, stirred from sleeping
bodies.
Coonardoo saw a breath of smoke
go up from the kitchen chimney.
“It breathes! It breathes again!”
she cried to her baby.
She could see Hugh striding about
the verandahs, his legs in blue trousers,
stepping briskly. White shirt, blue trou-
sers and the pink blob of his face—she
could see them coming and going from the
rooms to the verandah, from the verandah
to the kitchen.
The air smelt hot and dry. It was going
to be a day which would bring the bios-
soms down from the white gum-tree be-
side the verandah, showering white threads
and yellow dust. Coonardoo would sweep
them away, and she would sit and sing
in the shade of the tree when Pinja brought
her boy to her during the morning. For it
was understood that the old woman would
mind the son of a whirlwind while she,
Coonardoo, swept the dust from Hugh’s
house, and scrubbed and washed the dishes
as Mumae had taught her to.
Coonardoo must make tea also, and take
it to Hugh’s woman while she was in bed.
Everybody knew that. Who but Coonar-
doo knew how to arrange the little tray,
set a cup and saucer on it, with sugar and
milk and a flower?
Coonardoo set her boy in the cooleman
[cradle] she had scooped with sharp stones
from the elbow of a river gum, and took
him to sleep beside her grandmother, warn-
ing her, as she laid a leafy branch over
the child, not to delay bringing him up to
the house when he wakened and cried for
another meal. Then she ran up to the
kala miah, seized a bar of yellow soap
“Coonardoo stood transfixed in admiration; and Meenie beside her gurgled and exclaimed."
“‘What is it?’ Mollie asked.”
“‘They like your kim,’ Hugh explained.”
which lay on a log there, and went down
to the shower-shed with it.
How she scrubbed her hair! Was not
Youie home? Happiness grew in her until
she almost screamed with glee as she let
fall the shpwers of well water, starting
and gurgling when her nerves curled and
quivered under it. Was not Youie home?
And did he not expect that she should
wash like this every day? There was the
gina-gina she had worn when he left, hang-
ing in the shower shed waiting for her to
put on again.
Coonardoo slipped the long straight
gown of faded dungaree over her body,
and with short hair dripping still, went
up to the kitchen to make tea. How
carefully she measured tea from the red
caddy into the big enamel teapot, and
poured boiling water over the leaves as
she had done for Mumae!
She called to Meenie for milk, and when
Meenie brought the bucket, strained it into
a shallow pan, taking some in a little jug
for the tray.
Then on silent, bare feet, carefully, she
carried the tray to the shady side of the
verandah. Hugh had carried the big bed
out there, the bed his father and mother
once slept in, and she was lying on it,
the little woman with straight, dark hair
and grey-green eyes, who was Hugh’s wife.
Lying there, she looked about her curi-
ously, dismayed, hopeful and adventurous,
taking everything in. Her pink gina-gina
—Coonardoo could not take her eyes off it!
She stood beside Hugh’s wife holding the
tray, too shy to look up, seeing the gina-
gina under her lashes —soft, silky stuff, like
that flush in the sky before sunrise—and
the plump little woman under it.
“Coonardoo, isn’t it?” Hugh’s woman
queried. “Thank you, Coonai'doo.”
Coonardoo’s eyes flashed to her from
under their long, curling lashes—deep,
beautiful, dark eyes, promising love and
devotion.
The morning passed like a happy dream.
It was what Coonardoo had thought of so
long, Hugh’s home-coming and getting the
house ready for the woman he would bring
with him to live in it. Coonardoo had not
wondered whether she would like the new-
comer. She knew that she
would. Was it not Youie’s
woman ?
She told the other gins
about the pink gina-gina
Mollie wore when she was in
bed—told it all as they drank
their strong, black tea, sweet-
ened with plenty of sugar, and ate
the bread and jam Hugh had handed
out to them. He was as gay and
generous as when he had been a little
fellow. Everybody ate until they were
full, and, very happy, smoked and gossiped
about Mulli—what was it he called her?
They tried to get their tongues round the
name, and laughed at the queer sound it
had.
Hugh himself cooked the breakfast that
morning, and his wife came to eat with
him in the dining-room, a gown over the
pink gina-gina, at which Coonardoo opened
her eyes wider and wider. So many birds
and flowers were scattered over it, and
fruit that you could almost take off with
your hands! She stood transfixed in awe
and admiration; and Meenie beside her
gurgled and exclaimed.
“What is it?” Mollie asked.
“They like your kim,” Hugh explained.
Meenie put out her hand to see if the
apples on the chintz of Mollie’s kimono
would come off, and giggled and cuddled
herself shyly when she found they were
only colored drawings.
Hugh said all the dishes in the kitchen
were to be washed in boiling water with
plenty of soap, the verandah must be
hosed down, every room had to be swept
and scrubbed out. The gins went eagerly
about their work, treating it all rather as
a joke, laughing and exclaiming to
each other.
And Mollie, sitting beside her
trunk on the verandah, unpacked,
strewed the worn jarrah boards with
ribbons, frocks, underclothing, lace,
pictures, bright scarfs, shoes, scented
soap and silver-backed brushes; trin-
kets and wedding presents of all
sorts. She toqk out a bottle of
sweets and called the girls to her;
poured a handful of small boiled
lollies into Coonardoo’s hand and
into Meenie’s; gave Coonardoo a
long piece of blue print for a dress
and Bardi a necklace of red beads.
Hugh came stamping along the
verandah.
“Now, then, you fellows,” he
called, and the gins from watching
and exclaiming over the treasures
which poured from Mollie’s box scat-
tered about their work.
Hugh had fastened spurs to his
boots, and was itching to be out
with the boys after the killer they
were going to bring in that after-
noon.
So the mornipg passed. Hugh
opened tins from the store for lunch,
and made damper.
“Most people don’t let the blacks
cook for them,” she said. “Mother
used to do most of it herself. But.
please yourself about that, She
taught Coonardoo and Meenie to do
nearly everything. They can sew
and cook quite well. But Bardi’s a
lazy little swab. Not too lean. I
don’t know that I’d trust her to”
“Oh, I can cook,” Mollie replied.
Hugh laughed and kissed her.
“It’ll be awfully strange and lonely at
first,” he said. “But you’re a brick, little
woman. I hope you’ll like being here.”
“It isn’t what I expected,” Mollie con-
fessed. “But the abos. are different—nicer
than any I’ve ever seen before.”
“That’s because they’re Pedongs for the
most part—haven’t had much contact with
white people,” Hugh said. “A good deal
depends on how you treat them. Mother
handled them extraordinarily well. It’s the
iron hand in the velvet glove does the
trick, she used to say. Was very strict about
some things. Respected them and their
(Continued on page 58.)


_ v
A
SECRET
—a secret sixty years old! And
during all that time it has
been bringing vital health to
thousands of people in every
civilized country in the world.
What is this secret? Just this
that the inner cleanliness on
which good health depends is
best maintained through the
simple rule —a glass of water
sparkling with a “dash” of Eno
first thing every morning. Gent-
ly and naturally Eno helps the
system to free itself of its daily
waste and keeps your blood-
stream clean and vigorous.
Eno does its work so pleasantly. The
idea that only unpleasant purgative
mineral salts can be good for you has
long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of the
morning draught of Eno’s “Fruit -Salt”
with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
9n two sizes at Ghemists and Stores
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
Sales cPlgents :
THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO LTD..
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
i', t « W 'i 1
Ls^s
M
'
"THE AGE”
Established 185 Jf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their atten-
tion that which is required in their home or
business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age” a congenial newspaper,
w ith an atmosphere of individual and personal
appeal. ►
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND.
THE WEEKLY TIMES
lias always been .
THE GREAT FARMERS’ PAPER.
YOU GET FREE
Legal advice, Doctor’s advice,
Veterinary advice, and
answers to all farming questions.
Neic South Wales edition available
every week.
Price 4d.'
Offices: 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
vf»
No study is complete that is not
equipped with a perfect pen.
Each member of the family should own an ONOTO
Correspondence becomes a delight and children’s home-
worlc a pleasure when accomplished with the ease and
grace that are inseparable from
dMi® !hs
Use )
onoto
INK
fot ALL
pens.
Of all Stationers and Jewellers.
From 15/- each
Thomas De La Rue & Co.. Ltd..
London.
Jr
Representatives:
Norman Baker <S
Ltd.. Sydney,
Wellington.
I Longhurst,
Melbourne.
N. 2.
GET THE NEWS OF ALL AUSTRALIA
FOR
Your Week-end Reading.
BUY THE NATIONAL WEEKLY WITH THE NATION’S NEWS.
In Current Events and Literature. In the Home and Social Life.
In Sport and Agriculture. In Picture and Story.
“THE AUSTRALASIAN”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at—
-26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
cP'
|OV ,^BEApy
COOKED
spaghetti
N TOMATO SAUCC
WITH CHEESE
57
p U«t fOOO PROOUCTS
Cooked l
Ready to Eat!
HOME late! No matter
Heinz Cooked
Spaghetti is ready to heat
and serve. A delightful blend
of Heinz dry spaghetti, sea-
soned with rich tomato
sauce from Heinz grown
tomatoes and a special
cheese ready cooked to
perfection. Wholesome, nu-
tritious, economical. It fits
into every emergency —for
an unexpected guest, a hot
breakfast, a quick lunch, or
the main dish of a man-
sized meal.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Caa*
one of the
Varieties
HEINZ
COOKED
SPAGHETTI
1497
XTbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
For Sale,
FOR SALE.
TOWNSVILLE’S LEADING CAFE.
TTNEQUALLED position, splendidly fur
nished and fully equipped, all in good
condition. Exceptional business.
Takings over £ll,OOO yearly. Owner
retiring.
- jease 10 years at reasonable rental.
Terms may be arranged up to eight years.
Can strongly recommend.
Further particulars from
T. L. HEATLEY,
Commission
LTD.,
Agents,
Townsville.


PIONEER SADDLES—PARK or STOCK
■
m
THE ‘’PIONEER” PARK SADDLE, as
illustrated, is exceptionally good value
for the money, and is made on a
plated bar tree with steel stirrup-bars.
The reat is the right shape for comfort,
and the pads are in the right position
for security. The leather used is long-wearing K.ip,
and included in the price are Nickel-Plated Stirrups,
Leathers and Girth. If you prefer the Stock Type
of kneepads, order the Pioneer Stock Saddle
the price is the same.
£7/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH WITH ORDER
TO ANY N.S.W. RAILWAY STATION.
Write jor our Catalogue of Australian and Texas
Saddlery, showing: —
The “Winton” and “Longreach” Stock Saddles, the
“Kemp,” “Cressbrook” and “Windorah” Park Saddles,
and the “Texas Ranger” Cowboy Saddle—all great
Favorites.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Guaranteed Kangaroo Leather right through with
inside plaited belly. Post free for cash with order.
THONGS
12-plait
16-plait ..
6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait,
19/-. LOADED HANDLES FOR 9ft. THONGS
are 1/6 more.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS, &c.,
595 George Street, Sydney.
For headache or a ‘liver,’
For nerves and stomach ills
For bile and indigestion,
Rely on J>§
I
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
People with an active liver never have
these complaints. You, too, can avoid
them by taking Cockle’s Pills occasion-
ally to ensure the regular working of
your own system. They overcome
constipation, they keep the liver active
and ensure complete cleansing away
of all surplus bile which undermines
the health and causes that tired, de-
pressed feeling. Take Cockle’s Pills
and you will need no other tonic.
Get a box to-day without fail!
Small pill, easy to take. Of all chemists
and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS —SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN ;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
L>
x
PA
X 1
i
fi
NEVER AGAIN THAT
WORN, WEAK LOOK!
/
%
Stop Backache
& Rheumatism
GET BACK THE JOYFUL ACTIVITY OF YOUTH!
You can now put an end to those aches and pains
that rob you of all joy of life an end to that
tired, aged, “all gone” feeling that sends you early
to bed at night restless and dispirited, while others
are just beginning the evening’s recreation! Such
premature conditions of old age are usually due to
uric acid or urinary trouble, and the remedy is
Harrison’s Pills. These will give you back the elas-
tic step of Youth —will make you feel years younger
unhampered by backache, bladder weakness, rheuma-
tism and the like! Harrison’s Pills form the one
remedy that genuinely gets at the uric acid cause
of stiffness, dizziness, and ageing symptoms gener-
ally. A single dose of Harrison’s Pills proves their
worth! Hundreds of testimonials have been sent in
by people who gained benefit from them after other
well-known methods of treatment had failed. If
YOU want to get free from your uric-aeid handicap
—if you would know the joy of renewed vigor, free
from pain and nervous “dizzy” spells, just get a
package of Harrison’s Pills from the nearest chemist
or store. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/- and 5/-. If not
pleased with the improvement in your health, strength
and bearing after just a single trial, you can have
•your money back! Good-bye to aches and pains l
PILLS
Remove the Cause of Rheumatism. Backache & Bladder Troubles
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
ideas. Made ’em respect hers. If they
wanted the things she had to give, she
made them do what she wanted, obey her,
wash, and not take anything without ask-
ing. They’re naturally honest —fair dealers.
When he rode up to the verandah on
Hector, a little later, Hugh looked as full
of exuberant vitality as the chestnut.
“I’ve got to go out after a killer. You 11
be all right?” he called.
Mollie looked up, startled. Was he going
away already? Far? And would he be
long?
“Be back before sundown,” Hugh cried
gaily.
Hector had not been ridden for months,
and was bounding and reefing under him.
“Isn’t he gorgeous?”—he swung and posed
the horse for Mollie’s admiration.
“Gorgeous!” Mollie gasped, watching the
chestnut’s gyrations with more fear than
pleasure.
Coonardoo, going across to the gum-tree
beside the verandah, where she intended to
sit in the shade and feed her baby, stood
a moment to watch Hugh and his horse.
She smiled to herself, knowing he was show-
ing off to let the horse play up like that.
And Hugh, seeing her, and knowing Coon-
ardoo would guess what he was doing,
laughed across at her.
“Coonardoo’ll look after you!” he smiled
to Mollie as Hector swung and danced out,
tail stretched and neck bowing. “Won’t
you, Coonardoo?”
Coonardoo’s steady eyes met his. There
was no need to reply. He knew and she
knew how loyal her caring for his wife
would be.
Warieda, Chitali -and Mick were canter-
ing down from the shed. Hugh turned and
rode out to them.
Mollie went back to unpacking and stow-
ing clothes and wedding presents from her
boxes to drawers and cupboards in her
new home.
Coonardoo sat down under the gum-tree
and opened her gina-gina to her baby. As
he clung to her she sang, watching the
blossoms fall:
“Towcra cliinima poodinya
Towera jinner mulbeena” ....
The words of her little song bubbled and
burbled together. The white sweet blos-
soms on the tall tree waved and fell over
her. The tree became dark. The blos-
soms were stars in a dark sky, and, droop-
ing, as her baby drooped, Coonardoo
stretched to sleep there in the shade under
the still blue sky.
. CHAPTER XV.
Mollie laughed when she heard Hugh
telling the gins what to do about the
house next morning. At first she had not
been sure enough of herself to ask for
anything, much less give orders. But she
was beginning to feel at home.
“This is my home,” she told herself.
“These are my servants.”
Looking round the edge of her door, she
saw Hugh, spurs and hat on, a sturdy figure,
not very tall, of average height, standing
there on the verandah, the gins before him
as he gave instructions for the day’s work.
She thought he looked “the master,” every
inch of him, and very nice in his white
moleskin trousers, faded blue shirt, big-
brimmed felt hat, stockwhip looped over
one shoulder, a brass matchbox and clasp-
knife on his broad leather belt, his pipe
tucked through it. She was very proud
of being his wife; still a little excited about
it and the adventure she had embarked on.
Not that Hugh’s courtship had been at
all what she imagined a courtship should
be. There had been no lovemaking about
it. In the most matter of fact way he had
asked her whether she thought she would
like to marry him and live out-back on a
rather rough and lonely cattle station. Maid
of all work in a boarding-house in Geraldton
where Hugh stayed for a few days
after he left the hospital, she had thought
he was joking. He declared he was quite
serious, and she supposed he must like her
more than he said to be wanting to marry
her.
If Hugh had not been much of a lover be-
fore they were married, he was the most
lover-like of husbands. Mollie found herself
thoroughly enjoying being Mrs. Hugh Watt
during the long journey from the coast to
Wytaliba. Hugh was good to look at, 'gentle
and courteous; and being waited on, con-
sidered, looked after—the experience was
so new to Mollie, who had run about wait-
ing on and looking after other people as
long as she could remember that she lapped
it 'up greedily. And Hugh, she felt sure,
was liking her much better than he did
when they started out on the journey. He
smiled gratefully to her for “cracking
hardy,” pretending she was not tired when
her back ached and her head swayed giddily
on the long days, driving and gazing
through dust and blinding sunshine over
the ever-widening, ever-distancing plains.
“It’s quite romantic, after all, isn’t it?”
Hugh asked happily when, camped by
the roadside, he made a fire and spread their
mattress under the open sky. “You and I
to be driving away like this!”
“It is, isn’t it?” Mollie replied.
Hugh did not pretend to be “gone on
her”—“wild about her.” “I want a wife,”
he had said, “a good sensible girl like you,
Mollie, to come and be mates with me out
there. We’d get on well together, I think.
You’ve had a hard life, and I’ll try to make
up. Be good to you.”
“Don’t be a fool,” her aunt who kept the
boarding-house had said. “He’s the best
chance you’ll ever get. Even if you’re not
in love with him, you can easily be.”
Aunt Emily was right, sure enough,
Mollie reflected. And Mrs. Fairweather,
the doctor’s wife, said Hugh had chosen her
from among several of the prettiest girls
in Geraldton, who would have been quite
willing to go and live with him on Wytaliba.
Mollie had heard Eustace Fairweather
congratulating Hugh, on the day Hugh and
she were married. “I think you’re right,
my boy,” he said. “You’ve chosen well.
She looks sound in wind and limb—a good,
commonsense little creature, who will be
grateful for all you do on her behalf.”
Hugh hoped that Mollie was as pleased
with their companionship as he. There was
nothing he desired so much as to make his
wife happy and satisfied.
Looking through the doorway, she thought
it was funny to see him standing there,
ordering the gins about.
“Here,” she called, “that’s my job!”
“Right,” Hugh turned to laugh back at
her; “you can have it!”
He went over to the door of her room;
Mollie was standing half-dressed, twisting
up her hair, before a small square mirror.
“I’ve got to get out and do some brand-
ing, or we’ll be short of calves this year,”
Hugh said.
“I’ll be all right!”
Mollie’s smile and her cheery assurance
brought, Hugh across the threshold. He
kissed her bare shoulder and went out of
the room again.
She heard him whistling as he swung along
the verandah to the kitchen. There he
made a great noise about tucker-bags which
had not been washed or could not be found;
rationed the blacks, carved hunks of meat
from a huge joint and put tea, sugar and
flour in their tins.
“Can you make bread?” he asked, when
Mollie came hurrying into the kitchen, fresh
and eager-looking, in a lavender-checked
print dress.
Prowling round shelves against the wall,
she lifted pie dishes, milk tins, saucepans.
Every second one had a hole in it, and some
were plugged with scraps of dirty rag. She
sniffed and explored.
“You see,” Hugh apologised, “mother was
a bit mean about this sort of thing. She
didn’t know quite what I would do. We’ll
make a list and send down for all the
new things you want.”
Mollie’s face lighted.
“I’ll make it while you’re away,” she re-
plied promptly. “You’ll see how different
the kitchen will look presently. You won’t
know the place.”
“The gins will do all the hard work,
scrubbing and washing,” Hugh said. “Mee-
nie knows what mother did, or Coonardoo.
But they’ll do just what you tell them.
Be firm, and then carry on as if you were
having rather a good joke together.”
Hugh went off a few minutes later; Mollie
saw him riding with the boys towards hills
which looked as if they had been dipped
in a blue bag.
Elated at the thought of her dig-
nity, Mollie bustled the gins about as
Mrs. Armstrong had bustled her about so
often. On the whole, she was rather glad
Mrs. Armstrong had bustled her round so
indefatigably, insisted on her doing things
properly, thoroughly. She would show Hugh
how a house should be run; and the gins,
too, Mollie promised herself. This slow,
lazy, go-as-you-please way of doing things
would not suit her.
For the first time in her life Mollie had
a proprietorial sense about things. Her pro-
prietorship in this kitchen, these pots and
pans, was anew sensation. It was her
kitchen, these were her pots and pans.
Mollie was very proud of herself, disdain-
ing them, sending them to the rubbish heap,
ordering the gins about, getting their wide
eyes of awe and amazement, hearing their
exclamations.
All day she spring-cleaned the kitchen
enthusiastically, giving herself and the girls
only time for a cup of tea and some bread
and butter at mid-day.
Hugh had left her the keys for the hut of
mud bricks with a thatched roof at a little
distance from the homestead, and Mollie
had jingled them importantly and gone
down to the store, taking Coonardoo with
her, to show where things were.
The store had been a revelation. “Why,
it’s a shop, isn’t it?” she exclaimed delight-
edly when the big key Coonardoo fitted
into a huge lock grated and groaned, and
the barred door swung back.
“Wiah!” Coonardoo breathed anxiously,
as Mollie stepped into the store.
“Why, what is it?” Mollie hesitated on
the threshold, realising the warning and fear
in the girl’s exclamation.
“Koodgeeda!” Coonardoo gasped. “Kood-
geeda lie down here.”
“Oh!” Mollie understood. It was better
to wait in the doorway until her eyes were
accustomed to the dark of the windowless
hut after the brilliant sunshine out of doors.
Taking a long stick from the outside wall,
Coonardoo beat the floor. Mollie heard the
thatch rustle as a snake slipped away
through the roof. She remembered Hugh
had warned her: “Be careful when you go
down to the store. It hasn’t been opened
for a long time, and sometimes a stray snake
or two goes to sleep down there.”
Mollie was terrified of snakes. She did
not know whether she would go into the
store, after all. But Coonardoo walked into
the hut on her bare feet, and glanced back,
(Continued on page 58.)


“Sold by the
World’s
Leading
Retailers.”
S' 1
am
Model 855.
Model 855. Straight
back style modelled on the
latest lines, in splendid wear-
ing coutil. Fancy barmen
top with reinforcement over
busk. Four artificial silk
suspenders: In dove or white.
Sizes 24-32 inches. 0.5., 83-
40 inches.
m
iv;
181.
Model 131. New
style for sports or dancing
wear, no boning, very
fancy material. Made in
pink. Sizes 23-30 inches.
M
2
i >
Model 1250.
Model 1256. —A wrap-
round corset in brochC batiste.
Reinforced elastic on hips.
Light in weight. In pink.
Sizes 24-36 inches.
“<ed
“ Twit fit ' is one of England’s most popular Corsets
because of its comfort and smartness. They are designed
to show off the lines of modern dressing and to give just
that measure of support necessary for complete comfort.
They can be obtained from most of the up-to-date shops,
or a word to the Agents will bring the name of your nearest
dealer.
Retailers
Retailers may obtain full particulars from the Agents, who
will gladly supply literature.
Distributors for Australia:
LYALL WILLIS & CO. LTD.,
London, England.
AGENTS:
Baldwin & Slattery Pty., Ltd.
Perth L. M. Cullen & Co.
NT.2
Melbourne.
Adelaide . . Arthur Glover.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID—32 per cent. Na20.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MAN UFACTUIiED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRATTLEE, VICTORIA.
BY APPOINTMENT.
GMfur
©©IPCt ©HU 9 ®
Gm
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON'S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
’ Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded lor over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World ♦
WHITEST
PUREST
& REST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
Gordons
«sar
dry Gin
©ISTniLILEITC
|L©K]I>@KI
te-
~Tm
ygAjlj ■ f 1
Obtainable
’Everywhere
u
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.


Children
enjoy
dfg
it makes them (
Well and strona
in 4 sizes
ofafl Chemists t. Stores i
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under tlie Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offi es at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwuila Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
WE ARE THE AGENTS.
TH£
"bulldog **
HAMMZf*I£S\
df
A GREAT
GUN AT A
LOW PRICE
THE BULLDOG is the wonder Gun for £B/10/-.
Quadruple bolted, with side clips, fluid steel barrels,
guaranteed Government tested for any charge. It
fits the shoulder perfectly, and is beautifully balanced.
HOLLOWAYS, the Gem of English Guns/ Hit hard,
carry far, throwing surprising patterns. Prize
winners everywhere. £ll to £65. Unbeatable.
THE FOX D.fi. Wonderful Hammerless, with or without
Ejector. They kill at remarkable distances. £l3 A £l6.
WESTERN ARMS CO. GUNS, £4& £6, Great field guns.
Special concessions to promising shots. A week’s Free
Trial given. Obtainable everywhere, or mite the
Agents for Catalogue.
S. COHEN, SONS & CO. PTY., LTD.,
HARDWARE MERCHANTS,
452-460 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
and Ballarat.
Agents wanted where not represented.
THE SENTRY.
BY-J.H.M. ABBOTT.
PRIVATE TOBIAS BULTITUDE, of the
Royal Marine Light Infantry, leaned oh
his musket at the edge of the forest, and
marvelled greatly at the strangeness of the
situation in which he found himself, the still
greater strangeness of his surroundings and
the utter incomprehensibility of his orders.
The sea-regiment went into outlandish
parts of the earth, be well knew, but he had
never heard of any detachment of it being in
a place that took eight months to reach. And
these queer-looking trees with their drooping
foliage that stood up against the stars behind
him, the uncanny noises that went on in
their midst, this moonlit summer night when
it should have been midwinter, this singular
encampment which he was called upon to
guard, the extraordinary people that were in
it —he did not clearly understand why or how
he came to have all these strange conditions
thrust upon him.
But the thing that puzzled him most lay
in the extraordinary instructions which the
sergeant had bestowed upon him when he
had placed him in this lonely and desolate
outpost. He was quite certain that in the
whole history of the regiment no sentry be-
fore had ever received such a singular charge
as had been entrusted to Em. lie could not
understand it; and that worried him. The
reflection that he was aot called upon to
understand orders so much as to obey them
gave him no comfort. He felt nervous, uncer-
tain, wholly bewildered and utterly unhappy.
It was a Sunday evening in February,
17S8, and the lights of “The Gamp, Sydney
Gove”—at that time the local official desig
nation of the beginnings of the great city of
Sydney—gleamed about the V-shaped end of
the little bay on either side of which it had
been pitched a few weeks before. Out near
the Cove’s mouth the black hulls of H.M.S.
Sirius and some of the transports and store-
ships of the First Fleet were silhouetted
against the glittering waters of Port Jack-
son, their tall spars reaching up into the
moonlit sky, and their lyling lights a little
dimmed by the silvery radiance that flooded
r<ll the world about them. The two points
that made the Gove stretched out blackly into
the gleaming channel, and the dark outline of
the harbor’s northern shore stood up like
a wall above the reflected dazzle of the
waters.
Down below his post the white gleam of
tlie tents of the Marines’ camp, and those
where the women were lodged whilst huts
were building for them, were startlingly vivid
against the sombre scrub that covered the val-
ley like a rough carpet, save where it had
been cleared away to make room for the little
settlement. The moonlight was so bright and
strong that he could make out the various
quarters of the encampment almost as well
as if it had been high noon, instead of
nearly ten o’clock at night. The Governor’s
canvas house, with the tall flagpole beside
it, the hospital marquees down towards the
left-hand point, the officers’ lines, the white
row of little pyramids in which his own
quarters were, the tent occupied by the main
guard, with the big horn lantern hanging up
on a stripped sapling in front of it—all the
details of that primitive colony were plain
and clear to him. Dark figures moved in-
frequently across the whiteness of the tents,
or stood up against the gleam of the dying
tires, and voices floated towards him on the
still air with curious distinctness.
The camp, however, was for the most part
sound asleep—since the bugles had sounded
Lights Out a good half-hour before, and dis-
cipline and order had for more than a fort-
night superseded the first inevitable period of
license and irregularity consequent upon the
release ashore of the thousand human beings
who had been so long prisoners on ship-board.
Only those who were privileged to do so, or
had duties to fulfil, moved or stood about
the lines.
A good three hundred yards, his queer post
was, outside the ring of sentries that sur-
rounded the Camp, and he stood beside a
narrow, newly-beaten path that led up into
Rie thick timber not yet fallen to the rapidly
encroaching axes of the carpenters and lint-
builders. He was well within the shadow of
the tall trees of the virgin forest that
stretched up the valley and over the crest
that made the watershed of the rivulet sup-
plying the settlement, and would be quite in-
visible to a person approaching from the
direction of the latter. But lie could not
fail to see anyone who came that way. His
post, it seemed to him, had been selected
with a view to there being no mistake what-
ever about that.
And those orders! He worried perpetually
about them. They seemed to be senseless,
irregular and unmilitary. He turned them
over; in his somewhat dull mind, with a sort
of vague fear. Never had he heard of any-
thing like them ever having been given to
any sentry. In no corps was the strict
observance of routine and precedent more
, rigidly enforced than in the Marines. And
yet he had been distinctly instructed to act
in a fashion which broke every tradition of
his military training, lie was a consci-
entious young soldier, this Private Tobias
Bultitude. and his conscience was troubling
him greatly.
He repeated to himself the brief speech t';e
sergeant had made to him—that very de-
spotic, arrogant and unforgiving Sergeant
Bliss, who had the well-earned reputation
of making existence a hell for any soldier
with whom he had to do who failed, ever
so slightly, in his duty. There was no mis-
take about Bill Bliss’s words, and their terse
definiteness.
“Ye’ll watch out towards th’ Camp, Multi-
tude, and ye’ll watch careful. If any human
being—man, woman or child —comes up that
track ye’ll let him or her advance until they
“She still seemed to be smiling up at them as if the ghastly business of her sudden
death had been some sort of good joke.”
reach yon big black stump that’s not ten
paces from where ye are at this moment.
On no account will ye challenge. D’ye hear,
you’re not to challenge. When they reach that
spot ye’re to fire —an’ God help ye if ye
miss! I’ve chose you for th’ post because
ye’re th’ best marksman in th’ company.
Aim for th’ breast an’ shoot to kill—d’ye
hear me, to kill! Then you will leave your
post here, and get back to th’ lines.”
“To th’ guard-tent, S’arn’t?”
“Hold your tongue, damn ye, an’ listen to
what I say. No. Go to your tent. Ye’ll
be relieved of guard duty for th’ rest o’ th’
night. Ye have th’ countersign, an’ the other
sentries ’ll be given word to pass ye without
question. You may turn into your blan-
kets. But ye’ll not be took off here when
Corp’ral Murphy marches the relief at eleven
o’clock. You may have to wait hours. That’s
why Mr. Callahaugh says ye may relieve
yourself w'hen ye’ve done what ye’re here
for. Now understand —ye’re to shoot to kill,
an’ God help ye if ye miss!”
"But, S’ar’nt Bliss, sir, what am I”——
“Hold y’r tongue! Looky’e, me man,
ye’ll obey orders! And if ye fail to obey ’em
ye’ll suffer! I’ll have every drummer in th’
detachment out to skin ye at th’ halberds.
Th’ hide’ll be cut off your back in strips.
You sec ye do what I’ve told ye. Mister
Toby Bultitude. Else ye’ll be flogged to
death. I can promise ye that much.”
He turned to w'aik back to the lines, but
remembered something else, and faced about
again.
“And, remember, ye’re to leave th’ post
immediate. Ye’re not to see who ’tis ye’ve
shot. Ha’ ye got that?”
“Yes, S’ar’nt.”
So Private Tobias Bultitude had been left
alone with his bewildered and unhappy re-
flections. They made him very miserable.
It was one o’clock when Lieutenant Cal-
lahaugh, of Captain Meredith’s company, was
roused out of bed by Sergeant Bliss, who
stood holding the flap of the tent door, and
uttered his name softly in a tone of agitated
entreaty.
"Mr. Callahaugh, sir,” lie whispered hoar-
sely. Rouse up, y’r honor, an’ tell me
what’s to be done. ’Tis th’ devil’s own bad
luck.”
Sleepily, the dimly-seen figure beneath the
blanket on the stretcher turned over, and
then sat up. There was a subdued twilight
in the moonlit tent which made the two
men visible to one another. Sergeant Bliss
loomed darkly in the doorway against the
brilliance of the night outside. The officer
on the camp-bed was more easily to be
seen in the diffused light that filtered through
the canvas. He yawned and stretched him-
self.
“Is that you, Bliss?” Begad, I must have
fallen asleep. Well, did you get him? Did
the sentry wing him?”
“No, sir—asking y’r pardon. ’Tis not him
at all that’s shot. Lord, ’tis a misfortune!
’Tis not John Beamish at all!”
Hastily throwing off the blanket, the
officer swung his legs over the edge of the
stretcher, and sat upon its side, crouching
forward, as he endeavored to make out the
sergeant’s face. He was fully dressed and
booted.
“What!” he growled. “Not Beamish?”
“No, sir.”
“Then who is it?”
The sergeant hesitated for a few seconds
before replying, as if he was unwilling to
impart bad news. Then he cleared his throat,
and whispered huskily:
“ ’Tis Molly Martin, sir. 'Tis her her-
self !”
With an oath the other sprang to his feet,
picked up a cloak and a three-cornered lmt,
hastily put them on, and took a pace to the
door, the sergeant withdrawing and stand-
ing erect in the moonlight as the officer came
out into the clear night, with a face so pale
that it looked as if it had been whitewashed.
“Damme, what did you say? Did I hear
you aright? Did you say ’twas Molly
Martin?”
Sergeant Bliss saluted, as if in apology
for the obvious concern he had inflicted upon
his superior officer.
“Yes, sir, Molly Martin. Though God
knows why she came there—how the sentries
on tli’ women’s camp came to let her pass.
But ’tis her, right enough.”
“Dead ?”
"Quite dead, sir.”
For a few moments Mr. Callalimigh stared
blankly at the sergeant without speaking.
Then he turned, and negan to walk up
towards the valley. He spoke in a lojw
tone, and hurriedly.
“Come, show me the way. We must do
something—we must think of something to
do. We must not leave her there.”
Close by the black stump which Sergeant
Bliss had pointed out to Private Bultitude,
they found a huddled figure in the dress of a
female convict, lying face downward in the
narrow pathway. Mr. Callahaugh gazed at
it, as if fascinated, for a full minute, whilst
the other stood by in anxious silence.
“You are sure ’tis Molly Martin, Ser-
geant?” at length the officer whispered.
“Oh, certain, sir. 1 turned her over to
make sure.”
“Turn her over again.”
Obediently, the sergeant did as he was
ordered —with a rough gentleness that was
rather out of respect for his officer than for
such rubbish as a dead prisoner-—and the
woman’s pale face, with wide-open eyes,
stared up at the moon. A little slobber of
blood stained the lips and chin of her white
and beautiful face. But she still seemed
to be smiling up at them, as if the ghastly
business of her sudden death had been some
sort of good joke.
“Yes, ’tis Molly. Lord how did she come
here?”
The sergeant shook his head, and picked
up something from the ground beside the
body. He held it up for the other’s inspection,
“She must, lm’ had this from one o’ the
men, sir. ’Twas about her shoulders when I
found her, and there’s a private’s hat has
fallen of!' her head. ’Tis a marine’s great-
coat, y’r honor, she was wearing. One
o’ the men must ha’ lent it her.”
“Dammit, you fool, look for the number
in it. In the lining, at the back —you know
where to look.”
Sergeant Bliss opened the coat, and held
its inner lining up to the moon. Near the
waist some black lettering and figures were
discernible. He read them out to Mr, Calla-
haugh.
“ ‘€—lool,’ sir.”
“D’ye know Avhose number ’tis?”
“ ’Tis Sergeant Beamish’s, y’r honor. T
remember it well for its reading th’ same
both ways. And look, sir-—here are the
stripes upon the sleeve. ’Tis John Beamish’s
coat, sure enough.”
Mr. Callahaugh sat down on a fallen tree-
trunk that lay in the bracken beside the
track, whilst the sergeant faced him from
the other side of the body, the greatcoat over
his left arm. Presently Mr. Callahaugh
spoke—in a harsh voice, in which was a
note of determination that carried some-
thing of a threat in it.
“Listen to me, Bliss. Yon know' what I
know about you—how you have been robbing
the stores ever since we landed? You know 1
the proof I have? You know' how the Gov-
ernor has promised death to any man found
out in such knavery? You know that your
life is in my hands?”
The other cleared his throat, and answered
hoarsely. “I know it, sir—l know it W'ell
enough. Does y’r honor think I’d have acted
the way I done in this business here, a-plottin’
wi’ y’r honor to get rid o’ John Beamish, so’s
you might take his woman—does y’r honor
think I’d ha’ stood in with that unless
I knew ye had me, body an’ soul, with a
W’ord off y’r tongue to th’ Commodore. God
know's I know it. Mr. Callahaugh.”
“Well then, Bliss, you must stand to me
in this affair. We’ll have to put the blame
for this woman’s death on the man who shot
her. Who was the sentry you posted here
to-night?”
“Private Bultitude, sir.”
(Continued on page 57.)


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D. ; Licut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bisliopsjrnto. E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 016,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
a t interest for
fixed periods
and transacts all other usual Banking busings.
The Bank of Adelaide.
(Incorporated 1865.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOU.H AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE. W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 207 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Authorised Capital .. .. ..£2,000,000
Subscribed Capital .. . . . . 1,250,000
Paid Up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
. . £1,250,000
.. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
fo succeed — think of
/l*y
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
<GRZY
UAIHI
WOOLP
smm
\
A,
\e®-
v^ e v^ e
v^ e
<rt«
<s\V C
%^s’srjf3'
sis
° c 'a
V ta.c ft \p **
A
$
miNUT
STAIN
REMOVES THE GREY
Shipping, ere.
Visit
Pacific
Isles!
SYDNEY SAILING DATES.
SYDNEY SAILING DATES
To Honolulu.
Aorangi, Nov. 15.
Aorangi, Jan. 10.
Niagara, Deo. 13.
Niagara, Feb. 7.
Tahiti, Nov. 29.
Tahiti, Jan. 24.
To Tahiti.
Makura, Dec. 27.
Makura, Feb. 21.
m
B
Special
Holiday
Excursions
Honolulu is brought within
easy reach of Sydney—at
the cost of a city holiday—by the
Canadian-Australasian Excursions,
£75 (First Return), £5 5 (Second).
The magnificent liners Aorangi,
17,490 tons, and Niagara, 13,415
tons, offer an ocean holiday, call-
ing at Auckland and Suva.
Tahiti, embracing Raratonga and
Papeete, is a delightful alternative,
the round trip costing only £55
and £4O. This holiday tour is
made by the favorite Union
Liners, Tahiti and Makura.
Literature nf either excursion from
Union Steam Ship Company,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
mwi
mm
m-
n l
ni ;
it /;& .
(■«
4
iiiti;:
mm
Attractive Trips of from S\ to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP&> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
O* NIl w south wales.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND ..
RESERVE LIABILITY
Established 18X7.
£7,500,000
5,650,000
7,500,000
£20,650,000
Directors:
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Chillies Binnie. Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faitnfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq,
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; G. H. Ranken, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadoeedle Street, E-C. 2.
518 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world,
(tilde remittances made to. and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
tmd onlteoted. T.ptters of Credit Tssued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH OOHEN ( Chairman ) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.: OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLI.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveni.tg:
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout. Return, £7/5/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHART,IS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
Magiilfloam
Fast Passenger
Bteamshl|is
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to bo obtained on applieation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIy HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
CoillnsStreet, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Recognized as the
standard of the world
for over a quarter of a cen-
tury, WEED TYRE CHAINS
are the preference of motor-
ists everywhere. They grip
and hold; assure positive
traction; an,d protect car and
occupants from the dangers
of skidding.
Always insist upon WEED
Chains. Order them
from your dealer
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1506
7jl
Dependable /
Monarch
Craig &Aitken
Wholesale Distributor
Sydney N.5.W.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
Register
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRRS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X. 0187.
0. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


Spring brings with it Skin
Troubles — Pimples, Boils and
other Skin Eruptions.
WHY WORRY?
Rexona is the Rapid Healer
which brings Skin Health
and Beauty
We all look forward to the spring, and often forget how the change of
season affects our health and naturally our skin, causing pimples, sores,
rashes, blotches, eczema and even boils and ulcers to break out.
These skin eruptions are dangerous if neglected, and might become chronic
—you must give them careful attention. There is no better treatment
than to apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer. This is an antiseptic ointment
containing just the right cooling, soothing and healing properties that
are needed to rid your skin of all impurities and give you a fair start
for the summer. Rexona soothes pain, builds new, fresh tissues and
renews and heals the skin. The triangular pot of Rexona, with its healing,
soft, green ointment, should be kept handy on the dressing-table so that
every member of the family can have access to its wonderful healing
powers.
Spring Time
is
Rexona Time!
RiKXXmCL
Jfhe Rapid
dealer
i/6
y
#. Cooling
—''l
Healing
fdnliseplic Ointment'
fnanfies -f Absolutely''
* Heals Reliable
A Reliable healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin. Eczema. Sores Cuts.
Burns Bruises, sore.s. .Sciatica Piles Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
REXONA DEP T SHELDON DRU 6 C° L TO SVONEY.
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
:
1
.•n
r.
■ ->WMM
Say it with Hilliers/
rosUci the day they are made
fjfie famous
Red Box oP
GhocobtteS
HILLIERS
ADDRESS
CHOCOLATES
—|« /in. . 162-166 Pitt Stileet
BIUCES
34 5/6. 64 104 1246.
204 an.cL 304
'(PATON)
“That red-lieadcd numskull the other men
call Uncle Toby? A little simple, isn’t he.'
“He is that, sir—a quiet, decent, soft sort
of fellie. ’Twas for that I chose him, be-
sides for his being tli’ best marksman in
th’ company. He’s one would obey orders
without any question, if you told him to
fire at his mother he’d do it—if he reckoned
’twas his duty. A good soldier, sir. ihe
order- I gave him to-night were strange
enough, yet look how he’s carried ’em out!
And fit's left his post, as I told him, and
gone to his tent without examining this
dead body. Anything he’s told he’d do, what-
ever he might think.”
“Did you see whether he was in his
tent? Before you came to me, I mean.”
“No, sir, but I’m certain of it. As certain
as that y’r honor’s a-sitting on that log.
He was to leave his post at once. But, y’r
honor, what d’ye make of the woman coming
here instead of John Beamish? ’Twas him
was to carry the letter to Botany Bay to
the French officers. Why should she ha’
took it? ’Tis that puzzles me, sir.”
The other shook his head. “We’ll find that
out later. Listen —this is what must be done
now. Give me time to get back to my tent.
Then find this body here, and turn out the
guard to search for the missing sentry.
Wake me up, as officer-of-the-day, and inform
me of the occurrence. Put Bultitude under
arrest. Have the body carried into camp.
’Tis Bultitude must suffer. ’Twill seem
as though the woman visited him upon his
post, and somehow he came to shoot her.
What’s a private’s word? Of no more
value against yours than yours is against
mine! He’s had no orders to fire on anyone
without challenging them. He may escape,
if he tells the Court he did challenge. But
’tis not our affair. We have our own affairs
to see to. Now I’ll go back to my tent,
and you walk slowly to the guard-tent. We
were not seen coming out and I can get in
unnoticed. Now, don’t fail in your part,
Sergeant, or it may go hard with you.”
The sergeant saluted and turned away,
walking down the path. Mr. Callahaugh
set out on a circuitous route to his quarters.
As his officer and his sergeant disappeared
Private Tobias Bultitude dropped down from
the fork of the gnarled red-gum on the edge
of the forest from which he had listened to
this interesting conversation.
“The damned villains!” was all that he
exclaimed bitterly. He picked up his musket
from the fern, and walked into the timber,
away from Sydney Cove. Up beside the
little creek he stumbled through the ferns
and undergrowth beneath the dark shade of
the tall trees, and across patches of moon-
light that poured down through holes in the
leafy roof. Bandicoots scurried away out
of his uncertain path, and ’possums scuttled
up tree trunks, or moved further out along
limbs that stretched horizontally above his
course. To himself, as lie fled from the
savagery of civilisation, he kept repeating
aloud, “The damned villains —the damned
murdering villains!”
* * * *
Commodore Arthur Phillip, R.N., Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief in and over
his Majesty’s Territory of New Soiith Wales,
sat at a table in his little canvas Govern-
ment House, and curiously scanned a letter
which had just been handed to him by a
marine orderly, who stood at attention near
the open door. His kindly face wore a
troubled look, and he frowned a little as he
read the letter. Presently he laid it on
the table, and drummed softly upon it with
the fingers of his right hand, gazing absently
out into the brilliant sunshine framed by the
door posts. Regularly, the red-coated sentry
pacing up and down outside passed and re-
passed the opening upon his short beat. The
sound of axes echoed through the still morn-
ing air, and there was an aromatic odor
of burning eucalyptus, and the shouted
orders of a drill-sergeant exercising a squad
of marines somewhere in the vicinity. Pre-
sently the Governor lifted his eyes to the
rigid soldier who stood waiting!”
“Orderly!”
“Y’r Ex’lenzy?”
“How did this letter come here?”
‘Twas brought from Botany Bay last
night, sit, be th’ party under Corp’ral Sim-
mons wot took y’r Ex’lenzy’s letters to Moun-
seer Larperooze yestiddy mornin’, an’ was
handed to th’ sergeant o’ th’ guard. ’Twas
nigh to midnight when they got back, sir,
an’ th’ Major, I don’t think, wished to dis-
turb y’r honor’s rest. He’s but just given
it to me now y’r Ex’lenzy, for to bring
across to ye.”
“Is Major Ross in his quarters?”
“I think so, y’r Ex’lenzy. He was there
ten minutes ago.”
“Pray present him with my compliments,
and say that I desire to see him immediately.
And then see if you can find Mr. Calla-
haugh, of Captain Meredith’s company, and
send him here also.”
“Very good, y’r Ex’lenzy.”
The man saluted and withdrew, and
Phillip picked up the letter, and studied it
again.
“Well, well,” he murmured gently to him-
self—“a strange affair —very strange. But,”
and he sighed a little wearily, “all things
are strange in this commission!”
Presently Major Ross, the officer com-
manding the marine garrison of the Colony,
came hurrying into the tent. He also had
the same anxious expression as the Governor.
Those first months of Sydney were not easy
ones for those in authority. He saluted
Phillip, as he stood in the doorway.
“Good morning, your Excellency—you
wish to see me?”
“Good morning, Major. Yes. Pray draw a
chair beside me. and study this letter. ’Tis
a matter that wall interest you. You recol-
lect the woman who was found shot last
week and the disappearance of that young
soldier?”
“Yes, yes, your Excellency?” The Major
seated himself beside the Governor, who
handed him the letter.
“Read that pray, and tell me what you
think.” J
They were interrupted by the re-appear-
ance of the orderly. The man saluted and
addressed himself to Phillip.
“Mr. Callahaugh not in Camp, sir. In
charge of the party out a-looliti’ for Private
Bultitude, y’r Ex’lenzy—him wot went a-
missin’ last week.”
“Ah ! Very good, orderly. That will do
See what you can make of that strange
communication, my dear Ross. I confess
it puzzles me. Pray read it through. It
came with those letters from M. de Lape-
rouse.”
Major Ross pored over the ill-written
epistle that lay on the table before him,
whilst Phillip sat gazing out into the sun-
light, deep in thought. This is what the
major read.
Botny Baye.
To ye Govnor at ye Campe,—
Hon’d Sir, —This is but to tell you sorry am I
for to desart ye Regimint haven noe Complaynt to
laye agen Majer Rosse an my Comraydes but only
agen 2 villens, Lt. Callahaw an Sgt. Blisse an their
being no othir thinge for me to do but run away.
I rite to you Hon’d Sir becos no sogers wird is ever
took agen his officers an Mr. Rosse wd. not beleave
me an for to cleare my Good Name an I praye you
will look into ye Bisnesse cloasely. When I shotte
ye poore woman Molly Marten I did but obay Sgt.
Blisse his Orders to fire upon without haltin any
who come neare my poaste in ye woodes Sunday
sennight last.e. But I did not goe back to ye Campe
as hee did order for that wd. be to desart my Poaste
so I clime a tree cloase by an wayte to see what
appens. Presentlie comes Mr. Callahaw an Sgt.
Blisse an I did learn ye mystrie of my strange
orders an ye fowle plotte to murder Sgt. Beamish
becos Mr. Callahaw did want his woman, Mrs. Marten.
Mr. Callahaw hath a powir over ye Sgt. for knowen
he hath robbed ye Stoares. Sgt. Beamish was to be
give a letter to take to this playce by nighte for
one of ye Frenche gentleman with Capn. Larberoose
an was to goe secret to Botny Baye an 1 was poasted
with orders for to shoot any who come that ways
without ehallange. But ye woman come instead of
Sgt. Beamish an I shotte hir ded God forgive me.
They planned to laye ye blame on me, so I did
desart an am come here where ye Doctor of this
shippo hath befrended me, him knowing Englishe
speaehe an been a good kinde gentleman like your
Honors selfe. Hee liydes me aboard ye frigit Astral-
arbe an to-morrow we put to See. So this is whay I
do wish for to make your Honor have noledge of
for to warne ye agen them 2 Villens to be on garde
agen suche. An 1 doe praye for your Honors helth
an happinesse an hoape ye libertie I take may be
overlooked.
Your Honors umble sarvint to Commande, —Tob.
ButTITUDE,
“Well, now, what do you think, Major?”
asked the Governor*, when Ross had labo-
riously deciphered this curious document.
Major Ross frowned and shook his head.
“I know this man Bultitude, your Excel-
lency—a good soldier. But we cannot pay
any heed to this —officially, at any rate. And
poor Beamish shot himself yesterday.”
“You don’t say so!” said Phillip, startled.
“Yes—unfortunately. But, sir”
‘■[Well, my dear Ross?”
“We can send Mr. Callahaugh home with
despatches, when the transports sail. We
can do without him here, I think.”
“Indeed, yes ! And the sergeant!”
“Major Ross smiled grimly.
“If Sergeant Bliss has robbed the stores
the will attempt it again. I think, at least
we may hope to decorate one of these great
trees with Sergeant Bliss. But I could
wish ’twere Mr. Callahaugh, your Excel-
lency.”
The House of Desire.
“Only the rich may enter in.”
The legend runs across the door
Of that white house that few may win,
Set high above the lake’s brown shore
Amid the peaks of climbing pines.
About it lawns and trellised vines
Dream in a wilderness of flowers;
And here a marble goddess shines,
And there a slate to mark the hours,
Where broad paths whiten in the sun.
Above its gables stars have spun
Clear threads through tapestries of night.
Tale dawn and sallow eve have won
| Strange quiet on the fragrant height,
And winds but whisper drawing near.
Within its porch the shadows hear
Slow-ticking clocks that never chime.
There is no measure of the year;
Only the gentle moments rhyme,
And feet are noiseless on the stair.
Each chamber filled with golden air
Has magic lights upon the floor.
From silken dreams the carpets wear;
But this is written on the door,
“Only the rich may enter in.”
There came a prince of Avarphin,
Whose gold was more than men could tell;
lie sought that guarded door to win.
From his white robes the sapphires fell
And pearls unheeded as he went.
A thousand sacks of rubies, sent.
As gifts before him, cried his fame;
As slaves a hundred nations bent
Low to the dust to breathe his name.
Yet moved the door not at his call.
Slowly he saw his rubies fall
To drops of blood upon the dust.
His pearls were tears ; his sapphires all
Were but the mould of brazen rust —
The rotted armor of his pride.
He turned his own hot tears to hide.
“Lo, I am poor indeed,” he said.
“The fools who worshipped me have lied.
For richer men the board is spread,
And I go forth to seek for alms.”
There sat a saint beneath high palms,
Who heard the tale above his prayer.
He rose ; he hid his roll of psalms
Beneath his robe of camel’s hair.
“Lo I am rich in faith,” he cried.
Yet when he came where paths divide
Between high lawn and flowery slope,
He looked upon the hill and sighed.
His small heart emptied of its hope,
He turned, footsore, and sought the plain.
Yet every sunset laid its stain
Of crimson on the piney heights,
And casements glowed through golden rain
And mellow damps on starless nights;
And some the gracious door might win.
And who were they might enter in?
And what strange token did they bear
Who gained a welcome of their kin
Where none might come by gold or prayerv
The magic lights are on the floor;
The legend runs across the door:
“Only the rich may enter in.”
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


"Every Picture
Tells a Story ”
Why Endure That
Aching Back?
QOES your back ache day after day with a dull,
unceasing throb? Do sharp, rheumatic pains
torture you at every sudden move? Are you so tired
and nervous it seems you can never be well again?
Then look to your kidneys! The kidneys, you
know, are the blood-filters. Once they weaken,
poisons are apt to accumulate that healthy kidneys
would have filtered off. Then comes constant back-
ache, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
One feels lame, stiff and achy—years older than he is.
Don’t risk neglect! Help the kidneys with a reliable kidney medicine.
Kidney Pills, the remedy home folks recommend. Ask your neighbor!
Use Doan’s Backache
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE
Mrs. F. Anderson, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney, says: “I suf-
fered with my kidneys for a good while, the result being that I was tortured
with backache, and the pain at times was so acute that I had to lie up. My
ankles and legs swelled somewhat and were sore to the touch, and I always
felt tired and languid, having no energy for anything. About two years ago
I was advised to take a course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they
were spoken of so highly that I made up nvy mind to try them. After using
a couple of bottles I felt much better, and as I continued taking the pills the
improvement was maintained, five bottles effecting a perfect cure, and I have
been well ever since.”
Eight years later Mrs. Anderson confirms her previous statement:
“Doan’s Pills made a perfect cure in my case, for I have had no trouble
with my kidneys since this remedy cured me over 10 years ago.”
Mr. \V. James. Hairdresser, Corso. Manly, Sydney, says: “Though,
thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I was completely cured some
time ago, I shall never forget the agony I suffered from backache, caused, 1
air,’ sure, by my kidneys being disordered. My back was very weak and
constantly paining, and no position seemed comfortable. When I stooped it
was simply torture trying to stand up straight again. I was always tired,
my rest at night was broken, and I rvas subject to dizzy turns. On the
advice of a friend I took Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they restored me
to perfect health, which I still enjoy.”
Six years later Mr. James says: “I have had uo return of my old
complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. My experience
proves that this remedy is thoroughly reliable, and I recommend it with
every confidence to other sufferers.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
smiling, as if to say: “It’s all right. You
may come in now.”
Once in, Mollie was thrilled by the store.
It was a shop really, a little shop in the
dark, veiy dirty and badly arranged; every-
thing—shirts and men’s blue trousers hang-
ing up all together; rows and rows of tins
in gaudy wrappers; jam, cocoa, coffee,
tomato sauce, fish, along the wall; bags and
bins of flour; sugar and tea piled at one
end.
Mollie was thoroughly pleased to think
that a shop went with a station. She
understood the shop better than the station,
and, looking about, promised herself a good
time arranging and putting it in order when
the house had been disposed of. Meanwhile
she was a little chary of putting her hands
among the bales and packages, not knowing
when a swift, gleaming body might not slip
from among them.
“Salt and whitewash,” she told Coonar-
doo. “And what’s that? Green paint?
Let’s have some of tha«, too.”
Coonardoo foraged for and found the
salt. She took a tin of green paint from
a high shelf. But “whitewash” —she shook
her head, smiling, and trying to tell Mollie
that that came from a creek bed some dis-
tance away. You pounded the soft lime-
stone to dust, and mixed it with water.
She would send the children for sopie.
Mollie did not quite understand, but
nodded her head, realising Coonardoo knew
what she wanted and would get it for her.
Thrusting her hand into a tin which held
nuts and raisins, Coonardoo brought out
a handful and held them to Mollie with
eyes which gleamed and laughed, as much
as to say: “See, this is where the treasure
is hidden!”
Mollie took a raisin and shook her head.
“No, you eat the rest,” she said.
Coonardoo’s slim fingers curled over the
nuts and raisins. She did not eat them
herself, but clutched them carefully. Later
Mollie heard her calling the children from
the uloo, and saw her giving the nuts and
raisins to Charmi and Bcilaba.
Very pleased with herself and her pos-
sessions, Mollie walked over the rough
stony earth to the house again, thinking
how homey it looked, crouched there
among dark shrubs on the red earth,
against the background of tumbled blue
hills, trees thick and curled in dense scrub
upon them. The kurrajongs in a row be-
side the fence had fluttering crests of light
green leaves. No other homestead she had
seen beyond Karrara looked as comfort-
able and homey.
But she was not so pleased when she
found that Meenie and Bandogera had taken
advantage of her absence to have a smoke
and yarn together at the woodheap, and
the scrubbing of the kitchen floor was not
much further on than it had been an hour
before.
When Hugh came in towards sunset, the
gins were hosing the verandah, and Mollie
putting the last of a few pieces of crockery
and enamelware, considered worthy, back
on the shelves. From the heavy, sullen
faces of Meenie and Bandogera, Hugh
guessed what had happened. He stood,
head flung back, laughing at them, as
he stepped on to the verandah.
“Nabi, silly cowa-cowa! Look at the
sun!” he exclaimed, pretending that they
had forgotten it was time to stop work.
“Finish ’em quick-feller, and come along
for tucker.”
As the gins scuttled away taking the hose
and brooms, Mollie came from the kitchen,
conscious somehow of having done the
wrong thing.
“O Lord, womanie!” Hugh explained.
“We never work them as late as this. After
midday, as a rule, they never do a tap.”
“But, Hugh!” Mollie protested. He saw
the kitchen behind her newly whitewashed,
the shelves with their newspaper runners
cut and fringed, Coonardoo still arranging
dishes and plates on the dresser.
“My word, you have been going the
pace!” he exclaimed.
Mollie was not sure he was altogether
pleased, but she was too satisfied with her
effort to have room for wondering how
Hugh felt about it. Naturally, she thought,
he would not like things altered, upset.
But she intended to be boss in her own
kitchen. She had made up her mind about
that.
“Everything was in an awful mess—l’ll
get the place to rights gradually,” she apolo-
gised.
Hugh’s sympathy and compassion welled
as he kissed her.
“You’re a brick,” he said.
But he laughed as he had on the veran-
dah when, turning to Coonardoo, Mollie
said with a lofty air: “That will do, you
may go now.”
Coonardoo said: “Y~es, ma’am,” and,
with a dignity and grace inimitable, turned
away and went out of the kitchen.
Hugh laughed as though that were the
best joke he had ever heard.
“What’s the matter?” Mollie inquired,
injured in her new pride and proprietary
right.
“You can’t have her calling you that,”
Hugh explained.
“What?”
“Why, ‘ma’am.’ The whole countryside
will have a fit.”
A shade of obduracy, which was the bed-
rock of Mollie’s character, set on her face.
“I didn’t think there was anyone in the
countryside to have a fit. Besides”
“They'd soon know at Nuniewarra, and
you may be sure Sam Geary’d let every-
body hear of it for hundreds of miles
around,” Hugh said.
Mollie jerked herself away from the arm
he had thrown across her shoulder.
“Two old women came down to the
store when I was there and said: ‘Gib it
gina-gina, Mullie,’ ” she explained. “And I
said ‘Here, you mustn’t call me Mullie.’ I
didn’t know what to tell them to call me,
so I said: ‘You say ma’am.’ And Coon-
ardoo and the others, when they started
to ‘Mullie’ me, I thought I’d get in first,
so I just told them to say ‘Yes, ma’am!
No, ma’am!’ when they spoke to me, like
I had to say to my mistress.”
“I see.” Hugh understood, and very ten-
derly went about soothing the wounded
pride which had gone into this explanation.
“But we don’t feel like that out here,”
he said. “The blacks always called my
mother Mumae, because they used to hear
me calling her Mummy, I suppose, when
I was a kid. But Mumae means father in
their dialect, too, and mother was proud
of their name for her. It meant mother
and father, really. And they’ve always
called me Y'ou or Youie. I’ve grown up
with most of them. Besides, I don’t know
any man in the Nor’-West who works his
own place that doesn’t like to be called his
Christian name bv the blacks. We sling-
off at the man who makes his abos. ‘sir’
or ‘boss’ him. He’s a newchum or a sleep-
ing partner.”
“What are they to call me, then?” Mollie
inquired. “I never heard of a woman’s ser-
vants calling her by her Christian name.”
“But these people are not servants,”
Hugh told her. “Not in the ordinary way.
We don’t pay them except in food, tobacco,
clothing. Treat (hem generously, feed them
well. Give them a bit of pain-killer or
a dose of castor oil when they’ve got a
bingv-ache, and they’ll do anything in the
world for you. But you must never work
them too hard—specially gins. They’re
not made for hard work, can’t stand it.
Look at their little hands. Coonardoo’s
—l’ve never seen any woman with as pretty
little hands as Coonardoo’s.”
Mollie stared at him curiously, her brows
lowering. She could see her idea of a nice
orderly home threatened; but she was not
beaten. She intended to be mistress in
her own house. She did not mean Mrs.
Bessie’s way of doing things to rule Wyta-
liba for ever. But she would go warily.
“Anybody been through while I was
away?” Hugh asked Warieda. who had
come to the kitchen for the blacks’ rations
of meat and flour.
“Sam Geary and Cock-eyed Bob come
with Saul one time,” Warieda replied.
“Sam got motor-car. Sheba drive ’m.”
"He has, has he? A car? Hugh cut
chunks of the dark, wooden-looking meat,
‘•What did he want here, anyhow/
Hugh had heard about Geary s car, and
that he had taught Sheba to drive, so that
when he was drunk she could take the
wheel and deposit him wherever he wanted
“Oh, just walk-about. See everything .ill
right.”
"The black was grinning. He knew as
well as Hugh how Geary hankered alter
Wytaliba—how he had been scheming loi
years to get possession of the place.
“Want you to go over and do some
horse-breaking for him?”
Warieda nodded.
“And you wouldn’t go, Warn.
The black shook his head. “Wiali. ho
said. “Tell ’m Wytaliba boy. Alou coinin'
close up now.”
CHAPTER XVI.
Coonardoo’s face writhed and twisted.
Her eyes flashed fear and hate.
It was midday; sitting under the shade-
miah she was nursing her baby. Dust was
blowing in a straight line along the back
road; it rushed towards the lower gate
of the paddock which enclosed the home-
stead and uloo. Meenie and Bardi, sleep-
ing in the shade, grunted and stirred at the
muttered curse. Warieda wakened where
he had been lying near Coonardoo. Chitali
and the boys beside him stretched and fiat
up quickly, quietly, as is the aboriginal
way at any suggestion of fear or danger.
Everybody knew Coonardoo had uttered
that fierce, low imprecation, and why. It
was Sam Geary in the low, red cloud of
dust spinning towards the homestead.
Geary in the new car he was so proud of.
On the shady side of the verandah where
he lay stretched on the boards for his
afternoon nap, Saul Hardy sat up. He
had returned to Wytaliba as soon as he
knew Hugh was home again. His glance
swung from the woodheap and shade-miah
to the road from the Five-mile Gate.
Geary’s car rushed out of the dust it
raised and stopped suddenly, a little dis-
tance from the house. Mollie came out
from her room at the unusual sound.
Sam Geary got out of the car and walked
past the woodheap. He saw Coonardoo
nursing her baby, strutted over and looked
down on the child in her arms.
“So that’s it, is it?” he crowed, bloodshot
eyes alive with a gay ill-humor. “Where’s
Youie?”
Coonardoo glared at him and stalked
iway. Geary went on to the house.
“Hullo. Saul!” He greeted the old man
exuberantly. “How’s things? Come to
call on thq bride!”
(To be continued.)


*
8
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHtKCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WFST N S WALES
N.Z. Office—s)3-107 leatlierstoi. Street, Wellington bUUI/UKU HWI, 17. O.
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELBEIt, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. B.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered by fast motor-cars, it reaches Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE lid.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
in 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24} inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16} pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of "THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price l}d.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Cliftors Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
AN IDEAL WINTER HOME. Tt|e most sheltered spot on the Harbor.
Incomparable for Comfort. Excellent Cuisine and Service. Private Beach
and Amphitheatre Baths. Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4 2 Guineas.
Bed and Breakfast if required. Luncheons. Afternoon Teas. Dinner..
DemV* «-*»<«• /"» «>» l> g E fgvA%,ON-sNs.K. 4 Un«.
&
v>
the Newspaper of Northern
| Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead, etc.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier» and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 flinders Street, 701 Herald Buildinp,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in ‘‘The Bulletin" takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to:—
Robt. Jackson, N.S.W. Branch Manager,
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
Ist Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone 81522.
KEEP
YOUR
CRIP
ON
HEALTH
Hz
Vim
WITHOUT health you lose a
great deal of interest in life,
your ambitions flag and
achievement becomes increas-
ingly difficult. You feel slack.
Constipation is the cause of
most of the bad health these
days. People suffer headaches,
biliousness, indigestion with-
out thinking that the cause is
constipation —an evil which
may develop into something of
a serious nature if care is not
taken.
Beecham’s Pills that tried
and trusted remedy —possess
I in a remarkable measure the
I power to assist the stomach,
liver and bowels to work in
' harmony and so to conquer
constipation.
If you are troubled by this most
serious complaint remember
that relief can be speedily and
safely effected and
health restored by
taking
The remedy you need for Sicl( Headache,
Constipation, Biliousness , Indigestion,
Disordered Stomach and Liver •
THERE IS ONLY OWE BEST!
Motor boat enthusiasts demand
the best in marine engine equip*
ment. That is why they use
Kermath Marine Engines. And
that, too, is the reason why over
70% of the leading boat-builders
of the world' install Kermath
Marine Engines —“ A Kermath
always runs.”
All parts Standard and Inter*
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
f 3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
3
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney, N. S. W.
Marine
Engines
RERMATH
Manufacturing
Company
Detroit, Mich.
U.S. A.
Cable Addreca
Kermath
*
53
PLUM
The morning shave is never a
trial if you use a PLUM.
Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney.
126
.POST FREE
m
n
0°
6>
f o®
s®'
s**’ ..** ..•’
#
..**
..*** ~•**
•*'i s^ c6 °^‘


TEST
fSX.
W 9
t
«. ,U
'M
K
>4
iIMUI
f i
For General Transport
For the building of roads—for the
transport of goods, materials, food-
stuffs or people—for any job of
hauling or carrying—Graham
Trucks built with the famous Dodge
Brothers engine, have the power,
the speed and the strength to serve
you dependably year after year.
And with their low price and low
operating costs they are recognised
money makers the world around.
Harden & Johnston, Limited, Sydney .
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne*
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville .
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth .
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland, y.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, y.Z.
Oossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, y.Z,
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. ~ Invercargill, N-Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N.Z.
Magnus Motors, Ltd, .. Wellington, N.Z,
Graham Brothers
Trucks and Buses
BUILT BY THE TRUCK DIVISION OF DODGE BROTHERS CORPORATION
SOLD BY DODGE BROTHERS DEALERS EVERYWHERE
sa/oi/oi
