

There’s always
a call for
X
s\
OA
to
m
m
1 >■:
%
swa
m
m
BSfe
«Ssß
>^V-
S 5
X 3
?>•
m
m
■tr*Z
S*/rfV?
******
W O E H-O-WILLS
JHdnufoiclurecl in your own
country frovw Ihc finesb
Selected Uivgivim lecuf
Packets of 10— 8 °
Packets of 15 V:
With the Special Ivory Tips,
No tobacco Ccfn pass your lips.
(Also Cork T ipn ed and Plain
The Bulletin
ftMat &
Vol. 50.— N0. 2573.
Wednesday, June 5, 1929.
Price 6d.
fiegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


’"THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCTv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A long life and a merry one for me!
A life of laughter, love and gaiety,
A long life in the sunshine—debonair!
A life of gloom and sadness brings despair.
A long life blessed by strength and perfect health
And all the verve that aids to fame and wealth,
A long life free of colds, and that assure
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
» —Advt,
d
IRRESPONDEHCE
INCLUDE -
All Australian Exams.
Accountancy Exams.
Architectural Courses
Advertisement Writing
Agricultural Courses
Bookkeeping
Bankers’ Institute
Builders’ Courses
Commercial Art
Chemistry
Draftsmanship
Engineering
General Education
Government Exams.
Hand Writing
Languages
Motor Engineering
Professional Exams.
Secretaries’ Exams.
Shorthand, Typing
Salesmanship
Show Card W riting
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
Stammerers
Surveying
Teachers’ Exams.
Touch Type Writing
University Exams.
Verse Writing
Window Dressing
Wireless Engineering
Encircle Course Favored and Mail This
Advt.to STQTT 5,100 RUSSELL ST.,MELB.
ILYSAGHP
o
0
R
.AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SN-
■XJVN*
TfOB-
” \S
.eP**
’BO'i S .„.*,,,
instat'ds de :
■yet
w»oV
to
•0.0
TO
a
ea^ s
V^dSe
,P&
,toV
a\*
* -^tpe
pe'
\V\K
issis*
co
OV
v?“S>
*» a “ ?5 “
® e ~ SW
ffc«f CO* e . w
ee^
i gvra’ l '
i?ed s >
s& f
on sT^vS^ S
'. a...
9-
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITS Pi. RUBBER
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—au illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and new T s of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, 'where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
ď
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in stamp*
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
An Education Palaver
The Canadian National Education Con-
gress (the third of its triennial kind), now
on its last legs in Vancouver, is not likely
to go down in history as epoch-making.
Conventions and congresses are largely
what their organisers make them. They
resolve themselves inevitably into orgies
of eatings, outings or talkings, and this
country seems to specialise in all three. The
people who come to them may be divided
into the bores, the picnickers' and the profes-
sional talkers, with a small leaven of earnest
and competent thinkers.
The thinkers get their influence felt casu-
ally, and almost confidentially, by personal
exchange of intimate information and ideas;
and this looks to an experienced observer
of these disturbances to be the value
which may justify them, if anything does.
Authentic public results are neces-
sarily more or less haphazard, but that may
be, as in this case, largely a triumph of
capable showmanship. An organiser sets
to work in advance to rope in as delegates
the sure “draw's” from wherever available,
and one suspects him occasionally of shaping
the objects of his congress to suit his human
material. Thus, at this congress, by some
subtle means, Rabindranath Tagore, the
aged Indian poet, was secured as star
performer, and the Yanks are now said to
be bidding for him in straight-out dollars
of great number. Local result : Queues a
hundred yards long waiting in the street
outside the theatre on the nights when he
speaks. They don’t get much for their
trouble, because the handsome old man
talks in a high-pitched feminine voice, and
with his Indian inflection, although he uses
excellent English, little of it can be dis-
tinctly heard and still less of it understood.
His matter is a sort of vague glittering
Oriental mysticism dealing in moral and
psychological generalities and platitudes.
Those who wait for the next day’s news-
paper to read the gospel are no wiser than
those who strained their ears to hear him.
The Imperial Government sends along
Sir Aubrey Symonds, an Education Board
hack, a sort of false-alarm Chamberlain
in appearance, with nothing to say, how-
ever, and a typical Oxford way of saying it.
The Indian Rajahs are represented by their
own emissary, Rushbrook Williams, who
seems, to the wary eye, a propagandist of
native Indian political ideals, expressed,
however, with much care. If he is not that,
it is not clear what he is doing at an educa-
tional congress. Sir Charles Grant Robert-
son, of Birmingham, with some refreshing
humor, stands out among the literary men,
as does Archie Strong from Adelaide. The
best man among the pedagogues is Frank
Milner, of Maoriland, a fluent talker on
national affairs, with something to say, but
with an inclination to over-seriousness and
occasional prolixity.
The bane of all the talkers, and particu-
larly of the “stars” and over-fluent gentle-
men, is the plethora of platitude. The
Governor-General opened the ball with his
Imperial platitudes, well ordered and
spoken—in which respect he set a model
not always followed. He is Australia’s old
friend Freeman Thomas, now Lord Willing-
don, a fine aristocratic figure, and his wife,
Lord Brassey’s daughter, is still blooming
and captivating. Then the “stars” and
“near stars” turned on their platitudes—
some prepared months and often, one sus-
pects, years before for such an occasion as
this. The addresses and speeches will pre-
sumably go into the congress archives or
destructor. Only the Germans, with charac-
teristic foresight and thoroughness, have pre-
pared for it with their bit of educational
propaganda in the form of a well-printed
and illustrated book dealing with the very
topic of this congress and its practical appli-
cation in German schools, and have politely
presented a copy to every delegate present,
the one practical memorial of his outing
that he can take with him and digest at
leisure.
And so, on the pleasant sea of harmless-
ness and good fellowship, all the platitudi-
narians, silent thinkers, picnickers and bores
will drift away to their homes, if the over-
feeding and over-handshaking (Canucks
are whales for both) leave them with any
nerves or digestion worth taking away!
VANCOUVER.
AN AUSTRALIAN DELEGATE.
Knocking Mars Flat
Alan D. Mickle asserts (R.P. 15/5/’29)
that the interchange between erstwhile
enemy nations of such war (or peace) plays
as “The Rumor” and “Journey’s End” will
do much towards the ending of war. A
touching platitude, believed by nearly every
pacifist, and sprung from the blind thought-
lessness which accepts the world as peopled
only by adults and always by the same adults.
It is a comforting belief, like the shallower
interpretation of Omar. Edgar Allan Poe
held it when he said of “The Song of the
Cavalier”: “With our modern and alto-
gether rational ideas of the absurdity and
impiety of warfare, we are not precisely in
that frame of mind best adapted to sym-
pathise with the 'sentiments... .of the
poem.” People, in fact, have been fired by
these "rational ideas” in pretty well all
articulate ages. The contempt for Tommy
Atkins held by the people Kipling sneered
at is expressive of a normal peace-time feel-
ing towards war and its associations. It is
merely reaction against war, just as war is
reaction against peace, and the most the
broadcasters of this anti-war propaganda can
ever hope to achieve is peace for their
own generation; and that is not a result,
for the generation is as alive to the futility
and discomfort of war as are war’s noisy
detractors.
Pacifists, indeed, are altogether illogical,
for every time they raise their voice they
are fighting, being pugnacious, opposing
something which opposes or threatens them.
They are bad-tempered and violent in their
too, and war cannot be abolished
until it is impossible for anyone to feel
violent about or even feel opposed to or
covetous of anything; in other words, when
the moon turns oblong. Ex-parson Garden,
a pacifist in international war, is a step on
the way to another sort of war, as are all
pacifists, because they keep alive the fight-
ing spirit. The great factor for war which
all of them, the Mickles, the Poes and the
rest, overlook is the youngster now at
school. Children are sentimentalists and
romantics; war to them is man’s supreme
game.
Its horrors, by the way, are not being
exposed; the romance of Gallipoli is made
more romantic every year in nine schools
out of ten. Fighting, warfare of one kind
or another, is boys’ most popular and natural
play. But, it can be said, there has never
before been such a volume of pacifist pro-
paganda to influence them when they are
old enough. That, however, is to be rather
hasty over the comparative weight and too
optimistic of the permanence of this pro-
paganda. A man who has just heard a knife
slipping easily into the throat of a sheep
might not feel like eating mutton-chops
just then, but it won’t be long before he
raises an appetite. The assumption behind
all this peace propaganda is that by empha-
sising the horribleness of war a state of
mind will be created in which, war will be
simply impossible. That is to believe that
the world can be frightened out of war;
another restful and palpable fallacy.
This “frightening” idea is the basis of
The Searcher, by Velona Pilcher (Heine-
mann; Roy croft Library, Sydney), a mod-
ernist play in seven scenes without - any
interval, illustrated with striking woodcuts
by Blair Hughes-Stanton. Miss Pilcher was
last year a director of London’s Gate
Theatre. She is one of the experimentalists,
whose work, however much it may irritate,
must be given due credit for escaping stag-
nation. What they try to do and in various
degrees succeed in doing is to give the age
back to itself as it is—unsettled, at cross
purposes, distorted. Just as Turner would
take significant objects and so use them in
a painting that the picture was a better
likeness than a photograph, so Miss Pilcher
uses the sounds and shapes typical of war,
aiming to recreate theatrically the impres-
sion of war “machinery playing on a human
heart.” Her great defect is one common in
this anti-war propaganda; it is not the re-
action of during-war that is captured, but
the reaction of after-war. These plays, novels
and so on are not war pieces at all; they
are pure peace. Miss Pilcher’s achievement
is a representation of what the war looks
like now to an intelligent spinster or mother
who lost nothing through it. The central
figure is an enormous and grotesque female
called the Red Cross‘Searcher, intended to
represent motherhood, but lacking in the
thing which makes motherhood possible—
sentiment. Such action as there is occurs
chiefly in a tunnel-like hospital ward; it is
clumsy and impossible to summarise, be-
cause the telling of a conventional story is
not attempted; the idea is to make the spec-
tator feel the presence, the horror and the
futility of war. What war feels like now
is admirably managed, too; but that does
not prevent its being very boring. The
Searcher, instead of impressing as accumu-
lated Woman, is a monstrosity; moreover,
she is a comic monstrosity, and that is just
what she cannot afford to be. Again, the
condemnation of war is direct; the play
says over and over, “War is a plague; avoid
it,” than which there can be no more try-
ing entertainment. One scene in the ward
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Every statement made by Anthony Horderns’ is supported by “Truth in Advertising.”
MEN’S OVERCOATS
at
Anthony Horderns'
Are Perfectly Styled
Well-turned-out Men prefer these distinctive Coats, and they are wise
in their choice, for, besides the apparent qualities of style and smartness,
they possess the added advantages of serviceability and economy. These
important features are Worthy of consideration.
English Models from £7/7/-
The illustration is a high-grade tailored Overcoat, and is
available in several faultless styles made from superior Tweeds,
Twists, Velours and Blanket Tweeds. Linings carefully chosen
to harmonise with the particular color and style. These
garments are exceptionally smart, distinctive and low-priced.
Prices range from . £7/7/-, £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-
Double-breasted Overcoats from 105/-
Form-fitting with Half Belt and Inverted Pleat at back, six-
button front. Outside breast pocket and two flaps. The
pockets are lined with rich, art silk to tone and all seams are
silk taped. In a range of English Velour Coatings of Navy,
Plum, Browns, Fawns or Heather mixtures, available in plain
or fancy designs.
Prices 105/-, 126/-, 147/- and 168/-
Tweed Overcoats, 39/6
Very smart and serviceable Coats in all-wool Blanket Tweed,
featuring Raglan Sleeves. Full-skirted, with seam or vent.
Finished with all-round belt and leather buckle. This
extremely low price creates really remarkable value.
Price 39/6
Gabardine Overcoats from 75/-
Smart, English-made Overcoats, in new Weaves and Colors.
Serviceable garments for all kinds of weather. Made with
special rain-resisting finish and strongly lined throughout. In
slip-on Raglan style, fully skirted and supplied with or without
belt. In shades of Fawn, Mole, Navy, Brown, Grey; also Shot
effects in various new tonings.
Prices 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-, 168/-
Department—Ground Floor. Carriage Paid.
1
USE OUR DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM
Perhaps you find it inconvenient to pay the full amount at once. But don’t let this fact
prevent you from securing one of these Coats. Make use of our ‘‘D.P.S.” Leave a small
deposit, and pay the balance as you please. On completion of payments the goods are
yours. No interest charged.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


THE NEW
M
NRSH
%
a?
i
ISM
V
MANY handsome compliments have been paid the new
Nash "400.”
People all over the world who know the best, and will accept
nothing less, are buying and praising this new and finer
motor car.
They are discovering that "400” motoring is a more advanced
and modern type of travel, more luxurious, more delightful.
The "400” is, you will find, the only one of all the new cars for
1929 which combines all these highly desirable new features:
Twin Ignition... centralized chassis lubrication... hydraulic
shock absorbers... bumpers front and rear as regular equipment
... costly car interior decoration... and utmost steering ease.
There is a vast difference between motor cars of the past
and the 1929 Nash "400.” No other car has gone farther
in the direction of the ideal—a combination of moderate
cost and highest quality.
Leading the
Parade of
Motor Car
Progress ...
TOURERS.
Standard Six from £375
Special Six from £4BO
Advanced Six from £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors jor Queensland ■ and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58*72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
(14-9773)


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
đ
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing List*, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
in which the footless legs and handless
arms of the wounded are exposed is merely
revolting. It is put there on the frightening
principle, but is more likely to make any-
one physically ill momentarily than men-
tally awake, and that applies to all this
“frightening” material.
A virtue of all such peace propaganda is,
of course, that, like prayer, it cannot do
much harm.
CECIL MANN.
Charles Marriott explains that the title
of his novel “The Catfish” is derived from
the fact that North Sea fishermen, having
found that the cod they sent in tanks to
London arrived in a flabby condition as a
result of their lazy life on the voyage, put
one catfish in each tank, and the catfish,
possessing such a nature that it must keep
things moving, rouses the cod from luxuriant
inertia, so that it arrives at the market
in a fine condition. Cecil Mann is a literary
catfish. Still, though I welcome his activi-
ties, I do not agree with all he says. He
doesn’t enjoy listening to writers reading
their poetry at a public gathering. I do
enjoy it; I loved every moment of that
evening. Moreover, I am convinced that
the majority present felt as I felt; indeed,
they made it evident that they did. I think
there is nothing more delightful than hear-
ing a writer read his own poems. No one
but the writer, provided he reads well, can
give as good an interpretation.
Mr. Mann says: “What Australia needs
at the present moment is literary work, not
literary talk.” What it needs most of all
is buyers for Australian books. At the
same time, I agree that work is needed,
though I think talk is stimulating and help-
ful.
A. B. Crcwther.
With the writer’s permission the follow-
ing extracts from a private letter received
by Cecil Mann from Professor Brereton, the
president of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers, are added to the discussion: —
I’d rather hear a man of letters read his
own work, however badly, than hear another
man read it, however well. His reading will
illuminate liis purpose and his technique.
Steele Rudd’s reading—in essentials so like
that of Mark Twain —interests me very
much.... FitzGerald’s reading, even in its
faults, was a |$udy. It was definitely his
own way. Ron Quinn, too, has his own
way of reading verse It gives the man-
ner in which liis verse comes, as he composes
it, to his mental ear. It is useless to con-
demn it. It has to be accepted, and then
one can learn something from it. The criti-
cism that stands aloof and expresses irri-
tation is, from my point of view, irrelevant.
But I got some enjoyment from Rod’s boom,
merely as a reading. It rolled out like great
bulging clouds of white smoke, lit silverly
by the poetry —or, if you prefer another
image, like thunder, not unaccompanied by
lightning. Each man had his own manner.
And for the negative advantage of an
avoidance of monotony, and the positive one
of comparison and contrast, I’d rather hear
several authors read than one.
The only general purpose of the meeting
was to attract attention to Australian litera-
ture (and, incidentally, to interest people
in two societies which have undertaken to do
their best to encourage readers and writers).
It was a good aim. The audience came
through a hearty and natural (not at all
morbid) curiosity to see and hear writers
whose works they had enjoyed; or, rather,
most of them came out of interest in the
personality of one author, Steele Rudd,
Fellowship of Writers
Cecil Mann’s essay, “A Literary Night
Out,” penned on the F.A.W.’s recent gather-
ing (B. 15/5/’29), curiously reminded me of
an essay a youngster of mine won a prize
with on “Our District Show.” The young-
ster’s effort, however, was never published,
so I’m not implying that Mr. Mann was
inspired by it.
It saddens me, though, to think that
Cecil Mann, in remarking the virtues of
my own contribution to the “Night Out,”
should mention it as an extract from my
“coming book,” when in reality it was a
reading from a book of mine, “The Miser-
able Clerk,” which had “already come,” and
was favorably reviewed by The Bulletin !
Mr. Mann also observed that he “wasn’t
surprised that the creator of 'Dad’ appeared
in a dinner-suit, because he is used to
literary contradictions.” Well, I wore that
dinner-suit for three reasons: (1) It was
made for me when I was an Under-Sheriff
about a quarter of a century ago, and I
wished to show how little I have changed
since then. Several ladies assured me I
fitted it beautifully, and I take more notice
of ladies than I do of Cecil Mann. (2)
I sat beside Chief Justice Griffith in that
suit when he sentenced the Kenniffs; and
beside Justice Cooper when he sentenced
a common burglar to five years, and added
in my ear: “Blast him! he’s kept me late,
and I have friends waiting for lunch.” And
having heard that, Mr. Mann would be pre-
sent to sentence the Fellowship to dam-
nation, I wished to sit beside him in it!
And (3) as the creator of “Dad,” whom I
put into Parliament in a belltopper and
heavy gold chain, I wished to show myself
a consistent literary man and not a “con-
tradiction.”
Finally, I am pleased greatly to know
from Cecil Mann that my reading from
“The Miserable Clerk” (though he heard
only one word out of every three) bore a
resemblance to Lamb’s “South Sea House”
—pleased because I know that Lamb was a
great writer; even greater than Mr. Mann,
though that, of course, might be saying
too much for Lamb.
STEELE RUDD.
Said the Spider
One of the thoughts that will occur to
most readers as they come to the end of
/S' id the Spider, by Mary Marlowe
(Collins), is: “Here, at last, is the perfect
film story.” It begins on the banks of the
Fly River. Nao, a lovely half-caste child,
the orphan daughter of a white woman who
was captured by Papuan savages, is to be
married to Ho—
A sullen boy with deep-set eyes and fleshy eye-
lids under curling brows that were the brand of an
evil temper. A monstrous growth of bulbous flesh
served him for a nose, and his thick, bunching
lips, colored like the pinkish-purple top of a
swede turnip in decay, were puckered into grotesque
folds as he slobbered upon his flute. A mass of
matted lime-bleached hair rose abruptly from his
forehead and temples like the corrugated sides of a
ravine.
David Wrixon, a 15-year-old Sydneyite,
and his friends rescue Nao from this horror
and we see her in a Sydney convent; in
the New York “dwelling-room” of a cocaine-
taking aunt; as a dancer in Hughy Hughes’s
cabaret. And then David, whom she has
always loved, comes back from the war.
The book is much more than a pictur-
esque romance. It has atmosphere—the hot,
tired atmosphere of the jungle; the slick,
noisy atmosphere of New York—and the
characters live. This reviewer has only one
grievance against Mary Marlowe, who is
steadily advancing in power and beauty as
a writer. She could have kept her delight-
ful heroine in Sydney, and she took her to
New York. About the most vital of the
minor characters is Bob Nawn, an Aus-
tralian journalist—but he practises his pro-
fession in America. “Said ( the Spider”
appeared with some of the realism cut out
in the Woman’s Mirror.
A Satchel of Books
A Book of Songs, edited by Ernest Mac-
millan (Dent). A comprehensive collection
of time-tested songs, with music, designed
especially for Canadian use. Australia is
not represented.
Our Puppet Show, by Francis de Croisset
(Ileinemann). Among much that is merely
platitudinous, the famous French dramatist
sandwiches in some sane and interesting
comment upon life and the stage. Somerset
Maugham asserts that if he “extracted the
plums” liis “preface would be as long as
the book,” a nice p ; ece of flattery from one
playwright to another.
So Little, by Helen E. Wallace (Arts and
Crafts). A sheaf of verse for children, some
republished from the Australasian, and
all revealing a nicety of ear and thought,
though the true child mood is not always
entered. “Down Under the Sea” is excellent
child verse.
The Duchy “Q.” Continuing the admir-
able little “Duchy” edition of the tales and
romances of Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Dent
has issued “Hocken and Il'unken” (consid-
ered by its author to be far superior to “Troy
Town”), “News from the Duchy,” “Nicky
Nan, Reservist,” and “Foe-Farrell.” Each
is characteristically introduced by “Q.”
Anna Marplott, by Mrs. Fred Reynolds
(John Lane). Two characters bear the title-
name —one the Late Victorian mother, a
canting and selfish snob ; the other her good
and lovable but wayward daughter. There
is a deep pathos in this book—the pathos
of youthful love denied an outlet—but a
Jane Austenish humor is its dominant note.
Only a woman could have revealed Mrs.
Marplott so fully and so relentlessly.
The Case for the Defendant, by H. Auf-
friclit-Ruda (Allen Unwin). Recounts in
the guise of fiction the story of a French
officer of the Second Republic who was
accused of assaulting liis general’s daughter
and insisted on pleading guilty, though all
the evidence, medical and otherwise. was
against. A curious study, carried out with
German thoroughness and admirably trans-
lated by Bernard Miall.
Shakspeare and Chapman as Topical
Dramatists, by Percy Allen (Palmer). By
elaborate quotation of “key” passages the
author sets himself to prove that plays such as
“Love’s Labor Lost,” “Twelfth Night” and
even “Hamlet” were to Elizabethans analo-
gous to the modern revue, or at least topical
to a large degree. It seems an amiable theory,
and is advanced with no intent to disparage
the plays involved. No doubt it will bring
new delight to minds as appreciative as is
Mr. Allen’s of the small fry that the unaca-
demic fisher in the waters of literature cheer-
fully ignores.
Napoleon, by Dmitri S. Merezlikovsky
(Dent). In the laudatory division of the
40,000 or so books on the Corsican already
printed, yet the Russian novelist does attempt
to get under history to the man. Succeed-
ing, he finds that his hero is not a man,:
after all, but a godlike figure, to be com-
part'd with Christ. Nevertheless, his appreci-
ation is never quite fulsome. He “quotes”
in a wholesale fashion, ,his numer-
ous extracts with staccato remarks, so that
the book takes on a decid'd impressionistic
design. The method makes jolty reading,
but the result is effective;; it leaves a clear
and complete portrait.
Everyman. In the new, considerably-
improved binding an interesting hajf-dozc.n
volumes have just been aidded (w Everyman.
“A Letter from Sydney,” the rathe'r wild
treatise on colonising Australia which
Edward Gibbon Wakefield wrote in an Eng-
lish gaol from hearsay, is a curiosity more
than anything else. As its editor remarks,
its republication after a hundred years may
“serve to recall to the present generation the
value of his services to the Empire” (i.e.,
in the beginnings of South Australia and
Maorilaml), but the present generation will
find it very dry reading. Something rather
different, and rather far removed from the
Everyman father’s Nonconformist youth, is
the complete Urquhart and Mottcux Rabelais
in two volumes. Lord Chesterfield’s letters
to his son; vol. I of a “shorter novels”
series, introduced by George Saintsbury, and
including work of Thomas Deloney, Nash
and Robert Green; and “The Rights of
Woman,” by Mary Wollstonecraft, and “On
the Subjection of Women,” by John Stuart
Mill, in one volume, complete the six.
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Tiame and address must appear on the MS. So liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
A. Worker: Don’t see how that is going
to help. It’s necessary first to weed out the mentally
deficient elector N.F.W.: When last seen “The
Barmaid” was heading sou’-west in a neat white-
envelope dress with a reddish patch on the right
shoulder L.H.: Rarely find the surprise-ending
verse attractive. The difficulty is to make the
beggars read that far A.E.H.: All a bit wobbly.
A.M.M.: Didn’t take much killing.... C.G.L.:
Appreciate feelings, but you don't quite succeed
with the verse H.W.: Rhymed list of things
delivered by winged remembrance duly examined.
That’s all the “candid criticism” we can spare to-
day.... M.H.: Quite respectable verse, but its place
is on the tombstone. .. .Quiz: Winter verse frozen out.
... .E.F.W.J.: Try Australasian .... Eugene: Mere
reiteration of the fact that you remember somebody
is rather monotonous Y.G.W.: You keep a remark-
ably even standard. Pity it’s not higher
Cwrw Bach: The sort of thing you complain of is
so absurd that it defeats itself... .C. 8.: Shows
imagination, but is short of other things P.V.P.:
“Ole Bill” has had his funeral. .. .M.McE.: Sympa-
thetic but not suitable J.N.: Men said of your hero
“he was a bold man and a hard one to boot.” But we
managed it W.S.: “Where the dingo howls.” No
wonder! J.N.: “A lolly-shop idyll” amusing
and has character, but too discursive for a paper
that has to cover a whole continent... .J.K.H.:
Prolix and uninteresting Opal: Travel notes home-
ward bound C.P.: Interesting reminiscence, but
not much of a story X.Y.X.: Spirits consigned to
the vasty deep of the w.p.b D.T.S.: Be more
concise; and pull your story together H. 8.:
Incident disproportionate to reflection. .. .N.A.R.:
Horrors packed like sardines in a tin.... Triangle:
The telephone exchange is bad enough, but you
want us to ring up the dead by wireless
R.G.W.: Jonah is played 0ut....W0g: Always a
little suspicious of those American phrases when they
come to us in a yarn by an unknown contributor.
. ...E.A.H.: The form is still in use; for example,
the o’Conor Don, who is one of the potentates of
Roscommon. . . .Pagan: Too loose in the joints; could
be greatly improved by making it compact Itopa:
Too mucll preliminary talk. If you’ve got some-
thing interesting to say (and you have), get to
it before some other spruiker catches the reader’s
ear.. . .8.A.C.: We don’t like- vague statements.
Still less do we like them made about “a certain
person who shall be nameless.” That sort of gun
can be very heavily loaded Michigan: There were
three doing Australian business —Equitable, Mutual
of N.Y., N.Y. Life. In the general cleaning up of
American life-insurance 20-odd years ago, the pro-
portion of new business an office could take was
limited; and as Australian business always had been
expensive they gradually pulled out of this territory.
....N.Y.: Now you’ve gone and made us h0w1....
True Blue: Anyone who can rhyme “hope” with
“joke” has too much of one or the other in his
system. .. .G.H.: Nothing wrong with it, except that,
heading for nowhere, it doesn’t get anywhere
A.D.M.: You’ve a fair way to go yet Dym: The
“turnip” pun is its one bright spot L.R.R.: It’s
not enough to talk; you must say something
Wanderer: All right to serve up at a birthday party,
but scarcely a poem.—C.W.: Not an exciting
sample, though apparently it did not have to be
shoved along as so much has to be... .H.K.M.:
Some striking lines from “Science: Dame Nature’s
Tale” :
Artistically designed is Dame Nature’s great plaid.
In her interwoven fabric vve are each and all wed,
The tall, the short, and all classes of shade,
For the kookaburra laughs at the dawn of day
And laughs again when it fades away.
So in tune with all that makes up Life’s great scroll
The great nations that have been and have gone
for a stroll.
Let the ships of the night glide on their way
And drink of the pleasures that are brought each day.
. ...A.E.A.: Neither moves us to unlock the cash-
box.... P.P.: Doesn't quite get there.... Heartsick:
You “sang in a distant place a solo that echoes
mock.” Very rude of them, but if the solo en-
closed was it, we’d have been more surprised if
they’d cheered... .V.A.: Regret to inform you that
the answer to “When We Shall Meet” is at the
post office. .. .D.R.L.: For your future peace, get
hold of a reliable medium and send an immediate
apology to Lewis Carroll. That verse might incite
him to turn into a Lewis-gun... .M.M.: We won’t
press for costs this time.... Clover: We always have
a little admiration to spare for a trier... .J.O’C.:
Like so many who try Nature, you don’t get beyond
description. .. .H.N.: Rather worn idea.. . .E.D.:
“Ten million fiends chase the ship” to Tassie.
That’s overdoing it. There won’t be an apple apiece.
... .F.J.8.A.: No stirrup here for your “silk-clad
limbs”... .1.P.C.: Good of their kind, but not the
kind we can use... .E.A.W.: Suggests a mess of
unsavory pottage cooked in a library... .W.R.: All the
“blokes” bundled out. . . .W.E.A.: Travel notes, no;
straight fiction, yes... . J.W.P.: Doesn’t hit the red. ...
J.J.C.: Graphic, but war stories must now be very
well done. .. .E.J.W.: Motive stale, though story has
strength... .A.D.: Do men act like that?....M.R.:
Allegory outed... .0.P.: All style, no substance....
C.R.: Oft-told tale. ... ILL. P.: Robustious buccaneer
shipped home. .. .A.L.S.: Anecdote size 0n1y....
E.J.L.: Fair character drawing, but interest thin.
....Dig: “Long he had been the apple in the
Commissioner’s eye.” Well, that’s a change, any-
way, from the Sydney undergraduates’ tomato. .. .
C.W.T.IT.: Too slight. . . .A.J.H.: As far as deciphered,
it has its good p0int5....11.D.: Graphic description,
but not a story.... P.H.: Nothing in it for u 5....
S.R.: One of the purely sporting papers might like it.
. ...L.M.P.: You have a humorous touch, but you
spread it. over too much canvas. ... Bernard O’C.:
Might not be quite fair just now.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.T.: So long as you’re content to make a few
casual swipes on Bristol board you’ll never get far.
. ...M.S.L.: As humorless as the 41st problem in
Euclid A.A.P.: At least you help to keep post-
men in their job V.H.: Nothing for the chimney-
sweep to-day, thank y0u....E.5.: Muddy and
scratchy; but there is hope for you. .. . J.M.N.: Joke
which allies spiritualism with whisky has seen the
light before. .. .H.G.H.: Your impressionistic effort
impressed us in the wrong place. .. .W.M.M.: Reggie
and Flossie are a tame pair A. 1.: Turning the
motor-car into an aeroplane doesn’t make that gag
new. .. .E.A.C.: No use for faint and disproportion-
ate pencil sketches.


9
-
m
11 90§mm%
i ■. 91 I
mi.
m .
m
I
m
l m
®mm
U
»
m
.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2573.
June 5, 1929.
RETRENCHMENT AT LAST.
STANLEY CANBERRA: “My dear, we simply must economise; so I’ve decided we’ll have to manage without this one. It never would go properly, anyway.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.’’
HEAD OFFICE:
21b George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : llb-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : bbO Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6‘ months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ,)oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional baz., d. All Sea Route: 160 z., lbd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: .)oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
THE CANADIAN EDUCATION CONGRESS—
By an Australian Delegate .. . . .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY LEASON . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Bavin Drifts to Disaster • .. 8
BIG CITIES KILL NATIONS 8
Our Naval College
By J. 11. M. 8
POLITICIANS’ FUNK-HOLES 8
THE PREMIERS’ CONFERENCE—
A Cartoon by Percival .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) . . . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
WHAT POLITICIANS ARE FOR—
A Cartoon by Scorfield . . . . . . 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 17
“Dracula” (Sydney Palace) . . . . . . 17
A New Australian Play .. . . . . . . 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE 18
PRESTIGE HOSIERY 18
COMMONWEALTH WOOL 18
COUNTRY PRODUCERS’ 18
MOUNT ISA 20
ABORIGINALITTES (with drawir; ) 23, ?'
Free Service Department • • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
ROTATION MUST COME 28
Tractors v. Horses ■ •• -.28
SMOKE-OH 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC. .. . . . . 36
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
N.S.W. v. Q. FOOTBALL . . . . . . 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • • • 50, 51, 52, 58
STORIES—
“THE HERO OF THE BOYD,”
By J. H. M. Abbott .. .. .. 55, 57
“THE GET-AWAY,” by Hilary Lofting 57, 58
VERSE—
“ONE TURN MORE,” by E. W. O’Brien .. 25
“REALITY,” by Quentin Pope . . . . . . 58
ffiuffyxilleiz/n,
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 1929.
BAVIN DRIFTS TO DISASTER.
The Sydney organ of Nationalism, while re-
joicing at the defeat of Labor-socialism in
Queensland, is uneasy about the outlook for
its own crowd in N. S. Wales. “At the last
State election,” it points out, “the National
and Country parties won with an aggregate
majority of 40,000 votes only”; and at the
subsequent Federal election, it might have
added, the allies polled 59,378 fewer votes
than the first Labor Senator’s total, losing
one seat in the Senate and three in the
other House. “Only by intense organisation
of the electors and their concentration upon
the attainment of the common objective,” it
seems, “can we be even reasonably certain of
keeping Socialist Labor and its Communist
backing out of the State Treasury.”
The Bulletin would hate to see Lang
and his rowdy friends back in the Treasury,
but it will take more than “organisation”
and “concentration,” however “intense,” to
keep them out.
N. S. Wales Ministries rarely last longer
than the term of one Parliament. There
have been four State general elections since
the war, and each has resulted in a change
of government. The Bavinshaw combina-
tion arrived 19 months ago, so it will have
to face the electors next year at latest. It
couldn’t help being better than the gang it
succeeded, the most incapable and ill-con-
ditioned N.S.W. Cabinet on record, but the
improvement —except in manners—has been
dismally short of expectations. The Gov-
ernment, in sober truth, has disappointed its
friends without conciliating its enemies. On
ordinary occasions it is aggravatingly vacil-
lating and apologetic, and it showed con-
temptible weakness when it allowed a dis-
orderly mob of strikers, led by imported
Communists, to march through Sydney at
night and burn Commonwealth Arbitration
Court ballot-papers, together with a Judge’s
effigy—this after the full programme had
appeared in the Labor Daily —and again
when it interfered to prevent the harassed
Railway Commissioners applying to the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court for
authority to revert to the 48-hour week.
The N. S. Wales railways are losing a mil-
lion and a half per annum, largely because
thousands of men are being paid full 48-
hour-week wages for 44 hours’ “work,” such
as hanging round quiet stations waiting for
trains to come along. No one greatly
objects to, say, enginemen getting the 44-
hour week, but it would not hurt, the soft-
jobbers—such of them as are needed to
hang round for 48 hours instead of 44. But
this might mean the loss of a few votes, and
the Government’s knees knock at the very
thought.
In their hearts the Bavinshaws don’t
believe in the general 44-hour week; they
don’t believe in industrial regulation by
Piddingtons or in the Piddington child-
endowment scheme; they don’t believe in
the payment of doles to men who won’t
take work that is waiting for them except
on obviously impracticable terms and con-
ditions fixed by themselves. But they have
ignobly adopted these “Labor principles,”
being afraid to apply their own. They are
without the courage of their own convic-
tions, and that sort of Government has no
right to exist. They bumped up the income-
tax at the expense of the middle class, the
backbone of their party, to keep the fatuous
child-endowment business going, and when
that didn’t answer they reiiiiposed the
criminally foolish special tax, taking £2 in
the £lOO of wages and salaries; and they are
meekly distributing £lO,OOO a week in “sus-
tenance” among the northern coalminers,
whom other unions are helping by means
of special levies which the good Piddington
has pronounced legal.
Visible results of these craven imitations
of Langism are vast additions to the public
debt and the accumulated deficit and an
ever-growing army of men who can’t get
work, though the Government protests that
it has spent a million and a half of loan
money on relief jobs. Middle-class electors
are sick of paying terrific taxes in order
that a cold-footed coalition may crawl to
and try to buy support from opponents who
onlv jeer at it, and they are fed up also
with the very poor class of Parliamentarian
whom the bob-a-nob system of pre-selection
inflicts on the country.
The “great National party,” in short, is
drifting to disaster. It can save itself only
by summoning up courage, and-abolishing
pre-selection, and making preferential looting
obligatory, and inviting men of character
and ability—men who can be trusted to tell
the people the truth, as they see it, and act
accordingly—to come to the help of the
party and the State; and there is not a
moment to be lost.
BIG CITIES KILL NATIONS.
Social unrest and unemployment are com-
mon to the highly-industrialised countries,
great and small. The countries, however
poor their soil may be, which aim con-
stantly at keeping their workers on the
land have the fewest strikes and the
smallest tallies of unemployed.
Britain provides the most horrible
example of a rich and great industrial
nation which is having its morale and pro-
sperity undermined by armies of out-of-
works. Since the war five different Gov-
ernments have tried every device they could
think of to bring the number of unem-
ployed below a million, and all have failed.
Over £50,000,000 p.a. is being spent at
present on the support of these people.
Even the U.S.A., with half the gold in the
world, had on a recent reckoning 4,000,000
unemployed. And the workless demonstrate
periodically in every Australian capital.
The richest part of France was devastated
11 years ago, and in 1926 the franc was
worth less than Id.; yet to-day France
is probably the most prosperous country in
Europe. The only people who were lately
receiving unemployment relief were proved
unemployables, and to cope with the labor
shortage which held up industry as well as
agriculture last summer 1,500,000 foreign
workers had to be imported. Italy was even
harder hit by the war than France, and it
was as near bankruptcy seven years ago.
Since then men have been poured out of
the cities and on to the land—by such
devices as increasing the consumption of
rice, which is grown locally—and Italy is
now a land with no beggars where formerly
there were thousands.
It is not suggested that these nations
are exerting themselves to get their people
on the land out of a desire for immediate
prosperity, or that their lack of poverty
is wholly due to' a movement which Mr.
Lloyd George dreams of starting as a cor-
rective of Britain’s unemployment problem.
German reparations and the recovery of
Alsace-Lorraine have enriched France, and
industrialism has poured millions into Italy.
The inspiration is a more statesmanlike
one than the desire for quick profits—•
the knowledge that cities are population-
killers. It has been the habit of every white
man’s city for centuries past to draw the
rural population to it, and render that popu-
lation sterile. In Bologna, before the
Italian Government began making life on
the land more attractive as a means of
increasing the national birth-rate, the
average yearly excess of births over deaths
was only 48. Yet in half a century the
city had doubled in population. What the
French and Italians fear most is that they
may be overwhelmed by the more fecund
races, a tragedy which France narrowly
escaped 11 years ago. Already France’s
birth-rate is ahead of Britain’s (18.11 as
against 16.6), and Italy’s figures are better
than those of France.
If European countries, with every in-
ducement to become industrialised, and
many climatic and other discouragements
in the agricultural sphere, feel that they
cannot afford to follow the lead set by
Britain half a century back in the matter
of filling the cities at the expense of the
countryside, much less can Australia afford
to risk such a policy. But it is not a
question of scrapping our “secondary”
industries. So far from doing that or any-
thing like it, Italy, for example, has enor-
mously increased hers. It is rather a ques-
tion of saving “secondary” industries; for
over-industrialisation, at any rate, means
the slow death of industry—British experi-
ence is all in that direction.
Our problem is to make the country and
country employment more attractive so that
the city may not gather the entire popula-
tion to itself. At present the whole trend
of our legislation and of our administrative
effort is to improve the position of the
industrial worker. For this our brand of
politics, and especially our type of poli-
tician, is almost entirely to blame. The
country is inarticulate; the closely-packed
city can roar unitedly in the politician’s
ear, and the politician obeys. Faced with
the inevitable results of his folly—in many
cases it is worse than folly, it is cowardice
and treachery—he rushes to the pawn-
shop for another loan to keep the unem-
ployed off the streets. This, of course, is
not a cure; it is merely an evasion.
What Australian public life needs more
than anything else at present is courage.
Everything else should be forgiven Bruce
or Moore or Butler or anybody else who
exhibits it.
H.M.A.S. FRANKLIN.
In this article Mr. Abbott tells
Australia. something about its
Naval Training College.
Jervis Bat, seen under blue skies, is simply
a great circular quantity of the Tasman
Sea that has been poured into the bush of
the lower Illawarra country of N. S. Wales
through a narrow entrance over which a tall
duplicate of Port Jackson’s North Head
stands like a sentry on the southern side.
The cork of the bottle, Bowen Island, has
been left lying loose over against the
southern gatepost, and long sweeps of white
beaches, backed by sombre scrub, form the
coasts of the lake. Not very far inside the
entrance, opposite Point Perpendicular, is
Captain’s Point, and here at her moorings
on the edge of the forest lies one of the
most useful and interesting ships of the
Royal Australian Navy—H.M.A.S. Frank-
lin.' The still waters of the big bay mirror
the red and white of her upper works in
their blue expanses; the atmosphere about
her is alive with vibrations of the things
she means and stands for, and the work she
is doing.
We went aboard her from a destroyer
lying near the massive stone breakwater
where the Franklin’s auxiliary craft are
moored, and though on dry land found
ourselves at once in the midst of a ship
life as striking as that aboard the Australia.
Climbing to her “upper deck,” we saluted
the quarter-deck, where the red cross of St.
George was flying at the “stern,” and the
blue Australian ensign in the “bows.” In a
military barracks this wide expanse of green
turf would be the parade ground, and in a
school the playing fields, but here it is both,
and, much more important, the place the
Navy’s “Holy Ghost” haunts. No popu-
larity attaches itself to anyone who fails
to salute the quarter-deck of the Royal Aus-
tralian Naval College any more than if he
was to remain covered when coming aboard
one of the big cruisers anchored out in
the bay. Below the quarter-deck, on the
right-hand side as you look seaward, is the
captain’s cabin, a red-tiled mansion in a
pretty garden with an incomparable view.
Across its green expanse the college build-
ings—dormitories, gunrooms and classrooms
—stretch in a line along a gravelled drive,
with the wardroom at one end of it, and
the pretty residences of the administrative
and instructional staff standing in their
gardens on the edge of the bush behind.
Behind the flagstaff is a building which
accommodates the administration.
H.M.A.S. Franklin is as little lacking in the
picturesque as in more practical character-
istics. Her pedigree is by man-o’-war
out of what we call in Australia great
public school, and she has thrown more to
the father’s than the mother’s side. There
is a headmaster, but infinitely greater and
more terrible than any schoolmaster could
possibly be is the captain. And no member
of the staff is nearly so important as the
commander. Though the maternal influ-
ence and training are very real, every other
consideration bends before the paternal will.
First, last and all the time the naval cadet
has to remember that he is not so much at
school as rendering himself fit for admis-
sion to the society to be met with in a
warship afloat, to make himself tolerable
to every possible variety of the genus Com-
mander, and to learn how, in the fulness
of time, he may become an admiral, if
not a national hero. He is instructed that,
though he be of less value than a boy-
rating, he need never despair of attaining
the godlike eminence of flag rank. It is
open to him to become one of the salt of
the earth —a British admiral.
They catch these lads very young, and
are very particular as to the sort they catch.
It is a case of many being called but few
chosen. Between the tender ages of 13 and
14 years any Australian boy from any sort
of home, of good physique and character,
is eligible to show whether he is good
enough to be admitted to the strenuous
’tween decks of H.M.A.S. Franklin. He
must know something of arithmetic, geo-
metry, history and geography, and he must
specialise in either advanced arithmetic,
algebra, Latin or French. But that is not
all. He has to be put under the micro-
scope of the commanding officer of the
college, another captain or commander, and
two doctors of the navy breed. If he suc-
ceeds in impressing these gentlemen that
he has in him the makings of a naval officer
he may set out on the long road to Admi-
ralty at the entire and comprehensive cost
of the Commonwealth. But if he does not so
impress them it would not avail had he
been able to solve the binomial theorem in
his cradle, or if his father had been chair-
man of the Prime Minister’s election com-
mittee. Their “He won’t do” settles the
matter of his becoming an N.O. once and
for ever.
It is not possible here to go into any
details of the course of training at the
college, beyond saying that it extends over
four years and is of a high and arduous
standard towards the end. But two ideals
are always in sight. The boy must be
turned into an officer, and he must have
developed in him by every resource those
elements of a gentleman which are so hard
to define. The old mens sana, etc., goes
without saying—the other requirement is
striven for by insistence upon his assimila-
tion of every tradition the British Navy
possesses of high and lofty and unselfish
aim. In short, the main thing they are
taught, aboard H.M.A.S. Franklin is to play
the game, and to play it “Navy fashion,”
and better than that it is never played.
J.H.M. A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Politicians’ Funk-holes.
“Never in his time was there any serious conflict
between police or military and the industrial classes.
Employees were better off by reason of his stern
advocacy of law and order, and the right to work.”
—Joseph Carruthers on the late Henry Parkes.
In short, he was elected to govern, and he
governed. Most of his successors have
brought the word “politician” into contempt
by pursuing an opposite policy. The Royal
Commission dodge has grown to such pro-
portions that it is costing the taxpayers
scores of thousands every year. A com-
mission has “neither a body to be kicked
nor a soul to be damned”; no one need
give evidence before it who prefers to keep
silent, as ex-Premier Lang has demonstrated
in the Parramatta by-election inquiry; and
no one, therefore, takes its findings seri-
ously. Yet it has an edifying flavor of
legality. It is a politician’s funk-hole
painted to look like a court of justice.
The Arbitration system gives the poli-
ticians an even better excuse to wash their
hands of their jobs. Many of its rules and
awards are demonstrably unenforceable. The
president of the Yic. Chamber of Manu-
factures observed recently that he had a
friend “whose business was controlled by
no fewer than 150 frequently conflicting
awards.” Last year’s Federal Act makes
picketing by derision, abuse, violence or
threats of boycott illegal, and pickets have
been committing all these offences with
impunity throughout the timber strike.
There are discrepancies between Federal and
State awards, and even between one Federal
award and another. Yet a couple of years
ago when an effort was made to alter the
Constitution so that 'there should at least
be harmony—so that even if we said the
wrong thing, we at least would say the
same thing—the most furious opponents of
the suggested change were politicians, party
politicians and union leaders. They thrive
on a state of affairs which is disastrous to
every other class in the community.
Their tactics are not new; they were
employed in some of the Greek States half
a dozen centuries before Christ. The
“elective tyrants,” as Aristotle called them,
were fluent demagogues. They gained
power by identifying themselves with the
cause of the poorest workers, they pro-
fessed to be able to further the interests
of the poor at the expense of all the other
classes, and they only fell when it was dis-
covered that they were impo'stors. They
had their class festivals, or May Days (such
as the Panathenma), and instead of money
they imported mercenaries from overseas.
They even had an arbitration system. The
aesymnetes was appointed for life, as a rule,
to adjudicate between the contending fac-
tions in the State; as here, his rulings were
only obeyed when acceptable to the ruling
class. Social and industrial trouble became
chronic.
A necessary preliminary to the ending of
Australia’s present discontents is that it
should get back to responsible government.
The present position resembles that which
existed on the Western Front before Focn
took command. There are too many plau-
sible but incompetent generals, and too
many of them are fighting solely for their
own hands.
Was General McCay to Blame?
“T.T.T.”: History is a judge, but not a
judge like him of the law courts, who has a
set of laws before hirn and condemns those


A COLD MEETING AT CANBERRA.
“Addressing the representatives of the State Governments at Canberra, the Prime Minister said there was something seriously wrong with our national life. Expenditure
must be greatly reduced. The only alternative was heavily-increased taxation, and that would further add to the burdens on production and thus defeat its own ends.”
who contravene them. To be just, the
historian must be capable of imagining
himself in the position of the soldier whose
reputation is at stake. He must reconstruct
the position at the time of the action.
He must not commit the mistake of apply-
ing to the tyro of Fromelles the standard
set by the veteran of the 1918 victories.
He must not fall into the fatally fascinating
trap of condemning one of the leaders at
Fromelles merely because Fromelles was a
defeat, and of approving one of the leaders
at Villers-Bretonneux merely because an
equally hazardous conception resulted in a
splendid victory.
The great difficulty facing a man sitting
in judgment on a fellow man is to find
a criterion on which to work. “Which of
you has seen my genius?-” asked Napoleon
of some complimentary marshals. “You
argue my genius from my victories.” Had
Waterloo been his first battle, there might
have been no argument. In judging Nap-
oleon on a Waterloo with no precedent
Austerlitz, Jena, Marengo and the rest,
before we condemned him as of no account
we would have had to ask ourselves: “Was
he cowardly? Was he hesitant, pusillani-
mous? Were his plans unsound? What
was the cause of his defeat?”
In judging Ney solely on his cavalry
charge at the same battle, no one would
ask: “Did he protest to Napoleon against
being ordered to undertake so hazardous a
task?” Critics are asking that question
about McCay at Fromelles.
• The idea that a soldier can protest against
an order from a superior is something new
to military ethics. I know the idea was
played with once or twice by senior officers
of the A.1.F., but never under any circum-
stances did they extend the right to their
subordinates. If the right is admitted,
where is discipline? If the right is admit-
ted, the best policy for a soldier ordered
to carry out attacks is to protest always,
and afterwards disclaim responsibility for
any failure. No, the idea is another gift of
the gods for the gaiety of nations.
Another point I would make is that
Fromelles was not the impossibility it is
now alleged to have been. Fromelles may
have been intended as a demonstration, but
it was a demonstration that included the
capture and consolidation of the enemy
line. At first the attack actually succeeded
everywhere except on the right where the
unholy holocaust was offered up. The
main cause of failure there was the abject
impassivity of the flanking troops (not
Australians) and, later, their miserable
attempts to take the Sugarloaf, which
galled and gored the Australians’ right
flank, and enfiladed their whole line.
Was General McCay to blame at Fro-
melles? I do not know. I write merely to
indicate the lines on which the investigation
should proceed.
♦
A Happy Release.
_ “ ", „
Colloquially speaking, the Commonwealth
I arliament is to be asked to kill Federa±
Arbitration next session. In practice, its
l°b merely be to perform the neces-
sary obsequies.
Australia has found, by bitter experience,
that Federal Arbitration at its best is cpstly,
complicated, provocative and ineffective. It
P ut a tremendous weapon in the hands of
muon eaders in Sydney and
Melbourne and the long series of maritime
s nkes ;, (among ° tker re / u ts) de '
str °y ed tke Commonwealth line of steamers
Proved that the system was incapable of
Preventing or sett ing industrial disputes
when such union leaders were bent on
manufacturing them. When awards were
satisfactory to unions thus led, they were
accepted They have ceased to be satis-
fac.toi T> and two of the great federated
um ° ns > supported by their central organ-
Ration and cheered on by Labor politicians,
ha^ e , dou j ed tke law ’ vll ' f ‘ cd , the + Jud^
and defied the Government to do its worst.
Lhe revo j(. 0 f b e Waterside Workers’
federation was marked by fearful bombing
outra in Melbourne, and by a grave
wharf riot in Adelaide. That of the Timber
Workers’ Union has been attended in Syd-
ney by a j on g succegs ion of attacks on life
an d property, the work of organised gangs
0 f ruffians, together with menacing mob
demonstrations from time to time,
Says Ogden, the Minister of Labor, with
old y too much truth:
“Union leaders openly flout the law and
preach rebellion. Men whose only offence
is that they are doing the work that others
refuse are intimidated by personal violence,
Their homes are violated, their lives are in
danger, and incendiarism is practised. And
the law is powerless. It is true that we
may take legal proceedings against those who
disobey it, but the unions laugh at these
( ,ff or r s Fines cannot be collected or punish
ment inflicted.”
Labor created Federal Arbitration; Labor
has destroyed it. It only remains to bury
dlc carcase
" ’ 4
Helping Lawbreakers and Tax-dodgers.
Although the volume of betting was never
greater, the racing clubs in most of the big
cities, Adelaide and Perth especially, are
finding it increasingly hard to make ends
meet. For this they blame the shop book-
maker, who is notoriously having the time
of his life. The profits of his nefarious
trade are so immense that agents get 2s. in
the £ of wagers taken. Prosecutions are
rare and fines ridiculously light. Efficient
co-operation between the Federal and State
authorities would make the occupation
difficult and hazardous, but, paradoxical as
it may seem, Federal authority helps the
shop bookie to thwart State authority,
assists him in other important ways, and
does it all for less than cost price.
In Sydney the other day the police raided
a betting den in the basement of a build-
ing in Macquarie-street, near State Parlia-
ment House. Fines totalling £l7O were im-
posed on the lour men caught running the
concern, described by the sergeant as one
of the biggest in Sydney, which is question-
able. The amount of the fines, though a
bit above the average, was £7O less than
the amount of the wagers booked
1 p.m., when the police burst in, and it was
only a fraction of what the principal would
have to pay for a year, in Government and
club license fees, stamp duties on betting
tickets and income-tax (of course he can
evade income-tax) if he were a racecourse
bookmaker. “The interior of the room,”
the police report said, “was covered with
hessian to deaden the sound of a wireless
set and six telephones, one of which was
connected directly with a well-known sport-
ing newsagency.” Six telephones! And
presumably, as m hundreds of similar cases,
no questions asked! It is a matter of cold
fact that every instrument used for law-
breaking and tax-dodging purposes is sub-
sidised by the general taxpayer, for the
telephone system shows a heavy annual loss.
The loss last year was £322,400; in 1926-27
it was £339,200.
The law of every State makes betting
illegal except on licensed racecourses, and
for obvious fiscal as well as social reasons
it ought to be strictly confined to licensed
racecourses. It is utterly iniquitous that
the Postmaster-General’s department should
place, not only the mails and the tele-
graph, but wireless and the telephone, at
the service of the sort of bookmaker who
flouts the law and cheats the tax-collector
and is a cause of vice and crime in others.
♦
Railways, Land, and Hard-up States,
Landowners, and especially the owners of
suburban building blocks, are receiving from
the community a great deal of service and
profit for which they give no adequate
return.
The N.S.W. Government recently built a
railway line from Lidcombe to Liverpool,
and another linking this line with Banks-
town. It has authorised a line from Tempe
to East Hills. Another proposed route is
from North Sydney to the seaside resorts
beyond Manly; another will link the North
Shore line with the Northern at Eastwood;
another will replace the antiquated steam-
tram service between Sutherland and
Cronulla. No sooner were these lines
mooted than speculators swept down and
bought up every available acre of land
within miles of the proposed routes. Sur-
veyors got to work, co-opted the services
of imaginative artists, and produced litho-
graphs which reduced mountain crag, swamp
and rolling plain to the common denomi-
nator of “desirable building allotments.”
Full-page illustrations showing the “estate”
on one side and St. James station on the
other, with an electric train in the fore-
ground, smooth the path for selling agents,
some of them of more than doubtful
honesty..
The Act for every suburban railway should
make some provision for getting for the
community part at least of the community-
created increase in value. The N.S.W.
Government has toyed with the idea in
connection with the Harbor Bridge. Taken
up seriously, it might do much to ease the
burden imposed by the electrification of the
metropolitan railways.
Dangerous Verdicts.
A recent case in Brisbane, where a man was
charged with committing “grievous bodily
harm,” proves it again true that an affluent
drunk in a car is harder to convict in
some Australian cities than an arsonist. The
admitted facts were that a car was run
into and overturned while on its right side
of the road by the accused’s car, and that
the accused had been charged afterwards
with being “under the influence,” and had
forfeited his bail. According to a Courier
report:—
“Dr. Robert Horner Fletcher said that
the man suffered a fractured elbow.
“His Honor : Permanent injury to health ?
“Witness : Merely mechanical limitation
of movement of the elbow. His general
health will not be affected.
“His Honor: Not grievous bodily harm,
then!”
And the jury’s verdict was “Not guilty!”
The danger of such verdicts is not merely
that they are taken as a sort of license by
many yahoos to liquor up and break the
traffic rules in vehicles with the lethal
potentialities of machine-guns; they have a
disastrous social effect. People who cannot
afford cars get the idea that the Courts
can easily be bull-dozed by members of the
car-owning classes; and in view of such
verdicts it is hard to blame them.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness, -
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
MANGROVITE BELTING
Ir Utmost Strength,
in every Length jhly
•V*
yu
LONGER
LASTING
MORE
EFFICIENT
"Mangrovite” Leather or Raw-hide Belting
Every factor that makes for the greatest possible efficiency in power belting is built into
“Mangrovite” Belting. Carefully selected Australian Oxhides are ta.nned by our exclusive
process that preserves the natural grain of the leather and imparts pliability and
unique gripping power.
Proved on many important installations —it will pay you to investigate the merits of this
excellent Australian power belting.
Consult our expert engineers without obligation.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
7/>f centre of Queen s /an c/s
c/is/ingu/sftec/ S'oc/o/ L//e.
iknnom
ďs
Motel
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cablet: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
POLITICAL
POINT S
John Bull is evidently to have another Mac-
Donald-Snowden Government. The addition
of 5£ million young women to the list of
British electors, giving the sex a preponder-
ance of 1,357,000, worked out in favor of the
Labor party, and so did the fact that there
were three-cornered contests in two-thirds of
the constituencies. The Baldwinites neglected
to provide for redistribution of seats and
effective voting. They will now pay the
penalty of their folly.
Forgan Smith.
The shattered forces
of Queensland Labor
are to be led by Wil-
liam Iforgan Smith,
from Pairthshire—ln-
vairgowrie, ye ken.
McCormack has step-
ped down in favor of
his Minister of Agri-
culture and left for a
trip to Colombo. He
will continue to repre-
sent Cairns, but when
his unpopularity has
died down he may
have a shot at a
Federal seat. Smith
was in the Rydorgil-
mack Ministry for
nine years, and was
the only possible suc-
cessor to his van-
quished chief.
In Britain the
Laborites are about
30 members ahead of
the Conservatives, and
the Conservatives are
about 200 ahead of
the Liberals. The Conservatives received
nearly a quarter-million more votes than the
Laborites (8,536,000 to 8,317,000, with a
few results to come), but under the first-past-
the-post system that doesn’t prevent them
being badly defeated in the House. Nearly
5] million Liberal votes returned only 57
members. Bull’s electoral system is gro-
tesque.
Each British party has declared that it will
neither coalesce with nor enter into a working
arrangement with another party. The situa-
tion is that of early in 1024 except that the
Eiberals have nothing like the same weight
to throw into the anti-MacDonald scale that
they had then ; still they have weight enough.
The Labor platform includes public owner-
ship of coal, land, power, transport and life
insurance, bigger allowances to the unem-
ployed and a basic wage. Some of these
contain bright possibilities of a row.
Recent events have drawn attention to the
great efficiency and worth of the Westralian
and Queensland aviation cos., and the Com-
monwealth gets their services fairly cheap.
Westralian Airways, operating between Perth
and Derby, 1467 miles, received £23,985 last
year in respect of 152,56 S air miles. Qantas,
working the Charleville-Camooweal and Clon-
eurry-Normanton sections, 1040 miles alto-
gether, drew £18,569 for 109,415 air miles.
And they each brought in a little mail
revenue; Perth-Derby yielded £3332 over and
above handling charges. Perth-Adelaide, the
new service, will produce a lot more than
that.
Treasurer Page expects another little in-
stalment of reparations money from Ger-
many before the close of the financial year,
lie got £694,814 on this account last yea v
and £990,704 in previous years; it all goes
into the national-debt sinking fund. Aus-
tralia is entitled to 4.35 p.c. of the net pay-
ments made to the British Empire, the same
as Canada; Maoriland’s share is 1.75 p.c.,
.60 p.c. and the United Kingdom’s
86.85 p.c.
Believing that it now has a fighting chance
of getting through next session, McPherson’s
Ministry (Vic.) is preparing a substantial
programme. The Agricultural Bank Bill
will be given a foremost place, and there will
be measures dealing with motor-’bus traffic,
tramway control, mental defectives, weights
and measures, local government, saleyards,
country highways and a few other things—
all familiar. The strike has spoiled the
chance of a surplus, but McTherson is
doing a few things to make the deficit
smaller than it would otherwise be.
Silent Cobbe.
The fates have
been kind to .T. G.
Cobbe, M a o r i-
land sheep farmer,
who became Min-
ister of Migration,
Marine, Industry
and (Commerce in
lus first Parliamen-
tary year. There’s
a heavy soft pedal
on migration; all
is peaceful on the
dark blue sea, and
if the Ministry has
any revolutionary
ideas* about indus-
try and commerce
it has been very
secretive on the
subject. Cobbe has
no taste for argu-
ment, though a
Dublin man. He
has allowed several
months to elapse
without getting
himself into print,
thereby breaking all
Ministerial records in the Shivery Isles.
For 30 years or so the North Island of
Maoriland increased its population at a,
much greater rate than the South Island,
but this tendency has at last been checked.
For the year ended March last the North —■
“first to boom and first to burst,” as the
Southerners scornfully say—added only 2056
to its population while the South increased
its tally by 14,200. Severe restrictions on
immigration (chiefly to the disadvantage of
the North, because liners from Britain don’t
call at South Island ports) and the election
of a Ministry in which South Islanders are
predominant have contributed to the change.
Any lingering doubt that may have existed
concerning the dominance of the Sydney
Trades and Labor Council by Communists
was removed when F'. A. Armstrong, dele-
gate of the Clerks’ Union, was expelled for
having revealed to the S. M. Herald the
Communistic affiliations of leaders of the
timber-workers’ strike. There was nothing
new in the disclosures, nor were they chal-
lenged by any of the parties referred to, but
they were awkward for those parties and
their friends, so out the man went. _ That
same night Armstrong and a companion, a
newspaper reporter, were set upon by a gang
of “workers,” and his next contribution to
the controversy came from a suburban hos-
pital.
Just when it looked as if the timber strike,
after an orgy of ferocious violence, was about
to collapse, Federal Labor-leader Scullin be-
latedly remarked that “if these assaults have
taken place” no labor organisation, he felt
sure, was in any way responsible, and
expressed bus polite regret that employers
and employees didn’t “come together, adjust
their differences and arrive at a just and
amicable settlement.’ EA'idently Scullin
holds that plain and simple acceptance or
the award isn’t among the possibilities of
the case.
Speacock. author of the Vic. Avages-board
system, which has been eminently success-
ful compared with arbitration by lawyers,
was about the only front-rank politician
aa’lio refused to express an opinion on Bruce s
proposal to bury Federal arbitration. He re-
cognises that he may have to be umpire in
a fierce debate on the subject in his own
Parliament. When Minister for Labor
under LaAvson (1920-24). Speacock tried to
get the heads of Governments to agree to the
scope of the Federal Arbitration Act being
limited to about 10 industries. After the
failure of that effort he shrewdly predicted
that before 1930 there Avould be a showdown
as to whether CommonAvealth or States
should control industrial regulation.
The amazing Piddington, of the N.S.W.
Industrial Commis-
sion, has been at it
again. An unemployed
laborer Avas given Gov-
ernment relief work,
the funds for which
ar e borrowed, a t
£4 ss. for a 44-liour
Aveek. His unio n
claimed that he was
entitled to £4 175., and
the matter went to the
Industrial Commis-
sion on appeal. In
the course of the pro-
ceedings, Avhich dragged
on for several months,
“Piddo” expresesd
warm approval of the
principle of providing
relief Avork at less
than award wages, but
in his judgment he was
just as warmly in
favor of the £4 17s.
claim, saying that he,
“Piddo,” would never
be a party to “using
the unemployed t o
break doAvn rates.”
Justices Cantor and
Street once more over-
Justice Cantor con-
curs—but not with
“Piddo.”
ruled their, incomprehensible colleague.
Tas. Premier McPhee spoke out of his
turn at Canberra when he cast some asper-
sions on the administration of the bush-
fire relief fund in Vic. One of his remarks
was to the effect that recipients had taken
trips to Europe on the proceeds. The bush-
fire funds were controlled by late Lord
Mayor Brunton. If there were any com-
plaints about the way the money was ex-
pended it was on the score of difficulty in
getting the committee to fork out.
There is something very fishy about the
privileges conferred on bookmakers by the
Postmaster-General’s department. A start-
ing-price parasite raided in Sydney was
found to have six telephones, although his
calling should have been known to the com-
plaisant department—he had already been
convicted. A day or two later a Herald
correspondent complained that applicants
for telephone connections at Matraville had
been told that they might have to wait six
months. Incidentally, the Commonwealth
lost £322,400 last year on telephones and
£312,000 on telegraphs, which also carry a
lot of bookmakers’ business. The taxpayers
have to bear this quite unnecessary burden,
and harpies who don’t pay taxes benefit.
The British general election was the fifth
at which Jane Bull had a vote, and the first
at which she predominated. The reduction
of the minimum age of the woman voter from
30 (fixed when she first emerged in 1918)
to 21 put about 5,245,000 new electoresses
on the roll, 1,600,000 being aged under 25.
Australia enfranchised its sister, so far as
concerned the Lower House, at various dates.
South Aus. started in 1896. Westralia fol-
lowed in 1899, and sent the first woman to
an Australian Legislature in 1921. Tas-
mania gave electoral liberty to the sex in
1903 ; N.S.W. in 1904; Queensland in 1907;
Victoria in 1911. And, of course, the ladies
have voted at Commonwealth elections since
1901.
Vic. Ministry dredged in its pockets last
week and managed to find a whole £125
to enable Dr. Cherry's magnificent research
work into the cause of cancer to be con-
tinued at the University. In handing over
the princely sum, Chief Sec. Argyle explained
that it was not necessarily the last contri-
bution the Government intended to make
to the fight against the grisly enemy. He
might have added that the fight would never
have been started if it weren’t for the self-
sacrificing efforts of numbers of unpaid
workers, mostly anonymous.
Theodore, who was one of the first to urge
the timber-workers to defy the Lukin award,
now whines that when the Federal Arbi-
tration Court is abolished “200,000 workers
already bound by Commonwealth awards
will have no recourse whatever to any Arbi-
tration Court, and will suffer a great injus-
tice.” He knows the truth—that all the
States have Industrial Courts and that Fed-
eral awards will remain in force unless and
until they are reversed by. these tribunals.
The N.S.W. returned soldiers wbo have
begun to agitate for the appointment of ex-
Diggers as Judges are putting a strain on a
sound principle. If there is one job that
should be offered irrespective of any con-
sideration but probity, legal knowledge and
a judicial mind, it is a judgeship. An ex-
soldier would not submit to a major opera-
tion by a doctor just because he was an ex-
M.O. Governments, Federal and State,
are already finding it hard to persuade good
men to go on our ill-paid Benches, and
by narrowing the field of choice in any
way the prestige of a judgeship, already on
the Avane, can only be lessened further.
Premier McPherson announces that he is
agreeable to the reduction of Victoria’s rail-
Avay gauge from sft. 3in. to 4ft. 81in., the
cost being shared with the Commoinvealth.
Previous Vic. Ministries refused to have their
railway system interfered with lest the loan
money should give out suddenly and leave
them with a mangled property which would
call for duplicate sets of rolling stock, but
a cry has arisen that if a change isn’t made
the trade from the West may be diverted
through N. S. Wales.
Maoriland’s Railway Department, which
has been hard hit by motor-’bus competition,
especially on suburban routes, has gone into
the 'bus business on its own ' account. It
bought out the ’bus-owners in the H'utt
Valley district, adjoining Wellington, gave a
quicker service, reduced fares in certain in-
stances, and is well pleased with results. At
least, the district accounts are looking
healthier than they did.
From the S. M. Herald, a Frcctrade paper
of long standing:
Wool is to-day the only Australian primary
export which does not rely upon one form or another
of Government assistance.
Which is all the more reason why this coun-
try should keep its weather eye fixed on
manufacturing for the local mark. \ where
there is still a wide field, instead of buying
manufactured goods abroad and trying to
pay for them with exported products which
can’t start on their way without “one form
or another of Government assistance.”
Manufacturing for the home market has this
advantage: if the price goes up the manu-
facturer and the artisan can get more. If
it falls, the people, who include the artisan,
can buy for less. in a case like that
of wheat and dour, justTwhen.the over-taxed
and -arbitrated farmer needs the biggest
price, which is now, the outside market offers
the lowest one that has been heard of for
15 years.
Phil .Collier, being the only Labor Premier
at the Canberra conference, had a great
Collier doesn’t
care.
chance to get up
and roar when
Bruce passed sen-
tence of death on
the Federal arbi-
tration law, but he
took it quite calm-
ly, saying that Aus-
tralia’s position wag
“economically un-
sound,” and that
over-legislation in
the industrial field
was-partly to blame.
The silly fellows
who egged on the
timber strikers are
angry with him,
but their influence
does not extend to
Westralia, where
Federal arbitration
has few friends.
In one way and an-
other it has been
responsible for
nearly all the big
strikes into which
Jarrahland has
been dragged during the last 20 years. It
has also led to such grotesque absurdities
as the summoning to Melbourne from time
to time, to answer claims for higher wages,
of little local concerns like the tramway co.
which has had a mortal struggle to keen
its head above water at Kalgoorlie.
Now that the freehold system is coming
back in Queensland, the Bruce-Pages might
admit that their leasehold policy at Canberra
is a dud, and act similarly. At ’Berra the
settler bids at auction, and the highest bidder
wins. He gets a 99 years’ lease, and pays
at least 5 per cent, for the first 20 years on
the value which he himself fixed. At the
end of 20 years, and again at the end of
30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90 years, the land
is revalued, and he pays at least 5 per cent,
on the value which his landlord fixes, or else
he leaves. The better the business he makes,
or his next-door neighbor makes, the greater
the chance of the landlord’s valuation freez-
ing him out. Cities built mostly on lease-
hold land are familiar (London is one), but
for insecurity of tenure ’Berra holds a place
of its own. A business site there is just a
little better than a fruit-stall on wdiecls—or
a little worse, the goodwill being less movable.
THE ORDEAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Methodist Conference at Perth carried by
37 votes to 28 a resolution that the time has come
for the abolition of compulsory military training in
Australia. One speaker declared that refined youths
shrank from the ordeal of the rough military camp.”
There was ever a time of turning—it came
to Rome as to Greece —
From the arts and horrors of warfare to the
graces and arts of peace.
Elegance, culture, tastes that were delicate,
manners restrained —
These were the things that counted, while
the old-time virtues waned.
Then the merciless Goths descended, the
Huns and the Vandals came,
No right but might for their motive, no sport
but war for their game;
And another Empire crumbled, as many a
one before.
Down went refinement, smothered in the
sweat and the blood of war.
Are we treading the path they followed, steer-
ing the course they steered?
We heirs of the wide possessions our fathers
pioneered,
Braving the rough and the squalid, daring
the vile and mean,
Touching the pitch that stained not, and,
amid unclean ness, clean?
Will it profit us if we barter for the polished
tongue the hand
Ready and trained from boyhood to strike
for a threatened land?
Will the world grow wiser and better the
longer the ages last,
With Alarics vanished bogeys and Attilas
types of the past?
Must we guard our shrinking striplings,
shelter them one and each
From the blague of the camps, the knife-cuts
of Anglo-Saxon speech?
Were they schooled in class-room or boudoir
to be models of modest grace,
The heroes whose names glow brightest in
the honor-rolls of our race?
Will refinement, think you, save us when the
fight for life grows hot,
And enemy bullets are finding their billets
and ours are not;
When, inured but to war, the hosts are upon
us, like tides that rolled,
Visigoths, Huns and Vandals, over proud
Rome of old?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Meteren”: More hard work and hard
cursing attended early-morning ablutions in
some of the French villages than went with
the usual fatigue jobs of the day. One well we
struck on our second trip down to the Somme
must have held the record for depth, and late-
comers of a morning waited in the line-up
for an hour before securing enough water
to wash in. Inscribed on the windlass was
the following comment of a Digger who’d
passed that way before: “This blarsted well
goes right through to Aussie, and any Mur-
ray cod hauled up in the bucket are re-
quired by the A.P.M.”
* t- * *
“Mango”: Life in New Guinea is still
adventurous. At the end of April two men,
Strong and Hall-Best, employed by the Ell-
you Goldfields Corporation, on the railway
location job from Salamoa to Edie Creek,
encountered a large python. The Kanaka
boys with them dropped their tools and
fled into the bush. Strong grabbed a
14-inch copra-knife and attacked the worm.
It became entangled with his legs, and in
slashing off its head he sliced one of his
toes. Hall-Best set the severed bone in
splints, dressed the wound, and had the in-
jured man carried back to the camp on an
improvised stretcher. Then he sent a runner
to the patrol officer at Zenag ’drome with
instructions to fly SOS signals to attract a
’plane. Leaving the camp at eight o’clock on
a Tuesday morning, the stretcher-bearers car-
ried Strong all that day, reaching the aero-
A MODEL ON THE PREMISES.
ARTIST (hopefully): “I can’t get this right—what were dresses like ten years ago,
old girl?”
HIS WIFE (bitterly): “Like mine are now.”
drome late in tlie afternoon on Wednesday
after crossing and recrossing tlie flooded
Snake River. Owing to dull weather the
’plane didn’t see the distress signals till noon
on Thursday, when Strong was taken down
to the doctor at Salamoa. The chances of
fatal blood-poisoning would have been great
had it not been for Best’s prompt action ami
splendid effort in getting his comrade across
a swollen river and mountainous country in
a stretcher made of poles and copra bags.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The Melbourne and Sydney Uni.
authorities might take a lesson from Paris,
where it has been determined that
students bent on getting rid of their repres-
sions must do so in private. Up to a
few years ago the undergrads, used annually
to strip a girl stark naked, crown her Queen
of the May or the maybe or something, and (
carry her in procession through the princi-
pal thoroughfares. Later the ceremony was
confined to the side-streets, and finally it was
ordered to be performed, if at all, in a cabaret
hired for the purpose. Melbourne students
already have a serio-comic medical magazine
whose frankness makes “Young Woodley”
sound like baby talk. If that is not con-
sidered sufficient outlet, they might have an
annual entertainment from which the public
would be excluded. It wouldn’t last more
than a couple of performances.
* * * *
“Centurion” : Few mouths watered when
the Southern Ci’oss aviators told the Com-
mission that their chief article of diet after
the forced landing was snails. Yet the
gardener’s bane is popular in French rest-
aurants, and escargots a Bordelaise may be
purchased, tinned, in Sydney shops. During
the minor scrap with the Sheik el Senussi
in 1915-16, a party of sailors from the tor-
pedoed Tara, who had landed in n.-w.
Egypt and been detained by the tribesmen,
were rescued after 40 days in the wilderness.
They were in fair condition, though their
diet was almost entirely the snails they
gathered from the scrubby bushes which dot
the desert, with a little sour camel-milk
when their captors could spare it.
* * * *
“Jobber”: The other day I met a Digger
who had what he reckoned the dizzy limit
entered in his paybook. It happened in
France, where the motor-lorry lie was driv-
ing became the subject of German attentions.
After putting up with more than a fair
strafe, the Digger decided that as far as he
was concerned Fritz could have the convey-
ance, and hopped it. Ilis O.C. entered the
debit in the paybook—-“Loss of one lorry,
£600.” Ten minutes afterwards the paybook
was in the fire and the Digger never heard
anything more about his liability.
“Hotnfrey Beale”: Touching these war-
time premonitions of death or injury; take
the case of Pte. Kevin Downes, C Company,
12th B’t’n. During the battalion's first night
in the trenches at Pozieres, Downes expostu-
lated with his left-hand cobber for severely
tapping him on the left, wrist, which the
cobber indignantly denied. Several times in
the next quarter of an hour the remon-
strance and denial were repeated, and a fight
was about to develop when a shell fragment
stopped it by passing through the exact spot
where Downes had alleged his neighbor was
tapping him. I was the ne'ghbor, and I
didn’t do any tapping—l was too busy won-
dering where the next one was going to lob.
:is * * *
“Runa" : Maoriland is much exercised over
the approaching visit of the German man-
o’-war Emden. The Government, of course,
will receive the officers and men with dignity
as representatives of a friendly Power, th ■
Navy League says guardedly it will “call,”
sundry city councils are debating whether
a civic reception should be accorded, but
Henare, who belongs to a race that always
spelled revenge with an outsize “R” when it
referred to war, has intimated he is not
prepared to be more than frigidly polite.
This means that the Emden’s company will
not be lavishly entertained at Rotorua, that
Roka and Toroti will not rub noses with her
skipper, and many greenstone meres and
valuable mats will remain in Maoriland.
Authority may request Henare and Co. to
reconsider their decision, but, even if they do,
a recollection of the young Maoris who did
not return from Gallipoli and other war
areas will prevent them from showing any
cordiality towards the visitors.
“Ledraw”: There are heroes in every walk
of life. A Maitland man applied to the
N.S.W. Equity Court for a share of his
father’s estate. He had worked for many
years for his progenitor with little remunera-
tion beyond his keep, and when he married
a widow with 12 children the old man dis-
inherited him. The Judge awarded him £2OO
out of the estate.
* * * *
Blimp”: On a lonely road near Motu
(M.L.) the other day one of a gang of road-
makers was found dead with a bullet through
the heart. Close by was a sack containing
a dismantled pea-rifle. It looked like a case
of murder, but the. entire absence of motive,
anil the fact that the body could easily have
been disposed of by pushing.it over the 700 ft.
cliff alongside, caused the sleuths to investi-
gate other possibilities. Clearly the bullet
came from the barrel of the rifle in the bag,
which still held the exploded cartridge, but it
was equally obvious that the deceased could
not have shot himself and replaced the rifle
in two parts, for death must have been almost
instantaneous. Tests were made, and it
was found that it was possible for a cart-
ridge in the dismembered barrel of the rifle
to be exploded by dropping the bag, and that
PRELIMINARY PRECAUTIONS.
“Oh, we had a burner time. First of all he comes here. 'Wouldya marry me? he
says. ‘I would not,’ I says . 'Well, that’s all right,' he says . Now lets come
out for a run in my li’L' ’bus. '”
is probably wliat happened. But the odds
against that fortuitous shot finding a man s
heart must have been pretty heavy.
* * *
“McQuack”: The “Siamese twins” born
in Melbourne the other day make the third
lot reported in Australia within the last five
years, the other two pairs having arrived in
Maclean (N.S.W.) and at the Paddington
Royal Hospital for Women (Sydney). In
each case the twins have died, and only in
the Maclean case did the mother live. None
of the women’s hospitals in Sydney have
another record of such an event in all their
history. In most of the instances of uni-
ovular twins, survival is impossible; the
Melbourne pair were joined at the breast-
bone and the collarbone, for example. The
“Siamese twins” who flourished in the show
business were an example of the occurrence
of the freak under conditions that made
life possible, however unpleasant for both
partners.
4- Jfc
“Isharagi” : Telegraph posts were not the
only material which mitigated the firewood
scarcity in Palestine (B. 22/5/’29) ; sleep-
ers for the railway line, after being unloaded
at El Arish beach by the Gyppo Labor
Corps, were spaced loosely along the track
and often left overnight there, to the dis-
tinct advantage of cookhouses in the vicinity.
At Bethlehem our unit was camped in an
olive grove, and the trees in neighboring
plantations were lopped unmercifully by
clandestine fuel parties. The olive wood
made none the worse fuel for being green,
owing to its abundant oil contents.
* *
“Flagwagger”: I know a Victorian father
who has named each of his offspring after
the street in which he or she was born. The
thoroughfares so far commemorated are
McKillop-street (Geelong), Patrick-street
(Melbourne). Deakin-avenue (Mildura) and
Fairy and Jellicoe streets (Ivanhoe). Fortu-
nately Fairy is of the sex which the name
suggests, and Patrick is all right, too ; but
the girl born in Geelong was not so lucky.
You might infer that Dad is of. a roving
disposition, but actually he is a railway man
sent hither and thither by Clapp and his
predecessor. His present address is Thistle-
street, Bendigo.
* * * *
“Basra”: A certain haziness exists about
most of the minor military decorations, but
the regulations for the award of the Victoria
Cross, instituted in 185 G, are remarkably
detailed and complete. It is laid down
that when the V.C. is awarded for an act
of associated bravery the recipients are to
be elected by secret ballot of their comrades.
When the total personnel of the unit does
not exceed 100 one Cross is awarded for the
officers, one for the non-commissioned officers
and one for the privates. When the total
personnel of the unit exceeds 100, but does
not exceed 200, an additional Cross is
awarded to the privates. . Above . 200 the
matter is a subject for special consideration.
Contrary to general belief, the I'.C. may be
awarded for an act of bravery which is not
performed in the presence of the enemy, but
there is only one case on record of an award
of this nature. It came to Private O Hea,
of the Rifle Brigade, for courageously extin-
guishing a lire in an ammunition-truck dur-
ing the Fenian raid in Canada, 1866. In
ISSB the award of the Cross was extended
to civilians who distinguished themselves
whilst serving with an army in the field.
“Morkrum”: Typewriting is quite liable
to be more strongly individual than hand-
writing. Some time ago a s.p. paper in an
Australian capital printed the results of
a country race meeting, and a. number of
books paid out on the published figures. It
was soon discovered that the results were
bogus. The paper, on being appealed to,
claimed that it had published them in good
faith, and produced as evidence the usual
typed press form of the telegraph branch.
The postal detectives quietly got a sample
of the typing of every telegraphist on duty
that day and found no difficulty in identi-
fying the culprit, simply because he con-
sistently slurred A and Q, always drove R
and U through the paper, and unfailingly
caressed O so lightly that it no more than
marked. There were other peculiarities,
and the delinquent made a clean breast of
it before he bolted.
* * * *
“Shep.” : The strangest inscription I saw
over the grave of anyone who fell in the war
was in a German cemetery on the Somme.
The dead was one Michael Gang, and the
German inscription set forth that he died for
the Fatherland and for Ireland. It seemed
likely that he was one of those Irish pri-
soners in Germany who were offered freedom
to don the Fritz uniform, and who accepted
the offer to even up old scores against the
Sassenach.
* is * *
“S.T.S.” : A Scotch joke lias become real
in Adelaide. A young man walked into the
head police station, and explained that he
had a job waiting for him in a week; he
wanted board and lodging till then, under
an old warrant. The document had been
forgotten, but was hunted up at his urgent
request; it was well over a year old, and
prescribed for him a small fine —or seven
days. “I am Scotch,” he said pleasantly;
“why pay?”
* * * *
“Chev.”: Queer accidents? A taxi-driver
was travelling along Sydney-road, Brunswick
(Vic.), recently when one of his front wheels
came off. The vehicle retained a more or
less upright posture, so that the driver was
able to sit in his car and watch the wheel
career along the street for 40 yards, mount
the footpath and break into an optician’s
window.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Frior to opening motor works
on a large scale in England Henry Ford has
announced that he will insist on absolute
teetotalism among his employees, on the job
ot off it. Another American, one Badger, who
was the first general manager and organiser
of the Brisbane Tramway system (then
a company-run show), issued a similar ukase,
and kept it in working order throughout his
long and successful regime. Employees
were informed that not only would those
with any suspicion of strong drink on them
be sacked instanter, but that any tramway
employee seen entering a hotel, in uniform
or out of it, would receive the same treat-
ment. There was a lot of heartburning, but
no serious trouble over the rule. What did
break the camel’s back was an order that
the men on the trams should not wear their
union badge on their watch-chains. There
was a nasty strike over that, and Badger had
to waive the point.
PROOF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dreamt God in His Heaven
And all well with the world,
A church to charity given,
And lamb with lion curled.
I dreamt that men and bosses,
In amity unstrained,
Combined to cut their losses
Or share what both had gained.
I dreamt of politicians
Who strove with care and skill
To heal, like good physicians,
Their country’s ev’ry ill.
I dreamt of civic beauty,
And councillors who laughed
To scorn the thought that duty
Could ever pair with graft.
I dreamt, with soul uplifted
And pulses beating high,
Of barrackers so gifted
They saw with either eye.
I dreamt of stretching horses,
That battled stride for stride
On sleek and glowing courses —•
I dreamt they always tried.
I dreamt in all true seeming....
Alas that thus I know
How right it is all dreaming
By contrary must go!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


“Narara”: How’s this for Australian
casualness? Five years ago a Sydney woman
divorced her husband and obtained an order
for alimony against him. He recently fell
behind with the payments, and the lady con-
sulted a solicitor to see about issuing a sum-
mons. The lawyer learned to his amaze-
ment that the woman had re-married two
years after her divorce, and that the ex-
husband, although aware of this, had kept
the alimony payments up until a few weeks
previously. Neither lie nor his ex-wife knew
that the alimony order automatically lapsed
on the woman’s re-marriage.
s': :|: * *
“Schnorrer”: Like the Irish of the Free
State, the Jews of Palestine are seeking to
revive their traditional language; the main
obstacle is Yiddish, which many Gentiles in-
sist on regarding as the national Jewish
tongue. In addition, plenty of Jews liave
become attached to the jargon, with the re-
sult that relations are sorely strained in
Palestine between the Hebrewists and the
Yiddishists. In Tel Aviv, the newly-grown
100 per cent. Jewish town of 45,000 people,
an attempt to establish a Yiddish Club led
to riots, the promoters being driven out. In
Jerusalem some journalists representing Yid-
dish papers in Europe and America endea-
vored to produce a Yiddish weekly, but such
an outcry was raised that the authorities
refused permission. To evade the law the
paper was brought out in book form; but
an organisation which calls itself “The
Legion of Defenders of the Language” raided
the booksellers and bore away the whole of
the second issue. The fight is still being
waged, the upholders of Yiddish having
arranged for a secret production of their
■journal.
:|: :J: * *
“Chev.”: I believe that tone, in the sense
used by artists, plays an unsuspected part
in many motor accidents. On a recent drab
and drizzly day I was watching a market-
gardener’s waggon which was ambling slowly
across an intersection, and making up my
mind whether to pass ahead or astern of it,
when a motor-cyclist arose from nowhere
WHEN TWIN SOULS MET.
MOTHER “Aren’t you ashamed of having flirted with a married man in the way you
did?”
DAPHNE: “Well, you see Mother, we found we were twin souls—he is afraid of his
wife, and so am I.”
right in my path. I must. have been looking
directly at him, but missed seeing him,
because at a certain distance he was exactly
the same tone as the cart that momentarily
provided him with a background. On another
occasion a friend impaled his car on the
pole that projected from the tail of a truck
equipped with a telescopic chassis. The end
of the pole had been painted white, but had
weathered to the general tone of the 1 vehicle.
The motor-manufacturers, who are painting
their cars in bright and variegated colors,
are tending in the right direction, and if male
pedestrians dressed as gaily as the ladies and
clothed their extremities in the same warn-
ing colors, there would be fewer safety-zone
fatalities.
“P.M.”: For weeks before Clapp is ex-
pected on his annual tour of inspection, an
atmosphere of spit and polish pervades our
local station. I happened to be there within,
a few hours of the Commissioner’s arrival and
noticed the s.m. and the porter were rushing
hither and thither in an absolute frenzy,
putting finishing touches on this and that.
The former was too busy to go home for
dinner, but swallowed a pie and tea at the
refresh, counter. And right behind his back
was something that didn’t receive a moment’s
attention. In the van of a train standing
in the station was a ton of butter, and tied,
sitting on the boxes, was a big Alsatian dog 1
* * * *
“Elsie Ghee”: In most Australian States
the traditional police-helmet is being super-
seded by the flat cap that places police, tram-
guards, firemen, postmen, Salvationists, first-
aid men, foreign seamen and chauffeurs on
the same head-level. The London police, who
wear cloth-covered helmets, were recently
invited to say whether they would prefer a
change to the flat cap that is creeping in
throughout the British provinces. They voted
against it, possibly for the same reason as
that which makes tin 1 Victorian police stick
to their shiny leather but equally heavy and
uncomfortable top-piece. It gives more pro-
tection against the sling-shot and the bottle.
* * * *
“Vulagi” : Thirty years ago I was in Gib-
raltar on May 24, Queen'Victoria’s birthday.
One of the sights was a detachment of
Spanish cavalry escorting the Governor of
Algeciras to pay an annual call at Gib.’s
Government House. The usual entry was
made in the book recording the visitor as
“Don de So and So, Governor of Algeciras
and Gibraltar (temporarily in the hands of
the British).” Spain has never reconciled
herself to the loss of the Bock, and no doubt
the entry was made again last week.
* as *
“Caractacus”: Glassy-surfaced bitumen-
sheeted streets have led, apparently, to the
evolution of new traits in the few remaining
horses doing cart duty. The neddy attached
to a two-wheeled, high-pattern milkeart
came down in a narrow lane, and judiciously
stayed where it fell. The driver descended
calmly, loosened a strap or two, and said,
“You’re right; get up!” Rosinante tried,
but failed to get a grip of the slippery
ashphalt. “Lie still again !” commanded the
driver, and Rosy did so, while more straps
were slackened. “Now, give it a go,” called
the milkman. “No, no, y’ can’t do it! Lie
down again!” lie added, “I’ll take some o’
the load off.” Rosy lay till this had been
tried —in vain. “No good !” yelled the driver;
“don’t try no more.” Then, as the horse made
another attempt— “It’s no good, I tell y’; y’
can’t do it! Wait there till I shove the cart
offa y’!” Again the steed settled down. The
cart was unhooked and pushed back. “Now,
y’ can get up !” suggested the driver in the
same conversational tones that had been
maintained throughout. Rosy could, and
did; the cart was re-attaclied, and the two
went on their way.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : South Aus. has suddenly decided
to permit pillion-riding on motor-cycles. This
was barred about seven years ago, but no
other States have followed suit, and the
supposedly dangerous practice is to have an-
other trial. But the rider at the rear must
have foot-rests and sit astride.
* -it * *
“Mephisto” ; There is only one hansom-cab
left in Brisbane; it may be seen at almost
any hour, waiting for fares, outside one of
the leading hotels. Very few townspeople
use it, but it has a week or two of brisk
activity when the old-time Western graziers
come into town for the Show. Some of these
ancients scorn the motors and work the lone
hansom overtime.
* * * *
“Narara”: Other murderers with the
initials E.K. were doubtless buried in the old
Melbourne gaolyard (B. 2!)/5/’29), but I
don’t think there was ever the slightest doubt
as to where the bushranger’s remains rested.
Every visitor who went through the gaol had
the exact location pointed out to him by
the' warder showing him through, and the
gaol authorities struck me as taking a special
pride in this invisible exhibit. I’ll never
forget the tone of hushed impressiveness in
which a senior warder pointed the spot out
to me some years ago.
* * * *
“Mells”: In the so-called roaring days of
the W.A. goldfields hotel licenses were
granted with a recklessness that doubtfully
has any parallel in Australian history. One
struggling settlement which has long since
passed out of existence consisted of only a
couple of streets; at the intersection and
centre of such township as there was a
pub stood at every corner. At Kalgoorlie s
busiest intersection three of the four corners
carried hotels and still do so; within a three-
mile radius of Kalgoorlie post office there
were at one time nearly 100 licensed houses.
One reason, perhaps the main one, for this
riotous excess was that common or garden
j’s.P. often sat on the Licensing Bench, ami-
able and occasionally amenable persons who
THE LITTLE DARLING.
“Do you object to kissing, Celia?"
“I never have done it, John.”
“What—never kissed, Celia!”
“No—never objected, John.”
found it difficult to say no to any application.
There were not a few scandals, and a drastic
change in the system followed. Nowadays
there are licensing magistrates who do no
other work, and it is as hard to obtain a
license in either an old settlement or a new
one as it once was easy.,
sjs :{: *
“Cald” : “Bullwhanger” makes a slip (B.
29/5/’29) in his statement that the steamer
gt. Joseph was originally known as the Five
Islands. Her previous name was Bellambi,
which was changed to gt. Joseph when she
was purchased by the French. The collier
Bellambi, now running on the N.g.W. coast,
was the Five Islands.
* * * *
“P. 8.1.” : Re the tunes that were sometimes
served up to our gallant Allies (B. 15/5/’29).
When the troopship Transylvania was about
to berth at Marseilles in April, ’l6, our band-
master evidently realised that the occasion
demanded something stirringly patriotic. Ills
choice was a curious one, and the ship
threaded her way through the docks with
“The Death of Nelson” blaring out from
just under the bridge, gome of us wondered
if the French sentries with the baggy pants
would have presented arms so solemnly if
they had known the words that go to the
tune.
* * * *
“Ernel”: I have always treasured the final
couplet on a tombstone in the Nhill (Vic.)
cemetery, because of the implication. It
runs: —
Guard well their dust, O sacred tomb,
Till we, their children, ask for room.
And then—what?
* * * *
“Let Go” : Mention of the treachery by the
Circassians in a village beyond the Jordan
(B. l/5/’29) recalls that the Arabs were
ready to change sides in a couple of minutes.
The Anzac Mounted division had been
attacking the Turkish forces near Amman,
and were assisted in the rifle fire by scores
of desert tribesmen. Towards dusk a
retirement became necessary, whereat our ex-
allies turned round and gave it to us in
the backs. Fortunately their shooting was
as bad as their guns were obsolete, and with
the exception of two horses wounded there
were no casualties. Was it any wonder that
the Light Horsemen soon learned to take
no chances with Arabs and Bedouins?
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: A fresh point of view
is always interesting. A girl from the Bush
came lately on a visit to a friend in our
suburb. When we knew each other well
enough to ask questions, she inquired : “Do
you let a woman chop your wood?” What
little there is to do in that line I do myself,
and I said so. “No,” she said, “I’ve heard
an axe going when I passed your place, and
by the sound it was certainly a woman using
it.” That was how my amateur axe-pecking
had sounded to her, an expert.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: The Turks, however bad
their treatment of prisoners, observed some
of the decencies of warfare. When Jacko
was falling back towards- Palestine he left a
signboard near El Arish with the warning,
“Don’t dig here. Cholera patients buried.
It w T as worded in English. Some of our men
were suspicious, and insisted that something
which was not wanted to fall into our hands,
but could not be carried away, had been
buried there. They began some excavating,
but abandoned it very suddenly for reasons
that they doubtless found adequate. I have
been told that Jacko’s religion forbade him
to use germs or poison in warfare; and I
know that in the Jordan Valley we drank
freely, and without i'll effect, from streams
which flowed down from behind his lines.
Later, when we saw the condition of the
banks of the streams where he had camped,
we tried to forget having drunk that water.
* * * *
“Kirk”: It was noticed during the floods
in the Speck that bridges which were com-
paratively low and were soon submerged to
a considerable depth sustained much less
damage than those which were nearer the
level of the rushing waters. _ It is the bat-
tering effect of trees and timber, not the
torrent itself, which works the mischief, as
was shown in the destruction of that fine
bluestone bridge at Perth.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Australia acquired a new island
the other day. It is situated in the Yarra
at Burnley, and the Board of Works brought
it into being by driving a canal, 200 yards
in length, from one bend of the river to
another. A big abandoned quarry was em-
braced in the scheme and will make a fine
still-water bathing-pool. The island is to be
planted with trees and shrubs, and turned
into a pleasure ground.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : There have always been widely
divergent estimates of Binghi’s mentality; and
a full-fledged investigation is going to be
started by a professor of psychology, who is
now in Melbourne. He is Professor S. D-
Porteous, a Victorian, who did the world-
famous research into defective mentality in
Melbourne with Prof. Berry—research which,
if the Commonwealth brass-hats had only
taken full advantage of it, would have saved
hundreds of thousands spent on enlistments
in the A.I.F. Porteous hazards the opinion
that a race which could maintain itself in
such an inhospitable region as the centre of
this continent must have had more than a
neolithic brain, even if it used neolithic tools;
and he and two colleagues from Honolulu,
Dr. Paul Whittington and C. S. Childs, are
going to the great Nor’-West to test the
thesis.
❖ * ❖ *
“Oran”: To spend over seven years in a
mental institution must he a sinister experi-
ence, but a Maoriland ex-soldier found a
silver lining in the cloud. He was a severe
war case, but made a complete recovery
after long treatment, during which time he
had not been permitted to draw his usual
pension. On his release he demanded from
the War Pensions Board the whole of the
money in a lump sum, something over £7OO,
and the slightly perturbed authorities at first
refused to pay. Under pressure they offered
to consider a suitable investment, but the
recovered Digger persisted, and. -with the aid
of the R.S.A., the Minister of Pensions and
the Attorney-General, managed to collect the
whole amount. Had he been in any other
variety of hospital he would probably have
drawn a good deal of his money for current
requirements.
COURT VIGNETTE.
THE LITIFANTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Observe the parties to the suit, as rigidly
each sits
As far removed from t’other as the furniture
permits!
Each, from that near-remote position,
Disdains the faintest recognition.
Outside, he glares and spits.
A queer assortment, those who come to seek
the law’s decrees,
The common suitors, slighted wives, their
husbands and co-re’s.
Their hopes in turn bound out of reach—
Each hears his counsel’s opening speech
And recks not of the fees.
They pass notes up to Bluff, Iv.C. (though
that’s unorthodox),
With “points” to make and questions for the
scoundrel in the box,
And shake their heads in dee]) disgust
When the reply or counter-thrust
Their moral being shocks.
Sometimes they’re merely puzzled men, trus-
tees with doubt that racks ’em.
One with too many claimants, or (much
rarer) one who lacks ’em.
Sweet then the showers that sometimes
fall;
“Order as prayed, with costs to all,
And let the Master tax ’em.”
Yet, if the struggle’s willing and one’s flat-
tened on the mat,
The breathless victor often swears and
fiercely kicks his hat.
Sometimes both reach a deathless place
As heroes of a “leading case.”
What triumph could beat that?
S.A.
BILL O’COSTS.


m
2
%
S
\\
1
m
i
wmi/iim
m.
m
UiiUUiHttrh
mm
Ifa'iufr/tM
W^.
f/>
V/ /
3$
i
=§
F VCx
L '.
,-n
P
Wit
\k
mm
W C.WENTWORTn.
m
i
champion RESER
PORT
OWN BOTTLING
m
MAS HARDY £ SONS LTD
AIDE.MELBOURNE ISYOWESp
'SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WINt
i^xg^cgsguasatga
w,
1
m
"QvisiocvciHc Pioneers.
HARDY’S "WINES OF TINTARA


DIAMOND RINGS
Gems of flawless quality in hand-fashioned settings.
w>
m
€27
€25
MSI
€2O €26-15
FAIRFAX
ROBERTS, LTD
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
fflatnau
» 51t0« SivrtsCttC
A. Macnaught
Welted Model.
Baby crocodile calf,
with peb b 1 e-grain
calf underlays on
vamp and quarter.
Broad bar and
buckle. “K um-
fit” flexible
welted soles and
covered sports
heel.
a
Writs Pot Ca.talog)C
FOR LADIES t- CHILDREN
189 PITT ST. 22 STRAND. 105 KING ST
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The old hand amongst the Australians in
the British elections is Newton Moore, who
succeeded George Reid as M.P. for Hanover
Square in 1918, and this time got a substan-
tial Conservative majority at Richmond. He
entered W.A. politics in 1904, and was Pre-
mier within about a couple of years. Harold
Boyce, son of a Sydney solicitor and ex-
A.I.F. man; W. P. C. Greene, a Grenfell
(N.S.W.) squatter; and Reginald Purbrick,
who owned much land in Bacchus Marsh
(Vic.), carried the Conservative flag to vic-
tory. Every Australian who ran as a Liberal
met disaster, although a Maorilander, Percy
Harris, already in Parliament, kept his seat.
This lot -included Professor Gilbert Murray,
the great Greek scholar, brother of Hubert,
of Papua. Laborite John Scurr, born in Bris-
bane, kept his seat; and L. W. Matters and
Dr. Marion Phillips, of Melbourne, won new
ones. Hugh D. Mclntosh was the only Aus-
tralian Laborite to go down.
Newton Moore, luckiest of Australians
who have become Conservative politicians in
Britain, and Len Matters will sit on oppo-
site sides of the new House of Commons;
Matters captured one of the I.<ondon seats
for Labor. The interesting pair were asso-
ciated in Perth 20 years ago, when Moore
was Premier of Westralia and Matters editor
of the Daily News. Subsequently Matters
edited an English daily in Buenos Ayres,
where he narrowly escaped being shot during
a riot stirred up by Bolshevist agents. A
charming fellow with picturesque brindled
hair, he married a Perth presswoman, Mrs.
Domcla. His sister Muriel achieved pro-
minence during the suffragette agitation by
padlocking her comely person to the grille
of the House of Commons and slipping the
key down her back.
A feature of the new British Parliament
will be its family parties. Oswald Mos-
ley and his wife, the Lady Cynthia, daughter
of Lord Curzon, will sit side by side as
Laborites; Ramsay MacDonald’s son, who
was in Australia with a university debating
team; two sons of Arthur Henderson and
a son and daughter of Lloyd George will
join their fathers in the House; and Bald-
win’s son Oliver will sit in opposition to his
Conservative dad.
Archbishop GERALD SHARP, of Brisbane.
One of the most picturesque of the minor
figures in British politics, Ben Tillett, won
the North Salford seat. He was in Aus-
tralia 30 years ago, taking a health trip
after secretarying a strike of London
dockers. A dapper little man, as bright-
eyed and as impudent as a sparrow, he made
a hit wherever he went by saying, “You
working men! Why don’t you think? Look
at me! See this velvet coat? I like velvet
and I wear velvet, and I paid three and
elevenpence for this coat at a stall in White-
chapel out of the three quid a week I got as
secretary of the Dockers’ Union.” During
the Great War Tillett did more, perhaps,
than any other man on the Labor side to
smooth out troubles in munition factories
and other essential services.
Justice Campbell came off the N.S.W.
Supreme Court Bench last week. Under
the law he should have retired at 70, and
until he got some papers from Scotland he
thought this would not happen until Novem-
ber next. Now it seems he was robbing
himself of a year. His Honor has been a
Judge only since 1923. and no man
should be appointed a Judge at 64. But
in these days senior men at the Bar are
doing so well that it takes a lot of patriot-
ism—much more than most of them have
—to induce the best to go on the Bench
in their prime. And the cheapening of the
Bench, first by political appointments and
then by making Judges of chairmen of all
sorts of so-called arbitration courts, has done
no good, either. Campbell, J., was a hard
fighter at the Bar. but he was too old when
he went up to make a first-rate Judge; and
he wasn’t.
Daniel Stewart is the second of the
Stewart brothers, the big Sydney builders,
to go during the last two years. His father
established the business, and was in Mel-
bourne taking part in the building boom that
followed the gold rushed when Daniel was
born there 69 years ago. The just-dead con-
tractor’s personal additions to Sydney in-
cluded, besides the Town Hall, the Royal
North Shore Hospital and the first power-
house at Ultimo.
Charles Dickens’s daughter Kate (Mrs.
Perugini) joined her famous father lately,
and only one of the novelist’s children now
remains—Sir Henry Fielding Dickens. Both
of the sons who settled in Australia died
years ago, Edward Bulwcr Lytton, the
youngest, first, and then Alfred Tennyson.
Mrs. Perugini was just on 90. She married
twice. Both of her husbands were artists.
The first was Charles Collins, brother of
Wilkie, and a good writer too.
Jacob Jolninson looks like making an early
discovery that he who liveth by the sword
shall perish by the sword. Jacob loomed
first as lieutenant to Tom Walsh in the Sea-
men’s Union, and set the pace in the loud-
mouthed utterances that appeal to the mob.
Finally Walsh retreated from the extremes
to which his assistant’s competition had
forced him. Then Johanson scored, but he
in his turn had enlisted lieutenants who also
had their eyes on the job. So now the Syd-
ney branch, previously his stronghold, is
howling for his blood.
It. I). Hale, the first assayer at Broken
Hill—he made most of the earliest tests for
the Broken Hill Prop—ls still on the field,
and still very interested in things. When
the other week there was talk about push-
ing into the desert to recover the bodies of
the airmen Anderson and Ilitchock, he wrote
to The Bulletin recalling the late Maitland-
Brown’s great performance in recovering all
that was left of Panter, Goldwyer and Hard-
ing, mui’dered by natives'on the De Grey.
“Bob” Hale’s father was then Bishop of
Perth. The son recalls that this Panter,
an inspector of police, was elder brother of
that Cap. Panter, R.N., who a year or two
later brought out Australia’s early warship
Cerberus. They were nephews of Sir A. E.
Kennedy, then Governor of Westralia.
The King’s Birthday list of titles is at
least far more sensible than most of them.
Old Judge Powers, of the High Court, gets
a K.C.M.G., and, anyhow, though he should
never have been on that Bench, he has a
long record of public service, chiefly in
Queensland. Colin Mackenzie, the great
authority on Australian zoology, is a K. 8.;
and few men have shown more patriotism
in their science. Kelso King, of Sydney, is
another new knight, and a worthy one.
Sydney has no truer philanthropist. Million-
aire Walter Russell Hall chose well when
he made Kelso King the chief instrument in
his benefactions. In business life he is the
managing director of the Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co.
Tasmania has just lost her tallest son, or
thereabouts, Charles Coward, a farmer of
East Tamar, aged 59. H’e was 6ft. 7in. and
22st. A happy, genial soul, with a laugh as
big as himself, his great joke was that,
despite his size and strength, he was a born
Coward.
Senator Patrick Lynch (W.A.) has just
completed a quarter of a century in Parlia-
ment, with two of the briefest tastes of office
ever accorded a fighting politician. “Paddy”
was a goldfields engine-driver when Leonora
sent him to the State Assembly in 1904,
and he seemed coming to the front in record
time when he obtained a portfolio inside of
a year in W.A.’s first Labor Ministry. But
the Government lasted only two months, and
Lynch, who left State politics for the Sen-
ate in 1906, had to wait over 11 years for
his next sniff of office, which came after he
followed Hughes out of the Labor caucus-
room over the conscription issue. This time
the job (Works and Railways) lasted three
months. Then a coalition Government was
formed, and in the re-shuffle Lynch became
a private member again.
Vic. Premier McPherson took with him to
the Premiers’ Conference at Canberra his
honorary Cabinet colleague Bob Menzies,
K.C., and Frank Menzies, Crown Solicitor,
brother of the “silk.” The father of the
pair, a former member for Lowan, comes up
to the State public offices occasionally to
attend the Council of Agricultural Educa-
tion, of which he is a member.
Another link with the glamorous days of
the Wildest North rusted off the other day.
“Owney” Reynolds was early on the Palmer
—was, in fact, mates with Palmer. Later
he had a pub at Cooktown, and one Christ-
mas morning, it is told, 801 b. of sausages
went over tbe tables there for breakfast.
To-day the solitary butcher in Cooktown
would" give up the trade if called upon to
serve an order like that. “Owney” banded
two daughters to young fellows who have
become Old Identities. One is Charlie Patch-
ing, solicitor, town clerk and a lot of other
things; the other is Meldrum, the man who
pushes The Bulletin over the counter at
Cooktown every Tuesday night.
Alan ■ Wardlaw, M.L.C., the honorary
in the McPhee Ministry (Tas.), is au-
other Digger who did fine work during the
floods there. Wardlaw was Acting-Minister
for Lands and Works at the moment (the
other man was in Maoriland), and on the
Sunday after the
floods he visited
several parts of
the State by aero-
plane, as a great
many of the bridges
had been swept
away or were feet
under water, and
ordinary road and
rail travel was im-
possible. And this
though be is short
of a leg and has a
withered arm
through war ser-
vice.
GEORGE
COWIE, manager
of Dalgety’s in
South Aus., and
one of the State’s
delegates to the
recent Chamber
of Commerce
Conference in
Brisbane.
John Webster, the new Federal Secretary
of the Returned Soldiers’ League, comes to
the job from eight years of fostering the
Launceston branch. Not yet in his forties,
he saw Egypt and France with the 12th
Battalion; beginning as a private, he ended
up with a commission. He probably holds the
record for minimum detention as a prisoner
of war. Getting ahead of his platoon in a
push, he fell severely wounded and was cap-
tured by a German officer. Five minutes
later, however, he was free. Either out of
pity or because the game wasn’t worth the
candle, his captor left him to some Aus-
tralian stretcher-bearers who were in the
vicinity.
The name of William Miller was the first
entered in the register of births when an
office was opened in 1859 at Glebe —now a
densely-peopled Sydney suburb, then a few
cottages sprawled around the big estate of
B’George Wigrarn Allen, of Toxteth H’ouse.
They recorded his death in the same register
last week.
When John Thomas Sharman’s two sons
enlisted he decided to go, too, although he
was on the doorstep of 60, and got away
somehow. One of the sons was killed at
Villers-Bret.; the other died of war effects
a few years ago. Now the old soldier, Dad
of the Mascot R.S.L., has gone also; he
dropped dead at a meeting of the league.
H'e lived to be 72. ,
T. P. Fry, who has just been awarded a
law fellowship at American Universities by
the Commonwealth Fund of New York, is
a Brisbane lad, son of J. P. Fry, Country
party member for Ivurilpa in the Queensland
Parliament. After a brilliant career fit Bris-
bane Uni., he went to Oxford, where he was
when the £6OO-a-year scholarship was
awarded him. In Queensland he played with
the Uni. Rugby League team, but at Oxford
he dropped football. His fellowship will
entail a two years’ tour of American Univer-
sities, after which he must return to Bris-
bane to practise.
The Bulletin has an army of fine
friends in the great and greater public
schools, the latter the little hush academies
where men are doing the nation the finest
of all services; but it doubts whether it ever
had a more loyal one than B. T. Pearse,
of Victoria, who retired from the depart-
ment last month after 51 years’ work.
Pearse was loyal to his department, too;
in his country schools, winding up at Sale,
he found quite enough to write about in
the native life about him —and especially in
that most interesting of all native animals,
the Australian child.
All going well, Dr. J. A. Lead?, assistant-
chief inspector of the Vic. Education Depart-
ment, will retire five years before his time,
in March next, on his 60th birthday. His
bird book is world-known. Discovered early
by Director Tate and given a free hand, lie
placed a sane nature study firmly on the
curriculum, setting an example which has
been widely followed. He has tramped Vic-
toria, given innumerable public lectures, in-
culcated in oldsters and youngsters a love
for our fauna, spoken through 3LO for five
years, and in every way, in season and out
of season, lias been in the forefront of all
movements to give our unique fauna a sport-
ing chance. He is getting out to devote
his whole time to this work.
Jeffrey Jacoby had a previous close call
in his boat the Erica before the wreck which
last week-end led to his death. Only a few
months ago the vessel was swept right out
into the open sea in a gale. Although a
comparative youngster Jacoby, a journalist
of the soaring type, had worked for papers
in all the States except Tassie, besides adven-
turing on the north coasts of both West-
ralia and Queensland. His last job was on
ii new Sydney paper, Plain Talk ; dissatis-
fied with it, he pushed off upon the fishing
Enterprise he had planned months ago.
Ex-Westralian Ned Harney, K.C., M.P.,
who died in London lately, had a brother,
also a lawyer, who was a man of vast pro-
portions. Once he became wedged in a
passage between two of the Yalingup
caves, and was moved only with great diffi-
culty. To this day guides point out the
spot to vistors as Harney’s Pinch.
Temora (N.S.W.) has just honored its
G.0.M., W. J. Cartwright, on his 80th
birthday. He has been a leading citizen for
50 years, founded the Farmers’ Union, was
president of the show committee for 30
years, and_ led the deputation which won
from the Minister of the day a promise to
build the Cootamundra-Temora railway. He
is not too old even now to take an interest
in the affairs of a town that has long
ceased to bo a railway terminus —nowadays
it is an important junction.
The old legal firm of Stock and Bennett
in Adelaide has seen a host of changes
lately. Bennett was the last of a long series
of partners of the veteran commercial
lawyer W. F. Stock. Bennett worked up a
Court practice as well, and took silk, adding
as juniors Gordon Campbell (the old inter-
state wicket-keeper), T. J. Browne and
Harrie Atkinson, who had grown up in the
office. Campbell lately retired, Bennett has
died; the rest carry on, with (among others)
a woman partner, clever Miss Kitson.
One of the tallest, physically and men-
tally, of Clapp’s picked men is C. H. Holmes,
chief of the Vic. Railways Betterment and
Publicity Board. lie lias helped to prove
that bluff and noise aren’t necessary in get-
ting big things done. One way and another
he has made Victorians interested in the
railways and rather proud of owning them,
and the battling Digger orchardist can thank
him for inducing Victorians to eat more fruit
- —tons of it. Holmes has done most of the
spade work on the £lOO,OOO plan for luring
tourists to the country.
“The Deacon”: The Bulletin’s parish
claims a picturesque veteran among its R.C.
clergy. Peter Piquet was born at Lyons
in France 76 years ago, and has spent the
last 4!) years at St. Patrick’s, Church Hill,
Sydney. Looked upon as the only logical
successor to the long-established superior of
the order, Pere le Rennetel, he sturdily
Magistrate KIDSON, well known on the
Perth Bench.
refused all such honors, and stayed on
in the ranks. Characteristically, he has
vetoed the mooted celebrations and presenta-
tions which it was purposed making him
on the occasion of the golden jubilee of his
acceptance for the church. All the same,
there will be some doings on the Rocks to
round off the event.
An excitement of a generation ago was
provided by Edith O’Gorman Auffray, who
as “The Escaped Nun” toured the world as
a lecturer and made one visit to Australia.
The lady—really a very tame lady—lias just
died in England at the age of 86.


THE DELEGATED JOB.
KING TAXPAYER: “I understand this was one of your jobs.”
HERCULES, M.P.: “Bless you, no! You pay me to tax you to pay him to do it.”
Poverty
Point
“McSporran”: Sirr Hairry Landerr—him
ye hear on the recorrds ilkaday but. dinna
sae often see —is takkin’ a wee bit holiday in
the country Seddon (a loon frae Lancashire)
chreestened “God’s Ain.” Hairry’s gettin
auld an’ grey, an’ he’s unco rich; but he
was aye a threefty soul. He fushes for trout
daytimes, an’ whirrls his erookit sticks on
the stage o’ nichts. He stayed wi’ auld
Hugh Mackenzie, ane o’ the Soothland pio-
neers, in Queenstown, an’ wi’ Donal’ Mac-
donald at Edendale (that’s up Auckland
way), an’ when he speered thern what he
would be payin’ for his boarrd an’ bed they
juist turrned the subject into ither channels
—a remairkable instance of Scottish hospi-
tality.
J.C.W. has had a “celebrity vaudeville”
co. touring M.L., and one of its members
writes from Wellington: “When I landed in
Maoriland five months ago I was full of
misgivings about getting my Bulletin every
week. Before leaving Sydney I had com-
menced ‘Coonardoo.’ And I’ve never missed
an issue. From Auckland to Whakatane,
across to New Plymouth, down to Welling-
ton, no matter how small the village, The
Bulletin was there. On completing the
North Island, I figured on losing sight of
my old friend in the South Island. But no
chance! Our first Friday town was Black-
ball, a mining village on the West Coast.
I would have taken any odds about missing
a copy. I stalked into the paper-shop and
inquired of Madam if she had the last issue
of The Bulletin. Too right she had! And
so it was from Otira. to Christchurch (east
and west) and Picton to Bluff (north and
south) and Otago (central) —there was
never a town I didn’t find The Bulletin
awaiting me.”
“The Rev. John”: I for one am pleased to
note that the broadcasting stations are (in
addition to seeing that the well of English
oozes more or less undefiled) giving some
attention to general uplift. They cannot,
for instance, ban absolutely a song that is a
best-seller, but they can invest it with an
aura of semi-respectability. In pursuance
of this mission the very Oxford-English
announcer of one of the stations this week
informed his hearers that the next item
would be the well-known song “Hallelujah,
I’m a—ah —tramp /”
“Cauboy”: Prof. Heinze, of Melbourne
Uni., has started off the old controversy
about the discourteous treatment accorded
the National Anthem at the conclusion of
entertainments. Some demand its reten-
tion at the end of performances, when it is
scamped by the orchestras and. regarded by
audiences as a signal to bolt for the exits.
Others call for it to be placed first on pro-
grammes, where it is bound to be trampled
on by -the noisy feet of late-comers. The
obvious fact is that the attitude of modern
audiences to it indicates that it has become
an anachronism in the amusement-hall. The
rational-minded might ask why a prayer to
the Almighty on behalf of the Sovereign
should precede or succeed an entirely irrev-
erent musicomedy or a display of Republican
America’s moving-pictures. I know of no
nation but the British which submits its
patriotic hymn to such an indignity.
“Gad” : Visitors to Oberammergau for the
Passion Play in 1930 will not see Anton
Lang in the role of Jesus of Nazareth. He
is the only man who has ever played the
part in three successive productions (1900,
1910 and 1920), and he has been acclaimed
as the greatest Christus in the history of
this centuries-old spectacle. His retirement
is due to age and increasing weight, and the
choice of a successor lies between his cousin,
Aloys Lang, and a blacksmith, Hugo Rutz.
Anton’s children used formerly to appear in a
group scene, “Suffer Little Children to Come
unto Me” ; but most of them are now too old
for such roles. However, as every citizen of
the town aspires to some part in the pro-
duction, they may still appear as supers, if
only to cry “Crucify Him!” Most of the
T9lO cast fought in the Bavarian ranks
during the war.
“Zabut” : xlbout Christmas, 1917, a party
which included “Trooper Bluegum” (Oliver
Hogue), ,1. G. Smytli (a well-known Syd-
ney business man and tennis-player) and
myself gave a concert in the open at Kan-
tara, and afterwards we were carted off
by the General for refreshments —all but
the pianist, the most brilliant member of
the party. He was a corporal, and was
passed down to the care of the n.c.o.’s. He
is now in Australia, one of Pavlova’s con-
ductors —Walford Ifaydon by name, and a
jolly good chap.
“Cajsar’s Ghost”: Sydneyites have had
only three opportunities of bearing “The
Dream of Gerontius,” lately given by the
Conservatorium choir and orchestra. Pre-
vious expositions of Elgar’s masterpiece were
given at the Sydney Town Hall in 1903, with
J. A. Delaney directing, to celebrate the
golden jubilee of Cardinal Moran; and by
Dr. Henry Coward, with the Sheffield Choir
during the 1911 visit of that musical com-
bination. The first performance was in
Birmingham in 1900; but I heard scraps of
it years before that —the Elgars were my
neighbors at Malvern (Eng). Mrs. Elgar
was as enthusiastic a musician as her hus-
band, and the pair worked together for years,
Madame playing over the score as Elgar
produced it. Their little daughter used to
tell me grave stories of how the clouds had
opened and God had spoken to her.
“Mepliisto”: Arthur Benjamin’s first les-
sons on the piano were supervised by George
Sampson, the angular conductor of the
Bananaland State orchestra, and Brisbane
duly patted her son on the back when he
lately returned. Included in his second
recital was Beethoven’s Appassionata Sonata,
and he handled it very capably. He had been
practising this sonata since the age of 17,
but this was the first time he played it
publicly. In his youth he made a decision
that he would not play the sonata in public
till he was 35 years old, and he reached
that age just before his visit to Brisbane.
“Craiser” : Harry Lauder will open a fare-
well season in Melbourne next month under
the Firm’s management. As far as I can
estimate, this will make S’arry one ahead of
the other famous adieuellist.
“Goldilocks” : Arthur Massey, who has just
completed 25 years’ service in Mosman (Syd-
ney), belongs to a great family of church
organists. His brother Joseph was organist at
St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney; Thomas
is at Newcastle Cathedral, Sydney; E. J. in a
Lithgow church; and James in Gisborne
(ML.).
“L.H.P.” : Another Mary Queen of Scots
drama has thudded in London. Madge and
Leslie Gordon’s three-act play “The Bor-
derer,” with Fred Terry as Bothwell, and
his daughter Phyllis as the Queen, lasted
only three weeks at the Strand. One of the
few plays on the subject of Mary Stuart
that have not been frost-bitten was W. S.
Wills’s “Mary Queen of Scots,” which ran
W’ell at London Princess in 1874, with the
beautiful Mrs. Rousby as the Queen and
Brian Darley (here with Rignold in the
’eighties) as Rizzio. Wills is familiar to
Australia through his “Royal Divorce”
drama. The Italian version of Schiller’s
“Mary Stuart” was played in Australia by
Ristori with great. success, and later her
niece, Signora Majeroni, in the English ver-
sion, made Australians weep. But, as a rule,
Mary Stuart is a box-office dud.
“Sandy” : Cecily Wilson, who toured Aus-
tralia with Allan Wilkie, has been engaged
by the Croydon Repertory Society to lead in
its London season at the Greyhound Theatre.
Her opening part was in Arnold Bennett’s
“The Great Adventure,” and critics highly
praised her acting. Miss Wilson is in the
early twenties; she is the eldest daughter of
solicitor E. E. Wilson, of Geelong (Vic.).
“Lond.”: Somerset Maugham has had a
run of 100 nights in Paris with a translation
—reputedly a very poor one —of his play
“The Circle.” It is a long run for any
piece in France, and easily a record for any
English author. The management of ♦ the
theatre gave a little dinner to Maugham in
honor of the event, and rubbed in the suc-
cess by inviting the nine other Paris man-
agers who had previously refused the play.
.“Hamfat”: Judge Dethridge has refused
to prohibit the new rules of the Musicians’
Union pledging members to decline to play
in orchestras where more than 10 per cent,
of the players are foreigners, and establish-
ing an entrance-fee of £2l against every alien
musician. The experience of the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) Steelworks Band in U.S.A, A where
it was refused a hearing, has not been for-
gotten, and Judge Dethridge did right in
helping Australian musicians to protect
themselves. Except when a grand-opera show
arrives, most of the musicians now imported
come from Yankeeland. Incidentally, the
entrance-fee is nothing out of the way.
Through the efforts of the union imported
musicians share rate conditions that few of
them have experienced in any other country
except America.
“Hamer”: Frank Rigo gave Canberra
what will have to be recorded in history as
its first professional grand-opera season, and
did quite well out of it. The musical entre- .
preneur has gathered about him a group of
songsters and songstresses, which enables
him, whilst being unencumbered with heavy
weights of scenery and choruses, to give the
principal scenes of various operas—sung in
English—quite effectively, and he can manage
it at prices that wake no squeal. He is now
off to the bigger towns of Queensland, where,
incidentally, liis chief star, Molly de Gunst,
was born —she is a native of Bundaberg.
Rigo reckons Miss de Gunst is something
out of the bag. and as he helped to discover
Strella Wilson, Browning Mummery and
some others, his word carries weight.
“L. de R.”: William Murdoch’s lapse of
memory when playing the Appassionata at
the Auditorium, Melbourne, was not the first
case by any means. Paderewski struck
several wrong notes in the very same piece
—but, then, Pad. is world-renowned for that
little idiosyncrasy. In 1927 Sciaretti, the
pianist, who accompanied Scottish-tenor Bis-
lop, started on the prelude and fugue of a
cove by the name of Sgambatti. Half-way
through he stopped, looked bewildered, and
after scratching his head for a few seconds
went on again. In that case nobody knew
whether he resumed in the right place or not,
because Sgambatti’s prelude and fugue was
as featureless as the Nullarbor Plain be-
tween Hughes and Ivalgoorlie.
“Craiser” : It was a curious coincidence
that in the same week in Melbourne two
artists whom practice had made as perfect
as is humanly possible should meet disaster
at a critical juncture. At her opening at
His Majesty’s, Pavlova fell headlong over a
ballet-girl, and a few days later William
Murdoch lost his place in the Appassionata.
Having broken nothing, Pav. merely got up
and went on dancing, but Murdoch was in
a more difficult position. Every bar in
Beethoven’s passionate lyric is, packed with
emotion and intention, and all the pianist
could do was to play some commonplace
variations while his memory gathered the
broken threads together. Everybody in the
audience noticed the tragedy—except one of
the musical critics!
“Cine Ma”: Melbourne .picture entre-
preneurs are finding that short-run noisies
which last only a week in a big theatre in
the city barely pay for upkeep, so it is be-
coming absolutely necessary to build up a
circuit. Hoyt’s will shortly possess 14
wired theatres in the suburbs, and more are
following. In the meantime they are carry-
ing on with pictures that are talkie in the
city, but lose their tongues in the outer
circle. The omission of the scraps of dia-
logue, when it isn’t an actual improvement,
is not noticed by an audience never over-
critical.
“Flaming Youth”: A new boxing kangaroo
which has hit the fancy of London has a
neat touch in his turn —his opponent hav-
ing pretended to be knocked out, Billy gives
him a paw to help him up, and then bows to
the applause of the audience. It is nearly
40 years ago since the original boxing kan-
garoo became a boom in England. That
animal’s temper was spoilt by bad treat-
ment. Some of the men who were invited to
have a spar with the Australian native
took the game too seriously, and the ’roo,
from using his powerful hind legs as a last
resource when hard pressed, got the habit
of rushing them into action from the start.
After a number of people had been kicked
through the ropes before they were fairly
in the arena, some of them badly damaged,
the ill-used animal lost its popularity.
IN JAPAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A revival of interest in Shakspeare has started
in Japan, a country of which it is doubtful if the
poet ever heard.”
London he knew and Stratford —urbs ct rus —
England from Warwickshire to Bow and
Ware,
Was grave at work, in pastime frivolous
As you or I. Wrote plays beyond compare
As deftly as he hunted deer or hare
Or drained his tankard. In addition, ran
The race of life entirely unaware
That such a place existed as Japan.
Yet deem not lie is disadvantaged thus.
Nay, for they read our bard of Avon there
And eke his purple passages discuss
Appreciatively as anywhere;
Aye, and belike they act him passing fair
(That is, if they can make iambics scan).
Albeit, William, ’tis safe to swear
Knew absolutely nothing of Japan.
There are no boundaries for genius,
An aphorism that’s profound and rare,
Though whether it can be applied to us,
My brothers, is a different affair.
His pull was being wise to whatsoe'er
A playwright or a bard may know of man
And woman, too. ’Tis clear both sexes
share
Their qualities with humans in Japan.
Arden to Tokyo! Where footlights flare
What is it but a measurable span?
Let slant-eyed Romeos woo and Hamlets
blare
And jovial Falstaffs royster —in Japan.
N.S.W.
IFOED.


a
ndj
lZ S PZl baV * be en
iJn e He C J! rec eiv ed UR A®, s „
'clly ,nc kde * ay to A ,y°es 0 /g at
’«/**'»" Z;z
Ade lail al for At eJ £
shi P ar e
coal
PFtIP
m s
°Ur
Pe
The Owners will gain nothing from a
lower selling price or reduced wages.
The Public will get the direct benefits.
But Public, Owners and Miners alike
will benefit indirectly through the saving
of the Industry, the recovery of lost
trade and re'establishment of regular
employment.
Shipments of coal from Newcastle decreased from 4,688,356 tons in 1924 to
2,885,9:8 tons in 1928, Unemployment on the coalfields correspondingly
increased*
We have lost and are losing our Overseas trade because our production costs are too high. British
coal is invading the Interstate and New Zealand markets. Nearly half of our bunker trade is gone.
It is proposed that the State shall reduce freights, the Owners receive less profits and the Mine-
Workers slightly less wages. With reduced production costs, Interstate trade may be retained and
Oversea trade regained.
The issue for the Mine-Workers is simple. Lost trade means lost employment. Unless trade is
recovered, thousands of men will never recover their jobs on the Northern Field.
The Men should ask themselves :
Is it better to keep the present high rates, which mean decreasing and
irregular employment, or to agree to a small reduction of wages,
and ensure more regular employment ?
LESS PAY PER DAY BUT MORE MONEY PER PAY
Publication authorised by C. M. McDONALD, Chairman, Northern Collieries Association, Sydney


a
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BO\D.
Toted Assets exceed • £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
Uj Because oi auuudi ........ . .... ~ . Wnitals varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
to, In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying i
■' ; Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from poucy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through acciaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
rn?n ruttpu SMITH. General Manasrer
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Applesauce”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
Palace “Dracula”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE • SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “The Five-o’clock Girl”
New Comedy “Young Woodley”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
“The Good Oil,” the Australian comedy
which arrived at Melbourne Palace on Satur-
day, can hold its head up in the company
of “The Alarm Clock,” “Pigs” and other
American plays which are its obvious exemp-
lars. It has had an unusual history. It was
written by Edward Carroll, an Australian
journalist at present in New York, and, as
“Dinkum,” it had its premiere in that cos-
mopolis. Afterwards it was Americanised
and toured the smalls of U.S. and Canada
under various aliases. Richard Bellairs, the
producer and principal, then brought it to its
spiritual home and translated it back into
the Australian idiom, which, as he was born
at Kyneton, Vic., happens to be his native
language. It is a welcome change from the
Mum-Dad-cwm-mortgage muddledrama, and
with its three acts of plausible misunder-
standings makes excellent comedy without
any tedious knockabout. It keeps the interest
going with an astute succession of situa-
tions, and has some engaging bits of
localised observation.
Sam Crane is a young man with an £BOO
legacy and business ambitions which have
been stimulated by much reading of “System”
and other philosophical writing of the go-get-
ters. The two leading shysters of Binalong, a
South Queensland township, having previously
emptied a five-gallon tin of petrol in the creek,
induce him to invest the money in a block of
oil land on the outskirts of the village. When
the fraud is discovered Sam becomes the
Awful Example of Binalong. Nevertheless,
he still harbors a natriotic belief that there
is oil in Australia, and an engineering friend,
Joe Page, sinks a well for him and duly
produces a gusher, which brings the Binalong
band out. While the villagers are hero-
worshipping Sam, and the family are down
town running up bills with all the tradesmen,
Sam learns that the gusher is composed of
salt water. Poverty and disgrace once more
loom over the household ; but the township
has not yet heard the news about the salt
water, and the shysters return and make an
offer for the repurchase of the property. Sam
makes a more or less moral compromise with
KATHINKA STARACE, responsible fOr most oj the dancing in
“This Year of Grace” at Sydney Royal.
his conscience and allows them to bid against
eacli other until the figure touches £25,000.
The final curtain comes down on the discom-
fiture of the crooks, family rejoicings and
a reconciliation between Sam and the beaut-
eous if somewhat statuesque heroine.
As Sam, Richard Bellairs displays a first-
rate flair for character acting, though he
gets only liglit-scaffolding support from
Hattie Crane, as his sister, and Alathea
Siddons, as his sweetheart. If Alathea has
the aspirations ascribed to her in the pro-
gramme she has most of her troubles before
her, though she will have the consoling com-
pany of a pretty face and an attractive voice
on the journey. D’Arcy Kelway supplies a
highly amusing portrait of a veterinary sur-
geon with a consuming hatred of Henry
Ford and a practice composed of the only
two remaining horses in Binalong, botly ol
which are deplorably healthy. George Jen-
nings and Barry Locks are two very good
partners in the real-estate conspiracy, but
Charles Renton, as a rustic bounder is
burdened with a part that reeks of unreality.
Bernard Beeby is an amusing engineer witli
a conventional side-line in his bucolic pas-
sion for Miriam Osborne. At three bob, two
bob and one, “The Good Oil” is as sound an
evening’s investment as anything offering in
Melbourne at the moment.
“Dracula,” Bram Stoker’s attempt to
freeze the marrow with horribleness, had a
farcical introduction at Sydney Palace on
Saturday. In spite of all the mouldy horror
of coffins, chewing up spiders and driving
spikes through bodies, there is primitive
drama in the Stoker conception of the
“undead” —humans who, though apparently
dead in the daytime, arise at night and ket'p
themselves alive through centuries by suck-
ing blood out of the throats of the living.
But it was turned to poor melodrama by
uneven producing and, with striking excep-
tions, incompetent acting.
The “undead” belief, generally held to be
mere superstition, is accepted by Professor
Van Helsing, a-leading alienist, who is called
in by Dr. Seward after one girl has _ died
and the doctor’s daughter is fast failing,
apparently from loss of blood. The profes-
sor, after a long harangue which flattens
the first act, convinces the doctor and the
sick girl’s beau that one of the undead is
at work. Slight complication is made by
the presence in the house of Renfield, a men-
tal patient, who lives on flies and spiders
and who, his warder asserts, can crawl
headfirst down sheer walls. There is, how-
ever. little doubt that the true vampire is
Count Dracula, who is also about the house,
and from early in the piece the only problem
is the destruction of this member _of the
undead, which can be done by driving a
stake through his heart in the daytime, if
his grave can be found. A Count Dracula,
it is learned, was buried in Central Europe
a few hundred years earlier, and the pro-
fessor is puzzled to know how the Count
gets from London, where lie is operating,
hack to his grave in time; but it is discovered
that he had reached London at night by aero-
plane, bringing with him half a dozen long
boxes. These boxes,
filled with earth,
are really graves
in which the Count
can camp at night,
his idea being that
in London he will
have easy access to
millions of throats
full of blood and
can go on living
for ever. Sus-
pense is arranged
with scenes in
which the Count is
at work, with all
the local mongrels,
puppies, whelps and
hounds howling off-
stage ; black-outs,
with small red
“eyes” moving
about; appearances
of a bat and a
werewolf (forms
the undead take at
will) ; efforts to
find the “grave” of
the undead ; the un-
dead’s mastering of
the wills of Ren-
field and a maid so
that they must
work for him; the
frustration of his
attempt to kill the
professor; and
eventually the cap-
ture of Dracula,
and his escape
right under his
captor’s eyes.
In all this there
is plenty of blood-
curdle material;
but only two play-
ers in a cast of
eight act at all con-
vincingly, and only
at one point is
there a really convincing incident. The
players are Ashton Jarry, brilliant as
Dracula, and Bertha Riccardo, who, as
the; failing victim, makes the Utmost of
the play’s one great moment. She herself
has been depraved into bloodsucking by the
original blodsucker, and has implored her
beau not to kiss her, no matter how much
she desires it. in the night-time. Left alone
together at night, she wheedles him into
kissing her and, as he does so, leaps upon
him and fastens her mouth on his throat.
At this point, play, actors and producer
Gregan McMahon reach a striking peak of
effectiveness, the only pity of which is that
it emphasises all the more strongly the
drab flatness of most of the artificial rest.
It is Ashton Jarry, however, who makes the
play one that is
worth seeing for
all its faults. His
Dracula, cornered
and fawning, snarl-
ing and boasting,
is the best emo-
tional acting in
Sydney just now
and the best Syd-
ney has seen for
many moons. Nat
Madison is a dis-
appointment a s
Renfield. He rants
and he over-acts
outrageously. It is
one of the best
parts in the play,
but lie fails it, as
Gregan McMahon,
another who has
held much of this
Showman’s respect,
fails the producing
part, except for
some flashes of
brightness towards
the end.
With all the act-
ing tightened to
the tautness man-
aged by Jarry and,
at one stage, by
Miss Riccardo, the
piece might well
warrant the pres-
ence of the uni-
formed nurse who
moves ghostily
about the precincts.
As it was, women
screamed, but whe-
ther they screamed
because of the play
or at it is open to
doubt.
* *
Despite the
talkies, concerts at
the Town Hall continue to bulk ever larger in
the musical life of Melbourne. Three thousand
crowded into the building on Saturday to
hear Bernard Heinze, his University orches-
tra and the Williams-Murdoch duo forge
through a programme the quality of which
suggests that there are still a few people
about with aspirations that are not satisfied
by listening at the Theatre Grandiloquent
to Senor Allegra Rubato (nee Smith,_ of
Los Angeles), accompanied by Herr Rolling-
pin at the mighty Wurlitzer, Dvorka’s
Humoreske with additions and improvements.
The bill included the first performance in
Melbourne of the “Prince Igor” overture of
Dr. Borodino. It is a higlily-ingenious and
brilliantly-colored bit of description concern-
ing the experiences of a Russian military
prisoner in a Mongol internment camp. The
Khan’s beautiful daughter falls in love with
the Slav Digger, and she and ; her maidens
dance voluptuously before him. Colonel
White reported nothing like this as happen-
ing to him when he was a prisoner in
Turkey, so even war is becoming more
endurable nowadays, apparently. Prof.
Heinze’s combination handled the work com-
petently ; but the event of the evening was
Beethoven’s concerto, Opus 73, which some-
body has labelled the “Emperor,” though
no emperor ever deserved such a glorious
tribute. The orchestra was assisted by Wil-
liam Murdoch; in fact, was carried along on
the full tide of that pianist’s urbane intelli-
gence. The concerto contains all Beethoven’s
early battles with Fate, his snatches at
moments of tranquillity in the bosom of
Nature and a foretaste of his subsequent de-
cision that the best way to deal with the
imbecile wa% to laugh him out of counte-
nance ; and it is condensed into 40 minutes
of noble music of a breath-taking loveliness.
Murdoch’s solo performance threaded its way,
shimmering, glittering and chuckling, through
an orchestral interpretation that indicated
far more rehearsal than seemed to have been
given to the exposition of the Eighth Sym-
phony a few weeks ago by the same con-
tingent.
The third celebrity concert will be marked
by the first appearance of Madame Joy
Macarden, prima donna, of Paris and Covent
Garden, whom Prof. Heinze recently selected
to take charge of the new opera school at
the University.
4 * *
Brailowsky wound up his season at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night in a blaze of
glory. The principal courses of a rich musi-
cal feast were Busoni’s transcription of
Bach’s Toccata and Fugue and the “Etudes
Symphonique” of Schumann. Brailowsky
plays Bach magisterially and soundly, and
Schumann with rare delicacy and insight.
A Chopin bracket included the F Minor Fan-
tasia and the B Minor Scherzo, both beauti-
fully interpreted. Two of Scarlatti’s fmger-
twisting one-movement “sonatas and small
pieces by Brahms, Moussorgsky and Scriabin
gave variety, and for dessert there was a
dashing performance of Liszt’s paraphrase ot
themes from “Rigoletto.” Brailowsky is
a great artist.
DORA MAUGHAN, bright comedienne, at present on the
Tivoli circuit.
One of the most enchanting ballets of the
Pavlova season at Melbourne Majesty’s last
week was “The Magic Flute,” though
Madame P. was personally absent. Here
every refined device of pantomime was in-
voked to interpret an amusing and dramatic
story, and Ruth French’s eyes, mouth, arms
and torso, equally with her expressive legs,
were at the service of Drigo’s delightful
music. Domoslavski’s Judge was not a mere
stage convention. The gross, swollen figure
was the symbol of that sort of law which
refuses to separate a married woman from
a brutal husband unless she can show the
requisite bruises on her body. Pianowski’s
Clerk was a triumph of make-up which re-
called the famous caricatures of Daumier.
¥ * H-
Another Sydney movie-house, the Haymar-
ket, burst forth in glory as a talkie shop
on Saturday, with seats newly upholstered,
colorings enriched, ushers made vivid and
beds of artificial flowers in the pit where
the orchestra used to live. The opening
bill was quite a good one-—a miscellany of
short talkies, a rather overdone stage pre-
sentation and the Paramount movie “The
Canary Murder Case,” which will be over-
hauled in Shadow Shows.
¥ ¥ *
Vine and Russell, making a reappearance,
stood pretty boldly out from last week’s Syd-
ney Tiv. offerings. Their turn is lightly
funny and has finish.
Jim Gerald continues successfully at
Sydney Fullers’, where, aided and abetted
by Reg Hawthorne, Essie Jennings and many
others, he produces a new revue every week.
A * *
The shock troops of sentimentsia stormed
Melbourne King’s on Saturday for the return
of Miss I. Homer and “The Patsy,” and
at the end of the third act there was a ter-
rific demonstration of Australo-American
friendship. The curtain was still sailing up
and down like a demented guillotine when
The Bulletin departed to hail its Rolls-
Royce from the nearest safety-zone.
V * *
“Rio Rita” is a striking success at Adel-
aide Royal. The singing is better and the
hero has more punch than in most recent
shows of the kind. Also Janette Gilmore is
a whole show in herself, and the men choris-
ters and girl dancers are fine.
%. * *
Nellie Bramley is reported to have signed
up for another three years at Brisbane
Royal. Going as strong as ever, she played
“Polly with a Past” last week, and has
“Dightnin’ ” ready as the next offerin’.


/f\ONE?Sj
r.
<FSi
22
4 «USH|O
“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI (D. SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth. ,
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson tic Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatl
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
If You Appoint a Friend Your Executor and
Trustee
He may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense
to your estate of appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or call for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND-LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS. 8.43.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Colonial Mutual Life.
Ordinary Department.
Ex-. Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1900.. 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,198
1905.. 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107,788
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,175 202,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920.. 880,031 344,660 144,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 160,840 14,340 332,742
1922.. 972,331 446,662 154,156 4,283 367,230
1923.. 1.042.210 481,770 164,880 1,817 393,743
1924.. 1.123.881 513,690 196,823 9,723 403,645
1925.. 1.251.689 568,113 220,659 2,047 ) 441 0 70
Superannuation Fund, £13,000 .. ) ’
1926.. 1.428.152 591,843 242,131 2,875 ) ran 003
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO .. J ’
1927.. 1.509.097 621,418 270,181 3,494 ) 704
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO . . J ’
Policies of Mutual Fife Cos. of N.Y. taken over.
1928.. 2.053.802 679,124 271,703 3,779 ). ofl7 g o G
Superannuation Fund, £I3OO .. ) ’ ’
Of the record leap of £544,705 in last year’s
income £421,341 was due to premiums re-
ceived from the Australian business —taken
over during the term —of the Mutual Life of
New York. The M.L. of N.Y'. was one of
the three big American offices which sold
insurance at great cost 30-odd years ago ; it
drifted out of the field when, in effect,.home
legislation severely restricted the expense
rate. Disregarding this block of premiums,
the spring in the year’s income was £123,304,
or 52.4 p.c. more than the previous year’s
increase. At that rate the three-million-
pound mark should be reached about 1031.
But more important than the pace at
which income steps along is the cost of
winning new business and administering old.
The management has pushed far afield, a
substantial part of the harvest in the Ordi-
nary department being gathered in England
and S. Africa; but it is doubtful whether
it is got at the same cost as the Aus-
tralian business. Here are new business
figures for the last two years compared with
those of 1911:
1911. 1927. 1928.
Policies . . . . 14,538 11,120 13,260
Amount . . . . £3,093,798 £5,510,101 £6,184,849
New premiums . . 95,017 213,885 225,352
Average policy . . 213 496 466
Average premium,
p.c £3/1/5 £3/17/7 £3/12/11
For the most part the bigger figures re-
present the decrease in the purchasing power
of money; to-day £175 is worth no more
than £IOO was in 1911. The drop of £3O in
the average amount per policy suggests that
a bit more endowment assurance was writ-
ten than in the previous term, when 51 p.c.
of the new policies were whole-life.
Excluding premiums received from the
Mutual Life of New York, the cost of put-
ting last year’s record new business on
the books dropped to 94.6 p.c. compared with
98.6 p.c. and 115 p.c. in the two preceding
years. That is assuming that it takes 7 p.c.
of the renewal premiums to handle old busi-
ness. What it cost to run the whole depart-
ment is seen in this next comparison -
Expenses Compared with Total Income (Ord.).
1905 ..£2l 17 10 p.c. j 1923 ..£ls 16 5 p.c.
1910 .. 20 16 4 „ | 1924 .. 17 10 3 „
1912 .. 29 14 5 „ | 1925 .. 18 2 2 „
1916 .. 15 7 0 „ j 1926 .. 16 19 1 „
1920 .. 16 810 „ I 1927 .. 17 18 0 „
1922 .. 15 17 1 „ ] 1928 .. 16 13 0 „
Moreover exes, called for only 23.1 p.c. of the
year’s net premium income as against 25.3,
25.8 and 26.4 p.c. in the three preceding
years.
An important source of bonuses is the
interest earned in excess of the rate figured
on when the premium tables were drawn up.
The office assumes that its funds will earn
only 3J p.c.; actually a shade over 14 p.c.
'more than that was realised last year:—
Net Interest on Average Funds.
1905 . . £3 17 11 p.c. | 1923 . . £5 2 11 p.c.
1910 . . 4 310 „ j 1924 . . 5 1 5,,
1915 . . 4 9 11,, 1925 . . 5 4 7 „
1920 . . 4 17 9,, 1926 . . 5 7 0 „
1921 . . 5 0 5 ~ 1927 . . 5 5 10 „
1922 . . 5 2 6 „ | 1928 . . 5 1 11,,
The sale of old securities at enhanced prices
and the reinvestment of the proceeds at
higher rates has helped here of recent years;
but no apparent new benefit was received
from that source during the last term. More-
over the easier tendency of interest and the
pending increase in taxation may further
slightly affect the help to be given from this
source to bonuses. Nevertheless, with other
factors, including a very favorable mortality
rate, comfortable bonuses can be expected.
Last year’s net surplus of £398,336 was
£17,402 bigger than the previous year's, and
£388,865 of it provided reversionary bonuses
amounting to £677,000; distributions rang-
ing from 275. 6d. to £6 per cent, of the sum
assured—the latter an altogether exceptional
rate —as in the previous year.
In the Industrial branch, which was estab-
lished as a feeder to the Ordinary depart-
ment in 1909, splendid progress continues: —
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50.595 264,121
1919 .. 174.605 20,096 57,405 361,225
1920 .. 211,184 14,156 65,030 493.224
1921 .. 225.847 27,848 76,585 614,638
1922 .. 251,453 43,962 77,718 744,410
1923 .. 297,983 61,912 106,608 873,873
1924 .. 340,929 79,436 128,337 1,007,029
1925 .. 390,572 93,334 143,016 ) ,
Superannuation Fund, £6500.. j ’
1926 .. 448,495 138,349 155,139 ) , q.qno?
Superannuation Fund, £650 .. J ’ ’
1927 .. 484,272 187,208 164,060 ) , 44 - qGI
Superannuation Fund, £650 ..) ’ ’
1928 .. 534,140 150,570 180,561 ) x 64 g 320
Superannuation Fund, £SO .. ) ’ ’
Last year the premium ihcome sprang
£47,197. reaching £455.723. of which exes,
took only 36.9 p.c. compared with 38.9, 40.6
and 41.8 p.c. in the three years before that.
The actuary figured the net surplus at
£89,424, and £70,295 of it provided rever-
sionary bonuses totalling £IOB,OOO. The
nursing service has cost the society nearly
£31,000 during the last seven years, but it
has been very helpful in building up good-
will.
Another profitable section of the business
is the 21-year-old Accident branch :
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 13,971 4,578 6,498 2,895
1919 .. 15,917 6,045 7,063 2,809
1920 . . 17,620 6,231 8,174 3,2.15
1921 .. 18,817 5,193 9,215 4,409
1922 .. 18,575 6,774 8,641 3,160
1923 . . 21,380 5,981 10,739 4,060
1924 . . 27,290 7,599 14,329 5,362
1925 .. 31,588 9,923 15,821 ) r „..
Superannuation Fund, £SOO .. ) 0,6
1926 .. 37,994 10,444 17,008 ) . , Q 9
Superannuation Fund, £SO .. )
1927 .. 40,249 14,680 19,498 ) r n9l
Superannuation Fund, £SO . . j o.uai,
1928 .. 44,202 15,745 17,801 ) in rnR
Superannuation Fund, £SO .. ) ’
Here funds total £84,701, of which £40,322
is accumulated profit, and £8607 of that
was earmarked for an addition of 2 p.c. to
the Accident policy benefits.
•Assets are a solid lot. The £11,128,447 of
funds belonging to policy-holders, and a bit
more, is in this form ;
1915. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Public securities
and debentures 26.8 p.c. 63.5 p.c. 51.4 p.c. 51.9 p.c.
Mortgages . . 34.9 ~ 13.4 „ 20.9 ~ 19.1 „
Freeholds, etc.. . 20.4 ~ 12.6 ~ 14.2 „ 13.2 „
Cash & deposits 6.3 „ 1.6 „ 3.2 „ 4.9 ~
Other assets . . 11.6 „ 8.9 „ 10.3 „ 10.9 „
Since 1025 £543,206 has been added to the
book value of freeholds (£1,418,667). The
purchase of the Mercantile Mutual’s old
home in Martin-place, Sydney, for which
£250,000 was paid and a lot more spent on
adding extra storeys, and the acquisition of
a fine block at Johannesburg, S. Africa, are
mainly responsible for the increase.
Prestige, Ltd.
! Dividends n
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1926.. 12,941 544 10 p.c. = 3,761 8636 14,660
Written off buildings, £2OOO . . 12,660
Share premiums, £3425 .. .. 16,085
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 . . .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
This energetic Melbourne hosiery co., which
was launched at the end of the post-war
boom, in 1922, made some heavy losses in
its first two years, and to square accounts
10s. per share was lopped off the ords. That
got the business on an even keel. Then, in
1926, some of the staff were sent abroad to
investigate production methods and costs,
and the installation of new full-fashioned
hosiery machines followed immediately.
Early technical difficulties were soon over-
come, find the board gave a lot of attention
to marketing, the policy being to improve
quality rather than cut prices, and to push
sales by an advertising campaign. Some
glittering results have been achieved.
Gross profits, which were only £37,679 in
1925, mounted to £103,795 last year, when
the Spring was no less than £32,924. Exes.
(£73,871), including £5482 put aside for
taxation, were £24,107 heavier than the pre-
vious year’s; thus the net result benefited
by £BBI7, reaching £29,924. After allowing
for the pref. requirements (£4580 p.a.), the
balance of the year’s net earnings was a
juicy 44.1 p.c. on the average ordinary capi-
tal compared .with 30.3 p.c. and 34.7 p.c. in
the two preceding years. Shareholders joined
in the prosperity; in addition to receiving
a 10 p.c. div. the ords got a bonus div. of 5
p.c. and a special bonus of another 5 p.c.,
both bonuses being on the amount of capital
paid up at March 31.
Another feature to attract attention is the
wide margin between earnings and distribu-
tions. Over the last four years only 49.6
p.c. of the aggregate net earnings has been
handed out. Moreover, the new ord. shares
put out during that period were at a pre-
mium of 50 p.c. Thus reserves of £52,446.
equal to 40.1 p.c. of the paid capital, which
was nearly four times greater than it was
at the close of accounts in 1925, had accu-
mulated at March 31 last. The premiums,
of course, take much of the gilt off the
gingerbread. They make 15 p.c., which was
the average rate paid over the last four
years, worth no more than 10 p.c., and the
writing-down of five years ago reduces the
return on old holdings to only half the de-
clared rate.
Nevertheless the co.’s position is very snug
and prospects arc encouraging. The plant
is now' working to capacity, and more
machines have been ordered. To finance the
purchase and provide for general expansion
of the business 107,000 new 10s. ords. were
offered at 15s. each in Dec., and the lot was
quickly snapped up. That added £19,076 to
paid capital, making it £130.786 in 57,250
£1 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 210,617 10s. ords.
at March 31. Reserves also benefited by
£5407 of share premiums. There was still
another £34,773 of capital and £21,517 of
premium moneys to come in when the books
were ruled off. How the new funds were
used, the remarkable expansion of the busi-
ness and other things are seen in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures :
1Qor: 1007 1008 IQ9Q
Paid capital.. £33,181 £50,632 £111,710 £130,786
Debentures .. 9,563
Overdraft .. 7,460 23,358 9,864 84
Sundry creditors 3,948 12,874 18,489 21,753
Freehold . . 15,126 18,045 31,801 44,192
Plant, etc.... 15,059 28,646 48,111 52,681
Stocks .. 16,646 63,433 85,985 91,681
Book debts, etc. 9,669. 10,544 21,772 34,312
Cash .. .. 6,679 2,171 25 24
The livelier trading is reflected by the in-
crease in the amount coming to trade credi-
tors and an all-round healthy expansion in
the book value of the assets.
Including stocks, the more or less liquid
surplus (£104,180 at March 31) was £24,152
stronger than at the previous balance, and
no less than £92,157 greater than at the
close of accounts in 1925, since when £92,157
has been added to paid capital. That is to
say, over the last four years surplus earnings
and the share premiums have been nearly
sufficient to meet the whole of the outlay on
fixed assets. Stocks, in at cost or under,
are the most conspicuous item in the sheet,
and much depends upon the figure at which
they have been written. No hint is given
as to what allowance has been made for de-
preciation of plant, etc.
The market prices the prefs., which carry
a cumulative 8 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, at 225. 6d. The return at that
figure is 7.1 p.c. Taking the uncalled capi-
tal and premiums into account the cover
amounts to £4 3s. 9d. per share in net tan-
gibles, and last year’s profit was 6£ times
their annual requirements. The ords., fully
paid to 10s., can be had for 21s, After
allowing for the final div. and bonus (35.)
the return at that price is 8.3 p.c. on a 15
p.c. div. basis, The backing is 16s. lOd. per
share in net tangibles.
Country Producers’ Selling Cos. (Sydney).
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 8,626 7 p.c. = 1750 5,383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7 „ „ 1750 5,208 500 11,144
1920.. 15,186 8 „ „ 2000 8092 1000 15,238
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil Nil 17,611
1922.. 4,237 10 p.c. = 2500 4,307 500 14,541
1923.. 10,872 10 ~ „ 2500 6,880 16,033
1924.. 12,171 10 „ „ 3750 7,434 17,020
Profit from sale of assets, £8742.. 25,762
Building depreciation reserve taken
in, £6OOO 31,762
1925. . 10,983 10 p.c. = 3750 6,972 32,023
1926.. 16,387 10 „ „ 6823 7,864 33,723
1927.. 21,738 10 „ „ 7500 10,578 37,383
1928.. 22,404 10 ~ „ 7500 11,251 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ „ 9981 10,548 44,653
This 19-year-old semi-co-operative w T ool and
produce agency business is making steady
progress, and continues to give its share-
holders, who are mostly clients, pomfortable
returns. Over the last eight years a regular
10 p.c. div. has been paid, £65,834 has been
handed out in rebates and £27,042, or
approximately 22 p.c. of the total net
earnings, has remained in the business,
making reserves £44,653 at March 31. Dur-
ing the 12 months to that date ass. call
brought in £24,805 of new capital, advancing
the amount paid up to £99,929 in 200,000
£1 shares called to 10s. each. After deduct-
ing the usual bonuses to clients—3o p.c. on
wool and 15 p.c. on stock and produce—the
balance of the year’s net earnings (£13,598)
was 13.6 p.c. on average capital compared
with 14.8, 14.8. 12.5 and 10.7 p.c. back to
1925, when paid capital was only £38,682.
Here is a view of the progress in the wool
and stock departments :
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1915 . . 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1920 .. 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1923 .. 35,161 289,368 18,061 55,477
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1926 . . 48,403 200,519 18,068 62,903
1927 . . 80.157 334.162 20,035 83,960
1928 . . 73,951 382,141 13,744 93,342
1929 . . 82,562 286,196 15,165 91,392
The drop of £IOSO in last yearjs gross
earnings was due partly to lower prices and
partly to lighter sales. Though the co.
handled 8011 more bales of wool than in the
previous season, actual sales and shipments
(08,172 bales) were 4202 lighter, and the
Australian average (£22-odd) was about £.'s
per bale lower. Also, the sheep put under
the hammer were 95,945 fewer than in the
previous year; but prices were firmer and
cattle sales larger. Hence rebates on stock
(£1748) were only £97 less than in 1927.
In the produce section bonuses (£3072) in-
creased £222. Overhead was lighter; exes.
(£07,240) took 73.5 p.c. of the year’s gross
earnings as against 75.9 p.c. in the previous
term, and that is encouraging. The drop in
the ratio was mainly the result of exten-
sions to the co.’s wool store, whereby the
double handling and storage charges of the
previous year were eliminated.
During the 12 months £39,429 was added
to the book value of the freehold (£142,609),
which is in at cost. To do this and carry
an extra £110,964 of book debts (£196,194)
—the increase is largely on account of the
heavy carry-over of wool, 14,390 bales —the
board, in addition to the new capital got in,
went to its bankers for £36,996, and tacked
£78,610 on to the amount coming to sundry
creditors (£157,927). Thus there was
20s. lid. of outside money at risk in the
business for every £1 owned by shareholders
at March 31.
Each £1 of paid capital has a backing of
2Ss. lid. in net tangibles, practically all of
it in freehold. The scrip is not listed.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.).
Bonus Added
to to He- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 12,106 7 p.c. = 2800 7,264 2042 41,948
Provident Fund, £SOOO .. .. 36,948
1920.. 8,868 7 p.c. = 2800 6,252 36,764
Provident Fund, £IOOO .. .. 35,764
1921.. 3,559 Nil 3,336 223 35,987
Reserves capitalised, £9210 .. .. 26,777
Pref. Ord.
8 p.c. 8 p.c.
1922.. 12,003 1509 3679 5,470 )
Provident Fund. £914 .. j
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 i RnHR
Provident Fund, £3047 .. ) bUBb
1924.. 21,275 3004 3756 10,149 ) 00 „ R
Provident Fund, £2140 .. (
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 ) .... ORe
Provident Fund, £1262 .. f 4446 39 ’ 966
1920.. 26,986 3425 7665 6,798 )
Provident Fund, £1513 .. )
All Shares.
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 ) 46n 52 222
Provident Fund, £1641 .. ) ’
1928.. 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 ) 4g4g 57 170
Provident Fund, £1791 .. ( ’
1929.. , 29,207 8 p.c. =; 14,389 7179 ) 3994 61 1M
Written oft, 5 J
This co., known as the Co-operative for
27 years, took on its present title in 1924
owing to a change in the N. S. Wales law.
It has been a steady 8 p.c. proposition
since 1922, and under fair conditions that
rate does not look like being interfered
with.
Although more wool was consigned to the
co. last year (97,093 bales as against 87,121
in 1928), less was sold; turnover (87.020
bales) was 5411 bales lighter, and prices
w r ere down. In the 1928 term returns were
assisted by a carry-over of 6549 bales from
the previous season, and only 428 were
on hand when the year ended. At the close
of the last accounts 9698 bales were in store.
So, all things considered, the management did
well to write profits within a few pounds of
the previous year’s record figure.
Gross earnings (£123,005) fell away
£5044, but exes. were cut back £5022; thus
the drop in the net result was a mere £22.
Bonuses to clients, which for the past four
years have been at the rate of 20 p.c. on
wool and 10 p.c. on livestock and produce,
were £l3ll lower at £7179. After allowing
for these, the year’s result was 12.2 p.c. on
average capital compared with 11.8, 11.6.
14, 13.4 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1924, when
wool fetched record prices. After sending
£3645 to the building depreciation reserve
(£10,000) and handing the ords. the usual
8 p.c. (which called for an additional £389
this time), the remaining £3994 advanced
reserves to £61,164. East year’s separate
allowance for depreciation of buildings was
apparently something of a special nature.
If it was not, but \yas simply the usual
charge shown separately, then the year's re-
sult is not so good as it looks.
Shortly after the close of accounts in
1928 2000 shares were issued, and in Janu-
ary, 1929. the balance (73.000 shares) of
the uncalled capital was offered, three for
seven. At balancing-day 38,774 of these
shares had been taken up—the rest have


£12,000,000 ANNUALLY
To a huge continent with a population less than that of London £12,000,000 annually represents a colossal sum, yet we are content to send
this sum overseas, principally to the U.S.A. for automobile chassis we could equally well produce m Australia.
During the last three years we purchased from the U.S.A. goods to the value of £117,000,000 and sold them only £29,000,000, a
difference of some £88,000,000 (nearly £30,000,000 annually) sent out of the country never to return.
No wonder we have to raise loans overseas, mortgaging the future to pay for these goods.
THE RESULT , ..
is a continually increasing taxation, higher cost of living, less employment, industrial unrest, bad trade and other attendant evils.
THE REMEDY , , , , .
Divert the £12,000,000 annually now sent overseas for the purchase of automobile chassis into your own pockets and have them made in
Australia by the
Australian-made Motor Cars & Aeroplanes Ltd.
(TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS 1899-1918.)
CAPITAL, £2,ooo,ooo—divided into 2,000,000 shares of £1 each.
Present Issue £500,000
In 500,000 Shares of £1 each, payable 2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment.
Calls 1/6 per share at intervals of not less than one month. __ A __ TIVI n K cl .
No free shares are given or cash consideration paid to any person or persons. ALL SHARES ARE TO BE P
The Directors’ qualifications embrace sound
experience in finance, industry, technique
and marketing, thus ensuring a safe and
well-informed decision in all that the Board
undertakes.
The Board will make use of the numerous
well-equipped existing plants in Australia
producing parts for automobiles, but they
have mapped out a complete manufacturing
plant to produce the complete chassis, and
will as quickly as possible place orders for
a complete manufacturing plant with British
Machine Tool Makers to produce 100 com-
plete chassis per week for a 6-Cylinder Car.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
EDWARD M. DAVIES, Consulting Engineer, 16
Hunter Street, Sydney.
A. C. HOPWOOD, Company Director, William
Street, Double Bay.
W. F. ROBERTS, Designing Engineer, 1 9 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
C. W. DAVIES, Engineer, 26 Kulgoa Road, Belle-
vue Hill.
Three more Directors to be appointed.
OFFICE OF THE COMPANY:
Turner’s Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Australia is now successfully manufacturing
the following automobile parts:—
Bodies
Hoods
Windscreens
Cowls
Radiators
Mudguards
Wheels
Tyres and Tubes
Rims
All Springs
Fans
Fanbelts
Valves
Cranks
Pistons
Connecting-Rods
Gears
Generators
Starters
Pumps
Gearboxes
Housings
Bolts and Nuts
Bumper-bars
Lamps
Steering-wheels
Axles
Pressed-steel Works
Engines
Crank Cases
Instrument-boards
Instruments
Etc., Etc.
In the U.S.A. there are some 45 Car-manufacturing Companies producing 134 different Models, or three models to each manufacturer,
where there is a population of 120,000,000, or one manufacturer to every 2,666,000 of population. Is Australia inferior in ability, etc.?,
for there is no reason why one popular model, representing one of the best sellers now imported, should not be made in our country on|
mass-production lines at a popular price for a population of 6,335,000 people.
DISBURSEMENT OF CAPITAL
Land £lO,OOO
Buildings 50,000
Machinery . . . • • • 270,000
Expenses prior to production 10,000
Company formation , • • 2,000
Underwriting and brokerage 25,000
Working capital 133,000
£500,000
ESTIMATE OF PROFITS
The compilation of figures representing an estimate of profits is a most problematic analysis at the best of times, and although your
directors have confidential figures, such are not for publication. A summary, however, may best be presented in a simple way easily
understood, as follows:
The factory cost (wages and raw materials) of a popular 6-Cylinder American Touring Car is less than £BO
This car is sold in the U.S.A. for £ 247
The same car is sold in Australia for £398
Wages, Salaries, Overheads are actually less in Australia than in U.S.A., so that if the same kind of manufacturing plant is installed here
and the same manufacturing methods are adopted, the cost of production should not be very different.
Instead of the huge profits made by American Car Manufacturers and the big profits made by the successful Distributing Companies in
Australia, the company is satisfied with merely a net profit of £25 per car, then the result should be as follows:
NET PROFIT
5000 cars at £25 net profit per car £125,000
APPROPRIATION
Income tax at 4/3 in £ £26,600
Reserves, 9.7 p.c. on £500,000, say . . . . . . 48,400
Dividend, 10 p.c. on £500,000 50,000
£125,000
Car owners and prospective car owners would do well to invest £ 1 00 in shares in the company because, apart from receiving a substantial
return on their investment, they are in no uncertain manner building up the prosperity of this great Australian Nation.
You will be proud to own an Australian-made car, and, what is more, you will get a car of equal value in materials, workmanship and
appearance at £lOO less than you now pay for a 6-cylinder car, so that not only will you have your car, but £lOO worth of stock in a
successful company.
To complete the issue quickly, all that is required is 5000 car owners to subscribe £lOO each in the capital of the company,
so sign and forward this application form.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
.shares as set out in
The Directors,
AUSTRALIAN-MADE MOTOR-CARS AND AEROPLANES, LTD.,
Turner's Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, — ~ ,
Herewith I/we enclose the sum of being a deposit of 2/6 per share on application for
the Prospectus of £1 each in your Company. „
1/We hereby request you to allot me/us shares, and. I/we agree to accept _• the same or any less number that may bc_ allotted to me/us upon the
terms and subject to the conditions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and to pay all the Allotment Ices thereon and the
balance in accordance with the prospectus, and I/we request you to place my/our name on the Register of Members of the Company in respect of the
Shares so allotted.
NAME IN FULL
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
Date 192..
iimiiiiiiiiiiimmiiiiiiiiiiimiiiMiiimimififiiiiiiinmiM


Wool & Wheat
ft Are Down
What will happen next?
Certainly some invest-
ments will suffer.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have every-
thing in insurance poli-
cies. All the more
reason to see the offices
are sound. There are
offices that are not
sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JUNE NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/(1. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Svvanston Streets, Melbourne.— -Advt.
* * * *
It is interesting to note the wonderful service
records put up by Pioneer Wood Pipe on many
important installations. There is little doubt as to
the wonderful efficiency of this modern conduit —it
has proved itself wherever it has been installed.
Low cost, simplicity and ease of laying, absence of
heavy maintenance costs, long life and entire absence
of corrosion are all features of Pioneer Wood Pipes.
Send for illustrated catalogue giving full informa-
tion to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.
—Advt.
jj. « : i : #
Mining Properties. —I have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. Reply with particulars
to “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.I.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.lison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * #
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MaDE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
831-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Wm&jr
tedS
o-
YG
0 O ORD&S Of*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM _
&
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. AiixtralaNian Ajjents. 26 SO Clarence St.. Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
T , experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. 0. ' Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager P- ' Manager : __
since been placed—and £30,222 of the new
money was in hand. When the balance is
received paid capital will be £250,000, or
£156,129 more than it was in 1924. An 8
p.c. div. will then call for £20,000 p.a., or
£2028 less than was netted last year after
allowing for the bonuses to clients. The
£113,351 of new capital got in since 3924
has gone into many things, but mainly into
advances to clients, as balance-sheet figures
show: —
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Capital.. .. £93,871 £175,000 £175,000 £207,222
Liabilities . . 169,790 263,941 207,241 258,837
Buildings, etc.. . 211,635 237,389 261,954 257,653
Stocks .. .. 2,170 5,207 5,204 3,537
Book debts . . 90,5531
Cash and public j- 273,012 209,056 304,360
securities .. 15,753 J
In the 1925 term a stock-resting, -feeding
and -sales depot at Dubbo was bought; also
a block of land at Wallangarra. In the fol-
lowing year 256 acres were added at Dubbo,
and improvements made. Early in the 1927
term the co.’s big wool-store at Pyrmont
was completed. Then a one-third interest
in Lane and Fuller, Ltd., western stock and
station agents, was bought. The property
purchases are reflected in a growth of
£46,018 in the book value (£257,653 at
March 31) of fixed assets over the past five
years. During the same time no less than
£198,054 has been added to book debts,
investments, etc. (£304,360) ; the expan-
sion last year was £95,304, mainly on
account of the larger carryover of wool.
The scrip had a net tangible backing of
255. lOd. for each £1 of paid capital at
March 31 last. Including the capital at call
the backing amounts to approximately 255.
per share. The market prices the scrip at
21s. 9d., at which figure the return is 7.4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
East African Coffee Plantations, Ltd.
This is one of the East African ventures
promoted by George R. Mayers, one-time
Queensland sugar-grower. He also pro-
moted and is managing director of the suc-
cessful Victoria Nyanza Sugar Cos., Kenya,
British East Africa. Struck with the
possibilities of coffee-growing there he bought
a plantation and tested out his ideas. The
results were so promising that he took up
three other properties. Then he decided to
develop the undertaking on a large scale.
So the present co. was formed in April,
1928, and took over the four properties,
aggregating 2972 acres of long-term leasehold
and 652 acres of freehold; the price was
£30,000 cash and 50,000 fully-paid ords.
There were 346 acres under coffee —120
acres in full bearing—and about 50 acres
were planted with maize. In order to pro-
vide for the development of the rest of the
holding 100,000 £1 ords. were issued; 75,000
of them were first offered to those on the
Victoria Nyanza co.’s register.
The accounts just presented cover 17
months to August 31 last. A dry spell
affected the crop on the co.’s Iviamara planta-
tion, while at Nandi growing conditions were
perfect, the report says. During the 1927-
28 season 52 tons 16|cwt, of coffee were
harvested, and after paying working exes,
and visibly setting aside £1594 for deprecia-
tion, the net result was a profit of £2584.
That was after £14,619 spent on plantation
development and £3260 of preliminary exes,
had been capitalised.
During the term 140 acres at Kiamara
and 300 acres at Nandi were planted, making
the total area under coffee 786 acres; and
another- 227 acres have since been made ready
for the trees. Plantation development account
was written down £1976, being the propor-
tion of profit earned prior to incorporation,
thus leaving the cost of development in the
books at £12,643.
In addition to the coffee yield, 865 bags
of maize were picked. Additional areas are
being planted with maize, which is largely
used as food for native laborers. A surplus
for outside sale is anticipated in the near
future. The management is also con-
sidering the possibilities of tea-growing in
Kenya; meanwhile, it is watching the activi-
ties and results of concerns already operat-
ing in the industry there.
The co.’s properties at August 31 con-
sisted of four estates —one at Kyambu and
three in Nandi. Since the close of accounts
another estate of 2546 acres (tenure undis-
closed) has been bought in tbe Nandi dis-
trict. The Kiamara. estate, which was the
only property on which the prospectus esti-
mated any crops to be in full bearing during
the past year, was affected by drought.
The Nandi plantations, which were not so
advanced a s the Kiamara property, are said
to be morq favored as to rainfall. The co.’s
holdings in this district comprise 5518 acres,
mostly in long-term leasehold, and it is from
these properties that most is expected.
At August 31, 1928, the assets comprised
freeholds (Kiamara estate), £37,026; lease-
holds (Nandi properties), £37,060; plant,
£6068; buildings etc., £3899; stocks, • etc.,
£663; cash, etc.. £46,571. Plantation develop-
ment and preliminary exes, completed the
balance-sheet total of £147,192. On the other
side of the sheet sundry creditors figured
at £3344; George R. Mayers, current
account, £13,707; Mr. Mayers also appeared
as creditor for the purchase price of the
undertaking (£80,000). At least £50,000 of
this has since been wiped out by the issue
of shares. Paid capital was £49,532 in
100,000 £1 shares; the balance has since
been called, the final ss. being due on June li.
Coffee-trees do not become revenue-produc-
ing until three years old, and do not come
into full bearing until the sixth year. Thus
no return from the developmental work now
being carried out can be expected for at
least the next couple of years. However,
with the area under cultivation on the in-
crease, the co.’s outlook is bright.
The market, with an eye to the future,
offers 335. for the 15s. paid shares. About
a year ago the rights were selling for a
couple of shillings.
Australian-made Motor-cars.
The idea behind Australian-made Motor-
cars and Aeroplanes, Ltd., a current Sydney
flotation, is the manufacture of motor-cars m
Australia. Nominal capital is £2,000,000 in
£1 shares, of which a round half-million is
offered. The money is to be used for land,
£IO,OOO ; buildings, £50,000 ; plant, £270,000;
exes, prior to production £10,000: brokerage
and other preliminary exes., £27,000; leaving
a working capital of £133,000. The intention
is to make the engine locally. It is to be a
six-cylinder job incorporating the best ideas
from other countries and of “ample horse-
power,” the prospectus says. Nothing has
yet been done by the promoters to try out
their ideas ; but they anticipate no difficul-
ties.
It is hoped to sell the new car on the local
market for £3OO, and on the sale of 5000
cars a year a net profit of £98,400 (equal
to 19.0 p.c. on a paid capital of £500,000)
Is counted upon, after allowing for taxation
(£26,600). Profit estimates, of course, are
a matter of guesswork; in this case they
appear to have been based on American
experience.
An Australian-made car is badly needed,
and there is a splendid market awaiting the
right article. It will probably require a
lot of very careful research, organising and
preliminary work to produce it at a profit.
The promoters get no share or cash con-
sideration. On the board are E. M. Davies,
A. C. Hopwood, C. W. Davies and W. F.
Roberts. Mr. Roberts will have charge of
the technical side of the business.
* * * *
From a London correspondent:—
At this distance it is difficult to understand Aus-
tralia’s apparent tremendous optimism with regard
to Mt. Isa. Nobody can say that success is impossible;
but there is a very great difference between even
moderate success and the success which would justify
the high premium to which shares have been sent.
Does Australia know enough about the Cor-
poration which has the venture in hand to bank so
heavily with it? First, an option was held by the
Anglo-American Corporation of S’Africa, and after
what looked like a very thorough examination by very
competent men the option was turned down. This
first option-holding corporation, wanting to be sure
of a little for its trouble, took a bundle of shares,
and is understood to have sold some to the Russo-
Asiatic Corporation. Assuming that such was the
position, when the option was turned down the Russo-
Asiatic Corporation was faced with this problem—
Should it cut its loss on these shares or back up
and trust to the future? It lost no time in deciding
upon the latter course. Many an Australian must
have been surprised at the speed with which the
new love took hold after the old one had cut loose.
It is quite possible that the Russo-Asiatic Cos. is
right and that the Anglo-American was wrong- in its
judgment of the mines. But Australian investors
who play for safety should not forget that early
refusal. It is entitled to be weighed, at any rate,
the more especially as the metals to be won were
worth much more in those days than they are now.
Also, investors are entitled to take into account that
there was apparently a reason why the Russo-Asiatic
should take the thing over rather than let it fade
out; and, finally, that it is quite possible for a
concern of the kind to make a great deal of money
even out of a failure —in short, out of the market,
even though nothing can be made out of the metal.
In that there is no reflection whatever on the honesty
of the corporation or any person connected with it:
what it is advisable to remember, nevertheless, is
that such a co. as this is not wholly dependent on a
mining success.
It should be said, further, that, though the
shares have had so great an advance, you don’t
meet them much in the market in London. The
public here is not substantially interested —and is
not likely to be until tangible results are forthcoming.
An Australian mining engineer adds: —
With the Isa rests the responsibility of demon-
strating that low-grade ores can be mined and
treated at a profit in Australia, too. If Isa can
do this, big-scale mining in Australia will receive
a stimulus that it has never had before. The co.
is attacking the problem of the mining and treat-
ment so carefully and scientifically that many of
the risks usually attached to similar mining
developments will certainly be eliminated.
It is in actual mining operations that Australia
is lagging most behind. More attention has been
given to improving treatment methods than to the
reduction of mining costs. It may cost, say, 2bs.
per ton to mine the ore, but only 7s. per ton to
treat it, so that the chances of reducing costs
underground are, in a general way, much better
than on the surface. Many mining cos. would benefit
by a spirited programme of research into mining
operations by competent and alert young graduate
engineers with a knowledge of what is being done
elsewhere. The adoption of scrapers and small
mechanical shovels underground for loading, the
use of steel of correct gauge and temper, the use
of minimum-size timber and adoption of a method
of preservation, the elimination of hand tramming
as far as practicable, improved ventilation, especially
in dead ends, the extended use of corrosive alloys,
adoption of flood lighting, the use of lower-grade
explosives where opportunity permits and of clay
tamping, which increases the explosive effect by
30 p.c. and reduces boulders, are but a few of the
possibilities for lower costs and higher tonnage per
man shift.
* * * *
Cadmium production at the Electrolytic
Zinc Co.’s works, Risdon (Tas.), now about
10001 b. per day, is to be increased by the
treatment of flue-dust material from the
Associated Smelters at Port Pirie. At Ris-
don cadmium with copper is precipitated on
zinc dust during the purification of the zinc-
sulphate solution. The precipitate is treated
separately and the cadmium recovered by
electrolysis. When first produced at Risdon
difficulty was experienced in selling the cad-
mium output, but this position no longer
exists. In bearing metals, low melting-point
alloys, electroplating and rust-proofing, cad-
mium sulphide paints, electric cables and
trolley-wires the consumption of cadmium is
expanding. In 1920 it was worth 4s. Gd.
per lb.; in 1924, 2s. Gd. per lb.; it was re-
cently quoted at 4s. Id. per lb. In the
U'.S.A. electrolytic zinc plants have increased
their output of it sevenfold since 3924.
:|: * % *
Scheelite, or calcium tungstate, contains,
when pure, 70 per cent, tungstic oxide, which
is worth £3 per unit c.i.f. New York. The
market is said to be firm and stocks are
low. The mineral occurs in many Australian
tin deposits, but has not been recovered
because of its high specific gravity and the
difficulty of separating it from cassiterite.
The IT.S.A. Bureau of Mines has shown that
scheelite can be separated from its asso-
ciates by using as flotation re-agents oleic
acid and silicate of soda, both of which are
inexpensive. Oleic acid is also used for the
flotation of barytes, garnet, phosphate and
carbonate of lead.
* * * *
Great Northern Freehold Tin, Herbcrton
(Q.), has come into the dividend list again,
Is. being declared last mouth. One of the
troubles has been to keep on the ore body, a
porphyry dyke having intruded. Fear that
a lot of dead work might have to be done
depresses the scrip to between 9s. and 30s. on
the market. The ore body is a hundred yards
from the shaft, and is deeper down in the
granite. A small air winch does the hauling.
Prospecting in the eastern lode workings has
failed to locate anything of consequence.
* * * *
Dead work —sinking, bailing, etc. —is the
order of the day at Irvinebank in the Whit-
worth Cos. properties; but it looks like a
long road to the anticipated 100,000 tons ore
and £282,360 profit per annum. The co. has
taken over the State mill, etc., at Irvine-
bank.
* * * *
London has thought out several schemes
for reducing costs on Kalgoorlie, but none
like the following: (1) Basic wage and all
margins to remain as at present. (.2) If
costs can be reduced either by personal effi-
ciency of employees or by the introduction of
new plant or new methods, the savings to
be shared on a 50-50 basis by mine-
owners and employees. (3) The amount of
such share to be the same for all employees
irrespective of wage or appointment. An
alternative proposal is the issue of shares
equivalent to the saving effected. These
suggestions may or may not be practicable,
but co-operation has been practised with good
results elsewhere.
r|: * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines may have difficulty in
suitably disposing of the arsenic and sul-
phuric'acid from the gold-extraction plant,
which the co. expects to have operating
during 1931. The plant is designed to treat
500,000 tons ore per annum, and, amongst
other things, the ore is expected to yield
1.5 p.c. white arsenic (arsenious oxide) and
30 p.c. sulphuric acid. On that basis 50,000
tons of acid and 7500 tons arsenic will be
put out annually. Others who have dealt
with arsenical ores have found it difficult
to market by-products. It has been sug-
gested that, after collecting the arsenic in.
chambers, the gaseous fumes might be dis-
charged from high chimney-stacks, thus dis-
sipating them through the atmosphere; but
this is not a pleasing prospect.
;jj ;J: # ❖
As the length, width and depth of
McCalions (now Edna May group) main ore
body above water-level has been determined,
prospects lie in the probability of exposing
new ore bodies ; and systematic prospecting
holds good chances of this. As matters stand,
the co. is barely paying costs. The sugges-
tion to get Aberdeen to subscribe
for a huge pumping plant to deal with the
flood below the 110ft. level is a dream from
which shareholders who bought at 15s. are
soon due to awake.
* # * *
Golden Butterfly has thus far not had
much success with its new property at Norse-
man. Without a trial crushing of ore raised
from development work—and there are two
treatment plants handy—the directors bought
the mine. Funds are low ; a recent deben-
ture issue met with poor response; now offers
are invited for a second-hand treatment plant.
As the vendors treated 307 tons for 105 fine
oz„ not including gold content of tailing, it
might not be unwise to treat a few trial
parcels before venturing further.
* * * *
At last Brilliant (W.A.) has gone into
liquidation; a course that might have been
followed with advantage years ago. Better
still, the co. should have followed the advice
it paid for by not acquiring the Gnow’s Nest
mine. The policy followed has cost over
£30,000, and realisation promises to bring
only a modicum of return to the mortgagees.
# * * *


m%wm ms
wm
m
"'•i
.
Model 778
DELCO - LIGHT
MODEL 778 is a new Delco-Light plant
combining the advantages of an
automatic and a battery-charging
plant. It is designed to allow all loads
below 200 watts (7.50-c.p. lamps) to be
supplied from the battery, and loads over
200 watts automatically start the gener-
ator, which continues to run until the load
falls again to 200 watts.
This plant brings the advantages of
Frigidaire within the reach of small
users, who until now were unable to
purchase the more costly battery-charging
plant of sufficient capacity to supply a
refrigerator.
Model 778 embodies the excellent
features which have made Delco-Light
pre-eminent in the home lighting field
during the last 12 years.
Write to your nearest distributor for
Booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD,
104 George Street, Launceston.
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors
BEDSTEADS LTD.
Forsters Bedsteads, Ltd., manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Commonwealth.
: -1 '
9
Q
A very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals
throughout the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and
Hercules Diamond Wire. Made with 1 posts. Can be
made with square corners at foot end if required, also lift-
out foot end.
a
This Mobile Bedstead is the hnest hospital bedstead made.
The mobile attachment at foot is simply manipulated without
jolting the patient. The large ball-bearing rubber-tyred castors
ensure smooth wheeling. Fitted with Hercules Diamond Wire.
The largest plant of its kind in the Southern Hemi-
sphere manufacturing all kinds of Hospital equip-
ment.
FORSTERS BEDSTEADS
LIMITED
(Established 1859),
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
’Phone M 4247 (3 lines).


■
k»
X
rw: W
i| kjj ww
A
//■
■'
v;
u 1
«•
n§
tUlilUllll
Hl||
Great Winte
SALE
V- . n
' ' 'i
>l.-' '
V ■
."•A:
The Great Carnival of Cut Prices
Commences To-morrow, June 6th
d
THE eagerly - awaited - for event, MURDOCHS SEMI-
ANNUAL SALE, has come round again. This year
the Bargains are both bigger and better than ever —the
inclusion of many new Depts. makes the need for clearance in a set space
of time more imperative and gives thrifty shoppers a greater range o|
merchandise to choose from.
Throughout the Mammoth Store everything (except f\ Q /
a few proprietary lines) has been reduced at least WJ lo
But many lines are clearing as low as Half-Price
£6'lo / - and £l r T - Suitings
To Measure and
Hand-finished for
k
D
o
9
THINK OF THE QUALITY then of the big price-concession, and act
now. Pure Wool Worsted Suitings in smartest shades of Browns, Fawns,
Greys, Powder Blues, and Navys. Also a superb range
of serges, guaranteed pure Indigo dye. Usually
£6/10/- and £7/7/-.
SALE PRICE
9/9T/SJ
Send for FREE Patterns
Desk R.,
Murdoch's, Lid., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly forward me complete range of
patterns of above £5/16/6 offer and other Suitings at
sale prices, also include self-measurement form. This
places me under no obligation to purchase whatsoever.
Name
Address
June sth, ’29
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
Kindly address all letters to Desk R.
Have you re-
ceived your
copy of the big
Sale Book? If
not , write to
Desk R for it.
No obligation
whatsoever.
USUALLY.
27/6
7/6
59 6
19/6
32/6
3/11
7/6
10/-
More Bargains —
Men’s Black Box Calf Derby
Boots
Men’s Soft-finish Flannel Under-
shirts. Sizes: S.M., Men s and O.S.
Youths’ Three-piece All-wool
Tweed Sac Suits
Youths’ Fur Felt Hats, cut or
bound edge
All-wool Australian-made Rugs,
70 x 90 inches
London-made Silver-m oun t e d
Plum-colored Pipes
Taylor’s “Eye-Witness” two-blade
Castrator and Skinner Knife ....
Two-cell Electric Torches, wide
beam
SALE PRICE
21/4
5/10
49/6
15/3
27/6
1/11
4/6
6/-
Suadimeiih
"Park and
George Sts.
Ohc Worlds Largest Metis and Boys’ Wear SU>x&>


52Mac!eaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary 3 seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
mm.
BP*
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
SHOES
35? iSbcubibiihc
w sisislES
x SB? 'ss:
FOR MEN |
Extra Comfort Boot |
826^ —Men’s Black Yearling Calf, 8
Stitched Leather Soles,
12/11 ;
Heavier Make 14/11 I
High-grade Glace Kid 19/11 f
Postage, 1/-; Interstate, 1/8 l
JACKSONS c;j
“STONEWALC STORES I
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn S 1 : 1 Sydney |
® The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Aramac”: The hunting spider or taran-
tula is a brisk fellow on the warpath. The
DESERVED ALL HE GOT.
THE LADY: “My poor man, I come to offer my sympathy. Your
wife has gone away with another man, I hear?”
DESERTED GENT: “Yes, Mum, and 1 ain’t sorry for him, either.
I never did like the feller.”
other evening I saw one stalking a cock-
roach along the rail of my verandah, some
30ft. from a stone pavement. When the
spider was within a few inches of his prey
the cockroach flew. Without any sign of
hesitation the hunter leapt out and down,
landing fairly on the flier’s back, with which
it volplaned to the pavement. When I got
down with an electric torch the hairy insect
was dragging his meat away.
* $ * *
“Pudden”: One of the rummiest of the
queer characters in the Territory was Paddy
Lenny, dead this eight or ten years. Paddy
was a .horse-miser. Starting in a small way
about ’SS, up on Lome
Creek, with about 15
mares and a stallion, in
about 30 years’ time his
horses were numberless,
and they overran Avon
Downs, Alexandria and
other stations on the
Tablelands. Various esti-
mates of from 1200 to
3000 were made of them.
He used to live like a
blackfellow, only worse.
Lenny could not be pre-
vailed upon to sell one of
his horses —he’d starve
first. One wholesale offer
would have netted him
about six to eight thou-
sand pounds, but he pre-
ferred to ride about the
country on an old saddle,
fossicking about drovers’
camps for what he might
find, with bottles of water
hidden in the hollow
trunks of trees and his
spare rations, when he
had any, planted inside
the rotting carcase of a
dead bullock —this latter
was necessary to prevent
the blacks robbing his
supplies. H’e and the
blacks were always at
loggerheads— -they accused
him of robbing them by
killing goannas. Not one
white man in ten would
associate with Lenny, and
that exception only tole-
rated him. Finally the
old boy was found" dead
on the road to Darwin,
whither he had started
to obtain justice for some
fancied grievance.
Dingo”: The Italian press, finding local
news calculated to please 11 Duce rather
scarce these days, and the other sort too
dangerous to publish, is becoming increas-
ingly interested in overseas items. La
Domenica del Corriere (Milan) recently
dealt with “strange friendships and collabo-
rations in the animal world.” Amongst these
I find that “the canguro is followed by his
faithful friend the kookabuna bird. ' The
reason for this friendship is not yet known.”
“R.X.8.”: The
yarn about a car-
pet-snake that put
itself to bed in a
tree until its broken
back was mended
may be true. I
don’t know any-
thing about carpet-
snakes, but I know
a bit about the
black ones, and
they don’t do that.
They commit sui-
cide by sinking
their fangs into
their own hearts.
The black" snakes I
mean are fairly
common on the
Southern Table-
lands of N.S.W.,
and the color of
their underneatlis
varies from yellow
to red. They are
all brothers of the
genus Pseudechis,
but get different
names because of
the different color-
ing, which is pro-
bably only a mat-
ter of age. If this
snake reasonably
can, it will bite a
hole in its own
heart as soon as it
is hurt. When I
beheaded one with
a spade, the head,
assisted by about
three inches of
neck, wriggled back
along the body, and
after biting it
stayed the,re so
that “there was no
doubt as to the
nature of the dirty trick it had played on
itself. After being bitten by itself the snake
is completely dead, and muscular contrac-
tions cease, but if one is killed and has not
bitten itself, these peculiar actions can be
seen a couple of days later by prodding
tender spots.
“Boronia”: Some years ago I had occa-
sion to camp one night with an old prospec-
tor near Edjudina (W.A.). While we sat
yarning and smoking after supper I re-
peatedly heard a tinkling sound, which
NOT JACKY’S FAULT.
Casual Stranger: “Fine 'piccaninny, Mary. Looks just like Jacky.”
Mary: “Yes! but dat not Jacky’s fault. We not been marry that time.”
seemed to originate from some spot near the
camp. I noticed that the sound grew louder
when the breeze freshened. Presently the
ancient ’weight-chaser noticed me listening,
and asked, “ ’Ow do yer like me orchestry V
It’s the only music I’ve heard fer years,
an’ I never feel lonely w’en she’s playin’.”
Next morning I examined the “orchestry”
and found it to consist of 12 bottles, con-
taining varying amounts of water in order
to build up a sort of musical scale. They
were suspended close together from a pole,
and when stirred by the wind came into
contact and emitted the sounds that had
puzzled me.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Some queer contrivances
were used for crossing the river in the bridge-
less and roadless days of the Murrumbidgec.
One squatter, who was a fine horseman and
horse-driver, kept four empty beer-barrels
on the bank, and when he wanted to cross
in his buggy or waggonette, he lashed a
barrel to each wheel of the vehicle, then
whipped his four-in-hand into the stream,
and while the horses swam, the vehicle
floated buoyantly with the squatter sitting
dry and comfortable on his seat. Another
man had a cross between a pontoon and a
punt, made by nailing planks on six or eight
barrels, which was pulled over with a wire.
On this vehicles and light loads were car-
ried, but the team horses usually had to
swim.
* * * *
H. Rawes Whittell has a quarrel with the
Service Department:—
Your Service Department says: “Tung oil, Chinese
Tun-Yu, is obtained from the nuts of Aleurites
cordata.” It isn’t. True tung oil is obtained
from the nuts of Aleurites fordii (Hemsel). You
say it is a native of Japan as well as China. It
isn’t a native of Japan. The native habitat of
Aleurites fordii is in and about the Yangtze ranges,
about 1000 miles up the river of that name. It
will grow in Australia. You can come and see the
trees growing luxuriantly and bearing nuts on my
ground at Pennant Hills, Sydney, from which elevated
spot I can see your office. Furthermore, I took some
plants raised by myself up to Dawson Valley Irri-
gation Area (Q.) about two years ago. -They are
now growing splendidly and bearing nuts. Finding
you in error after 40-odd years of close scrutiny
has given me such pleasure that it has added another
10 years to my life.
And yet Professor Lewkowitsch, author of
“Chemical Technology and Analysis of Oils,
Pats and Waxes,” and thought to be the
world’s highest authority, gives Aleurites
cordata as the source of tung oil. An easy
reference is the “Encyclopedia Britannica,”
vol. 20, p. 46.
“Old Citizen”: The two light-colored girls
found among the Fraser Island blacks in
1859, and taken to Sydney, had features
0 f an aboriginal type, and there can be
little doubt that they were half-castes. The
elder, about 17 years old when discovered,
would date back to 1842. Late in that year
two white men were rescued from the same
(Wide Bay) tribe by the late Andrew Petrie
and his boat party. One of them, James
Davis, had been 14 years with the blacks;
the other, Bracefield, 11 years. Either of
these may have been the sire of the elder
girl. The younger, 10 years old, would date
back to 1849, at which time the white settle-
ment of Maryborough was about a year old.
So there is no difficulty in accounting for
their piebald parentage.
#
“Up North”: The prettiest, by far the
largest and the most health-giving thermal
springs in Australia are at Dalhousie, about
70 miles north of Oodnadatta. They are
large waterholes, screened by rushes and
clumps of scrub. The largest is 500 ft. long
and 200 ft. wide. It is deep enough at the
edges for a man to dive straight into its
warm, invigorating caress. Out towards the
centre it is almost boiling, and big, lazy
bubbles roll up with a noise like a faint
and distant bell. The musical sounds are
heard most clearly when one is in the* water.
The curative properties of the emerald-green
water are superior to those of the most cele-
brated foreign spas. After a 20-minutes’ swim
a man absorbs enough vim to make him
imagine he’s the equal of the swiftest por-
poise afloat. After a month’s bathing he is
so rejuvenated that he scratches gravel as
he walks. There are fish in even the hottest
pools, and they fight like demons when
hooked. •
* * * *
“Bouragi” : The venerable legend that col-
ored folk are immune from attack by sharks
has been sufficiently exposed by, various Abo.-
liars. Still, it may be worth while to refer
to two recent instances in New Guinea
waters, when two natives were savaged
in the Ivokopo district in one day. My own
experience is that a shark will tackle any-
thing if he is in the mood, whether white or
black. If he has a liver or is off his feed,
nothing will tempt him. I once saw a fat
Australian Senator on a visit to Papua, clad
in immaculate white duck, fall from a jetty
at Kiriwina, in the Trobriands, under which
a large shark had been basking all the after-
noon. Much to our disappointment, the
creature made no attempt to seize the oppor-
tunity, though by all the rules of the game
he should have gone for the whitebait. Pos-
sibly, however, he drew the line at poli-
ticians. Even sharks are subject to some
inhibitions, I suppose*
(Continued on page 25.)
A STAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With four young gals, an’ all good ’ands at
milkin’ their full share,
The blokes line up like starvin’ crows; they
come from everywhere.
I wouldn’t mind a crook traybit ’ow many
came, if they
Knew when their bloomin’ time was up an’
then got under way.
An’ most o’ them ’ave got the sense—but not
young "Arry Day.
’E ’angs around ’ere ’arf ’is time, an’ stops
till late at night.
“Before you make fer ’ome,” I sez, “you
might put out the light.”
’E grins as if ’e sees the joke—but blime!
there ’e’ll stick,
For ’e won’t take a flamin’ ’int —Vs got a
’ide that thick
You couldn’t mark it with a whip or bruise
it with a stick.
“When I was young,” I tells ’im straight,
“I went to bed at ten.”
’E gives another foolish grin an’ settles down
again.
I winds the clock an’ ’unts the cat, takes orf
me boots an’ coat —
’E mus’ be mad or blind or both, Vs such
a stupid goat—
An’ when I’ve taken orf me socks I ups an’
clears me throat.
“It’s ’arf-past one an’ nearly time to yard
the milkers up
An’ go around me flamin’ traps.” I calls the
cattle pup,
An’ gives a glare at ’im, but ’o just sez,
“Well, I’ll go too,
I might be comp’nee in the dark if I goes
out with you”.. . .
I takes me boots an’ goes ter bed—wot else
is there to do?
victoria.
P. T. F.


Let HECLA Electric Radiators
Heat Y our Home!
UllS
V'
m
:
1C RADIANT FIRE
? in t Australia
T : > VC
mm
“EMPRESS” DESIGN
“HECLA” Electricoal FIRE
Indistinguishable from a cheerful blazing
coal fire, with flickering, leaping flames
—an unbelievably realistic effect. Exud-
ing comfort from every aspect, and giv-
ing clean, electric, radiant heat at the
snap of a switch.
Sturdily constructed in cast iron, combin-
ing solidity with dignity. The finish
may be armor bright or Florentine
bronze, as desired.
Provision is made for the burning-fire
effect to be maintained, if desired, after
the heating element is switched off. Con-
sumes 3000 watts on full heat. 2-heat
control.
PRICE £l2/127-
Overall dimensions—
20fin. W., 26|in. H., 12in. D.
The Electric Wiring in a house represents a substantial
investment. If you use it only for lights you are receiving but
a small part of the benefits to which you are entitled from
this investment.
USE AN ELECTRIC RADIATOR to keep your homes
warm during the cold days of Winter.
For SIMPLICITY, CLEANLINESS AND ECONOMY
Electric Radiators have now established themselves as firm
favorites.
You can carry them from room to room as required. You
connect the plug, and in a few minutes the room is heated —
at very slight cost.
We can safely say we have the largest and most assorted
stock of Electric Radiators in the City. Their design and
construction are of the highest grade, embodying the result
of modern engineering, and have never been equalled in
durability, efficiency and appearance.
It has always been our aim to supply Radiators on
whose reliability arid lasting qualities absolute dependence
can be placed, and we have therefore made an arrangement
with the famous “HECLA” manufacturers to handle their
products.
4
a*
<o£
Please post me to WILLIAM
ADAMS & CO., LTD., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, and 1 will bring
. you the ILLUSTRATED “HECLA”
RADIATOR PRICE LIST by return mail.
You place yourself under no ' obligation
whatever.
r NAME
ADDRESS
B’t’n,
6/29.
&
“HECLA” Radiant FIRE
“PERFEX” DESIGN.
An inexpensive fire of simple yet im-
pressive desgin. Made of stamped
sheet metal, suitable for the home or
office; finished in oxy-copper.
Reflector
Size. PRICE.
9in., 700 or IOOOw. S.E.. . £l/14/6
12in., 700 or IOOOw. S.E.. . £2/5/6
d
“HECLA” Radiant FIRE
“JUPITER” DESIGN.
A simple, but pleasant, design that is a
distinctive feature amid any surround-
ings.
Constructed of solid brass, finished in
Florentine bronze.
Reflector
Size. PRICE.
9in., 700 or 1 OOOw. S.E.. . £3/11/-
1 2in., 700 or IOOOw. S.E.. . £3/19/6
12in., 1400 or 2000 w. D.E. £4/18/-
12in., 2100 or 3000 w. T.E. £5/16/6
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
kl M ‘ *
175 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY


woo\
PnAcanjfc
M. Carson
o zP,
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
L/TD.
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
: <’£
VJy\\
THE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
"OkAPI^I
vONDOM
10) for CIGARETTES 2B® for 1/&
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’ ’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons
To buy at PEAPES is to be relieved
of the necessity of keeping pace with
the newest styles, for every article
sponsored by PEAPES is in perfect
taste and unimpeachably correct in
every detail.
PEAPES maintain a DEFINITELY
low price, unaffected by provision for
periodical “reductions,” for PEAPES
do not conduct “sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“Kooragai”: In case another airman with
no bush experience gets stranded alongside
a river where there’s fish, like the Glenelg,
here are a few hints that will put something
in the pot. A simple trap can be made with
stakes, especially where there are mangroves
or other stiff growths, and in narrow chan-
nels. Fish forage about there during high
tides, and when the waters recede they are
TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
UNCLE WILLIAM: “Now what do you think o’ that, Mister?—I've driven this car for
fifteen years and never had a wreck.”
CAR SALESMAN : “Well, I think (if you don’t mind my saying it, old man) that you’ve
driven a wreck for fifteen years and never had a car.”
caught in the trap. Lines and hooks are
easily made. Boot-laces, string, thread from
clothes, the inner fibre of bark, the jute
padding from the shoulders of a coat (care-
fully picked to pieces and twisted into twine)
can all be quickly converted into fishing-
lines. For hooks, the ridgy curves of shells,
hard, dry tendrils of vines, or a piece of
straight hardwood, lin. to llin. long, about
half the thickness of a penliandle, and sharp-
ened at one end, are effective. To use the
latter, make a groove round it near the blunt
end and another a little below the centre;
tie the line on at the grooves, and the point
of the hook will hang a little out from the
line, ready to jag anything that takes hold
of it. Many a man carries the material for
a hook about with him without knowing it.
If he hasn’t got a pin or a needle, he is
sure to have a thin buckle on the strap of his
trousers and the back of his vest, and metal
wrappers on the points of his boot-laces.
** * ■
“Molokihi”: The Trobriand Islands (n.-e.
Papua) boast of the most attractive native
flappers in the Pacific, and also the most
prolific food gardens in the southern seas.
Every unmarried girl has a garden area,
tended most attentively by her father and
brothers, who manage from the soil-pockets
of this volcanic area to produce yams up
to eight feet in length and of the finest
quality. The consequence is that a daughter
reaching marriageable age finds herself
endowed with valuable garden lands. After
her marriage her brothers will continue to
work her ground, and keep her food-houses
tilled to overflowing. Of course each brother
in turn will marry maidens similarly
endowed, whose food supply will be added
to his estate. The result of this system is
that the female child acquires a value from
birth, and the cruelties practised towards
infants of her sex in certain other districts
are unknown in the happy isles of the
Tobriands.
lit * t!t
“Cooramin”: The other day a settler
named Bob Melville, who had been burning
off timber on his property at Hobby’s Yards,
near Blayney (N.S.W.), was found at night
under a tree that had burnt down, with
the upper part of his body incinerated.
Whether he had been killed by the tree or
burnt to death after the tree fell on him
could not be determined. I remember a
similar case that occurred on Greenmount
run (Q.). A swagman named Tom Allen
made liis camp-fire at the butt of a dead
tree, which fell during the night and. pinned
him to the ground. He lay there for hours
with a shattered leg, watching the fire creep-
ing towards him through the dead wood. A
little after daylight, when the fire was very
close and he was beginning to scorch, his
cries for help were answered by an old man
who had started out extra-early to get his
horses, and happened to be passing by.
* * * *
“Offta Handel”: The search for a lost
pothole still lures the adventurous to the
Wantagobakensec district. Prospector Bob-
lolly dug the hole away back in 1887, but a
shortage of anchovy forced him to suspend
operations and retreat in search of supplies.
Before leaving he dug another hole in which
to hide the one which gave prospects of for-
tune, and hid them both in the fork of a
tree growing at the bottom of Lake Bungi-
toff. Loblolly did not return. At the town-
ship letters awaited him acquainting him
with the fact that, owing to the death of a
cousin 23 times removed, he had become the
Duke of Bismuth. Going to England to claim
his estates, he found the bailiff in. On his
deathbed he placed a plan in the hands of a
faithful retainer who paid the milkman for
him out of liis own pocket in his declining
years; it was the retainer’s grandson who
set off in pursuit of the treasure. The plan
was found amongst his papers when he died
while curing a snake-bite in a Woolloomoo-
100 hostelry. Knowledge of the existence of
the pothole has set many people on the
search. It was “Yankee Jack” Salter who,
10 years ago, nearly made a discovery. He
found Lake Bungitoff had been drained oif
it was never much more than a marsh,
anywav—and the tree cut down, but no trace
of the missing pothole or of the hole in which
HIS ONLY CHANCE.
DOCTOR: “Your husband is very ill, Mrs. Miggs. Still, while there’s life there’s hope.”
MRS. MIGGS: “Yes, Doctor —poor Jim ain’t got none after.”
it was contained. By a series of calculations
he deduced that the holes had sunk in the
mud in the spot, now occupied by a garbage
incinerator; but Salter’s efforts to have the
incinerator removed, so that he could pursue
his search, failed. He died last year in a
mental hospital claiming that he was the
King of Patagonia, and it seems unlikely
that the mystery will ever be solved. Yet
only a week ago another hardy, adventurer
came to take up his residence in Cowville,
where the rates” arc 2|d. in the £; and it is
locally suspected that the pothole is the
object of his quest.
“Questo” : Hell’s Gate on the road to the
Palmer (N.Q.) is aptly named. There are
high mountains of rock on
either side with a narrow trea-
cherous track between, so nar-
row in fact that I had to unload
my packhorse before we could
get through. It was here that
a famous Northern character
murdered Chinamen for their
gold in the early days of the
Palmer, and threw their bodies
down into the gorge below.
“Claude W.” : Our well-known glow-worm
is neither a worm nor a caterpillar, but the
female of a winged beetle, from the male
of which it is so different that it is scarcely
believable that they belong to the same
species. The male has wings: the female
has neither wings nor elytra. In all stages,
including eggs, larvae and pupae, both sexes
are luminous, the female being by far the
brighter. They are luminescent, not phos-
phorescent, and the light, comes from fatty-
looking cells, around which are many air-
tubes affording the necessary oxygen for
vital combustion. The perfect insect is
thought to take no food at all: the larvae
were supposed to be vegetarians, but. are pro-
bably carnivorous, the chief food being, dead
or living snails, etc. The male frequently
flies into lighted rooms at night.
* * * *
“Molobihi”: Owing to the success! of
Japanese cultured pearls financed by Jew-
ish dealers in Paris, the Trobriand Islanders
(n.-e. Papua), who formerly earned a fair
crust diving for the genuine article, are
at present experiencing a sad slump in
values. Where formerly a fair-sized pearl
of good shape and color would be bought by
local traders for £lO to £2O, the native
diver now considers himself fortunate if
he collects £1 wherewith to pay his Gov-
ernment tax and buy a few parcels of trade
goods. The smaller pearls are worth little,
if anything, to their possessors. The agri-
cultural tribes are also hard hit financially,
as for their large quantities of yams and
other tubers they can no longer obtain cash
from the reef-divers. The perspiring tax-
collector is finding it difficult, if not impos-
sible, to collect the £1 annual tax which
every male between the ages of 15 and 3t>
is expected to stump up. So the skill of a
Japanese gentleman in the Far North has
placed a number of picturesque natives in
a South Sea island in a very hot and both-
ered position.
* * * *
“Pick”: Many wild animals when captured
feign death and lie alert awaiting a chance
to attack their captor. A fox worried by
dogs will presently lie still, rigid, without
drawing breath, notwithstanding his wild
panting when overtaken just before. If his
tormentors leave him for a moment, he will
suddenly spring up and race for cover. Many
a fox owes his life to this ruse. A tiger-
shark when hauled ashore counterfeits
death, and will suffer baits being cut from
his flesh without a flinch. But if the fisher-
man puts a hand near his mouth, or seeks
to examine his teeth, the creature will snap
with fiendish ferocity, and immediately sink
again into apparent lifelessness. Snakes,
too. will sham death for hours, and then
make a treacherous swirling spring.
* * * *
“Up Top” : The so-called “desert” of Cen-
tralia carries possibly the most nutritive
grass in the continent. It grows most pro-
lifically, strange to say, in sandhill country,
where as far as the eye can reach stretches
a replica of the Sinai Desert. Parakylia, as
the natives call the grass, is almost a shrub,
with stalks full of water. The bucks crush
it between stones and squeeze the moisture
out into bark troughs. It is drinkable when
allowed to stand for the night.- Camels are
fond of the grass, and will go indefinitely
without water when fed on it. Stock which
have broken away from Territory stations
have been known to live in this desert for
four months without a drop of water, and
when found have been almost too fat to
move. At the end of the season the para-
kylia dries up and loses its water, but stock
eat the dried plant ravenously. It has been
suggested that underground in Centralia is a
vast artesian sea from which the parakylia
draws its moisture.
ONE TURN MORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blowin’ black and bitter as she’s castin’ off
the shore,
To the everlastin’ croakin’, “Give her one
turn more!”
And it’s “Bullies, heave and haul,” as the
ratchet kicks the pawl,
And the cable cornin’ homeward, to the “one
turn more.”
Loaded up with timber like a woodyard on
the spree;
Plimsoll under water, winkin’ solemn at the
sea;
And the cable failin’, clink, to the locker
link by link;
Blowin’ Hell and Tommy as we break the
anchor free.
Heavin’ round the capstan at the anchor on
the floor,
And “O bend your backs, my bullies, give
her one turn more!”
And it’s all hands and the cook, heave
and trip the flamin’ hook,
Bring her lively on the cathead, to the “one
turn more.”
Blowin’ hard and wicked and the cable
chinkin’ slow,
Floatin’ wooden mountain outward bound for
Callao,
And we’re chantin’ “Paddy’s boots,” for
the anchor’s growin’ roots,
And it's “Heave and haul, my bullies, and
0 blow boys, blow!”
And we’re trampin’ round the capstan to the
old encore,
To the “Break her out, my bullies, give her
one turn more!”
As our feet are thuddin’ round and the
anchor’s breakin’ ground.
And it’s “Lively, O you beauties, give her
one turn more !”
Davit tackle on the fluke and “Tail along the
fall.”
And it’s “Over, bring her over, lads,” and
“One more haul.”
And now we’ll call it quits, with the
bower on the bitts,
As she feels the weight of heads’ls and it’s
“Stand by, all.”
And it’s lively on the braces, and it’s best
foot fore,
“All together, O my hearties, give her one
swing more.”
And “Belay there on the pin,” as the slack
is coming in,
“Just another, just another, give her one
swing more !”
“Steady on the helm, down a spoke and
keep her so.”
Fresh hand on the bellows and it’s cornin’
on to blow,
And the gale is keen and cuts, like the
sorrow in our guts,
Rollin’ ou,t with timber, rollin’ down to
Callao.
N.S.W.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand. _
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
The right of selection and rejection is reserieu.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Handy man, Sydney, wants work, anywhere, can
kill, milk, do gardening, smart with tools, capable
taking charge.—384.
Young man (21), wants job tractor-driving. Five
years’ experience, good mechanic. I.C.S. student,
go anywhere N.S.W.—403.
Educated girl (24), S.A., experience typing, office
and shop work, four years’ dental nursing, seeks
position city or country.—432.
Youth 18, Sydney, well educated, two years in
city office, seeks position country, any capacity.—436.
Skilled horticulturist (40), Vic., married, returned
soldier, knowledge of hot houses, conservatories,
flopical plants and tlowers, lias been employed large
English gardens, wants similar position in Australia.
Present farming, Vic. —454.
Englishman (34), ex-service man, planting experi-
ence Belgian Congo, can speak French and German,
wants position anywhere, Islands preferred.—455.
Young man, Vic., faints position looking after
horses aboard ship going to India. —219.
Young lady (30), Sydney, well educated, wants
position housekeeper, good cook, fond children. —405.
Woolelasser seeks work, sheds or contract. Any-
where. —470.
Sheep, wool and machinery expert (32), seeks
position as all-round man station, anywhere. Been
in chSrge. Refs. —471.
Baritone, Sydney, wants first-class mezzo-soprano
as partner in duet work and scenas. Must be good
accompanist.—499.
To buy “Difficulties,” by Seymour Hicks. —480.
To buy “A Curate in Bohemia” and “We of
the Never Never”—474.
To buy Part 3 “Countries of the World.” —464.
To exchange book-keeping course (cost £8) for
textbooks, Acts, ordinances, etc., necessary to study
for N.S.W. health-inspector’s certificate. —466.
To buy music of Lovat’s “Restoration” (played
by Jas. Brown on Zonophone record). —386.
Words of “Lasca.” —393.
To buy Bonwick’s “Lost Tasmanian Race,”
Duckworth’s “Studies in Anthropology,” Wollaston’s
“Pygmies and Papuans,” and Woodford’s “Naturalist
Among Head Hunters.” Good price.—387.
Copy advt. that appeared in a N.Q. paper between
Nov., 1927, and Feb., 1928, inquiring whereabouts
of Thomas Forrest, Townsville.—153.
Words of verse containing line “ ‘We’ll all be
ruined,’ says Hanrahan.” —443.
Refined woman (40), Q’land, give services as
children’s nurse, companion or lady’s maid return
for passage or part passage England. Refs. —444.
Brisbane lady like correspond with readers who
have made study of the Pyramids.—458.
Young lady, Queensland, like correspond with
readers, 20-23, Queensland preferred.—414.
Young lady (18), N.S.W., like correspond boys
or girls interested entertaining, theatres, travelling
and sport.—399.
Information Sought.
(1) My new Ford averages 200 miles per
week at a fair speed; the lights are on for
one hour; starter in use, say, 20 times. How
long should one hattery charge last? (2)
How many charges will a battery stand? (3)
Does battery saving warrant constant use of
crank-handle ? —329.
(1) If the generator is operating cor-
rectly, it should not be necessary to have a
battery charged from any outside source at
all. Should the battery become run down,
check over the electrical system to discover
the leak. (2) The life of a battery is not
governed so much by the number of charges
it receives as by the treatment it gets from
the driver. With ordinary care, such as keep-
ing the electrolyte above the plates and not
allowing the battery to become fully dis-
charged and not subjecting it to continuous
heavy discharges, you can expect a battery to
be in good condition for two years. (3) It
is certainly beneficial to give the engine a
few turns-over when cold, particularly during
winter, when the oil becomes slightly heavier.
How to remove the printing from flour-
bags?—286.
Soak in cold water for a day, wash well
in hot water and strong soap, and boil with
a double handful of washing soda in the
copper.
What are the agricultural products of
Java and what opportunities for an Austra-
lian to secure either a farm of his own or
employment on one? Cost of living and
price of agricultural land? —257.
Agriculture in Java is confined to culti-
vation of tropical products—rice, sugar, tea,
coffee, tobacco, etc. —mainly grown for
export on large estates. Manual labor is
wholly supplied by natives, who work under
supervision of European (nearly all Dutch)
overseers. Small plantations or farms are
owned and worked only by natives, not by
Europeans. A white settler would have to
either start a plantation of his own or
seek employment as overseer, for which good
health, agricultural experience and knowdedge
of Dutch and native languages are indis-
pensable. Cost of living is relatively low
on the plantations. Price of land varies
greatly according to situation (with regard
to transport facilities, etc.), fertility of soil,
suitability to grow certain products, etc. It
would be extremely difficult for an Austra-
lian to acquire a freehold.
How to prune and cultivate Christmas
bush?— 382.
The best time to prune Christmas bush is
just after flowmring, -which is from mid-
November to mid-December, when the seeds
are ready for sowing. When it is cut at
Christmas time it is past its fundamental
flowering stage (a month or six weeks past)
and the flowers have all gone and only per-
sistent colored sepals remain. The seed
should be sown before the end of the year, as
it becomes very hard. Sow the seed in sandy
soil in the open ground to its own depth.
After sowing lay dry twigs or anything that
will burn quickly all over the ground and
burn them, then give the ground, while still
warm, a good soaking with water. \\ hen
the seedlings are a few inches high tney
should be transplanted into tins or flower-
pots for a period before being planted out
in their permanent sites.
A flood filler for took and cedar woods before
French-polishing, with method of applica-
tion? — 269. , ...
Timber fillers in the form of paste (with
directions) can be bought at any hardware
store. These will be found much more satis-
factory than attempting to mix supplied
recipes if a small quantity only is required.
llow to dye white satin without dipping
same? Where can dyes be obtained in small
quantities? — 394.
Practically impossible. The material could
be laid over a clean doth and fastened to a
table with drawing-pins, damped with a
sponge dipped in cold water and the dye
dabbed on with a sponge or rag. Leave in
position until dry. Quick, expert handling
is necessary with this type of dyeing. Suit-
able cold-water dyes are procurable from
chemists and grocers.
Suitable restful co/or schemes for a coun-
try cafe? —431. .
(1) Brown, putty and gold or Chinese
blue; (2) deep saxe blue, deep cream and
soft rose; (3) rose, cream and mauve; (4)
primrose yellow and reseda green with
touches of black.
Method of removing whitewash from brick
walls preparatory to plastering?- —315.
Clean from the walls with a cold chisel
and hammer; then scrub down with a wire
brush. It is not necessary to remove every
particle.
• How should a couple, both residing in the
country, proceed to get married before a
registrar in Sydney, and ivhich party should
make the arrangements? —320.
A marriage may be performed only by the
registrar of the district within which the
intended bride ordinarily resides. Either
party can make the necessary arrangements
for the ceremony with the registrar.
(1) Gan shorthand be learnt by correspon-
dence? (2) When stories arc submitted to
The Bulletin are they returned at once if
unsuitable? Are good stories kept, say, from
one to three weeks before they are printed,
or does The Bulletin rely on each week's
contributions for next week's supply? —347.
(1) Yes. (2) Rejected stories are usually
returned within a week or ten days; occa-
sionally a border-line story may be sent on
for further readings, and is thus held up.
There is always a large reserve of. accepted
stories. Randolph Bedford, for example,
writes only spasipodically : in his last furious
burst of writing he provided us with all we
could use of his stories for six years.
(1) Are municipal ratepayers in N.S.W.
entitled to a copy of annual balance-sheet
and report? (2) To whom are municipal
councils obliged to submit their balance-
sheets, and are they ever published in any
form ? —268.
(1) No ; but “any elector may at the coun-
cil’s office inspect the books of accounts and
the report of the auditor or of an inspector
of local government accounts without fee.”
(Sect. 215, N.S.W. Local Govt. Act, 1919.)
(2) Ordinance 26, N.S.W. Local Govt. Act,
1919, requires that councils shall furnish each
year statements of accounts as prescribed,
one copy to Minister for Local Government
and two copies to Govt. Statistician. These
statements include an aggregate balance-
sheet and an aggregate revenue account, and
the councils are required to publish such in a
newspaper within 14 days after receipt by
the councils of a certificate from Government
Statistician that they are such as may be
published.
(1) Fare by train Broken Hill to Perth,
second class; from Fremantle to Carnarvon
and Derby by boat? (2) Chances of employ-
ment for an experienced station-hand
( cattle ) at the two last places? —9973.
(1) Broken Hill to Perth (2nd), £9 Bs.
lOd. Boat fare Fremantle to Carnarvon
(2nd), £4 2s. 6d.; Fremantle to Derby
(2nd), £9 17s. 6d. (2) Prospects not bright
at present, and it would not be advisable to
throw up a job to go, as supply exceeds the
demand just now. But really good men are
said to be always wanted. There are very
few cattle stations south of Port H'edland,
so better not go to Carnarvon, anyway.
My father died recently, total estate £3183.
(1) Amount of Federal and N.S..W. State
probate duty payable? (2) What should be
about the legal costs? (3) Can a icidow
claim one-third of her husband’s estate at
liis death, in the face of the fact that the
husband had transferred his estate (mostly
Commonivealth Bonds) to his daughter, two
years prior to his death? (4) Can any man
claim the old age pension at 65 who three
years previously made over his assets by deed
of gift to friend or relative? —377.
(1) State: Not exceeding £SOOO. rate 2
per cent. Federal: Exceeding £2OOO, rate
1 per cent., with an additional one-fifth per
cent, for every £IOOO or part thereof in ex-
cess. (2) Depends on circumstances. (3)
Yes. If, as appears, he died intestate, one-
third to widow, two-thirds to children. (4)
Not if it appeared that the transfer was
made with a view to defeating the Act.
What became of Go istance Lilian Jenkins,
awarded Vic. Artists’ Society travelling
scholarship in 1908? —110.
Studied in London, Paris and Italy, and
has exhibited at the Royal Academy, Lon-
don ; Salon des Artistes, France: Panama-
Tacific Exhibition (1015) ; Palace of Fine
Arts, San Francisco (1016 and 1018), and
annually with the San Francisco Art
Association. Member of San Francisco Art
Assoc, and Institute of Fine Arts, and re-
cently won a £4O prize for a portrait of a
girl. ‘ Married E. Spencer Macky, a Maori-
land artist, who also graduated under Ber-
nard Hall at National Gallery, Melbourne.
In No. 6 of Art in Australia there was a
reproduction of one of her pictures and a
notice.
What are the measurements of a cord of
xcood cut 2 ft. bin. long? —4o4.
A cord contains 128 cubic feet of timber;
therefore a pile of timber 2ft. Sin. long, if
stacked square, would have a width and depth
of approximately 7ft. 6 9-16 in.
Preparation for restoring color and improv-
ing hair-growth? —2o7.
Use the following lotion once daily: Tinc-
ture of cantharides, 3 drachms; spirit of
rosemary. 2 drachms; precipitated sulphur,
30 grains ; glycerine, 2 drachms ; bay rum, up
to Ooz. Hub in with tips of fingers, and
brush hair well before and after application.
(1) Is there any part of the mechanism of
a motor-car which cannot be manufactured in
Australia? (2) Has an Australia!'-made
motor-car ever been put on the market? —308.
(1) No. Practically all the essential units
.—motors, gears, tyres, magnetos, bodies, etc.
—are being manufactured in this country at
the present time (the motors are for marine
purposes, but there’s no difference in prin-
ciple). Chassis could be made if we had the
necessary machinery. (2) No. But a -com-
bination of engineering firms in N.S.W. is
preparing to produce an Australian-manu-
factured car.
(1) I have a small copper show and want
to smelt the ore myself. Could an inexperi-
enced man do it? (2) Textbooks dealing
with copper snielthg? —2l4.
(1) Doubtful. Certainly, if you haven’t
the technical knowledge, you must get
it. (2) A brief summary is contained
in “Mineral Resources, No, 6“ (Ist edition,
Government Printing Office, Sydney, 2s. 6d.).
A standard work is Peters’s “Principles of
Copper Smelting,” 255.
(1) What is the oil yield of gumtop-box
leaves and the demand? (2) How to make a
small still for distilling eucalyptus leaves?
(3) Literature on the subject? —2l7.
(1) Oil yield of gumtop-box ( E.hemiphloia)
is low (about 6 p.c.) and the product lias no
commercial value. (2) An oil drum with a
grating inside about Gin. above the bottom to
hold the leaves. When water, say, 4in. deep is
boiled in this, the escaping steam carries
the oil with it, and must be condensed by
fitting a water-jacket to the outlet pipe. The
oil will float on the water condensed, and may
be separated by pouring into a container and
draining the water from beneath it. (3) “The
Timbers and Forest Products of Queensland,”
os. 6d. (bound), from Q’land Forest Service,
Brisbane, gives a summary of the essential
oils yielded by Q’land plants. Detailed infor-
mation and publications on many eucalypts
and other species may be obtained from Cura-
tor, Technological Museum, Sydney, where
much research work has been carried out.
How are shorthand-writers appointed to
(1) Hansard staff? (2) N.S.W. court re-
porting staff? —396.
(1) On the recommendation of the Presi-
dent of Leg. Council and Speaker of Leg.
Assembly. (2) On the recommendation of
the Public Service Board. A qualifying ex-
amination is held when necessary, and is
advertised. Salaries from £374 to £676 p.a.
Communicate with Secretary, Public Service
Board, 33 Hunter-street, Sydney, giving par-
ticulars as •to qualifications (shorthand
speed, etc.).
(1) What benefit accrues from scarifying
lucerne in winter? Should spring-tooth cul-
tivator or disc harrow be used? (2) What is
the better poison for foxes, arsenic or strych-
nine? —319.
(1) There is no definite evidence of the
value of this practice. It will reduce the
annual grasses in the first cut, but liberal
manuring and cutting will enable lucerne to
dominate grasses. The effects of an imple-
ment depend much on condition of ground
when it is used. Harm must result through
tearing the crowns of lucerne; and though
the plants may survive, disease organisms
get more ready access. (2) Strychnine.
In a game of 500 a player makes it no
trumps, and one of his opponents or his part-
ner holds the joker. When shoxdd the joker
be played? Can it be held till it suits the
person holding it, even though he cannot
follow suit? —352.
English rules on the subject are rather
ambiguous. According to American rules:
“The holder of the joker cannot play it if
he can follow suit. Not being able to follow
suit he can discard a card of another suit
as often as he pleases, or play the joker
when he pleases. If the holder of the joker
has the lead in a no-trumper he may play
the joker, but he must specify the suit that
may be played to it, and he may name any
suit he pleases.” According to English rules
the right of the joker-holding declarer of no
trumps, when leading the joker and nomi-
nating a suit, is limited to suits in which he
has not already renounced.
Information Supplied.
9956. —To grow Australian flowering
gums, do not collect the seedpods just after
the petals drop—wait until late autumn, when
the pods are full-sized and show the first
signs of turning brown. Examine each one
to see that the pod has not cracked open
inside the bowl, and place the selected pods
inside a calico bag. Hang for a month in
a warm spot, such as beneath a kitchen
mantelpiece ; then the pods will be found to
have cracked onen, letting the seed fall into
the bottom of the bag. Scatter this seed
liglitlv on a seed-bed, rake lightly, and keep
the soil damp. When the seeds sprout, thin
out to one seedling per square foot. Keep
the bed watered during the following summer,
and plant out in the autumn, after first soak-
ing rain.—“Larrapinta.”
160. —An excellent stovemaker’s cement is
made by incorporating glycerine and litharge.
Another is common salt and wood-ashes made
into a paste. A good cement can be made by
mixing finely pulverisc-d iron, such as can be
procured at a druggist’s, with liquid water-
glass until a thick paste is formed. Apply this
mixture to a crack in a stove and you w u
find that the hotter the stove the more Inmn
will the mend unite. —G.D.M.
150.—T0 thatch a building with bulrushes,
nail laterally over its sides and root slats
or wattle-rods not more than a foot apart,
and regularly placed on each side, btretched
along the slats have light wires, somewhat
slack, and behind these press the bulrushes in
handfuls, well combed to hang perpendicu-
larly. Begin thatching from the bottom and
work upwards tier by tier. When the first
tier is placed, at intervals lace the holding-
wire back to the slats. Cover the lacing with
the lower edge of the next tier, and proceed
thus until the ricige-cap is reached, lo cover
the ridge place three successive layers at
right-angles across. The second layer should
cover the joints of the first, and ,the thud,
the joints of the second. —“Bung.”
Does Anybody Know ?
How to make "coke breeze” bricks, and
should mortar or cement be used for joining/
—2lO.
Brief Answers.
M.S.: (1) You don’t get a return like that
without big risks. The question is, Are you prepared
to take the chance? (2) What State? (3) Accord-
ing to “Who’s Who in the Theatre,” Pavlova was
born at Petrograd, .Tanuary 31, 1885 (P.S.: One
coupon, one question, please)... .C.L.M.: Depends
on other qualifications, natural or acquiied....
G.D.: You didn’t get the best; but very doubtful
whether it would pay you to change now
E.A.G. (Geraldton) : (1) Highly speculative. (2)
Nobody knows what the position will be six years
hence; unsaleable at present. (3) Don’t know.
. ...H.S.M.: Money spent in floating may be
charged to the co. if the prospectus definitely
says so; but if you don’t sell enough shares
to float the co., and have used some of
the share-application money, you may be in
very serious difficulties. Better consult a broker
or experienced co. secretary... .W.Y.: Of course
not; but two days after the paragraphs in that
issue were printed the Government decided to appoint
a commission of inquiry. So, apparently, it was
pretty effective P.R. J.; That’s all the informa-
tion available. Prospects are poor because of exces-
sive rainfall; and purchase is not recommended at
the price. . . .H.T. : Ask Ford Motor Cos. of Aust.
Pty., Ltd., Brisbane, for a copy of Model A instruc-
tion booklet R.R.M.K.: “Angora Wool Produc-
tion,” by .1. B. McDougall; and “Angora Wool
Rabbits for Profit,” by Arthur Sainsbury 11. C.:
N.3,W. Education Department does not pay the
board of a subsidised teacher... .G.P.: Mongolian
stamps mentioned would be worth approx. £SO,
but doubt whether a buyer could be found in Aus-
tralia. Advise forwarding them to London, stating
reserve. .. .H.D.C.: Abo. names for cap are “ball-
aurong” and “dubo” ; and for hat, “cobbindee” and
“doora” E.M.; Lyster Ormsby, 233 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney J.H.S.: Very little value; common
and easily procured by collectors... .S.J.S.: An
English artist whose works do not command high
prices, and the subject is not a good selling one.
H.C.G.: Not well known ; poor sale for his works.
H.Y.: A. C. Picton, Yellow Rock, Singleton
(N.S.W.) E.M.8.; Try fomenting the eyes once
daily with a warm solution of Epsom salts, one
teaspoonful to the pint of water W.8.N.: Try
sulphate of zinc 8 grains, tincture of opium 1
drachm; distilled water, 2oz. Put a few drops
in each eye once daily. If the trouble becomes
chronic, ask vet. to examine the d0g.... M.A.H.:
Administration of matters in connection with noxious
weeds in N.S.W'. is in the hands of municipal and
shire councils. First ascertain whether the plant
has been declared noxious by the local council; if
so, request that its destruction should be enforced.
.. . . A.A.H.: One pound on application, £2 on
acceptance of complete specification and £5 for
preparation of letters patent for sealing. Forms,
etc., from Dept, of Patents, Brisbane H.T.:
Aboriginal names for Fort Denison, Port Jackson, are
“Mattewaya” and “Mattawunga”; apparently the
meaning has not been recorded, though there have
been, many guesses at it. .. .P.E.K.: (1) Either Box
252188, G.P.0., Sydney or 214 George-street, Sydney,
finds us; the postal authorities prefer the use of
the first address. (2) Asa rule, MSS. unaccompanied
by return postage are not preserved. .. .F.M.M.D.:
(1) “Banjo” Paterson. (2) Clarence E. Mulford
L.W.: (1) Your policy of insurance is over your
own furniture and does not cover that of your tenant.
Notify the insurance co. of the removal of your
furniture. (2) Not if the damage done is not due to
any act or default on your part. (3) Ask Passport
Office, Customs House, Sydney, for forms and infor-
mation. (4) Arrange through a bank for gold to
cover voyage expenses and get a letter of credit on
the bank’s agents in London for your requirements
in England 0.5.K.C.: The sign of three golden
(or brass) balls was the arms of the Medici family,
who were Lombardy moneylenders in the Middle Ages.
. ...W.F.S.: Not unless you agreed to do so
G.T.S.: The telegrams and P.O. receipt would not
be sufficient D.F.: Assuming that the room is
adequately ventilated, it would not be dangerous to
use the radiator continuously... .P.J.H.: See reply
to No. 297....J.R.; Australian Fertilisers Pty., Ltd.,
19 Bligh-street, City; M. Gearin and Sons, Mascot;
Paton, Burns, 52 King-street—all Sydney... .A.A.8.:
Apply coating of boiled linseed oil with a brush;
or one coat of clear oilskin dressing, procurable from
paint stores.... J.G.; Sponge well -with warm water,
paying particular attention to stains. Several appli-
cations may, be necessary. Dry in shade; while
still damp press neatly into shape and complete
drying on a stand if possible. .. .G.G.; Write District
Naval Officer, Fremantle (W r .A.), and ask for pamphlet
“How to Join the R.A.N.”. .. . H.G.H.; Don’t know
except that he is said to be a native of Hawkes
Bay (N.Z.)'... .W.8.N.: Mary MacGregor did not
play in “Cappy Ricks” at Sydney Palace, June-
July, 1925. Mary Macrea played Ellen Murray....
J.M.: The firm says it is deluged with applications.
. ...N.8.: Tost and Rohu, 30 Martin-place, Sydney;
if not, they would have to be imported. Wilhelm
Bruckner, Morchstem, Czechoslovakia, is recommended
by the Australian Museum. .. .E. 8.: “Cassell’s Book
of Etiquette” (3s. 7d. posted) ; Mrs. M. Lyon’s
“Etiquette: A Guide to Public and Social Life”
(21s. 9d.). Angus and Robertson have both
R.J.C.: Approximately 33 tons. .. . A.D.M.R.: (1)
Shortest distance for horseracing records is four
furlongs (880 yards) ; Gloaming holds the Austral-
asian record with 45sec. (Wellington, N.Z., Jan-
-1921). (2) A greyhound has covered 480 yards
in 27 3-ssec J.R.C.: Unsaleable. .. .D.N.G.: No
Australian Stock Exchange handles them, and no
broker that we know of. It is quite a gamble
C.V.T.: Question of a third Novel Competition
hasn’t yet been considered, and won’t be till after
December 31, this year, when the second closes...,
(Many others mailed.)


Everything
that is worth-while in Tyres
is centred in
ft
as
I
W
IK
m
i
E
«
i
I
■
*i-:v
1
vgvSf
41111!
1
t
I
/.’Vyrnbij
5000 GARAGES & TYRE HOUSES STOCK DUNLOP!


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors ; Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS W CITIZENS
CO OPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
114 - 120 CASTLEREAQH ST. SYDNEY
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, O.S.L.
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
ROTATION MUST COME.
. “Hortus”: In many cases a man taking up
virgin country will find that his wheat-every-
year paddock yields a satisfactory result.
But it cannot last. In all the older wheat-
growing countries farmers have discovered
that the wheat-every-year principle not only
brings down the yield, but also encourages
such pests as black oats.
The benefits of rotation were demonstrated
in Australia years ago. At Cowra Experi-
ment Farm in 1906 three plots were prepared,
one of which was devoted to wheat every
year, another to wheat alternated with fal-
low, and the third to wheat alternated with
a fodder crop. Seed of the cleanest and best
quality was used, and the best and most
modern cultivation methods were employed.
On the wheat-every-year plot wild oats and
Saucy Jack were in evidence in 1910, and
by 1912 they had so taken possession that
the manager reported that “but little
wheat is now taken from the area, and the
weeds have become a menace to the cleared
adjoining areas.” What was most signi-
ficant about this experiment was that on
the other two sections the oats were a negli-
gible factor. In the six years of this experi-
ment, the wheat-every-year section averaged
16.8 bushels per acre, the wlieat-after-bare-
fallow section 24. S bushels and the wheat-
fodder 26.4 bushels.
The crops used in rotation must depend on
the character of the farm. If a man is a
mixed farmer, and is running a dairy, he
can profitably alternate wheat with root and
leguminous crops, as has been proved over
and over again in England and older
countries.
The large wheat-farmer, however, has a
more difficult problem to solve. Even if he
runs a few sheep he fi#ds it very difficult to
discover a really ideal rotation. His choice
is severely limited, but he must decide on
something, or his land will deteriorate.
The simplest rotation for the large-scale
wheat-grower is wheat alternated with
bare fallow. Even then he has to grow
wheat every year on some sections, for he
can only afford to have a small portion lying
fallow. Another scheme, and a much better
one, is a wheat-pasture-bare-fallow rotation,
with sheep running on the pasture. The
manure of sheep is rich in nitrogenous mat-
ter, and it is pretty evenly distributed. After
being eaten off, the stubble and its roots
are turned under, and the section is allowed
to lie fallow. The land in this section will
be found to be greatly improved and enriched.
It is worth Avhile, the Australian wheat-man
will find, to treat some land in this way
each year, for the increased grain yield wiil
more than repay him for any temporary
loss.
A wheat crop of 30 bushels to the acre,
which means about 50001 b. of grain and straw,
takes fi’om the soil, from each acre, 481 b.
nitrogen, 211 b. phosphoric acid and 291 b.
potash. Those constituents can’t be replaced
by super, dressings.
WHEAT-GROWING IN QUEENSLAND.
“L.0.W.”: H'ere in Queensland our
wheat-growing methods differ considerably
from those in other States. As we get
abundant autumn rain, there is no occasion
to waste time on long, bare fallows. Farms
on the Downs have grown wheat in the
same paddocks practically every season for
45 years, with frequently a crop of maize
as a summer and autumn crop in between,
and the land is still yielding 40 bushels and
over to the acre of the very best grade of
milling wheat. This, too, with no manure.
Manurial experiments have been tried, with
little or no increase in the crop.
I’m a pioneer wheat-grower in the Daw-
son Valley, a couple of hundred miles fur-
ther north than the Downs, and my yields
compare more than favorably with those on
the Downs. Last harvest, with only an inch
and a half of rain at seeding time and an
unusually dry winter, on land that carried
a heavy crop the previous season, 1 took off
a 23-bushel crop on the properly short-
fallowed paddocks, although it suffered
through tin exceptionally late night of frost
in early September. Even in a paddock
sown late, following maize, and -which
received no rain after sowing, we reaped 12
to 15 bushels per acre, the whole crop being
graded as No. 1 milling wheat.
The reason why whept-growing has not
been boomed more in Queensland is that
the soil and climate are so suitable for
such a variety of purposes that wheat-
growing is very generally treated as a side-
line, because on the same farm, in most
cases, there will be excellent country for
running sheep, dairying, maize-growing,
potatoes (two crops annually) and (up
here) cotton-growing, so that there is a
chance of something coming in all the year
round.
With our early harvest —with us the crop
comes off in October, before the summer
storms begin—there is ample time to put in
a crop of maize, which is fit to take off in
May in time to get wheat in again; quite
early enough, too, for cotton-planting,
although this is a crop that is not harvested
in time for wheat the same year, but should
be followed by early maize, then wheat
again.
WE STR ALI A N WHEAT-GROWING
COSTS.
“Westralian”: Here are a few notes,
culled from my own records, that may be
a useful guide to those starting wheat-grow-
ing in W.A. I sow 301 b. of seed aiid 601 b.
of super, to the acre, and have calculated
labor costs at half contract rates —I did
the work myself, getting through 40 acres
of harrowing or broadcasting, for instance,
in a day.
On 150 acres (non-fallow) cultivated with
the combine in March and sown in May,
costs were: Cultivation, 2s. 6d.; drilling,
2s. Od.; seed, 25.; manure, 2s. 6d.; harvest-
ing, 55.; total, 14s. 6d. per acre. The yield
was 1500 bags, the gross return per acre
was £6, leaving a margin $f £5 3s. 6d. per
acre.
On 330 acres, cultivated straight in in
April and May, after a burn, the costs were
12s. per acre (drilling and cultivation being
combined) ; the yield was 2310 bags and the
gross return per acre £4 45., leaving a mar-
gin of £3 325. per acre.
On 700 acres of sand plain, fallowed with
horse-drawn disc harrows, broadcasted next
May from a spring-cart and then harrowed,
costs amounted to 13s. 6d. per acre (fallow-
ing 25., seeding Is., and harrowing Is.
per acre). The yield was 4200 bags and
the gross return £3 12s. per acre, leaving a
margin of £2 18s. 6>d. per acre.
The margins aren’t clear profit. An
allowance must be made for cartage, bags,
oil, liorse-feed, not-cultivation labor, depre-
ciation of plant and interest; but every man
has to adjust those charges to his individual
case. Anyway, I think I’ve proved there’s
a comfortable living for the Westralian
wheat-grower who knows his job.
TRACTORS v. HORSES.
“Yeoman”: The question as to whether
the tractor is more profitable than horses
for ordinary farm work depends upon the
type of tractor and the man who drives it.
After some years’ personal experience I am
able to assert that tractor farming is more
attractive and more economical than farming
with horses. The majority of tractor failures
are due to the type of tractor used. In my
opinion the caterpillar-type is the only one
that is capable of meeting all the demands
made under the varying conditions of farm
work. Moving on its own track the ground
pressure is slight, and there is an absence of
wheel slippage and vibration. This means
greater utility, economy of fuel, a larger ratio
of power at the draw bar, and the reduction
of repairs and maintenance to a minimum.
Last year we (I am farming with my
brother) sold our 15-25h.p. caterpillar-tractor
for £250 after it had done seven years’ heavy
work. We replaced it with one of the same
type and size for £440. In our experience
a 15-25 tractor will do the work of two
eight-horse teams.
I figure our working costs on 500 acres of
crop (fallowing, seeding and harvesting)
yearly as being:—
Interest 6* per cent., depreciation 10
per cent., maintenance 51 per cent.—
22 per cent, on £440 .. .. •• £96 16 0
Wages, one man £4 per week for 40
weeks . . .. .. . . • ■ 160 0 0
Fuel, 1400 gals at Is. 9d. .. . . 122 10 0
Lubricant,‘so gals, at ss. .. .. 12 10 0
£391 16 0
It would take 16 horses to do the same
work as the tractor. They would cost £400;
harness, swings and chains £75; and ongihe
and chaffcutter £125, making a total of £6OO.
On that basis the working costs of horse-
farming are: —
Interest 61 per cent., depreciation 10
per cent., and maintenance 21 per
cent.—l 9 per cent, on £6OO .. .. £ll4 0 0
Wages, two men at £4 per week for
40 weeks .. . . .. .. 320 0 0
66 tons chaff (40 weeks’ stabling) at
£3 per ton .. .. .. .. 198 0 0
Grazing 16 horses, 12 weeks at 2s. 6d.
each .. .. .. .. .. 24 0 0
£656 0 0
Thus, on our farm we estimate that the
caterpillar-tractor effects a saving of £264 4s.
a year. No account has been taken of the
smaller number of implements required when
a tractor is used.
MAORI LAND WHEAT-FERTILISING
EXPERIMENTS.
“Ashburton”: Even on the fertile and
well-watered Canterbury Plains, a strip 150
miles long and 50 miles wide in the midriff
of Maoriland’s South Island, wheat-farming is
a tricky business, and in. late years a great
deal of attention has been paid to the scien-
tific use of fertilisers. The latest group of
experiments, conducted over a period of
six years, have given very instructive results.
Their scope was severely limited, because
the Canterbury wheat-growers have tried
almost everything in the fertilising line,
and they know by experience that the only
manures likely ,to benefit their land are
superphosphate, basic super., various forms
of soluble nitrogen, potash, and the Ephos
and Nauru phosphates.
In the experiments just concluded the
changes wore rung on these in a great
variety of combinations. The result has been
to establish very definitely the superior value
of ordinary super. A summary of the results
from 20 trial plots shows that super, gave
a yield of 5| bushels per acre in excess of
that obtained from unfertilised plots. Basic
super, gave an advantage of only 41, bushels.
Ephos gave an advantage of 2 bushels an
acre over no manure, and Nauru an increase
of only bushels.
Experiments with soluble nitrogen, mostly
applied in the form of dried blood, at the
rate of lewt. to the acre, combined with
super, or basic super, dressings to the same
amount, were not quite conclusive. The
nitrogen improved the yields in 21 out of
25 plots to the extent of from 1 to 11
bushels per acre, but in the other four plots
it was inoperative.
Potash, used in the muriate form, in the
majority of cases delayed and in some cases
depressed germination.
The investigators, as a result of their
experiments, recommmend unreservedly a
dressing of lewt. super, per acre at the
time of sowing, deprecate the use of pot-
ash, and advise farmers to make their own
experiments as to the benefit which nitro-
genous manures will give to their land.
CROP FOR THE DAIRY-FARMER.
“Wrecksby”: On a dairy-farm in my dis-
trict carefully-kept records proved that crop-
growing for fodder wasn’t worth while. It
cost about £2OO a year for labor, seed and
fertiliser, and a lot in worry because of
bad or irregular seasons. Hand-feeding over
the winter was costing about £330 a year;
25 cows yielded up to S 4 gallons a day in
the spring, and as low as 30 gallons a’day
in the winter, and the annual yield was
36.480 gallons. Cultivation paddocks were
replaced by permanent pasture grasses, and
a system of hand-feeding was adopted so
that each cow had a ration comprising bran
(scalded), chaff, oil-cake and a pinch of salt
each day. The amount of the ration w r as
regulated by what was considered to be
the individual requirement of each cow. The
total cost of hand-feeds for the year was
£2BO. The milk yield increased to 15,250
gallons a year, and the winter yield, that
was wanted most, increased to 54 gallons a
day. Further, the milk became so rich that
it was decided to leave the factory and
separate and turn the skim into pigs, and
the final balance of the two systems was
the difference between £420 and £025 a
year. Bran, chaff and oil-cake, associated
with green feed, make milk. Green feed
alone makes very little. Put some of the
cows on a daily ration for 12 months as a
trial, and see if crop-growing or hand-feeds
pay best.
GRASS-SEED RESERVES.
“Reminder’: The spelling of paddocks to
allow grass to seed (“Curlew,” (B. 8/5/’29)
is not always possible, but the difficulty can
be overcome by establishing seed reserves; —
quarter-acre patches of pasture fenced in,
either in the centre or along the west side
of a property, where grass is allowed to
seed.. The seed, when ripe, is distributed by
wind.
One of the chief advantages of a seed
reserve is in the introduction of new
grasses. The seeds of most of our valuable
native grasses, such at Mitchell or Flin-
ders, are very expensive and beyond the
means of the average pastoralist. But if
seed reserves are established it is good busi-
ness to buy a pound or so of the desired
seed, and plant it in the reserve. In a
little while the pastures will be planted with
the grass. If several furrows are ploughed
across the paddocks, parallel to the seed
reserve, in autumn, the seed from the reserve
will have a better chance to take root. Seed
reserves to be effective must be stock- and
rabbit-proof, and kept free from noxious
weeds.
WIMMERA RYE GRASS.
“Deejay”: Wimmera rye grass is one of
the best pastures the Australian farmer can
plant. Its main attraction is that, while
drought-resisting, it provides nutritious graz-
ing add a sweet good-keeping hay. Once well
established it will reseed and give an almost
permanent pasture, providing a good green
feed relished by all classes of stock, in the
winter months especially, and useful for nine
months of the year.
When sown alone, about 101 b. per acre is
sufficient, but excellent results are also
obtained sown with other grasses. Subter-
ranean clover is a good fodder to use in
conjunction, giving a well-balanced ration,
and considerably increasing the carrying
capacity of the paddocks. It suits practi-
cally all classes of soil, but on the lighter and
porous districts the grower should allow spells
between grazing periods.
A feature of Wimmera rye that appeals
to the woolman is the absence of burrs, or
hooked seeds. Do not confuse it with
perennial . rye grass, for although the
perennial is one of the best lines for coastal
sowing where the rainfall is good, the Wim-
mera is best for the man out back, where
droughts and dry spells are regular things.
The perennial will not stand up to the
ravages of hard times like its mate. The
Wimmera makes an excellent drought-reserve
fodder. The growths of the early spring can
be mown easily, the cattle or sheep being on
to other pasture, and turned into hay. From
one to four cuts can be obtained in a season —
the four, of course, only under exceptional
conditions. The hay dries well and the seed
remains in the head, thus increasing the feed
value for a drought food when needed. The
keeping qualities of Wimmera are on a par
with lucerne.
Autumn or early spring is the best time
for sowing, autumn for preference. Take
care where, you get the seed, as Wimmera
and perennial are as alike as twins,
FRUIT OR SHEEP?
“Goulburn”: Sheep may solve the problem
of over-production in the fruit-growing in-
dustry. Many of the most conservative
orchardists in the Goulburn Valley (Vic.)
are gradually changing over from fruit to
sheep. The advent of the tractor and motor-
lorry makes available paddocks which have
been used to graze horses on. Instead of
this spare land being promptly planted
with trees, as would have been done in the
past, it is being sown with lucerne, which
is being used for sheep. Likewise, as
blocks of fruit trees become played out, the
trees are grubbed, and lucerne takes their
place.
A few men graze sheep in their orchards,
allowing grass to grow for that purpose.
Tins has proved a great mistake. The ani-
mals damage, the bark and lower limbs of
the trees, whilst the undergrowth encourages
pests in the orchard. The property quickly
loses value as an orchard, whilst the feed
is available only for a short period in the
year for grazing purposes.
The change from fruit to sheep is being
made quietly and naturally, and entirely on
the growers own initiative, in direct contrast
to the sudden rush a few years ago; when
thousands of acres were planted with fruit
trees on the advice and with the encourage-
ment of the Government.
AS TOLD BY TEETH.
“Tup” : It is not always safe to rely on
a sheep’s teeth as a guide to its age. Sheep
run on gravelly and short-grassed pastures
wear and break their teeth much earlier than
those on soft and long-grassed country Of
the 32 teeth the 24 back teeth are ranged six
on each side on top and bottom jaws. The
eight front teeth, which appear within a
month of birth, are temporary, and remain
for a year or more. Then the two central teeth
drop out and are replaced by permanents.
At two years the process is repeated with the
two teeth on either side of the central teeth.
(Continued on page 31.)


V- : .* ,
Wmm,
SlSitB
m
7
■ ■
mm I
. - ■ - -mm
mm
Hi
i
'Thrilling and Dependable Performance
of the Improved Vauxhall Six
-
EE it as it streaks along
the open road at seventy
. . . see it as it spurts and
threads its way through a
street full of traffic ... its perfor-
mance gives a thrill of delight to
all who ride and drive it!
Feel the added security of
VauxhalPs wonderful four wheel
brakes which bring the car to a
standstill in three seconds from
sixty miles per hour.
And what a way the 20-60
Vauxhall has of holding the road
at high speeds and on curves.
How willingly it answers to just
the least movement made by two
fingers on the steering wheel!
That’s the sort of car for present-
day motoring conditions.
The Vauxhall 20-60, England’s
car of distinction, contains 97%
British materials, and is built in
the British Empire by 100% English
and Australian labor.
Because a good long drive in
this Improved Vauxhall is an
experience you can ill afford to
miss, you are invited to arrange
a trial run with your nearest
Vauxhall dealer.
Prices-from £595
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
:: :: Serviced Throughout Australia :: ::
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
BRITISH
a
mm
■
1
.
"OF A LONG BLUE BLOODED LINE''
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Barlow Motors Phj. Ltd. Sydney: Boyd Edkins Ltd. Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors Ltd. Adelaide: Mann’s Motors Ltd. Perth: E. D. Toe Motors Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. Melbourne - Sydney - Brisbane - Adelaide - Perth.


H
V
1 YN
CALYwATfcIo
m
, u
TEMHAMTSCX
M.TE
%
PERTH
X
J
It must be good
to be so popular
[COOXTOWN
lA 11
V:
Vwksville
V \
UNO
BSaSSAK!
//
DNEY
ADELAIDE
ELBOURW
X
BART
1,314 miles of REX-PYE
You could walk on REX-PYE tins
from Brisbane to Tennant’s Creek,
from Sydney to Cooktown, from
Melbourne to Ingham, from Adelaide
to Daly Waters, from Perth nearly
to Wyndham, or from Hobart to
Bundaberg; for in the comparatively
short time since we first invented the
recipe for REX-PYE and placed this
choice delicacy before the people of
Australia, 15,974,345 lib tins and
3,031,614 /41b tins have been eaten.
Place these REX-PYE tins touching,
side by side, and they stretch 1,314
miles.
REX-PYE certainly is good to be so
popular. It is the finest meat in the
the world.
Put Quality before Cheapness,
Always say REX-PYE.
d
REX-PYE
In lib . and }4lb. hygienic cans
OGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


Ilfps
%
A rugged, weatherproof
boot
Strongest of its kind—with a
sole of twice average thickness
—the Abbey Cossack is a boot
made for the roughest wear.
The upper is reinforced by an
inner lining of soft leather
the tongue fastens to the sides
of the boot in such a way as to
keep out dust and grass seeds
—and further pad the foot.
Over the instep arch the lacing
curves so that all strain is
eliminated. And, the Abbey
Cossack is surprisingly flexible.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather is used in all
styles—the higher-priced tan
boot has an upper of special
calf. Order the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footwear i)ost free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georrjs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
FPL 127
“THREE HUNDRED POINTERS ON
AUTOS AND TRACTORS.”
This useful book of information on Autos
and Tractors will be sent for 2/- post
free ' R. G. KNIGHT,
Box 3358 P.P., G.P.0., Sydney.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE OS FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
®lje Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES I
The State's First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
d
DONALDS WOOLPRESSES
Has demand 2 Pw, shown here, is specially
designed for medium and small sheds, where economy of space and con-
venience in working are essential. Not anchored to floor or ceiling in
any Way. Loose back recently incorporated. Send for free catalogue.
STRENGTH, QUALITY AND SATISFACTION
GUARANTEED
No. 2 Press, £24; No. 1, £33; Hoist, £3 extra.
Procurable from all Merchants, or
DONALD PATENTS LTD.,
GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Wire Strainers, Lifting
Jacks, Skewers, etc.
ď
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shave’s Patent Stump-jump Reversible Disc Plough.
F-or full particulars apply to the manufacturers or any agent.
(New Booklet just issued.)
Interstate and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West,
Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA :
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston,
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd,,
Port Elizabeth.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD
Flinders Lane, Melbourne; Brunswick Street, Fitzroy ;
Hargreaves Street, Bendigo; Pynsent Street,
Lava Street, Warrnambool;
Horsham, Victoria.
At three years two more permanent tecta
appear in the same way, and at four years
the permanent set is completed. Now it
becomes more difficult to judge the age,
though the separation of the two central
teeth is usually an indication that live years
has been reached. At six years the next
two separate, and the two centrals may show
signs of breakage, when the sheep becomes
a "broken mouth.”
farming on high scrub lands.
“Bad Australian”: There are very con-
siderable areas in Victoria and coastal New
South Wales, the elevated volcanic scrub
lands in particular, where soil and climate
are peculiarly adapted to the growth of root
crops, though the settlers coniine themselves
to oats and potatoes. Cattle and horses do
well on old cultivation paddocks during
spring and summer, but a good many
succumb to the severity of the winter con-
ditions, and the consequent shortage of teed.
The survivors, even where they have a stack
of straw to help them through, are reduced
to walking skeletons before spring, and the
strength and condition gained under summer
conditions is lost.
The remedy is surely apparent. Oats
being the staple crop, there is usually plenty
of straw available, and if the scanty winter
grazing were supplemented by a ration of
turnips or mangels and chaffed oaten straw
there would be few losses and the animals
would be in at least reasonable condition at
the end of the winter.
ERADICATING COUCH GRASS.
“Boronia” : Couch grass in an orchard is
an unmitigated curse and, if unchecked,
will gradually result in the destruction of
the orchard as a commercial proposition.
Once it obtains a good footing eradication
is practically impossible, as all surface
working for a good tilth encourages vigor
and rapidity of growth. Constant vigil is
necessary, and should a plant be located,
dig up the ground in the vicinity to a depth
of at least one foot. Go carefully through
the soil, pick out every particle of the
grass, carry off and burn. In well-
established orchards where neglect has
resulted in the surface of the ground being
completely covered by couch grass, the best
method is to plough deeply with a long
mould-board twice during mid-summer. Do
not use the harrows after this, but leave
exposed to the sun, when many of the young
shoots will be burned and a considerable
check effected.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Where is green ginger mainly grown
and could it he cultivated in Vic.? (2) How
propagated? (3) Method of cultivation? (4)
Yield and price in Melbourne? —lIS.
(1) Green ginger is cultivated only in
tropical countries (India, Malay Peninsula,
West Indies, etc.), and not likely that it can
be successfully grown in Vic. (2) Propaga-
tion is by sets from previous season’s roots
(know as “races”), each having at least one
bud. Obtainable in Melbourne from Chinese
merchants, such as Ah Mouy and Co., 2GO
Swanston-street. (3) Cultivation similar to
that of potatoes. The ginger is dug up,
washed, and plunged into boiling water for
a few minutes, then sun dried. Subsequently
it is again washed and scraped. (4) Yieid is
up to 40001 b. per acre. Price of green ginger
in Melbourne, about 6d. per lb.
(1) Maximum salt to the gallon permis-
sible in water for irrigation purposes? (2)
Would one-seventh ounce to the gal. of water
be suitable for growing plants or fruit trees?
(3) What is the standard of the N.S.W.
Irrigation Dept.? —2o2.
(1) Depends on (a) the nature of the soil,
(b) the plant or crops to be irrigated. (2)
Under certain conditions less than the
amount quoted has been injurious. (3) There
is no fixed standard. It can only be stated
that the water used on the largest of the
irrigation areas contains l-190th part of loz.
of salt per gallon.
(1) Hoic to trap weasels that are attack-
ing foivls? (2) How much jiollard in the
morning and grain at night to 50 laying
fowls? —233.
(1) Hang a dead chicken about 18in.
from the ground so that it is necessary for
the animal to jump to reach it, and place
a rabbit-trap underneath. It is not neces-
sary to cover the trap in any way. (2)
Varies with the seasons. The birds should
receive as much as they will eat in at least
two feeds per day. Fifty will consume
approximately 6Jlb. of mash, and a similar
amount of grain for the evening ration.
(1) Any sale in Australia for Angora-goat
hair? (2) How much does an ordinary goat
cut? (3) Where are pure-bred ones to be
obtained and price? —262.
(1) Very little sale in Australia. (2)
From 41b. to 81b. of hair. (3) Cannot trace
any Australian breeders. Good animals are
said to be obtainable from U.S.A. and landed
here for from £5O. Both the N.S.W. and
Q’land Agricultural Depts. advise against
starting Angora-goat farming.
(1) .4 good book for an amateur poultry-
farmer? (2) Should I give my fowls mash
in the evening instead of in the morning
during the winter months? —246.
(1) “Poultry Farming in N.5.W.,” by
James Hadlington; Government Printer,
Sydney (4s. 3d. post free). (2) It is not
advisable to change the ration. .Continue
mash in the morning and grain at night
throughout the year.
(1) Some of my young mil kip g cows get
hide-bound, which greatly retards their
growth. Pasture is paspalum, diodes and
natural grasses. Cause and cure? —3oo.
Hide-bound in milking-cows may be due to
various causes. In many cases it is due to
tuberculosis. Get the animals examined by a
qualified vet. But it may be there is merely a
deficiency of phosphates and iodine in the
soils, when it might be advisable to give a
lick composed as follow's: Salt, 40 parts;
Nauru phosphate, 40 parts; bonemeal, 20
parts; to wffiich is added 2oz. to 3oz. potas-
sium iodide in lewt. of the mixture. For
convenience of mixing, the iodide is dis-
solved in a small quantity of water and
sprayed over the other ingredients with con-
tinual turning of these, so that thorough
distribution is effected.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Minthall”: As soon as the frosts have
finished off the soft vegetables burn" off the
old bushes. This helps to keep the fungus
diseases in check for next year.
“Odd Job”: Remember the old saying this
winter, “A rug's as good as a feed” ; and if
you can’t afford ready-made rugs, resort to
three good wheat- or bran-bags. All my
hornies and the poddies, too, will be soon
clothed with rugs made from them. One
such goes crossways and the other two are
sewn to it longways, joined in the centre.
The breast straps and crupper are rope,
and some old straps and belly-bands finish
off the job. These covers are warm and
turn off a medium shower; and if they’re lost
the loss is not great, the cost being about
Is. 3d. each.
“W.M.F.”: The mistake most often made
in putting on a firebrand is that of making
it too deep. Nothing is gained by burning
into the hide, useless suffering is inflicted
and an unsightly brand results. For horses
it is best to rub the hair down smoothly
with olive oil or castor oil—fat will do,
though not so well. Then apply the brand
as hot as possible, just sufficiently to feel it
bite the skin. For cattle a little firmer
pressure is desirable, but it is well to remem-
ber that the better bred the animal is the
less pressure will be required.
“R.X.8.” : When a cow’s horn is broken
prompt measures should be taken to relieve
the animal of pain, and to save the horn if
possible. If the injury is fresh this can be
done quite easily. Wash the cow’s head
with a warm solution of bluestone, a piece
as big as a pea to each pint of water. It is
a styptic as well as an antiseptic, and
patient swabbing with it will stop the bleed-
ing. When this has ceased replace the horn
in its normal position, hold a piece of
stout paper in the form of a tube around it
and pour in a quantity of plaster of Paris.
The plaster should not be mixed until it is
to be used, as it sets very quickly. The tube
must be so arranged that it will form
a solid mould at least half-way up the horn
and spread over the forehead. When the
job is done keep the injured cow away
from the herd if they still show a desire
to annoy her. The mould must be left in
position for at least three months, when it
can be easily chipped away with a hammer
and chisel.
“Bill R.”: Cows and horses that are
covered with rugs throughout the winter —
especially the bad doers —are liable to be-
come badly infested with vermin. For a
few hours on every fine day the rugs should
be removed and spread inside out over a
fence in the sun. If found to be infested
they should be well brushed or sprayed with
kerosene emulsion. The same preparation
should also be rubbed over the necks, shoul-
ders and backs of the infected animals. The
lice bite the skin, suck the blood and set up
such irritation that unless relief is given
the animal attacked sinks rapidly into a
condition from which it takes a long while
to recover.
“Noe”: Maoriland is so frequently held
up to Australian graziers as the shining
example of how to produce fat-lambs that it
is well to recognise the difference in condi-
tions there and in most parts of Australia.
Starting in 1882 with Lincoln-merino, the
Maorilanders later went in for Leicester-mer-
ino, fighting out, meanwhile, a great con-
troversy as to the merits of the Border and
English Leicester crosses. Then the craze
was for Shrop.-merino, with the Romney
used only in the South Island, on the
cold, wet plains. But whereas the Maori-
landers can fatten Shrop. strains on their
English grasses and assured rainfall with
a reasonable amount of certainty, we are
liable to get stuck with them, and then they
are hard to dispose of at anything like a
reasonable profit. I’m writing this to save
others the worry I had when I took over
Clifton, near Young (N.S.W.), then the
biggest Shrop. proposition on the mainland.
“Esau”: While many sheep-masters use
the handy worm tablets when treating for
intestinal- and stomach-worms, the home-
made drench is as effective and much cheaper.
In making the drench a petrol-tin can be
used. The tin holds 660 liquid ounces. Mix
11 drachms of arsenic with 16 drachms ot
soda, and boil up with about three-quarters
of a tin of water for a few minutes, till
the arsenic dissolves. Then the tin is filled
to the top with cold water. When the
drench is cold, strain into another tin
through a sugar-bag. Two liquid ounces of
the drench are given to large sheep on an
empty stomach, one and a half ounces to
medium sheep and one ounce to vear-old
lambs and small sheep. Full doses should
never be given to fat sheep. Sometimes it
may be necessary to repeat the drench in
three or four days’ time. Don’t give over-
doses, no matter how wormy the sheep are,
as you will kill them. The maximum safe
dose of arsenic for any sheep is two and
one-thirty-second grains. Sheep fatten after
being properly drenched, as arsenic is a
valuable tonic in correct doses.
“Yeoman” : To protect cows against bloat
or hoven as the result of eating lucerne, put
a bridle on each cow with a bit in the mouth.
The bit forces the cow to chew its food
before swallowing, thus eliminating bolting—
and bloat..
“Nat Park”: When oiling harness,
saddlery, etc., mix a little Stockholm tar
in the neatsfoot oil —about a tablespoonfui
to the pint. It prevents mice and other
vermin from chewing the leather, and, being
also a fungicide, it prevents the growth ot
green mould, prevalent in damp districts.
It is also about the finest preservative there
is for the stitching. Used as above, it is
in no way harmful to the leather.
“G.D.M.”: An ex-engineer is making a
good living out of mint-growing on the
N.S.W. North Coast. Some years ago he
read an article on the production of mint
oil, and decided to acquire land and engage
in the business. A well-known firm of con-
fectioners gave him a contract. His example
might be ‘ followed by those who are in
search of a paying side-line, as most of the
mint oil used by manufacturers of confec-
tionery in this country is imported from
America. Mint is best grown under irriga-
tion. It is cut with a horse-drawn mower,
and' the operation of harvesting is very
much the same as that applied to a lucerne-
hay crop.


53MEH
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which • means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestim.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
rr^rr-ir —
i ~i
y
ris/:
** i
• ...-^
m
Mi
“Its Quality Never Changes. ”
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH
Dr. Arthur’s policy is a cow.
* *
“How Can a Man Live a Holy Life?” —Religious
query.
We’re blest if we know.
* *
A bullock broke into a Victorian bank.
The drover saw that it made a withdrawal.
Australian dust has fallen in New Zea-
land rain. What we thus lose is made up
in the Ceylon dust which arrives here in tea.
* *
I thought I’d won Maria’s hand,
But soon found 1 had come,
Just how 1 couldn’t understand,
Right underneath her thumb.
li.
* *
Poets rarely realise the pricelessncss of
their work till they try to sell it.
* *
One can’t win a tenner at the races with-
out being taxed about it.
* *
“She found golden hairs on his coat. ... He said
he hud been appointed the girl’s guardian.” —Divorce
report.
We’ve often heard of a man’s word being
his bond; this was a case of liis blond being
his ward.
SOMETHING THE MATTER.
“I know a man who’s been married for twenty years, and still
spends all his evenings at home. That’s what I call LOVE."
“Well, I’d call it paralysis!”
Politicians have been talking a lot of
flapper-doodle in England lately.
¥ *
THE ORGY.
The wine flowed free and drowned all care;
Men staggered as they homeward slunk;
Before the end of the affair,
Even the Loyal Toast was drunk.
H. M.
SOME MOVIE PLOTS THAT WOULD
BE A WELCOME CHANGE.
The prodigal returns to the old farm, after
35 ineffectual years, without even the price
of a packet of fags. He arrives, greatly
to the annoyance of his aged parents, just
in time to see them being sold up by the
sneering mortgagee. H'e rebukes his mother
for not having peroxided her white hair,
and, on being formally cursed by his father,
throws the latter into a horse-trough full of
treacle and feathers. The parents having
been expelled from the farm, the mortgagee
offers him a job as manager there. Fade-out
of new manager and mortgagee’s beautiful
wife leering at each other —obviously with
intentions.
The heroine —a thoroughly bad girl mas-
querading as a good one —decides to desert
the bone-headed hero and help the villain.
They steal the hero’s oil-well and marry on
the proceeds.
The unshaven leader of the mutineers
saves the yacht by clever seamanship just
as the immaculate hero, who, it is obvious,
doesn’t know the first thing about seaman-
ship, is about to steer her on to the rocks.
The hero’s arm is then removed from the
girl’s waist; he is kicked overboard, and
she goes gladly to the mutineer. The
mutineer shortly afterwards becomes a U.S.
Admiral, and is shown (with heroine) re-
ceiving a public welcome in the streets of
New York for having defeated a foreign
navy—inferentially the British. The hero, in
rags and still dripping wet from his immer-
sion, tries to hoot the Admiral, and is at
once knocked unconscious by a comic Marine
in the crowd. Star-Spangled Banner. Crowd
standing at salute. Fade out.
The slum girl who is adopted by the
heart-hungry rich lady turns out to be l , not
that lady’s long-lost daughter by a former
marriage, but an incorrigible crook, who
vamps the rich lady’s son, teaches him to
drink, gets him the sack from the church
choir, and finally bolts with the rich lady’s
second husband and all her best gowns and
jewellery.
Les R.
¥ *
DISCORD.
You meet her and make overtures,
Dreaming of harmony and laughter;
The overtures are street, but you
Have got to face the music after.
P. P.
The Dimboola has landed 16,000 cases of
W.A. apples in Sydney—a record. Yet in-
quiries in Macquarie-street reveal that Ihe
doctors are still with us.
“In Melbourne two men were arrested for
stealing £2O worth of vmderclothing.” Deni-
zens of the undie-worldr presumably.
WARNING, TO AUTHORS.
“Mr. A. W. Barmby, the London publisher, in an
interview said: ‘I have received a great many Aus-
tralian novels, but they are all too local in character.
They deal with Australia. That is the fault of
most Australian authors —they are provincial: their
scope is limited.’ ” —Sydney Sun.
Let all Australian novelists take warning
by the fate of Aussie Jones, the bankrupt,
whose reduced financial state was caused
because he .in the face of wiser counsels
flew; and in his novels wrote about the
only things he knew.
Jones penned word-pictures—of the bush,
of sheep that squatters bred, of Sydney girls
ECONOMY WAS HER WATCHWORD.
“Certainly not—I can’t afford £50 for a diamond ring
for you.”
“But think, darling, what I’ll save you in gloves."
and Melbourne Cups—which no one ever
read. Pom Brown —a far more subtle typo
—took England as his theme. He’d never
been there, but lie made a fortune by his
scheme.
So, as I said above, be warned by what
occurred to Jones, and word-paint, if you
feel you must, solely in Mayfair tones. Thus
Mr. Barmby will be pleased, and, possibly,
may crown your life-work with both fame
end pelf—as in the case of Brown.
10-2-4.
v- *
NEW.
She said (and I remember her
Quite well, enough to quote)
Tier costume for the coming ball
Would be at least original,
Ami something new denote.
She came , and I discovered her,
When from my eye the mote
Had passed, not so original
As slightly more — well, more, that’s all —
A something nuder note!
Macess.
AN EASY ONE.
The publicity man sharpened his pencil
and turned to the newly-arrived star.
“Well,” he said wearily, “I presume Mr.
Ziegfeld engaged you the moment he set eyes
on you. that you love babies, that you spend
your time off duty nursing an invalid aunt,
and that you think Australia wonderful.
Anything else?” “Sir,” said the lady indig-
nantly, “I have nevaire met Mr. Ziegfeld. I
am Itooshian, and” The publicity man’s
face cleared. “Enough, Madam, enough!”
he cried; “I need detain you no longer.”
And he showed her to the, door. Then he
began making shorthand notes. “A princess
of the Royal house. Svelte. Tragic-eyed.
Owner of the notorious Blitherski pearls.
Bolsheviks ate her family before her very
eyes. Saved from same fate by singing cap-
tors to sleep. Escaped by burrowing under
Volga into Polish territory. Considers Com-
munism can never succeed in Australia.
Australia is too beautiful; the men too won-
derful ; the women too pure and good.”
“H’m, that ought to do.” he muttered.
“Thank God for the Russian Revolution.”
And he rang for the stenographer.
M. S.
* *
“The defendant’s schemes may have been
sound, but he had no money to back them.”
That’s how many an honest man has become
an unprincipaled scoundrel!
* ¥
Poverty has entered by the timber-strikers’
door in Melbourne, and Love has flown out
at the window. He takes over the new
Hospital Department in Sydney.
¥ *
Many a man who thinks that Australians
such as himself are over-governed hasn’t
been game to tell his wife so yet.
GREAT EXPECTATIONS.
“Ye mean tae say there’s a mon i’ there
paying ye two shilluns an hour tae
wait for him?”
“Yes.”
“Hoots, mon, I’ll wait wi’ ye."
“Too cold now to go over the Gap,” says
the Sunday Sun. Which shows how thought-
ful those women are who make things hot for
their husbands.
* *
“During an address on early printing Dr.
Sugdeli displayed specimens of the earliest
printed works from his collection.” If the
doctor’s collection beats the one in our den-
tist’s waiting-room it should be acquired by
the nation.
THE PHILOSOPHER.
When ycr see ycr girl git married,
Cripes! it makes a bloke feel crook.
’Ow ycr wish ycr ’adn’t tarried.
Just ter give ’cr one last look,
When ycr watch ’er with a feller
A s they're walkin’ down the church!
’Out ycr face goes green and yellcr
When yer know ycr in the lurch!
She looks oh! so sweet an’ ’appy
As she takes on married life,
It’s no wonder ycr git snappy
As ’er bloke says, “Meet the wife.”
Still me sorrer I soon smother,
Nothin’ reely sacrificed.
For I always find another
Ev’ry time me girl gits spliced!
DORIC.
THE CALL TO ARMS.
Darlinghurst was en fete. Its new coat of
arms had arrived from the tailors, been read
a third time and duly gazetted as follows:
Quarterly on a field gules to the nth degree: Ist
and 4th —two powdered hetarise rampant argent,
2nd and 3rd a bottle spirituous. The whole within
an orle of razors, proper. Supporters: Two gang-
sters—automatically armed. Crest: A demi-flat, all
convs. Motto: Semiticum, Razorium et Cocainium.
Congratulations were rife, and the eminent
Latinist Danielus Livy, composer of the
motto, was the idol of the hour. And then
a bomb quite dif-
ferent from the
sort to which the
suburbs is accus-
tomed exploded in
the press. Profes-
sor Prod wrote to
say that ho had
examined antedilu-
vian, mediaeval,
ecclesiastical and
dog-Latin works,
and could find no
justification for the
word “et.” Pro-
fessor McQuashem
followed with the
news that h e had
searched Juvenal
and Ovid in vain
for any sign of the
letter “z.” A pro-
minent missionary
opined that the
word “et” should
be “ate,” to which
his bishop replied
wittily “that you
neither et nor ate
cocaine; you
snuffed it.” Sir
Thomas Enfr u i t
wrote that he neither knew nor cared a
hoot for Latin, but was a whale for econ-
omy, and suggested thaff the razorites cut
the motto out and save the money. The
scheme will be debated in the Domain next
Sunday by a picked body of Sydney under-
grads. nominated by the manager of the
Tivoli.
OLOR DELPUS.
THE FISHERS.
There was no moaning at the bar
Ere we left town for sea;
We drank our fill, Jones, Snaggs and I,
As sportsmen should, all three.
But moans came at the harbor bar —
And oaths ’twixt you and me.
We found we’d left the beer behind
When we put out to sea.
BUNGLE.
MAN’S RUTHLESSNESS.
Once I was pure and white as the snow.
That was when I dwelt with my sisters, and
then one day a man took me from them.
A gross creature he was, smelling of alcohol.
But, oh, how masterful! I could not resist
him. God help me! I never tried. And
ever the red flame of his passion for me burnt
and burnt, slowly reducing me to a wretched
thing, unwanted by anyone. Soon I would
bo left to be tossed about by the elements,
buffeted by the storms of life, until I was
but a memory. Yet there was the soft touch
of his lips, the caressing grip of his strong
fingers. I can feel them still.
Came the time when he cast me aside. I
was no longer wanted. I had given him the
pleasure for which his sensual soul craves,-
and I was flung into the gutter—what was
left of me.
Oh, well, what else can a Capstan expect?
W. P. T.
SEASIDE DISASTER.
Sad Accident to Young Girl.
The Tabloid hurries its special representa-
tive to the scene and obtains full details.
( Special to the Tabloid.)
A quiet suburban street —nothing to dis-
turb its serenity, the distant rumbling of the
sea serving to accentuate its aloofness from
the city’s roar. On a corner
a modest home, two-storeyed;
its attic window gazes out
over the bay, its watch undis-
mayed by the threat of strife
in the stormy waters. Nor-
mally, the occupants delight in
laughter and song, and join
together in adoration of sweet-
faced, gentle-voiced, white-
haired old “mum.”
Of this merry family per-
haps the merriest is she who,
with commendable foresight
on the part of her parents,
was christened Joy. Although
in her early thirties, Joy has
still retained her girlish
enthusiasms. She is filled with
that foie de vivre which lends
youth to the aged and hope
to the despairing.
As is usual with one so
vivacious, active and ener-
gotic, Miss Joy is no lie-abed. When
summoned in the morning she leaps to the
floor with verve. On the sad morning of
which I write, Joy had risen in her usual
precipitate manner. Unfortunately, as she
bounded from her couch, her foot caught in
something, and, describing a graceful lialf-
circle, she landed thus upon the floor.
Springing to her feet, the girl stoutly
denied any injury, thereby paying a tribute
to her hardy Australian upbringing. But
her disclaimers are doubted by the neighbors.
There is talk of an injured—possibly even
a sprained—ankle. In the meantime the
Tabloid is keeping a close watch on the case
through its special staff of investigators. Any
misguided attempt on the part of the lady
to conceal the full extent of her injuries
(if any) will, we can assure our innumer-
able readers, be frustrated.
Watch to-morrow for an eminent special-
ist’s report on the possible injuries that may
be caused by falling out of bed.
I. V. V.


OVEfi
jkHD
O NtR
OOTH’S K.B. has
proved itself by far
the most popular bever-
age for any occasion—
within the home or out
o’doors, for roadside
luncheon, formal dinner,
or casual refreshment.
K.B. is a TRUE Lager.
°Ver
Wwmm l
*
m.
.•■ s'■ '■'< «W?«<Wf '■ ■<■ -■' • $
- M
Zs^S^ : A
JH N HH Bl|lijllHi^
'. jßilirM’...
3*-
K . ? s*' " !
. ,'>*%■ - -
.vf., - ' ■*? r.zW? •
v
ii
as
i
J Si
,-*
k i ■
i
/
r"
A
y/..M
mm
«
£
■
i
-
m
a
■:. : v : ;.
T***-
S(
* :
* • A
\. *1 '
-%4' 4|
1
S! «
I
X
r
Hi
if
iip
■. •>
%
Ift
1
m
m
m
*.
i
J*
pSi r *?F^'
immmmmmmmmmm
Wo§Mmmtm9i
iUSP
/
*?\ .£J£& %
fj
/
'**ms 9i g i
1
■ :
11
I
1 I
m
W**W,
4 ■■■
J,
mm
1
Wto*
Maai
p%i>;gi4;«i: : sl?:| VO*.
u.....n.i.a'M»rST
i
TOOTH'S
KB
CL tAJUJ^r
LACER
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH 8C CO, LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney


#l^
//A
wym.
%
m
w
w
M
* mm
%r'/A
I
B
S
* i AYREFIELD hats have
an indefinable air of
style, and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
dressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
J.A
14
VM
B \ >o : i
\ ■ \ M Y
civiQ
Sk
Merits vJi ill Nona
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY- LTD-
F 4


X
p
Magnavox
JL V JBL DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
AFTER an evening’s listening to a
MAGNAVOX Dynamic Speaker
one’s standard of radio entertainment
is so raised that the shortcomings of
other type speakers are very notice-
able.
Highly trained musicians, sensitive to
delicate tone shadings, and who wince
at even slight distortions, find these
speakers or reproducers a real joy.
UNITS ONLY FROM . . £7/1 57-
CABINET MODELS FROM . . £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
W/NCff£sTEk
TRADE MARK
yt
%
V 5
WINCHESTER FLASHLIGHTS
Efficient —Dependable
Instant light when you
need it always at your
command. The flashlight
of convenience for every
emergency of the dark.
Always use Winchester
brilliant long life bat-
teries in your flashlight.
There’s a Winchester flashlight of highest quality to meet any
purpose for which you may require a handy, dependable light.
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
10-28 New Haven, Conn., U. S. A.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
£235,586
£2,750,000
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
A shade above
the ordinary
run of farce is
“A Single .Map”
(M.-G-.M.), the
tale of a middle-
ag e d fellow’s
love for his
n e i ghbor’s
daughter. There is not much of a story
—the lover is led a rare old dance by a
party of youths and maids, who almost live
at the adored one’s home, and he tries to
keep step with them. But the absurd action
is brisk and fresh, and even though it all
falls into a huddle before the end it is a
bright, laughable entertainment.
“Alias Jimmy Valentine” (M.-G.-M.) is
one of those transitional talkies which make
people who have come to hear the marvel of
the vocal film for the first time burn to go
and make noises for themselves outside the
box-office. A good three-quarters of the
sound accom-
LEILA HYAMS.
panimeut is
merely a re-
cord of the
music made by
a foreign or-
chestra. When
the principals
suddenly de-
cide to air
their voices in
some spasms
of dialogue at
the end, the
effect is quite
surpri s i n g.
Still, the in-
genious action
of O. Henry’s
enter taining
story of the
crook who
suffers a mir-
aculous con-
version on
seeing the
b a n k e r’s
daughter
standing by the garden-gate goes all the
swifter for being silent. Leila H'yams is the
heroine. She is reputed to be the' most beau-
tiful girl in Hollywood, so her acting doesn’t
matter—or wouldn’t if it were bad, which it
isn’t. An amusing, cleverly-wrought comedy.
“The Sins of the Fathers” (Paramount)
presents the famous German actor Emil
Jannings in the role which Hollywood has
definitely decided suits him best —that of an
indulgent father whose infatuation for his
son implants in the infant, contrary to all
the canons of psychology, the germs, of a
dissolute adolescence. Wilhelm Spengler
(Jannings) keeps a highly respectable
saloon. Prohibition arrives. The thirsty
multitude throngs to the bars to pour as
much liquor down its throat as possible
before the fatal hour of midnight strikes.
Then a gigantic policeman, symbol of Uncle
Sam’s moral determination, rises over the
ingurgitating mobs and Spengler is left
amidst the wreckage of his saloon, a victim
of _ circumstance, with an evil counsellor
whispering in his ear of the fortune to be
won from the bootleg business. The saloon-
keeper becomes the foremost purveyor of
synthetic booze in the city. The son re-
turns from college, goes on a bend, drinks a
cup of Hopkins’s genuine Scotch, learns that
father was the maker thereof, and staggers
back to_ the ornate mansion of Spengler,
sen., minus his eyesight. Thus stricken
by a highly appropriate fate, Spengler, sen.,
allows himself to be captured by enforce-
ment officers and gets 10 years. The final
scene, not without its touch of grim reality,
shows the ex-bootleg king, having completed
his sentence, back in his original job of
waiter in a pleasure park and serving a
blind customer who turns out to be his son.
Here is a story that could be made to sound
the depths of banality, but Jannings is too
fine an artist to resort to insincere methods
of wringing tears out of impressionable
hearts. He avoids the sin of over-emphasis
and allows little bits of simple pantomime
to tell the story for him. There are no
talkie adjuncts to the picture, and they are
not missed.
Some new small talkies:—
Duci de Kerekyarto, violinist, playing
“Andalusian Romance.” This was one of
the most faithfully rendered musical items
to date. The piece was well within the
talkies’ tonal range. There was no savage
blaring at one end or vanishing into, silence
at the other.
“The Revellers’ Male Quartette.” Every-
thing that a talkie should not be. Four
men singing round a piano giving themselves
encores nobody asked them for. Camera
shifts from one person to the other as he
takes up his part, and the effect is distract-
ing in the extreme.
“The Capitolians’ Stage Band.” Good
players, no doubt, but too obviously a photo-
graph of a lot of perfect strangers who re-
main perfect strangers to the end. A much
poorer band at the Tivoli will get in touch
with its audience from the start.
“Gus Van and Joe Schenck.” It was one
of The Bulletin’s serious days; but it tore
its jaws apart with both hands in order to
laugh at these comedians.
“George Washington, the Colored Tramp.”
A nigger with a powerful and well-controlled
bass-baritone voice somewhat lacking in
color. With the head only occupying the
screen the mouth measured about seven feet
across. Turn too long.
“The Ladies’ Man.” A knock-about-farce
with Chic Sale as a bucolic philanderer who
gets caught by hubby in a city flat. Sale is a
fantastic comedian, but the camera obviously
doesn’t give him half as good a chance as
he would get on the flesh-and-blood stage.
There was less furniture smashed than usual,
presumably because it would interfere with
the words.
“Bathe News.” Principal item, Aimee
McPherson being welcomed back to Los
Angeles with Hallelujahs and what looked
like flycatchers. The fibs the fair evangelist
told about her saving of sinful Britain for
the Lord took this Shadow Showman’s
breath away.
For all the above Movietone is to be praised
or blamed.
The Palette
Judged by the examples of his work at
the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, E. Buck-
master's idea of Paradise would be perpetual
twilight. In the half-lights and the no-lights,
blue-misted harbor glimpses and landscapes
with a cloud over the sun, he is happy and
effective. But let a spot of sunlight touch
the earth anywhere and the painter is lost,
floundering in a sea of raw greens and
yellows. Two portraits are better and some
apples and grapes are good, but the artist
gets lost again with flowers; apparently his
eyes cannot stand any brightness whatever.
An industrious determination to make
pictures at all costs has covered the walls
of Melbourne Athenaeum with the works of
the Misses M. Holgate and Annie Gates.
Neither has much of vast importance to say,
but Miss Ilolgate has the clearer enuncia-
tion of the two.
The recently-enlarged Sedon Galleries,
Melbourne, opened with an interesting col-
lection, which, as it ranged from work by
Charles Condor, Fred McCubbin, Walter
Withers and Penleigh Boyd up to work by
Jo Sweatman and Harold Herbert, might
be regarded as illustrating the evolution of
painting in Victoria. If there is any analogy
between the art of portraying Nature by
means of colored marks on canvas and the
arts of music, sculpture, novel-writing, etc.,
there ought to be signs of progression. The
available amount of vitality and imagination
may vary from generation to generation, but
the stock of visual knowledge should be
expected to go on accumulating. Yet the
fine large “Frankston” of the late McCub-
bin has a breadth, solidity and actuality
conspicuously lacking in many of his suc-
cessors. Possibly the truth is that, just as
evolution, in producing man, threw off such
interesting sidelights as birds of paradise
and wombats, so evolution in painting
throws off its by-products. Birds of para-
dise and wombats have their charming uses.
Leila McNamara, whose work is already
represented in the Art Gallery, has a versa-
tile show at the Society of Arts rooms, Adel-
aide. ' Ships at anchor, landscape and still-
life she paints with a sure brush, and her
exhibition has taken the public fancy. An
address by Madigan, University geojogy ex-
pert and Antarctic explorer, gave it a good
send-off.
It is proposed to have a portrait of
Nellie Stewart painted for the National
Gallery at Canberra. The indications arc that
one of the old-established firms, like Mclnnes
or Longstaff, will be offered the contract, but
a change would do no harm. Colin Colahan,
John Farmer, Colquhoun and Eric Buck-
master are among the young painters who
have already demonstrated that they are
equal to the enterprise.
The Inky Way
Lance Fallaw, of Geelong, is off to Canada
and Great Britain before he takes up his
leader-writing on the S. M. Herald.
The April-June Museum Magazine is tip-
top value. Its articles include “Aboriginal
Adaptability,” “Marine Animals,” “Life in
a Mangrove Swamp,” a chapter on Austra-
lian naturalists, and some striking photo-
graphic illustrations.
“0.P.H.”: George H. Brownhill, who suc-
ceeds Lance Fallaw as editor of Geelong
Advertiser, has been sub. for years. Ilis
appointment has heartened other Pivot
scribes. The ’Tiser has been a good train-
ing-school up to a certain point, but hither-
to trainees have had to go to Melbourne to
get their masters’ ticket.
London Times, in a notice of Mrs. M.
Forrest s new novel, “White Witches,” said,
amongst other complimentary things: “This
novel possesses the charm that derives from
a writer who has intimately enjoyed the con-
fidence of her characters, and has taken the
trouble to interpret them with both fidelity
and sympathy”; and the reviewer went on
to pay a high tribute to her craftsmanship.
Sydney Pictorial is farewelling Billy
O Neill,_ who lias had 33J years’ service
under eight editors and Heaven knows how
many news-editors. He went to the old D.T.
from his dad’s Queanbeyan Times as a dis-
trict man, and became sub., religious editor,
dramatic critic. Parliamentary and law re-
porter. O'Neill’s topical verse used to be a
D.T. feature; his “Budgeree Bill,” illus-
trated by Bulletin artist Minns, had a
great sale among the youngsters. And the
veteran contrived to interview Cardinal
Moran and Archbishop Wright regarding the
Burns-Johnson fight.
GAY.L.D. : Another Inky Wayfarer who
has made good in politics is Godfrey Mor-
gan, Bananaland’s new Minister of Rail-
ways. Born at Landsborough 54 years ago
on the day his father brought out the first
issue of the Times at Donald (Vic.), he
became managing editor of that paper at
17 and proprietor at 20. It was at his
invitation that Vic. country newspaper pro-
prietors gathered in Melbourne and formed
their association. Morgan was first presi-
dent. With other Victorians he moved to
the Miles district of Queensland in 1008, and
next year was sent to the Assembly.
Hojay”: Ex-High Commissioners Hall-
Jones and Thomas Mackenzie greatly helped
the M.L. literary pathfinder. Many years
ago I sent the former an article on a" con-
structional job, and asked if he could place
it for me. He did so, and linked me up with
an old-established technical journal, which
has since taken several contributions. Like
courtesies of Thomas Mackenzie are grate-
fully remembered by more than one M L
writer.


the safe
/HTI'SEPTlc
HEALER
Kt
W»no
M
t..
si
011 oi fat
fli R W
; s P| mpi s ®i
F"uu2K«
&
He
Cm 10*
%
TAH-buk
sf- ,/s& Excludes
Disease
ZAM-BUK acts in Three ways.
First, it allays pain and irritation,
and subdues swelling. Secondly,
Zam-Buk is not merely aseptic but
Is anti-septic as well. It not only
excludes but kills disease germs.
Thirdly, Zam-Buk grows new skin
over any wound or sore. Use it for
all your skin troubles, j/6 or 3\6.
FREE!
SAMPLES of Zam-Buk Balm and
Medicinal Soap will be sent post
paid on request to Messrs. C. E. Fulford (Aus).
Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
d
y using a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirhy, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
y England. y
o
&
o*
&
$
o*
7a
Use a B£ARD "to shove a beard
p\ftCEßNMFjjv r
\
9
W
\
XXO&-
-
:
Size
Actual
The discernment that can ap-
preciate perfection finds perfect
gratification in every cigar
banded with the full name—
“la corona*
HAUT-A- C O FIONA
d
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
Tecalem it
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
%
I
Mjjnil
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkina (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Alexander Mair & Co., Ltd., McEwan House, Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 812 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
ďđdď
Made in Germany.
H'.UNO.DfcKtfl
i: st onev
Tin Sheep
Drenches, to
hold—
,loz. . . 3/6
2oz. . . 3/6
3oz. . . 3/6
W.JNU.RAKER
3IHUNTER!II®.TOIII’!iII|, llIS*
S YDNE Y ill *. 'I
Made in Germany.
Bloodless Emasculator.
Length overall, 13in. ;
Width of jaw, 3in.
Price £4/4/- each, postage
1/9.
W. JNO. BAKER TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR. A well-
made, first-class Nickel-plated instrument, combining the blunt
cut and the crushing block. Its simplicity and thorough
effectiveness in operating commend it to both the novice and
expert. Price, 50/- ; post free.
-
434—LAMB CLAMS, about
Bin. overall. Bright Polished
Steel, Brass Guard, with Black
Wood Handle Grip. Width
across Jaw, l§in., 9/6 each;
post free.
W. JNO. BAKER, 3 Hunter Street, Sydney
w HAIR
0> " EE "
HERE'S
•u my-
M
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Stpcudvris CMEXICAN)
tikUnui Stain
THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURV, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage:
ftp
At First Sips of Pimples
Use Cuticura
Anoint gently with Cuticura Oint-
ment. After five minutes bathe with
Cuticura Soap and hot water and con-
tinue bathing for some minutes. This
treatment is best on rising and retiring.
Regular use of Cuticura Soap and
Ointment soothes and comforts ten-
der, sensitive skins and keeps them
clear, healthy and attractive.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
DOST- Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
et Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation—whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Adelaide”: The new City Bridge for
Adelaide, close to the Oval, has been con-
tracted for by a local firm at £58,000; other
tenders ran up as high as £90,000. Re-laying
of mains and wires of all kinds is expected
to bring the total cost, to £72,000. The
present bridge, about 70 years old, is an
awkward—and, after a big Oval match,
dangerous—spot in an otherwise broad
thoroughfare.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Qantas has just opened'up its
JBrisbane-Charleville service, thus con-
necting the Queensland capital with the Gulf
towns and the edge of the N.T. at Camoo-
weal. The journey from Brisbane to the
south-western town is done in three hops,
Toowoomba and Roma being the intermediate
stations. A 5000 ft. climb over the Main
Range is the chief hurdle; there are plenty
of natural landing-places after that.
* * * #
“Mango”: The log-and-stump industry in
the Cairns (Q.) district is booming so much
that the local railway transport cannot
handle the quantity. There were 10,000
sinker-logs (mostly black walnut) in the pad-
dock the first week in May, and dealers were
clamoring for more. Orders for half a
million feet of logs, together with stumps
and crotches, are on hand from the U'.S.A.
Red cedar, maple and black walnut are the
timbers called for.
# * * *
“C.Q.” : The most ticklish job in freighting
that Vic. Railways have had to undertake
was successfully completed recently, when the
first 125-feet of steel-girder for the Spencer-
street, bridge was delivered. The long pencil,
weighing 28 tons, was loaded on three trucks.
The middle portion was mounted on bol-
sters, which allowed a lateral movement
without the centre truck getting out of
alignment. Without the device the length
of steel could never have been got round the
curves without a derailment.
* * H* fle
“Nitric”: Three men were electrocuted in
one day in Brisbane recently, and in the
last month there have been several deaths
from the same cause in N. S. Wales. Most
of the Australian electric-light systems are
run on a 240 voltage, and this is where the
danger to life lies. In America (the home
of domestic electricity) and in Norway and
Sweden (where water-power from the fiords
is employed) the pressure used is 110 volts.
It simply means using a slightly thicker wire
than at present, but in Australia many lives
are sacrificed for a small saving in expendi-
ture.
* * * *
“Esters”: One of the problems of the
world’s wine trade is the finding of timbers
suitable for the qasks in which wines are
aged and matured. The famous Douro red
wines have long been stored in oaken casks,
but the wood is now very difficult to pro-
cure, and Portuguese vignerons have been
looking about for a timber of the necessary
quality to replace it. They have found this
in Maoriland beech, and Southland is build-
ing up a flourishing trade in the timber. The
South Island mills forward it through Syd-
ney and Melbourne, nearly 4,000,000 feet
going out last year.
* V *
“Hayband”: Thoughtfulness, nerve and
the possession of a post-office date-stamp
recently netted an ingenious swindler £l6O
for a morning’s work in Sydney suburbs. On
production of the passbook the Common-
wealth Savings Bank pays up to £lO, with-
out notice or identification. The swindler
started small accounts in various offices, and
thus got possession of 16 passbooks. He
therein entered additional amounts, gave
them the appearance of genuineness with the
aid of the date-stamp, and travelled from
office to office, picking up a tenner at every
port of call. It looks as if the only way
to make this sort of fraud impossible is for
the S.B. to demand notice in every case of
withdrawal.
* * * *
“Bill Ding” : Owing to the high price of
W.A. jarrah sleepers necessitated by the
ever-increasing cost of production, oversea
customers are turning to substitutes. The
South African Government announces the
letting of a contract to a French firm for
1,000,000 steel sleepers, this notwithstanding
its own experts’ admissions that jarrah
sleepers, which have stood the wear and tear
of 25 years in main roads, can be reduced in
size and used in country or lighter-traffic
lines for another 10 years. As South Africa
has hitherto taken about 35 p.c. of W.A.’s
exportable timber, this wholesale adoption of
steel substitutes is a serious matter. Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Adelaide take between
them another 37 p.c. of the exportable pro-
duction, and with the trade in these cities
dislocated by strikes the W.A. sawmiller is
experiencing a lean time, and is beginning
to close down some of his plants. Nanup
and Palgarrup, employing between them 300
men, have already silenced their whistles:
* * * *
There is a Tasmanian who can give evi-
dence on the value of the co-operative prin-
ciple to the workers. He is W. ,T. R. McSkim-
ming, who now deals in motor tyres in
Melbourne. He was one of the seven men who
told the Wellington (M.L.) Council that they
were prepared for £75,000 to cut a tunnel
from the Waipuri River through the Orongo
Orongos, a scheme which had been planned
for reinforcing the Windy .City’s water
supply. The tunnel was to be 24 miles long,
eight feet high and six feet wide, and was
to be finished in three years. A council
which had been driven nearly wild by labor
troubles doubted if it could be done, and
the scheme was actually submitted to the
ratepayers before it was sanctioned. In the
end the tunnel was finished six months ahead
of schedule time. The men were their own
bosses, there were no strikes, and anyone who
arrived on duty drunk automatically sacked
himself. The appointed leader, the members
of the works committee and the tally clerks
got exactly the same money as the dirt
shovellers, and each man of the final gang
of 44 drew a cheque that w'orked out at
£3 a day for a six-day week. Even the seven
originators of the project claimed no extra
emolument, though they had put up a guar-
antee. The Council regarded it as the best and
cheapest job they had ever had done for them.


• 4 9
f,
*
I
3
1
nun
£
n
m
M
>
iVi
<4*
YJS
Wl
4RK
mm
>
;r
J
43a
m
v.
608-530
NEW BODY—NEW BEAUTY
NEW BEHAVIOUR
A Product of Chrysler Motors
NEW BODY
The new and exclusive Dodge Brothers
MONO-PIECE BODY is notably roomy—
with wide doors and ample windows. Built
inflexibly on to the wide chassis, it is rigid,
well balanced, and steady riding; door open-
ings and window apertures fashioned out of a
single piece of metal. There are no JOINTS
TO SQUEAK. Tens of thousands of miles of
hard usage will leave this body as tight and as
firm as when new.
NEW BEAUTY - -
New and beautifully proportioned, the impres-
sion of bigness with a new degree of grace.
New deep-faced narrow profile radiator, wing
tipped cap. New cowl bar and lamp tie rod.
New one-piece fenders of exclusive Dodge
flare-design. New pattern headlights and
parking lights. Chromium-plated, tarnish-
proof exterior metal parts.
Perfectly matched interior
fitment s —complete in
every detail.
NEW BEHAVIOR
New, powerful, fleet and competent perform-
ance, almost beyond belief. A masterful
engine cushioned in live-rubber. Massive
seven-bearing crankshaft. Wide-faced trans-
mission gears. Hydraulic four-wheel brakes,
weatherproof. New roller-bearing steering
gear. Love joy hydraulic shock absorbers all
around. Tyres generously oversize for easy
riding and increased mileage economy.
GREATER SAFETY
Low Centre of Gravity.
The New Six is deliberately designed and built
to increase the margin of safety in motoring.
The exclusive mono-piece body—which
eliminates body sills, automatically lowers the
floor room. Its low centre of gravity reduces
side sway and any tendency to skid. This car
will hold the road at high speed and “corner”
comfortably without that
“dangerous” feeling, whilst
it improves the effective-
ness of the hydraulic brakes
New
Dodge Brothers Six
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . .
IVestern Australia .
New Zealand ....
. Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
. . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland


fflL
ShH
m
1
s^.
m
PRICE
12'6
POST FREE
ROUND IN
FLEXIBLE
EMBOSSED
.MAROON
FABRICOID
LEATHER
Clear Type
Z5/>e
Complete Shakespeare
All in a Single Volume.
Illustrated from Original Designs.
Here in one volume are gathered the complete works of William
Shakespeare, the greatest of all English writers.
In this latest enlarged volume there is embodied not only the
complete works of the greatest of English writers, but an accurate
history of his life, an introduction to each play as well as an index
to the characters therein.
The present work has been collated with all of the best of other
editions with a view of establishing an authentic copy of Shakes-
peare’s works in a single volume, to which has been added all of
the essential material that would make it a work of reference.
Great care has been bestowed upon its preparation, and beyond
all question it is the greatest one-volume edition of Shakespeare ever
compiled.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
PUMPS WE MAKE AND GUARANTEE
d
ď
The wide range of Billaboiig Pumps Our Own
Manufacture meets most of the Pumping Needs
of the Farm, the Home and the Factory. Cor-
rectness of design, High-grade Materials and
Expert Workmanship account for the increasing
popularity of Billabong Pumps throughout the
Commonwealth.
The Billabong Pumps
(Illustrated)
Billabong Cistern Pump
Billabong Low-down Pump
Billabong Semi-rotary Pump
Billabong Centrifugal Pump
Billabong Double-acting Piston Pump
Billabong Hydraulic Ram
For Full Particulars of Billabong Pumps and
Pumping Machinery see our General Pump
Catalog. It is Post Free.
The Kerotin Spray Pump'
A splendid little Pump, made of Brass through-
out, and fitted with strong iron foot. Useful for
small Orchards and the Flower Garden, for
applying Limewash or Disinfectants to Fowl
Runs, Cattle Sheds, etc., and when fitted with
a special nozzle the Kerotin becomes a most
reliable Veterinary Pump, and is used exten-
sively by Breeders of Cattle, etc.
Full Particulars and Prices Free on Request.
Agents in all districts.
ax 7
aiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitu
muiiiiifiiiumiis
NOS?
NHOf §
QlllllJllillJllili
’WJiiuimmiiimur
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
đ
d
Adjusted in a moment
and what a tremendous saving in time and
trouble.
When roads are sandy, wet, soft, muddy or
boggy,you should put on WEED TYRE CHAINS.
They provide the traction—‘‘grip on the road”
—so imperatively needed, and thus prevent loss
of power, delays and possible serious accident
from skidding.
Weed Tyre Chains are made for all tyres.
They are easily identified by their brass-plated,
hardened steel cross chains —galvanized side
chains—and red lever-locking connecting hooks
with the name “WEED” stamped on them.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
Standard of quality for over a quarter of a century
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN COMPANY, Inc.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
1499
i
Gvclists!
IS
*, /
IF you wish your mount
to be a real source of
pleasure and delight you
will use the utmost care in ;
the selection of the Hubs.
No bicycle can give you
real service unless these
component parts
are perfect.
Smooth and silky
running, long
wear and per-
fectly safe braking
are insured by
the fitting of the
Perry Improved
Coaster in con-
junction with
the Perry front hub.
Behind both these articles
is a manufacturing experi-
ence extending over many
years, a close and intimate
d
acquaintance with the
Cyclist’s needs and a repu-
tation second to none in the
Cycle Component World.
Few, very few Cyclists, are
there who do not know of
Perry Productions, but only
experience of
their actual ser-
vice will lead to
full appreciation
of their merits
and exclusive
features.
You may nof
have had that-
experience,
therefore, foe
your greater comfort and
enjoyment when awheel,
we suggest you put
yourself in touch with;
our
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD
Hardware House, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne, Cl.
Box 871, G.P.O.
o
Bii
Perry
irminghaon.Eng
Vfo «


BRANDY
StajuUfbi Gqe c
oM, ov*A tfui Wo\£d a
Foy They ave Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHELP & CO., LTD., PEKf'i AND GERALPTON. ft
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Canterbury Park meeting on Satur-
day was a dismal affair in point of weather,
and those who follow favorites found it thrice
dismal. They had to wait until the sixth
flat race for a popular fancy to succeed. Lord
Romeo (2 to 1) was the nag in question;
discarding its previous policy of giving inex-
perienced boys the mount, the stable put up
Cook, who waited on Boss Poppy (20 to 1)
and Threemen (8 to 1) and then came away.
Each of the place-getters should win pre-
sently.
The public came at Eden Hall (3 to 1)
again for the 11-furlongs handicap, and the
erratic Maorilander looked like doing it _ at
last when he ran up to the pace-making
Jeypore (6 to 1) ,near the home turn, but
Jeypore finished the better of the pair, and a
protest did not affect the judge’s decision.
Waipori (4 to 1), wide, out, was third.
Trautwein, w 7 ho owns Eden Hall, tried to
get his losses back on Aorangi (9 to 4) in
the last race, but Aorangi was beaten by
Prince Colugo (4 to 1) and Puff. To The
Bulletin Prince Colugo-—obviously in form,
with decent performances to his credit and
with only 71b. above the minimum—seemed
the bet of the day, and he came home on
the bit. Fives w r ere offered at the outset.
* * * *
The rain clouds cleared away on Sunday
and the A.J.C. had agreeable weather for the
first day of its Winter meeting on Monday.
However, the going was heavy enough to
bother the topweights, and seven-stoners had
the finish of the June Stakes to themselves.
Coercion (5 to 1) took charge after they had
gone a couple of furlongs, and, withstand-
ing a great effort on the part of Raisin, the
unlucky half-sister to Loquat, landed the
money for the Lewis stable. Parr rode him
desperately at the crisis. Poitiers was a good
third.
* * * *
May Day, Anorient and Seafit were the
popular picks for the £2OOO Hurdle Race,
and Anorient made a fine attempt to repeat
last year’s success. He flattered his backers
for the greater part of the journey but was
joined over the last jump by W.B. (10 to 1)
and May Day, who both beat him to the
post, W.B. getting the better of a spirited
struggle. Stony, this Page’s first choice —
W.B. was the second —lost his rider when
going well. W. 8., who was ridden by Stuart
—he is owned and trained by G. Foulsham
—has been very consistent this season.
For the second day at Randwick: —
Flying Handicap: Greencorn; next, Fuji
San.
A. J.C. Steeplechase: Burraform; next,
Prince Arim.
Winter Stakes: Inducement; next, Octem-
ber.
Exeter Handicap: Garrula; next, Uiah.
* * * *
Chaumont, who started favorite for the
1928 G. N. Steeple but fell, reappeared over
fences at Flemington on Saturday. Despite
good accounts of his schooling, he wasn’t
backed like a pay-out proposition, receding
from twos to threes. His present trainer,
J. G. li'eywood, believes in the slow and
solid method of imparting condition, and
although Chaumont missed a place he
jumped safely, and Tom Butler demonstrated
that the Riverina-bred giant can be ridden
from behind. The performance may weaken
demand for Chaumont in the National, though
there is no reason why it should. Sand-
hurst, who won for V.R.C. committeeman
J. A. Macleod and friend C. F. Taylor, hit
one fence heavily when disputing control
with Glentronie, but took other obstacles in
snappy style. Parquin came home gamely,
but couldn’t quite ovei'take Sandhurst. He
belongs to H. E. Connolly, who won a G. N.
Hurdle with Jackstaff, and before that helped
to prepare. Guncap for a stiff timber success.
Melbourne hurdle form is perplexing. On
April 20 Lanilda was third to Epical and
Baldini at Aspendale. A week later Lanilda
HIS NATURAL GAME.
FED-WP PEO: “Swing the club, man; swing it! Don’t just drop it like a dashed
butcher!”
BEGINNER: “That’s just what 1 am!”
won in hollow style at Caulfield, wjth Bal-
dini second and Epical nowhere. On May
25 Baldini was downed by The Indian, at
Moonee Valley. On Saturday Baldini ran
away from Lanilda and The Indian in.
the V.R.C. York Hurdle. It may be that
Lanilda (a half-brother to Jullundur, 1916
National winner) is hardly as good as the
Caulfield victory would indicate, and that
the mud at Moonee Valley caused Baldim
to knock up.
Two of the progeny of Claro, the 1923
Epsom and Cantala Stakes hero, scored on
the opening day of the V.R.C. Birthday meet-
ing. Clarius took the juvenile event, and
Clarogale led home the Buckingham Welter
cavalcade. Substantial odds were laid about
the former, but Clarogale was third favorite.
Jack Holt’s filly. Errantry, was in brisk
demand for the Princess Handicap, but she
merely headed the unplaced lot. Gallopade
("second to Clarius) is a beautiful Top Gal-
lant filly; A. J. Staughton’s Del Riccio was
third. Clarogale just squeezed home in
advance of Master Lunette, with Field
Artillery close up.
Frank Dempsey gave a masterly exhibi-
tion of horsemanship when he scored on
Beauhania in the Royal Handicap. -I ha
Featherstitch gelding went out at 9 to 2,
nearly as good a favorite as Clarion Cali.
\ furlong from home Beauhania was be-
hind at least four rivals, but Dempsey’s
challenge to the leaders was so well tuned
that he wore down Greener a few strides
from the post. On Alligator, Dempsey didn’t
do nearly so well in the Buckingham Welter.
To avoid entanglement he dropped to the
rear and had no hope of recovering ground
in a mile journey.
Harbinger appropriated the V.R.C. Sand-
ringham Handicap, thereby justifying the
confidence of punters, who installed him at
the head of the quotes. The Sir Dighton
chestnut belongs to E. Manifold. Imitator
was half a length behind, a head in front
of the Tas. galloper Laird o’ Cockpen. C.
T Godby bought Imitator from Wallace
Mitchell, a paddock fielder, who lost heart
over frequent failures of the Magpie mare
in races such as fhe Sydney Gup.
* * * *
Canning Queen, who ran so well in the
last Melbourne Cup, did a fine Brisbane Cup
trial at Ascot on Saturday, in the King’s
Plate, w.f.a. Murillo was a G-to-4 favorite,
and on recent form and track work the
A.J.C. Metrop. winner was entitled to that
position, but, coming with a great run at
the right end, the mare won brilliantly from
Trainer, Murillo being third. Fours was
the price in a field of seven. lOU, Jpmt
favorite (at 5 to 1) with Quantive and Wise
Force for the Stradbroke Handicap, had
bad luck in running, but overcame it gamely
and got home by half a length from Wise
Force, Lady Bine (14 to 1) being a close
third. The six furlongs took them lmin.
I3fsec. Doubts about Paddi Eve’s con-
dition led to her going out at 6 to 4 for
the St. Leger—on her second to Crucis in
the Sydney Cup she would have been at
odds on had the public thought everything
was all right. Strung up or not, the game
little daughter of Paddington was too good
for Brown Apple, Royal Flavor and the rest,
and the time—3min. for 14 furlongs
132 yards—showed that there was no loafing
on the journey.
While Paddi Eve was establishing her
superiority to the other Queensland three-
year-olds in the Q.TjC. St. Leger, Ividaides,
third in the Sydney Cup, was placing the
A.R.C. Birthday Cup to the credit of T.
O’Dea. The much-travelled Aides gelding
had Sst. 111 b., but that didn’t prevent the
public making him favorite, and he fairly
outstayed Finsbury and Alfred the Great,
who battled out the finish with him, the
time being 2min. 47sec. As usual Percival
rode him. The Adelaide horse and the West-
ralian jockey have been associated in strik-
ing victories in three States this season.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy Grime annoyed Melbourne extremely
by his wretched display against La Barba,
but he has been forgiven for the manner in
which he accounted for Lou Bloom on Satur-
day night. For once Billy stood up and
fought, and so successful were his tactics
that the Yank was outboxed and outslugged
in practically every round of the scheduled
15. The visitor could do little in return.
A head clash in the seventh frame gashed
Bill’s nose and split Lou’s eyebrow; the
Aussie’s nasal organ responded to treatment,
but claret flowed freely from Bloom in
each succeeding round. The amount of
punishment that Lou absorbed without crack-
ing up suggests that he is either abnormally
tough or that Bill can’t punch as lie did of
yore. Bloom, at 9st. 3ilb., was half a pound
heavier than, the Australian.
* * * Ht
Making good use of a left hook, Bobby
Delaney, a rising Sydney lightweight, had
Norman liadford down in the opening round
of their contest at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night. More powder behind one with the
same label toppled the Englishman over for
nine in the second, the bell saving him. Ly
way of variety, Delaney heaved a right to
the jaw in the third spasm, and Radford lost
all further interest in the proceedings.
Delaney weighed 9st. 31b.; Radford, 9st. lib.
Footbrawl
N. S. Wales, cleverly led by Craig, beat
Queensland’s Rugby League reps, by 21 to
Bat Sydney Showground on Saturday. Iht
scores were not a wild overstatement of the
case. Except for a couple of solid assaults
in the first 20 minutes the Bananalanders
never looked like winning; throughout the
second half they didn’t even look like scoring.
On the other hand, the apparently lighter
Blue side, playing against a tearing wind
and heavy rain, frequently threatened the line
in the first half, and came out of it a point
to the good —9-8. The best thing in a rugged
but keenly fought term was Queensland s
opening score. Edwards, the visitors’ stocky
half, broke through after a scrum outside the
25 and whipped the ball to Armbruster, who
improved on Edwards’s smart work by giving
a reverse pass to Gorman, and the attack
ended in O. Laws getting over and Upton
goaling. A little earlier Weissell had started
New South’s score with a goal kicked against
the gale, and Kadwell now added an easier
one. Next, Edwards, nipping round on the
blind, passed to Harris, who sent in to Ann-
bruster and the big forward crashed across.
The visitors attacked sharply once more, but
were beaten by a fluke intercept, ana the
N.S.W. forwards carried the ball right up
field on the toe; when it shot over the
line Kadwell was handy enough to pounce on
it. He also kicked the goal and the point lead
was held till half-time. .
After the spell, the Maroons’ skipper, Gor-
man, permitting his reputation to carry on
for him, lost control and the side cl,a little
but maintain a disorganised defence, m spite
of the fact that they had a large, helping of
the ball, A goal by Kadwell, penalties by
Kadwell and Craig, and tries by Root and
Sliankland were added spasmodically before
what had become a dreary catch-as-catch-can
struggle petered out. Of the hard-worked
forwards there was none better on the held
than Prigg, a ginger lad from Newcastle. He
was in everything, never let up and was
going as strong at the end as ever. Hender-
son. the visitors’ hook, also put up a great
performance. The backs on both sides had a
boggv time of it, Sliankland, the ,Ma State
winger, and Kadwell, behind the pack, earn-
ing their lemons. More than 27,000 watched
the rather dull performance.
£ JfC * v
Saturday’s three Vic. League matches
drew massive gates, and the 80,000 enthusi-
asts who attended the South-Richmond
encounter got full value. The Tigers were a
bit slow in the uptake, while someone had
infused an abundance of ginger into the
Southerners, so that it was a ding-dong
struggle right through. Just at the close
the Red-and-Whites stormed a much-needed
goal and, stalling off a couple of deter-
mined Tiger sorties, won by 8 points —80
to Richmond's 77. It was Richmond s
second defeat, and a considerable surprise.
The other games proved mere walk-overs,
Carlton piling up 132 points to Fitzroy s
73, and Collingwood also scoring 132 to
North’s 81.
(Continued on page ftl.)
THE CALL OF THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He appraises his prize like the butcher
approaching the grunter,
Its weasand to jag;
There’s a gleam in his eye that may put you
in mind of the hunter
A-stalking the stag ; ,
But the difference is that he needn t go after
the punter, v
The Man with the Bag.
He sings—not precisely, perhaps, in the
strains wherewith sirens
' Lured sailors from boats;
Nor is it the music described in that poem
of Byron’s,
O’er water that floats ;
But they ring to the full as seductively round
his environs,
Those resonant notes.
And you notice the strong and the stalwart
stop short and surrender
Themselves to the spell,
Men in whom no carillon or organ could
ever engender
A thrill with its swell,
And whose souls would quite fail to react to
the rapturous splendor
Of King Philomel.
’Tis a rich and robustious bellow —deep
echoes of Taurus
Therein are revealed.
Around and about and above us the full-
throated chorus
Is thundered and pealed
From bookmakers vociferating in accents
sonorous
They’re laying the field.
The lion and leopard their prey through the
forest must follow;
High up in the air
There hovers the hawk, and darts hither
and thither the swallow,
In quest of their fare.
But Moses just looses his none too harmoni-
ous hollo-
And his meal-ticket’s there
N.S.WL
T. THE R.


A child can see
the difference
You see here two machines
devised for testing the
cords in tyre fabric. On
each machine is a strand of
SUPERTWIST cord and of
ordinary cord.
On the machine in the back-
ground the ordinary cord is
broken, while the SUPER-
TWIST cord is intact.
Yet both cords were of equal
length, and both cords were
stretched in equal measure.
n
More people,
the world over,
ride on Good-
year tyres than
on any other
kind.
On the machine in the fore-
ground the ordinary cord is lax,
while the SUPERTWIST cord
is taut.
Both these cords also were of the
same length: both were equally
stretched.
When the tension was relaxed
the SUPERTWIST cord sprang
back to its original dimensions,
recovering like a rubber band.
But the ordinary cord lost its
spring, and now hangs slack and
distended.
By this simple demonstration a
child can see the difference be-
tween SUPERTWIST cord and
ordinary cord.
This difference is important, as
one cause of the great superi-
ority of Goodyear Tyres over
ordinary tyres.
Built with SUPERTWIST cord,
Goodyear Tyres stretch and re-
cover under the shocks of the
road without damage.
Tyres made of ordinary cord
lack this ability, and under road-
shock suffer precisely the results
you see here.
SUPERTWIST cord is Good-
year-developed and Goodyear-
patented, and is used only in
Goodyear Tyres.
Its elasticity and durability have
reduced blow-outs and similar
troubles to the vanishing point.
SUPERTWIST is one of the
reasons why the present Good-
year Balloon with the tractive
All-weather Tread is called
“Goodyear’s Greatest Tyre.”
It is one of the reasons also why
you should insist on Goodyear
Tyres and refuse anything else.
GOOD


‘Allenbunys
PASTILLES
ď
Stage Folk!
To clear the
throat and restore
power and reson-
ance to the voice,
you will find these
Pastilles star
performers de-
lightfully soothing
and refreshing.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and 1/9
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
i~ / p
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance .
%
HEAD OFFICE; 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
Halcyon Racket
đ
A one-piece, bevelled-
edge frame, with tape-
bound shoulders,
tautly strung,
30 1-
(Post free).
THE FINEST VALUE OF
ALL RACKETS AT THIS
PRICE.
FRAME GUARANTEED
SIX MONTHS.
We stake our reputation on the
value of this racket.
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
Muff: "did you put any money
ON THE FAVORITE '2
Puff ' "
Muff; wwy 2
PUFFt' l COULD NT GET NEAR
THE CREATUPE."
Footbrawl
The Sydney Uni. side now touring Maori-
land has not lived up to the promise shown
in its first match. It has since suffered
three severe defeats; Canterbury College
downed it by 21 to 8, Otago Uni. by 28 to
8, and M.L. Universities by 15 to 3.. Which
suggests that M.L. form this year is a lot
better than many people thought.
;jc :Js * *
Sodden grounds and the absence of many
of the cracks in Queensland and Maoriland
made a lot of difference to Rugby Union club
games in Sydney on Saturday. All the
same, the Police did well to draw, 6-6, with
Randwick, the competition leaders, and
Northern Suburbs to rout Uni. by 19 to nil.
Manly’s defeat of Y.M.C.A., 22 to 15, was
also a creditable performance. Western
Suburbs had little trouble with St. George,
23-8, hut the Eastern Suburbs-Glebe game
was hard pounding from beginning to end;
East won, 5-0.
* * * *
The Queensland Rugby Union had an
attendance of 8000 at Brisbane Exhibition
Ground when N.S.W. and the Bananap
landers played their return match. This is
ahead of anything the Queensland League
has experienced this season, although the
Union match clashed with the first day of
the Brisbane Cup meeting. The Queens-
landers, for whom Lawton and Bonis did
great service, gave another capital exhibi-
tion in the first half, being headed by five
points only; but, as in Sydney, they fell
away in the second half. In the end N.S.W.
had 33 to 17.
:|! * * *
“Hooker”: Sydney's next big Rugby Union
fixture will be the match against Victoria at
the Cricket Ground on June 15. There
are several promising players among the visi-
tors, Sturtridge, a five-eighth from University,
greatly impressing the wiseacres last season,
and he has been mentioned as a possibility
for the Australian side against the All
Blacks.
* * * *
“Zorro”: In saying that the Rugby Union
outlook for Maoriland is black, “Blink Bon-
nie” (B. 8/5/’29) is revealing vast depths
of ignorance. Wellington alone holds so
many promising youngsters that last season,
with its cracks away in South Africa, it
could field two different back lines which
gave other provinces all they wanted. Apart
from the South African 29 there are
Hook and Berridge in Auckland; Setford
and Mill in Hawkes Bay; Ramson, Chaney
and Mackenzie in Wellington ; and Holden in
Dunedin, all likely lads, besides A. E. Cooke,
universally allowed to be the greatest inside-
back Maoriland has produced in the last 20
years, and still as good as ever. As for
the forwards, Fernlanders never have the
slightest worry about them, as they seem to
turn up every year. Mark Nichdlls con-
siders that, in spite of the drawbacks of the
Maorilanders’ scrum formation, the British
team may get the shock of their lives. And
Nicholls is not in love with Maoriland for-
ward play, but is striving his hardest to
change it, abolish the wing-forward and put
an extra man in the scrum.
* * t- *
“Stand Off”: Following on the tour of
Maoriland by the Sydney University Union
side, the League authorities across the Tas-
man have asked that an Australian Uni-
versity team playing the professional code
should be sent over. The only universities
with League teams are Sydney and Queens-
land. and neither club is of calibre sufficient
to give even a Maoriland League side a
gallop.
* *. * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some of the folk who
write Rugby League publicity for Sydney
newspapers lack a. sense of proportion. One
or them shed bitter tears of ink the other
day because the N.S.W. League side to meet
Queensland could not practise on Sydney
Sports Ground, that moth-eaten arena being
reserved under the terms of its trust for
school matches on Wednesdays. The un-
kindest cut lay in the fact that the schools
in question were playing the hated Rugby
Union code. “Yesterday,” said the historian
—and one can visualise his pen trembl’.ng
with manly indignation—“a handful of lads
playing Rugby Union football were able to
ward off the might and power of the Rugby
League.” It is a gloomy picture. But con-
sidering that the League professional game
is confined solely to Queensland, parts of
N.S.W. and scattered centres in Maoriland,
and that in England it is known in only two
counties, the might and power of the money-
grabbing show could hardly be placed in a
pill-box without rattling.
* * * *
“Donger”: Truly the life of a football
referee is a hard one, and his days are full
of sorrow. A notable instance cropped up
a few days ago, when a Sydney League
umpire asked the executive of the profes-
sional body to buy him, a pair of new boots.
While he was on the job at one of the
suburban grounds some unscrupulous ruffian
pinched his daisy roots from the pavi-
lion, where, with full trust and reliance on
the sacredness of the League premises, they
had been lodged for safe keeping. The de-
spoiled one had to go home in his spiked field
boots, an uncomfortable process, as all foot-
ballers know. It is sad to relate that the
League executive turned down the applica-
tion and then immediately voted itself free
tickets for a forthcoming ball to be held in
honor of the team to visit England. If the
Rugby Union is looking for converts it might
do worse than make a note of that ref.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The world of tennis
is at present rent asunder over the burning
question as to whether flappers should wear
socks, stockings, or just plain hide when play-
ing. The craze has taken hold of England
this summer, and hordes of barelegged and
capering females are rivalling the eurhythmic
experts in the illustrated press. As a corn-
sequence Wimbledon has announced, in its
severest maiden-aunt manner, that it trusts
no young person will be so lost to all sense
of decency as to appear on its sacred lawns
with her shins in the nude. The playerettas
are in two camps themselves. Those with
presentable extremities are all for nudity.
Others not so gifted by nature are emphatic
on the shocking aspect of the situation.
* * * *
“Sandy” : Victorian tennis has suffered a
severe setback in losing Harry Hassett’s ser-
vices for the season. Hassett broke
his arm in two places while, playing foot-
ball. Geelong pennant team is much weak-
ened by his absence.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The Australian Ten-
nis Council is treating the matter of a pro-
posed visit of American or French players
with its customary vacillation.. It is now
said to be considering an invitation to a
British women’s team, or perhaps one from
South Africa —it isn’t sure which. The Eng-
lishwomen are holders of the Wightman Cup,
which is the flapper equivalent of the Davis
utensil, but they were beafen in England last
year by the Australiennes. None the less,
they should be a good draw in Australia and
should appeal to our frugal tennis authori-
ties, if only on the ground that women’s
teams are notoriously less expensive to
maintain than those composed of the
thirstier sex. Wine bills, for instance, are
nothing like so high.
“Cut Shot” : In spite of the fact that he
has been dropped from the American Davis
Cup team, Tildcn will still play as a free-
lance. That probably means that he will be
seen at Wimbledon, where lie has been very
successful. It is guite on tlie curds tluit,
with his old partner Hunter, he will admin-
ister a shock to the youngsters who have
supplanted the pair in the American side.
The Watermen
On Saturday a Melbourne crowd had the
unusual experience—unusual as regards post-
war years—of seeing a Vic. crew win an
inter-State boatrace. The Melbourne Uni.
eight performed this feat, and not only won
easily but traversed the ‘2\ miles in 14min.
27 1-Dsec., a time record for the race. Adel-
aide Uni. was second and the light Brisbane
crew third; Westralia, victorious in ’26
and ’27, finished fifth, behind Sydney.
Flavelle (Sydney) beat his solitary opponent
in the sculls.
* * * *
“Callan Tark”: Complaints having been
made that training for forthcoming regattas
on the Yarra has been conducted in semi-
darkness, with danger to his Majesty’s lieges
thereon, the Victorian Rowing Association
has decided that the boats must show a
light on the bow. An excellent idea, and
one that could be economically carried out.
At present the power developed in a racing
eight is unproductive of anything but speed,
and not always that. A simple electrical
apparatus could be devised to obtain not
only lighting power from the slides, but even
electricity for storage. This could be applied
to the crew by the cox at the critical moment,
and all these complaints of tame finishes
would vanish like rain on the river.
* * * *
“Swan” : Westralia’s high rowing standard
is due above all to the great interest taken
in the sport by the public, which recognises
that though the State has to sing small in
such sports as tennis and cricket it is up
with the best on the water. By way of
adding to the popularity of the sport it is
now proposed by Perth enthusiasts to form
a league of old oarsmen to foster and
supervise rowing in the West. Though
the Rowing Council has turned down the
suggestion that the inter-State races be held
every two years instead of annually, the
Westralians are ready with another sugges-
tion. It is that the King’s Cup races and
the inter-State University eights events be
held in each State in alternate years. This
would mean that there would be one big
rowing event annually, avoiding the double
expense of State and University visits.
*}j jjs sfc
“Blade”: Bert Barry, world’s professional
sculling champion, is announced to be booked
up for a match with Australian Major
Goodsell on the Thames in September.
Meantime the Londoner has arranged an
unusual sort of match to be rowed, over
the Putney-Mortlake course on June 26. He
will take on three separate opponents, each
of these rowing one third of the course,
which means a bit over a mile.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The N.S.W. amateur golf
championships begin next Saturday with the
foursomes; the singles are to commence on
June 15 with the qualifying rounds. There
is a heavy N.S.W. entry, but not many from
other States, though Ivo Whitton and Alex.
Russell will come from Melbourne for the
tourney, Whitton partnering C. H. Fawcett,
N.S.W. amateur champion, in the foursomes.
Fawcett is a very Walter Hagen for con-
sistency. He has been playing extraordi-
narily good golf ever since he took the cham-
pionship last year.
“Smashie”: I think it has been estab-
lished that golf originated in Scotland, but
the manner in which the game was intro-
duced into England has never been fully
explained. The latest research goes to show
that one day a pill was driven over the
border and lost in the rough. The loser
and all his friends and relations sought to
find it, remaining so long that finally the
game was forced on English yokels in the
locality.
* * * *
“Trevdee”: Women in plus-fours are as
yet a novel sight on Australian golf courses.
A recent match at East Geelong was won by
a lady so attired. At Elsternwick Park a
girl has often appeared on the links in bare
legs, and I have seen one or two similarly un-
dressed in. Brisbane and Sydney. Men have
adopted plus-fours for golf the world over,
but this rig-out, does not hang well on women,
and there is a fortune waiting for the fashion
expert who can design a suitable feminine
costume.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Though the American girl,
Glenna Collett, went down to Joyce Wet her ed
in the final of the British ladies’ golf cham-
pionship, she is a great player. This is
her third shot at the British event, and each
time she has flopped. She has won the
American National twice, the championships
of North, East and West America, and the
Canadian title. The lady has written a book
on the game also, and displays a pretty wit.
For instance, she says that the only thing
that she envies in men players is their “child-
like conviction that golf is the most important
thing in the universe, and that they are the
most important thing in golf.”
* * * *
“Baffy”: Recent American golf triumphs
in Britain serve as a reminder that the first
“American” to win the British amateur title,
W. J. Travis, was an Australian. He hailed
from Victoria, but when he won in 1904 he
played as a naturalised Yank. This is a fact
that Uncle Sam has contrived to overlook
when referring to the subject, as he often
did before Walter Hagen and Bobby Jones
gave him fresh opportunities for self-con-
gratulation.
* -is * *
“Divot Digger”: An unusual golf happen-
ing was recorded on a Sydney course the
other day. An associate member landed in
a bunker, and going l down to play out found
the ball had got into a crumpled-up news-
paper. It took several swipes to get the
ball out of the paper before it came to
playing out of the bunker. The lady
might have taken a leaf from the book of a
mere male who found himself almost in the
same predicament. He absent-mindedly
dropped his cigarette end on the paper which
had blown over his ball, and when it had
burned away went on with the business.
There was a lot of argument about it, but
no one was game to say that a, penalty was
incurred.
❖ * sfc *
“Ula”: It had to come. The Americans
started it, and now it has spread to England
—golf poker. You generally play with three
balls; the pool is started at the tee, each
player staking a fixed sum. Allowing that all
make fair drives, the players again stake for
the second) shots: and if all fare on a par
another staking is contributed, the pool
being scooped by the man who wins the hole.
A player faring poorly in the early stages
may pull out for any particular hole, but
he “does in” whatever stake he has contri-
buted. A fresh “kitty” is opened at every
tee; and a judicious gambler may profit on
a round even though losing more holes than
winning. An exciting pastime, it is said to
induce sounder 1 and better golf, which is not
hard to understand.


Queft.n Ann*. Shop*
Her
Honoured Quests
'ZftZHE thin cups and
saucers of
Shelley China arc a mark of
quality: it is in compliment
to her guests thata lady gives
them Tea in ware that a
Queen might be proud of.
English bone China and
the craftsmanship tradition-
al at Shelley’s are the secret
of this perfection.
Ask
TO See THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Ly Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IN CASI OP AMY DIFFICULTY IN
wmn to
T*W. MB ATM C CO.LTD,
J3l,<L*DlhcE NT.
SYDNEY
OBTAINING
pqB I
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
start of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
eyery Thursday, price 3d.
LOSING YOUR HAIR?
Vi Glo will
Stop it!
Vi-Glo will
Stop it!
Too late for
Vi-Glo!
To be bald is to be a joke! Fate showers her gifts
on the alert, young-looking men and women. Once
you’re bald, you’re beyond hope—save your hair
while you can. “Vi-Glo” will do it. This is a
NEW, Scientific, non-watery, lion-greasy preparation
that gets to the hair roots and revitalises them to
such an extent that the new hair grown actually
possesses a natural waviness that improves one’s
looks tremendously ! “Vi-Glo” stops Dandruff! “Vi-
Glo” wards off and banishes premature Greyness!
“Vi-Glo” gives the hair new Youth! Price 3/-,
complete with special Free “bay-rum” Shampoo.
Get “Vi-Glo” from any Chemist’s or Stores, or post
3/4 for outfit to the Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla
Building, Sydney.
For Sale.
pOR SALE.—Within 50 miles of Sydney,
Farm'and Orchard, lt> acres, good house,
north-easterly slope, overlooking ocean.
Suitable for early bean- and tomato-grow-
ing-. Particulars: CHAPMAN, c/o Bulle-
tin Office.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
dlothes for Men and Their Sons
To-day’s
Finest
Rug
Value l
The "GUINEA” RUG
A good quality Country Hug, made of Aus-
tralian wool in light and dark pat-
terns, finished with long fringe.
21/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
m
1
v?ee
t\^ s
too
o» e
nt™
pa
«**s£
150
uo e
:%P CC
sefy c
dd^'
3
Children
enjoy
d
it makes them
ulell and strong
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
Car and Cycle
“Chassis” : The day is fast coming when
the motor-car will be within reach of the
poorest, even journalists, poets and artists,
and people like that. France claims the
honor of producing the cheapest small car
to date. It is a two-cylinder ’bus entitled
the Galba, and sells in its homeland at the
equivalent in frogskins of £75. The machine
has a fuel distributor which delivers the
mixture under pressure, obviating the employ-
ment of crankcase compression. There are
two forward speeds in the gear-box and a
separate sliding pinion giving a reverse. A
two-seater body is supplied, and maximum
speed is rated at 48 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Garry” : The controversy that is raging in
Britain concerning the application of the
free-wheel principle to the motor-car —several
well-known English makes can be so fitted—
is reminiscent of a similar conflict of opinion
when the first free-wheel bicycles appeared.
Then the disadvantage most stressed was
the entire dependence that had to be placed
on brakes —you couldn’t back-pedal. One
of the advantages claimed was that the
rider could safely negotiate the slipperiest of
surfaces while free-wheeling. In the case
of the car the balance of advantages and
disadvantages is not quite the same. More
reliance has to be placed on brakes when
coasting, since the engine and gears are dis-
connected, and the braking effect of the dead-
engine is lost. But the liability to skid is
increased. There is a marked saving of pet-
rol in the case of big cars touring over
undulating country; motor and gears are
saved a lot of wear and tear; gear-changes
can be made silently while free-wheeling, and
carbonisation of cylinders and oiling-up of
spark-plugs proceed much more slowly than
with a fixed engine.
“Disc Clutch” : Sydney Bicycle and Motor
Club’s flexibility test at National Park pro-
vided some interesting performances. A dis-
tance of 352 yards was marked off on an
uphill grade; this had to be traversed by
(lie cars as slow and as fast as possible.
Each car was given a run of 22 yards in tin l
slow test in which to slip into third gear, and
of 66 yards in the fast test. The fastest
figures were 16.1 sec., or 44.72 m.p.h., by E.
Poole, in a 552-c.c. Studebakcr. The slow
record went to F. Howarth’s 4412-c.c. llup-
mobile, which took Gmin. 15sec. to cover the
distance, averaging 1.92 m.p.h.—a record any
tortoise would be proud of.
i\ i * * ❖
“Trembler”: The insanity of round-the-
world motor and motor-cycle tours has got
on my nerves. There is nothing to be
gained from further repetitions. Every
make of motor-cycle in existence has been
puffed to the skies in the press which angles
for its advertising. So has every make of
motor-car. Some are quite as good as they
are represented to be, or as near to it as
any person selling them can stretch his con-
science to declare. I have been moved to
this outburst by a cabled account of four
Swedish gentlemen who are going to ride
motor-cycles round the poor old globe, end-
ing. of course, at Sydney. Why pick on
Sydney? There is enough excitement here
as jt is without touring motor-cyclists dis-
turbing the peaceful routine of “coke” and
razors.
* * *
“Free Wheel”: It is becoming quite the
fashion for experts in sport to lecture on
their specialty. M. A. Noble’s cricket lec-
tures have been going for years, and foot-
ballers and golfers are familiar with the
spruiker who tells you how to do it. The
latest in the field is the Victorian cyclist
Hubert Opperman, who has utilised his Euro-
pean experiences to build up a very inter-
esting talk on how to bike without tears.
His detailed account of the methods employed
by the famous European road-riders con-
vinced his hearers that Australia has yet a
lot to learn about the fine points of the game.
* * * #
“Rat Trap”: One result of Opperman’s
travels last year has been the general adoption
by Australian road-riders of the special tyres
used by the Continental riders. The League
of Victorian Wheelmen has authorised their
use, and it is expected that the other State
organisations will follow suit. Very light
tubes on light wooden rims, the tyres are
fastened to the wheel with adhesive tape.
This permits them to be changed with great
rapidity in case of a puncture, while they
are strong enough to stand any hard usage.
Using a pair, the ex-amateur Allan Walkely
won a 20-mile road-race in 45min. 49sec.,
which is claimed as an Australian record.
Miscellaneous
“Spoof” : Of all the queer folk who take
the name of sport in vain commend me to
the person who walks round the world for
a wager or to keep a promise to his maiden
aunt on her death-bed. One of the latest of
the kind is a Westralian, said to be a jour-
nalist, whose task it is to travel on the hoof
from Capetown to Cairo. The route is now
to all intents and purposes a motor-car
speedway, with filling-stations, etc., all com-
plete, which has been traversed by many
parties and individuals. However, our friend
has arrived at Nairobi, in Kenya Colony,
without particular adventure as far as he
and liis mate are concerned, save a battle
with two wild elephants. These charged the
wayfarers, knocked them down, and then
cleared out without doing more damage than
the fracture of two of the journalist’s front
teeth. There is no reference to anything
that may have befallen the elephant’s teeth.
This is an important omission, since ele-
phants’ teeth are valuable, even in these
days of composition billiard-balls.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Major Segrave, holder of the
perilous land-speed record and winner of the
world’js hydroplane championship, has put up
some new figures for motor-boat speeding in
European waters. In a trial spin over a 25-
miles run with a miles lap, Segrave hit
J. FLYNN, former Rugby Union forward,
and now Queensland selector for the
Australian teams to meet the All Blacks.
up 85 m.p.h. The best his Continental rivals
have done over the same course has been 66.8
m.p.h. Turning the corners is a feature of
the game, and Segrave, with rudders fitted
fore and aft to his craft, has a big advantage.
He has been knighted, by the way, just like
a pony or political magnate.
* * * *
“Centurion”: When the polo season
arrives a multitude of folk who don’t under-
stand anything about the pastime or the
horses which are such an important part of
it w r rite to the daily papers complaining of
the “cruelty” of the game, as far as the ponies
are concerned. They have some evidence to
back them when they see ponies coming off
after a cliukka with bleeding sides. For iny
part, I would not have a man in a polo
team or using horses in any way who in-
sisted on wearing sharp rowels. As a kid
I was broken to the fact that the bridle and
the knee is the best way of getting effective
work out of a neddy, whether on the cutting-
out camp, the polo-,ground or the barrack-
square. The spur, if necessary at all—which
it very rarely is—should be stripped of its
cutting power before being used. Person-
ally, I like to see the rowel taken right
out. Failing that, have the tops of the
spikes cut off with a pair of pliers.
* * * *
“Mango”: At Walcha (N.S.W.), in a
polo match between Ohio and Uralla, Danby
Ross, of Ohio, hit the ball into the saddle of
a Uralla player, Stan Snape. The Uralla
player’s horse carried him, with the ball,
through his own goal, and thus gave Ohio
victory.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: At the beginning of a
season in which English cricketers have
attempted to alter the high rate of scoring
by such artificial means as the widening of
wickets and the extension of the leg-before
rule, natural conditions have, stepped in and
pointed out the only possible way—the pro-
vision of natural pitches. During one week
after heavy rain in England the best bats-
men in the county proved powerless, save in
rare instances, against bowling good, bad
and indifferent, and the trundlers held high
holiday. The abolition of the bald and glass-
surfaced pitch, and an injunction that the
wickets should be permitted to grow enough
grass to give the bowlers a chance to spin
the ball, is all that is required to do away
with the marathon innings.
* * * *
“A.D.”: Ernie Goodwin, of Cooma
(N.S.W.), is one of those cricketers who re-
fuse to grow old. H’e has played the game
for 46 years, and 36 of that tally with the
Cooma club, of which lie is captain. In
all that long spell he has failed to head the
batting averages only three times, and he is
a useful man with the ball also.
* * * *
The annual athletic clash between the
Australian universities took place in Bris-
bane this year, four States competing. Mel-
bourne regained the title from Sydney Uni.
with 18 points, Sydney notching 16, Queens-
land 3 and S.A. 2. In every running event
save the 100yds. the standing record was
beaten. In the half-mile both Fenton Bowen,
of Melbourne, and J. Harrison, of Queens-
land, bettered the previous figures, lmin.
59sec., put up last year by Harrison. Adel-
aide's points came from the win in the 440 of
A. Young, who was clocked at 50sec. O. Worth
annexed the 120 hurdles for Sydney, Rowe
from the same Uni., getting away with the
100 in the slow time of 10 3-ssec. Melbourne
wound up a good day by taking the relay
race, while Queensland’s solitary victory was
A. Portley's shot putt of 32ft. lOin.
sjt * * #
“Hotlmm” : The great amateur-status ques-
tion bobbed up in Melbourne the other day.
when Tom MacMahon, a Melbourne Univer-
sity student, was informed that lie had
automatically become a professional. This
debarred him from running in Brisbane.
The sin committed by Thomas was shared
with seven others of the University Athletic
Club, all taking part in an athletic meeting
in which some professionals also competed.
That put the lid on, of course, but the seven
sinners associated with McMahon applied for
reinstatement, and were duly whitewashed.
Mac took it for granted that he would be
included in the amnesty, but this was not
the case, and Melbourne Uni. lost the services
of one of its best track men. The moral is
plain for all University men to read. Don’t
monkey with professional sport, however
cleverly it may be disguised.
* H* *
“Blue Chalk": Will Smith, ex-champion
professional billiard-player—he has not com-
peted for the title on the last two occasions
—opened his tour of Australia this week with
a match against Fred Lindrum, whom lie
conquered so decisively in England last year.
An even more interesting match promises to
be his meeting with left-hander Walter Lin-
drum, which is to be played in Sydney in mid-
July. Walter’s form has been so astonishing
during the past two seasons that a lot of
the wise ones are ready to give him an even-
money chance against the famous Yorkshire-
man.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The baseball wrangle
seems to have been smoothed over; at all
events, the delay in the publication
of last year’s carnival balance-sheet has
been satisfactorily explained by the officials
concerned. There was a considerable loss on
the visit of the Stanford University team
from California, but the impetus given the
game has justified it, and the authorities are
considering the entertainment of yet another
side of the kind. So keen are the Yanks on
a tour of Australia that no fewer than five
universities are spoiling for the trip. As one
of them possesses a fairy godfather who has
stated his intention of financing the tour, it
will probably be the pea selected.
R. WESTFIELD, Randwick and N.S.W.
full-back, an international possibility ..
“Hamer” : Night baseball has come into
popularity in Yankeeland, just as did night
tennis a few years ago. A night exhibition
game was held, and within two weeks 24
clubs were enrolled in the Southern Cali-
fornia Night Baseball Association, the
games being patronised by the multi-
tudes. From there the new evening amuse-
ment is sweeping the country.


4*
‘(The puling ‘Preference
'J’
i
%
</
Wk
VV-.
%$a
">■ ".
rr/
/ V
g{yro&
JL *
1 j
4
0
:
m
9
,v
€0
■
: W?
f&’
Hi
Of
a
M
fating
1
■
O'
nO^
5^
?■>
'4 ■•'•tiiM
&crr
(gold label)


V\' l ' / /
ft
BBS
r»
Seen through the
Eng'ag'ement Ring'
SERIES No. 4.
Here we liave the fourth and last delightful picture of our “Seen
Through the Engagement Ring” series!
Seal your own Betrothal with a Catanach Engagement Ring, and
together commence planning your own future.
Catanach’s are Diamond Specialists. The Gems in the choice
Rings here shown —all 18ct. Gold and Platinum Set, except where
othei’wise stated —are of peerless purity and quality, and for Value
cannot he surpassed.
A WRITTEN GUARANTEE is given with every Catanach Ring.
Order by post if you cannot call. Catalog post free on request.
Cr. Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
24,853,
£22/10/-
24,833.
£3O
SX&ftnWV
&SKrs3Sfc/
24,856,
£lO
24,870,
£22
24,826,
£35
24,847, all
Platinum,
£45
W-MgF,
Melbourne
Chatter
With weather of a spring-like geniality
topcoats and furs were not comfortable wear
on the first day of the King’s Birthday
meeting of the V.R.C. at Flemington. The
famous course has been undergoing a clean-
ing-up, and the hideous thorny hedge which
bordered the railway side of the many acres
lias disappeared. The Hat bears a sward
as green and velvety as that of the grand-
stand lawns, providing a pleasant background
for the orange-stalls and their patches of
tangerine. In the more expensive parts of
the enclosure beds of roses and Iceland
poppies provide a more complex range of
color contrasts. On Saturday at least some
of the favorites justified the faith of their
backers, and a rumor was abroad that one
of the leading ringmen had to write a
cheque and find someone to cash it before
he could pay out on the last race, but this
is doubted.
Feminine racegoers mostly favored tweeds,
which have been out of favor of
late years because the material available
was rather heavy for any save the bit-
terest of wintry days. The latest weaves
are lighter, though still decidedly warm and
snug, and they were exhibited on Saturday in
many well-cut coats, tailored suits and sports
three-piece outfits. AH the recent arrivals
from trips oversea have brought back heather
and other Scotch mixtures of woollens for
winter wear. Mrs. Russell Clarke, one of
the recently-returned, wore a flowered ninon
frock beneath a coat in blends of fawn and
brown tweed, topped by a beige felt hat.
Mrs. O. Ireland, who was with her Com-
mander, was similarly coated. Trimmings
made by fringing out the fabric were popu-
lar, and strappings of leather were close
rivals.
Mrs. Gerald Bacon, now of New
York, who was known in the theatrical
world here as Lilian Myers, wore frock and
millinery that blended nigger-brown and
bois-de-rose. Another New Yorker present
was Mrs. G. C. Penboss, who mounted a
blue-and-pink-flowered toque above a squirrel
coat and a floral velvet gown. Her daughter
Queenie wore a charming jumper suit of
blue-grey with silver stitchings, her mastic
felt hat bearing the same adornment. Jean
Gabb’s wine-red sports suit was diversified
with bands of black and white; Meryl Skog-
lin, a Maorilander, was a study in blue and
biscuit tones, and Mrs. Harry Baillieu’s coat
of sandalwood shade featured a fanlike side-
drapery weighted with darker fur. Mr. and
Mrs. E. .T. Rigby, Mrs. W. M. Robins, in
black and white, and the T. M. Brennans
were among those who enjoyed the sunshine
on the lawn.
The Big Business ball, an annual charity
affair of five years’ standing, had Edward
Berry, of Henry Berry and Co., as hon.
organiser, the president being W. D. Disher.
The principal feature of the decorations in
the Town Hall was an eruption of gay striped
lawn umbrellas, which cropped up amid the
blossoms and plants on the stage, appeared
among palms around the hall, and sheltered
sitters-out in the galleries. Raffles helped to
make money. The president of the Women’s
Hospital, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, thanked
the Big Businessers for their assistance. Her
deep blue gown glowed with sapphire sparkles
and she received a posy of pansies from Mrs.
Disher, who was attired in primrose georg-
ette. Mildred McKenzie, one of the two hon.
secs., flitted about in black and gold, and her
co-worker, Lorna Findley, sported a glisten-
ing white robe.
The Hawthorn Town Hall gleamed in
tints of gold to bronze for its civic ball.
Mayor and Mayoress Ward, she in magpie
raiment, stood amid a forest of palms to
extend welcoming hands. Mrs. Stuart Cal-
der, their daughter, wore a frock of forget-
me-not blue of uneven hemline. Mrs. .T. G.
Latham, one of the guests of honor, had
blurred pink roses set in gold lame. There
were nine debs., most of them in fluffy,
grilled frocks.
St. Vincent’s Hospital’s funds were aug-
mented by a hop engineered by the Southern
District Branch of the institution’s auxiliary
and held at Bibron’s last week. Mrs. I’. J.
Esmonde, Mayoress of South Melbourne, was
president of the organising committee, and
Marie Fitzpatrick was hon. sec.
Knight Robert Best had the chair at the
meeting, in the foyer of His Majesty’s of
admirers of our most celebrated actress, con-
vened to put things in train for the presenta-
tion of a portrait of Nellie. Stewart to the
National Gallery. The idea emanated from
Mrs. Maurice MacGillicuddy and Mrs. F.
Cleary, who are operating as joint lion. secs.
As a result of their activities £37 has already
been collected in shilling subscriptions. It
was decided to have a portrait painted by a
leading Australian artist, and to make
a gift to “Sweel Nell” as well. Most of
those who were invited and couldn't attend
sent cheques, and Mr. Capper, the treasurer,
has close on £5O in hand.
The Model Homes Exhibition of the Allied
Societies of Architects, Engineers. Chemists
and Surveyors is overtaxing the passenger-
lifts at the A.S. building in Collins-place;
but the women who flock there get the impres-
sion rather of a jumble of materials, with very
few suggestions in the way of home design.
However, there are daily demonstra-
tions in cooking and the use of laundry
machinery. Some beautiful panelling in
Australian timbers is on view, and a novelty
is the tapestry brick, made in various colors.
Another innovation is photographic trans-
parencies for the decoration of fanlights or
the glass panels of interior or exterior doors.
“A-liunting we will go” is the watchword
in society-horsey circles just now, and the
four hunt clubs are in full cry. The Mel-
bourne Club opened its season on Saturday
in glorious bright weather. Riders, horses
and hounds seemed all agog with excite-
ment as they boarded tin; special train for
Berwick, from which railway station the
hunt started. Local huntsmen and women,
children on shaggy ponies and a rearguard
of motorists were in waiting to participate.
The Findon Harriers, who had a wet day
for their first outing of the season, hunt
over tin 1 Mernda district, and the Yarra
Glen and Lilydale clubs chase Reynard in
the country round Cooinbe Cottage. The
Oakland Hunt has a district of its own.
The executive of the Women’s Hospital
lined up around a four o’clock brew on Fri-
day afternoon to say good-bye to its presi-
dent, Mrs. Herbert Brookes, banding over
as mementoes of her stewardship a blue
pochette and clock and a gold pencil. Flowers
accompanied the gifts. Mrs. Brookes, who
must go into exile to support her husband
in his job of Commissioner-General for Aus-
tralia in the U.S.A. for two years, expressed
appreciation of the help given her by the
committee, the auxiliaries and the hospital
staff during her reign as president. Prior
to this hospital gathering Mrs. Brookes par-
took of a good-bye luncheon at the Lyceum
Club, engineered by the N.C.W.
Canberra lias had its first cabaret enter-
tainment, held at the Hotel Kurrajong It
was organised to provide funds for the Con-
vent of the Good Samaritans, and attracted
a crowd from Queanbeyan, and other neigh-
boring districts. Mrs. A. J. Cahill was
president and Mrs. W. Corrigan hon. treas.
Bridge was played and there was music.
This is Mrs. 11. 11. Smith, of South Yarra,
who shares'
with her hus-
band, ions a
member of the
Council, an in-
terest in the
Sutherland
Homes for des-
titute children.
They can claim
credit for I the
success of the
recent appeal
for funds to
rebuild the in-
stitution. The
lady, pictured
here by Lafay-
ette, is also a
good friend to
the Newsboys’
Club, and de-
votes a lot of
her time to
stitching gar-
ments for her proteges and their brothers
and sisters.
Pavlova’s show at His Majesty’s on Satur-
day night linked many nations and periods.
The dressing and re-dressing alone was suf-
ficient to constitute a good night’s work for
the company, which had gone through a
matinee the same afternoon, and one won-
dered how the graceful Anna managed to
be still smiling and gliding tirelessly when
the curtain finally descended on her, tripping
a gavotte in a primrose directoire robe and
poke bonnet. The clothes of the “Amarilla”
ballet were of the Watteau period, and the
lovely hooped satin gowns of the ladies were
matched in effectiveness by the ruffles and
embroidered-silk suits of their partners.
An Oriental interlude introduced Japanese
maids in splendid kimonos, and a Hindu
wedding scene included a bride and bride-
groom who veiled their faces wdth dangling
strands of white blossoms. A bevy of
Nautch girls clad in wonderful glistening
fabrics and wearing necklets and anklets of
beads that clashed rhythmically provided an
alluring spectacle, and in another scene the
gracefully-draped tunics of ancient Greece
were sported. The stylishly-dressed portion
of the afidience mostly favored black velvet
wraps with white fur collars, and there
were a few glistening caps to be seen. Mrs.
Plunkett’s pink brocade toque was a relative
of those aired in the Indian interlude on
the stage. Mrs. James Purves and Valerie
were in the r.s. Mrs. H. M. Hewlett, in
grey with moonlight embroidery; Mrs. Geoff-
rey Syme. in black and white; Mrs. W.
Merry! Mrs. Charles Wen man and Mrs.
Geoffrey Haggard were in the audience.
The Y.W.C.A., which wants to establish
clubrooms in Canberra, has enlisted the sym-
pathies of the Commissioners, who have pro-
mised financial aid on condition that build-
ing operations start in September. So the
association is holding out its hand for
fIHKX), two-tliirds of which will go to the new
branch and the surplus to Melbourne and
tlie Richmond hostel. Mayoress Luxton
presided at the preliminary meeting, the
Irvine lady, Dr. Georgina Sweet, Jean
Stevenson of the Y.W.C.A. and Eleanor Hin-
der, publicity secretary of the appeal, speak-
ing to the motion. A fortnight’s canvass will
be conducted from June 24 to July 7 by a
hundred women.
Here is a Jack Cato picture of Eileen,
daughter of the Joseph Connollys, of Elstern-
wick, in her
bridal array.
Sh e recently
married
Charles M .
Lane. Just
back from
their honey-
moon, the
n e w 1 y - weds
are forced t>>
go boarding,
since the build-
ing of their
home is held
up by the
strike. Mr.
Lane, an ex-
student of
Mclbou r n e
Gram m a r
School, has
earned laurels.
as a runner,
and represented Australia at the Olympic
sports a few years ago.
Guests at a tea-party hostessed by Mrs.
A. G. Randall at Menzies’ the other day
carried home a bit of wedding cake to
sleep on, for it was an after-the-honeymoon
gathering in honor of her daughter, Mrs Eric
Duckett. The bride’s frock of chanel-red
satin, with gleaming waist buckle, har-
monised with the carnations on the taoie-
clotlis. Mrs. Randall wore sable furs with
a black crepe satin gown, topped by a chiffon
velvet hat. Mrs. Edward Duckett was in
black supplemented with furs.
Pretty Iris Connolly had a luncheon party
at Menzies’ during the week which enabled
her cousin, Adele Etheridge, to flash a
brand-new sparkler on the admiring assem-
blage of girls. Miss Etheridge has given
her promise to Cecil Champagne, imported
to this country to assist in the Thornycroft
enterprise. He is a nephew of General
Champagne. The wedding will take place
towards the end "of the year, and the young
fouple will later take boat for England,
where the family will welcome its latest
member.
The after-the-winter sales are on, though
winter lias scarcely established itself. The
price of sports suits has been dropping a
guinea a day in one emporium, and hopes
are rife that some fine morning there will
be an invitation to take them gratis. Undies
maintain their values, but dresses and wraps
of all descriptions are wonderfully cheap,
and furs have come down wdth a thump.
Mollie Harrison and Marian Widdis gave
a vocal recital at the Assembly Hall last
week and met with a good reception.
Numerous friends of the youthful s.ng.rs
rallied to give them encouragement, and
called at the florist’s on the way. Both girls
are pupils of Madame Alberto Zelman, and
they sang operatic excerpts and numbers by
Brahms, Cesar Franck and other great com-
posers. Miss Harrison, a light soprano, was
in fluffy tulle frills and taffeta of roseate
hue, and Miss Widdis, a mezzo-soprano, wore
silvery sequins on her black frock. Elsie
Fraser, the accompanist, played some solos.
The general atmosphere of Clara South-
ern’s show, held at the studio of Mrs. Gib-
son, better known in the photographic world
as Marietta, was spring-like. Bush with
wmttle abloom, plum-trees in blossom and
willows in their earliest foliage met the eye
everywhere. The Barrett lady, who was a
fellow student with Miss Southern (she’s
now Mrs. Flinn) at the National Gallery in
the days of the late Folingsby, launched the
exhibition. Mrs. Flinn, who said her thanks
in flowers, received greetings and compliments
from Mrs. Tweddle, Mrs. Douglas Richard-
son and other painters. Many pictures bore
the “sold” sign at the end of the afternoon.
The Misses G. M. and F. L. Davies and
their sister, Mrs. R. E. Hamilton, are show-
ing at the Arts and Crafts Society’s rooms
the use to which raffia may be put in bag-
making. Raffia in sombre tones is woven
into shopping bags, and worked thereon are
gay flowers and birds in stitches that re-
semble the French embroidery known as
petit point. One of the talented trio special-
ises in hand-woven woollen bags designed to
match tweed winter suits or coats. Miss G.
M. Davies is a potter, and she exhibits jugs,
basins, cigarette-holders and such trifles
quaintly decorated with birds and animals.
Some of Ivit Turner's hand-wrought metal-
work rounds out the show.
A second knighthood has come to the well-
known family of Stawell. The first went
to the late William Stawell, Chief Justice
of Vic., and the second is a King’s-birthday
gift to his son, Dr. Richard Stawell, of Kew,
a member of the Medical Advisory Com-
mittee, who has given the Commonwealth
much assistance in connection with war
pensions.
At the time of writing Digger Edward
Morley, Honorary Minister, was so seri-
ously ill that there was little hope of his re-
covery. Ilis popularity was indicated by
inquiries from all parties. Heart trouble
caused by war experiences worried him
nearly a year ago, but he recovered and
seemed to be fairly fit when the McPherson
Cabinet was formed in November last. He,
however, refused to take a salaried job in
the Ministry lest lie might not be up to the
mark. After training in the Permanent
Artillery he did well as a storekeeper before
he served in the Great War.
A-former Sydney resident, Mrs. G. C. Pen-
boss, and her daughter Queenie, who left
New York for a world tour in October,
stayed in Melbourne for some weeks. Since
leaving Australia 20 years ago Mrs. Penboss
revisited N. S. Wales in 1013, and was back
in IJ.S.A. at the beginning of the Groat
War. She became president of the Austra-
lian Soldiers’ Reception Committee. Every
Australian who went to New York was made
welcome at the Penboss home, and when
the travellers landed in Australia, at Bris-
bane, there were many ex-soldiers to greet
them.
Councillor Baron Marks, a member of the
first Australian inter-State bowling team to
go oversea, though now well advanced in
years, likes his chance of being selected as
one of the Vie. team for the coming tour.
Mr. Marks, who is president of the St.
Kilda Bowling Club, owns the finest collec-
tion of stamps this side of the equator, an
inheritance from his brother Jack, who pur-
sued the hobby for 30 years.
After five years spent in the F.M.S., Mrs.
F. 1,. Harding, who grew up in our Western
District, is bringing her captain home on a
visit. They will step ashore from the Nieuw
Zeeland and spend the first portion of a
year’s furlough visiting old friends before
resuming their journey to England, which
will be by way of Canada.
The Children’s Courts at Footscray and
St. Kilda have now women magistrates, who
made their first appearances on the Bench
last week. Mrs. E. Dare, J.P., who officiates
at Footscray, is an Englishwoman who has
been here over 10 years, and has interested
herself in charity work, being an executive
officer of the Central Council of Benevolent
Societies. Mrs. C. 0. White, J.P., who deals
out justice to juveniles at St. Kilda, is
interested in the Baby Welfare Association,
the Bush Nurses and kindergarten work.
Stanley Parker, not yet 20, whose draw-
ings are beginning to appear in some oi our
periodicals, is wearing a smile of satisfac-
tion. He did a portrait study of Pavlova
and had the courage to submit it for the
dancer’s approval. It found favor in her
sight. “Come each evening and watch the
performance,” sin* said ; “it should help. And
show me more of your work.”
The Alfred Hospital nursing staff has
gained another society recruit—Nancy Laid-
law. Before leaving Lornach, her home at
Maryborough, there was a gay week of par-
ties in her honor.
Winifred Collins, who came this way from
the Apple Isle about 15 months ago, is in the
cast of the Repertory Society’s next offering.
She is a dark-eyed English lass whose
parents settled on the north-west coast of
the Speck about seven or eight years ago.
She had some experience in Olive Wilton’s
amateur company, playing important roles
in ’ The Admirable Crichton” and “Mile-
stones,” and later was a member of the llo-
hnrt Rep. Soc. under the same guidance.
Off-stage Miss Collins is occupied with secre-
tarial work at the Princess Mary Club.
Madame Joy Macarden, who is to join the
staff of the Uni. Con. as an instructor in
singing, has made appearances at the Paris
Opera House and Covent Garden, and is an
accomplished linguist. She will be accom-
panied by her husband, a doctor of medicine
and science, who intends while in Australia
to gather material for a book on the abos.
The Macardens are due to arrive by the
French liner Commissaire Ramel.
Dr. Kathleen O’Keefe has taken up her
abode here, and intends to stay some time.
Over two years ago the young lady, who is
a graduate of Cork Uni., established prac-
tices at Fingal and St. Helens, in the Speck,
and rather overtaxed her energies. She has
come over to rest.


The Latest in
Diamond Wrist Watches
The wristlet watch illustrated has a diamond-set fly-up protector
over the dial, operated by pressure. The ld-jewel lever movement,
is the production oj the. famous “Longines” Watch Factory and is
fully guaranteed by Drummonds. Illustrated Watch Catalogue on
application.
Included in the Firm’s selection are some of the
choicest watches that modern skill can design. These
may be had in Platinum or White Gold, set with
specially-selected Gems. Many of the designs offered
are quite exclusive, and are fitted with silk cord
or flexible diamond-set bracelets.
The movements are of outstanding quality and perfect
workmanship, ensuring lifelong service and constant
dependability.
Diamond-set Wrist Watches range from £l5 upwards.
An inspection is invited, with the assurance that no
obligation is incurred.
Sint Brummonb & Cc
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
COME NORTH
Where the Sun is Always Shining and the Sky
is Clear
WORLD TRAVELLERS Say: North Queensland is Fairyland. Scenery
Rivals the Best Anywhere. Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook
Channel Surpass in intrinsic Beauty the most-famed Waterways of
the World.
CALM, CORAL SEAS, ISLAND-GEMMED, REEF-SHELTERED.
Vast Pastoral Plains, Wonderful Artesian Bore Waters.
d
BA I! RON GORGE, CAIRNS RAILWAY, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage.
Inquire regarding Bookings jor Railways “RESO” Winter Tours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free jrom: —
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C. TROEDSON,
Director
Four Speed
Advantages
[T wo High Speeds, Standard Gear Shift]
THRIVING with four speeds forward,
you have two high speeds instead
of one. The gear shift is standard —you
start in second, advance to third, and
then to fourth. First is a reserve speed,
instantly available, but seldom used.
Four speeds forward give a new thrill to
motoring—which we invite you to enjoy.
Model 827 Five- Passenger Sedan
d
&AAAAM
• jußaaopataiai
AAIAA
An INVITATION —ln territories where
Graham- Paige motor cars are not now ade-
quately represented there is an opportunity
for responsible business men, who are in-
terested in the exceptional possibilities this
oew line offers, to obtain the franchise.
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA MAUGHAN-THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY.. LTD
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD. *
£AAMAM-PAl££


Under'
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.R
George V
CHAMPAGNE <
Mdleidsiecl
Rnniß
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mita J
SYDNEY
v^.
CMAMPACHE
'J»arl£sllcidsie*>
Reims
"Nb
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEAR.S OLD,
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
rAlert Attention to Your Needs...
AMD THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurean, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
m
181
&
y 7o%^
33
Also Hosiery, Woollens, etc. Cash’s Names are
unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits. Any name woven in fast color
Will Last
Fora
Lifetime
s
a
Saves
Loss and
Trouble
*‘A Few Stitches and They’re on”
(oi^WclZicunA'
Actual Size, Style No. 6
The Prices are Moderate
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
sold by leading drapers.
Write for Name Stylo Circular fo
J. & J CASH Pty Ltd
8S Cubitc Street. Richmond
Melbourne
d
naMEs!
lIIBIIIM
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPR
HEEL
SILIC HOSIERY
The Conference of Jewish Women, which
spread its arguments over a week—the
mostly-malc Zionists had been satisfied with
three days—touched upon a delicate subject
when someone brought up the question of
the unmarried clergy. It is almost, although
not quite, a religious tradition that the min-
ister in charge of any Jewish congregation
must be married; it is sufficiently a tradition
for a breach to shock some of the ultra-
orthodox brought up with Eastern-European
ideas. Only a couple of years ago, in Hol-
land, there was a great outcry because a
minister appointed on the understanding that
lie would find a bride within 12 months had
failed to do so; it was.decided to give him
another month. Although Australian Jewry
is inclined to get away from such traditions,
there are only two unmarried Jewish min-
isters in Australia —Rabbi Brodie, of Mel-
bourne, and Rabbi Kirsner, of Eastern Sub-
urbs (Sydney). And neither has given any
evidence of matrimonial intentions.
Whatever of luxury may enwrap the Pal-
estine of the future, the Palestine of the
present is a place of simple living and hard
work, says Mrs. Mark Ettinger, wife of the
Zionist enthusiast who came to Sydney for
the recent conference. A tremendous urge
to farm-life seems to have swept the younger
generation of Jews. Young men and young
women plan to go on the land, and, with
Jewish thoroughness, many from England,
Canada and Eastern Europe take courses
in agriculture before they leave their native
land. The shops are very simple, and dis-
play nothing in the way of costly clothing;
the houses are built of the white stone that
is quarried in the hills around Jerusalem,
and in strong lights shows a faint blush.
Of this stone the University on the hill
above the golden city is composed. Lord
Balfour, who did so much to make the Zionist
movement possible, took a special journey to
throw open the door to this new realm of
learning. The States and Canada contri-
bute largely to its staff, as they do to the
staffs of the schools. It is an ideal beckons
these teachers and not the pay, for many of
them leave highly-salaried positions to teach
the children of their own race in their
restored land.
A renaissance of Hebrew art and letters
is already blossoming shyly. Hebrew is
spoken more or less fluently by all, and the
Ilabimah, a group of actors as famous to
the .Tew as the Abbey players were to the
Irish, produce with an absence of scenic
effects and a love of the sheer beauty of
words—chiefly works famous in Jewry, but
which the Gentile has no chance to hear.
This body of players can command absorbed
houses in Moscow, in Paris, in New York;
but it has constituted itself a sort of un-
official national theatre of Palestine. Then
there is the Workers’ Theatre, whose artists
are “wage-plugs” by day. Great Jewish musi-
cians and players come to the amphitheatre
cut in the hillside, with the Dead Sea lying
far, below on one side and Jerusalem of
the white stone houses and the many gar-
dens on the other. Heifetz made a special
journey to play here, and one wonders what
that magic bow so charged with the forces
of. air and sky and water spoke to the
ring upon ring of gazing humans.
Official Palestine is British. There is a
High Commissioner and his wife and a
Lord Chancellor and his lady. Garden par-
ties are the perennial official entertainment.
The cinema is here as everywhere. Lawyers
are a-plenty owing to the intricacies of’the
Turkish land laws. The two big public
works of the moment are the new harbor and
the extraction of chemical wealth from the
Dead Sea. Private home-improvements are
never ceasing. The leisurely Turkish cus-
tom was to drape the home around a court-
yard. This is a waste of ground, of time
and of material, and the new inhabitants
are building in a more modern, less pic-
turesque but more compact fashion.
Mr. _ Ettinger was born and grew up in
Palestine. He studied law in England, and
was in charge of the Palestine Pavilion
at Wembley. He and Mrs. Ettinger will
make Sydney their home for some time.
In congratulation to King George, the
A.J.C. slipped a race meeting into the calen-
dar. The vice-regals attended in foKce, and
the day was bluely-grey with just enough nip in
it to make the wearing of the new fur coat
the pleasure it ought to be.
At last inter-State travellers can know
the joys of travelling cleanly by motor-vessel.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. is wearing the
Manunda, the first oil-burner on the run,
like a feather in its cap. And indeed the
five-decker, with its accommodation for 312
passengers (first and second), is as cosy as
anything in the Europe-to-Australia trade.
Blue and vellum are the dominant colors in
the upholstery and furnishings. The big
dining-room, capable of seating 220 pas-
sengers, is furnished in these tones, and
from the stairway it looks like a pool of
light fed by innumerable jets of electrics
from ceiling and walls. In the smoke-room
is rich panelling of Indian laurel, and the
dome is ornamented with Australian scenes.
The music-room is gay with loose-covers;
electric fires glow everywhere, and women
passengers are heartened by an electric-iron
a nd a room to use it in. There are de luxe
suites of two bedrooms, sitting-room and
bathroom, suave with blue eiderdowns, bur-
gundy hangings and sycamore panelling. As
for galleys, there is a mile of them, all
marble and nickel; and immense stoves—
regular giants’ ovens! There’s a sports
deck on which real tennis can be played;
and amplifiers for tin l strains of the electric-
piano which will supply the jazz for dancers
at night.
General-manager F. Bridgman and his
lady did the honors at a house-warming on
Friday; and Sydney-manager E. B. Ware-
ham, Mrs. Wareham and daughter Elsie re-
ceived the guests at an afternoon party. J.
11. Gosse, a director, and his wife and a
Naval nephew from Jervis Bay received in
their handsome suite —this Gosse is a cousin
of the famous Sir Edmund, librarian to the
House of Lords. (It was to this South Aus-
tralian cousin , the man of letters dedicated
his life of Congreve.) Another director
aboard was knight Lancelot Stirling; and if
this Letter had to choose one member of
Australian Parliaments for a prize for pic-
turesque personality it knows it would linger
long over the entry of this fine old S. Aus-
tralian—he has been president of the Leg.
Council for 28 years, and won the hurdle
championship of England while he was at
Cambridge 59 years ago.
The Society of Women Writers lured Lady
de Chair to the weekly lunch at the Dun-
gowan last week. With the Vice-reine came
Brig.-General Anderson’s wife, and daughter
Bcthia. Vice-president Mrs. Aronson and
secretary Marjorie Wells met the guests at
the outer door with suitable floral offerings.
It was the leaky end of the wettest week-
end this year, and there was a rubber-lined
smell about the assembly. Then, too, the
electrics went off, and the sweets were eaten
in semi-darkness. But nobody minded, and
in reply to the speech of president Mrs.
Bavcrstock her Ex. paid compliments to the
penwomen and to Australia —the land of so
many opportunities that she was sure if she
had suddenly to earn a living she would find
a job of some sort.
It was a happy idea to hold the dance for
the Montefiore Home just at the end of the
conferences of the Zionists and the Jewish
Women. The result was a crowded Went-
worth, and because the night was dark and
stormy, the management presented each
guest with an umbrella—so tiny and gay,
it was simply a provocation to the sun to
shine. Under these, while the band played
“It Ain’t Gonna Rain No More,” men and
women, girls and boys stepped out. Judge
and Mrs. Cohen were the guests of honor,
and Mrs. Cohen, in black lace, smiled greet-
ing to five debs.
Herewith handsome Aletta Lewis, just now
painting hard in Samoa. Two years ago
Aletta came to
Sydney from
Kent, in Eng-
-1 a n d, and
startled artistic
Sydney wi th
her impres-
sionistic work
which, what-
ever else cri-
tics might say
about it, show-
ed force and
o r i g i nality.
But it was
the beauty of
nature and
native types
that attracted
the English
artist to the
South Seas.
In October
Aletta comes
back with her
six months’ work. Meantime she makes
Tutuila her headquarters.
At last comes a gallant polo player who
pays tribute to the beautiful Countess after
whom the Dudley Cup is named. The sad-
lived Countess was a great lover of polo,
and in the chorus of this year’s Dudley Cup
anthem, written by Dr. Lethbridge, captain
of Narrandera, the players are asked to
drink a toast and shatter a glass to her
glory. Here’s one verse and the chorus,
which will be sung for the first time at the
Extra Chukka Ball on July 4: —
Beats not heart can forget
Thrills of our hard-fought games,
Years pass swiftly, and yet
We will recall their names—
Men we gripped by the hand,
Caring not who had won,
Earning their name for playing the game,
Till the last sand has run.
And the chorus:
North, South and West we have gathered up;
Drink, drink to the Call of the Dudley Cup!
Drink, drink to the best of all games to play,
And a toast let us keep—to the Countess (drink
deep 1) who gave this day.
There are now five chances to one against
this Letter ever seeing the giraffe on his
native heath. For the P. and O. branch
has taken five of its good old round-the-Cape
tortoises off the run, remodelled them, put
oil-burners into them and turned them into
Suoss .Canal hares. “Speed and three farthings
a mile.” is the watchword of the new service,
of which the Baradine is the finest expres-
sion so far. Homely comfort rather than
exotic luxury is the keynote. Men and
women can fraternise in its smoke-room ; and
there’s a cosy little retreat reserved for
woman when the male of the species proves
a bore or an irritant. This has a piano
and lots of comfortable chairs done in Pekin
blue to tone with the curtains. The carpet,
like all others on the ship, is buff, edged with
the same rich blue. A ball for the Day
Nurseries introduced the quality of its decks
to Sydney dancers. These fine remodelled
boats, incidentally, will pick up the one
mail dropped by the old services between
Australia and London in the summer months.
Anna Pavlova renewed one great friend-
ship in Sydney, and that was with the pretty
and fragile-looking Indian wife of Bishop
Arundale, who is making another visit to
Australian Theosophical headquarters. This
little lady is a clever exponent of movement
and the plastic arts, and the dancing star
spent most of her spare time with her
friends at Clifton.
Pavlova’s company did not leave Sydney
without the blooming of romance; and one
fine day Bishop Arundale, of the Liberal
Catholic Church, tied the knot that binds
Cleo Nordi, a pretty member of the general
ballet, to Walford Hyden, joint conductor
with Efrem Kurtz. The wedding was very
quiet.
In remembrance of his 16 years as rector
of St. John the Baptist’s, Canberra, Canon
Ward is having installed a window of
stained glass, collected from the ruined
churches on the battlefields in France. Canon
Ward, who spent three years in France with
the A.I.F. (incidentally, he has the M.C.),
leaves for England shortly. His predecessor
in Canberra is in England in charge of
Stoke Poges, where Gray heard the curfew
ring.
Popular song-girl Mary McCormick has
gone to Auckland to tell her people all about
her engagement. The man is Frederick Jen-
kins, and the two met when Mary was put-
ting the weight of her contralto into the
chorus of the Melba Opera Co. Mary, who
is a daughter of Judge McCormick, of Auck-
land, came to Sydney Con. some years ago
to study singing. She is a niece of the late
Q. L. Deloitte.
Mr. and Mrs. Ken Cunningham motored
from their far-away home at Curlwaa on a
honeymoon jaunt to Sydney. They return
by way of Leeton. Mrs. Cunningham is the
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James Gor-
don, of that irrigation area; and now this
Letter supposes it will have to give away a
secret and tell that James Gordon is “Jim
Grahame” when he gets a pen and spreads
out his poet’s license. And Mrs. Ken Cun-
ningham was the inspiration of her daddy’s
well-known “Our Jeannie Comes in Smiling.”
The Commercial Travellers are parking the
body in the bag on .Tune 8. and will chase
the rosy hours in David Jones’s ballroom.
The ball is to be an annual affair, and is
the show-bloom, as it were, that replaces the
home- or cottage-garden gathering hitherto
held in the club rooms.
The King’s School Old Boys Dance will
be held at the Ambassadors on July 9; and
three, nights after King’s—on the 12th—016
Newingtonians will hold the Ambassadors.
Now that the landing of Moir and Owen at'
Cape Don lighthouse has made far-flung
beacons a fashionable subject, let this Let-
ter introduce its own pet lighthouse. It
is on Maatsuyker Island, off Tasmania’s
rugged coast, and of all Australian lights
is nearest neighbor of the Antarctic. This
Letter’s last mail brought a delightful little
picture of life on Maatsuyker:—
Our small island is about 800 feet high, and
there is no level ground anywhere; it was neces-
sary to quarry out the side of the hill to build
the houses and the road that climbs to them. Our
mail arrives in fair weather once a month; if the
weather is bad it takes, much longer. Once we
were shut off from the world for over two months —
from Dec. 9 to Feb. 21. The mail is brought from
Sunawanna by a fisherman ; and through these months
whenever we sighted what we thought was a boat
coming around South-East Cape, the nine' inhabitants
unanimously rushed with their mail to the wire shed
(for the boat that brings in the mail takes our
letters out) and anxiously watched. There were
eight false alarms before our Great Event really
happened.
But, fine or foul, there is always plenty to do on
Maatsuyker. The three men work from nine till twelve
putting the station in order. In the afternoon boot-
mending and gardening and domestic jobs keep their
hands busy. Then at night there is the tower,
which rises above a sheer cliff-side. The head keeper
stands the first watch, from sunset to 9.30; his
assistants alternately keep the other two —9.30 to
2 a.m. and 2 a.m. to sunrise. We make our own bread ;
and in the afternoon the three ladies —with three
children —sew and talk together in one or other
of the houses, or in fine weather walk around the
road. We read or listen-in at night.
In the summer evenings we all play games, gener-
ally cricket, Ladies v. Gentlemen, and to make it
more even Jean Johnston plays for the Gents and
my brother Charlie for the Ladies. Of course, we
have Tests, and this summer the Ladies won three
out of the five. True, there is no level ground on
the island, so the road is our pitch, and part of
the field is up the hill and the rest of it is down.
In the winter —that’s when our mail is so precious!
For week after week it is impossible to go out at
all. Last year it rained every day for 90 days, and
on mo. t days the winds howled and whistled and
moaned up from the Antarctic, and roaring seas
thundered below.
Mountains thickly covered with scrub rise almost
straight up from the water’s edge. I am sending
3 photograph. It shows the quarters; and over
the last the top of the tower can be seen.
Eye-man Henry Corbin is back in his own
cheerfully-appointed socket in Macquarie-
street after a sort of ’busman’s holiday in
India, where he has been visiting the ophthal-
mic hospitals. At the G. 0.11. of Madras,
where he found a genial Irishman—Colonel-
Surgeon Wright, from Dublin —in command,
operating work starts regularly at 6.30, and
it would need to, for in 14 years the monthly
record for cataract removals has never
dropped below a thousand. Every sort of
trouble possible to the human eye is seen
in the native hospitals, not only in people
advanced in years, but in the quite young—
much of it the result of the “cures” of the
native medicine-man.
At 4.30 the service begins to live socially
■—and to talk of home. For it is on the
English villa at the end of the 15 or so years
of civil or military service that every exile
has his eyes fixed. To retire at 40 or so
on a pension of a thousand a year and buy
oneself a foothold in Ilarley-street is the
big hope. And quite an accepted fact of
the street is that its eye, skin and liver
specialists are drawn from the men who have
served in the East. English Madras dines
at 8.30, and at 25 past the hour the
bar of the Madras Club is still animated.
Then a rush for cars and the home bungalow,
where native valets, the most adept in the
world, can bath and dress a man in four
minutes.
The original Adam in them not quite
macadamised, the members of the Madras Club
have set aside a roomy bungalow in their
grounds for the ladies; but the big mixed
club is the Adyar. Here the sexes mingle,
and a man has only to sit long enough for
the whole of the two thousand Who’s Who
in Madras to come into his vision.
For the first time a gramophone record
has been made of the G.P.S. boat-races.
Bruce H'utton was responsible for the idea
and for the characteristic chaff and back-
chat which the old Parramatta hears be-
tween the eachinnation of motor-horns,
megaphones and the human voice in its raw
state. In the second half of the record the
river noises are the real thing; in the first
half the din is a clever mixture of the river
and the studio.


Keep Fit
during the r
winter months /
A few minutes' exhilarating exercise
with a Sandow Developer or Chest
Expander before your shower these
mornings will give you a new zest in
life, and keep you fit as a fiddle during
the winter months.
SANDOW’S
DEVELOPERS.
Popular Combination Model, set 19/6
Improved Combination model,
set 27/6
PATENT CHEST
EXPANDERS.
One Strand 5/6
Two Strand 8/6
Three Strand .... 10/6
Four Strand 14/6
( Carriage extra .)
X
The Famous
“LIGHTNING” GLOVE
Stadium Professional Model, selected
napa leather, laced palm, padded
wrist; a beautiful Glove. 6oz. .
or Boz., set of 4 42/0
As used at the Sydney Stadium and
exclusively by the Naval Dept, and
Military Forces.
PUNCHING BALLS.
pear
shape
Army Ball, swinging,
superior welted seams.
22/6, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-, 37/6
Expert Ball, double end, double
stitched, very light, regulation size.
22/6, 27/6, 32/6
Specially Selected
HOCKEY STICKS
“Hurricane” Driver, Double Rubber,
cane handle, two-color binding,
with tape reinforcement . 20/-
“Perfection” Driver, specially selected,
Double Rubber, cane handle, two-
color binding, special tape re-
inforcement . . 22/6
“The Classic” Driver, Treble Spring
Handle, rubber grip, surgical-tape
reinforcement. Truly a classic
stick 30/-
IVrite for a copy of the New Winter Sports
Catalogue. Post free.
(Carriage paid on all Goods except where specified
otherwise.')
Justifiably claim it to be the finest |
Racket Value in all Australia To-day J
'/£>
* N
Va
Mi
7
<?>
’COURT CRAFT
QUALITY! CRAFTSMANSHIP! VALUE!
A leader in its own class —faithfully serving the purpose for which it is intended—
the perfect racket for the younger player and the tennis beginner. Its points of
superiority are its wonderful dependability and beautiful craftsmanship. Made
from selected English Ash, it has bevelled frame, with shoulders doubly strengthened
by an inlay of rawhide, and extra-strong gut binding. Perfectly true in weight,
shape and balance. Strung with dependable gut. Capable of honest
and lasting service, it is supreme value at
241-
■ 'i
I^/
TENNIS FIBRE SUIT
CASE
For the Week-end. Holds your
racket, playing gear and personal
needs. Sizes, 28Jin. x 1 o Jin. i fl/C
x sJin. Special value at ivr'O
TENNIS VISORS
A new Green Transparent
Tennis Eyeshade, with
headstrap and elastic ..
adjustment band . . 1'
The New ‘Zephyr’
Aluminium Racket
Press
Takes only a second to fix.
Equal pressure all .
round the frame .... O' O
‘CLASSIC” TENNIS NETS
Regxilation Length, 42ft., Steam Tarred by a patented process. The
graduated double-meshing of the d cubic, top is a special feature of the
“ Classic ” Nets. Guaranteed Handmade.
Section
Shorn
Mesh
Tennis Net, double top, light weight Italian
Hemp, first-quality heavy white canvas top
band, flexible steel wire cord headline.
Depth, 2ft. 6in
45/-
Tennis Net, double top, Italian Hemp, first-
quality heavy white canvas top band, flexible
steel wire cord headline. Depth,
2ft. 6in
50/-
Tennis Net, double top, medium weight Italian
Hemp, first-quality heavy white canvas top
band, flexible steel wire cord headline
Depth, 2ft. 6in
57/6
Tennis Net, double top, heavy weight Italian
Hemp, first-quality heavy white canvas top band,
flexible steel wire cord
headline. Depth, 2ft. 6in.,
65/-,
3ft.,
70/-
OTHERS AT 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
Mich Simmons’ Tennis Catalogue, the most complete and, comprehensive of its hind,
should he in the hands of every Club Secretary and player. Post free.
MICK SIMMONS LTD
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“Acknowledged Leaders in the Sport World."


Tshe
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
*•**4
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World .
A
Here s
Relief!
if Cream of Yeast doesn’t stop your cold quicker
than anything else you’ve ever tried —the package
will cost you nothing / Cream of Yeast drives out
colds by (1) Attacking the Cause, and (2) By
Increasing the system’s Power of Resistance. Directly
you take Cream of Yeast you begin to feel better,
and you go right along feeling better till the cold
stops, and with it the aches, pains and feeling of
lethargy stop too! You can try it at our risk
for we know what Cream of Yeast will do. .Just
get a 1/11 package from the nearest chemist, take
as directed, and if not delighted with the results
you can have your money back! Be sure you get
genuine Cream of Yeast—the world’s best tonic and
re-invigorator. Largest Sales. Best and Quickest
Results. No Harmful Drugs. This way will stop
your cold!
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all High-class Chemists.
CAUSTIC SODA
(E LECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID—32 per cent. Na2o.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
In 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne*
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
THE CRESSBROOK PARK SADDLE
**•’**»
A HANDSOME SADDLE
DESIGNED TO GIVE
INCREASED COMFORT
AND SECURITY TO
THE RIDER.
THE “CRESSBROOK” has combined flap and
skirt sewn direct on to the seat. This method
gives a narrower, non-chafing grip, and the
shape and position of the pads give exceptional
security when needed. It is a high-grade saddle
in materials and workmanship, and is fitted
with folded-leather girth leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
Price £l5/15/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER TO N.SAV.
RAILWAY STATIONS.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF AUSTRALIAN AND
TEXAS SADDLERY,
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS, BEENIE RUGS, ETC.
Walther & Stevenson, Ltd.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Jor Mellow Mid
nejj
r
Select Club Reil Cigars, because they are
made of rich Havana leaf, fragrant and
flavorsome. . . .and delightfully mild. Club
Reil Cigars are obtainable at hotels and
tobacconists’ or at address below.
ORDER BY POST,
Plub'Kfeil Pi
V CIGARS.**--*
CRAIG &AITKEN * 654 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
tor outdoors. use
Potter s SMOKING
MIXTURE it rut
CIGARETTES
■•4
Ik
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
ď
'lll
1%
□
Ula
1/
2/6 oer Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER & Ci.ARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane. London. Eng.
“Benger’s Food
has saved my
baby's life "
—so says an Australian
mother, whose baby is now
thriving splendidly .
Babies thrive upon Benger’s,
because it is always prepared
with fresh new milk. Benger’s
enriches the milk and adapts
it to the delicate digestion of
a child.
Food
4
'v/ Reed, tradk Mark.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free,
BENGER’-S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
A.2R2
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 41| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BUR Rows


■A \
u
*9©
- 'v**
/
IBT
5
1
J
Illustrated literature and Fare
Lists obtainable from Orient
Line Offices or Agencies.
EGYPT
HE inhabitants of foreign
countries are equally as inter-
esting as the remains of glories
which have long passed away, and
modern Egypt, with all its rich
relics of the Pharaohs, possesses one
of the world’s most interesting
populations. One can never tire
of the bargaining proprietors of
the bazaars, the noisy street-urchins,
the beggars, the pedlars, and the
suave dragomans in their long
bright robes.
And Egypt is one of the several
foreign countries at which the
Orient Line steamers call on the
voyage to England.
ORIENT LINE
A
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair.... August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
CRITERION: APPLESAUCE,
(Commencing next Saturday).
PALACE: DRACULA.
TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ANA PAVLOVA.
ROYAL:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
YOUNG WOODLEY.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
IRENE HOMER in
THE PATSY.
Amusements.
H OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
ALL STAR CAST in
THE RINGER.
AND
RANGER.
With DOUG. LAW.
Missing Friends.
TOXIN FRANCIS WALLACE.—If this
should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING,
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will hear to his advantage.
of DON or JACK
WEBB, of Melbourne, recently visited
Argentina, MACRAE, of Buenos Ayres,
has something of interest for you. C/o Bank
of Australasia, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy ,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Though the Brisbane Thousand was run
amid the dust of westerlies, the weather was
cold and most of the women were well
furred. Mrs. Hooper was in navy, with a
sky-blue scarf and black hat; Mrs. Whit-
tingham’s tailor-made hopsack coat had its
sombreness cheered by a gay Roman-striped
lining, and her beige cloche had a scarlet
and silver mount; Mrs. Ned Cullen’s royal
blue was worn with a wine-red cloche; Mrs.
Pierson’s black coney coat covered green and
cherry silk; brown fox furs and tan-and-
lioney kasha were worn by Mrs. Stuart Tait;
Mrs. R. McCowan was in black face cloth ;
and Mrs. Gray Buchanan snuggled down in
brown fox furs over a rose-colored gown.
Yeronga bowlers opened their season the
same afternoon under pennants and flags,
with afternoon tea on the verandah of the
clubhouse, and decorations of mauve and
daffodil. President Manalian and his wife
received, Mrs. Manahan wearing black crepe
de Chine, a coat of seal and bear, and a
French tagel hat. In the evening, under
colored electric lights, there was a concert
and dance in the clubhouse.
Toowong Bowling Club had its party on
the same day, president Myers King and
Mrs. King welcoming many guests. Scarlet
poinsettia and brown and gold chrysanthe-
mums decorated, and there was music. Mrs.
King’s grey tailor-made was covered with a
kolinsky fur wrap, and her hat was of black
velour. Mrs. F. B. Smith, who helped her,
wore grey tweed, a brown fox, choker and a
green cloche.
li. O. Baynes, of Balranald, Winton, son
of the late Harry Baynes and of Mrs.
Baynes, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, took
Vivienne, youngest daughter of the Charles
Elliotts, Killeney, Toowong, to wife in St.
John’s Cathedral, which was dressed up in
yellow flowers and palms, white satin bows
and greenery. The bride was arrayed in
ivory mariette and rhinestones, and her long
white georgette train had a satin lining. Her
veil of Brussels point was caught with a
posy of orange blossoms and fastened with
a narrow circlet of rhinestones. She car-
ried Eucharist-lilies, snowdrops and orchids.
Pauline Elliot, her bridesmaid, wore rose
chenille georgette and a pink bandeau. She
carried a pink tulle muff studded with tiny
pink and yellow roses. Killeney saw the
feasting.
Florence Micheli, pictured here, has
returned to Brisbane after a year’s tour
abroad. She is one of our best-known Bris-
bane pianists,
and bas been
studying at the
Itoyal College
of Music,
London. She
went to the
choir festival
at Gloucester,
and heard
Elgar and
Vaughan Wil-
liams conduct
their own
compositions.
I n Germany
she attended
the Gervand-
liaus concerts.
At Leipzig she
met Mrs. Lam-
brino, who
was Elaine
Feez, of Bris-
b a n e, and
whose hubby is a distinguished musician.
Dot Hayes is being feted prior to her
matrimonial date with Victor Secombe and
their subsequent departure for Sydney.
Violet Holmes, in pea-green marietta, assist 'd
by. sister Mavis in lobelia blue with pouffe
skirt, presented the bride-elect with a sheaf
of flame gladioli at their party. Dot smiled
her thanks in a gown which was midway
between blue and green. Bridge was played
during the evening, Eileen Hayes and Jack
Durack being the prize-winners.
lan Gall, whose fanciful drawings have
been known to Bulletin readers for a couple
of years past, is holding an art show this
month: the Premier will open it at the
Gainsborough Gallery on the 10th inst. In-
cluded will be the originals of some of the
most striking of his Bulletin contributions;
but there will be many pictures in color,
too. lan is a son of one of Queensland’s
best-known Civil Service heads —the Under-
Sec. of the Home Department.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady has decided to give us an-
other year of nis v.-r. services, which is a
matter for general satisfaction. His daughter
Margaret has made many friends among the
younger folk, and his Ex. has proved him-
self a very genial and likeable vice-regent.
Kingston golf links looked very attrac-
tive in the peaceful autumn weather for
Captain’s Day,” when E. T. Boddam and
his wife entertained a good muster of
players and guests. The women’s cham-
pionship was won by Miss E. Reid.
At the bridge party at the Continental
for the R.S.L. funds 117 tables were occu-
pied- ™* rs - C. J. Eady. Mrs. E. A. Peacock,
Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald. Miss W. IT. Gray and
Miss Charles as committee had everything
going like clockwork, and the home-made
supper was a triumph.
Lilia and Dick Clive, of Ballarton. Old
Beach, were host and hostess at a smart
little dance at the Continental. About 70
young things and a sprinkling of elders
danced, bridged and supped. Miss Clive wore
Inbiscus-pink chiffon frilled from waist to
Jiem, with a trail of pink roses descending
from the shoulder.
Empire Shopping Week kept window-
dressers and judges busy, but by a stroke
of bad luck the work of removing old ver-
andahs and substituting the new postless
shelters commenced on the day the exhibi-
tion started. A few hours' grace was
allowed for the judging.
Mayor Osborne, of the northern city,
opened the Launceston Art Society’s exhibi-
tion. Mabel Hookey went from Hobart to do
the judging, and Elizabeth Jenkins and Nora
Perkins took up a loom and demonstrated
the art of hand-weaving.
Joyce Seager and Ivo Road were tied up
for better or worse at St. George’s, Battery
Point, the bride wearing pale pink taffetas
and silver lace and a cap-veil of tulle held
in place by a bandeau of orange blossoms.
Three ’maids, Marie Sansom, Joan Clark
and little sister Joan, wore crystal-beaded
net frocks over pink georgette foundations,
with small hats of silver-embroidered felt.
After two
years of ener-
getic and use-
ful service,
Mayor and
Mayoress
Wignall have
ret.i r e d, and
Alderman and
Mr s. Soundy
have succeeded
them. Mrs.
Soundy’s kind-
ly face is pic-
tured here by
Burgess Watt.
T h e. n e w
Mayo r e s s
k n o w s the
ropes, having
had former ex-
perience. She
and her hus-
band are very
popular citi-
zens.
Beverley, eldest daughter of the Reginald
Grubbs, Lemana Junction, has promised to
enter double-harness with Bobby Page, only
son of Mr. Justice Crisp and Mrs. Crisp,
New Town.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The lights of Government House ball-
room twinkled on 500 gyrating figures at the
Insurance dance. The v.-r. party included
Simon Campion, Dr. and Mrs. Battye, Mayor
and Mayoress Franklin and Mr. and Mrs.
Hay. Lady Campion’s fuchsia chenille mari-
ette was worn with furs, and Mrs. Battye’s
black georgette with a striking coat in black
and white. The Children’s Hospital gets
the profits. Erica and ageratum mingled with
roses and carnations for supper-table deco-
rations.
Four white-clad debs, sprang to light at
the Karrakatta Club Ball—Madelaine Du-
rack, Esme Oakley and Joan and Nancy
Haywood. The club was'beflowcred through-
out with roses, carnations, poinsettias and
gladioli. Their Exes, were received by Mrs.
J. A. Klein, Mrs. Fergusson Stewart, Mrs.
Waldie Forbes and Phcebe Holmes.
Mrs. R. Goyne Miller, secretary of the
Children’s Hospital Ball committee, organ-
ised a most successful bridge party for the
ball funds. Cards were played in the after-
noon and evening at her pretty Mount Law-
ley home, where supper and tea were dis-
pensed by the hostess in a filmy pink lace
and georgette confection.
Arrangements for the Repertory Club’s
musical afternoon were in the hands of
Mrs. H. Davis. Dulcie Cherry, of the
sweet, clear voice, was the star performer.
Miss Gunhill contributed piano solos, and
Horace Dean played his fiddle. Teacups
were filled by the ladies’ house committee.
Mrs. Arthur Male, in black with beaded
bridge coat attached, gave a cheery young
people’s hop at her King’s Park-road home,
decorated artistically with products of her
fine garden.
Mr. and Mrs. Craven-Griffitlis feted daugh-
ters Mabel and Nancy with a party for the
very young at Temple Court.
Secretary May Parkes, of the Perth Golf
Club, having done the fourteenth hole in one,
a tea party on a large scale ensued.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The A.R.C. had a bleak opening for its
Cup ' meeting, and fur, from bunny to
marmot, was in much request. Lady Hore-
Rutlivcn and her house party were present
for the earlier part of the day, going on
later to a Girl Guide affair, leaving the
Hon. Mrs. Barry (mother of her Ex.)
behind with Miss Hall, the chairman’s
daughter. The old lady, who is a good sport,
left last week by the express en route for
Maoriland.
The reception given by Mayoress Bony-
thon in Gladys Moncrieff’s honor was well
attended. There were masses of lovely
flowers everywhere. Mrs. Bonython wore a
red cloth tailored coat trimmed with grey
astrachan, a close-fitting jersey silk, and a
felt hat to match. Miss Moncrieff was in a
black cloth coat with collar and cuffs of beige
fox fur, and wore a black felt hat. Quite a
number of men who scorn receptions as a
rule turned up to meet Miss Moncrieff.
Mayor and Mayoress Bonython welcomed
Mr. and Mrs. ,T. J. Virgo, who have arrived
on a visit after an absence from Australia
of over 20 years. Workers for the Y.M.C.A.,
to which Mr. Virgo has devoted a life-
time, were present, and many old friend-
ships were revived. Mrs. Bonython looked
smart in a cr§pe de Chine toilette, the skirt
of art red and the long-bodice effect in
mastic embroidered in fine silver thread, and
she wore a hat to tone. Tea was fol-
lowed by speeches.
There is to be a small dance at Govern-
House this week, the first effort at enter-
taining that has been made apart from
dinner parties.
We have two art exhibitions this week.
Esmond George shows his black-and-white
work and water-colors at Bayly and Spiers’
Gallery; and Isabel Haynes " exhibits her
English. Continental and Australian water-
colors at the Society of Arts Gallery.


Make the Grosvenor
yourAdelaicic Home
đ
Over 300 taste-
fully furnished
rooms, spacious
writing room,
cheerful lounge,
beautiful dining
hall, perfect
cuisine; every
attention. Ade-
laide’s largest,
most modern
hotel. Tariff
from £3 107-
weekly.
Write for infor-
mation booklet.
S‘GROSVENOR
r dJdein/des Finest Unlicensed UioteL
Opp-Railway Sm.. North Terrace.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
MY ADVICE
TO YOU I
m*
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
vujuu
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Comer Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
* . ( Inane & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
,* » Tasmania | Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6;-or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
THE QUARTERASYER.
THIS IS THE £5OO FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
* Norman Lindsa/.
«Li»
Synopsis : Quartermaster James
Hyde, impressed in 1837 trit-h the busi-
ness possibilities of Sydney, leaves the,
service two years later and buys a
combined store and dwelling in Wind-
mill-street, near the harbor. His son
William thinks shopkeeping and the
general raw state of the young city too
degrading for him to bring his fiancee,
Adela , to live there. William also
resents the whaling skipper, Captain
Hildebrand, being treated as a family
guest and meeting his sisters, Fanny
and Maud, on terms of friendship. The
Quartermaster rebukes his snobbery,
and says that Maud, who had displayed
interest in Hildebrand, is the same
with all other men. and at last breaks
down some of William's opposition,
and takes that young man into the
business. Fanny is secretly deeply at-
tracted to Hildebrand, and is delighted
when he returns from a successful
whaling trip at a time when other
whalers are out of luck. At dinner
one evening, with the Gileses present,
Hildebrand, hints that there is a story
behind his ship's success, and suggests
that the mate, Meikle, should tell it.
The Quartermaster sharply raps out,
"What did happen?”
CHAPTER VI ( continued ).
WELL,” said the wretched Meikle, “in
a manner of speaking we had a peck
of trouble. First it was the weather.
Dirty weather, if you like, and a most on-
natural west wind that drove us out of our
course. Seven days and seven nights. After
that the wind dropped, but it was seven
days wasted and we were driven hundreds of
miles from the whaling grounds. The Rosa-
mund’s a good boat, but she’s small. Takes
a crew of twelve all told and don’t carry
provisions for more than a couple of
months. It took more than a week getting
back where we wanted to get. And we
were becalmed.”
“Days like bubbles,” Hildebrand mur-
mured to Fanny—“perfect clean and empty
—as if the storm had blown all the life
out of the world.”
“There weren’t any whales in the
Southern Ocean. There was nothing. An’
the cook he took religious. We had a
couple of Norwegians aboard, too. Now,
Norwegians is good sailors, but they see
things that aren’t there—don’t they, Cap’n?
Nils saw a hand of fire come out of the
sky, and when he looked over the side
in the moonlight there was a drowned man
floating beside us all night long.”
Euphemia squealed and brought upon
herself the Captain’s burning eyes.
“We were all put on half rations and
that didn’t improve anyone’s temper. The
crew began to say it was time to turn
home and we’d do no good not if we stayed
till Doomsday. Cap’n here wouldn’ budge
—an’ then be cut down the rations a bit
more. And, well, to tell you the truth,
Mr. Hyde, sir,” went on Meikle in a sud-
den, too hearty burst of confidence, “we
had a bit of trouble.”
“Mutiny on the high seas,” put in the
Captain crisply.
“Very ugly they looked, too. Something
about a mutiny, you can hear it before it
happens, like drums a long way off. I
heard those drums and Cap’n heard them,
an’ then dinner-time came and no dinner
—not to call dinner —and that finished
them. There was the crew down in the
waist, and they had their knives and the
belaying-pins and such like, and it was clear
enough they meant to fight. They were
angry. Cap’n never so much as took down
the blunderbuss in his cabin. I didn’t
feel too comfortable, I can tell you, then.”
“ ‘l’m not afraid of the starving curs,’
says he to me. ‘They’ve left it too late.’
So we went on, day after day”
Two people saw those days dropping
heavy and slow into the empty ocean-
days of an incredible empty stress, an epic
of endurance, the rapacity of one man’s
will. For Hildebrand they had an intense
reality transcending any experience he had
known. He had seen the very nakedness
of life. Something of this passed from him
to Fanny. She was exquisitely receptive.
She saw, actually saw, the processional of
gaunt days and she understood why Hilde-
brand’s eyes held that look of curious
assuagement. She knew he had drunk an
elixir of power the more potent because it
was mixed with suffering. She lost the
thread of the narrative—the tale of starv-
ing men who muttered in impotence but
dared not strike, slid past her.
On the heels of despair came a change
of fortune; the sea thick with whales and
the crew too weak to take them. The
Captain served rum all round, and between
the spirit and desperation several sperm
whales were killed and taken in tow. He
steered for the nearest land with all haste.
It was a race with death. They made a
landfall on one of the barren islands of
the South Pacific. It was poor enough,
but it was land. There was water and some
sort of vegetation. Four days after, the
Rosamund left and made Port Phillip. She
lay up there and the crew recuperated.
That was all. It had been a profitable
trip.
It was a curious story for a dinner party.
It broke up the social convention, driving
everyone of the nine people gathered there
back into his or her individuality. There
was an awkward silence. Fanny dispensed
the souffle as in a dream. Conversation
arose again in little heedless whirls and
scatters.
The scene in the drawing-room took on
all the quality of a picture, life-like but
unreal. It might have been any company
anywhere. Euphemia, with a large, slippery
volume of sacred engravings on her lap,
exclaimed with impartial piety over every
representation. William leaned attentively
on the back of her chair. Maud sat at
the harpsichord, turning over her music
while Mr. Giles told her of the songs his
mother used to sing, that were so much
better than the modern rubbish. Mrs. Giles
sat foursquare in her chair and visibly
disapproved of Maud. She was minutely
and acutely aware of William’s every move-
ment and was speculating on Euphemia’s
progress. Above and beyond these occu-
pations she was able to dominate the men’s
talk. She had three of them grouped about
her. She always collected men about her
and flattered herself thereon much as a
flypaper might congratulate itself on its
catch.
The Quartermaster stood before his empty
hearth, his feet apart, hande in pockets,
genial and possessive, an Englishman at
home. Meikle stood uncertain, distressed.
He was conscious of a desire to escape.
The light twinkled in lustres, lay in a
pool on the Turkey carpet; it drenched
Maud in effulgence, flowed over Euphemia’s
bent head, her face in shadow as it bent
over the album; smote William upon the
forehead, caught here and there the sheen
of satin wood and mahogany, the soft
gleam of china, the high lights of a buckle
or a ring; turned the glass shade over the
clock to a waterfall. Mrs. Giles’s nose
made a grotesque shadow on her face.
The world of adventure and effort, so
close half an hour ago, was inconceivable.
It was inconceivable that outside those
windows, thrown open in the still heat,
was a road by which men in irons went
down to Cockatoo. Fanny’s eyes, as once
before that night, went on stepping-stones
from one to another till they came to
Hildebrand. The room had no power over
him. He stood in the shadow, apart in
spirit, his head bent, waiting and suffering
it all. He looked up as Fanny crossed
the room.
“Ah,” he said, “I had forgotten. I left
something down in the store. If you will
excuse me”
“William!” bawled the Quartermaster.
“No, no, I beg you—Mr. William is en-
gaged. Perhaps Miss Fanny would show
me a light.”
He handed her one of the branched
candlesticks, bowing with mocking eyes that
belied the gesture. As he pulled the door
to, he said: “I couldn’t endure that woman
another minute.”
“Where’s that girl? Maud, where’s your
sister?” the Quartermaster was asking.
; She went out for a minute, papa,'
answered Maud lowering her eyelids dis-
creetly. %
“Then fetch her in.”
Anyone who had the patience to disen-
tangle the time from the gilt ornamentation
of the parlor clock could see it was a
quarter-past ' ten. If the guests were not
fed now, goodness knows when they would
get away.
Out on the landing Maud considered the
delicacy of her mission. A faint light stole
up the stairs from the store. One never
knew with Fanny. Perhaps they were only
discussing the habits of fish. She stood at
the bend of the stairs. The wall in front
of her was illuminated and two shadows
moved upon it, a slim tall shadow with a
spreading skirt and a taller shadow with
coat tails. They were very close and, as
she stood for a moment glued to the stair, •
they merged together. The tall shadow
held the slight shadow about the waist and
two unmistakable feminine arms were about
his neck. .She tittered and scuttled upstairs
again. She* hesitated, then seizing the nearest
door banged it violently.
“Lordy, Miss Maud,” cried Katie, cran-
ing round the maid’s bedroom door a head
adorned with the promise of to-morrow’s
curls, “whatever did you do that for?”
“It was all I could think of,” answered
Maud cryptically.
CHAPTER VII.
The Flight.
The guests had gone; Jackie had been
roused from sleep to fetch the Gileses’
chariot. Euphemia had fluttered a white
hand from the dark window as they jolted
away. To Fanny it was like an appeal for
help. She was soriy for all the people in
the world who were not happy, and would
have fed them at the overflowing of her
own heart.
Going back to the parlor to gather up
the glasses and plates, she surprised William
and the Quartermaster in the midst of an
argument.
“.... You can’t papa—after this.”
“A mutiny is a mutiny and no master
worth his salt would take it sitting down.”
“But I don’t mean the mutiny—before
that. Fie hadn’t a chance in a hundred—
it was criminal to risk the lives of his
crew. The man’s insane with vanity.”
The Quartermaster seemed tired and
heavy.
“Yes, yes, William, but, after all, he
brought them back, and it’s his affair, not
mine.”
“You condone it, then?”


“He stood in the shadow, his head bent, waiting.”
“I don’t; but you don’t understand how
a man can care for a ship. He’d rather
wreck her than lose her—rather die with
her.”
In heavy silence they watched Fanny
gather up the plates, her cheeks scarlet.
She lay down and shut her eyes—the
vision of the lighted room came back to
her for a moment. It blew like a bubble
through her dreaming mind, stripped of
significance. Then she slept, for her ship
had come home.
In the days that followed, Hildebrand
came neither to the store nor to the dwell-
ing above it. It was plain that, after
Meikle’s story, the Captain’s relations with
the Quartermaster were strained. He had
fallen in standing from a friend to a business
connection. William would have driven
the matter to a rupture, but the Quarter-
master was too shrewd to lose the best
whaling captain in the South and too honest
to penalise a man for an action which he
understood and with which, instinctively, he
half sympathised.
The Rosamund had been damaged and
was in the hands of the shipwrights. The
tapping of their hammers was a friendly
and comforting sound to Fanny’s ears. The
Captain did not live on board while the
work progressed, but stayed at the Whalers’
Arms, and no one knew how he spent his
time between visits to his ship. His tall
figure would be seen crossing the court-
yard, never once raising his eyes to the
windows above, coming back, disappearing,
Moses, the yard dog, following him a few
steps, bristling with suspicion, then coming
back to lie in the sun.
Fanny burned with shame at the behavior
of her family and conceived a bitter hos-
tility towards William. She was unable
to see any fault in her lover, as she now
openly thought of him. His conduct in
avoiding her seemed amply explained by
the attitude of her father and brother. It
rallied her fidelity to him. It was for her,
whose father had injured him, to make a
generous advance. She began to plot.
It was the year 1842 and Sydney was
growing in prosperity and size. Its streets
had been lit the previous year by gas. It
had just been incorporated and a pro-
gramme had been arranged to celebrate the
inauguration of the new council. A select
minority of citizens was to be entertained
at a civic dinner at the Royal Hotel in
George-street, and a large number at the
great ball that was to follow. Thp herd
was to be given a pyrotechnic display in
the Domain and free beer served on trestles.
James Hyde and his family had
received an invitation to the ball. A cravat
of the latest mode had been botight by
Maud for the Quartermaster’s unwilling
neck—a short thick neck unadapted to the
elegancies of that day. The barber had
been bespoken to dress the young ladies’
hair. Maud was to wear white, as this
was virtually her debut. Fanny would wear
the frock she had so incontinently put on
for the dinner party.
Fanny was almost as delighted by the
prospect as Maud. And then came a dis-
covery that changed everything—on the
very night of the ball the Rosamund was
to go out on the night tide! How could
she dance with other men while he fared
out into the lonely sea!
This was the last spur to her determina-
tion. The next day she waylaid the Captain
in the courtyard, and he invited her and
Maud to drink tea with him on board the
Rosamund. The shipwrights had finished
their work, the loading had not begun. The
excursion was as delightful as stolen fruit.
After tea he placed chairs for the girls
on the larboard deck, looking out into the
harbor. They might have been a hundred
miles from the store.
Hildebrand was showing them his tele-
scope—a small brass one mounted on a
tripod. “When I have no lovely young
ladies to look at, I look at the stars,” he
said jocosely.
He dived into the deckhouse and brought
out a metal cylinder from which he took
a parchment roll. “This,” he said, “is a
chart of the heavens in the Southern Hemi-
sphere I’ve been working at for a couple
of years. If you’d just hold that comer.
Miss Fanny—thank you.”
The chart lay unfolded across Fanny’s
knees while she kept down the curling
edges with either hand and fore arm. As
he bent over to explain it, her cheek so
near the Captain’s lips was flatteringly rosy,
the hand that his almost touched was alive
with pulses.
“I should like to show you the stars—
could you come back to-night?” he
whispered.
“Yes,” she breathed.
“Nine o’clock,” he murmured—“l shall
wait for you here.”
They were gone.
It was not easy for Fanny to get away.
The least vigilant and exacting of fathers,
the Quartermaster still expected certain
(Continued on next page.)


“LESSING’S GUN”
Norman Morrell’s thrilling story of a few hours in a Northern
Territory prospector’s life will be printed next week.
“THE CALL”
Francis Osborn’s short story of a man who, in the end, was his
own doctor—as most of us must be.
NEXT WEEK.
RIN-TIN-TIN
d
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-T :Pation
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future' needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
<Hbmmonwcaltb Savings JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Bra
iffigg
*35
A.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
duties. At nine o’clock Fanny must mix
and bring him his punch—Fanny and no
other, and while he drank he liked to talk
to her.
She had to make the punch under his
supervision and he watched her like a
lynx, as if this were the most important
event of the day.
“More lemon, Fanny,” he would shout.
“No, no; not yet—stir it, girl. Stir it!
That’s right, just a drop more. Your hus-
band will thank me some day. It’s not
every girl gets an education like this.”
Every evening he said courteously as if
to a stranger, “Have some, William? Do
you good.” And every evening William
said “No, thank you, Papa, not to-night,”
and went on reading. It was not intended
that he should have any. Punch was the
prerogative of the head of the family. He
took it as a cordial; its preparation was a
rite. To-night the ritual dragged on and
on.
“Don’t be in such a hurry,” said the
Quartermaster —“it’s not time yet.”
She had perforce to sit down again for
another ten minutes watching the hands of
the clock creep towards nine. At last in
forced calm she was permitted to cut the
lemons. At ten past nine she was reckless.
The Quartermaster was savoring his punch,
and before he had time to tell her it wasn’t
sweet enough she had gone, with an in-
articulate excuse.
Her little heelless slippers made no sound
upon the cobbles. The two dark wings of
the store rose on either side of her, fencing
in a rectangle of sky. Fanny fled from
their shelter in panic as many another has
fled from safety. Hildebrand stepped out
of the shadow.
“How marvellous of you to come!”
“Did you not know I would come?”
“I hoped.”
His voice was warm and intimate; it
wrapped her away in another world. The
Rosamund appeared deserted and in dark-
ness except for her riding lights. Fanny
was forced to take her guide’s hand. The
telescope was set up in the bow.
“You must have a light for star gazing,”
he said.
The starlight was growing upon her so
that now she could see his figure, cloaked
and tall, and he could see the white blur of
her face and clasped hand. There was no
moon. Hildebrand adjusted the telescope
almost in silence. As he worked at the
swivel their fingers touched. That was
their real conversation. Presently they were
sitting in the chairs they had occupied that
afternoon—how long ago! Fanny sat up
straight and rigid because she was keyed
to her highest pitch and was quite unaware
that she was the picture of decorum.
Hildebrand was talking of himself, fitting
himself with leisurely grace to this quaint
little idyll with the Quartermaster’s
daughter. To have her here alone on his
ship was a score against that self-sufficient
young jackanapes her brother. How
mortified he would be to think that his
sister had put her reputation in the hands
of a rogue like himself! Beyond that Fanny
herself interested him. He found her
piquant; she puzzled him a little. Her
behavior in keeping this tryst with him
was at complete variance with her behavior
now. She had done a rash and almost in-
credible thing and went on behaving with
the utmost gentility. Was she confident or
innocent? Was she waiting to take as a
matter of course any overtures he might
make? If so he feared he’d disappoint her.
He remembered the night he had come
back; he had been rather impressed by
her. He had glimpsed a steadiness in her,
a depth that might satisfy a man. She
had been for him by far the most attrac-
tive, though, perhaps, not the prettiest
woman at the dinner party. Maud was too
obviously labelled “Fire.” Fanny, less
dangerous, was more stable. That evening
of all evenings he had had to make love to
some woman, and Fanny had been not
altogether unresponsive. But he would not
go too far with her even if he could. That
would be suicidal. He would throw a
spell over her, foster these clandestine meet-
ings as a secret weapon and revenge upon
William, whose influence he detected in his
fall from grace with the Quartermaster. He
suspected that William would be as galled
by an intrigue as by a betrayal, but the
Quartermaster would not. So being a
little tired of abundant loves, he found it
his pleasure as well as his policy to dally
with Fanny. A pure and sentimental dalli-
ance it should be.
He told her of a neglected childhood and
an unhappy youth, of betrayal by a man
he had thought his friend, of an unwitting
crime and the hell of a convict ship, the
years of servitude and the effort to re-
build his life.
“I found someone who wanted a captain
with a little capital, and so I got the
Rosamund. That was the first piece of good
fortune I had in my life. Do you wonder
that I love this ship? I was fortunate, in
time I was able to buy her. She has been
my only possession, my only home. I might
say my only friend.”
“No, don’t say that; we are your friends.
I am!”
“How wonderful that you should say that
even when you know all!”
“Believe me, dear Captain Hildebrand, I
have found your story infinitely sad. I
feel the greatest pity and” She caught
his hand, almost in tears.
He lowered his head with a gesture so
noble and sorrowful that tears did roll
down her cheeks. He might have seen
them glisten.
“Ah, if only someone had had faith in me
—as you have! If some good woman had
loved me, I would have been a better man.”
“Was there never—did you never—care
-for any one, I mean?”
“What had I to offer any woman, and
what woman would be a sailor’s helpmeet?
To sit at home and wait with little to
spend, or to brave the hardships and dangers
of the sea—who would do that for me?”
“But love” murmured Fanny feebly.
“If I had known you years ago, I might.
I would have been different. A splendid
act of faith like yours means more than
you can think. You have never suffered,
you have never sinned.”
She could see his faint sad smile in the
moonlight. “I have faith in you now—
always, always. It is never too late,” she
whispered earnestly.
“Too late for me. I am not fit for a
pure young girl to know. I must always
be lonely.”
“You mustn’t, you mustn’t.”
Fanny was aware of the amazing pro-
fundity of her emotions and the amazing
futility of her speech. Hildebrand’s arm
was across her chair. She was within its
circle, but it did not touch her. He was
leaning towards her. The breathless
moment came and passed. The Captain
pulled himself together visibly—never was
a woman left unkissed more flatteringly—
rose and strode to the bulwark.
“You must go,” he said gently. “You
should never have come. But I will always
remember that you did come and what
you have done for me by your faith, your
kindness. Good-night.”
He raised her hand to his lips, kissed it
ceremonially and led her towards the wharf.
Fanny seethed with emotions that she
could not manage. His finality sealed her
lips. A moment later she was in the sha.dow
of the courtyard raising her head instinct-
ively to the squares of pale light that
showed Maud still awake.
Day was added to day and Hildebrand
lived up to the finality of his farewell. He
came to the store now perforce as his
sailing drew near. When he met the young
ladies, he saluted them politely, no more.
He was still far from understanding Fanny,
but he had seen a gleam in her eyes which
made him a little nervous to open pur-
suit. His mind had turned to the sea and
his finesse had broken like a cobweb and
blown away from him.
If Fanny’s demeanor was much as usual,
if she went about her household tasks with
quiet competence and a grave face, her
emotions were deeply disturbed. Lo\ e and
pity rose in great floods, swamping her.
She wanted to continue her good works—
a beautiful memory was not enough. Her
passion was not content to stagnate m a
blind alley. Every night she thought wild,
heady, tender thoughts; every., day she
stoically suffered agonies of hope. The
reason for Hildebrand’s silence and remote-
ness was plain to her. He felt himself un-
worthy of her and he had suffered so much
that he would not trust himself even to
her. He had given up hope of reinstate-
ment. He had spoken of an act of faith.
Could she not by some great act of faith
give him back to himself?
She blenched a little at the thought of
what she was going to do, but she knew
her blenching to be unworthy. How mean,
how ignoble to set conventions before the
salvation of a tortured human soul!
* * * *
“You’re not listening, Fanny.”
“I don’t feel well.”
“Oh dear,” cried Maud, “you’re never
going to be ill to-day of all days! What
do you feel like?”
“Mv head—oh and all over!”
When the hour arrived for dressing, “I
can’t go,” she said abruptly, and sat down
in a heap on her bed.
Maud stared at her in consternation.
Fanny was white and trembling.
The Quartermaster appealed to, said:
“Leave the girl alone. If she’s sick she
can’t go. Bless me, Maud, this isn’t the
last ball on earth.”
Then a debate arose about leaving her.
“Katie wants to go to see the fireworks,
but I’ll tell her she can’t.”
“You’re not to. I won’t have Katie.
Don’t fuss. I’m all right.”
The Quartermaster roared without. Maud
threw her burnous round her shoulders,
kissed her sister and fled. Fanny heard the
great door shut with a bang and the coach
drive off over the cobbles.
It was a dark night. The moon and
stars were blotted out in low soft clouds.
It was nine o’clock; the Rosamund put
out at eleven. Fanny drifted about the
room, mechanically tidying those things
that Maud had disarranged in her dressing.
She was wearing her night rale, as she had
thought it would look well to go to bed.
As she trailed past the cheval glass she
glimpsed her ghostly self and turned to
stare at her image. Sombre eyes met her.
“I don’t look much like a woman who is
going away with a man she is not married
to,” she thought.
It was rather dreadful, this slow flight
from an empty house. She went about her
preparations methodically, made a bundle
of a few severe necessities and then with
a shawl about her shoulders and the bed-
room candle in her hand went down to
the store and rooted in the corner where
the bales of clothing were heaped. The
bales were heavy; she grew red and hot,
but, at last managed to accumulate a boy s
outfit. Then she and her shadow made
their last journey upstairs
There remained to write to her father and
to cut off her hair. Standing before the
mirror she gave her scissors use Their she
dressed herself. This was more of an ordeal.
Tlio immrvWv of trousers almost eclinsed
Ihe immodesty of trousers almost eclipsed
and outweighed the impropriety of the
whole adventure. She might conceivably
have turned back, had not her hair been
already cut. She sat down to write.
_ j . . ,
Dear Papa,-—I am doing away with
Captain Hildebrand on the Rosamund to-
night. We will be married later, so you
must not worry about that part. Dear
Papa, I am not doing this jnvolously. I
think it is right, but cannot explain why
now. I enclose the money for the outfit.
1 bought it from the store, which I think
is correct.
Good-bye, dear Papa, Maud and William.
She appended a list of the clothing she
had taken and signed it “Fanny.” not quite
steadily, then laid the note on her father s
pillow.
It was after ten and a soft steady rain
was falling. She realised that this would
stop the fireworks and that Katie might
be home at any moment.
In the courtyard Fanny was a little un-
certain how to act. She lingered at the
corner looking towards the Rosamund
through the fine drifting rain, wondering
where Hildebrand was at that moment. She
heard steps behind her. It w r as the captain
returning to his ship after some last-minute
errand.
“Richard,” she said, and held out her
hands, dropping her bundle in a pool. She
thought that was enough, that he would
understand at once. He halted abruptly.
She was standing in the radiance of the
store lamp, a nimbus of rain about her.
“My God! If it isn’t Miss Fanny!”
She picked up her bundle. “I am coming
with you.”
He looked at her in a sort of horror.
“What folly is it? Good God! With me,
to-night?”
“Yes.”
“Has anything happened? You’re not
—surely you haven’t any reason for getting
away, have you?”
“I thought you wanted me. I—l—see
I have made a mistake.”
She turned blindly, comprehension as yet
only touching the fringe of her mind.
“I don’t understand. Tell me, please,
if I can help you”
“No, no, no.”
His hand was on her shoulder turning
her to the light.
“You wanted to elope with me, is that
it?”
The voice was new, a stripped voice. The
rain drove in her face.
“I thought you loved me, I thought that
this—this act of faith would”
She was appalled and stopped.
“You believed all that. I thought you
were more of a woman of the world, Miss
Fanny. You were ready enough to visit
me alone. I didn’t think you were as inno-
cent as this—how could I?”
She said nothing, so he went on almost
cheerfully, almost contemptuously.
“Now run back home like a good girl.
No harm’s done, and if you hop back now
no one will be any the wiser. I won’t
tell papa.”
Fanny sagged against the wall, pressing
her palms to the rough stone. She did not
move. Hildebrand began to be really irri-
tated.
“Do be reasonable. I can’t marry you.
I’ve a wife already, somewhere or other.
As for going away with me, it would be
madness. I couldn’t take you on the
Rosamund —the crew wouldn’t stand it.
You’ll thank me some day for keeping my
head. We’d both be sick of the whole
business in a month. I’m sorry it hap-
pened. I suppose I led you on, but then
I thought you were leading me on. You’ll
see the whole thing in its true light to-
morrow. No harm’s done.”
He took her quite gently and propelled
her towards the door of the store.
“Well, I’m damned,” he reflected, striding
back to his boat, the glow of righteousness
in his vejns.
She felt her way across the store, slowly
and carefully, the great blank in which she
stood moving with her. She mounted the
stairs and lit a candle with slow, stumbling
fingers. There was a core of silence in
her brain, but the surface was working nor-
mally. There were things she must do-
take off the wet oilskins, destroy the letter,
put away the things; then, oh then, nothing
—nothing for ever.
She began to lose her self-control. She
tore off the clothes, her badge of infamy,
stared about her for a hiding-place, flung
up a window and threw them as far into
the night and the rain as she could. Cold
hours passed. She heard the great door
shut to, the Quartermaster’s voice, hearty
even at two in the morning, then hushed
suddenly.
Fanny pulled the clothes nearly over
her head and lay still. Presently Maud
( Continued on page 58.)


: ' ; • * '
\
9
ii m
\
§
Mkm
POWER UNIT
is the first factor
MODERN haulage problems demand
speed, economy, safety, but above
everything else— power. The thought-
ful designer of commercial vehicles
realised that long ago. Whatever your
haulage need, you are first interested
in the amount of power needed for
your particular work. There is a
Republic Truck for every haulage
requirement and its power is balanced,
not too much and not too little. Basic
econdmy in truck operation comes
from correct use of power in relation
to the work to be done. Because
Republic provides this with certainty,
keen-minded business men have bought
Republics, until to-day there are
more Republics in use than the
trucks of any exclusive truck
manufacturer. It will pay you to
let your nearest Republic dealer
show you how a Republic Truck
will save overhead.
mm.
mmm
WjSjf . f N *l, .
it
m i
* -
fvg2&
ÜBLIC
TRUCKS
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CRO WLE, LTD., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


GEO. E. FORTESQDE 8 SONS
LIMITED.
New Issue .of Shares.
The rapid development of this Company in connec-
tion with its Patent Power Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear for Tractors and Headers has
called for the introduction of more capital, and
the Directors of the Company have
decided to issue a parcel of 10°/
Cumulative Preference Shares.
The business, which was originally established in
Victoria as far back as 1855, was transferred to
Arncliffe, Sydney, in 1904, and rapidly built up a
reputation in connection with Poison Carts, Fire
Fighters, Water Carts, Windmills, Concrete Mixers,
Steel Wheels and Local Government appliances.
Latterly the Company has concentrated on the
manufacture of the Patent Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear, which inventions have proved
most efficient in reducing harvesting costs.
Already just on 500 (five hundred)
sets of the equipments have been
disposed of,
and the popularity which the equipments have
gained (as evidenced by numerous testimonials and
repeat orders) justifies the Directors in believing that
there is a great opportunity for the further expansion
of the Company in connection with the inventions,
which, after careful development during three years,
are now fully standardised.
The Board of Directors consists of:—
VICTOR CLAUDE SAYWELL, ESQ. ALBERT JOHN FORTESCUE, ESQ.
(Say well & Say well, Sydney), Chairman. Managing Director.
WILLIAM BRISSENDEN DOUST, ESQ. WILLIAM GEORGE JUDD, ESQ.
(Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd). (Hurstville Brick Works).
ALFRED GONINAN, ESQ.
(A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Engineers, Broadmeadow, Newcastle).
Auditor:
JAMES TAYLOR, ESQ., F.C.P.A.,
Dalton House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Solicitors: '
MESSRS. SAYWELL & SAYWELL,
Cathcart House, Sydney.
Secretary:
JOHN McHUGH.
REGISTERED OFFICE: ARNCLIFFE, SYDNEY.
The Company has been consistently well managed
under the personal supervision of Mr. Albert John
Fortescue, who has originated and developed many
first-class products.
Further information, with Prospectus, may be obtained from the Secretary
of Geo. E. Fortescue & Sons, Ltd., Arncliffe, Sydney.
COUCHS
COLDS CHIP
d
f/lakc mar cam
dmuy Jaimq jjwnuly rowdy.
3
S3AVS
z
SISO3
Over one million Australian citizens
annually save much money by mak-
ing this wonderful family cough and
influenza remedy. Obtain from your
chemist or store a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated Heenzo, and add it
to sweetened water. By doing this
you will have a supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to
eight ordinary-sized bottles of the
usual ready-made-up cough mixtures
that would cost up to £l. You will
be delighted with the speedy way
Heenzo soothes sore throats, eases
the chest and banishes coughs, colds
and influenza.
Mr. JIM GERALD writes:—
Dear Heenzo, —Sir Harry Lauder’s famous
words were: “I tried Heenzo and found it
good.” . Them’s my sentiments —for l
appreciate the fact that, by just adding
sweetened water to a two-shilling bottle
of concentrated Heenzo, I am able to njake
about £l’s worth of easily the best medicine
I have ever used for chest and throat ail-
ments. —Yours for Health and Laughter,
JIM GERALD.
d
MR. JIM GERALD,
the popular comedian^
HEENZQ
should be usedin every home
SICK HEADACHES
FRUIT SALT
9
m
O 9»o • «
r?a.
WJ
are usually
caused by faulty
elimination
Nowadays, when the stress of modern life makes great
demands on our physical and mental resources, we are
all liable to constipation and the ailments to which it
leads—sick headaches, fatigue, bilious attacks and
other troubles. To attack this condition with
drastic purgatives can at the best only bring temporary
relief, and is certain to shock the system unnecessarily.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yesterday
from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly. Yet
Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow this
golden rule of family health, proved for sixty years; a
glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”—sparkling and refreshing—•
first thing every morning.
Sales exigents: c 2TAe British SKarold < 3 : . fflitchie & Go., £td., Sydney,3^f.S. c lsQ.
ENOS
FRUIT SALT


WestclcnC
Big Ben Deluxe
2 V
Ben Hnr
II
9
10
i
10
5
ft
Pocket Ben
Babt) Ben Deluxe
m/.
Westclox —better than ever
FOR years Westclox have been known
for their reliability and their good looks.
These new style alarms, Big Ben, Baby
Ben and Ben Hur have a sturdy, artistic
base that gives added beauty and insures
longer life.
These new models, in nickel and in
colour, with a variety of other Westclox
alarms, are sold everywhere. Pocket Ben
is the Westclox watch.
Prices from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE
d
Typical
Fijian
Scene
PLAN A HOLIDAY
NOW IN FIJI
Do you realise that only four and a half days’ sail from Sydney by the
Matson-Oceanic Line, brings j'ou to Suva, Fiji?
Here is an ideal place for you to spend your next holiday—a delightful
climate—charming and unusual scenery—primitive native village life—
tropical fruits—an entirely different atmosphere to that to which you
have been accustomed.
An all inclusive Holiday Tour from £36.
First-class throughout.
No bother. No effort. Everything arranged.
13 days from Sydney to Sydney. Fare includes all transportation
expenses from Sydney to Suva and return —living expenses at the Grand
Pacific Hotel, Suva —motor and launch trips throughout the Island of
Viti Levu, the largest of the Fijian Group, during the stay in Suva.
Let us send you fully descriptive coloured folder, 'A HOLIDAY TRIP
TO FIJI,” giving detailed programme of this unique care-free trip.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
Sailing every third Saturday
For Suva, Pago Pago, Honolulu and San Francisco. Special cheap
Excursion tickets issued to Honolulu all the year round.
InHg OiiiMi STBAM@H(JP C©„
MATSON LINK
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
F-29
“The Hero of the Boyd.”
J u. M. ABBOTT TELLS ANOTHER TALK OR MYSTERY AND ADVENTURE.
GOD bless my soul!” exclaimed Mr. John
Jacobs, senior partner in the firm of
Jacobs Bros., merchants of St. Mary
Axe, in the city of London, laying down the
newspaper he had been reading, and elevat-
ing his horn spectacles from the bridge of
his nose to his forehead, as he stared in con-
sternation at his plump brother, Mr. Wil-
liam, seated on the other side of the big
table in their private room. “God bless my
soul, a terrible thing! Poor Mary’s boy!
Bead this —I don’t know what to think of
it.”
The younger brother laid down his pen and
took the paper his senior passed across to
him.
“Well, what is it, Jack. What has upset
you? This paper? Ah, I see. The Sydney
Gazette of August IS, ISI0 —last year. Well,
what’s it all about?”
This is what he read from the fluent edi-
torial pen of Mr. George Ilowe, written eight
months before:—
When the Boyd went from hero she had on board
four or five New Zealanders, who made part of her
crew. These people were displeased at their treat-
ment on the passage, and determined on revenge.
On their arrival they communicated their complaints
to their relatives, who were of the Whangarooa
party and frequently at war- with Tippahee and his
subjects; and the design of taking the ship was
formed in consequence.
It being Captain Thompson’s intention to take in
a quantity of spars, he applied to the natives for
assistance in procuring them, which they promised,
but, in order to entice him on shore, artfully objected
to perform until he should accompany them to point
out such as he might best approve. The Captain
was thereby prevailed on to leave the vessel, accom-
panied by his chief officer, to get the spars on boat'd.
The natives belonging to the ship then first
threw off the mask, and in opprobrious terms up-
braided Oapt. Thompson, who with his people
turned towards the boats, at which instant they
were assaulted with clubs and axes, which the
assailants had till then concealed under their dresses.
Capt. Thompson and his unfortunate men were all
murdered on the spot, and their bodies were after-
wards devoured by the murderers. They then
launched the boats at dusk and proceeded towards
the ship. The officer was knocked down and killed
by those who first ascended the ship’s side. All the
seamen of the watch were in like manner surprised
and murdered.
The noise alarmed the people that were in bed,
who, running on deck in disorder, were all killed
as they went up, except four or five, 'who ran up
the shrouds and remained in the rigging the rest
of the night.
“Poor creatures! A dreadful piece of
news. Our poor sister !”
The next morning Tippahee appeared alongside
in a canoe. The unfortunate men in the rigging
called him, and implored his protection, of which
he assured them if they could make their way to
his canoe. This they effected, and was by the old
king landed on the nearest point. The pursuit was
continued on shore. They were all overtaken, and
Tippahee was forcibly held while the murder of
the unhappy fugitives was perpetrated. A female
passenger and two children, who were afterwards
found in the cabin, were spared from the massacre
and taken on shore to a hut, in which situation
Mr. Berry and Captain Pattison, of the City of
Edinburgh, found and rescued them.
Mr. John held up his hand to check his
brother. “That is all, Will,” he said, “all
that is essential. No doubt poor Mary’s
Reginald has met wijtli the fate of his ship-
mates. But we must encourage her to hope
whilst there is the slightest chance of his
escape. We do not know that he was actu-
ally in the ship. He may have stayed behind
in Sydney. But what’s to be done, Will?
We must make certain.”
Stout Mr. William frowned and deliber-
ated. Presently, as though to emphasise
some decision he had arrived at, he thumped
his clenched fist upon the table.
“Brother,” he said, “I Avill go to Sydney.”
He seemed amazed at himself.
* «: *
During the voyage of the transport Gold-
finch to Port Jackson, by way of Ilio and
Table Bay, Mr. William Jacobs, whom the
authorities, in view of the distressing urgency
of his business in Sydney, had granted a
passage in the vessel, became deservedly
popular with all hands afloat in that some-
what exceptional convict ship, from Dr. Hast-
ings. the surgeon in charge, down to the
seemingly most abandoned denizen of the
prison quarters.
The changing of the guard at nine o’clock in
the morning—a third of the detachment was
always under arms—lost its savor of mono-
tonous routine in the presence of portly Mr.
William. The “first relief” went to their
posts the more briskly and contentedly tinder
his smiling appreciation of the 'soldierly
appearance of the individuals composing it,
and the sentry on the arm-rack at the cabin
entrance felt his to be a position of honor
and distinction, with good Mr. Jacobs observ-
ing him over his spectacles as he lounged on
the teak rail at the break of the poop, smok-
ing one of brother John’s Havanas. Ilis
pilgrimages through the prison in the wake of
the surgeon, when Dr. Hastings made his
morning inspection with the captain, were
a source of joy to the prisoners. Many a
poor wretch felt himself lifted out of the
morass of misery his unfortunate circum-
stances had plumped him in by a hearty,
smiling, friendly nod bestowed upon him by
cheerful Mr. William as he passed by.
One blazing forenoon, as they lay becalmed
near _ the equator, the perpendicular sails
flapping against the masts in the motion of
the long roll, the London merchant was
lounging on the quarter-deck observing a
couple of men busy aloft in the rigging of
the mainmast when he had an impression
that someone had uttered his name. Yes, it
was so. Someone was speaking to him from
behind the stout barricade of oak that
crossed the deck just for’ard of the canvas-
covered after-hatch—the enclosure in which
the prisoners took their daily ration of
fresh air and exercise.
"With a smiling nod of apology to Ensign
Corby, which might have been taken as a
request to that gentleman to shut his eyes,
Mr. William lounged over to the timber .wall,
his hand feeling in the pocket of his panta-
loons for one of those fragments of plug
tobacco it was his pleasing custom to slip
into prisoners' hands.
As he approached it, again he heard his
pgme pronounced in § semi-whisper,
“Mr. Jacobs, sir—if you please.”
A prisoner was leaning against the inside
of the barricade with his back to it, gazing
aloft, and Mr. William took up a similar
position on his side, and prepared to listen to
one of those lmrd-luck stories so prevalent
in convict transports.
“Mr. Jacobs, sir,” came the whisper
behind him. “Don’t you recollect me, sir?”
“My dear man, I cannot see who you are.
How should I remember you?”
“I’m a red-headed fellow, Mr. William—
if you’ll excuse me addressing you as I was
formerly used to doing—and my berth in
the ’tween-decks is near the entrance to the
prison on the starboard side. Maybe you’ll
have noticed me?”
“We have met before, then? Pray, under
what circumstances ?”
“I was Christopher Upjohn, Mr. William
—correspondence clerk in your office before
I left Jacobs Brothers, as I thought, to
better myself with Laird, Wigram and Com-
pany, of St. Swithin’s-lane. Would to God
I’d never gone from the old place, Mr.
William!”
Mr. William gave vent to an exclamation
of surprise.
“And now you’re here, Chris. Lord save
us! My poor lad, 1 remember you well.
One of the best of our staff. Surely, surely
—there’s been some miscarriage of justice?
Then I’ll leave no stone unturned to prove
your innocence, my dear Upjohn, after we
reach Sydney. Don’t give up hope!”
A bitter little laugh came through the bar-
ricade. “Oh, I’m guilty right enough, Mr.
William. I make no pretence about it. For-
gery. Fourteen years—and lucky I wasn’t
hanged. I’m not grumbling. ’Tis not of
myself I wish to speak, Mr. William. I
wanted to tell you something of your sister’s
son —of your nephew, Reggie Floyd.”
Mr. William sighed. “Ah, poor young
Reginald—and his unhappy mother! Did
you not hear that he’d been murdered in
New Zealand, Chris, when the natives over-
whelmed the ship Boyd, of which lie was
supercargo? I fear there is no option but
to believe as much. None whatever. No —
unhappily.”
“Mr. William, sir. I had a letter from
Reggie Floyd the week before the Goldfinch
sailed. When I was in the hulk Sobriety,
off Rotherhithe. From Port Dalrymple it
was, in Van Diemen’s Land. It must have
been written long after the massacre of the
Boyd took place. lie was alive arid well,
lie had run from the ship in Sydney, sir.
Some entanglement with a woman, Mr.
William.”
“God bless my soul! Alive! In Van Die-
men’s Land ! Lord, but ’tis strange he had
not written to his mother! Very strange.
How d’ye account for that, Christopher?”
“I think, sir, he was keeping his move-
ments secret. But there can be no doubt
about his having left the Boyd. And he
could not have heard of the affair, for he
did not refer to it in his letter.”
“Well, well —you astound me, Chris-
topher !”
* * * *
Mr. William Jacobs had provided himself
with letters of introduction to eminent
people in New South Wales, and since it
was not often so agreeable a person landed
in Sydney in Governor Macquarie’s day he
found himself almost overwhelmed with kind-
nesses. From the Governor down, everyone
seemed to be unable to do too much for such
an excellent gentleman. He went everywhere
and he met everybody. But nowhere could
he obtain other news of his nephew than that
he had sailed for England by way of New
Zealand in the ill-fated Boyd.
Mr. William was indefatigable in his
inquiries, but their outcome in every direc-
tion was equally mournful. He met people
who had actually shaken hands with the
young man on the deck of the Boyd as she
lay at anchor in Watson’s Bay, whilst the
military guard was searching the ship for
escaping convicts. They hadn’t any doubts
at all that he had sailed in her for the Bay
of Islands. None at all. But Christopher
Upjohn could not be shaken in his testimony
regarding the letter he had received whilst
aboard the prison-hulk in the Thames await-
ing embarkation in the convict transport
Goldfinch. It had, he was quite certain,
been dated subsequently to the massacre of
the Boyd, which had taken place in Decem-
ber 1809. Nothing could weaken his asser-
tion that the date under wffiich it was writ-
ten in Van Diemen’s Land was in July,
1810. He was quite certain as to the month
and the year. His recollection of it was
perfect, for it was in that very month that
he had been apprehended in Bath by officers
from Bow-street. So Mr. William found
himself in the most miserable state of uncer-
tainty and indecision.
From the testimony of Christopher Upjohn
it had been painfully borne in upon his. un-
derstanding that the missing Reginald Floyd
was far from being what they had supposed
him to be. Upjohn, in the fervor of his grati-
tude to Mr. William for having procured for
him from the Governor a ticket-of-leave and
an appointment to a clerkship in the Commis-
sary-General’s Department, had fully in-
formed him concerning some aspects of the
career of his sister’s Son that had mildly
astonished the confiding gentleman, and led
him to a conclusion that in his nephew's
character there w T as much that didn’t meet
the eye, and wasn’t likely to edify it if it
did meet it. He began almost, indeed, to
wonder whether the fate of the Boyd, so
far as Mr. Reginald Floyd was concerned,
and supposing that young man’s own destruc-
tion had been involved in it, was ‘ altogether
an unmixed disaster. He hardly knew wliat
to hope for.
And then, with startling suddenness, “the
hero of the Boyd” made his appearance in
Sydney with a tremendous tale of his adven-
tures amongst the Maoris.
* * * *
Mr. Alexander Berry, supercargo of the
ship City of Edinburgh; writing to Governor
Macquarie from the Bay of Islands in Janu-
ary, 1810, related how he was able to rescue
{Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital
Capital Paid Up and Reserves ~
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.,
Directors:
£5.000.000
£3.369.965
£18.623,153
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE ; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, ’.vith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS
Gieat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Hanking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
..Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C. j
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the |
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad !
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
.THINK OF
Wi
-Z.
SCHUTE
BELL & C Ltd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer’ 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising Agencies.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE - - - - - 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
Interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
That Trip of Yours!
V
')
Full particulars and literature of
either Excursion from the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melbourne, Cl.
JOINING either giant liner
Aorangi, Makura or Niagara
at Sydney, Australians can
now enjoy three delightful
months at a small excursion cost
on the blue Pacific and in
Honolulu—gem city of Hawaii.
Return fares are only £75 and
£55.
The liner also calls at Auckland,
New Zealand, and at Suva.
As a tempting alternative take
one of the fine fleet of the Union
Company, via Wellington, to
Raratonga and Papeete, at a
return excursion cost of only
£55 and £4O.
CANADIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
r&M
m
mm
m
m-
m'
T r nr’
*
EE
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 7th August, 1929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA7SOO TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses—Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:—
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane . £l2B 10 0
ď
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Established isn
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
- a
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings— Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal,
Quebec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of
the luxurious CUNARD LINERS, including the
R.M.S. Aquitania, R.M.S. Berengaria,
46,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
R.M.S. Mauretania,
30,000 tons.
In conjunction with
THE CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL
LINE.
Via VANCOUVER.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE.
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE.
Via SAN FRANCISCO.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO, LTD.,
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE,
or
CUNARD LINE (C, & D. Line),
1 Bent Street, Sydney,
YOU’LL WANT TO STAY LONGER
at
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Less than two weeks away from Sydney, in
sunny Hawaii, you can be as lazy as you like.
A few days’ loafing and you’ll feel a new zest
for golf—new vim in the morning plunge on
a lovely beach where the water never gets
cold —new appetite at the numerous hotels or
restaurants made for your holiday entertain-
ment. Inter-Island Cruises. Visit Ivilauea
Volcano. Come then, wile away happy holiday
hours at
HAWAII, HAWAII, HAWAII
The round steamer trip from Sydney costs but
£75 up, first-class; or £55 up, second-class —■
and first-class Hotel Expenses range from 12/-
to £3 per day with meals.
Fullest particulars from all Travel or Steam-
ship Offices or from this Office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLT.ONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening ;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/•
Steamer and First-class Bail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Phiip & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker!;
Magnirioent
lltc Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDOART PARKERLIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


'« \ X
... S*
m
tH
■ £
“ I always use Rexona
Soap for 1 find it un-
equalled for the skin
and hair
EILEEN PINKSTONE.
Peauty Competition
Winner.
Corefor yjowiir
Comipll<e»ui<ori
The beauty of a fine, clear, healthy skin is more im-
portant than any other beauty feature. A girl who has a
clear, rosy complexion may lack a number of the points
which make beauty, and yet, be charmingly attractive,
but a girl who lacks a clear skin may have every feature
perfect, and still be unattractive. Complexion comes
before all other charms.
Every girl cannot expect to have a flawless skin, but
she can with certainty expect to keep it at its best if
she always uses Rexona Soap.
Rexona is a pure mild soap, medicated with a little
Rexona. It cleanses thoroughly, yet gently, clears the
pores, soothes and tones the skin and provides necessary
protection against sun and wind.
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RS6R
“THE AGE”
Established 185-1/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
Loudon Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the only survivors of the Boyd from the
hands of the natives —a boy, a woman and
two children. Mr. Reginald Floyd later on
was able to relate how he had rescued him-
self, the ship’s register (which he had really
taken when he ran away from her at Wat-
son's Bay on the eve of her sailing to New
Zealand), and some silver teaspoons (also
belonging to the late Captain Thompson, and
similarly acquired). Also he could tell of
iiis doings amongst the Maoris, of the ven-
geance he had taken upon the murderers, and
of many other marvellous adventures.
On liis way back to Sydney from the
newly-named town of Windsor, Mr. William
broke his journey at Parramatta in order
to spend a day or two with that stout apostle
the Rev. Farmer Marsden, at the latter’s
urgent invitation, given to him as he passed
through on his outward journey to the
Hawkesbury. He was met at the front door
of St. John’s rectory by the burly Yorkshire-
man himself.
“Truly, Mr. Jacobs,” said the senior chap-
lain with an air of enthusiasm, “you are well
come indeed, for we have with us staying for
a day or two a young gentleman named
Floyd”—he did not observe the look of
startled attention in his guest’s face —“who
is one of the very few survivors of the un-
fortunate ship Boyd. You know how in-
terested I am in all that pertains to New
Zealand, and how such a person’s adventures
must appeal to me. He lias had no lack of
them. Just now he is in the midst of a
narrative to Mrs. Marsden and myself of his
hairbreadth escapes from death at the time
of, and after, the massacre at Wangaroa.
Pray let us stand here and listen. My wife
would not forgive me were we to interrupt
Mr. Floyd with the ceremonies of introduc-
tion.”
it W as unfortunate for “the hero of the
Boyd” that he did not confine his story to
New Zealand, but broke off to recount other
adventures in other lands,
As a de scriber of places which Mr. William
knew he had not seen, and of deeds which
j^ r William knew he had not done, Mr.
-\yilliam speedily came to a conclusion that
b fe nephew could have few rivals.
, „ -i
W hep the young man had come to a -
,' ng conclusion. Mr. M llliam stepp d >
the room, greatly to the ol i .
M ars cl en > and spoke. Regina < , e ‘-
sternly. The good-looking piausible jou»
man sprang to Ins feet and faced about to
£“ a a Purple-faced uncle glaring at him
are « V' m ng har t Leave th s reverend
gentlemans house ’" s ' a ,, - v • \
j; 01 ’ suc 1 soci ety- I ' l - c you 111 * ,v
to-morrow. Now, go.
So overcome was ‘the hero of the Boyd
that lie shrank from the room without a
word.
Mr. Marsden gasped, and Mrs. Marsden
squeaked—but the aspect of that stern, un-
bending merchant of London encouraged no
word of either protest or surprise.
The Get-away.
HILARY LOFTIAU'S STIRRING TALE OF A MAN-HUNT
BETWEEN the first and the second shots
death seemed to pause waiting hungrily
for Everett. Everett had earned this
violence. The dockside ’Loo through which
lie was running for bis life could tell him
that. All his days this had been his home, if
the word had ever meant anything to him.
That black bulk ahead was the Darling-
hurst that had loomed over the one room of
his bitter childhood, that loomed now over
the one room of his dishonored middle-age—
the room his wife and son had turned their
backs on years ago. The second shot rang
out, the bullet singing past his ear. Death
seemed to sigh impatiently.
Everett slipped round a lamp-post into a
narrow lane, disappearing into its darkness
like one of its shadows. At a broken gate
the rush of his rubber shoes paused for a
breathless moment while he listened with
the fugitive’s deep intensity; for the moment
all his senses were merged into the one
sense of hearing. The running footsteps
paused, too, at the head of the alley—paused
and seemed to hesitate. There were three
of them, Everett knew; if he could break
the trail for two or even one he might have
a chance. But the sudden beam of a torch
flared into the distance, flicking its light
on the broken gate and Everett crouch-
ing beside it. Under cover of the abrupt
darkness he slipped across, fired viciously
twice into the blackness whence the beam
had shown, and sped like the wind towards
Clancy’s yard.
He was at work now, hard at work at
his job, he told himself. If he could reach
Clancy’s he’d have a better go. The stacks
of timber would give him a bit of cover if
it came to a show-down, and the lanes run-
ning at the back and side of the yard would
give a get-away if his luck was in. The
running footsteps behind were not gaining on
him; if it came to a sharp run in the dark
in the ’Loo he was a match for any John
Hop on the roll. There wasn't a lane or
a bit of wall in the ’Loo that he didn’t
know backwards. The long-distance torch
flashed every now and again, but he ducked
and doubled every time it found him, and
the bullets sang over his head or thudded
into the other wall of the lane. He knew
it couldn’t go on for ever on a straight
run; they’d be bound to get him soon if
the torch could keep him in sight. But the
run to Clancy’s wasn’t straight.
At a dolichos-covered corner in the broken
walls Everett vanished. Vaulting two low
fences, he scaled the wall at the end of
Barge-street and dropped softly on to the
pile of rubbish at the corner. In the farther
lane he could still hear the running foot-
steps; all about he could still hear sub-
consciously the sound of windows suddenly
pushed up, of subdued cries and murmuring
voices—all the sounds called into being by
the shooting. Once a long wailing call went'
up into the night; some woman who thought
the hunt was for her man, he guessed. She
needn’t worry. This man-hunt was after
Snowy Everett for murder—robbery with
violence and murder. Her man was safe for
this time; and even Snowy Everett was
taking a minute’s spell to get his breath
while the Johns poked about with their torch
in Red Bailey’s-lane.
The Johns! Everett’s heavy face became
a mask of scorn. Bob was a John—Con-
stable Robert Everett—young Bob that he’d
fathered and spanked. Everett spat deso-
lately into the pile of rubbish between him
and the Barge-street lane. What a fool he’d
been—him to be messing with robbery with
violence! At his time of life, and after his
record! He deserved all he got.
But it wasn’t murder. Who was to know
that the old fool would drop down dead
when he was touched? A bash in the face
and a plug over the heart —was that muu
der?
Not that he was going to crawl about it.
Only-—well, there it was: these Johns were
hunting him for something he had never
meant to do. And he hadn’t a dog’s chance
of proving it, not with the best lawyer in
Sydney. He knew that.
For a moment the past drove itself into
his conscious memory. Fifty-five years he’d
been kicking about here —a wrong ’un, and
for the last twenty-five years not wanting
to be anything but a wrong ’un. In and
out of quod—Long Bay, Parramatta, Bath-
urst, and this lower end of the ’Loo! That
was the lot. Once more he spat into the
rubbish, that air of final desolation heavy
on his face.
It hadn’t been a fair go. His father had
spent half his time in quod, and so had ail
Id's mates. But it wasn’t any good remem-
bering that; he wasn’t a crawler. And
giving these Johns the slip was as near im-
possible as you wanted. There mightn’t be
much time for anything between here and
Clancy’s.
If the ears of his spirit had been keener
he might have heard the impatient sighing
of Death.
Faces seemed to crowd about him, faces
remembered from the gaol yards of thirty
years. Dowering faces, faces peering and
mean, more like animals’ faces than men’s
—and all mocking. These had been his
mates!
But over all he could see one day. His
own face twisted in mockery as he remem-
bered his wedding. Swiftly the bright
hot morning rose before bis mind while he
crouched behind the rubbish-pile to get his
breath again. He saw Milly’s face with that
light on it, felt once‘more bis unbreakable
resolution to run straight, to get a job and
cut the crook game for good.
It hadn’t been easy to get a job, and it
had been impossible to keep one. They found
out —somehow they always found out. Then
young Bob was born —something had to be
done for tucker and rent. He knew how he
could get it; none better. In a year he was
back in the game, a wrong ’un for good.
Milly had tried. Wanted to shift to
Queensland, to Tassy. But it was too late.
And Milly' had got on his nerves. Even
Snowy Everett’s impassive face became bleak
and pinched ,as he remembered some of his
treatment of Milly. At last she had cleared
out while he was doing his first. Bathurst
stretch, cleared out with young Bob and left
him to it. Twenty years ago that was. He
had seen young Bob in the street once or
twice since—seen him first and dodged him.
A good, clean-looking lad in his police
uniform.
The bunt seemed suddenly to boil up all
round him. The torch flickered half-way
down the lane, the running footsteps pitter-
patter behind it. They had doubled on them-
selves in Bailey’s-lane, and were crowding up
from the. Barge-street end. Everett stood
upright, his head set at the obstinate animal
angle, the killer’s lift in his jaw, the killer’s
desperate gleam in his eyes. It looked like
being a show-down before he could fetch up
at Clancy’s. His lips became a rigid line.
Well, they’d earn it, he promised them.
He waited for another flicker of the torch,
saw it, and fired point-blank just above it.
Shinning over the high wall, he was re-
warded by a sudden gasping cry following
the shot. One of the Johns wouldn’t hunt
him any more to-night! He wasn’t doing
his job so badly, he told himself.
That left two of them at it, which was
better than three. Well, it was straight out
now. Only the quickest shooting mattered.
He sped over Dempsey’s vacant lot and
into the narrow cut leading to the corner
of Clancy’s yard. The ground dipped at
Clancy’s corner, and he could drop down out
of sight if his luck was in. It might give
him a minute or two.
But in the middle of the cut he heard the
echoing footsteps, the sound beating against
the high walls like thunder. They’d spotted
him. Abruptly the white light of the beam
was all round him. He ducked and flashed
across the cut, turning at bay for a half-
second against the other wall. He fired once
and turned on the instant, tearing for the
end of the cut. He reached it and vanished.
He had been right. .Clancy’s was the
nearest to a get-away on earth for him to-
night. Crouched down in the black shadow
of a stack of floorboards, he heard the
sounds of the hunt draw gradually and re-
luctantly away. They had gone on past the
end of the cut into Bremer-lane. They
didn’t know the lower ’Loo as well as he did.
It was a spell at least, a spell of silence
and quiet. The thudding of his heart gradu-
ally softened. Soon——
What was that?
His fingers closed softly round the butt
of his automatic. This might be the
But the Johns were away off, four blocks
away. Yet that was a footstep, a footsten
that meant something, his sixth sense told
him. He raised himself silently ever so little
and peered over the floorboards. As he did
so a torch flickered secretly at the far end
of the big shed, flickered and went out.
It was a John, flat cap, peak gleaming in
the light. God, it teas the show-down!
Lifting his automatic, he -waited for an-
other flicker. There’d only be one John to
take this yarn back.
The torch flickered again, and Snowy
Everett’s tired heart missed a beat.
The John was Bob, young Bob that he’d
fathered and spanked !
(Continued on next page.)


TIRED out WITH PAljy
HEADACHE, DIZZINESS, SLEEPLESS,
NO APPETITE—TARE WARNING!
Kidney Trouble is Crippling You
This is Your Road Back to Health
era
£
Mr
Tired-out with constant Pain! Back-breaking, limbs
like pieces of lead, headache—women by the thousands
know the tragic daily torture only too well. The cause
in most cases can be told in two words—Kidney
Trouble. The remedy can be told in six—De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It does not matter how long you have suffered or what remedies have failed
to give you relief. We ask you to make a test of the 40-year-old, world-
famous remedy—De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Take two at night.
then one before meals. In twenty-four hours
you will see they are doing you good.
This we guarantee. Persevere and
your trouble will entirely
disappear.
If you dread getting
up in the morning to
face the day’s work
crippled with pain, if
you are troubled with
terrible backache, the
very effort to move
from bed agonising,
and then to drag
through household
duties a veritable torture, making you at night-time a nervous wreck, read
this letter, just one of thousands where pain and suffering has been ended
by the safe, simple remedy "De Witt’s,” which any chemist in your district
can supply you with
A WOMAN WROTE THIS TO HELP OTHER SUFFERERS
Mrs. E. L. Hammond, Kempling Street, West Devonport, Tasmania,
says
“For three years I suffered very badly from Kidney Trouble. I was
in constant pain, and tried all sorts of remedies, which did me no good at all.
My sister, who had benefited from De W itt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
persuaded me to give them a trial. 1 am indeed grateful for the health
‘De Witt’s’ have brought me, after taking only two bottles. I have told
a great number how good this remedy is. I am now in perfect health.”
A Remedy that ends pain Quickly and Surely
There is no secret about the wonderful prescription from which De Witt s
Kidney and Bladder Pills are made. Your chemist can. tell you why every
ingredient has been chosen to bring you health. Do not let chronic
Backache, Rheumatic or other pains rob you of happiness. Get your 3/6
or 6/6 supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills at once, and start on
the road to health and strength immediately. They carry a definite
assurance to prove results in 24 hours.
*^2^so^
IS
gw
<R
<2>
P’/H" 3 !1
Cs sC ,|> tN ,
5$
ssisn;
jt»
pt
\
KIDNEY
& BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY THAT SHOWS RESULTS IN 24 HOURS.
tiptoed in and leant over her. She made
no sign. The crisis was passed.
Fanny had shivered all night and now
she felt very sick. She had been thinking,
the numbness had lifted and the bitterness
of humiliation had begun to eat into her
heart. She was glad she was ill.
Maud was bending over her.
“How are you, Fanny?”
“I’m ill.”
Maud gently drew down the sheet. If
she had found a snake in the bed her
expression of horror could not have been
greater.
“Where is your hair?”
“I cut it off—my head, the pain!” and
Fanny began to laugh a little wildly.
The doctor came; he could find nothing
much the matter with Fanny and she did
not help him, lie thought she was suffer-
ing from shock, severe shock, and should
be kept quiet and well nourished. He pre-
scribed a sleeping powder, a tonic and
later, perhaps, a change of air.”
“I don’t like it,” said the Quartermaster
to William. “What’s he mean by shock?”
“It’s the megrims,” suggested William.
“Your sister doesn’t have megrims. She’s
a sensible girl. There’s something in this.”
Benjamin came in with something drip-
ping in his hands.
“One of the men just picked these up in
the courtyard. They are new, out of stock.”
He held up a boy’s jersey, belt and breeches.
“Someone has been at the bales, but as
far as I can see nothing is missing. A
set of oilskins has been dragged out and
tucked back between two bales. The thief
must have been disturbed, run off with
these and dropped them in the yard.”
“Leave them here, Benjamin; we won’t
go into it.”
When he had gone the Quartermaster
glanced significantly at William, gathered
up the wet garments and stumped upstairs,
Fanny opened her eyes to find him stand-
j U g by her, holding the evidence. His face
was creased with trouble, his manner
chastened and nervous.
“Fanny,” he said, “if you’ve come to any
harm you had better tell me.”
She looked at the clothes with wild,
fascinated eyes,
“You’ve nothing to fear from me. You’re
my girl and I’ll do my best for you. Only
tell me, Fanny.”
“i_i__ c i o n , t, papa.”
“I’m your father, why can’t vou make
a c l ea n ‘breast of it! What happened?”
“Nothin" papa”
« Did someone frighten you?”
« Yes _ no p won - t you believe me?
Nhj h , n ' cd noth ing at all. If I
, ■V 1 t „ ii . t
made a mistake, I was silly. I want to
p ,j, „ ’
~ ' , , . . . ... T 1 ,
I' anny closed her eyes and lay still. But
she could not close her mind against the
insistent questions that beat against, her
gdenee as a hammer beats on an anvil,
* i ie X s l eeil ‘ ( ? < *° ky ulse her, body as well
as , mi , nd - She could not evade them could
only hang on desperately to the last threads
er control. A name pierced through
the numbness.
“I s it that man Hildebrand?”
“It has nothing to do with anyone but
myself. There won’t be any consequences
oi any kind.”
Fanny lay through the morning and
afternoon listening to the common noises
of the house, feeling like someone buried.
She clung to her illness as her only pro-
tection. With the doctor in attendance,
they could not plague her too much. The
only thing she had left was her pride. No
one should ever know the depth into which
she had fallen. No one would understand
her motives. She could hardly understand
them herself now; they had been incredible.
Maud came in with a bowl of broth, her
face drawn to a suitable sick-room expres-
sion.
“Dear, dear Fanny, just whisper. I won’t
be shocked, no matter what it is. I’ll stand
by you if you’ll only tell me. What can I
do if I don’t know?”
Fanny turned her face to the wall.
“I know one thing. Captain Hildebrand
was in it.”
“How —oh”
“So he was, then. I thought so. Don’t
shield him, Fanny. He’s not worth it,
really he isn’t. William says”
“Go away,” said Fanny hoarsely.
The next day Fanny determined to get
up. It was too silly to stay in bed when
she was not ill.
“Oh!” said the Quartermaster, “better,
eh? Come and sit down, my dear. I
think you have something to tell me.”
“Nothing, Papa.”
“I think so. I’ve waited till you were
well, but. I’m going to have the truth now.
What happened to you on Thursday night?”
The Quartermaster banged his fist on the
table so that the lustres tinkled. “Well?”
“I am not going to tell you or any-
body else anything, Papa, so it is no use
plaguing me. I have a right to my own
secrets. You can’t make me. I am sorry,
Papa.”
They looked at one another, steel upon
rock. He said heavily in the end, “Have
it your own way. I’ve done what I can
for you.”
To the rest of the family he said, “Don’t
plague her,” and closed the subject.
(Fourth Instalment Next Week.)
Reality.
This wide ai’c of earth and sea,
Wrinkled hills’ immensity,
Lambent greens and flowing golds,
Valleys which the river moulds;
All this stir of light and shade
Is by mine own being made;
Patterned leaf and fretting bough
With the birds in tumult now,
And the stealth of sunset wind
Have no being save in my mind
Forest ripples; start and sway ;
Wheeling of the brisk, blue day.
And the gloomed, tremendous night
Lit by moons of borrowed light—-
All are just a faery mood
Of the man-created wood.
This tall fir, so straight and young,
From a casual seedling sprung,
Armored against thrust and blow,
Clutching frost and beating snow,
Moored in windy tides that swing
In the swelling days of spring,
Takes its form and shape and scent
From my busy brain’s assent.
I need but to turn my head,
Shut mine eyes, and it is dead—
Faded all its colored pride,
Vanished bough and leaf beside,
Foothold where the tni sings,
Home of thousand creeping things.
And the wind that tunnels through
Whistling crack and roaring flue —
Stop mine ears, and what are you?
But a ragged, waving tree,
But a cloud’s flight over me,
But a straining, blind and brute,
At my body by the root.
In that lucid void there glow
Colors 1 shall never know,
For mine eyes’ receptive skin
lias no way to take them in.
Every chord musicians make
When tlie rich vibrations wake
Beats my ear’s responsive zones
Meshed in its soft overtones,
And the sound of any word
Is by tumbling accents blurred.
This smooth-shaped mahogany
To a stronger-seeing eye
Is with giant fissures rift;
On its shining surface lift
Marching mountains by whose crests
Atom eagles have their nests;
Yet the board beneath my hand
Is caressing, silken, bland.
Seeking truth I grope, I pry,
Lift my anxious, unquiet eye,
Search forgotten wisdom out,
Calculate, and put to rout
Calculation’s judgments when
They return to me again.
Which the real, the seeming things?
Dark distrust its curtain flings
()n the portal of my mind,
And I halt, benumbed and blind.
I cannot scale, I cannot flee
This wall that bars reality.
MAORII. AND. QTJF.NTIN POPE.
He lowered the automatic. That was over
the odds. No, he couldn’t come at that; not
on twenty murder charges.
Constable Everett heard the faintest of
sounds at the other end of the shed. He
switched on his torch and let the white beam
pour steadily over his father’s head and
shoulder.
His grim young face blanched suddenly
asjie stared at Everett.
“Dad! What a thing to happen to a
man!”
Everett blinked at the shocked face of his
sou. “What are you goin’ to do about it,
Bob?” lie whispered.
_ His son’s bewildered eyes still stared at
him. “What eon 1 do? I can’t shoot you
down, if you hare asked for it; you’re my
dad. And I can’t put the bracelets on you
and take you in. I don't see”——
Everett watched him. A fine-looking fel-
low, Bob.
Constable Everett seemed to come to some
decision. He switched off the light and spoke
curtly out of the darkness. “I'll poke about
here while you make your get-away,” he
said.
Everett caught his breath. “But what
about your job?” he asked.
The same hard voice came out of the dark.
“There’s other jobs. You clear out of it.”
“But, Bob,” Everett began and paused.
That was all very well —other jobs. But
what about Bob’s oath as an officer of the
law? And what about breaking that oath
and starting wrong? It was starting wrong
that he and his mother broke away from,
twenty years ago, where they made their get-
away. It all seemed to sum itself up. to
grow clear.
Everett sighed, iji half-confessed content.
He was very tired anyhow.
A sudden flash and a roar put an end to
Constable Everett's thinking.
“He must have touched his automatic by
mistake,” was the young man’s horrified
thought as lie bent over what was. left of
Snowy Everett.
Signs of Winter.
The lost leaves fall
Heavy and red,
The lost winds call
And the clouds are spread,
Grey and dead.
The storm-birds cry,
Black and white,
As they heavily fly
In the colder light....
It is hard to write.
The lost leaves fall
Heavy and red ;
The lost winds call.
The light seems dead....
I’ve a cold in my head.
D. M. W.


MS
' M '
sm
3
. ■
A
Imm
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES <K CHIiKCH, Brisbane. COMrODn M/rCT M t Ul 11 Ct
N.SS. Office —03-107 l'eatherston Street, Wellington. LUI\LUUU WEOI, 11. O. VI AULuj
Victorian Olllee—“Chancery House,” 485 Hourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EITHER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
. •
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-254 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with . bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wedn.esdj*ys. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 22S
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: '‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population,
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Qotch, price I| d.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
BRISBANE COURIER”
FIRST
in Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The “Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Queensland —
and is greatly’ increasing its lead every month!
Such is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in-Queenslaiad's biggest and most progressive daily newspaper.
Specimen copTes and rate cards from ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney
Published by the*Brisbane-Newspaper Coy., “Courier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fa ncy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quo te you price for the original.
With
Whafs the matter
you
*
7
*Mtll onj suffer constipation unknowingly . Their
elimination is regular , but always a day or two late .
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You don't quite know what
is the matter with you.
You're just simply
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells cf constipation*
and liver trouble. Headeches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! "i alee Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Pprely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys
healthy and regular.
d
l_ L_
i • C ♦ ■« >»
- • » * «*• • • i
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY —Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
5C
S
V
V
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
•w
M
0
0
in?
0°
6)’
%
&sy' e» 6 >
•* 9^
&?*&■
«£■*£<*>
V5 >ve


1
9
Sr. •
Bes
d
&
m
-
m
n
wfeapfr-
«»l
m
:M
WJmWm
m
S*.
m
? ; *|rr«.‘: ; i!^fisi?i«
l; ; •. i!.;
s
■t-x
PRICE.
BLR.RY
i '
A Timely Suggestion—
and a Ready Acceptance
ERE IS ANOTHER GOOD
Australian who has responded
readily to the suggestion to use
BRYANT & MAY'S Matches:
First —
Because they’re Australian and he
believes in supporting Australian
industries*
Second -—
Because he’s proved there’s no
better match anywhere “for out-
doors and in*”
Insist on Qetting the Australian Made —Ask for
Wmm-
BRYANT & MAYS
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
vT,
*</■/
5*
PS
Jtk
> er Ki?4
