

m
ir-
yy*
/yV>
SMk
flra&i&sal 1
. .*»
smshm
>7//
I||
cm
SL
N '
).A
A
Sr!
5
-rw
'\\\
1
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742
white Horse
" Whisky
Screw-cap Bottles.
Required!.
The Bulletin
'yr&rCcho s<tortco>v4 and fiwnvotouA c&/xmahauz6
Vol, 50.—N0. 2580.
Wednesday, July 24, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office, Sydney, N'.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


yHE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Compared to others in my life and verse
I may be bettor or I may be worse;
But this stands fixed, in action or in plan:
1 am, and always have been, “My Own Man!”
Wise silence serves to make a peaceful life,
Comparisons at best but foster strife. .
True, excellence must in itself endure,.
Like Woods’. Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt,
S'iorxi Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S/ Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your Neiv Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney
iMy Same ■ ■
My Address . . . . . ,
S;B '
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V —
r rn
V
HW 3
w
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of'letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen lioare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend);, Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRFSS*
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex XI42P.
First Editions Wanted for Private Collectors
ORIUIXAIj cloth bindings.
Hudson, W. ll.—The Purple Land, 2 volsl, 18S6.
Shaw, G. B. —Plays Pleasant, 1898.
„ Plays Unpleasant, 1898.
~ Man and. Superman, 1903.
„ Three Plays for Puritans', 3901.
„ Cashel Byron’s Profession, 1885.
~ The Perfect Wagnerite, iB9B.
MeFee, Win. —Casuals of the Sea.
Galsworthy, John—The Country House.
~ A Man of Property.
“Sfnjohn”—(John Galsworthy)—any titles.
Quote condition and prices
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d,
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
Perfection
PITH PI RUBBER
—— ■■ ■
u
Advertise in &/y e
Queenslander
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION,
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kogarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year!
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET /
To-day /
i
ND
£40(1
3
RD
4132
OWlOthmPn
awn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets 1/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
Trades Hatt,
Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
es your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
tak
HUDSONS Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS! COLDS! INFLUENZA!
J.Uj
wotwiMamt
<0
HU
SON
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the Unite"
States, investigated the effects of small doses o(
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 1-
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful of
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6 in staffll 1 *
to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s Eumenthol Cbemie*
Co.; Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
Serial Fiction-writing
The Bulletin’s intention to consider
serial merit in the judging of the Second
Novel Competition entries gives special
interest to How to Write Serial Fiction,
by Michael Joseph and Marten Cumber-
land (Hutchinson ; Ro'ycroft Library, Syd-
ney). Michael Joseph is well known for
a companion book to this on short-story
writing and another on journalism; Mar-
ten Cumberland writes serials fot' several
of London’s big dailies. Therefore, the
authors, as the publishers claim, are well
qualified to write on their interesting sub-
ject; and, which is almost as important,
they have had the good sense to allow quite
'a number of equally qualified others to take
a hand in making the book.
Of all the markets for the young author’s
work, it is' asserted, the serial is the most
neglected. For years it has been the pariah
of literary castes; the scorn of highbrows,
dilettanti and tyros alike. First-novels are
becoming increasingly difficult to place, and
financially they are not a promising ven-
ture. The average successful first-novel
yields a gross return of about £4O. and
many make barely enough to cover the
author’s typing exp.enses, facts which serve
to emphasise the material worth alone of
the competitions conducted by The Bulle-
tin, for the second of which, due to close
at the end of the year, the prizes are:
First, £400; second, £250; third, £lOO.
To the recent brief Red Page list of
great writers whose work has been used
serially are added Defoe, Dostoieffsky,
Liam O’Flaherty, R. H. Mottram, Balzac
and Flaubert. These are mentioned in
support of a contention that there is no
reason why the practice of serial-writing
should make an author deteriorate; the
majority of young fiction-writers will have
nothing to fear, and nothing to lose, by
studying the serial and attempting to write
it. What the young writer wants to do in
order to develop is simply to write —one can
learn to write only by writing.
On this matter of the actual writing
'some of the most pointed remarks in the
book are those of Arthur Applin, one of the
12 successful serial-writers who give notes of
their experiences and contribute synopses of
serials they have written. He asserts—-they
all do—that serial-writing is a serious busi-
ness, and as such the beginner should regard
it. Further, when the technique of the
job has been conquered, it is the gravest
mistake to believe that serial-writing is
“easy money”; the author who writes with
his tongue in his cheek will eventually be
found out—by the reader. Moreover, he
will end by losing his self-respect, and the
writer who does that is lost indeed.
The serial writer has an enormous audience con-
sisting of men and women of widely divergent tastes
and occupations, a vastly different audience from
that of 20 years ago. His readers are all, or nearly
all, intelligent, vitally interested in their fellow-
creatures, curious about themselves, as eager to
learn about life as they are to enjoy it. A splendid
audience, responsive to truth and sincerity, and with
a Veen sense of humor. That is why I believe,
having mastered the trade of serial writing, a young
author should concentrate on • character. .. .life .-is;
seething with drama and drama only comes into
existence through the clash of wills of people with
strong personalities and vivid characters.
Again,
Stories ! They arc clamoring to the serial writer
to fie told. The difficulty is not in finding but in
selecting them, and the simplest way, I have always
found, having settled on the theme of your story,
is to select the characters you think suitable, pick
them out- from the wonderful, lovely crowd, your
brothers and sisters with whom you rub shoulders
day and night in every city of the world, house them
most delicately and lovingly in your heart, let them
live with you until you know them intimately, until
they have discovered to you their weakness and
t heir strength, their virtues and their vices....
You must make a stage on which they will play
their parts; arrange a setting; let them meet,
-peak, and you will find instantly that they will
begin to act for you; they will live in your story
as. they have been living in your brain ; so eager,
they, to be up and doing that you will find vour
pen is a most inadequate medium with which to
translate their emotions and desires. If you have
drawn them, truly and sincerely,' you - will’ find that
they themselves have developed the plot for you.
They insist on action; they refuse to sit still and
do nothing.... Trust your characters, it will not he
necessary to insist on alarms and excursions. detee :
fives from Scotland Yard, seductions and six-shooters.
All contributors similarly emphasise the
importance of firm character making, though
they differ interestingly on questions of the
importance of plot and other ingredients of
the serial. Among them, the authors and
their supporters have made a volume.which
is both helpful and suggestive; not that it
is at all likely to make a serial-writer
out of everybody who may read it, for,
as is stated over and over, serial-writing is
a highly specialised job; but, to the right
reader, it should provide at once informa-
tion 'that might take a long time to win
by personal experience, and, while warning
the incurably easy-going altogether off the
field, it gives out to those who feel de-
termined to work a breath of optimism, all
the more heartening because it is purified
by restraint.
The Old Bench
Harold Mercer (B. 3/7/’29) writes of the
old bench in The Bulletin's front office,
and .stresses the fact that it has for- long
years been the trysting-place for Sydney
Bohemians. The good old bench had a
history before it became a sanctuary for
inky-wayfarers at 214 George-street. When
The Bulletin had its abode at 24 Pitt-
street, the then manager, Silas Harding,
decided to prevent deadbeats and others
from straying all over the building, and
he' had a counter built across the front-
office, erected a high wire door giving
access to the rear, and put the historic
bench on the floor space in front of the
counter.
Harold Grey (“The Pilgrim”) did not, as
Harold Mercer said, sit on that bench while
it was in the George-street premises. He
died some time before the office was
removed from Pitt-street. Also, it was in
the Pitt-street office that Harold Grey and
Victor Daily attempted to put their great
mourning joke over W. H. Traill, and. if
memory is not playing me false, Lawson's
“Faces in the Street” was published in The
Bulletin from the Pitt-street address.
Certainly “the shy youth of 18” introduced
himself to The Bulletin before it removed
to George-street. How J. F. Archibald
revelled in his job of polishing up MS. from
the country boy whom he delighted to hail
as a new-found genius! Archibald’s early
prediction was fully justified in later years
when Lawson was almost a permanent
boarder on the bench.
While the bench was still in Pitt-street
it was accepted as the rendezvous for most
of the contributors (and drinkers) of The
Bulletin in its early struggles. Here Louis
Becke often had a comfortable sleep, and
Ernest Favenc and John Farrell swapped
many a yarn. From that- old bench Harry
Morant bade farewell to The Bulletin
and hosts of Bohemians before his departure
with the Australian Bushmen’s Contingent
to the South African War. John Haynes
here, successfully interviewed many an irate
debt collector, the counter and wire door
barring them from the manager’s office.
John’s optimism and guile accomplished
miracles.
It- was while standing at the counter, with
one foot- resting upon the old bench, that
Phil May modelled the caricature of him-
self which he labelled “That’s Me When
I’m Old.” The grotesque, smiling old face,
with wide open mouth, revealing toothless
“That's me when I'm old.”
gums, and with large wart on nose and fore-
head, was produced by Phil May, when in
a very jovial mood, within ten minutes.
Fred Broomfield and Rod Quinn can
recall many a happy greeting from that
same old bench, and Randolph Bedford can
claim to have been equally comfortable in
any chair that happened to be empty—
manager’s, editor’s or secretary’s—with the
old bench as a last resort. I think the only
Bulletin man who never sat on that bench
v r as “Hop.” He was too modest.
W. H. East.
Oikophobia
Sinclair Lewis’s latest book, Dodswortli
(Jonathan Cape; Dvmocks), is primarily
a study in the reactions of a successful
American business man and his superficially
cultivated wife to the social life of Europe.
The same type of husband (brainy, simple,
patient, humble) and’ the same" type * of
wife (shallow, shrewish and apt to lose
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Ym ccn ,el, "TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ■■
in all Anthony Horderns' advertisements .
Anthony Horderns
m
'0y y
///,.
-m.
/■■■.
/:■
' ,: >jr
W
/V
£<-
0?W
allows you to
Save £1:1: 0 on
THE “UNI”
Electric Vacuum Cleaner
Obtainable onliy
at Anthony
Horderns'
ŵ
cr=^>y
O
G)
/5»
<!>
/>
<7
2iTc3>7.c3J>^>
cL>rccrc-^:css
A smoothly-running, admirably efficient Electric Vacuum Cleaner is now brought within the reach o
EVERY Housewife by our generous Sale Offer. And what an almost unbelievable difference this great
Labor-saver makes in your home. Your rooms can be kept spotlessly clean without the old weekly
“turning-out” upheavals! Even the Picture-rails, Curtains, Lounge-suites, Bedding, b
free from dust bv using the easily-adjustable “Dusting-tools supplied with every machine. The Urn weighs
only 10Jib., is Simple to work and will take the dust right out of the house for you. Price iJ/ /-
* . £6/0/-
Sale Price .. .
You can buy the "Uni” on the "D.P.S.”
at the cash price - no interest charged.
Under the Deposit-Purchase System you select your requirements, pay a deposit,
pay off the balance it* instalments at your convenience, and the goods are then
vours. No interest or extra price charged..
ẁ
Postal Address
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone M2.!f01
Day and Night


World’s GREATEST Values
... sales Prove h!
-A* 4
////77
;x
a
%
t&<
The Greater
HUDSON and ESSEX
w
sere
Motorists have acclaimed Essex
the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson the outstanding values
in all motordom. In both cars
they have found challenging per-
formance in speed, reliability and
economy. They have found
beauty, ease of control, roominess
and luxurious appointments.
There is a body style exactly
suited to your requirements in
a wide range of prices. The
Greater Hudson presents 14 dis-
the Challenger
tinguished body types on 2 chassis
lengths, and Essex the Challenger
may be had in 7 different models.
See these fine, big Super-Sixes.
Drive them under any conditions
of road or weather. Go to your
nearest Hudson-Essex dealer and
test them. T hen you will know
why all motordom is buying Essex
the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment
Tourer (Australian Body) .. , t
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) .. . * 3 gg
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) .. . # ggg
Coupe (Imported Body) . . ti 3 gg
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . 3gg
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars) . 420
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) . . , . _ £5OO
Coach (Imported Body) . . , _ 520
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . _ 535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . 535
Landau Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . , . 610
Tourer (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . , . 550
Town Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . .. 580
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hoibart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—.BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


frr-
R
>
£
£
', A.
42&
i
g£
SI
1
//
THE
MID PACIFIC
PARADISE
HONOLULU
Of Honolulu, Melba has said "This is truly the Eden of the
Pacific—in fact, the Eden of the world. The natural
scenery, the light, the colour, the limpid languishing air, the
quaint plaintive melodies of the people, and their rich mellow voices
blending with such indescribable sweetness —I can merely say that lam
enraptured, I cannot do it more justice in speech.”
Merited indeed is this fine tribute to the beauty of Honolulu. And all
the islands are delightful. As you take the various inclusive tours and
the inter-island cruises, you will behold majestic mountains, semi-active
volcanoes, lava, flowers and flowering trees, exquisitely coloured canyons
and valleys, vast plantations of sugar and pineapple.
Matson-Oceanic Inclusive Tours to Honolulu occupying 33 days, £B5 first
class, £65 second class, 54 days £l4l/10/- first class, £l2l/10/- second
class—including all transport, hotel accommodation and side trips.
STEAMER FARES ONLY—EXCURSION: £75
first class return £55, second class return, issued all the year round,
available for 3 months.
Call or write for descriptive pamphlets, fare lists, sailing dates and other information.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY
FOR SUVA, PAGO PAGO, HONOLULU AND SAN FRANCISCO
TrUll @
HIP
©
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
G-29
head and heart in the presence of Euro-
pean males) have figured in many Ameri-
can books of late—notably in that fine
novel “Now East, Now West.” But it is
as an examination of what the author calls
“expatriates” that “Dodsworth” has a
special significance for Australians. Rela-
tively to population we produce many more
expatriates than the U.S.A.
Every American expatriate who figures
in “Dodsworth” can be matched in the
Australian colony in England. Lady Ouston
(“born —and her father and mother before
her—in Nashville, Tennessee”) has defi-
nitely “passed,” as the Americans say of
their white negroes. She is forever English.
She has “many resolute opinions... .about
the heinousness of beer-drinking among the
working classes, about the scoundrelism of
roast chicken without the proper bread
sauce, and particularly about the bad man-
ners, illiteracy and money-grubbing of the
United States of America.” Sam Dods-
worth, attacked by her about the vulgarity
of Americans (“Such voices—like brass
horns! Such rudeness! Such lack of
reticence! And such material ideals!”), mum-
bles that he has taken America pretty much
for granted hitherto.
The London representative of the Dods-
worth motor business gives a dinner in Sam’s
honor at which the guests are 30 American
men who “have spent from a month to
30 years in England.” “There were not
more than six, Sam discovered incredulously,
who wanted to return to America for the
rest of their lives.”
He meets many other specimens of this
huge class which, as a member of it re-
marks, “has made Paris and London two
of the nicest American cities.” American
journalists, American artists; American
widows and grass widows and divorcees;
young American gigolos, elderly American
dandies—all admit their nationality, when
accused of it, but all conclude with some
such phrase as “And you bet your sweet
life I’m going to stay on here in England;”
or “I’m American, but live here—you bet!”
The chief difference between American
and the Australian expatriates seems to be
that the former are perfectly clear as to
why they never want to see their native
land again. One of them puts it to Dods-
worth this way:—
“Strikes ine that one half or maybe two-thirds
of the American people are the best fellows on earth
—the friendliest and the most interested in every-
thing; and the jolliest. And I guess the remaining
third are just about Ihe worst crabs, the worst
Meddlesome Matties, the most ignorant and preten-
tious fools God ever made. I’d be tickled to death
to live in America — if. If we got rid of Prohibi-
tion ; if”
And so on.
Australia’s expatriates are to be met,
not only in the West End of London and
round about the Avenue Hoche in Paris,
but living economically in dull French or
Italian towns, or in the chill depths of the
English country, or, even worse, in outer
London and Paris suburbs. All are as
definite as any Anglo-American about never
wanting to see their birthplace again, but
they rarely explain why, as Anglo-Ameri-
cans seem to do.
A possible explanation is that they have
no explanation. There are more cultural
contacts to be made in London than in an
Australian city, but then 99 per cent, of
our expatriates never make such contacts,
or ivant to. London and Paris specialise in
hotels, restaurants and amusements for the
very rich, and, when their climates become
intolerable, there are convenient jumping-
off grounds for millionaires’ playing-fields
such as the Riviera and Egypt. But nine
ex-Australians out of ten are by no means
rich; and England and northern France are
most uncomfortable countries during nine
months of the year for those who are not
rich. The inhabited part of Australia is,
conversely, about the world’s most comfort-
able abiding-place, at the present time, for
people of moderate means. Amongst other
advantages it has the best all-the-year-round
climate and the best food (fruit, vegetables,
bread, butter, meat, etc.) at the price; it
is as free as England, and much freer than
France or Italy; and its wage-earners can
enjoy pastimes which are monopolised by
the wealthy elsewhere.
It is not suggested that there are many
Australian Lady Oustons, any more than
there are many American ones. Some Aus-
tralian wives live in England because their
English husbands insist, and vice versa.
Other Australians —chiefly writers and
artists—can earn more there than they can
at home. This article is only concerned
with the residue —obscure and more or less
indigent Australians who, while just as
patriotic, in theory, as ex-Americans, shud-
der at the thought of leaving the rigors of
Europe for a land where it is possible to
be comfortable without personally organis-
ing that comfort. Why do they suffer from
“dread-of-going-home”? It is a problem
that would repay investigation by a com-
petent student of sociology.
John Dalley.
The Splendid Adventurer
W. M. Hughes’s book, The Splendid
Adventure (Benn), is large, distinctly elo-
quent and rather late in the day, consider-
ing that it deals so extensively with war
troubles and peace negotiations. It con-
sists of three well-defined parts, the third
of which is absent.
The narrative really commences when the
British Government, in 1916, invited the
Dominion Premiers to London. Mr. Hughes
arrived in March, and became an active
critic of affairs. The other Premiers
apparently received the call as a graceful
compliment, but saw no demand for their
immediate interference. In South Africa,
Botha was running a war of his own, and
was busy adding 700,000 square miles of
German territory to the Empire. Canada
was getting 350,000 workers into its muni-
tion factories and filling £250,000,000 worth
of orders for war appliances, which included
cartridges, high explosives of many sorts,
steamships and aeroplanes. It also_ had its
compulsory service system to get into full
working order, and Robert Borden wanted
to keep his personal eye on these matters
for a while.
The author admits that British Ministers
were, perhaps, embarrassed by his sudden-
ness. “The Government was, I think, a
little at a loss what to do with me.” How-
ever, he made “several speeches which
attracted considerable attention.” he
was occasionally invited into the Cabinet,
where he was seated on the right hand of
the Prime Minister. But he wasn’t made
a regular member; lie only received invita-
tions, issued in Prime Minister Asquith’s
“grand manner” and “at spacious intervals.”
In between invitations he “just hung round
or went through the country making
speeches, which roused the populace by urging
action in place of the debilitating policy of
'Wait and see.’” This possibly annoyed
Asquith, who never announced “Wait and
see” as a policy, but merely threw the.
remark three times in succession at members
who demanded information which he didn’t
think it right to disclose at the moment.
One of Asquith’s jobs at this time was
the enactment of compulsory military ser-
vice, and while tackling it and other
matters he may have remarked inwardly
that his stormy critic had done nothing
much himself.
A section in which the author arouses
genuine sympathy deals with the Peace
Conference. The disturbing and delaying
element was President Wilson, the Pious
Porcupine with the Fourteen Points, includ-
ing freedom of the seas and self-determina-
tion of nations, or races, or something. It
is exceedingly difficult to define a race,
though the Melbourne Cup is one. In the
Balkans there may be several in one village,
and in India races and castes and religions
are more numerous than non-financial life
assurance companies in Australia. As to a
nation, it may be defined in a negative way
as an institution fairly common in Spanish
America which, when it proposes to self-
determine something the United States
dislikes, is ordered to leave off under penalty
of being hit on the head with the Monroe
Doctrine.
The Second Part of the book is so much
mixed up with the First Part that the two
can only be distinguished by the eye of
faith. It is a brilliant effort to show how
to make a more coherent structure out of
the British Empire, and also to show how it
can’t be done. There is difficulty about
compiling a system of constitutional gov-
ernment into which Australia, India, Hong
Ivong and Jamaica can be fitted, and present
a smooth surface. If the decision goes
by white population, Great Britain will
always have a majority, while if it goes by
mere population the people who speak for
India will predominate, and if it is a matter
of one self-governing unit one vote, Aus-
tralia’s share in a decision will be scarcely
worth mentioning. It is advisable for the
big Dominions to be independent as if they
were outside the Empire, and yet not to be
so far outside that they can’t scuttle inside
when necessary. At the same time the
existence of a great colored majority renders
any really Imperial Parliament impossible.
After studying many interesting chapters
the impression gathered is that it is best to
“Wait and see” and watch developments.
The Third Part—which may be issued
separately or not at all—should deal firmly
but concisely with Australia as it was before
and after Mr. Hughes’s voluminous labors
abroad. No great Dominion has shown
such remarkable demoralisation as Australia
did between the beginning of the war and
the end of the fourth Hughes Ministry in
February, 1923, and the decomposition sur-
vives wonderfully. For 12 years after the
foundation of the Commonwealth, Aus-
tralian exports paid for imports, and left
substantial balances over (£24,992.851 in
1908) to cover interest and other liabilities.
Now the failure of exports to pay for
imports by £31,642,914 in 1920-21 was
only the introduction to a period of small
production, big luxury and the domination
of foreign agitators. One possible explana-
tion is that the much-travelled Prime
Minister went off to mix in • British
affairs leaving the compulsory military
service question unsettled, and it never was
settled. As a result, good citizens went
voluntarily to the front, and bad citizens
and many who were not citizens at all
voluntarily stayed behind, to acquire
an absurdly large share of political control
and influence and to organise anti-war
strikes and pro-Hun meetings. Whether
W. M. Hughes would have made the situ-
ation better if he had remained on his job
it is hard to say, and in the absence of
a definite Third Part in the big volume an
authentic opinion is wanting.
J.E.
Beyond the Rockies, by Lukin Johnston
(Dent). An account, freely illustrated with
photographs, of a 3000-miles trip by track
and canoe through little-known parts of.
British Columbia. The writer is a journalist
with the gift for interesting description.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and aalress must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Hubert D.: Failed on the second time
round. .. .J.S.: “Diamonds” ditto. Nothing par-
ticularly wrong with it; simply isn’t quite good
enough... .R.0.E.: Muddled narrative; and the
misery of it added the 2dwt. which turned the scale
against it... .E.P.M.: Too hard to swallow these
days.... J.P.R.: Your knowledge of the build of a
motor-car and a story are on a par.... 11.K.W.:
Satire on a satyr consigned to a warm corner....
H.D.: The movement’s heavy... .M.A.J.: Merely a
string. .. .Bellerive; Welcome with “Poets of the
Past and Present” ;
Commenting on the art of verse,
With a friend named Mr. Rawson.
He mentioned Victor Daley,
And Australia’s Henry Lawson.
The poems of Clarence Kendall
And Stephens he did praise,
Foremost prided Cordon of
The past and present days.
I spoke of Quinn and Brady,
Who keep old memories green.
By their popular contributions,
To the Sydney Bulletin.
And “Kodak” who departed.
Somewhat in he’s prime,
Who wrote some funny stories
And many a funny rhyme.
1 recalled illfated Boake,
Long mouldering in he’s tomb.
A young and clever poet
Who perished in he’s bloom.
Verse by Robert Crawford.
O’Hara and McCrae.
My worthy friend did mention
In an enthusiastic way.
While on the hearth the fire
Its bright reflection shed,
We commented on the Poets,
The living and the dead.
. ...D.D.; Unhappily, you don’t do as well as the
artist. ... W. A. P.: “The Maid in Maoriland” fails
to melt the Stony Hero in the Pay Office.... F.A.:
No stamp, but idea so good that it’s been returned
for decent treatment.... R. Bore: Clever. Pity it’s
also blasphemous... .M.M.L.: More a list of things
than a poem. ... J.A.W.: We’re almost inclined to
suspect that the joke about a child not being able
to reach its mother’s skirt-hem isn’t original....
,LS.: Too long and too loose. .. .J.N.: Fluent com-
monplace 1.M.: Bright, but without story interest.
....Amazon: Even Parson Ketchup leaves it flavor-
less. .. .J. 8.8.: Not enough in it... .G.G.J.: In-
structive; try one of the magazines E.M.: Too
much talk, too little action... .N.K.C.: Sobs, coughs
and dead wattle —what a tale !... .G.R.11.: A croc,
couldn’t swallow that yarn... .H.V.T.W.: Wouldn’t
deceive an infant John Dorothy Jane: Couldn’t
accept “The Sisters,” even in Leap Year... .Clover:
Those sonnets go back K.K.: Doesn’t ring true.
M.E.W.: All pretty close D.M.F.: Does not
get anywhere.... J.H.: —
When this life’s short span is run
And all the world looks sear and gloom
f would like to be escorted Home
By poets.
On the way you might give some of them a hint or
two on rhyming—they’re dreadful at it K.M.:
Intention has our sincere respect; unfortunately,
the verse has not L.McM.: Let some more years
go by....8.F.: In the high explosive class. .. .J.T.:
Good, but unnecessary E.J.P.: We know the place;
it deserves better Kou: Not so much a song as
a sing-song M.P.: String of rather loose state-
ments... .E.S.: Liked “Fragment, Unfinished” best.
....Rem: Verse “To a Butterfly” fell out of the
window and knocked a hole in the pavement... .F.H.:
Quite believe you felt all that; you fail in not
making the feeling contagious... .S.P.R.: “Going,”
going, gone !.... R.E.F.: “When the Spooks Vote”
passed through w.p.b.’s sliding panel. .. .K.M.: An
idea, but it would need quick, sharp presentation.
... .R.H.W.: Scarcely worth saying... .T.S.P.: Verse
about horse rather thick in the fetlocks M.J.:
Fair of its dark kind. .. .L.P.: Rather cruel “To
Poetry”.... 8.C.: Morals all right... .D.1.C.: On
the slight side. ... Y.U.: Verse about the lemon-tree
overcome with scale made the Religious Editor give up
his nightly hot rum.. ..8.J.0.: Sorry to note by
“Satan to the Clergy” that Hornie has stooped to
attempting a rhyme with “lies” and “despised.”
. ...L.R.: “Joskey Jack” doesn’t make us want to
dip....M.5.: Have heard the birds sing better....
E.T.: Theme worn threadbare... .J.A.: But everyone
knows why Uncle Sam is now called “Uncle”....
Mieah: “To the Sun” got as far as the fire. .. .R.S.:
It reads as if you did it on a Wurlitzer... .Put:
As real as a paper flower... .E.M.E.: Dreamland
adventure too visionary... .A.L.: Can’t place your
discussion with Shakspeare “over a glass of ‘Victorian
bitter’ ”... .J.11.F.: Not bad as a brief character
sketch.... Tambo: On the contrary, Port George IA r .
is the largest of the Westralian missions; it sheltered
322 out of 1056 mission abos. and half-castes
enumerated by the statistician. Beagle Bay sheltered
220, Sunday Island 147, New Norcia 119, Forrest
River 94, Lombadina 75 and Mount Margaret 70.
... .Abdul: You are confusing him with Captain Tom
White, of N. S. Wales. Captain Tom White was in the
13th Battalion, and wrote its history, “The Fighting
Thirteenth”; his other publications are “Duckboard
Memories” and “Diggers Abroad”... .C.0.D.: Pro-
vincial debts, in millions of dollars: Alberta 91,
British Columbia 84, Manitoba 77, Nova Scotia 42,
Prince Edward Island 2, Quebec 59. The Royal
Canadian Mounted Police is an armed force organised
in 10 divisions; strength, 1004... .Dinkum: Note
your reference to Judge Curlewis and “the superior
culture of Cockaigne.” But he was born in Sydney
(Bondi, to be precise) and has lived there all his
life. .. .Pong: Quite impossible to say. According to
the Statesman’s Year Book, “authorities estimate
that there are over 3,000,000 men under arms in
China,” but these are mostly irregulars controlled
by independent “tupans” and their military valuf
is questionable. The largest vessel in the navy j*;
4300-ton cruiser.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.G.R.: Not taking a second helping of that joke,
thanks... .S.J.M.: You need a teacher W.1.M.:
The kids are humorless. .. .S.P.: Make ’em bigger.
... ..8.J.: Your flappers bulge in the wrong places.
. ...J.E.C.: That koala ought to be knocked on the
head... . B.O.: A smudgy, lopsided effort... .D.C.:
Been ransacking the files of comic papers? T.M.:
No use sending stuff like that R.H.L.: Amateurish.
E.A.C.: It’s rolling home P.F.8.: A tumble-
down pencil sketch... .M.E.: You can’t put lines
down in that haphazard way and succeed.


a
£Mmmm
■ " V
A
»./
»
p
m
m
&> K i :
ill
m
■ ■■
HRHtiMBi
ii
M 1
Ml
• : . :■
,
a
3--*
■
llf|§f|f|tllf
NIhII
|||ll§||§ i Hi
n
• ■-■
,
■
*
/Ull
1 ■
/./■'■;l:
.
■' >: ••
ft?
■
■.,-.. .
' '
I
■
1:,
Pl'/:
l»llg88ill
•//ft ;
/"■ ft, ■-■■'■:
...... ■
.
iillillllß
.
■
i
i;
' :: ■
'■'P.ftP:;/
sm
\' '
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—X0. 2580.
July 24, 1929.
MUST HOPE PERISH, TOO?
“Meanwhile, for all our pacts and promises, the world moves plainly forward towards fresh wars.”— H. G. Wells, speaking before the Reichstag, Berlin
“Diplomatic relations between Russia and China have been severed.” — Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21.} George Street, Sydney; Box 232188.
Victoria: llj-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2}9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place. Adelaide.
Wkstiiama : 33 Barrack Street , Perth.
London' : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, 1 V.C.2.
Regent 3795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address In Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 js. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address O'krseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Ss.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth. Sew Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: joz. to lOoz., lid.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz, or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
THE WRITING OF SERIALS 2
W. M. Hughes and the War
By James Edmond .. . • • • .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . ..5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, by Avia.. .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
One Income-tax, Not Seven! • .. 8
POSSIBLE RETURN OF LANG 8
THE AUSTRALIAN JACK TAR.—
By J. H. M. Abbott 8
How Politicians Make Crimes • • 9
A CARTOON BY SCO RFI ELD 9
POLITICS .. ~ 10
QUEENSLAND CARTOON, by lan Gall .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . ■ 11, 12
WHITE WOMEN AMONG NORTHERN BLACKS 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. . . .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
THE SHEEP SALES.—Drawn by Percival .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. -.17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Q. N. BANK 18
Cement Companies’ Prospects—
STANDARD PORTLAND CEMENT ..18
WALTER REID & CO 18
NORTH COAST STEAM 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) 23, 2. r »
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
TOP-DRESSING MACHINES 28
FIRST PRINCIPLES OF PASTURE IMPROVE-
MENT 28
THE POTATO CROP 32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
THE NEWEST TALKIES 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 44, 42
Caulfield Races ' 9
CANTERBURY RACES 39
ALL BLACKS r. AUSTRALIA . . 41
BUSINESS. ROBBERY. ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE .. • • 4<:
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP • • • • 49
"THE QUARTERMASTER” . . 50, 61, 62
NORMAN LINDSAY ILLUSTRATION .. .. 51
COMPLETE STORIES—
“Worth a Dozen” —
By “Propeller” .. • • • • 55, 57
“THE STRANGE STORY OF SAMMY DODGE,”
By Colonel A. A. Grace .. •• 57, 58
VERSE
“THE SONG OF SPEED,” by Quentin Pope.. 12
By R. Crawford, Cecil Mann, Quentin Pope and
Myra Morris .. .. • • • • .. 58
Next Week.
The opening chapters of “PARADISE PLUMES,”
selected by the judges in Tub Bulletin's First
Novel Competition.—See page 52 this issue.
illeixf/t
WEDNESDAY, JULY 24, 1929.
ONE TAX, NOT SEVEN!
The Vic. Taxpayers’ Association has per-
formed the useful service of publishing a
summary of the rates of direct taxes in force
in Australia and Maoriland, brought up to
April 30 and checked by the various Com-
missioners and Deputy-Commissioners. This
issue of the Taxpayer shows how clumsily
income-taxation is contrived in Australia,
arid how oppressive it has become.
The Maoriland income-tax is simple and
intelligible, and Maorilanders fare lightly
compared with their brethren in Australia.
Starting at 7d. in the £ on incomes exceed-
ing £300, the Maoriland tax goes up to
4s. 6d. in the £ on £8701, but there is a
10 per cent, reduction in respect pf earned
income up to £2000. Also there is total
exemption for “all income derived by any
owner of land from the direct use or culti-
vation thereof.” The estimated population
at the end of 1927-28 was 1,446,000, and the
income-tax revenue for that year was
£3,273,000. Yet Armageddon cost the little
country £72,000,000, and it pays not only
Great-War and old-age pensions but pen-
sions for blindness, widowhood, miners’
phthisis, the 1918 influenza epidemic, the
South African War and the Maori wars.
Also it has a national provident fund and
a small system of family allowances.
Our Commonwealth tax on income from
personal exertion goes from 3 3/8C0d. in
the £ on the excess over £300 to 5s. in
the £ at £7601, with 8 p.c. added. On
property, the rates rise from 3 l/181d. on
£1 to 5s. in the £ on £6501, also with 8
p.c. added. The N. S. Wales rates go up
to 5s. in the £. and Treasurer Stevens
prides himself on having extracted £7,344,000
from a population not a million greater
than Maorjland’s. Yet, unlike the Maori-
land Treasurer, he hasn’t to pay any war
interest or war pensions; moreover, he gets
his family-endowment money from an addi-
tional tax of £2 in the £IOO of wages.
The S. Aus. impost rises from 5 l/200d.
to 2s. 6d. in the £ on income from personal
exertion, and from 11 l/200d. to 3s. in the
£ on income from property, plus a 25 p.c.
super-tax in each case. The Queensland
rates go from 6d. to 3s. in the £; the
Victorian, from 4-ld. to Is. sd. (with 10 per
cent, to 25 per cent, added on incomes
exceeding £800); the Westralian, from 2d.
to 2s. Bd.; the Tasmanian, from 3 3/800d.
to Is. lid. Special Commonwealth grants
enabled Westralia and Tasmania to reduce
their taxes, but these grants are pretty cer-
tain to be withdrawn.
Companies are taxed Is. in the £ in
the Commonwealth, Is. 6d. in Victoria,
Is. 3d. to 35., plus 20 p.c., in Queensland
(“monopoly” and “public utility” cos. may
have to pay 4s. there), and 2s. 3d. to 3s. 3d.
in N. S. Wales. S. Aus. companies (life-
assurance concerns excepted) arc taxable
at property rates. Last year 193 com-
panies paid the S. Aus. Government £618,349
on income amounting to £4.277,329 —and
yet there was a State deficit of £274,900.
In fine, the income-tax business in Aus-
tralia is a vast muddle, and the results are
becoming more and more serious. Over a
large part of the continent Governments
take half the uncertain profits of pastoral-
ists in no very largo way of business; on
the other hand, rich investors are rushed
with Government securities the interest on
which is free of State income-tax, and
others, by juggling with exemptions and
domiciles, can dodge both State and Com-
monwealth taxes on considerable incomes.
And the seven taxation departments are
beaten nearly every time their ill-defined
powers are challenged in the higher courts;
the Federal concern has just lost its case
against Bawra, involving £200,000. There
should, of course, bn one income-tax, and
one only, and instead of being all rigmarole
and German formulas it should be as simple
and understandable as the British and
Maoriland measures; above all, if should
be designed to bring in enough to meet the
war interest and sinking fund charges
(£20,220,700 last year) and no more.
THE POSSIBLE RETURN OF THE
SLANGWHANGS.
With the N. S. Wales Premier about to
show over the horizon, his colleagues have
got down to the job of arranging the pro-
gramme for the coming session. The
Acting-Premier states that 60 measures are
in contemplation, but that Parliament will
be too tired to deal with more than ten
or a dozen. The Government’s recognised
press organ has printed a list of those having
a chance. A bill not among the six is one
to amend the jury system. There is also
lack of mention of an amendment of the
vagrancy law. According to the existing
methods the most notorious non-working
criminal can dodge a conviction for being
a useless and deleterious member of society
if he can produce a neat little heap of
stolen but not identifiable money, or get
another bad but not so well-known character
to pose as his employer and swear to his
wage-earning capacity. These two omis-
sions suggest that the Government has
no urgent desire to take big problems by
the throat.
And then it transpires that the first bill
of the. half-dozen, the one dealing with
Upper House reform, isn’t ready at all. As
Acting-Premier Buttenshaw stated the case
the other day, the new Chamber may pos-
sibly be partly elective and partly nomin-
ated. or it may be quite different. The
elected members may be paid while the
nominated ones are not. The Upper Housers
chosen by the people may be paid half the
salary of the elected Lower Housers, though
with larger electorates to deal with they may
want more money rather than less. Uncer-
tainty also prevails as to the term of mem-
bership. The question of securing sufficient
new appointments to the old Leg. Council
to ensure the passage of the bill creating
the new one has, it appears, “not yet been
considered”; but if no one knows what the
new bill is to be like, consideration would
be premature. If more decision isn’t shown
there will be no new bill.
The world is said to have been ransacked
in. quest of an ideal Upper House, and
ransacked in vain. Perhaps it might be
better to leave the world alone and try
something Australian. If the Federal elec-
torates were taken as State Assembly
electorates, the Federal rolls being adopted
also, then, giving three members to each
constituency, the Ma State would be fur-
nished with a Lower House of 84. And
adopting the Federal Upper House roll as
the State Upper House roll, the number of
State Upper Housers could be anything in'
reason; but if they were fixed at half the
number of the Lower people it would be a
fair thing.
It is maintained that one House should
not be a useless duplicate of the other, but
they can’t be wholly different unless the
Top Chamber is hereditary or imported.
They can be made partly different if it is
nominee, or elected by the Rich, or con-
sists wholly of the Rich, or of the Old. or
of the Rich and Old. But all these ideas
wake up objections. The method above
proposed follows a precedent, and an Aus-
tralian precedent which has proved itself
prettv well. It .supplies a Top Chamber
which isn’t an exact duplicate of the Under
one, especially if the members have differ-
ing terms of office, yet it doesn’t disfran-
chise anybody except ghosts. And it tends
to save a vast labor at roll-stuffing and
gerrymandering electorates, if Fedei’al ex-
perience goes for anything. Should the
Assembly dig in and refuse to budge, then
of course the Council would have to be
reformed separately and much of the benefit
would be lost; but the Government has a
majority, and a majority generally does
what its leaders want it to do provided the
leaders know what they want and know
hard enough.
At present they don’t know; but there
should be a better chance of coming to an
agreement by concentrating on a good imi-
tation of our own Federal system than by
browsing among foreign Constitutions from.
Canada to the Irish Free State, taking
Japan on the way. The possible alternative
is that the Slangwhangs will return to
office before anything is accomplished, and
proceed to dig themselves in after the
Queensland fashion, and prepare for a life
stay.
RAMSAY MACDONALD’S BABY
FOSSIL.
The new British Labor Ministry has
delivered the King’s Speech, and elucidated
the situation with speeches of its own. The
general effect is of the damp-blankety
description—not really dripping, but damp.
As a cardinal principle the Cabinet is
against lending any assistance to permanent
and self-supporting British industry, and all
the existing Protectionist or “safeguarding”
duties are to be abolished as soon as events
and finances permit. April, 1930, is men-
tioned as a probable date for action. This
involves a slaughter of Dominion preference,
for the Dominions can’t be granted reduced
duties where there are none to reduce. A
good deal was said about internal improve-
ments, such as road-making, draining, slum
improvement and afforestation, which are,
or may soon be, in progress; but things of
the soft furnish employment which is mostly
temporary, and if there is a fading aWay
of the numerous factories which arose under
the existing tariff, the permanent loss is
likely to outweigh tire temporary gain.
There should be room for both sets of jobs
side by side without overcrowding Great
Britain and northern Ireland with work
and wages.
The Prime Minister is sturdy and asser-
tive on the point that the constituencies,
at the recent appeal, gave an overwhelming
verdict for Freetrade. Still, the largest vote
in the triangular muddle went to the party
which is associated with Protection, and
part of the Labor vote was cast for men
who looked for a much more violent pro-
gramme than the Prime Minister offers.
These two circumstances cast a shadow' of
doubt on the overwhelming character of
the verdict. The leaders of both Freetrade
parties were very scant, all through the
election campaign, with evidences of the
evil of Protection. They said with much
fury that it is evil, and that sane persons
have only to look at its malignant coun-
tenance to realise the fact; but that can
hardly be called evidence.
The Freetrade .or Manchester gospel
appeared in the full bloom of youth long
before the United States had any tariff
worth mentioning, and when Disunited
Germany was. a ragged regiment of princi-
palities, and hadn’t begun to think of a
manufacturing future. It was arranged in
England that these and other humble folk
were to remain in bovine contentment,
supplying raw materials to “the world’s
workshop.” which was, and was to be, the
United Kingdom, and buying back their
materials in a finished form. There, being
no foreign manufactures of note to compete
against the British maker, Protection seemed
superfluous, and at that time, and under
the conditions, it was. But foreign nations,
especially the United States and Germany,
failed to run to schedule, and tramped with
large, resounding feet on the sacred preserve
of the “world’s workshop.” New conditions
don’t suit the old theory that Great Britain
has by nature an almost unchallengeable
monopoly of industry as in the seventies of
last century, when it supplied Uncle Sam
with firearms, cotton goods, millinery and
millions of pounds’ worth annually of silk
and woollen manufactures, railroad iron,
cutlery and sundries. The attempt to live
up to the old conditions when they are
dead is certain failure, like living up to the
old smoothbore musket, which was also very
good in its day.
The British position is peculiar. In 1927
the Kingdom imported goods valued at
£1,259,000.000. It paid the hefty bill in this
way
Exports of merchandise and specie .. £867,497,000
Profits made by peddling round the
world, keeping banks from Guiana
to Abyssinia, insuring anybody who
wanted insurance, dragging to and
fro in ships the goods of all sorts
and conditions of men and collecting
interest from borrowers . . .. 488,000,000
£1,355,497,000
Wherefore the Old Man in London had
£96.000,000 to the good, and could keep on
lending and making money. But all this
•successful peddling abroad doesn’t prevent
there being great lack of employment at
home through buying so much and manu-
facturing so little. Unless MacDonald and
George and such-like realise the need for
more permanent industry, there is a very
urgent need to send surplus population
away overseas. Unluckily, South Africa,
with its great nigger population, is a poor
field for the white worker. India is no field
at all. Canada is too much given to freez-
ing. Australia seems to have fewer and
fewer attractions, and in the first quarter
of this year it was an exporter of popula-
tion rather than an importer. And the
United States has to a great extent closed
the door against strangers.
The problem is difficult and the new Gov-
ernment is unequal to problems. It is a
bright baby fossil, young in years, but
dreadfully aged in its beliefs.
JACK OF AUSTRALIA.
When sunrise lit up the high control posi-
tion and three tall funnels of H.M.A.S.
Australia, that considerable ship was loafing
along the coast of Queensland, which still
slumbered beneath bed-clothes of misty
cloud-wrack on the edge of the grey sea.
Whether you really saw it or only imagined
its visibility was uncertain, but it was over
there.
Towards breakfast-time the incomplete
extension of Fraser Island known as Break
Sea Spit—it is good dry land in the making,
composed as yet of sand and dead coral—
came into the picture as a long line ot
sunlit surf, and before long, and at some
distance from its north end, the ship swung
round to the westward and passed the
lonely lightship marking the southern gate-
post; of the 60-mile-wide entrance to Hervey
Bay. And then we turned south, and very
gently slid across a wide, grey water that
looked like Port Phillip, to our anchorage
in Platypus Bay. Canberra came after us,
400 yards astern.
Presently we were at anchor, and the red
cross of St. George fluttered from the flag-
staff at the stern, instead of from the gaff.
Albatross and the three destroyers Anzac,
Swordsman and Success lay close in to a
bleak background of densely-forested shore
—lonely', desolate and inhospitable looking,
We were on the parade-ground where, once
or twice a year, all ships of His Majesty’s
Royal Australian Navy perform the stunts
they are constantly rehearsing against the
da.y when they will cease to be stunts and
will become stern realities.
And what a parade-ground it is! From
Sandy Cape, at the northern end of Fraser
Island, about 45 miles of water stretches in
a westerly direction to the mouth of the
Burnett River, and along that line the depth
averages more than 12 fathoms all the way
across. To the northern opening of Great
Sandy Strait, some 25 miles south-west of
where the squadron is moored at present,
the water gradually shoals from 11 fathoms
to 5; a rough estimate from a glance
at the chart shows about 10 fathoms all
over the huge inlet. There are no shoals but
those at the end of the Strait. Ten-thou-
sand-ton ships, like Australia and Canberra,
can play about this great, calm manoeuvring
area in perfect safety. Torpedoes may be
run, and gun-practice interferes in no way
with anyone’s safety or convenience, since
there isn’t anyone in the neighborhood to
interfere with. From its position, depth of
water, shelter from southerly winds and
utter solitude, Hervey Bay makes an ideal
field of training for such a squadron as rides
at anchor in it this morning.
It is the solitude that counts as much as
anything else. Matthew Flinders charted
the wide inlet in 1799, and if he were to
come and survey it again in this year of
grace he wouldn’t find it any different.
The long, low, scrubby ranges of Fraser
Island stretch north and south in silent
loneliness, as they did when he took bearings
from their infrequent peaks 130 years ago.
Behind the anchorage, in an angle of the
low hills, stands a solitary deserted hut,
invisible from the bay—maybe some stock-
man’s lonely dwelling—'which is the only
habitation within scores of miles. There is
no town, village, settlement or messuage
nearer to Platypus Bay than Urangan, close
to the mouth of the Mary River, 40 miles
distant, whither a destroyer runs in. for mail?
twice a week. There, also, is the nearest
pub and the nearest girl.
Such amenities of civilisation as these
latter are well enough in their way, trora
a naval point of view. Comfort might be
found in snug taverns, solace and delight m
lovely she-Queenslanders; but neither beei
nor beauty very greatly enhances the value
of work done by lusty young men vowed to
the monastic asceticism of naval service
afloat. The Australian bluejacket is a bright
lad who understands his job. and does it
well; but does it all the better when hi?
stomach and his liver function freely and the
lures of loveliness entice him not. In He r "
vey Bay he is so celibate and abstemious
that everv ounce of nervous energy is full}
available for devotion to the cult of the gun.
the torpedo, the rifle and bayonet. He does® t
go ashore and get “shot.” and no blue
light” is ever burned in the neighborhoou
of the sick bay. He is all there when called
upon to exert himself mentally and pnysi-
cally—a fine and healthy type of the very
best of the human stock bred in Australia-
For as an Australian of more than Ire
a century’s standing, the writer has no
envy, but only pride, in stating that nei
in the Navy are the very best of his race
Not only in wardroom and gunroom, bu
more especially on the lower deck. 1
is an honor to be a fellow-countryman o
such fine men. In whatever part of the fOT
one meets them, from the Admirals cabin
in the stern to the capstan flat forard, are
in whatever rank or rating they may
functioning, they are Good Men.


JEKYLLSKI AND HYDEVITCH.
"The Soviet, after helping to establish the Chinese Republic in the interests of peace and brotherhood, is now mobilising against it.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is Australia a Free Country?
The Ma State’s Bavinshaw Government
makes a poor job of protecting sawmill
hands in the exercise of their right to work
under the Lukin award, but it is not so
timid in matters where no basher gangs
are concerned. N. S. Wales wheatgrowers
decided by postal ballot that they didn’t
want a compulsory pool. This verdict did
not please certain influential Government
supporters, so, “a petition having been
received from 139 growers,” Thorby, the
Minister of Agriculture, has issued orders
for another ballot. Says the S. M. Herald:
“Persons having at least 50 acres sown to
wheat for sale as grain are eligible for en-
rolment. Voting is compulsory. Mr.
Thorby says that action is likely to be taken
against those who cannot put forward a
reasonable explanation of their failure to
exercise the franchise.”
Time was when no Australian Minister
would have dared to threaten decent and
industrious people in that fashion, but,
though a few farmers have protested, no-
thing serious is likely to happen to the
arrogant Mr. Thorby. The decent public
has grown strangely resigned to attacks on
its legitimate liberties by elected persons,
while basher gangs, murder gangs and Com-
munist conspirators go unpunished.
To the multiplying of petty offences there
is no end. Old men and women can be
punished for not filling in and posting elec-
toral claim cards, for not filling in and
posting electoral transfer forms, and for not
voting. Newspapers can be punished for
saying that “the only sensible course for an
elector who knows and cares nothing for
the issues, and has no preference for any
of the candidates, is to put his ballot-paper
in the box without marking it.” This feature
of a freak law was actually enforced by the
Commonwealth Electoral Department at the
expense of an honest little Tasmanian paper
while the waterside strike was raging in
defiance of Commonwealth industrial law;
for publishing the words quoted, which
express what everyone but fool-politicians
and jacks-in-office thinks, the proprietors of
the Circular Head Chronicle were con-
victed and ordered to pay costs.
In Queensland it is an offence for retailers
of perishable foods to start work before the
union chooses to get up. Take these extracts
from the Townsville Daily Bulletin :
“In the summons division of the Police
Court, G. J. Hayes, a master butcher,
appeared on a complaint laid by the Inspec-
tor of Shops and Factories, charged with
having delivered meat before the starting
time proscribed in the award. The inspector
stated that the defendant was delivering meat
at ten minutes past seven. Defendant
stated that he had delivered a pound of
sliin beef to a woman who was sick....
Fined fl and costs.... Four members of
the firm of Francis and Co. were charged
with having started work in their bakehouse
before the hour fixed in the award. ... The
inspector said the defendants were Working
at 555 a.m. at other than dough-making
and 7 a.m. was the proper starting time....
Cecil Francis was fined £3 and costs.”
And this, of all places, in tropical North
Queensland! '
On the other hand the law can be invoked
for the persecution and impoverishment of
unionists who are not “in with the mob.”
In Thokby’s State a fireman who had
objected to levies amounting to £5 4s. 4d.,
practically a week’s wages (10s. was for the
Labor Daily and £2 7s. lOd. for the northern
coalminers), was ordered to pay by a magis-
trate whose decision was upheld by In-
dustrial Commissioner Piddington. As the
N.S.W. law stands, there is apparently no-
thing to prevent Communist union officials
striking a levy of £lO a head, saying it is
for plastering the Pyramids, sending the
proceeds to Moscow or handing them to the
basher gang, and having objectors like
“Piddo’s” fireman gaoled in default of pay-
ment.
*
Wanted, a Prophet!
A scapegoat is wanted to carry away the
sins of the N.S.W. finances, and the Rail-
way Commissioners have been chosen for
the part by the Government and its press
heelers. The railway revenue for the year
was £500,000 more than that for the previous
12 months; but as another million was
anticipated, trouble naturally ensued. The
Commissioners didn’t foresee or allow for
the great coal stoppage arid the long-
continued timber strike, and for the un-
fortunate failure of the Ministry to do any*
good with either of them. If any blame
attaches to the Commissioners, it is for their
neglect to recommend the appointment of
a Prophet-Commissioner to meet such emer-
gencies. Even if the basic wage for a first-
class Elijah were £2OOO a year, he would
have been cheap at the price.
Again, the Commissioners didn’t know in
good time that the Treasurer was going to
invent the new and frilled system of book-
keeping of which he is so proud. In 1927-28
the full railway deficit was charged against
revenue as had always been the habit. The
amount was £1,609,267. and there was no
other honest thing to do with it. The
Stevens reform was to pay only £BOO,OOO
towards the railway shortage, however large
it might be, and in a reproachful com-
ment on the situation the master of finance
described this as a “gift.” Even when
industrial troubles, with financial troubles
in their wake, loomed large, the Treasurer
stuck to this plan, and out of the £1,200,000
saved by leaving that amount of liability
“in the air,” it was possible to announce
a “surplus” of half a million or more. It
was a beautiful “surplus” and great has
been the whoop concerning it!
When the Commissioners found unfore-
seeable disaster ahead, they might have
persuaded the Board of Ministers to do
something if the Board had consisted of
business men whose first thought was how
to secure solvency, not votes. The Commis-
sioners couldn’t increase charges off their
own bat; and the Treasurer announced that
nothing of the sort would be allowed. They
couldn’t close the worst lines, or prevent the
Government making still more hopeless lines.
It was no fault of theirs, either, that the
Ministry made 1928-29 the greatest loan
year in the history of its own or any other
Australian State, and piled up the interest
bill till it resembled a tottering steeple. In
addition to the capital on which interest
has to be paid being 30 per cent, more than
when Commissioner Fraser took office, the
rate of interest has increased by over 25
per cent., thanks not to the Commissioners,
but to incompetent and incomprehensible
finance in high places. Finally they can’t
interfere with the raising of wages, the
shortening of hours, child endowment taxes
or other frills, though the Board of Mini-
sters can interfere with the lot.
♦
Our Broken-down Legal System.
“I have actual knowledge that there are cases at
present awaiting trial in the civil jury courts of
the Supreme Court which were set down for trial
nearly a year ago.” —Ruined litigant in Sydney Sun.
Lord Chief Justice Hewart remarked in
London recently: “We must not only see
that no injustice is done; we must see to
it that there is not even an appearance of
injustice.” His ambition is shared by Judges
all over the Empire, but it is being defeated
by a system which is half a century out of
date.
Attorney-General Boyce, of N. S. Wales,
said a few days ago that his Government
was “not appointing another divorce Judge,
as the divorce position was well in hand.”
Yet, with the year half over, there remain
more than 900 petitions to be disposed of—
a record. The Government takes the same
stand in the other jurisdictions, all of which
have chronic carry-over lists. For some
time after the departure of Chief Justice
Street, the retirement of Justice Campbell,
and the appointment of Justice Davidson
to the Coal Commission, six Judges
struggled to do the work of nine. Yet it
is many years since nine Judges were cap-
able of expeditiously handling the business
of the N. S. Wales courts. Motoring has
added a multitude of fresh cases annually
to the criminal and civil lists. And crime
generally is increasing as new discoveries
provide criminals with new methods of
getting the better of society.
But we don’t even make the best use
of the Judges we have. Neither Bench nor
Bar wants a four-months’ holiday in the
summer, and other long holidays. The
Chief Justice works no harder and has no
greater responsibilities than the Chief Rail-
way Commissioner; and there isn’t a Judge
who works as hard as many a factory man-
ager. To add to the unnecessary work of
the courts there is the jury system, devised
for a primitive civilisation. Jury disagree-
ments, which are aimed at in hopeless cases
by jury-squarers and by a well-known type
of criminal defender, are responsible for
months of wasted time in criminal courts
every year.
The taxpayers have had a surfeit of
Royal Commissions, but, if only as a mea-
sure of economy, they would welcome, in
N. S. Wales at any rate, one empowered to
take expert evidence on the reforms needed
to provide a speedier and better brand of
justice. A drastic overhaul is clearly called
for in this system, which has remained virtu-
ally unchanged in a world of revolutionary
change’s.
4
Selling Sandwiches.
Australia’s Granville Ryrie lifted up his
voice in joy and told the Mandates Com-
mission at Geneva that Mandated New
Guinea showed a surplus of £47,000 for the
last financial year, as against a deficit of
£ll,OOO for the previous period. Surpluses
that are the product of economy and good
management are altogether praiseworthy;
but there is nothing in them to be proud
of if they merely proceed from extortion.
Only the goldfields have made this present
much vaunted surplus possible, because of
the huge increase in non-protective Customs
duties on the imported food and other
requirements of the mining communitjL
This has been added to by the heavy fees
levied on leaseholds, etc., and the increase
from 1 to 5 p.c. in the gold royalty.
In truth, the Administration has not even
the excuse of the shanty-keeper who charged
the traveller five shillings for a sandwich.
Cried the despoiled one in amazement:
“Five bob!—what for?” “Well, mate,” was
the reply, “y’ see, I need th’ money.”
»
The Air Forces of Asia.
The use by Kingsford Smith of a Siamese
aerodrome ought to draw attention to what
Asiatic powers are doing with the air arm.
The Siamese flying force began in 1911
when three native officers were sent to
France to study the new weapon. A couple
of years later they returned, and the Siamese
War Office began building on their experi-
ence. It was so successful that it was able
to send no less than 2000 men from the air
force to France to join in the 1914 dis-
turbance. Wffiether they took much part
in the hostilities is not recorded, but on
their return Siam seems to have become
thoroughly “air-minded.” To-day she owns
an aerodrome at Don Muang which has been
declared by visiting aviators to be up to
the most exacting European standards.
Fifteen branch aerodromes exist and 15 more
are under construction, and the public health
services now use flying doctors and nurses
to fight epidemics.
That this one little independent kingdom
can do so much with the eager assistance
of Western instructors is a hint of what
more of Asia will be doing in the near
future; and the Southern Cross showed that
Asia is only a single hop from us.
♦— «
Organise, Organise!
Those fruit-canning factories and others
that “can’t carry on without State subsi-
dies” might learn from the Hallam Valley
Irrigators. These are a friendly band of
market gardeners around Hallam, beyond
Dandenong (Vic.), who found the Melbourne
markets so often glutted that the game
didn’t pay. Instead of looking abroad
for a market and whining for State aid,
they sought Railway Chief Clapp, and now
trucks go north, west and nor’-west thrice
a week, on stated days, loaded with prime
assorted vegetables in bags. These the
stationmasters at various centres hand out
to all who apply, at 3s. 6d. and 6s. per bag,
and so far the demand has exceeded the
supply. All through the long, hot summer
those country folk are asking for cheap,
fresh, ripe fruit, but so far all they have
got is dear, tinned stuff and not much of
that. Yet tons of both fruit and vegetables
are wasted for want of organisation.


f m:
MWWMBMMMBBBi
HOW
iim
mss.
-\
■
)
Cold Winter mornings only accentuate
the quick starting properties of
£ 0-9 P ■ I MOTOR OIL.
9nLLL AND SPIRIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
Now it is the permanent troops, engineers
and artillerymen, who are to get it in the
neck; “the garrisons of Australia’s 12 de-
fended ports are to be cut down by nearly
half.'’ Because the U.K. was encircled
by defended coastal areas during the war
(11 in Britain and 4 in Ireland) the Ger-
man fleet never risked more than one “tip
and run” bombardment—that of West
Hartlepool in 1914. Given a naval war in
the' Pacific, and even temporary ascendancy
for the enemy, the effect of immobilising our
forts must be that our naval bases will be
taken and our coastal cities shelled from the
sea.
If Russia and China come to blows there
may be a repetition of what happened be-
tween the Slav and the Japanese. The
Czar had an enormous potential punch, but
only a single line of x-ailway to fling it at
his adversary. The Mikado had several
lines of transportation and command of the
sea. Consequently the war ended in Japan’s
favor, although Nippon was badly weakened
and the Bear had hardly swung one paw
into active service. In a Russo-Chinese
scrap China would have the advantage of
internal lines of communication, and the
Soviet would be hampered by the old draw-
back as well as the new ones which “sociali-
sation-of the means of production, distribu-
tion and exchange” has brought.
Two pretty surpluses grow side by side.
McPherson, of Victoria, lias one of £26,000
or so, provided no mention is made of the
£1.400,000 lost on closer settlement. And
N.S.W. has one of over half-a-million, which
would look more honest if it wasn’t created
by treating the railway loss as £BOO,OOO
instead of the £2,000,000 it really is. A
Sydney suburban medico with a good war
record recently had his certificate suspended
for 12 months for very similar conduct,
instead of being offered a billet in the
Treasury, where he might have shone.
The wheat market has recovered in a
startling fashion. Three months ago N.S.W.
growers with bagged lots to sell were offered
only 4s. sd. a bushel ex trucks Sydney, equiv-
alent to 3s. lOd. at sidings, and Chicago
was quoting 103 g cents for May options.
But North America is having a bad season,
and last week bagged parcels were sold at
6s. 2d. ex ti-ucks Sydney, while for Decem-
ber contracts Chicago was offering 154$ cents.
Westralia will pai'ticularly benefit; its farm-
ers have sown the greatest acreage on record
by way of celebrating the hundredth year of
settlement, and crop reports are exception-
ally favorable. From other wheat-producing
States they arc not so good.
The fuss made about the resignation of
Kent Hughes recalls that it is only within
the last decade that whips have attended
Cabinet meetings in Victoria. The change
is significant. One of the first duties of a
Cabinet being to stick to office, naturally
the man whose job it is to get a majority
is called into all consultations. So far the
whip has only got himself called “Secretary
to the Cabinet.” As a matter of fact, lie is
very frequently its absolute law-giver.
The little S. Aus. Country party is out
with a demand for a 50 per cent, reduction
of State members—“both Houses,” it insists.
At present there are 46 Assemblymen and
20 Councillors. Perhaps the Assembly
could get along with 23 members, but an
Upper House of 10. with a quorum of
five and the President, looks too dangerous.
Still, the S. Aus. Cockies stand for elective
Ministries and the separation of Federal and
State spheres of taxation, so The Bulle-
tin isn’t throwing bricks.
Queensland’s Moore Government continues
to swing the axe on Labor-socialist enter-
prises. The State quarry and the Hamilton
cold stores (they cost £320,000) are now-
on its little list; tenders for purchase of
these and other undertakings arc to be
called as soon as valuations have been made.
Meanwhile, the employees and the staff of the
Department of State Enterprises are won-
dering what is going to happen to them in
the near and gloomy future.
While his Government is sacking droves
of soldiers, aircraftsmen and munition
workers and laying up warships, Bruce pro-
poses to increase the staff of his External
Affairs Department. It is common talk in
Canberra that one of the jobs, worth up to
£7OO, is earmarked for Keith Officer, tem-
porary offsider to Dr. Henderson. The
External Affairs is an expensive show, and
what it does is a mystery, but Bruce hopes
to give it tone by reinforcing it with men of
“personality and intellect.”
A recent episode of the timber war was
the assembling of a mob of pickets and their
friends, who waited with violent intent out-
side a Sydney factory, and weren’t moved
on. When the employees came out they were
“THE EVIL THAT MEN DO.”
“Owing to the distress resulting from unemployment, it has been found necessary to again open the
’possum season in Queensland.”
“Now, I wonder whose jault it is, little feller, that there isn’t room for both of us?”
considerably damaged, as they obviously
would be, but. there were enough police
present to prevent absolute massacre. A
complaint to Minister Weaver filled that
office-holder with pained astonishment. He
asked if the complainants actually meant
to say that the police were insufficient.
Possibly what they meant to , say was that
the police are insufficient, and that the law
is insufficient, else this kind of disorder
wouldn’t have raged for six months, and that
the Government is insufficient, and that
Weaver is superfluous.
The Bavinshaw Ministry’s loan expendi-
ture for 1928-29 was £16,742,136, the largest
borrowing yet done by any State in a single
year. The railway deficit of £2,000,000 is
also the worst year’s record in the Com-
monwealth ; South Aus. announced two
shortages of £4,000,000 and £3,000,000 re-
spectively, but they were mostly the accu-
mulated rags and tattei-s of previous years.
The wreckage of the Ma State lines and
finances may be largely due to freak legisla-
tion, but if the Ministry’s conscience won’t
allow it to alter the freaks the responsibility
is all its own. It is a Ministry full of good
intentions and bad performances.
The Mau revolt against the Maoriland
regime in Samoa in collapsing. There are
signs that funds have been cut off; in any
case, one queer feature of the business-
refusal to take part in the campaign against
the rhinoceros beetle —has been dropped. The
natives have wakened to the fact that their
abstention was destroying their own cocoa-
nut palms as well as those of other people,
and all hands arc now on the job again.
T. W. White, who married a daughter of
Alfred Deakin and wrote “Guests of the
Unspeakable,” has been officially branded as
the Nationalist candidate for Balaclava. This
ceremony, or its equivalent, was performed
at the St. Kilda Town Hall by a handful
of people calling themselves “the Nationalist
electorate convention,” after 10 gentlemen
and a lady had submitted themselves for per-
sonal inspection and examination of their
characters and records. White is able and
upright, and would, no doubt, make a first-
class member; but for a knot of uobodies to
arrogate to themselves the right to say that
he, and he only, shall be the Nationalist can-
didate is an impudent fraud on the electors.
And there are 54,000 electors in Balaclava.
McPherson had a startling tale to tell
Vic. Assembly regarding the inquiry board’s
report on the subsidence of the day wall at
Eildon weir, in the Alexandra district. It
will cost at least £250,000 to make good the
damage and provide safeguards, and even
then absolute safety cannot be guaranteed;
but the alternative is to breach the weir
and abandon it. The work was designed 17
years ago when Elwood Mead and the late
J. S. Dethridge were commissioners; it has
cost £1,500,000. The Government has agreed
to finance what the board calls “an endeavor
to make the dam secure,” but has thrown on
the Water Commission the responsibility of
submitting a scheme. Repair work has, in
fact, been proceeding for weeks.
Like Chapman, the Moscow pilgrim who
is secretary of the N.S.W. Railwaymen’s
Union, Sydney Labor Daily, the “official
organ of the movement,” suggests that Aus-
tralia should repudiate its public debt. Aus-
tralia, it says, “is paying out over £60.000.000
every year in interest,” thereby fattening “pre-
datory hordes of legalised bandits,” and this is
described in headlines as “A Sixty Million
Prize to Win.” The same paper gleefully
announced that a poor devil of a fireman
had been commanded by “Good Old Piddo”
to contribute 10s. (one of several union
levies totalling £5 4s. 4d.) towards its funds.
So under a law administered by a "National-
ist” Government honest working men can be
compelled to pay part of the cost of publish-
ing proposals for robbery on a vast scale.
The muddling amateurs who are trying to
run Australia can’t decide what to do about
the local government of ’Berra, so Butters’s
Commission will probably carry on for
another year. A construction body, it was
never intended for a town council, nor is the
dictatorial Butters the man for that job. Al-
corn, citizens’ representative on the Commis-
sion, has a plan : a council of three elected
persons, the difference between revenue raised
locally and expenditure to be paid by the
Australian taxpayer. Other people, especi-
ally ex-Diggers, want a Parliamentary repre-
sentative. But as there are not 9000 people
in the Territory, they can’t be given a
member with a vote, and a repetition of the
N.T. farce of a member without a vote is
unthinkable.
Charles Binnic, who is a director of the
Bank of N.S.W. among his various occu-
pations, lately addressed the Stockowners’
Association about the comparative financial
situations of Canada and Australia. Patriots
of the Jefferson Brick type fell on him from
all directions. Yet the outstanding facts
are (1) that Canada long since paid off
its war debt to Britain, whereas Australia
owed £5,000,000 more war debt abroad in
1928 than in 1921, and (2) that between
1920 and 1928 the Dominion reduced
its gross Federal debt by bi 0,000.000
dollars, while the Commonwealth added
£20,000,000 to its Federal debt and
£216,000,000 to its total debt. . If a Binme
or anybody else urges Australia to go and
do like Canada, why become shirty and howl.'
It is customary for our really great men
to leave some last words when departing
from England, and Premier Bavin was no
exception:—
T was disappointed to find that the change
wrought by the financial agreement was not yet
adequately appreciated. The previous reckless
financial policy of some States unquestionably affected
Australia’s credit, but there will certainly be an
improvement when the work of the Loan Council is
better known.
If the work of the Loan Council becomes
too well known before the position materially
improves the results may be dreadful. The
hoarding up of paper money with a local
value against ever-increasing gold debts
abroad is too suggestive of the company
which adds £20.000 to the book value of its
premises, calls half of it profit, and carries
the other £lO,OOO to reserves, thus “strength-
ening the position.”
Maoriland has long enjoyed a reputation
for having the lowest death-rate in the world,
for both adults and infants. Truby King,
its brilliant Director of Child M clfare, now
on one of his periodical visits to Australia,
is more or less responsible. England bor-
rowed Truby King some time ago t.o organise
babies’ hospitals and mothers’ training
centres. Our unaccountable Federal Govern-
ment then dropped to the idea that some-
thing special should be done for the infant
generation. It has secured a loan of the
services, not of Truby King, but of a medical
lady from the distant country that called
Truby King in ; and it is cackling over the
achievement like a hen that has laid a foun-
dation stone.
A wide search is being made in England
for a man to fill‘the archbishopric of Mel-
bourne, it being supposed that no local mau
is qualified for tlie job. Sample gaiters are
being carried round, and measurements taken.
It isn’t a matter of calling for tenders and
free competition, but simply
that no Australian need apply.
There is no impo r t duty
on archbishops, nor is three
any restriction in. their case
upon the importation of labor
under contract. A good many
possible British appointees ap-
pear to view Australia with
doubt. The Anglican Church
here is neither Established nor
State-endowed, and it has no seat
in the House of Lords.
Britain gets a move on now
and then. A great coal distil-
lery has been started in Lanark-
shire, and similar ones are pre-
paring elsewhere. The idea is
to employ 30,000 men, to give
a lift to the coal industry, and
to gave £75,000,000 or so prr
annum which now goes abroad
for oil. Labor Minister Clyncs
had promised to turn the handle
officially and start the Lanark-
shire machinery, but he failrd
to eventuate. The report goes
that he was warned that the
lied section of the party, very
numerous and noisy thereabout, would hr
wild with him if he associated with capitalists.
Auditor-General Norris’s last report on
Victoria’s closer-settlement scheme for sol-
diers and civilians, in which some 37 mil-
lions of loan money has been sunk, was
heated. The year’s loss was £1.407,000, and
the losses written off, but not paid off, have
been large. The chairman of the Closer
Settlement Board furnished a rare kind of
explanation. He said that the Government
expected and intended to make losses, having
“undertaken to put men without means and
with little practical experience on the
land, and lent them money at a rate much
less than the Government was paying.” He
added cheerfully that more calamities might
be expected, “as the Board is still lending
money at less than it is paying.”
One explanation of Sydney’s bashers and
razor-gangsters is to be found in its vagrancy-
law. Slugger, alias Smith, may have a
criminal record, an ingrowing forehead, and
an objectionable cast of countenance as his'
only known assets, but when the police at-
tempt to have him gaoled for lack of lawful
visible means of support they find them-
selves up against two obstacles. Smith
haughtily produces a roll of notes, the pro-
ceeds of a robbery, to show that he is really
affluent beyond the average. And he pro-
duces Wilkins, who is as dubious as him-
self though perhaps qpt so leary of aspect,
to testify that he employs Smith regularly
at go-getting, with big commission attached.
Last session the Government prepared a
measure to deal with this evil, but owing to
the pressure of unimportant business it was
dropped, . . .
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame. 1
NOT WANTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Declining the Federal Labor leader’s invitation
to attend a conference to bring together the A.L.P.
and A.W.U., Mr. Lang expressed a hope that Mr.
ScuiHn’s undoubted gifts as a peacemaker would be
employed where they were needed, which was not
in New South Wales.”
’Tis flue to be a peacemaker and earn your
fellows’ thanks
By reconciling factious cliques and closing
riven ranks.
But you must go to other States to give
your talents scope;
Take it from me, in New South Wales you
haven't got a hope.
Labor’s a happy family here, and so it’s
like to stop.
It’s just as solid as a goose—as long as I’m
on top.
’Tis grand to heal embittered feuds among
the sons of toil
And on the troubled waters pour the neces-
sary oil.
Nor do I question that you might of real
help have been
When my antagonists had got control of
the machine.
But now it’s quite another pair of sleeves,
you ought to know
There’s no demand for peacemakers—while
I can boss the show.
To talk about disunion is nothing but: a mock
With a triumvirate in charge like me and
Plum and Jock.
We’ve solidarity enough to march ahead and
win ;
There’s not the least occasion for outsiders
butting in.
So, Scnllin, better go elsewhere dissensions
to heal.
No Labor ship’s in danger—when a Lang is
at the wheel.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
_ “C. Coral” (who writes from his home in
Torres Strait) : Perhaps the last has not been
heard of the Douglas Mawson tragedy. It
will be remembered that some years ago
rumors that two white women who had
escaped from the wreck were living as
prisoners among the blacks of Arnheim Land
were so persistent that search parties were
sent out. They found nothing to substantiate
the stories, and the explanation generally
accepted was that the natives who started
them had become muddled through the
arrival at Groote Island of two women mis-
ALL RIGHT AS FAR AS, IT WENT.
City Cousin : “A mouse just ran across the floor!”
BILL: “Struth, I wish it had been a rat!”
sionaries. But quite recently reports have
again reached the North Australia police
about white women having been seen with
the natives of the Caledon Bay district. The
statements have come from more than one
quarter, which renders the police disinclined
to discredit them entirely. Native messengers
have now been given writing materials to
convey to the allegedly lost ones so that, if
they are really there, communication may be
established. There is a bare possibility, of
course, that there may be in the region
indicated female survivors of some other
wreck that has occurred along the coast;
several luggers have gone missing in the last
few years, and sometimes these craft have
women aboard.
“Selma”: Two heads are still better than
one. The other day in a N.S.W. town a
young man whose wedding was fixed for the
following week brought his girl the dire
news that, owing to a big business slump,
his firm were retrenching unexpectedly, and
he was among the unlucky ones. The engage-
ment had already lasted five years, and
might have gone on for another five had not
the young woman risen to the occas'on. She
quietly sold most of her trousseau, collected
what cash she could, answered an advertise-
ment for a married couple on a station,
bought two train tickets, ai d then summoned
her boy to a quiet wedding before the
registrar. And that was that.
* * * *
“Buna”; The tale of the earthquake baby
at Murchison (M.L.) (B. 17/7/’29) recalls
a flood episode near Gisborne, when the
entire population of one small settlement
was hastily embarked in boats and rowed
to the only two-storeyed building in the dis-
trict, the local hotel. After two days of
enforced leisure in the upper storey the
marooned ones were becoming slightly bored
with Fate when a young farmer’s wife quali-
fied for the King’s bounty with a son and
two daughters. Thereafter the women of
the party found plenty of occupation, and the
final ceremony was the christening of the
infants. The hat was passed round, and the
collection, despite flood losses, was a really
substantial sum.
* * !lS *
“Nodrog”: I can corroborate “Morita’s”
statement (B. 10/7/’29) that the Ist Aus-
tralian casualty clearing station was the last
unit to leave Gallipoli. Many of the men
had served from the Landing without even
a break across to Imbros such as most other
units had. I assisted in getting the last
casualty, a Maorilander with a broken leg,
aboard the Beetle. The last crowd to em-
bark contained a few men from each State
under Captain Barton, son of Australia’s
first Prime Minister. Neville Howse, then
Colonel, addressed us a few days before the
evacuation, and told us our job would be to
stay behind if there were any casualties.
All the infantry were on board before the
last party of the unit moved from their post.
I believe that Captain Littler, of the 12th
Batt., acting-beach officer, was the last man
to leave Anzae.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The niggers recently scared
off Ambryn Island by a volcano have taken
refuge on Malicolo. This would have meant:
a great feast for the Malicoloians only a
very few years back. Even now, in the in-
terior, they are not averse to long pork. A
few years back the chief of the most blood-
thirsty crowd, the Amac gang of Bignambas,
was Rumtner (I believe he is still alive).
He had then 117 wives and eight favorites.
He must have a thousand by now, for by
hereditary right he appropriated the widows
and daughters of all his brothers and male
relations. The tough old bird had a parti-
cular set on Gaspard, a French blackbirder.
Rumtner never got Gaspard, though he laid
snares for him a dozen times. Into one
such trap walked Andre Naturel, of the
trader Bienevue, and came within a ace of
being scoffed by Rumtner’s men. The pres-
ence of all those nigs, from Ambryn must
be making Rumtner’s mouth water.
* * * *
“Wickham Terrace”: The Brisbane Obser-
vatory ha-s been celebrating its centenary.
Like many other esteemed institutions, it
has had rather a variegated past. It was
the first mill put up to grind meal from
corn in Queensland. Originally designed
as a windmill, it refused to work as such.
Official ingenuity thereupon converted it into
a treadmill, and the power for grinding was
supplied by the legs of convicts. Though
the defect in the machinery was discovered,
the authorities were so enamored with the
man-power notion that they stuck to it,
for, in addition being as cheap as the
wind, the treadmill provided a convenient
means of enforcing discipline. Not till the
convicts departed did the mill take on its
present aspect.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Long-distance telegraphing
records? When the Cocos-Perth-Adelaide
cable was opened, the heads in London and
Adelaide exchanged greetings, and to give
pomp to the occasion the 15 or so stations
en route were instructed to work “human
relay”— i.e., at each place an operator read
the message direct off the incoming cable
while transmitting it into the outgoing one.
The words travelled from London via Porth-
curnow, Cornwall, thence down the west
coast of Africa, overland from the Cape to
Durban, then up the east coast to Rodri-
guez, Cocos, etc. By a coincidence, the clerk
who received the opening remarks in Ade-
laide was a brother of the man who started
them from London.
s' * * *
“Fitzwilliam”: The old belief that Heaven
helps those who help themselves is not alto-
gether dead. The Narrabri (N.S.W.) Hos-
pital being short of fuel, its secretary paid
a personal visit to every man in the town
who owned a motor-lorry, with the result
that on a recent Wednesday a triumphal
procession of lorries honked into town bring-
ing 120 tons of wood with them. This will
make the hospital independent of collieries
THE AGE OF DISSENT.
THE SHEILA: “Thirty-five’s time for a man to
marry, perhaps; but I think thirty is the
proper age for a woman, don't you?”
THE SHEIK: “Just about—if she isn’t proper
by thirty she never will be.”
and suchlike for two years to come. _ Over-
head expenses and cost of raw material and
labor, nil.
* * *
“.Chancery Lane”: In a will recently
lodged in the Victorian Probate office the
testator bequeathed a shilling to one of his
daughters, unkindly adding “and may it do
her a shilling’s worth of good!”
* * * *
“Metereh” : We had reached the wharf at
Suez, and around the steamer starkly nude
divers fought in the water for the harvest
of coins thrown in from the troop decks.
On board were scores of nurses bound for
England, together with a crowd of female
passengers, but the tender years of the divers
allowed them to enjoy the performance with-
out undue embarrassment. On the wharf
stood a powerfully-built, middle-aged Arab,
gazing longingly at the easy money he was
missing, and vainly gesturing to us to-toss
some of the baksheesh on to the wharf for
him. At last he could stand it no longer;
disappearing behind a coal stack he re-
appeared within two minutes, a dusky and
muscular edition of Adam, right underneath
where the feminine spectators were thickest.
It was the shrieks of the scurrying women-
folk that attracted a pair of Gyppo Johns,
who lumbered off the delinquent before he’d
even broken the ice, right past a bevy of
shore officials and their wives arriving to
give the transport the once-over.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A young woman charged in
an Adelaide police court with a share in a
recent sensational bank robbery—by sitting,
so it is alleged, outside the bank in a car
and driving away with the robber and the
notes —is being defended by a youthful
woman barrister. Any precedents?
* * * *
“Mako”: The old Scot who had a native
posted with a gun to warn off possible
wooers of his daughters (B. 17/7/’29) had
a prototype in a wealthy but eccentric
Englishman, a younger son of a distinguished
family, who owned a small island in the
Hauraki Gulf, near Auckland. When the
only daughter of the family attained mar-
riageable age it was her father’s custom
to patrol the island with a gun, which he
fired casually at intervals to let passing
yachts know* that suitors would be discour-
aged. In Maoriland the Government is the
owner of property to high-water mark, so
that the eccentric had no legal power to
expel picnickers who kent to the beach, but
the sudden appearance of a wild-looking
individual flourishing a gun sent many a
dinghy-load of trippers embarking in a hurry.
When the daughter was about 19 her father
mentioned casually one morning at break-
fast it was time she was presented at Court,
and followed this up by sailing up to town
and putting the island on the market. He
also booked passages for the entire family
by the next outgoing liner, since when his
name and vagaries have become one of the
legends of Hauraki.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The practice of importing bits
of old English cathedrals for incorporation
into the fabric of Australian places of wor-
ship is more general than seems to be real-
ised. In 1920 the then Bishop of Carpen-
taria and his chaplain collected in England
a f'nv cwt. of old stone to be built into the
additions to the Quetta Memorial Cathedral
of All Souls’. Thursday Island. The relics
came from Westminster Abbey, St. Paul s,
Glastonbury and other famous shrines, and
included some carved pieces from the tomb
of Bishop Fox in Southwark Cathedral, and
a genuine Roman brick duly authenticated by
the certificate of the Dean and Chapter ot
St.. Albans. It sounds almost incredible,• but
it is a fact that when the stuff its
destination, duty was claimed by the Cus-
toms authorities on the ground that the eon-
signment consisted of "goods which could
have been manufactured in Australia”! It
was duly paid, too. It may be regarded as
even more deplorable that before the stones
could be built into the place assigned for
them some of them were found to have van-
islied after being exhibited to visiting tOur-
ists. Since that discovery the credentials
of visitors desirous of handling the relics
have been closely examined.
“Ibn el Issar”: Even in India East and
West may meet, and sometimes do. The
progressive members of the Bombay Town
Council desired to cement over all wells and
similar places as a precaution against the
malarial mosquito. The orthodox section
Hindu and Moslem to a man, objected, asking
how, if this were done, could the Djinns,
Afrits and others of the spirit world who
lived habitually in wells, as everyone knew,
get in or out of their abodes. The city en-
gineer devised a way out by inserting fine
meshed brass-netting in the cement covers.
This, while preventing the ingress or egress of
Culcx anopheles, would obviously offer no
obstacle to a really efficient spook, and both
sides have expressed themselves as satisfied.
* * * *
“Gad”: S. Aus. has supplied the latest
exhibit in the man-woman line, but as no
breach of the law was involved the local press
has creditably refrained from disclosing the
lady’s name or indicating the district where
she operated. All that is known is that she
masqueraded as a man for nine years, and
proved a good farm laborer. There is one
item, however, that differentiates her case
from all recent ones and must obviously have
rendered deception much easier; she success-
fully grew a “downy beard and moustache.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The Vic. Agricultural
Society is seriously concerned over the ques-
tion of wine-tasters. The modern youth is
so addicted to spoiling his palate with’sun-
daes and synthetic squashes that difficulty
is being experienced in obtaining successors
to the old hands, who could tell by the
evidence of tongue, nose and eye where a
wine had been produced and even whether
it should have been produced at all. To
remedy the shortage the V.A.S., in conjunc-
tion with the Viticultural Society, has organ-
ised a series of monthly luncheons at which
young men will be initiated into a very
ancient and exacting ritual. Lest sottish
persons should be unduly heartened and
prohibitionists perturbed, it should be added
that absolutely the first essential for a suc-
cessful wine-taster is sobriety. Intemperance
destroys the very faculties which the over-
indulgent imagine they are exercising.
“R. Volt”: The ether played some queer
tricks with the broadcast of the Thanks-
giving service held in Westminster Abbey
for the King’s recovery. Re-broadcasting
direct, the Melbourne stations produced only
a travesty. But one Melbourne amateur got
the service almost as perfectly as if it were
being held in a local bethel. He tuned in to
a Canadian station which was re-purveying
the proceedings for its subscribers.
* * * *
“Morita”: Our transport was hit hard by
the vendors of those abominable cigarettes
at Aden (B. 17/7/’29). Canteen stocks had
run out days before, and troops fought for
the cheap smokes coming aloft from the
native bumboats. The natives had sold out
before the storm broke on the troop
decks. I remember one Digger, who’d bought
extensively, tying the top of the boat’s mast
to the ship’s rail and threatening to drop an
outsize in ship’s pulleys on the head of one
of the native merchants if a refund of his
cash wasn’t forthcoming. When the refund
d’dn’t arrive he chose as his target a basket
piled with hundreds of eggs, which vied with
indecent photos as chief side-line to the
cigarette industry. We left the.Gyppos pros-
pecting desperately among the smashed-up
moss to see if they could retrieve a few intact
eggs.
THE KNOB ON THE NAPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hair has begun to grow again and many knobs
rested upon napes.” —Melbourne Chatter (B. 17/7/’29).
The dew is on the roses
In many a bright parterre —
At least, a chap supposes
At dawn it may be there.
The bee is on the heather
In many a bracing spot....
I care not tuppence whether
He’s at his post or not.
From old-world dell and dingle
For once I would escape.
Now here's a theme for jingle
To make one thrill and tingle:
The knob is on the nape.
I crave no Nature-ramble
With poet-souls who sing
That snails are on the bramble
Or larks are on the wing.
It must be due for durance
Or eke a long good-bye,
That rhythmical assurance
That bloom is on the rye.
Come, sons of bright Apollo
Lyres such as mine who scrape,
Here is a lead to follow
That beats old catchwords hollow;
The knob is on the nape.
’Tis back, the necks of Gladys
And Ermyntrude upon,
The sort of thing our daddies
Entitled a chignon.
Part of the crowning glory
Incontinently shed,
We greet it con amove
Back on each shapely head.
Blind slaves of foolish Fashion,
No more mere man they’ll ape
And gleaming tresses ration
That wakened pulsing passion.
The “bun” is on the nape.
The boot is on the trilby;
The leaf is on the tree;
The light that never will be
(Or was) on land and sea.
(N.B.—There’s no hiatus
As yet beneath my hat.
It’s just divine afflatus.
Pure highbrow padding that.)
Up, bards, who lilting jingle
_ From themes alluring shape,
Your strains with mine commingle.
Good-bye to bob and shingle!
The knot) is on the nape.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ŵ
NO ADVANTAGE AT ALL.
MRS. LANDSAILS: We go via the Cape this time. I think travel so broadens one,
don t youV
HER DEAR FRIEND: “Yes, of course, Peggy; but who wants to be broad these days?’’
civil job, which has flooded British coun-
tries with “Generals,” though, as regards
full Generals, the establishment of the entire
Brit sh_ forces is only eight. Field-marshals
are limited to the same number.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Australia wasn’t the only
place to be afflicted by a shortage of women
in the early days of occupation (B. 10/7/’29).
Before the war there were approximately
26 bachelors, most of them Australians,
stationed on Cocos Island in charge of the
cables. On the other islets of the atoll, there
were hundreds of Malays, but no feminine
member of the species was allowed to set
foot on the cable island. One year, as a
more or less humorous protest against
their exile, the cable staff requisitioned
the head office in Ixnidon for six Japan-
ese laundresses. The head office gravely
replied that as it had received no complaints
about the work of the male launderers it saw
no reason for altering existing arrangements.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A recent mention of the earth-
quake which hit Wellington (M.L.) so hard
in '55 reminds me that nine years ago, when
the housing problem was acute, I bought
a villa in the Windy City at a figure which
I still recall with a shudder. When I
inspected the place the departing owners
had their furniture all shoved against the
further walls. I discovered the reason when
I started to move in. One of my youngsters
dropped a ball and it prompty rolled into a
corner. Investigation showed that every
floor in the wretched shanty sloped egre-
giously northwards. So severe was the
gradient in some rooms that a bottle set
rolling would smash to pieces against the
wainscot. Old hands told me that every
house in the terrace was similarly afflicted.
Whether it was the ’55 ’quake that did the
damage to that com. det. res. I never ascer-
tained, but it looked old enough to have pre-
dated the disturbance.
* $ * *
“Oxmead”: These sartorial experts who
discourse learnedly and dogmatically in
London trade journals on the sloppy cut of
a statesman’s pants or the ill-assorted hues
of a prince’s pull-over are not the only
authorities bn matters of taste who help to
make existence a little brighter. A licensed
victualler, discussing in the Victorian Rail-
ways Magazine the necessity for improved
hotel accommodation in this country, refers to
“the almost unbelievable occurrence which I
observed at a recent fashionable wedding-
breakfast at an hotel, when the whole party
drank port with every course. I have known
Parisian head-waiters,” he adds gloomily,
“who would resign if such a breach of
etiquette occurred in their dining-rooms.”
There seems to be a suggestion here for any
artist who can depict the mingled scorn and
sorrow in the eyes of a Bung as he watches
wedding guests, under his roof, washing down
their victuals with Australian port when they
misrht and should be drinking champagne or
sparkling burgundy.
* * * *
“Stellsby” : It will be 20 years ago on July
27 since the Waratah was spoken by a Clan
liner one day out of Durban on the voyage
from Sydney to London, never to be heard
of again. Owen (an Australian), the chief
officer, transferred from the Commonwealth,
as did Henry, the second mate, who was third
on tiie older vessel. Hodder, the chief engi-
neer, was on the Wilcannia before he joined
the Waratah, and old Captain Ilbery had
previously been skipper of the Geelong. Every
voyage was to have been his last, but being
a bachelor he kept postponing his retirement.
I sailed with them all at various times. The
founder of the Blue Anchor Line, Wm. Lund,
was originally a ship's carpenter, whose first
venture as an owner was running a small
vessel between Sydney and the Islands. He
had become one of the wealthiest private
shipoveners in Britain at the time of the
Waratah disaster. The P. and O. Co. took
oA’er the business soon afterwards, and made
a branch line of it.
* * * *
“Coot” : Victoria’s oldest licensed house is
The Frenchman’s Inn at Cressy. It dates
back to 1839. the original proprietor being
Jean Duvernay, who settled with his wife
Itosine on the Woady Yallock run, and
established his wayside inn. The settlement
w’hich grew up in the vicinity of the pub
was first known as The Frenchman’s; later
it became Cressy, in compliment to the birth-
place of Duvernay and his wife. The hos-
telry still retains its original name.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The latest murder trial in
Adelaide brought out a most unusual defence.
The police found an abandoned motor-cycle
in a city street
during the rnght,
and were taking
it to the watch-
house xv he n a
man appeared,
saying “(let off
that bike!” and
shot a constable
dead. In court,
still on crutches
as a result of the
bullets he receiv-
ed in return for
his aggressiveness,
the accused told
how he bad been
knocked out in an
indoors fight and
dumped down
some distance
away : on coming
to himself, he was
told the other
crowd meant to
do for him; re-
turning for his
bike he found, as
he thought, the
push stealing it,
and straightway
got into a willing
fight in which he
fired in self-de-
fence ; and, o p
MISS PAY RE KNEW HIM.
MR. BRIGGS (at a Brisbane dance): “I believe she’s interested in a Roma bore?”
MISS PAYRE: “No, he comes from Charleville.”
course, “during the whole evening I was
very much under the influence of drink.”
The jury convicted him of murder, with a
strong recommendation to mercy, and the
Judge passed the death sentence.
* * $
“Alick”: Few of Australia’s deserted
mining townships have vanished off the map
so utterly as Grant, on the edge of the
Dargo High Plains, North Gippsland. The
place once boasted 36 hotels; now it has
one log-liut and the remains of a crushing
battery. What was once the town is a
depressing mass of razed bricks and rotted
woodwork.
* * * *
“Zorro”: Damage to dairying land in the
earthquake areas of M.L. is estimated as at
least £250,000, many farms having been
totally wiped put. The full damage is expected
to reach a million. Meanwhile relief funds
are mounting cheerfully. Though collections
have been proceeding for only a couple of
weeks the central fund has reached over
£500,000.
* * * *
“10-2-4” : A recent direction by Judge Cur-
lewis, of Sydney, is going to produce some
startling results if generally followed :
‘‘lf a man comes up to you in a menacing attitude
and shows plainly he is going to hit you, you are
entitled to hit first. If it is not law, it is at
least good sense.”
The law is, of course, that every effort must
be made to avoid trouble, even to the extent
of running away. Society, ever practical,
has invented a compromise. In most rows
a definite moment arrives when combat is
inevitable. Humane convention insists on
a parley. For example: “Wot you’re lookin’
for is a smack on the jor.” “ ’Oo’s goin’ ter
give it?” “J am, if yer don’ watch out.”
“You!” After a certain amount of this
there is the challenge. “Orright, come out-
side.” Or, if tlie parties are outside,
“Orright, take yer coat orf.” It is the quick,
unexpected hit that sends the recipient to
hospital—the one delivered with an un-
wearied arm and a determination to end
the affair on the spot. Rightly has the poet
observed that he is thrice armed who gets
this blow in first.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: If Brighton (Vic.) council ever
contemplates altering its coat of arms, a
guinea-pig rampant should be included in
the design, for the civic dads have been dis-
cussing the animal for six years. The cause
of the pother is an Englishman who has
elected to breed the tailless quadruped in
large numbers in his backyard. They go to
the University medical school, the Federal
serum laboratory and other places where
their innocent lives are required in the
cause of scientific research. The opposition
to the Englishman’s farm is a mixture of
anti-vivisectionist sentiment and suburban
pride, and the pro-guineapiggers and the
antis have frequently threatened to come to
blows. The latest development is the passing
by the council after a stormy meeting of a
by-law prohibiting the keeping of the animals
within 100 feet of any boundary fence. As
the average width of Brighton allotments is
50 feet, this presents difficulties for the
guinea-pig proprietor, unless he suspends
his farm from a captive balloon. However,
he has some sturdy backing; the last time
his enterprise was threatened the deputation
that waited on the Minister on his behalf
included some of the most eminent professors
in the State.
❖ * % *
“Cooramin”: There may not have been
any outright lynching in Australia, but
several have been carried half-way. One
occurred at White Cliffs (N.S.W.) about
30 years ago. An
opal gouger was one
evening stoushing the
missus, whose cries
aroused the neighbors,
and several men broke
into ’ the house and
seized the wife-beater.
He was hustled out of
the town to a claim
that was worked by
two old hatters. At
the mouth of the shaft
a rope was adjusted
with fierce precision,
and he was told to
make the best of his
last minute. In a
state of collapse he
was then shoved into
the shaft, and hung
half-way down. When
they reckoned he’d had
enough, they let go,
and he dropped to the bottom. There he was
left to meditate until the hatters discovered
him in the morning. Then there was an-
other row; they wanted to know what he
was doing there.
* * >l! #
“P.M.”; It is not only in the movies that
the Yanks surround the handling of cash
with a vast amount of ceremony (B. 3/7/’29).
We had seven of Uncle Sam’s lads attached
to our unit in 1918, and a lieutenant came
along periodically to pay them. He and his
pay-clerk were both armed, and followed by
an escort of a corporal and a private, each
dangling an enormous revolver in a holster.
Our own adjutant regularly paid over 200
men without any artillery at all.
❖ * * *
“F.S.”: The latest beauty-competition con-
cerns not belles but buildings. Vic. Insti-
tute Of Architects is awarding an annual
medal to. the designers of the most beautiful
building in the State ; and a plaque announc-
ing the award is- to be attached to the win-
ning structure. This is getting nearer to the
ideal method of compelling every builder or
architect to sign his work, good, bad or
awful, as warning or .encouragement to
others. This year’s medal-holders are
Blackett and Forster; the chosen structure
is Francis House in Collins-street. It is a
waferish erection with little individuality, or
charm, so presumably the judges granted
the award for the ingenious way the de-
signers have struggled with that curse of
Melbourne’s architecture, the absurdly
narrow frontage.
* * * *
“Sehnorrer”: China is not the only coun-
try that has a Jewish community of such
ancient establishment that it«» antecedents
cannot be traced (B. 17/7/’29). Another
was discovered in Japan and a third in
Assam. There are also the “Black Jews” of
India, indubitably Hebrew, and maintaining
all the traditions of the race; and in South
America communities have been discovered
which date back, no doubt, to the time of
the expulsion of the Jews from Spain. It
is the Zionist movement that has led to
the discovery of some of these “lost tribes”;
it gives them a central cause for their sup-
port.
ANY MAN’S SWEETHEART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dulcimer dances; a blossoming twenty,
Needless the rouge on her roses-and-mflk.
Innocent undies are showing in plenty
As the frock swings, just a wiaplet of silk.
Modern and modish, unblushing as Truth,
Straight her slim body and straighter her
glances;
No art can poison the perfume of youth
When Dulcimer dances !
Dulcimer dances; the steps are a shuffle,
But bow discreetly her satin feet twirl!
No ugly fashion can fetter or muffle
Beauty and grace and delight of my girl!
Others may dream themselves pretty and
young
In the gay tide that retreats and advances:
But they are only a backcloth that’s hung
When Dulcimer dances!
VICTORIA.
Rikki T.


“IT’S TIME FOR OUR WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS”
(As Good for Women as for Men)


Vanishes Shid Troubfes
The Stud
You Can’t
Lose
Provoking, isn’t it,
when your Stud
fulls—rolls where
you can’t find it?
Makes you desner-
ẃ
ẅ
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
£ lai , n figures.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed
And
wzkfast
h
iff
desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
ft
k
H O
T
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
At least one Australian has had a finger
in the Chinese-Russian mix-up. He is W. H.
Donald, who is described by American papers
as the “uncrowned king of China.” Born at
Lithgow (N.S.W.), Donald spilt ink on the
local Mercury, moved to Sydney D.T., and
then to Melbourne. Going to China, he
dabbled in politics as well as journalism, and
got an appointment under the Peking Gov-
ernment as adviser on economic questions.
Lately he had been associated with the young
Manchurian Governor, Chang Hsueh-Liang,
iff a similar capacity. His dad, George
Donald, M.L.A. for Hartley in a few Parlia-
ments, is living in retirement at Marrick-
ville.
Baldwin Spencer was destined not to
return from Argentina, in which country lie
joined a scientific expedition a few months
ago. He was a man of many parts and
enthusiasms. Born in Lancashire, he came
to Australia with high Oxford credentials
in 1887, to be Melbourne Uni.’s first
professor of biology, at 27. More Australian
than many of the native-born, he was not
only a distinguished figure in the scientific
world, but a generous patron of Australian
art and literature, even of Australian foot-
ball. His studies of native life in connec-
tion with the late F. G. Gillen aroused
world-wide attention; the Spencer-Gillen
books on the abo. are classic works of
reference.
Dr. 11. H'. Woollard, who succeeded Wood-
Jones as Anatomy Professor at Adelaide
University when the latter moved on to
Honolulu, is to return to London at the end
of the year. Woollard was born and trained
in Melbourne, and after the war taught
anatomy at London University. He will go
back as Professor, and will also be the head
of St. Bartholomew’s. He is only 40.
The late J. W. Iletherington was a man
who knew the value of time. A North of
England pit boy, he came to Queensland
when he was 18, and got a job on the
wharf before he had been five minutes
ashore. Work on farms and in Ipswich coal-
pits followed, and before many years he
was a company director, with a finger in
profitable pies. Taking to municipal politics
in Brisbane, he was three times Mayor.
Hetherington was a notable wrestler in bis
early days; later in life he turned to bowls.
W. S. Leslie, principal of Scots College,
Sydney, while James Bee is abroad, is only
30. Leslie is a distinguished product of
Queensland Uni.; the whole of his course
was financed by successes in open scholar-
ships, and he was runner-up to Tom Lawton
for the Rhodes, being compensated with an
honors degree in classics. Ilis brother,
Norman, who was Queensland Rhodes
scholar in 1905, is now general manager for
the Shell Oil Co. in China.
Oswald Anderson, general mnnager in
N. S. Wales for the new Australian Broad-
casting Co., is a Sydneysider, 44 years old,
who used to be
OSWALD
ANDERSON.
staff supervisor for
the T. & G. Insur-
ance Co., then star-
ted out as a song-
writer, made
for London to
storm music-pub-
lishers there, linked
up with Peter
Dawson, who made
several records of
his songs, and, re-
turning to Sydney,
was engaged by
Paling’s. When
broadcasting began
here he secured the
job of manager of
2FC, Sydney, and,
when that station
and 2BL came un-
der one control, was
chosen manager of
both, incidentally,
a new trouble is
facing the broad-
casting co., the
point having been
raised by Clive
Evatt in a Sydney
case that the Con-
stitution gives the
Commonwealth no authority to handle wire-
less at all. The matter will, of course,
go to the High Court.
Hartley Williams, who has passed over in
London, aged 86, was in a class of his own
as a long-distance pensioner. Ho left Mel-
bourne for London on qualifying for his pen-
sion as a retired Victorian Puisne Court
Judge (£l5OO a year), and he had been
drawing it for 26 years, till last week. He
had another distinction—he was the father-
in-law of his brother-in-law. He married
a daughter of, and his daughter by his first
marriage married a son of, T. A. Lawford,
of Wimbledon.
Many of his friends considered that
Hartley W’illiams, Senior Puisne, was badly
treated when he was passed over by Premier
\\ illiam Shiels for the C.J.-ship in
January, 1593; John Madden was chosen
instead. So chagrined was Williams that
he wrote a half-column protest to the Argus.
Ills disappointment was all the keener as
if?, pish'd the Acting-Governorship, which
Higinbotham would not have. Williams
outlived Madden slightly more than 11 years.
Ilis dad was, like himself, a Vic. Judge
and a knight; his son, G.H., a likeable man
of 60 or thereabouts, is associate to Irvine,
C.J. Victoria is now the only State which
has never “promoted” a Puisne Judge to be
Chief.
E. C. Dyason, one of the little band of
Economists, led by Professor Brigden, who
recently made a non-party examination of
the tariff for the benefit of the Federal
Government, is
a son of the
man who for
many years
managed the
affairs of George
Lans-11, the
Bendigo million-
But T. I.
D.vason didn't
bring his family
up to worship
millions; -music
and scientific
study aud re-
search were en-
couraged more
than anything
else. One
daughter became
a pianist with
more than an
Australian re
putation. E.C.,
her brother,
trained as a
mining engineer,
made his b’g-
gest effort to do
something for
his old home by
bringing about
the amalgama-
tion of most of
the Bendigo
deep mines. Un-
fortunately, re-
sults weren’t
what had been
hoped for; but
that wasn’t
Dyason’s fault
-— : t was the
field’s.
E. C. DYASON.
The man who organised the Jewish bat-
talions that fought in Palestine, Lieut. V.
Jabotinsky, is on a visit to Australia. A
prominent Zionist, he is a leader of what
is known as the “revisionist” group in a
movement that has many factions. He is
regarded as one of the finest orators among
the Jews, and can express what he wants
to say in half a dozen languages.
Douglas Mawson takes as his zoology ex-
pert to the Antarctic Harvey Johnston,
student with him at Sydney in the old
days, and now his colleague at Adelaide.
Johnston was the first Professor of Biology
at Brisbane, and when Adelaide acquired
him in 1922 he was given special leave to
stay in Queensland till his prickly-peav
investigations were complete; they won him
a Syme Memorial medal and the presidency
of the Queensland Royal Society. A tireless
fellow, lie adds to his ’Varsity job in Adel-
aide the hon. directorship of the museum
and a lot of work on the Public Library
Board.
Comte Goutran de Tournouer, who has
died in Brisbane, was one of Queensland’s
most attractive personalities. Of an old
Breton house, he came to Australia in the
’eighties and engaged with relatives in sugar-
growing ; later he joined the Agricultural
Department staff, and became librarian. The
Count saw service with the Light Horse and
the Camel Corps in Egypt and Palestine, and
then crossed over to France; a wonderful
linguist—he spoke the principal European
languages and Arabic fluently—he was in
great demand as an interpreter. Invalided
home, he was employed in translation work
in the Censor’s Department until the end
of the war. He held several French orders
and was a pillar of the Alliance Frangaise,
and he wrote much for The Bulletin.
Although the usual denials were forth-
coming it is pretty certain that the choice
of Melbourne’s new Anglican archgaiters has
fallen on an Englishman, the Rev. T. G.
Rogers, at present vicar of Birmingham.
Mr. Rogers has announced that he has
always been interested in Australia, and
that looks too like familiar forms of theat-
rical publicity to be without significance. He
has two sisters in Melbourne.
Two brothers Noble have passed through
the Faculty of Agr culture at Sydney Uni.;
both have received first-class honors and
both have been awarded research scholar-
ships. Dr. R. J. (Bob), now head of the
Biological branch of the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department, specialised in wheat diseases;
Norman, who left for England last week on
a Walter and Eliza Hall Research Fellow-
ship, is to further study insect pests, first
at the Imperial College, Uni. of London, and
afterwards in America. They are sons of
former School-inspector Noble.
Sydney is losing Police-Superintendent
Iladeu Spyer, whose service in the metro-
politan district extends over 27 years. Spyer
has held many responsible positions, and it
was thought that he might take James Mit-
chell’s place in the Commissioner’s chair
when Mitchell went on leave prior to retire-
ment. However, it developed into a contest
between Spyer and Walter Henry Childs, and
Childs won. Now Spyer goes to Bathurst on
transfer.
It was bad luck for Ray Parer that his
’plane should crash at Port Moresby with
Hubert Murray and a niece as passengers,
though nobody was hurt. Parer was Mcln-
tosh’s partner in a London-Australia flight
in the most dilapidated old ’bus that ever
made a long-distance journey: the fearless
Scot was afterwards killed in Westralia. The
little Victorian was the first man to fly from
Moresby to Lae, and the second ("Pard”
Mustard preceded him) to fly from Lae over
the mountains to Wau, the landing-ground
for the goldfields. He takes mail and pas-
sengers on a service which shortens the trip
to the goldfields by weeks.
Jack Lemmon is showing good form as a
front-bench Oppositionist in Vic. Assembly.
As Minister for Education he was too nervy
and let his duties weigh him down too much,
although his stock of ability, capacity to
marshal arguments and facility of expres-
sion compared favorably with the equipment
of most of his colleagues.
Frank Farnell, who has gone aloft, was
a son of James Squire Farnell, who was
Premier of N. S. Wales 50 years ago, and
was himself a politician with a talent for
doing the thing properly at exhibitions and
the like—he represented N. S. Wales at the
big Melbourne and Chicago shows. He was
whip to the first Reid Government, and
when a Commissioner was wanted for Lord
Howe Island or an inquiry about fisheries
the Reid influence helped him. In 1903 he
found a safe retirement from political tur-
moil as president of the National Park Trust.
He certainly made a very good fist of that
job.
G. P. Dwyer, who died in Sydney the other
day, was a Digger, and one of the best
friends his out-of-luck comrades had. A
Manchester man, he became a member of the
London Stock Exchange, and retired some
30 years ago, intending to spend the rest of
his life in leisure in Australia. Here he
began all over again, and before long had
built up another fortune, principally in Syd-
ney property investments and Malayan tin-
mining ventures. A painful affliction took
him to America to consult specialists there.
They could do nothing for him, and he re-
turned with only a few weeks to wait before
the merciful end. A great sportsman, he
was one of the originators of the A.I.F.
golf competition. As an art collector he had
an Australian reputation, and he was also
a bibliophile whose opinion was accepted
throughout the country.
Had J. S. Dethridge, second member of the
Vic. Water Commission, been spared until
the Eildon weir wms completed as planned
under his supervision, the subsidence, pro-
fessional friends believe, would have been
averted. Dethridge wms a modest, silent
man to whom water engineers looked up
with homage. He weathered criticism on
the Waranga basin and came out victorious.
He was a brother of the Dethridge who is
Chief Judge of the Federal Arbitration
Court.
William Poole was a fine example of a man
who worked his v’ay up the ladder without
forgetting those he left on the low’er rungs.
Once a working miner at Broken Hill, lie
qualified as a mining and civil engineer, be-
came a director of the Charters Towers (Q.)
School of Mines, and finished as member of
the engineering firm of which George Julius
is the head, dying last week in harness.
Poole's evidence before the Queensland Sili-
cosis Commission of 1906 led to the passing
of the Compensation Act; in Charters
Towers he paid fees for numerous hard-up
pupils, and although his professional in-
terests were with the boss, many a miner
regarded him as a friend.
A bright young Australian was Fabian
P. Dwyer, whom many Diggers followed to
his grave. Son of a South Coast (N.S.W.)
schoolteacher, he studied drawing and paint-
ing during a sickly youth. When robust
enough he entered the Cardinal’s College at
Manly, and had a distinguished course, but,
his four six-footer brothers having donned
khaki, he went abroad also, as a padre. Fol-
lowed a period as chaplain on H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia; then came American experiences,
which were racily chronicled. Pneumonia
carried him off in St. Vincent’s (Sydney),
where he was once chaplain.
Kiama (.N.S.W.) has lost James Sommer-
ville, who, as Town Clerk for nearly 60
years, was almost as well known as the blow-
hole. He spent all but three of his 93
years in the district, to which he went from
the north of Ireland.
Gilbert Munro Turnbull is the man who
wrote “Paradise Plumes,” the next serial on
The Bulletin’s list—the opening chapters
are due next week. Mr. Turnbull is Govern-
ment Architect in Papua, and as that and
his other jobs in the New Guinea service
THE MAN WHO WROTE
“PARADISE PLUMES ”
have taken him all over the island, he has
saturated himself with its spirit. In “Para-
dise Plumes” he has produced a story
which The Bulletin has no hesitation in
saying no other man in the world could
have written.
Journalist Harry Sunderland, who is
going to England with the Aus. Rugby League
team, could have put Bert Hinkler on the
publicity map had the too-modest young air-
star been willing. There was never a more
casual world-beater than Hinkler. He started
on his unique flight without making any
tie-ups with papers or anyone else. He was
met with offers at Darwin, but clinched
nothing. At Bundaberg (Q.) well-inten-
tioned friends who realised Hinkler’s need for
a manager, if he was to get his dues as a
headliner, had Sunderland waiting to meet
him. Again the airman would not clinch,
being content to drift along on the seeming
high tide of public favor. How the tide ebbed
and left Hinkler dry is now commercial,
newspaper and theatrical history.
Concerning more mythical millions:—
That strange tribe which lives by having imaginary
money left to it has developed unusual energy of
late. The topic of the moment is the Everingham
Millions. Mat Everingham was married in Sydney
in 1791, when he was possibly 21, and was drowned
86 years later, when still pursuing his duties as a
policeman at Windsor or thereabouts. At that time
he was about to start for England to collect his
share of his father’s estate. Said father is supposed
to have been up in years when he shuffled off. The
old drowned policeman left a wife and five sons,
who were ail too languid to pursue the estate. The
family produced over 100 descendants, or at least
over 100 have developed suddenly after 52 years’
torpidity. The policeman’s share of his father’s
estate disentangled itself and got into the British
Court of Chancery. It is reported to have been
there for 90 years, in which case it must have been
awaiting a claimant for 38 years before old Police-
man Everingham perished in the Ilawkesbury. Of
one of the new claimants who have recently joined
in the battle (a printer at Grenfell, N.S.W.), a
Sydney morning paper recently stated that “he has
a copy of the marriage certificate of Matthew
Everingham to Elizabeth Rhymes.” In old melo-
drama, when the villain was a pedestrian with no
motor-car, the possession of almost anybody’s marriage
or birth or death certificate generally led a suffi-
ciently unscrupulous person to fame and fortune.
Nowadays, unfortunately, one might acquire the
birth, marriage and death certificates of half the
peerage, and a list of previous convictions to boot,
and be no further advanced. The Everingham
fortune was estimated at £11,000,000 when it first
appeared in print some weeks ago, but it has just
been raised to £30,000,000, which shows that the
high cost of living still pursues its malignant way.
It would be almost worth while to cable to some
legal light in London, and find out what it really
is; and also to inquire concerning the Angell, and
the Stump, and the Francis Drake, and the Jennings,
and the Hobbs, and the Blake Millions, and the
recent Australian claims to a baronetcy, an earldom
and a dukedom.


Poverty
Point
ATTHE STUDSHEEP SALES.
“Wang”: The Mechanics’ Institute was
filled to overflowing, and when the curtain
went up all the performers, consisting of
local cockies’ sons and daughters, with a
sprinkling of elders, were seen standing on
the stage in massed formation. The lady
visitor, holidaying in the district, turned to
Dad. beside whom she was seated, and
remarked, “A most imposing array of talent,
Mr. Gumbough.” Dad ran his eyes over the
crowd on the stage. “Yes,” he replied,
“yer’ve spoke th’ truth, Miss. Most of th’
talent on that stage would impose on any-
body.”
“Third Usher” : In an English film called
“The Divine Lady,” based on the loves of
Nelson and Lady Hamilton, the great sea-
captain is portrayed by a Hungarian, Victor
Varconi. When the thing was shown in
London, “atmosphere”—magic word!—was
added by the appearance of Varconi himself.
Asses bawled for a speech, and the victor of
tiie Nile and Trafalgar obliged. He stut-
tered out a diffident “I t’auk you verray
mooch!”
“Old Timer”: “Sweeney Todd” had a per-
formance at the old Standard Theatre in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, in 1900, under
the management of the late J. P. West. The
cast included Ethel Grey, M. A. Melville,
E. B. Russell, Harold Earle, Percy Walshe
and Charlie South. Russell, who was play-
ing the “Jack’s-come-home” part, was too
stout to disappear down the trap, and got
stuck, which gave the silver-coin audience a
bit more for its money. That, however, did
not at all disconcert the actors —they were
well seasoned to little contretemps like that.
The performance ran one week; so the Savoy
management can say with Gilbert, “These
plagiarists of the past have forestalled us.”
“Cine Ma”: Australians will be interested
to learn that Universal has just prepared
another faithful version of this country, of
which the co.’s trade journal remarks: —
Getting away from western settings, Universal has
opened a new field. The action is laid in Australia,
which bids fair to become a new frontier for motion
picture heroism. With its bushrangers, its wild
back country and its fearless constabulary, Australia
offers a vast domain for red-blooded; tales of
adventure.
The picture is a serial comprising 10 thril-
ling chapters and Buffalo Bill, jun., is its
he-man.
“K. 8.”: Re the question of a permanent
orchestra, raised again by pianist William
Murdoch. I feel that if the orchestra was
wanted it could be had. I am informed that
about £12,000 a year would fix it. and it is
absurd to suggest that the musical people
of N.S.W. cannot discover how to raise that
much. The same would apply if the sum
went to £20,000. If one is wanted, now is-
the golden opportunity. Public opinion has
been stirred by repeated references to the
need, a new broadcasting organisation pro-
fesses to be eager to raise the musical
standard, the Conservatorium has a body of
musicians able to form the nucleus of a
good orchestra and the Musical Association
is strong. The public looks to the associa-
tion for a lead. I am willing to wager that
if its committee cares to co-operate with the
broadcasting co. and Conservatorium in
proposing a business-like scheme, it is bound
to meet with success.
“Bill O’C.” (from London) : The hunt for
play titles carrying a suggestion of adventure
beyond the limits of the moral code goes on
merrily. Mrs. Grundy’s reputable old word
“marriage” is heavily drawn upon. New
York has staged “Please Get Married,” and
London’s latest is “Why Drag in Marriage?”
evidently inspired by Whistler’s famous “Why
Drag in Velasquez?” Others proximo ace.
are “Little Accident,” “This Thing Called
Love” and “Let Us Be Gay.” The “little
accident” is a biological one. concerning
which and its father’s behavior three women
are remarkably complaisant. No one seems
to worry about the embarrassing armful
except the father, who shows an unusual
anxiety to get possession of, and actually
steals, his offspring. But the dialogue is very
amusing, and the London flapper (who is
about two-tliirds of the audience) puffs her
eternal cigarette, alternately giggles at the
broader sections and sniffles as the thing
draws to a sentimental and sloppy conclu-
sion ; so it looks like a “wbat-the-public-
wants” product, and will probably drop into
Australia’s bag. “This Thing Called l-ove”
is better stuff. It deals with a trial marriage
without much reserve concerning the impli-
cations, but is cleverly and humorously
treated. “Eet Us Be Gay” (a wholly mis-
leading title) opens grippingly in a wife’s
bedroom at night with the husband knocking
vainly at the door, and only admitted in the
end to be told to go out again for good—
reason being the usual one. The rest of the
play is of course devoted to bringing the two
together by ingenious, complicated and mis-
fire devices. The wittiest play of the season,
much of its success is due to the “wisecrack-
ing” of an old lady social engineer, who is
divertingly played by Charlotte Granville, but
the part would fit Emma Temple without a
wrinkle.
“Ilamfat”: Ashton Jarry, the success of
“Dracula” at Sydney Palace, is extremely
painstaking. Engaged to play the High
Priest in “The Green Goddess,” he was dis-
satisfied with the Indian gibberish which
made up his speaking lines, and specially
studied to get some correct and impressive
language. Also, he helped himself to get
the darkie feeling by coloring himself a great
deal more than most mummers would think
necessary, even though, as Melbourne King’s
had no hot baths attached, he had to go to
his hotel in his warpaint .before he could
remove the coloring.
“Ittai the Gittite”: “Lysander” (B.
10/6/’29) is wrong in listing Sliayle Gard-
ner among the ladies. Sliayle Gardner is a
six-foot-two Maorilander, born in Auckland.
He was an actor in pre-war days, supporting
players of the calibre of Irene Vanbrugh.
When the shooting gallery was declared
open in France, he was soon among those
present, playing the part of an Intelligence
major. After the war he went in for film
work, and has done well at it.
“Bill Abroad”: If some of the current
New York shows are to see Australia the
blue-penciller of lines, literary and physical,
will have to get busy—or our standards to
be revised. The undressing in two leading
offerings, “Carnival” and “My Girl Friday,”
however, could be omitted without serious
damage to the plays. Damage to the booking
may be another matter. . Alleged “revue”
here reviews nothing and gravitates towards
the more frowsy houses. It tends to degen-
erate into mere processions of feminine allure-
ment in such variations upon the theme of
nudity as the dressers can devise with
safety; varied by still nuder muscle agitators
whose art seems to consist in the very old
one of the hint of more startling disclosures
which don’t happen. Musicomedy is of the
familiar type and harmless enough. On the
feminine side it seems negligible, but the
standard of “pulchritude,” as G. J. Nathan
calls it, is high. Comedians like Eddie
Cantor, Will Rogers and Chic Sale carry
the burdens of their shows. If N.Y. would
send these instead of its tiny-voiced baby-
doll comediennes, Australia might fairly say
thank you. Apart from “Carnival” the two
outstanding serious plays running are “Jour-
ney’s End” and “Street Scene,” a vivid slice
of N.Y. tenement life, with gossip about the
young wife upstairs who is “expecting,”
the panic-stricken entry of her inexperienced
husband and the arrival of the obstetric
surgeon, and intermittent screaming (off)
from the party most concerned. But N.Y.
isn’t shocked. It laughs at the crucial phase
of this episode, and it looks as if the author
intended even that as a laughing matter.
But the play grips. Milne’s ’‘Meet the
Prince,” described as his best to date, is
having a big run, while an inferior effort of
the same author is reserved for London—
rather significant of N.Y.’s ascendancy as
the jumping-off place of new drama.
“Lysander”: The talkies share with the
telephone and radio the quality of being, with-
out adventitious aids, audible to the deaf;
not to the merely hard-of-hearing, but
to those with whom ordinary conversation
is an affair of over-tones. Why mechanical
projection of sound has this peculiarity is
not known, but it is presumed that there, is
an analogy between the talkie-projection
apparatus and the acousticon, without the
need of the latter’s flex and earpiece.
“S.T.S.”: Martin Marcus, dead in Adel-
aide, at 74, was an advertising agent latterly,
but his great days were at the beginning
of the century, when he handled the Tivoli
for Rickards and, later, Mclntosh. He had
started as a young man by managing tours
for Belle Cole and other artists; and in the
great days of variety, before picture-shows
had cut into it or America given it a bastard-
French name, he brought to South Aus.
world-famous people such as Cinquevalli and
Sandow, Lottie Collins and Marie Lloyd.
Genial, but an autocrat, Marcus sacked a
Tivoli doorkeeper once because I had given
him a casual sixpence! To get the man
reinstated, I had to apologise and take back
the coin.
‘‘C.H.”: When, knocked out by the talkies,
Sydney Lyceum orchestra is carried away
shortly, one of its veterans will be Harry
Foreman, who has played the clarinet for 17
years for the present management. He Avas
among the original bunch that provided
music on Boxing Night, 1892, when the
Lyceum, then perhaps the queen theatre of
the city, opened for the Williamson and Mus-
grove presentation of “Little Red Riding
Hood.” He had figured in another gala per-
formance even earlier, for he made his pro-
fessional debut at the opening of the Cri-
terion in 1886.
“Fauteuil” : Florists who formerly supplied
“tributes” to popular artists are being badly
hit by the “shadow shouters.” At two last
nights in Melbourne recently the flowers
given to departing stars were negligible,
whereas in former times it Avas common to
sec a couple of hundred pounds’ Avorth of
blooms piled up before the final curtain.
Also, floAvers for women in the audience are
no longer in demand, as few don evening-
dress to sit in a darkened auditorium where
no one can see and envy.
“C.R.”: The people who Avant to force
educative films on amusement-seekers by
legislation are mainly persons who find their
entertainment otherwhere than at the cine-
mas. I. should like to hear the expressions
of opinion of these people if a stringer
got up in the golf-house and started to lec-
ture them on "Osmosis amongst Guinea-
pigs” just as the club humorist was about
to tell the neAv one about the manager and
the typist.
THE UNSCREENABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There are gloomy predictions in London that the
“talkie’ d ;velopment in moving pictures means the
gradual extinction of the legitimate drama.”
The drama that arrived with good Queen
Bess
H'as, so ’tis said, outlived its usefulness ;
Into the limbo of oblivion
’Twill go, a happy riddance —more or less.
A Philistine, I do not care a curse
If mummers who repeat the prose and verse
That wiser men have writ (Johnsonian,
that)
Recede into the wings and thence disperse.
None ever had, from Irving, Toole and Tree
Onward, the flimsiest appeal for me.
They never bridged the gap ’twixt what
they were
And whatsoever they essayed to be.
My heart, so hard it is, would hardly melt
Even at fears of what the item spelt
In woe for Wilkie, or of tarnished Asche
Morosely tightening his ample belt.
Garricks and Siddonses, for bad or good
Your day is done and gone your livelihood;
Mere puppets, figured Punch-and-Judy
wise,
Are screened to give us all you ever could.
All? Nay, not all. Let actors fade and plays,
Ohe thing’s beyond the robots, spare me
days!
Our ballet-girls must still be flesh and
blood,
Baldheads would jib at pasteboard coryphees.
n.s.w.
IFORD.


1
. "-V. iMSiIHSI
|| |
sg®i - \* ~ ' v
y
B
BfIfIHHMI
v : ,
Hm
11111
m.
-*&>
mmm
V**
i 1
lif
|i|pip::|Hp# §|
y
■
I
m
i mmm m
y
m
—w
*
—llll
8888888
WStmim
m
i :
«J 8 ■
Ml
: s 1
:; ;;•
m
y m
H . •
Hi
i ■
■
yy y
!§ll
-w*
■
;.-■ \
m
m
■ I
0
m
m
m
m
m H
■
9
m
«
■
IS
I
■
mm
■
r
': P:
mmm
:
.
HH
1
mmm
m a
V ;
aMiHiii
yyiiyy
V—j
■ur
y :
|Hp ;
|||| :
H m. wSBm
m
FULL FA/WONED BQ/lEBY BY


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOY D.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
U)
(2)
Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
Tn the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
by
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Poliey applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from poncy or bonuses.
<4> In the event of loss of eye or limb through acciuent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eve- 5 contingency
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications ]or Agencies invited from men 0/ integrity . GEQ pRUCE gMITH Genera , Mana(?er ,
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
flni Majesty’s “The Desert Song
Criterion (Com. Sat.) Laft That On
Koval (Com. Sat.) “Brewster s Millions
Palace (Com. Sat.) Nicola
r , v „ u Vaudeville
State .7 Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “A. Night Out
Royal Dracula
King's “The Squatter’s Daughter
And (Sat.) “The Face at the Window”
Tivoli Vaudeville
jj oyt j s Movies and Talkies
State *. Movies and Talkies
After reading the advts., Melbourne simply
had to go to “Dracula” at the Royal on
Saturday night. It was a clear case of
hypnosis or the basilisk-eye. The b inn s
latest threat to the talkies is an ambulance
stationed outside the theatre and a trained
nurse wandering about within. A capable-
looking nurse, too!
All these preparations really did result in
a Great Artistic Success, for a woman in the
front row of the stalls had to be assisted
out after the second act. In the absence
of an official statement, this paper is unable
to say whether she was upset at Nat Madi-
son catching arid eating flics or whether she
merely fell asleep. On the other hand, she
may have been a dog lover and didn’t like
see-ng Mr. A. G. Scott’s beautiful Alsatian
having to demean itself by pretending to
be a werewolf and sucking the blood from
Bertha Riccardo’s neck. Or perhaps she
was only overcome at the thought of a fine
artist like Miss Riccardo having to be an
actress at a time when the only alternative
to playing in pieces like “Dracula” is play-
ing in pieces like “The Zeppelin Terror”
further uo the street.
“The Zeppelin Terror” also had an am-
bulance posted outside, but when The Bul-
letin passed, the gentleman in charge was
reading the War Cry or something and
placidly smoking a cigarette. Nor were the
arrangements at the Royal any better. The
management, in this paper’s opinion, is not
up to its job. It should have had half a
dozen supers, throwing convulsions in the
street. A few selected ushers might have gone
off tlieir heads and started biting the pro-
gramme-girls, and a strait-waistcoat might
have been put on Stanley Adams, the musi-
cal director, to prevent him eating the
WINIFRED EVELEIGH, in “ The Good Hope,” with which
Sydney Playbox opens at its new address to-night {Wed.).
second violin. Also, after the final curtain
Gregan McMahon should have come on on
all fours crowing like a cock. But nothing
is done properly nowadays, as far as the
legitimate theatre is concerned. Everybody
seems to be losing heart.
¥ * ¥
It was a fine artistic gesture for Fritz
Hart to hand over his symphony orchestra
to Efrem Ivurtz at Melbourne Auditorium on
Saturday night. The result brought a
crammed house to cheering-point and filled
Mr. H'art with such delight that he could
hardly keep his seat. When he conducted
for Pavlova, the long, lean, black-haired and
bespectacled Kurtz had more or less to efface
himself. His orchesti’a had to be a not too
obtrusive adjunct to the dancer’s loquacious
feet. On Saturday, however, he was the
whole show and revealed himself as a baton-
magician probably equal to Verbrugghen at
his best. Tschaikowsky’s Pathetic Symphony,
Schubert’s “Unfinished” and Wagner’s
Rienzi Overture were rendered with magni-
ficent pomp and power. In Qrieg’s graceful
concerto for piano and orchestra, Ivurtz had
the assistance of William Murdoch as soloist.
To demonstrate its gratitude after the show
the crowd did everything but try to souvenir
the conductor’s shirt.
* * *
At Friday night’s performance of “Mac-
beth” by the Shakspeare Repertory Society
few of the characters spoke clearly. Molhe
Kirwan was a bright exception. Her Lady
Macbeth was a fine presentation of a woman
possessed by the devil of ambition and furious
at the thought of thwarted desire. Macbeth
(Arthur S. Reardon) was not always im-
pressive, but he had got into his stride by
the time the banquet was on the board, and
gave a good impersonation of a man tremu-
lous with guilt and unnerved by want of
sleep. The setting was good. Black cloth
wings converged to a scenery backcloth
which opened in turn on the castle ot
Glamis. the blasted heath and Duncan s
Court. Reginald Hennikcr as the porter
was responsible for some slow-motion comedy,
and the wavering, shrilly witches were as
eerie a sisterhood as 1 one could hate to meet.
Francis Jackson, who produced the perform-
ance, can be congratulated. on the general
presentment, and when his players have
learned to place their voices to better advant-
age Sydney will be much richer. A word of
praise is also awarded to the music, which
was under the direction of Mary Law Ander-
son.
# * ¥
The Vagabonds, an energetic party of Syd-
ney amateurs who hand over their box-office
receipts to charity, gave Eric Hudsons
comedy “The Unfair Sex” a four nights
run at the St. James’s Hall last week. An
innocuous piece of foolery, with a plot not
remarkable for its originality, lines mildly
humorous and situations just lacking the
punch that belongs to first-class comedies, it
is built on the amorous adventures of Geoff
Trevor, liis wife Diana, and their two
guests, Joan Belisse and Harvey Fane. The
female guest flirts with the host in order
to floor the male
guest and the male
guest behaves some-
what similarly to-
wards the hostess.
A lawyer uncle of
the Trevors com-
plicates matters
with his meddling
and that is about
all there is to the
play. Clive Cop-
pard (Trevor),
Ruby Ooxheaul
(Diana), Zita
Harris (Joan),
Cedric Kempton
(Fane) qnd George
Gordon (the uncle)
gave creditable per-
formances.
* *
“The Family Up-
stairs,’* back 'n
Sydney again, has
taken a tenancy of
the St. Jame s,
where household
rulers of both
sexes and their
subordinate halves
can make the
acquaintance of the
most realistic
father seen on the
stage for many a
1o n g day. Joe
Heller. tramway-
man, 23 years mar-
ried, earning 42i
dollars per week
and father to three,
is typical of the
skilled working
man to be found in
any Australian sub-
urb. The only
perceptible differ-
ences are his accent
and the fact that
he meditates about his little troubles
seated on a fire escape instead of a
back verandah. Also. Emma Heller,
with gallstones, pitiful illusions about the
family’s social status and a craving to see
their daughters led to the nearest altar by
upstanding young men of respectable par-
entage and a savings bank balance, are to
bo found in plenty along the train, tram and
'bus routes. In addition, the reserved
Louise, work-shv Willie and chirpy Anna-
belle all have their Australian counterparts.
To find a double for Charles Grant.
Louise’s beau, would, however, not be an
easy job. As a suitor Charles is a distinc-
tive being with a technique peculiarly his
own; when he is stammering out his endear-
ments he suggests a Robot suffering from a
wobbly conhecting rod. Wyrley Birch, Mary
Curtain and Leona Hogarth especially make
the revival very welcome.
* * *
’Flu badly hit the opening production of
the second season of North Sydney’s Turret
Theatre, but though substitutes for leading
mummers had to bo shanghaied at the
eleventh hour, an efficient prompter, a valiant
company and a tolerant audience prevented
the performance of the two-centuries-old
“Mine Hostess,” by
Carlos Goldoni,
from degenerating
into a complete
debacle.
A 20-minutes-late
curtain parted re-
vealing the Mar-
quis of Farlipopoli,
a haughty but im-
pecunious a n d
avaricious noble-
man, and the Count,
of Albafiorita, a
wealthy young up-
start, debating as
to which of the
pair had created
the more favorable
impression up o u
Mirand o 1 i n a, a
comely and calcu-
lating innkeeper.
The elderly Mar-
quis seeks to win
preference with his
eloquence; the
other showers cost-
ly presents upon
the lady, who dis-
plays no affection
for either. She is
moi'e concerned in
trying to conquer
the Knight of Ripa-
fratta, a coarse
and burly woman-
hater, who inces-
santly parades his
dislike for the petti-
coated sex. TJjiable
to capture him with
a fresh complexion
and a dainty waist
she tries such
things as specially
prepared dishes and
rare wines. The
arrival at the inn
of a couple of
comely actresses posing as titled dames
adds to the gaiety of the proceedings,
and also provides the Marquis and the Lomu
with the opportunity of employing their gal-
lantries with better prospects of rcwaid.
Meanwhile, Ripafratta has taken the knock
and is exhibiting violent symptoms of love,
but, the battle won and her pride satisfied,
Mirandolina doesn’t fancy delivering herself
into his hands, though he rants and threatens
to break down doors to get to her. To secure
protection Mirandolina betroths herself to
Fabrizio, a devoted servant, who has sulked
more or’ less in the background, and Ripa-
fratta retires hurling strong language at the
daughters of Eve. The Marquis and the
Count are given their marching orders, and
the actresses, unmasked, having made an
unobtrusive exit, the betrothed couple arc
left at curtain-drop with a speculative future
ahead of them. The play is an effervescent,
quick-moving comedy, with plenty of laughter-
provoking dialogue. The obvious is rather
stressed, the characters are sketchy, and there
is no effort to probe any depths of emotion ;
the play is a brilliant surface piece.
As Mirandolina, Freda McGhee was dis-
tinctly good. She skilfully adapted her act-
ing to the changing moods of a subtle and
sophisticated character. Gerald Kay Souper,
as the Marquis, was the only other really
satisfying player; his was a smooth and
polished performance that never grated for
a moment. Don Bercsford (the Count),
who stepped into the part late, can be excused,
perhaps, for his frequent lapses of memory,
but some of the others would be better for a
course of Pelmanism. The scenery suggested
an attempt to cross the mod rn “arty” effects
with illustrations from a child’s picture book.
For all its defects —’flu' can be blamed for
most of them—the sparkling show is well
worth looking at.
¥ * *
“The Donovan Affair,” which was done
by Muriel Starr with terrible realism at
Sydney Palace some time ago. is the princi-
pal offering this week at Sydney State.
Chiefly because it is a mystery play and
mechanical effects can h be better managed in
the film shop than on the stage, the piece
makes a far better entertainment as a talkie
than it did in the flesli-and-blood. Also it
is helped through by a wider and altogether
stronger cast than this Showman watched in
the legitimate show. A sound orchestral
programme and a handful of good flesh-and-
blood and talkie variety turns eke out a
satisfying bill.
That sturdy veteran of the Australian
boards, Bill Anderson, produced an old item
of his repertoire in “The Squatter’s Daugh-
ter” at Melbourne King's on Saturday. The
marvellous melodrama hasn’t grown up in
mentality with the passing of the years.
It is the same old orgy of unreality under
whose Australian clothes beats the unrepen-
tant heart of an English penny novelette.
Tom Sutterby is the hero with the mys-
terious past and the habit of blowing about
himself; Nina Dacre is the heroin- with the
soulful eyes and the ready cracker motto
over on her lips, even in moments of surprise ;
Norman Sheppard is the villain with the un-
RENEE MURPIIY, with “The Desert Song,’’ soon to close a
fine run at Sydney Majesty’s.
fooling laugh and the impeccable riding-
pants, and Darcy Kelway is the Scotch
jackeroo who sits on bull-ant nests when
things threaten to be dull. There are real
sheep in the second act; also an abo. who is
not so real. Ben Hall's gang will make its
nightly raid on Waratah station until the
end of the week, when “The Face at the
Window” will be revived.
* * *
The Bulletin looked in at one of Mel-
bourne’s most stupendous talkie palaces on
Saturday afternoon, and it also dropped in
on Brailowsky’s farewell matinee at the
Town Hall; and the simple unadorned Rus-
sian ivory-.tliumper had by far the larger
audience of the two. B.’s success in Mel-
bourne has been phenomenal and the dura-
tion of his stay a record for an imported
virtuoso. They have been achieved with
absolutely no playing to the gallery. He
hasn’t even allowed himself to be robbed
of some jewellery. He closed his account
with a varied programme, out of which the
Chopin group shone with a particularly
bright light. „
’¥ ¥ ¥
There is a curiously American flavor about
Ridley’s “Wrecker,” in a setting entirely
English, at Adelaide Roval— e.g., the young
Society man who bears railway stocks and
the train that does not “make” its destina-
tion. Josephine Wilson is the deep-voiced
heroine detective who never comes anywhere
near detecting anything, and Clayton Creene
the Rugby international. The ra lway effects
are and in a strong cast there is
some notable work by Morrison, Reg Collins
and Arthur Young.
* * *
The Nellie Bramley co. produced the
comedy, “Kitty Walks In,” for the weekly
change at Brisbane Royal. It’s an ingenuous
taic—a divorced couple happen to be intro-
duced at a house party and. of course, fall
in love and get married again. McAllister s
successor Robert Ginns is able to keep the
House Full sign in its usual place. Next
week the co. offers “Wild Molly-O.”
* ¥ *
Another Melbourne theatre went talkie
lest week, Hoyt’s De Luxe reopening with
“Submarine,” an excellent first ebo ce which
v-iH h- dealt with in Shadow Shows. On
Saturday Dusolina Giannini —it is almost
necessarv nowadays to state that it wall be
the lady in person—will commence singing
at the Auditorium.


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
F OR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter % Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slats Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRFEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager, E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31 st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company's capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagti
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Bank.
Net To
June. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1819.. 108,340 10 p.c. = 03,144 55,202 278.766
1920.. 104,073 10 „ „ 77,274 27,399 300,105
1921.. 115.541 10 „ „ 79,746 35,795 341,900
1922.. 120,819 121 „ „ 99,952 20,807 308,827
1923.. 159.350 12* „ „ 100,000 ( , B 0
Written off premises .. £IO,OOO * ' ’ ’
Premiums on new shares .. 147,512 565,689
1924.. 186,388 12*p.c.= 137,880 } r „ s iq -
Written off premises .. £IO,OOO J dB " J ° B 004,19(
Premiums on new shares .. 12,488 616,085
1925.. 196,946 10 p.c. = 125,181 1 ro orf -
Written off premises. £12,500 ] 69,205 676,900
1920.. 207.176 10 p.c. = 148,977 l 4 - 69f) 721 64q
Written off premises, £12,500 j ‘ ’ y ' - > •
1927.. 204,702 10 p.c. = 150,000 ( .„ 9ft9 o-.
Written off premises, £12,500 j “ * * '
1928.. 211,960 10 p.c. = 172,139 ( 9Q a9l fi79
Written off premises, £IO,OOO ] ’ ’
1929.. 212,385 10 p.c. = 174,998 / 9 , 957 R9l nr.o
Written off premises, £IO,OOO j 27,357 821,099
Spleifdid progress has been made during the
11 years covered by the table, which marks
the period since late general-manager W. V.
Ralston shifted, ahead of schedule, the last
of 31 millions of debt, a legacy of the ’nine-
ties, and shareholders got into the picture
again after a long wait. Paid capital,
which was £691,850 in 1919, grew to
£1,750,000 at the close of last accounts, and
£950,000 of it had been got in during the
past half-dozen years. Also reserves visibly
benefited by £542,293, including £160,000 of
share premiums. That is to say, at June
30 there was £1,600,443 more belonging to
shareholders in the business than there was
10 years earlier. The expansion is remark-
able because more than 80 p.c. of the bank’s
risks are confined to Queensland; and
Queensland lias not yet completely recovered
from the depression which set in five years
ago, and on the heels of which came a gruel-
lipg drought and heavy pastoral losses. But
tile bank had gone through a long course
of preparation to meet just such conditions,
and year after year, wi th hardly a break, bigger
and still bigger profits have been reported.
For the 12 months to June 30 last pro-
ducers in the northern State got more in
the aggregate from wool, sugar, meat and
dairy produce than in the previous year.
This is reflected in the growth of £262,495
in liquids, the increase being chiefly on
account of bills and remittances in transit
(£894,448, up £190,198), which suggests that
exchange earnings were better than usual.
Still, the board claimed as net profit only
£425 more than for the preceding term, which
might be taken as an indication that it is
not very enthusiastic about the immediate
future. Including £IO.OOO struck off the
book value of premises—£77,soo has been
thus whisked away to inner reserves since
1923—the declared net result of the year’s
operations was equal to 11.6 p.c. on average
capital compared with 12.3, 13.6, 13.9, 15.7
and 16.1 p.c. back to 1924, when bank clear-
ances in Brisbane reached a slightly higher
level than during the 1920-21 boom.
• One of the Q.N.’s sources of strength is
the £3,091,669 of interminable inscribed
deposit stock, w T hich is really very cheap
pref. capital, costing only 3£ p.c.,‘ or less
than fixed deposits. It represents the 15s.
in the £ of old deposits that were funded when
the bottom fell out of values 36 years ago.
Other reminders of the past are the bank’s
holdings in Millaquin Sugar and Q. N. Pas-
toral. The former co. paid 10 p.c for the
t wo years to June 30,1928. and 12 p.c. in the
two years before that; but the latter co.,
which has been hard hit by the drought, has
not handed the ords. anything since 1920,
and a cut is to be made in capital as soon
as the loss (12s. 9d. per ordinary share at
Dec. 31) can be measured up. It is un-
likely, however, that that will have any
visible effect upon the bank’s figures; it may
be taken for granted that the holding has
been severely written down.
Balance-sheet figures indicate healthier
trade movements:—
Liabilities.
1922. 1926. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 800,000 1,500,000 1,749,958 1,760,000
■ Interminable
stock . . 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669 3,091,669
Bills, etc. 350,078 542,493 431,621 407 581
Deposits . . 6,898,730 8,566,481 9,026,995
Assets.
Liquid
assets.. 4,056,621 4,335,190 4,382,200 4 644 695
Advances 6,994,272 9,591,065 10,229,185 10,348’614
Premises 500,411 533,531 526.279 524’850
The drop in bills, etc., over the last two
years reflects the decline in imports, while
the favorable season for primary products
and the bigger exports —the latter are paid
for mostly through London —show up in the
growth in deposits and the expansion of
liquids.
The Q.N.’s position is very sound. At
June 30 depositors and others could see 47.3
p.c. of their money in liquid form as against
46.3 p.c. and 44.2 p.c. at the two preceding
balances. Including the deposit stock with
the bank’s funds, it was holding only £1 14s.
Bd. of the public’s money for every £1 of
its own. Under ordinary circumstances that
would mean small earning power, but the low
interest on the deposit stock and the sub-
stantial inner reserves accumulated during
long years of regeneration alter the position
materially. Premises have a written-down
book value of £524,850, of which £170,000
is revenue-producing.
Though the parched areas of the west
were relieved by March and April rains, it
will take two or three good seasons to get
flocks there back to normal. Over the rest
of the State primary industries are in a
healthy condition, and there are some signs
of a mining revival. Altogether, the outlook
is more heartening than it was 12 months
ago.
The board’s policy is to maintain the div.
at 10 p.c. and make new share issues at par.
The market prices the scrip, paid to £5, at
£9 15s. as against £9 4s. 6d. a year ago.
After allowing for the final div. (2s. 6c1.)
the return at the current figure is 5.1 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £7 6s. lid. per share in net
tangibles.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ i;
Preliminary exes., £25,612 .. 25,612
1927.. 4,949 Nil 4,949 20,663
Reserves.
1928. . 35,866 Nil 35,866 15,203
1929.. 47,268 8 p.c. = 33,936 13,332 28,535
Things have not worked according to
schedule for this co., which put up works
on the Mudgee line, 152 miles from Sydney,
and commenced producing about two and a
half years ago. It kicked off with a Gov-
ernment contract for 50,000 tons of cement
a year; but the cost of equipment was unex-
pectedly heavy, and failure to secure sufficient
outside orders to keep the plant fully
employed was another serious drag. In
the course of a struggle for a seat at the
board a year ago suggestions of mismanage-
ment were heard. Maybe mistakes had been
made; but at least the treatment of the
profits that had been won appeared to be
Quite wise. Shareholders therefore did not
hesitate to express their confidence in those
in control, and they have not been dis-
appointed in their faith, although results
are still far short of the prospectus fore-
cast of a net profit of 16 p.c. p.a. on an
outturn of 80,000 tons.
Figures for the year to June 30 show all-
round improvement. After making provision
for taxation and striking off £25,000 for
depreciation, which was £IO,OOO more than
in the previous year, the spring in the net
result was £11,402, the total (£47,268)
reaching 9.4 p.c. on paid capital as against
7.. p.c. for the year before. Shareholders
got _ a first dividend of 8 p.c., and, after
wiping out £25,612 of preliminary exes, with
which the co. began, they could see the whole
of their capital intact and £28,535 besides.
Incidentally, £75,000 of paid capital is de-
ferred as to divs. until distributions totalling
15 p.c. have been made on the rest of the
scrip.
Though the co.’s production is on the in-
crease and its finances have improved the
outlook is uncertain. Assuming that 8 p.c.
will be paid during the coming year, there
will be another £75,000 of capital calling
for attention in the next term, and the ques-
tion of the renewal of the contract with
the Government will crop up a year hence.
Meanwhile conditions in the industry
threaten to become more difficult. Chief
danger lies in the possibility of overproduc-
tion. The four plants operating in N. S.
Wales last year had a total capacity of
over 600,000 tons. During the next 13
months a fifth producer, Southern Portland
Cement, Ltd., in which Howard Smiths
and Australian Iron and Steel hold a con-
trolling interest, and which aims at an out-
put of 120,000 tons p.a., will be on the
market. The State’s cement production for
the year to .June 30, 1927, was 365,384 tons;
it increased 18 2 p.c. in the following year,
when the cost of the outturn (£4 4s. 4d.)
dropped Bd. per tom Figures for 4ast year
are not available: but, though sales are
on the increase, it is obvious that plant
capacity is well in excess of demand. That
means there is a substantial amount of
capital represented by plant that is not
doing as much work as it ought to. Not
only must this affect production costs, but
there is a danger that the growing competi-
tion will develop into a price war, and thus
make business unprofitable for the manu-
facturer. Much will depend upon the extent
to which the recently-formed Cement Manu-
facturers’ Association can liven demand and
widen and popularise the uses of cement.
There is also the possibility of lessened
activity in road construction, due to the
curtailment of loan expenditure; and it is
r<> rn and construct on that manufacturers
are looking for their main market for the
future. If the N. S. Wales production of
cement, which approximates sales, increases
at the rate of 20 p.c. p.a., it will take
about three years to catch up w r ith the
capacity of the existing plants.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a marked
improvement in the co.’s financial position: —
1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £466,691 £499,172 £499,232
Creditors .. .. 169,248 118,014 70,599
Freeholds and plant.. 522,335 526,539 516,053
Shares in other cos. .. 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores and stocks .. 35,774 39,296 41,525
Rook debts and cash. . 22,160 31,546 22,750
Last year £47,415 was lopped off the amount
coming to creditors, which was only £6124
in excess of the more or less liquids (includ-
ing stocks) at June 30 as against an excess of
£11,314 two years earlier. Freehold and
plant had a hook value of £5 3s. 2d. per ton
of capacity, down 2s. 2d. for the year.
Much depends upon the adequacy or other-
wise of the allowance for depreciation, etc.
Shares in other cos. represent the holding
in Kandos-Coomber Colliery.
The market, which paid 16s. 6d. for the
pound shares six months ago, now prices
them at 10s. 4}d. After allowing for the
final div. the return at the current figure
is 8.6 p.c. as long as the 8 p.c. div. con-
tinues. The backing amounts to 21s. Id. per
share in net tangibles, all in fixed assets,
worth what they can earn.
Walter Reid and Cos., Ltd.
Writ- To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. ten off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 50,305 124 p.c.=25,000 2,929 22,376 135,900
Transferred to capital, £50.000 . . 85,900
1919.. 30.100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4,446 654 86,554
1920.. 60.964 121 „ ~31,250 5.484 24.230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10' „ ~ 25,000 2,340 16,857 127.641
1922.. 39.628 10 „ ~25,000 2,907 11.721 139.362
1923.. 46,418 10 „ ~25.000 2,855 18,563 157,925
1924.. 47.386 124,. ~31,250 4.007 12.129 170.054
1925.. 54,235 124 „ ~31,250 3.622 19.363 189.417
1926.. 54,181 124 „ ~31,250 3,732 19.199 208.616
1927.. 52,595 14 „ ~35,000 4,324 13,271 221,886
Reserves disclosed, £IB,BIO . . .. 240,696
1928.. 37,418 10 p.c. = 25,000 4.658 7,760 248.456
1929.. 46,976 121,, ~ 31.250 4,290 11,436 259,892
This general merchandising and agency co.,
with a quarter of a million capital, has head-
quarters at Rockhampton. It has built up
a strong connection with p.istoralists, store-
keepers and hotelkeepers in those central and
central-west parts of Queensland which have
been hit hardest by drought. For a while
the increased demand for stock feed more
than offset the decrease in other directions,
and turnover continued to expand. But
large numbers of the stock died, and most of
the survivors were removed to agistment
country. Then turnover naturally began to
slip away. The p. and 1. account shows these
interesting changes:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Gross profit .. £138,979 £148,900 £127,775 £128.432
Exes. .. 84,744 96,305 90,357 81,456
Gross profits showed a slight improvement
last year, notwithstanding a “big drop” in
turnover during the second half. But the fea-
ture which attracts most attention is the cut
of £B9OI in the year’s expenses. These, by
the way, include provision for bad debts.
Two years ago the chairman, who has very
successfully managed the business for half
a century, gave his assurance that the board
had built up “a bad and doubtful debts re-
serve fund which is more than sufficient to
cover any losses which a prolongation of the
drought conditions may bring about.” Now
that the drought in the west has broken, the
probably considers it no longer neces-
sary to provide against contingencies on
quite the same scale as recently, and exes.,
therefore, have dropped back to something
like normal proportions. A 24 p.c. bonus
goes out with the final div., "making 124
p.c. for the year, and things had not to be
cut fine to do it either. The bonus was pro-
vided out of interest on Government securi-
ties.
After visibly setting aside £4290 for depre-
ciation, shown as written off in the t"ble,
the balance of the year’s profit (£42 686)
was 17 p.c. on paid cap’tal compared with
16.1, 19.3, 20.2, 20 2 and 17.4 p.c. back to
1924. These remarkably good showings dur-
ing years of difficult trading conditions re-
flect the management’s policy of providing
a substantial buttress for capital. So vigor-
ously has the beard saved during the 28
years since the present co. took over the busi-
ness that, in addition to handing out
£145 000 of bonus scrip, the visible accumu-
lation was £9892 in excess of paid capital
at May 31.
Under ordinary circumstances it would
appear as though another bonus issue was im-
minent—the last gift (£50.000) was in 1918.
But the outlook is very different from what
it was 11 years ago; costs have increased,
prices are easing and their future is un-
certain, and turnover is on the down-gradp.
Still, as the position clears and trading be-
comes normal, shareholders can expect to
benefit, maybe by an advance in the div.
rate, which has hitherto fluctuated with sea-
sonal conditions—the average for the past
decade being 11 -J p.c.
Last year’s duller trading resulted in a
release of some working capital, which was
invested outside the business. Here is a com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 137,738 97,971 73,428 70,955
Stocks .. 211,318 255,266 223,668 210,072
Book debts . . 149,448 164,467 110,977 97,862
Cash.. .. 33,517 42,478 70,744 68,586
Freeholds and
investments 140,558 131,855 178,995 223,077
Hitherto all investments have been lumped
with freeholds, but at May 31 £IOO,OOO in
Commonwealth loans was shown separately
—properties and other investments were in
at £123,077. An amount of £0982, interest
on Commonwealth and State loans received
during the year, was sent to reserves; the
figure suggests that there might be a tidy
inner reserve in the co.’s holdings of Com-
monwealth securities. Its investments in
State loans, which probably don’t amount
to much, are apparently still lumped with
freeholds. Only once during the last decade
have stocks and book debts stood at a lower
figure.
The market expresses its confidence in the
future by offering 20s. for the pound shares
without attracting sellers. The return at
that figure is a whisper under 7 p.c. on a
I2i p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to 40s. 9d. per share in net tan-
gibles. Par too much of these tangibles are
investments outside the business; but
whether that is the board’s fault or the
politicians’ fault or the fault of recent
seasons it would be hard to say.
North Coast Steam Navigation Cos.
To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves
£ £ £ £
1919.. 60,920 9 p.c. = 27,675 23,245 111,257
1920.. 62.430 10 „ „ 35,664 1G.706 128.023
1921.. 60,973 10 „ „ 39.471 21.502 149,525
Jure,
1922.. 25.737 10 „ „ 19,736 6,001 155,526
1923 V. 51.409 10 „ „ 39.471 11.998 167.524
1924.. 44,498 10 „ „ 39,471 6,027 172,551
1925.. 42.047 10 „ ~ 39,471 2,576 175,127
1926.. 42,181 10 ~ „ 39,471 2,710 177.837
Transferred to capital, £48,986 .. 128,851
1927.. 53,503 10 p.c. = 41,920 11,583 140,434
1928.. 52,032 10 „ „ 44,370 7,662 148,096
1929.. 49,457 10 „ „ 44,370 5,087 153,183
The board says the year’s net profit was
£44,457, or £2575 less than the previous
year’s, and just a few pounds more than is
necessary to pay the 10 p.c. div. But that
is after £SOOO has been dropped from some-
where into the “insurance and repairs sus-
pense account, etc.,” making it £110,589 at
Juno 30. This account, which has been built
up as opportunity offered, was dipped into
for £40,000 of the £48,986 of reserves capi-
talised a little over two years ago. The
“Wild Cat” believes that a substantial part
of what is left of it, if not the whole, is true
profit, and treats it accordingly.
The £49,457 thus netted last year was
8.3 p.c. on average funds (capital and re-
serves combined) compared with 8.8, 9.2, 7.4,
7.4 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1924. Recent results
have been surprisingly good considering (1)
the extent to which cargoes must have been
affected by the loss of farm produce through
floods during the last couple of years; (2)
that trade generally lias not been brisk, and
the timber-workers’ strike has been an extra
interference; and (3) that the co., in com-
mon with every other industrial concern, has
been feeling the effects of steadily-mounting
costs, due largely to Arbitration Court
awards and the louder demands of the tax-
gatherer.
The business lias developed steadily with
the growth of settlement on the N. S.'Wales
North Coast. At times there was opposition,
but it never affected the co. much ; one after
another the competitors were bought out or
dropped out, and the eo. now has practically
a monopoly of the shipping from Newcastle
north to the Queensland border. Though
shareholders have never skimmed much cream
from the business, they have had a long
run of uninterrupted divs. The rate, whicii
"was 8 p.c. early in this century, was lifted
to 9 p.c. in 1913 and to 10 p.c. in 1920, and
has remained steady since. A recent small
capitalisation makes this 10 p.c. worth 11.2
p.c. on capital as it stood before the gift—
the only such distribution, by the way, since
the present co. was formed 38 years ago.
The richest patch in the co.’s career was the
seven years to the close of accounts in 1924,
during which time it put on almost as much
weight as it did in the preceding 27 years.
Since then competition from the North Coast
railway lias affected the co.’s passenger
traffic: but the growth of population, in
part, due to that railway, has meant larger
earnings on the cargo side.
Future profits will largely depend upon the
efficiency of the ships and whether the allow-
ances for depreciation and contingencies
prove adenuate. No hint is given as to what
amounts have been set aside out of earn-
ings to cover wear and tear, etc.; but taking
the past as a guide, the provisions do not
appear to have been skimped. Further, the
chairman gives the comforting assurance that


ẁ
Extracts from “Wild Cat”, July 7, 1928
"The Bank is, however, treading a safe path—and with
the assistance of a run of good seasons the figures show
satisfactory expansion.”
"Since 1925 deposits have nearly doubled and advances
more than doubled.”
"The improvement last year was £266,115 in deposits
and only £149,054 in advances.”
Extracts from “Wild Cat”, June, 1929
"The business continues to show very satisfactory expan-
sion. and General Manager Moffat came to the Company
with a good Queensland reputation as a conservative
Banker.”
"Over the last four years both advances and deposits
have more than doubled.”
"But what probably pleases the Management more than
anything else in those figures is the growth of £126,498
in last year’s deposits, despite a marked drop in last
year’s wool and wheat values.”
"When the books closed at February 28, the Bank was
in the strong position of holding only £3/15/- of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own funds.”
JHave a Bank Account—Keep it Crowing! *
’PRIMARY PRODUCERS
BANK. OF AUSTRALIA IT®
HEAD OFFICE—I 4 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth —and at London.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT LTREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTIIRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney*
Don’t Lose What
ẃ
You’ve Got
The future is uncertain.
Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced
profits.
Prices of many invest-
ments have fallen.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have everything
in insurance policies.
All the more reason to
see the offices are sound.
There are offices that are
not sound.
The 'leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
July Number now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/C. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ẅ
insUKE WITH THE
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE. MARINeT ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
1 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
the co. has practically anew fleet of modern
vessels, all of which are reported to be in
good order and fully insured, the risks being
carried by outside underwriters. The two
new oil-burning ships bought during the last
couple of years are said to be satisfactory,
and plans for a third are in preparation.
Amongst other things, this probably means
that running costs have been reduced. Shortly
before the close of accounts in 1928 the
Uralla became a total wreck on the Stockton
Beach; last year the Coolebar was sold, and
negotiations are pending for the disposal
of further “surplus” tonnage—presumably
steam.
The above-mentioned sale and the co.’s snug
position are reflected in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £394,714 £394,714 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities .. 33,818 40,802 7,475 13,032
Ships.. . . 364,015 393,689 397,480 345,770
Freeholds, etc. 28,912 36,487 35,759 35,759
Liquid .. 227,891 202,913 188,217 250,572
The book value of the fleet was £51,710
lighter than at the previous balance, and
liquids were £02,855 stronger. The latter
comprise public securities (£74,700, up
£29,700), cash (87,542, up £59,221), book
debts (£4O 954, down £19,088), coal and
stores (£9256, down £6483) and shares in
other cos. (£32,120, down £995). There is
probably a little hidden strength in the
freeholds, which stand in the books at only
£0924 more than they did 10 years ago, not-
withstanding substantial additions mean-
while.
The market, which paid 295. 3d. for the
pound shares a year ago, has since shortened
its bid to 28s. 6d. After allowing for the
final div. the return at the current price is
7.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. There is
no indication that that rate is likely to
be disturbed, but shareholders need not look
for anything better—not at present, at any
rate. The backing amounts to 265. lid. per
share in net tangibles.
The “Sun”-“News” Merger.
The proposed amalgamation of Sydney
Sun and Evening News, with their respec-
tive offsiders, has been further advanced, and
unless something quite unforeseen arises the
merger will be completed, notwithstanding
the strenuous opposition of some of those
interested in Holdings, Ltd. These have been
for the most part quite willing to dispose of
the Evening News, but not to another Syd-
ney evening paper. There have been con-
versations, if nothing more, with Smith’s
Newspapers, Ltd. —which explains the acrid
remarks in the Sun and Guardian during
the last few days, one declaring the other
unprincipled and the other retorting that
its contemporary is afflicted with congenital
mendacity. But that is mere interesting
byplay. .
Now another Richmond has come into the
field. The Sunday Times Cos. lias for some
time been under a cloud. The position there
is complicated. Actually, there are two cos.,
one owning the Sunday Times, and the
other the Referee and Arrow ; but so long
as certain pref. shares exist in the Sunday
Times Cos. the whole of the profits of Referee
and Arrow belong to that co. Those pref.
shares, 100.000 of them, were sold chiefly in
Melbourne and Adelaide, during the reign of
Hugh D. Mclntosh. Issued at £1 each, they
have sold as low as 2s. or less. Some time
ago A. E. Dalwood bought H. D. Mclntosh’s
ordinary shares in the Sunday Times Cos. and
got control of the concern; and. though it
was heavily in debt, he has been putting in
a good deal of money to save it. Inciden-
tally, and presumably in order to give the
Sunday Times .Co.’s excellent plant work to
do, Newspaper Investments, Ltd., was formed
by the Dalwood interests, and a free weekly
advertising sheet has lately been published
by it.
Now a circular has been issued by the
general manager of Newspaper Investments,
Ltd., who is also manager of the Sunday
Times, suggesting that “retail stores in Syd-
ney and others interested should endeavor
to control a journal that can be used as a
means of publicity and also an effective
advertising medium.” There is to be a lun-
cheon to-day (24tli) to talk it over.
Zinc Corporation.
The co.’s mill duty, recovery and costs
have all responded to the efforts of the staff,
but the market has been unkind. For the
12 months to Dec. 31 last concentrates
turned in £683,678, and that was £81.778
less than for tlm previous year. The average
price of lead (£2l 3s. 4d.) slipped more than
£3 a ton. Spelter was down, too ; but that
does not matter much because under their
contract with the British Government move-
ments below £3O a ton in the price of zinc
do not, for the present, affect the Barrier
cos. A cut in treatment and development
expenditure reduced the drop in working profit
(£205.867) to £69.747, while lighter royal-
ties and taxes and a richer harvest from
year’s final profit (£255,534) only £3744
short of tlm 1927 figure. SL"r?'holders not
an all-round 40 p.c. (£228,905), the same
as in the previous year.
Paid capital is £572,202 in 245,692 pound
prefs. and 653,139 ords. of 10s. each. The
prefs. are first entitled to a cumulative 20
p.c. p.a.; after that they advance point for
point with the ords. in any distribution the
latter may receive. In the event of a wind-
up the ords.—they have been written down
from £l—are entitled to 20s. a share before
the declaration of surplus assets. After
allowing for the final div. shareholders could
see net tangible assets with a book value of
£851,120 at the close of last accounts. Of
that amount plant represented £58,426 and
the mine (lumped with investments at
£521,222) less than £IOO,OOO. The scattered
investments are claimed to be worth much
more than their book value. Last year they
brought in sufficient to meet the minimum
pref. requirements, and then provide another
Is. sd. per share on both classes of scrip.
That is equal to 27 p.c. for the prefs. and
14 p.c. for the ords.
The mine—the old Block 5 of the Broken
Hill South Cos. —has developed well. After
treating nearly 1£ million tons of ore during
the last 10 years there was over 2.665,000
tons of the lead lode measured up above
the 1600 ft. level at Dec. 31. South of this
is the zinc lode, which has a lower read but
higher zinc content than the lead lode; and
it is estimated there is an additional 245,969
tons there. Also big ore bodies are known
to exist outside the measured areas. The
275,066 tons crudes raised last year assayed
15.7 p.c. lead, 10.6 p.c. zinc and 3.40 z. silver,
which is slightly better than the estimated
average of the ore reserves.
The good work done by the technical staff
shows up in higher recoveries ; 94 p.c. lead,
81 p.c. zinc and 89.8 p.c. silver, or an
average of 88.3 p.c. as against an average
of only 81.3 p.c. for 1925. The use of
potassium-zanthate as a flotation re-agent
assisted in the improved recoveries. Four
years ago the throughput of the mill
averaged 39.5 tons an hour; the figure was
43.9 tons last year. Over the same period
working costs have been got down from
375. 3d. to 325. 9d. a toil, due largely to
bigger tonnages.
What is going to happen after the con-
tract with the British Government for the
sale of zinc concentrates expires next year
can only be guessed at. Shortly before
the close of last accounts spelter producers
tentatively agreed upon a scheme to regulate
supplies on the London market, and the
price has strengthened slightly since, the
average for the six months to June 30 being
£26 10s. sd. per ton. A similar plan in
respect of lead is being discussed. For the
fi’st half of the current year lead averaged
£23 16s. 6d. a ton. Over the same period
the corporation’s production continued on
the up grade; it all augurs well for the
current year’s results.
The market, satisfied with the outlook,
pays 925. for the prefs. and 48s. 6d, for
the ords. The return at those prices is
8.7 p.c. and 8.3 p.c. respectivelv on a 40 p.c.
div. basis. On the same basis and at the
same price it would take over 13 years for an
investor to get his money back and average
10 p.c. p.a. on his original outlay.
From a mining engineer:—
I agree with more of what Frank Hambridge
wrote about Mount Isa (B. 19/6/’29) than with
what came fconi the London correspondent (B.
5/6/’29). But Mr. Hambridge has not been on the
mines since January, 1927, and much has happened
there since then—and I don’t think even the Sydney
office of the co. is aware of a good deal of it.
The London man guesses badly about the reasons
for the withdrawal of the A. A. Corp. of S. Africa
and the appearance of the Anglo-Russian concern
on the scene. It is certain that the reports on the
survey of the mines were not the deciding factor in
the withdrawal of the A. A. Corp. Indeed, the
chances are that the reports, or some of them, made
for the A. A. Corp. were the very ones which
decided the Anglo-Russian to come in. Something
probably happened between the time the one went
out and the other arrived. It may be that the
Government was prevailed upon to offer greater
assistance.
The London correspondent refers to extraordinary
optimism in Australia and quotes the market price
of the shares as proof of it. It may be that London
has been told of extraordinary optimism in Aus-
tralia ; but it does not exist. On the contrary there
has been a steady sale of shares in Australia and
their transfer to London. The extraordinary optimism
is all there.
Now what are the grounds for this optimism?
Chiefly, as far as one can gather, a belief that
this co. can do things which Australian engineers
never dreamed of. We knew that we hadn’t been
doing quite all that we should have done, and we
were quite willing, most of us, to get a lesson in
modern efficiency. True, there was so much talk
about Australian non-efficiency that a certain amount
of ill-feeling was caused at Broken Hill, which in-
sists that it is still doing things as well as any
mining field in the world. But, generally, there
was at least the hope that this newcomer to Aus-
tralia would give us what Queensland badly needs
—a great new and prosperous mine.
Some of us have not yet lost hope; but it is not
burning as brightly as it did. It seems to us that
the Anglo-Russian probably had the wrong experi-
ence ; they have been handling rich mines, where
mistakes didn’t matter as they do matter with
this great low-grade propos : tion. And there is no
question about the mistakes. Construction plans
are in a mess, and their programme seems to be
constantly undergoing change. They are staffing
largely with Americans, some of them gentlemen
who seem to know their job thoroughly, others at
any rate not conspicuous for their tact.
It will be almost a national misfortune if this
venture fails. And it can be said, too, that the
co. treats its people so handsomely that it deserves
to succeed. But its extragavance will have to be
checked, or, no matter how vast the tonnage, it
will not be possible to make out of this ore a
profit capable of showing a decent return upon
the engorged capital.
* :8 * *
The defunct Labor Government in Queens-
land left a legacy of a Itoyal Commission
on Mining to the new Government. The
Commission has a rather extensive personnel,
which has toured the State and taken tomes
of evidence. T. A. Ferry, the chairman, is
now chewing over this mass, while two mem-
bers are touring abroad. A. A. Boyd, of Mt.
Morgan, who will presently take hold of that
show again and shake it up, has gone to
Canada and U.S.A. to find out why the
Canucks and their cousins can pay hand-
some divs. on ore of a gross value of 10s.
to 15s. a ton. Professor 11. C. Richards has
gone to the Rand to attend the International
Geological Congress, and will pick up tin-
latest points on mining on that field. There
will be a reassembly in October, and the
report on the almost-defunct condition of
Queensland mining will be presented in
November —perhaps.
Of course, the present Ministry has a
shrewd idea why metal mining is dead —it
looms largely around the value of output per
capita. Tin mining is still important, but
beyond that metal mining is a comparative
skeleton. The marked rise in wolfram is
helpful—it is almost 100 p.c. better than six
months ago. The camps of Wolfram and
Bamford have plenty of ore, but have not
been able to compete with Asiatics. One
sad thing is practically no advantage at all
was taken of the recent rise of copper to
round about £IOO.
* * * *
Cliff Rutledge, the new Queensland Gov-
ernment general manager for smelting opera-
tions, was formerly on the Chillagoe staff
under P. L. Goddard. He is now on the
job reconditioning the smelter and tactfully
urging old mining parties back to their
claims, for if the venture is to be any sort
of a success there must be enthusiastic sup-
pliers. The Lady Jane and Girofla at Mun-
gana were the props in the bad old days.
The Jane has sung her swan song appa-
rently, but efforts will be made to develop
thb Girofla. There is a whisper, however,
that the main shaft has gone out of plumb.
That would be serious for a deep mine from
which the best visible ore has already been
through the smelters. However, if the job
can be done Rutledge has as good a chance
as anyone. Further, his appointment has
put a bit more confidence into the northern
mining fraternity.
* * * *
* That the contact channel at Lucknow
(N.S.W.), along which many rich bonanzas
were unearthed, had petered out is disproved
by work done on the block to the North
by St. Aignan. The “joint” is well defined;
there is serpentine on the hanging wall
and hornblendic diorite on the foot, and
between them a brown rubble carrying some
gold. Calcite stringers are also showing.
Whether the fissure will contain more riches
remains to be proved, but it has distinct
possibilities. The joint trends easterly,
which explains why it was missed by the
bores.
* * * *
In S. Africa a Rand metallurgist named
Davidson claims to have discovered a gold-
treatment process which, according to the
Assistant Mining Commissioner, may super-
sede cyanide. The new process is a method
of chemical-electrolytic amalgamation by a
comparatively inexpensive plant, and with-
out preliminary concentration. It reads
like a process that was once installed at
great cost on the South Ivalgurli (W.A.) and
soon discarded.
*** ! *
London is again being asked to find capital
to re-open the Augusta at Laverton (W.A.).
Years ago, when worked by an English co.,
this .show produced over £IOO,OOO worth of
gold, and was one of the few outside Kal-
goorlie that had an authentic discovery of
. tclluride to its credit. It was lack of funds
coupled with sulphide ore not amenable to
ordinary treatment that brought the under-
taker in. Oil flotation is expected to raise
the property from the dead.
* j;-: * *
Recent discoveries of tin, gold, tantalite,
etc., in the far north of W.A. have caiised con-
cession-hunters to turn their attention that
way. The latest to become interested is a
Melbourne group who are after a coastal area
north of where Ivingsford Smith and party
came down, and which includes a stretch of
nnprospected mineralised copper and some
known copper shows.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder’s report for 1028 is about
due. The result of operations for 1027 was
a .profit of £23,003, compared with a loss
ŵ


w
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
w j t k \ and with
ŵ
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
! plants by-
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney,
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


MATCHLESS ARjDMA
\\
m
4
«/
1#
W
DRY GIN?
vtuio cart nco
't«RAI OSTiulB"
U
M|l6oU«wC ;_==p Jf
'At
Wm
?nr
of research abroad; working
and invefligating wherever diUilling
was done; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice ; accepting only the bell frOm all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
.... thus our cbemifl produced in
Cry flat Court not only Australia's
first, but the World’s finest dry g/h.
-s-o 1
price!
&err'y|
AN aroma apart. . . individual, enticing, aristocratic. The outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
c l ar i r y —an alliance which has won for it the title of "Australia’s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin.’*
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it's pure.
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure.
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs . * * because
it’s pure.
Crystal Court Dry Cin is obtainable at all Hotel Bars t
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores .
Many valuable recipes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our little
booklet, "Here's How.” Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin,
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR PURITY'S SAKE


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
m
m
as
THEGREYS
S\Z E O TWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
□RAP
LONDON
EYS
1® for <®dL CIGARETTES S® for 1/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
w Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing iJiles
Wunderlich “ Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
% and Roofs A
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“P.X.”: There was a time when Broken
Hill and the Westralian goldfields used to
have tail-yarn competitions about their camel
teams, and the bull who could carry 10001 b.
25 miles a day over the desert and go three
days without water won the prize. There
weren’t many that could come within cooee
of this, and big prices were paid for the
top-notchers—£4o was a common figure. But
the bad-tempered ugly brute has so many
indifferent qualities that nowadays he isn’t
used if a motor-truck can be pushed through
anyhow, and not many points that a camel
can reach are out of bounds to a truck. As
a result, hundreds of camels have been turned
loose, and at Broken Hill the other day a
despairing Afghan was offering what had
once been regarded as a dandy team of 26 for
£55, with odds and ends of outfit thrown
in. Nobody noticed any rush of buyers either.
SAVING HER SELF-RESPECT.
The Housewife ( severely): “An able-bodied man like you cadging for threepence!
You ought to be ashamed to do it.”
The Weary One ( hopefully ): “Yus, missus, it is a bit on the mean side; yer can
make it a bob.”
“Kooragai”: A few years ago, when the
boom in ’possum fur started in Queensland,
and mushroom townships sprang up, several
trappers made fortunes and some of them,
later, started ’possum farms. Even Binglii,
during the big slaughter, rolled in wealth.
One, with the help of his gin and two
boys, earned £lOOO in three months. Binghi
had an advantage over white trappers; he
lived on the carcases, once his staple food,
and was at home anywhere alongside a fire
and a waterhole. A dozen skins meant riches
to him, and when he made £lO a night he
was C-eesus.
* * * *
“Esau”: The dingoes have been among the
sheep, so the evening finds us round a log
fire dozing, smoking and yarning, awaiting
the hour before the dawn. It comes. Silently
we leave to take our places about 50 yards
apart until the line of men extends crescent-
shape for over half a mile. Behind us is the
spur down which the dogs will go to their
lairs. In front are
the Ne w England
sheep stations and the
devils who have been
tearing the kidneys
from writhing sheep.
We await the dawn
and the coming of the
gorged dingoes. Our
heavy oilskins and a
couple of fingers of
rum now and again
keep out the chill of
the early morning air.
A pale light irradiates
the east. Slowly it
grows stronger; clouds
turn from grey to red
and ora n g e—trees
stand out in sharp-
etched silhouette. Sud-
denly keen eyes detect
a slinking form, a shot
rings out and a red
dog falls head first,
shot through the brain.
A second prowler
swerves away at rac-
ing speed, a second
shot rings out and a
dingo turns a complete
somersault aiid lies
still. At a tangent a
third dingo races for
the spur, two shots
are heard and it lies
pawing at the ground,
shot through the back-
bone. A fourth dog
makes for a dry creek-
bed. Behind a log a .440 peeps out. a spit
of flame, a report, and the last dingo goes
west. Then we watch and wait, but no
more dogs come. At the sound of a shrill
“Coo-ee” we leave our posts, and as the rim
of the sun peeps above the horizon we
gather up the carcases of the slain.
3{l V
“Mellish Reef”: In the list of nomination:-
for the annual election of officers for the
Sydney branch of the Waterside Workers’
Federation they give not only the candi-
dates’ baptismal initials, but also the names
they answer to. For assistant-secretary
“Brummy,” “Patsey,” “Banjo ’ and “Jock’
are triers; for treasurer, “Red,’ “Jimmy
Hanlon” and “Scotty” are in. Vigilant offi-
cers “Barney,” “Sport,” “Digger W oods,
“Buck Finlay,” “Yabber,” “ Jewey” and “Bul-
ler,” among others, face the starter. For care-
takers, “Scotty,” “Bert,” “Paddy the Rain
and “Sugar” are in the running, and for the
branch committee of management “Solly,
“Darkie,” “Paddy,” “Bom,” “Chiller,” “Bar-
ney,” “Bones” and “Jock” have a chance.
A SQUARE DEAL.
FLASH JACK : “By cripe, I bin get-it good job scrubbin’ an’ washin’ longa head-station.”
MARY: “Gam! I like see you scrubbin’ an’ washin’!”
FLASH JACK: “Orright. I gib it you job. Me an’ you go pifty-pifty.”
“Wang”: “The funniest thing I ever
seen,” remarked Dinny, the old-time jockey,
“wus at an up-country race meetin'. Th
course was in a paddick of soft blue clay,
as sticky as glue. It had been rainin’ fer
a week, an’ th’ course wus in an awful
mess. Th’ first race or two wasn’t so bad;
but when it came to the ’urdles tli’ ground
had been properly churned up. There were
three ’orses. I was on th’ fav’rite, Sentinel.
Th’ other two was Timbuctoo an’ Plough-
boy. Ploughboy was th’ long shot, an’ was
ridden be his owner, an ole bloke with th
longest whiskers I’ve ever seen on a man.
Half-way round th’ course my mount faults
at a ’urdle an’ comes a cropper, an’ th
other two falls over him. None of us is
hurt, an’ we gets on board again. Plough-
boy’s girth had broken when he fell an’ th
saddle had come off; but ole whiskers hops
on bareback an’ gets goin’ before me an’ th
other chap. He has a lead of a dozen
lengths an’ we can’t catch him, an’ he beats
me home by about a length. But I m not
worryin’. I know I must get th’ race, ’count
of him weighin’ light, without his saddle.
Th’ ole chap gets on th’ scales, an’ strike
me pink if he doesn’t pull th’ weight to th
ounce. When he rolled in th’ mud he’d got
about five pounds of clay caked in liis, whis-
kers, just enough to make up fer th’ saddle.
Now yet know what it means to win by a
whisker.”
:j: $ : ! :
“A. Jack": “Yarri’s” cobber was a silly
chump to cut off his- toe because a saltbush-
snake bit him. Dr. Macgillivray, ornitholo-
gist and good all-round naturalist, reckons
Salty’s bite causes no more harm than a
little sickness even with no treatment. Let
me tell the outbacker that a St. John Ambul-
ance book can be bought from any book-
seller at a cost of no more than a shout; can
be parked in the hip pocket and still leave
room for a flask; that it is so simply written
and diagrammed that an infant can under-
stand it, and so indexed that one can turn up
in half a jiff the treatment for an insect
bite, a grass seed in the ear. or how to handle
a man with a broken back. Get one, and
save your own fingers and toes and your
cobbers’ as well.
* * * *
“Historicus” : I have a little light to throw
on the origin of the Maori race. As every
ethnologist knows, the Maoris are not indi-
genous to New Zealand, and the legends indi-
cate that they migrated from a mid-Pacific
island “Hawaiki” —the location of which
has never been certainly established, iviy
notion (and I’m in good company) is that
they are Israel’s unaccounted-for tribe. Their
type of countenance is pronouncedly Semitic:
there are words in their vocabulary that are
Hebraic in origin, and though they don t
“thirst after righteousness” to the extent
attributed by moral writers to the original
inhabitants of Palestine, they have a stricter
ethical code than most Polynesian races.
When the English brought the Bible to M L.
even the tohungas (priests) showed avid
appreciation of the Old Testament, but most
Maoris were indifferent to the teachings of
the second part of the book. They named
tlieir daughters Rachel, Rebecca, Leah or
Ruth, and periodically produced prophets.
Inter-married with Englishmen, their women
gave birth to sons and daughters who wore
a credit to both races, but —and this is very
significant—d Maori women have never con-
sidered it any particular honor to win a
European’s fancy. Miscegenous marriages
have been comparatively few, but in more
than one case they have been the foundation
of families whose record of public service
apd private integrity stands very high in
the Dominion. Many men of the second
generation have been knighted, and their
sons have gone through Harrow and Oxford
or Eton and Cambridge, and have been re-
ceived as equals by the English. Emphati-
cally, the Maori is not a “nigger.” I say
lie’s a .Tew, and no discredit; to the remark-
ably able race from which he sprang.
❖ # J{e *
“Kerys” : In Maoriland, where the trevalli
is fairly numerous, the small, crab-like crea-
ture mentioned by “Cudgewa” (B. 10/7/’29)
is invariably found in the mouth of the
fish when newly caught. The large, deep-
sea mussel the Maoriland trawlers bring
up, which is . much esteemed as an article of
diet, also harbors a similar parasite. In
the case of the mussel the presence of the
live crab is accepted by the opener as a guar-
antee .of health and safety, and any mussel
not equipped with the small crustacean is re-
jected as unfit for eating, the popular theory
being that as soon as a mussel is diseased
the crab forsakes a host no longer able
to supply his guest with healthy nourish-
ment. d
* ' * * *
“The Rumpus”: Westralian wandoo, in
my opinion, will show points to supplejack
or any other hardwood in Australia for
toughness. It is just one pale shade less
hard than my landlady, but that is not
a fair comparison. I saw an interesting bet
won in connection with this timber. A
big Swede declared he could drive a four-
inch nail into matured dry wandoo with one
blow, provided he was allowed to bore half
an inch in order to set the nail. The terms
were agreed to, and the Swede tapped the
nail gently into the hole. A mighty swing
with a 14-pound stonet-breaking hammer,
and the nail had sunk, head level with the
surface of the wandoo. But the whole mill
staff tried in vain to do the same trick.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE MEG ALONG ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I rode down to Mcgalong
Between the shining trees,
I understood the morning song
Of leaf and branch and breeze.
As I set out for Mcgalong
With anger, haste and hate,
My horse’s lioofbeats seemed the strong
Pursuing feet of Fate.
But that old road (hat winds along
Beneath the mountain-side
Still seems to hum the first love song
That bridegroom sang to bride.
I reined in, and rode quietly
By green and silver trees
To listen to the litany
Of leaf and branch and breeze.
In shame, before their gentle song,
Fled wrath and lust and pride,
And as I rode to Megalong
Cod’s mercy rode beside.
n.s.w.
A. Allan.


Revolution in Practice. Revelation in Quality
Tungstone’s Unanswerable Challenge to the Battery Makers of the World
Tungstone’s Guaranteed Improved Battery lights for the Purchasers* unfettered rights to buy
a Battery Uncontrolled by a Trade Monopoly. Tuirgstone’s Practical Improvements are based
on working principles free from Trade prejudices and Antiquated Manufacturing methods.
Tongstone—the Independent Battery of the British Empire
Tungstone’s Unequivocal Statement and Challenge
TUNGSTONE OF BRITISH ORIGIN, INVENTION, WORKMANSHIP. NOT CONTROLLED BY FOREIGN FINANCE OR MONOPOLY SALE AGREEMENTS.
WARNING Notice to Prospective Buyers of TUNGSTONE the INDEPENDENT
House Lighting Battery of the British Empire.
A NUMBER OF BATTERY MAKERS WHO STYLE THEMSELVES THE ACCUMULATOR MAKERS’ ASSOCIATION,
for many years have had a Sales Agreement with the two Electrical Contractors Associations for England and Scotland, whose
Members have Retail organisations in all parts of the United Kingdom and Ireland.
The Accumulator Makers’ Association Sales Agreement does not permit any Member of these two Selling
Organisations to recommend on his own initiative or voluntarily submit a quotation to supply an
Improved Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast Battery.
IF A PROSPECTIVE TUNGSTONE BUYER PERSISTS in having an improved Tungstone Battery, the Accumulator Makers’
Association Sales Agreement, permits any Member of these two selling Organisations, to supply a Tungstone High-Pressure
Machine Die-Cast Battery, but ONLY under these conditions can a Member of these Associations accept an order for Tungstone
Longest Plate Life of any Battery.
TUNGSTONE the Pioneer and Only Maker in the World to Die Cast under extremely High Pressure by Automatic
Machine Accumulator Plates for Car and House Lighting Storage Batteries. For over 30 years TuilgStOllC Designers
of Original Machines and Special Casting Moulds have daily practised High-Pressure Machine Die Casting at the
Market Harborough Works. ALL STORAGE BATTERY MAKERS OF THE WORLD BY HAND LADLE,
WITHOUT ANY PRESSURE, POUR A RED HOT METAL INTO A HEATED MOULD MADE OF
SOFT METAL, WHICH IS SUBJECT TO PERPETUAL DISTORTION.
Tungstone under Heat Control, by High Pressure, Injects a Continuous stream of
Low Temperature Metal into a Chilled Mould, which cannot be distorted.
Tungstone* slogan “The Plate is the Nerve Centre of any Battery’’
BY HAND POURING THE HEAT OF METAL AND MOULD CANNOT BE CONTROLLED. It is therefore impossible
to imagine two worse combinations, as a Low Heat, is the all essential factor to prevent burnt-face surface areas and dross.
In Hand Pouring, each Ladle of Metal is separately drawn from an independent source, and varies in weight and heat.
The Metal is slowly hand-poured, without pressure, at varying speeds, which decrease as the Ladles empty. Under these incorrect
chemical and Metallurgical working conditions, it is impossible to hand-pour a homogeneous Plate, or to evenly distribute the Metal
to a uniform thickness or weight, and a plate cannot be cast entirely free from the many internal metal weaknesses.
Tuno-stone Metal Container, always directly in contact with the .Casting Mould, Guarantees one Continuous stream of High Pressure
fed metal, which in a few seconds, casts a homogeneous Plate, of any size, thickness and weight, also forces a greater quantity of
metal into any given Plate area, an impossible proposition by Hand-pouring. Combination of High Pressure with Speed,
guarantees even distribution of the Metal to the extreme limit of the Mould, always casting a Plate without weak metal spots,
indiscernible blow holes, air pockets, invisible cracks and splits. Tungstone’s Specially Designed Mould Guarantees the
casting of symmetrical and deeper Lammels with solid sections not broken, split, distorted, or burnt-face surface areas.
TUNGSTONE Guarantees NO Lead Oxides (Dross) Cast in a TUNGSTONE Positive Plate.
No oxidization or subtile Chemical changes can take pUce in the Metal during the process of High-Pressure Die-Castmg,
because a low temperature Metal is used with a Chilled Mould NOT exposed to the Air. Makers o
Hand Cast Plates cannot guarantee NO DROSS, as during the process of Hand Pouring red hot Metal into a heated
Mould both are Continuously EXPOSED to the Air. All hand poured Positive Plates, as made by all other Makers
(only exception Tungstone) are cast with numerous Pockets of Lead Oxides (dross) that offer ready footholds for attack by the
Sulphuric Acid Solution, permanently reducing Plate strength, progressively lowering Storage Capacity, and certainly shortening the
Workino- Life of the Hand Poured Plate. No Tungstone Plate is water cooled or hand-beaten therefore Lammels not damaged.
Hand poured Plates must be partly Water Cooled in the mould, and must be hand pulled from the Mould in a pliable condition, and
in this partially h ated state must be straightened out by Hand Beating. A plastic Plate manipulated by Hand has a definite tendency
to Buckle in service. High Pressure Machine Die Casting is the only possible Method to Guarantee a plate physically balanced that
Minimizes Bending, Buckling and Distorting. Tungstone finished Plate after chilling is mechanically Ejected from the Mou .
No TUNGSTONE Plate is handled until it has Solidified and assumed its Permanent Shape.
Tungstone Guarantees OTHER* MAKER Highest Cell Voltage
Tnngstone’s end point on Discharge is 1.93. All other makers is 1.85 a point at which Sulphation is stimulated.
Tungstone guarantees low internal resistance and simultaneous charge and discharge from full surface of all Plates.
No other storage Battery in the World gives a Cell Voltage equal to the Tungstone.
Tungstone Guarantees that the Voltage will not rapidly drop at end of discharge.
Completely and Fully First Charged in Four Continuous Hours
fungstone the Only Battery in the World, that can he used tor Lighting, during First Charge. Saves all Overtime and Night Shifts
YEARS OF CHEMICAL RESEARCH HAVE DISCOVERED NEW SCIENTIFIC CHEMICAL FORMULAE AND PROCESSES PREVENTING
SULPHATION AND ELIMINATING FIRST CHARGING RISKS. By Special Extra Processes, all Plates are Fully Formed and given First Partial Charge
at Tungstone Works, without Cost to Purchaser. Can be Charged or Discharged, at exceptionally High Rates, without Shedding of Active Material.
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., SALISBURY SQUARE, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.4.
Telephone: CENTRAL 8156. Cables : “ DILUTUM, LONDON.” Telegrams: “ TYPIFY, FLEET, LONDON.
immediate delivery from Stocks can be given by:
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney. Tel. FL2084
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., 324-28 Wickham Street,
Fortitude Valley.
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Heame’s Buildings*
100 Dixon Street.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
tiatllields’ Mansanese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and \
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch l
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vie.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
r
■4
v*
m
R
Convenient
At " The Australia ” you are in the heart of
everything—time and travelling alike are saved
you.
This sketch from the promenade roof shows four
well-known Banking Houses, also the Tourist
Bureau offices and the clock tower of the G.P.O.
w (chime silent during night hours).
Stay at "The Australia” and you will ap-
preciate its notable convenience.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic
Address: ” Austraotel, Sydney.”
Capital Paid-up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY.
“Trallwm”: Allegiance to family naming
had a peculiar result in a country district
of Vic. It is closely settled, with the fourth
generation of native-born growing up.
Nearly every family has married into every
other, with less than a dozen surnames serv-
ing for the lot. The first farms were given
group-names like Dan’s, Pat’s, Jack’s,
Mick’s and Jim’s. Then family couplings
became necessary. To distinguish Mick the
son of Pat Murphy from Mick the son of
Mick Moriarty, these scions became Pat’s
Mick and Mick’s Mick. By the time
the third generation had mated we had
Mick’s Pat’s Bridget and Tom’s Pat’s Jim.
It was this inter-marrying and inter-naming
in scant-surnamed Wales that led to persons
being given the name of their holdings, and
my having an Uncle David Farmersarms,
the last being the name of his village inn.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The fact that his great-aunt
Tabitha showed the youthful “Historicus”
(B. 3/7/’29) a hitherto unknown manu-
script by Marco Polo, in which he described
a kangaroo, is of the greatest importance.
Earlier commentators have agreed that the
land Polo calls Lohac (also spelt Lochac,
Laach and Boeacli) was the Philippine Is-
lands, where there were elephants, gold,
cowries and kings. The document of “His-
toricus” obviously deals with a second voyage
never previously recorded. That the great
commercial traveller said nothing in his
“Travels” about this second voyage is proof
positive that he made it. It is obvious
that, after landing on the red cliffs (plainly
Darwin), and having placated the savages
by distributing a few free samples, Polo
penetrated to Tanami or Kalgoorlie, and
having discovered gold decided to say nothing
about it, so that he could return later as a
limited liability company and exploit his
find. In fact, quite possibly he did return,
only to find that Sir 'John Mandeville,
Baron Munchausen, Louis de Rougemont or
Doctor Dolittle had jumped his claim.
* * # *
“Pfella”: A new abo. dynasty was created
in the nor’-west of Groperlartd in the early
day of white settlement. Much black
labor was used by pioneering squatters,
but Binghi didn’t take too kindly to toil,
and one sheepman found himself up against
an antagonistic tribal king, who refused to
allow his subjects to exert themselves in
the squatter’s interests. With the backing
THE SIGNAL TO COME ON.
FIRST PORTER: “Bill give the Senior Porter the daddy of a ’iding!”
SECOND PORTER: “Did ’el”
FIRST PORTER: “Did, ’e! ’E knocked ’im all over the place for all
the world like ’e’d been labelled ‘fragile’!”
of a couple of his brother pioneers, Wool-
bales rode into the niggers’ camp, called
up a wongi and produced his; armory. After
a fierce harangue, directed chiefly at the king,
he exploded a few gun-barrels of powder and
made his announcement. Singling out a
buck who had cringed to him on former occa-
sions, he pushed the old king down on to Ins
buttocks with the stock of his muzzle-loader,
and called to the friendly nig. to step for-
ward. “You’re boss of all these blanky nig-
gers now,” he said. “Everyone must do as
you say or I’ll shoot ’em,” and he fired
three more shots as a warning. The crawler
took over the reins of government, and the
whole tribe worked for Woolbales like well,
niggers.
ONE FOR THE ASS.
Judge (to foreman of jury called into court ): “1 don’t want you to tell me how you
are divided, hut perhaps you might indicate if there is any hope of a verdict.”
FOREMAN: “Give us till the adjournment, y V Honor, and then if we’re like we are now
I’ll he obliged if you’ll send us in eleven dinners and a bundle of hay.”
“E.A.P.” : You can easily get mixed about
your dates in the bush. Rabbiting in the
back country of the Darling, my mate and
I, returning to the camp one night, found
old Peter King waiting. He had come over
to set his watch and inquire what day of
the month it was. His salute was: “I been
here darned near all day. I didn’t know you
chaps worked on Sundays.” Asa matter of
fact, it was a Friday, but it took a lot to
persuade Peter that we hadn’t slipped some
way.
* * * *
“Professor Potztausend”: I repudiate with
indignation the claim of “Thomas Pepper”
( R. 10/7/’29) that he and his associates
have the sole right
to the renomen-
clature of the Aus-
tralian fauna. I
have myself work-
ed out a system
which rejects the
foolish and mis-
guided efforts of
Linnaeus, Cuvier
and their predeces-
sors, who clung to
the dead Latin ton-
gue. I have adopt-
ed a combination
of the native lan-
guages, both in
their original
aspects and in their
later adaptations,
which should ap-
peal to every true
Australian like my-
self. I may digress
here to say that I
got the idea while
in the internment
camp at Liverpool
some dozen years
ago. The work is
monumental, so I
give only one
example—my iden-
tification of that
widely distributed
bird, the Abo. cor-
respondent. Plur-
rilia allasaim plen-
tirum is his label.
ẁ
“Pigcat” : A mob of porpoises came into
our bay (N.Q.) the other afternoon.
They did give our home fish a bit of hurry-
up ! They came leaping into the air, spin-
ning along the surface, and in a very ecstasy
of fear our fish didn’t know what to do. Some
brainless little jokers were badly attacked
with nerves. Though there wasn’t a porpoise
near ’em they couldn’t stay still. They mis-
trusted the water, they doubted the air, and
they couldn’t come up on dry land. Then
one fellow, a Long Tom, came surging to the
surface. He took a flying leap in space, ran
along the surface of the water with the tip
of his tail only touching, took another skip-
jack bound, and went leaping like a kan-
garoo, with an angry swirl a bare length
and a half behind him—that latter was the
porpoise. Long Tom, though, didn’t wait
for an introduction. He was fleeing like a
hare and going for the lick of his life. Almost
he thought he was safe, and his bounds were
shortening, when another porpoise rose right
in front of him. Who says fish haven’t any
brains? Long Tom gathered himself to-
gether, let out another link or two, and left
sizzling streaks of burning air behind him.
He would have beaten the porpoise, too, if he
hadn’t misjudged his direction. His last long
bound landed him 15ft. up the beach ! Long
Toms are good eating. I know. I’ve just
eaten one which escaped from a porpoise.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Yes, the Pacific Islander loves
music and would readily join the Salv-army
to be in the band. About 30 years ago a
kanaka name Joe Lally became saved
mostly on the merits of the music the red-
jerseys blew out of their instruments. At
Yeppoon (Q.). then a railwayless sleepy
little hollow, Joe was in sole command of
the Army, and each Sunday afternoon he
appeared in front of the three pubs and
dragged and pushed an old concertina in and
out without any pretence of harmony, at
the same time beefing out some sort of unin-
telligible song. He backslid only once to my
knowledge, and the lapse lasted less than an
hour. My brother and I, practising on an
old blunderbus somehow managed to punch a
ragged hole through Joe’s tent. Joe was
having a morning rest at the time, and
during the period of blasphemy that fol-
lowed the world rocked unsteadily in space.
* * * *
“G.S.L.”: Looking through some old Bul-
letins, I came across Oscar Walters’s poem
“The Cobber You’d Forgotten, and the Quid
You’d Never Missed” (B. 29/8/’2B). It
reminded me that in 1886, on the Barkly
Tableland (N.T.), I lent a half-sovereign
to Harry Taylor, a stockman working on a
stationed owned by Brodie and De Salis. Ten
years later, when two camel teams passed
each other near Raeside Soak, Coolgardie
(W.A.), the dusty-bearded rider of one
camel pulled up by mine, felt in his waist-
coat pocket, pulled out a bit of rag, un-
wrapped it, took out a half-sovereign, handed
it to me, and said, “Thanks, George.”
“What’s this for?” I inquired. “I’m Harry
Taylor,” was the reply, “and that’s the 10
bob you lent me on the Tableland 10 years
ago. You left before I had a chance to
repay you, and I’ve carried it ever since.”
That half-sovereign has been carried on the
end of my watch-chain ever since.
“Ida D.”: Apropos “Fourwalls” par. (B.
3/7/’29) on raising fish in “backyard
lagoons,” this is an every-day occurrence in
Java. Almost every coffee and rubber estate
has a large cement tank filled with twice-
filtered water from the ever-flowing canal to
serve their mills, and fish for the table are
reared in these; they are bought young from
recognised vendors, and placed in the tank
to grow and fatten. Being hand-fed for the
most part, cleanliness is assured. Cacap (a
cod) is the most general and can be made a
dish fit for the gods. The Chinese rear a
species of gold-fish in the same manner.
#.*■*■*
“FY7”: The Australian golfer is finding
the ball-stealing crow an expensive nuisance,
and complaints have been made from nearly
every country golf club in Australia of Ins
depredations. Curious as he is cunning, the
sooty fowl doesn’t seem able to resist any-
thing new, but the fad seldom lasts with
him, and the probability is that in a year
or two he will turn his
attention to some
other form of collect-
ing. There is prece-
dent in a couple of
long-ago happenings at
Northampton Downs,
on the Barcoo (Q.). A
great many fowls were
kept, and the owner
found that though
close watching at lay-
ing hours saved most
of the eggs it was im-
possible to keep the
“nest egg” then con-
sidered essential by
poultry - fanciers. A
quantity of artificial
eggs of plaster of
Paris were obtained,
and these vanished
even faster than the
real thing. Just as
stocks were giving out,
lawn tennis —this was
early in the ’eighties—
was introduced, and
the crows at once
turned their attention
to the new attraction.
Before the craze petered out, they got away
with dozens of the uncovered rubber balls
used, and for years afterwards people poking
about paddocks miles away from the home-
stead would come upon fragments of rubber
discarded by disillusioned squawkers.
s|t >i: *
“C. Coral” : A good many finds of amber-
gris have been made up Thursday Island
way, but none of them has brought in much
of a harvest. One lump was picked up
some little while back, bearing all the charac-
teristics mentioned by the ambergris experts,
down to the smell. The parcel was carefully
stowed away and a sample sent to Sydney
for analysis while the finder dreamed of
pleasure-cruises and so on. His dreams
came to earth with a thud when he received the
analyst’s verdict —“probably pig fat thrown
over from some ship.” Some years ago a
ship laden with tallow foundered north of
EXPLAINED.
“Waiter, there’s a hair on this chop!”
“Yes, mum. These ’ere shearers ain’t ’arf
the tradesmen they used to be!”
Thursday Island. A lump of the resultant
flotsam was picked up, and after the local
experts had pronounced it ambergris, was
placed in the bank strongroom. There was
another disappointed millionaire that time.
This did not prevent that fine old joker,
Pilot Bruce, from taking a sample to Sydney,
though, and persuading some city investors
that there were excellent prospects in the
stuff, especially as a company was being
developed to produce it by artificial growth.
THE DECIDING FACTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amelia hasn’t got the ways
That her young sister’s got.
It seems to me, Lor’ spare me days,
She doesn’t care a jot
About the rags she has to wear
Or what she does an’ says—
An’ yet I dunno as I care
About her sister’s ways.
Amelia’s rough an’ ugly, too,
Cross-eyed an’ rather fat;
Not like her charmin’ sister Loo
She ain’t —but what of that?
For she has such a lovely touch
With hands as soft as silk,
Her ways and looks don’t matter much
When once you’ve watched her milk.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced woolclasser (Q.)» certificates and
diploma in wool, first class references, wants sheds
to start. late October.—l33l3.
Comp, certif. governess, middle-aged, excellent
testimonials, C. of E., wishes position S.Q. or N.S.W.
Comfortable home desired.—l3s6.
Elderly man, late teacher N.S.W. Education Dept.
(Ill), willing coach all exams., book-keeping, etc.,
return for good home and small salary.—l 344.
Married man (28), Sydney, returned soldier, wants
position. Four years’ experience blast and solid
injection Diesel engines. Town or country.—l2BB.
Han (26), Vic., Public School education, long
experience with sheep, cars and station plant,
woolclasser, wants job ; anything, anywhere. Good
refs.—l2B3.
Lady, Sydney, well recommended, will take charge
of house during temporary absence or illness of
mother. Town or country.—l27B.
Tasmanian man (28) wants position on an orchard
in Vic., fully experienced and capable of managing.
Good refs. —1280.
Man (30), accountant and secretary, intending to
visit U.S.A., invites correspondence with those having
knowledge of possible employment.—l3o6.
Man (37), English, interested fruit, had experience
packing sheds, N.S.W., wants steady job, con-
scientious worker ; clerical ability. Refs. —1301.
Refined woman, N.S.W. (32), wants position as
lady-help or governess. Go anywhere. Four years
last position. Domesticated and capable with
children. Good refs.—l 299.
Sydney typist seeks work at home. Country clients
promptly attended to. City manuscripts called for
and delivered. Moderate charges.—-1325.
Experienced primary teacher (N.S.W.) would assist
with children or give services as chaperon or com-
panion in return for passage to England.—l 263.
N.Z. Bulletin reader would like to hear from
hunters in N.T. who could supply buffalo horns
suitable for mounting.—l2s9.
Lady, Sydney, sound business proposition, requires
financing ; 10 per cent, interest paid.—l26B.
Journalist (25), University man, experience bush,
sailing, rowing, like to join three or four young
men willing to pool resources and run a small yacht.
—1274.
Lady (23), going holidays end of August, would
like to meet another young lady, with car, for same
purpose. Expenses shared,—l269.
For N.S.W. country home, nurse to take charge
infant, child (2) and two boys (6 and 8), last two
attending school. Position ready in few months.
Refs, necessary.—l 379.
Man (23), qualified accountant, seeks appointment
as secretary to gentleman going abroad. Good cor-
respondent, has published articles on commercial
subjects. Convincing speaker. Refs. —1270.
To hear from readers interested in psychology,
self-improvement, literature.—l3sl.
To hear from persons desirous of selling books on
pen drawing, particularly “Pen Drawing,” by Joseph
Pennell.—l3s2.
To buy copy of Bruce Bairnsfather’s “Fragments
from France,” in good condition. Quote price.—l 276.
To buy copies of “Little Trawler,” “Riding
Master” and “Macquarie’s Mate.” —1343.
To buy print or photo of painting “The Billabong,”
by J. W. Johnston, in NiS.W. Art Gallery ; also of
Douglas Fry’s picture depicting jaekeroo being sent
to fetch the horses.—l3o7.
To buy “Art in Australia” and early Australian
works. —1376.
To buy second-hand copy of “In Mernoriam,
Sumner Locke,” published by Sydney J. Endacott,
Melbourne. —1308.
Words and music of song popular about 30 years
ago,. “To Err is Human; to Forgive Divine.”—l329.
Words of recitations “Not Understood,” “His
First Long Trousers” and “The Old Mare’s Foal.”
—1305.
Words of recitation, “Shamus O’Brien.” —1358.
Copies of humorous recitations. (To A. L. Head,
Swanfels, Yangan, Q’land.)
Young lady, N.S.W., would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers 18 to 26, either sex, anywhere.
—1323.
Information Sought.
Position and prospects of New Guinea
Gold Development Co.? —1316.
Certain development worn is said to be in
progress. It was recently announced that
the leases were under offer in London, and
the co. seems to be waiting on the result of
that deal. The Is. shares, issued 2d. appli-
cation, '2d. allotment, balance in penny calls
at intervals of not less than a month, have
been changing hands in Sydney at about a
shilling. Officials say calls are not likely to
be made for the present, at least. The stock
is listed on the Sydney Exchange; the sec.
is J. Hilton, 92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
Under what provision of the Common-
weath Defence Acts may a youth, under
medical certificate, he exempted from mill-'
tary training? —lo67.
Section 138 (1). If a person liable
for training is absent therefrom on account
of sickness for a period of less than 14
days, a certificate from his private medical
attendant usually is required in support of
an application for leave. of absence, but if
the absence is for more than 14 days a
certificate from a medical authority
approved by the military authorities may
be demanded.
Is prohate charged in N. 8. Wales and
what amount on an estate of less than £1000?
—1364.
If testator was domiciled in N. S. Wales,
then no duty where estate is under £1000;
but if at date of death he was domiciled out-
side the State, then if the final balance of
the estate does not exceed £lOOO, duty is
payable at the rate of 2 per cent.
(1) Any vacancies in the W.A. police
force for men outside that Mate* (2) Edu-
cational and physical qualifications, aye
limits, wages? —lo23.
(1) No. (2) Good education; not loss than
sft. Din. in height, 36.2 in. chest measure-
ment, and under 27 yearS. Probationary
constables, 11s. 6d. per day; on acceptance,
14s. 6d. All constables are paid in addi-
tion 2s. 6d. per day lodging allowance.
(1) How could I join the Mercantile
Marine with a view to becoming an officer?
(2) Is a premium payable, and how much?
(3) Age limit, if any? (4) Qualifications?
—1231.
(1) A candidate for a second-mate’s cer-
tificate must produce evidence of four years’
sea service as apprentice, cadet, midshipman,
boy, seaman (ordinary or A. 8.), boatswain
or carpenter; and service in other capacities
at sea has been accepted in some instances.
(2) Some lines accept apprentices at prem-
iums of £5O to £lOO who are not taught the
science of navigation; midshipmen on regu-
lar seagoing training-ships pay anything up
to £2OO p.a. (3) None; but a candidate
for a second-mate’s certificate must be at
least 18. (4) Good eyesight, good health,
and a fair education. The examinations in-
volve a thorough knowledge of trigonometry
(plane and spherical). The lad who has no
money to waste is ddvised to go as boy or
0.5.; before his four years are over he win
probably be rateu as A. 8., and during that
time he should save enough to take a
thorough course of navigation and nautical
astronomy at an academy.
There is an extensive kaolin deposit on
my property. Can this be put to any use
other than the making of pottery? Is there
any text-book on kaolin?— lo46.
It is very largely used as a filler in such
trades as that of paper-making. A minor
use is in tlie preparation of ultramarine.
In Australia it would be very difficult to
sell large quantities of kaolin to any other
interests than potteries. The material isn’t
worth much above the cost of production
under Australian conditions. The only text-
books we know of treat the matter from the
(point of view of the potter. Sydney
Public Library catalogues the most impor-
tant works.
How can I remove inked or painted letters
from leather?— l2o9.
Rub with a flannel dipped in a solution of
oxalic acid in hot water. If the letters are
lightly marked, a weak solution of 1 tea-
spoon of acid to a cup of water will do,
but its strength can be increased as required.
(1) How can. / waterproof a heavy un-
bleached calico tent-fly? (2) Is it neces-
sary to get the bleaching out of calico before
waterproofing? (3) If the waterproofing
stuff is sticky, how can I remove the sticki-
ness? (4) How is arsenical soap for curing
skins made? —1243.
(1) A good waterproof dressing is on the
market, clear or black, at about 16s. a
gallon ; failing that, paint on several coats
of boiled linseed oil. (2) No. (3) Dry
well, and wipe over with a cloth dipped in
methylated spirits. (4) Shred 21b. any
common laundry soap into a tin, cover with
water, and heat till it forms a jelly. Stir
in |lb. arsenic, and set aside to cool. Dab
on with a brush. Or take 101 b. dripping or
similar fat, warm over a fire, stir in lib.
caustic soda and add lib. arsenic. When
cool- cut into pieces. It’s dagnerous stuff,
so keep it off your hands.
(1) To whom should I apply for a radio
trader’s license and what is the fee? (2)
Does this license suffice to secure the regular
trade discount on wireless sets and parts? —
1230.
(1) Traders’ licenses are no longer issued,
the listeners’ license being all that is
required for all purposes other than trans-
mitting. The cost of this is 245. per annum
and it is obtainable from any post office.
(2) No. Every broadcast listener being in
possession of this type of license, wholesale
firms require proof that the applicant is a
wireless trader.
(1) Can. I sell a side-car that has been
left in my garage by a man unknown to me
and which has not been claimed for the last
two months? (2) Am I liable to be prose-
cuted if L sell the side-car?, —ll4o.
(1) Insert an advertisement in one of
the city dailies and also any local news-
paper, calling on the owner to remove the
side-car within what reasonable period you
may fix, and stating that if not removed
within such period it will be sold to cover
garaging rental and incidental costs. (2)
Not if you take the precautions indicated.
What can I do for chilblav's? —lll3.
Bathe the feet in very hot water to which
has been added a lump of alum. Keep the
water hot by adding more from time to time.
Bathe the feet from 10 to 15 minutes, then
dry thoroughly and rub the following mixture
on the chilblains: 1 teacup each of vinegar,
turpentine and methylated spirits and 1 egg.
Bottle and shake well before using.
(1) How can I stain and polish a piece of
silky oak? (2) What is French polish, and
how is it made and applied? —loBB.
Stain the wood with a solution of Condy’s
crystals in hot water, rubbed in with a rag;
more or less water being used according to
the depth of color desired. Then repeatedly
polish with a thin paste made by dissolving
shredded beeswax in turpentine. Apply with
woollen rag, and polish with silk. (2)
For French polishing the wood should be
stained, and any open parts filled with wet
plaster of Paris, the surplus plaster being
rubbed off while still wet. The wood is then
oiled with linseed oil, and thoroughly wiped
off. It is then ready for the polish, which is
prepared from brown shellac dissolved in
methylated spirits. The pad is made of a ball
of cotton wool, enclosed in several thick-
nesses of stout linen so that the worn outer
linen may be removed as the work proceeds.
The pad is dipped in the polish, and applied
to the wood with gradually increasing pres-
sure. As the shellac hardens it may be sand-
papered and polished repeatedly until a line
finish is secured, a few drops of oil being
applied between rubbings.
(1) What rate of commission is an auc-
tioneer in, N.B.W. allowed to charge on sales
of land and property by auction? (2) By
private contract? (3) On sales of furniture
or merchandise? —1055.
(1) and (2) The scale of commission and
charges are the same on laud or land and
buildings if sold by auction or private con-
tract. Commission varies with the amount
of purchase money and locality. Suggest
you obtain the comprehensive scale issued by
the Real Estate Institute of N.S.W,, 30a
Martin-place, Sydney. (3) Ten per cent, if
sold by auction, but this rate also varies. If
furniture is sold with property it is usual
to charge 5 per cent, on the furniture; if the
furniture is sold privately, from 71 to 10 per
cent.
(1) How can I qualify as a meat inspector
in NJ3.W.? (2) Apart from Federal and
State Governments, who are meat inspectors
employed by? (3) Usual salary? (4) Age
limits? (5) Are meat inspectors employed
permanently or seasonally? —993.
(1) It is necessary to attend a course of
lectures at the Sydney or Newcastle Techni-
cal College, and pass an examination held
in December of each year. A correspondence
course conducted by the Sydney Technical
College is open to country residents. (2)
By corporate bodies, such as the Metro-
politan Meat Industry Board and the
Newcastle District Abattoir Board. (3)
Commencing wage £5 13s. 6d. per week,
rising by annual increments to about £7 6s.
per week. (4) None; but young men are
usually preferred. (5) Generally, perma-
nent in the State services and temporary
in the Commonwealth services.
My grandfather's Family Bible was, on his
death and at his request, given to a grand-
daughter, who has since married. The book
contains the family genealogy, which is of
interest and some value to male successors.
Can my father gain possession of this book?
—1172.
Since “inheritance,” in the old English
sense, has no place in the laws of Aus-
tralasia, it is not clear what claim you
could lay to the Bible. Your grandfather
appears to have acted strictly within his
rights in making the bequest.
Can dead sticks on a golf fairway be
classed as “loose impediment," and removed
within a club’s length without incurring
a penalty provided the ball is not moved in
removing the obstacle? (2) Would the
same thing apply off the fairway? (3) Off
the fairway, can a player bend or break any
part of a tree to allow him to take his stance
or to enable him to make his swing?-— llOl.
(1) Yes. (2) There are no fairways on
a golf course so far as the rules are con-
cerned, whether they are clearly defined or
not. Rough is not hazard, but if the sticks
are lying in a bunker or other hazard they
cannot be moved. (3) A player may bend
or break any part of a tree in taking his
stance, but he cannot stamp about in so
. doing nor break more of the tree than is
necessary to take up his natural position
(Rule 15). No part of the tree can be
broken to permit of swinging the club, though
it may be broken in the swing. Trial swings
to break the tree cannot be taken.
(1) On what conditions are subdividers
of land allowed to make blind roads? (2)
What is the N.S.W. statute definition of a
blind road? —923.
• (1) The N.S.W. Local Government Act
provides that a road other than a pathway
shall not be opened as a blind road unless
there is a pathway to give access from the
blind end into a main, secondary or resi-
dential road; or unless such road gives
access at its blind end to a railway station,
wharf, public reserve, river bank, lake, sea
beach or the shore of any tidal water; or
except where, in view of exceptional cir-
cumstances, the council approves. (2) Any
road which does not give access at both ends
to either a main, secondary or residential
road is deemed to be a blind road.
What is the cheapest route to take from
Sydney to Buenos Ayres, and fare? —1073.
Sydney to New Zealand (3rd class).
£6 10s.; New Zealand to Panama (3rd
class), £25; Panama to Valparaiso (2nd
class), approx. £2B 155.; Valparaiso to
Buenos Ayres (2nd class, rail), approx.
£l3 17s. 2d. Total 'cost, approx. £74 2s. 2d.
(1) How can. I put a rolled edge on con-
crete paths? (2) How can I color con-
crete blue-slate? (3) Where can I get
directions for putting down a concrete path?
—1293.
(1) Use a scraper template or a piece of
concave wooden moulding formed to the
desired curve. (2) U4e 61b. manganese
dioxide and 21b. ultramarine blue to every
paper bag of cement. These should be
thoroughly mixed with the cement in a dry
state before mixing with sand and water.
(3) The Aust. Cement Manufacturers’
Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney.
Who invented the cream-separator, and
when?. —1240.
It was invented by a German engineer,
Wilhelm le Feldt in 1872, and improved
subsequently by the Swedish engineer De
Laval and others. It was not until 1886
that Dr. de Laval devised and manufactured
hand-separators applicable to farm use.
(1) What is the world's running record
for 100 yards? (2) Was it made on cinders
or turf track? (3) Did any runner, amateur
or professional, ever do 100 yards in
9 1-s sec., under approved record-making con-
ditions? (4) World's record (100 yards)
for- women? (5) Who teas responsible and
when and where teas an Australian women’s
100 yards created? —1328.
(1) Amateur, 9Jsec.; professional. 9 3-S
sec (2) Cinders in each case. (3) No.
(4) 11 1-10 sec; R. Grosse, Toronto,
Canada. (5) Bessie Grandmange, 11 2-ssec.
at Mudgee (N.S.W.), July 22, 1916.
Does Anybody Know?
How to prevent cats from damaging
lawns and gardens?—1260.
Brief Answers.
H.l’.: Communicate with the Registrar
General’s Department, Sydney. The prescribed fee
for search, if (as is likely) the land is under the
provisions of the Real Property Act, commonly
known as Torrens Title, is ss. for each allotment....
D.W.: Write Aus. Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14
Spring-street, 5ydney....G.8.0.: Hillside (“warra-
wohg”), steep hills (“burraburroo”), big hill (“by-
wong,” “uralla”), pine-tree (“booran,” “chumbull,”
“gidtlia,” “gurra”), native pine-tree (“bindar-
regah”), camping-ground (“boombil”), camping-
place (“kywung”), home (“langi”), creek of■ per-
manent water (“adjinbilly”) ... .E.P.P.: “Eugene”
(Hillcastle, Ltd., 345 Kent-street, Sydney), “Nestle”
(Steidle and Lux, 206 Collins-street, Melbourne)
and “Realistic” (Win. Mackinder, 333 George-street,
Sydney) G.R.P.: Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .J.F.F.: As Angora rabbits may not be
imported into N.S.W. we cannot supply the infor-
mation.... Jockey Boy: (1) There is not much
demand for riders on the principal Sydney race-
courses: (2) Apply to licensed trainers. (3) For
special gallops a fee is paid if a particular
rider is required. Jockeys schooling horses over
hurdle and steeplechase fences get about £1 per
ride. There is no fixed riding or schooling fee....
R.L.T.: (1) Don’t know of any way in which foreign
stamps can be obtained other than by purchasing
or exchange. (2) Most valuable Australian stamp is
the West Australia 4d. blue, 1854, with the centre
inverted. (3) World’s most valuable stamp, British
Guiana, 1856, 1 cent, recently sold for over £7OOO.
(4) Small amounts can be remitted by means of
international reply coupons, which are obtainable
at all P.0.’5... .W.M.A.: Suggest you get a good
quality greenheart rod, with two tops, ' 10ft. 6in.
long, cork grip (525. 6d.) ; good quality casting
reel (from 305.) ; a No. 9 gut line, and traces and
hooks to suit. Any fishing tackle merchant can
supply... .J.J.: The rainfall at Moree from October
I, 1928, to June 30, 1929, was as follows: October
86 points, November 62, December 45, January 43,
February 437, March 163, April 515, May 35, June
32... .M.H.: A search through the Sydney directories
from 1875-1880 inclusive does not reveal the existence
of a John Dolby in Sydney during that period....
T.N.: Sodium thiocyanate can be obtained from any
chemist. It has no other trade name... .D.C.E.:
Impossible to determine value without inspection.
Get in touch with Lyster Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street,
Sydney... .Geo. F.: If you mean solvent, yes; if
you mean can it be depended on to make profits
equal to the best, no. .. .E.H.T.: Find out first
whether they both quote nearest birthday; some
insurance offices quote next birthday. That may
make quite a lot of difference... .T.W.E.: An adver-
tisement should produce results. Most newspaper
offices will sell prints of photographs that have been
reproduced in their columns. .. .T.A.: Nothing known
to withstand direct damp and remain flexible. For
indirect damp, paint the surfaces lightly with secco-
tine and press together. It is most important to
use the smallest possible quantity and to spread
thinly and evenly.. ..C.H.D.: (1) and (2) Yes. (3)
Barbom’s cable laid thread 545 or Kerr’s 9c thread
40. (4) Practically any material would do ; suggest
velour or wool gabardine. .. .V.H.: C. C. Knight’s
“Commercial Art Practice” (195.) or V. L. Danver’s
“Training in Commercial Art” (215.), Angus and
Robertson, Sydney.... H.R.: Armidale, Bathurst,
Goulburn, Grafton and Newcastle were gazetted cities
on March 20, 1885. Broken Hill was gazetted a
city on July 17, 1907 R.IC.: (1) The London
County Council holds triennial elections. (2) In
Vic. one-third of the councillors retire each year.
In Q’land a certain number retire each year. (3)
So far as we are aware no attempt has been made
.n N.S.W'. to alter the triennial elections under the
Local Government Act, or, in New Zealand, to vary
the system of biennial elections... .L.W.8.: It is
the practice of the Conservatorium to provide a
piano in each studio. The original pianos in use
were British; now' Australian are also used
J. : H. W. Fowler’s “Modern English Usage”
(10.;.) and H. W. and F. G. Fowler’s “The King’s
English” (Bs.) ; R. D. Blackman’s “Composition and
Style” (4s. 6d.), H. Read’s “English Prose Style”
(125.), V. Lee’s “The Handling of Words” (Bs. 6d.),
J. Bygott and A. J. L. Jones’s “The King’s English
and How to White It” (4s. 6d.), and R. F. Brewer’s
“Art of Versification” (55.) H.J.: Write Registrar-
General, Dublin, Irish Free State. Cost will be ss.
Id. Money can be sent by international money
order, obtainable at most post offices M.A.V.:
Before writing to Germany regarding the portraits, get
the opinion of Lyster Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street, Sydney.
G.G. (Malvern): It’s a new venture, and all
such are speculative; not more than one in four
gets through. .. .E.A.P.: Centennial Park, Sydney, has
an area of 552 acres F.11.D.: The practice of
transposing certain vowel sounds, notably “i” for
“a”. Professor Bryce, in Sydney in 1910, called it
“a modification of the Cockney accent” A.J.8.:
See reply to 1295 A.G.D.: (1) No records are
kept of importation of pigs from Queensland to
Vic. For year ending June 30, 1927, 3516 pigs
w'ere imported from N.S.W. and for year ending
June 30, 1928, imports were 1841. (2) Pigs in
Victoria at March 31, 1928, numbered 212,785....
R.K.: White Australian Broadcasting Co., Ltd., Film
House, 251 a Pitt-street, Sydney... .F.G.A.: The steel
works are owned by the same co. as the mine at
Broken Hill, and the co. does not publish separate
accounts. No div. was paid in 1923 or 1924; but
in other years divs. have ranged from 3f to 15 p.c.
. ...A.S.: Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-street;
Cleveland Bottle Exchange, 381 Cleveland-street,
Redfern; City Bottle Yard, 699 Bourke-street—all
Sydney C.H.: Old-age or invalid pensioners own-
ing property are not exempt from N.S.W. municipal
rates, nor are any deductions allowed... .E.N.: Apply
to any overseas shipping co., but chances of working
passage are poor. ... J.M.: Commonwealth Invalid
and Old Age Pensions Act provides that where a
pensioner has property, i.e., money in bank, etc.,
the pension shall be subject to a deduction of £1
for every complete £lO by w'hich the net capital
value of the property exceeds £50... .A.J.T.: (1)
Three, two husband’s and one of her own. (2) No,
the lady leaves her own card only. (3) Cassells',
“Book of Etiquette” ; or “Manners and Rules of Good
Society”.... C.L.C.: Unless you have taken steps to
revive it from time to time, you cannot now recover;
consult the C.P.S. at the court where the judgment
was obtained... .D.M.C.: If your tenancy was a
weekly one and you broke into a week, as stated,
you must pay rent for the whole of that week —it is
not divisible. .. .Jass: This is, apparently, two dis-
tinct but simultaneous transactions, a sale of land
and a sale of effects. With regard to the latter,
you can sije for the balance due on them provided
you can establish the oral agreement.... Egan: No,
all goes to the son... .P.E.8.: “Food and Health,”
A. B. Callow (Oxford Press), 3s. 6d. Can’t find
it anywhere in stock ; but Sydney booksellers would
order from London.... Sapper: Apply Curator, Aus-
tralian War Memorial Museum, Exhibition Buildings,
Chalmers-street, Sydney... .A.H.M.: Still a number
of assessments to be issued ; you will receive yours
in due course. .. .T.A.M.: A very good lot indeed;
whether the return is right depends on how they
were bought. No. 1 is not. a money-spinner; No.
4 and No. 13 doubtful; and have to take too much
on trust re 11 and 12 to offer an opinion....
(Many others mailed.)


T^'j^J^ * V '.*''
tfitiAf'- •
f 'i">
: ✓
&.f£
z 1
‘•>/'r
CPjtMA’'*■•>}■' •■■'&'-ii r .1 7*sV»w-•:r , :-*V • <■■ •'"• -vkS
fWOkiAi* ‘'K/w'''- 7* V * r . ; . - V;.. ■■'■g/Jn
r#*3rEJ*s.v_ r.* •* iV '\J&2fV.\ 4 Y </.;<•«
x.
tr
£v
AAl 1
JW
<f yi+fii. h*
4 A 1' ■'T''
A. v V- .. • JA: *->> •
:.»‘r ■» a-< *, *. -i'V *\ *
*«l -■
V..'
as
BEK
X.v
rsfj
Wjj
-i v>£ ' : £M
3S5®»-W:Staß?4A»:'Vi7
OT
x;
£5l
maw
, ***y-*-*
. A'.' ■ .Jip^g^arf
i'igiA'^ia
*VVv*
gSg£<3s
mm
IMMM&i
■*Sfi
SO>
£''c : ‘£y\:.**r.
-riva
• ,■«£#-;
* */? *i»r.
plpll
-,r -
St*sS
=;s&
*v-
<t>,:
A, > '
r&ftv-:
■;}.*»;.
kiVsX
3?j***.
.4 ':r.>\Vi
*%\ J
rjn *£**«; > <
?.*3i
\.
# *Sf;
>: •'
c
* ;.
S 5
C
' A
Vci
; »*J. J
£:.'■-W
r* <■*.' j'Jt V \
J>w:
s
/sZ V
□
*V.v
R
wi.-r;-
K-: :
Amj-Zt
<T
V> f i..-
fe:;v
»is
iM.U& im&Ai'-*
|hV*-*>«?v. »)•(
KjsK-?*^
r-sSii
z&M-M--'
m
\ A
7/
Taylor:
SERVICE
a€
'"1
HT O'- DA Y guided by a wide
* knowledge of International methods,
Australian workmen are, at Holden’s,
building bodies under similar conditions
and with equipment equal to any in the
world.
Britain, America, Europe, every body-
building country in the world has been
drawn upon for this knowledge.
The Result a World Quality
body combining the best ideas of all
countries, specially adapted to Australian
conditions.
Make a comparison of cars in
any price field. Be critical
and you will select a car with
a Holden Body.
Every Australian body is not a Holden
Body, but a Holden Body is Australia's
achievement of Woild Quality.
HOLDEN S
MOTOR, BODYBUILDERS
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYD N E Ym'n D° BRISBANE


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Apart from the better
QUALITY, better VALUE,
better SERVICE which distin-
guish all goods from PEAPES,
men appreciate the facility of
buying there—as they can
obtain all their needs, from
tobacco to clothes, from shoes to
travel requisites, under the one
roof.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
- 22.
LOOKING AHEAD
Just looking ahead is easy.
There is always inspiration in contemplation of the future,
for the least imaginative can dream.
It is the planning and the doing that demand sincerity
of purpose and practical application.
Do your planning with a Savings Account—make your
idle money work and earn for you, not only the benefit of
money saved, but the profit of interest earned.
A Commonwealth Savings Account will do that.
fainonwealtb savmos lank of Australia
{.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
We Unload Stock
promptly on arrival, day or night, handle them
carefully, class them skilfully, value them accurately
and sell them at top market figures.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN,
LTD.
Homebush Yards,
Sydney,
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
Truck sheep, lambs, cattle, calves, pigs, to
Wirlchcombe, Carson.
Offices: Winchcombe House, Bridge Street, Sydney;
and 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
[?] PARK & CASTLEREAGH. [?] SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦
CONSERVING THE MANURE.
“Wattle”: It is the practice in Australian
wheat-farming to use phosphoric manures
only, the rotation being bare fallow—wheat.
This has given good results, but if followed
long enough will deplete the soil of organic
matter, potash and nitrogen. The loss of
minerals could be made good by artificial
manures, but they will not replace the or-
ganic matter so necessary to good mechanical
condition. Also nitrogenous manures are
costly to apply.
The best way to remedy these losses is by
the conservation of your farmyard manure.
On most farms this manure is left to rot
or dry in the stable, thus wasting the nitro-
gen, which is given off as ammonia.
The chief things against the use of farm-
yard manure are:—
1— It involves considerable labor in its distribution.
2 It is usually not present in large quantities.
3 ’lt does not suit a wheat crop as it tends to
blight the wheat, though if another crop is grown
on the land first, the wheat benefits by the applica-
tion.
But with the depletion of organic matter
in the soil, farmyard manure in conjunction
with rotation will be of much greater im-
portance than it now is.
The bulk of the potash and nitrogen is
present in the urine, and almost all the
phosphorus is in the solid excreta. The fol-
lowing are the yields of average animals: —
Manure,
Nitrogen. Phosphorus. Potash. Tons.
Bullock . . 156-1701 b. 22-261 b. 87-1101 b. 6-12
Horse . . 110-1251 b. 40-481 b. 21-431 b. 4-10
Sheep .. 121 b! 51b. 151 b. J-J
Pigs . . 121 b. 51b. No data. 1
Horse and sheep manures are very heating,
causing some crops to blight. They are
more suitable to heavy soils than light.
If all the solid matter be saved, no phos-
phoric acid will be lost; but much care must
be exercised with the liquids or the nitrogen
will be largely wasted. The ammonia is
present as a carbonate, which, in the presence
of air, splits up into carbon dioxide and
ammonia; but if the surrounding atmo-
sphere be saturated with carbon dioxide this
action cannot take place. As the atmosphere
of the pit is thus saturated, the impoi--
tance of transferring the manure quickly
to the heap will be realised. The liquids
which drain from the heap should not be
lost, as they are rich in potash and nitro-
gen, but should be pumped over the stack
to keep it moist.
To handle the manure with economy the
following points should be observed: —
1— Floors of stables, byres, etc., should be
impermeable, and should drain into suitable catching
pits.
2 Utter should be used freely.
3 Floor of heap, and walls also if a pit, should
be impermeable.
4.—'Solids and liquids should be transferred to
pits daily.
5 —Build the heap with as small a surface area
as possible.
6 Heap should be packed down to exclude air.
7 Do not allow the pit to dry out.
8— If you do not wish to use manure for some
time, cover the heap with 2 to 3 inches of sandy loam.
SULPHUR AND SORE SHOULDERS.'
“Tumbe Munda” : To prevent horses get-
ting sore shoulders, keep the shoulder dry;
if the collar fits decently the shoulder will
not scald unless it becomes wet. When you
start the team after a season of rest they
are soft, and will sweat a lot; so clip the
shoulder and rub in dry sulphur—slb. will do
a team a good while, aud it does not take
long to rub a small handful into the hair
before' starting.
If your horse does get a sore, and it is
necessary to keep him in work, take a wheat
sack and make a slit about 18in. long down
the centre. Poke the horse’s head through
this and let the collar chafe on the bag in-
stead of on the skin. At the same time pack
plenty of sulphur on the wound. Avoid all
ointments and greases, as these pick up dirt
and keep the wound raw.
PURCHASING SEEDS.
“Minthall”: In purchasing your seed re-
quirements look ahead, and, provided you
have reasonable storage, make your pur-
chases early. If you get in early you get
good seed. Seedsmen may say that all one
season’s seed is of the same quality. Thank
them for the information, and forget it. I
have purchased seed very early in the season
from a well-known firm, and underestimated
my requirements, with the result that in the
midst of planting an urgent order has had
to go in for more. Many is the time I have
seen the late purchase to be miles inferior
to the first, and germination and growth
have told a similar tale.
Buy from a reliable firm. If the stuff’s
not up to standard, send it back. Squeal if
you don’t get a fair go; then they will know
they have a shrewd farmer to deal with, and
nine times out of ten they will give you a
better spin than the man will get who takes
things as they come and without a murmur.
Becleancd seed is best.
With the seeds available, there is also no
delay when the cultivation is ready for sow-
ing, and a day lost may mean that you miss
a shower.
Buying from private growers is all right
if you know your man. The chap to whom
this class of buying appeals should get the
Government Agricultural Gazette list of
growers who have seed for sale, tested and
recommended by the department’s field offi-
cers. This seed can only be listed after de-
partmental growth-observation and germina-
tion test by the department. Present lines
listed in the N.S.W. Gazette include 13
kinds of wheat, besides onions, potatoes and
tomatoes.
FIRST PRINCIPLES OF PASTORAL
IMPROVEMENT.
Murray : The beginning of wisdom in
pasture improvement is to realise that, more
than drought, soil deficiency or even rabbits,
the chief enemy of the choice permanent
grasses and clovers is the mass of herbage
which comes up in the spring, smothers the
perennial grasses and dies down as summer
comes on, completing its work of destruction
by slowly rotting in heaps on top of the
useful perennials which may have so far
survived. Even couch-grass will be almost
destroyed by this process; and couch will
stand more than any other plant which is
any good at all.
This aspect of the problem was brought
home to me when I had to fence off a chain-
wide lane through whicli 60 or 70 cows
went to and from the milking-yards four
times a day throughout the season. I ex-
pected that tlieir traffic would bring the soil
to the bareness of concrete; but, instead, in
a few months the coarse, chiefly annual,
growths were replaced by a good sward of
English rye and white clover which
flourished and thickened under the continual
trampling and gnawing to which it was
subjected.
Whenever cultivation and manuring accom-
pany the sowing of grass-seeds the pestilent
annuals are encouraged to a doubly and
trebly luxuriant growth ; and though mowing
or heavy stocking may be resorted to for a
time, and the introduced grasses so kept
alive, sooner or later this will be neglected—•
and another instance goes on record of “the
uselessness of sowing-down grasses.”
But if the labor and expense of sowing-
down were put into the following routine, I
think there would be a different tale to tell;
1. Mix together as many good kinds of
grass-seed as you can.
2. In the autumn or early winter scatter
the seeds on patches of suitable land. (If
you mix with the seeds a light dressing of
super, it will ensure the sown patches being
well eaten down so long as the effects of the
super, are perceptible to the palates of the
stock.)
3. After scattering the seed, round up all
the sheep you can get hold of and work them
about thereon. If they fairly pug it up, all
the better.
4. After the seed has established a fair
growth, see that it is kept well eaten off.
When and while such a system is pursued
the grazier will find that those grasses which
are most suited to the locality will establish
themselves, and spread gradually over his
property. Such spreading can be greatly
helped by shutting stock off before seeding-
time and, when the seed is ripe, gathering
the stock out of other paddocks, yarding
them till hungry, then lotting them have a
fill of the seeding grasses and returning
them to their paddocks.
TRY NEW FODDER PLANTS.
“S.W. J.”: It is time and money well spent
to test, no matter in how small quantities,
seeds and even roots of new fodder
plants of which one may hear good accounts.
The lupin has done wonderful things
for Westralia, and other instances are the
redemption of the Otway Forest (Vic.)
settlements by bird’s-foot clover and the
making of the North Coast (N.S.W.) by the
fortuitous introduction of paspalum.
In a small way I have watched other
examples here upon the Upper Murray. For
instance, some 55 or 60 years ago my father
procured and sowed half a pound of meadow-
foxtail on the flats. As is usual with rarely-
called-for seed, this, no doubt, was old, dead
stuff, and he never saw that any grew. But
30 years afterwards I found a plant in seed
which was strange to me, and this I showed
to my father, who identified it as foxtail.
We again forgot it for a few years, and
then it began to make itself evident over
many acres of low-lying, semi-swampy,
flooded flats, where no other choice grass lias
shown any ability to survive among the
sedges. By the quiet progress it continues
to make I have no doubt that it eventually
will take possession of all this class of coun-
try in the valley.
A somewhat similar experience has been
mine with the Lotus major (greater bird’s-
foot clover). Wherever I have set plants
or seeds of this on the flooded flats I find
that the flood-waters tear off stalks and carry
them along till they are caught by tussocks-
and root themselves anew.
It is such self-sowing varieties of fodders
that must eventually win the day for them-
selves and civilisation against the myriad
of less-good and no-good growths that cu'ipber'
ground we live by.
TOP-DRESSING MACHINES.
I’hos ’: Having decided to top-dress a
pasture paddock the question arises as to the
best and cheapest way of distributing the
super. It isn’t absolutely necessary to
break the soil, though a light harrowing
is beneficial. Most farmers, when they com-
mence top-dressing, use the wheat-drill with
the undergear removed, so that the fertiliser
falls straight from the box. But there’s a
good deal of traction necessary to use a
wheat-drill, and once the advantages of top-
dressing are appreciated and the practice
adopted as a matter of routine, it is found
economical in most cases to use a special
machine.
There are two principal types on the
market—broadcasters and spreaders. A
broadcaster is attached to a cart or motor-
lorry and is useful on rough country, as it
throws the fertiliser 15 to 25 feet on each
side, and the driver can dodge stumps or
fallen timber without leaving patches of
soil unfertilised. Broadcasters work quickly
you can cover 60 acres a day with a dray
and up to 120 acres with a motor-lorry. The
principal drawback to the broadcasting
machine, in its present state of development,
is that its delivery is affected by wind. A
coarser grade of super, than the ordinary is
now on the market for use in broadcasters,
and the heavier particles minimise the danger
of uneven dressing through windage. You
have to gear up a broadcaster with a chain
from the wheel of your cart or motor, and
the chain, if you aren’t a very good engineer,
will come off every now and then, which
won t improve your temper.
t A spreader costs more than a broadcaster.
It is built like the manure-box on a wheat-
drill, but is light of draught and can be
worked with one horse. With a spreader you
get very even distribution, and can set the
machine to distribute anything from 251 b
to 5001 b. of super, per acre. Spreaders are
not suited to rough country and are slower
than broadcasters. They cover a path from
9ft. to 12ft. wide and make wheel marks
that guide the driver, so that he isn’t likely
to overlap or run wide. On level cultivated
land 25 acres is a fair day’s work.
For the very small or very rough holding
there’s a hand machine available. Its use
takes a bit of learning, but once you get
the knack very even distribution can be
accomplished. For very large areas of clean
country the machine recommended is a com-
bination of the broadcaster and spreader
types. Like the broadcaster it is drawn by a
lorry (horse or motor), but it isn’t affected
much by wind, and will cover up to 200 acres
a day on favorable country.
fat lambs for export.
E.R.H.”: A series of cross-breeding
experiments, extending over five years, were
conducted at the Werribee Research Farm
(Vic.;. Lincoln-Merino cross half-bred ewes
were used throughout, and Suffolk, South-
down, Shropshire, English Leicester, Border
Leicester, Lincoln, Romney Marsh and Dor-
set Horn rams were tested. In the first year
Suffolks were not included in the trials, and
the Border Leicester and Lincoln crossed
lambs brought top prices at the Newmarket
saleyards. In each of the following years
Suffolk rams were included and each year
their lambs headed the market, being fol-
lowed by the Border Leicesters, Shropshires
and Lincolns, in that order.
The Dorset H'orn cross lamb was disliked
by Melbourne butchers at first, but they sub-
sequently found that lambs of this cross
dressed much better weights than most of the
others, though inferior in that respect to the
Suffolk, Border Leicester and Lincoln cross
lambs. The experiments were discontinued
when it was regarded as proved that, though
perhaps not quite so early as the Dorset
Horn, the Suffolk was most profitable as pro-
ducing a big, early-matured lamb which was
liked by the butchers for its large propor-
tion of lean to fat, its small loss of offal,
and its good dressed weight.
The Suffolk Down breed originated by
crossing the Southdown with the Norfolk, a
breed little known and now almost extinct.
Norfolk sheep have large frames, black faces
and legs and are very hardy. The flesh is
fine in the grain and of good flavor, and
dresses well in proportion to live weight. The
Suffolk in body and formation resembles an
, enlarged South Down; on the average it
weighs 25 per cent, heavier.
THE IDEAL LAMB.
“A.J.8.” : “L.A.F.” advocates a 401 b. lamb
as an ideal type. Lambs 451 b. and over are
classed as tegs in the English market and
suffer a depreciation in value. Mr. Fitter,
meat salesman, Smithfield, during a tour of
Maoriland strongly urgpd the 281 b. to 1161 b.
lamb as the type for farmers to concentrate
on because of the greater demand for it.
Some years ago, the N.'S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture carried out experiments in lambs
for export. The carcases were sold locally,
and because the Dorset Horn cross gave the
best results; that breed became very popular.
But its popularity was short-lived. The pre-
potency of the sire and the value of the
skin do not add at all to the value of the
carcase.
Dr. Cameron, Vic. Director of Agriculture,
after a tour of Britain said: “They want
a chubby, well-proportioned carcase, free
from legginess and length of body, with a
broad loin and flat shoulder. One thing
is clear and that is the British consumer
must be supplied with a small carcase. I
have been astonished at the variation in
the prices—as much as 3d. per lb. between
a 4Jib. and a 6Jlb. leg of lamb. The lamb
wanted is from 281 b. to 361 b. as against the
fat heavy lamb of 401 b. to 481 b.”
ERADICATION OF BRACKEN.
“M.L.C.”: The fern must be cut at the
right time to get results. Many farmers
cut it in the winter because other work is
less pressing then; they might as well save
their labor, since the underground stems
have by then stored up enough nourishment
for the spring growth.
The proper time to cut is just before the
spores mature, which not only prevents
propagation from seeding, but greatly
weakens the rootstocks, which are just then
at their most susceptible stage. In southern
Australia some time in November, according
to the district, would be the right time. The
second cutting should follow about two
months later, when the succeeding growth
has reached the same stage. Only two cut-
tings a year are required. Should, however,
either of these cuttings be delayed until the
spores have matured, it is best to leave out
that cutting altogether, for mowing the fern
after the seeds ripen has the effect of scat-
tering them more than if the plants are
undisturbed.
OPERATING ON ANIMALS.
“N.M.L.” : When operating on an animal,
cut with the grain of the flesh whenever
possible. To do otherwise means causing
unnecessary pain, loss of blood, time in
healing, and, perhaps, permanent disable-
ment.
In timbered country the commonest place
to employ the knife is on the coronet of a
staked horse. Given good conditions and a
proper operation, it takes exactly three
months for that scar to grow out of the hoof
and be cast at the point of the toe. Given
a bad operation, the scar never grows out
and the horse is a bumble for life.
A man who is afraid to use a knife should
never attempt to handle it on animals. The
first rule (with exceptions, of course) is
to cut big. A free and open cut is easier to
handle, drains better, is more easily dressed,
and heals with less trouble than a niggardly
(Continued on page 32.)


Mr. JIM
GERALD
before he
cured his
cold with
H eenzo.
HI
■
ms
m m
: :
■i
mmmw
Hi
m
■
ran
■
■I
m
m
111
!
n
111
■
i
*
Vi
■
e
/
0
ggffi
a
A
HEENZO costs 2 /
Makes a family supply
of the best Cough and
'Flu remedy, and
SAVES £’s.


HHi
■
iv(:V
//4
Mi
i
:.-,i
e
a Big Si
:
■ <


w
• bringing big car luxury,style and per
1 1 'HE Great Pontiac was designed for people who are
progressive and who appreciate the finer things
in life. It was planned to make it possible for them to
step up the quality of their cars without stepping out
of the low-priced field.
Its appearance for example, offers tbe smart style, the graceful pro*
portions and the perfection of details which in the past only big cars
have provided* Its lines are long and low* Inside its staunchly
constructed bodies, more big car characteristics meet the eye*
Mechanically, it provides such big car features as a big L-head engine,
the Harmonic balancer which counteracts crankshaft vibration, the
G-M-R cylinder head which minimizes spark knock, accurately
balanced rotating parts and noiseless, protected, internal four-wheel
brakes* It is fast, powerful, quick to accelerate ♦ ♦ ♦ smooth, silent easy
to control* # , V
It is obvious from this description that the Great Pontiac is an inno-
vation in the low-priced field* It had to be to give the people for
whom it was created what they were searching for in a modern motor car*
Let your nearest dealer demonstrate*
PRICES FROM
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR £285 BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Metropolitan Distributors:
Melbourne: Southern Motors Pty. Ltd
Lonsdale St.
Sydney: J. McGrath Ltd., Castlereagh St.
Brisbane:
Moreton Motors Ltd.,
Adelaide St.
Adelaide: Millingen’s Ltd., Weymouth St.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd., Milligan St. Division
GENERAL
Melbourne
MOTORS
Sydney Brisbane
Adelaide
LTD.
Perth
PONTIAC
at Low Cost


Stronger sole and a
leather-lined upper
At every point the Abbey
Cossack is reinforced to give
extra wear. Its sole is made of
twice the usual thickness of the
toughest leather obtainable.
The upper has a complete inner
lining of soft leather. The
tongue fastens to the sides of
the boot in such a way as to
keep out dust and grass seeds,
while further padding the foot.
An Abbey Cossack, too, is
comfortably pliant—all strain
is eliminated by the special
arching of the upper over the
instep.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather is used in all
styles the higher-priced tan boot
has an upper of special calf. Order
the correct Abbey preservative
polish also (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf, 46/6 & 41/6
Black Box Calf . . . . 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free .
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic address:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI34
Have you tried
a Shampoo
with
Guticura
?
•
You will be delighted.
Cuticura Ointment applied
directly to the scalp softens the
scales of dirt and dandruff and
cleanses the pores. The re-
markably soft and creamy lath-
er of Cuticura Soap quickly
cleanses the hair and restores
its natural lustre.
There is no other treatment
so effectual as this simple and
satisfying method of promoting
the health of the scalp and as-
suring a luxuriant growth of
live, glossy hair.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment Is. each. Acknowledged by
millions for 50 years as the most re-
liable and efficient toilet preparations
for the care of the Skin and Hair.
Send for trial treatment and direc-
tions for shampooing your hair the
Cuticura way. Address: R. Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
Iso disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tialia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shaves Patent Stump-jump
Reversible Disc Plough.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent.
Inter-State and Overseas Agents;
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
- SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
Manufactured by
CHANDLERS
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.)
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
LAVA STREET, WARRNAMBOOL.
HARGREAVES STREET, BENDIGO,
PYNSENT STREET, HORSHAM.
C/R. ARMSTRONG AND DANA STS.,
BALLARAT, VICTORIA.
w
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generqus provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which, causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
_ ; INQUIRIES INVITED.
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
ŵ
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales ( WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year ( HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
prick, which doesn’t achieve any other pur-
pose than to cause trouble, collect pus and
make an unsightly scar.
A lotion of boracic acid—as much acid as
the water will dissolve—is a good thing at
the operation. That keeps the wound clean
and checks the flow of blood—often, in fact,
snapping it off as if the flow could be
switched like current.
BREEDING REMOUNTS.
“Koolonga”: The business visit of the
Director of Remounts for the Indian Army
shows that there is a natural anxiety over
the obvious and steady decline in the stand-
ard of breeding of the cavalry type of horse,
ihe decline can be traced mainly to (1)
lack of knowledge on the breeder’s part as
to what is required, (2) lack of interest in
horses owing to the predominance of motor-
traffic forcing many breeders to run cattle
instead.
It is not generally known that the Indian
Army needs 3000 Australian horses every
year, or that our Defence Department owns
tour stallions which are available to breed-
ers at a nominal fee of three guineas. These
pedigreed sires are Heir Apparent (Vic.),
•Tolly Maltster (S.A.), Three Star (N.S.W.)
and Had-I-Whist (Q.). '
A prominent Victorian breeder and dealer
who buys for the Indian trade and has built
up a particularly sound business through
supplying what is wanted, looks for these
points in a prospective cavalry horse:
Aged four to five, between 10.2 and 16.1 hands,
weighing about 10001 b. Head small and well-set on
a light and moderately long neck; crest firm, mane
EarS snlall > thin and erect; forehead
broad and full; eyes large, prominent and tranquil;
:X\£ eTteCt J muzzle small a nd fine; mouth deep,
with thin and firmly compressed lips; nostrils large
and fine. Withers elevated, muscular and well-
o?!? ? ’ !° n& * hould ers, sloping and well-muscled ;
3,’ d . e ,® p c ?‘ est > broa d and plump. Vertical forelegs
with elbow large, prominent and clear of chest; knees
prominent and wide in front. Short, straight back,
well-muscled, with broad loins set straight and short,
barge barrel; ribs well arched and definitely separ-
ated. Wide, thick hindquarters, rounded externally
and heavily muscled; tail intact and well carried.
Medium-size feet, with smooth horn of fine texture.
trn/ B ? lt; „ free and Prompt action at the walk,
trot and gallop. ’
I he best cross to obtain the above result is
mar? racmg stallion from a light draught
THE potato crop.
„ atter ” • Potato growers in U.S.A. find
th? y c“on St tllei !i methods to make
tue crop profitable and the Agricultural
Department has made available tables that
demonstrate the need for planting sDecinllv
selected seed and plenty of it P y
3 reSUlts from fa ™s. the
total yield from common seed averaged 137
wbile tllat trom certified
Average S Il 7 ir b *£% paddock ) S a ™ an
average ot 21 < bushels. As regards rhe
proportion of planting to yield, figures wefe
obtained from 353 farms, and whereas the
average yield from 14 bushels if S pitted
{'the acre equalled only 156 bushels, 225
acre S Was the avera S e from 21 bushels per
The Canadian experimental station also
makes a helpful contribution with regard to
the advisability of sprouting the tubers This
experiment has run for five years and tlm
d?iia tC i^ S nr ei i- e exposed for six weeks to sub-
dig d U?ln a V a temp ? ra . ture 40deg. to 50
rvaAi ‘ vane ties were used—lrish
Cobblers and Green Mountains. The former
when greened, were ready 12 days earlier
than the tubers from the unsprouted seed
and gave 44 bushels more to the acre. Green
Mountains matured nine days earlier and
yielded an increase of 21 bushels.
I , nnovat i on .on the marketing side
which has met with the approval of the
American public is the putting up of a
guaranteed grade of potatoes in strong linen
bags containing 141 b. These appeal to the
motor shopper and it is found that buyers
'mmlif ini n nS l to P ? y i aslightly higher Price for
quality and portability. The opinion of the
3 interest “■ this » otat would be
A SHEEP-KILLING HORSE,
"fl 1 tbe valley wher e the Cudge-
andSli?pd 4ri?i° Wlng b ? tween ranges
and lined with casuanna trees, meets the
Macquarie, is a sheep-run called Burrandong.
Right opposite the junction is a river-flat
severa l hundred acres in extent. It makes
. me paddock for lambing ewes, though in
autumn it is completely enveloped in river
mmt every morning. I was looking after
JJX Soraii aiKl 1 lambs on this fl at, and
i s + 1 found mne of them horribly
bitten and torn about the head and neck
Jhe re 7t ere «l r - ead - y dead ’ and 1 had to kili
*the rest. Skinning revealed large bruises
?J d thou r 4i S 1?n S 311 ? V 1 r the body - looked
as thou & h someone s kangaroo-dogs had been
baits e -|' ar PP a^e ’ and I distributed strychnine
baits m three trails over the flat The
next morning- there were 17 more ewes dead
and dying, and no dead dogs. This time two
of the sheep had legs frightfully mangled the
skin eS a?d Tt d gaping tbrough torn
doS d ” 1 Jt Was ' not the work of
I slept in a tent on the spot the third
night, and rose before dawn. Besides the
ewes and lambs, a small mob of horses
were the only other stock on the flat. The
sound of snorting and squealing came start-
lingly out of the foggy gloom, and I heard
the terrified bleating of ewes and lambs.
way through the fog in the direc-
tion of the sounds, I came upon an incredible
scene. A light horse used in the spring-cart
was striking and savaging the sheep, which
rushed about in the utmost confusion before
his vicious attacks. He lifted one by the
nape of the neck in his mouth, throwing the
sheep high in the air and tearing the hide
from its head and neck. As she landed on
the ground, he struck her savagely, and
crunched a hind-leg in his mouth I threw
a stick at him, and he galloped off into
• ~b a cwe « condition necessitated
immediate killing. As the sun dispersed the
tog, I found three more injured sheep I
got my rifle from the camp and shot’ the
horse.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What depreciation is allowed for Federal
purposes in income returns on farm improve-
ments? —1177.
Fences and stockyards, 3 per cent.; dams,
5 ; woolsheds (stone, brick or cement Avails)
11, (wood and iron Avails) 2; stables (stone,
brick or cement walls) 2, (wood and iron
walls) 3.
Any profit in growing the Q'land (Mac-
adamia) nut? When do the trees commence
to hear, and what is the best variety? —l2ls.
Under favorable conditions ( i.e ., good
fertile scrub land) the Queensland nut
(Macadamia) offers a good opening; but the
trees do not commence to bear at under eight
years at least. From a mature tree up to
£5 is realised p.a. There are several types,
the Ever-bearing being the most productive.
(1) What size square concrete tank
would hold 4(500 gallons of water? (2)
What would it cost to build such a tank
and where could I obtain working direc-
tions ? —l3lO.
(1) A tank 10ft. by 10ft. by 7ft. 6in. If
a more shallow form is desired a 16ft. by
16ft. by 3ft. Avould give 4800 gallons. (2)
It is not possible to estimate the cost of
concrete in general terms. The figures vary
over wide limits, dependent on cost of
materials, transport and labor. Ask the
Aust. Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14
Spring-street, Sydney, for a copy of Pamph-
let No. 5, “Troughs, Tanks and Wells.”
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Specker”: When planting either fruit- or
shade-trees it helps the growth to add fer-
tiliser ; but use it sparingly, and don’t let
it come into direct contact with the roots.
“Wrash” : Cattle will not eat bracken when
other fodder is plentiful, but. in drought
times they may acquire a taste for the young
fronds, and afterwards feed largely upon the
fern. Bracken is a slow poison. Its effects
may develop weeks after the animals have
been removed from bracken lands. The symp-
toms of bracken-poisoning are a high tem-
perature, disinclination to feed, bleeding from
the mucous membranes of eyes, nose and
mouth, and swellings under the skin. In
severe cases the animal dies three or four
days aiter the first signs of disorder. When
grass is scarce, cattle should be herded off
the bracken fields. Where this is imprac-
ticable no danger will ensue if they are hand-
fed. When the symptoms of poisoning appear
the cattle should be yarded, fed on bran
mashes and drenched with liberal doses of
Epsom salts.
“Bill R.” : Smeared within the eye of any
wood-handled tool, the red gum that exudes
from bush trees will hold the wedges and
handle securely. Spread over cord-binding,
it fixes the strands like varnish. It is also
a good adhesive for patches on tent or fly.
It will fill a wood crack, and makes a good
bottle-stopper. Dried and powdered, there
is no better slipping preventive for belting
or friction wheels.
“N.M.L.”: When burning long fire trails
in dry button grass or other thick herbage
the best lighter is two garden rakes, tied
back to back. Start the fire, get it well going
and ride through it with the rakes dragging
on a bit of wire. The teeth pick up and
drag along some of the burning grass. As
it goes it sets fire to more and more.
“F.S.A.”: It is customary for a cement
concrete bottom to be specified for a squat-
ter’s tank. The cement costs nearly as
much as the steel plates, rivets and pack-
ing comprising the sides of the tank, and
is quite unnecessary if a good water-holding
clay is available. All that is necessary is
to put about nine inches of clay in the bottom
of the tank, then add sufficient water to
puddle it. When partly dry, fill the tank
with water, the weight of which will firm
the clay and make it watertight. There
will be no trouble with leaks when the
tank expands in the hot weather, because
clay, unlike cement, expands, too.
“Pivco”: Three bags opened down one
side and across the bottom and sewn end
to end keep my seed-drill dry during crop-
ping operations. The bags are well coated
with tar and are tied to the frame in
front of the box with haybands or light
rope, and kept in place oyer the seed-box
by a light sapling sewn along the edge
of the cover. While working, the cover
rests on the frame in front of the seed-box,
and it is only a moment’s work to draAV it
over the box at knock-off time, or, in the
case of rain, Avhile working.
“Ruffy”: Though many adverse reports
have come from N. S. Wales, in Gippsland
Poa aquatica is giving satisfaction. It is
grown only from roots, the seeds not
maturing satisfactorily. It spreads by throw-
ing out long, creeping, stem-bearing roots, and
will groAV to a height of six feet. Lotus
major thrives under similar conditions, and
makes a good complementary fodder plant.
“D.J.H.”: If you have any rough grass
that is not needed for winter feed, now is
the time to burn it off. Most growths will
be dry enough to burn now if started in
the middle of the day. It will help the
spring groAvth, the ash acting as a fer-
tiliser, and be safer than waiting till the
hot Aveather sets in. Burning-off once in
a while is a tonic for pastures, especially
sour or sick paddocks, and if you can run the
spring-tooth harrows or drill over the ground
after giving it a little top-dressing and a
few pounds of fresh grass-seed, the feed
value will be doubled. Many farmers burn-off
a paddock each year, and if you use your
brains you can generally spell a paddock
each winter without running out of grass.
“Curlew”: Rhizoctonia disease, which
causes so much loss in potato crops, can best
be prevented by keeping the soil clean, and
this can be assured by suitable rotations.
Corrosive sublimate, applied at air tempera-
ture, and formalin solution at about 125 deg.
F. are usually employed to treat seed pota-
toes for scab-rhizoctonia, black-leaf and dry
rot. Badly bruised, cut or diseased seed
should not be. used, as the spores of diseases
find entrance through the damaged surfaces.
Potatoes showing any fleck or internal
browning should not be used for seed.
“Meudie”: In the reign of Charles 11.
there was a law making the exportation of
sheep good, bad or middling, a crime punish-
able by hanging. Another of Charles 11.
laws compelled every liege subject to wear
a woollen shroud in his coffin. This looks
like the dinkum tip.


Full of New Features
The aim of Lister engineers has
always been to make Lister sheep-
shearing machinery still more reli-
able, still more efficient, still more
accessible. So we find the 1929
Lister shearing machinery full of
new features, each feature being
a thoroughly tested improvement
tending to make shearing easier
or faster; or tending to economies
in running; or making the matter
of overhauls simpler and cheaper.
These improvements are to be
found in every section from
handpiece to engine. Below we
deal only with the bracket and
the handpiece.
Cfiie New
FRICTION
ARM
BEARING
Pitted inJj minutes
Lister Bracket
The new friction-arm bearing (shown above) enables the owner himself to
renew the bearing in a minute or two. When the renewable sleeve bearing
(E) wears oval, the sleeve is given a half-turn and the bearing is ready for
another long, useful life. If worn out, it can be replaced in five minutes.
Lister Handpiece
It is sandproof. The hooded “Gritprufe” tension nut (A) prevents the sand
from penetrating to its own threads or those of the bush (B). 'The
tremendous oscillating thrust from the cutter, too, is now taken by the
smooth, snug-fitting barrel (C) instead of by a few exposed threads as
formerly. In consequence of these two. features, wear on threads is reduced
to a minimum, and the tension rarely gets out of level. When it does, it can
be levelled in a few seconds by slackening the locking ring (D),
tapping the bush to right or left, and retightening the locking ring.
A
i
D
r
Vfrit’e for free illustrated litera-
ture describing in detail these
and other features of the 1929
Lister.
Shearing Machinery, in-
cluding compact port-
able and semi-portable
shearing and crutching
plants. Specifications and
estimates of complete in-
stallations gladly sub-
mitted on request.
-lisfer)
SHEARING MACHINERY
Chief Distributors for Australia:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD. 10-14 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents for
QUEENSLAND: Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Malloch Bros., William Street, Perth.
VICTORIA: Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd., West Footscray.


7ht> cen/re of QutH>ns/onc/&
<3S
af/s/fnputsfacf Soc/of Life.
BRISBANE
ẁ
Magnificent t B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
BCLS
/ILVER TOP %
imYGIN
(Sfittke
ScmaYe Glass
Dottle
, with the
\ Gnen Label
ẃ
f///////
S 5?
Bo hS
Sicvcr-Top
DRYCIN
m
tRVEN LUCAS BOLS
(g
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOMNG TOBfteeO ,
lts x
ualit
1S
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
ẃ
SMOKE-OH!
“In Bankruptcy: re Day.”
The break of Day.
ff- ff.
In dancing we like a partner who is light
on our feet.
Mary had a little scandal
Following her round.
Note her dad’s gone off the handle
And she can’t be found!
“Wife says husband was shot in bed.”
She usually says it before he is half-way
upstairs.
SHE COULD BE FRIENDS ON MUCH LESS.
THE SWAIN: “After all, what’s the difference between
love and friendship?”
THE MAID: “Well, in your case, Tommy, about a
thousand a year.”
The fashionable woman's concern before
forty is birth control; after forty girth con-
trol.
* V
The Talkies have put the musicians’
noises out of joint.
“The abolition of the Arbitration Court would
bring about an industrious hell.” —Tasmanian paper.
It would solve the unemployment problem
in at least one place then.
At At
SAVED.
Little Miss Muffit
Sat on a tuffit
Thinking of lunch and a play;
Up came a youth
In a Rolls-wasp, arid struth!
The maiden was set for the day.
O’Jones.
During the public inspection
of the Maoriland cruisers in
Melbourne, all detachable fit-
tings were removed. A battle
of Gutland feared, no doubt.
#
One result of the Defence
Department’s cuts may be to
make the A.L.P. give up the
idea of employing that old dud,
General Strike.
* %
A girl was arrested in a Mel-
bourne hotel while tipping a
waiter with a 10s. note. Crazy
for notoriety, of course.
* ¥
Melbourne City Council has
. passed a by-law to suppress
noises. It is hoped thus to end the squeal-
ing about those out-of-date cable trams.
* *
“Cobb failed in his examination.”
Obviously he needed a coach.
“Limerick Develops Engine Trouble.”— Argus.
So, after all, the famous horse is a flying
machine.
* *
Little dabs of powder,
Little smears of paint,
Play the very devil
Even with a saint.
* *
“Another Nationalist ‘cave’ is reported.”
They’d try to Doctor Page, but they can’t
Stan Bruce.
The modern wife won't darn socks, yet her
husband still comes home with all sorts of
yarns.
* *
“Is America Drunk with Power?”
Well, some Americans make staggering
incomes.
* *
“His mother’s second marriage was the last straw.”
She went a step-father, and that settled
him.
LETTERS NEVER RECEIVED.
Mrs. Toorak-Road.
Dear Madame, —We are forwarding you
one genuine Arctic fox coat as per order, to-
gether with our c.o.d. accnt. for 50 guineas.
These coats are manufactured from Austra-
lian rabbit, and are worth roughly a fiver
apiece.—-Yours respectfully,
Coney and Carey.
The Treasurer.
Dear Sir, —Please accept as conscience
money enclosed cheque covering amount of
salary drawn by me since my entry into
Parliament. —Yours for honesty.
James Blowbags, M.P.
Manager, Rivoli Theatre.
Dear Boss, —I quite agree with the critics
that I am the rottenest comedian you ever
imported. Put me at the bottom of the bill
and reduce my screw by half.—Cordially
yours,
Dud Rednose.
Editor, Melbourne Argus.
Sir, —Mr. W. M. Hughes is undoubtedly
the one statesman that Australia has pro-
duced in our time. And consider his other
endearing qualities—his skill as a golfer, his
refinement. I propose over a quiet game at
Frankston next Sunday to ask, aye, implore
him, to consent to be our leader again as
in the happy days gone by.—Yours, etc.,
S. M. Bruce.
* *
“The (treat Western express arrived in Melbourne
too late to connect with the Sydney Eastern express.”
East is east, and west is west, but never
the trains shall meet.
* *
MODERN VERSION.
Jack and Jill went up the hill
To fetch a pail of water.
Jack fell down and broke his crown,
And Jill ’phoned a reporter.
P.
* *
“Sydney tramguards continue to complain of the
murderous conditions under which the Commissioners
make them work.”
Clearly a case of “Up, Guards, and at
’em !”
* *
Horace : “Gad, boy, who ever egged you on
to play the heavies?”
Clarence : “Dunno; but I have no doubt
about who egged me off!”
SOMETHING, ANYHOW.
“I’m full of beans to-night.”
“Smells more like whisky to me.”
P»igots condemn a man for being drunk,
when, after all, lie’s doing his bust.
TO A FRIEND IN TROUBLE.
If you can keep your head when all who’re
near you
Are losing theirs and sagging at the knees,
If Von can leave the pub icith none to steer
you,
You’re set. Yet you will still feel ill at
ease,
Because ther'c’s one at home who’s going to
doubt you,
The one you cannot bluff when you arc
tight,
No matter how you lie she'll always rout you,
And what is more — you’ll know damn well
she’s right!
D. McM.
THE LOST RETAINERS.
King Bruce I. was sitting morosely in the
midst of his vast corps d’ elite of lioyal Com-
missioners. The port lia-d just been removed,
and he was flushed with anger, or port, or
both.
“Will none of ye well-paid retainers rid
me of this turbulent Welshman?” he stormed.
In the stillness of the following evening
three valiant knights (birthday-honor brand)
furtively drove on to the North Shore vehi-
cular punt. Several hours later they reached
the opposite shore, and disappeared in the
direction of Lindfield.
Shortly afterwards, King Bruce was dis-
turbed by a clanging on his telephone. An
agitated voice spoke. “Cassidy, of the North
Sydney police here.’ Me and the min’s just
•afther bringin’ in the remnints of three poor
fellies in a chaff-bag. The ownly oidentifi-
cathory marrks is three Fideral gold passes.
Can ye be tellin’ me if anny of the Canberra
boys do be missin’?”
The King deliberately smashed a putter
and two favorite wooden clubs, and never
smiled again.
D. McM.
SAPIENT.
“There is, after all, something human about the
broad humanity of Mr. Ramsay MacDonald, as of
everybody else.” —Sydney Sunday Sun.
I drew the attention of my son and heir
to the above deep thought. “It is to the
Sunday papers, my
boy,” I said, “that
we must go for the
higher education.
Every Sunday in
every way they
grow more and
more profound.
What amazing re-
flections they in-
spire ! Since pon-
dering the words
of this journalistic
Vasco di Gama,
this Marconi of
the printed word,
it has struck me
that there is some-
th i n g spiritual
about the broad
spirituality of Sir
Oliver Lodge, as of
everybody e 1 s e.
There is something
Hughesian about the passionate Hughesism
of the member for North Sydney. There is” —
and I picked up an official document which
had just arrived. But my heir interrupted.
“I know what you’re going to say, dad,”
lie cried. “There is something damnably
inhuman about the broad inhumanity of the
Commissioner of Taxation, as of his prede-
cessor.”
B. C. F.
THE FEMININE TOUCH.
The Yarra Bank orator got off his box
and handed me a petition. “Sign, please,'*
he said. I read :
League op World Pacifists.
Allow Women to Join Armies and Navies.
“What’s the idea?” I asked.
“Haven’t you noticed,” he demanded, “that
organised women are the world’s champion
’bus-missers? Just as rats leave sinking
ships so women board them.
Look at the Parliamentary sys-
tem. Before women got the
vote Parliaments were esteemed.
What are they now r ? Bywords.
In England and the U.S.A.
women have begun to sit on
juries. What has happened to
the good old palladium? Prac-
tically finished as regards .civil
trials, and they’re talking of
majority verdicts in criminal
trials. Nobody believes in the
jury system now but jury-
squarers and criminals. My
notion is to get the feminists
into the fighting services. It’s
the one and only road to world-
disarmament. Sign, please.” I
signed.
BLOGGS.
THE PARIAH.
I am thinking of committing suicide.
Ostracised, spurned, it appears to be the
aim of one and all to get rid of
me. Insult is my portion everywhere.
Only yesterday a lending banker pub-.
ANOTHER MOVEMENT ON FOOT.
licly called me a fraud. The rail-
way booking-clerk, whom I had looked
on as a friend, turned me down last night!
Never had I felt so humiliated, except, per-
haps, on the occasion when I was nearly
the cause of a riot in Aberdeen, where I
lived before migrating to Australia.
I had looked on booking-clerks as my
friends until last night’s episode. And now
that even they have scorned me I feel that
life is no longer worth living.
Perhaps, after I’m gone, they’ll see the
better side of me and say I wasn’t such a
bad old sixpence after all.
S. O.
DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.
His actions on the tram were highly sus-
picious. At the end of the long journey he
walked furtively along the
cliffs and peered into the
night, as though musing
on whether the Gap was
deep enough, wild enough,
cruel enough, for the grim
job he had in hand. Sud-
denly his shoulder was
gripped as by a vyce. “I
want you,” said Tracker
Thomas, the Burglar’s
Nemesis. “What did
you chuck over?”
Winches, ropes, hooks,
men and patience were
brought into play, and
the parcel was retrieved
from its resting-place on
a jutting rock. The great
detective unwrapped the
grim bundle before a hor-
rified crowd. It con-
tained upwards of ump-
teen dozen used razor-
blades. “Take ’em,” said
the sleuth. “Am I to be
persecuted with them for
ever?” moaned the cap-
tive ; and rather than
face having to dispose of
them again, he wrenched
himself free and went
over the Gap himself.
Paul Hill.
These are times when females olden
Dye their hoary shingles golden.
Rouge their cheeks (as dry as berries)
Till they’re red as ripened cherries,
Strike a pose of girly badness
And make eyes with hopeful gladness
At the type of youth who milks them
Of their husbands' cash—then bilks them.
Strutt.
LIARS.
She says no other love she’s known;
I say my life is in her hands ;
So, mundane cares behind us thrown,
We lie together on the sands.
H. H.


DEWAR’S
The Spirit
of his Ancestors
*lt was just such whisky as that we had
warm in its colour, velvety on your
tongue-—when I, wi’ the trustiest of my
father's men, lay in the heather and
watched the English armies tramping
endlessly up this great north road. It
was just such whisky as that which took
the sting out of the driving sleet and
made every claymore worth ten English
muskets. For all the life of ripened
barley was in it, and the distinct yet gentle
fragrance of the peat fire that made it.
We treasured them in our whisky.
You find them still —in Dewar’s
•x.vXv
m
MMW
MMmfi
m
m
XX-
r
m
wmm
WA W.'CTffiW
VAV/.W.XwXvIjS
:-x-
-liiiipi
sk
XX
&
:<■:


&
GOOD hat takes
to itself the indi-
viduality of its
wearer, it even
reflects his moods.
It is regarded as a friend,
and as most men are
careful of the friends they
choose they choose a
flat that suits
uour ,
'ersona
lity
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
MlO


STARTING FROM COLD
9 The Starter*
A cold morning! A stubborn engine! A
push of the self-starter button! No result!
Another push! Still no response! Have
you any idea of the convulsion you are
causing in the vitals of the battery ? Only
a very robust battery can stand the strain
of this repeated effort. The Exidc Battery
can stand it will stand it takes it as a
mere bagatelle. Endow your car with the
great reserve and resource of the Exide
Battery and make sure of an effortless
start on the coldest morning.
There is an Exide Battery for every
car, including yours. Obtainable from
Exide Service Agents or your garage.
£*ioe
THE LONG LIFE BATTERY
FOR CAR STARTING
AND LIGHTING
X 64
E. H. SHARPE, representing:
EXIDE BATTERIES, 11C Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
m
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co Brisbane*
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth. ’’ ’
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240 fi4n
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3 3 =o non
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £350,000
BANKERS THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AOFNT^
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD. *
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET SYDNEY
AUSTRALIAN TOWNSVILLE,’
BS A\ EA 3 L e«r ß :
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERaS =
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“In Holland” (Fox Movietone) is dull.
The producers have every imaginable re-
source at their command —the canals and
windmills of Holland, the mountains of
Switzerland and the population of a whole
village as supernumeraries. But it all goes
to provide a background against which two
average comedians, Messrs. Clark and
McCullogh, can get a crop of chestnuts off
their minds.
“Gentlemen of the Press” (Paramount),
whatever appeal it may make to the general
public, should draw a warm response from
working journalists. Its story is not of any
great importance—merely a good reporter
who finds a job as an oily hypocrite’s pub-
licity agent, gives the job up when he gets
a whiff of the unpleasant transactions that
are going on, returns to daily newspaper
work, and has to toil through the night
that his daughter is dying in hospital. It
KAY FRANCIS in
“Gentlemen of the Press.”
is not sug-
gested that he
could have
stopped h,er
from dying if
he hadn’t been
working, and
there are other
threads taken
up only to be
left 'lying
loosely about,
which makes
the picture
rather too,
ragged to hold
anyone not in
a position to
find special
en tertainment
in its detail.
For gentlemen
of the press,
especially the
daily press,
interesting de-
tail is plentiful
and * faithful.
Newspaper types are admirably suggested,
and, without stressing the matter, the picture
clearly reveals the curiously cynical outlook
upon society that the nature of his contact
with it breeds in the heart of many a
newspaper man.
“Captain Swagger” (P.D.C.), in which
Kod la Rocque disports himself with credit
to himself and satisfaction to most movie
patrons, is a silent film in which there are
aeroplanes, cabaret scenes, and a number of
situations which just skirt the fringe of
naughtiness. Rod goes into the gun-man
business, meets the heroine and forsakes
crime for vaudeville. There doesn’t seem to
be anybody in the story who wouldn’t sell
his or her soul for a few dollars. Perhaps
such pictures are one of the reasons why
poor old Uncle Samuel is so misunderstood.
“The Cohens and Kellys” (Universal) is
one of those films which leave a taste of
barley sugar in the mouth. Sentimental but
plausibly so. Frail story but adequate
enough. Plenty of action and situations by
bag. Cohen is the familiar old Hebrew
of “Abie’s Irish Rose” and a million other
plays. He purveys ole clo’, and is on the
point of being sold up when a relative dies
and leaves him two million—nothing like the
movie people for doing things in style. He
surrounds himself with the signs of vulgar
wealth, but his daughter’s heart is with the
son of an Irish cop. She marries her lover
secretly and later shows her bellowing dad
the first pledge of their affection in the shape
of a lusty boy. The old man blows off
enough steam to run the Melbourne-Adelaide
express and drives her from the house. 1 The
probabilities are then stretched, cracked,
blasted and blithered in order to humble the
son of Abraham and elevate the Irish side.
It turns out that the policeman is the true
inheritor of the fortune. A reconciliation
which is an honor to both races ends the
tale, and while everybody on the screen dis-
solves in sympathetic glycerine, the spectator
goes out to buy an acid drop. A previous
picture which portrayed the conflict between
Irishmen and Jews caused racial riots in
various places, and apparently the producers
have taken the fact to heart. Everybody in
this film behaves w r ith nobility except a mem-
ber of the legal profession; and nobody would
want to riot over one of them.
Some recent Fox Movietone news items
call for mention. In one, Mussolini appeared
on a white charger and barked something
incomprehensible, whereat his charger
neighed, which somewhat spoilt the
effect, and no doubt earned the steed a dose
of castor oil; but 100,000 Fascists raised
their right arms like so many traffic cops
and shouted, so they presumably approved.
Then the marvellously übiquitous camera-
man shifted to the desert sands of Africa,
and showed an Arab sheik reclining in a
mood of contemplation and an intensely-dirty
shirt, while a presumably well-paid musician
encouraged his wives to do the work. Neither
of these pictures added much to one’s know-
ledge of contemporary history or experience
of life and the local noises didn’t help.
But a view of a Bombay street in which
motor-cars were being trodden on by bul-
lock-carts, barrows and even pedestrians
made the spectator feel that Australian
traffic problems were something to be thank-
ful for; and the accompanying uproar made
Swanston-street half an hour later seem as
if gripped under a spell. A glimpse of Indian
laundrymen knocking the buttons off their
white overlords’ shirts suggested that life’s
little troubles are much the same all over this
wonderful world. Then the screen-eye and
the megaphone skipped to Japan, only to
reveal that the scenery of O Hatsa San’s
country reproduces better than her voice.
The Palette
Efforts to capture the apparently difficult
atmosphere of Sydney Harbor provide an
interesting show at the Grosvenor Galleries.
Most of the dozen painters represented fail
to do other than make a more or less credit-
able painting; the subject might be any-
where on earth. James R. Jackson exhibits
the most ambitious canvases, and apart from
Harold Herbert’s beautiful water-color of
the rock-pool and the crescent beaches at
Balmoral, there is nothing nearly so atmo-
spherically sound as Jackson’s “Autumn
Afternoon” and “Evening Calm.” Herbert
portrays perfectly the bright beach light;
Jackson’s paintings suggest the blue mist
that veils the harbor slopes. 'S. Woodward
Smith looks out through the Heads
with some respect for the native coloring,
and B. E. Minns looks similarly down from
Bradley’s Head Road. A difficulty in paint-
ing Sydney Harbor is its habit of frequently
looking quite unlike itself.
“M.G.S.”: Although the abo. art show in
Melbourne is scarcely likely to commence an
artistic renaissance, as enthusiastically
asserted in some quarters, it is nevertheless
of great interest to the student, who ought
to be thankful to A. S. Kenyon, Charles
Barrett, J. A. Kershaw, Percy Leason and
the other gentlemen who labored to make it
available. It contains texts for innumerable
sermons. The futurists, vorticists, dadaists
automobilists and other varieties of painters
who, for some mysterious reason, call them-
selves modernists can here see quite clearly
where, they will fetch up in their headlong
flight from reality. Whoever the first black
Velasquez was, he did use his eves to a cer-
tain extent. Here and there he recorded a
bit of anatomy faithfully, and sometimes he
caught an action with almost startling
authenticity. But his work had no chance
of being understood by art patrons who for
thousands of years had accepted conventional
symbols for the real things. Some say he
was hanged for braining a critic; others, that
he went to America, where he achieved such
fame that the Felton Bequest of the period
bought his pictures at 20 times the price
he had originally asked for them.
Ray Lindsay has been remarkably success-
ful with his first exhibition of paintings at
Sydney Fine Art Gallery. There are close
on 40 canvases, ranging from a very slight
decorative panel to “Governor Macquarie,”
a big canvas of vivid coloring which holds
some first-rate character portrayal. “Con-
quistadors,” almost as ambitious, is a better
painting; the color is more pleasing and the
grouping is brilliant. Scoundrels predomi-
nate in the paintings, fine, hearty scoundrels
with teeth missing and an almost friendly
roguery in the eye; “Trio” is a grand group
of them, and there are some fine leering
beauties in “Sir Henry Morgan,” “Mac-
quarie” and “Yarns.” “The Cynic” is another
example of sure character-drawing. A dozen
or so purely decorative pieces make a soften-
ing undertone in the show; but it is because
of his boldness in the use of color, his sure-
ness in fixing his groups and his strength in
creating convincing character that the young
artist, with this show, moves into a definite
place among Australian painters.
The Inky Way
M. G. Skipper’s “The Meeting Pool,”
which will be published in London towards
the end of the year, looks like being a best-
seller before it comes on the market. It
has already been snapped up by booksellers
in the U.S.A., and Robertson and Mullens, of
Melbourne, doubled their order as soon as
their manager read the story in MSS. It deals
with animal life, mostly of the tropics, and
has been illustrated by Coulter.
John Gale, of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.), sub-
ject of recent Bulletin pars., was fated not
to reach the century; bronchitis carried him
off in the third month of his 99th year. In
him Australia has lost its oldest journalist,
and N. S. Wales its doyen of Parliamen-
tarians, justices and coroners. It is 69
years since he published the first number
of the Queanbeyan Age, 65 since he saw
Canberra and pronounced it a site for a
city. The patriarch was twice married, the
unions being separated by 62 years.
Portland ”: Albert Stumm, for many
years editor and manager of the Gympie
Times, one of Queensland’s brightest coun-
try sheets, is quitting newspaper work, for
a time at least, to supervise the estate of
his brother Charles, whose life was cut
short by a motor-car a week or two after
he had become a Supreme Court Judge.
Albert was once chief sub. of the Brisbane
Daily Mail. Jacob Stumm, the eldest of
the. three brothers, was also a journalist
besides being an M.L.A. for three years and'
an M.H.R. for six.
Tom Dunbabin, lately news editor of Syd-
ney Sun, has left for London via the U S A
to take charge of the Herald-Sun cabD
service vice Dumas, the new managing editor
of the Adelaide Advertiser. Dunbabin who
was an early Rhodes Scholar from Tasmania
is now so well dug in on the press that
he will probably stay there, though it wasn’t
exactly the line he had marked out when he
got back from Oxford. He had visions then
oi. getting the chair of Australian History
in some Australian university, and he thor-
oughly equipped himself for the job But
it never came his way, and he was far too
shy to chase it.
nndPr ly ;E? ale ” : After having been 73 years
under the same control, embracing three
generations, the Armidale (N.S.W.) Express
has passed into the hands of the Armidale
Newspaper Co. That concern has also
secured the Armidale Chronicle, the idea
being ultimately to issue a daily The
Express was founded by William Hipgrave
and Walter Craigie; it was the only publi-
-1856* 1 betwcen Maitland aild Brisbane in


No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
m
§jy
di
*4
M
d
rs..
*
aifetly IR,-az©r„
Id
STROPS
jxsuf-
■>
Ik
y
rhsi
iliu
y ii"S
r
£>cir;i
i&Mr
§&j&°p
*MOf
'"Out a*? r
BR IT4IH
©
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
ẅ
w
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!”
“Yes —and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.”
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
‘‘Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
‘Stropping take long?”
‘‘Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
15he
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
If I
™ ™ w
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,100,000
Total Assets
£47,431,823
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
ŵ
BETWEEN September 23
and October 3, the finest
radio show yet will be in
progress in London. Whether
you are a trader or just a
rsdio enthusiast you should
endeavor to see this wonder-
ful display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised
dealers on reciuest to the organisers
&/>e NATIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
OLYMPI A L O N D O N,
ENGLAND
September 23 to October 3.
Organised by
THE RADIO MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, Astor House, Aldwych, London W.C.2.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).


Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. ft.
S2£
’WINCHESTER
NEW MODEL 53
REPEATING RIFLE
Made in 3 Calibres, 25/20, 32 and 44
This new model has the same action as the old ’92 model under lever action Winchester, which
has for many years been so popular among shooters. This new model, however, is fitted with a
22-INCH NICKEL STEEL BARREL, which is specially adapted to HIGH VELOCITY, SUPER-
SPEED and 111-SPEED Cartridges, which have a range of 500 YARDS. Length of rifle 39 inches
over all. Weight 61b. Handy for carrying on horseback or in the car. Don’t forget a
6-SHOT REPEATER. The under-lever action is the most reliable known. PRICE .... *** •
Va
PTV. LTD,
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Seafit brought himself into prominence as
an Australian Steeple candidate by winning
over Caulfield fences last Saturday. Before
the Grand National he was vanquished on
the same course by Epergne, but that much-
travelled animal could only finish second to
him on Saturday at level weights. Seafit
lowered the time record by more than three
seconds, running “about” two miles three fur-
longs in 4min. 31isec. He captured the
Australian Hurdle two seasons ago, and now
is in line for a triumph in what used to
be the “four miler.” Bursary was a slightly
better favorite than the Sea Prince chestnut,
who went out at 9to 2; Bursary fell. Alick
Fullarton displaced Tom Butler as pilot of
Chaumont, but the Seafit stable enlisted But-
ler’s services. Fullarton daringly allowed
Chaumont free rein at the jumps, and his
mount established a long lead, but finished a
poor third, petering out at the last obstacle.
Some onlookers regarded the display as en-
couraging ; still, how can a horse who goes up
and down in the same place at the end of two
miles and three furlongs last out 3's miles?
Bookmakers were wreathed in smiles when
Batalus (20 to 1) started the Caulfield sport
by a tradesmanlike success in the Leamington
Hurdle. Batalus, now on the verge of six
years old. was originally trained by Cecil
Godby, who expected big things of him on
the flat. Like many other thoroughbreds, he
is making atonement as a little-sticks per-
former, hitherto under-rated. St. Ronans
(equal favorite with Not Infallible) ex-
hausted himself in preventing Broadblade
from hitting the front. Jim Scobie’s Blast
deposed him at the five-furlong post, and in
turn was ousted by Not Infallible, who, how-
ever, was no match for Batalus in the home
run.
John Wren, man of many interests, ran
first and fourth respectively in the V.A.T.C.
juvenile event with Toper (trained in Sydney
by Jack Donohue) and Galenist (habitant of
Chris Moore’s Flemington stable). Despite
his two failures at the Grand National meet-
ing Toper shared favoritism at 9 to 2 with
Spouter, a Magpie gelding owned by Norman
Mendes, former bookmaker. Spouter led by
three lengths, but compounded in the straight
and yielded control to Toper, who scored
handsomely from the consistent Gallopade,
with Melosius, an outsider, third.
Caramelo, from the establishment of D. J.
Price, followed up his Flemington victory
by landing the Murrumbeena Handicap at
Caulfield. He headed the quotes at 7 to 2,
and, with a good deal in reserve, reached
the judge nearly a length in advance of
Glynylln. People are curious to know whether
John Edmond will send Caramelo to Brisbane
for the King’s Cup on August 15. Decision
has been reserved, there being many things
to consider. Dave Price presides over a big
team, including Balmerino, also owned by
Edmond. Eric Connolly brought Caramelo
out from England, and allowed him to be sold
for a meagre lOOgns. when he (Connolly)
was precluded from racing 12 months ago.
It will be curious if such a horse should
carry off the highly-coveted trophy which
King George furnishes for annual competition
in Australia.
Eou Robertson saddled up two imported
horses at Caulfield for A. P. Wade —Abbot's
Lad in the Kambrook Trial, and Golden
Bloom in the Malvina Welter. After open-
WASN’T WALTER LIN DRUM.
Padre (moved to remonstrance ): ‘‘My dear Mr. McDivot, if you
have no respect for me personally, surely you might have
a little for the cloth!”
McDIVOT (who has been expressing his feelings ): "Dash it all,
man! D’you think this is billiards we’re playing?”
ing favorite, Abbot’s Lad receded to 15 to 1.
H’e ran fairly well. Golden Bloom met
with solid support, but was seventh only.
The Ivambrook Trial went to a comparative
outsider in Viridis (10 to 1), while South-
down (6 to 1), back to his best form, defeated
Waicullus in the Welter after a desperate
tussle. Manfred’s brother, Murthong, again
let down his backers; but Frank Dempsey’s
disinclination to become entangled in the
ruck may have contributed to the result.
Dempsey'hates rubbing shoulders with other
jockeys
** * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Lindsay Gordon Steeple: Mosstrooper;
next, Valbroy.
(ileu o r la Handicap: Firebreak; next,
Love Story. * *
Maoriland horses are making their cus-
tomary winter splash in Sydney. Lorient
11., a black stallion from across the Tasman,
steered an erratic course in the first division
of the Flying Welter at Canterbury Park
on Saturday, but that didu’t prevent his
winning, at eights; Shankara, Tindall’s slip-
perv three-year-old, was second. And Ora-
trix, second to Jocelyn in the last A.J.C.
Metropolitan and subsequent winner of the
Maoriland Cup, carried 9st. 31b. to a very
meritorious victory in the Canterbury
Handicap.
Octember Avas favorite for Oratrix’s race
(the marc went out at fives), but he had a
very rough passage, though it is improbable
that he would have won in any event. Ora-
trix escaped trouble of that sort, but at
the home turn several horses were ahead of
her, and it looked as if MeCarten would not
be able to get her up in time. However, he
secured an opening, and she finished so fast
that she cut Eubul (20 to 1) out of it by
a head; Divulge was third. Oratrix is a
very plain bay mare, and there is not much
of her, but she is uncommonly game and is
a great stayer. With Bst. Sib. in the King’s
Cup at Brisbane and Bst. 51b. in the Metrop.,
she is well engaged, and McSlioriadds is
keeping her on the safe side for both events.
Owned by R. J. Murphy and trained by
H. B. Lorigan, she is by Kilbroney—Ora-
tress.
Luita (7 to 4), a daughter of Sir
Dighton—Beryl acre, trained by Booth at
Rosehill and raced in his daughter’s . colors,
showed brilliance in the second division
of the Flying Welter. She was ridden by
Bartle, who was on two other winners —
Autumn Balloon (6 to 1) in a division of the
Maiden Welter, and Troilus (6 to 1) in the
Club .Welter. Very easy rides, all three.
* * =!•• *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Auburn Handicap: Quince; next, Royal
Duke.
Rydalmere Mile: Miss Australia; next,
Lord Kennaquliair.
Club Handicap: Blather; next, Lucy
Thrice.
Granville Stakes: Mr. Whiz; next, Lady
Lilah.
* * * *
The turmoil over the identity of the win-
ner of the last A..J.C. Derby has been
settled by the declaration of A. L. Ymlle,
A.J.,C. registrar of racehorses, that Prince
Humphrey is by Duke Humphrey (imp.) out
of Princess Hazel
(imp.) and not out
of Shepherd Prin-
cess, as he has
always been de-
scribed. The Duke
Humphrey Shep-
herd Princess colt
is the worthless
Cragsman, with
whom the Derby
winner has been
confused. The
Derby nominations
included a colt by
Duke Humphrey—
Shepherd Princess.
No horse named
Prince Humphrey
was entered, nor
was any by Duke
Humphrey Prin-
cess Hazel, this
rounding off a rare
old tangle. As the
error was the re-
sult of carelessness,
and nothing more,
the nominations of
Prince Humphrey
for the Epsom, Met-
ropolitan and War-
wick Farm Spring
Handicap are to
hold good if they
are amended and
the necessary fines
paid, as well as the
costs of the in-
quiry. But many
a coalminer would
give a penny for John “Baron’s'’ thoughts;
John gave 2600 guineas for a Valais —Shep-
herd Princess colt; thinking, of course, that
he was a half-brother to the Derby winner.
* * * *
Jimmy Munro, one of Australia’s leading
middleweight jockeys, will r’.de in Germany
next year for Baron Oppenheim, one of
the magnates of the German turf. More
than one Australian rider has made good in
Germany, the list including Brownie Cars-
lake and Frank Bullock. As Munro will
probably be offered mounts in England,
where the Baron also races, he will have an
opportunity of renewing acquaintance with
his old favorite Strephon, who has arrived
in great heart.
* ?■ * *
“Adel” : A keen business man and sports-
man was Michael Habib, who came to Aus-
tralia from Syria about 1890, and has just
died in Adelaide, at 62. lie had a few good
horses, and for several years he bought at
auction the “gate” of the Onkaparinga Rac-
ing Club, which liked to insure itself in that
way against the risk of a -wet Easter Monday.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two boxers new to Sydney Stadium,
Harry Corbett (Eng.) and Lou Bloom
(America), met on Saturday night. Though
both came well boomed, Corbett being a
former Lonsdale-belt holder and Bloom hav-
ing recent victories over Jack Roberts and
Gillespie to his credit, the fight proved a
very tame affair with an unsatisfactory but
not unexpected ending, Joe Wallis disquali-
fying Bloom in the 12th round, after several
previous warnings for holding. Corbett at
times proved himself a classy boxer, and
using a snappy straight left kept the Yank
on the defensive throughout. Corbett shook
his man badly in the ninth with a beautiful
right cross, and that was about the only
round with a thrill in it. Bloom tried mostly
with the usual left rip and hook to the jaw,
which Corbett took mostly on the glove. The
scrap didn’t please the poor crowd present.
Corbett scaled 9st. 611 b. and Bloom 9st. 711 b.
$ $ $ *
Badly overmatched physically, Young Siki
(Bst. 21b.), of England, fought 15 gallant
rounds against overwhelming odds in the
person of Pete Sarron (Bst. 911 b.) at Mel-
bourne Stadium on Saturday night. Full
of fight as a butcher’s pup, the little Briton
went after Pete in whirlwind fashion, and
by sheer tenacity managed to make the first
half of the scrap fairly even. But the
swarthy Pete’s physical advantages were too
great, and gradually the game little battler’s
potency was reduced. Realising the position
over the closing rounds, Sarron uncorked
a high brand of sportsmanship by refraining
from pressing his attacks too hard, and Siki
was allowed to finish his valiant effort on
two feet.
Footbrawl
A further demonstration of Collingwood’s
superiority over other Victorian League
teams was afforded the 33,000 who squeezed
into the little Richmond ground on Saturday
after parting with £912 in the effort. Going
off smartly with the wind, maiking cleverly
and kicking accurately, Richmond’s Tigers
weren’t long in compiling 41 points to
’Wood’s 20, Titus, Ryan, Bentley and Bag-
gott showing individual brilliance. Then the
Collingwood system began to work, and play-
ing to each other as though at practice, the
Magpies steadily reduced the gap, till at
lemon time the game was theirs with a 6-
point lead. In the last term the weary
Tigers battled on, but the others relentlessly
piled on goals and behinds till at bell-ring
they had accumulated 117 points to Rich-
mond’s 75. An unusual circumstance was
the cheering of the umpire, Scott, by far
the most competent official seen this season.
Carlton visited Essendon, and after a fast
and skilful display, marred by erratic kick-
ing, squeezed home by 4 points—s 9 to ’Don’s
55. Melbourne had the misfortune to meet
South Melbourne on the latter’s ground when
the Red and Whites were feeling fit, and
crashed, with 69 points to South’s 82. Gee-
long beat North with 80 points to 54; Foots-
cray downed Fitzroy with 88 to 69, and
St. Kilda simply smothered Hawthorn with
102 to 51.
: != * * *
“Coot”: It is very unusual for a man with
a wooden leg to play football, but Digger
Jim Fyfe, of Glenroy (Vic.), who lost one
leg at the front, often plays for the Glenroy
club. In a recent match his team scored
only three goals, and he kicked them all
with his wooden leg.
* £ $ *
“Flagwagger”: This season the value of
Melbourne footballers has been inflated
almost to bursting-point. Take the example
of a number of Footscray big-of-wind
chasers who are out of work. They found
Footscray’s payment of £3 a match and a
bonus at the end of the season unsatisfac-
tory. so they declared their intention of
moving to Association clubs, with or without
a clearance, unless Footscray found them
employment or gave them more coin. The.
officials hurriedly promised henceforth to pay
unemployed married players £5 10s. a week,
and single out-of-works £4 10s., including
the seniors playing with the second 38. Not
bad pay for an hour’s training two evenings
a week and 100 minutes’ play on Saturday
afternoon. Unfortunately, it is an encour-
agement to _ young players, who should be
securing their future, to become merely pro-
fessional footballers for a few years.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Victoria takes its football
seriously. _ One of the umpires in the Gee-
long District League competition has tossed
in his resignation with the remark that he
finds himself being boycotted in business
because some of his decisions in football
matches were more just than popular. ITe
declared that he could not afford to carry
on under the circumstances. The committee
instructed the president and secretary to
ask the umpire to continue —the league; finds
it hard to secure umpires, which is not
surprising.
(Continued on jmtjn J/1.)
INSTRUCTIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I've ridden for ’em all, both slick and
straight,
An’ done me job the way that I was told,
An’ never argued, though I knew the gait
Of many a tricky colt—just when to hold,
An’ when to sool along, an’ what he’d stand
Of flail or hooks without the yellow
showin’,
An’ how much room he liked on either hand.
An’ how Aw, yes, I knew past all
their knowin’.
You’d think they’d be content to let it rest
At “Use your your blanky head, an’ do your
best.”
Hell, no! That’s not their way, not by a
stack;
The trainer says, “To start with, look
alive,
But take a hold of him along the back,
Then hop him up to fourth, say at the
five;
An’ hug the rails until you reach the bend
An’ when tha rest lug out just shoot him
through,
An’ touch him once or twice before the end.
You understand? That’s all you’ve got
to do.”
Why won’t he give his schemin’ tongue a
rest,
An’ say, “Just use your head an’ do your
best”?
Not on your life! The owner says, “It’s
jake!
I’m set a wad on this, here and in town,
An’ stand to lift a lot beside the stake
Unless you play the goat an’ let me down.
So listen. Take him quiet at the tapes,
But after two or three just set your sails
An’ send him, son. You’ll see the way he
shapes
Along the back —but don’t go near the
rails.
Come ’round ’em at the turn” and all
the rest;
Not “Use your flamin’ head, an’ do your
best.”
Aw, well, it seems life’s race is much the
same,
Birth’s barrier to death’s post—l’ve bet
me roll,
But lookers-on keep buttin’ in the game
To tell a man the way to ride his soul;
Some boss has bought it, so he seems to
think;
Some trainer-parson, by his own account,
He knows how I must live, an’ talk, an’
drink,
To win But, Hell! I’m up! I know
me mount!
An’ someone says, I swear, above the rest,
JustI—“ Us e your head, me lad, an’ do your
best!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
Self
Propelled
m
m
,i : .r
m
"
1
sa
12ft.
Cut
With a crew of two men, one to drive and one to tend the bagging, the Auto Header will harvest 40 acres in a day, on a petrol
consumption of half a gallon to the acre.
The Auto Header is renowned for its ability to harvest storm-flattened and thistle-infested crops.
The 4-cyhnder engine is available for general belt work on the farm. When fitted with feed table and straw elevator, the Auto Header
makes a very efficient stationary thrasher.
Write fOl illustiated descriptive catalogue and particulars of price and terms to—~
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH.
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
World Wide Public
Approval
&AAAAM
AAlfit
Graham'Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons, on five chasses,
in sixes and eights —at a wide range of
prices. All are equipped with four speeds
forward except Model 61a,
Sales during the first three months of this
year were double those for the same period of
1928, and last year Graham'Paige achieved
the greatest first year sales volume of any line
of cars in automobile history. This remarkable
increase in sales reflects world wide approval
of Graham'Paige improved appearance, finer
performance and more substantial value.
J[(94JtpA
Üb&CU**-^
Moca. 817 Five-Passenger Sedan
Graham-Paige Distributors, Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND .. ..
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
. . .. W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
. . . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
- • • • • TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
£AAMAM-PAl££


vtovtfys’
.^V LLEs
Protect your
throat from cold
infections and hoarse-
ness, and keep you in
good voice.
Your Chemist stocks them.
1/- and 1/9 per box.
DOMINION FORESTS LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignis trees, planted
in N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original
15hQ
W. W. GREENER
GUN,
VALUE £lOO,
Shot for at the Melbourne Gun Club,
was won by
V. ECKFORD,
NEW SOUTH WALES
GUN CLUB.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Australian Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Catalogues on application.
GEQT "Hu MAKE VDU A NICE
BIG TEE , e>EgT "
Bert ‘."Thao'S awfuuly good
of you, g>ut— '
GERT : " BUT what"?
Beqt - "lvE Just had MY Dinner'
Footbrawl
By boating the All Blacks 17-9 (3 tries,
a goal and 2 penalty goals to 2 tries and a
p.g.) in the second Test match at Brisbane,
Australia won the rubber for the first time
since the inter-Dominion matches began in
1903. There were close on 20,000 present,
a Brisbane record for the football season,
and these were rewarded by a fast and open
game which could not have been bettered
as an advertisement of the revived amateur
code. A gratifying feature of the game was
the success of the Queensland and Victorian
representatives, all of them more than earn-
ing their oats. Both opponents fielded de-
pleted sides, but the absentees fairly offset
each other, though the loss of their brilliant
five-eighth, Oliver, just before half-time hit
the Maorilanders hard. The star of the game
was the N.S.W. half, Malcolm, though the
back division generally gave a good account
of themselves, Sturtridge and McGhee show-
ing all the skill and coolness of veterans.
With his mate Oliver gone, Lilburne came
manfully to the rescue, and was easily the
best of the All Black backs, the others find-
ing the pace of the opposition a bit too hot
for them. Both vanguards played great foot-
ball, Porter making his first appearance with
the visitors, but once more the home division
held its own with the world-famous men from
Maoriland.
* Hi * *
The Rugby Union grade matches in Sydney
on Saturday provided a surprise in the vic-
tory of Police over Western Suburbs, one
of the leaders. The John Hop forwards were
in great buckle, and were chiefly responsible
for their side’s 17-15 win. Northern Sub-
urbs, now in the lead, beat Glebe-Balmain
convincingly by 22 to 10, while in a fast
and open game at Manly University proved
too clever for the lads of the Village, winning
17-5. Randwick’s backs saved the day
against Y.M.C.A., the latter going down by
29-17 in. a hard-fought match. A poor game
between Eastern Suburbs and St. George
saw the former win 17-12.
* * * #
The feature of the All Blacks’ game
against Combined Country at Armidale
(N.S.W.) was the attendance of over 6000,
which exceeded anything of the kind within
the memory of the oldest Ananias. The
countryside flocked in from far and near to
see the famous men from the Dominion, and
were rewarded with a spectacular game, the
visitors eventually winning by 27 to 8,
though the Country kept scores down to
11 to Bup to half-time. The Country for-
wards gave a first-class exhibition.
•fc
“Spoof” : The press hysteria which marred
the visit of the last English eleven has been
distressingly evident during the stay of the
All Blacks in Sydney. One journal went
off pop because some of the team not in
action shouted instructions to their comrades
who were playing in the second match
against N.S.W. Shrieking that the practice
was an outrage—it is common in almost
every game played among civilised peoples—
it demanded stridently to know what the
visitors meant by the mysterious words “Mi,
mi,” and asked, still more indignantly,
why, if the visitors were bent on these illegal
practices, they could not speak in a tongue
understanded of the Sydney daily press.
When an interpreter supplied the informa-
tion that the words were not a mysterious
Maori spell, but merely an adjuration to
buck up, the clamor subsided.
* % * *
“Cash Amateur”: One of the stalwarts of
the Rugby League, recounting the glories of
the past,' referred sadly to the golden days
when a patron of the professional body
paid £5OOO to secure the services of many
of the amateur “Wallabies” who had just
completed a tour of Great Britain. It \yaa
this purchase of the moh on the hoof which
enabled the League to get a foothold m
N.S.W. —whether it was worth it is another
matter. Of those who turned, the oner
down with the disgust it merited, iom
Griffin, the hooker of the side, and now a
N S.W. Rugby Union State selector, is the
best known. ' When his team drew with
the All Blacks in the first famous match m
the wet, Sydney was hardly big enough
to hold him.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: It is good to read in
the report of the managers of the N.S.W.
League tour of Queensland that the N-S.\\ .
players “both on and off the fie.d conducted
themselves like gentlemen.” This being so,
it is evident, if the Sydney press reports, ot
the casualties endured by these long-suffering
fellows at the hands, feet and teeth of then
adversaries are to* be believed, that the con-
duct of the latter fell short of that calm
repose which marks the caste of V ere de
Vere. This failing will have to be remedied
at ail costs before persons of the kind are
permitted to come in contact with the haut
noblesse of Wigan and Leeds during the
coming tour of England.
* * * *
Saturday’s was the last round of the Rugby
League competition in Sydney before the
departure of the Australian team for Eng-
land. Most of the tourists were playing,
but took things easily. St. George did weil
to beat North Sydney 14-6, and owed a good
deal to the country reeruit. Freestone. Glebe
defeated Balmain at Birchgrove for the
second time by 22-12, while ’Varsity was un-
lucky to flop to Western Suburbs by 8 to 4
at Pratten Park. Eastern Suburbs, thanks
to a brilliant showing by Busch, who scored
8 tries, just headed Newtown by 11 to y at
Marrickville. In Newcastle, South Sydney
won a very rough game from the local side
by 20-17.
Racquet and Bawl
“Gut Shot”: The elimination of England
by Germany in the Davis Cup competition
left Fritz with America to face for the right
to challenge France. The defeat of the Eng-
lishmen was unexpected, and was probably
due to the players coming straight off grass
courts to pay on hard gravel. However,
after a bad start, the visitors recovered,
and it needed only a win by the brilliant
Austin in the final singles t<? clinch a British
victory. He strained a thigh muscle badly
while going well, and though he played out a
five-set match, he was practically helpless in
the last two sets, after winning the second
and third in great style. The Germans got
a dreadful doing from America, Tilden,
Hunter, Allison and Van Ryn winning both
singles and doubles.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Following on the meeting
of Germany and America in the penultimate
round of the Davis Cup, American tennis
authorities have decided to invite the
Germans to send a team across to the States
for the national championships, which begin
in August. This will be the first official visit
paid by the Germans to Tildenland.
# * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: It has often been
my duty to call attention to the cantank-
erousness of tennis players, a trait in which
they are surpassed only by their truculent
confreres the bowlers. The latest evidence
of this spirit comes 1 from Maoriland. Feelers
have been put out as to the possibility of a
team of M.L. tennis players coming to Aus-
tralia next season. The reply lias been to
the effect that until N.S.W. sends a decent
team across to M.L. instead of the consign-
ments of duds forwarded in recent years,
the All Blacks will see N.S.W. in Victoria
before they despatch a side across the
Tasman.
The Watermen
“Catch” : It is possible, after all, that we
may see a Maoriland eight in Sydney for the
N.S.W. championships if the (late ot the
latter can be adjourned for six weeks or so.
The Maorilanders state that they cannot
come over in December, in which month the
State events are held, but could manage the
visit by February. With the inter-State
race for the King's Cup due in Adelaide
early in May, this would be too late for the
Welshmen. The South Australian rowing
authorities have been asked if they can post-
pone the big race until the middle of May,
the latest date demanded by the conditions.
If this could be done it would give the
N.S.W. crew time to get together after the
M.L. visit in February.
* * * *
“Lilywhite” : Vic. Ilorniman, who was re-
elected captain of the North Shore Rowing
Club at the club’s jubilee meeting in Sydney
last week, has held the job for five and
twenty years. Amateurism lias no more
staunch defender than North’s skipper, who,
indeed, is something of a zealot in the sacred
cause. He managed the Australian Olympic
eight in 1912, the crew which won the Grand
Challenge at Henley, but he has other in-
terests in sport beside rowing. Rugby Union
football and boxing are the chief of these,
and it is dangerous to breathe the name ot
the Rugby League within half a mile of lnm.
>|c * * *
“Mortlake” : That race for the Philadelphia
Gold Cup and the “amateur championship
of the world” (B. 3/7/’29) is to come off
in Sydney all right, though the date has
not yet been fixed, The holder, Bobbie
Pearce, has been challenged by another N. S
Welshman in Jack Goulding, who is being
coached by former champion George Towns.
The race will be over the Olympic distance,
1 mile 110 yards. Goulding is very fast over
a mile, but since Pearce broke the world’s
record for the distance at the Olympiad, one
cannot give the challenger much chance.
Incidentally, the cup has no claim to carry
the world’s amateur championship. By usage
and common consent, that has long attached
to the Wingfield Sculls, rowed at Henley.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Queensland amateur golf champion-
ship, played on the Yeerongpilly course at
Brisbane last week, went to Dr. J. M.
Banks, of Lismore (N.S.W.), a well-known
figure in the N.S.W. Country Week tourneys,
who won from C. B. Freeman 6 up and 5
to plav over 36 holes —a fairly solid hiding.
J. N. Radcliffe, the previous champion, was
unable to defend his title on this occasion,
and several other of the State’s leading
players also had to drop out for various
reasons.
* * * *
“Delia”: Yet another golf miracle. Play-
ing across a road on which stood a cart with
a feeding horse in the shafts, a. Violet Town
(Vic.) associate drove her ball into the
neddy’s nosebag. That was bad enough, but
worse was to come when she was informed
that her action in taking the pill out of
the bag before the prad could swallow it
would cost her two strokes —“lifting a ball
in a hazard.”
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Members of that sacro-
sanct institution the Royal Sydney Golf
Club were shaken to the tips of their vener-
able whiskers last week by a strike of caddies.
Not only did the young ruffians spurn the
princely guerdon of Is. 3d. for each 6000-
yard round and the possibility of a tip,
but they shattered all tradition by gathering
at the tees and “poking bdrak” —I under-
stand that is the expression—at their betters
essaying to go round carrying their own bags.
Even then the seriousness of the situation
was not realised until cries of “Scab” and
“W’y don't yer get er Lukin award?” were
heard. The police were hurriedly sent for
before bashing tactics could be resorted to by
the malcontents.
*** . .
“Divot Digger”: While a Bolshevik spirit
has of late been evident among bowlers and
other N.S.W. exponents of various forms
of athletics, the golfers have hitherto held
coldly aloof, as befits those of superior clay.
A rapid change has come over the scene.
Last week a special committee was appointed
by the City and Suburban Golf Association
to frame the rules and constitution of a
State bodv to control the game. At present,
such control as there is comes from a
committee of nine, three of whom are ap-
pointed, by the C. and S. and three each
by the two swankiest Sydney clubs, the
Royal Sydney and the Australian. Llie mu -
titude of country clubs have no direct repre-
sentation, and are asking for an elective
body. It is proposed to give all clubs voting
powers according to the number of their
members. The two big Sydney clubs, possess-
ing the only recognised championship courses,
will continue to conduct the championships.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Following on his win in the
Queensland open championship, northern
golfers have decided to send the Sandgatt
professional, A. Gazzard, to compete in the
Australian open in Adelaide at the end ol
next month. It is a considerable time since
a Queensland professional entered for the
national event, though amateur aspirants
have been fairly common.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Golf in India lias long-
been celebrated for its native caddies. Iliese
play a very important part in the average
man’s game, according as their boss is
“sweet” with them or not. W ith their pre-
hensile toes it is possible for them to trans-
fer a ball from a bad to a good lie, or vice
versa, long before the perspiring player gets
“up,” and at a distance it is impossible to
detect the manoeuvre. That it pays to be
kind and generous to one’s inferiors in this
regard is shown by a testimonial recently
proudly exhibited to a touring Australian bj
a Delhi caddie. It read: “I have employed
Ram Buksh as a fore-caddie for the past two
years, and can conscientiously say that
during that time I have never had a bad
lie ”
11 * * * *
“The McHaggis”: The Americans have
boldly decided to adopt the larger and
lighter ball, though St. Andrews, which con-
trols golf outside Hoover’s country, has de-
finitely declared for the type at present in
universal use. This raises the question ot
wliat is going to happen in the British cham-
pionships of the future and in such inter-
national contest's as the Ryder and Walker
Cups. It cannot be supposed that the Ameri-
cans will handicap themselves with the new
ball, which gives them less distance and lias
other disadvantages, nor can British or
American players be expected to adopt in
matches a ball with which they are unfami-
liar in practice.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: These cuckoos who insist on
the importance of style and adherence to
fixed methods in golf give me a pain some-
times. The man who has his mind fixed
on method while making a stroke has no
time to do anything else, and then won-
ders why lie remains the duffer he was
originally designed to be. I have just been
confirmed in this opinion by reading an Dog-
fish sketch of the American player Diegel,
who ran second to Walter Hagen in the
British open championship, and has beaten
him on several occasions. Every stroke
Diegel makes is a shuddersome defiance
of the orthodox, while his stance is “impos-
sible to describe.” I sometimes _ think the
advice the golf coach gives one is like the
stuff the politicians hand out to the electors
—calculated for the one end of justifying
the dispenser’s reason for existence, and for
no other. „
(Continued on next puge.)


o
o
BE-I'
REGIS^H
Al)SlUMf§
w
»
Ensure efficient' running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.I.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
w
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzlg Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
C. N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Melbourne. Victoria.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The result of the Irish Grand
Prix, run over a distance of 304 miles on
the roads near Dublin, took on a mixed as-
pect, since the winning driver, Ivanovsky,
is a Russian, and the car an Italian Alfa
Romeo. The English driver, Kidson, in a
Bentley, was second, only 14 seconds to the
bad, and Bentley cars tilled third and fourth
places. There were 40 entries representing
live European nations, and the racing was
done on a 4&-mile circuit which had to
be covered 70 times. There were two divi-
sions, for cars under 1500 c.c. on the
first day, and for over that capacity on the
second. The winner on each day received
£lOOO and a gold cup. The Grand Prix
itself went to the competitor, regardless of
class, who completed the course in the fastest
time on either of the two days. The winner
is a well-known driver in Britain and on
the Continent.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: Something new in the way
of record-breakers was seen at Brooklands
lately, when an eight-cylinder Graham-Paige
sedan had a shy at the record for cars of
305 to 480 cubic inches’ displacement which
was put up on the same track last year by
a Delage sports model. The G.-P. is the
first sedan to figure on the famous track,
and the equipment included headlamps, fen-
ders, two spare wheels and a trunk rack,
practically a touring ensemble. Driven by
D. Marendaz, the car was successful, averag-
ing 77.90 m.p.li., and easily beating the pre-
vious best. As an example of what a near-
tourer can do in the way of sustained
speed under favorable conditions, the test
was uncommonly valuable.
* *
“Sprocket”: The first of the important
road cycle races of the N.S.W. season, the
40-niile championship, attracted 23 starters.
The race was run under strict unpaced con-
ditions, riders starting and riding alone
throughout, with an interval of two minutes
between each. The winner was J. Rogers, who
carried off the Goulburn to Sydney road race
last year. He covered the course in lhr.
57min. 22sce., a new unpaced record for the
race, the second 20 miles being covered under
the hour. The Lakemba rider has come on
since last season, and gives promise of
rivalling the best of his predecessors on
the N.S.W. roads.
“Kalamazoo”: That great little Victorian
cyclist “Fatty” Lamb has started his pro-
fessional career in America well. He went
over some months ago with Horace ITorder,
who has been very successful in the States,
and was pitted last week against two of
America’s best track riders in Chapman
and Hopkins and the Italian crack, Georg-
e.tti, over a 20-mile ride at Newark velo-
drome. The race was behind motor-pace,
and Lamb won with a brilliant sprint. He
has been signed up for the season by John
Chapman,. the leading American promoter,
so his prospects seem assured. At the same
meeting, Horace Horder also scored for Aus-
tralia by winning the third-of-a-mile cham-
pionship of America.
v *!• ifs
“Kay”: Professional road-cyclists in
Maoriland are training hard for the forth-
coming road championship of the Dominion,
the Timaru to Christchurch event. Among
the competitors will be Harry Watson, who
visited France with Opperman, Osborne and
Bainbridge. Watson is a good sportsman,
and hasn’t concealed from Canterbury
cyclists the wrinkles of distance riding he
learned while on the Continent.
Miscellaneous
“Bamboo”: The Australian polo pony is
now well in the boom abroad. Following on
his visit to Hawaii and America with Curtis
Skene and others. 11. S. Pearson, of N.S.W.,
is shipping a lot of 15 to San Francisco.
It is probable that 50 ponies will be taken
to the States in December by the Australian
polo team which is to tour America next
summer. This will give the nags a chance
to become acclimatised and get into good
playing condition.
* * * *
“Splash” : The glory of Australian swim-
ming has departed. The latest authorised
list of world’s swimming records shows that
Charlton’s name has been wiped off, his BSO
yards record of 10min. 32sec. having been
cracked by Johnny Weissmuller, who
knocked 9 4-ssec. off it. The only record
we can now claim has not yet been listed,
though it has been passed. ’ This is Edna
Davey’s 1000 metres swim, which is claimed
to have bettered Marie Norelins’s figures of
13min. 39$see.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: It lias been definitely
decided to hold the next Australian bowling
series in Tasmania, the commencing date
being fixed for February 17. Launceston is
to be the venue, and arrangements are
already being made' for the accommodation
of a large number of visitors from other
States. Some surprise has been caused in
bowling circles at the passing over of
Hobart, which has the attraction of a
renowned brewery to recommend it. It may
be taken for granted, however, that the Aus-
tralian Bowling Council knows its onions,
and that visiting bowlers will tind that Laun-
ceston is more than capable of satisfying
their most urgent requirements.
* * * *.
( After drawing the first two Tests with the
South African cricketers on fairly equal
terms, England won the third comfortably
at Lords by five wickets. Freeman, with 7
for 115, got the Springboks scratching in the
first innings, the veteran Gatterall, who
scored 74 in a total of 236, and V incent
(60) being the only batsmen to do anything.
England’s first knock of 326 was notable
for a sparkling 83 by lefthander Woolley
and great bowling by the fast lefthander
Quinn, one of the infants of the S.A. team.
The ’Boks went for 275 in the second knock
a lively 129 by Owen Smith, another young-
ster, saving the side from collapse. Woolley
added a 95 n.o. to his first-innings score
in the 186 England required to win. Lar-
wood did little, and altogether it would seem,
on the form shown so far, that the English
defeat of Australia last year was due not
so much to the high quality of the Britons
as to the very low standard of Australia,
especially in bowling.
* * # *
“Shrewsbury”: An interesting survival of
the cricket past is Charles Theobald, a
canon of Winchester Cathedral, who was 98
last week. He walked and spoke with such
of the immortals as Alfred Mynn, Fuller
Pilch, Wisden and the Caffyn whom Aus-
tralia was to know in later years. The old
gentleman played for Winchester against
Eton and Harrow in 1848. It has been
given to few who saw Wisden in the flesh
to read their own records in the book that
bears the long-dead professional’s name.
* =k * *
“Tenth Slip”: The real spirit of cricket
is evident in the decision of our Board of
Control to give Maoriland the big end of
the purse collected in Australia for the
matches which will be played here by Gilli-
gan’s men on their way to the isles beyond the
Tasman. The M.L. Association has had a
bad spin, losing heavily over its tour of
Britain, and the big gates which can be
reckoned as certainties in the chief Aus-
tralian cities will be a great help. The
English team is a very fine one, including
as it does Frank Woolley—playing at his
top this season in England—Duleepsinghi,
Percy Holmes and other topnotchers who
have not yet been seen on this side. With
only a Sheffield Shield programme ahead,
the Australian public will welcome the
chance of seeing these fine, players.
* * * j;c
“Amateur Pro.”: There was a sensation
in Australian cricket circles the other day
when Amos was debarred from an amateur
footrace in Brisbane on the ground that he
was _ a professional, having taken fees for
playing inter-State cricket in excess of the
ss. allowance permitted as the maximum by
the Amateur Athletic Union of Australia.
The decision was perfectly correct, and one
wonders at the fuss, since the Australian
authorities declared the inter-State and Test
cricketers professionals some months ago
for the same reason. This is certain to be
G. McGHEE, the Queensland wing three-
quarter, who has won a place in the
Australian side against the All Blacks
in his first Rugby Union season.
upheld by the international authorities, and
the fact should give cricketer athletes some-
thing to ponder on,
* * * ♦
“For'ard Hand”: After a break of three
years, the inter-State sailing races for 18-
footers between Queensland, N.S.W. and
Westralia are to begin again. Brisbane will
be the venue, and the carnival is to commence
with handicap events on January 25, the
championship being set down for February 1.
A notable departure from previous conditions
is that each State may nominate as many
boats as it desires, the former limit of throe
craft each having been discarded. This
seems something like a handicap on visiting
States, which naturally cannot command the
numbers available for the home side. Still
there are invariably one or two boats in each
State which stand out from the others, so
it comes to the same thing in the end.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: A man with a special
interest in the news that Sir Thomas Lip-
ton is again in pursuit of the America
Cup—the race takes place next year—is the
J. FITT, Victorian middle-distance runner,
who has recently challenged all comers
to an all-round contest. He is a Mel-
bourne fireman.
father of airman Ulm, a Sydney photo-
grapher, who is also a lover of aquatic
sports and a boat designer himself. Ulm
in his younger days went to England to
study ship-designing, and helping in the pre-
paration of the plans for one of Lipton's
yachts was one of his jobs.
• v * ❖ * s*:
“Long Dog”: One of the Sydney hare-
chasing courses possesses a puss of rare
acumen. The other day she must have felt
unusually flash, for she refused to use the
escapes at the end of- the run, but doubled
back, beating the dogs badly. When they
pressed her again, she took cover in a drain.
The disappointed hounds were hauled off,
and, as soon as the couples were on them,
puss emerged from her refuge and nonchal-
antly cantered back to the escapes, having
given patrons of the course a double run for
their money.
* * * :J:
“Third Base”: Australian baseballers are
warming up for their big tourney in Sydney
during the first week in August. Though
the. visit of an American team could not
be arranged for this year, as was hoped,
most of the States will be represented, with
South Australia and Victoria the most
formidable rivals of the home side. The
game is shooting ahead in Sydney, and when
the clubs are able to command enclosed
grounds will rival one or two of the more
formidably entrenched sports. For one thing,
while full of skilful display and excitement,
it is short and sweet. No seven-day matches
in baseball.
* # * 4t
“The Gaffer”: The British amateur track
and field championships at Stamford Bridge
saw some reputations upset. ,T. Hanlon, a 20-
year-old policeman, won the 220 and 440,
beating Rinkel, the Olympic crack, in the
first, and Barsi, the Hungarian, in the 440.
C. Ellis, who has succeeded Lowe over the
middle distances, took the mile and half-
mile —a double that has not been achieved
since the mighty W. G. George did it in
1884 for the second time. The defeat of
Lord Burgliley in the 440 hurdles by an
Italian, Facelli, was not unexpected on recent
form. London, the British Guiana native
who was second in the Olympic 100 metres
to Canuck Williams, won the 100 in lOsec.
* * * *
“Setter”: Cocking still flourishes in
Britain, in spite of legislation which inflicts
hardship on sportsmen and the cocks alike,
since these love nothing in life better than
fighting. Recently two men. in all proba-
bility the “setters,” were fined at Derby
police court for “causing cocks to fight,”
but the beak, who had probably a weakness
for the game himself, declined to treat other-
wise than as spectators a number of other
folk charged. It was noteworthy that when
the two birds were produced in court each
tried to outcrow the other, and made vicious
attempts to get into “holts.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Mulgo": Our Alpine country is not much
use as a revenue-producer, except as a tourist
resort. With proper enclosures it would he
ideal for fox farms, of which there are be-
tween 2500 and 3000 in Canada, with an
annual output worth 31 to 4 million dollars.
Studs are purchased from Canadian breed-
ers by Norway and Japan, as high as £750
having been paid for a prime black dog
fox. There would not be much danger of
the black fox running amok like the red if
any got away from the farms, for the breed
would be too valuable to escape long from
hunters, and all the surplus males would be
castrated. The fox is easily domesticated,
and could be fed cheaply on our spare mil-
lions of rabbits.
* * % sic
“Si Anu” : The campaign against bread
prices recently begun by the Vic. House-
wives’ Association speedily struck the
obstacle of a trade boycott, the baker who
had pledged himself to supply the munitions
of warfare having intimated that he is no
longer able to do so. The 'wives announce
their inflexible determination to continue the
offensive, but the fact that they are now
suggesting that women should assist to meet
the menace by cooking scones in their homes
looks like a confession of partial failure.
***:>!
“Smoke Dried”: Copra prices continue
down the slippery slide, and unless there is
a decided change for the better a lot of Aus-
tralian money dropped into Island planting
and trading ventures will not come out again.
The growing use of substitutes has queered
the market for the planter, and the traders’
case has been made worse by unrestricted
competition. Many traders have been giving
the. native growers little short of Condon
parity, . being content to deal at a trifling
profit in order to keep the business.
* * j[:
“The stranger” : “Bill Ding” (B. 29/5/’29)
says that Australian hardwood sleepers cost
11s. 6d. in India. If so, someone is getting
more than a fair cut. Export sleepers in
N.S.W. arc handled by firms which pay the
cutter at present 4s. per sleeper landed ou
the wharf or a depot adjacent. Out of this
he has to pay nearly sd. royalty to tin'
Forestry Department (private owners charge
more) ; also cartage to depot, which here
(Bermagui) ranges from Is. to Is. 9d.
The sleeper-cutter is easily the poorest-paid
worker in N. S. Wales, not 5 per cent, mak-
ing the basic wage.
* * * *
“Eden”: Something new in Maoriland is
a creditmen’s club. At the inaugural meet-
ing in Auckland it was said that businesses
"were being hard hit by the cash-and-carrv
stores, and that the best way of meeting
the competition was to organise credit. Tin-
club undertakes not only to organise a credit
system for its members, but to keep it within
reasonable control.
* * * *
“Napier Street” : The Sydney flapper press
has been going into ecstasies over a light-
ning fruit-packer from the Murrumbidgee—
girl (with portrait) of course. Room for a
Vic. exhibit, Fred Shingles, of Maffra. His
job is discharging sugar-beet from railway
trucks at the factory, acknowledged to be the
hardest work connected with the sugar-beet
industry, and he is the unbeaten champion.
He gets 6id. per ton, averages between £6
and £7 per week during the season, and has
been at it for 15 years. He is 70, and a
great-grandfather.
* * * *
“W.1.U.”: “Query” (B. 3/7/'29) is right
about the huge cost involved in converting
high voltage to low. Broken Hill’s
municipal station produces its power from
100-cycle alternating current units at 11(1
volts. Nothing is now made to that voltage,
so fans, motors, irons and so forth have to
be altered and adjusted to meet the rare
current, the extra charge being about half
first cost. The hospital gets nearly all its
power from the station, and when that is
closed by the frequent strike the wards have
to be lit by hurricane-lamps; the cost of
putting in transformers is too great to admit
of getting a supply from the mines. Acci-
dents are rare, but that is more because of
the little use made of electricity owing to
the disadvantages than to the low voltage.
* * * *
“John B.”: The notion that a husband
is responsible for all his wife’s debts got a
severe jolt at Litligow (N.S.W.) the other
day when a man, sued for the cost of boot*,
mercery and other men’s wear bought by
his wife on time payment, -won his case. The
summons was issued against the wife, but
on her death the husband was made defen-
dant. He maintained that the goods were
not for him, and as the t.-p. order had been
signed by the lady the P.M. ruled that he
wasn’t liable. Incidentally, defendant said
he had not lived with his wife as a wife for
years, merely paying her—she kept a board-
ing-house—3os. a week. Hardly a star
boarder!


JATVJiio^
GIN
v 43
o
o
N
£//*/
'I'J
fe
3
*
A
m
Wa
fff>
m
CILBEYS
Order of Merit
•c
*o
1
Q
54
%
1
&
<s>
$
*
<?
&
5C
*©2
quoit
P
IBEYS
DRY GIN
102.


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920
ẃ
CHAMPAGNE <
1110
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Li mitad
SYDNEY.
c hampacks
Qiarieslleidsiec>
Reims
i
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
10 YE AK.S OLD.
Australasian Agrerta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service,
Smart people—the leaders —always congregate at the Went-
worth —the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or unite for reservations.
9 fie Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
52 MacScaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/s^/-
Daily, from
Telephone: F 2 16 1 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
There was nothing of the Old Queen
about the frocks of last week’s Victoria
League party. They were dazzling, often
backless, and, despite their flares and
rhythms, had a revealing clinginess quite
unlike the frockirig of the Victoria who
stands sculptured outside the Queen's Club.
Within that fastness Miss Macartliur Onslow,
president of the league, entertained the
admiral Evans couple before taking them
on to. the function of which the sea-hero
and his wife were the guests of honor.
The banqueting-room of the Australia
blazed into a tliousand-and-onc lustres for
the occasion. The air, brittle with cold in
Castlereagh-street, was there soft and warm
with music, flowers and the glow of jewels.
It was the smartest party to the league’s
credit. It w T as trim and racy and above all
well manned. The reception committee,
standing in the draught at the entrance to
greet the guests, wore handsome wraps exoti-
cally furred. Every second woman was a
knight’s lady, and with two exceptions were
all black.
Tom Hughes’s lady wore delphinium-blue
georgettes encrusted with pearls. Embossed
velvet in. the softest of sky-after-rain blue
outlined in delicate gold traceries was worn
with distinction by Mrs. Roystone Davey,
who further supported a handsome coat, col-
lared and cuffed in soft grey fur barred with
black. This looked like squirrel, but turned
out to be a lad called Coco. Black lace was
worn by Kelso King’s lady, and Miss Mac-
arthur Onslow’s slim height glittered in gold
laces. Mrs. Evans looked as though she had
come straight from the ice floes; her frozen-
white moire was stabbed with icicles o.f dia-
mente and topped by a frostily glittering
coat of silver sequins. Mrs. Leon Lyons’s
black frock was backless, followed the Prin-
cess line and carried one of the Louis
Boulanger bustle bows. It was so smart that
if the night had been a Derby nothing else
could have kept step with it. Mrs. Prosper
Williams also won commendation; another
was Mrs. Stuart Osborne, whose frock allied
soft, thick black silk and ivory chiffon, with
a trail of pink roses falling from waist to
hem. Margaret Fairfax was graceful; and
a word should go to Mrs. Norman Lowe’s
■mink and Russian princess headdress.
Former Chief Justice Cullen welcomed the
guests, and the Admiral got off another joke
-—that an Admiral once told him that
there -were more speeches to the square meal
in Australia than in any other part of the
Empire.
To the dinner party before the reception
hostessed by Miss Macartliur Onslow were
bidden, besides the Admiral and his lady, the
Richard Onslows, the Denzil Onslows, the
Mungo MacCallums, the Kelso Kings, ex-
Cliief Justice Cullen and Dr. Micklem.
r ’Flu is raging through city and suburbs.
Nearly every shop and factory is working
short-handed. The nurses at Prince Alfred’s,
Sydney and the Children’s Hospitals were
handed much more than their share of the
organism, and on one terrible day the
Prince Alfred tea-rooms were down to one
single voluntary worker.
The popular American Consul-General
and his still more popular wife are sustain-
ing a round of farewell parties. They are
due for return to America, and Mr. Lawton
will then, no doubt, join the great army of
ex-Consuls who live amid the peace of Wash-
ington. But first he will spend his 65th
birthday in Sydney, and that, it seems, is the
age limit for Uncle’s ambassadors.
No fear of the drama dying out in Sydney
for want of torch-bearers. But, as usual, it
is the amateur companies that keep the
flame burning brightest. Added now' to the
Turret, the Theatre of Youth, the Playbox,
the Players, the Vagabonds, Harold Watch’s
enterprise, and a dozen or so of lesser com-
panies is Francis Jackson’s Repertory
Society. Last Friday a performance of
“Macbeth” by this company filled the Con-
servatorium with students and young
teachers and a fair sprinkling of the good,
sustaining general public. Mine host and
hostess Macbeth w r ere cloak'd in crimson
throughout; and a word of approbation goes
to the golden robe worn by the lady of
Glamis in the first act. Tlmse little groups
are creeping out into the suburbs with their
playhouses, and are likely to prove the
advance troops in whose train the commer-
rial theatres will follow. Mrs. Duncan Mac-
dougall, incidentally, has started a club for
those keen on the drama and the arts at
219 Elizabeth-street, near the T. & G.
Roy de Mestre is responsible for some
colorful decorations.
Sydney wasn’t a bit surprised to see the
Pitt Rivers divorce case head-lined last week.
When the good-looking woman was in xVus-
tralia with her father, Lord Forster, then
Governor-General, the Captain being his
aide, and especially when later the lady
starred as Mary Hinton with the J.C.W.
firm, there was a pretty general feeling that
all was not well in the dovecote The hus-
band’s views on polygamy (with illustra-
tions) were some of the grounds on which
Mrs. Pitt Rivers claimed her divorce. She
left the court with it after proceedings which
lasted'seven minutes.
Cancer clinic —what a terrifying sound it
has! Hundreds of women when they see the
words hurriedly turn the page to find some-
thing more cheerful. Yet the radium or
cancer clinic of Prince Alfred Hospital is a
place of sun and light and cheerful corners.
It is a cottage building across the road from
the big hospital, and was once part of the
nurses’ quarters. Now it is divided into a
waiting-room, a shining white little theatre,
two or three small wards and a consulting-
room. Here of an afternoon patient after
patient is seated on the polished stool in the
middle of the room while around gather five
or six of the city’s leading cancer specialists.
So the patient has not the advice of one man
only. Nothing terrifying about this room.
It looks like a scrupulously clean city office.
It was standing there, leaning against the
desk, that Sister Settle, who is in charge
of the clinic, spoke the prophecy that, all
going well, in 10 years’ time science will
have stripped the rodent ulcer of its terrors
that stalk sleep by night and peace by day.
In one room on a bright cold morning of
last week a quiet little man sat with one
thousand pounds’ worth of the Great Hope
on his cheek, and beside the fire in the next
room an older man had a slight spot on the
hand covered with a speck worth a similar
amount. There’s nothing depressing about
a place that mixes radium with jars of lilies
or that in the summer turns a back verandah
latticed and awninged in yellow and black
stripes into a consulting-room. Hope must
stir when the sufferer sees this capable nurse
and her assistants, young and attractive, look-
ing with unafraid eyes to the ultimate con-
quest of the scourge.
Sister Lela Settle, whose work at the
clinic, has become widely known, is a trainee
of Prince Alfred. She saw war service, has
done radium work in America, England,
Sweden, France, Belgium and Germany, and
bo fore her
travels was
for two years
with a Mac-
quarie - street
specialist.
When she was
in B e 1 g i u m
the R.P.A.’s
bank of rad-
ium was being
prepared, aud
as an emissary
from a con-
tinent that
was buying
a quarter of
a million
pounds’ worth
Miss Settle
was looked on
as the Dollar
Princess. Here
she worked at
the clinic di-
rocted by Dr. feluyes. Sweden’s expert, Dr.
Berven, added to her store of knowledge; so
did some studious hours at the Cure Clinic,
the Radium Institute in London; at the
Middlesex Hospital, where she met Mr.
Samson-Handley, the great breast surgeon;
and at the Manchester Hospital, where she
met Dr. Burrows, now at Canberra. The
picture of the sister is from the Dayne
studio.
Leslie Joubert, child of the Papuan wilds,
crowned his unconventional life by conven-
tionally marrying in the way of all heroes
his old sweetheart, Kathleen Theresa Pid-
cock, at St. Mary’s. She is a daughter of
a well-known Casino family ; he one of the
old Hunter’s Hill family. Ever a wanderer,
very few living men know as much of New
Guinea as he. He has been prospector,
trader, recruiter and storekeeper; he has dis-
appeared into the interior for 12 months at a
time, without any other white man, and with
only a Papuan bodyguard; and his ethno-
logical knowledge has been availed of by the
most learned scientific bodies. During the re-
cent rush at Bulolo he and Frank Pryke were
early birds who caught so fat a worm that —
well, the younger of them simply had to call
a mate to the feast.
Dorothy Melville, little Josie’s big sister,
was principal lady herself in a very impor-
tant act one day last week. She was the
star in a “one performance only” produc-
ŵ
ẁ
jective has been reached. But the flower
depot isn’t putting up its shutters. “Carry
on !” is its watchword —there is still plenty
of need for all it can do. May Moore has
made us this picture of Miss Caro.
Chantilly laces lightly traced in silver
through which pink ninons blushed faintly,
and a cascade of lace veil, made the thistle-
down raiment which flowed about Irene
Pepper as she was wafted into the holy
estate. St. Paul’s Church, at Hurlstone
Park, blessed the adventure, in which she
was joined by David Johnstone, of Welling-
ton (M.L.). Bride’s sisters Valda and
Girlie ’maided in green frocks with gold
posies, topped by green and gold felt hats;
and niece Maisie Westphal, like a clump of
primroses in her frilly tulle frock, attended
the froth of lacy train. Bride’s parents, of
Dulwich Hill, did the right thing by the
guests in the new Masonic Hall at Peter-
sham.
Cocktail parties are all the rage now, just
as they are in Dondon. They fill up the
void between tea and dinner. You drift in
spotless or slightly spotted and drift out
with another one on your liver plus a savory.
It’s a sort of quick-lunch hospitality in a
rush season.
Former pupils of North Sydney Girls’
High did their old school proud the other
night at the Ambassadors. Almost every
girl had wriggled into a brand-new dress, and
the table decorations showed that the classes
in applied art were still bearing fruit. The
ballroom repeated at intervals the blue and
green of the school colors, and the school
banner was reproduced on president Mrs.
H. A. McCredie’s table, where a posy tied
with blue and green, parked at each guest’s
place, gave fragrance and color. Phyllis
Millingen, one of the secretaries, decked her
board with gilt candlesticks and a gilt basket
filled with favors. Una Roberts, another
secretary, flashed by in white georgettes scin-
tillating with crystal. Joan Hendy-Poolcy
was the treasurer, and presided with Athene
Lyons at a table heady with bowls of flowers.
Miss Slack, the High headmistress, and Mrs.
Primrose, Mayoress of North Sydney, were
at the president’3 table. This was the eighth
year of the dance, and, as always, the tak-
ings will aid the bursary fund established
to the memory of former headmistress Miss
Grossman.
Another school-dance of great joy was the
gathering of the Syduey-dwelling Old Boys
of St. Stanislaus at Bathurst. With their
partners they formed a company 400 strong
that held the Wentworth till the morning
hours. It was the union’s 21st yearly dance;
the harvest goes to the college sports-ground
fund.
There was another big night at the Palais
last week, when a coo-ee from City Tatt.’s
took 2000 and more out to Moore Park.
There'll be some smacking of lips at Sydney
Hospital over it, because £3OO was raised
towards the night’s expenses by preliminary
canters. The State vice-regals were present
having with them Colonel and Mrs. Bert-
ram and Major Longfield Llovd and his
Wife. Chairman James Clarke and Mrs
Clarke, vice-chairman Arthur Cooke
treasurer Edward Johnston and Mrs John-
ston and secretary Owen Maidment and his
wife were in the group into whose bosom
the party was received. Eighteen pretty
young things, unfledged till now, fluttered
in white along a path of red carpet, bowed
to the Royal deputy and then slid and glid
with their partners into the waltz reserved
for them. Mrs. James Clarke, who presented
the debs., and Lily Wallace, who trained
them, smiled with satisfaction over the
results.
The pretty little ballroom on the top ot
St. James’s Flats in Stanley-street housed
the delayed wedding reception of the Andre
Brenacs. Mrs. Brenac before her wedding
was Henriette Segaert, eldest daughter of
Belgium’s Consul-General. At the time of
her marriage she stipulated that no party
should take place till after she and her hus-
band returned from the honeymoon, because,
she said, a bride and ’groom can at the best
merely sample their own post-wedding jolli-
fication. On Thursday night last Mrs.
Brenac and her husband kept on enjoying
their own party right through the night. The
Consul and his wife, sons George and Paul
and young daughter Sophie likewise enjoyed
it, and turned beaming faces on the world.
The ballroom was comfortably filled with inti-
mate friends, among them France’s Consul-
General and Mrs. Nettement. Mrs. Brenac
received her congratulations in a frock of
water-green satin moulded to the figure, and
dripping off into two drapes. Mrs. Segaert
did the honors in a frock of shining beige
lace. The Consul for the Netherlands and
Mrs. Fein and the Danish Consul and his
wife were others whose feet made joyous pat-
terns on the polished floor.
The Paddington Town Hall may be a bit
out of the way for dances these times, though
in the leisurely days of the hansom and the
family brougham it was a very popular
waltzing tryst with bucks and belles, and
the black-and-white artists have decided to
make it their address on July 29. One
reason is the moderate charge per foot of
jazz area. The artists have been busy with
pot and brush, and the result is a set of
decorative screens—or screams,. Maszs and
fancy dress are the chosen wear, and the
Pieton Lakes T.B. Settlement will benefit.
To bring the medical libraries of Sydney
hospitals in line with modern science, the
Medical Society of Sydney Uni. has set out
on a treasure hunt. The dancing public
will be the quarry. On September 13
as many of them as can will be herded into
the Ambassadors. As the public will ulti-
mately get the benefit of the reconditioned lib-
raries, the appeal for funds should be favor-
ably heard. Professor MacCa Hum’s lady
is president of the committee.
Miss “Potato” Geach, as this Letter
heard a man on the ferry call her, has, in
company with the Housewives’ Association,
of which she is president, declared potatoes
spotted if not positively black. The homely
spud has been soaring, so Miss Portia and
her company are out after the Shylock—
whoever he may be. While the Housewives
are about it can’t they do something to
bring down rents? It seems to one poor
scribe that if these were lower, the home-
maker might buy spuds at even lUd. per lb.
—which isn’t really very shocking when
you remember how much spud has to be
buried to produce another spud, and how
often it doesn’t produce anything.
The Bulletin’s old friend Lorna Byrne,
who two years ago was appointed assistant
organiser at the Agricultural Bureau, is in
the thick of a job after her heart. She is
helping to run the seventh yearly conference
of the bureau, which is producing a three-day
talkie at the Hawkesbury College. Seventy
women from various parts of the State are
taking part, for there are now women mem-
bers in all of the bureau’s 400 branches.
Lorna helped to organise these bureaus, and
by word and precept got the country woman
to look upon them as places of friendly inter-
course where information on all sorts of
subjects, from the growing of flowers to
interior decoration, might be obtained. She
is a science graduate of Sydney Uni., and
learned some of the practical side of her
job at Hawkesbury.
Mrs. Margaret Dale came home by the
Euripides. Daughters Philippa and Helen,
who have been imbibing the higher educa-
tion in Switzerland, return at the end of
the year. Geneva was Mrs. Dale’s chief
abiding place during her stay abroad, for
there a serious operation was followed by
a slow convalescence. A play or two have
been added to the already successfully pro-
duced “Secondary Considerations,” of which
Gregan McMahon thought so well, and “The
Mainstay,” which had a successful first night
in Upsala, the Repertory Society there as
in Sydney being responsible for the produc-
tion. Ah old Sydney friend, Miss Petersen,
had translated the play into Swedish; and
the second son of the Crown Prince of
Sweden played juvenile lead.


CHRYSLER
LEADERSHIP
today more pronounced than ever
I
Chrysler "75” Town Sedan,
No SMALL part of the ever-grow-
ing popularity of Chrysler cars is
due to Chrysler’s singular and
significant leadership in perform-
ance. People recognised in the
first Chrysler something entirely
different which obsoleted the
sluggish, heavy, bulky
and cumbersome
vehicles of its day.
And they have con-
tinued to recognise
<*7 5 * *
FEATURES
Chrysler slender-profile radiator-
thermostat ically-controlled radiator
shutters external fitments chromium-
plated “air-wing” fenders rubber
mountings for body arched window
silhouette “Silver - Dome” high-com-
pression engine using any fuel seven-
bearing crankshaft rubber mount-
ings for engine hydraulic four-wheel
brakes hydraulic shock absorbers
spring ends anchored in live rubber.
—as witness the thousands upon
thousands of Chryslers on the
roads today—that Chrysler engi-
neering has never permitted any
of that lead to be cut down.
Indeed Chrysler engineering has
widened its margin of superiority
over those others who
%
after five years have
not even achieved
performance equal
to the first Chrysler*
c isa
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney .
Victoria . . Collins Motors Ply., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia ...... Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea ...... W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Rooni Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
fflf
iwß :
Address Manager—
RO WES, I/ID.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Write jor booklet to: —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers':
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Breast fed.
The healthiest, strongest
children are reared this way.
But as soon as feeding begins
to overtire, mothers should
partially feed with Benger’s
Food. Nursing mothers should
also take Benger’s.
w
Food
Uegd. i'BADK MARK.
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Oala Night
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.80, 6/*
The Ambassador* New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. 'Phone: M 4131-
Melbourne
Chatter
Fur coats seemed the only consistent wear
at Caulfield on Saturday, for the wind was
Arctic —no doubt that accounted for a pile
of money being put (and lost) on Clear
lee. Mole and mink disputed favoritism.
Mrs. Felix Lloyd, who sported a bright
blue velour hat, was wrapped in a cape
of the dark grey pelt. Mrs. Alister Clark,
tailored in grey tweed with a black hat,
had Mrs. Maurice O’Rorke, of Maoriland,
for guest. The Lud Mayoress, with orchids
perched on the lapel of her mink coat, did
not look weighed down by the cares of the
ball that she and her lord are to give at
the Town Hall next month. Mrs. Ben Lem-
prierc came in a grey tweed coat, topped
by a sapphire-blue hat. Mrs. Millea, who
wore an all-wine-colored ensemble and millin-
ery, was accompanied by Verna Deague in a
two-piece fancy tweed suit in tones of olive
green, brown and pale yellow, with apple-
green felt hat.
The orchestral concert at the Auditorium
was a musical event. Efrem Kurtz, the tall,
slim Russian conductor of the Pavlova sea-
son, waved his willowy wand over the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra, and infused
much of his own personality into the play-
ers ; not since the days of Verbrugghen have
we heard work so good. Fritz Hart, who
directs the M. 5.0., sat in a front seat and
looked delighted, for the instrumentalists had
had but two rehearsals under the visiting
conductor. After the Unfinished Symphony
of Schubert and the “Ilienzi” Overture of
Wagner it was Kurtz himself who turned
to the orchestra and led the applause. Wil-
liam Murdoch positively glowed his appre-
ciation of the orchestra] backing given his
Grieg Concerto. A flashlight with Fritz and
Efrem clasping hands in mutual satisfaction
was an unprogrammed item. The cheering
patrons—they really did cheer —included
Mrs. Walter Cass. Mrs. Gilruth, Mrs. Fritz
Hart, the John, Charlie and Frank Taits,
Slapoffski and John Longstaff. Mrs. Mur-
doch, who drew a gold lace gown about a
stencilled patterned yellow and black coat,
was likewise sighted.
Miss Turner, daughter of the late George
Turner, most famous of Vic. Treasurers, was
lately made a life-governor of Queen Vic-
toria Hospital. Interest surrounds the elec-
tion, for it was her mother who carried
abroad the letter requesting that royal assent
be given to this institution, run by women
for women, being named after the old Queen.
Charles Nuttall introduced Margery
Withers to the crowd gathered for her show
at the Athenaeum. The young painter in-
herits much of her late father’s talent, and
since her marriage to R. McCann has gained
further help in the world of art. Oils, water-
colors, pastels add pencil drawings—she has
samples of them all. Noticed studying cata-
logues were the Victor Zalmans, the A. E.
Newburys and Nan McClelland.
Among the society girls whom bridegrooms
will claim in August are Eileen Taylor,
Lorna Hiskins (daughter of the Moonee
Valley Racing Club’s secretary), and Jean
McHarg.
Fire-bells clanged in discord with church
bells and chimes round about half-past ten
on Sunday morning, when Payne’s in Bourke-
street suddenly burst into flame. The Chat-
terer with a couple of other news-getters
followed the first engine down to see flames
eating up bargains in a frightful fashion;
fire-fighting machines rushed in from neigh-
boring suburbs and the block became a net-
work of hoses. Little Bourke and Lonsdale
streets woke to the pending danger, and when
the wind fanned the flames through the
adjoining building it looked as if they would
spread to Russell-street. There couldn’t have
been a stitch left in the shop when the chief
pronounced things fairly safe. Then hun-
dreds of motor-cars were cranked up, and
the multitude of mixed gazers turned home-
ward or churchward.
That the flapper sometimes takes a
serious view of life is illustrated by the
enthusiasm shown by the junior section of
the Country Women’s Association. These
young folk, who have Mrs. Norman Barrett
for president and Kathleen Gepp for secre-
tary, staged a bridge narty during the week
at Chastleton to raise funds towards the
establishing of a seaside holiday home for
women out-back. Very handsome were the
proceeds of 60 card-tables, and sidelines
brought in extra grist for the mill.
By way of winding up the f§te for the
Queen Victoria Hospital, held at the Nor-
man Brookes home, a fine' chest of linen was
raffled the other afternoon, the Lud Mayoress
being asked to pick the winner, also that of
a handbag given by Mrs. Brookes. Proceeds
of the effort have topped fIGOO. Mrs. W. M.
Robins and a few other workers raked in
any stray uncaptured coins by selling flowers
and providing tea.
The departed Maoriland squadron did no
entertaining in a special way, but there
were reports of select little parties aboard
as acknowledgment of hospitality. Apropos,
a couple well up in society stage-managed
a unique jollo, to which some of the naval
men were bidden. All invited were expected
to give imitations of well-known mummers.
The host and hostess, with some kin, repre-
sented Long Tack Sam and family. A
handsome young matron impersonated
Maisie Gay. A well-liked pastoralist appeared,
for one night only, as circus-ringmaster. All
present vote it one of the happiest gather-
ings for years.
“England’s eyes are on you,” was the
cabled greeting of Air-Marshals Salmond and
Trencliard to Squadron-Leader Roy Maxwell
Drummond, who in all tin; glory of R.A.F.
full-dress uniform was married to Isabel
Rachel Mary Drake-Brockman on Wednes-
day at St. John’s, Toorak. The elder son
of the J. M. Drummonds, of Westralia, the
young man distinguished himself in the war,
beginning with the A.I.F. in Gallipoli, and
joining the Royal Air Force in Palestine,
where liis daring made him known to Turks
and Germans, as well as our men, as “Peter.”
All books on the Palestine-Syrian campaign
mention “Peter.” He owns the D. 5.0., the
Military Cross and the D.F.C. His bride
is the only daughter of the late Paris F.
Drake-Brockman, of the Inner Temple, and
of Mrs. Drake-Brockman, of Norwood Park,
London. Her two brothers made the supreme
sacrifice in the Great Upheaval.
The forging of the bonds by the Rev. Dr.
Law was witnessed by numerous representa-
tives of the fighting forces, and the guard
of eight who crossed swords above the
wedded couple as they left the church was
drawn from Navy, Army and Air Force;
Squadron-Leader McNamara, V.C., was one
of these officers. Arbitration Judge Drake-
Brockman put on his regimentals of a Briga-
dier-General and handed over his cousin into
the safe-keeping of “Peter”; the Judge’s
wife deputised for the mother. Their two
schoolgirl daughters in pale pink georgette
and silver lace with tulle veils followed the
regal-looking bride, whose lovely silk lace
gown, with its girdle of pearls and long train,
had blush of pink beneath, while a glisten-
ing bandeau held her tulle veil. Flight-
Lieutenant Packer obligingly filled the role
of best man in the absence of Squadron-
Leader Thompson, who was on the sick list.
After-rejoicings were held at No. 9 Darling-
street, Mrs. Drake-Brockman, who hostessed,
wearing black satin georgette and a black
hat brightened by a bouquet of crimson car-
nations. Major-General Barber, under whom
Squadron-Leader Drummond first served,
and Air-Commodore Williams, who was asso-
ciated in his initial air experience, were
among the guests. “Peter” is a favorite in
English society; and he was one of the very
few chosen to partner the Duchess of York
at the Federal Government House Ball.
This is Valerie Purves, only daughter of
the James Purves couple, of Toorak, who,
with Valerie
Moule, shared
the worries of
ticket secre-
tary of the
Big Brother
Ball. Miss
P u r v e s is
always ready
to give a hand
in any charit-
able undertak-
ing, and she is
also interested
in politics,
being hon, sec-
retary of the
girls’ branch
of the A.W.
N.L. auxiliary.
She has made
her curtsey to
Queen Mary,
has had her
portrait painted by Longstaff, is a pianist
and singer (the Albert-street Con. numbers
her among its vocal students) and slip
dabbles in art. This picture is from the
Falk studio, Sydney.
Justice Cussen’s lady, wearing black satin
with some pastel-toned bead embroidery,
shared w<th Miss Egan—whose black gown
was traced with gold—the duties of hostess of
the Newman College Ball. Their services were
ackriowleged with flowers. The rector, Father
Murphy, S.J., and the vice-rector, Father
Ryan, S.J., also bade guests welcome. Mrs.
Kernick, wife of the master of Queen’s Col-
lege, was there in upholstery of black lace.
“Dear me, how fashions change!” remarked
a cleric as he noted the wayward rise and
fall of feminine skirt-hems, many of which
nearly reached the floor. Marjorie Scott, a
niece of the Cussen lady, wore a petunia-
pink frock with intervals of silver tissue
panels; Doris Ryan’s blue lace gown was
attractive; Jean Langton, from Sydney,
aired nutmeg-brown chiffon forming hand-
kerchief-points about the ankles; Alison Fit-
chett’s frock began pink and ended blue of
delphinium hue ; Mamie Cahill, a tall, hand-
some girl, was in pink, and her dark hair
was bound with a ribbon. Dr. and Mrs.
Leo Doyle, Surgeon Hugh Devine and his
wife, and Dr. and Mrs. George Brew were
among the assembled. Newman’s football
team, which that day had got a leg-in to-
wards the University teams’ championship,
was in the limelight.
Meet through the medium of a Lafayette
picture the wife of Edward Mitchell, knight
and K.C., pre-
sident of the
lately - formed
Country-
women’s Asso-
ciation. She
has just com-
pleted a tour
of the Malice
with the sec-
retary, Mr s.
Murray Wal-
ler ; the object
was to in-
crease the
m e m b ership
roll, and in-
creased it was
sub stantially.
Another of the
busy lady's
interests is the
New Settlers’
Leag u o. In
these activi-
ties she never spares herself, and they are
having excellent results.
The proceeds of the annual ball given by
St. Patrick’s Old Collegians support a scholar-
ship, and they were very substantial this win-
ter ; nearly 800 trippers were at St. Kilda
Town Hall, the interior of which was deco-
rated with the blue and white of the
school. The Royston T. Caliirs —he is the new
president—received, the lady having the sup-
port of a number of hostesses; Mrs. Cahir
had flounces of georgette depending from a
bodice of apricot moire. Secretaries James
F. O’Neill, C. McKernan and W. Broderick
and an efficient committee staged the affair
to everyone’s satisfaction. The chilly night
brought forth innumerable bridge-coats as
necessary additions to dainty frocks. The
popularity of sprays of fresh flowers was
another note of the dressing, which exhibited
a remarkable preference for red, pink and
vivid blue. Mrs, W. Broderick aired white
chiffon linked to a sparkling sequinned cor-
sage ; Girlie O’Sullivan’s pretty upholstery
was amber tulle flounces attached to ring
velvet of a like tone ; Kitty Cogley introduced
a charming color combination in royal blue
georgette with cherry silk beneath; almond-
green draperies were worn by Agnes McClel-
land ; lima Holder was one of the selectors
of geranium-red; Wilma Prouse chose a
frock of rose-pink shade.
Geelong had many visitors for the Water-
loo Cup, “the richest coursing event in the
world,” and for those who were not so keen
on the contests between dogs and hares there
were horseraces, and..other happenings linked
with sport. The Waterloo Cup Ball was put
on at St. Mary’s Hall, and the local hospital
benefited. A representation of a miniature
course with a tie in progress was blended
into the decorative arrangements' of gum-
tips, wattle and orange-tinted blooms.
Society buds from the metropolis were at
the smart function; Among the Geelong
patrons were the Newton Lees couple, Mr.
T. B. Hawkes and Mrs. Hawkes, the Row-
land Hopes, Matron Ross and Dr. and Miss
C. James.
Mrs. Percy Russell, president of the
Housewives’ Association, has been appointed
a special magistrate of the Children’s Court.
The lady will bring human sympathy and
practical commonsense to her task.
Dr. Hilton Chenliall came over from Syd-
ney on Thursday to claim a life-partner in
Ruth, daughter of the Charles Westerton
couple, of Malvern. Promises were exchanged
at Scots Church, and No. 9 was com-
missioned for a wedding celebration. The
good-looking bride wore ivory lace and satin,
her cascading tulle veil being anchored across
her coiffure by bands of ribbon terminated
with sprigs of orange buds. The four atten-
dant ’maids had half wreaths of buttercups
and roses about their locks, their upholstery
of satin being built on flared lines in pale
golden hue. The bridegroom brought along
a similar quota of male support from Sydney
to see him through. Mrs. Chenhall (she
is of Darling Point) was also present, wear-
ing a subduedly glistening gown of grey with
harmonising turbaned millinery. Filmy black
lace with velour hat was chosen by Mrs. O.
Westerton in giving greeting to many friends,
who included a fair representation from
across the border.
The pink and white wedding setting is
again in favor, most of the week’s brides
choosing the cocoannt-iee blend for c-olv
scheme. Jean Hislop, of Alma-road, St,
Kilda, who wedded Ronald F. Hall, of Mal-
vern, clothed herself in ivory ring velvet and
froth of tulle veil; while her ’maids wer
right in the picture in georgette and velvet
frocks of tourmaline pink and felt hats to
match.
When this Page looked upon the Totem
ballet of “Rose Marie” it was with the
thought that here was something entirely
new, but a drawing of totemic snakes at tin-
show of aboriginal art has shaken the belief
The squirming of the reptiles, as suggested!
put the modern totems right in the back-
ground. Again finger-prints are believed to
be a recent innovation, but apparently the
blacks of long ago found delight in making
impressions of dusky digits. The most extra-
ordinary feature of the abos.’ work is that,
though the figure or animal be quite grotesque
or out of plumb, it has a unique sense of
movement. The two dark gentlemen Georg.-
Aiston brought down from the alleged Dead
Heart daily demonstrate in their central-
heated ti-tree gunyali old customs of their
race and the art of make-up for war-dance
or ceremonial.
Mrs. Arthur Garrels, wife of the Consul-
General for U.S.A., has distributed invita-
tions for a tea-drinking at her South Yarra
home on August 2, in honor of Dusolina
Giannini. After the songbird’s first recital
at the Auditorium on Saturday night, the
Keith Murdochs are to carry her off to a
supper party at their residence.
Mrs. Alice Newell, not long here from
pastlemaine, is trying to stimulate interest in
Australian flora as applied to design for all
forms of embroidery, in white and natural
colors. Some of her larger work she has
utilised effectively in Batik upon a silk bed-
spread, and other suggestions are seen upon
polished-wood articles —boxes, screens and
trays. Mrs. Newell quite clearly dissects
all her designs, which are painted in water-
color ; bud, blossom and leaf are separately
shown, then arranged to suit a particular
article. Not content, with merely showing
how the wheels go round, the lady further
exhibits how clever she is with her needle,
embroidering the pattern on a tra.vcloth,
d’oyley or such thing as it suits. Gumleaf,
gumnut, wild jessamine, boronia and the
pinky wax-flower are drawn upon for in-
spiration. Along with her show at the
Arts and Crafts Society is a collection of
clays and pigments from Bendigo and Castle-
maine.
Dr. Cecil F. Tucker, of Brighton, who
dabbles in play-writing, cast upon a critical
world for diagnosis “Plcston’s Experiment,"
a comedy with some bright lines. The
Theatre Guild, under Mostyn Wright’s guid-
ance. gave the medico’s effort birth, Mr.
Wright himself playing the leading role.
Blanche Marsham, who impersonated a nice
girl just engaged, leaned to pink; floral-
patterned was one frock, and an evening
gown of peach-blossom hue was tiny frills,
tier upon tier. The doctor was there to
hold a post-mortem, with Mrs. Tucker; also
Bishop Stephen, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Car-
ter and Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Weigall. Mr.
Carter, by the way, has also written plays;
one will be given among four Australian
efforts to be presented at the Queen’s Hall
on August 5.
What’s in a name? Well, sometimes an
attractive life-partner—at least, that has been
Flight-Lieut. David Carnegie’s experience.
Two David Carnegies, one English and the
other Australian, got their mail mixed,
and so became good friends. The Australian
David introduced the other to a pretty niece,
and the result has just been announced. She
is Mavis, only daughter of the Lewis Car-
negies, and has lately returned from a flit
through the Orient. As the young man is a
Royal Air Force officer, they will live across
the ocean after the ceremony, dated for
next year. Kew will miss one of its most
attractive girls, though she will, still be a
Carnegie.
Governor Somers arrived in Loudon in
time to dance at his sister’s ball. She is
the golden-thatched Countess of Clarendon,
and with her Earl now shelters at Put
House, which has historic memories. Before
the war the interesting pair lived in Western
Canada ; they built their own log cabin,
cleared and planted their land, Lady Claren-
don doing the cleaning and cooking for hus-
band and brother. .
Mrs. Henry Butler, now settled in a flat
amongst the English colony in Rome, will
welcome her sister, Mrs. I. H. Moss, early
in the New Year. Though Mrs. Moss will
be an absentee till late in 1931, the N.C.u.
has refused to accept the resignation of its
capable president, and she will represent the
council at a quinquennial conference to be
held next year in Vienna. The last was held
in Washington, and Australia's turn comes
next. Mrs. Mo3S, who leaves for Westralia
in the early spring, will return in the Orama
with her husband in December. Their itin-
erary after leaving Italy takes in the Danube
trip through Central Europe, and an inspec-
tion of the Near East may be included. The
Brighton home has been let for the period ot
absence to Major and Mrs. Bird.


COOKTOV/M
s. 1 ,
JWKSVILI!
> \
m
V
WYN
MLYWATEIB
n
/
TENNANTS CK
UNDABERu
1 -V
BR'.SBAMf
PERTH
YDrlDf
AMI
AIDE
if!
<(
It Mist be good
V
EIBOURN
to be so popular
flv:
HOBART
1,314 miles of REX-PYE
You could walk on REX-PYE tins
from Brisbane to Tennant’s Creek,
from Sydney to Cooktown, from
Melbourne to Ingham, from Adelaide
to Daly Waters, from Perth nearly
to Wyndham, or from Hobart to
Bundaberg; for in the comparatively
short time since we first invented the
recipe for REX-PYE and placed this
choice delicacy before the people of
Australia, 15,974,345 lib tins and
3,031,614 /41b tins have been eaten*
Place these REX-PYE tins touching,
6ide by side, and they stretch 1,314
miles.
REX-PYE certainly is good to be so
popular. It is the finest meat in the
the world.
Put Quality before Cheapness*
Always say REX-PYE.
ŵ
DFY-DYP
ML m-*J% xl a JL/
f n lib. and 'Alb. hygienic cans
CGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


The Worlds
The 25 years success of Zatn-Buk
for skin troubles lies in its original and
valuable formula. Zam-Buk is com-
pounded from certain extracts of herbal
origin so blended as to secure the ut-
most healing power.
GREATEST
This unique balm when applied to
the skin, penetrates through the pores
deep into underlying tissues. Thus,
Zam-Buk heals from below, as well as
an the surface. Being most soothing
and a safe antiseptic Zam-Buk stops
pain and blood-poisoning.
HEALER
Unlike coarse lardy ointments and
Salves, Zam-Buk gets at the root of
Obstinate ulcers, poisoned sores, ring-
worm, psoriasis, eczema, piles, etc. It
purifies the tissues, destroys bad germs,
•ad makes the whole skin healthy.
fesffjgg
CMflstAfttS
W
116™
& 316
All
dealers.
bp
Legal Notices.
[N THE SUPR EME COURT OF
* TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO THOMAS NEWMAN WATSON form-
' erly of Hobart in Tasmania but now
of an address unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation herein issued out
of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of Laurel Pearl Watson
for dissolution of her marriage with you on
the grounds of adultery and desertion
TAKE NOTICE that unless within thirty
days from the twenty-fifth day of July
instant you cause an appearance to be
entered in the said Court to answer the said
Petition the Court will proceed to hear the
charge proved and pronounce sentence your
absence notwithstanding.
DATED this twenty-seventh day of June,
One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
DB EDWARD JOB, of Wowan, in the
•* State of Queensland, Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that Elizabeth
Kemp, wife of Joseph Kemp, and
Anastasia Kitchie and Charles Shannon,
sisters and brother of the above-named
Edward Job, late of Wowan, in the State
of Queensland, Deceased, who died on or
about the second day of January, 1929,
at Mount Morgan, in the said State, are
hereby required to forward proof of their
relationship to the Local Deputy Public
Curator, Rockhampton, on or before the
thirty-first day of January, 1930. And that
after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date, the Local Deputy Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims of which
he shall then have had notice.
DATED this thirteenth dav of July, 1929.
,T. B. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton.
TN THE S U PREME COURT OF
A TASMANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO CATHERINE HELEN HOB AN
ANDERSON (the wife of Ralph Augus-
tus Anderson) formerly of Hobart in
Tasmania but now of parts unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation has issued out
of this Court c ; ting you to appear and
answer the petition of Ralph Augustus
Anderson for dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of desertion TAKE
NOTICE that unless within Thirty days
from the publication of this notice you cause
an appearance to be entered in the Registry
of the said Court Macquarie Street Hobart
to answer the said Petition the Court will
proceed to hear the charge proved and pro-
nounce sentence your absence notwith-
standing.
DATED this nmth day of July One
thousand nine hundred and twentv-nine.
A. G. BRA MM ALL,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania'.
Public Notice.
TJORSHAM, Victoria.—lf this should moot
the eye of any former residents of Ilor-
sham, please write Secretary Horsham
Reunion. October 39 to 26, 1929, Box 210.
Horsham P.O.
PERCY mark;/,
JEWELLER AND LAPTTURY
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, B’ack Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Queensland National
Bank Limited.
Head Office,
Brisbane, 11th July, 1020.
To the Shareholders of
The Queensland National Bank, Limited.
The Directors now beg to submit the One-hundred and fourth Report, with the
Balance-sheet duly certified by the Auditors.
The Net Profit for the year ended 30th June last, after allowing for
Rebate on Bills Current, Income Taxes, Land Taxes, Interest
Accrued on Deposits and Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock,
reducing Bank Premises and Furniture Accounts £lO,OOO, making
provision for bad and doubtful Debts, and including Recoveries,
amounts to .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. £202,385 9 8
To which is to be added amount brought forward from year ended
30th June, 1928 8,671 17 3
Making a total of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £211,057 611
Out of which Interim Dividends at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
were paid for the Quarters ended 30th September, 1925, 31st
December, 1925, and 31st March. 1929. amounting to .. .. .131,247 IS 0
£79,809 8 11
And a transfer made to Reserve Fund of .. .. .. .. .. 30,000 0 0
Leaving for Distribution .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 49,809 8 11
Which it is proposed to deal with as follows:
Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum for the Quarter
ended 30th June, 1929 .. .. .. .. .. .. £43,750 0 0
(Free of Queensland Income Tax and without deduction in
respect of Federal Income Tax of 1/- in £ payable by the
Bank.)
Balance to be Carried Forward £6,059 8 11
£49,809 8 11
During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Julia Creek (Queens-
land) and Sussex Street, Sydney, and the Branch at Mount Morgan (Queensland) has
been closed.
By Order of the Board.
M. G. DAYMEN,
General Manager.
The
The Queensland National Bank, Limited,
Balance-sheet as at 30th June, 1929.
Capital paid tip . .
Reserve Fund
Profit and Loss . •
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock
Bills Payable and other Liabilities ..
Deposits ..
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes and Cash at Bankers
British Treasury Bills
Commonwealth Loans (at or under market value)
Government Stocks:—
Queensland Government
Victorian Government (short dated)
Cash Balances
Bills Remitted and in transitu
Money in London at call and on short notice
Advances to Customers on Current Account; Bills
Discounted, and other Debts due to the Bank ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and Stationery
(Of the Bank Premises figures £170,000 is revenue
producing.)
.. £1,700,000 0 0
815,000 0 0
40,809 8 11
3,091,669 4 5
£5,706,478 13 4
437,580 12 10
9,404,098 15 9
£15,518,158 1 11
£1,511,338 0 5
230,000 0 0
1,087,007 14 2
100.000 0 0
600.000 0 0
86,901 11 3
894,447 10 0
135,000 0 0
— £4,644,694 15 10
. . 10,348.613 14 3
. 524,849 11 10
£15,518,158 1 11
Profit and Loss Account,
for Year Ended 30th June, 1929.
Dr.
To Interim Dividends paid 15th Nov., 19°8 ..
14th Feb., 1929 ..
16th May, 1929 ..
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund
„ Balance at 30th June, 1929
Cr.
By Balance from 30th June, 1928 ..
„ Net Profit for year ended 30th June, 1929
£43,748 19 0
43.7-18 19 0
43,750 0 0
Dr.
Cr.
Reserve Fund
To Balance
£815,000 0 0
£815,000 0 0
By Balance ..
Amount transferred from Profit
for year ended 30th June, 1929
£785.000 0 0
30,000 0 0
£815,003 0 0
JAMES LOVE, Chairman.
M. G. HAYMEN, General Manager.
We certify that in our opinion the above Balance-sheet is a full and fair one,
exhibiting a true statement of the affairs of the Bank as shown by the Books on 30th
June, 1929.
W. BULCOCK, F.1.C.A., R. H. CUMMING, C.A., F.S.A.A.. Auditors.
11th July, 1929.
The usual ORDINARY GENERAD MEETING of the Proprietors will be held at
the Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, Queensland, on Thursday, 15th August,
1929, at noon.
BUSINESS: To receive the Report and Balance-sheet for thd year ended 30th
June, 1929. To elect a Shareholders’ Director in the place of Mr. Michael Joseph Ryan,
who retires in accordance with Clauses 858 and 86 of the Articles of Association,
but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly. To elect two Auditors, nnd
fix their remuneration for the ensuing year.
At the
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucie Attwell’s
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Here a milk-jug that pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
rO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Mohning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Ixj Lucie Attweu
6-HILDA Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
I CASK ©* Any
*I»ICULTV IH
WBITI ro
r«V. HIATH C. CO.tTO,
»3>J.CLARENCE IT.
w
ŵ
mm
»«
Bald or Grey Heads
often mean Failure
From pain and weakness to healthy vigor
in quick time is the rule with Harrison’s
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheuma-
tism, backache, painful urination, lost
vitality due to uric-acid disorders, genito-
urinary and bladder troubles, or for aches
and pains generally. No matter how many
things have failed you, Harrison’s Pills
should set you right, for they remove the
cause of the trouble. One user says: “Never
known such quick relief. They soothe all
the pain away, and leave you entirely re-
juvenated. Since taking them I have fell
years younger.” If YOU want to feel and
look ten to twenty years younger— quickly
—get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
chemist’s to-day: 2/- Trial Size; 3/- Stan-
dard Size; and 5/- Large Size. If not
pleasantly surprised with results — money
hack! Amalgamated Laboratories, Kemble
Building, Sydney; and all High-class
Chemists.
CONTACT
There was a time
when success was
largely influenced by
personal contact —
the business man
served his patrons in
person.
To-day the business
man serves a multi-
tude of patrons
whom he may never
see.
“TELEGRAPH"
BRISBANE, Q.,
is the ideal medium
of contact between
many a large concern
and its thousands of
customers a suc-
cessful medium,
winning respect and
business for its users.
TRY IT


MAKING MONEY WORK AT
FULL CAPACITY.
HOW HIGH YIELDS ARE OBTAINED
WITH SAFETY.
Few subjects are mose closely related
to our material welfare than that of the
profitable investment of Savings. Many
pebple find themselves handicapped through
a lack of experience of business and financial
methods, and individual action in many cases
has resulted in heavy investment losses.
For many years the wealthy investors of
England and Scotland have surmounted such
difficulties by placing their funds under the
skilled management of Investment Trust
Companies, a financial device for spreading
Investment risks over a wide field, and other-
wise obtaining a high yield with complete
safety in the outlay of their funds.
The general body of Australian Investors
is now offered the opportunity of obtaining
a high yield with complete safety by opening
an Investment Savings account with The
Australian Investment Trust, of 17 O’Con-
nell Street, Sydney. These accounts bear
interest at the rate of 41- p.c. per annum, and
may be built up by easy instalment payments
spread over two years. The funds may he
ultimately converted into holdings in the
capital of the Trust, for which purpose a
large number of Trust Shares are to be
reserved at their par value. The number
of these accounts is limited, and those who
desire to obtain a high yield with safety
are advised to write immediately for full
information. —Advt.
ẁ
OLD BACKS AND
JOINTS MADE YOUNG
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a man
his job and popularity through a grey or bald head!
Don’t let the world say you’re getting old—keep
young! Get rid of your grey hairs this easy way.
Get a package of Vi-Glo from the chemist and rub
into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new ingredient
that wakes urj the color and growth cells and quickly
brings back young, abundani hair. The cost is only
3/-, including a special shampoo—very little to
stand between you and popularity. If no chemist
near, send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Building,
Sydney, and outfit will reach you by post. Satis-
faction guaranteed.
' hrietM.s.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
'TO ANTHONY HILTON WINTER, dur-
A ing the year 1908, of 20 Nitlisdale
Street, Sydney, Jeweller, or anybody know-
ing his present whereabouts, please com-
municate with JOHN EDGLEY & CO.,
Solicitors, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
U’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
CRITERION: LAFF THAT OFF.
PALACE: NICOLA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
ROYAL:
DRACULA.
{£ ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
fJOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FOR AN EXTENDED SEASON.
The Sensational Sound Picture
SUBMARINE.
Publication.
“/\NGORA RABBITS FOR PROFIT—
N.Z., AUSTRALIA.”—New issue
shortly, 4/3. —A. SAINSBURY, ex-editor
Smallholder, Box 1489, Auckland, N.Z.
HAIR
V
$
HEED
HERES
■u>mj
ẃ
Giev Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrCUl&riS CMEXICAN)
UkUtud StoJjn
THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.}/()), 6d. being postage.
fp
t mr
p.
'/>v.
ẅ
ASTHMA.
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
For outdoors, use Potter's
Smoking Mix tut e and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
i Vendors.
ik POTTER & CLARKE, Ltd. i
Artillery Laoe, A
IfflL Lojition, Eng #
w
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin are in
.the Cairns district. They are due to return
to the city before the end of the month.
Barbara Sisley is to be congratulated upon
the production of Pinero’s “Mid-Channel,”
which the Repertory Society staged for two
nights to good audiences in the Cremorne
Theatre —mostly empty nowadays. Dulcie
Crane (Mrs. R. Scott) played Zoe Blundell
in some fascinating frocks; one was of pearl-
grey mariette with Russian broideries edged
in silver. Naera Sampson as Ethel Pierpoint,
wore heather-tweed and brown felt, and later
an innocent white organdie with a sporting
green bridge jacket. Mrs. P. J. S.vmes was
smarter than ever in her rffle of Mrs. Pier-
point ; her black satin jumper suit had
reseda-green touches, and she followed this
with a duck-egg blue silk repp broidered in
pink and silver, worn with a ball buntal
straw. Dulcie Dunlop played Mrs. Anner-
ley in Oriental silk shot with peacock greens.
The gallant Comte dc Tournouer, traveller,
linguist, writer, Digger and prince of good
fellows, has gone to join his father and two
brothers, who fell fighting for France. The
Countess, who was a Miss Waraker, cousin
of writer Doris Waraker, is a Queenslander,
and has one little girl. The title goes to
Roger Tournouer, of Bunda Bunda station.
Another notable passing was that of John
Hetherington, former Mayor of Brisbane. He
leaves a widow, a daughter (Ena) and two
sons (Norman and. Colin).
Lennon’s broke out in dinner parties in
a dressing of sweet peas and roses. Mr. and
Mrs. F. Ryder, the Forrests and Dr. and
Mrs. Grahame Drew entertained parties, and
afterwards some went on to Nellie Bramley’s
and others to the supper-dance. Mrs. Cain
gave a dance in honor of John Haseler.
A. E. Lavis was elected president of the
Queensland Press Institute at a tea and
meeting held in the Criterion amongst roses
and African daisies. The retiring president's
wife, Mrs. F. W. Bryan, wore a navy repp
frock and navy stitched cloche. Florrie Jago
(Sydney) was in rose-pink velvet, with beige-
toned cloche; Mrs. Percy Reay wore pearl
grey and white fox furs; and Mrs. M. L.
Reading had a brown fur coat over her
crepe de Chine costume.
Mrs. A. A. Donaldson gave a tea for
Patricia Hart and Meg Douglas at Oriel,
Ascot, when large bowls of wattle and nas-
turtiums decorated the reception-rooms and
tea tables. Bridge and tennis were played.
The blooms were very fine for Wattle Day.
Funds were dedicated to the relief of unem-
ployed soldiers, through the medium of the
Fathers’ Association.
His Majesty’s is giving the talkies a rest
this week; “The Patsy” opens there.
Mrs. Frank Murphy gave a tea at Len-
non’s before leaving for Melbourne. Sweet
peas and bowls of roses decorated the eastern
lounge. The hostess wore a flame-colored
crepe de Chine frock with a facecloth coat
and black velour hat. Among the throng
were Mesdames Cecil Palmer, R. J. McNab,
Adolph Feez, Frank Corrie, Lachlan Wilson,
Donald Cameron, Ella O'Shea, Loith Graham,
Jem Brown, Beres Corrie, Mollie Graham
and Nellie Griffith.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Leslie Napier Birks, whose aeroplane
crashed at Parafield, was one of the moving
spirits in a dance to be held at Salisbury
on August 9, organised by 22 young bache-
lors. Always a popular figure in sporting
and social circles, his death has cut short
a most promising career.
A very bright affair was the Adelaide Row-
ing Club Ball, held in the King’s Theatre
ballroom. The oldest organisation of its
kind in the State, the club has the third
generation among its members and two of
the original committee were present at the
ball, J. H l . Gosse and Max Fotheringham.
Mr. and Mrs. Gosse and the captain (Mr.
D. N. Linnett) received. Mrs. Gosse, who
has made a good recovery after her recent
illness, looked well in a beige lace frock.
L’Alliance Frangaise had a sparkling social
night at the Piccadilly, North Terrace. There
was bridge in one of the two large rooms,
and dancing in the other. The Bonythons
were present, she wearing a striking
red lace frock in harmony with the tri-
color decorations. French Consul Frank
Moulden is away in England; his nephew,
Arnold, is acting-Consul and accom-
panied the Moulden lady, who wore a hand-
some brocaded tissue toilette. Madame Wait,
Mrs. John Crampton, Airs. Ernest Puddy,
and Alajor Hughes received.
The bankers had their ball in the Palais
Royal. Mr. R. AI. Taylor, president of their
club, and Airs. Taylor received the chair-
man of the associated banks, the managers
and their wives in the box reserved for them.
Airs. Taylor was wearing a well-cut cinna-
mon satin costume with autumnal spray on
the shoulder.
On Friday night there was a bewildering
number of dances, Old Scholar annuals
mostly. The insurance cos. held their revel
at the Osbourne Hall. Dr. and Mrs. A. S.
Randell gave a dance for their second daugh-
ter Elizabeth to make her debut. Dancing
was in a marquee on the lawn at their home,
Avenel Gardens, Medindie, as also was sup-
per, with decorations on the tables in pink
and mauve. Airs. Randell looked smart in
black and silver, and the pretty brunette
debs, wore a Paris model in shell-pink
georgette trimmed with silver butterflies.
Pat Hackett has been joined in Loudon
by brother John, who, after a look round,
is to enter New College, Oxford. His
brilliant sister has set him a fine example
of something accomplished; she is now a
full-blown barrister. The clever young
woman at latest was thinking of relaxing
from the studious life by climbing a few
mountains in Switzerland before settling to
work in chambers. Later it is her intention
to return to Adelaide and specialise iu
Children’s Court work.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A special train conveyed Hunt Club mem-
bers, their horses and the hounds to Moora,
where they had a wonderful time. A dance
at the Agricultural Hall was Saturday even-
ing’s programme, and on Sunday about a
hundred horsemen followed the master and
pack. The sandplain, some miles from the
town, and Coleman’s ITill provided beautiful
galloping country and brush were plentiful.
All hands dined at the Moora Hotel, where
D. D. Harris and J. P. Durack gave the
toasts.
The Y.A.L. ballroom, decorated with coral-
tree flowers and carnations, was the scene of
the law students’ dance. Professor Beasley
brought his lady in black chenille spotted
nets; Mrs. J. P. Durack wore shrimp georg-
ettes ; Mrs. Darbyshire chose crepe de Chine ;
Maida Sharkey was a dainty figure in floral
eau-de-nil silk net, and Ngaere Purser had
silver adornments on her lettuce-green ninons.
The girl hockey players from the Eastern
States were welcomed by Mayoress Franklin
at the Town Hall, which was converted into
a drawing-room with Iceland poppies, sweet
peas and roses. Mayor Franklin, Mrs. Cowan
and Miss Wearne spoke words of greeting,
and Miss Redfern (N.S.W.), Miss Taggart
(Vic.), Miss Tazewell (S.A.) and Miss
Clarke (Q.) replied. Mrs. Henry Greig
arranged and accompanied the musical pro-
gramme ; the Franklin daughters and daugh-
ters-in-law served the tea. And the West-
ralian girls won the tournament!
Kathleen Mary, youngest of the Frank
Cadds’ trio of pretty daughters, has promised
her heart and her hand to wool-buying Bob
Leiper from the Cold Country. Another
ring-giver is Dr. Eric Kyle, who slipped the
symbol on the finger of Sylvia Magnus,
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. E. R. Magnus, of
Sydney.
Jessie Macgregor, here pictured, is a
strikingly ver-
satile young
lady. She has
carried off
many prizes
as a reciter;
has produced
a Milne play;
has appeared
with success
in “The Arca-
dians,” “The
Orchid.” “The
Toreador”
and oth e r
musical come-
dies, and has
written plays
for broadcast-
ing which the
local station
has purchased.
Miss Jessie is
a journalist on
the staff of
the Sunday Times.
As a result of their annual ball, dental
students realised their ambition to equip the
hospital with an X-ray plant. The com-
mittee responsible was composed of Misses
M. Campbell, J. Johnson and Messrs. Rogers,
Dyson, Baker and W. Harmes, with E.
Jones as president and H. Leedman as sec-
retary. Features of the programmes were
illustrations of tooth-extractions to the words
of “He loves me; he loves me not,” the sub-
titles of the dances being suggestive of the
students’ vocation. Mrs. C. O. Tebbut was
there in silvered king-blue mariette, Dr.
Holloway in gold satins, Miss Taylor Thomas
was in tangerine and black taffetas, and Miss
Dell Spaven dangled gold lace over her leaf-
green chiffon velvet.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Gate-crashers found that the University
Union had been too much for them at the
dance got up by that body at the Conti-
nental. A programme had been issued to each
guest who accepted the invitation, and names
were loudly announced by a student at the
door as the guests arrived. Among those
who enjoyed the dance and supper were
knight Elliott Dewis and his lady. Col. and
Mrs. Jj. R. Thomas, Commander and Mrs.
S. R. Symonds, Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Dennis
Butler, Prof, and Mrs. Alan Burn.
Heavy going and wet weather, the worst
for scent, interfered with the success of the
Midland Hunt Club’s meet at Rosedale. How-
ever, there was a good muster, and after
the run Mrs. J. D. Foster and daughter
Dorothy entertained. Among others who fol-
lowed were the Jim Melroses, Mrs. A. Ben-
nett, Kathleen Mercer, John Foster. Dorothy
Foster, R. Agnew, Alan Cameron, Margaret
Lewis, Barbara Bennett, B. Gatenbv and
C. Field.
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Reynolds, of Sandy Bay,
whose younger daughter Margaret married
Captain Wordsworth, of the Indian Army,
last year, announce the engagement of their
Nancye to Arthur L. Vauneck, of Kensing-
ton, England. Thus two of Hobart’s pret-
tiest young things will be transplanted far
afield.
The Henry Reeds, of Mount Pleasant.
Launceston, who have been honeymooning in
Java, are back again in the Speck after a
delightful trip under blue skies and more or
less tropical conditions, very different from
those which awaited them on their return.
Sympathy from their many friends is ten-
dered to the Jones lady and her family on
the death of Mrs. Hector Greig. second of
the bevy of Jones daughters. Hobart re-
members her as a handsome girl.
His Ex. opened the dog and poultry show
at the City Hall. There were some fascinat-
ing exhibits among the dogs, and if there
is anything more appealing than a Scottish
terrier puppy with a gleam of white at the
corner of the eye as it looks sideways at
you this writer would like to meet it


Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
Rowland^
Macassar Oil
Of all Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers.
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
ON
BANK
THE. KiUC.L.l'iZL.ri.t'UJ * <v/i «rxjU IJj-xi xa\ } jL*iU» E
Incorporated under the Companies Aet 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; VV. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. ltyan, Esq.;
tr. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
uknkhal Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all genpral bat kins business.
w
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
rHE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Gouiburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Where rlwill! jtay|
C 3
At the
GROSVENOR
Because it’s near-
est to the Railway
Station, all trans-
port facilities, and
theatres. It offers
300 fireproof rooms,
100 bathrooms, the
best of food, the
best of service.
Tariff:
From
£3/10/-
weekly
Si csida'aides Finest Unlice/u'ed Jiotel
Railway Sta-North Terrace. ADELAIDE
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL "A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY "THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
Illustrated by NORMAN LINDSAY.
CHAPTER XVm.
The Way of Youth.
JUST before his eighteenth birthday
James left school, where he had not
distinguished himself greatly except
on the playing fields. His eighteenth birth-
day was his first day in the store, and in
three years, when he was twenty-one, he
would be admitted into partnership. His
future seemed to be the most established
thing in an established world.
At the store he was a power from the
first, not by reason of any striking ability,
but because the Quartermaster made no
secret of his pride and delight in his grand-
son. The men felt it would be to their
advantage to flatter the boy who was des-
tined for control, and customers paid him
attention out of courtesy to his grand-
father. James began to be invited out, and
beheld with amazement and satisfaction
the effect that his handsome person and
still handsomer prospects had upon the
young ladies of the Hill and their mammas.
Lionel was still in the schoolroom practis-
ing his Brahms and Bach and generally
wasting his time. James had moved into
a spacious masculine world far above his
brother’s head, and, though that disconcerted
Lionel not at all, James found infinite satis-
faction in looking down from his vantage
point at his brother, still in the ignominous
depths of domesticity.
In 1865, the year James was twenty, the
Franklins came to live on the Hill. Society
preened itself and made ready to welcome
them, but soon there were whispers. It
was said that Sophia imparted only one
maxim to her daughter and that was: “If
you are clever enough to get what you want,
you deserve it.” Mothers shuddered and
redoubled their vigilance. It was said, too,
that Franklin talked freely of his business
to his wife and daughter, and that Sophia
and even Laurel expressed opinions about
matters of which refined females were in
ignorance. The more charitable pointed
out that Franklin did not look the kind
of man to be influenced by women, and per-
haps it was all malicious gossip. But
whether those things were true or not, the
Franklins were a little too plain-thinking
for the genteel Hill and a little too ornate
even for the scrolled and gilded ’sixties.
They took a large house and everything was
arranged on a sumptuous scale. The garden
was remodelled with an elegance that be-
came the talk of the parish, its crowning
glory a fountain in front of the house in
which a female form postured under a
dome of water, like a figurine under a glass
shade.
As a counterblast to the fountain and
to show what really nice people could do,
the Sneddons erected a still larger one in
which Neptune, arrayed in flowing vest-
ments, was sprayed from the mouths of
four dolphins. They gave a grand unveil-
ing party to which the Franklins and the
Hydes were invited.
Looking across the lawn James beheld an
animated gown of orange-colored chiffon and
black velvet, surmounted by a little hat
like a patch of wallflowers, and carelessly
wondered who the daring young lady might
be.
“I shall have to go and speak to Sophia,”
said Adela. “Being your Aunt Maud’s
sister-in-law, of course, I have to be civil
to her. I expect Laurel is here, too. I
don’t suppose you remember her, James.
She was such a queer little thing and she
has not changed much.”
•James remembered Laurel perfectly. He
wondered tolerantly if she still made faces.
He walked down the grapevine avenue.
It . was thick and shady, a pleasant refuge
from the afternoon sun. Rose Sneddon
had only just left him with visible reluct-
ance to attend some duty as the daughter
of the house. He was somewhat under the
spell of her violet eyes and intimate cooing
voice. He felt pleasantly exhilarated as he
strolled down the long green tunnel.
A high clear voice pierced the leafy screen.
“Oh yes, my dear, but so conceited I
declare he’d swallow any flattery. You
should have seen Rose Sneddon ten minutes
ago! Talk about a live lion stuffed with
straw—this was a lion cub stuffed with
butter!”
Revolted by the speech which could
apply only to himself, James strode away,
his mood of complacency completely shat-
tered. At the end of the tunnel he glanced
back. He took one of the winding garden
paths and came upon a young lady in a
gown of orange tulle and a little wallflower
hat, sitting alone upon a garden seat. She
did not seem to notice him until he was
past. Then her voice followed him un-
expectedly.
“How rude of you to forget me, James!
Come and sit down. I was waiting for
you.”
“You are Laurel,Franklin, aren’t you?”
he said rather lamely, and sat down.
“Yes. Do you remember Aunt Maud’s
garden party ever so long ago?”
“I remember. You made faces.”
“I still do.” She pulled a sample. James
thought her stranger than ever.
“How did you escape from the ladies,.
James?” There was a laughing taunt in
her voice that brought the blood to his
cheeks and drew him to his feet. She
seized his coat-tails.
“Don’t go, James. I confess. It was
I who said it. Don’t look so angry or I’ll
think you really are vain. I didn’t say it
to anyone, you know.”
“But why?”
“I peeped through the leaves and saw
you coming, and you looked so pleased and
so complacent I couldn’t help it.”
In two minutes Laurel had driven him
back into his teens and bereft of his
manners.
“It’s all right,” she exclaimed, and he
thought there was relief in her tones. “I
thought you were going to be really angry.”
She sat up very straight. “They are spoil-
ing you, you know. Come on, it’s time we
went back.”
“Oh no, not yet.” He was beginning,
despite himself, to find the situation
piquant; his wounded vanity was healing
fast.
“It’s time to go home. Mamma will be
looking for me.”
They walked along the path in silence.
“I say,” he broke out, like the boy he
was trying not to be. “When shall I see
you again?”
“I don’t know,” she answered indiffer-
ently. “I suppose we’ll be invited to the
same parties.”
She sketched him a little curtsey and
was gone.
The thought of Laurel Franklin worried
James for days. He could not understand
her and so he went on thinking about her.
Of one thing he was certain, he did not
like her. But did she like him? She had
mocked him, but then she had sought him
out; but was she even mocking him with
candor? She had seemed to lose interest
in him at the end. It would be amusing to
show her that she could not do as she liked
with him.
They should have met next at a gipsy
tea. At five o’clock a flotilla of rowing boats
set off up the Lane Cove, rowing towards
the west. The first pink of sunset tinged
the water as the boats made their landfall
on a shelving grassy bank. In the clear,
colorless and perfect hour between the
setting of the sun and the rising of the
■noon, they ate. The moon came up, red,
honey-colored, silver, the twilight changed
to a silver grey, the river became a path of
light and the trees stood out as if they
were etched upon the sky. Chaperones
began to talk of night airs and the dew,
and the boats went down the river on the
ebbing tide.
Lionel was very quiet, the night had cast
its spell upon him. He was hardly aware
now that Laurel was beside him.
“You love this for itself, too, don’t you?”
she asked in a low tone.
“Yes,” he answered.
He thought then that he knew more
about Laurel Franklin than anybody else,
that she was not strange as people said,
but simple and very true and that they
could be friends.
James, who had stayed at home, passed
a miserable evening. He frankly wished
he had gone and wondered why he had
refused. The moon called him a fool with-
out mincing matters.
“Laurel Franklin was there,” Lionel in-
formed him as soon as he got in. “And she
was expecting you.”
James felt that he was never to see Laurel
again. He went to a couple of parties and
she was not there. He found the affairs
savorless and returned home early. He
arose in the summer dawn, saddled his horse
and rode out into the quiet world.
Riding up the hill bareheaded between
the tranquil gardens and the sleeping houses
he felt strangely elated. On the crest he
met a breeze. James felt splendid and
young, and while he was thinking this he
turned towards the Franklins’. As he walked
his horse past the house he raised his eyes
to the upstairs windows.
The next morning he rode through the
dawn, and the next. On the fourth morning
a horsewoman rode out to meet him from
the Franklins’ drive.
Laurel pulled in her horse beside his, as
if this were the most natural thing in the
world. James’s heart did something erratic.
“I’ve seen you gazing soulfully at Hugo’s
room the last three mornings, so I thought
you should be rewarded.”
“I always ride in the morning. I find it
invigorating, and the view is very pleasant
from here.”
“And you just happened to be looking
soulful—l see!”
“I haven’t seen you for over a fortnight,”
said James inconsequently.
“I have been away. I was to have stayed
a month, but I came home at the end of
a fortnight.”
“Oh!” Did she mean anything by that
or did she not?
“We don’t have to talk, do we? I’d
rather we didn’t, wouldn’t you? We don’t
have to be our ordinary selves at this time
of the morning. It’s stolen.”
“Are you ever not yourself?”
“Oh yes, often. I’m driven into doing
and saying things I don’t mean. It just
happens out of perversity. I want to experi-
ment with people and I do, though I know
it’s odious. But I feel good now, my sins
haven’t got up yet.”
She was gay and childlike and knew how
to manage her horse. The' wind loosened
her hair and brought some color to her
cheeks. She seemed as harmless as the
little girl at Aunt Maud’s party, and it was
easy to be friends with her. James won-
dered why he had let her disturb him.
Every morning, even when it was wet,
James rode up the hill and past Laurel’s
home. Sometimes she came and sometimes
she did not. He never asked her if she
were coming and she never told him. James
began to dread the winter when the morn-
ings would be too dark and cold for riding.
One morning the chill of autumn was
in the air; it was a grey overhanging morn-
ing with a hint of rain in the wind, and
Laurel drooped in her saddle.
“This is the last time, James,” she said.
“Yes,” he said gloomily. “It will soon
be winter, but we may have a bright spell.”
“I won’t come again.”
He put his hand on her cold hand as it
loosely held the bridle.
“Has anything happened?”
She shook her head. “You think things
can go on like this for ever, but they can’t.”
“Why can’t they?”
“We’re not really simple, James. We are
only pretending to be.”
“I don’t understand you. Has your
mamma found out?”
“You are only a schoolboy at heart,” she
retorted. “All you can think of is being
found out.”
“I was thinking of your reputation alone.”
he answered stiffly.
“Oh James, must you always pierend?
Men think they don’t have to be honest
with women. If you really had this tre-
mendous respect for my reputation, you
would not take me riding. You would feel
a fool, wouldn’t you, if people knew you
had been going out secretly each morning
with that extraordinary Miss Franklin, and
when you think I’ve betrayed the secret
of your folly you talk about my reputa-
tion.” She had worked herself up into a
passion so sudden that James was amazed
and resentful.
“I did not ask you to come,” he said.
“You can be honest when you think it
will hurt me.”
She cut her horse sharply with her crop;
he sprang forward and galloped down the
road at a headlong pace. A laborer on his
way to work thought she had lost control
and ran shouting into the roadway in a mis-
guided effort to stop the animal. The horse
shied and bolted in earnest. James raced
unavailingly after her, expecting ever} 7
moment to see her thrown from the saddle.
But Laurel kept her seat, and presently the
sight of home calmed the horse and he
slackened pace. When James, his face
white with fear, caught her up, he expected
to find her pale and trembling, but she was
flushed and exhilarated and she laughed at
his concern.
“Poor James!” she mocked. “What a
fright you had! How your reputation
would have suffered if I had been killed!”
And with this parting gibe she rode away.
The accident should have been the sol-
vent of their quarrel. He did not exactly
wish she had been hurt, but if she could
have fallen weeping and trembling into his
arms, how gently he would have forgiven
her, how tenderly he would have comforted
her! He told himself that she was heart-
less, flippant and unwomanly. She had been
unjust, and her injustice had destroyed
their idyll.
All day long the thought of Laurel came
between James and his work. His heart
was full of bitterness and questioning.
Why had she been so sad? Why should
she invite and spurn him almost in the
same breath? He would have found tragedy
easier to bear than this enigmatic mocker}’.
He was reduced, to very simple terms, a
handsome boy, nonplussed and wretched.
Days passed and James neither saw nor
heard anything of Laurel. At first he
declared that he had finished with her, and
then began to dread that she had finished
with him. He began to blame himself, to
find excuses for her. He persuaded him-
self that she too was fretting. Then he
saw her at a party and she was very gay.
He had not seen her arrive nor had he
seen her once among the dancers, and he
was thinking of excusing himself and going
home when he found her. She was dancing
with Lionel, and he saw her almost for the
first time when she was entirely unconscious
of his presence. It was the Laurel who had
ridden with him in the early morning long
ago before they quarrelled, a Laurel that
he thought he alone in all the world had
ever seen. She was happy and simple and
gay ; it was obvious that she and Lionel
were old friends.
James saw something that he believed
was his life shrivel to a cinder among the
heartless mirrors and gilding of the ball-


“‘ Laurel, darting, I belong only to you.'"
room. He would go now at once, before
she saw him. He saw it all now, she had
broken with him to go to Lionel—Lionel
who stayed at home and stole everything
behind one’s back!
“What’s the matter, old man?” asked an
acquaintance as he plunged out, but James
did not hear.
Laurel had seen him. too. Lionel felt
her gasp. “I must see him before he goes,”
•ihe said, and abruptly left her partner.
James was already on the gravel when
lie heard a flutter behind him. He increased
his pace, but her voice followed him on a
little breathless note.
“James, oh James!”
He did not pause or turn. The breath-
lessness in her voice made it oddly pathetic
and appealing. At the turn of the drive
he permitted himself a swift glance back.
She stood forlornly in the middle of the
path, and, dwarfed by the great bulk of the
house behind her, she seemed like a forsaken
child.
James longed to turn back, but he forced
himself to go on down the dark drive. He
remembered how he had once chased her
through another garden and could remember
with a terrible clarity how he had felt her
heart beating under his hands. He could
not be angry any longer, could not hate
her or pretend any longer that he could
do without her. What did his pride matter?
It was an infinite relief to give way to his
love and to walk on through the icy mid-
night air as if there were no to-morrow.
It was nearly two. o’clock and he was
standing by the entrance gates of the
Franklins’ house waiting to see Laurel come
home. Time dragged on and be began to
wonder if she had returned early. The nom
committal face of the house told him no-
thing. When the carriage did rattle up the
hill at three o’clock, it came to him as a
surprise and set him shaking. He with-
drew into the shadow and saw the carriage'
stop and Franklin hand out his wife and
daughter.
Laurel stood for a moment drooping with
fatigue while something was searched for
in the carriage. James made a slight move-
ment, and he saw her start, a minute white
handkerchief fluttered out from the folds
of her gown and lay upon the path. It
was a message, a flag of truce. In a moment
she had been shepherded into the house
and James heard the reverberation of the
closing door.
James waited, unwilling that it should
end here, though all he had to hope for
now was to see the light spring from her
windows.
As he waited she came out to him
swiftly and silently. The moonlight made
her face look white and tragic.
“Oh James,” she said, “why did you run
away? I saw your face and I wanted to
say I was sorry. I didn’t know I could
hurt you so much. Don’t let me be so
cruel to you again!”
He held her in his arms. She twisted
free. “I can’t stay. Mamma will miss me.”
“When can I see you again? To-morrow?”
“Sunday,” she whispered. “When they
are at church. Come here,” and she was
gone.
For weeks Laurel was kind to James;
then one day she was moody and remote.
“What is it?” he asked foolhardily.
"I’m tired.”
“Of me?” He was almost fatuous.
“Yes, and of myself—of us.”
“My dear Laurel!”
She looked at him from under her brows,
her dark glance that boded ill.
“That’s just it—-your dear Laurel. It’s
no use. I can’t go on being amiable. I
shall go mad if I have to be anyone’s dear
Laurel for the rest of my life. Oh James,
don’t be so worthy.”
He looked hurt and puzzled.
“You don’t understand, do you? You
often don’t understand me. Lionel under-
stands me much better than you do.”
“When do you see Lionel?” The words
were out before he could stop them. But
Laurel would only laugh and he left her
laughing.
Sometimes she was remorseful. She would
beg him then to see her no more, saying
“I’ll never make you happy. I can only
torment you; it’s all I’m good for.” It
was when she was in this mood that James
thought her engaging, gentle and humble,
(Continued on next page.)


THERES NO SPORT
LIKE SNOWiI SPORT
AT
m
CALL, WRITE
COVT. TOURIST BUREAU
FOR ■ BOOKINGS * SERVICE
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4 1-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B'fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
W&W26.
Australian
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ŵ
Children
enjoy
ẁ
it makes then
ulell and strong
fn 4 sizes
ofafl Chemists & Stores
and at once set himself with much earnest-
ness to reassure her, till she gazed at him
in half-comical helplessness and told him it
was on his own head.
CHAPTER XIX.
The Rival House.
James, whose ears were sensitive to the
name of Franklin, began to hear it more
frequently now at the store.
For many years there had been open
rivalry between Hyde’s and Gillam’s. To
overtake and compete with the older estab-
lishment had been the Quartermaster’s
delight and pride. The rivalry had always
been without acrimony, and old Hyde and
old Gillam had regarded each other with
friendship and esteem.
With the death of Mr. Gillam everything
had changed. The change was partly due
to the times. The bountiful ’fifties, when
there was plenty for all, had gone, and an
age of hard and bitter competition and
price-cutting had come in. But more was
due to the change in personnel. The
Quartermaster found it hard to understand
the trust that old Gillam had placed in
his son-in-law. The man was clever, but
the Quartermaster suspected that he was
unscrupulous. In moments of heat he had
described him to William as a “mani-
pulator,” and often wondered what business
was coming to when men of Franklin’s
type could get to the head of big concerns.
Franklin made it plain that a rival was
an enemy, and that he would fight. The
Quartermaster thanked . God he was spared
to take up the challenge, and threw himself
into the business with renewed energy.
The line of North Coast packets, in
which the Hydes had acquired an interest
even before the gold rush, now belonged
entirely to the firm, and it had a practical
monopoly of the northern trade. The
Quartermaster was very proud of his fine
fleet of ships, and had found it necessary
to build new wharves and offices to accom-
modate them, while the original store in
Windmill-street was given up to the over-
seas trade. He had been anxious to call
his last ship Adela Hyde, out of compliment
to his daughter-in-law; and William, shocked
by the thought of his wife’s name in the
mouths of common sailors, had with diffi-
culty dissuaded him.
What the Hydes were to the North Coast
the Gillams were to the South; from theii
wharf packets sailed for Eden, Moruya
and Twofold Bay. It had never been the
crack line that the Northern River boats
were, for old Gillam was not a seaman, as
the Quartermaster always would be, but it
had provided a good, trustworthy service.
In 1865 rumors began to get about con-
cerning the seaworthiness of these South
Coast packets. Franklin lost a ship in an
Easter gale. The master, smarting under
the disgrace of losing his command, uttered
dark hints about the condition of the boat.
It was heavily insured and the insurance
company contested the payment. Some
unpleasant things were said and worse were
hinted, but Franklin won his case*and the
company had to pay over the money. The
master was discredited and dismissed.
Franklin could scarcely veil the cynical *
pleasure he took in his triumph.
Then one of the oldest captains in the
line, a man Gillam had trusted, suddenly
and without explanation sent in his resigna-
tion and came to the Quartermaster for a
berth.
“It doesn’t look healthy,” said the
Quartermaster with unusual moderation.
“But I suppose it is none of my business.”
About this time the Hydes sold the old
Hunter River for stilhvater trade in one
of the rivers, as she was deemed no longer
fit for the open sea. She had been strained
in the gale, and it would take more than
she was worth to make her thoroughly sea-
worthy. Months later,. when this trivial
incident had slipped from everyone’s mind,
the Quartermaster heard that Franklin had
bought a new boat. Its previous history
was not forthcoming, which was unusual on
the water-front. Having occasion to visit
Franklin on business one morning and
finding him out, the Quartermaster strolled
into the yard to look at the new boat. She
was spick and span in her new paint and
new brass fittings; but no boat can hide •
from a seaman under a little paint and
brass. The Quartermaster recognised Frank-
lin’s new boat as his old Hunter River.
Every workman in the yard knew the old
man and none had the hardihood to ques-
tion his right to board the new boat. He
made a thorough examination. Having sold
the boat in the first place, he felt that it
was his right to do so, and, as a citizen,
that it was his duty. At any rate he had
no sense of trespass.
When he returned to the store he was very
grave indeed. Discreet inquiries elicited that
the boat .was heavily insured. That there
was dishonesty ' somewhere the Quarter-
master could not doubt; but with the sea-
man’s contempt for the landsman’s judg-
ment in such things, he thought it possible
that Franklin had been cheated and was
in honest ignorance of the boat’s history
and condition. He determined to act on
this supposition.
He asked to see Franklin alone. It was
a request that could not very well be
refused. Franklin knew at once that the
old Quartermaster had inspected the boat
and was fully armed.
“What can I do for you, Mr. Hyde?” he
asked.
f “I hope,” said the Quartermaster, “that
I’m going to do something for you.”
The Quartermaster wasted no words, but
told him bluntly the history of the boat,
that it had been sold as unseaworthy, and
in his opinion was unseaworthy still.
Franklin showed neither surprise nor in-
dignation. He drew a paper from a drawer
beside him and handed it to the Quarter-
master. It was a certificate of seaworthi-
ness.
“You got this for the insurance company,
I suppose?”
“I am not a seaman, Mr. Hyde. I took
the opinion of an expert, and if he assures
me that the boat is seaworthy and the in-
surance company is satisfied, you will for-
give me if I prefer their opinion to that
of a competitor who comes to my wharves
One of the great charms of “The Quartermaster" has been the perfection
of the character-drawing. You get to know the Quartermaster and his
family and even his.servants just as well as if they had lived next door to
you for years. The same quality pervades GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL’S
PARADISE PLUMES. There is the very capable R.M.—Resident Magistrate
—and his young assistant; you will soon know these fine chaps; they are
typical of the best in the Papuan service. And the girl with whom somebody
must fall in hopeless love; and the planter who has gone to the pack, and is
now able to do little more than make mischief; and the derelict on the beach;
and the successful man who has duly married a lady of the country, and the
bitterness of the handsome and accbmplished daughter of that marriage. You
will know at once that those two girls could be friends if they were ever
brought together; and that is Mr. Turnbull’s job. There is the vivid color of
the tropics in the story, and the vivid pen of a man who knows more of
New Guinea than any other living story-writer. And behind it all there is
the mystery of the Paradise plumes.
when I am absent and boards my ships
without a permit.”
‘‘Very well, then, there’s no more to say
at present,” said the Quartermaster, un-
abashed. “I’ll be going.”
Franklin could not forbear a gibe. “Busi-
ness methods have changed, Mr. Hyde.
Younger men keep up with the times.”
“Business methods may change,” answered
the old man, “but business principles do
not,” and made a good exit.
But his heart was heavy, for this was a
bad business. He sent for William. “And
James had better come, too, for we’ve made
an enemy to-day and the consequences
may be far-reaching.” It was his way to
initiate James into the policy of the busi-
ness long befoi’e he was trusted with the
mechanism.
James could only think of the news in
terms of Laurel. He was terribly discon-
certed by the perfidy of her father, and he
hoped she would never know.
But this could not remain a business
quarrel. The Quartermaster was touched
by the personal aspect of the disgrace. The
thought that his own daughter bought her
fal-lals with the money Franklin earned for
the firm by such shady methods, and that
the name of his son-in-law and of his old
rival, whom he had liked and respected, was
in danger, was nauseous to him. That night
he sent for Humphrey. He did not explain
the visit to the womenfolk, but they felt
crisis in the air and saw Humphrey go away
sobered and thoughtful.
Humphrey told Maud what her father had
discovered. Maud did not see that anything
very serious had happened, but she was
habitually indiscreet and disliked the
Franklins. With a few embellishments to
make it more credible she told the tale
among her sisters-in-law, who also disliked
the Franklins. The story finally reached
Sophia herself, and Franklin nearly ex-
ploded with rage, the more so as pressure
was being brought to bear on him by
Humphrey and his brothers-in-law, who
were, after all, in the position of share-
holders. He became alarmed for his repu-
tation, because reputation has a commercial
value and he could not afford to lose it.
The new boat was never put into com-
mission, though Franklin protested his inno-
cence with righteous indignation and a
profusion of well-cooked documents. But
he could not forgive the Quartermaster
his victory, and meeting him he per-
mitted himself a few frank and vulgar
words. The Quartermaster ordered Adela
to strike the Franklins off her visiting list
and never to let one of them enter the
house again. Adela sighed, for life in a
small community was full of difficulties.
“We won’t let it make any difference with
Laurel,” Lionel said to James, and that was
what James said to Laurel when at last
he saw her alone.
“No difference!” she flamed. “You will
make no difference! Don’t you think 1
might make a difference after what has
happened—after the insults, after the harm
your grandfather has done!”
James was amazed. He had imagined her
abashed and distressed, he had always so
carefully dissociated her from her parent
that he had come at last to endow Laurel
with some of his own distaste for the man.
“Dear Laurel,” he appealed, “can we not
go on as we were and leave the quarrel to
others?”
She cut him short. “Whatever happens,
you offer me a piece of sugar. I am in no
mood for sugar or for you.”
James began to be unhappy in earnest.
The barrier between him and his love had
no reality for him. He cared no less for
her. He felt himself an indissoluble part
of his family, but was surprised that she
should feel the same in relation to her own.
The quarrel had no reality for him, and
the frustration of his love left him mentally
unprepared.
lor weeks Adela had felt the change in
him. She knew that his life was re-center-
ing about some new interest. She was
troubled, but could no more broach his
privacy now than she could William’s. He
was invulnerable, as she had always known
he would be.
Adela wa.s a little lonely in these days.
Fanny, embittered and implacable, gave more
and more of her time to good works. William
was remote and James subtly and im-
plicitly estranged. Her life was filled by
the management of her household and her
social duties, which everyone except her-
self seemed to think important, but they
tailed to satisfy her unacquisitive and in-
tensely emotional nature. Her happiness
was wholly centred in Lionel, and her love
for him brought no disappointment. Yet
they remained a family held firmly together
by the strong will of the Quartermaster.
Each one was aware of a dual personality—
as individuals and as sons or daughters or
grandsons. It was the measure of the
Quartermaster’s power that he could create
a sense of unity centred in himself and fit
it upon these divergent souls so that they
could never escape.
James felt the tie most closely. He felt
it, not as a bond, but as a rule to which
he must conform, and it seemed as if the
perfection of his life denended upon hi*
conformity. He did not have to think this-
it was bred in him. As a child he had seen
the world in definite linear arrangement-
there was God, the Queen, Grandpapa, Papa
and himself. It was the inherent sense of
family that was the rock of his distress.
To love Laurel was a miscarriage of
destiny, a disloyalty that offended himself.
But he did love her; all arguments ended
in that. He did not want to. He thought of
it as a guilty passion, and then the memory
of some sudden sweetness, of a snatched
elusive happiness, overwhelmed him.
He saw Laurel only at public affairs now.
She smiled at him and her eyes were com-
prehending. He thought she had no heart,
but that made no difference. He had a
broken feeling inside, just as he had felt on
the night he had seen Laurel dancing with
Lionel, the night they had been reconciled.
It was again as if the fabric of his life had
given way and he had capitulated to his
love. There was a grain of comfort in
having reached the bottom. If there was
any sacrifice Laurel would accept he was
ready to make it.
All day he had been busy at the store,
closeted with his grandfather, running out
the calculations for an important tender.
To ensure against any possible leakage,
William or the Quartermaster always made
up the important tenders themselves. This
one was for the victualling of a line of
overseas ships and was very valuable. It
closed next day, and the figures were com-
plete. In the morning he would write the
letter and his grandfather would sign it.
James ached with the fatigue and strain of
keeping his mind fixed on work that be-
longed to a world he had abandoned.
When he reached home there was a note
awaiting him. He read it fifty times.
“If you still want to see me, I shall be
at home to-night.” There was no signature
The servant who answered the Franklins’
bell evidently had special instructions, for
James was shown upstairs to a small sitting-
room which served as a den for the boys
when they were home from school. It was
a plain, familiar, unpretentious room with a
litter of intimate trifles on the tables and
chairs. James began to think he had been
brought here by mistake, when a door on
the far side opened and Laurel came swiftly
in.
Shutting the door she stood with her back
to it.
She showed no hesitancy. “This can’t
go on, James. You mustn’t follow me
about, and make us both ridiculous. I
scarcely dare to go to a party. People
are probably talking already.”
“You don’t care what people say.”
“I do care about being made ridiculous.”
“You used to care for me, Laurel. How
can this silly quarrel change that? I’ve
done nothing.”
“She answered sadly, “I belong to my
people and you to yours.”
“Marry me, Laurel, and they—they could
not part us.”
“Your grandfather would never forgive
you.”
“Oh yes,” said James, without conviction.
“And you belong to your family, and as
you got older you would belong to them
more and more.” Her voice was sad; it
pierced his heart.
James knelt by her and put his arms about
her.
“Laurel darling, I belong only to you.”
“Don’t,” she whispered,, “please don’t. We
have to think. We mustn’t be foolish now.”
“Marry me, dear.”
“I’m afraid. James, I should want every-
thing. I’d never share with you.”
“I’d give you everything.”
“No,” she said, .her voice hardening to a
sort of challenge. “You would not give
me everything. You would not give me
your honor, and I should want even that.''
“You are tormenting me, Laurel. Why
do you raise these ridiculous points? There
is only you.”
“Would you even give me a secret that
wasn’t yours?”
“Yes,” he muttered, sinking his head on
his hands, “Yes, anything.”
There was a pause, and then the question
followed with a curious inconsequence.
“Will you tell me what your grandfather
is tendering for the Red Star contract?”
(To be Concluded Next Week.)


s s> '
f ' 11 'illif
m
sis
¥:¥»:
% /V
iMi
S >*: sss: s (
si#
s#s
lip "- > I
§§
\
BUSINESS MEN IRE TAKING TO THE AIR
To cross London the business man uses his
own car, and it is now just as practical for him
to travel across Europe in his own Avro 5.
The Avro 5 is equipped with three 100-h.p.
Armstrong-Siddeley engines and has a cruis-
ing speed of 100 m.h.p. Its carpeted cabin
contains chairs for four people. It is elec-
trically lighted and comfortably ventilated.
There is, in fact, everything necessary for
convenient and pleasurable travelling.
The Avro 5 can land in 330 yards and can
be left anywhere in all weathers. To own
one is to be utterly independent of all public
transport arrangements, and to be able to
travel anywhere at any time with speed,
safety and comfort.
AVRO-5
(3-ENGINED MONOPLANE)
Specifications and full particulars of the above , also of the larger Avro-JO
(carrying 8 passengers ), will be supplied on application. Those interested
should Write for free catalogue of the famous “Avian ’ light aeroplane.
A. V. ROE & CO., LTD., PICCADILLY, LONDON, ENGLAND. WORKS: MANCHESTER AND HAMBLE,
SOUTHAMPTON.
C.T.P. 120.


Eh
brdA
1807
< : ,
.'A
I* v
Btf/
® St
®-w
i L.
if
i
r/74
'..m _
> l.
r P'7 ('JJii
n W7//^P
I*
45
32
'B
l?|» «
fll f i )@i I
W
£O.IIXI/^
\ \
/A
i B
&
Si
c.A
o
I
£
V »
%
"H 1
%
1.
cr
» V/ '<
#
*d
r
Qjamous Blend of (CHiishy
introduced into Australia
ILIERE it is, the kind of blended whisky you’ve
A A always wanted —“The mild and mellow whisky”
and that doesn’t tell all. Blended by the world-
famed Scot’s Whisky House of D. & J. McCallum—
and guaranteed BOTTLED IN SCOTLAND.
This blend represents the ideal of all who buy whisky,
whether in circumstances associated with hospitality
and good fellowship, or in obedience to doctor’s
orders. You can now obtain this choice whisky at
any hotel or club.
McCallum’s Perfection Scots Whisky, always known
as “ The mild and mellow whisky,” with the handy
aluminium drinking cup —no corkscrew required.
CD c Gillum’s
Scots {(Husky
Jb . JJbCoJjLusn
. LIMITED
eoiNBURGH (FouNoed 1807)
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
S• Wales:
GOLDSBROUGH, 'mORT' & CO., LTD.,
Sydney.
Victoria:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne.
South Australia:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia: LIONEL SAMSON & SON,
Fremantle.
Tasmania: McFARLANE BROS. & CO.,
Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Auckland:
COOKE & CO., LTD.,
127 Albert Street, Auckland.
Wellington:
ELLIS MANTON, LTD.,
Lombard Bldgs., Bond Street, Wellington.
Christchurch:
FRANK A. COOKE, LTD.,
Colombo Street, Christchurch.
Dunedin:
LANES, LTD.,
Dunedin.


p
1
m
t*.
a
TM!^
C**»
.\W
X
«*
c» te
o&
Vs
**£ <*g£l
*\\e
—*
A'* 1
.\\et
to\f
•»'i e
V?2S
yap-'
c»V
0»*
fc*
.»cc
y»c+
Vf' 0
«*
«fiS%
4**
V.?
ft*
A\" s
*»S
O**
<ee
•Tt»
A' 0
Mt e
ft>» S
iV c
& c
Y»
vc»
c*
A’"
S u«
yi» v
&
,t« e
G c °
A*
Srf
>1
m
The Worlds greatest travel system
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and up.vards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars costed vn application to
THE MANAGER.
ẃ
Compare
your sweeper
with this new
bissell
An Amazing Improvement
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control
gives the new Bissell nearly
twice as much brush action
or self-adjustability as any
other sweeper, and requires
less than half the effort. No
more hard “bearing down.”
Real heavy carpets get no
pressure at all, others only slight pres-
sure. Run it with one hand. It even
sweeps linoleum most easily. The new
Bissell is truly a “broom-on-wheels”
with its own long-handled dust pans.
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control is applied to all our
“Cyco” models at the same popular prices.
Leading merchants sell them. Booklet upon
request.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Dept., 46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
ẅ
w
O'
■assK
Vvv' C
tmm.
ouc oi£2£
sts
tor*
IT PAYS
to SIMONIZ a CAR
The finish lasts longer—
Keeps colors from fading—
Makes cars more beautiful and
Worth more on a “trade-in”^—
SIMONIZ does much more than
just -polish. It provides a hard-
lasting surface that seldom needs
washing—all dirt, dust and traffic
accumulations can be wiped off with
a soft cloth without scratching the
finish.
When cars are dull and discolored
Simoniz Kleener quickly and
easily removes all blemishes,
renews the lustre and prepares
the finish for Simoniz.
The way to keep DUCO
and all finishes beautiful
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
s
T
R
A
L
I
A
ŵ
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES BUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
\ LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IF YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
rpcc CAMPI 0F SIMONIZ AND
rt\LC oMIYIrLco kleener on request.
7T
Apply with a cloth
Worth a Dozen.
"PROPRLLRT'S.
STORY OF AN AIR-FORCE PILOT WHO
MADE things EVEN.
IT’S funny how nicknames come ro be
thrown about. Some fellows collet them,
others don’t. In one man a nickname
is a sign of his popularity. In another it
is simply a reminder of some physical or
fac.al peculiarity. Yet another may carry
a nickname behind his back- -he doesn t
know he has one because no one ever speaks
it to his face,
The Sphinx belonged to this last class.
11• * wasn’t popular. lie hadn't red hair,
big ears, protruding teeth, or any other
outstanding feature you could hang a name
on, and various Medical Boards had seen
to it that he didn’t limp or stutter. But
be had to have a nickname because his name
was Clarke,, Now; According to an unwritten
Section of the Army Act every Clarke (with
Or without the “e”) had to be christened
Vobby, and the Air Force, being a pup of
the Army, so to speak, took over that
regulation when it adopted sky-blue uniforms,
comic rank-titles and all the other gadgets
that went to make a brand-new arm of
the service. But after one look at this par-
ticular Clarke we decided to suspend the
Act. He was a lonely-looking cove —the
sort that stays lonely. Some quiet chaps
have that “Please talk to me” look about
them. This fellow had a “No parking here”
sign written all over him. For a week
after joining the squadron his longest speech
consisted of three words, “No, thanli you”—
that was when B fiiglit-Comm&nder asked
hird to have a di-ink. (Of course lib wasn’t
to know that B flight-commander’s shouts
Were as rare as beads of sweat on a rocking
horse; otherwise he might have said “Yes.”)
We tried to got friendly with him— esprit
de corps, jolly old camaraderie, and all that
sort of thing. But it’s a hopeless job trying
to get friendly with a man who looks at
you as if you were chanting an Esquimaux
hymn.
It was Bluey Sprott, the squadron wag,
who eventually branded Clarke. Bluey was
the pilot who prefaced a reconnaissance re-
port with “While flying north overtook an
enemy supply-train moving south” ; but that's
another story. It was about a fortnight
after Clarke’s arrival at No. 7 (that was
our Squadron), A few of us were having a
quiet one before lunch when suddenly Bluey
stood up with a glass of Bass in his hand.
“Charge t your glasses, gentlemen,” lie said,
“and drink to the toast of silent friends;
with which I Couple the name of The
Sphinx.” Not one of us failed to recognise
the man Bluey was referring to, although
Clarke himself wasn’t in the mess at the
time. Johnny Summers drew Bluey’s
attention to this fact. “You’re out of order
—Clarke isn’t here to reply to the toast.”
“That doesn’t matter,” was Bltiey's
answer; “if he were here he wouldn’t.” So
from that day onwards Clarke was The
Sphinx,
Things went along fairly quietly for the
following two months. Clarke was ill C
flight. He turned out to be a good pilot—
soon picked up all the tricks of single-
seater work, and learnt to throw his Camel
about like an old hand. Blit in spite of
his work on patrol—he bagged five Huns in
pretty quick time —we couldn’t warm up
to him on the ground. He was too darned
secretive, and a fellow of that type soon
gets on your nerves at the Front. He ap-
pears-“windy,” even when you know he’s
cbockfull of guts. He looks! like a man with
a premonition, and premonitions, especially
the “blue” variety, are unpopular in a scout
squadron. You like to have cheery-looking
fellows with you. Especially when there’s
nothing to laugh at.
One morning a young pilot in our flight
broke out of formation to dive on a two-
seater Halberstader. Two-seaters are tricky
’buses to tackle at the best of times. On
this occasion our fellow's gun jambed, and
there wasn’t much satisfaction in seeing the
Halberstader going down in flames after the
rest of us had finished with him, seeing that
our chap’s Camel had cart-wheeled into a
wood 12,000 feet below five minutes earlier.
The Sphinx was moved up into B flight
to fill the vacancy. Two weeks later Fritz
started liis famous push down south. Then
(lie Portuguese developed a craving for sea-
bathing, and things got slightly mixed on
our sector. The result was that our squadron
was ordered south to stop the rot. (It
might be as well to say here that there were
some infantry and artillery divisions on the
AVestern Front as well as the Air Force,
but we always claimed to be winning the
war.)
At our new aerodrome, Bertangles, I
found myself stabled with The Sphinx. I
wasn’t exactly overjoyed with t-lie prospect,
but I made up my mind to unloosen this con-
versational rat-trap if I went west in the
attempt. It turned out to be easier than I
expected. I had very little to do with that,
though, at least not in the way I intended.
It all happened as a result of an exchange
of compliments with a few of the Baron’s
circus. The Fokker triplanes—they were
painted red and looked pretty fiery—came
sliding down out of the clouds in their famous
follow the-leader formation. Johnny Sum-
mers was leading our flight. The Sphinx
was “last man” —well above the rest of us,
guarding our flanks, as it were. H was a
responsible position, but, as I said before,
The Sphinx was a pretty stout merchant
gn patrol, and on this particular occasion
he wasn’t composing poetry. He gave a burst
on his guns as soon as he spotted the Fokkers,
and then we all did things at once —and all
the things were different. It must have been
a fairly impressive exhibition of aerobatics.
Anyhow it put the H'uns out of their stride,
for* their famous down-up-and-over stunt
missed fire, and what they hoped was going
to be a first-class massacre turned into a
plain, ordinary sort of dog fight with the
numbers fairly even.
A dog-fight in the air is very much like
any other free-for-all. You pick out your
man and carry on. I singled out one of the
Fokkers —not because I liked the look of the
pilot, but because he had already made a
set at me. He had me beaten for straight-
out speed, but when it came to stunting he
wasn't in it. The Camel was the nippiest
thing in the air at the time. You only had
to sneeze and you’d go clean over in a
loop. So I kept throwing- my Camel about
ill the hope that friend Fritz would give
me an opening, He was a wary bird all right,
lie took every advantage of his superior
speed, and foi- quite a while we just went
rotind and round the mulberry bush. Then
he tried a very old trick on me, and, just
to make things interesting, I let him think
he was getting away with it. We were
flying along almost side by side —close
enough for me to see him grinning at me —
when suddenly lie side-slipped uiider and well
below me. The next move on his part Would
have been to stand on his tail —that is,
pull his machine up almost vertical —and
just pepper me to ribbons.
But I’d seen that trick played before; so,
when I thought he was just about ready to
start the fireworks, I gave my joy-stick a
sharp jerk back and put my Camel over in
the tightest loop that Hun had ever seen.
As I came out of the loop there was Fritz
standing on his tail just as I had expected—
a, sitting bird. There was no need to sight
him—-I pressed down on both gun controls.
And nothing happened! Not a kick out of
both my Vickerses! (I discovered later that
the main pressure pipe-line had sprung a
leak.) Gosh! What a chance —missed! All
I could do Was to swing away in a split-
aif turn —and curse,
That Fokker pilot Was no mtig. He must
have wakened up to tilts cause of the miracle,
for he came at me like a wild cat. Ho took
chances —let me get him in my sights and
generally played cock-o’-the-walk with me.
And all the time I had to stay dumb.
We had worked away from the rest of the
crowd, and I was doing my darnedest to get
back over our lines, hoping that we might
run into some of our fellows. It’s a ticklish
job fighting a good man when both your guns
are dead, and, to tell the truth, I was just
about getting the smell of daisies in my
nostrils when The Sphinx butted in. Where
he came from I don’t know, but it must
have been well above us, for he came past
me doing a good 150. And he seemed to be
fighting mad. (As a matter of fact, he had
shot down two Fokkers in the dog-fight.) He
whizzed round that Fokker like a hornet
—kidded him into half-rolling out of a loop,
tail-slid underneath, and I saw pieces of the
Fokker floating off on the morning breeze
like thistledown.
The rest of the Baron’s crowd—all that
were left of them —had nosed down for
home, and so we called it a day and made
for the ’drome.
The Sphinx was sitting on his camp-
stretcher when 1 walked into our tent after
seeing my Camel bedded down. His head
was in his hands, and if ever a man looked
fed up it was The Sphinx. I don’t know
what made me do it, but I stepped
across and put one hand on his shoulder, j
He looked up. I put out my hand and he J
gripped it—tight. It might be done in the
“talkies,” but in real life you don’t make!
a Marc Antony speech to a man who has
just saved your life. And, anyhow, I felt
that The Sphinx knew what I meant with-
out me getting sloppy over the job.
But the look on his face made me talk.
“What's the trouble. Clarke?” I asked.
For a- moment he didn’t reply. Then he
sat back abruptly, and talked like a man
who has a confession to make and makes it
in a hurry before he has a chance of chang-
ing his mind. “Have you ever had to do a
job that you hated like hell, Paddy?” he
asked.
I laughed, more to buck him up than
anything else. “Of course I have. As a
matter of fact, I hate most jobs like that.”
But he wouldn’t be put off. “I’m not jok-
ing,” lie said. “I mean this business of
shooting down Huns.”
“Well, if it comes to that I don’t suppose
any of us are exactly in love with the
job.”
“That’s just the point. None,of you like
the job—but you do it.”
“It’s often a case of ‘l’ve got to get
Fritz or Fritz gets me,’” I said.
“Yes. That’s a case of self-preservation.
At other times it’s a case of duty, esprit de
corps —call it anything you like.”
It struck me that he was preaching a bit,
so I fired in. “You've bagged eight Huns
up to date. What was your reason for get-
ting hostile? Was it self-preservation or
duty?”
“Duty, Paddy,” he replied. “But not
quite the same sort of duty as yours.” Then
lie broke off on to another track. “Did
you ever hear of lan Clarke —a nilot in
the R.F.C.?”
“What!” I almost shouted. “Major
‘Nobby’ Clarke —the V.C. chap of No. 11?
Why, he was my instructor at Nortliolt.”
“He was my brother,” said The Sphinx
quietly.
Gosh, that knocked the wind out of my
sails! Nobby Clarke’s brother!
“He was shot down in ’l6, wasn’t he?”
I said—silly thing, but I had to say some-
thing.
“No, he wasn’t shot down. Paddy ; lie was
murdered,” and he absolutely bit on the last
word.
“Murdered?”
“Yes, murdered as cold-bloodedly as if he
had been stabbed in the back.”
For a minute or more neither of us spoke,
I was bursting to hear the rest of the story,
yet somehow I didn’t like to ask for details.
“lan made something of a specialty of
shooting down Fritz balloons,” The Sphinx
said after a while. “He had over thirty
to his credit at the end. He played the
game—always went for the gas-bag and
never once pipped •an observer. The Huns
couldn’t get him by fair means, so they laid
a trap. They sent up a balloon with two
dummy figures in the basket and bags of
high explosive tied under the gas-bag! lan
tackled that balloon. He was blown into
a thousand pieces, Paddy.” His voice was
as hard as steel, “I was only a kid —home
from school —when the news came through.
(Continued on page 57.)


Kankin», Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £5.300.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1028.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: 02 Bishopsgato, E.C.J2
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stack .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ?,'!!
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
lINITFn insuran ce
U 111 I l_U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire insurances l
i
Marine Risks •
:
ieffected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & O ttd.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Xlbe IDomtnton.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published In Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion ' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
HOLIDAY IN THE PACIFIC ISLES
RAPIDLY growing in popularity, the
Union Company Excursions from
Sydney to Raratonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established
holiday trips to Honolulu. The swift trans-
pacific steamers of the Union Royal Mail
Line afford a superb ocean holiday, as well
as a glimpse of New Zealand’s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure
picked accommodation on these island
excursions.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
JaJl
Burns Philp Tours.
A VISIT TO JAVA
(the Garden of the East),
Native Bazaars, Famous Temples, Tea Gardens.
SPECIALLY CONDUCTED TOUR.
Leaving Sydney 7th August, 1929 —-
S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Seven weeks’ inclusive tour, £129 (All Expenses).
Fare includes First-class Return Steamer Passage and
about 14 days’ Motor Tour through JAVA. All Hotels,
Sightseeing and Motor Guides, etc.
Book Early. Party Limited.
Pacific Island Excursions
To — Papua, Neu) Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 2 TO 5 WEEKS’ DURATION.
Apply to
l BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
>|: Ascanlus . . 10,000 tons, July 22.
fEuripides . 15,000 ~ Aug. 6
*Nestor .. . 15,000 „ Sept. 9
fDemosthenes 11,500 „ Sept. 28
. . 18,500 „ Oct. 26
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
i‘*Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd. |
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. j
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Conns'l St., Sydn»v
’Phone: 86701
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
c£j§*!
£7,500,000
O O
O O
o o
OS to
ON
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1926, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.'
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, A DELATOR and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parked
ina Magfiilfloent
lllg p a9 t Passenger
Stearmhinj
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDAHT PAIIK ER LI MITES
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Gd. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
• «-
:•?
r/
H
ii
Monarch
Ciscir‘s
Craig sAitken
!>
Wholesale
Distributors
Sidney N.5.W.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
ONLY PICTORIAL DAILY
Wi\t
ŵ
Jtagfete
NEWS PICTORIAL
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
Must be included in any advertising
campaign seeking to cover the great
Central State.
SALES INCREASING RAPIDLY.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: F. Thompson,
133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, The Herald Office, Flin-
der* Street. Telephone: C 4643.


mm
Baby BEVERLEY
BROOK. Her mother
writes : —■ ** My baby
Beverley, aged 12
months has been
washed with Rexona
Soap since birth, and
she has beautilul skin
and hair. I highly
recommend Rexona
Soap to all my
friends.”
Tender skin needs care
Isn’t your baby the best ever ? Doesn’t she deserve the
best soap for her delicate skin and hair ?
Only Rexona Soap is good enough for Baby.
If you would have your baby bright and attractive, she
must look well, and feel well.
Only the best of care, and Rexona Soap is what Baby
is entitled to.
She should have her chance in the world—see that you
do your part by giving her the best possible soap—
Rexona Soap—the soap that has helped to make so many
beautiful Rexona Babies.
For a Baby’s tender skin, for a woman’s beautiful com-
plexion, or the strong body of'an active man, Rexona
Soap gives refreshing, soothing skin vigor.
Price l/» per tablet .
Atm
*B nL
srO’'s*- 5 *-
1
I
1
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RSISR
-...without painful
Guaranteed and kept
“drag,” if you use the Plum Razor, ideal for wiry beards and tender skins,
in order for two years free. Strongly-made grained-leather ease with every razor.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle ...... 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double
case free with
every pair.
7-day sets—7 razors in case:
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post Free to Any Address.
Jke
MUM Razor
PPT, 4
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Mater sat like a statue after she lmd read
the War Office telegram. Tlieu she said:
'H'e was worth a dozen,’ just that—uothing
more. That phrase stuck in my mind for
weeks after—it is with me all the time,
as a matter of fact. ‘Worth a dozen.’ Yes,
lan certainly was.”
"He was a wonderful chap—the finest
pilot I ever met.”
"Yes, Paddy, lie was all that.” He crossed
over and gripped me by both shoulders. “If
he bad gone west in a fair-and-square way,
I wouldn’t have minded so much. But they
didn't give him a chance. lie was worth
a dozen, and I’m out to even up the score,
Only four more, Paddy.” Then he grinned,
but it wasn’t a pretty grin to see.
About a fortnight later our flight was
detailed for special duty. The Hun bombers
had become fairly active—three- and five-
engine Gothas were over our back areas
nearly every night. Their main objective
seemed to be the Paris-Amiens junction at
Abbeville, and as we were close handy we
were told to stand by as a sort of anti-
Gotha patrol. We painted our Camels black,
laid in supplies of tracer ammunition (tra-
cer bullets leave a bright trail that comes
in very useful in night-fighting), and worked
out a system of signals with the anti-air-
craft batteries.
The fourth night we were on this new
caper we got a call though from a forward
position at midnight reporting an enemy
bomber passing over the lines at a good
height. The Sphinx and I climbed into our
'buses, got our revs. O.K. and shot off.
There was very little moon—only a
glimpse now and then as it poked about
behind the clouds. At 8000 feet over Crecy
Wood we sighted the Gotha—a big five-
engine job—about 2000 feet above us. I
let off two green Verey lights to shut up
our A.A. batteries, aud then we climbed
hard to get underneath the big egg-dropper,
For a minute or two we completely lost
him; then in a sudden burst of moonlight
he appeared right over us, and looked as
large as a Zeppelin. The same moonlight
gave the Gotha people a glimpse of our
two Camels, and there was no mistaking the
welcome they had for us. They must have
bad at least three guns on board, and every
one of the gunners was a Dcadwood D.ck.
We didn’t seem to be making any impres-
sjon on the Gotha, although Irom the line
0 f my tracers it should have been as full
of holes as a colander, so I dived away in
hope that they would lose me against the
ground. As I flattened out of the d ive I
looked round for The Sphinx. lor a
moment I couldn’t sight him. Then against
a bank of clouds about a thousand feet above
the Gotha I saw his Camel circling round
as if lie was doing gentle turns on his
first solo. I thought he’d gone crazy the
Huns would spot him for sure—standing out
like a bull’s-eye on a target. Then lie
dived. Straight as a die—like a dropping
pigeon.
For a second I could follow his tracer
bullets; then he must have stopped nring
or got a stoppage in his guns. I. could see
the bursts of flame from his engine exhaust.
Diving vertically with his engines flat-out.
The man must be mad! Then a crasn-
that I heard above the roar my own
engine—a burst of flame—and Gotha and
Camel went headlong down, locked together,
I traced The Sphinx to Longpres casualty-
clearing station. ’Badly smashed—can’t lust
the night out,’ the M.O. told me over the
’phone, and just before dawn I stepped softly
into the canvas-walled ward. A sister came
forward. I remember looking at her rod
cape—flame red—like the flash I had seen
in the sky only a few hours before.
“I want to see Flying-Officer Clarke —
Air Force.” I whispered,
“Are you Paddy V” she asked,
I nodded, then followed her to a screened
cot at the end of the ward,
The Sphinx; knew me. He put up a. hand
and drew me down to his pillow,
“How many in the Gotha, I add.v. he
whispered.
“Four,” I answered.
“That makes the dozen. Now were all
square.”
He sighed wearily, and as the first rays
of the sun flickered on the screen round the
cot his hand slid gently from mine.
The Strange Story of Sammy Dodge.
THE TALE OF THE TATTOOED WHITE MAN ,
BY COLONEL A.
GRACE
AUTHOR OF “MAORI FOLK-TALES" ETC.. WHO MAKES A
WELCOME REAPPEARANCE IN The Bulletin AFTER AN ABSENCE OF
25 YEARS.
Old Mr. Crewe, who was commonly
known as the Father of Timber Town,
white-haired, white-bearded, venerable,
dignified and pleasantly loquacious, was
regarded by us, his fellow-members of the
Timber Town Club, as being as old as
Methuselah and as wise as Solomon, lie
had arrived in Maoriland in 1838, and
anything lie didn't know about the his-
tory of the country wasn’t -worth know-
big. So it was quite possible that he
knew Sammy Bodge, the tattooed
pakeha. Let the tale be told, then, as
my old friend told it thirty-four years
ago.
YES, I remember Sammy Dodge—a little
man with a very large head; and such
a head! The sight of it sent young
children into convulsions and old ladies into
fainting fits
‘ Sammy came to Maoriland in the early
'thirties—as near as I can fix the time. H'e
was a curio-dealer in the little town of
Wantage, in Berkshire, but he had run away
and left his wife and children, and had
"brought to” in the pa of a Wanganui chief,
where I came upon him when I made my
first trip up the river, and that was fifty-
six years ago
I was a strong young man then, with
nerves of steel, yet the first sight I caught of
Dodge’s face shook me from truck to kelson.
He was, as I say, a little man, only about
five feet nothing, with a head on him as big
as a pumpkin His hair was black and
smooth and glossy, and lay close to his
scalp, which emphasised its roundness and
bigness; his natural complexion was dead
white, without any color, so that the tattoo
stood out in a startling manner. The half-
circles round the corners of his mouth, the
spirals on his cheek-bones, and the flashes
on his forehead were wonderful. He had to
be seen to be believed. Nothing more hideous
could be imagined than Sam Dodge’s head
as I first saw it, stuck out of the door of a
wharepuni, and grinning a welcome to me.
His chief’s name was Horopatu. When I
said “Horopatu, what is this tattooed
pakeha doing in your pa?” he merely smiled,
and said, in Maori, of course, “He makes a
verv <™rl mnleni rnlavthin°-l for mv neonle ”
Bv and bve I got to Cow Dodge
and learnt to look him in the face without
shivering, I asked him how he came to be
in the state in which I found him. Then I
discovered what a comical card he was. "He
wasn’t sorry for himself—no, not a bit of it.
H'e considered the whole thing a joke—the
most stupendous joke in history. “It hurt,”
he said, “hurt most demnably ; but think of
the result. I’m a made man. No one in
this, n n wmilrl linri a ’air of mv ’ead
the dSet whS
I leave here and return to England, think
what a price any showman will pay to have
a man like me! It’s a fortune, Mister, that’s
' Vh Tha??theto o rt of little man Sammy Dodge
was—he treated life as a joke and his tat-
tooed head as a blessing. And I left him
there in Horopatu’s pa, as happy a s a sand-
boy But before I went away I gave him
!S»mg of what his “too meant
“You think your tattooed head protects you,
Dod 01 ! 199 T «nid *O.ll cl so it may for the tiinfi
Kj'’ t 'me remtod there is Such
a thing as trading in tattooed heads, and I
have a notion yours would fetch a high
D _- ~
“o‘rny God!” said the little man, “D’you
mean to say they’d smoke and sell my ’ead,
insf f it VmirioV’
“Yes,” I said, “just the same as they have
sold many a dozen other heads to the
whalers, who find buyers in civilised coun-
tries ”
“Fancy my head stuck up in a museum,”
laughed Mge. “And underneath a label;
'Samuel Dodge, born in Wantage, 1805; tat-
tooed in New Zealand, 1835; died .’ But
I’ve quite other notions of my future,
Mister. All the same, thanks for telling me
to keep my weather-eye open, which adwice
I shall follow, in the 'ope that there’s ‘a
sweet little cherub that sits up aloft’—you
know the rest, Mister.”
That’s the sort of man lie was — took
nothing -seriously, turned everything into a
joke.
The first part of the tattooing had been
done by force, he told me; it took six men to
hold Sammy down while they attended to
the right side of his face. The left side he
asked them to tattoo as a favor. He even
asked them to tattoo his legs and body, and
so make a job of it. But it could easily be
seen what, his end would be. One day
Horopatu would be iu need of muskets and
gunpowder, and oft would come Sammy s
head, to be sold with flax and othei stuff, so
t lc . trl^e rai protect itself against
its en emies. I warned Dodge of that, but all
be said was “They wouldn’t treat their
little mokai like that. They wouldnt smoke
head of little k. am and sell it for a curio.
never 5 1 ve othe s aotloas - . Coaie now and
sec, and two little piccaninnies,
b Qt b blood W antage Dodges
', n , , eir veins. ...
That led to our discussing the Question
why Dodge left home. It seems he had begun
life as an apprentice to a draper; had fallen
Y 1 *;!? been accepted by the young
attorney named looks, also
Wantage ; had married her in spite of old
? disapproval; and, as Ins wife had
t come f into a bttle whea
twenty-one, and because Sammy had a love
Y n and firt, they had set up a cuuosity
|b°p al '', <O, / e , Y , ,°A man
books, true to his trade, had tied Sammy
P.Y W Y J mortgages, mariiage settlements,
bills of sale and such-like documents, so that
the little man couldn t call his soul his own;
anc * bay lie woke up to find that Fooks
°Y ne^Yb e curio-business and that he, Sammy,
Y'f s „., r f y Ym a a
be °ut the paintei made his way to Brnstol,
ohl , a , i ® l V 3 s a 3 I’ 1 ; 1 ,? Y/' b*°Diny Bay,
; wL!!.™ 8 lom Sydney to
etaL a • a
, went . down the river and
ac IYYY Y where the first settle-
ment was bein ? founded by the New Zealand
Company, and I forgot all about Sammy
tattooed head and the Fookses
, a * f Yw Q YY°p ■ bag-of-tricks. I
„ 1 YJf?YwYt S.vu, a “ atter
y ' a mvYYf 4 bpd ,Il°ro-
£ a J;P.® X es , tlge of it left;
nothing but the ba e site. A fowa had come
down le river from laupo and wiped Horo-
P ®nYm*' 11 ! 0 '
* II , I dP I ec * pbout Sammy Dodge, I was told
be had vanished previous to the debacle, had
l“rllKe d Z!;/™± er , o,l i niS Y in 1
w ich he could manage by himself, and
* a ' Y P wa / a . sbl P which had brought
®P“ e . ° f who ha d founded
hea S r is the last I shall ever
R n tSbe J^d-
, *ut the worldl is only a little place to
tr JL YYYYY. f r^ te f °1
tialfic. In the yeai 1800 I went to England
“.«*{
who was m the silk
business. wßieliouses in London nnd
f"™. SLLjT’ O ho ” sc « Vet-
-5P m b e m Berkshne. On my way to
st j a y | t through Wantage,
and that bi ought back to my mind the story
of „ 51
, t°‘d my friend Silver about it. and he
became interested. “Look here,” he said,
iv"twi an^ a - e ’ an .d we’ll look
Im, p-a offline nrettv'n kpttm 6 I^’i, and took
f-e lid off as pretty a kettle of fish as ever
i sa Y 111 my J lfe , ! 9 ld ma « Fooks was dead,
but his son Nathaniel reigned in his stead—-
as Poisonous a member of the legal tribe as
'T Saram / s
wife—Mana Fooks that was—as large as life,
Siown into a grim woman, and not named
(Continued on next page.)


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-LITS CO.
w
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars. .
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
w
324-330
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
IMKB
391-403
BOURKE ST.
MELBOURNE
Dodge at all, but Mrs. Lord, and Sammy still
alive and well, though not living at home!
The Foots family wo‘uld much rather I had
been eaten alive than come to Wantage
town inquiring after Sammy Dodge and ask-
ing uncomfortable questions as to his where-
abouts. Very acid they were, and inclined at
tirst to tell me nothing; but when they real-
ised that I was able to call in question
Sammy’s wife’s second marriage they became
more civil, and bit by bit the tangled skein of
Sam’s matrimonial affairs was unravelled.
The version of the story I got from the
venomous Nathaniel and Mr. and Mrs. Lord
was bald and merely sordid, but the tale
as told by Sammy Dodge was worthy of
any master of fiction.
Silver and I ran the little man to earth
at Farriugdon, in the same county, where
a fair was being held. He was in a show,
attracting no end of attention, though he
complained that many people persisted in
thinking him merely an excellent imitation,
while others regarded him with such horror
that they ran away, screaming. “But I
can’t live out of the show business,” he
said; “it’s the only place where I can get
a little peace and quiet. It was almost as
much as my life was worth to go into the
streets of a large town. So I signed a con-
tract with Joe’ Large here, and I engage not
to show myself in public, and he engages
to protect me, which includes board and
lodging and a comfortable salary; me travel-
ling in the carawan, and Joe doing good
business everywhere.”
“But what about your wife?” I asked.
“But is she my wife?” says Sam.
“Of course she is."
“Then what’s Lord?”
“I don’t know what Lord is,” I said,
“but Mrs. Lord is a bigamist.”
“That’s how I figure it too,” said the little
man. And lie burst into a high cackling
laugh. And then he started on his story.
“You know how I left home, owing to the
Fookses and my wife pecking at me con-
tinuous. Well, I proposed to give ’em the
surprise of their lives, and to begin with
Maria. Just as it was getting dark one even-
ing I walked into the little old curio-shop, and
passed into the living-room behind without
knocking, and there w sfi Maria and a strange
man having tea. ‘How d’e> do, my dear?’ I
says; ‘l’m your long lost Sammy come ’ome
again.’ Mister, the effect was magic. The
youngsters shrieked and skedaddled, my wife
went into hysterics, and the strange man
hid his face in a corner of the room and
shuddered. When I went up behind him
and touched him on _ the back, and _ asked
him what he was doing with my wife, he
howled, and fell in a heap on the floor. My
face might be a nuisance to me in public,
but it had a wonderful effect in the ’ome.
I had the Fooks family, Maria and the
strange man tamed immediate. I only had
to look at ’em and they’d fall down ; I only
had to raise my finger and they’d shriek.
‘•The strange man, turned out to be
Maria’s new husband, by the name of Lord.
That suited my book proper. I held Nat
Fooks, Maria and Lord in the ’ollow of
my ’and. Not only could I claim restitoo-
tion of my conjugial rights, but I could put
Maria in'gaol for bigamy, and include Nat
as accessory before and after the fact.
“Mr. Crewe, I tell you it was the triumph
of a lifetime. First of all I shocks ’em
nearly out of their senses, then I puts the
fear o’ God into them when I demands my
legal rights, and finally they crawls on
their bended knees when I threatens to pro-
ceed ag’in ’em for bigamy. I made what
terms I liked. My debts to the Fookses were
cancelled, Maria and Lord were to continue
as man and wife, and I was to get hall
the profits from the curio-shop. As for me,
I agreed not to blow the gaff and to absent
myself from ’ome. That suits me very well.
It suits Maria and Lord. It suits Nat
Fooks, who with his father was instrumen-
tal in driving me from the bussom of my
family; it suits Nat because t being a solici-
tor, he advised Maria’s marriage with Lord,
knowing there was no proof of me bein'
dead; and now, without having to pay hush-
money, lie finds his reputation as safe as if
he was a bishop. I draw my salary from
Large here, and I draw my half from the
curio-shop.
“But, Mister, sometimes I get ’ome-sick
for the pa by the Wanganui River, and the
halx as and the huis and the iauas, the wak-
ing with the bellbird, the song of the tui
in the■ fi-palms, the sound of the paddles on
the river, .the laughter when the hangi ovens
are opened, the company in the big wharc-
puni, and the korero far into the night.
Sometimes I think I should like to go back.
and if ever you see my wife, Tangiwia, tell
her—O my God! There goes the gong.
I must go on now and do my turn.”
The little man dropped his overcoat, under
which he wore only a pair of shorts, wrapped
a Maori mat round him, picked up a taiaha
and a mere, and walked out of my sight.
I never saw him again. But not long after
I returned to Maoriland I got a letter
from my friend Silver. “I haven’t seen or
heard anything lately of your tattooed
friend Sammy Dodge,” he said. “But Mrs.
Lord is quite well, and lately presented her
husband with In’s third son, and there is
a yarn going round Wantage that the little
chap is tattooed!”
A Field.
I’d give my best to the old master still,
So lie did furrow me and sow and till;
But now I lie neglected, void and bare,
As some contagion in the very air
Blighted whatever seed in me was cast;
Let but the fence decay, I’m free at last —
Free as the wilds about me, then to run
A grassy nomad in the golden sun.
N.S.W.
R. Crawford.
Refugee.
He has returned, my friend who said to me,
Gripping my hand and bidding me good-bye—
A trifle drunk, perhaps—“ Give me the sky
That’s clean by night and day ; where there’s
a tree
Standing alone above the tropic sea,
Ready to watch a sleep. I shall not die
In this drab city where the dead must lie
Beneath those marble teeth in the cemetery !”
Beneath those marble teeth ! Just that, he
said,
They' made him think of —false teeth stuck
about—
Those headstones naked on the cluttered plot.
And so he went; sailed north as one who fled
A haunting horror grinning him to rout. . . .
Now lie’s returned... .in death. I wonder
what
N.S.W.
Cecil Mann.
Quest.
ẁ
ẃ
QUENTIN POPE.
The Vineyards of the Sea.
The vineyards of the earth are fair
With rjrace and symmetry,
And lovely arc the trailing vines
That grow in Faery!
But brighter far and dearer are
The vineyards of the sea!
I met an old man by the sea,
In queer and ancient guise,
Who sang that song again, again,
With madness in his eyes.
“Oh, richer are the grapes,” he moaned,
“From vineyards of the sea ;
So come along, my mooning lad,
And have a drink with me !’•’
A coral cup he held on high,
Bright-beaded at the brim
With purple juice and emerald.
I drank and drank with him.
And rare sea-rubies in the dregs
Glimmered incarnadine,
And pearls had poured their lustre in
The drips of that sea-wine.
The blood within my veins sang loud.
Ah, how it came to be,
I know not, but my feet had found
The vineyards of the sea !
Below the frothing billows there,
Below the crawling tide,
I walked through gloomy blue-drowned aisles,
The old man at my side.
From branches twisted intricate,
Pearls winked from every fold,
And sunshine, piercing downwards, made
A honeycomb of gold.
Past cave and weed-hung wall the vines
Crawled, making strange sea-shapes,
Hanging o’er coral terraces
Their clustered purple grapes.
I plucked and plucked the luscious fruit
With wavering, green-washed hands,
And purple .juice and emerald
Dropped globules on the sands.
I drank and heard sweet sounds as though
Thin harps were played on high,
And lay and watched with dreamy eyes
The spotted fish go by.
And weaving in and out the stems
That dripped their purple drips,
Mermaidens clustered round my knee,
Pursing their wine-stained lips.
Oh was it but a dream I dreamed
Beside the old sea-wall?
Ido not know! My thoughts are dim—
I have forgotten all!
Oh father dear, oh mother dear,
What is this child you bore,
This pale, lost lad with matted hair,
Who roams the shaken shore?
Oh mother dear, oh father dear,
What terror there can be
For one who roams remembering
The vineyards of the sea!
The grapes of earth are rich and round,
And powdered o’er with bloom,
But richer are the ripe sea grapes
That grow in greenish gloom!
No longer do I care to stay
And with my fellows drink
In little taverns round the bay
Where emptied glasses clink.
My lips are seared with that sea-taste
I long to taste again,
But restless tramp the lonely shore,
Singing my song in vain! .
The. vineyards of the earth are fair
With grace and symmetry,
And lovely are the trailing vines
That grow in Fairy!
But brighter far and dearer are
:The vineyards of the sea!
VICTORIA,
Myra Morris.


■ :
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in iJtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—JiOJLMfiS « CUHtCH, Brisbane
N Z. Ottirr—»3-107 Featherston Street, W'elllngtnn
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian OHire—“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. KI,PER. SMITH * CO.. 1,T0., Adelaide. S.A
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE ACE”
Established 185Ji.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought hnd study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the .lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers whicb. has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may he
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide!
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, 183 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
- Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus"
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
fianidAMmm,
dtipd indigestion,
temove constipation
take 9
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
>»«1
Sfe
rc
m
Vol.
TUESDAY, JULY 23, 1929.
ŵ
ail
— -
~
; n
wmm
-
*Tt;
\ • iii
■ J**l
vJ
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Home
STORIES, VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
Published by
ẁ
Over 159,000 Copies Sold Every Week
ft
s*
O’*
0°
..•*** .>•*’
•‘ tf-V V v *r > r


£
11
7Z
5^
f h
mss
We
&
a
LM
m
606542
Styled in the finest
manner of to-day
IMBUED with advanced style and alluring
charm possessing a new liveliness of
performance and even greater dependability
and economy than Dodge Brothers cars ever
before have possessed the new Dodge
Brothers Six is unmatched by any other car
at or near its price. Of the score or more of
major betterments which this new car ushers
m, none is more conspicuously important
than its exclusive Mono-piece Body. This
remarkable new development combines
beauty, strength and comfort to a degree
never before attained m a car of such moderate
price. And besides, it positively will not
develop squeaks or rattles even after thou-
sands of miles of hardest usage.
wiwm
O 137
□□□BE EROTHE-R5 SIX
© A CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
“"tV YV'm" H “ rden J° hmton ’ Lid., Sydney South Australia Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd Adelaide
Queensland \ <V :T Ply ", Ltd - Melb °»™ Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
• A ™ l M ° tors ’ Llmiled ’ Brisbane New Zealand Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart
