

c U7ie 'Preference
*•
m
.
m
live
j VjS
m
mm
rr
<£s
o o^
<#
fCf*
sc°
rtf
I
Mr
09.0°
■iv*
wreK»®jsS#.w-
■■■ 17
sorers
<mss¥
(GOLD LABEL)
i
The Bulletin
{PaXjC 28 .
Vol. 50.- No. 2578.
Wednesday, July 10, 1929.
Price 6d.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When wine and song- their spell impart,
Love’s sentiment subdues the heart;
But, though their music makes us glad
The sweetest songs are always sad.
A broken heart may mourn in song
Amid the laughter of the throng,
Bui; they who coughs and colds endure
Find ease in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Learn T 1. __
freelance JmirnaUsm
at HOME I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical. Correspondence Colleqe
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bullktix, j
My Name
My Address
S.B . . , ;
HOLBROOKS
,i
y
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
w
w
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech’’ and copies
those who have been cured. Philip O’Brven Hoare, M.'B.I.M.Sc.
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure
and Stuttering.
of letters from
(London) (The
of Stammering
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
fßackache
SUFFERER
Backache is more than an ache — it’s a warning! The
cause is the dangerous uric acid poison continually
forming in the body. Failure to get rid of this
secretion means a type of slow poisoning, with con-
sequent ill-health and intense, pain, caused by the
sharp jagged uric acid crystals which lodge in the
muscles, joints and tissues, causing backache, rheu-
matism and muscular pain and stiffness. Allied to
this is the serious possibility of stone or gravel forma-
tions in the bladder.
THE ONE SURE REMEDY
The safe, reliable remedy is Harrison’s Pills. These
gently, quickly and , harmlessly restore the kidneys
to norman functional activity, and ensure that the
dangerous uric acid be driven from the system.
Harrison’s Pills not only stop aches and pains in the
back, joints, hands, arms and muscles, but they
soothe away dread inflammations from the urinary
tract. Too-frequent urination, getting up at nights,
pains in the loins, groins and sides are other troubles
quickly banished by Harrison’s Pills.
PRAISE FROM USERS
Users are unanimous in declaring Harrison’s Pills
the best remedy for kidney, bladder and urinary
troubles, giving prompt relief when all else hail
failed. Here are three typical extracts: —
‘‘Three weeks ago I sent for a sample of Harri-
son’s Pills, being completely crippled with rheu-
matism, and within a week / could walk about. I
can l express mg thanks to be free from ache and
pain, after suffering so long.” — {.Mrs. R. IF.)
‘‘‘They’re perfect! A neighbor of mine was so bud
with his back he could not stoop; I gave him six
Harrison’s, and before two days he was right, and
at workl”: — (S. T. R.)
“Harrison’s Pills have done me more good for
rheumatism than anything I. have tried before.”
(IK. J. IF.)
YOU, TOO, CAN GET BETTER l
Suffer no longer—delays increase the pain and in-
vite deep-seated disease. Get a package of Harri-
son’s Pills at once from the nearest chemist or store.
Three sizes: 18 pills, 2/-; 32 pills, 3/-; 68 pills,
5/-. Take as directed and if you don’t get real bene-
fit from the very first bottle, you can have your
money back. If not near a chemist or storekeeper,
post your order to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kem la
Building, Sydney; and all High-class Chemists.
ACT NO IV !- —Advt.
HARRISON’S PILLS REMOVE THE CAUSE
Y HAIR
U_i
e
o
X
Ci.
O
m
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a trnged;. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
puparution, jjr. Anen’s Mexican Walnut
oiaui, removes all trace of grey, it is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SCPOjJ&ris CM EXICAN)
Ukdmd Stoxrt
''REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAIJfSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
ŵ
m
Cuticura Ointment
Does More Than Heal
Assisted by Cuticura Soap it cleanses
the skin and scalp of dirt and dan-
druff, and maintains the sanative
cleanliness of the skin so necessary
in overcoming pimples, blackheads
and many other irritations caused by
your daily occupations and exposure.
Begin using it today.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R.JTowns & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and fiad
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing, the natural digestive ferments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Pbactitioneb, etc.
Vi
5*TtD
niG
SON
The Red Pege
Journeys of Sousa
“We sailed the 24th of December, 1910.
09 of us, on the Baltic for Liverpool.”
Before the tour had ended, “we” —that is,
the great band of Sousa—had played in
every principal city of England, Ireland,
Scotland, Wales, South Africa and Austral-
asia. When the party set out John Philip
Sousa was already established as composer
and conductor, and he has added consider-
ably to his reputation since. Among other
achievements, the ex-baker’s boy has to
his credit 10 operas, 12 suites, 53 songs, half
a dozen waltzes, 100 marches (alas, not all
meritorious!), a book of airs for the violin,
a book of instruction for the trumpet and
drum, a book of the national, patriotic and
typical airs of all lands, three novels, and
now Marching Along, recollections of men,
women and music, published in attractive
binding and with numerous illustrations, bv
Hale, Cushman and Flint, Boston.
Sousa, who
was born in
Washin g t o n,
D.C., went
into the bak-
ing business in
that city as a
boy, after
having had a
row’ v’lth a
boil - embit-
tered violin
teacher. How-
ever, musical
education and
dough - punch-
ing were not'
incompatib 1 e,
and, by 15.
Sousa was
himself teach-
in”: the violin.
At 17 he con-
ducted oper-
SOUSA.
ettas-, aim at 26 he was-director of the
United States Marine Corps Band. For the
last 36 years he has been the leader of
Sousa’s Band, and he has found time also
to win repute as an expert trap-shooter
and gain 1 ieu ten an t-com ma n d ersh ip in
the U.S.A. Navy. He records'that his trap-
shooting got him into trouble in Sydney,
where he received a trenchant letter from
a parson commenting in horrified terms
upon the wickedness of a great musician
indulging in the cruel sport of shooting clay
pigeons. He wrote to the parson, sending
a few clay pigeons and asking to be
invited round to eat them when cooked, but
the churchman was “not sport enough to
acknowledge his error.” Of course, that was
away back in the dark ages of 1911; parsons
in baekblocks Sydney are doubtless a little
more sophisticated now.
Sydney at that time was “an interesting
city, of a character half-English, half
American. ’ Australia, as Sousa saw it, and
still sees it, is a “crust country”: “Its
towns are usually on the seashore, and little
is known of the interior.” Melbourne, too,
must have been in a pretty raw state.
At a Fourth of July performance in
the Exhibition Hall he planned, he says,
a programme that overflowed with Ameri-
can music. It was to end with “The Star
Spangled Banner,” and he had arranged
with a soldierly-looking chap to march to
the centre of the stage and wave the
United States flag throughout the playing
of the anthem. Meanwhile, just as the
band reached the penultimate number, a
note was handed up from “Sir George Reed,
High Commissioner of Australia.” It is
worth repeating here, if for no other reason
than that it at least seems to reveal a
rather different George from, the one of
approximately the same name with whose
face and figure “Hop” used to play his own
line of symphonies in The Bulletin:—
My Dear Mr. Sousa, —I ain here with a party of
friends and enjoying- every moment of your concert.
Some of my party heard your beautiful rendition
last night of Chopin’s “Funeral March.” May 1 ask
that you repeat it? We are most anxious to hear it.
■ George Reed.
Sousa obliged, without a thought of the
arrangement with the soldierly chap, who
duly marched on and waved triumphantly
while the band moaned out the dirge. And,
to give Mr. Sousa’s words the italics
they deserve, ‘“a Melbourne 'paper observed
next* morning that it was indeed strange
that wide-awake America should have so
funereal a piece of music for its national
anthem!”
Though he gave a rushed lot of concerts
here—in Tasmania, in Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Toowoomba and Brisbane—before
going off to do likewise in Maoriland, Sousa
found a little time to study our native
fauna:—
The “Laughing Jackass” is perhaps the most inter-
esting bird in Australia. lie is a member of the
kingfisher family and a great snake-killer. When
he espies a snake, he darts down, grabs it by the
back _of the neck, takes it far in the air, and then
drops it to the ground; like the Irishman’s explana-
tion—it is not the fall that kills it, but the sudden
contact with the ground. During the descent of the
snake the bird laughs wildly and delightedly. I
have heard his laugh many times, and certainly it is
a happy, satisfying sort of sound.
Sousa tells heaps and heaps of these little
stories, all of them engaging and amusing
even if sometimes incredible, but there
is a more important side to his book, for,
though he has not a strong gift for accurate
or sweeping observation, he met interesting
personalities. One might, for instance, be
pardoned for .wishing there was a little less
in a patronising vein and a little more con-
tact with personalities such as J. C. William-
son, who, apropos the recent death of
Gilbert, discussed with him the G. and S.
operas.
“(iilbert,” remarked Mr. Williamson, “was terribly
excited and worried at the final rehearsal for ‘The
Mikado' when it was being prepared for production
in London. Apparently he could not obtain the
desired result's from the company. It seemed to me
that his method of explaining his conception \made
them more mechanical paeh time lie had them repeat
a scene. Of course at the dress rehearsal the thing'
limped horribly. From a brilliant gathering of
professionals, society leaders and press representatives,
there came scarcely a ripple of applause. The only
tiling which seemed to awaken much interest was
the Mikado s song, and that they had been planning
to cut out. However, since it received a little en-
couragement from the audience it was suffered to
remain. But the dress rehearsal was in every way
disappointing, and the wise ones were shaking their
heads and prophesying a failure for ‘The-Mikado.’
f was present at‘the first performance the next night,
and it was an overwhelming and triumphant success.
Gilbert was not in the audience. lie was nervously
pacing up and down the Embankment during the
entire performance.”
O Neill and Philip Lindsay
Philip L indsay’s remarks about Eugene
O’Neill and Marco -Polo (B. 19/6/’29) are
interesting examples of the depths of over-
statement into which an unfetteredly
romantic viewpoint is apt to lead one. Mr.
Lindsay says that in writing “Marco Mil-
lions” O’Neill deliberately degraded one of
the most courageous men in history.
Of physical courage no doubt Marco
had plent} r . But the route he took to
China was annually trodden by scores of
merchants and other travellers, who evi-
dently ’thought no more of the terrors of
the journey than does a tourist entering
a Handley Page in Paris to fly to London.
When Marco reached Cambalec he found
China and its vast empire enjoying a peace
and security comparable to the present
peace in Europe. The Great Khan’s posts
functioned at least as regularly as our own
P.M.G.’s. We are told nothing of Marco’s
famous governorship of Yangchow except
that, by special order of the grand khan, “he
acted during the space of three years.” We
do not know whether he was an irrespon-
sible autocrat or a timid democrat or a
rubber-stamp; whether he enriched himself
or the province. \ The fact that he men-
tions the presence of many of the khan’s
troops suggests that he was well backed by
bowmen, so that possibly the job was not
as onerous as governing an Australian
trades union.
As to his return journey, he again fol-
lowed a route which was regarded as no
more dangerous than is going to England
to-day via Suez. For six months of the
year ships ran west on the north-east mon-
soon and moved north on the south-west.
When the first European statistics of the
native tonnage on this route .were taken
it was found to exceed 30,000 annually, and
the trade had been going on for centuries.
An Arab guide to the ports and harbors
and the Customs dues thereof had been in
existence for (our centuries. Kublai would
no more have sent his grand-daughter on
the trip if it had not been regarded as nor-
mally safe than the Duke of "Gloucester
would have been allowed to go to Japan
lately it there had been a serious chance
of his being eaten on the journey.
I merely state these facts to show the
limitations of the exclusively romantic view-
point, which replaces the vividness, wonder
and infinite variety of actuality with a con-
ventional rose cloud. There is not the
slightest evidence that Marco was not the
Babbitt O’Neill makes him. His observa-
tions on the countries he passed through
are precisely the same in kind as the re-
marks Australian business men returning
from abroad make about the drains in
Rome, the ’buses in Birmingham and the
breakdown of law and order in Chicago.
As for the comparisons with Shakspeare,
I wonder if the bard were a modern play-
wright. what Mr. Lindsay would have to
say about the “brutal sentimentality” of
The Taming of the Shrew” or the “violent
language” of “Measure for Measure” or
the “dirt” of “Pericles,” Act iv, Scene 2.
(Red Page continued on page 5.j


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” is practised in Anthony Horderns’
announcements just as faithfully at Sale time as at any othei time.
RNS’
0 m
A
4
m
/-
i
i
%
4
m
44
444/
m4
starts to-morrow
The event which experienced shoppers have wisely waited for!
Anthony Horderns’ hold only two Sales each year, one at the end
of each season; and when they come, these Sales bring an unparalleled
wealth of big price reductions —every one of which is absolutely genuine.
Note also that every department of “THE HOUSE OF ECONOMY
offers its quota of bargains at Sale time, so that for anything you need, you
are sure of the advantage of definitely lower prices. Whatever you do,
you must not let this chance to economise pass you by.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS LTD.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
Telephone M2JfOl
Day and Night
Mm
ii
H
m
m-
m
Mm
m
wm
’ •••
,v
riff
n
I®
m
«5
m
mm
m
fendjor thif /
Anthony Horderns’ 160-page illustrated
Sale Catalogue will be sent post free to
any address on request. Get it at once,
look through it, and you will certainly
notice many bargains which will appeal
strongly.


A Personal Message
by JValter P. Chrysler regarding the new
Dodge
Brothers six
Ever since the first Dodo , e
o
Brothers car appeared about
15 years ago, the Dodge Brothers
name has enjoyed commanding prestige.
Hence, in acquiring the Dodge Brothers
Corporation, and in undertaking to plan,
produce and protect the future products
which will bear the Dodge name, we are
mindful of our profound obligation to retain
that prestige with the vast Dodge Brothers
public and all Dodge Brothers Dealers
throughout the world.
It is our sole aim to add so consistently
and conspicuously to the present Dodge
reputation that every Dodge owner and
every Dodge dealer will feel even greater
pride and will have cause for even greater
satisfaction.
We are utilising all the progressive engi-
neering, scientific manufacturing and out-
standing value which have contributed to
the success of all other Chrysler-built cars
and to the general progress of the Chrysler
Corporation.
We have embodied such substantial value,
such surpassing performance, and such
engineering supremacy and so much of
ẁ
originality, beauty and luxury
that by every comparison the
intrinsic value of Dodge Brothers
cars will remain unchallenged.
The new Dodge Brothers Six illustrates for
the first time the unlimited capabilities of
the great, organised forces of the Chrysler
Corporation when marshalled to full strength
in any enterprise.
From an engineering standpoint, this new
Dodge Brothers Six is a supreme achieve-
ment by a group of engineers whose accom-
plishments have revolutionised automobile
design.
We believe that in performance, in comfort,
in long-lived excellence, and in thorough
value it surpasses every previous conception
of what a car at this price could possibly be.
We are proud to be the creators and
sponsors of the new Dodge Brothers Six
and present it in the sincere conviction
that it offers the high value, dependability
and distinction which a discriminatng public
always expects of Dodge Brothers.
ND8129.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . HardenJ Johnston, Ltd., Sydney South Australia .... Waymoulh Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
Victoria . Canada Cycle 6r Motor Co. (Vic.) Ply.. Ltd., Melbourne Western Australia .... Winterboitom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
W A “t al M °! on ’ Limited ’ Brkbam Ztatmi . Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland
Tasmania Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


■WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
r
A
/ s
s*-
as
i* \
ml
3 BULLETj
m
TOPPER HAD BULLET
T«»»S
gmavi-S
MS
KDPPER KLAO BULLET
STAYN LESS
. r u e SatU e
tiaes 8 o wot ld.
throughout*
T heu <ty , n
built-
appea ?r a ctiou,aud
andeasV acC uta'
°< sss-uo*
s?V sts
the cholCe «rftkstueu.
" Sed
■jsSw-*-"
tecot* >2 Cal'
WinAe nluon can
ibet A**" opon fot
BUie /‘ deput'd* 16
shooting. aelJ
results-
55
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition in Winchester Rifles— they "|
are made for each other. There’s a Winchester Rifle and there's I
Winchester ;Ammunition for evefy .22 caliber shooting purpose. J s
All this becomes artistic only when the
talker has been dead 300 years, apparently.
Anyhow, why thumb one’s nose at Mount
Dandenong because it is not as tall as
Everest? Surely one can be profoundly
thankful that in the dreary procession of
the modern drama there is one playwright
capable of giving us a work like “Strange
Interlude.”
M. G. SKIPPKR.
A Bierce Post-mortem
It is said that half a dozen writers in
America are now filling their pens for a
biography of Ambrose Bierce, satirist and
story-writer, but two have got a start of
the others. “Bitter Bierce” is by C. Hartley
Grattan, the tone of the book being neutral,
observant, sincere; “Portrait of Ambrose
Bierce” is by Adolph de Castro, a book
showing Bierce through the eyes of one who
knew him and is determined to embarrass
his memory by making him a superman
in literary, military and all human affairs.
As Hartley Grattan says in an emphatic
conclusion to his book, Bierce’s “reputation
is still chiefly sustained by the worst sort
of following an author can have: he is the
god of a cult.” Grattan’s biography care-
fully lifts Bierce’s figure out of the temple
where his “cult” has kept it, amid incense
and shadows, and sets it in the dry light of
a sufficiently sympathetic psychological
laboratory. Here you have a figure still
interesting enough, and at least credible,
though full of contradictions, as forcible
personalities usually are.
Now we go back to Bierce looking for
certain definite kinds of interest. Most
of us know him as the author of “In
the Midst of Life,” American Civil War
stories with an irony and a cold snap that
he was the first to invent and use. We
know his book of ghost stories, “Can Such
Things Be?” and admire their air of logical
detachment. But we had heard of him
as a fierce satirist, a sort of pre-Mencken
in American life. How far is this the case?
The most easily-found book of this satirical
Bierce is “The Devil’s Dictionary,” where
he makes only a little more free than John-
son in expressing his prejudices. If John-
son for once writes “Excise: a Hateful Tax,”
Bierce uses that formula all through:—
The Senate is a body of elderly gentlemen charged
with high duties and misdemeanors.
Impunity. Wealth.
Slang is the grunt of the human hog (Pignoramus
intolerabilis) with an audible memory.
A prejudice is a vagrant opinion without visible
means of support.
Bierce, like Mencken, fathered many such
vagrants, and often enough they fought
among themselves. All that bound them
together was the handsome, striking, enig-
matic figure of Bierce himself.
Analysing his opinions, accounting for his
literary methods, placing him with “Frank
Norris, Stephen Crane and Jack London,
who had a part in the coming of age of
American literature,” Hartley Grattan leaves
Bierce’s personal form in the hands of on-
lookers who described him when last he
astonished their gaze. The Bierce that
vanished in Mexico, where he went in 1914,
tall, old and erect, to see the fighting be-
cause as an old campaigner he “liked the
game,” left behind him a mystery which,
solved, would read like a composite of his
war stories and ghost stories. Mean-
while his literary biographers do best by
leaving that mystery alone. The problem
of Bierce is that of his life in relation to
American letters, and I am inclined to be-
lieve that in his unobtrusive and honest
study Hartley Grattan has solved it.
NERRIE PALMER.
Wells on Pacifism
Lately on the Red Page I ventured to
ridicule, hupian nature being what it is, a
suggestion that the interchange of paci-
fist plays and literature between ex-enemy
nations was a firm step towards the ending
of war. One or two pacifist friends have
inferred from this that my sympathies
must be militaristic—as though one who
dares to open his eyes and record what
he sees must sympathise with the spectacle 1
Since the article was published I have
received The Commonsense of World
Peace, by H. G. Wells, a Hogarth Press
print of Mr. Wells’s address before the
Reichstag at Berlin on April 15. As one
has learnt to expect when Mr. Wells tackles
such a topic, the address makes a gripping
piece of reading; it should be read by
everyone who has a thought to throw out-
side the circle of the parish pump. Mr.
Wells believes that mankind can and some-
day will live without making war at all;
but he does not see this Utopia being
achieved with Kellogg Pacts nor the com-
mon brand of pacifist propaganda. He it
was who, in 1914, coined the phrase “The
War to End War,” which he now says
from a belief that “the essential
futility of the prevailing ideas of militant
nationalism was to be demonstrated beyond
dispute.” Whether that was the genesis or
not, everybody knows very well that such
was not the accepted interpretation of Mr.
Wells’s phrase, and I have no recollection
of Mr. Wells raising a protest against the
interpretation. In fact, Mr. Wells here
gives proof that he has hope of the achieve-
ment of peace through war, which is what
that phrase was generally believed to mean.
“A permanent world peace,” he says, “im-
plies a profound revolution in the nature
of every existing government upon earth,
and in the fundamental ideas upon which
that government is based.” The road will
be hai-d, because it involves the acceptance
of cosmopolitanism; the abolition of the
sovereign-independence-of-States ideal; but
“if we do not mean to push our world over
these difficulties and through these jungles,
if we are not prepared to fight, and to
fight not only mentally, but physically,
against such opponents as we shall en-
counter, then our peace talk is no more
than talk.”
All pacifists are illogical, and in the
italicised words Mr. Wells gives a new
reason for warfare, a greater reason than
any for which a war has ever been fought,
and therefore perhaps one that has possi-
bilities of producing the greatest war of all.
For it will not be any less a wax when
our children’s children are fighting for
Peace than it was when we were fighting
for whatever it was we fought for. Mr.
Wells admits that “to stick to our group
against the other group is certainly in
the nature of the creature,” but he ties his
hope to the possibility of enlarging the
group into a universal thing. To begin
to understand what the attainment of that
group would involve one has but to try
emptying himself of everything that re-
sembles a patriotic feeling; and if one finds
that possible, he can go on to visualising
a world in which it could not be written,
“Even the ranks of Tuscany could scarce
forbear to cheer,” but instead, “And, of
course, living as we do in Utopia, there
were no ranks of Tuscany.” Mr. Wells
wants to have a world so cosmopolitan that
a man with a ton of goods will be able
to travel anywhere over the globe without
a passport or without a Customs examination
—an old phrase of his, which, of course,
assumes a world peopled with men all as
non-criminal as he is, and, like him, never
to be suspected of trying to make a little
on the side by drug- or rum-running.
This cosmopolitan bubble, which is the
foundation of Mr. Wells’s structure, is
finally pricked by the great propagandist
himself when he directs attention to
the fact that the Olympic Games, instead
of becoming a sort of love-feast of all the
people, intensify, with their displays of
national symbols and national partisan-
ship, a vicious patriotism in both partici-
pants and spectators. The logical enlarge-
ment of that embraces all sport. It is pure
bunkum to call half the cricket and foot-
ball barracking that goes on here what
the newspapers call it, “chaff”; it is the
bitter expression of vicious patriotism. Well,
then, the world has to rid itself of that
spirit!
So I am not surprised when, towards the
end of his address, Mr. Wells, with the vast-
ness of his ideal pressing upon him, has to
say: obliges us to recognise
that it is quite possible that mankind may
have neither the wish nor the will to scrape
together that price and buy a new phase
of existence for itself: And meanwhile
for all our pacts and promises, the world
moves plainly forward towards fresh wars.”
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
The Bridge of Life, by C. Harold Smith
(Appleton). An unaffected, quickly-moving
story of an American business man; a happy
combination of what the author saw and
endured before reaching success i A younger
son of a wealthy English family, he was
thrown early upon his own resources. At
15 he was shipped to Maoriland, where he
was befriended by a Maori tribe whose lan-
guage and customs he acquired. From M.L.
be drifted to the United States, crossed to
England, and then went back to U.S.A. The
starting-point of his business life was a job
packing and labelling powdered charcoal. To-
day his carbon-black products are used by
printing-ink makers and others throughout
the world. The business side, however, is
incidental; the main object is to illustrate,
through the personal experiences of 50 years
of an intensely active life, the joy of striving
courageously. A genial humanity shines
from every page.
The Perfect Murder Case, by Christopher
Bush (Heinemann), differs from other works
of its class, inasmuch as the perpetrator
writes to Scotland Yard of his intentions
beforehand. Needless to tell detective-yarn
fans that, even with this assistance, the poor
old Yard fails to solve the mystery. How-
ever, it gets a handsome tribute on the
second-last page from the gentleman who
does, and it gives useful help in the essen-
tial business of mystifying the reader. A
well-written story, with several characters
who definitely resemble human beings.
Introductions to Modern Knowledge
(Routledge; Dymocks). The first four num-
bers of this new series of sixpenny books
are “The Nursery Years,” by Susan Isaacs;
“From Monkey to Man,” by L. H. Dudley
Buxton; “The Savage as He Really Is,” by
J. H. Driberg; and “Europe Throughout the
Ages,” by Norman H. Baynes and Eileen
Power. The publisher’s object is to make
a library of introductions which will provide
the “groundwork of modern knowledge, his-
torical, scientific, artistic and other, together
with plain initial statements of the practical
problems of life.” The books are written
by experts and broadly illustrated ; they make
an entertainment of the task of gathering
knowledge. Forthcoming numbers include
“Music for All,” “Women of To-day,” “Mak-
ing a Home,” “The Americans” and “Daily
Life in Parliament.”
The True Heart, by Sylvia Townsend
Warner (Chatto and Windus: Dymocks).
Another charming story by the author of
“Lolly Willowes.” It is the tale of an
utterly innocent girl whose beautiful sim-
plicity carries her unscathed to her ideal
happiness through situations that almost
every other present-day novelist would have
created only for her ruin. The characters
are all a little indistinct, but that in this
fantasy is rather a merit than anything else.
Answers to Correspondents.
fro notice . (except of a hostile character) will be taken o 1 communications insufficiently stamped,
frame and address must appear on the MS. fro liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.E.8.: A good story spoiled by the first
part, and the end. Tell the tale and leave it at
that... .D.M.8.: Vivid imagination is not much good
in a storyteller unless he can make the things seem
true....J.K.P.: Such things never happened in our
very wildest west. But you might make a moving-
picture scenario out of it... .A.J.11.: Not badly done ;
but we don’t believe he’d be fool enough to keep
the incriminating document in his pocket.... Due:
Add a “k”... .P.G.M.: “My Secret” should find a
home elsewhere. The others are too smooth for true
feeling... .M.V.: “Disillusioned” is an idea badly
treated. The other is merely some rhymes. ...
Don E.: All you lack is something worth saying....
J.A.8.H.: Nothing inspiring there. .. .G.T.J.: Most
things written “with apologies” go, without apologies,
to the w.p.b E.F.: Your “Solitude” has no
charms. .. .F.C.: “Jazz” is at least something like
its inspiration.... Com: Verse lost in a f0g....
Zambuk: We won’t rub it in.... J.T.R.: At least
better than most of the hundreds who wrote on
that theme... .W.P.G.: You certainly have a talent
for invective:—
Behold the lowest scum on earth,
Devil’s spawn, corrupt at birth.
Insatiable their lust for fame;
Their own ends serve in Labor’s name.
With tongue in cheek, these crafty swine
With Labor’s coin their own nest line.
. ...W.A.G.: Doesn’t convince... .8.E.: Nothing for
us in that 10t.... Micah: They get nowhere....
M.R.: Has a thought, rather roughly handled....
D. 8.: Your doubts concerning its chances were
justified.... D.G.: Heavyweight fantasy.... K.R.M.:
Well enough done, but they don’t move... .Demos-
thenes Haggins: One sweet stanza from the “Song
of the Hangman” :
The bolts are well oiled, and the lime’s prepared,
And a lidless coffin stands;
The Press will tell how the penal bell,
When the job was done, tolled your corpse’s knell,
Whilst I washed my dirty hands.
. ...C.1.D.: “Night Ships” have passed 0ut....
M.0.E.: Only one stanza of verse to “Winter” in
the envelope. In fact, it’s been a good day all
round... .M.R.: We strongly suspect every breeze
when it whispers... .F.W.M.: “Enclosed trifles.”
Would advise avoidance of such hyperbole... .H.L.:
Too much “brother”; not enough bother... .D.D.:
If we published that, you’d be eaten, not so surely
by Queensland-lovers as by verse-lovers... .R.K.:
Correct —and empty J. 8.0.: They want more
meat on their skeletons in the medical 5ch001....
T.W.S.: Was the tambourine music that tore your
hero’s “heart-strings” worse than the saxophone?
. ...8.C.C.: More ghosts! Have you no interest in
living things?... .G.K.S.: We want cream for our
Christmas issue and you offer skim milk... .G.L.C.:
Sent to the wrong shop... .N. 8.: Doesn’t
climb far up “the hill of achievement”
P.W.; There’s more glitter than worth about your
diamonds L.E.: “Just an apple; but such an
apple! Stained red with its knowledge of all the
dawns and sunsets of its brief life and scintillating
with beauty absorbed from the wonder shop of the
world.” Where do you buy ’em?... .R.K.: “Shall
I tell thee once more?” Gadzooks, we’d advise
thee not to! Gipsy: Not taking “The Choice”... .
Bolivar: A very old story... .W.McG.D.: You are
awarded this office’s gold-mounted bath-bun for a
valiant attempt to rhyme “meet” with “unique.”
....Emel: Might place ’em somewhere... .R.W.G.:
Don’t like that sort at a 11.... John K.: Much too
young yet... .E.C.D.: “Bend-fiend” declined....
H.L.: Alas, we know him well:—
A seedy fellow he, of abject mien,
Wrapped in a coat which better days had seen.
His nose was many-hued, his aspect glum,
His breath was fragrant with the tang of rum.
His furtive manner spoke of many a bout
With that quaint bird men call the Ohuckcr-out.
His verse to sell, he said, in accents gruff,
His own reflections scrawled on his tattered cuff.
I bought an ode, with fellow feeling' rife,
’Twas titled “Secrets of Success in Life.”
. ...J.E.P.: As expected, the editor “regrets”....
C.L.: One line, “Hence life limps listless with mo.
inland,” makes “Sea Longing” memorable.... Ray-
mond: No use for two-inch yarn that it takes
half a column to te11.... Ell. R.: Interesting in its
way, but not quite suitable... .Mon Cbeur:
Has feeling and some charm, but insufficient
action... .P.C.: Material good; it needs defter
handling.... A.W.R.: Your “Esperanto Ivorespondado”
would add the wrong sort of weight... .T.M.G.: No
appetite for your “Mutton,” but keep on trying....
N.K.F.: The motor story needs oil—Lizzie’s a bit
stiff in the joints W.S.H.: Stories of the flogging
days are best blotted out... .R.8.N.: Non-acceptance
does not necessarily mean non-appreciation —.
A.0.T.R.: Brazen attempt to work in a free advt.
. ...C.E.S.: Surely you don’t think any reader would
Bwallow that yarn... .W.S.: Well written, but doesn’t
fit....M.M.: So immature that it died in our hands.
....Golden Arrow: Your shot scores an outer....
L. : The Acting-Consul might fit into a Gilbert
and Sullivan play 0.E.W.: Don’t think much of it.
....Huon: Dail Eireann has 153 members, including
the Speaker, who does not vacate liis seat at a
general election. Cosgrrve’s party is 62 strong,
De Valera’s 57, Labor 13, the Farmers’ party 6, the
National League 2, and there are 12 Independents.
The term is four years.... Garbo: Australia sold
goods valued at £5,138,000 to Italy last year and
bought Italian goods valued at £1,362,000. Italy
has bought £11,722,000 worth of Australian wheat
in four years.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L. 8.: You’ll have to climb higher before you can
pluck a Bulletin cheque... .S.P.: Aren’t you ever
going to shift that couple from the balcony ?... .
M. : A mirthless gag and an abominable drawing.
. ...R.8.: For a start, we don’t like her legs....
A.A.P.; You’re painstaking, if uninspired... .J.J :
One look at the lady was sufficient... .M.H.:
Remove that bagman before we butcher him. .. .C.T.:
It wouldn’t be winter if that joke didn’t drop in a
dozen times between June and August A.E.S.:
The sentimental hodcarrier is obscured by blots
and smudges D.T.: Comic strip counted out .
. ...N.N.J.: Try some other pastime... .A.S.L.:
Repulsive Zoo joke.-.. .C.E.P.: Poor imitation of
Heath Robinson... .A.S.: Not interested in the argu-
ment between the traffic cop and the lorry-driver... .
F.H.: If only the artist would take the hint....
M.C.: Drawing anaemic; joke quite bloodless.


w
JS'hie
SEP-PriT & SONS U»#
South austhaUA
ŵ
triedq?/i/ vugJwut^u4l/tilia
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2578.
July 10, 1920.
THE SUBSTITUTE.
“Naval and air force personnel has been reduced* 400 men dismissed from the Lithgow small-arms factory and the citizen forces are starving for funds; nevertheless
Mr. Bruce has assured the country that national defence will not be endangered.”
DOG COLLECTOR: “Sure you don't want him?”
MR. AND MRS. STANLEY CANBERRA: “Oh, quaite! It’s a matter of economy —and besides, as you see, we are not entirely unprotected.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westualia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W. 0.2
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4s. ; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.j 3 months, Ss.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom: joz. to 10oz., lUl.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
SOUSA IN AUSTRALIA 2
WELLS ON PACIFISM 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
A FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
More Loans, More Taxes—
S. Australia’s Perilous Position . . 8
BRUCE’S SAFETY OR AUSTRALIA’S? .. 8
GUNS —J. H. M. Abbott’s graphic account of
big-gun firing on the Australia .. 8
ECONOMY IS NOT ENOUGH 8
REPUDIATION AND RAILWAYS . . . . 8
TRIAL BY JURY—By Thomas Waddell, ex-
Premier of N. S. Wales . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD ' 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . . . . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) . . . . 14
POVERTY POINT . . . . 15
William Macleod Cartoons of 1883-85 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . . . 17
“BAR KOCHBA,” a Yiddish Opera . . . . 17
“SWEENEY TODD,"” Royalty’s blood-curdler . . 17
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 18. 20
EDWARDS DUNLOP 18
SWALLOW AND ARIELL 18
MALLEY’S 18
PETERS (BRISBANE) AND OTHER PETERS
COMPANIES 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
Farm-help Prize-winners • .. .. 28
SUPER AND DIMINISHING RETURNS .. 28
WESTRALIAN WHEAT COSTS . . . . . . 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
Y.R.C. GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE.. .. 39
ROSEHILL 39
FOOTBALL—ALL BLACKS v. AUSTRALIA.. 39
POLO—DUDLEY CUP FINAL 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
Polo Week Gaieties .. 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • .. 50, 51, 52, 58
NORMAN LINDSAY ILLUSTRATION . . . . 51
COMPLETE STORIES—
Life at Fault, S. Stedman .. 55, 57
“THE HANDS THAT RULE THE WORLD”
By David Worth . . . . . . 57, 58
VERSE 58
Next Week.
“NOBBY’S.” —See page 52 this issue.
Another instalment of William Macleod’s cartoons
1883-1888.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 10, 1929.
THE BIGGER THE LOAN THE
BIGGER THE TAX.
South Australia’s Butler Government
reached office in April, 1927, succeeding a
Labor Administration with a turn for phil-
anthropy, but not for finance. At the end
of June the new crowd reported a deficit
of £1,050,049. Determining on a great and
entirely praiseworthy effort to make revenue
exceed expenditure, Butler imposed what
he called “emergency” taxation. He in-
creased the income-tax, the land-tax, the
tax on motor-vehicles and a shoal of stamp-
duties and license-fees; railway fares also
went up 16 per cent, and freight rates 10 per
cent., while there were thumping additions
to waterworks and sewerage charges. These
heroic measures brought in nearly another
million; the income-tax alone yielded an
Additional £444,391; and receipts from water-
works and sewers soared from £672,098 to
£898,177. Yet when June 30 came round
again Butler had to announce a debit
balance of £274,900.
Except for “minor adjustments,” the
emergency taxation, which was expected to
be withdrawn after a year, was sadly but
determinedly continued for another twelve
months. This time there was a significant
fall in revenue, amounting to nearly half
a million; on the other hand, expenditure,
in spite of departmental economies, could
not be kept down. Result, a deficit , of
£932,288 —more than 30s. per head of popu-
lation. Obviousfy this cannot go on.
First, what is the main cause of the
trouble? It seems to The Bulletin that
that can be answered in one sentence: South
Australia has gone in for lavish expenditure
of borrowed money on unproductive under-
takings. It has been no more extravagant
in this respect than some of its neighbors,
but it has not had their luck in getting
Commonwealth grants and bounties or em-
bargoes on imports, being nearly always
forgotten when these things are handed
out. Also it is a State with severely-
limited resources, although its farmers, pas-
toralists, winegrowers and manufacturers
have made the most of them. It has to im-
port every ton of coal it burns, and the
price is outrageous. For the Newcastle
article the Government railways paid, on an
average, 445. lOd. per ton in whereas
the other State railway systems got coal
for an average of 20s. sd. per ton. And the
railway position has not been improved
by the so-called rehabilitation programme,
authorised in an expansive moment by the
Barwell Government, and carried out at
a cost of £7,000,000, the material being
nearly all imported, although the greater
part of it could have been manufactured in
South Australia.. For the rest, there has
been reckless spending on irrigation, which,
though beautiful in theory, has a nasty trick
of making State balance-sheets look sick.
In the result, - the public debt and the
annual interest bill show these remarkable
increases:—
Total
Public Debt. Annual Interest.
1921.. £58,585,671 £2,171,441
1922.. 63,309,455 2,388,524
1923.. 70,834,114 2,611,495
1924.. 76,325,704 2,904,117
1925.. 78,780,637 3,211,420
1926.. 84,426,864 3,594,665
1927.. 90,829,257 4,005,324
1928.. 95,010,403 4,278,087
The increase in interest over the 1920 figure
was almost exactly half a million greater
than the whole revenue from State income-
tax last year. Yet South Australia and
Queensland have the stiffest State income-
taxes in the Commonwealth. Altogether
£1,803,828 was dragged in S. Australia from
a population of 578,000, the Common-
wealth impost, which goes up to ss. in the
£l, being additional. In Maoriland, with
a population of 1,454,000 and a war debt
of £72,000,000, the income-tax revenue for
the corresponding year amounted to
£3,273.729.
In a letter to the Melbourne dailies
F. W. Eggleston, sometime State Attor-
ney-General and possible successor to W. A.
Watt as M.H.R. for Balaclava, ridicules
“the idea that we are going to get on in
Australia without additional taxation.” But
what is the use of imposing additional
taxation if interest on unprofitable loan
works is to swallow up the additional re-
venue, and more? With “a vigorous bor-
rowing policy” going on all the time, what
would be the good of demanding fresh sacri-
fices of the income-taxpayers of S. Aus-
tralia? Those taxpayers are already over-
burdened: the fall in receipts last year tells
its own tale. Auditor-General Rogers takes
a much sounder view, and the advice he
gives to South Australia is applicable to
the rest of Australia:—
“It must be realised that though there is
much development work to be done, the
State cannot afford to do it until that which
has been done becomes effective in increasing
production, population and direct returns
to the State Treasury.”
Australia will have to cultivate the habit
of doing without things. This may be in-
convenient, but better inconvenience than
disaster, which, if the interest bill goes on
soaring at the present rate, the most drastic
taxation will be unable to avert. Com-
monwealth and States will have to cut out
extravagance in every shape arid form and
make a reasonable income suffice for their
expenditure.
It may be urged that the suspension of
railway construction would be a hardship
to isolated communities of farmers who
have been promised a line within a certain
time. But the State could offer such
farmers a fair compromise—payment for a
reasonable amount of the extra -carting in-
volved. The expense would be a fleabite
compared with the interest on construction,
and maintenance and operating costs of un-
payable railways.
BRUCE’S SAFETY OR AUSTRALIA’S?
Defence retrenchment was to be expected
of the Bruce-Page Government in its pre-
sent plight. Nationalism is so divided in
the Federal Parliament—by high and low
tariffists, by opponents and supporters of
Federal Arbitration, by those who think
there is nothing to be said for any strikers
and those who are sure there is much to
be said against many employers, and by
members of the party who are merely
hostile to the party leaders—that Mr. Bruce
and his medical off-sider are more con-
cerned in saving the number of their mess
than in any other activity.
They have two main preoccupations.
One is to keep Parliament closed for as long
as possible. It sits, nominally, for only
about 10 months in three years; but that
is several months too long for an Adminis-
tration which had two narrow escapes of its
life in the first weeks of its existence. Their
other endeavor is to confine themselves to
proposals which the Opposition will find it
hardest to oppose.
Right up to the beginning of a war, as a
rule, defence expenditure is unpopular with
a majority of the electors. The wickedness
of militarism is the easiest thing to be sanc-
timonious about. And no surrender is too
great for the anti-militarists to suggest
during these periods of pious exaltation.
The Treaty of Utrecht gave Britain
Gibraltar. “Before it,” to quote Mahan,
“England was one of the sea powers; after
it she was the sea power, without
any second.” Yet between 1715 and 1783
the question of giving up Gibraltar was
raised in England no less than eight
times. Enormously rich Java was actu-
ally given up during the Napoleonic wars
because politicians in London disliked
spending money on it —for the same reason,
incidentally, that a powerful section wants
to abandon the defence of Singapore.
At this time, when the Bruce-Page Gov-
ernment is whittling away our three defence
arms, “there is,” to quote the Prime
Minister himself, “a danger facing us, and
that danger is from the United States of
America.” He meant an economic danger,
but economic and military dangers have
always been inseparable. Our neighbors and
friends on the other side of the Pacific no
more want war than we'do. Neither do the
Italians, though their dictator talks a good
deal about war, not having a world-wide
cinema business to do the talking for him.
Yet both Americans and Italians are being
driven to actions which, by all the teach-
ings of history, lead on to war. And if
either of them goes to war the Common-
wealth will be vitally concerned. The
U.S.A. is in the act of blossoming into an
empire—a Pacific Ocean empire. It has
done in Panama what England did in Egypt
—acquired a waterway which gives its war-
ships access to two oceans. Mexico seems
destined to pass over to the U.S.A.; there
are American bases near Australia already,
and inevitably, as the U.S.A grows in
wealth, power and pride, more will be
acquired. As for Italy, her high birth-rate
and the exclusion of emigrants from the
U.S.A. mean, in Mussolini’s words, that
“she must expand elsewhere or burst”; and
she is likely to do it in the Eastern Medi-
terranean. That is to say, precisely where
Australia’s lifeline with Britain can most
easily be cut.
The Bruce-Page Government might have
retrenched on social services; there is no
country in the world which spends so much
as Australia, per head of the population,
on various forms of relief—including the
relief of those who are illegally on strike,
and helping to diminish that production
which alone pays for relief services. But
that kind of economy, being fatal to a
Government’s popularity, is the last to be
resorted to by political strategists. . Aus-
tralia in this matter is witnessing a com-
mon phenomenon of party government.
Mr. Bruce has weighed the present safety
of his Government against the future safety
of Australia, and declared for the former.
GUNS.
Another of Mr. Abbott’s graphic
stories of how Australia’s Navy keeps
itself fit and ready.
One morning, taking the air of Hervey Bay
upon the quarter-deck of the flagship soon
after that immaculate area had been
scrubbed, the writer suddenly felt faint. So
imbued has he become with the naval spirit
of tidiness that the sight of five inches of
disreputable and vagrant string lying abom-
inably upon the deck was sufficient to
induce this spasm. Pulling himself together,
he picked the horrid object up'and dropped
it overside with a shudder. At that moment
the Admiral came up his side ladder, clad in
flannels and a singlet, after doing his morn-
ing training for the forthcoming regatta with
the officers’ veteran crew in a skiff. (You
are a veteran in the Navy if you have turned
35.) Sadly, but courageously, one men-
tioned the distressing circumstance of the
string; but beyond commending the writer
for his presence of mind in putting the un-
mentionable thing overboard, the All
Highest did not flinch. His Antarctic ex-
periences and the strenuous episode of
H.M.S. Broke during the Great War have
hardened Admiral Evans until he can bear
nearly anything in the nature of a shock;
still his coolness was worthy of the best
traditions of his great service.
This may have nothing to do with the
efficiency of the Gunnery Officer’s depart-
ment, but somehow I think it has, The
meticulous order that pervades every inch
of this floating academy cannot but be re-
flected in the cadences of those crashing,
roaring, ear-splitting oratorios of turret-
music played from time to time by “Guns”
as he occupies his control-tower in ear-
’phoned autocracy. The majestic music he
dispenses must contain no discords to jar
upon the trained ear. All must be tuneful
in the stupendous melody issuing from A,
B, X and Y—those hooded cowls from which
project the long grey eight-inch organ-pipes
that thunder their direful music across the
blue waters. A false note would ruin all.
In the conduct of a “shoot” tidiness plays
as essential a part as it does in the appear-
ance of the quarter-deck. Everything about
it is minutely defined and regulated. There
is a little den called Armament Office on the
port side of the Australia, amidships, and
there, at all hours of the day and night
before and after a shoot are to be seen
earnest students of the Art and Mystery
of Gunnery engaged in absorbing calcula-
tions having to do with the musical pro-
gramme provided by the Lieut.-Commander,
whose hands and brain are responsible for
all the infernal row and blasting uproar of
a “throw-off” corroboree with the great guns.
The Canberra was 25,000 yards—l 4 miles
—ahead of us, a mere silhouette of her
fore-and-aft aspect on the distant horizon.
Presently the flagship began to quiver with
the increased whirl of her propellers, and
the musical hum of the turbines came
faintly up from the engine-room. Soon we
were racing at 25 knots—which is over 28
miles an hour. Our ears were stuffed with
cotton wool, but even with this precaution
the roar and blast of the opening 8-inch gun
from A turret was tremendous and head-
splitting. The bridge shook like some rickety
and fragile scaffolding, and a fraction of a
second later a great sheet of vivid orange
flame leapt out just below us in front of
the turret. (This is the cloud noticeable
in gun-fire photographs—real smoke is
almost entirely absent.) A stunning, sudden
crash that rends the bowels accompanies
the flame, and then the projectile—3oolb.
of it —is cleaving its way over its high tra-'
jectory through the upper atmosphere with
a rushing mighty sound that swiftly-dimin-
ishes. For more than a minute it hurtles
through space before arriving in the vicinity
of the rapidly moving target. It is “throw-
off” firing, and the great missile falls astern
of the Canberra, making a huge splash as
high as the big ship’s tall masts. But it was
a hit—had only the muzzle of the gun
been directed in accordance with the sights.
Twenty-eight times these concussions shook
the ship, 28 great projectiles ascended to-
wards Heaven, 28 big splashes jumped out
of the sea, and on 28 occasions did the
inherent savagery of human nature cause
one to regret that the big pointed cone
wasn’t actually crashing into the distant
ship-target twisting and turning in the effort
to confuse our aim. Except that fire did
Pot burst from the speeding Canberra, the
affair was extraordinarily realistic. Every-
one on the bridge, from Admiral to signaller,
was doing his job with the businesslike
preoccupation that such work entails. It
was no different from what it might have
been in action—stare that no thunderbolts
arrived, in return, to send the bridge to
glory in a sheet of flame.
But it is not here, about tlie grandstand
of the bridge, that the important part of
the shoot is carried out. High behind it is
the control—a tower of steel with windows
in it—and above that the director. In the
guts of the ship is the transmission station
—a telephone exchange combined with a
calculating machine. A boxer’s fist does
not know that it aims a blow at the point.
In between the cauliflower, ears lies the
source of trouble. And so it is with a
warship. The brain is the important thing
—the gun is but its senseless instrument.
The brain is in the steel tower abaft the
bridge, and far dowm inside the ship in the
transmission station. The guns are fired
from the director. It is uncanny to see those
great blind tubes waving about in the air
above the seething waters. But there is
no blindness when they blaze and roar their
message across the tumbling seas.
J. H. M. A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Economy Is Not Enough.
The air is full of the sayings of people who
urge strict economy, and new taxes, and a
shifting round of old taxes, to turn the local
deficit into a local surplus. But there
is a marvellous shirking of the fact
that a local surplus has about as little
bearing on the case as a local weather
report. It is paper money, and can’t be
sent to London or New York in any form
which will pay interest on existing liabili-
ties, or reduce the demand for new loans
to pay with. The position overseas can
only be righted by a great increase of ex-
ports, which involves more work and more
production and a great diminution of
imports.
Australia is now blessed with a sinking
fund for the redemption, or partial redemp-
tion, of loans when they fall due. It is
very commendable, and has become a rather
admired institution. In 1927-28 the debt
which is floated and held in Australia was
actually reduced by close on £3,000,000,
according to the Commonwealth’s last
official figures. At the same time the over-
seas debt increased by £54,000,000. A
paper sinking fund, compounded of paper
taxes and paper surpluses and paper-money
economies, is not of the least value in
alleviating this bright young land’s financial
troubles abroad, where alleviation is so
badly needed.
♦
What Repudiation Talk Means to
Railwaymen.
The secretary of the N.S.W. branch of the
A.R.U., speaking as a man clothed with
authority, recently declared that the only
way to put Australia’s railways on a sol-
vent basis is to “cut out the interest pay-
able to foreign bondholders”; in other
words, to repudiate the foreign debt in
whole or in part. Some years ago Australia
gave up paying interest abroad except
out of new loans, so the idea is doubtless
to repudiate the whole. To declare only
part of the debt—that incurred for railways
—null and void, and then to attempt raising
money from the same set of creditors to
pay them their own interest on the other
part, would be futile as well as cheeky.
It is all or nothing.
No advantage whatsoever is gained by
assuming a shocked expression and declar-
ing that the proposition is unthinkable, and
wholly alien to the Australian instinct,
conscience and habit of thought. Repudia-
tion, like any other crime, should be con-
sidered on its possibilities and its demerits.
The chief point to be taken into account
is that repudiation of the external debt is


SACKING THE CARETAKERS.
“In view of the increasing effort of the U.S.A. to capture Australian trade, Mr. Bruce’s new policy is to stimulate the migration of British enterprise. Meantime, all
branches of the Defence Force are being severely curtailed.”
THE MANAGER: “The idea, don’t you see, is to import more and more of your goods and pay for them by.sacking the caretakers!”
the most profitable crime that could possibly
be committed—assuming that the foreign
creditor took his loss philosophically. But
Australia being accessible and having
the bulk of its population and its
assets strewn along the shore, the foreigner
might be wholly unphilosophical. The
A.R.U. official hasn’t explained what he
would do in those circumstances. The
trouble about the repudiation of any debt
—to the butcher or the landlord or the
trades union—is that the party who is being
defrauded is apt to make a fuss about it.
Unfortunately, if the trouble is with the
butcher, that unfeeling person is also liable
to instantly close down on further supplies.
It is quite certain that the “capitalist” will
do the same so far as loans are concerned.
In more or less friendly association with the
A.R.U. is the Railways branch of the A.W.U.
Seeing that a great part of the Railways
branch of the A.W.U. lives on these loans,
and that the stoppage of loans would inevi-
tably throw out of work practically every
member of the A.W.U. engaged on railway
construction and the manufacture of equip-
ment for new lines, it looks as though the
Railways branch of the A.W.U. would be
hit by repudiation harder than any other
union or body—harder, in fact, than all
other unions or bodies put together.
And that is not all. The mere talk of
repudiation puts up the price of pending
or future loans. The money-lender’s rate
of interest rises with the risks he takes. If
he is dead-sure of getting his money back
he will not charge more than a fraction
of what he will demand if he is likely to
presently lose not only his interest but his
principal. Now, the higher the rate of
interest we have to pay for loans, the fewer
works it is profitable for Governments to
carry out; therefore the more talk there
is about repudiation the less construction
work there can be for the Railways branch
of the A.W.U.
And the back-kick doesn’t affect construc-
tion work only. The cost of a railway is
never fixed definitely until the job is paid
for. Our railways are not paid for. This
means that the loans with which they were
built have to be renewed at some time or
other; and the more talk there is of re-
pudiation the higher the rate of interest
will be; and the higher the rate of interest
the more difficult to make the system pay ;
and if the system doesn’t pay there is
always a tendency to either sack men or
reduce their wages in order to help make
it pay.
In all the circumstances of the case the
A.R.U. might well haul this official before
it and tell him and any others who talk
like him what sort of blundering fools they
are.
♦ r
Melbourne’s Sick Queue.
The inevitable controversy is raging round
the question of moving the Melbourne Gen-
eral Hospital. Some want it on the Pig
Market site, others want it re-erected in the
University grounds, and there are still other
schemes. The plain fact remains that the
needs of the sick have outgrown existing
provisions. On a recent occasion there
were 200 patients wanting to get in when
the “House Full” sign went up.
There is no apparent reason why the Pig
Market scheme should not be begun forth-
with. It will provide a building with
accommodation for 1000 beds, no excessive
number, and when the job is finished the
other schemes may be considered.
With an average daily shortage for all
Melbourne of nearly 900 beds, action in
place of talk is called for.
♦
Picture-film Propaganda.
The Poincare Government tackled an
important section of the foreign-film prob-
lem last year. Patriotic Frenchmen saw in
the flood of pictures from Hollywood (368
American to 74 French in 1927) a threat
to their national moral and culture. Cer-
tainly French citizens were not continually
reading captions in the American language
as we are; but they were continually
having it suggested to them, by the most
persuasive of all mediums, that the most
valiant and efficient soldiers, sailors and air-
men in the world are American; that the
American flag is the most glorious and for-
midable of flags; that American customs
are the best customs, and American heroes
the only genuine heroes; and so on.
The French Minister for Education sub-
mitted a quota scheme to the Chamber of
Deputies, which was hotly opposed. Natur-
ally. But, for all that, the position now
is that imported films are censored in France
by Government representatives for “policy”
as well as by the Censor’s department for
“morals,” and that at the end of this year
more pictures produced in France, with
French directors and stars, should have been
shown there than in any previous year—
over 100 French to about 250 American and
70 of other nationalities.
♦—
Tidal by Newspaper.
Two facts were demonstrated by the in-
quiry into the disastrous flight of the
Southern Cross—the undesirability, not to
say injustice, of appointing a commission
to go into issues which are to be litigated
later, and the lengths to which the daily
press is prepared to go in manipulating
news for its own ends.
Two groups of papers are involved in the
pending actions of Smith and Ulm, so one
group used their reports of the evidence
to present the fliers as tricksters, and the
other group used similar means to present
them as Bayards —all with the palpable
object of influencing some future jury.
The effect of appointing a Royal Com-
mission to go into matters which are to
be dealt with later by a Judge and jury
is to make a certainty of a practice which
no one can approve of on general prin-
ciples—that is, trial and verdict by news-
paper.
♦
Wasted Time in Schools.
“Country Ped.”: A lot of time is wasted in
our schools in teaching children to use
methods that differ from those taught in
other schools. It was not so noticeable
when children went through a comnlete
course of instruction in the one school;
but since children (in Victoria, at any rate)
now pass from primary to secondary at the
age of 12. the evil is very pronounced.
Because no standards are fixed by the cen-
tral authority, children are forced to unlearn
old methods and terms, and learn new,
often no better or wiser than the old. When
children transfer to another school, often
a different set of textbooks is required, sim-
ply because teachers are free to choose
from an approved selection—no textbooks
are definitely authorised, except, perhaps,
readers.
If the principle of standardisation is such
a pronounced success in the business world
in saving time and overhead expenses, then
it should be equally successful in the
school world. Each State has its own stan-
dardised curriculum. Why cannot there
be standardised methods of teaching that
curriculum? Moreover, what sensible
objection is there to having a standardised
Australian curriculum?
Australia’s Debt Burden.
“F.S.S.”: In Melbourne Professor Copland,
in a lecture on the Public Debt, treated
our ponderous public liability in a light and
airy manner. What follows is a view of it
from a different angle.
Australian exports, which are used to pay
overseas interest, between 1920 and 1927
increased from £126 000.000 to £133.000 000.
or 5 b per cent. Debt grew from. £905,000,000
in 1920 to £1,094.000 000 in 1927, or 20 per
cent. Population increased from 5,435 734
in 1921 to 6 234,854 in 1927, or 14 per cent.
Thus production has not nearly kept pace
with either debt or population.
There were fewer horses, cattle and pigs
in 1927 than in 1920, while dairy cattle were
stationary. Sheep increased by 13 oer cent.;
butter in the seven years from 235 million
pounds to 252 million pounds, a paltry in-
crease of 7 per cent. In the last six years
the wheat yield increased from 109 to 116
million bushels, or only 6 per cent.
High interest on borrowed money, re-
flected in taxation and industrial demorali-
sation, is stifling Australia’s industry, com-
merce and business, and borrowing should
be stopped except for the renewal of loans.
♦
Was General McCay to Blame?
Dear Bulletin, —In reulv to the charges
made by “927” (B. 19/6/’29), it is suffic ; ent
to pomt out that two of the Australian
brigades at Fromelles were officered in the
main by Gallipoli veterans, so the charge
o f inexperience and inefficiency will not lie.
Moreover, the extracts quoted by Bean
(p. 3441 from the History of the 21st Bav-
arian R.I.R. show clearly that until the
day of the battle the Germans received no
intimation whatever that a serious attack
was impending.
Once owr preliminary bombardment
opened, it is true, our communication
trenches and saps were destroyed because
of the perfect enemy observation. But
who was to blame for that? Surely no
subordinate officer? The plain fact is that
our position did not lend itself to offensive
action of any kind.
As to the allegation that the retiring men
were fired on by their .comrades, the first
retirement on the left flank commenced
under enemy pressure and not by the orders
of any one in authority. Hence it was
not possible to have prepared the men
holding the original front line for this
retirement. It is impossible, therefore, to
apportion any blame for that incident (if
true) except to those who set an impossible
task.
This narrows down our inquirv to one
solitary allegation made by “927.” viz.,
“ammunition was scarce: thousands of Mills
bombs were sent across minus detonators.”
This bears on its face unmistakable evidence
of exaggeration. Possibly a mistake as to
detonators, due to the extreme haste of pre-
paration, did occur on the left of the attack to
the extent of (some say) “hundreds.” But
this omission (if it occurred) had no real
effect on the success or failure of the attack.
The slaughter of the 15th Brigade occurred
almost wholly in No Man’s Land long before
they could use a bomb, and certainly long
before they had exhausted their ammuni-
tion.
Failure here in the centre of the attack
inevitably involved the ultimate failure of
the whole; but a calm review of other
factors gives no ground for the assumption
that it could, under the circumstances, have
succeeded even if the whole of the Ger-
man front line had fallen at the first attack.
—Yours, etc., “303.”
♦
Trial by Jury.
Dear Bulletin, —It is refreshing to learn
(B. 26/6729) that South Australia has had
a Government with enough courage to
amend its criminal law and alter the absurd
provision that made it necessary to have
12 jurymen all for conviction before a
person being tried for a criminal offence
could be convicted.
It is to be hoped that the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment will follow suit in making this
change in our criminal law. Crime is in-
creasing to a most alarming extent, and,
through jury-squaring and otherwise, it is
becoming more difficult to get a criminal
convicted, no matter how strong the evi-
dence of guilt and how horrible the crime.
Not only is it necessary to amend our
criminal law in this direction, but in murder
trials the jury should be empowered to
find the prisoner “Guilty,” “Not guilty,” or
“The charge not proven.” As matters now
stand the vilest criminal may be declared
an innocent man. How long will the law
be allowed to remain in this condition?
Mr. Boyce, the Attorney-General, could
render great services to the country if he
would deal with these matters. —Yours, etc..
T. Waddell.
*
The “Docile” Colored Man.
The people who are always wanting colored
labor for Northern Australia usually have
in their minds a docile helot. But that type
disappeared with the war. The tremendous
fluctuations in the value of money had their
effect even on the coolie, and started him
demonstrating for his “rights.” First he
wanted more money, then shorter hout's,
and since the Bolshevik Revolution he has
even dreamed, in a desultory sort of way,
about a dictatorship of the brown prole-
tariat.
One consequence has been that assaults
on, and murders of, white overseers have
increased alarmingly. They have always
been fairly frequent in Dutch Sumatra,
but lately they have crossed the Straits and
become so common in British Malaya that
planters no longer consider a Malacca cane
and the white man’s prestige sufficient pro-
tection.
The latest incident occurred on Rhio, a
Dutch island very close to Singapore. A
British planter named Futcher was
attacked by a mob of Chinese coolies and
atrociously mutilated. Futcher spoke
Chinese well, had a long experience of
handing natives, and nobody seems to have
had anything against him; so presumably
the killing was done on general principles.


Quick
2Z?
I
Staifin
For quick starting these cold mornings
One Quality throughout Australia
Sg-| B= I I motor oil
I I I— L_ L AND SPIR.IT
6 SO*
POLITICAL
POINTS
In 1925-26 the Bruce-Page crowd had a
smaller revenue and a surplus. The present
large deficit indicates the Government’s capa-
city for constructing a big hole at short
notice and falling into it head first.
This whole continent’s permanent land
protection in case of sudden need consists
of 1748 soldiers, close on 1000 airmen.
7562 State bobbies, no Federal police and
no State militia, so it naturally appeals to
Jubilee Juggins financiers as something that
should be cut down.
Having forced the elder Riley, M.H.R.,
to withdraw from
a Sydney timber
concern which
they chose to
declare “b 1a c k,”
the petty tyrants of
Labor- unionism
have turned their
attention to J. J.
Daly, who is to.
lead the party in
the Senate. Daly's
offence is that he
appeared for one of
the rival seamen’s
unions Tom
Walsh’s, sho w—
when it applied for
Federal registra-
tion. He pleads
that he was autho-
rised to do so by
the Adelaide
Trades and Labor
Council. His con-
stituents would
think more of him
if he told the
Senator Daly (S.A.)
heresy-hunters to go and boil themselves.
Canberra’s new liquor ordinance is virtu-
ally the work of Vic. licensing-magistrate
Barr. There are to be five licenses for resi-
dential hotels, three for cafes and probably
two for clubs. Hours are from nine to six,
and wineshops and barmaids are barred. The
Commission pubs are to be leased, if lessees
can be got. It will worry the police to keep
them watched, for they have as many exits
and entrances as a melodrama villain.
The McPhairson Government was hit by
an earthquake when Saltau, Menzies and
Kent Hughes quitted it because Cabinet pro-
posed to hand over a guarantee of £60,000
to the co-operative freezing Tvorks which have
already cost Victoria over half a million.
Three politicians simultaneously throwing up
their Cabinet jobs on a matter of principle
was such an unusual spectacle that the
country’s gasp of awe could almost be heard.
Brawn, Currie and Knox stepped into the
vacant places, and the Nationalists announced
that there was no truth in the rumor that
the £60,000 was a sop to the Cockies and the
Country Progs.
Kent Hughes was human enough to feel
disappointed when he was passed over for
the Vic. hon. Ministership left vacant by
Morley’s death. He is still hon. sec. of the
Nat. Parliamentary party.
Miss May Holman, M.L.A. for Forrest
(W.A.), won her Labor selection ballot hands
down. Forrest is controlled by timber work-
ers, and when a rumpus occurred in their
union last year Miss Holman took the un-
popular side; in spite (or because) of this
she got 736 votes and her three opponents
of the other sex 287 altogether. So, barring
accidents, the lady is assured of election to
her third Parliament; for Mrs. Cowan
(W.A.) and Miss Preston Stanley (N.S.W.),
the only other Australiennes who have taken
the Parliamentary oath (the Queensland
lady has not yet been sworn), their first
Parliament was their last.
The Bruce-Page anomaly has given the
sack to 340 of the 360 employees at the
Lithgow small-arms factory, though a few
score may be re-employed at a reduced wage.
Other cuts will involve a large sacking of
the Air Force, the laying-up of warships and
the disbandment of C.M.F. battalions. Two
men of ordinary horse-sense might have hesi-
tated to turn workers and their wives and
children out into the frosty paddock of
unemployment at this bleak season, and
cripple the national defences as well, while
it is possible to economise on the baby bonus,
which cost £678,920 last year, on the grants
to the States for speedways and the like,
which cost £2,000,000 every year, and on
royal commissions and Canberra.
Queensland Labor’s farewell gift to its
country was a railway deficit of £1,583,500,
bringing the
losses on the
railways
since 1915 to
£19,333,500. The
achievement re-
vived memories
of the famous
pamphlet issued
by Theodore and
Fihelly in 1915
—t h e produc-
tion in which
“Tory finance”
was referred to
with scorn and
loathing, and
the railways
were represent-
ed as a misman-
aged mine from
which Labor
would extract
vast wealth.
Ten years later
Jack Fihelly, once
Queensland Treasurer
and A.-G.
a disillusioned electorate fell heavily on both
authors. Theodore retreated to Dailey
(N.S.W.), the accommodating member for
which" had made his pile by backing Spear-
felt ; Fihelly, less fortunate, became a Bris-
bane alderman.
Vic. railway-boss Clapp has been inquir-
ing into the cause of the rise in wages wh ch
recently struck the Government railway sys-
tems like a flying brick. The Commonwealth
Statistician reported a rise in the cost of
living, and Arbitration Courts increased
wages accordingly. Clapp says he asked for
particulars, and persisted until he learned
that the extra cost of living was chiefly in
potatoes, which had soared to £23 a ton
because floods in Tasmania had interrupted
the supply. The floods soon subsided, and
the tubers dropped to £S, but the extra wage
stayed on.
When the Statisticians conferred at Hobart
last year they decided to add small hand-
power bakeries to the list of factories, and
as one result there were 1179 more factories
in the Commonwealth at June, 3928, than a
year earlier. Unfortunately there were 4614
fewer employees than a year earlier. What
the decline would have been but for the in-
clusion of the little bread-shops isn’t made
clear. Wages increased, though wage-
earners diminished. Courts may push awmrds
up further than the value of production can
stand, and it is possible that the turning-
point has been reached.
The child-endowment tax of 2 per cent, on
wages is being collected again from N.S.W.
employers. It would have been more logical
if the tax had been re-imposed last March,
wffien the fact was permitted to ooze out that
the fund was £1,000,000 short, but it was
considered diplomatic to wait while the
shortage grew and multiplied. Now that the
old spectre has returned with an aspect of
permanency, the Ministry’s popularity is
fading rapidly, and if Lang could only dis-
guise himself as a civil and reasonable human
being Bavin’s position would be precarious.
A painful experience befell some of the
Federal Labor members on their tour of the
N.S.W. northern coalfields. When they went
to board the Cessnock train for Sydney they
learned that the Cessnock-West Maitland
section is owned by brutal capitalists who will
not recognise gold passes. To add to their
anguish John Brown, their hereditary foe, is
one of these implacable plutocrats. “That’s
helping him to buy another racehorse,”
groaned one M.H.R. as he pulled out his
3s. Sd,
Tas. Assembly opened in an atmosphere
McPhee Faces the
Storm.
of calm, but a
storm arose when
250 orchard-
ists of the Huon
fired in a petition
against the inclu-
sion of a 5000-
acre block of tim-
bered land in the
300,000 acres to be
leased to the Paper
Pulp Co. at Geeves-
t o n. Opposition
members supported
them, asserting that
the Government
had made <a. bad
bargain and cre-
ated a dangerous
monopoly. P r e-
mier McPhee re-
plied that the
agreement had been
completed, and it
was no use trying
to alter it. The
Press Gallery held
its breath, scenting
a crisis, but crisis
there was none.
Neither the child-endow r ment deficit nor
the railway shortage figures in the year’s
N.S.W. accounts. If they had been included
it would have been impossible to trot out the
“surplus” or pretend that the Bavin firm
is a kind-hearted reducer of taxes. The
absurdity of the child-endowment position
lies in the Court fixing a wage, and then
somebody adding 2 per cent, to it and up-
setting the whole arrangement. The original
Lang proposition was to add 6} per cent.,
and a great many people outside N.S.W.
wouldn’t have minded if Jt had been carried
out. The sensation would have been that
of a disinterested party watching ‘a burning
city from a safe distance.
Prime Minister Bruce’s line of thought is
often hard to follow. He was recently re-
ported at Adelaide as saying:—-
The policy of Protection will have to be viewed
in the light of the recent position. We have to
consider whether industries should be protected
unless they are a benefit to Australia as a whole.
Some thought-reader might explain what the
cryptic gentleman had at the back of his
mind.
In an oration at Adelaide Prime Minister
Bruce explained the profound badness of
things, and added that “those who suggest
raising the tariff are talking arrant non-
sense.” Well, the tariff can be raised. It
isn’t an anchor or a Sydney Harbor bridge:
it has been raised by hand many times and
at many places. The best thing to do is to
raise it considerably, extensively, judiciously
and promptly, and then await results. If they
are disappointing a cheery sort of Bruce
could always give three cheers and try some-
thing else, as his royal armor-plated ancestor
used to do.
Trotsky has put the MacDonald Cabinet
in a difficulty. He wants to go to England
and remain there. But the Stalin Govern-
ment chased Trotsky into exile, and, he says,
made attempts to procure his murder, and
the MacDonald Ministry proposes to renew
relations with the Stalins, and overlook the
old repudiations and confiscations. The
Stalins would probably rather see the Devil
in England than the persuasive Trotsky, who
would associate with Labor members and tell
them all about his very objectionable succes-
sors. MacDonald didn’t refuse Trotsky’s
overtures out of hand, possibly waiting to
hear what Stalin had to say, but he is now
reported as hostile. Trotsky says that if
he is refused admission Britain will be un-
true to its reputation as a shelter for poli-
ticians who have incurred the wrath of the
tyrant in their native land.
The British Prime Minister has asked his
brethren in Canada and Australia if they
approve of his proposal to resume relations
with Soviet Russia. Even if they reply that
they don’t it will make no difference, but it
would make an interesting difference if this
answer went from Australia:—
Dear Ramsay,—Replying in Scots fashion by one
question in return for another, how would the posi-
tion stand if we repudiated all the debts which we
owe to Great Britain, as Russia did, and also con-
fiscated all British property within reach, as Russia
did? The second point is urgent, for there are good
pickings in the Union Bank, the ’Asia, the E., S.
and A., the British insurance and wool-broking con-
cerns, etc., and we need money. If this proceeding
appeals to you and would cause you to extend to
ua also the cordial hand of friendship, then Australia
warmly approves your Russian policy. If it doesn’t
appeal, would you kindly wire explaining why that
which is sauce for the large rude gander isn’t equally
good sauce for the small polite goose?—Yours, etc.,
Stanley.
A promising joke has gone wrong. Report
ran that the United States had decided to
build a rum-proof fence of the German war
type along 3000 miles or so of Canadian
border. It was to be 10ft. high, and con-
structed of barbed wire. Now it transpires
that the great Hinderbeer Entanglement is
a freak of the imagination. So there will
be no spectacle of the Canadian bootlegger
with a ram attached to his motor-lorry dash-
ing through the obstacle, as was formerly
done in. Flanders.
It has been decided to build another little
tricky, unpromising line in the North Syd-
ney district at a cost of a million, it being
expected to bring traffic to the Harbor
bridge. Buttonhole lias renewed his assur-
ance that when the rush of loan expenditure
in Sydney lets up a little he will take off
his coat and show what he can really do at
more country railway construction of the
Richmond-Kurrajong sort. And the promise
of “reduced taxation” remains.
Labor-leader Scullin made one of his occa-
sional fairly-wise remarks recently, and it
roused the bile of the S. M. Herald as few
of his foolish ones have done. Scullin men-
tioned that £30,000,000 p.a. of Australian
money is spent abroad by travellers, and
aroused this scornful comment:—
These tourists make use of £30,000,000 which
has been placed to our credit in London in payment
for our wool, wheat, meat and butter. If it were
not so used it would be available to increase our
imports, and would be used for that purpose. What
would Mr. Scullin have —the tourists spend that
£30,000,000 abroad, or that £30,000,000 more of
imports should come to Australia?
Evidently the Freetrade Herald believed
that, for a Protectionist, Scullin’s attitude
was absurdly contradictory. But he probably
held, as The Bulletin does, that if
£30.000,000 or any other large sum could be
made available, it need not be used in buying
more imports, but in paying interest on debts
instead of meeting the same by the crooked
and stupid trick of paying out of new loans.
People who shook
their heads and
said Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R., would
never again make
speeches on the
need for the refer-
endum and recall
spoke too soon. The
little doctor has
bobbed up again at
Canberra, looking
as spry as can be
expected of a man
of 75 who had a
fall from a tram
and a h se m-
orrhage which
almost put him out
of action last year.
He took a trip to
the Islands, and
has come back a
keen (yet benevo-
lent> critic of the
8.-P. steamer ser-
vice. ' His chief
complaint is that
he could not get a
hot bath. But
The Little Doctor
in form again.
everybody listens —the little doctor is so
undisguisedly human.
From the S. M. Herald :—•
The meeting received with approval a statement
that a coalfields’ vigilance committee was shortly
to bo created, and would include representatives of
all unions associated with coal-mining. Their duties
would bo to control picketing and investigate com-
plaints concerning the production of coal at idle
mines. This committee would issue permits to those
who it was considered should continue at work.
Let’s see, how many Governments are there
in N. S. Wales? There is one with Thomas
Bavin at its head; but evidently there is, or
is to be, another. Some people used to call
this other sort a revolutionary tribunal, and
quite serious things have happened to the
leaders of a few of them; but apparently
constitutional Governments are much less
jealous these days,
The military authorities have removed the
bolts from all the rifles in the Cessnock
and Ivurri Kurri (N.S.W.) drill halls and
transferred the ammunition to a place where
Communists can’t get at it. This may not
be necessary, but it is better to be sure than
sorry. Communists used to denounce as
“borjoice” the storing of military weapons
under lock and key in a central armory,
and demanded that every trainee should be
allowed to keep his rifle at home under the
bed. They even imposed this policy on the
submissive Labor party, though it has been
discreetly hidden of late years.
THE ETERNAL LACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is our ardent desire to reduce taxation next
year, but at the moment we find ourselves very
short of cash. The Government could usefully spend
fifty millions, but as there is only ten or twelve
millions of loan money available annually, it has
to be reserved for public works of an urgent char-
acter.” — N.S. IF. Acting Premier Buttenshaw.
Like ev’ry other Government
That legislation frames,
We’re just chockfull of good intent
And altruistic aims.
Take it from us, no chance we’d miss
To cut a real dash.
The only cramping factor’s this,
We haven’t got the cash,
Heigh-ho!
We’re shy of ready cash!
It hurts us that we may not take
More imports from your backs;
We yearn to comfort hearts that ache
At thoughts of income-tax.
We’ll cut it down next year somehow,
And fewer teeth will gnash.
We’d dearly love to do it now,
The only bar is cash,
Worse luck!
We’ve got to have the cash.
With public works the laud w r e’d strew
If one could but contrive
To make one borrowed million do
The work of four or five.
In railways, bridges, roads, et cet.,
A Rothschild’s wealth to splasb
We’d like. We’d do it, too, you bet,
If we could find the cash.
The rub
Is there —to find the cash.
W e’ve many a well-considered scheme
To help our fellow-men;
All day we toil and nightly dream
About the how and when.
Whenever Labor tries to run
The State it makes a hash;
We’ll show them what they should have done
When we can find the cash
Just now
We’re sorely stuck for cash.
N.S.W.
IFPRD.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Nakhcda’’: The Maoriland q cake occur-
red on the tenth anniversary of the last
eruption of the Kloet, in Java. This crater,
which is 8000 feet above the sea,, has slopped
over at 10-year intervals (roughly) since
1811. Dutch seismologists used to keep a
perpetual watch on it. It eluded their vigi-
lance in 1919 owing to the remissness cf a
native mandur. It was his job to climb
periodically up to the lake and take tne
temperature, which, when action is imminent,
announces the fact by approaching boiling
point. But the way was steep and the
weather warm and the mandur lazy. 8o
he faked his readings, the kettle boiled over.
5000 persons were killed, and the damage
was estimated at 4,000 000 guilders. Since
then the Dutch have drilled a tunnel into
the mountain half-way down and the boiling
fluid flows harmlessly into the Indian Ocean.
:jc Hi H*
“Noo Zee”: Had the M.L. ’quake come at
night-time, instead of 10.20 in the morning,
the death-roll would almost certainly have
been a staggering one. The boys at Nelson
College had many miraculous escapes, but
only one out of 400 was seriously injured.
A huge brick turret off the main tower-
weighing some three tons —crashed through
a dormitory to the class-room below just
as the last of the boys were escap-
ing out of the door. When the present
college was re-bu ; lt after the big fire
which demolished the woodmr structure
in 1906, many old Snider rifles, with the
wooden stocks burnt off, which had been
salvaged from the ruins, were used by the
contractor to reinforce the concrete finials
of the ornamented parapet. Many of these
finials have been shaken off, and the old
rifles have again come to lisht. Generally
speaking, the old type of brick building suf-
fered most in Nelson, reinforced concrete and
steel-frame buildings coming through the
ordeal almost undamaged. Tb a disturbances
threw the animal world into as much per-
turbation as the human one. In the oid-a
TEMPERING THE WIND TO THE BATTERED LAMB.
THE WRECK: “Say, Jeames—you might think up some reason for
these damages. I feel such a fool saying the wife hit me
with a beer bottle.”
WAITER: “Yes, sir—you might suggest it was a champagne bottle.”
buildings and outhouses of the city even the
rats and mice came out into the open during
the big shock.
* * * *
“G.8.P.”: There were some exciting
scenes on the railway at Greymouth (M.L.)
during the ’quake on June 17. Men in the
roundhouse swear that the building showed
signs of rotating; it is certain that a great
locomotive of 74 tons rocked so much
that at each swing the wheels left the rails.
Feet rapidly appeared out of boilers, followed
by their scared owners. One man lost his
head and tried to stop a hean of sleepers
and piles from rocking by standing on tVm.
When the rails subsided outside the building,
an engine inside b 'gan to run out of its own
volition. An excited loco, foreman pushed
at the huge mass of metal with one hand
to try to stop it and beckoned frantically
to the other men to licln. Rut his appeal
had no effect on the receding backs.
“Kakanui”: Even an earthquake has its
lighter incidents. They are still telling, in
one of the stricken M.L. townships, of an
office where the boss, a noted revivalist and
a pillar of the local church, rushed to the
window of his room when the first shake
came, yelling encouragingly, “Lord, I'm
ready!” “Shut up, you old fool,” came a
voice from behind him. “I’m not.” It was
the typist, less confident of salvation.
sj: * * *
“G.E.M.": The early pioneers of Maori-
land formed a theory that the country 4tself
had been created by a vast upheaval. In
the building of Christchurch Cathedral Mt.
Somers bluestone was used; this, on being
dressed, was found to contain fossilised shaik
teeth. Oamaru white-stone also contained
similar exhibits.
* * * *
“Coot”: There is at least one Melbourne
suburban mayor who secs nothing incon-
gruous in mixing business wth pleasure. Citi-
zens who received invitations to this year’s
Mayoral Ball perused (possibly with mixed
feelings) on the left-hand top corner of the
envelope a stern direction that if their rates
were not air ady paid they should forward
their cheques by return post.
sit si: * *
“Kwinana”: “Morkum” is wrong in his
claim (B. 12/6/’29) that the long-distance
telegraphing of Southern Cross and
Kookaburra press matter was an
Australian record. Nearly two
years ago the telegraph office at
Townsville Brisbane to plug
Sydney through ; Sydney obl'gingly
stuck on Melbourne, and Melbourne,
not to be outdone, connected Adel-
aide and Perth to the circuit. Perth
finished up by plugging through its
furthest northern terminal, Wynd-
liam, and when the circuit was com-
pleted Cairns was abL to casually
tell Wyndham, over 7500 miles of
landline, that the beer in Qu *ens-
land wasn’t a patch on the W.A.
art'cle (the Cairns telegraphist was
a Westralian). But the first inti-
mation the department had of the
record was when it was chronicled
in Tiie Bulletin at the time. It
is perhaps worth adding that a
record telephonic conversation
(apart from radio) for Australia
was carried out recently when Adel-
aide was connected to a Cairns
subscriber. When the carrier sys-
tem between Townsville and Bris-
bane and Adelaide and Perth is
completed, Cairns will be able to speak to
Geraldton (W.A.) by ’phone over 6000 miles
of line.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: Kingsford Smith’s long hops
from Sydney towards London rather dis-
count the platitude, beloved of after-
dinner speakers, that aviation is going to
bring the peoples of the world closer
together. It is pretty certain that as flying-
machines become highr-powered these
strides will become wider and wider,
and. that the places selected for landing-
stations will be civilised centres or spots
round which civilisation will begin to grow.
The same tendency has accompanied every
new mechanical development in transport.
The traveller of the future will no sooner
have tapped the last obsenuious Enedish-
speakin'g waiter in one gigantic modern hotel
than he will be pressing a coin into the
palm of anotku ooually obsenuious Eng-
lish-speaking underling in another gigantic
modern hotel. And, on the spinning globe
in between. Ra'kan peasants will continue
to burn old hags for practising witchcraft
and Javanese village maidens will continue
to swallow powdered gramophone discs in
order tn make themselves s'ng.
* % * *
“Avril”: A Digger who went away en-
gaged to a Melbourne girl was heart-broken
to hog-, " iiile in France, that she had mar-
rind a country doc-
tor. Later he heart!
she had dmd three
months after her
marriage, On his
return ho went into
a Sydney land-
age n c y business,
and one morning
boarded a Coogee
tram. Sitting fac-
ing him two seats
ahead he suddenly
saw rhe girl he had
been engaged to,
and when she
al'ghted he follow-
ed her and b"gan
agitatedly telling
her of the rumor he
had heard of her
death. Standing on
the pavement an
amassed young
woman listen"d to
his story, and then
led him to a near-
by seat while she
d'sclosed that she.
was a younger sis-
ter of his one-time
fiancee. Bung then
a girl at school, she
had never met him
in the pre-war
days, and the fam-
ily h°d since moved
to Sydney. Her
extraordinary likeness to her' dead sister,
developing as she grew up. had been a matter
of gen.".' 1 comment, and doubtless account' d
for the wedding which was the sequel of the
chance meeting.
* * * *
“Si Anu” : Airmen continue to replace for-
gotten places on the map. I wonder if
Kingsfeid Smith and his colleagues, when
tlmy landed at the dull little Siamesa-Malay
fishing town of Singora, realised that 300
years ago it was regarded as so valuable
that English, French. Dutch and Portuguese
quarrelhd over its possession. The
Dutr-h. English and French East India com-
panies smt fleets there at various times to
help the Siamese stamp on the liberties of
the unfortunate Mo 1 ays in return for trade
b-iy fits reiv’d. Singora b-lougs ethnologi-
callv to Brit, sh Malaya, but the imperialism
of Siam was vigorous enough 50 years ago
to check the growth of British influence from
Singapore. To-day it is connected with the
Singapore-Bangkok railway, has a station be-
longing to the Telefunken radio system, and
is admirably placed for becoming one of the
great aerodromes of the future.
THAT EXPLAINS IT, OF COURSE.
“Billy, do you know you make terrible noises at night sometimes. I hope there’s
nothing wrong.”
“Oh dear, no, darling. I’m merely what they call a sound sleeper.”
“MoTita”: Whoever may have been the
last man to leave Gallipoli, if units are to
be considered I nominate the remnants of
a crowd I’ve never yet heard brought into
the argument—an Australian casualty-
clearing station. It wasn’t till the evacua-
tion was well under way, and the tents were
being cleared of wounded and some of the
most valuable medical equipment, that they
knew what was happening. When the plans
of the evacuation were unfolded to the staff
a portion of the unit immediately embarked,
It was impressed on the remainder that ex-
pected casualties would be left in their charge
by the embarking field ambulances. If the
wounded could be sent aboard the trans-
ports without hampering the evacuation of
troops, this would be done; otherwise some
of the staff would remain on shore with their
charges, to be taken prisoners by the Turks,
It was only when the last of the infantry
was filing down to the beach and “No casual-
ties” was reported that the anxiously-waiting
remnant left their post. Had the Turk
got wind of the withdrawal these men might
have had to bid farewell from the shore to
the passengers on the last barge.
* % * *
<jt» h » iirr , „ , , ~ .
, B 'i par ‘ the elec-
toial office finding three couples with the
oc 1 /c ? /’on\ ieS m . t l ie same block of flats (I.
-6/6/29) reminds me of an experience of
my own at Ilorseterry-road h.Q. shortly
after the Armistice. I was working m a
room with about -00 other Diggers when the
phone near my table rang, and a voice asked
“Is that Corporal M. ?” I replied that it
was, and an evidently enraged female in-
formed me that she had just tracked me down
to Horscferry-road. I further learned that
I had deserted her after the honeymoon, and
that if a remittance for pre-maternity
expenses wasn’t forthcoming immediately, she
would instruct a lawyer to communicate with
headquarters. On making inquiries I found
there were three of us working in the room,
all with the same surname and pair of
initials, and all corporals, though up to that
time we had never spoken to one another.
* * * *
“Shcp.”: It was in the Merris stunt; a
support trench ran through the tiny orchard
of a still-intact farmhouse just behind the
front line. The trench was shielded from
Fritz’s view by a thick hedge. At a dawn
stand-to. when the Germans were expected
to attack, whizbangs were lobbing close
enough to keep all heads down. One landing
in the corner of the orchard caused a sud-
den retreat from that quarter, to the dis-
gust of an artillery observation officer. “Got
the wiqd up!” he roared as the Diggers
settled down again in the open under the
trees. “So would you,” came the bellowed
reply; “the last daisy-cutter blew half a
beehive into the trench, and the blanky bees
K 5 B * to *ssi. ***» to "’ «-»
1 ntz is puttin over.
*
“Homfrey Beale”: Mention of the pad-
locking of pump-handles by the Flemings
(B. 19/6/’29) reminds me. In one village
the old dame who owned the billets allotted
to our company stood at the gate and spat
unintelligible vituperation (we could tell it
wasn’t benediction by her corybantics) as
we filed in to occupy. Then in a sudden
excess of rage, she unhooked the water-
bucket and heaved it down the well, about
15 feet deep. The captain turned to me.
“Go up the village and beg, borrow, buy or
steal a bucket,” he directed. I stole one,
the other suggested methods having proved
entirely ineffective. When I returned, the
cap. marched into the house and emerged
with the angry virago in his arms. Dumping
her in a sitting posture into the hide bueket
(it was a capacious affair) he fastened her
securely »with webbing straps, and handing
her his walking-stick as a fishing pole,
lowered her down the well with gestures to
indicate her job. She brought that bucket
up, but I hope all she wished the cap.
didn’t come to him in a heap.
s*c ❖ ❖ ❖
“C.Q.”: Melbourne residents woke the
other morning to the severest frost in the
State’s history. The outer suburbs recalled
the Christmas, cards beloved of our grand-
mothers, with grass, shrubs and even trees
to the height of 30 feet sheeted in glistening
white. Small boys arrived at school wet to
the knees through trying the ice on pools and
dams. Even backwaters of the Yarra carried
a thin edging of ice, stalactites hung from
dripping taps and bottles of milk were frozen
stiff. After several ratepayers had measured
their length on its concrete pavements Kew
council stationed officers to warn pedestrians
to keep on the grass. The temperature,
19.9 degrees of frost, was half a degree lower
than the record of June, 1895, and up till
nearly eleven o’clock the streets of the metro-
polis presented an extraordinary pattern of
black lines on a white ground whe v e the
motor traffic had passed.
RECESSIONAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flapper preens her plumage scant,
Young matrons cock a saucy eye,
Stout Bungs, relieved from fears of want,
Heave forth a fervent, thankful sigli.
In close-cut suit of navy blue
Comes Jack, to dissipate his tin
And flirt with Bet and Peg and Sue;
The Fleet is in! The Fleet is in!
Full many a hardship they endure
Who sail upon the bounding main,
But ah! They exercise a lure
When they come back to port again
On female hearts. Sleek-headed sheiks
Who took their choice of Nance or Min
Now vainly flap their Oxford breeks;
The Fleet is in ! The Fleet is in!
The daylight dies; to picture-show,
To dancing hall, to murmurous beach
The happy laughing maidens go
And there’s a gay Jack Tar for each.
Though chanticleer his signal sounds,
On with the revels! Hear the din ?
Hard on the stay-at-homes, but zounds!
The Fleet is in! The Fleet is in!
N.s.w.
HYRAM.
REGRETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jingles have I perpetrated,
Yarns and poems, skits and pars,
Epics, too, with grandeur freighted,
Lyrics singing to the stars.
With stray inspiration smitten
I have scribbled verses light,
But there’s nothing I have written
Like the things I meant to write.
Circumstances kept them under
And deferred them day by day.
Till I’m sometimes left to wonder
What it was I had to say.
But I know, though none has scanned them,
They were gems of sheer delight
At the moment when I planned them,
Those fine things I meant to write.
Somehow I postponed the pleasure,
Thought it fitter to await
Some wide hour of spacious leisure,
Till the moment grew too late.
Thus in waking hours they taunt me
And accuse me in the night;
In a spectral host they haunt me,
All the things I meant to write.
Ah. the lost songs full of sweetness,
And the tales by passion warmed.
Fashioned with a silken neatness,
Deftly woven, and informed
With the grace of Keats or Lytton.
Shelley’s fire or Homer’s might.
Oh. there's nothing I have written
Take the things I meant to write!
N.S.W.
A. B. S.


“Bert the Carpenter”: Despite the war,
the old folk in those S. A us. • towns
which were founded by German colonists
remain in many ways as German as
ever. I know a painter who, wandering
about the country, secured the job of fur-
bishing up a shop in a town mostly peopled
with persons of Teutonic d'scent. His
notice “Wet paint” was disregarded by the
older folk, and his work was constantly
being smeared and smudged. During the
lunch hour he told his ti’ouble to the licensee
of the pub where he was boarding. “Don’t
worry, son,” said Bung with a grin. “My
old dad will fix up a notice for you.” That
afternoon the painter started work along-
side a German placard which roughly trans-
lated meant something like “You dirty old
larrikins —will you keep your grimy hands
off my nice clean paint?” The result was
astounding. Old whiskered cookies roared
with laughter, drew the attention of their
wives to it, clapped the painter on the back,
asked him to come and have a drink, anil
spouted yards of German at him. A.id now
my friend has enough work in sight to keep
him busy for months —all through the good-
will which that notice evoked.
“Jungor”: The word “cobber” (B.
3/7/’29) was good verbal currency on the
W.A. goldfields 30 years ago; the first occa-
sion on which I heard it remains a vivid
memory. It was at an outer settlement to
LOTS OF PLACES LIKE THATT
THE SHEIK : “There’s a lovely spot down there to dream away an hour.”
THE SHEILA: “Yes, but it doesn’t look a nice place to wake up in.”
which the Warden had been paying one of
his periodical visits, and most of the commu-
nity was grouped within easy distance of the
pub. Enter Willardie Jim.' a sociable local
celebrity, who had just sold a claim or a
share in one for a wad of notes and was
intent on yarding to the bar everyone within
sight or hearing. The crowd responded to
the invitation with the usual goldfields readi-
ness, but one of Jim’s acquaintances, Cane-
grass Charley, was so absorbed in con versa-
tion with a stranger that he seemed deaf to
the call. The prospective host stopped at
the pub door and his eye fell on the laggard.
“Come on, Charley,” he bellowed with genial
imperiousness, “and bring your blanky
cobber with you. whoever he is.” The gpnlje-
man thus airily indicated happened to be the
Warden himself, but with a tolerant grin the
Great Man fell in at the rear of the proces-
Sl ° n * * * * *
“Nakli” • High-flown national pretensions
with rogar *d to war are not confin d to the
memorial in N’York (B. 26/6/’29). In
Batavia, Java, a bronze lion commemorates
the famous Belgian victory of Waterloo.
* * * *
“G B I ” • A treasure legend lingers about
one of islands near the entrance to the
Hawkesbury (N.S.VV.). The story gins that
j t j le ear ] y days, one “Joe Benns” lived
here with his wife. His true name and liis-
tory were never knowu till he died, when
the" officiating Bjlg.an priest disclosed at the
graveside that “Benns” was the son of a
wealthy Antwerp shipbuilder named Dierck-
necht. The wife is believed to have pos-
scss >d some beautiful jewellery, and this is
supposed to be still burn d somewhere on the
island. I don’t know if there is any evidence
to support the tale, or if the place-name
Bennsville, near Woy Woy, has any bearing
on it
* * * *
“Tarantula” : Later Governors than Phillip
were wmr i d over the shortage of femi-
ninity in Australia. In 1805 Governor King
sent a request to the Home authorities for
a ca r go of women. Tin y were despatched
{j ue course, but every one of them was
over 50. Even stranger is the story of the
“Red Rovers.” The Red Rover was a
convict ship in the days of Governor Bourkp
(1830 to 1836), and she carried only women
offenders. Apparently there were seldom
enough to ensure a full passenger list, and
on one occasion an order went forth from
Scotland Yard that the streets of London
were to be c ] eare d 0 f all females not in their
homes after a certain hour. The result was
that quite a haul of immigrants of the needed
sex—good, bad and indifferent, old
and young, rch and poor was “shang-
haied, ’ taken aboard the vessel at
D 'ptford and brought to Australia. My
grandfatln r knew personally many of tins
b°tch colonists, who came to be known as
“Bed Rovers.”
* , * _ ~ ..
“Make”: That the Germans consider the
war a thing of the past was shown in Auek-
hmcl (M.L.) when a coiiple brought to the
visiting Emd n two children they wished
baptised according to the rites of the Gcr-
man Protestant Church. In the captain’s
room the ceremony was duly performed by
the Emden’s chaplain, while tlie ship’s band
provid d sacred music outside. As one young-
ster was four years old, the inference is that
his christening was postponed until the war
bitterness had worn off sufficiently to permit
something genuinely German to arrive in
port.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The yarn about the
early-day digger who shod his horse with gold
is generally located in Becchwortli (Vic.), but
apparently there were more than one of them,
Here in Gulgong (N.S.W.), where I am writ-
ing this, old hands still tell the story of Ned
Aldridge’s spectacular ride in July, 1872.
Up to that time the miners had been getting
the precious metal at anything from the grass-
roots to a six-foot level. Ned got the idea
that they were on a false bottom, but it
was unanimously derided by the others,
among whom were many experienced hands,
Unconvinced, he dug through and struck
it rich on a 14ft. level, harvesting coarse
gold and tiny nuggets, and cleaning up for
several thousands. To celebrate his triumph
(and good judgment) he got a quondam gold-
smith to make a set of-shoes from some
of his winnings and fasten them on Ids
saddle-horse; mounted thus, he rode through
the 'streets, inviting all and sundry to come
and wet it. Afterwards the golden set was
“cashed” by a local buyer. Ned’s luck stuck
to him ; later he struck it rich at Peak Hill,
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”; Some recent strictures on
the architecture of Melbourne insoire me
to remark that in Bannister-Fletcher’s
“Handbook of Architecture,” a standard work,
six examples are given of the world’s fine
p.ctures in stone —and two of them are in
Melbourne. One is the Houses of Parlia-
ment, quoted as an admirable specimen of
the classic, and the other is St. Paul’s
Cathedral, claimed as a brilliant piece of
modern Gothic. St. Paul's was started 40
years ago by Butterfield, whom Ruskin
described as “the striped hyaena”—striped
because of his habit of breaking the upward
thrust of columns by transverse lines of
THE IMPEDIMENT.
THE SENIOR MISTRESS : “But why do your folks object to him?”
THE JUNIOR MISTRESS : “Well, you see, there are seven in our family and he’s only got
a single seater.”
differently-colored stone; hyaena because of
his ferocious temper. The striping habit
manifested itself in St. Paul’s, where grey
stone runs in bands right round the in-
terior of the building, though without seri-
ously detracting from the truly beautiful
proportions of the nave; and the hyaena
trait duly found vent when Butterfield threw
up the job after the walls had risen only a
few inches, remarking as he did so that if
the diocesan authorities wanted to carry out
their own ideas the village idiot would doubt-
less be available. It didn’t turn out as badly
as that. St. Paul’s is a noble pile, about its
only fault being the floor tiled like a bath-
room.
* * * *
“Fauteil”: At the recent Melbourne ses-
sions a learned K.C. opened his cross-exam-
ination of a woman witness thus: “Without
dwelling upon a distasteful subject, may we
take it that you follow one of the oldest
professions, madam?” “Yes, the oldest, I
think,” came the unexpected reply; “I’m
engaged in domestic duties.”
:Ji * * #
“Murramac”: Being a political organiser,
I have met hundreds of chairmen of meet-
ings. Most of them have such a stereo-
typ: d way of introducing speakers that I
shall always feel gratified to a rough diamond
out in the far west of N. S. Wales, who
began proceedings thus: “This bloke,” point-
ing with his pipe to the first speaker, “wants
ter ’ave a yarn ter yer, and when he’s
finished, the other cove” —here he shifted the
indicator a point or two —“ ’ll ’ave a crack
at yer.”
* * $ *
“Titun”: In the school where I am teach-
ing the children seem to show a falling-off
in average intelligence as compared with
those of previous years. There is a certain
apathy and slowness of movement, most
noticeable in classes where the average age
is 13 or 14. I have been wondering if their
mental state may be an aftermath of pre-
natal influences in the dark times of 1916.
if if if *
“I-linemoa”: Maoriland’s most severe
’quake of which any records exist before
the latest one was in ’55. On that occa-
sion Wellington suf-
fered most; a strip of
swampy ground, set
aside for a dock, was
lifted several feet.
That particular area,
or most of it, is now
built ovet. Petone
Beach then had a dan-
gerous undertow, but
with the raising of the
ground it became one
of xne safest in the country. The recent
disturbance may do a good turn to the West
Coast by rendering more accessible some
precipitous places in which gold is known
to exist.
* ij: * *
“Morita”: In a ruined farmhouse near
Meteren, a few hundred yards behind the
front line, we received our only lady caller
in the war zone. When we took the billet
over it was well furnished with live stock,
but German artillery and our own cooking
had caused big gaps in their numbers. We
were sampling the last pig at breakfast, with
a snowy cloth and the family plate on the
table and bottles of vin blanc to add a touch
of style, when the tear-stained face of a
young mademoiselle peered through the door-
way. At our invitation she made a pre-
tence of eating, but presently broke down.
We then learnt it was her family’s home;
she’d been born and reared there; her own
pia.no was riddled with shrapnel pellets. The
family were refugees in a village a few miles
back and were all up against it for clothes.
Unknown to them she had made the trip on
foot, most of it at night, to collect a bundle
of wearing apparel for them. She rode back
in an ambulance with all the valuables that
were portable and the pick of the farm dogs.
We looked after the clothes part. That night
a ration waggon reached the village from the
farmhouse carrying everything wearable left
by the refugees and a good deal more that
had been accumulated, by more or less legiti-
mate methods, on the way.
“Northesker”: At Settlement Island,
where the first penal settlement in Tasmania
was made, visitors may still see a crumbling
old courthouse and other relics of the bad
old days. Of even more attraction to tour-
ists is a small cliff on the south-east side of
the island known as Gabbett’s Leap. The
tradition lingers that from here the original
of the convict-cannibal of Marcus Clarke’s
“Natural Life” jumped into Macquarie Har-
bor and reached Coal Head. There, so the
story runs, he escaped into the bush with
three other convicts, subsequently killing and
devouring his companions to prolong his own
existence.
* * * *
“Phil P.”: The Norwegians have held top
honors in the Antarctic ever since Amund-
sen was the first to reach the Pole —or the
spot where it ought to be—and their records
will take a lot of beating In 1925 the
Star 111., a IUO-ton unit of the Sir .James
Clark Ross fleet of whale-chasers, steamed
past Amundsen’s old quarters in the Bay
of Whales, finding an inlet at the head of
the bay stretching into the barrier. The
vessel proceeded as far as navigation was
safe, and crossed the 79th parallel of lati-
tude, thereby getting closer to the South
Pole than any other ship has ever been. The
older explorers would have said it was
impossible to navigate unprotected iron hulls
in these waters, but the Scandinavians take
the risks.
$ &
“Eureka” : Something novel in the way of
currency was tendered a conductor of a
Bondi tram the other morning. A lady pas-
senger handed him a ha’penny, two penny
stamps, and a copy of a morning daily
newspaper in payment of a threepenny fare.
“You can keep the extra ha’penny for bein’
obligin’,” she told the amazed conductor.
H= * =!= *
“Tristram R” : “X.P.O.’s” attitude towards
the naval chaplain (B. 29/5/’29) is typical
of the lower deck, but writing from the same
viewpoint I do not share his views, for I have
found the most harshly criticised of them
good fellows. They help many a rating out of
a hole without anyone knowing it. The naval
sadre has none too easy a position to fill; if
he is too much concerned for the lower deck
he is disliked in the wardroom, and he must
live there. But as a rule this does not pre-
vent him acting as an effective buffer between
the overbearing officer and the naval rating,
though, naturally, this finds no mention in
his sermons.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland was colonised by
serious-minded folk under the auspices of
religious bodies that had no time for
frivolities. To take an instance : _ the Can-
terbury Association sent to the pioneers in
1852 —close on the heels of the Four First
Ships—six packing-cases of books. The
catalogue was recently unearthed by the
librarian of the province’s chief public
library, and the only skittish items he
could find in it were an 1826 Shakspeare
and an early Beaumont and Fletcher. The
rest was sermons, ponderous treatises on
agriculture and “improving” works on geo-
graphy, history, and the sciences, with. a
few bound volumes of the older quarterlies.
The conclusion is irresistible that the Eliza-
bethan dramatists got into the collection
under false pretences.
* * * ♦
“Pedess” : A recent par. told of the resent-
ment of the Norfolk Islanders at the churn-
ing up of their soft loamy roads by the
lately imported motor-lorries. What else
could be expected? Those roads represent
14 days’ hard work per annum and the
honest sweat of every active male inhabitant,
irrespective of position. Names and location
are posted in rotation, and should any man’s
occupation prevent his compliance he must
find and nay a substitute. An allowance of
a few shillings per day is made ; and this is
practically the only expenditure on roads in
this lone outpost of Australia.
A PERFECT DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I love,” she gushed, “to wake and see
The reddening streaks of dawn
Fall upon shrubbery and tree,
White road and verdant lawn.
“At six a.m.”—“The hour,” he said,
“When every Bung his bar
Should open to the morning throw.
Sometimes you’d hardly think how slow
Those yawning yardmen are!”
“I love,” she purred, “to watch the sun
High up the heavens climb,
Till Earth seems murmuring ‘You’re the
one’—
Eleven’s just the time.”
“It’s o’er the foretop,” he agreed,
“By then. How long agone
It seems, that first pipe-opening wet!
You clutch your pint—and don’t forget
That counter-lunch is on.”
“Some poets praise the afternoon,
Anff yet,” the maid confessed,
“In summer’s glare or chills of June
I love the even best.
Say five o’clock, when birds and bees
Wing home to roost or hive.”
“A goodly hour,” he said, “old thing,
And goodlier because they bring
The pigs’ feet in at five!”
“But there’s a time I love,” she said,
“The very best of all”
She was a full-of-poetry maid —
“And that’s when shadows fall.
Oh. isn’t six p.m. an hour
That stirs.” she sighed, “and sticks?”
His brow exhibited a scowl,
“Too right it does!” I heard him growl,
“They shut the pubs at six!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Your next hat
'
•. ■ .
■ s.
■ I m mm fi
fit. 1 • 1 ■ . • .
uy
m
?' . »
■
SHAPELY in outline, distinctive in
character, designed to meet a parti-
cular need, and with the ability to
render an unusually long period of ser-
vice, these Murdoch Hats come to you as
the product of Master Hat craftsmanship,
and as the supreme attainment in Hat
value.
w
The famous
“Kookaburra”
Quality
Murdoch’s Pure Fur Felt Australian “KOOKA-
BURRA” Hats, dressy shades of light, mid, or
dark Greys, Fawns, Beaver, and Plum. Snap
Brim” shape as illustration above, “Nail Curl
as illustration A, or “Prince” style as illustration
B. All sizes. Australia’s finest Hat Value
ŵ
“Kaberra”
Murdoch’s “Nail Curl Kaberra,
silk bound, medium flat brim, with
slightly turned up edge. Also in
“Snap Brim” or “Prince” shapes.
Light, mid, and dark
Greys, Fawn, and
Beaver. Sizes 6% to 7 \ bZs *
“ Glencoe ”
English Hats bear the stamp of
expert Hat craftsmanship, and are
exclusive to Murdoch’s. Finest qua-
lity fur—hand-finished. “Snap Brim”
and “Prince” shapes. Light, mid,
and dark Greys, new
Fawn, and Beaver
shades. All regular sizes
27-6
The “Drover”
Murdoch’s Famous “Kookaburra
Drover,’’ made specially for country
wear. Well ventilated. Dark
Fawn shade only. Plaited Leather
Band. Brim, Sizes,
to as il-
lustration C. 'I 1 /
Price " X
A
..
“Star” and “A.l”
Murdoch’s Famous High-
grade Imported Hats. “Snap
Brim,” “Nail Curl,” or
“Prince” shapes. Dark, mid,
or light Greys, Black, Brown,
F a w n, T a n
shades. Sizes, 1
6i to 7| J l V
The “Sombrero”
The Murdoch “Sombrero.”
As illustration D. Specially
designed for the man on
the
land; 6J-inch Crown,
Brim, Plaited Leather Strap.
Dark Fawn,
Black, and Slate. 1
Sizes to 7\ . i yj
Similar shape in Dark Fawn
only. Sizes 6% to 7% ~ 55/-.
J. A. MURDOCH”—the world’s best Hat
This most popular model in “Snap Brim,” * Nail
Curl,” “Prince” or “Lounge” shapes,
has all the leading color tones. Peerless
quality, silk lined, hand finished. Price,
50!-
Ask for your initials to be stamped in your hat
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing, kindly address all letters to Desk “R.”
FREE!
ẁ
D
-EBB
m
m
W
itsAm
O>C
mm
"Park and
George Sts.
MEM


ẃ
The Stud
You Can’t
Lose
Provoking, isn’t it,
when your Stud
falls—rolls where
you can’t find it?
Makes you desper-
ate —mad —feel like suicide. And all
through the Old-time Stud. The new
“Silver Bird” ends your Stud troubles
It can’t roll—shaped to fit neck—
easily inserted and withdrawn—will not
tilt —nothing to get out of order. Saves
Time and Temper. Send for them.
Two Styles—Back and Front Studs.
Art Ivory, 1/-; Pearl 2/-
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
LIMITED
EDWAPD STREET
OPISBANF
THIS BEAUTIFULLY-FASHIONED CLOCK
IN INLAID MAHOGANY
Wf
>
The construction and finish of
this dainty little timepiece leave
nothing to be desired. Standing
s£in. high by 13in. long, it is
both an ornament and a faithful
‘imekeeper.
Having no pendulum, it may be
moved without harm or without
interfering in any way with its
accuracy. It has a compensated and adjusted
balance, is guaranteed for 10 years, and kept
in order free of charge (breakages excepted)
for I 2 months.
SUPREME VALUE AT 65/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
To those who desire
hotel service at its best
ft
HOTEL
offers visitors to Sydney
homelike comfort in
congenial surroundings.
Cuisine second to none
—courteous attention
to your needs—moder-
ate terms.
Meals Table d’Hote or
a-la-Carte.
Jflc/usiyg
Term s
or
Bed
and
Breakfast
Tariff.
Opp. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The House of Reps, is losing Willie Watt.
Since it shifted to Canberra he has rarely
appeared in his place, and few of the newer
members know him for the man of ability
he really is. 11l health has played some part
in his absence from the House, but large
business interests and the remoteness of C n-
berra have had more to do with it, and with
his resignation. Not yet 59, Watt’s public
career has lasted 32 years.
Arthur Blakeley, erstwhile deputy-Leader
of the Federal Labor party, has man-
aged to dodge the grim fellow with the
scythe, but it was a near thing. For weeks
Blakeley was seriously ill with pneumonia.
Out and about, he still has to go carefully,
especially as it is a bitter winter. Blakeley
is now one of Canberra’s 'two resident mem-
bers; the other is Customs Minister Gullett,
who grows wool on a little property within
reach of his office. Grosvenor Francis also
has a grazing lease in the F.C.T., but his son
manages it for dad, who lives there only in
session.
Young Norman Porter, appointed Lecturer
in Philosophy at Sydney ’Varsity, has artistic
associations. He was a pupil of Meldrum,
and he married the sister of Archie Colqu-
houn. Starting out after a B.A. with a very
sketchy equipment, the little chap swept the
board throughout his course. When he
wanted to read Croce he studied Italian, and
when Kant attracted him he learned German.
Porter is one of
many Melbourne
academicians to re-
inforce the staff of
the Sydney institu-
tion ; the vice-
chancellor (Prof.
W allace), Stephen
Roberts, who has
taken over the his-
tory professorship,
and Kathleen Pitt,
history lecturer,
are others.
A. JOHNSON,
secretary of the
Adelaide Railway
Institute, who has
the job of keeping
railway employees
out of mischief
in their spare
time.
When Langslow, the new member for
Castlemaiue-Kyneton, was sworn in last
week in Vic. Assembly, he betook himself
to the back Ministerial bench and plopped
down beside Linton. “Another little brother
for you,” murmured a Laborite, and Lin-
ton, who founded the Big (and Little)
Brother movement, grinned with the rest.
Langslow presently moved, and Linton
seconded, the adoption of the Address-in-
Reply.
Exercising his right as a Jew to do so,
Harold Cohen, the new member for Melb.
South, wore, his hat (in Parliamentary par-
lance, was “covered”) while he was sworn
in before; Justice Wa'sley. The Plush House
has now three lawyers (all Nats.), the two
Cohens and Menzies. The Assembly has
four—Maefarlan and Langslow (Nats.), and
Blackburn and Slater (Labor). The defec-
tion of Menzies has reduced the number of
Costs-pursuers in the Ministry from three
to two —Macfarlan and H. E. Cohen.
Dead in Adelaide, at 87, James Jones, who
could remember seeing bullock teams bogg.d
in the city streets. A printer by trade, Jones
claimed to have been the first real political
democrat in S.A. He never won an election,
but he gave good fights to p ast celebrities,
such as John Darling, G. S. Fowler, Towns-
end and Samuel Way, afterwards Chief Jus-
tice. Jones was one of the original Work-
ing Men’s Association in 1867, and the first
secretary of the local eight-hours movement.
As a side-line he was an enthusiastic
preacher.
George Bell must have been just about
Victoria’s oldest pensioner until he di v d the
other day ; he left off being Chief Clerk of
the Chief Secretary's Department 35 years
ago. Alec Peacock is the only living Minister
under whom he served.
James Taylor, of D-niliquin (N.S.W.),
should be able to claim the distinction of
bmng the old.st Australian to take to the
air. His 96th birthday was behind him
when he flew from his residence to Melbourne
in a Larkin machine the other day. It is
50 years since he last entered the city in
a Cobb and Co. coacli.
The Bonytlions, of Adelaide, father and
son, have been mixed up by no less an
authority than .the Gazette.
That solemn publication printed a by-law of
the City of Adelaide s gned “J. Langdon
Bonython.” It explained in its next issue
that Lavingtou, and not Langdon, was mayor.
More excusable was the s;ip of an Engl sh
visitor who, in a book on the Duke of York
tour, has acknowledged hospitality extended
by “Lavingtou Bonython, the Grand Old Man
of Adcla.de.”
The resignation of Menzies and Saltan
from McPherson’s Vic. Ministry recalls a
more dramatic incident of the kind in 1906,
when Jack Murray threw in his Lands port-
folio while speaking in the Assembly. A pro-
vocative interjection from Murray’s chief,
Bent, led to the explosion. Murray got even
little more than two years afterwards by
firing the shot that laid Bent out.
J. J. Daly, who will be Labor leader in
the Senate, succeeding Needham, if the mili-
tants don’t dish him for having accepted a
brief from Tom Walsh, once their idol, is
junior partner of W. J. Denny, sometime
S. Aus. Attorney-General. H'c is young tor
a Senator—only 38. E. W. Tonkin, for the
past 14 years secretary to the Senate leader,
will return to Adelaide, where as a youth he
was a mighty footballer.
A long trek ended when Daniel le Boux
died at Worcester, Cape Colony, recently.
Le Roux was the long thin Afrikander who
set out in 1922 with thre pence and an
indomitable little wife to walk from Johan-
nesburg round the world, pushing a wheel-
barrow before him. The pair trundled tlnir
ill-chosen vehicle through Australia in 1928,
and had almost arrived at their Starting-
point when the male partner succumbed to
exhaustion and strain.
Adelaide Jewry’s G.O.M. is M. J, Solo-
mon, who was 86 the other day. He has
been president of the congregation for eight
years and, being still vigorous, has no kLa
of retiring.
Bernard Heinze, who has been appointed
musical director-general to the new broad-
casting co., will have pianist-composer Wil-
liam James as his assistant. He will need
all the assistance be can get, for, in addition
to his new position, he retains the Ormond
Professorship at Melbourne University and
the control of the Symphony Orchestra, whose
periodic performances at the Town Hall draw
even bigger audiences than the lat.st and
largest talkie theatre. Both Heinze and
James are Diggers. HVinze hails from Ben-
digo and had a brilliant career at Melb.
’Varsity, where he won the Clarke Scholar-
ship. James was the blushing author of
a lugubrious Australian anthem, which has
been fortunately forgotten; but his songs
composed in lighter vein have had consider-
able vogue.
Alfred Meeks was the oldest of three Syd-
ney partners in Gibbs, Bright and Co., and
the last to retire; he kept going busily till
he was well on towards 81. The firm
has more ramifications than any other private
concern in Australia; it is still a partnership,
and when it has to mention itself in a legal
document it reads like a page torn out of
the peerage—this on account of the Gibbs
connections. Though Alfred Meeks goes out
of the old firm he holds on to the chair of
his beloved A.M.P.; cut him away from that
and Y. Emma, and there wouldn’t be much
left in life for him. His brother Henry, also
successful in business, found his hobby in
another life office, the Temperance and
General; and very wonderful things were
done there, too, while he was in the ebair.
Reginald Burbrick, one of the ex-Austra-
lians successful in the British elections,
started as a clerk in the Sydney office of
the Racchus Marsh Concentrat'd Milk Co.,
rose rapidly to be the co.’s managing director
in Melbourne, and held the job until the
business was sold to Nestles 10 years ago.
After that Reginald went off to the Cold
Country with bulging pockets. He has
reached the House of Commons as a Con-
servative.
The most brilliant record in Maoriland’s
public service stands to the credit of H. H.
Sterling. He became a railway cadet at
13, rose steadily, studied law in his spare
t'mc, qual.fied at 28, became law officer to
the railways two years later, and was assist-
ant general manager at 30. Then the office
of general manager was abolished and a
board of three set up. Sterling left the ser-
Piani[?]
BRAILOWSKY,
who has been
engaged for the
great opening
night of 3LO
under the new
control; which
suggests that-
better programmes
may be hoped for.
vice to become
manager of the
N.Z. Qo-opera-
tive Dairy Co.
—t k e largest
concern of its
sort in the
world—but was
recalled to the
railways by Gor-
don Coates,
then Prime
Minister, and
a p p ointed
general
man ager.
lie is at
present in
N. S. W.
f o Howing
the for-
tun"s of
All Blacks.
He has yet
to pass his
42nd mile-
stone.
John Henry (Joe) Sloane, who struck
gold on Edie Creek, is one of the pioneer
band of New Guinea prospectors—he and
Frank Pryke and Matt Crowe and Jim
Pryke and Bill Park. From the Bartle rush
Sloane went back to Cape York Peninsula- -
to the Coen, Ebagoolali and Rocky River.
But Woodlark Island produced phenomenal
returns, and Sloane was in the Brown Man’s
country again, and has been chasing gold
there practically ever since. He was the
first man to wonder at the long absence of
Bill Paik and Nettleton three years ago. He
set out in search, and finally located them
away up in Karanga Creek. A few’ months
later news dribbled through to the world of
the rich Bulolo.
Rowdcy James, the burly coalminer who
succeed d Mat Charlton as M.H.R. for
Hunter (N.S.W.), told a few thousand of
his electors at Kurri the other day that
already he had given up being polite in
Parliament. “I started being as civil as you
like,” he confided; “but after a while I
sa'd to myself, ‘Rowley, tlwse fellers aren’t
taking any notice of you. You’re too polite.’
So I cut it out and hopped into ’em —
and I’m not going to be polite in Parliament
any more.”
Lord Boaverbrook, who has just given his
19-year-old son a controlling share interest
in his newspapers, is, at 50, the youngest
self-made multi-millionaire in the Empire.
He is also the only gi-eat capitalist who,
while still in his prime, has hand d over the
entire control of his business to another.
He mentioned in the witn ss-box recently
that his only association with his papers is
as an occasional contributor; the direction
and full responsibility are in the hands of
Ralph Bluenfeld, formerly of New York, and
now Britain’s greatest tabloid editor. Rea-
verbrook began life as the son of an indigent
Scottish parson, with no money at all and
only a Canadian Board School education;
and at 37 he was a millionaire and a peer.
During the next three years over 100 of
the higher officers of the N.S.W. Police
Force will reach the age at which retirement
is compulsory—seven superintendents, 25 in-
spectors and 60 sergeants. Among them is
ueorge Mitchell, the Metropolitan Superin-
tendent. If W. H. Childs, the present Com-
missioner, had not risen so high he wmuld
have been included in the list; he was born
in 1872, and has had 27 years service. But
the age limit is extended for the Chief.
W. B. Small, who died in Sydney last
week, was one of the new school of hotel
managers. Like the late Wm. Tilley, with
whom he wrns a good deal associated, he
didn’t know 7 one end of a corkscrew from the
other. Trained to building-society finance
in Melbourne, he came to Sydney to take
care of the Hotel Metropole; Victorian
p. ople had put into this a good deal of money,
which they reckoned as good as lost. Small
took it in hand, and ran it most successfully
on figures; he could tell presently to the
fraction of a farthing how much mustard
100 guests should consume, and if the mus-
tard bill was over that much, somebody or
something had to be looked into. Later, in
conjunction with liis friend Tilley and their
friends, the Hotel Australia was bought from
the mostly-English co. which owned it; and
the same system was adopted there. After a
few years, however, the Metropole sold its
Australia shares, and the two sailed off on
quite independent courses.
The Vic. Nationalists have elected Dick
Toutcher to the Parliamentary Standing
Committee. Toutcher was on the committee
for 10 years prior to 1924, when Peacock
made him Minister for Education. That
Ministry lasted only three months, and Tout-
cher has had neither political loaves no?
fishes since. He is the fifth' oldest member
of the Leg. Assembly, having been first
elected 32 years ago. His service has been
continuous.
The London correspondents recently men-
tioned that a Canadian major who had been
in 11 British hospitals and undergone 44
operations had just been sent home with a
complete new jaw from grafts taken from
his own body, the artificer being Major
Gillies, chief plastic surgeon to the Ministry
of Pensions hospital in Roehampton. Maori-
tan d claims Gillies as a son; he was born
in Dunedin 45 years ago, his father being
Robert Gillies, an old-time member of Par-
liament. Gillies has a European reputation
for plastic surgery. Five years ago the
Banish naval authorities sent for him to re-
mould the shattered countenances of victims
of an explosion on one of their warships.
. Chris Gambetta, who has just retired
from Vic. Education Department after 47
years’ service as teacher and administrative
officer, was of the old civil-service type—
courteous, easy-going, reserved to the
stranger, frank to a friend, and inclined to
be Bohemian. He was nearly made Usher
of the Black Rod for the Leg. Council some
years ago, and he would have suited the job.
Oswald Anderson, who goes from 2FC,
Sydney, to be manager of the Australian
Broadcasting Co., was one of the young men
turned out for Empire work by Amalgamated
Wireless: he saw duty in the Persian Gulf.
His first broadcasting experience - was with
Palings. H. P. Williams, assistant manager
of the new concern, was organising secretary
of, and campaign director for, the Country
party; later he went abroad as representative
of the Meat Marketing Board. He studied
wirel ss developments in the countries he
visited, and on his return was grabbed by
2FC.
Coburg (Vic.) Bench has had the unusual
experience of having to sit on the case of
its own chairman, J. J. Russell, charged with
having inflicted grievous bodily harm on a
citizen by negligently driving a car. The
injured man having died since the charge was
laid, the Justices decided that it was a matter
for the Coroner, and released their brother
magistrate on bail.
When the- century was young the Rev.
P. J. Murdoch, father of Keith Murdoch,
of Melbourne Herald, had an experience
like that of Botten, of the S. Aus. Dried
Fruits' Board. The elder Murdoch was clerk
to the Presbyterian Assembly of Vic., and
he was ordered to produce records of the
Assembly wherein
they related to J.
R. Ronald’s slan-
der action against
Robert Harper. On
the ground that he
had sworn an oath
to the Assembly not
to divulge the in-
formation demand-
ed, the clerk re-
fused. The Court
held that loyalty to
the law of the
State came before
lyoalty to his
church, and Mur-
doch went into the
cooler for a few
hours.
HENRY
BUCKLETON,
Kt., general
manager of the
Bank of New
Zealand, who is
not worrying
about a few
earth tremors.
W. FI. Edgar, who will be Acting-Presi-
dent of Vic. Uppah, Chambah till Frank
Clarke returns from the Cold Land in Sep-
tember, is.by courtesy regarded as “father’’
of the House, although there was a break
in his service as a member while he changed
from a North-of-Yarra to a South-of-Yarra
representative. He was Minister for Health
and Public Works under Murray and Watt
from February, 1912, to June, 1913.
KEITH ANDERSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There let him sleep,
High on the headlands steep
That front the sea!
Before, the ocean that he might have crossed,
Shimmering in silvered calm or tempest-
tossed ;
Behind, the long-leagued land that held the
lost
T-Ta enn P'lit tn frpp
From that grim tryst the seeker’s self must
With Death. There let him sleep,
A type of chivalry!
There let him sleep
Among the winds that sweep
Above the wave!
He might not scribe upon the scroll of fame
With those who girdled earth and overcame
Oceans and continents another name,
Yet in that grave
On the land’s edge, beside the restless deep,
Sounder shall he his sleep
Who died to save.
ly.s.w.
MIDFORD.


A William Macleod cartoon of 45 years ago.—This include's William MacLeod's
best drawing of W. H. Traill, then Editor. Persuaded by W. B. Dailey (on the left),
N. S. Wales sent an unasked-for contingent to the Soudan. Traill opposed it; other
Sydney papers approved. On the contingent’s rather inglorious return, Traill called
upon the other papers to eat humble pie. The S. M. HERALD is represented by the
elder Jas. Fairfax ; the ECHO (now defunct) by its Editor, Brewer.
A William Macleod cartoon of 44 years ago.—This was published during a
by-election, in which Parkes and the Rev. J. Osborne contested Argyle; it shows
those two in the left lower corner; Dibbs and Dailey are aloft, J. S. Farnell (Lands)
on the trapeze, and John McElhone, the most pugnacious member of the House, in
the corner.
WILLIAM MACLEOD CARTOONS OF 1883-85.
(A further instalment of William Macleod cartoons will be printed next week.)
Poverty
Point
“Mono-mark”: I was a very bored mem-
ber of the audience one night at Adelaide
King’s away back in last century when an
unexpected diversion occurred. It was a
tense moment. The hero was trying to in-
duce his love to fly with him; he had pleaded
his cause with lengthy eloquence, and the
maiden was pondering deeply ere she
replied. Profound silence. Suddenly, from
beneath the stage, issued a clearly audible
voice: “Why the Hell didn’t you play the
ace?” The stagehands were having a small
game.
“Hamfat”: There are lines that have to
be cut out of playscripts as dangerous, be-
cause they invite sarcastic rejoinders. One,
in a play staged within the last year, was
“Well, I’ll go on with it; but I’m afraid
I’m acting the part rather badly.” Some-
one assented heartily “You are !” on the first
night, and the line was cut on the second.
Another was: “If she is dead, life will be
A William Macleod cartoon of 44 years
ago.—Admiral Tryon had agreed that some
day Australia might have a fleet of its own,
and might even produce some of its own
subordinate officers. This cartoon shows an
Australian Commander holding the door
open for an English middy and saying,
“After you, Sir!”
worthless. Why should I live?” A husky
voice which croaked: “Arsk us something
easy!” killed that for good.
“Patrick Penitent”: What have we done to
deserve this epidemic of “Tell the children
stuff? I went to Sydney Savoy Theatre
the other night, and had to sleep through
Marie Stopes’s well-meant “Vectia,” a
wooden play with a screamingly incredible
plot. Next night at a suburban cinema I saw
half of a fillum whereof the ill-used heroine
(and her old nurse) didn’t know until three
months before the unhappy event that a
ehee-ild was well on the way. “Tell your
child” is a good enough maxim, if somewhat ■
superfluous these days; but for stage and
screen straight farce beats it hands down.
“O. Kay”: Mrs. Otway Falkiner has
released in London her movie, “The Life
of a Jackeroo,” which was shot at Wid-
giewa, the Falkiner station, near Deniliquln
(N.S.W.). The film, which gives promise
of proving a winner, has a Scotch “choom”
for hero.
“Cine Ma”: One of Melbourne’s picture
theatres plasters its foyers with huge paint-
ings representing juicy incidents from the
titanic features “coming next week.” Some
of the work is slapdash, but some appears
to have inspired the author and is extra-
ordinarily good. The brush is wielded by an
artist who figures in some of the toniest
art shows of the year.
“C. 8.”: As hitherto, Harry Lauder is
getting a large proportion of his laughs out
of references to the alleged parsimonious-
ness of his race, and on his opening night in
Melbourne he scored one with a practical
demonstration. A loud voice with a dis-
tinctly Ab rdonian lilt in it shouted from
the gods, “Gie’s ‘Roamin’ in the Gloamin,’
Harry!” Whereupon the veteran histrion,
“Ye’ll hae to buy anither seat next Satur-
day if ye want to hear that.” In the cir-
cumstances it was tactless of the Argus to
remark of the comedian that he was “an
artist to his fingertips.”
“Cauboy”: Frank Clewlow, Melbourne
Repertory Society’s professional director,
has returned from Europe with a bagful of
plays that should renew interest in the in-
tellectual drama, which has been droppiug
so far behind that a revival of Shaw’s “Can-
d'da” has come to be regard d as an event.
Among Clewlow’s acquisitions is “Maya,”
the play whose realistic portrayal of life
in the u'd-light district of Mars ilies caus 'd
a sensation two years ago in N'York. “The
Race with the Shadow,” a German play;
“The Devil Amongst the Skins.” an adapta-
tion from one of Grimm’s fairy tales; and
“The White Chateau,” a play specially
written for Armistice Day, are listed for
early production. The last-named is on the
programme for Anzac Day.
“Sac.”: The highest tribute a comcd'an on
the Tivoli circuit is ever likely to get was
handed to him the other Sunday night by
a Sydney suburban charity-concert audience
before which he was performing g v atis out of
love for the Cause. His comedy line is a
blith'-red sort of patt.r. and after a few
minutes of it the audience counted- him out
on the assumption that he was tanked.
“Tlmodoric” • Recent reference to the
Ober-Ammergau passion play which takes
place next year recalls that 10 years ago
this play provid 'd poor old Walter Bentley
with an entertainment Waterloo. On Good
Friday, at Melbourne King’s, Ben thy staged
a show of the “sacred” type, which is all
Melbourne will permit on that day—a lec
ture and sereening of “stiffs” of the Passion
play. Both lecture and pictures w-'re real-
istic and excellent, but it was evident that
the audience, holding its own interpretation
of “passion,” and perhaps believing Ober-
Ammergau some new super-Stroheim in the
cinema world, felt that its leg had been
tugged, and said so. Bentley, after vainly
appealing to sportsmanship and recalling his
record as an entertainer, made the error of
getting angry. As a result he was as surely
crucified as was Anton Lang in the pictures
B ntley was showing. It was a poignant
evening.
“Cauboy” : During his last season in Mel-
bourne I admired Boucicault for his un-
compromising refusal to play to the gallery
in the modern way. He declined to give
interviews to the press, forbade the presence
of curious outsiders at rehearsals, and would
not allow his co npany to advertise the
actor’s inveterate futility as an impropmtu
speechmaker or to receive flowers oy, r the
footlights. The cause may have been Dion’s
growing irascibility, but they were good pre-
cedents.
“C.”: One great advantage that the pic-
ture-show house lias over the legit, is the
narrowing down of class distinct.ons in the
abolition of the “gods.” The courting
couples who form a fairish percentage of
theatre patrons go without any sense of
indignity to any part of the movie-house,
but if the stalls and d.c. are booked in the
other they pass on. The “gods” are infra
dig to most couples.
“T.P.”: The publicity stunt is distress-
ingly overworked. Flappers and their elder
s'sters in Sydney mount the stage to drape
themselves adoringly around a worried
pianist. Word is passed on to Melbourne,
and here the farcical, pre-arranged scheme is
repeated. The gifted artist looks bar d, and
the audience wonders what the devil it’s all
about. As one of the audience I pay my
money to enjoy a world-renowned performer,
not to be interrupted by gawky feminine
posing.
“Nikko”: Musicians are not the only ones
who stiffer lapses of memory at critical
moments. In her reminiscences Mrs. Patrick
Campb.ll relates that one night, after pi y-
ing Paula in “The Second Mrs. Tanqu. ray”
over 100 times, her memory suddenly became
a blank. It whs half-Way through
the first act, and no amount of
prompting was of any ava l. Finally,
she retired, read the whole of the
first act through, then returned and
played the part with her usual
brilliance.
“Cine Ma”: Having surveyed a
vast number of talkies, I have
come to the conclusion that there
will be a reaction against them
shortly on the part of picture
patrons. From the movie-fancier’s
point of view th re were certain
estimable qualities about the
silent picture. In its ghostly
fashion it could be salacious, sug-
gestive, vaguely pornographic, with-
out alarm'rg the cemors unduly.
The technique of the kiss, for in-
stance, had developed amazingly.
When the censors cut down the
length of producers
promptly snbst'tut d quality for
quantity. Instead of th > crude contact of lip
with lip we got an expi\ ssive labial pantomime
of appr aeli and r-tir. meat flight and pur-
suit Which, though from the censor's point
of view quite unexceptionable, was infinitely
more lascivious. Put this pantomime into
words, and you have something as shocking
to conventional morality as a prose para-
phrase of Beethoven's “Appassionata” or
Wagner’s “Tannhauser” overture. The talkie
producers have made several attempts to get
past the censor with the fruity stuff their
patrons expect of them, but have been dis-
astrously defeated. The result is that the
average talkie has become so unspeakably re-,
spoctable that regular fans, used to the
endless criminal assaults of the dumb film,
are yawning their heads off.
“Cauboy”: The Carrolls may shortly pre-
sent Australia with Robeson, the negro who
was such a howling success in “Show Boat”
that London filled the Albert Hall later to
hear him in a solo entertainment. The
Firm wanted him for their presentation of
the musicomedy, but the Carrolls exercised
their option.
“Imogen”: Gladys Moncrieff has merits
not included in the regular publicity. She is
one of the most generous players on the
stage; hands out large slices of her earnings
with lavish unostentation. One of her most
recent examples of good-heartedness was to
a ballet which was rationed as to the girls’
shoes. They were much on their toes, and
the shoes went earlier than, on paper, they
should have done. To save the lasses dip-
ping into their own pockets Gladys gave each
of them a new pair. Another of her fine
qualities is that she is singularly free from
“side.”
“C.R.”: Like many Diggers, Alfred Frith,
now with “The Five-o’clock Girl,” got his
first theatrical experience in army bivouacs.
It wasn’t in the Great War, however. The
comedian saw the Boer War through with
the British Army and then was shipped to
India. There a travelling English show
arrived short of a funnybones, and Frith
got three months’ leave to brighten up their
business. At the end of the term he had
sufficient rupees to purchase his
discharge.
A William Macleod cartoon of 4 3 years
ago.—Who was to hold New Guinea had not
been settled. Both Britain and Germany
had eyes turned, that way; and The
Bulletin thought the islanders didn’t want
eitharr. Here, therefore, it makes New
Guinea say: “How happy I could be with
neither.”


m
2
a r ~n
rv
r -1
as |
re? '
2
a rn
I >
i
is
S Ml
f/ ——— Vi
1
fes?
m
VALMAI COL-
LETT—" I can recom-
mend Rexona Soap for
I use no other for my
baby’s skin and hair."
—Mrs. Henry Collett.
ROBERT BOULTON.
His mother writes »
44 1 always use Rexona
Soap for my tittle boy,
Robert , and find it ex-
cellent for the skin and
hair,”
KENNETH ALBERT
WIGHTON. “ My
baby has always been
bathed with Rexona
Soap. I don’t know of
any other which is so de-
lightfully soothing to a
tender skin.”
—Mrs. A. Wighton
There is nothing more beautiful than a perfect
skin, clear, soft and healthy—the kind of skin
that compels admiration.
If you have become discouraged of ever
attaining a perfect complexion—have used
various creams and treatments, and still your
skin is sallow, oily, coarse and blotchy, try
Rexona Soap.
You will be both amazed and delighted to
find what a difference this pure, facial soap
* will make to your complexion. Doubtless,
it seems incredible that anything so simple
as bathing the face daily with Rexona Soap
and fresh water could make'such an improve-
ment in the skin, when so many other com-
plexion treatments have failed to do so. Yet
you will find that such is the case, because
Rexona Soap contains, in addition to its
unusual cleansing qualities, all the soothing,
healing, corrective properties contained in
Rexona, the Rapid Healer. Its use quickly
overcomes any skin imperfections.
After using Rexona Soap you will feel that
your skin has been refreshed and invigorated
to the very depths of its tiny pores and you
will inhale the delightful outdoor freshness
of the Rexona fragrance that is typical of
Rexona itself. Use Rexona Soap with hot or
cold water, hard or soft water. It is always
good, and gives abundant foamy lather in
every case. Use Rexona Soap for Health
and Beauty.
Price 1/* per tablet
i
Mill
NS
&
m
if
!!'" Mil 111
W/A
W/A
mi
\A
REXONA
RS2U


n
>i?
% {
V. \
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE-
-Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T tßation
w
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P, & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under*
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
114-120 CASTLE REAQH ST. SYDNEY cg=
ADDING MACHINES
The wonderful ADD AC weighs only
71b. Adds 900 cash items, or
calculates 180 items per hour.
Capacity, £lO,OOO. Anyone can
operate and become expert in two
weeks. Just pull down the dial.
Full instructions given and written
guarantee. New, £l5. Slightly
used, £9. Free delivery. Cash with
order. Addac Service Co., 1 Bond
Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hfr Majesty’s “The Desert Soria
Criterion “The Perfect Alibr
Royal “The Fiying Squad
Palace Uracua
TlV oi.i Viui'lo' llle
State , Movies and Talkies
MF.T.ROURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
His Majesty’s (com. Saturday) “A Night Out
—""-"v • s,r
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Last week something quite unusual burst
into the procession of stereotyped amuse-
ments in Melbourne—a first performance of
“Bar-Kocliba;” a Yiddish opera, by the Larl-
ton United Hebrew congregation.
As a play it was extremely but
this Showman was almost as interested in
the crowd that thronged the Playhouse, tie
did not know so many of the Chosen existed
in this rather too painfully Anglo-Saxon
country. It was a crowd that fairly palpi-
tated with the joy of living. Shoulders went
up and down, and hands waved fanwise m
tile air in the manner that one thought
was confined to Gentile actors taking the
part of Sliylock. There were old men witi
beards like fish-spears, backs l.ke hoops and
noses like triumphal arches; children of
extraordinary beauty ; women heavily be-
furred but so deficient in jewellery that one
wondered whether the popular legend were
true or whether they had left it home under
the confident belief that in this Christian
land nobody would attempt to steal it. On
the other hand, the old gentleman to the
left of The Bulletin kept his bowler reso-
lutely crushed over his ears throughout the
performance; possibly he had not been long
enough in this country to feel justified in
trusting it under the seat. The young man
on the right, who had borrowed his aristo-
cratic profile from an Assyrian bas-relief,
volunteered the information that he had wit-
nessed the entry of the Australian Light
Horse into Jerusalem—the 49th conquerors
of that holy city. His neighbor, a tailor, said
that up to a couple of years ago he had
measured suits for commissars in Moscow.
The air was full of the thick sounds of
Yiddish—Russian Yiddish, Polish Yiddish and
the Yiddish of Schleswig-Holstein. For
many it was their mother tongue. They
knew no other. They had breathed the air
of this fair land of freedom for only a hand-
ful of years, having fled from the Russian —
or the Prussian —terror, and landed without
LUCELLE LISLE, with “New Brooms” at Sydney St. James.
a penny. An advance from the Jewish Boan
Society without sucurity or interest, and
in a vear or two son Isaac and little
Rebecca are at the University learning to be
doctors or lawyers, while father, still in lus
threadbare suit and with his bowler hat
still crushed over his ears, sells ale clo’ in
Collingwood or Bourke-street, and smilingly
watches his offspring embarking on the con
quest of his conquerors. And a year or two
after that there is a fine house in Kew or St.
Kilda and a motor-car or even two. and d.-c.
seats at His Majesty’s to view the opera, and
front seats at the Town Hall to hear great
Jewish virtuoso Brailowsky show the Gentiles
how Beethoven should be interpreted and
other delights that are valued all the more
because a lifetime has been spent in attain-
ing them. And no more pogroms or persecu-
tions or Jewish pales—only compulsory vot-
ing and such like simple disabilities shared
with the Gentile brother. No wonder, when
the curtain fell on the tragedy of Israel
crushed and broken under the heel of the
brutal Roman, that father, still with Ins
bowler crushed down on his forehead, wiped
the tears from his eyes and waved his hands
in the air and filled the hall with the ot-oi-oi
of Yiddish. Is not this the Promised Land,
even if the new Jerusalem goes by the bar-
barous name of Melbourne?
“Bar-Kochba” tells of the last grim chap-
ter in the story of independent Jewry. The
people are wailing in the synagogue over
the fall of Jerusalem. Outside the gutters
are running with the blood of their children,
and an unbearable agony runs through the
music. The high-priest (Jacob Strunin), a
commanding emblem of religious asceticism
in a snow-white beard, exhorts them in. a
voice alternately enraged and tender with
pathos to have patience. God will soften th;
hearts of the Romans. (Besides, they have
already guaranteed the powers, privileges and
revenues of the priesthood.) , Bar-Ivochba
leaps up, a great Samson of a man (Joel
Myerson), and in a magnificent tenor charged
with contempt and fury denounces the priest-
hood, and calls on the youth of the nation
to rise on their oppressors. Next, in the
high priest’s house, Dinah, bis daughter
(Madame Levi), is approached by Papus,
the jeweller (R. Finklestein). He is the
Judas, the traditional betrayer of Judah, a
character made disdainfully comic. He ofers
Dinah diamonds in exchange for her love, but
she tells him that rather would she have a stone
from the devastated temple than all the
gems of the Orient. He learns that she is
in love with Bar-Kochba, and is inspiring
the rebellion. Judas betrays him to Ciesar
(J. Lando), a lascivious tyrant and a coward
whose business of state appears to be to
101 l on a throne and watch a ballet dance in
a manner more redolent of “Way Down in
Dixie’’ than any known period of Imperial
Rome. Brought in, Bar-Kochba breaks his
bonds, and, like the Samson that he is, and
with the aid of God, disperses the 11 supers,
composing the Roman army of occupation.
Dinah is imprisoned, and Bar-Kochba raises
the standard of revolt, but is delivered up
through the treachery of his fellow-country-
men. He kills Papus and the high priest,
and, realising that
Israel is doomed,
commits suicide.
The music, poig-
nant and charac-
teristically Orien-
tal. rises to a crisis
of melancholy, and
the curtain de-
scends on the un-
relieved tragedy of
the dispersal.
The singing of
the principals was
of a high order,
and the acting was
remarkable. They
did not seem to per-
form their parts so
much as feel them
with a quite un-
actor-like intensity.
* *
After an argu-
ment with a human
doorstop whose re-
gard for the press
was not as exalted
as it ought to have
been, The Bulle-
tin succeeded in
clawing its way
into Melbourne
Town Hall on
Saturday night
after the “Hous?
Full” notice went
up on Fritz Hart’s
third symphony
concert of the sea-
son. The occasion
was child-p'ain«t
Nancy Weir's
debut as soloist in
the tortuous and
sometimes platitu-
d’nous and always
difficult concerto in
0 minor of Beethoven.
Nancy acquitted herself well. A dark-
haired mite in a white frock, she showed a
technical proficiency that would be praise-
worthy in a full grown virtuoso, not to men-
tion a child not yet turned 14. There was
a little hesitancy in the first movement, and
no wonder! The piece, after an exciting and
interesting beginning, loses itself in the glit-
tering sands of virtuosity, and if there is
any meaning in it beyond a sort of musical
dazzle-painting the present critic ha 3 never
been able to detect it. But the third move-
ment, with its chuckling rondo, is a giddy
piece of loveliness, and in it Nancy was
thoroughly at home. The vivid little lady
has stacks of aplomb and not a trace of
nervousness, and her natural sensibility she
will get into her playing by and by. She
was as unconscious that she had attracted
an audience twice as large as any that
attended on Brailowsky as she was of the
fruit, flowers and chocolates that were show-
ered on her at the finish.
* * *
In Sydney on Saturday anyone with a
taste for violent action and mystery could
have gone the
whole hog—the
talkie “On Trial’
at the Haymarket
'(morning session);
A- A. Milne’s “The
Perfect Alibi” at
the Criterion
(matinee) and
“Sweeney Todd,”
attribut'd to actor
George Dibdin Pitt,
at the Savoy (even-
ing). An inspec-
tion of them in
that order left the
impression that as
drama “On Trial,”
which will be more
closely exanvned in
Shadow Shows,
beat the others hol-
low. It beat them
by the strength of
its quiet realism, in
regard to whi r h
“Sweeney Todd”
lies on the extreme
other end of the
scale and Milne’s
plnv about in the
middle.
“R » ali s m” is
used here in the
simple sense of
actuality: the story
of “On Trial” is
quite unmechani-
cal. You do not
s e—as you do all
the time in “The
Perfect Alibi” —a
clever playright
showing you just
lioW clever he
it ally can be; nor
are you giver.— -as
you are in “Swee-
ney Todd”—a raw
revelation of a clumsy craftsman turning out
a characteristic job. The matrimonial-
triangle-murder story of “On Trial” is uni-
versal, as are the types that play it.
Milne’s play is an exhibition of cleverness
rather than satisfying drama, which does
not mean that it is not a pleasing theatrical
offering. It was originally called “The
Fourth Wall,” which “wall” is the audi-
ence, and which audience is allowed to know
how the old gentleman who is found shot
at the telephone came by his death, and may
take its pleasure frofn watching the young
lovers unravel the mystery. The tangle
comes out neatly, and with all its inner
knowledge the audience gets a few good
surprises on the way to the happy end.
Dramatically, it is inept, and all the delight-
ful acting of Ruth Nugent and Alan Bunce
cannot make it otherwise. But their acting
is delightful. They are a fresh, happy pair,
giving out from the stage the one thing that
neither “On Trial” nor any other picture
can supply—living personality. There is
something very intimate about them: you
miss them quite personally when they go off
and are glad to see them return. In this
play they have as support Rowena Ronald,
who was thought to be heading for Europe
with the late Boucieault but happily re-
turned : Harvey Adams, Reginald Wykrham,
Reginald Newson, Maidie Hope, Sydney
Stirling, George Blunt, John Fernside and
George Henry Trader, who produces. That
is the lot, and all are worthy of the men-
tion.
The same, unfortunately, cannot be said
of the players in the Savoy curiosity,
“Sweeney Todd.” The cast is notable for
its exce'pt : ons. Scott Alexander gives a
sound portrayal of the murderous barber
who. with the aid of a chair that pressing
a button lowers with its sitter through the
floor, polishes off persons who annoy him by
having too much money, or merely annoy
him. In the first act the player is excellent,
and he is fine again at other points, but
he goes off slightly between t : mes. It is no
wonder: the part is a “fat” one, but i
calls for the sustained energy of a profes-
sional wrestler. Zara Clinton, Alec Alves,
Claude Carter. Edward Landor and Svdney
Everett are all responsible for neat character
slices, and, unlike some others, win through
because tlnv treat the gory play in the
spirit in which the manag ment sensibly
offers it —as a jok°. Play d in that sp rit,
which was nicely introduced by Annie
Hughes’s jolly prologue, it would be a very
good joke, too; a robust, meaty joke, with
human life as cheap as it should be and
murder merely a hearty thing to do Even
with the feminine principal, Muriel btau,
taking the thing as seriously as if it were the
very latest crook play out of the U.to-A.,
and with sundry others, by like « ob V
waking the wild hope that Master 1 odd
might slightly broaden the held ot his actm
ties, the ancient melodrama, creakmg a
every joint, repays inspection as a tneairi
Showman’s knowledge “Sweeney
Todd” has not before been presented _
N S W., and, unless perhaps m a small way
in Australia’s very early days, it possibly
ZARA CLINTON, with “Sweeney Todd”and co. at Sydney Savoy.
has not been seen before anywhere in ex-
Bingliiland. In England it is something of
a perennial. Its present producers assert
as historical fact that it has been seen by
George IV., Edward VII., George V. and
the Prince of Wales (three times —which
might well be argued in his favor). It is
based on a murderous barber, alleged to
have flourished in Fleet-street early last
century, though the play is set in the cen-
tury before to ensure better costuming.
Nothiner could be more ingenious than its
story, nor the manner of telling it. Sweeney
Todd polishes you off as a matter of course ;
he has all the energy but none of the snob-
bish exclusiveness of our razor gangsters.
There is a lunatic asylum, run by a
typical Dickens character, to whom Toda
takes his boys to be finished off when they
get to know too much; also the spectacle
of a synthetic corpse sagging in a chair with
synthetic blood running from his throat, and
other such titbits. Scarcely any effort is
made to explain any remarkable occurrence,
and the numerous things that happen incon-
veniently to the playwright are simply
ignored. The play can be said not to hold
but to be actually made of pretty well every
fault possible in melodrama. Made contem-
porary, it would be unbearably horrible; its
throat-cutting, _ mad-house ravings, death-
screams and pies of human flesh belong to
the stomach that genuinely enjoyed Tyburn.
We are too refined nowadays to enjoy any-
thing coarser than the genteel daily
dragging of mangled bodies from beneath
long-lined motor-cars with goggle-eyed drunks
at the wheels.
* * *
Giannini’s second recital at Sydney Towm
Hall on Saturday night provided further
proof that she is a wonderfully well-equipped
and versatile singer. Hers is the art that
conceals art. She carols as effortlessly as a
bird —florid cadenzas in which every note is
as clear as a little bell; legato passages in
which the voice caresses the melody; stac-
cato dramatic declamations: she’s equally at
home in each.
* ¥ *
The feature ©f the current offerings at
Sydney State and Prince Edward is the
excellence of the music. Weber’s “Freis-
chutz” is easily the most important item on
the Edward’s bill, the main number on which
is the artificial talkie “Innocents of Paris.”
At the State, Clara Bow in “A Wild Party,”
a girlish titbit, is supported by tiptop orches-
tral pieces.


INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres*
“LJOW can busy and successful men find time to read
* *• the course ?” you may ask.
The answer is that the Alexander Hamilton Institute
does not offer a course in the ordinary sense, but a Service.
Often a single idea gathered from a fifteen-minute session
with one section of the Course, or from a personal inquiry
to the Institute staff, will repay the cost of the Modern
Business Course and Service many times
An illustrated book. “Forging Ahead in Business, tells all
about the Institute Course and Service. It answers every ques-
tion. It tells exadtly what the Institute can do for busy men.
It is yours for the asking.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W. B 5
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Edwards, Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
r Dividends N
5 p.c. To Re- Re-
Apl., Profits. Prefs. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919 47,028 4325 10 p.c. = 25,423 17,280 132,390
Transferred to capita) £60,000 .. 82,300
1920 69,766 4325 10 p.c.= 27,923 37,518 119,908
1921 60,328 4325 10 „ „ 35,423 20,580 140,488
1922 61,338 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 16,590 157,078
1923 59,752 4325 10 „ „ 40,423 15,004 172,082
1924 62,047 4325 10 „ 40,423 17,299 189,381
1925 65.121 4325 10 ~ „ 40,423 20,373 209,754
1926 71,121 4325 10 „ ~ 50,423 16,373 226.127
1927 73,020 4325 10 „ „ 50,423 18,272 244,399
1928 77,020 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,272 256,671
1929 '77,120 4325 10 „ „ 60,423 12,372 269,043
This co., with Sydney headquarters, was in
the paper and wholesale stationery trade
for close on half a century before the public
became interested in the scrip in 1915. It
has since more than doubled its paid capital,
which includes £50,000 of bonus scrip
handed out in 1919, and paid a steady 10 p.c.
with wide margins for reserves, of which
£269,043 were on view at April 30. And
since the market’s opinion of the shares
has always been a high one, the new issues.
have been in the nature of substantial
bonuses to shareholders. The last £lOO,OOO
of fresh capital was got in a little over two
years ago ; it made the total on the register
£690,740 in 86,509 5 p.c. prefs. and 604,231
ords.
Last year the improvement in the net
exhibited profit was an exact £100; in
the previous term the growth was a
round £4OOO. That sort of profit-writ-
ing gives the impression that the direc-
tors are in the happy position of not
having to put every ha’penny on the
table; the movement, great or little, is
simply an indication of the sort of year
the co. has had. On that theory the “Wild
Cat” would judge the past year to have been
disappointing, inasmuch as the long-con-
tinued upward movement of profits was at
last definitely checked. Nevertheless, after
handing the prefs. their £4325, the balance
of the year’s profit was 12 p.c. on average
ordinary capital compared with 12, 13.6, 13.2
and 15 p.c. back to 1925.
Trade generally has been more difficult
and the trend of paper and most other prices
(outside Australia) has been downward.
Still, fluctuations in the paper market
have less effect upon this co.’s profits
than might be expected. It acts as
agent for three big overseas producing firms,
and a large part of its business is handled on
an indent and commission basis, which, of
course, reduces the risk of damage from price
movements in that market, and also ex-
plains the moderate size of stocks.
One of the outstanding features of balance-
sheet figures is the solid nature of the finan-
cial structure:—
1921. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £490,740 £590,740 £690,740 £690,740
Liabilities 1 155,743
Taxation • 161,187 141,438 170,861
reserve J [31,209
Freeholds .. 80,598 110,319 110,319 110,319
Stock.. *. 276,351 186,166 206,641 190,807
Sundry debtors 332,932 469,978 558,811 477,834
Cash and invest-
ments . . 122,406 214,010 267,368 392,728
Of net assets totalling £984,745 at April
30, the more or less liquid surplus, including
stocks and shares in other cos., accounted
for no less than £874,426, which was £12,467
more than at the previous balance. The
other £110,319 was represented by premises,
etc., the book value of which has remained
unchanged since 1925, when freeholds were
bought, in Melbourne and Brisbane. Stocks
(£190,807, down £15,834 during the year)
are equal to no more than 2| times last
year’s net profit, which might be taken as
a further indication of the co.’s big indent
business. The board, whose members have
graduated in the business, says, as usual,
that adequate provision has been made to
protect the book values of all assets.
Movements in last year’s figures which
attract further attention are the drop of
£80,977 in sundry debtors and an increase
of £142,333 in the investments item
(£366,890). This latter includes an unspecified
amount of shares/ in the London subsidiary,
which, besides acting as agent for the parent,
does a large and growing export business in
paper and printing machinery with all parts
of the world.
No hint is given as to what extent, if any.
the pup contributes to the pool. The board
does not say that any portion of the div.
has been earned outside Australia, and is
therefore free from local income-tax. It may
be that whatever the subsidiary hands on to
the parent is sent to reserves, visible or
otherwise, or that the pup lias been retain-
ing its profits to finance further expansion
of its business. If the latter is tlie case
then there must be a tidy inner reserve in
the investments item.
The pound ords. are priced at 38s. on the
market. The visible backing amounts to
28s. lid. in net tangibles. That, is to say,
the market values the goodwill—of which
no account is taken in the books —and the
hidden strength at well over a quarter of a
million. The immediate return at the cur-
rent price is 5.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The strongly-protected prefs., which par-
ticipate in new issues of ordinary scrip, sel-
dom come on to the market.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Added Reserves
to Re- (.N'uni-
April, Profits. Dividends. servos. mil).
£ & £ £
1919.. 28,637 10 p.c. = 22.525 6,112 135.-02
1920.. 27,938.10 ~ ~ 22,812 6,126 140,628
1921.. 8,009' 7i „ „ 19,018 129,619
1012.. 11,844 6 „ „ 17,050 124,4 13
1923.. 29,606 7 „ „ 20,326 9,280 133.603
Insurance reserve taken in .. 1,200 134,893
Reserves.
Goodwill written off, £40,000 .. 94,803
1924.. 33.590 8 p.c. = 23.651 10.245 I"S.HS
1925.. 29,966 9 „ „ 27,000 2,966 108,104
1926.. 30.172 8 „ „ 24.000 6,172 114,276
1927.. 24,663 8 „ „ 24,000 663 114,939
1928.. 22.082 7 „ „ 21,000 1.082 116.021
1929.. 23,159 7 „ „ 21,000 2,159 118,180
Shareholders in this old Melbourne co., which
makes biscuits and other foodstuffs, have
never had much of a return on their capital.
After the crash of the ’nineties it took 18
years for the div. to get to 5| p.c.; mean-
while £75,427 of reserves had accumulated
to offset an unspecified amount of goodwill
and provide a buttress for paid capital, which
had remained practically unaltered at
£145,953. Then the war gave the business
new opportunities. The management built
np a trade with southern Asia, and for the
three years to 1920 shareholders got 10 p.c.
p.a. That was followed by a collapse during
the post-war price slump, when reserves were
bitten into for £16,000-odd to pay divs. aver-
aging 6f p.c. for the two years 1921-22. The
business soon showed signs of a recovery
which, for a while, promised to be a splen-
did one. By 1924 the declared net earnings
had mounted to 11.6 p.c. on average capital,
and 8 p.c. was distributed. But since then
results have been very disappointing; they
were 9.9, 10, 8.2, 7.3 and 7.7 p.c. on capital
for the five years down to the close of last
accounts, and over the sdme period share-
holders have averaged 7.8 p.c.
One of the co.’s chief difficulties has been
to pass increasing costs on to the consumer.
A year ago the management decided to
assault outgoings by the electrification of the
factory and a reorganisation of manufactur-
ing methods. Also a recent reorganisation
of the co.’s “Eastern” agencies is said to
have resulted in better service and more pro-
fitable business. But gross profits for the
12 months to April 27 (£44.766) fell away
£529; they have come down by annual stej)s
from £54,426 in 1924. Moreover, the cost of
administering the business took 37.7 p.c. of
the gross profit in 1924; 51.2 p.c. in 1928
and 482 p.c. in the last term, when the
improvement was due to a saving of £1467 in
interest charges, etc., following a reduction
of £40.582 in the overdraft (£79,137). The
managing director has gone abroad to inves-
tigate other people’s production methods and
costs.
The question of profits is intimately con-
nected with the efficiency of the plant and
the adequacy or otherwise of the allowances
for depreciation, and no hint is given as to
what amounts have been set aside out of
earnings for the latter purpose. For over
30 years the cost of tlie original assets, in-
cluding goodwill, remained unaltered in the
books at £145,500, depreciation being struck
off tlie book value of additions which the co.
itself had made. But before the publication
of accounts in 1924 fixed assets were re-
valued and the figures amalgamated. The
new totals fully, supported the old ones,
which suggests that unearned increment in
the freeholds just about offset what should
have been written off plant, etc., in former
years. Incidentally, goodwill was wip d off
by rubbing out £40,000 of reserves. What-
ever the co. may have paid for the intangible
in the boom days of 1888, it is plain that
for very many years the business was over-
capitalised.
For the four years to the close of accounts
in 1928, £103.569 net was added to the book
value of fixed assets,’ and the outlay was
financed mostly on overdraft, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows :
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 45,335 95,644 119,719 79,137
Mortgages, etc. 17,000 25,900 25,900 25,900
Other debts.. 48,405 57,266 52,910 49,562
Fixed assets.. 326,773 392,827 430,342 400,920
Stocks .. 108,211 128,671 110,016 97,847
Book debts, etc. 92,732 83,646 82,280 83,667
Cash, etc. .. 981 873 912 845
A curious feature of the latest figures is the
drop of £29,422 in the book value of fixed
assets. Here is .a more detailed view of
what happened in that respect:—
1924. 1928. 1929.
Freehold £149,630 £174,070 £ 175,401
Machinery and plant.. 119,128 104,214 166,204
Rolling stock, horses,
packages, utensils, etc. 58,015 92,058 69,315
The possibility that £32,<43 more was writ-
ten off rolling stock, etc., than was spent,
on that item during the year is dismissed
upon consideration of the circumstances;
maybe the management had bought largely
in 1928, and used up large quantities of pack-
ages, etc., which were not replaced. What-
ever was done the money so made available,
together with that from ordinary trading
stocks, which wore worked down £12,169
during the year, enabled the board to make
a substantial cut in the overdraft, and thus
improve the financial position. At the close
of last accounts the more or less liquids were
£27,760 in excess of the outside debt, whereas
the latter was £5321 in excess of the former
a year earlier.
Of the 306,000 £1 shares 100 000 are profs.,
which have priority as to capital, carry a
cumulative 6 p.c. and advance with the ords.
beyond that rate. Their cover in net tan-
gibles amounts to £4 3s. 7d. per share and
last year’s net profit was nearly four times
their minimum requirements. The market
prices them at 21s. 6d., at which figure the
return is 61 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. On
the same div. basis the return on the ords.,
which can be had at 19s. 9d., is 7.1 p.c. The
net tangible backing figures out at 21s. 2d.
per share, mostly in plant, etc., worth what
it can earn. For the moment it is handi-
capped by having the bulk of its trade in
Victoria (there is some sort of an honorable
understanding between a few of these big
foodstuff suppliers not to storm the others’
territory) ; and Victoria is the section of
Australia where it has been hardest lately
to business—with South Aus. second on
the list.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
This co. manufactures builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, etc. Goodwill (£22,682)
is not reckoned as an asset hereunder:—
, Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1925.. 9,082 222 9 p.c. = 11.284 21,325
1926.. 15,4*1 2700 S „ „ 10.918 1863 19,562
1927.. 21,410 2700 9 „ „ 12,282 6428 13,134
1928.. 21,683 2700 9 „ „ 13,600 5383 7,751
Reserves.
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 „ „ 14,983 9087 1,336
Owing to the timber-workers’ strike very
difficult conditions prevailed in the building-
hardware trade for more than three months
of this eo.’s last financial year; nevertheless
the turnover was a record. The spring in
gross profits (£89,019) was £12.071, of wirich
ordinary trading exes. (£54,309) took only
£3425. Thus the declared net profit
(£34,770) was £8646 better than for the
previous term. But that was before £7OOO
had been set aside for taxation (£2560 more
than in the preceding year) ; also £lOOO was
provided for “additional reserve against
doubtful debts.” Thus, one way and another,
the improvement in the final figures was
£5086. After handing the prefs. their £2700
the £24,069 of the year’s net takings that
remained was 14.4 p.c. on average ordinary
capital compared with 12.5, 13.7, 9.3 and 7
p.c. back to 1925, when the board blamed
severe competition and price-cutting for the
poor showing.
Since the present co. took over the busi-
ness of F'. Malley and Son 10 years ago,
the policy has been one of steady develop-
ment. Paid capital, which was £70,000
in 1920, grew to £119,352 four years later,
and over the same period certified net profits
improved from 8.7 p.c. to 12 p.c. on average
capital. Then, in order to reduce overhead,
it was' decided to take over the assets of
Sheet Metal Workers, Ltd., in which a con-
trolling interest was held. The deal resulted
in a deficiency of £15.912, of which £11696
wag got rid of by writing up the book value
of freeholds; but as the visible increase in
the freeholds item for the 12 months to
April 30, 1925, was only £6641, it looks
as if there was an immediate and vigorous
writing down. Tim other £4216 advanced
the intangibles to £22,682, at which figure
they still stand. Meanwhile, £24,018 of sur-
plus profits has accumulated. Thus, at
April 30 last, the ords. could see the whole
of their capital intact and £1336 besides.
In 1925 £30,000 of pref. capital was got in,
and a like number of ords. were put out
two years later, making paid capital
£196 473.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the co.’s recent progress:—
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital £166,473 £166,473 £196,473 £196,473
Liabilities .. 30,405 52,838 40,009 44,111
Freeholds .. ' 39,165 42,669 44.122 55.062
Leaseholds .. 20,886 20,321 19,824 19,197
Plant, etc. .. 33,356 35,867 39,213 39,285
Stock.. .. 39,102 60,650 64.001 65.472
Inve tments .. 1,193 1,183 1,955 1,955
Book debts 52.187 63.551 62,236 77,891
Cash, etc. 7,806 2,244 13,331 1,626
Freeholds w T ere bought and branches opened
at Hurstville in 1926, and at Parramatta
last year, when £10,940 was added to the
book value of properties. The year's brisker
trading shows up in an increase of £15,655
in book debts; stocks w r ere but £l4ll
heavier. To do all this only £4102 was
added to the debt, which' consists of trade
creditors (£42,353) and a small overdraft
(£1758). The finances were comfortable
enough ; the year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£102,833, including
stocks) amounted to £1259. And the chair-
man gives his assurances that stocks are
conservatively valued, that fixed assets are
in good condition and that sufficient has
been written off for depreciation. That
and trading conditions will largely govern
future results.
The market prices the ords. at 235. 3d.
After allowing for the final div. the return
at that figure is a shade over 8 p.c. on a
9 p.c. div. basis. 'The backing amounts to
19s. 3d. per share in net tangibles, mostly
plant, etc., worth what it can earn. For
the prefs—they carry a fixed cumulative
9 p.c., have priority as to capital and are
entitled to a premium of 2s. Od. per share
in a wind up or return of their money—
-245. 6d. is paid. At that price less final
div. the return is 7.6 p.c. Further, the co.’s
articles provide that the prof, capital is
not to exceed one-quarter of the total on
the register. Taking the premium into
account the cover amounts to £5 ss. sd. per
share; last year’s profit was nearly 10 times
their annual requirements.
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (Brisbane).
Net Towards
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1928.. 3.710 10 p.c. = 3312 398 29,515
1929.. 12,234 10 „ „ 8250 3984 25,531
This is the co. that was formed in 1927
to manufacture “Peters” ice-cream in Bris-
bane. It took over the assets and business
of Arctic Ice Creams, Ltd. (a little concern
which had set up four years earlier and was
making good progress) for £20,000 in fully-
paid £3 shares, of which 8000 were for
goodwill, etc., and it gave £20,000 in scrip
to the parent co. (Peters’ American Delicacy
Co., Ltd., Sydney) for the Queensland rights
to _ processes and formulas, and for affiliation
privileges. The latter include buying advant-
ages in respect of several American freezing
devices. _ Then, to provide for the erection
and equipment of a new factory, and for the
general operations of the business, 112,586
£1 shares, of which 2586 were put out last
year, were offered on the Brisbane market,
and, of course, quickly snapped up. Thus
subscribed capital became £152,586, of which
£130,836 was in hand 'when the books were
last ruled off.
For the 32 months to March 31, 1928, the
old plant netted a bit more than was neces-
sary to pay alO p.c. div. Since then a lot
of organising work has been done, including
the extension of the co.’s markets south to
the N.S.W. border and north past Rock-
hampton. One result of this was that sales
more than, doubled last year, though the new
factory did not contribute to the pool
until November, and was not in full swing
until near the close of accounts. After
allowing an unspecified amount for depre-
ciation, etc., the board was able to exhibit
a net profit equal to 14.8 p.c. on average
capital. So the 10 p.c. div. was repeated
with comfort, and the £3984 that remained
in the business reduced the intangibles, which
the “Wild Oat” lias not treated as an asset
in its tables, to £25,531.
Chief movements in the finances are con-
nected with the new factory, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:—
1927. 1928. 1929.
Old Co.
Paid capital .. £10,621 £67,181 £110,836
Creditors .. .. 2,475 5,520 33,829
Freehold .. . . Nil 4,174 63,689
Plant, etc. .. 7,092 17,797 63,647
Stock .. .. 1,471 2,149 3,147
Book debts .. 1,351 2,233 5,484
Cash, etc. .. 3,121 23,196 467
During the year £59.515 was added to the
freehold item, and £45,850 more was spent
on plant, etc., than was written off. To do
all this £43,655 of new capital was got in. the
board went to its bankers for £22,109, leaned
upon trade creditors (£11.720) for an extra
£6200 and drew upon liquids for the balance.
At the close of last accounts the outside
debt was £24.731 in excess of the more or
less liquids (£9098 including stocks). When
the prospectus was issued the intention was
to call the contribs. only to 15s. each; at
the close of the co.’s fiscal year they were
paid to 12s. 6d., and the other 2s. 6d. has
since been got in.
Since the .publication of accounts the
board has decided to build a branch factory
at Rockhampton, where a freehold was
recently bought. No hint is given as to
what the factory is likely to cost, or how
it is proposed to finance the outlay, but a
few days ago Peters American Delicacy
Co., of. Sydney, exercised its par option
over 20,000 of the Brisbane co.’s shares,
and when the Arctic co. was taken over its
shareholders were given a similar option. A


AUSTRALIANS
Heed the Prime Minister*
Warning
AND FOLLOW HIS ADVICE.
U.S.A. IS BLEEDING AUSTRALIA WHITE
Last year’s imports from United States . . £41,009,000
Last year’s exports to United States . . . • 8,000,000
Surplus of capital handed to U.S.A. . . . . £33,000,000
By their control of the World’s Market—
The Australian Grazier receives low prices for his Wool.
The Australian Farmer receives low prices for his Wheat.
(Extract from the “Sydney Morning Herald ” July 3, 1929)
THE DANGER
FROM U.S.A.
Flooding the Market
MR. BRUCE’S WARNING
Mr. Bruce, addressing the Chamber of Manu-
factures yesterday, warned manufacturers that
within the next few years the United States of
America would start a disastrous flooding of the
world’s markets.
At the outset, he urged Australians to con-
centrate upon the manufacture of motor-cars.
“Where an industry can stand on its own
feet, and still give the consumer the benefit of
low costs, I am prepared to go the whole hog,
and prevent interference,” he said.
WILL YOU GET WISE?
1928-29 £57,969,615
47,043,554
N.S.W. imports: 1927-28 £60,409,711
N.S.W. exports: 49,133,922
We spent .. £11,265,789 £10,926,061
In two years we spent £22,191,850 more than we earned and replaced it with borrowed money at high interest.
Increased Taxation, High Cost of Living, Lowering of Wages, Bad Trade. The Capitalist with his money, the Laborer with his Labor, must
£l2, “overseas each year for motor-cars. Prevent bankruptcy of our nation by maintaining this money
Decrease of Importations and Increase of Australian Industrial Productivity will give the *e
strengthen his resistance to Low Foreign Prices. Remember the Australian can be the greatest customer of the Primary Producer.
FOLLOW THE PRIME MINISTER’S ADVICE AND BECOME A SHAREHOLDER IN
Australian-made Motor Cars & Aeroplanes Ltd.
(TO BE INCORPORATED UNDER THE COMPANIES ACTS 1899-1918.)
CAPITAL, £2,ooo,ooo—divided into 2,000,000 shares of £1 each.
Present Issue
In 500,000 Shares of £1 each, payable 2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment.
Calls 1/6 per share at intervals of not less than one ™°" I g HARES ARE TO BE p AID FO R IN CASH.
No free shares are given or cash consideration paid to any person or persons. .« • pj t j* Trained Expert
Which will give the greatest co-operation of Established Australian Manufacturers and co-ordination of their Products and trained Expert
Staff to show the world the capabilities of the Australian.
In the U.S.A. there are some 45 Car-manufacturing Companies producing 134 different Models, or three models eac J ™ neoole
where there is a population of 120,000,000, or one manufacturer to every 2,660,000 of population, or one car to every 896,00 p p .
Is Australia inferior in ability, etc.? for there is no reason why ONE CAR, representing one of the best sellers now imported, should not
be made in our country on mass-production lines at a popular price for a population of 6,335,000.
ESTIMATE OF PROFITS. , , , . ,
The compilation of figures representing an estimate of profits is a most problematic analysis at the best of Junes,
confidential figures, such are not for publication. A summary, however, may best be presented in a simple way easily understood, as fll •
The factory cost (wages and raw materials) of a popular 6-cylinder American Touring Car is less than
This car is sold in U.S.A. for £398
Wages, 'in'US.A." « A*same kind oi insialied h.r. .ad A.
by .he successful Distributing Companies in Australia. the company
is satisfied with merely a net profit of £25 per car, then the result should be as follows.
NET PROFIT.
5000 cars at £25 net profit per car £125,000
APPROPRIATION.
Income-tax at 4/3 in £
Reserves, 9.7 p.c. on £500,000, say 48,400
Dividend, 10 p.c. on £500,000 50,000 000
RESULT OF THIS UNWISE TRADE. , . , .. .
Increased Taxation. High Cost of Living. Lowering of Wages, Bad Trade The Employer requires less labor and increased product,on. and curta.l, pr.v.l.ges
now enjoyed, gives smaller wages and longer hours to meet his falhng ‘ ■yyORKER
Unemployment, Lower Standard of Living and Poorhouses in Australia. _ giiMicTirD'Q AnvrrF
H let EVERY AUSTRALIAN FOLLOW THE PRIME MINISTERS ADVICE
And we WILL HAVE increased employment, less taxation.
£6/5/- will pay application on 50 shares.
£l2/10/- will pay application on 100 Shares.
Australia, unite in fighting the vested interests of American Millionaires.
The enormous profits and quick expansion of business of such
concerns as the General Motors Corporation, Ford, Chrysler,
Durant and Graham Bros. Motor Car Companies are well
known, the shares of these companies being quoted on the
Stock Exchanges at very high premiums.
/'
This table is based on the present prices ruling in the United
States and in Australia of popular makes of cars of standard
touring models, well known to the Australian public, and
taken from the leading American journals and published
Australian prices. The large difference of prices are true
estimates of realisable profits.
American Prices. Australian Difference Percentage
CAR.
Buick
Cadillac
Chevrolet
Chrysler
Dodge
Erskine
Essex
Ford
Hudson
Hupmobile
Oldsmobile
Overland (Whippet)
Nash
Studebaker
Willys-Knight ....
The majority of these Cars have a manufacturing cost of less than £7O.
SIGN AND FORWARD APPLICATION IMMEDIATELY.
HIGHER WAGES AND SHORTER HOURS.
The company will start off with the benefit not only of capable employees, but will also
have a marked benefit in the wages paid and hours worked.
The following comparison between wages in the U.S.A.—whose cars predominate in the
Australian market —and present Australian rates show' an advantage of 27/30 p.c. to 78'80 p.c.
The figures are compiled from the Statistical Register of U.S.A., 1929, and the Common-
wealth Arbitration Award.
AVERAGE HOURS WORKED IN INDUSTRY: U.S.A., 45 3-10 hours.
Australia, 46 i hours.
AVERAGE MAXIMUM HOURS WORKED: U.S.A., 50 3-10 hours.
Australia, 48 hours.
AVERAGE MINIMUM HOURS WORKED: U.S.A., 40 hours.
Australia, 44 hours.
WEEKLY WAGES.
Labor, general average wages
Chassis assemblers
Motor testers
Motor assemblers . • • •
Gear cutter (milling machine)
Grinding machinist
Tool and diemaker .. • •
U.S.A. Australia.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
The Directors, AUSTRALIAN-MADE MOTOR CARS AND AEROPLANES, LTD., '
Turner’s Chambers, Hunter Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Herewith 11 we enclose the sum Of briny a deposit
of 2/6 per share on application for shares as set out in the
Prospectus of £1 each in your Company.
11 We hereby request you to allot, mefus shares, and If we agree, to accept the same
or any less number that may be allotted to melus upon the terms and subject to the
conditions of the Memorandum • and Articles of Association of the Company, and to pay
all the Allotment Fees thereon and the balance in accordance with- the Prospectus, and
I/u'c request you to place my/our name on the Register of Members of the Com.pany in
respect of the Shares so allotted,
NAME IN FULL •••.••
ADDRESS
OCCUPATION
ORDINARY SIGNATURE
Date
192


ŵ
Don’t Lose What
I You’ve Got
The future is uncertain.
Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced
profits.
Prices of many invest-
ments have fallen.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have everything
in insurance policies.
All the more reason to
see the offices are sound.
There are offices that are
not sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
July Number now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. K.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
# * * *
The necessity for a light, durable and thoroughly
efficient conduit is fully met in Pioneer Wood Pipe.
Costing much less, it has many other advantages
over metal pipe. For instance, it is absolutely non-
corrosive—it is much cheaper to freight, transport
and lay-—it is easily adaptable to the contours of
lugged country, and is unaffected by frost, heat or
electrolysis. Write for book giving full information.
Free on request. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
ltd., Burrs Bay Road (near Pigtree Bridge), Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* =l= * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS. —Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Seheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Mining Properties. —l have large London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead. 'Reply with particulars
'o “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.mson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South AVales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. —Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888). hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
Ihe Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire «
IVonobel
Samsonite
relatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fugs
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The Ir
rsest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works ii
Australia.
1 a \V rUI'SHEHS—DISC CRUSHERS-—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS —COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Harilields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and {
Foundries I
Alexandria, Rvdney, N.S.W.
Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Branch (
Office J
422 Collins Street. Melbourne. Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
further development was the recent flota-
tion of Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. (N.Q.),
Ltd., which is to put up a factory at Towns-
ville, where it bought the assets and busi-
ness of the Frozen Delicaci s and Fresh
Food Co. for £9500—5000 paids and £4500
cash —including an unspecified amount for
goodwill. The Brisbane co. took £5OOO in
paids for its N.Q. rights, etc., and a further
20.000 shares was quickly subscribed by the
public. Thus the N.Q. co. starts with an
issued capital of £30.000.
The market, carried away by the rapid
extension of the co.’s interests, quotes 255. 6d.
for the contribs, now paid to 15s. each. The
return at the current price is 5.9 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible backing
amounts to 15s. lid. per £1 of paid capital.
The rapid growth of the trade has been
dependent upon the recent excessive expen-
diture on amusement and luxury. When
that expenditure is curtailed —and already
it is being curtailed in some areas —the
profits from this and other Peters cos. will
inevitably shrink, though they may grow
still more before that happens. It is just
as well for the investor to remember also
that ice-cream is not a patented invention of
this and its associated cos.; and it is quite
possible, that an article may be produced
which will make a stronger appeal to a large
proportion of the public than that made on
the Peters formula.
Northern Steamship Co., Ltd. (M.L.).
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 16,086 7 p.c. = 11,299 4,787 57,457
1923.. 30.497 7 „ „ 11,299 19,198 76 655
1924.. 17.265 71 „ ~ 12,106 5,159 81,814
1925.. 24,800 8 „ ~ 12.913 11.887 93,791
1926.. 14,342 8 „ „ 12,913 1,429 95 130
1927.. 10,507 8 „ „ 12,913 92,724
1928.. 15,477 8 ~ „ 12.913 2,564 95.288
Reserve adjustment, £10,505 .. 84,783
1929.. 13,390 8 p.c. = 12,913 477 85,260
This co.’s fleet has been poking in and
out of Maoriland's east-coast harbors since
the eighties of last century. But for the
past 30 years—and that is as far back as
the “Wild Cat’s” record of this co.’s figures
goes—shareholders have not had anything
attractive out of the bus’ness. Paid capital
has been steady at £161,412 since before the
war, and after a long run of 7 p.c. divs.
8 p.c. has been paid for the last five years; t>
do this, though, reserves had to be dipp d
into in 1927, and there was apparently little
to spare last year. For the 12 months
to March 31 the board, after making a
smaller provision than usual for deprecia-
tion, claimed as net profit £13,176, as
against £13,230 for the previous year. The
drop of £2087 in the profit shown in the
table is due mainly to movements in the
two insurance accounts, which together
totalled £75,693 when the last balance was
struck, the net increase being £214, com-
nared with an increase of £2247 in the term
before last. The £13,390 thus netted was
8.2 p.c. on paid capital, compared with 9.6,
6.5 and 8.9 p.c. in the three preceding years.
And then it is doubtful whether last
year’s result is quite what it looks. Largely
because of competition from motor tram
port, the co.’s recent attempt to revive the
Tauranga passenger trade proved a failure,
resulting in a loss on sailings to that port.
For this reason the sum struck off for
depreciation was £4OOO short of the 6 p.c.
usually allowed on the fleet, the clia’rman
admits. He gives his assurance, however,
chat the £195,367 (up £2204 during the
year) at which vessels and wharves figured
in the books at March 31 does not over-
state the value of those assets, and much
obviously depends upon that.
Since last Easter the Tauranga service
has been limit'd to cargo only, and is now
said to be profitable. The extension of rail-
ways and the growth of motor transport
are rapidly changing the co.’s outlook as
far as passenger traffic is concerned; fu-ure
results, therefore, will largely depend upon
freight earnings. In this respect, the b~a;d
looks ahead with confidence. But the imme-
diate problem which faces the management
is whether it can find profitable employment
for the passenger vessels that have been
laid up. Failing this, chief interest centres
in their book value and possible sale.
A boilers and repairs account stood at
£10.505 at the close of accounts in 1925;
it had been a fluctuating fund which this
column included in reserves, and therefore
profits, with hesitation. Dm* ng the past
year it disappeared altogther without com-
ment. But since outside l'abilities (71.759)
increased £18,518. and as this was offset by
a net increase of only £8490 in total assets,
you can make a pretty good guess as to
what was done with this fund.
Here is the co.’s position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it * —
IQ9I 1Q97 IQ9S IQ9Q
Liabilities .. £83,426 £58,373 £53,232 £71,750
Vessels, plant, etc. 196,821 189,903 193.163 195,367
Premises .. .. 13,671 11,697 11,432 11.167
Coal and stoves .. 25,639 10,829 8,747 14,779
Investments .. 33,890 84,918 73,008 77,716
Book debts, etc. .. 33,227 31,218 30,038 25,849
Though the real liquid position has been
obscured by the movement in lmbiliti s just
referred to, the finances are obviously com-
fortable. Book debts, etc., are down £4189,
but this is more than offset by an increase
of £4708 in investments, and coal and stocks
were £6032 heavier. „„„ _
Paid cap tal is in 172,219 fully-paid
14s. 6d. shares and 104.259 paid to 7s. each.
The market prices the fully-paids at 14s.
The backing per pound of paid capital
amounts to 30s. 7d., of which 245. 6s. is
represented by ships and plant.
There is a whisper that the B. H. South
may not be one of a big three to lnstai a
Diesel power-house for the combined com-
panies. The rumor is that the big prices
quoted by engineer Mars aft 'r lus trip abroad
made general-manager Waiiiwnght look
closer into what his own plant is doing.
During the last five years five of the ten
boilers have been cut out. and so high is
the efficiency of those in work that there is
talk of making four do the job Power costs
less than a p-nny a unit, and the South offi-
cials are now figuring out whether the savin;-,,
if any, by the combined power-house will
warrant the expenditure of its share of the
estimated £300,000.
* * * *
Freney Oil Co. (W.A.) is again urging
shareholders to buck up. If results are suffi-
ciently promising in connection with the
testing of oil sands at Poole Range the
Federal Government says it will make a
further grant of £6500 on a pound-for pound
basis, in addition to the subsidy already
given. . *
Yarns are again being told in. the West
about the go’den wealth that lies n the
country bevond Laverton, between Perth anri
the S.‘ Aus. border. Certainly more. lies
have been told of the richness of this thirsty
district than about any otlmr pgrt of the
goldfields. Its quartz reefs, sightly enriched
at the surface where intersected by cross
leaders, soon cut out. One Golden Hole,
which Adelaide and Perth raved about for a
while, consisted of an underlie shaft sunk
on a flat squib a few inches wide, which soon
petered out. * * *
In the north of Westralia several vague
mineral concessions covering millions of
square miles, and taking in all the coastal
side of West Kimberley, have been granted,
and more are being applied for further in-
land. On one concession Kimberley Exploita-
tion Co. claims to have tin as well as other
mineral wealth. South of this another co.
has half a million acres, and a similar area
has been taken up by Claude de Bernales on
behalf of himself and London.
* * * *
Riverina, near Menzies (W.A.), was suc-
cessfully worked by a local crowd, years ago,
and then shut down. Later on it fell into
the hands of Melbourne people, who sank a
little capital and then gave up owing, it
was said, to inefficiency of plant. Later
still it was reported that plenty of “real good
ore” had been left behind, and that it .could
be worked at a profit. A Kalgoorlie co.
•whioh stepp 'd in has since stopped out. Now
a local syndicate talks of applying to the
State for assistance to do some diamond
drilling. But as th 1 show is in a local; ty
where most reefs and lodes can’t be relied
on a foot ahead, it is doubtful whether
boring, even if successful, would be much
of a guide to values.
* * * *
North Kalgurli is elated over a “good
development” in its main block at the south-
ern end of the Golden Mile. Although this
co add its tributors have dug but eo-i-'v
£400.000 worth of gold in the last 20 odd
years, shareholders have never received a
div. The financial position is easy, and there
is plenty of ore in sight. Average values,
however, are not quite high enough.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for 1928, although
the lowest for many years, was 68.27 per
cent, of the total for Australasia. Towards
the end of this year Wiluna is expected to
lend a helping hand, and by that time a
much bigger output is promised by the Lake
View-Star-Horseshoe group. Meanwhile the
Government’s concessions in charges for
water and for treatment of ore at State bat-
teries are being continued, and m neowners
are st’ll receiving Government aid to cover
their liability for occupational diseases under
the Workers’ Compensation Act.
* * * *
After properties have been handed over to
them, tributors almost invariably g- t b tter
results than the cos. have done. The latest
instance is the May Queen at Southern Cross
(W.A.L Recent owners could make nothing
out of the show; tributors have realised 7oz.
per ton from 15 tons.
A jj. $ H*
Keeley Silver Mining Co. (Ontario,
Canada), in which some Australian investors
hold shares, is elated about a rich find on
the lower contact at a depth of 1420 ft. Th s
show has produced nearly a million ounces of
s : lver, and has paid over 2 000,000 dollars in
divs. since 1913. Associated Gold Mines
(W.A.) was for some time the biggest slinr -
holder, but it sold its interest to the Asso-
ciated Mining and Finance Co. a year or
two ago.
Men who are struggling to make Malayan
tin dredges pay are wondering whether Bri-
tain’s new Chancellor Snowden could be per-
suaded to assist the co-operative movement
for the stabilisation of tin prices in view
of the fact that tin is an Empire product
mostly sold to America. The revenue of the
Malayan Government (which really means
the Colonial Office) is largely affected by
low prices for the metal. A drop from £220
to £2OO per ton means a loss of royalty of
4s. Bd. per picul, equal to about a quarter
of a million annually. A further drop would
not only d crease the royalty per picul,
but obviously decrease the outmit upon
which royalty is paid. If the price could
be raised to £225 a ton it would give the
same gross revenue from the mines with 10
p.c, loss output, and balance production and
consumption.
* * * *
Total visible stocks of tin at June 30, 1029,
amounted to 23,938 tons. Deliveries for con-
sumption during June were 12,243 tons, and
supplies received 11,402 tons, so visibly 84i
tons more were consumed than produced
during the month. For the first six months
of this year 73,143 tons were delivered for
consumption as against 61,515 tons for the
corresponding period last year, an increase
of 11,558 tons. For the same periods the
supply figures were 73,573 tons and 62,5 r-
tons, an increase of 11,001 tons.
Present stocks are equal to only two
months’ requirements. Should the co-oper-
ative control movement successfully develop,
the stabilisation of the metal at £250 per
ton does not appear impossible.
*** ' * >
A tin producers’ association to stabilise
prices was forecast by chairman John H'owe-
son, of the Anglo-Oriental Mining Corp., m
May last. The gist of his scheme was the
rationing of output and the application ot
labor-saving and cost-cutting methods to the
industry. Though many cos. have ot
late improved their recoveries and reduced
overhead, there has been lack of co-ordina-
tion. Anglo-Oriental, which recently bought
Alluvial Tin’s interests in Malaya, took the
initiative in overcoming this weakness, and is
now able to claim the allegiance of the
world's leading tin producers. Speculative
operations have been one of the causes ot
fluctuating prices, and until producers are
protected by organisation against these, the
future is more uncertain than it need be.
Previous efforts to steady prices have failed,
but in this instance a vastly increased range
of interests have been got together.
* * * *
Three of Alluvial Tin’s subsidiaries re-
cently checked up for the year to Dec. 31
last. Kundang netted £15,628 compared with
£9834 in 1927, and paid its first 6d. div.
(£3125) shortly before the close of accounts
After striking £9494 off development £l-,844
was carried forward. There was £3048 com-
ing to creditors and £10,287 in more or jess
liquids to meet it. Deases figured at £44, (99,
and the dredge at £54 050. The co. has lately
averaged well over 30 tons of t o. per month,
and seems to be an assured and profitable
producer. For the period under review 348
tens of t.o. were recovered from ground aver-
aging .5S3lb. per c.y. Costs were 5.03 d. as
against 7.11 d. the year before. The value
of ore sold was £46 063. There is still £30,30.>
of underwriting commission to be made good.
Paid capital is £125,000.
Changkat, one of the most successful ot
the pups, claimed a net profit of £43,345
from 562 tons sold for £75,828. The ground
averaa d 1.391 b. p~r yard; costs were 7.75 d.
A shilling div. absorbed £6500, and. after
striking £B5OO off development and allowing
for depreciation and dredge alterations,
£24 401 was carried forward. Two Is. divs.
have been paid this year. Piecovery values
are being fairly maintained, and even with
tin at-present low prices a profitable future
should IP ahead of the co. Paid capital
is £130,000. „ , , . - .
Kramat, which was floated early m 1926,
has been a long time getting ready. The
original capital (£150,000) was increased to
£165,000 in Novemb r last. The delay is
largely due to the decision to convert .the
dredge from steam power to electric drive.
The erection of the plant, begun in March
last, should be completed before the end of
this year: tli n machine has a monthly capa-
city of 180,000 c.y., and can dig 75ft. below
water level. The co.’s property has been esti-
mated to contain some 50,000,000 cubic yards
of Jib. stuff, and recoveries of a minimum of
50 tons t.o. per month are reckoned on.
To Dec. 31 £65,275 had been spent on the
fimse, £21,293 on the dredge, and there was
£38,724 cash in hand. At the week-end
buyers offered 18s. 6d. for Kundang; 425.
6d. Changkat; 21s. Kramat.
* * * *
Larut Tin Fields, the big amalgamation of
some of the Pratten interests near Taiping
(F.M.S.), employs four dredges and has a
fifth on the way. The new plant, material
for which should be on the ground this month,
will have the astonishing capacity of over
200.000 c.y. per month. Larut has already
very low costs, and with the aid of the big
fe’!ow may improve even on present figures.
Ulu Yam, one of Austral Malay’s earlier
ventures, has taken an option over an area
adjoining the present property. The new
holding, now being bored, is estimated to
contain some 10,000,000 c.y. averaging .661 b..
which has been about the average value of
the' co.’s old area for some time past. The
co. began in 1922, and since then has been a
steady producer and dividend payer.
. * * *
Eenong Consolidated, Burma Malay’s
second subsidiary, should have its dredge at
work soon. Formed in 1927, the co. has
wasted little time. The property was esti-
mated to hold 30,000,000 c.y. averaging .721 b.
of t.o.
Katu, Burma Malay’s first float, has been
digging for over six months and the returns
have been very satisfactory, going over a
pound a yard for March, April and May,


For Public Information Only.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF
CRONULLA HOTEL LIMITED
(Incorporated under the N.S.W. Companies Acts)
NOMINAL CAPITAL* £50,000.
Divided into 50»0G0 Shares of £1 each.
20,000 Fixed Cumulative Preference Shares, carrying dividend at the rate of 9 per
centum per annum, payable half yearly, and with preference both as to capital
and dividend, are offered for public subscription, payable 10/- on application
and 10/- on allotment.
20,000 Ordinary Shares are offered for public subscription, payable 5/- on application,
5/- on allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding 5/- each, payable at
intervals of not less than one month.
10,000 Shares held in reserve for future issue if required.
50,000
THERE ARE NO FREE OR PAID-UP SHARES TO BE ISSUED TO VENDORS OR PROMOTERS
Applicants may pay in full if they desire. Dividends will be calculated on the amount paid up on shares.
Application will be made to list the Company’s Shares on the Stock Exchange of Sydney immediately
the issue is closed.
APPLICATIONS AND UNDERWRITING HAVE ALREADY ASSURED THE SUCCESS OF THIS
FLOTATION.
SHARES WILL BE ALLOTTED STRICTLY ON A PRIORITY AND PRO RATA BASIS.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed for the purposes indicated in
its Memorandum of Association, but more particularly in the first
instance to acquire the property known as the Hotel Cronulla as a
going concern, together with the license, furnishings and plant and
the freehold property adjoining.
(b) To remodel Hotel and improve its buildings to provide
for increasing bar trade and additional guests.
(c) To carry on the business of Hotel-keepers on the above
premises.
(d) To spend £6OOO on new buildings.
GENERAL.
This investment has sound security in Hotel building with four
acres of ground. Prior to the bridge being built a lease was given
at a premium and rental which, in itself, showed 1 0 per cent, return
over five years on £40,000. Under the present management,
indications are that shareholders will receive an even more satis-
factory return.
The property has increased in value very considerably by the
completion of the George’s River Bridge, which now connects
Cronulla with Sydney. This development has enhanced the value
of this Company’s real estate asset as well as adding very greatly
to the volume of its Hotel business.
FINE RESORT.
Cronulla is one of the most important and most attractive of
New South Wales seaside resorts. It is handy to Sydney, and offers
inducements to holiday-makers and overseas tourists, as well as
those in search of a permanent home.
TENNIS COURT AND GOLF LINKS.
Cronulla also has excellent Golf and Tennis Clubs. There is
good fishing at Port Hacking'. Regular communication with
National Park is maintained by boat and road.
The Bathing Beach is a magnificent stretch of sandy beach,
perfectly safe open bathing for visitors giving excellent surfing.
In conclusion, Cronulla provides an unequalled tourist resort
and at the same time many are taking up their permanent residence
in the district, so that Cronulla may easily be expected to become
one of Sydney’s most populous suburbs.
SECURITY FOR PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
Preference Shareholders are amply secured both as to capital
and dividend. .
They have first preference against the capital assets and against
the profits. , .
The capital assets consist of the freehold property, both the
hotel and the adjoining land, the license, furniture, plant and stock-
in-trade and the proposed additions and improvements.
Out of the capital subscribed, £6OOO will be available for
expenditure on improvements and the extension of the business
generally. This will be left to the discretion of the Directors of
this Company.
As to dividends, the amount required annually to pay
mortgage, interest and preference dividends is £3025. The present
business is earning greater profits than that amount, and the Hotel
is taken over as a going concern, so that profit making is continuous.
THEREFORE ALL SHAREHOLDERS ARE “SAFE,” BOTH
FOR CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND FOR INCOME.
MANAGEMENT.
Fortunately there is a very competent manager at present in
charge of the hotel, and it is proposed to continue his services, which
are available to the company.
FULL PROSPECTUS AND ALL INFORMATION MAY BE
OBTAINED FROM THE SECRETARY.
APPLICATIONS SHOULD BE MADE DIRECT TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY, NATIONAL MUTUAL
BUILDING, 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; OR THROUGH
ANY RECOGNISED BROKER.
CRONULLA HOTEL LIMITED
(Incorporated under the N.S.W. Companies Acts.)
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors
CRONULLA HOTEL, LIMITED,
350 George Street, Sydney.
Sirs,
I request you to allot me .
Preference S h ares of £ 1 each in Cronulla Hotel, Limited, in terms of Prospectus, and
Ordinary
enclose the sum of being at the rate of per share on application, and I undertake to pay a further 1 per share
on allotment. f
I agree to accept the said shares or any smaller number that may be allotted to me, and 1 authorise you to register me as the holder ot
such of the said shares as may be allotted to me.
I agree to be bound by the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association when registered. . . t
I acknowledge that this application is made in the terms of the within Prospectus and solely on the representations therein contained.
Full Name . . Occupation
(State here whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss).
Address Signature
All cheques to be crossed “Not Negotiable.” Please add exchange. An official receipt will be issued by the Secretary.


mm
mmmmmmrnmi
i—
|j|l|p& lill £■?*''' V
pmajilag y& :A ■. '■ ■ ;p|p / ••;
If®
;
MMSWBI
1 Ifl'
ilili
nlHi
: "
■
f : :;i : ?S
■ns-SSv
V:,:‘
S';. :
IT’S YOUR ADVANTA
"' ' ' " : : • r.
“Advantage in” and a good hot rally-
point only and your game is won.
one
In a match with thirst, you’ve “advantage
in” when you call for a glass of Tooth’s K.B.
One long glass of this golden beverage —one
deep draught of its mellow goodness —and
thirst retires in abject defeat, leaving you with
the spoils of victory—such refreshment and
contentment as only a TRUE Lager gives.
TOOTHS
a true
LAGER
w


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
SERVICE is a twofold term
when applied to PEAPES —
primarily, because of the ex-
cellent service which all
PEAPES goods give by reason
of their exceptional quality, and,
secondly, because of the SER-
VICE as understood by court-
eous and unobtrusive salesmen
and quiet, leisurely, convenient
conditions of shopping.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,
EYS
CIGARETTES SCSI for £/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
‘Allenbunys*
Glycerine & __
Block Currant PASTILLES
Business Men!
A clear, command-
ing voice means
much to you.
Ensure this by taking
the " Allenburys ”
Pastilles they are
effective and pleas-
ant in use.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and
1/9 per box.
ẁ
ORIGIN
ALITIES
“Up North”: I watched a bevy of Batavia
River (Cape York Peninsula) gins combing
the river shallows for kai. The lassies were
as naked as Eve, and their laughter trilled
through the malelucas. They toed sprays of
gravel at one another’s backs as they prodded
the, backwashes for musselfish. One skinny-
legged black vixen shrilled with delight as,
running along; a crocodile’s track, she located
a nest. Her happiness turned to terror as
out of the shady mangroves there crashed a
monstrous croc, in full pursuit of the egg-
thief. The gin dodged the saurian by spring-
ing sideways and racing off at an angle.
The croc, skidded with a prodigious scratch
of gravel as it attempted to turn, and gave
up the chase to race back full’' pelt to the
nest, from which the other gins were scrap-
ing the sand in showers endeavoring to
locate the eggs. They scattered shrieking,
all clutching partly-filled dillybags, as half a
ton of outraged fury burst amongst them.
The croc, singled out one gin and chased
her. while the other gins circled and raced
back to the nest. They had rooted out the
last egg before the croc., again outdistanced,
came grunting back at them.
THE FACTS WERE STILL FRESH. IN ITS MIND.
SRATION MISSUS : “But is it fresh, Jacky?”
JACKY : “My word! Him only just out of waterhole, Missus. Him still shiver sposem
you show him fish-hook.”
“N’lmporte”: About four years ago
naturalist Tom Iredale propounded a theory
Ihat the animal Captain Cook called a kang-
aru was merely a wallaroo. He started off
from the belief that what Sydney knew as
a kangaroo would not be likely to exist on
the rocky country around Co'okto'wn, where
Cook’s animal (drawn by Parkinson, the
artist of the expedition) was found. Ire-
dale went to Gooktown a little while back,
and found that the only thing known to
exist there was the rock wallaby, or walla-
roo, and that the country was just such as
he expected to find. He reasoned that the
kangaroo, which has its habitat on the flats
away from the coast, would soon break its
neck or legs if it had to hop around Cook-
town. Then he started to compare the ex-
tant portraits of the wallaroo tribe, and they
came very near to the picture given to pos-
terity by Parkinson. Cook called the beast a
kangaru allegedly because some native tribe
used the word, but no student or traveller
has ever since found such a tribe or heard
the word used.
* * 1 * *
“Nikko”: When “Hayband” (B. 26/6/’29)
watched bees working at night he was
gazing on a sight that would have meant
much to anyone familiar with bee-lift l . Tlie
bee-master would see in it an indication
that the bees realised the combs were not
sufficiently filled for winter and were gather-
ing while they could, and a Maori observer
would have prophesied a long, severe winter,
with a shortage of ' blossoms and bee-food,
which the insects were laboring overtime to
combat.
% sjs #
“Jim Carew” : In 1900 another youngster
and I cut our initials deeply into the bark
of a small gum-tree which grew just outside
the playground of the Cobargo (South
Coast) Public School. On a visit to the
town a few months back I remembered the
inscription, and went to have a look at it,
expecting to find it high up in the tree; but
the initials, now barely decipherable, were at
the same height as they were when we cut
them, though the tree is now a fair-sized one,
and at least 40ft. higher, and three times as
big round as it was 29 years ago. How do
trees grow?
* * * *
“Questo” : Tell “Erua” (B. 12/6/’29) that
in Queensland no Maori native of New
Zealand is allowed a vote at the State elec-
tions. The Elections Act states that “no
aboriginal native of Australia. Asia, Africa
or Islands of the Pacific shall be qualified
to be enrolled upon any electoral roll.”
The Act does not debar a person born in
Australia of Maori parents from voting.
Asiatics born in Australia are given the
franchise, and even Binghi, when lie gets
his clearance, is entitled to vote. The clear-
ance makes him exempt from the protee-
tion of the Protector of Abos., and puts him
on the footing of a white man.
* * * *
“Male” - A clam can exert -i bn of m „ w i«
While we were driving sheep across the reef
between Luftau and Hazelwood islands
(N.Q.) a jumbuck put one of its hind feet
into a large clamshell. The clam imme-
diately shut up shop, gripping the leg as in
a vyce. When we smashed the shell open
we found that the sharp edges had sheared
well into the bone.
THE DIAGNOSIS.
NURSE : “It’s a queer case, isn’t it, Doctor? What d’ you make out of it all?"
DOCTOR: “Well-sh-h-h, not a word!—two or three hundred, I hope.”
“Coot”: Recently when excavating for the
Melbourne Spencer-street bridge an immense
stump of redgum was removed from the bot-
tom of the river. ■ A conservative estimate
of its age was 200,000 years. It is expected
that at the end of a similar period the
bridge will be very near completion.
* * * *
“G.A.8.” : The old farmer almost blushed
as he heard the auctioneer crediting his
cattle with a hundred virtues he had never
known them possess. It didn’t seem right
to lead prospective buyers to believe that
these common animals were such super-pure-
bred, prize-winning stock, and him-
self standing beside the deceiver
without saying a word. Yet he
couldn’t very well contradict the
man who was selling his cattle for
him. “This heifer is of the most
thoroughbred Jersey stock in the
whole country. Her sire Avon first
prize at the Sydney Show; her
grandsire was imported and took
prizes both here and in the Old
Country. This heifer herself has
taken half a dozen prizes already.”
Here he turned to the old farmer
for corroboration. “Isn’t that so,
Mr. Thornby?” A light broke over
the old man’s face; at last lie had
the chance to deliver his soul.
"Why ask me?” he shouted.
“Aren’t you getting paid to tell
all the lies?”
* * *
“Willah”: Beche-de-mer English
—the lingua franca of the South
Seas —usually manages to bit the
desired nail pretty thoroughly on
the head. Kinemoa —a Solomon
boy—arrived one day with an
urgent request. “Master belong
me wantem one feller” —here he
hesitated for a second searching
for the right word, gave it up as a
bad job and substituted his own idea. “One
feller pushem lie go, pullem he come, alla-
same brother belong ackis [axe]. You
savvy that one, Master?” I savvied, and
Kinemoa got his saw.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: The Australian kid in his
school publications hears a lot more about
the English lark and nightingale, the Ameri-
can mocking-bird, and the golden eagle of
Europe than he does of the wonderful birds
of his own country. That several of the
latter are better songsters than the English
lark and nightingale is admitted by travelled
English ornithologists. Gould, fresh from
the songbirds of Europe, was enraptured
with the carols of the magpie, and expressed
regret that his English readers “could not
listen. to the birds in their native wilds.”
Our wedge-tailed eagle is the largest in
the world, easily beating the European bird;
and at least half a dozen Australian mimics
are superior to the Yankee mocker. Three
of four of the bower-birds, besides being
champion mimics, belong to a group that
contains the world’s greatest feathered
architects.
“Mulgo”: An old-age pensioner on the
Clarence River (N.S.W.) lias been living for
a long time in a secluded cave, though his
primitive residence was only recently discov-
ered. He was seldom seen except on pension
day, when he paddled eight miles to collect
the dole, and eight miles back, in a dug-out
that he had fashioned from a log, and with
paddles made of pieces of tin let into the
ends of split saplings. His tools, utensils
and furniture were nearly all improvised
crudities. With a piece of pointed iron
mounted on a long stick he cut a hole
through the seven feet of rock that formed
his roof, for ventilation and the escape of
smoke from hh; fire. It was the smoke,
suggesting an embryo volcano, that led to
the discovery of his residence. The old
troglodyte supplements his dole with fish
from the river.
#
“Cudgewa”: The silver (or .white) trevalli
(Ca'ranx georgianus) , a fish that inhabits the
southern coastal waters of N.S.W. and Vic-
toria, has a peculiar characteristic. I have
caught dozens of them near Port Fairy
(Vic.), and in.almost every fish caught have
found in its mouth a . small creature of the
crustacean order, white, and from one to
two inches in length. It is always alive
and shows no signs of having been vomited
up by the fish. When the fish dies after
capture the creature leaves it, living itself
for an hour or so longer. Old fishermen
aver that it acts as a kind of pilot, or a
taster for its host.
* =l= :j:
“Murra”: A small boy in Mt. Gambler
(S.A.) had an unenviable experience recently
whilst taking his hitherto, faithful dog-play-
mate out for a walk in the paddock. Rabbit-
traps were set there and the dog put his
paw in one and got caught. Evidently he
blamed the boy for his misfortune, for he
attacked him viciously. The flesh was cruelly
torn from the child’s hand and leg before he
was able to scramble through a wire fence.
The dog tried to follow, but the trap proved
an encumbrance and became entangled in the
fence, holding him a prisoner until the boy
w T as well out of the way.
S'**'*
“Thomas Pepper” : In collaboration with
Prof. Watt-Shores, of the Marrabcl (S.A.)
Museum, I have been working on the com-
pilation’ of a “Naturalists’ Guide,” in which
appears particulars of our native and ac-
climatised flora and fauna. We have also
been bestowing more appropriate scientific
names upon the flora and fauna of the con-
tinent. As soon as we started to give par-
ticulars of our work to the public through
your paper, a horde of contributors grabbed
our ideas and began to rename the entire
animal creation, without consulting our
wishes or considering our feelings. The
latest offender is your Office Cat, who has
given the name of her species as Houseltoldii
tablncattii. This is quite incorrect. In our
book the cat is identified as Meeowii noc-
turneum, and we state that it preys upon
other pests, chiefly the barn rat (Scampera
longicaudal) , the common mouse (Gnmr-
checsus squeaka) , and, above all, the sparrow
(Littlepestus spoggii). My distinguished col-
league and I claim the sole Australasian
right to revision of Latin nomenclature, and
any future offenders will be prosecuted with
the utmost rigor of the law.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE BUTCHER BIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky is veiled in drifting clouds of
grey;
I never knew so bleak a winter’s day;
There’s not another bird that I can see,
Yet one would think he sang to company.
He sits among the naked limbs outspread
As if in mute request for leaves long dead;
His sweetest melodies are sung in June;
But what is winter to a heart in tune!
There’s not another bird in any.tree.
Grim winter’s on the land, but what cares
lie
Who, in the merry heart beneath his wing,
Holds fast the secret of eternal spring!
QUEENSLAND.
L. R. BINNINGTON.


t|OH ICAL
*k
%
0
*
(\
&
3 Ml
/s
ii W3SXY3
i ovs:s?tAN»
:;•::::;•? \v>^s: ii ;|i•
i :::•!!:$ . ,C'\, kfiisiilj
|iiiilii>%3K&i!&S
*Y'
A
Rj: ?pUS?S *!«» SiX5:Sj |
edesigned engine inswtes lo'tv-e'V
opezating costs
THE Whippet Six has always been
notable for operating economy.
Now comes the new Superior Whippet
Six, with a re-designed h i g h e r-com-
pression engine. This increase in
compression ratio results in greater
economy in the consumption of petrol,
faster, livelier and more powerful,
and performs brilliantly under all
driving conditions.
In beauty of line and color, the new
Superior Whippet Six is the style
authority in its class. Larger bodies
afford roomier interiors and added
assuring more value
from petrol used,
—t hir t y or more
miles per gallon.
The new Superior
Whippet Six is also
V//VG
Pj.
With the remarkable
new “Finger-Tip
Control”
riding comfort. Your
nearest Willys-Over-
land dealer will
gladly demonstrate
this finest' of light
Sixes.
LOWER COST
OF OPERATION
<7?
e /ze«x>
ẃ
supetcoX,
WHIPPET SIX
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED, 173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. •
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED, 117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED, Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED, 442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED, 53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


Positive Relief for
RUPTURE-/
peWYER
©
With its patent
water pad, Den-
ver's Elastic
Truss gives
every freedom
at work or sport, is always
comfortable and provides
the ideal Rupture support. Trusses
alsv. made to individual requirements.
Single 30/
Double 40/
Write for FREE
Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Department 1, 267 George Street,
SYDNEY.
SS^
gOLS
STJS
Silver*
dry gin
MI
COV
o he Best
l]asis is
BOLf
SILVER TOP
BRYKIN
|PATOt<I
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
EXPLAINING THE BOWYANGS.
“Pardon our curiosity, but we WOULD like to know why you wear those straps round
your knees.”
“Well, Missus, I don’t know about the rest of the mob, but I dropped me diamond
collar-stud down me back this morning.”
“Sea Nomad”: The Japanese are wondn-ful
sailors, as I have cause to remember. I was
marooned for seven months on No. 1 ITowick
island, and at dawn one day saw three sails
rounding Cape Melville. On my lookout peak
I burned smoke fires all day, nearly howling
as the wind gradually freshened, which meant
that my possible rescuers might not be able
to make the narrow passage-way. But they
came on. Great combers were pelting in
from far across the Barrier, the sea was grey
with fog that again and again bid the bat-
tling craft. The wind increased until the
grass on the hillside was flattened like a mat,
and I had to cling to the huge pile of rocKs
that I had erected as a distress beacon. Sun-
down came early, and the first little ship
bobbed fearfully into the mouth of the pass-
age. I danced a jig and waved a tattered
blanket that was immediately snatched
from my hands. The boat came flying up
the passage and I howled and shrieked,
while the wind tore the sound from my
mouth. Far below, skirting the very edge
of the reef, she passed, and a puff of smoke
was whisked away from her stern. I heard
no report, but danced deliriously, knowing
that they had at least seen me. She slewed
and raced for anchorage to tiny Coquette
Island opposite. Presently the following
lugger also fired a signal shot. By now it
was almost dark and huge waves were crash-
ing like a foaming cauldron over hundreds of
yards of reef. The last lugger was a blob
on the tumbling waters. I clung to the very
peak of the lookout, trying to make a sil-
houette, and saw, or imagined I saw —I
couldn’t say which—that a dot had been
flung overboard as the lugger flashed by into
the night. Running down the hill I rushed
straight out on to the reef and was picked
up and flung back and rolled and rolled
and rolled among tons of clinking corals.
Shocked and bleeding I rushed out again,
jumping the waves, yelling and straining into
the night. A dinghy appeared and dis-
appeared in the flying spume until talons
gripped my hair and I was flung aboard. It
was a masterpiece of seamanship turning that
dinghy safely upon a thundering reef. Then
we had to battle back again through the
crashing breakers. Four sweating Islanders
strained at the oars while a calm-faced Jap
gave quiet orders from the tiller. Once in
the passage-way the struggle was nearly over;
it was simply a matter of keeping the dinghy
bow on to the great waves. For an hour-
through the dark the lugger cruised up and
down running parallel with the reef, seeking
a chance to pick us up. It came at last. The
lugger flashed past as a huge wave rolled us
up to dash us on her deck. Unseen hands
reached out, the dinghy was slung bodily on
the deck, and the lugger sped on in the dark-
ness with me slithering across the deck cling-
ing to the neck of a lashed down turtle.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp” : “You go straight on
until you see the canary on the right-’and
side of the road. Take the next turn to
the right,” was a direction I got on the
tramp. Further on I got similar directions,
the canary again being mentioned, so I kept
my eyes skinned for the unusual landmark.
After a long walk I asked again. “This
is the road, down here,” my latest informant
told me. “You passed the canary over
yonder.” Light dawned as I looked back —
it was the fruit cannery he was indicating.
# He % jj:
“H. Pannikin”: I was staying with an
old Western wheat-grower at a time when
rain was badly wanted. After the cow
was milked one
evening he came to
me very excited. I
asked him the cause
and he told me : the
muscovy ducks has
been dancin’. I
thought for a while
his mind had come
unhinged. “Yer
can’t beat it,” he
went on. “When
the ’scovies dance
like they was jest
now, yer can bet on
a big downpour.”
Over three inches
of rain fell during
the night.
* *
“Tuppence”: The
Afghans, like all
good Mussulmen,
won’t eat meat
they haven’t killed
themselves. I came
on some camel men
camped on the
Georgina during a
flood. They’d been
out of meat for
several days. Seeing
they had. an old
gun and that there
were mobs of water-
hens dodging in
and out of the
channels, I sug-
gested that they
should shoot some.
One fellow got the
'gun, drew a bead
on the mob of hens
and pulled the
trigger. While the
smoke was yet
curling from the
muzzle he dropped
the gun and ran
for the lick of his life to the kick-
ing hens. Only those that hadn’t stopped
kicking by the time he got to them, so that
he could bleed them while alive, were any
good to him. Any that had passed over by
the time the ’Ghan got to them were thrown
aside as unfit for human consumption.
* * * *
i u ~ -i i ,1 . .
tvt c/vir a : Hardshell graziers m
N.b.W. will almost spit blood at the thought
of a British Columbian fur-flockmaster want-
mg to import 500 good live Aussie rabbits,
ihe only good rabbit Comeback recognises is
a dead one, and Ins troubles about its fur!
L art of my colonial experience was murder-
mg rabbits—poison trap, gun, fumes, ferrets,
even the bare hand. I burned ’em, buried
em, ted pigs wuth em, and left, ’em stinking
where they lay m myriads. To talk of
farming them was sacrilege; they were ana-
thema. Yet, looking backward, the root of
the rabbit-pest trouble seems to have been
too much land and too rough land, with
landowners too easy-going or too under-capi-
hnd SCd Th,J°°„n a /, ter I* 1 ' 0 -, lai \ d tbe J
hcccmrt nonr rnhhiU P.n l 11bad and good.
t Som ?, day grazing-
nn/f ihnii fnr ral) bit paddocks
stock t nriVcd f P ’ Wlt 1 both brands of
s c piizea.
* * * *
“Claude W.”: Kerguelen’s Land, or, as
it is more commonly known, the Island of
Desolation, the small British possession in
the Southern Indian Ocean, is one of the
bleakest spots on the globe, and the vegeta-
tion is almost limited to two extraordinary
species, the land-oabbage and huge tree-
lichen. It is the only spot in the world
where these two' are found. The tree-lichens
take on beautiful tints of yellow, black, lilac
and red. The roots of the cabbage, which
often grow to a diameter of from four
to five inches, have the flavor of a horse-
radish. The plant bears large heads of
leaves, 18 to 20 inches across, and singularly
like the ordinary cabbage; the outer leaves
are coarse, but the inner form a dense
white heart that tastes like mustard and
cress. Voyagers who have touched there
and shipwrecked sailors have paid tribute to
its Wholesomeness; but Pringlea antiscor-
butica (its scientific name) will grow no-
where else, and bears no relationship to any
other vegetable. Our own common cabbage
is like it in. appearance only. Scientists
suggest that it is a development from some
lower vegetation, possibly marine.
“Brady’s Lookout”: We lay on the bank
of the Derwent under a big weeping-willow,
waiting for the trout to rise. “Did ye ever
hear how this weeping-willow came to be
planted here?” asked the little grey man.
“Well, it was like this. In the old days in
England they broke up and burnt the first
threshing machines, thinking these would
do poor men out of a job. Laughing Jack
Granfield got seven years in Van Diemen’s
Land for it. Jack had only been married
a few weeks when they took him, and his
wife was left behind. He served his time ;
WOMAN’S INFLUENCE AGAIN.
SUSIE (the housemaid ): “She doesn’t seem to give so much milk
as she used to, Bill.”
BILL (the rouseabout): “’Tain’t her fault. Since you turned me
down I seem to have lost me pull.”
g°t a bit of land, and was doing very well,
Then he married a Tasmanian girl—
Peggy her name was—and they were happy,
One day the postman left a letter for
Laughing Jack. It was from England and
in a woman’s handwriting. Women are ter-
rible suspicious, and Peggy opened the letter
while lie was away. It was from his lawful
wife telling Jack she’d been saving for years
to pay her passage, and by the time he
got the letter she would be at sea on her
way out to join him. Peggy knew now she
wasn’t Jack’s wife, and it would mean a
lot of trouble for Jack if she stayed. She
thought a terrible lot of .Jack, so she left
the letter on the table where he’d find it—
and here’s where me grandfather dove in
and dragged her drowned body out. This is
the weeping-willow Laughing jack planted to
her memory.”
... ' ... ...
Runa : A farmer out shooting about 20
miles from Goulburn (N.S.W.) recently
witnessed a remarkable sight. High in the
sky he noticed three hovering red eagles, one
0 f which swooped down and captured a
young hare. With the hare in his talons
the eagle ascended, while the other two
hovered at about equal distances below him
in a straight line. When he had reached a
great height, the top eagle dropped the
bare * It was caught in mid-air bv the
second, which then dropped it to the third.
Number three then rose with the hare above
tbe other two and repeated the performance,
while the fascinated sportsman gazed at the
sky-drama , being enacted far beyond gun-
range, realising he was watching two'parent
eagles initiating a youngster into the art of
deft and sore handling of prey in mid-air.
* * * *
“Mvrln” • , •.
! * business m Braidwood
(15.0. v •) in early days was an Oriental
named Nemoo. The proprietor of the Wil-
low Tree pub, on the outskirts of the town,
kept on the premises a large pet emu. One
morning the newchum groom at the Albion
beheld the bird strutting down the street to
the amazement of all the horses along the
way. Recounting the spectacle to '’some
acquaintances later on, he said, “My word, I
saw a wonderful big bird in the street this
morning. It was as high as a man ; never
saw one like it.” “Oh, that’s ’n emu,” said
one. “Nemoo be damned!” was the replv
“Think I don’t know a bird from a China-
man?”
SALE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old men perched on fences,
Cattle stringing by;
Bleat of sheep, thud of hooves
Rising to the sky;
Keen men holding up the posts,
Business in the eye.
From along the Mitta Valley where the rich,
lush grasses sweep,
From the ranges out by Bogong where the
gullies lie asleep,
In their flivvers and their buggies along the
riverside,
In the early hours of morning, the out-back
farmers ride.
The old town, quiet and dreaming, awakes
for just a day
As along the streets and byways the feet of
strangers stray;
Bearded “cockles,” glancing skyward, talk of
“this ’ere droughty spell”
While they wander off to quench it at the
Farmers’ Rest Hotel.
Then around the dusty saleyards stalk the
tillers of the soil,
Talking stores and fats and springers, wide-
awake the while for spoil.
“Them there Jerseys are a picture—all I’m
bid is thirteen-ten”. .. .
“Twice as good as Murphy’s rubbish”... .
“Come an’ look at this ’ere pen.”
As the evening shadows lengthen and the
gold earth turns to grey,
In a whirl of dust they vanish down the red
roads and away.
Soon the town is hushed to slumber, and it
dreams its dreams again,
While the ghosts of men on fences seem to
whisper a refrain :
“Seven-ten’s all I go,
Not another bean!”
“Border Leicesters from the hills?
’E must think I’m green!”
“ Yairs, I yarded up that pen!
Ain't they nice an’ clean?”
VICTOBIA.
P. T. F.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
w
would be required? (3) Capital necessary?
(4) Best market? —945.
(1) No. (2) A hauling-net, garfish-net
and mesliing-net would be necessary. (3)
Not less than £2OO. (4) Sydney and New-
castle.
Have I the right, as a N.S.W. shire rate-
payer, to inspect the valuation of properties
adjoining mine? —919.
Yes, on paying a fee.
How can a young man (20) secure a
position with the P.M.G.’s Dept, as g, tele-
vhone mechanic? —863. .
The P.M.G.’s Department’s mechanical
staff is recruited from the ranks of junior
mechanics (in training), entrance to which
is gained only by passing a competitive
examination arranged by the Commonwealth
Public Service Board, Canberra. The age
limits for such examination are 14 to 1*
years.
How can I become a registered masseur
in N.5.W.?— 1026.
By two years’ training in a recognised
public institution, and by 12 months’ hospital
training. The course in March
of each year and costs £B4 9s. 6d. Candi-
dates must be 18 or over. Particulars Horn
the Australian Massage Association, 185
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(1) Where can I learn wool classing in
Brisbane? (2) What would it cost? (3)
How long would a complete course take?
958.
(1) Central Technical College, and day
and night classes. (2) For the night course
245. per quarter (two lessons per week),
and for the day course £4 4s. per term
(three terms per year). (3) At least two
years to qualify for the college s certificate.
A friend of mine has a chemist’s business
and wants to sell it. Can I buy and run the
business if I engage a qualified chemist to
do the dispensing?— 72o.
The proprietor of a N.S.W. pharmacy
need not necessarily be a registered phar-
macist, but the pharmacy must be continu-
ally in charge of a registered pharmacist,
who must personally superintend it.
(1) Who is the agent for Oliver ploughs?
(2) Percentage of potash contained in wood
ash: (a) stringybavk, {b) bloodwood, (c)
bluegum, (and) redgum? —972.
(1) Motor Tractors, Ltd., corner Bridge
and Young streets, Sydney. (2) (a) Not
available, (b) 5.25 per cent., (c) 9.1 per
cent., (and) 4.17 per cent.
My father is a textile drawer in tweed
mills in Scotland and wishes to come to
Australia. Are there any openings for his
trade in N.S.W.? Where are they and to
whom should I write? —976.
Textile drawers are employed throughout
the industry in N.S.W., but there are not
often vacancies. Write to the Secretary,
N.S.W. Woollen Manufacturers’ Assoc., 34
Martin-place, Sydney, and enclose copies of
references; advertise in the Textile Jour-
nal of Australia, 241 William-street, Mel-
bourne (they insert “Situations Wanted”
notices free of charge), and get in touch
with firms such as John Vicars and Cos.,
Ltd., Globe Worsted Mills, Ltd., and Aus-
tralian Woollen Mills, Ltd.
What is the N.S.W. award wage for youths
15 to 19 at rural work, digging out rabbits,
suckering, fencing, etc.? Also what award
covers such work, and where can I obtain
it?— lo34.
The Agricultural Employees (State)
Award provides the following scale of wages
per week with keep for youths: 16 to 17
years, 155.; 17 to 18 years, 205.; 18 to 19
years, 255.; 19 to 20 years, 30s. A copy
may be obtained from Government Printer,
Sydney, at a cost of 4d.
What are the award rates in N.S.W. for
ringbarking and suckering if carried out by
casual workers, permanent farmhands or
permanent station-hands? Does the em-
ployer find tools? —959.
The rate for adult casuals is 2s 5Jd. per
hour for actual time worked. The rate for
an adult permanent farmhand doing ring-
barking and suckering under the Agricul-
tural Employees (State) Award is £2 15s.
per week and keep. The Pastoral Em-
ployees (State) Award provides for a
station employee employed as an axeman or
pick and shovelman, and being over 20 years
of age, being paid at the rate of 16s. per
day without keep. If the employee is pro-
vided with keep, a deduction of 30s. per
week may be made. Where the work is
performed in conjunction with ordinary
station work, the rate for an adult is 84s. per
week without keep, or 565. per week with
keep. Employers find tools.
(1) When will the next examination for
slaughtering inspectors be held in Queens-
land? (2) What subjects will candidates be
examined in? (3) What is the fee? (4)
Salary paid to successful candidates? —954.
(1) In Brisbane and other towns on
October 17. The estimated number of vacan-
cies is three, and nominations should reach
the Public Service Commissioner, Brisbane,
not later than September 7. (2) The text-
book recommended is Walley’s “Meat Inspec-
tion and the Slaughtering Act of 1898.”
Candidates will be examined on the ana-
tomy and physiology of ruminants and pigs;
ante- and post-mortem appearances of dis-
eases affecting these animals; the provisions
of the Slaughtering Act. (3) 15s. (4)
£260 to £360 per annum.
The original debt on my house was £875.
Paying 325. 6 d. a week, combined capital and
7 p.c. interest ( quarterly rests), I have paid
in instalments £338. llow much capital do
I still owe, and how long will it take to pay
off the balance? —870.
You owe £773 10s., and it will take 14
years 3 quarters to pay it.
The original debt on my house was £BOO.
I have been paying instalments of 325. 6d.
for eight years, interest at 7 p.c., quarterly
rests. What is the balance of capital now
due. How long before I finish? —1069.
£807; seven years, 2 quarters, 9 weeks
to go.
I bought a house for £690 and jiaid £l2O
deposit. The balance at £5 ss. per calendar
month, interest 7 p.c., quarterly rests. What
teas owing at June 80, i 92 9! -First
monthly payment wds made on March -8,
1923.—1010. , „
About £470. You have 8 years and 9
months to go.
What books do you recommend in order
to get an understanding of the principles
and history of (1) Leninism, (2) Social-
ism, (3) Democracy, (4) Australian Labor
and National movements? —920.
(1) “Marx, Lenin and the Science of
Revolution,” by Eastwood. (2) “History of
Socialist Thought,” by Laidler; “History of
Socialism,” by Kirkup. (3) “The Meaning
of Democracy,” by Ivor Brown; “Modern
Democracies” (2 vols.), by Bryce. (4) “His-
tory of the Labor Party,” by Black; “Case
for Labor,” by W. M. Hughes; “How
Labor Governs,” by Y. G. Childe; chapter
on “Labor Movement,” by G. V. Portus in
“Australia, Social and Economic,” edited by
Atkinson. Don’t know of any book dealing
with the Nationalist party. There are,
however, a number of articles in different
issues of the Round Table that might
help.
What can be done to cure a black spaniel
from continually biting and scratching him-
self? A small red spot appears on his skin
and irritates him greatly. Sulphur has been
given, but without effect, and meat has been
eliminated from his diet. —916.
This is evidently a case of erythematous
eczema. The spaniel should be carefully
dieted. Give him a little meat, milk,_ gravy
and green vegetables, and eliminate biscuits,
bread, cake, etc. The dog should get some
laxative medicine. Procure the following
lotion for the skin: Sulphur 40z., oil
of eucalyptus Joz., olive oil Boz. Wash
affected skin with soap and water, dry,
then rub in lotion. Leave on for three days,
then wash off and re-apply.
I put my car into a garage to have valves
ground in. I called for the car next day.
The man that was doing the job took the ear
out, to see if it was all right. Going up a
hill the engine stalled, and the garage man,
who was driving, put the hand brake on,
and in trying to start broke the axle. Am
I liable for repairs to the axle? —loß9.
Assuming that there was no inherent defect
in the axle and that the accident was directly
traceable to the negligence or default of the
garage man, you are not liable.
What physical and other qualifications are
required for persons wishing to become
N.S.W. firemen?— los2.
Candidates must be from 21 to 30, sft. 7in.
in height without boots and 36in. in chest
measurement without expansion. They are
required to pass an educational test and a
rigid medical examination. But there are no
vacancies, and hundreds of applicants on the
waiting-list.
In case of an employee embezzling his em-
ployer's money and subsequently dying, can
the employer claim on a life-insurance policy
or any property of the employee's wife? —
1047. ‘
No; the embezzlement was a crime, not
the incurring of a debt.
How can. I find altitude by (1) boiling
thermometer, (2) with a barometer 9 —985.
(1) The boiling point of water i- lower in
temperature the less the pressur of the air
—the boiling point is 221 degu’ ~s at 29.92 in.
and is only 187.5 degrees a* -B.ooin. Thus
if you know at what Umperature water
boils, you can deter mi” die pressure, and if
you know the pressure at the top and bottom
of an ascent, you can compute the height.
The instrument used for this work is called
an hypsometer, and is a thermometer with
a boiling-point apparatus attached and a note
showing the pressure for various boiling
points. (2) Altitudes can be roughly deter-
mined by noting the fall in the barometer
readings with ascent. The barometer falls
(approximately) one inch in every 1000
feet. For convenience an aneroid barometer
is used for this work.
Are probationary nurses taken at St. Mar-
garet’s Hospital for Women, Sydney? If so,
what is the age of admission, length of train-
ing, premium charged and educational quali-
fications ? —IO2B.
Yes. The age of admission is 20 to 40
years and the term of training 12 months.
No premium is charged and pupil receives
board, residence, lectures, laundry (soft
washing) and obstetric certificate if success-
ful. If wanted, a course of invalid cookery
costs 16s. If the pupil has not the N.S.W.
Intermediate or Leaving Certificate, she must
pass an education test. This is held by the
State. Particulars will be obtained by writ-
ing to the Registrar, Nurses’ Registration
Board, 93 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
Information Supplied.
751. —A well-bred sheep-dog at work is
usually too intent on his job to give voice.
If required to do so he must be taken away
from sheep, and trained to bark at a signal.
Get him excited in play—chasing a ball,
catching sticks and jumping around. Clap
hands and bark at him. Unless he is an
absolutely silent dog—and there are such —
he will presently bark back. Continued
training will teach him to bark at the clap-
ping of hands. —“Bill R.”
687. —To stop a crack in a circular saw,
about sin. beyond where the crack appears
to end drill a Jin. hole through the saw. If
the saw is too hard to drill, mark the spot
with a centre-punch, and then press the end
of a red-hot rod against it. As soon as a blue
patch, the size of a sixpence, appears on
the other side of the saw, remove the hot
iron, and the metal will be found soft
enough to drill. Another method, if the saw
is large, is to send it to a city saw-doctor,
who will cut it down to below the crack
and re-gullet it. Total cost of this, includ-
ing rail-carriage, should not exceed 8s. —
“Bert the Carpenter.”
829. —A good dressing for hardwood
laboratory (chemical) benches to withstand
acids and alkalis is cellulose enamel. Re-
move all grease from the surface and give
two coats. The enamel dries quickly and
yields a hard porcelain-like finish—J.A.
Brief Answers.
IXL: (1) See Service Department, B.
2 4/4/’29. It has over £IOO,OOO oi solid assets.
(2) Don’t know. (3) Not listed on ’Change. The
secretary may know a buyer.... M.F.: They are
worth little more than face value... .L.C.N.: Per-
haps you stirred in the sulphur dry. Mix it with
the glycerine to a paste; then add other ingredients.
Shake well before using... .E.K.P.: (1) Send it to
a literary agent such as Curtis Brown, 6 Henrietta-
street, Covent Garden, London. (2) Lodge a copy
of the play at the Copyright Office, Brisbane; fee,
ss. (3) The Bulletin does not read full-length
plays. Try J. C. Williamson, Ltd., Sydney....
G.J.L.: Guy Motors, 517 Little Collins-street, Melb.
....I.AV.: There are no women working underground
in British mines, though many are employed on the
surface, chiefly in a clerical capacity. Recent
legislation has ordered the withdrawal of 39,000
women from Indian mines. . . .A.M.A.: The Shakspeare
Repertory Society, Sydney, proposes to give regular
productions of the plays. Write Francis Jackson,
c/o Nicholson and Cos., 416 George-street J.S.:
For conditions of joining N.S.W. police force see
reply to No. 662 B. 3/7/’29. Candidates for Q’land
force must be in the 20-30 age group, unmarried,
sft. 9in. high, and with a chest measurement of
36in. (38in. expanded)... .E. 8.: Write to Disston
and Sons, Gibbens-street, Camperdown, Sydney, for
their “Saw, Tool and File Book”... .A.R.: Applica-
tion of poisons to the stumps would be of little
value ; stumps should be dried by weathering and
then burnt or dug out. ... T.S.: Write Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney, for “Pruning Deciduous Fruit
Trees” and “Orchard Cultivation” ... .F.D.: Yes....
E.M.S.: There is a Commonwealth embargo on the
introduction of Angora rabbits... .H.L.: (1) Yes.
(2) Yes. (3) When he submits further contributions.
.. . .H.R.W.: Curtis Brown, Ltd., are literary agents,
not publishers C.M.: The see. says the informa-
tion is available at his office. .. .W.K.1.: Bendigo
(33,910), Swan Hill (2630), Kerang (2600), Nyah
(1050), Hay (2570), Balranald (1020), Wakool
Shire, Moulamein (3070) G.E.H.: Barbitonum
induces sleep by acting on the central nervous system.
It is said that there is no habit-abuse connected with
it. Sometimes it produces a severe red rash and on
rare occasions (according to Hale White) has pro-
duced dangerous symptoms. .. .J. A. 8.: The essen-
tial treatment is a frequent washing of the
hair with spirit soap. The soap must then be
washed out with two or three fresh waters. A useful
application is sulphur and salicylic acid... .G.L.H.:
We know of no drugs or preparations that do any
good. Will-power is essential. Do it gradually.
Cut the smokes down to half and then half again
and so 0n....M.H.: See reply to G.L.H L.L.:
As you are in receipt of a 75 per cent, rate pension
it cannot be commuted to a lump sum. Only
pensions on the 30 per cent, rate and below, and
also where the disability is in a final and stationary
condition, can be commuted.... D.G.: Write Arthur
Yates and Cos., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney C.W.P.:
Apply to the Deputy Commissioner, Repatriation Com-
mission, Chalmers-street, Sydney, for restoration of your
pension H.H.8.: Suggest that you advertise it as
being for sale. Cannot determine value in absence
of full particulars E.S.C.: Boils are generally
curable by injections of colloidal manganese. Ask
a doctor about getting some for y0u....W.8.: (1)
Write W. C. Penfold and Cos., Ltd., 88 Pitt-street,
Sydney. (2) Cannot trace any firm that stocks the
article 5.A.8.: Apply the following mixture to
the wounds as required: Oil of tar, one ounce; rape
oil, one pint.... V.W.: “Etiquette,” by Mrs. Massey
Lyons, Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney... .J. 8.: An account in Melbourne
will be found in the Electricity supplement to
the Electrical Engineer of Aust. and N.Z. for
September, 1927 A.Y.T.: The Tamar Orchards
Inquiry was held at Launceston (Tas.), commencing
on Jan. 25, 1921, and the board’s conclusions are
set out in a printed report (dated March 31, 1921),
a copy of which is obtainable from the Gov. Printer,
Hobart. .. .S.C.C.: Write Dymock’s Book Arcade, 428
George-street; Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-
street; N.S.W. Bookstall Cos., corner Market and
Castlereagh streets —all Sydney... .L.N.M.K.: He is
abroad at present... . J.R.D.: Write British Australian
Wool Realisation Association, Ltd., 540 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, and give full particulars,
including the name in which the wool was appraised.
.... H.R.: It is rather late to obtain a position as
overseer or jackeroo this season in the Northern
Territory. Application should be made about
February or March to any of the following: Northern
Agency, Ltd., Darwin; Gulf Cattle Cos., Ltd., Brunette
Downs, via Camooweal (Q.) ; Peel River Land and
Mineral Cos., Ltd., Avon Downs, via Camooweal (Q.) I
and North Australian Pastoral Cos., Ltd., care Dalgety
and Cos., Brisbane Victor Harbor: (1) Five sub-
jects at the Leaving Exam., including English and
Latin. (2) No. (3) Yes, unless the student is
articled to a practitioner of the Supreme Court
whose office is more than 10 miles distant from
the Uni. (4) No, a Uni. qualification is necessary.
(5) Five years. (6) None in S.A L. 8.: The
line is from the poem “Said Hanrahan,” which will
be found in “Around the Boree Log, and Other
Verses,” by “John O’Brien”... .P. 8.: The annuity
need not be returned as income D.C.: A room
18ft. x 42ft. or 24ft. x 30ft. (inside measurements)
would accommodate two full-size billiard tables. In
N.S.W. a licensed billiard-room must have a separate
approach from the street... .J.H.T.: (1) Sydney
zoologists are not sure what species it was. (2) Bulk
of the fish which come from Norway and which the
general public here refer to as “sardines ’ are either
sprats or young herrings; the Norwegians pack the
latter under the name of “sild.” It is illegal to
sell as “sardines” any fish other than the young
of the pilchard. (3) Civil Service Co-operative
Society, Ltd., 413 George-street, Sydney W.C.:
(1) In none, though certain restrictions exist in
various States as regards their sale. (2) Registere
gun-dealers in N.S.W. must first inspect a license
for the purchase of all concealable weapons wit
barrels 9in. and under. Beyond that length no
license is required under the N.S.W. Gun Act. (3)
The Pistol License Act 1927 came into operation
in N.S.W. on September 1, 1927 J.V.: (1) Yes,
he must hold a Customs permit. Apply Customs
Department, Brisbane. (2) Montoro leaves Brisbane
every six weeks; fare £35 each way.. • .D.M.L..
R. W. Cameron and Cos., 24 Bond-street, Sydney....
Everett: No person who has 20 or fewer female
fowls or ducks need register or is controlled in
way by Marketing Board (N.S.W.). Full
information can be secured from the secretary o
the board at 45 Daking House, Rawson-place, Sydney.
H.S.C.: Permaline (Is. per 21b. packet), obtain-
able from Mick Simmons, Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney,
J.E.C.: (1) Fawn. (2) Would not advise
cleaning a skunk stole with petrol. It would be
better to let a furrier do the job W. 8.:
called because it was once the custom to giv
Christmas boxes to postmen, errand boys, employees,
etc., on the first work day after Christmas... -L.D.,
Write Secretary, Aero Club of N.S.W., 16 Barrack*
street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


SB
! ill! J!
!!! l! 1 !!
■ j •;>
////
251*
ss?
S
-•-v
muiu
//.
//
hvav
wrn
1
m
•A v
V-'r
i
•J'.'-A
i-i-S
*S 1-
t*rs
D
£
re
r
ABSOLUTE relaxation is provided by
the form-fitting cushions of a Holden
Closed Car Body.
Properly inclined seats, deep, resilient
springs and refinement of detail do away
with all fatigue, even on the longest
journey.
Holden comfort continues as the car grows
old, because underlying it is the expertly
engineered frame, the finely tempered
springs, the high-class upholstery—and
the durability which is built into every
Holden “World Quality’’ Body.
Select a Holden Body Car; you
will find it the wisest choice.
The emblem of ivorld
quality in motor bodies
TAYLOR
5 E R V l Cii
HOLDEN’S
MOTOR, BODY BUILDERS
L- I A\ I ~r & D
A D E LAIP E ,
MELBOURNE, ' SYDNEY AND BRISBANE


The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
may total lb., .cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
ever the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
o
! ■*
. w
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
—the best. And their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices:
WINOHCOMBE HOUSE and 99-101 EAGLE ST.,
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Dm ectors— Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. j
K E. Loxton, Esq.; Wrn. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - - BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
'MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—-
the first of £25 and the second of £10 —
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
THE PRIZE WINNERS.
In December last this department of The
Bulletin offered two prizes of £2O and £lO
for the most useful contributions during'
the following six months. Contributions,
whether printed or not, were to be judged
on points, and the highest aggregates were
to win. The offer has produced so many use-
ful contributions that The Bulletin adds
a third prize of £5 ; and to its astonishment
as well as its pleasure it finds that this one
goes to a lady. The prize-winners are: —
1. F. S. ALFORD, S. Australia.
2. GEORGE NOYE, Victoria.
3. (Mrs.) M. L. CONDER, Tasmania.
Mr. Alford, the son of a South Australian
farmer, has himself had 20 years’ practical
experience as farmer and grazier at Peter-
borough, on the Pinnaroo line, and at Pt.
Germein, where he is now carrying on mixed
farming. In his home State he is a recog-
nised authority on the handling and market-
ing of wheat, and for 10 years past has
written the review of the Wheat and Flour
Industry of the Commonwealth for the
Shipping and Commerce of Australia
annual. Especially on the very wide subject
of wheat-growing the Land page has found
him lucid and encyclopaedic.
Mr. Noye, though born on a farm, pro-
posed to be a school-teacher, and had got
as far as matriculating when family changes
recalled him to the plough. He, nevertheless,
continued his studies, switching them off on
to agriculture and stock-raising, and was
greatly encouraged to write by that fine old
friend of the man on the land, W. C. Grasby.
Twenty years ago he was a large contri-
butor to the Leader ; later, his own Vic-
torian farm called for more time, and- he
wrote hardly anything until about 12 months
ago the great possibilities of The Bulle-
tin Land page attracted him. His earlier
studies have never been dropped, and he has
become an established authority on (1)
fertilising and the preparation of the soil and
(2) care of stock.
Mrs. Conder, whom The Bulletin has
for some time been addressing as “Dear
Sir,” has, in fact, had a wider experience
of farming than either of her male colleagues
in the list. She did mixed farming in Sussex
(Eng.) ; then, having taken up science, spent
some time investigating first potato-growing
in Scotland and then dairying in Ireland.
Coming to Australia (with a husband who
is a scientist too, though not on the agri-
cultural side) she began intensive study of
stock- and soil-feeding. Mrs. Conder writes :
“I see tremendous possibilities for Australian
producers, but especially on the smaller hold-
ings there is at present great waste of
money and labor for want of the necessary
knowledge to bring up the ‘limiting factor,’
both in feed and fertilisers.”
An announcement is made elsewhere re-
garding the increased prizes for the current
half-year. It will be noted that a special
prize is offered for the best individual con-
tribution. In the past six months two or
three men were small contributors of ex-
cellent matter; one of them, writing from
Westralia, made probably the most helpful
contribution published during the period.
SUPER. AND DIMINISHING RETURNS.
“Yeoman”: Generous dressings of super,
are not always sufficient to obtain, let alone
maintain, good yields, nor are they able to
prevent waning fertility. To illustrate my
point I quote the result of manurial tests
carried out with wheat at the Government
Experimental Farm, Booborowie (S.A.),
over a ten-year period:—
Yield per Acre
Ten Years’Average. (Bushels).
No manure . . . ■ • • 21.00
451 b. 45 p.c. super. . . 26.55
901 b. 45 p.c. super-. .. 28.52
1801 b. 45 p.c. super. .. 30.52
2701 b. 45 p.c. super. .. 31.55
The Booborowie farm is in one of the
best wheat-growing districts in Australia,
with an average rainfall of 19in., of which
at least 13in. falls in the seasonal period—
May 1 to October 31. With that rainfall
the maximum yield, on the basis of 31
bushels per inch of seasonal rain, would be
451 bushels per acre. It will be observed in
the above tests that “no manure” gave an
average return of 21 bushels, and in doing
so would extract 14.7 lb. of phosphoric acid
from the soil. The dressing of 451 b. of
super., which added 91b. of phosphoric acid
to the soil —sufficient for an extra 12| bushels
of wheat-increased the yield by only 51
bushels per acre. A dressing of 901 b. was
responsible for an additional increase in
yield of only two bushels over that from
the 451 b. dressing. The 1801 b. of super,
lifted the yield by another two bushels over
that returned by 901 b. The 2701 b. appli-
cation was able only to show an improved
yield of one bushel. From those figures it
is obvious that 1801 b. of super, is the heaviest
dressing that can be applied before the law
of diminishing returns comes into operation
and makes unprofitable further increase in
the quantity of super.
The dressing of 1801 b. of super, added
361 b. of phosphoric acid to the soil, making,
plus the 14.71 b. already available, as shown
by the “no manure” test, a total of 50.71 b.
available. That was sufficient for a yield
of over 70 bushels. The 1801 b. of super.,
however, gave a yield of only 304 bushels,
for which it would use up 21.351 b. of
phosphoric acid—or only 6.651 b. more than
that amount which was already available in
the soil without super. Thus nearly five-
sixths of the phosphoric acid supplied by
the application of 1801 b. of super, was not
drawn upon by the 304 bushel crop. As
the light dressing of 451 b. of super, added
sufficient phosphoric acid, plus that already
available, for a 33f-bushel crop, it follows
that phosphoric acid then ceased to be the
limiting factor under the law of minimum.
The small increases in yield shown by 901 b.
and 1801 b. of super, respectively were ob-
viously not due to the additional phosphoric
acid supplied, but were the result of the
stimulating action of the super, or, more
particularly, of the sulphate of lime (gyp-
sum) in the super, on the other soil con-
stituents —one or more of which had become
the limiting factor —liberating them as plant
foods faster than they could be maintained
or replaced without such assistance.
Moreover, the fact that 1801 b. of super,
was responsible for a yield of only 304
bushels, whereas the maximum yield, on the
basis of the seasonal rainfall, is 454, it is
equally obvious that a deficiency of one or
more of the other soil constituents—nitrogen,
potash, lime, magnesia, iron, silica, sulphuric
acid, sodium, chlorine, etc. —was responsible
for restricting the yield to two-thirds of the
natural maximum. The position disclosed
in the analysis of the Booborowie test
emphasises the need for a complete fer-
tiliser that will supply all the plant foods
in balanced proportions before the maximum
yield can be generally attained, notwith-
standing the highest efficiency in cultural
practices.
It follows, too, that such a complete fer-
tiliser provides the only rational means of
arresting that waning fertility which is in-
evitable if super, is the only fertiliser used.
ONLY ONE ROTATION.
“One Part”: Rotation must come, but if
bare fallow be part of the rotation the
farmer is likely to experience the dreaded
“take-all,” which has ruined so many men
oni the land. In Vic., as most of the wheat-
farms (not mixed farms) are in the light-
rain belt, where the native grasses are
chiefly barley and spear, pasture as a
rotation-crop is ruled out. as both these
grasses act as a host for “take-all.” Barley
(the cereal) goes out for the reason that it
requires mostly the same plant-food as
wheat. Peas and legumes (on stubble) are
too unreliable for the light rainfall, which
leaves oats as the only sound rotation-crop.
When working on this plan sheep are a
very necessary side-line to keep fallows
free from weeds and to consolidate the seed-
bed.
Wheat is sown only on fallow. The wheat
stubble is burnt early, as soon asf the sheep
have cleaned up the lost ears of wheat, etc.
Oats can then be combined in before the
autumn rains. This leaves a third of the
farm (last year’s oat ground) to be fallowed
for next season.
A common practice is to use, half the
oat crop as grazing for sheep until August,
when the sheep are taken oft and the oats
allowed to mature, when they are stripped
for grain, which is stored and used to hand
feed the sheep during the lean grazing
periods.
Another, and perhaps better, method is
to sow a quick- and tall-growing oat (such
as Lachlan), feed off till July and then
allow to come to the flowering stage, when
it is cut and made into pit-silage. There
is no waste with this method as with grain,
as oats shed freely when allowed to ripen;
silage also jix-ovides more feed in the most
valuable form, which permits of a greater
number of sheep being carried. It also
allows the work to be commenced earlier and
does not clash with other harvesting opera-
tions. Tractor users could do this with the
greater portion of the oat crop, but horse
users will find it necessary to keep a good
hay reserve.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT COSTS.
“R.11.R.”: “Westralian” (B. 5/6/’29).
gives the results obtained from newly-cleared
land, but even so his costs seem under-
estimated. Twenty years ago the Westralian
wheat-farmer scratched his crop in and
often reaped a six- or seven-bag average.
My own costs in those days never exceeded
£1 per acre—bags included. A dry season,
wild oats and weeds settled that style of
farming, and also settled the farmers who
did not cultivate their land well.
The cost of growing wheat in Westralia,
in my experience, is over £2 per acre. As
the greatest amount of land covered in one
day by any implement is done by the seed-
drill, my calculations are based on the
acreage covered by the drill in one day. The
implements used on my farm are a 14-disc
sundercut, a 20-row combine and a 10ft.
harvester. The total area cropped is 500
acres. Here’s the little bill of costs for 25
acres:— •
FARMING COSTS.
Seeding.
£ s. d.
One day’s wages and keep 12 6
Twelve bags super. .. .. 5 0 0
Harvesting.
Two days’ wages and keep .. 15 0
Bags, 150 at Is. . . .. 710 0
Sewing twine, etc. .. . , 18 0
Carting 150 bags at 6d. .. 315 0
Ploughing.
Two days’ wages and keep ..'l5 0
Cultivating.
Three days’ wages and keep . . 1 17 6
£22 13 0
OVERHEAD.
Interest at 7 p.e. on farm products 10 0
Insurance (hail and fire) . . 1 10 0
Parts and sundries ~ .. 4 0 0
Depreciation . . . . ..500
Rates and taxes . . .. 1 10 0
Interest at 7 p.c. on capital .. 17 10 0
£3o 10 0
Grand total .. •• ..£53 3 0
The cost for 25 acres works out. at
£2 2s. 6d. per acre. Only the interest on
the value of seed wheat and fodder used is
included in these costs. They both repre-
sent capital, and are renewed yearly. The
land on which they are grown is never
valued when making up the yearly profit or
loss.
CONVERTING STUBBLE TO HUMUS.
“F.S.A.”: To burn cereal stubbles is to
rob the soil of a potential supply of humus,
and this practice can be defended only where
a crop has been attacked by a fungus disease.
Fungus diseases are invariably the result of
an impoverished soil, one of the primary
causes of which is the loss of humus. A
deficiency of the main plant-foods can be
made good by supplying artificial fertilisers.
Something more is necessary to restore
humus. Discing the stubble in, particularly
in a two-year rotation —wheat-fallow-wheat
—is not advisable because the straw will
not decompose rapidly enough to permit of
the production of a fine, compact seed-bed.
In that case the only alternative to burning
is to convert the stubble to manure, and
profit by intensive grazing with sheep.
One way by which the cleaning-up of the
stubble can be facilitated is to spray with a
solution of molasses. A power spraying-
machine with a trailing boom carrying the
jets is necessary, and this will cover up to
50 acres a day. The late W. ITeithersay, of
Fullarton (S.A.), who evolved this method,
invented a boom for the purpose, which was
attached to a Metters orchard power-spray.
He also applied the molasses solution with
the addition of a laxative to a paddock of
stinkwort, which was cleaned up, too, by
sheep. About one ton of molasses, sufficiently
broken down, would do 100 acres of stubble.
It will so increase the palatability of the
straw that all of it, except that trodden in.
will be consumed. As a 20-bushel wheat
crop yields a ton of straw per acre, 100
acres would provide 100 tons. If 40 per
cent, were trodden in, that would leave 60
tons to be consumed. At 31b. per sheep per
day that would provide grazing for 1000
sheep for six weeks. A maintenance ration
for a mature sheep and the nutriment in a
straw ration are as follows:
Proteins. Carbhs. Fat.
lb. lb. lb.
Maintenance ration .. .. 0.15 1.20 0.025
Value of 31b. straw .. 0.02 0.65 0.08
As a certain amount of grain is always
picked up in stubble, the protein and carbo-
hydrate contents is lifted up to that neces-
sary for maintenance purposes. If ilb. of
oats or about 3oz. of linseed nuts per sheep
per day were supplied in addition, using
the molasses-treated stubble as roughage, its
feeding value would be further increased —
probably to a fattening standard. Besides
the value of the humus thus added to the
soil, the method should show a net profit of
10s. per acre from the sheep thus grazed.
FARM ROADS.
“Ruffy”: Nothing can give a meaner
appearance to a farm than irregular,
neglected, rutted roads. Yet it isn’t much
trouble to maintain them good and sightly.
Traffic alone is not the cause of ruts; mois-
ture is the main reason. The cure is indi-
cated —keep the roads dry by forming them
with a crown. It is not hard to form a
road. Plough along the centre; work back-
wards and forwards both sides of the centre,
raising it well above the ordinary level. Do
this to the width decided on—say, 15 feet.
It is advisable to well crown the roadway;
therefore, it may be necessary to replough
it as before, further lowering the edges
and raising the centre. Before this
second ploughing a good harrowing improves
things. Don’t plough more than, say, six
inches deep ; bring as little clay to the sur-
face as possible, as when wet it makes a
greasy road. Well harrow .the surface and
tidy up a bit, but don’t use a shovel where
plough and harrows will do the work. Don’t
drive always in the same wheel-track; use
your vehicles as rollers to put the surface
into a compact mass. Tidy the road up
occasionally to prevent ruts becoming per-
manent. See that water runs off quickly
and prevent scouring in the water tables. A
plank drag put over the road when the sur-
face is just nicely workable will keep the
surface in order.
REPLACE THE PHOSPHORIC ACID.
“Namoey” : The necessity for top-dressing
pastures is emphasised by the loss of phos-
phoric acid in the soil by grazing, as in dairy-
ing for example. If the annual produc-
tion be 200 gallons of milk per acre (which
is only a fair output for a good pasture),
that represents a loss of 2500 z. of phosphoric
acid, gone to make milk, and probably
another 50oz. gone to build up the animals’
bodies and in other directions. This loss
(18flb.) is the equivalent of that constituent
contained in about 901 b. of superphosphate.
Thus, unless that quantity of super., or
its equivalent in some other form, be
applied every year, soil impoverishment will
soon set in and the pasture will not be able
to maintain the output of milk. A pasture
capable of that production will carry one
cow to three acres, or two ewes per acre.
TRACTORS SHOULD HELP HORSES.
“R.R.R.” : “Yeoman” (B. 5/6/’29) is too
enthusiastic in his praise of tractor-power.
I am interested in two farms. One farm
is worked with a tractor, caterpillar type,
and the other with horses. The costs per
acre are higher where tractors are used.
“Yeoman’s” figures for depreciation and
maintenance are too low. Depreciation is
at least 20 p.c. per year. Maintenance may
be as low as 5£ p.c. the first year, but it
is an ever-increasing item as the tractor
ages. My fuel bill, cropping the same area
—5OO acres—is 30 p.c. higher than “Yeo-
man’s” estimate. During seeding and harvest
two men are required, one on the machine
and the other driving the tractor.
There is no doubt that farm costs are
higher when tractor-power is used, but there
is compensation in the greater acreage
cropped and the bigger yields, more work
done properly and at the right time, more
time for improvements to the farm, and
no fumbling with harness on dark winter
mornings.
My opinion is that the tractor should help
the horses. It should only bo used for
rush jobs, harrowing after summer rains,
seeding after the first winter rainfalls, dur-
ing those two or three weeks when the best
crops are grown, and to help the horses
with the fallowing.
MORE ABOUT TUNG OIL.
L. Macintosh Ellis writes: —l have noticed
in The Bulletin recently references to
tung oil, obtained from the tree Aleurites
forclii. It may be. of interest to know that
for some years considerable experimentation
(Continued on page 32.)


H;
Vs.'/s.
.'j! x 1;
mw//.
WMB,
m
w
wfmmt
m wsTft
mmm,
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
ISM
1
SOME POWERFUL REASONS
for using:
MEGGITT’S LINSEED SHEEP NUTS
(1) This food is not a compound but 100 per cent, pure Linseed.
(2) Its high quality never varies.
(3) It is sold under a guaranteed analysis.
(4) It is rich in the food elements which build up the tissues and which
control wool-growth, lambing and .milk secretion.
(5) On a basis of “food value for money’’ it is the cheapest concentrate
food on offer.
(6) Its most valuable property is its laxative oil content which definitely
counteracts impaction. This quality is not found in other foods.
(7) It is highly digestible and palatable.
(8) it is fed absolutely without waste.
(9) Sheep will do well on most economical rations, keeping feeding costs
below 2d. per head per week.
(10) It is carried on the lowest existing scale of freight charges.
(11) It is safe, economical and it gets results.
Write or wire to
C/H&S&Ut •JZlmtted
; M i HEAD OFFICE, 20 KING ST., SYDNEY
[ I’PllI 1 ' 1 \Dorhs - Parramatta. N SAD •Melbourne. Victoria • Port Adelaidas.A.
OUe boy on the bag
guarantees gua/ity*
"°/Ae boy on the Aagr
guarantees quality
''IV ••• .i&ji . fix'
/<% $V WjdteyfcJ^S£ff../p
ik
Wi
mx
LV
ft
m
&
m
v»
fiS!
Jw.
"* ft \ . 4*V» V - - * ’
!? ®-
'M.% ft & &&, » sQ®k mui, *
':»•■.'• jrr~
AHSaA
J 5
#: -*7
4fyr
s
VM
fcfi
«S
■ n
' Vvi ' /'- ' L'■ •
’fSWV
'.V4r
•» :
*J«S
?•**>
.$%
.Si SO-
- * ■'■ -*• .'• \
I v •
s**l®' rJ '* ‘.'j/ift
iT3
-V
sv,
2®
•rsr
m
sm
■:• -XT-.
ge
9
r%f tft* '¥Mil
m
m §
m-M H
«a
ft
r at *»
a£LA<
J&fV * ■*
&, *r -c
*
Ct
t rx h ~*- 'r *?■
tfV'WLv J *;W
v„*
*««$& a
»»»
•i«a .e
&
SBS
LvgW >.’<*
fcts;
a m
li*- #
:V/
p
afi
•r
sTat tite# £fc*
V>
-K»
tM
w'c*!
CT
% f %#s!
dOT fi
*@*tt at» :f v j
i,^
V Sft
‘ :>v
«f c
VX3b-:
JiV 4
L
■v*
U i*V-
m V&& |
%
feL «^0
-^ffe
SStv
iV
a ss
--.A
X s %
sS\ m %
& ft
W.«f
'f . ./>• .Jswzb
’ r
S.S
:<,i.
?*a
.’. >. x ■* jji
. ; ' 7\. ■ ft. ifc
VVALTE* POWA\Ai V'
>2^«4
9ft
l.v
rV«A.
Ml
" 1 h
RiS
■vfr'
V I
- '.>^3
, !mmTU
t ,s#& »%-5 »
; Jfc r,V“ -.4
hn i
5,
<2>
I
R«t ir* ',' fV
M
ms
Iff |ff
' "tv .•^• : • *»* J
! Ad -:l,\vV»<? T
i
Is
m
mt
i
A"*
fiSlwfi
ill mi[ m
ii;<vV ; -«wKj£ti:
p;V:
>: *r 4 !!g
K^u,rri *
Hi?
Commonwealth Distribution:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Meggitt, Limited,
26 King Street, Sydney ; and all Pastoral
Houses or Agents.
VICTORIA: New Zealand Loan and Mercantile
Agency Co., Ltd., Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Branches.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith and Co.,
Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide, and
Branches.
TASMANIA: F. W. Heritage and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Elder, Smith and
Co., Ltd., St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and Branches. Sub-distributors, Wm.
Adams and Co., Ltd., Perth.
QUEENSLAND: All Pastoral Houses and
Agents; also Denhams, Ltd., Brisbane;
Denham Bros., Ltd., , Rockhampton;
Cummins and Campbell, Ltd., Townsville
and Cairns : Corser and Co., Maryborough.
'/,////.
W////W////W/W'-
mm
'//v
ww.
W///////A
w
vmm//.
V//////A
■mmw
mm.
'VAX.
: * <1 <1 ? % '//■
%’i.
rm
vim.
KW'/vyA’-fi'i
fciUMaHll
7//////Z.
M.W
■Vi-l'tWA*.


tai
m
iHraugHni
wsm
• >
J|!ff|||ljJ §!1 jfl| |l||.. ■ 1 i*« I§f 1 Billlll
■
■
4P/:p 1;:1 : ft|J||§ll|j|Jg|§
'
*8 •-
, <
ItW^y \
iljL, ijf I
H woL I * mm
mi S®| \ t lill
} i
m
P;Mf : 7- ■.; i?! - r '."' i ~ €.:
■iipip !*••$&»?»
4jf
i . ' lill:
&£* - i s?" Vgyftfcy.
v,."; 8
I
a— mmammm
- „ ' r S ,"'' Iwlllll 111 \'4«: ! c< o H it
< ’ A ‘ |B * ,?;* '■;, A&'s ' v,\ v «p\ * ®/v
■ a ■, |s;
lf
»»«»W 'X
-
/CHEVROLET/
1 “I i~“
’■ : v?l;pl
' . ■ ■ yy-
■: : ;
-MMB | | 1
■■■ i
mm
Hi >. - 7 ' 7"7'7g7 .■
.„ ■' '*" " "•' ", „.' 7 , i,' ■’/• J Y ; ‘- ' - > - • * - *. ' 'Wm
m
"p
A
4i
ill
-a Six in the price range of


i I
<■
m
mm
s»
■
■3
■
*
:
he f
our
Expectations
'"THOSE who have seen and
driven the sensational
Chevrolet Six have acclaimed
it as exceeding their greatest
expectations.
Those who looked forward
to marvellous new beauty
were astonished to find that,
in the new bodies, Chevrolet
has achieved one of the great-
est style triumphs of its long
and brilliant history.
Those who expected re-
markable performance were
literally amazed at the power,
speed, acceleration and fuel
economy that Chevrolet engi-
neers have built into the new
six-cylinder valve-in-head
motor. The smoothness of
operation made possible by
this new engine is a revelation
to all who have driven the
new Chevrolet.
And those who anticipated
exceptional value were as-
tounded that such outstanding
beauty, quality and six-cylinder per-
formance could possibly be provided
in the price range of the four. Go
to your Chevrolet dealer. See and
drive this remarkable new Chevrolet
Six-and you, too, will find it far be-
yond your highest expectations!
c Trices from
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Buy from Your Local Dealer .
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty.,Ltd,. Exhibition Street.
Sydney: John McGrath . Ltd., Elizabeth Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street.
Adelaide: Mann’s Motors, Etd., Frayklin Street
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd., Hay
GENERAL MOTORS
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE : SYDNEY : BRISBANE
ADELAIDE : PERTH
fw 3
g vf 4
0 4 ft @ SJ
Slf i *
if %
I Irfr s^fF^
■i.:irTkwm ,1
WiiA—
t*


The toughest leather
—doubled!
A specially durable Abbey
Boot with a sole of twice the
usual thickness. And, the
upper has a complete inner
lining of soft leather. This
boot is snugly comfortable over
the roughest going.
It is roomy, yet smartly
designed. The upper curves to
lie easily over the instep arch,
while, at back of ankle, it
drops a little to ensure a closer,
more comfortable fit,
Order by Post.
Every size is made in three fittings
narrow, medium and wide.
Specify width as well as length
when ordering. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Bstab/ishea' ove#* 80 years ,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
T?PT, 1 Q 9
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
vet 'foiMMWh causec * more loss in sheep than Fluke
can * PW,i sheep this
Tetrachloride Thic ' the , a PP hcatlon oi Carbon
Agricultural n T f piocess has been tested by the
u! a and departments of various States in Aw?
requires !• received their endorsement. It
applied to the^v! 0 ’ 1 a " d Editions before it can be
out in * th Sheep ’ and these ar e skilfully carried
..SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
, . . N.S.W. South Australia
! Pmt J tn . s *• • 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6 /6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
n r ii!t EST RAIMVAY STATION
riRSI ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
A LL . AUSTRALIANS visitiug London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and* cable news
ftom Australia and news of Australians in
Luiope and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New. Zealander Reading-room at the
o dices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
in " Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Eat Anything
Without Upset
Get relief from indigestion quickly and take a real
step to total banishment of the disorder by taking
Pai a-Pepsin. This maintains correct internal balance;
prevents excess acid; gives appetite. Nothing harsh •
nothing harmful. Para-Pepsin is the remedy a
c?ctor would recommend—your chemist sells it with
directions at two shillings; or direct from Amalga-
mated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.— Advt.
Public Notice.
J_|ORSHAM, Victoria.—lf this should meet
the eye of any former residents of Hor-
sham, please write Secretary, Horsham
Reunion, October 19 to 26, 1929, Box 210,
Horsham P.O.
ŵ
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE. BRISBANE TOWNSVTLT P
Auetion Sales c WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and_Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney.
JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia!
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
ẁ
ssr* where the “‘" ,i >'» - 4;™o£
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
“KANGAROO”
WATER-COOLED SPRAY OUTFIT
ẃ
Four-wheeled trans-
port; oiled throughout
trom the crankcase,
lhe magneto is the
very latest English
waterproof pattern.
The pump is very com-
pact ; the valves can
be got at by loosening
one nut. All parts
likely to be affected or
corroded by spray mix-
tures are of gunmetal.
All parts are standard-
ised, and replacements
can be forwarded with-
out delay. The Spray
vat holds 100 gallons.
When not in use for
spraying, the engine
can be disconnected
and used for numerous
small ;obs (such as
pumping water, etc.),
around the house.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
lias been carried on in Australia in the
propagation of this tree. Mr. Ward, of the
Sydney Botanic Gardens, has been successful
in establishing it in Sydney, and specimens
can be seen at any time in the Botanic
Gardens. (This year one of these trees
carried a heavy crop of fruit.) Oil was
expressed from fruit borne on these trees
by A. R. Penfold, Director of the Techno-
logical Museum, in Sydney. H’e reports: “I
am satisfied that the oil from Australian-
grown trees, when obtainable in quantity,
Will be finite satisfactory in technical prac-
tice and yield varnishes equal to those manu-
factured from imported oil.” Mr. Rawes-
Wliittel, of Pennant Hills, has been success-
ful m establishing this valuable economic
tree in that district, and through his instru-
mentality it is reported that successful results
have been secured in the Dawson Valley
irrigation area in Queensland. The Queens-
land Government Department of Agriculture
and Forests is now raising tree stocks pre-
paratory to establishing test plantations
throughout the State; and the interests with
which the writer is associated are now
carrying out propagation and planting acti-
vities on a comprehensive semi-commercial
scale. Co-operation has been received from
the Imperial authorities, from the varnish
institutes of the United States and Great
Britain, the Foochow Uni., China, and
others. Seed true to name and origin has
been secured from these agencies, and already
very definite results have been attained.
Several thousand young trees are now in
nursery, and active steps are being taken
to set out a 45-acre plantation in the coastal
red soil “rain-belt” of the Cairns district.
Preliminary tests carried out last year in
this district have been productive of most
encouraging results. Two hundred trees
were raised from Florida seed and were
planted out some months ago, and every
tree survived and specimen trees have grown
three feet in three months. The tree appears
perfectly at home in the North. Experi-
mental work is also being carried out with
Aleurites montana, a tree which yields a
valuable wood-oil in China.
The economic possibilities of the produc-
tion of tung oil in the Commonwealth arc
very bright. There is a strong domestic
demand in Australia and Maoriland, and
this market will soon absorb 2,000,0001 b.
annually, while the annual American and
consumption is estimated at over
150,000,0001 b. Tung oil is used in the manu-
facture ‘of high-grade paints and varnishes;
for insulation in electric factories; for
hardening and drying rubber products; and
thousands of other uses, which will increase
in number when supply can be made to meet
the demand. Even where cellulose paints
and varnishes have come into use tung oil
must be used as an undercoat. There is
no known substitute. To meet the demand,
the American varnish industry is urging the
planting of from 100,000 to 400,000 acres
of Tung trees.
Here may be a new crop for Northern
Queensland’s vacant lands. The writer will
be glad to arrange for a limited distribution
of Aleurites fordii seed free to interested
farmer co-operators in coastal Queensland.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Dow can I make red or Hue spraying
oil for citrus trees out of waste motor oil?
(Z) How can I propagate Japanese honey-
suckle? —BSI.
(1) Lubricating oils cannot be satisfac-
torily emulsified for spraying. Several
attempts have been made by adding* ammonia,
but the application to the trees has resulted
m burning foliage and small branches. (2)
Take an available shoot, and, without detach-
ing it from the parent, bury a part of it
ab <mt 4 inches under the soil for about 8
to 12 inches in length, bending the top end
upwards so that the shoot is in the soil
in the shape of an S. As growth develops on
the terminal young roots will be formed
on the portion covered, which in about six
months may be severed from the parent and
transplanted.
(1.) With what, and when, should I spray
an apricot-tree which last year had shot-
hole on leaves and scab on fruit (first year
of fruiting ) ? (2) With what, and what
quantity for two lemon-trees, two apple-
trees, one peach? (3) How is nicotine sul-
phate made? (4) The best manure for the
various trees. —463.
.(1) Spray twice with 12-8-80 Bordeaux
mixture. The first spraying should be given
in early autumn, soon after leaves fall, and
the second when the flower buds are showing
pink and before they open. It is important
to encourage a healthy growth by manur-
V!-R’ P ru ning and, if necessary, irrigation.
(2) As you don’t state disease, a remedy
cannot be given. (3) Add one pint of nico-
tine to 80 gallons of water. (4) Depends
on the nature of the soil. One pound of
sulphate of potash per tree in early winter
and 61b. of blood and bone in early spring
is a good all-round manure. There is no-
thing better than stable or poultry manure,
it procurable.
I have a son who wants to go on the land.
He is at an agricultural college. I have
read again and again lately statements by
farmers that wheat-growing is unprofitable,
yet I know that experienced men are paying
big prices for wheat lands. What is' the
strength of it? —lol9.
• r fi ia t i s a pretty large question to answer
in a few lines. (1) There are failures in
every business, and a larger proportion in
tarmmg because it calls for knowledge which
often isn t available. _ If an architect started
° U i any tra *ning he would almost
Aonlrl t make a me ? s of and a farmer
should know as much as an architect. If
tbe knowledge, he ought to have
advice handy and he ought to have it
imZhl 10 g6tS n is m rm ’ othcrw ise he will
pi otmbly never be able to, make a real farm
foil p 0 n ( n 2) E n- en / he has knowledge he may
fail because his first seasons may be against
Inm, and he generally hasn’t the money to
through. (3) Even with little know-
ledge he may sometimes succeed. The seasons
may be so much in his favor that lie may
make a punch which will see him through till
he gets knowledge and experience. (4) Figures
about cost of production are not of great
value. A farmer who got his wheat in
late m an early season may find it cost him
4s. a bushel to produce his crop. His neigh-
bor who got his in early and stripped twice
as much finds his figures work out at 2s.
Summing up: A few men make at least the
foundations of comfortable fortunes. Many
fail, most of whom would fail at any busi-
ness if they knew so little about it or were
so little fitted for it, or had so little capital to
start with. More make a very bare living,
but they are sustained by the hope—in
fact, possibility—that some time they will
reap two or three extra-good harvests and so
get into Easy-street. There is no such possi-
bility ahead of the tram conductor.
(1) What is the best number of hens to
run with one rooster? (2) How many birds
to the ordinary-sized netted yard? —77o.
(1) Depends on the breed and individuality
of the male bird and the conditions under
which they are kept, i.e., leghorn cockerels
(in small pens) 8 to 10 hens, (on free range)
12 to 20 liens; black Orpington cockerels (in
small pens) 6 to 8 hens, (on free range) 10
to 15 hens; Rhode Island reds (on free
range) up to 20. For show Orpingtons,
Brahman Cochins, etc., 3 to 4 hens are
usually enough. (2) Breeding pens 60ft. by
12ft. hold 24 hens comfortably.
(1) What is sulphate of iron? (2) What
effect has it on sheep when mixed with
coarse salt for a lick? (3) What color is it?
(4) Is it a powder or a crystal? (5) What
is the difference between sulphates and sul-
phites?—l7BB.
(1) A compound formed by the com-
bination of iron with sulphuric acid. (2)
It has a tonic effect. (3) Greenish. (4)
Generally it is sold in the form of crystals,
but a powdered form can be obtained. (5)
Sulphates contain more oxygen than sul-
phites.
(1) What are the best grasses annual or
perennial to sow during June and July on
gravelly and rocky ridges in the West Wya-
long (N.S.W.) district? (2) Quantity of
seed and manure to be sown per acre?—llS.
\\ immera rye grass is suitable for the pur-
pose mentioned, but the season is now rather
advanced for sowing. Rhodes grass could
be sown in July or August at 41b. of seed
and 561 b. of superphosphate per acre.
One of my heavy sows has an inflamed
udder, which is swollen, hot, painful and
very tender . to the touch. She will not allow
the little pigs to suck, and has gone off her
food, and also appears to be suffering from
constipation. What can be done? —lo76.
The sow is apparently suffering from in-
nammation of the udder, not an uncommon
trouble, especially with heavy sows. The
udders are liable to injury by bruising, etc.,
and become infected. Preventive treat-
ment consists in keeping the sows clean.
Bore teats should be bathed with alcohol, or
a strong solution of alum, or the white lotion
consisting of 3 drams each of sulphide of
zme and lead acetate, and 16oz. water. When
there are signs of inflammation the sow
should be given a full dose of Epsom salts,
and the udder bathed frequently with hot
water, followed by gentle massage with
camphorated oil. If much fever be present,
two or three drops of aconite in water may
be given twice or three times a day. If tli
udder becomes very painful, a local applica-
tion of belladonna may be used in the form
of an ointment, consisting of extract of bella-
donna, l-dram, to 2oz. vaseline. An equal
amount of gum camphor may be added, and
will increase the value of the ointment. Bella-
donna checks the secretion of milk, and if
applied - for several days may entirely dry
it up.
What is the best way to poison fat foxes?
—oil.
When killing a sheep, let it bleed into a
tin dish; keep the liver also. In taking out
the entrails, let the blood drop on to a bran-
bag. Keep all the entrails; put them in the
bran-bag for a trail. Cut the liver into small
pieces about the size of an egg, make a' cut
in each piece as deep as possible, and put
as much strychnine as would lie on a six-
pence in each piece. Then put about a
teaspoonful of poison in a pint of congealed
blood; mix well together. Having done all
this, take a vehicle (where practicable),
tie the bran-bag with entrails on the axle,
and let it drag along the ground. At inter-
vals of, say, 200 or 300 yards put a little
blood on the trailer. Drop the baits about
from 100 to 200 or 300 yards apart, accord-
ing to the number of foxes; if they are very
thick the baits would be better closer
together. To lay the blood baits it is neces-
sary to get out of the trap; step out on the
bran-bag behind, getting over the back of the
trap. Handle baits as little as possible.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Otnim” ; When pruning grape-vines, don't
omit to clean the trunks of the vines and all
parts that have loose bark on them. Twist-
ing the hands round the canes will loosen
the bark. If left, it shelters pests and helps
to start decay in the vines. White ants make
their entry where there is loose bark.
“Yeoman”: A simple, cheap and effective
method of reducing loss from evaporation
in dams or tanks is to pour sufficient cheap
oil on the water to form a film over the
whole surface. It will be necessary to pump
the water from beneath the surface so that
the oil will not be consumed by stock.
“R.D.A.” : Great benefits are to be derived
from chain or heavy harrowing of top-dressed
pastures following immediately on feeding-
off by stock. The practice economises
. valuable manure by spreading it evenly,
and it cuts out patches of rank and
unsavory growth. The paddock “freshens”
quicker, and in some soils the surface
is worked and stooling promoted.
“Boronia” : If you're planting an orchard
breakwind, don’t plant Pinus insignis. They
are quick growers, but they grow too tali,
with the result that there is generally a con-
siderable strip in the orchard which produces
fruit of an inferior color. They are hungry
trees too, and their roots are abnormally
long extending in cases for three chains.
O’Beron”: Some horsemen hold that an
animal is more likely to contract a chill when
clipped. That applies only when a horse is
used for odd jobs on which he is required to
stand idle for much of his time. Where the
work is continuous and heavy, the clipped
animal has the advantage. The long-haired
animal sweats more than the other, and as his
thick coat retains the moisture for a con-
siderable time, he is very apt to take a
chill after his day’s work. The short hair
of the clipped animal retains so little,mois-
ture that a brisk rub-down leaves him dry
and comfortable.


RELIABILITY
i
r~
Perth to
Sydney in 5 jt
days 22 i,
hours —Mr.
A n t i 1 l’s |!
Riley Nine j
—Rapson
Shod. J
t
Adelaide
to Sydney in \
2T> J hours —
Mr. Earnests i
Oldsmobile 3
—R a pson
Shod. j
Vs
-a
N/
%
m
fm
u>
V/ vrjJfr
«9 '
yjO 0 '
Melbourne-
Sydney re-
cord reduced
by 18 min-
utes Mr.
Buckle y’s
Bui c k
Rapson Shod
n TON I
B<i
1
*
m
A s some people are “born to greatness” so
some products are “created from great-
ness” .... No more outstanding example of this
has been given than with Rapson Tyres.
For years past British Rapsons have been asso-
ciated with an impressive succession of motor-
car performances. .. . From the great “Dewar
Trophy” to that wonderful Cape to Cairo 15,000
miles through the worst country in Africa, these
British Tyres have figured with conspicuous
merit. .. . And now with the Australian Rap-
son, it is no mere platitude to say that it has
more than upheld the reputation of its great
name.
"p-lAT dazzling Adelaide to Sydney dash by
Arthur Barnes in his Rapson-shod Olds-
mobile lowered the existing record by over 12
hours. Then came Buckley’s speedy sprint from
Sydney to Melbourne in just over 10 hours. . . .
and Antill in his Riley Nine, creating a new
transcontinental record from Perth to Sydney,
beating the previous best by days.
In every case the Rapson Tyres used gave
service that delighted the intrepid drivers. . . .
and proved, by their ability to stand up to this
gruelling wear and tear, their pre-eminent
utility and economy for the private motor-
owner.
o
mpsoN
jßapsons are obtainable from all Dealers
Wholesale Distributors in Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth
and Launceston.
SPARE THE PUMP
and
SPOIL THE TYRE
LOOK TO YOUR
PRESSURES.
THE WORLDS BEST TYRE


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
ẃ
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOM/NG TOBfleeO
its
'ualit
is
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
SMOLE-OH!
“Angrily he picked up the telephone,
intending to raise Cain”.... And ten to
one he got Abel.
* *
“Sheep Stray to Coogee.” These must
be the Coogee Baas we’ve been hearing about
for years.
* ¥
Ramsay MacDonald says his Government
has wasted no time in getting into harness.
However, the length of the reign seems to
rest with Lloyd George.
* *
The Week’s Kind Thought:—
“If time is money, my family should
be satisfied. I’m leaving them eternity.”
* *
“Let him say on.”— S. M. Bruce on W. M. Hughes.
Permission having been thus given, the
shy little North Sydneyite may perhaps
abandon his normal passion for reticence.
OBEDIENT CHILD.
“Haven’t I told you again and again not to go playing
with those rough children?”
“I wasn’t playing with them, Mummy. I was only
chucking stones at them.”
“A man of brilliant attainments, he devoted him-
self to worthless hobbies.” —S. M. Herald.
In short, he fadded into insignificance.
w
Fitchctt’s “Deeds that Won the Empire”
suggests a possible title for another best-
seller on football this time: “Deeds That
Stun the Umpire.”
* *
“Owing to the cold, each member of a Melbourne
jury was provided with a rug.”
Twelve good men and blue.
THE DIPSO.’,B PRAYER.
“For refusing to produce a set of books, Justice
Starke sentenced a witness for contempt of court —
the hotel at which he was staying to be regarded
as his temporary place of confinement.”
■Judge, if from paths of rectitude I swerve,
Fi :d me some clinic like that in which to
serve.
But there’s one sentence I’d prefer by far —
A “lifer” in a really well-stocked bar!
D. McM.
* #
What is the need of all this argument
about “trial marriages”? Isn’t every mar-
riage a trial?
THE SKELETON AT THE FEAST.
HER : “Ooh! Whenever I see a trifle it makes me shudder.”
HER BOY FRIEND: “Whaffor?”
HER AGAIN: “Well, it’s what my husband and I always quarrel
over.”
“The sentry stamped his feet.” —Sunday News.
That was, of course, before lie was posted.
At
CUPID LICKS CUPIDITY.
“Absolutely the most enthralling and arresting
contribution to English literature of recent date.”
— Author’s opinion.
Gervasa Fitzherbert, the Terror of Pure
Maidenhood, laughed metallically—one of
his many poisonous habits.
“Dismiss Claude from your mind,” he
snarled. “I have had him dropped from an
aeroplane in Central Australia.” Again the
hardware laugh. “Marry me or”
“That,” moaned Lola, “I will never do.”
“Then your father will hear about the
baby.”
“Wretch !” shrieked Lola. “H'ave you no
mercy for that old grey head?”
Fitz was in the act of unleashing another
of his famous “Ha Ha’s” when a maid
entered with a telegram.
Lola read it and then turning to the
Wrecker of Females she rapped out: “Read
that, you cow!”
With blanching cheeks Fitzherbert read:
“Baby Austin reported stolen from front
Charmers recovered Bowral.”
“S’death !” hissed Fitzherbert.
“Struth!” cried Claude, who had just
walked in.
“Claude!” ecstasised Lola.
“Fitz, here,” said Claude, “was ass enough
to purloin a Defence Department ’plane, in
which to have me dropped in Central Aus-
tralia. Need I say that his hirelings couldn’t
get it past Parramatta.”
Lola and Claude fall into each others arms
as Fitzherbert is removed struggling violently
to a waiting P.D. car to answer a charge of
Insulting Behavior.
D. McM.
ŵ
The Australian Board of Missions boasts
that one of its parsons can pull teeth. We
know quite a number who can do more.
They can pull legs.
* *
“Peas are a favorite vegetable; one of the punish-
ments inflicted, when necessary, upon any of the
children who need it, is to deprive them of their
share.” —Report of a Sydney Home.
No peas for the wicked, as the Good Book
says.
IMPROBABILITIES.
Under no circumstances will the Cabinet
appoint another Royal Commission during
the life of the
present Parliament.
“That’s all I
got,” said my neigh-
bor, after a fishing
trip. “Nothing big.
I lost two or three
others, but they
weren’t as large as
the smallest of
those.”
“You look tired,
dear,” said my
wife. “Really, I
think you shouldn’t
hurry home so.
Why don’t you
drop in at a nice
hotel and have a
few spots with
your friends now
and then ? I can
easily do with
less housekeeping
money.”
The two rival
football barrackers
sought a pub in
perfect amity ai
the end of the
game. “Your team
played well and
deserved their win,” remarked the first. “And
your men lost like the splendid sportsmen
they are,” said his companion. “And now,”
said the supporter of the beaten side, “let’s
drink the health of the fairest man on the
ground to-day—the Umpire.”
# * 1
AMONG THE DEAD LANGUAGES.
“I’d rather stand, thank you.”
“We’re going to church.”
“I don’t know if I can. I’ll ask my
mother.”
“Take my chair, sir.”
“Kiss you? Certainly not!”
“Give me a packet of hairpins, please.”
“I want to stay at home and sew.”
M. G.
* #
“Ben Fuller, of theatrical fame, is now
a big Sydney land-holder.” Fuller’s earth.
WRONG.
“Guess wot I’m in, Sarah, in jour letters I*
“In love, Dave?.”
“No, in debt. I owe yer old man jer two
pigs.”
“He paid up rather than risk the cost of litiga-
tion.”
Lawyers call this “the parting of the
wise.”
* *
Condobolin footballers are by no means
the first to declare a local abo. team black.
WIMMIN’S WILES.
When yer tabby turns yer down,
An’ yer ’cart is broke;
When yer sheila walks the town
With some other bloke,
That’s the time a man feels crook.
Oh! the outlook’s bleak,
When yer tart gives yer the ’ook
For some dolled sheik.
P’raps she’s fell for ’is new car
Or ’is toothbrush mo—
(For yer know what women are
If a bloke’s got dough.)
An’ yer wish as yer wus dead
As the beer yer swig;
An’ you’d knock ’is blanky ’ead
If ’e weren't so big.
Then she crawls back lookin’ blue,
An’ yer lose yer frown
When she makes yer think it’s P'ue
That yer turned ’er down!
SORIC.
THE SURPRISE.
A widow a man may marry,
Anticipating bliss,
And yet will not need to tarry
To find he’s wed a-miss.
R.
STRATEGY.
The crowd was immense and the confusion
more appalling than anything I had seen in
my life. But then I was dead and waiting
to be judged with the rest. Peter was being
shamefully jostled, and I saw the boot being
put into more than one prominent apostle
who was trying to control the traffic. My
heart fairly bled for poor old Gabriel, who,
after waiting for millions of years for this
opportunity, was unable to raise his trump,
much less blow it.
But what maddened me as a journalist
was the fact that I couldn’t see what was
going on.
Suddenly an idea came to me. I started
to push through the throng. Most of those
present were only too glad to let someone
else get ahead of them. The whole trouble,
as a matter of fact, arose from reluctance on
the part of the multitude to approach the
Seat. At last I reached an angel who bore
an embossed crown on his wings to show
that he was there in an official capacity.
“Press,” I said authoritatively.
Cautiously he passed me through a door of
ivory, and indicated a neat soapbox of gold
inlaid with lapis lazuli, on which I was
able to stand and view the ceremony with-
out further discomfort.
HAMER.
THE LIGHT THAT FAILED.
Jazzy Jane was the light of his life,
He loved her as such.
But she signally failed as a wife,
She went- out too much.
M. T. H.
THE BRIDE’S SECRET.
Mr. James Stammers closed the philoso-
phical treatise lie was reading in the train
at a stimulating passage:—
“There can be no marital
happiness unless a wife ful-
fils her subconscious desire
and enjoys the beauty of
motherhood”....
Pie walked the distance
from the station to his subur-
ban home in record time.
That afternoon Mary had
si token to him on the ’phone
of a great secret.
She stood at the front door
waiting for him as usual. He
observed that her hands were
pressed together in an atti-
tude of pleasurable excite-
ment.
Mary had the average wo-
man’s habit of telling the en-
tire history of a family before
reaching the actual denoue-
ment of the father being fined
for swindling the gas com-
pany.
“Well, darling, I went
dlown town ta-day, did my
usual shopping, and then I
called on Doctor Smiffim —I
had a long conversation with
him, of which I will tell you
later. When I g°t home what
do you think? There was a
letter from mother saying she
was coming for a week!”
Mr. Stammers did not seem
favorably impressed.
“But what did the doctor
say? And what is the great
secret?”
“Hie said that what I
thought was heart disease
is indigestion, and the secret
is that mother’is giving me
the darlingest little Pom.
Isn’t it tcowderful?”
E. B.
AFTERMATH.
The doctor diagnosed that Bill had got
pneumonic ’flu.
“Old chap,” he said, “I fear ice’ll have a fob
to pull you through.”
Bill had an agonising cough ; it raked him■
fore and aft.
He coughed by day, he coughed by night, it
nearly drove him daft.
But now that Bill’s recovered and is out of
bed again,
It’s coughing up the doctor’s fee that's
causing him the pain!
D. McM.
ẁ


IN THE WORLD!
ESTABLISHED 1742.
m
j.
inimmiiiiw
PS
s
i
t
Wl
%
w
nj
*8
9
*
Real old Scotch whisky with
a rare distinctive flavour. In
growing demand throughout
the world. A man’s drink—
anytime, anywhere.
C 4P
WHISKY
Bor>


SlMOfrife
X
0
ys
i£R3
\
\
&
of
if
i*
s®e
v.
it
i
*l*
c o
&S
*o
SNg I **
--Tusi
asfSJ^
W
' Acab lMo^i>
JVo/o/vs/sTifee
SIMONIZ
Sold by All Good Motor Houses, Service
Stations and Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small
Cans; 5/- Large Cans. In case y6u cannot
obtain
locally,
see nor
below.,
Simonizing is so easy,
and costs so little. Yet is so
necessary because it makes the
finish more durable and beau-
tiful — and keeps colors
from fading.
Simoniz
and Simoniz
Kleener, wonderful
paste compounds, are applied
with a cloth. A container of each
will keep a car looking
new for a long
time.
Simoniz Kleener quickly
removes aIV-dirt, scum and
tarnish —and restores lustre and
color. Simoniz gives lasting
protection to the
finish.
APPLY WITH
A CLOTH.
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ẅ
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT —
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with Ion? spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMON.IZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
mnwofy
i
m
7
c
DUILDIMC FOR THE
' FIMEfT
RAILWAY/
And for those of Great Britain in particular.
All four great railway systems have been included on the
A.W. orders list in recent years.
In India, Australia and S. America, too, A.W. locomotives
are upholding our reputation to-day as the world’s greatest
locomotive builders
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD.
Sales Organisation*.
PARK HOUSE, GREAT SMITH STREET, LONDON, S.W.I.
Works and Shipyards - - - - NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE.
AGENTS: Messrs. GILBERT-LODGE & CO., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
w
DOMINION FORESTS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignis trees, planted
m N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
u
Advertise in Xshe
Queenslander”
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Losing Your Hair?
Vi-Glo’will
Stop it!
ŵ
&
Too late for
Vi-Glo!
To' be bald is to be a joke! Pate showers her gifts
on the alert, young-looking men and women. Once
you’re bald you’re beyond hope—save your hair
while you can. “Vi-Glo” will do it! This is a
NEW, Scientific, non-watery, non-greasy preparation
that gets to the hair roots and revitalises them to
such an extent that the new hair grown actually
possesses a natural waviness that improves one’s looks
tremendously ! “Vi-Glo” stops Dandruff ! “Vi-Glo”
wards off and banishes premature Greyness! “Vi-
Glo” gives the hair new Youth! Price 3/-, complete
with special Free “bay-rum” Shampoo. Get “Vi-
Glo” from any Chemist’s or Stores, or post 3/4 for
outfit to the Vi-Glorient Company, Kembla Building,
Sydney.- — Advt.
a
Dependablef
Mohajkh
■Craig sAitken
sqdney N.5.W. j
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


V%, 4^
/ -JM.
Vs
m
A
Kf
Proved to be the
greatest Sale in
91 years . . .
ẃ
HSB
mm
ẅ
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD-
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In “Heroes of the Night” (Gotham)
there is the correct amount of lash, bash and
fury. A policeman fights in a bedroom with
a thug, the bullets from whose revolver plunk
through the door and miss the copper’s mother
by a hair’s-breadth. Also, two apartment
houses are burned down and various innocent
people get badly singed, if not actually in-
cinerated, and some of them have to leap
for life from the upper windows with their
coat-tails blazing, and there is such a realistic
presentation of mother being baked, basted
or fried that one’s nostrils are as actively
engaged in savoring the picture as one’s eyes.
However, a fireman arrives in the nick of
time and rescues mother just as she is about
to be as hopelessly overdone as a boarding-
house grill. Then the fireman hero marries
Marion Davies. None of the bad characters
get thrown into the , fire or even have their
livers punctured; otherwise everything is
satisfactory. While right-minded people can
see pictures like “Heroes of the Night ’ there
is not the slightest chance of bullfighting
being established in Australia.
“Redskin” (Paramount) is an interesting
experiment in color and synchronisation.
The story is the. rather whiskery one of the
boy Indian who, after a paleface schooling,
goes back full of disrespect not only for
the white man, but also for the ancient
superstitions of the tribe. The coloring is
introduced throughout a reel or so at the
beginning and the end, and, though it adds
interest to the
spectacle, and
in a few in-
stances is
se s t h e tically
satisfying, it
is on the whole
not a success.
Red far too
greatly pr e-
dominates,
there is no
deep blue
whatever, and
this Show-
man’s eyes
became dazed
by the rapid
alternating of
vivid glitter-
ings brought
about by the
a c c e 1 e rated
action. Again,
the sudden
break from
color to black
GLADYS BELMOT.
and white and back to color damages con-
tinuity ; at the time it is an optical and
mental shock, and afterwards you are left
with the impression of having seen two
painted hills with a murky, indistinct gully
in between. Still, the color is a distinct
aid in portraiture, especially, in this picture,
of the Indians. At times you get a remark-
able illusion of looking at living faces. A
trouble with this addition to the movie is
the fact that most people do not consciously
see color in landscape, and when the camera
shows up any such commonplace thing as
a brick wall in its true and often splendid
colors, it is thought incredible. Richard
Dix is appropriately athletic as the Indian
youth, and Gladys Belmot has an easy
job as the maid of another tribe who loves
him throughout.
“A Dangerous Woman” (Paramount) is the
familiar story of the effect of Africa’s climate
upon the white man, with very slight variety
in detail. Clive Brook is the typical English-
man he portrays so well, dumped down as
the leading official in an African outpost
with Baclanova-portrayed wife of the kind
that is at home only in the silken midst of
civilisation. On her account Brook’s assist-
ant shoots himself, yet Brook is delighted
when his young brother arrives to fill the
post. The wife, of course, snares the brother
also, in the most obvious fashion ; and Brook
gives her a dose of poison, with the idea of
then committing suicide. He had, however,
been observed in the act of mixing the poison
by his derelict man, and when he is prevented
from shooting himself by his young brother
the story takes a slight twist which, though
it scarcely compensates for the general
obviousness, makes the film more satisfying
than the happy-end-and-hang-feasibility type.
Australia’s old friend Clyde Cook is the
derelict, a Cockney who brings a meed of
lightness to the sombre tale. Baclanova is
given a fair opportunity, but makes little of
it. The picture is a talkie throughout, the
noises including the drumming and singing
of the niggers in their ceremonial dances.
Rain falls like split-peas descending upon
the roof, to indicate the wet season.
There is no parsimoniousness about movie
manufacturers. They give us a good thing;
we say we like it; they give it to us again—
as a joint, as Irish stew, sea-pie, curried with
eggs, minced in a pie, as soup, crumbed ris-
soles and hash. Then they start all over
again. “Lucky Boy” (Roa Photophone)
comes somewhere between the curry and the
hash and is on the mighty theme of mother-
love. Georgie Jessel is the son of a Hebrew
watchmaker in the Bronx, New York, and he
has.'ian urge to go on the stage. His father
opposes the idea, but the clear eye of his
mother sees where his true genius lies. He
disappears from their ken and mother falls
ill. Georgie lias got a job in a San Fran-
cisco .dabaret,' and, having heard that his
mother is indisposed, is singing of Ms longings
for iionjie as he never sang before, in the hope
that the song will reach the appropriate ears.
It does, because the father, in order to amuse
his bedridden spouse, has tuned in on the
domestic, super-iodine or whatever it is they
call these things. The situation would
be more convincing if Georgie’s singing were'
different from wliat it is; his warbling is
enough to give any dear old lady not inured
to that sort of entertainment a relapse. In
his hectic rush across America for the final
reunion Georgie meets the girl of his heart,
but dramatically she has to take a back seat
because, as has been remarked, the theme
is mother-love. Rosa Rosanove’s delightful
performance as Mum is the outstanding
feature of the film. Georgie Jessel is
adequate as the hero.
The Palette
An exhibition of Tasmanian landscapes at
the Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, reveals
Hans Heysen not thoroughly at home in his
efforts to capture the Speck’s coloring. John
R. Eldershaw’s trio is much more pleasing-
in this respect, and John D. Moore shows a
satisfying group of trees. The best range
and some of the best work is managed by
Sydney Ure Smith, who contributes excel-
lent glimpses of Hobart and Port Arthur.
Lately returned from overseas, Alice
Norton has filled Sydney Fine Art Gallery
with a world of fresh color; water-color
glimpses of entrancing nooks and corners of
Europe and India, painted with sincere feel-
ing. Her “Cypress Trees, Algiers,” is a
lovely piece of decorative landscape painting.
“Bluebells in Kew Garden” is a brave splash
of color — r almost all the ground under a deep
patch of park trees is carpeted with the
flowers. “Friday-street, Surrey,” is a charm-
ing topic; “Poppies” is another enchanting
glimpse of the same county. From England
the artist goes cheerfully forth to be as much
at home at “The Castle, Heidelberg,” the
“Bridge at Ronda, Spain,” or “On the Hotel
Steps, Benares.”
“F.S.”: Margaret Baskerville (B.
3/7/’29) will shortly be the subject of a
monograph to be published in Melb. by Ed-
ward Vidler. It will be illustrated with 50
plates of the lady’s works, which range from
monumental figures like her rugged statue
of Tommy Bent to realistic little studies of
kids. As far as I know, this is the first
occasion on which Australian sculpture has
been the subject of a book.
“M-G-S.”: Melbourne Nat. Gallery trus-
tees are allowing Henry Ford to reproduce
one of their pictures as an advertisement.
From the remarks of local artists, one would
imagine that all the Vandals of business pro-
posed to stable their horses in the temple,
and use the Venus de Milo for a doorstop.
The picture selected is Septimus Power’s
“On the Moors,” a man, a maid and a dog
seated on the top of a hill. When the canvas
was first shown the critics raved about it,
and the price was high, so naturally the
Felton Bequest bought it, though from the
point' of view of art it belongs to the maga-
zine-cover school. If Raeburn’s magnificent
“John Wardrop” or M'eldrum’s “Mother”
had been selected it might be appropriate
to talk of sacrilege. But works like those
are not likely to interest the advertiser.
Great art provides its own protection.
The Inky Way
“Berra”: George Cockerill, for over 30
years chief tliunderer for the Melbourne Age,
is writing a book on the romance of the
gold discoveries in Australia. Cockerill
was born amongst the Cornish miners of
Bendigo, and was grounded in journalism on
the old Independent. He left the Syme jour-
nal three or four years ago to become
editor of Sydney Daily Telegraph ; when
that paper became a Pic. he returned to
Melbourne. Since then he has been trying
his hand at a novel, working at the book on
the days of gold and doing publicity work for
the Development and Migration Commission.
“Hugh Stone” : Editor Saunders, who for
26 years guided the literary destinies of the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Herald, has followed
late manager Morris into retirement. So
the Herald faces the second half of 1929
with a new editor, a new manager—both
from Ipswich (Q.) —and a new home, the old
Bolton-street building having been adjudged
too small and dingy. Its owners are New-
castle people.
Tom Power (“Galtee More” of the
S. M. Herald and Mail for 36 years) has
written his last racing par. A Tipperary
man, Power did a bit of mining in Victoria
before he took to journalism; the first paper
he worked for was the old Pleasant Creek
News at Stawell. He was an uncommonly
good judge of a horse and had few equals as
a turf chronicler. When the old man re-
tired from the Fairfax papers in 1919 —-
he was 76 then —the A.J.C. made him
free of Randwick and associated courses for
life—a distinction seldom bestowed.
“Lao-dah”: The prize misprint of the
week comes from the social columns of a
“Far Eastern” paper. Writing of a bachelor
party, the reporter mentioned the presence
of a number of “married men living apart
from their wives.” It was unhappily put,
considering that he only meant grass
widowers, but the comp, made matters
worse. He changed “living” to “loving.”
“P.N.”: I always found many points of
resemblance between Langdon Bonytlion, of
Adelaide, and C. P. Scott, who, after 57
years of it, has just decided not to be editor
of the Manchester Guardian any longer;
he has handed the reins over to his son.
Scott can give Bonython a year; one is 81,
the other 82. Each, even at 80, thought the
paper couldn’t be put to bed comfortably
unless he was on the premises. Both in
something past middle life thought their coun-
try needed them in Parliament, and both
were disappointed when they got there, and
didn’t stay long. Scott began with a rather
better equipment than Bonython; when he
went into the Guardian oflice he was an
M.A. and went straight on to the editorial
side; Bonython started as an office-boy.
Bonython acquired the whole business (in
fact, made most of it) ; Scott acquired
enough of the Guardian to be its governing
director. And, finally, both are West Coun-
try men. Scott was born at Bath; Bony-
thon, though born in London, is, as the
world knows, a Bonython of Carclew in
Cornwall;


sr?
am
mi
Mm
BRITISH
-v^-s^VADp
m
Q3>
£??&
"40P
c ß£at
WlTaih
0?
:
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave —the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case . .
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia?—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... 1 was looking
at the poster.....”
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
66 —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can 1—?”
r , •■' : • '..■;V. . ' . '
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 10/- or 22/6 for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
w
BETWEEN September 23
and October 3, the finest
radio show yet will be in
progress in London. Whether
you are a trader or just a
radio enthusiast you should
endeavor to see this wonder-
ful display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised,
dealers on request to the organisers
NATIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
OLY M PI A L ONDON,
ENGLAND
September 23 to October 3.
Organised by
THE RADIO MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, Astor House, Aldwych, London W.C.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—Ttie Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations; Y 3012, (4 lines).
RECORD BONUS DISTRIBUTION
S7?e
A.M.P. SOCIETY
ON JUNE 29, 1929, DISTRIBUTED
OVER THREE MILLION POUNDS
£3,000,000
In Bonuses to participating Policy-holders in the Ordinary
Department, producing reversionary additions to policies of
£5,240,000
With interim bonuses paid during the year, this represents an
AVERAGE RETURN TO MEMBERS OF 58.1 PER CENT. OF
PREMIUMS PAID UNDER PARTICIPATING POLICIES FOR
YEAR 1928.
Expressed in Cash, this means that an average of 11/8 IN
EACH POUND OF PREMIUMS PAID IS NOW RETURNED
AS CASH BONUS.
INSURE NOW AND SECURE A SHARE OF THIS
YEAR’S SURPLUS.
ASSETS, £73,776,000
Write or ’Phone for Prospectus.
F. T. BRIDGES,
Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Offices in All the Leading Country Towns.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Seres no sport
SPORT
SNO
AT
CALL,WRITE .
oh WIRE jk/
ŵ
W. W. GREENER
GUN
Value £lOO
will be shot for at the
MELBOURNE
GUN CLUB
Commonwealth
Championship Meeting in
July.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
F. TUBB,
Leeds Street, Canterbury, Vic.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Kentle’s victory in the V.R.C. Grand
National Hurdle last Saturday came as the
result of a rare exhibition of stamina and
pluck. It cost the Kenilworth gelding no
small amount of effort to overhaul Chumree
and Bay of Biscay in the straight, and even
after his mount had drawn ahead Ted Web-
ster kept tapping lum with the whip in fear
of renewed challenges. The Brisbane Cup
winner was all out to score by nearly two
lengths in four seconds less than record
time. A remarkable feature of the race was
the part played by Adelaide candidates.
Adit took control about a mile from home,
but surprised everyone by compounding when
joined by Chumree at the abattoirs. At
five furlongs the contest resolved itself into
a duel between Chumree and Bay of Biscay,
with Kentle nice and handy for the last run.
Webster adopted brainy methods. Astride a
true stayer, he rode a Melbourne Cup finish,
allowing the leaders to exhaust themselves.
The enforced withdrawal of Epical early
in the week, through injury sustained in
his Caulfield outing, left Tiki undisputed
favorite. But Harry Connolly’s horse drifted
from 4 to 1 to 11 to 2 on the course, and
was in only half a point better demand at
barrier rise than Valbee. Next in favor
came Kentle and Adit at 8 to 1. No candi-
date met with such noticeable eleventh-hour
support as Bavaroy (10 to 1), who, how-
ever, lost his rider at the second flight. There
is a hoodoo on Bob Inkson so far as big
events are concerned. He was originally
engaged for Arcadius, who broke down. So
did Lanilda, for whom his services were
later secured. It looked a piece of good luck
for Inkson to obtain the mount on Tiki, but
the Patrobas gelding slipped his off hind
fetlock along the riverside and had to be
pulled up far from home.
Slowly regaining health after a protracted
illness, V.R.C. chairman Mackinnon glowed
with delight when Kentle triumphed in his
colors. In 1906 “L.K.S.” acquired Realm
after his G.N. success, and won a pot of
money over the Majestic gelding in the Caul-
field G. N. Hurdle, the Australian Cup and
the Sydney Cup. winding up by selling Realm
for export to India. Eleven years later
Merunqua credited Mackinnon with the G. N.
Hurdle, vanquishing Eric Connolly’s Bundong
by an eyebrow. Twelve years have elapsed
between the victories of Merunqua and
Kentle. Realm cost 500 guineas. Much less
was paid for Merunqua, whom Don Coleman
picked out from a mob of unbroken Car-
biniers at the late Albert Tyson’s station,
near Hay. Report has it that purchase of
Kentle involved a cash outlay of £7OO, with
£3OO contingencies. S. W. Biggins must
regret having parted with the ex-Queens-
lander. He continues as trainer of Kentle
—for the present, at all events.
Chaumont was weighed in the balance
again and found wanting in the Kensington
Steeple. His failure caus'd the Orleigh
Park representative to be ousted from G. N.
Steeple favoritism. Chaumont was backed
from 7 to 4 to little better than evens; and
bookmakers eagerly offered 7 to 1 bar one in
a field of eight. Tom Butler restrained the
favorite for more than half the journey, but
took him to the front along the back. In
the run home Chaumont struck his colors to
both Straight Shot and Namera —a disappoint-
ing display from the viewpoint of stamina.
No effort was so impressive as that of
Namera, who will be suited by the longer
journey next Saturday. Namera ran second
in the National of 1926, was third a year
later, and won last season. Seafit, cau-
tiously handled, came home strongly, but he
may not be a safe investment at Flemington.
Luck is attending the Victorian turf
exploits of F. E. Shillabeer, who follows
racing as a relaxation from the ardors of
building railways in Central Australia and
other contracting ventures. . “Shilly” has
won two flat events recently with Shadow
King. On Saturday lie appropriated the
V.R.C. Maiden Hurdle with Horoscope
(4 to 1), second to Don Moon in the A.J.C.
Doncaster of 1927. Harry Mastertou, the
Melbourne coal merchant, tired of Horoscope,
who passed into Shillabeer’s hands, but re-
FOREARMED.
“I’ll give you sixpence, boy, if you find my ball in two minutes.”
“Make it a shilling, mister, and I’ll find it in two seconds!”
mains in E. Fisher’s stable. Ridden with
fine judgment by young A. Horo-
scope scored cleverly from Jim Scobie s
Hast, with the favorite, Not Infallible,
third.
For Flemington on Saturday:—
Trial Hurdle; Not Infallible.
Grand National Steeple: Namera, 1;
Cobbon. 2: Mosstrooper. 3.
July Handicap: Tullius; next, Nawallah.
■* * * *
The success of Sonaift (10 to 1) in the
Hurdle Race and Gladshot (20 to 1) in the
Flving Handicap enabled bookmakers to come
out on the right side at Rosehill on Satui-
flay, even though some of the. subsequent
winners were well backed. Gladshot had
run second to Crown Area at the previous
Roselvll meeting, beating Herilda (victorious
the following Saturday) ; but back-rs <Ed
not thmk him capable of accounting for
horses like Killarney. Reonui. Don Moon
and Vaals at six furlongs, allowing that two
of these liigh-class customers were not
strung up. As it happened the despised
animal from the country won easily from
Royal Duke (12 to 1), a nag' from Maori-
land, and Bur jay (8 to 1). Gladshot paid
14 to 1, and Burjay nearly 3 to 1, on the
grandstand tote.
Form at the previous Rosehill meeting
proved remarkably trustworthy. As on that
occasion, Tindall’s two-year-old Urangarra
was an unlucky second (to Royal Money,
7 to 2, this time) in a division of the
two-year-old race, and his _ Goldminer ran
away with the other division. Goldminer
was backed from fives and sixes to threes.
Tressilian, third to Wedding five and Gwillian
G. in the June Handicap, was first (at 5 to
1) in the Rosehill Handicap; with an
apprentice’s allowance of 71b. for Hickey he
was getting 171 b. from Blather and 281 b.
from Octember, and he proved too good
for them at the weights. And Crown Area
(3 to 1) was a close second to Perception
(5 to 2) in the first division of the Carling-
ford Mile, giving him 201 b. He came home
much the faster of the two, and Perception’s
comparatively weak finish did not gain him
additional support for the Epsom, for which
he is one of the bookmakers’ favorites.
Crown Area and Eord Eudprus are two
unusually good welter horses. In the second
division of the Carlingford Mile Eord
Eudorus (7 to 2) made light of his lOst.
Sib., and finished well clear of the rest. He
was ridden by the elder Munro, who had
previously dismounted from a winner—the
good-looking Ticino (2 to 1). who had an
easy task in the Maiden Handicap.
* * * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Welter: Greencorn ; next, Violosca.
Moorefield Handicap : Lord Kennaquhair ;
next, Aorangi.
Hurstville Mile: Mr. Whiz; next, Staroff.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The fight between Billy Grime and “Babe”
Herman at Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night was not exciting. Herman was awarded
a points decision at the end of 15 rounds,
and if the frequent use of barred punches
counts for anything, w r as lucky. The seventh
provided nearly all the thrills, Grime being
down for nine from a right to the head, though
at the end of the round he nearly dislocated
“Babe’s” neck with a hefty right to the jaw.
Grime went down again in rounds nine and
ten, but he recovered well and took the
following two. Both fought hard for the
body over the concluding rounds and Herman
finished the stronger of the pair. Herman
weighed 9st. 41b., Grime 9st. 21b.
* * * *
John Pesek (13st. 61b.), the Nebraskan
Tiger Man, showed his box of tricks to a
Melbourne crowd on Saturday night, and the
ease with which he handled the huge bulk
of one Joe Zikmund (15st. 101 b.) suggests
that it is going to be difficult to provide
him with serious opposition. After giving
the improved attendance more than the usual
amount of thrills for four rounds (he is
no mean showman), John slammed the Slav
to the mat hard and often, and Joe’s interest
in the proceedings suddenly ceased. The big
fellow was still very sick when lie was taken
away some time later, feet first.
Footbrawl
Over 38,000 saw the first meeting of the
All Blacks and Australia at Sydney Cricket
Ground. It was exciting enough all through,
the home side winning by 9to B—it scored a
try and 2 penalty goals to a converted try
and a penalty. But it cannot be denied that
the handling of some of the backs in the first
half, and especially of the N.S.W. three-
quarters, was very shaky. The All Blacks
offended in this respect as well, but their
opponents not only dropped passes but threw
away gift tries. Both sides improved in the
second spell and the rival forwards made the
pace a cracker, the All Blacks frequently
resorting to wheeling the scrum instead of
hooking, with results usually satisfactory to
themselves. Ross again gave a magnificent dis-
play as the Australian full back, and the
side owes him much on the day. It was
the veteran Queenslander Lawton, however,
who provided the thrills. In attack and
defence he was the best player on the ground,
and his combined work with Malcolm was a
treat to w T atcli. Comparisons between two
such packs of forwards are difficult. J. Ford
and T. McWilliams were perhaps the stars
on either side, with the Maoris, Rika and
Reside, backing the latter stoutly. The
Maoriland vanguard staged a great last-
minute rally and all but succeeded in forcing
the line, to be fairly beaten off by their rivals.
It is pleasant to note that the three Queens-
land forwards earned their places, Thomp-
son and Hamalainen rucking and mixing, it
with the best, while Bonis hooked with
success.
* * * *
The strongest Victorian team that ever
left the State tackled Westralia in Perth
before a record crowd. W.A. relied on ex-
perience rather than youth, and experience
went down, the Vies, beating the Westralians
on their own ground for the first time by
15 goals 19 behinds —109 points, to 13 goals
8 behinds —86 points.
* * ❖ *
In their return match under Australian
Rules at Brisbane, Queensland again beat
N S. Wales, although it was very close —
74 to 71. N.S.W.’s kicking was off, 17
behinds being recorded; still, Queensland’s
form has been uncommonly good.
* * * *
Misty showers and a sodden ground spoilt
what promised to be Melbourne’s best League
game to date; still, the 35,000 who watched
Carlton battle with the unbeaten Colling-
wood got thrills. The big Blues carried out
their regular policy of direct drives and
scored well; but the Magpies handled and
passed with greater accuracy. Also they
always seemed to have a man where he could
do most damage. The combination worked
so well that at the close ’Wood owned 100
points to Carlton’s 76. A keener struggle
happened on the Melbourne ground, where
the Richmond Tigers pitted energy and skill
against the Red Legs’ pace and cohesion.
The Tigers gained and held a few points
advantage right through the last quarter, but
in the closing minutes a smartly-snapped goal
gave Melbourne a hard-earned victory, with
68 points to Richmond’s 65. Essendon, striv-
ing to hold its place, went to St. Kilda full
of vim, but found the local rooster cock ot
his own dunghill, and could score but 48
points to St. K.’s 6b. Footscray, having
still some dim “final” hopes, pushed Geelong
into outer darkness with a tally of 67 points
to 59. Hawthorn scored its third victory,
gaining 66 points to North’s 54; and South
downed Fitzroy, 110 to 86.
(Continued on page £l.)
The final of the Dudley Cup at Kensing-
ton (N.S.W.) saw Goulburn retain the
trophy, the Ashton combination winning com-
fortably from the Gold Cup heroes by b
«-oals to 2, after a hard-riding, hard-hitting
game After the match tlie Australian selec-
tors chose the first Australian polo team to
go overseas. They are all N.S.W. players
T F and J. K. Ross (Harden), Curtis
Skene G G. and R. R. Ashton (Goulburn)
and D. G. Munro (Inverell). If a place
is to be filled, J. H. Ashton (Goulburn) will
be the choice. Skene, wdio has had recent
experience of American polo, 'will probabl ,\
be skipper.
THE SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flashing racquet and the speeding ball
Hold charms for me of which I fain would
sing;
The slashing service and full-blooded drives
In hot encounter exultation bring.
The poetry of motion is expressed
In graceful volleys and exchanges grand;
It fills me with a joy exuberant —
Provided that I view it from the stand.
The blade of willow and the leathern sphere
Have ever held their fascination too;
The crisp late cut and daring glance are
things
Of joy to my appreciative view.
The tap that flies past cover to the chains,
The sixer rare that gives the crowd a thrill,
I revel in each virile, wristy shot —
The while I lounge upon the grassy hill.
The charging forwards and the speedy backs,
The ball that’s tossed along the nimble
line,
These, too, are things that never fail to set
My blood a-racing through my veins like
wine.
The lusty, roaring crowds go mad with joy
To see the flying dive between the posts.
The goal is landed! And you’ll hear my
voice
Cheering to efforts new the battling hosts.
Yet there remains one game little wot,
Absorbing to its votaries though it be,
The game of royal and ancient lineage,
Of foozle, mashie, stymie, cleek and tee.
How gladly would I watch the champions
smite
The balls that soar aloft or streak and
bound!
But, dash it, it’s a bit too much like work
When barrackers have got to move around !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


w
w
v-»
ps
O
o
Yj
&
'A.
O
Another link in Australia’s transport chain has been forged by the
extension of the North-South Railway to Alice Springs —the centre
of the Continent. Abreast of the reaching steel arms of civilisation
goes Shell with its supplies and service. Co-incident with the
inauguration of the new rail service is the opening of the Shell bulk
depot at Alice Springs. Thus road and rail come together, each
helping the other, and both working for Our national ideal—
" Advance Australia.”
Gradually the North and South are being drawn together.
From Darwin the railway is already stretching towards
the South —and SHELL, is serving to bridge the gap.
"Go where you will—
Shell Service awaits you/'
SHELL
P ' •


AUSTRALtA
m »r
m
|OO
r£V-
• a
<4 co^°
o*
,At> CV^
\vd-
vpsV <o^
N \> e „ bf&yjp'
< uj vv ;a' s
o^ 6
\V e
V 1
S? eiS 1 ? *« W „
° ei 0 P“ V*
v=>
vs v v
eS
vt^ v
1 o* o
s \e % , “rii
e#'
a\ cW
sV^'
C se \. -°^
\\V>*
Gerx:“Oh,vt must be lovely to be
SO FULL OF COURAGE »
BERT: WELL,YOU KNOW I ALWKVS
KEEP FIT, 1 HAVE A FEW
ROUNDS EVERY EVENING,’.
Gert : And yoo must be so strong
>\ND QUICK , you ARE NEVER
EVEN KQ/XR.KEO
BeCt:"No,Voo see i <5O in f’or.
SHADOW SP/vR.R.\MGi ."
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian Football League
has been considering the question of starting
the big matches earlier. Incidental stoppages
often prolong the game until semi-darkness
sets in, and spectators ai*e complaining. Even
in Sydney, where the daylight lasts a bit
longer, the Rugby Union has shoved starting
time a bit ahead. There are many reasons
why the principle should be adopted in Mel-
bourne. For one thing, the umpire is often
able to escape unscathed under the crepus-
cular cover of the falling night.
* * :|= *
The N.S.W. Rugby League grade games
in Sydney on Saturday regained some in-
terest from the return of the club cracks
from the inter-State tourney in Queensland.
South Sydney dashed Balmain’s hopes at the
Sports Ground, winning by 27 (7 tries and
3 goals) to 10 (2 tries and 2 goals) ; Finch
showed rare form on the wing. University
scored its first win of the season, beating
Eastern Suburbs at Wentworth Oval by 35
to 16—eloquent commentary 011 the depths
to which the once mighty East has dropped.
Western Suburbs lowered the St. George
colors by 18 to 2 at Pratten Park, while
Newtown just got home from Glebe at Mar-
i'ickville by 6 to 5.
* * * #
C.A.8.” : The rise of young Alan Ridley
the Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) wing three-
quarter, selected for the Rugby League tour
of England, has been rapid. Last season a
junior playing with Acton Rovers, a Can-
berra combination, he showed exceptional
promise. His first season as a first-grader
saw him selected with the Southern team
for Country Week. His dad, headmaster of
the Queanbeyan State school, was not at
first keen on the lad going to Sydney,
though he is now a very pleased man at his
son’s prowess.
% sj* ifc sjj
“Swing th’ Boot” : Looking over the team
selected to tour Lancashire and Yorkshire as
the representatives of the N.S.W. and Queens-
land Rugby Leagues, it is not easy to put
aside the impression that some of the men
were picked for “political” reasons. There
are certainly several duds included, and when
one remembers the manifest superiority of
the English professionals in Australia last
year, it is difficult to see this team carrying
all before it in the north of England..
The side’s best hope lies in the comparatively
young players who make up most of its
personnel. There is nothing like a long tour
of the sort to bring out football or cricket
talent, and in this respect some surprises
may be furnished.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Brisbane Rugby League, con-
tinues to carry the war into the enemy
country. When the Queensland League was
staging an match with N.S.W.
in Brisbane, the breakaways put on a match
between two of the leading clubs, and
actually drew 10,000 people, while the inter-
state game did onjy a trifle better. Following
up that insult, the Brisbane crowd have
formed a new “State” League. Its declared
adherents are- the Leagues which look after
the professional game in north and western
Queensland. The only lot remaining true
to the rather rueful Q.R.L. are the Too-
woomba and Ipswich Leagues, with Bunda-
berg and Gympie backing up in a half-
hearted way. It is a moral that the next
season will see the old Q.R.L. gang wiped
out by the new body.
* * * *
“F. 8.”: The All Blacks have had a bit
of bad luck at the opening of their season
in Australia, and with Dailey and skipper
Porter out of action have cabled to M.L.
for reinforcements. E. T. C. Leys, half back
of the Wellington University side, was de-
spatched, and will take Dailey’s place behind
the scrum when necessary. Football history
repeats itself in this case. In the ’nineties
the Maorilanders were so flabbergasted at
having to take a licking from the Cornstalks,
whom they had been accustomed to consider
their meat, that a similar SOS was sent out
and fresh troops hurried to the Sydney front.
:Jc # . * *
“I-lotham”: The Victorian Rugby Union
side which is to meet the All Blacks at
the Exhibition Ground on July 13 is to be
stiffened by half a dozen men from the
North, one of the inclusions being that sterl-
ing wing-threequarter from , Queensland,
McGhie. Another good one is K. Burke,
the Newcastle full-back, who is unfortunate
in that such champions as Alec Ross and
Westfield are also candidates for the position
in the Australian side. Gibson, the Sydney
Uni. centre, Duncan, of the Waratahs, with
Bland and Telford are the other members
of the contingent. Of the lot, McGhie and
Telford are well in the running for Test-
match recognition.
* * * *
“Der .Tong”: Australian Rugby Union
enthusiasts will take interest in the bowling
feats of Denis Morkel in the recent Test
against England at Lords. The youngster
is due of that famous band of football brothers
who helped to put the Springboks on the foot-
ball map. The team of 1921 in Sydney con-
tained three of the brethren, and the fame
of “G.P.,” one of the greatest, full-backs ever
seen in Sydney, has not yet bpen forgotten.
Like his giant brother “Boy,” whose
elephantine figure made its presence felt in
the rucks against N.S.W., Denis runs well
over the 6ft. mark. He is a fast-medium
bowler, and is sure to come to Australia
with the Afrikanders in 1931.
Racquet and Bawl
The Americans did better in the Wimble-
don finals than was expected, for though
Ciochet took the singles from Borotra in
three straight sets the Yankees captured the
men’s and mixed doubles, Allison and Van
Ryn being responsible for the first and Helen
Wills and Hunter for the second. That Helen
should win the women’s singles was a fore-
gone conclusion, and she duly collected m
two straight sets from her fellow-country-
woman, Helen Jacobs. England. supplied the
runners-up in two events ; Collins and Gre-
gory carried the winners to 5 sets in the
men’s doubles, and Collins figured with Joan
Fry in the mixed doubles.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Some of these top-
notch tennis players do themselves well. Con-
sider the equipment F. T. Hunter, the
American crack, took to Wimbledon from Ins
native shores the other dav- It included 20
pairs of flannel breeks, 18 tennis shirts, 6
sweaters, 24 pairs of tennis socks, 10 pairs
of rubber-soled shoes, two pairs of spiked
shoes, 4 belts and 20 racquets. And in spite
of all that he was outed by a Cambridge
undergrad who. if lie resembles most of his
kind, probably hasn’t got half a dozen pairs
of socks to his name.
* * * *
Harley Malcolm, hon. sec. of the A.L.T.A.
and hon. manager of the last Australian
women’s tennis team to go abroad, complains
of charges of extravagance made in the Syd-
ney press concerning the financial conduct of
that tour, as compared with the costs of
the previous team in 1925. t Mr. Malcolm
states that instead of there having been a profit
on the 1925 tour, as has been alleged, there
was a loss of £950 to the association. While
the latest tour resulted in a loss of £1215,
there are other factors to be considered. The
1925 team was away for six months, the
other for eight. The earlier side was
allowed ss. per day. as against 10s. granted
to the last lot. The 1925 team got nothing
for equipment, while £l2B was paid out for
this purpose to the side under Mr. Malcolm’s
charge. Outsiders will lift their eyebrows
at the revelation of that 10s. per day—ss.
more than the amount sanctioned by the
Amateur Federation.
The Watermen
“Black Swan”: Rowing men in W.A.,
particularly university rowing men, are per-
turbed at a report which has reached Perth,
that the governing body in inter-university
sport is proposing to change the venue of
next year’s inter-university race for the
Oxford and Cambridge Cup from West Aus-
tralia to Queensland. The race was definitely
promised to W.A. in 1927, and it was on
the strength of those promises that the
University Boat Club was able to raise the
money to send its 1928 and 1929 crews to
row on the Murray and the Yarra. If the
governing body were to go back on those
promises, made by the representatives of the
boat clubs of the eastern universities, it
would be difficult, if not impossible,, for
many years to come for the W.A. Univer-
sity to send another crew east.
* * * *
“Blade”: The Mosman oarsmen, N.S.W.
and Australian champions, have paid more
than one visit to Melbourne, and are now
desirous of acting as hosts to one of the
Cabbage Garden clubs. Accordingly, Essen-
don has been invited to visit Sydney in
December to compete in the State champion
eights, and will probably accept. Essendon
has been conspicuous among Melbourne clubs
for the hospitality extended to visiting
crews.
The Nineteenth Hole
Sydney’s Moore Park course used to be
overrun with ball-sellers, mostly disreputable-
looking youths and leaders of greyhounds.
The complaints about lost balls grew so em-
bittered that the secretary dressed a police-
man up as a golfer, gave him a bag of clubs
and told him to go to it. At his first cast
he landed a young man with a pocketful of
balls, which he was retailing at 6d. each. The
captive’s method was to wait behind a hill
till a ball came over, stamp it into the ground
and recover it later. The fact that no one
knows now if a Moore Park player is what
he purports to be or a policeman has com-
pletely killed what promised, a few weeks ago,
to be a flourishing industry.
* * * *
“C.”: Canberra’s golf pro. is Jack Irving,
who has been pro. and green-master to clubs
in almost every part of Australia, and before
that taught ’em how it’s done in England and
America. He has built up one of the finest
inland links in Australia at Canberra, and
has hopes that before long the Australian
open will be played on them. But one thing
he can’t get rid of= is the crow pest. A golfer’s
estimate of the number of balls taken by the
thieving birds last week-end was six dozen.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: A pleasant feature of Queens-
land golf is the America Cup, which was
donated to the Royal Queensland Golf Club
some two years or so ago by a little coterie
of American citizens who are members of
the club. It is competed for in a handicap
stroke event over 18 holes, and this year was
won by G. Pollock, who tallied 46 and 45,
his 16 handicap making his card 75. The
handing over of the cup was done with due
ceremonial. The Volstead amendment does
not apply at the R.Q.G.C.
* * * *
“Brasscy” : With tlm Australian champion-
ships looming in Melbourne, it is worth
noting that the Adelaide Kooyong Club pro-
fessional, Rufus Stewart, carried off the
South Australian open championship the
other day, doing the two 18-hole rounds of
stroke play in 144—72, 72. There was a.
lot of interest locally in the event, and Eru
Bissett, who has been showing fine form in
club competitions, was one of the fancied
amateurs. However, the open champion of
Australia in 1928 was more than equal to
the occasion. Fergus McMahon, of Marino
Club, finished second —score, 150.
* * * *
“T. and J.”: A remarkable incident
occurred at the Royal Melbourne links at
Sandringham. A. T. Brown and Morcom,
curator of the links, had taken up a position
on the left of the green to watch the tee
shots in a game between W. H. Bailey and
A. le Fevre! The distance from tee to green
is about 440 yards. Bailey hit a powerful
drive very high, and Brown and Morcom saw
the ball leave on its flight and then lost sight
of it. Suddenly Brown felt something going on
inside the breast of his coat, which was not
buttoned. He was astonished to find that
Bailey had holed out in one in his inside
pocket! The ball had gone a distance of
185 yards.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Bobby .Tones has done it
again; the famous American amateur has
carried off the open championship of his
country, beating Espinosa after the pair had
finished level with a total stroke score of
294. In the play-off over 36 holes Jones
did two rounds of 72 and 69, completely
extinguishing his opponent, who could do
no better than 84 and 80. It is doubtful if
a better amateur than the American in the
matter of consistency has been seen, though
some of the old brigade might cite John
Ball or Harold Hilton. Giving in the fact
that he was playing on a course familiar
to him, the 69 round stands out. How good
the golf was is shown by the fact that Aus-
tralian Joe Kirkwood and Walter Hagen
finished their part of the match a tie for
34th place.
Jones has figured in three other ties
for the title. He won from the Scottish
professional Bob Cruickshank in 1923.
after a level-pegging affair. In 1925 he had
two goes with Willy Macfarlane, another
Scot, and lost. Then he cut 50-50 with his
fellow countryman Willy Farrell in 1928
and was beaten by a putt.
❖ ❖ *
“Wakatu”: At Titirangi (M.L.) there is a
ball neatly wedged into the corner of a glass
window in the clubhouse. It smashed the
window, staying embedded in the glass,
where it remains as a curiosity. The Pupuke
links saw a player drive a ball from the
eleventh tee, some 160 yards, clean into the
pocket of another player. The recipient of
the ball merely felt a tugging sensation at
his pocket, and at first thought that he was
in danger of losing his tobacco pouch. The
ball did not bounce from tee to pocket. The
latest incident comes from Miramar, where
a cow picked up a ball and swallowed it.
As the player had already lost his match,
no emergency ruling was required.
* N* * *
“Schlaff” : It seems curious that neither
N.S.W. nor Victoria has instituted an official
annual tourney for club caddies, though
desultory events of the kind are staged by
individual clubs. Queensland long ago set
a good example in this regard, the first
annual tourney taking place on the old
Chelmer course, where Brsbane’s first golf
club had its stamping ground, in 1902. Since
then the event has been held annually, with
the Courier gold medal and a cup attach-
ing. Caddies from all over Queensland
attend, and the event almost equals the State
championships in interest —among the young-
sters themselves it is rather more important.
(Continued on next page.)


Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C. 2.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
/
..
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN
Write for Catalogue B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Car and Cycle
“F.L.” : A pleasant change from the ever
recurrent chronicle of motor-car track and
road races is the announcement that the
Government of Algeria is organising a 4360-
mile motor-race from Algeria to Timbuctoo
and back across the Sahara Desert. lhe
start has been fixed for January 1, 1900, so
Australian aspirants to invade the land
where the historic cassowary devoured the
missionary, “and his hymn-book too, ’ will
need to get in quickly.
* :1s * *
“Buzz”: Brooklands, the great English
motor-racing centre, has not catered in the
past for the 24-hours’ continuous run so
popular on the Continent. A modified
event of this kind was added to the pro-
gramme last month, when the Italian driver
G. Ramponi, steering a 1487-c.e. Alfa Romeo,
covered 1824 miles. The conditions called
for a run of 12 hours with an interval of 12,
the cars being locked up during that inter-
val and restarted with a cold engine. All
classes of cars were allowed to compete and
the final results were worked out on a for-
mula. The car covering the greatest dis-
tance in the time was a 4398-c.c. English
Bentley, which, though it managed 1954 miles,
was placed second. Presumably there is a
use for these performances. To the average
motorist the times made by freak cars of the
type which race on specially prepared tracks
have little interest —and he, after all, is the
man who keeps the motor-car industry going.
X :l: * *
“Callan Park”: I see in the cables that
the mechanic accompanying a driver at
Brooklands was struck in the face by
a swallow. The incident recalls a drive
between two western Queensland stations
some years before I came down to
live at my present address. Going at
oui\ top after leaving the picnic race meeting,
myself and my companion were struck by the
fact that we had forgotten to open several
gates on the road, the pieces of flying timber
reminding us. That was not the worst, for
when the car pulled up for want of juice,
we failed to distinguish between the demi-
john of whisky we had on board and the
tin of petrol. The result was that we filled
the tank with whisky and drank the petrol.
It was when we subsequently came to
examine the carburetter that my friend was
struck in the face by a pea-green boa-con-
htrictor which suddenly emerged from under
the float.
x x x x
“Whizz”: Now that Segrave has retired
Britain generally accepts Kaye Don as his
successor. The well-known Sunbeam driver is
having a new car designed for him by Louis
Goatalen ; it is being built at Wolverhamp-
ton. All that is known about _it up to the
present is that it will cost £25,000, and is
expected to knock off 300 m.p.h. Segrave’s
record was a mere 231 and a decimal.
* * He ❖
“Avon”: Died in Maoriland recently.
Frederick Nelson Adams, one of Fernland’s
motoring pioneers. Son of an English school-
master and a Scandinavian mother, he started
his business career in Christchurch in his
’teens as a repairer of bicycles. He repaired
them so well and so diligently that a few
years later he was able to lease a large build-
ing and embark upon wholesale manufacture.
Always a welcomer of new ideas he imported
what were (so far as I know, and I was bis
factory timekeeper when it happened) the
first pneumatic tyres that arrived in the
Dominion. They were huge things, of about
2|in. diameter, and the boys of the establish-
ment, myself included, tested them by riding
the T-framed safety in which they had been
mounted over the machine-shop floor, having
first strewn it with steel tubes of from 4in.
to ljrin. diameter. In 1900 F.N. (he was
never called anything else in his own estab-
lishment) went to . Europe and attended the
Paris motor-show. As a result he imported
four De Dion-engined’cars and laid the foun-
dations for a wonderfully successful motor
agency—-probably the biggest in personnel
and capitalisation in the Shivery Isles. He
was brusque in manner, hated unnecessary
cackle, and had a gift for diving into what.
Scots .call “the root of the matter.” His
epitaph as I would write it is that those
who knew him longest liked him best.
Miscellaneous
“Billy the Goose”; I s’pose yer. reck’ned
I wus ’finished, but it wus ony a six munce
stretch in Stewarts Creek —I never did have
much luck in Townsville—fer rollin’ a cane-
cutter down Ayr way. Wot started me on
this wus readin’ erbout a cove in Melbin
wot’s jist won a 31-mile road walkin’ go
in five ’n a ’arf hours, the roadscrapers crack-
in’ this is a record. Nit ter that. In the
’nineties I done a trip fr’m the Towers ter
Croydon—that’s 350 miles —inside a week,
an’ carryin’ a swag at that. It’s true I
’ad a cuppler Johns after me till I dodged
’em bv takin’ a short cut, there bein’ a little
matter uv a lotter amalgam wot was pinched
fr’m ther Bonnie Dundee mill. No, I didn’t
have that in me swag. I left it with a
cove for safe keepin’. He . kep’ it so safe
I never gotter smell uv it fr’m that day ter
this.
“Backwoodsman”: Matters are curiously
quiet on the bowling front just now in all
States. There are rumors that the inclement
weather has driven most of the players
to hot beef-tea in place of their customary
fortification, but this is doubted in well-in-
formed circles. The trip to Britain of an
Australian side next year, is beginning to
take shape, and the State organisations have
been circularised. Perhaps the most interest-
ing item in the circular is a request for
the names of bowlers “accompanied by a
lady who would have been recommended by
your State.” As they never say in Paris,
“Oh la, la!”
* * x x
“Bee-line”: S. S. Bennett, of Rooty
Hill, noted in the N.S.W. coursing world,
is dead. Coursing men regarded him as an
oddity, for, despite his success, he took no
real interest in the game. He figured in it,
and bred a string of topnotc-hers, just to
oblige his wife. Once when his unbeaten
Benediction took out a Waterloo Cup, a
man Bennett disliked came to congratulate
him. “Oh, go and sympathise with the
other fellow !” said the owner of the winner,
turning away.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort” : English upholders of the
idiotic innovation of the higher wicket are
pointing with glee to the fact that an un-
usual number of county matches have been
definitely decided this season, the figure being
about 73 p.c. The fact that the season, so
far, has been in favor of bowlers who can
do something on sticky pitches is conveni-
ently overlooked. Wilfrid Rhodes, for
instance, has been wonderfully successful,
and, great bowler as the Yorks veteran has
been, the fact tells its own story to the
initiated.
* x x =s=
“Shrewsbury”: The second Test between
England and the South Africans endGl in a
draw, as did the first one. England’s 302
in the first knock was bettered by the South
Africans’ 322. England declared with eight
down for 312 in the second, and got rid
of five of the Afrikanders for 90, Robbins,
the Middlesex slow bowler, taking 3 for 32.
Sutcliffe scored the even century for Eng-
land in the first innings, in which Bell col-
lected 6 for 99. Leyland (102) and Maurice
Tate (100 n. 0.) stopped an ugly-looking rot
in the second innings. Ochse (4 for 99) and
Morkel (3 for 63) gave the Englishmen
something to think about.
The match was marred by a serious
injury received by H. B. Cameron, the
Spring'bok stumper. W r hile batting he was
struck on the head by a fast-rising ball
from Larwood and rendered unconscious for
many hours. An unpleasant feature of the
unfortunate happening, as far as Australia is
concerned, was the comment permitted itself
by a Sydney daily paper, which stressed Lar-
wood’s “reputation as a dangerous bowler,”
and quoted the instance of the broken hand
sustained by Ponsford when batting against
him. All fast bowlers are dangerous to a
certain degree. That does not alter the fact
that the inference drawn was very far
removed from the spirit of the game.
WILLIE SMITH, one of the finest living
billiard players, who is showing in
Australia,
“The Gaffer”: The Olympic Games com-
mittee intends to add basket-ball to its
already overloaded programme. This is a
game played, for the most part, by females
of tender years; it is about as vitalising and
muscle-forming as two-up. At the risk
of being considered flippant, I would suggest
that knucklebones and pegknife he added to
the next Olympic menu. They are no more
out of place than a lot of other items in that
international hash.
* ❖ ❖
“Blue Chalk”: As one of the world’s
worst billiard players, I have the greatest
regard for Willie Smith, whose style _in
many respects resembles my own. Having
watched Weiss, Memmott and George Gray,
yet refused to succumb to their stereotyped
methods, preferring my own, I feel I can
speak with some authority. Willie Smith
does not confine himself to a dreary series
of one particular shot, a practice which has
caused the rules of the game to be altered
almost day after day. A few cannons are
reeled off, and then he turns to the top-
of-the-table convention, to abandon that with
JIM McLEOD, manager of the All Blacks
now in Australia, and ex-president of
the M.L. Rugby Union.
a break of the balls and a sequence of
hazards. He gives the spectator a little
of everything in the game, yet scores as
heavily in the long run as any of the old-
time one-shot artists ever did.
* * * *
“Spinnaker”; This is the time of year
when that expensive hussy the big racing
yacht goes to the beauty-parlor to be
polished up for the next season. Utiekah 11.
is the latest Sydney craft to be altered to
the Bermuda rig, which, almost universally
adopted in other parts of the world, is only
just coming into favor in Australia. Harold
Nossiter’s craft is to be equipped with a
71ft. stick, the highest yet mounted in an
Australian yacht. The Norwegian spruce-
forests have been combed to get it.
* * * *
“Centurion”: British army polo players,
who first brought the ancient Asiatic game
to the West, are disgruntled because the War
Office will not grant a team leave to visit
America for a match against the American
army. The members would pay all their
own expenses, so the W.O. cannot make
economy the excuse. Almost entirely con-
fined to the cavalry regiments—though the
Durham Light Infantry once boasted the
finest team in India —the game has hitherto
been encouraged by the authorities. The
modern craze for mechanisation is wiping out
many of the old cavalry units, and it may
be that the necessity for daring horseman-
ship is vanishing. The army polo of the
future promises to resolve itself into a clash
between two rival makes of light tanks
or some similar contraptions.
* * * ■ *
“Splash”; The N.S.W. swimming authori-
ties are planning to invite Zorilla and Martha
Norelius to visit Australia next season.
Zorilla is the South American who beat
Charlton and Borg in the 400 metres at the
last Olympiad ; Martha is the Swedish-Ameri-
can who holds every world’s record for her
sex from 150 yards to a mile, and is the only
woman to crack the minute for the 100 yards,
done by her in 59 4-ssec. She should give
Sydney’s flapper champions something to
think about.
X * * *
“Splash”: France announces the discovery
of a new swimming marvel, an 18-year-old
Parisian named John Taris. John has broken
every French record from 100 metres to 1500
metres, and has bettered even Charlton’s best
for the 200 and 500 metres, for which his
times were 2min. 17 4-ssec. and 6min. 24sce.
respectively. The first performance is only
2sec. worse than Weissmuller’s world’s re-
cord, but Taris has some way to go to equal
Arne Borg’s 6min. 8 2-ssec. for the 500
metres.
X X * *
“Bully”: Australian hockey players are
having the time of their lives this year. A
number of State teams are about to con-
verge on Westralia, where the upholders of
the shin-hacking game are to hold high car-
nival in honor of the State centenary. There
is a tour of Maoriland pending, while the
flapper exponents of the cult have also been
engaged in an inter-State struggle as a
preliminary to selecting a side to visit South
Africa next year.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Bos”: Victorian beef producers are again
protesting against the competition of Queens-
land chilled beef. Their case is radically
weak, inasmuch as they can’t supply suffi-
cient fat stock to meet the demand during
the winter months. Further, consumers
vote the Queensland article good and the
price satisfactory.
X S!e * *
“A.H.”: Most of those who deplore the
exporting of stud sheep to S. Africa write
as if it were a comparatively recent busi-
ness ; but I suspect it has been going on
for 50 years. I can certify to 40. In 1889
my brother took a consignment of rams and
ewes from the Canowie (S.A.) station to
East Griqualand; in 1890 he returned and
took a second lot. The descendants of those
sheep still scoop in the prizes at East
Griqualand shows.
i\i $ $ $
“Shed Hand”: Advertising on railway
goods-trucks was introduced in the Common-
wealth by Col. Pope when Commissioner of
the Westralian railways. It took on from
the jump, but was found to have drawbacks
when space was bought for a make of motor-
lorries competing successfully against the
railways.
* * # *
“Bee Low” : Tell “Up Top” (B. 26/6/’29)
that, so far from the renewing of expansion
bearings on the Victoria Bridge, Brisbane,
going “practically unnoticed in Australia,” it
was described, with illustrations, in the Feb.
issue of Commonwealth Engineering, pub-
lished in Melbourne. The contrivance
designed by W. J. Doak consisted of a ful-
crum post, a lever, four lifting bars and a
jacking platform. The load on the four lift-
ing bars was estimated at 300 tons.
* * * *
“Stcllsby” : Some famous old sailers have
finished up as coal-hulks in Port Phillip, but
only one or two are left. The latest to fall
into the hands of the breakers is the Geo-
graphe, formerly known as the Republic. She
was built in Maine (U.S.A.) in 1869, and
to my knowledge she was distributing black
diamonds 30 years ago. Is that a hulk
record ?
* * * *
“Thirdovaquid”: A Maoriland Supreme
Court case of interest to trammies all the
world over was decided by Smith, J., recently.
A Christchurch conductor, lost five blocks of
tickets in circumstances pointing to theft,
though there was no suggestion of collusion
on his part. The Tramway Board sued him
for the face value of the tickets, £24 1 Is. 5d.;
its rules, a copy of which is signed by every
employee, provided for payment in such cases.
The magistrate gave judgment for £9 14s. Id.
The Judge looked at the case as a suit for
damages. As there had been no proven loss
to the board save the few pence it cost to
print the tickets, he upheld the conductor’s
appeal, with costs.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Recent actions of the Mel-
bourne Housewives’ Association have roused
joy in some quarters and indignation _in
others. The association started by operating
eight stalls in the markets, at which butter-
fish and bream were sold at approximately
half shop prices. Then it began selling milk
twopence a quart, eggs sixpence a dozen, and
tea sevenpence a pound cheaper than trades-
men charged. Next it arranged with bakers to
supply 1000 loaves per day on Dr. Dale’s
wholemeal prescription, which it proposes to
sell from 17 stalls at Bd. the four-pound loaf;
and its attention is now to be turned to
potatoes. So far, there has been no organ-
ised retaliation, but one of the association’s
lorries was found with a nail through the
radiator and another with a tyre cut to
threads.
# * if *
“F. 5.”,: The latest proposal in the aviation
line is to anchor island aerodromes across
the Atlantic. One of the floating service
stations is actually under construction in
Hoover’s country. With the assistance of
radio pilot beams passenger ’planes will be
able to fly in a beeline from one ocean
garage to another. The chances of the
Pacific being made to look as small as the
Tasman Sea look promising.
*■ * * *
“Runa”; Quite likely there is a fortune
awaiting the inventor who can find a way
to extract kauri oil from peat, for beyond
doubt it is there. The big swamps of north-
ern Maoriland, impregnated with oil, occa-
sionally take fire in the drier parts, and
burn with a steady, creeping glow, only to
be quenched by excessive rains. Underneath
are probably the ruins of immense kauri
forests, and the black, greasy ooze from the
swampy ground is rich and odorous with
kauri oil. How long these peat fires will
smoulder is doubtful, but not long ago a
settler cantering over a dry swamp that
had been fired six months before suddenly
sank through the crust; as his horse
scrambled out a column of black smoke rose
from the hole as evidence of the fires still
at work beneath.


A NEW ERA IN BROADCASTING
TWO BIG EVENTS
for the month of July
NATIONAL BROADCASTING SERVICE
COMES ON THE AIR
JWumvax
mL DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
LOWER PRICE ANNOUNCED
Enabling every listener-in to
receive better programmes
in the home with a
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
“Your Radio pleasure depends on the Speaker”
Units only
from
£5/15/-
INSIST ON HAVING
MAGNAVOX
WITH THE SET YOU BUY,
Cabinet Models
from
Obtainable from All Radio Dealers
..v->
m
I :
"""
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Hand’e 21/- ~
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FPLI
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Mercantile and General
Insurance Co. Ltd.
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
ẁ
THE WORKS OF
Robert Louis Stevenson
ẃ
ẅ
Free on Jlpproval!
These are Masterpieces of Romantic Fiction
In this Ballantrae Edition we have the flower of Stevenson’s genius and the ideal
Set of his Works. These books are printed in a type easy to read.and are attractively
illustrated by famous artists. They have charming Literary Introductions by living
Authors. Best of all, they are quite astonishingly light to handle and are of a size
that can easily be slipped into the pocklet.
Stevenson makes his readers think, as no other pro-
fessedly romantic writer does. The reader who
wants to keep from his mind unpleasant but salu-
tary reflections must by no means allow himself to
read “R.L.S.” If he does so, his thought will
invariably clarify and become deep and true. Steven-
son is net afraid to touch the occult, the things
that are beyond Nature. Has he not given us the
frightful, intensely gripping story of Jekyll and
Hyde, a remorseless study of the moral downfall
of an attractive man who, “when he had reached the
years of reflection, stood already committed to a
profound duplicity of life”? This wonderful book
was first made famous by a sermon preached in St.
Paul’s Cathedral in London. Stevenson, like another
°reat English writer, prefers men to green fields:
but his brief descriptions of Nature (even the
nature of a fog!) are as finely distinctive as every-
thing he wrote. The man himself was one of the
most lovable characters among the literary men of
all time, or of any country. His personal life \vas
an object-lesson on that kindness with courage which
is the rarely strong ideal he preaches in his vivid
stories.
Here is
Another
Wonder
Book—
—also
Available
on
Approval
The “KING’S ENGLISH” DICTIONARY
The newest and the best dictionary of reference. With many new features, includ-
ing Synonyms and Antonyms ior Competitors. A few of its many advantages:—
Compact size, Light Weight, Open Type. Up-to-date World Maps. Latest
Specialist and Technical and Scientific Words. Key to Pronunciation. Geo-
graphical, Biographical, Grammatical and other special sections. Section on
How to Speak and Write Correct English. Nearly 150,000 Expert Definitions
of Words.
w
BRITISH BOOKS, LTD.,
UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me for 7 days free approval (fill in which desired). If I do
net desire to purchase I will return them at the end of 7 days. If I keep them I will forward
a deposit at the end of 7 days and payment as shown below.
NAME ;
ADDRESS
PRICES: Stevenson (15 vols.), Deposit 5/-, 10 monthly payments of 7/6 (Cash 73/6).
Dictionary (1 vol.), Deposit 2/6, 6 monthly payments of 6/3 (Cash 36/-). Dictionary
(leather),' Deposit 6/-, 8 monthly payments of 6/3 (Cash 50/-). 123
OPOSSUM SHOOTING. frMSSXi*
ŵ
22-CAL.
BOLT-ACTION RIFLE.
Famous Browning F.N. Single-shot Rifle. Large half-moon extractor, 21in. barrel, patent
safety catch. Fires .22-cal. Short, Long and Long-rifle Cartridges. ACCURATE RANGE 200YDS.
PRICE, 25/- POST FREE.
NIGHT SHOOTING
ẁ
WINCHESTER
FOCUSSING TORCH
throws a beam of light 100 yards.
Thii ..uerful torch, which is only incut., iong and weighs only 120 z., will
light for 13 hours. Permanent or intermittent switch, 11/0 each. Spare
Winchester, 1/4 each. Post free.
give a continuous
Batteries, 2-Cell
ffi&ice
THE GUN PEOPLE,
318 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
‘THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.


Under f£)j
Royal
Warrant
ToH.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1920.
CH A IVI PAG INI E
IflSI
muin®
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company U mitad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPACKS
'lariesllcidsiccv
Reims
WrnmangJ?
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrer m
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
nAlert Attention to Your Needs. ..
-AND THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
< of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
■which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
Qfie "Wentworth
il'vg
□
/□
Church Hill,
Sydney.
<53
7hp centre of Queen s /anc/s
' c/ts/ingu/sfac/ Socro/ Life.
motel
BRISBANE
w
Magnificent
room. Palm
Ball-
Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!'
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5180—10 Lines.
AWOMAN’S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
Phillip-street was cold. There was a
glitter as of ice in the air, but there was
some warmth in the sun. The verger seemed
grateful for it; so did the policemen who
stood on guard on the pavement outside St.
Stephen’s and in the roadway opposite.
People came down the street and up the
street, and the doorwa'y on the left of the
tower swallowed them all. Up the worn stone
steps they went. Past the cold breath _of
musty air that came down the gallery stairs,
and on, more slowly now, past the spot
where Keith Anderson held his first and last
levee. The coffin was not placed within the
church, but lay, flower-bestrewn, in the vesti-
bule under the tower that leads to the spire.
Out in the street again you looked at the
spire, the spire that points to illimitable
heights—heights which no aeroplane may
ever reach, but to which the soul of a good
airman and a true friend might sweep on the
wing of a great love. And greater love than
this.hath no man....
(Jiannini is a tall young woman in sheath-
like frocks with sweeping trains that suggest
mediaeval pictures, her face like a plump
Madonna’s framed in coal-black hair parted
in the middle and sleeked down to a bun
on the neck. Women are as enthusiastic over
her as the men. The men look on her well-
nourished form with such a rapt eye that
you guess that the herring-bone silhouette
isn’t absolutely essential to winning a good
man’s love. Anyway, the soprano is well
worth a visit to the Town Hall. For her
first concert she was sheathed in orange
velvet that swelled to two or three furlongs
of train. This had sleeves of royal-blue
chiffon tight at the elbow, thence falling-
full and long to the hem of the skirt. On
Saturday amethystine velvets with tight
knuckle-length sleeves fitted the lady’s form
even as her own skin. She was magnificent.
Her voice is as an army marching \yith
banners, or aeain as the cooing of doves in
immemorial elms.
Of course the Admiral staged a dance.
Wouldn’t you if you had a nice floating
ballroom going begging and a family band
to play into the small hours, without any
fear of consequence from the Musicians’
Union? So the decks were cleared and the
Australia’s society-end was wrapped in red
and white bunting and hung with red Chinese
lanterns, and in the early evening the Four
Hundred sped across the Harbor in alert
naval pinnaces to the flagship, whose elec-
trics glowed through the fog like the lights
of home. It was a very smart party, hung
about with vice-regals of the first and second
order. The Governor-General Stonehavens
and the’State Exes, not only came to dance,
but arrived earlier still to dine with Rear-
Admiral Evans and his handsome lady. The
Maoriland Navy was present in such num-
bers that you felt that Auckland must bear
even a greater resemblance than usual to the
deserted village. Commodore Swabey, who
has made quite a hit with Sydney, added
his social charm to the party.
Frocks were glittersome, long, spreading
and mostly troublesome in the ascent and
descent from and to the gaily-decked pon-
toon which was the isthmus between the
launch and the gangways. Once aboard the
lugger, however, their charm became more
apparent. Lady Stonehaven’s platinum
frock flew a scarlet shoulder drape, and the
crimson fringe on its skirt swirled a gay
invitation to “follow my leader” as she
stepped out in the first dance with Evans
of the Broke. Pearls and diamonds breathed
splendor as she passed. In repose, a crimson
feather fan was an effective piece of still-life
in the composition. Lady de Chair flashed
terra-cotta chiffons, and daughter Elaine
mingled subdued black taffetas and anaemic
pink chiffon. But credit where credit is
due —the Admiral’s lady was belle of the
quarter-deck in a frock of thick white moire
buoyant and spreading and sprayed with
silver.
After the De Chairs had done the polite
thing by H.M.A.S. Australia, the Viking took
his wife and little daughter to the Palais at
Moore Park for a night’s fun with the under-
grads. When they arrived the head of every
man and every second girl was decorated with
a mortar-board of such small dimensions
it could hardly have covered even the brain
of some of them. The Palais was fizzy. There
were 1500 dancers, nearly all young and
clever and gay, and the committee (J. M.
Gosper, president, and R. G. Conley and F. S.
Flynn, secretaries) looked out and called their
work blessed. Deputy-Chancellor MacCallum
and his lady, in primrose-green and gold,
hailed the vice-regal family, and the Civic
Commissioner Garlicks tossed a greeting in
the best manner while Gosper and Dr. R. A.
Allen and F. W. Bayldon gave them the free-
dom of the Palace. Minister for Education
Drummond was in the party ent rtained by
J. M. Gosper and Evelyn Mitchell; and the
president of every union within the
Uni., male and female turned up _in
his or her wedding gr-ionN 'No h- 11 - I n-ing
a crowded week produced better dancers —
it was worth a journey to Moore iurx to
watch them.
Ben Richards, the oldest polo-player in
the State (“Rusty” White, anyway, is his
only rival for the title), and Wallaby, the
oldest polo pony still on the active list, were
among the thousand-and-one who pushed
into the Ambassadors for the Extra Chukka
Ball on Thursday night. Wallaby w-as
entirely constructed of golden-brown daisies
—except the tail (which he lost when he
tried to negotiate the congested areas), and
that was a cunning arrangement of grass.
The real Wallaby remained on Dr. Leth-
bridge’s property at Narrandera.
The dinner was mostly roast beef and
plum pudding, but the pudding ran short, and
some in the palm court got none. The
foodstuffs were served to the accompaniment
of devastating noises. Inverell had an enorm-
ous table up on the right; Gundagai perched
along the stage under the band. Mrs
Hugh Munro presided at the one at wh ch
sat sons Douglas and Gordon, and Mrs. J. O
Robertson and Mrs. F. Fraser hostessed for
Gundagai. Red and blue fluttered about the
fort that was manned by Goulburn and
Scone. Here Mrs. Jimmy Ashton kept an
eye on her four boys. Around this table
bloomed some pretty girls, notably Betty
Willsallen, slim as a stalk in her green
chiffons; June Baillieu, from Melbourne, in
her favorite greens; Lavender Stewart, also
from the south; and Philippa Stephen, very
smart in filmy lace.
Lady de Chair waited in the palm court, sur-
rounded by the reception committee, till Lord
Stonehaven stepped across the threshold.
Thus one “God Save” did for both. Graham
de Chair attended his parents, while a blonde
moustached and very presentable Captain
Blakiston-Houston was attached to the
Admiralty House group. President Mrs.
Colin Venn, at the head of a long line of
effulgent matrons, bade the official guests
welcome; and in that group her own and
Mrs. Din Garvan’s blacks impressed the eye.
The frocks were sheer beauty, but only
as their wearers passed between table and
dance could the beginning and the end of
them be seen. Jessie Tail's impressive back-
less frock of dull gold lace, the black chiffons
and lace of Mrs. Leslie Walford, the winter-
sky blue of Shirley Dent’s spreading chiffons,
the vellum lace that swirled and flipped about
Mrs. Will Ross (Harden) caught the atten-
tion over and over again. A colorful velvet
coat collared and cuffed in fox was worn
by Mrs. A. S. Nivison (Walcha). Mrs. Jes-
sica Lee, in clover-pink chiffons, hostessed
one of the jolliest parties; Mrs. Charles
Henry Osborne and her party were tucked
into a corner; Mrs. Val Osborne, her black
and silver a striking background for her jade,
green fan, was in the palm court.
Heroes are welcome at the Women’s Conn-
try Club, so
its portals
were thrown
wide last Fri-
day to Rear-
Admiral Evans
and Mrs.
Evans. Mr s.
George Irvine,
the subject of
the accom-
panying Dayne
picture, did
the honors.
She is the very
capable and
energetic pre-
sident of the
club, which is
quite a little
power in the
aiding of bud-
ding musicians
and the city’s
charities. For
the reception Mrs. Evans wore rose-du-barry
laces, and masses of wattle gold decked the
room.
The surplus woman turned up again at
the State Government House party, and
simply sat or stood about while favored
sisters took the floor or the cosy corner.
There were gaps in the ranks of the polo-
players in spite of memories of the frut-oup
of previous years. “And what’s come over
the Navy?” asked one forlorn lass. One
girl even suggested forming a press gang.
Later on some active telephoning resulted in
a group of undergrads arriving, and Elaine
and Graham sighted and took a long, long-
draught of the cup. Even for the job of
gent help, experience is necessary. Q.E.D.
But it would take more than a dearth of
men to kill a party at the big house. The
iires are blazing, the chairs are deep, and
wlun, as in Polo Week, the guests include
country and interstate visitors there’s
plenty of color and movement in the night’s
pattern. The G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven
were the social heavyweights of the evening.
Translucent green satin, on which rhine-
stones like prisoned water qulv red and
seemed to dissolve, shimmered about the
slim figure of her Ex. The green fire of
emeralds gleamed on her neck and in her
hair, and her fan was b ;auty in green fronds.
Lady de Chair’s period frock wedded ivory
lace and Wedgwood blue grosgrain. The lace
fashioned the berthe and brokin a foam
of flounces about her ankles. Ela’ne wore
a picture frock of ivory satin lit by bands
of diamente. Real-Admiral Evans and
his wife caused almost a hold-nn of the
eye traffic. A hero and his bride aren’t
thrown to even a society multitude every
night.
June Baillieu, in green, and Pat Lempriere,
in rose-red velvet, were two notable Mel-
bourne visitors. Mrs. Gordon Chirnside wore
a cargo of sequins on h r white georgettes;
and Mrs. Charles Armytage, another from
beyond the border, wore skyey-blue velvets.
Two debs., Diana Herring and Nancy Bavin,
received the smile of encouragement from
Lady Stonehaven- and the whole night was
tied" up in the gold braid of the navy.
The pretty face smiling out from this Falk
photograph belongs to Plicebe Martin, a popu-
lar Neutral
Bay girl who
has decided to
step from the
amateur ranks
and be a pro-
fessional act-
ress. Phoebe
graduated from
the Repertory
Society. She
u n d erstudied
in several
J.C.W. shows,
and was quite
an important
person in
G r e g a n Mc-
Mallon’s tour-
ing co., for
there she was
a n assistant
stage manager
as well as a
player of small
parts. She is now acting at the Savoy.
Dwarf orange-trees bearing real fruit
helped yellow Iceland poppies to decorate
the Rose Bay Golf Club when eight town
and country matrons packed still another
dance into Sydney’s most syncopated week.
The flutter was to the glory of the visiting
sailormen from Maoriland. Never have
names of guests been more clearly called;
indeed the announcer might be termed a
broadcaster. On this wave of sound the
guest slid to the welcoming hand of unusu-
ally smart hostesses. Mrs. A. E. Hughes
was in flared and sweeping oyster-white;
blue and silver lace wrapped Mark Shel-
don's lady, and gold lace, ruffling to the
wearer’s heels, was Mrs. F. Bligh’s choice.
Kelso King’s lady was loyal to her favorite
black. The dance was an unusual combina-
tion of social tonnage and featherweight
youth. A brace of Excellencies and their
ladies, the Rear-Admiral Evans couple and
Captain and Mrs. Benson were the even-
ing’s golf-leaf decorations; but the hostesses,
true to their word, had kept the guest list
starry with buds. The just-engaged and
upstanding Noreen Worrall was among the
dancers, who included every young thing
mentioned in every other one of the week’s
junketings. The decorations in the dining-
room call for an N.B. The tables were
fragrant with low bowls and shallow baskets
of marigolds, cornflowers, hyacinths and
wallflowers. Here and there the crisp red of
crab-apples piled in brown wicker baskets
suggested frost and a winter morn, but the
boughs of poinsettia around the wall- spoke
of an ardent sun even in July days.
On Saturday night Polo players and their
friends tottered along to the Wentworth to
the Flying Doctor Ball, for which that great
ban-acker Mrs. Hugh Munro had striven
mightily. This is to keep the A.I.M. doctor
in the air. and, judging by Saturday’s roll-
up, he will have pinions to fly with. Mrs.
Munro had longed for the presence of Hairy
Lauder. But a l ] nresent gave a fine render-
ing of deoch an’ doris without him.
The yearly orgy of Polo finished up on
Saturday, and if the public isn’t suffering
f'-om acute Polo indigestion it isn’t the fault
of the press. One newspaper legend is that
any regular female-attendant at Kensington
must be radiant, beautiful and smart in the
extreme. Seme of this is true about a favored
few under a speckless sky. But craning over
a fence in a bitter wind or a driving rain, no
looks her b"st. Chins and noses and
cheek-bones become too obvious, and the
popular and the skull-tight hat are
temptations into which woman for the future
should pray not to be led.
Noreen Worrall, younger daughter of the
medical Ralph Worralls, owns a new diamond
ring. The young man is John Orammond. son
of Mr. and Mrs. Edgar Crammond, of Eden-
bridge, Kent.
Still another job for the locksmith. Helen
Rogerson, of Parkdale (Q.), and Darcy Gar-
nock, of Ivuringai, Bombala, have exchanged
the keys of their hearts.
There will be a linking of pioneer names
to-morrow at St. John’s, in Darlinghurst.
Gwen Suttor will be the bride and Rex Sturt
the ’groom. Gwen is the youngest daughter
of the Norman Suttors, of Rose Bay, and a
great-granddaughter of that George Suttor,
friend of Joseph Banks, who came to Aus-
tralia in the Porpoise in 1798 and first took
up land at Baulkham Hills. He was among
the first to cross the Blue Mountains for the
purpose of settling, and in 1822 acquired land
at Brucedale, near Bathurst. Rex Sturt is a
descendant of Captain Charles Sturt, the
explorer, the centenary of whose passage
down the inland rivers is the Historical
Society’s great event this year.
Joyce Howes has promised Pat (Jeffrey
Andrew in public) Tallis to be his. Pat is
the second son of the knight of the J.C.W.
firm.
A daughter of the Commonwealth Bank’s
first chief swept into matrimony the other
day on a full tide of Mendelssohn, ivory
satin and Brussels lace. Richard Brownlow
Dixon was the man, and brother J. K.
Denison Miller handed the bride over in St.
Anthony’s at Clovelly. Two baby train-
bearers and two grown-up maids fluttered
pink lace frocks in the procession, which
also featured swimming champion Andrew
Charlton as best man. The Blue Room of
the Wentworth roofed the subsequent revelry.
The ’groom hails from Gunnedali.
When Yera Quoy, a former popular Shir-
ley College student, became the wife of
Tsung Yung (Cecil) Lo at St. Andrew’s
last week, in the traditional veil and orange
blossom, she married into one of the best-
known families in China. The ’groom, Who
is a B.A. of Magdalene, Cambridge, is the
fourth son of the late Fengluh Lo, who was
knighted by Queen Victoria. Of his four
brothers one is Commissioner for Foreign
Affairs at Foochow, another is Chinese Min-
ister in Denmark, one is a Judge of the Mixed
Court in Amoy, and a fourth is a professor
at the University of Amoy. Vera’s father is
a former president of the N.3.W. Chinese
Chamber of Commerce. Her future homo
will be at Shanghai, where her husband is
assistant-engineer of the Shanghai-Hanchow-
Ningpo Railway. The Consul : General for
China came up from Melbourne for the wed-
ding, at which there were 200 guests.
Diana Herring, the Brigadier’s little
daughter, can claim to have had one of the
brightest and best parties for her coming
out. It was staged at the Golf Club, and,
except for a few naval and military ’eads,
the age-limit seemed to be 25.
The great surprise of The Bulletin’s
first Novel Competition was the awarding of
a £5OO first-prize to two previously un-
known writers, Flora Eldershaw and Mar-
jorie Barnard, for their historical novel of
early Sydney, “A House Is Built,” now being
used serially as “The Quartermaster.” No
less a critic than Arnold Bennett has testified
to the merit of the novel which was published
in London last week. In the Evening
Standard he says: “It is a very notable
novel; its quality is epical, and deeply
impressed me. I shall be surprised if more
is not heard of Miss Eldershaw and Miss
Barnard.”
That quaint Quaker couple the Rollings
are in the papers again. The square-bearded
old man in the shabbiest suit in Sydney
offered the Freemasons encfUgh to build and
endow a school; but when the 300-odd acres
were bought and the premises nearly up it
was found that Rolling required his own
ideas of discipline to be observed; and the
whole scheme had to be dropped. The pro-
perty, at Bong Bong, was nevertheless handed
over, and was sold last week to the Sydney
C. of E. Girls’ Grammar School. The old
man died lately, and now his widow, who
has few wants and no dependants, has given
£5OOO to the North Shore hospital for re-
search. In life her husband handled
machinery and hardware. They were Ameri-
cans.
Tamworth, by the way, is still living in
the memories of its Polo Carnival, the first
the district has known. The president of the
joust was George McArthur King, whose lady
handed out the prizes. Teams came from
Inverell, Walcha, Tamarang and Muswell-
brook, and such eld Tamworth names as
King, Wiseman, Dowe and Regan were in the
local team-list. The committee treated its
guests as guests and fed them with luncheon
and afternoon-tea each day and staged a
dance each night.
Talk about earthquakes in Maoriland! The
Victoria League is positively disrupting old
customs, and actually presenting a party
within the Australia. This stirring event,
fixed for July 16, is in honor of Admiral
Evans and his wife.


m
i
m
ll Ft
w
o
yr
YVir.
m
A
fm
~V-
m
m
'w
m
VJ?&
%
r
&z
LOOK INTO, AS WELL AS AT, THE IMPROVED 'FIVE-THREE*
IVhen comparing any otter players with the Improved'Five-Three 9 insist
on seeing them dismantled. Ids the only way to compare finish for finish
THERE a M e two separate units in a
player-piano—the piano itself and
the player action. And in each of them
the real value lies in the internal struc-
ture. The only sure way to judge an
instrument is to see the inside. In our
showrooms you will
find one of our Im-
proved 'Five-Three’
Pla/ers dismantled.
Every detail of design,
material, workman-
ship, and finish is there
for you to examine.
When comparing
other instruments with
the 'Five-Three,’ insist
on seeing them also
d smantled. Refuse to
buy where you are not
granted this opportunity. After all, you
are the most concerned in the purchase,
you are the best judge as to what you
are buying To choose an instrument
on outward appearances only is buying
in the dark. You owe it to yourself,
In comparing other
instruments with the
Improved 'Five-Three*
only compare instru-
ments in the highest-
priced class. The 'Five-
Three* was designed to
compete with this class
and this only, notwith-
standing the low price
for which it is sold.
to your purse, to your home, to insist
on facilities for inspection equal to
those afforded you in regard to the
'Five-Three. ’ Among other features of
the improved model is the indestructible
lacquer finish, not the old time French
polish. It is guaranteed
not to crack, check, go
white, sink into the
wood or grow dull.
When visiting our
showroom, ask to see
the hot-water test It
is the most amazing
proof of confidence.
The case-work is wal-
nut veneer, laid verti-
cally. Top and bottom
doors, new flush type.
The player action con-
tains every prov.d device for perfect
expression, and the tonal richness of
the Improved 'Five-Three’ equals that
of a concert piano of highest quality.
Full descriptive matter sent post
free anywhere. Ter mi, easiest possible.
The
Improved ‘Fiv e-Three*
Player at the old price:
e 205
shows a saving of any-
thing up to £7O.
The Beale is also available in
combination w.th the Ampico
—the world’s most wonderful
reproducing medium. Ask to
hear the superb Beale-Ampico.
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories
34° George Street, Sydney
w
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandate
Branches — New South Wales: Newcastle, Wollongong, Lismore, Bathurst, Tamworth, and Maples at Wagga and
Albury. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne suburbs. Tasmania: Maples, Hobart anil Launceston. South Australia:
Savery’s Pianos, Limited, Adelaide. Western Australia: Tnomson's, Limited. Queensland : G. J. Grice, Limited, Bris-
bane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
15.F.p.28.


A Perfect aloss
A GLOSSY, healthy-
looking head of hair
can be yours—it’s _ no
secret; just comb a little
Rowland’s Macassar Oil
thoroughly into the hair
twice a day. It feeds your
hair and prevents weak-
ness and falling out.
FIRST
SOLD
in
1792
Macassar Oil
Of all Chemists,
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
'mir.
w
Food
Uegd. tbajjk mask.
The way
of a mother.
“After struggling to keep
to the breast only, I
decided to try Benger’s,
together with breast feed-
ing. The result was won-
derful. I carried on, giving
alternate feeds of Benger’s
and the breast. He
straightway became a con-
tented and happy baby.”
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
§2 MacteaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address; “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Though we freeze and lose our faith even
in the warmth-sustaining qualities of wool,
we have been bidden to a preliminary view-
ing of spring materials. Manufacturers are
again endeavoring to popularise patterned
material, but this year it is all flowers and
foliage—spots and other non-botanieal shapes
aren’t in the running. Nice satiny uncrusli-
able fabrics such as foulards and pussy-
willow have their parallels in crepe satin
traced all over with spring blossoms. Voile, a
very near relation to georgette, is making a
bid for favor when the thermometer rises,
and there’s a material of muslin-like texture,
devoid of dressing, which in softness is
near chiffon. It’s branded moussaline-de-
something. Straw hats are expected to come
back with warmer days, and that’s a logical
notion; felt millinery is uncomfortable in
hot weather,-though we have bravely suffered
it for fashion’s sake.
The opening of the 29th State Parliament
was a very dull affair. The gentlemen of the
Leg. Assembly, who usually enter the cham-
ber talking and laughing, came in silently
and with an air of hauteur. The military
guard of honor and the band attracted the
usual gathering outside, and in the Council
Chamber galleries and floors were crowded,
women-folk predominating. Acting-Governor
Irvine, looking imposing in his Windsor
uniform, read the Speech from the Throne
with his customary air of dignity and
detachment. It was an afternoon function
and a big stock of viands was laid in the
Queen’s Hall around the marble feet of good
Queen Vic.’s effigy. The Ministry and mem-
bers and their women-folk and friends feasted
en masse, only a small section of the damask
being earmarked for potentates. The Irvine
lady, who was accompanied by Mrs. H.
Calder, wore a gown of navy-blue cloth,
fox furs and blending millinery. Frank
Clarke’s lady, just back from overseas, was
in an ensemble of beige pink in tone with her
fur collar and felt hat. A bois-de-rose coat,
strapped with velvet in deeper hue matching
her-hat, was chosen by Mrs. Alan Currie.
Miss Neville Collins’s moss-green frock and
felt headpiece brightened up a rather gloomy
dress parade. Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
wrapped in furs and magpie raiment, was
there with Mrs. F. W. Eggleston, with whom
she is soon to go tripping to Japan. Mrs.
S. W. Hedger was a study in cherry-red.
Weather or financial depression, maybe
both, seem to have adversely influenced the
attendance on the first day of the Grand
National meeting at Flemington. There
was not the usual great crowd. Soggy lawns,
sloppy stairs drizzling rain occasionally, and
chilly atmosphere are not the ingredients of
a pleasant outing. Coats made quite a
varied showing on the paved walk in front
of the official stand between events, leather,
fur, cloth and tweed being well represented.
A few smart rain-coats in check and plaid
effects added to a colorful display. Black
velvet was also favored for wraps in con-
junction with white, beige or grey fur storm-
collars, and looked well; but a brown velvet-
coated miss who had additions of deep-
yellow fluff about neck-line and cuffs was
astray in her color scheme. Women-folk
who believed in seeing the events in comfort
brought rugs.
The Priminister and Mrs, Bruce were
there, she wearing a black ensemble with a
gold-hued vest and small black felt hat. Mrs.
L. K. S. Mackinnon’s beautiful mink coat
was arresting. Mrs. Alan Currie had
biscuit-colored fur about her black coat, and
Mrs. George Blackwood was stylishly
wrapped. Mole fur and a felt hat with red
plumage were the choice of Mrs. Fred Grim-
wade. The Chauvel lady was a symphony
in grey ensemble and astrachan, her school-
girl daughter being also in grey with a navy-
blue beret. Mrs. Arthur Bullivant was one
of the tweed wearers, and Betty iShackell’s
bright blue leather coat looked cheery.
Harry Lauder wandered round in plaidie
and tarn accompanied by the Tom Vallances
and a few other friends. The George Bus-
sells, Captain and Mrs. Keppel Palmer, she
with a green hat above a kolinsky coat; the
Robert Knoxes, Jess Robertson, Mrs. Pat
Osborne, the Neville Frasers and Mrs. Enab-
ling and Lorna were watchers of the sport
of kings. The popularity of posies was
asserted, bunches of lily of the valley and
violets brightening up many a sombre suit
and coat.
At the mid-week races of the Oaklands
Hunt Club at Moonee Valley an old-time
event figured on the programme—the Ladies’
Bracelet race, in which the horses are
nominated by ladies and ridden by male
members of the club. The winner of the
trophy was Jessie McKenzie. Though the
sun shone the temperature was low, and
tailor-made costumes and furs were popular
feminine wear. The president of the club,
Alister Clark, left his roses to look after
themselves for the afternoon. Master of
the Hounds Robertson and his wife were
onlookers, and so were _ deputy-Master
Magennis and Mrs. Magennis.
Medical knight Richard Stawell’s lady
was co-hostess with Mrs. Seton Williams at a
charming hop at No. 9 on Fr.day night.
The occasion served to introduce to society
their respective daughters, Elizabeth Stawell
and Veronica Williams; and most of the
dancers had either just left college or were
about to do so. Miss Stawell chose white
taffeta, tucked of skirt, that melted into a
tulle hem; and Miss Williams dressed the
role in ivory draperies, with interludes of
rhinestones. Two other debs., Catherine,
daughter of the Urquhart Ramsays, of
Winchelsea, and Joan, daughter of the late
Rev. F. Macßae, shared in the limelight.
Miss Ramsay struck a fresh note in a
flounced frock or biscuit tone, which had a
bustle bow of varying shades of tangerine.
The Stawell lady’s choice was an attractive
black lace gown, and Mrs. Williams radiated in
oxidised silver lace traced with a design
in coral and crystal embroidery. Among
grown-ups were General Chauvel and his
lady, the Lauchlan Mackinnons and the John
Staughtons.
Old Collegians of Toorak College went
to the Rex for their re-union, and danced
in the interests of the library fund of their
old school, now a landmark of Frankston.
The committee of the Collin gwood Cr&che
counted up a pile of bawbees after its
bridge-party at the Berkeley during the
week. This provides for the expenses of the
ball on August 7 at No. 9, the object of
which is to buy a bit of land for the
babies to play on.
At St. Kilda’s Civic Ball Mayor and
Mayoress Unsworth received within white
walls made splendid with draperies of bright
blue and gold. The Mayoress wore white
with a sparkle of rhinestones beneath a gold
tissue coat, and her daughter Elspeth glowed
in soft pink satin and silver lace. The official
guest-list was headed by Mayor and Mayoress
Luxton.
The 19 debs, who graced the P.L.C. Old
Collegi ans’ Association's Ball last week
carried fans of pink heather and pansies.
All ex-students of the college, they curtsied
in white flounces before the president, Mrs.
I. H. Moss,, whose good looks were set off
by glistening black raiment with touch of
red.
This is W. R. Sedon, who, starting as a
private collector of paintings, has gradually
become one of our foremost dealers. The
nucleus of his private collection was formed
by his maternal grandmother, and the latest
addition was a
Corot, acquired
last week. In
his just - built
residence at
Mont Albert
Mr. Sedon has
a gallery 50ft.
by ISft. to
house his own
cherished pos-
sessions. About
three years
ago buyers be-
gan to enlist
hi s services,
and he went
into the pic-
ture business.
Since then he
has found it
necessary t o
extend his pre-
mises three
times. His gal-
leries are so constructed that all exhibits
have a natural south lighting, and some of
the most successful shows in Melbourne have
been housed there.
St. Peter’s saw the wedding of Russell,
elder son of Education Minister. Cohen and
Mrs. Cohen, East Melbourne, and Kathleen,
daughter of the J. P. Watsons of the same
locality. Canon Hughes and Padre Maynard
tied the knot, and there was a- full choral
accompaniment. A great sheaf of white and
pink blooms was carried by the bride, who
wore a filmy pale-pink frock and a felt
hat. Her maid, Hilda Hatchett, was in
golden-brown velvet with matching millinery.
Congratulations were said at the Windsor.
Quantities of white tulle pendent from
a Russian coronet of pearls and silver beads
cascaded over her white satin and crystal-
embroidered gown, when Bonnie Kinnear
married Clive, son of A. G. Fenner, of
Adelaide. Peggy Fenner and Joan Hill
waited on the bride, who is the only daughter
of H. H. Kinnear, of St. Kilda-road. They
wore frocks of misty white lace upon which
were perched bows of myrtle-green velvet.
Mrs. Kinnear, aided by the bride’s aunt, Mrs.
Stavely, gave greeting at No. 9 to the hun-
dred or more gimsts who offered congratula-
tions to the newly-weds.
The U.S.A. Consulate received many
callers, who came to offer felicitations on
the “glorious fourth,” and Consul-General
Arthur Garrels and his wife had many
visitors at their home. Mrs. Garrels, wear-
ing pale green, dispensed tea. A dance,
attended mostly by Americans resident in
this city, was held at old Admiralty House
(Bibrons that was) in the evening. The
Victorian Women Citizens entertained the
Consul-General at their fortnightly luncheon,
which fell on the anniversary.
From a Marietta camera comes this pic-
ture of Mrs.
Dick McCann,
who used to
he Margery
Withers. She’s
a daughter of
the late Wal-
ter Withers,
two of whose
works hang in
our Gallery.
II e r second
show will de-
cor a t e the
walls of the
Athenaeum on
the 16th. Land-
scape and
figure studies
in oils and
water color
and a few pas-
tels will be
exhibited.
Bare arms for evening use are out of
fashion. You may now wear gloves reaching
to the shoulder, trimmed with jewels set in
circular bands, or cover the limb with brace-
lets. It is a matter of choice or of what you
can afford, and you can spend as much as
you like on either mode. Backs, also, are
decorated. The nude area exposed by the
backLss gown is filled in with necklets having-
pendants the size of small plates. These
are worn over the spine to keep out the
draughts. Jewelled brooches may be sported
anywhere one can find anything but skin to
pin them to. Tulle, twisted around the neck
with long streamers, can be decorated with
as many such ornaments as the jewel-box
contains.
The Alfred Hospital has added to itself,
as a memorial of its Diamond Jubilee, a
eommod.ous red-and-cream-brick tea-room
for out-patients, visitors and staff, which
was opened last week by Robert Knox,
chairman of the Central Auxiliary. Six
years ago Mrs. Jim Angus conceived the
idea of running a small shop in connection
w-th the institution, where little extras for
patients could be purchased. Starting with
a capital of £25, the boutique was soon a
flourishing concern and' became a source of
revenue, £3200 having been added to the
hospital funds thereby since its inception.
Expansion becoming necessary, it was de-
cided to add a tea-shop, which was equipped
out of the proceeds of the jubilee fete, at a
cost of £2820. The opening fell on a bitterly-
cold day, and as soon as the gold key was
turned .the 150 guests were treated to a
warming brew. At the later outside cere-
mony of unveiling the memorial-stone
speeches were mercifully short.
A bevy of nice girls clad in simple white
evening gowns, students of the Albert-street
Con., tremblingly awaited public criticism
at a Con. concert the other night. Pianists
and songbirds were numerically about the
same, but there was only one fiddler, Peggy
Adams. Of the singers, Margery Davidson,
Beatrice Oakley, Ella Burke and Meryl
Holliday were outstanding performers, and
Eunice Garland led the instrumentalists,
who were decidedly promising.
Mrs. Julie Rapke, recently appointed a-
magistrate of the Children's Court of St.
Kilda, was for a while the efficient hon. sec.
of the Women Citizens’ movement, and of
the committee that runs the Maternity
Patients’ Convalescent Home. She postponed
her entry into public life until her family
w’ag well grown and she conscientiously felt
she could devote a good portion of her time
to outside interests.
Frank Clarke, President of our Uppish
House, is on his w T ay back from the Cold
Land.' He did not enjoy the trip as much
as he had hoped he would, as his leg troubled
him more in the English climate. His brother
Russell, who is also in the House of Land-
lords, was at the opening of Parliament.
Some of his friends think that he had a
bigger claim to selection than Currie when
McPherson was picking a new honorary
Minister in place of Saltau last week.
Although close up to the maximum age for
volunteering Russell Clarke served in the
Great War, and rose from private to lieu-
tenant.
Amy Dickinson, composer of songs, was a
passenger by the Jervis Bay to England.
She hopes to make her mark as composer
and executant in Britain.
Neil, son of Melbourne’s former Mayor,
the late Malcolm McEacharn, is again the
subject of London society cliatter. Last
season he gave a freak party, to which all
guests came disguised as celebrities. iSiow he
has acquired a palace situated on a famous
waterway in Venice, the Palazzo Labroi,
a seventeenth-century pile of stone, with
marble stairways and inlay floorings, for the
scene of his future imaginative entertain-
ment. He will be missed in London, where
his fine, well-trained voice was in great
social request. Though born in Melbourne,
he was educated overseas, and has remained
there. The family fortune was made in the
Australian shipping trade, though it got a
good lift from Malcolm’s marriage with one
r" " ’ -"liters of J. B. Watson, the Bendigo
millionaire.
Portland has kindly remembrances of Wil-
liam Learmonth, a pioneer amongst the
district settlers. lie became the first mayor
of the town, then full of ambition as a port.
In the ’fifties he became associated with the
Henty family in business enterprises, and
died many years ago. The last surviving
member of his family, a daughter, Miss A.
Learmonth, passed over last month in Lon-
don. She was born in Richmond House,
then a part of the Henty estate, now a
guest-house for summer visitors.
Word comes from Mrs. Tom Hogan that
she and party of Sydney friends have been
enjoying the scenery and climate of Lgypt
for the last four months and were leaving
its blue skies and sunshine with regret,
bound for England. Violent gales in the
Atlantic had prevented niece Marie Loll
and her father, pianist Edward Goll, making
the crossing from America; but the trio are
booked for a German tour later on, and hope
to enjoy a feast of great music.
Just off the sick list, Mrs. Merson Cooper
is once more busy in the interests ot St.
Vincent’s Hospital, and, with Mrs. L. Baw-
dier, is orginising a bridge and cabaret aftei-
noon at Cliveden Mansions on the ford.
Mrs. T. V. Millea, Kathleen Rogers Thom-
son and Zara Dickens have charge of the
ticket distribution.
A Chatterer made simultaneous acquaint-
ance the other day with the pictorial work ot
Christine Asquith Baker and notorious
Thomas Griffiths Wainewright. The lady
had just made a replica of a portrait painted
originally by the convict, who died at
H’obart in 1852. Miss Baker, who was a
pupil of the late Phillips lfox and ot St.
George Tucker, who founded the Melbourne
School of Art, before she completed her
training in Paris, has been an exhibitor at
the shows of the Royal Academy, the vvalker
Art Gallery, the Salon, the Leeds. Art Gal-
lery and the National Portrait Society. Ihe
last is a rare distinction, the N.I .S. being
closed to all save members and such out-
siders as may be invited by members to con-
tribute. Jimmy Whistler, Sargent and
Augustus John have been proud to exhibit
their works under the society’s auspices. A
collection of Miss Baker s oils and pastels
still-life pieces and portraits—decorated the
Anthony Hordern Gallery in Sydney about
three years ago. The Wainewright portrait
copied by Miss Baker is a charming water-
color of the late Mrs. T. B. Prosser, done
when she was in her ’teens. She was the
mother of Mrs. J. Curran, whose daughter,
Mrs. Alec McGregor, has inherited the paint-
ing.
Mrs Edgar, wife of the acting-president of
our Upper House, who lost the sight of her
right eye while in South Africa, is recover-
ing it under skilful treatment. It was for-
tunate for her that she had sympathetic
nieces to look after her in Capetown and put
her on the right track for optical aid.
Jessie Batchelor, whose time for some
years has been mostly spent in training
young singers and aiding philanthropic under-
takings with her own fine voice, is off to
England for a while. The Wattle League
fareweiled her at a tea-gathering at the
Lyceum Club engineered by the president.
Mrs. Britomarte James, who gave Miss
Batchelor thanks for much friendly assist-
ance and wished her a pleasant holiday.
There was a welcome also to Senator and
Mrs. Kingsmill, from W.A.
Painter Dora Wilson, doing the Continent
with her photographic friend Pegg Clarke,
in search of fresh thought and local color,
has been making a ripple in London art
circles. As an exhibitor at the Beaux Arts
Show, her portraits have impressed more
than one professional critic.
An enterprising young woman, who
learned how to use her hands when qualifying
as a gardener, lately designed a gabled and
shingled cottage for herself. As trouble
was rife in the building trade she decided to
superintend operations herself, engaged hands
and stayed around giving directions and
assistance. Her week-ends were spent in
laying out a garden. But she isn’t the first
woman to butt into the building trade.
There’s a week-end place in the Hills bunt
ontirelv by Edna Wallen in her spare time,
and a good job she made of it. A much
older identity, Agnes Fraser, put up a
suburban weatherboard cottage with her
own hands 50 years back, camping on her
allotment till the building was complete.


LESS AR,OMA
IS
m
m
'X*si
■$
m
W
m
DRY C
OSTiuEO'IS
MEt*6OUO*E '
V
mm
WS&
M
m
mm
y-:'
m
sM
mm
's:
mm.
m
srr
PRICE |
BERRYJ
-$-C7
/ 1/
Months of research abroad; working
and tnvefligating wherever distilling
was done ; rejecting commonplace prac-
tice; accepting only the beSl frim all
known methods; improving on old
formula by the use of modern apparatus
• . . . thus our chcmiSl produced in
Crystal Court not only
first, but the World’s finest dry gin.
AN aroma apart . . individual, enticing, aristocratic. The outcome
of a distilling method won from world-wide research, the aroma
of Crystal Court Dry Gin is allied with its matchless purity and
clarity —an alliance which has won for it the title of "Australia’s First
and the World’s Finest Dry Gin.’*
As a medicinal spirit Crystal Court is pre-eminent . . . because it’s pure .
As a bracing tonic it is the favorite of all men . . . because it's pure.
As the basis of any mixed drink it is hailed by connoisseurs .*. becjtusj
it's pure.
Crystal Court Dry Gin is obtainable at all Hotel Ban,
Bottle Departments and Licensed Stores.
Many valuable recipes for cocktails and other pleasing drinks are contained in our little
booklet, "Here’s How." Ask for a free copy when next you order Crystal Court Gin.
or write direct to Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd., Port Melbourne.
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE DISTILLED FOR PURITY'S SAKE


I
m
I
ii
11
i!
%
w-
-4
m
mji
m
,//f'
•//&
-j/
■
2
1
m
m
HE originality of design,
smart curve of brim,
natural set on the head,
instantly mark the
Fayrefield as different
from other hats.
Not only because it is
Australian-made, but because of
its hard-wearing and shape-retain-
ing qualities, let your choice be a
Fayrefield
Select to-day from a wide variety
of shapes, sizes and shades.
Is
axilQ
Held
■ci V/ li/jf . ../A/
are their Merits vJi tk K
ona
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY -
LTD


I
I
.
m
■
P y'i
1
it
1
EXCLUSIVE
DISTINCTIVE
TAILORING
PERFECT CUT
THE FINEST
MATERIALS
AND NEWEST
PATTERNS
MAYFAIR 1670
McftrwiL
LADIES TAILOR I
LONDON
at
19 Princes Street
Hanover Square W. I.
EXTENDS YOU A WELCOME
SPECIALISING IN SUP-
PLYING VISITORS TO
THE “OLD COUNTRY"
WITH TAILORED
CLOTHES SUITABLE
FOR BOTH AUSTRA-
LASIAN AND EUROPE-
AN WEAR-HOPES FOR
THE PLEASURE OF
YOURVISIT-ASUITTO
PLEASE THE MOST
FASTIDIOUS AT 15 GNS
M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair aud Engineering Fair and Building Fair.... August 25 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
Authorised Representatives:
LARS BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
G. N. KEPPEL, C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Melbourne, Victoria.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THE FLYING SQUAD.
CRITERION: THE PERFECT ALIRI.
PALACE: DRACULA.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
A NIGHT OUT.
ROYAL:
SIR HARRY LAUDER.
I_l OYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
° MELBOURNE.
GEO. ALEXANDER in
THE DOLLAR PRINCESS,
AND
BRYANT WASHBURN in
SKINNER’S BIG IDEA.
BE A MAGICIAN!
Send Five Shillings for Six Simple and
("'lpitrpV ' J'lpjf q
and MYSTIFY your FRIENDS.
J. H. WILLIAMS,
' “The Magic Box”
ROYAL ARCADE—SYDNEY.
NINETEENTH CHILDREN’S PORTRAITS
COMPETITION.
£5 -FOR BEST BOY~£5
£5 -FOR BEST GIRL~£S
{Judgment of Management to be Final )
TEN SHILLINGS for every other photo used.
PHOTOS WANTED FROM EVERY STATE
for United Commercial Travellers’ Association’s
National Annual, Australia To-Day. Photos
(babyhood up to 15 years last birthday) must have
been taken during last 12 months. BACK OF
PHOTO must show NAME AND ADDRESS AND
AGE OF CHILD with NAME AND ADDRESS OF
SENDER. Unused photos will be returned, post
paid, immediately judging is completed. Photos
must reach Editor, Australia To-Day, Commerce
House, 328 Flinders Street, Melbourne, by September
7, 1929.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy ,
Write to the MANAGER. , u)/io u)z7/
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Dances have been so few and far between
lately that last week seemed very strenuous.
Mayor Bonython entertained the citi-
zens most liberally at the Town Hall on two
consecutive nights, and the guests on both
occasions showed a disinclination to go home.
The Mayoress, Adelaide’s smartest frocker,
wore a French model in black taffeta, with
chic flared skirt, and a diamente bird of
paradise embroidered upon the left side of
the bodice. The decorative scheme evolved
by Mrs. Bonython, of flowers growing in pots,
arranged among foliage, with amber lights
peeping through, was very effective. On the
first night the guests were official and mainly
in the sere and yellow leaf, and on the second
the younger set were entertained. His Ex.,
Lady Hore-Ruthven and her mother, the Hon.
Mrs. Barry, were present on the first night.
The vice-regals were also at the Gunners’
Ball in the Norwood Town Hall, an occa-
sion when uniforms were to the fore. On the
same night the Girton House Old Scholars,
at the Freemasons’ Hall, and the Uni.
students, at the Elder Con., burst into
dancing.
Mrs. Angas Johnson was hostess at the
Piccadilly Cafe, when she entertained the
members of the Adelaide Hospital Auxiliary.
Mrs. Johnson has been acting-president
during the absence of the Moulden lady, who
has just returned from abroad and resigned
from office. Bridge and competitions amused
the guests.
The Motor Ball was another large function
held at the Palais Royal, proceeds in aid
of the Children’s Hospital. To bring the ball
under the notice of the public, traffic was held
up in the main street during luncheon hour
by a procession of every known make of car,
and some that are new to us. During the
evening, Fred Ward, of the Regent Theatre,
arrived in a 30-year-old Oldsmobile with the
Regent ballet, and motored round the ball-
room.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin went to the
Grammar School entertainment in Cremorne
theatre. Dr. Lockhart Gibson and his wife
and headmaster Stuart Stephenson met the
party, and a youthful Hancock presented
her Ex. with flowers tied with the school
colors.
This is Mrs. E. H. Macartney, wife of the
newly-appointed Agent-General for Queens-
land, who will
leave a gap in
social life as
well as in cer-
ta i n public
o r ganisations
when she
sails for Lon-
don with her
husband. Be-
fore her mar-
riage she was
Caroline Car-
dew, a mem-
ber of a well-
known Queens-
land family,
and she has
two sons, one
of whom, E. E.
Macartney, is
a member of
the legal firm
of Thynne and
M a c a r tney.
Round the Macartneys’ home at Yeerong-
pilly, on the edge of the golf-links, is a lovany
garden which is Mrs. Macartney’s pride, and
with golf it claims much of her spare time.
Her chief public interest is the Girl Guide
movement, of which she was the first chair-
woman. Since then she has held the posi-
tion of State Commissioner, and last October
she received the Medal of Merit in recogni-
tion of her conspicuous services for the move-
ment. For some time she has been president
of the Scribblers’ Club, and she has accom-
plished a lot of good work for the Bush
Nursing Association.
Their Exes, also went to the ball given by
the Limbless Soldiers’ Association in the
South Brisbane City Hall. Wattle, flags and
vari-colored electric bulbs brightened up the
place, and the stage was made into a vice-
regal lounge decorated with palms, poins a ttia
and red ribbons. Lady Goodwin, in black
Chantilly and steel lame evening coat,
trimmed with fur, was presented by Mrs.
Jolly with red roses and mignonette. A
Union Jack and the flag of Queensland back-
grounded the v.-r. table in the supper-room,
inverted golden umbrellas with gold streamers
made a canopy, and greenery embrac d the
pillars. Crystal vases of wattle and flat
petals of poinsettia were on board. Mrs.
Jolly was in dawn-pink with a white mar-
about-edged rose bridge-jacket. Mrs. Faulk-
ner presented her with a bunch of orchids,
violets and lily of the valley. Mrs. Grave
wore grey chenille; Mrs. Faulkner, cham-
pagne mariette and gold beads ; Mrs. Trude,
black lace.
The Girl Guides assembled to fgte their Chief
Commissioner, Mrs. E. H. Macartney, prior
to her departure for England with lier hus-
band, the newly-made Agent-General. An
opal brooch was presented to her by the
Southern and Central guides, and from the
north came a travelling-rug and cushion.
She arrived at the Windsor parade with
Lady Goodwin, who had Mrs. H. Power, of
Melbourne, with her. Dorothy Hawthorn,
the brown-eyed girl who has just got her
blue cord, will take Mrs. Macartney’s place.
M : ss Hawthorn has been in the Guides since
1924, twice representing this State at camps
in N.S.W. and Vic.
The Toowoomba Grammar School Old
Boys’ Associat-on had a dance in the Carlton
ballroom, dressed up in gold wattle and
blue and gold streamers with balloons to
match. Colonel Cameron received. Chief
Justice Blair and his wife were amongst the
throng.
Colonel Craven and officers of the 49th
Battalion gave a dance on the same night in
the. Captain Moran Memorial Hall at Kelvin
Grove. The regimental colors and the
King’s were interspersed with blue and
black streamers. Mrs. Craven was in black
mariette with an Oriental bridge coat.
Angus Rees was married to Estelle Dent
at St. Agatha’s, Clayfiekl. The bride wore
ivory ring velvet. Her silk net veil was
worn in cap-style with a half-circlet of orange
blooms and chin-strap of buds. She carried
white arum-lilies. The church was decorated
with lilies and palms. Naomi Anneal'
(Sydney) and Ida Nolan ’maided in moon-
light blue ring velvet. Bonnet-shaped Aus-
trian felt hats to match their frocks were
worn, and their bouquets were shell-pink
camellias.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The “Men Only” notice was taken from
the doors of Tattcrsall’s Club on the occasion
of a recent evening entertainment, and mem-
bers of the fair sex availed themselves of the
opportunity for general inspection. The
lounge, supper-room and cosy little parlors
were laden with flowers —vivid Iceland
poppies, fragrant roses and violets, delicate
cosmos, Geraldton wax, liovea and wattle.
President and Mrs. Lalor did the honors, the
lady clad in white georgettes encrusted in
crystal, with bodice and panels of closely set
gold bead chains. Secretary Iveary arranged
a good programme, the early portion of the
evening being devoted to music, when Mrs.
C. Rippon, Thelma Neil, the Select Quart-
ette, and others contributed items. Later
an adjournment was made to the dance-
room, where there was toe-tapping ’neatb
streamers and colored lights.
The Militia was more in prominence than
the Navy at the Naval and Military Club
Ball. General H'obbs and his lady were there
with Captain and Mrs. Athol Hobbs. Fes-
toons of rainbow balloons bobbed about and
fronds of zamia palms outlined the windows.
The Hobbs lady’s floral lame bridge-coat was
worn over a white-topped beaded frock with
black handkerchief-point skirt. The Witten-
oom lady’s diamentes shone from lavender
ninons ; Jean Beith Wilson danced in silver
vested ring velvet, and Mrs. Athol Hobbs in
black net, silver embossed.
Mimic motors were parked on the dais of
Temple. Court and flashed their headlights
over the ballroom at the General Motors
dance. Acrobatic specialties and exhibitions
of ballroom dancing entertained the hun-
dreds, whose ticket moneys go to the wee
tots’ hospital. Mrs. Ivitching, Mrs. Glowery,
Mrs. Fred Robinson, Elsie Paxton and Sita
Stapledon were among the dancers.
Georgie Trumble, daughter of the secretary ,
to the High Commissioner of Australia, dis :
embarked from the Ormonde, went to the
abode of Dr. and Mrs. Lindsay Male for a
brush-up, then stra.ght to Christ Church,
Claremont, where the Rev. Kenneth Hender-
son gave his blessing. Knight George Pearce
handed her into the safe keeping of Leslie
Walker, the bride wearing a lynx-collared
beige coat over beige and green printed
chiffon and small beige hat. There were
toast drinkmg and cake cutting at the
Esplanade afterwards.
Marjorie Battye, second daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. J. S. Battye, of the Public Library,
is busy removing her left glove to show a
new finger adornment to inquiring friends.
Richard Gordon Hardie, of Albany, is the
donor of the trinket.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
A day of South Polar chilliness was not
enough to d ter a big number of enthusiasts
from attending the point-to-point steeple-
chase at Melton Mowbray. Margaret
O’Grady, in brown tailored suit and s nail
brown felt hat, presented the trophies. One
bad accid nt marred the-day, when Kathleen
Mercer’s fine horse, Cup Day, fell and broke
his back and had to be destroyed. Mrs. Reed
entertained a big throng at tea in the mar-
quee, among the guests being Margaret
O’Grady, the J. G. Mitchells, the Toni
Lyonses and Mrs. Sam Cox, the John Fos-
ters, the Jim Melroses, the Ivo Agnews, the
Cyril Lewises with daughter Margaret, the
Russell Ibbotts, the Alan Walkers, the Tom
Dowlings, Col. and Mrs. Cox Taylor and a
host of others.
The Royal Yacht Club bade an army of
guests to its annual ball at the Continental
and its Club House. All sorts of nautical
gadgets adorn d the walls, and huge fires
helped to keep at bay the touch of Jack
Frost. Bridge- and cabaret-coats wre worn
in cons’deration of the intense cold. The
committee had done good work in organising
the affair, and had the satisfaction of seeing
their efforts result in a great success.
It has been cold ! We’ve broken the record
for the lowest temperature for 27 years,
according to the meteorological authorities.
Ice and snow everywhere, and'fine drives
ahead for the ski parties at National Park
apd Mt. Meld, where the huts are booked up
till September. The mountain is a lovely
sight these days. Hobart looks almost more
beautiful in its winter rig than when most
folk from the mainland see it, rather dusty
and tarn'shed, in the summer.
An old friend under a new name, the
Hobart Philharmonic Society, formerly the
Choral Society, drew a big audience to the
Town Hall to hear conductor G. A. Jack-
son’s Mass in F, portions of which were
given for the first time in public and which
received very favorable criticism. Doreen
Bidencope and Grace Whitelaw were
vocalists.
Two of our leading medical men who have
been absent for change of air and experience,
Dr. James Sprent and Dr. Norman Atkins,
have got into harness again in Macquarie-
street.
Dorothy Cottrell, Queensland authoress of
“S nging Gold,” writes to Tasmanian
relatives of the life she and her husband
are leading at Lake Elsinore. California.
They are picnicking on the land where they
intend to build.


THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL ”A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Hoorn Only. European Plan.
"Pining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
ŵ
Address Manager—
ROWES, I/I’D.,
Cafe ami Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TAIUFi) :
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Weekly, .
11/6 to
Room & B'fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Daily,
ẁ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 6/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
hmtmm w- NORMAN LINDSA/.
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde leaves the service in IS3U and
buys a combined store and dwelling
in Windmill-street, Sydney, near the
harbor. His son, William, resents the
whaling skipper Captain Hildebrand
being treated as a family guest and
meeting his sisters, Fanny and Maud,
on terms of friendship. Fanny is
secretly deeply attracted to Hildebrand,
and is seriously shocked when, offering
to elope with him, she is mocked
and rejected. Soon after Maiid roman-
tically marries Humphrey Gillam, and
in the following years rears him
a large family. William had thought
the raw state of the young city
and the shopkeeping too degrading
for him to bring his fiancee, Adela, to
live there. She, however, voyages out
from England, and in the new home in
City-road is, by 18J t 7, the mother of
two boys, James and Lionel. The
Quartermaster, William and Fanny
(who is virtually feminine head of the
City-road house) appropriate James
but rather ignore the younger boy, and
Adela secretly prays that she may be
allowed to have Lionel as her own.
Walter Moore, a foundry-owner, cir-
cumspectly icooes Fanny, but is re-
jected. Business had reached a fairly
low ebb when the discovery of gold
enabled the Quartermaster to estab-
lish stores on the fields and win a
fortune. He returns after six years
to find Sydney wonderfully grown. A
visit of Maud, with five of her six
children, to Windmill-street makes
Fanny think back to their early days
and Hildebrand,
CHAPTER XIV —( continued ).
THE Quartermaster came home for good
in the October of 1857. He was full of
schemes, and his return in no wise
assumed the character of a retirement. He
took it for granted that nothing would be
changed at the store, and he gathered it all
back into his hand with a fine hearty negli-
gence. ■; -
To celebrate his return, and partly, too,
because the visit to the store had filled her
with sentiment, Maud gave a large all-
day family party. As originally conceived,
it was to include all the family and only
the family, and they were to bring the
children and be natural. Maud had a gift
for parties. She could achieve elegance
where her friends were only ponderous and
costly. She tackled this new enterprise in
the spirit of an artist attempting a new
medium. A family gathering, she saw,
should be different in quality from any
other form of entertainment. Its keynotes
should be abundance and informality; it
should be conceived in humor and carried
out in tolerance.
Yet when the list of guests was prepared
Maud felt, dissatisfied. Her side of the
family was insufficiently represented. There
was the family from the City-road, and she
saw how perfectly right the Quartermaster
would be at a party of this kind; and there
were Esther and Horatio Bardon and their
three little girls—for the Lord in His good-
ness had unexpectedly added a third olive-
branch in ’54: that was all. In the other scale
was the great homogeneous mass of the
Gillams, and, most overpowering of all, there
was Adelaide. As her sisters-in-law and
their husbands always came to her elegant
parties, Maud feared that not even the
Quartermaster and his children would be
able to humanise this one completely.
Actually on the brink of her party, she
felt strangely nervous. It was even more :
portentous than she had expected.
Dinner was over, and the family gather-
ing resolved itself into two parties by a
process of natural selection. Maud left the
drawing-room, where the' elder ladies sat,
almost with relief. Her life in the country
had helped to conceal from her what every
Victorian woman knew, that marriage closed
the doors of youth. Despite six children and
thirty-five years, she still felt young and
more akin to the sprightly party out of
doors than to the sedate one in the drawing-
room.
In Maud’s flounced and gilded drawing-
room, beneath the portrait of Maud in rose-
colored silks done ten years ago and
destined to hand down to her grandchildren
that legend of perfect, saccharine amiability
in which she was to lose her individuality,
sat an assemblage of matrons and virgins
of the Gillams and Hydes.
In chairs of state, on either side of the
elaborate hearth, sat the two rival old
ladies of the party, Mrs. Giles and Mrs.
Gillam. They had had something in com-
mon to begin with, but they were ending
poles apart. Mrs. Gillam billowed in black
silk and real lace, her eyes still dark and
dominant in a face that resembled a large
cream-puff. Mrs. Giles was hard 3nd
tight, and gleaming still with the jet she
had put on for Euphemia. There was a
sort of fierceness in the very way her bodice
fastened, and contempt in the austerity
of her gown. These two women had known
and disapproved of each other for many
years, and had not yet given up their long
futile attempts to impress one another.
Mrs. Gillam found her patent of nobility
in good fortune, Mrs. Giles in misfortune.
Transport was not without its difficulties,
but the first guests arrived at ten o’clock
and the last by noon. Humphrey had sent
his own boat to Man-o’-War Steps to fetch
the Bai'dons and Bertha Mussell. Not far
behind them was the veritable barge that
the Quartermaster had hired to transport
his household. He was making as much as
he could of the occasion, and did not con-
sider himself too old for a Breton-sailor
hat with streamers of light-blue ribbon. His
remarks upon sea-sickness when they struck
a slight swell were so diverting that Katie,
who was going as a sort of demi-guest,
uttered a squeal of uncontrollable laughter,
and he offered to throw her overboard.
Lionel exclaimed with such enthusiasm
“Oh, yes, Grandpapa,” that even William
smiled at his son’s precocious sense of
humor. The whole party dissolved into
jollity, and arrived in holiday mood.
Adelaide Gillam had arrived early with
a hamper of crockery.
“A fine day, my dear Maud,” she boomed
confidentially, and then dramatically, “I
prayed for fine weather.”
“So good of you, my love,” said Maud,
enthusiastically counting crockery, “and one
dozen large plates in the shell design—
is that right?”
Adela was a little dazzled by so many
people. She had not the pugnacious and
inquisitive spirit that flourishes at a family
party, and for all Maud’s careful balancing
this was very much a Gillam party. There
was solidarity about the Gillams. When
a woman of the Gillams married, she prose-
lytised her husband, conferring on him some
of the sacred rights of a Gillam and in-
corporating him in the family defences.
Adela was too minutely conscious of all
the tensions and constraints about her. She
looked from face to face, and saw how
seriously they took themselves. She looked
through the French windows and saw Maud
step off the verandah and walk down into
the garden. She raised her eyes to the
rose and gold picture.
“Dear Maud!” said Claire; “she scarcely
looks a day older.”
“And just as amiable,” snapped Mrs.
Gillam across the room.
“But does she worry enough!” Esther
sighed. “I sometimes think of those poor
little children.” She sighed again. “They
have no idea what a vale of tears this life
is. Maud doesn’t prepare them.”
Bertha was saying “Six children —how
nice and how like the dear Queen!”
And Sophia was saying in her metallic
voice: “Anyone can have six children; it’s
only the very clever ones that don’t.”
Everyone was horrified except Mrs.
Gillam, who had not heard, and insisted on
having the terrible remark repeated to. her.
“Sophia would have been just like poor
old Adelaide if she hadn’t married,” Claire
murmured to Adela.
Adela did not like Sophia much, and
could not understand how' she fascinated
men. She was metallic and harsh and salty.
Sophia was like her mother, and the child
■ Laurel was like her—a vein of dark obsidian
in the shining yellow metal of the Gillams.
Adela had not seen Laurel for years, not
since she was quite a baby, and the child
had startled her—made her think something
—she did not quite know what. Adela
pulled her mind back with a jerk.
‘"Do watch Adelaide and Bertha.”
“They were good old days, Addie,” Bertha
was saying. “Do you remember” —-
Adelaide shuddered at whatever it was.
“We were very young and foolish in those
days. Of course we were, and what could
be nicer than being young and foolish?
I’m old and foolish now. I don’t think
all your money and fine bonnets have made
you happy, Addie.”
“I am perfectly happy,” boomed the tor-
mented Adelaide. “I have found something
better than frivolity. The Reverend Cyril
Matthews”
“Oh my dear, why didn’t you tell me
before?”
“The Reverend Cyril Matthews preached
only last Sunday on the beauties of celi-
bacy. I assure you, Sophia, a most chaste
sermon.”
“Some of us are meant for good works,’
Adelaide added, almost menacingly. “I
do what I can.”
“I’m sure you do, dear,” said Bertha
heartily, with intent to soothe. But later
she confided her doubts and fears to Mrs.
Gillam.
“Dear Adelaide doesn’t look as happy as
she thinks she is.”
“No,” said the old lady in her bright hard
wisdom, “she isn’t. That’s why she has
taken to good works. Our home would be
much more comfortable if she hadn’t. She
had as many opportunities of getting what
she wanted as most girls. I don’t know
what it was. We never will know now, be-
cause, if she ever knew herself, she has
quite forgotten.”
“Why can’t poor females do as they like?”
Adela was asking. “There’s never this fuss
over bachelors.”
“Females,” said Mrs. Gillam, her dark
eyes seeming to crackle and sparkle with
contempt,. “were created to bear children.
You have only to look at your bodies to
know r that. Good works—stuff and non-
sense!”
This stark utterance fell with a crash into
the gilded drawing-room, a bolt shot straight
from the forthright ’thirties into the elegant
and genteel ’fifties. It shattered the conver-
sation, which broke up into duets and trios.
Adela told Claire about Lionel’s delicate
chest, and Sophia described a lively fracas
with her mantuamaker, who had tied her
new gown up with hortensia ribbon instead
of blonde. Adelaide talked about flannel
to Esther.
■ “Galloway’s, in Pitt-street, stock a special
j flannel for charities—l always go there. But


“James thought she was rather like a hare.”
I insist on grey flannel—red flannel is. too
exciting. Mrs. Matthews, our dear rector’s
mother, is all for red flannel. She says it
brings a little brightness into their lives.
It caused quite a little rift in our society.
As president I insisted. When once you
begin exciting the poor, you never know
where it will end. Don’t you agree with
me?”
“I do, indeed,” said Esther earnestly.
In the garden the party formed and re-
formed itself, groups making, breaking,
merging in a sort of kaleidoscopic pattern.
The Quartermaster walked with old Gillam,
and talked of prices and tonnage and
trade. His heart expanded with love for
the rival he had surpassed. He exuded geni-
ality like a luminous paint.
“Who is the funny old buffer our pa-
in-law has in tow?” Gresford asked Franklin.
“Don’t you know?” asked Franklin.
“That’s old Hyde, Mrs. Humphrey’s father.
He made a fortune on the goldfields.”
Gresford whistled. A man who could
make money as Hyde had made it could
afford any eccentricity.
“Absolutely,” agreed Franklin. “He is the
only ancestor the Hydes have.”
James enjoyed himself. He was the eldest
boy and the natural leader of that half of
the party. At dinner he sat next to Laurel
Franklin. She didn’t say anything at first,
but when she caught him looking at her
she made a little quick face at him, wrink-
ling up her nose. He kept glancing at her
to see if she were making faces.
All the afternoon he kept running into
Laurel. When they played chasings, James
picked her out to chase. She was very light
and quick, dodging and doubling so that
he could not catch her. He pursued her
round and round the garden. He began to
lose his breath, but she had enough left
to go on grinning at him. The other child-
ren stopped playing because there was
nobody to chase them, but still he panted
and plunged after Laurel. Ferocity entered
the chase and when at last he overtook her,
he caught hold of her roughly and they fell
together on a flower-bed. Her face was not
flushed as his was, but her heart was beat-
ing desperately in her shallow body.
When they played hide and seek, she
caught his hand. “I know a place,” she
whispered. She led ■ him swiftly to the
wildest part of the garden, tangled with
fools’ ivy and convolvulus, and pulled him
down behind a screen of honeysuckle that
curtained the wall of an old tool-shed.
She crouched panting by his side. James
thought she was rather like a hare with
her bright, quick eyes and her small, swift,
palpitating body. She wasn’t so bad for
a girl, he thought; she was funny and she
could do things. It was such a good hiding-
place that they were not found at all and
had to come tamely out, to find the game
all over.
The Quartermaster called James to him
as he walked up and down a garden path
with Mr. Gillam. He did not want him for
anything in particular, but drew him into
step, an arm affectionately round the
boy’s shoulder. It was like a public
display of his heir. The two men went,
on talking.
Mr. Gillam said: “My boy never cared
■for the business; it was a disappointment,
but no good forcing him. He’s done well
for himself. Franklin’s my heir as far as
the business is concerned. Smart fellow, oh
very! New-fangled notions, but keen as
mustard. Franklin and your William ought
to divide the field between them in the
next twenty years.”
“We’ro not out of it yet; I feel like
forty.” With a quick, powerful movement
of his arm the Quartermaster switched
James round in front of them. “Twelve
years old,” he announced as if he defied
old Gillam to produce a grandson to equal
him. “Chest, eh? Muscle, eh?”
“You’d better make it ‘Hyde and Sons’
right away.”
“Damned if I won’t!” cried the Quarter-
master with a great laugh. “There,” he
said, “run along. You can have your games
a bit longer.”
Fanny walked with Benjamin. She was
drawn to him by curiosity and compassion.
He seemed a poor, weak thing to be turned
adrift in a family party, and she could not
help wondering if he were still in love
with Maud. He did not look like the
vessel of an undying passion, but why else
should he come all this way to be lonely
and miserable among acquaintances with
whom he could have nothing in common?
After what he had suffered, after years
in that foreboding millhouse, gaunt,
ugly and unvisited, shuttered and muted,
he could not be like other men. Beeause
of these things a mantle of pity had fallen
over him.
(Continued on next page.)


Comfort & Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/-.
oJdelaides Finest Unlicensed Jiotet
Opp. Railway Srn.Norfh Terrace. ADELAIDE'
E,VERY BLEMISH
REMOVED IN A FEW DAYS.
I will tell every render of this paper how
FREE.
YOUR COMPLEXION MAKES
OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE.
Miss Grace Duncan, former actress, now offers to tell men
and women who are interested in the matter of the most
remarkable complexion treatment ever known. Stubborn
cases have been cured that baffled beauty-specialists for
h,
years. You have never in all your life used or heard of anyth mg ime it ,u*.fc<s
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions vanish. Wo
cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus*,
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexion is a ’ fright,
whether vou face is full of muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimplv
and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey," and you've tried almost
everything under the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This treatment in just a few days
removes blemishes and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You look years
younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In a
short while you can be the subject of admiration by all your friends, no matter what
your age or condition of health. There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.
Your face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautiful beyond your fondest dreams
All this Miss Duncan will absolutely prove to you within a few days. This treatment
Is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change
in your mode of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. lo every reader of
this paper Miss Grace Duncan will give full details of this really astonishing treatment.
Le. her show you. You risk nothing. Send three penny stamps for postage and your
name and address to Miss Duncan, who will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suite B 6) 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Heady in a moment
always hade
ẃ
in the home
itissohandu
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
“Benjamin,” Fanny said, walking on the
narrow sea-shell path between the rows of
cups-and-saucers and bushes of daphne and
laurustinus, “don’t you ever want to leave
the mill? It must be very melancholy for
you now.”
He pressed his hand to his forehead,
throwing back the lock of fair hair. He
looked troubled, as if he suspected her of
wanting to take something from him.
“I couldn’t leave the mill—oh no, Miss
Fanny! I would miss it too much.” He
paused and laughed nervously. What he
was trying to say sounded bizarre in this
sane and lovely garden, but it was true.
He had escaped completely into his work
from his tormented life at the Mill House;
he had taken cover in book-keeping and
milling until he had become part of them.
Glancing sharply at Benjamin, Fanny
found him as commonplace as ever—lank
and pale—and it seemed strange that he
of all men should have stumbled On this
north-west passage to content.
Their path was taking them out on to a
miniature promontory that broke, six feet
below, on to a couple of yards of sand,
lapped by the water of the harbor. On this
little headland was. built a rustic summer-
house, from which you had a lovely view
of the harbor, a wide bay, a headland still
dark and thick with native bush and a
sheet of brilliant, placid water.
Into the summer-house most of the adult
guests had drifted. Only the Quartermaster
and old Gillam walked up and down their
strip of path, hands clasped behind their
backs, heads and shoulders leaning a little
forward, beginning already to take on the
similarity that age, like infancy, brings to
all human beings. They were having the
conversation of a decade and would have
to be dragged apart by their womenfolk
to go home.
Fanny approached the summer-house
where Humphrey and his guests were
gathered. Humphrey had worn well, he had
kept his youth. Of all the men there
he only had any of the boy left in him.
Fanny liked him better now than she used
to. She had thought him insignificant, but
she knew now that he was only quiet, that
he had no affectations and no vanities and
that his kindness and courtesy went through
to his heart. He had his father’s nobility
of feature without his strength.
Fanny was struck by the difference be-
tween Humphrey and his relatives. He
seemed a different breed. There was Frank-
lin, a robust man in the early forties with
florid Roman features, harsh, ruthless and
genial, a man with a mask of flesh over a*
spirit of steel; there was Gresford, the
man of the world, a little supercilious, even
a little cruel; and Hunt, the handsome
young ex-officer with some education but
no brains, a pleasant companion and well
enough so long as no strain was put upon
him; and there was William, her brother,
looking very rigid and almost ascetic. He
looked, as he was, scrupulous to a fault,
punctilious to the point of being ungener-
ous. His strength was above his eyes,
Franklin’s in his jaw. William was the
cooler man.
“He looks as if he were thinking some-
thing sour now,” Fanny reflected. But what
William was thinking was that Mrs. Gres-
ford and Mrs. Hunt were somewhat lacking
in modesty so appropriate in young matrons,
laughing and talking all the afternoon with
the men, and he was comparing them with
his gentle and womanly Adela.
Humphrey would have found Fanny a
seat, but she smiled and shook her head.
She paused as if just in the act of passing
on; few of the company had noticed her
arrival. Franklin held the floor, and was
telling some tale of the goldfields.
“ the watch interested the bushranger
most. He opened the case and with some
difficulty was able to read the inscription
by moonlight.”
“ <Ah yes, Mr. Moore,’ he said, ‘I thought
so. I saw you now and again round and
about Hyde’s store in the old days. I
don’t suppose you’d remember a poor devil
of a whaling captain’—and he said it sorrow-
fully, as if he was a much-injured man.
There’s no doubt it was that devil-may-care
fellow Hildebrand who used to sail your
father’s boat, the Rosamund, Hyde, and he
got off with every penny poor Walter had
and made him a laughing-stock into the
bargain.”
There was laughter, and in the midst
Fanny heard Phoebe’s famous titter.
“Isn’t it odd?” she bubbled. “Oh, isn’t
it odd?” And then Fanny heard her own
name and “Well, that was what everybody
said, and I know for a fact Walter paid
her attentions. That the two men should
meet like that, I vow it’s the oddest thing
I have heard.”
She felt no more than a snake would feel
on hearing its old cast slough despitefully
used.
Maud’s party was over. It had been
a wonderful party, it had closed an epoch.
It had been a sort of clearing house for the
’fifties. Thither had come the whole clan
to take stock of itself, to count its riches
or lick its sores. It had laid down the
premises of the ’sixties.
But there were still three more years in
the ’fifties and three more months in 1857.
CHAPTER XV.
The Younger Son.
It was Christmas. And it was not quite
like other Christmases, because, in a way,
it was the last Christmas. Before next
Christmas' the family Would have left the
house in City-road and James would have
been sent to boarding school. Adela thought
it would be the last time her sons were
children together, and the thought lent a
bloom of melancholy to the happy days
as if they were already beautiful and touch-
ing memories.
James, too, felt the shadow of approaching
change. He was twelve and in the new
year he was going to school. These momen-
tous facts set him apart. He was equally
remote from the adults and from Lionel,
who was still a baby. He was a little
uncomfortable with himself and a little
suspicious of Christmas lest it trap him back
into childishness.
Lionel was very happy because this
Christmas he had a real secret. In the
disused potting-shed at the bottom of the
garden he was making a wonderful present
for his mamma. No one had seen it or knew
anything about it. Thinking of it in bed
at night he trembled with joy. His mamma
had admired a screen and he had said “I
will buy you a screen like that when I
grow up,” and she had kissed him and said
that would be nice. Then one day he had
found an old clothes-horse among lumber
in the potting-shed, and the thought of
the screen and of the clothes-horse had
rushed together in his mind.
No poet’s inspiration could have been
truer or have worn a finer aspect of divinity.
He would not wait till he grew up, he
would give mamma her screen now. He
washed the clothes-horse and he covered it
with sheets of paper, tacking them to the
frame work. After that, pasting the pictures
over the newspaper was really exciting. He
took the colored plates out of his annuals
as a foundation, then all the scraps in his
scrapbook and a few loose ones besides;
then all his last year’s Christmas cards and
a few texts to fill up. But still there were
spaces. He had to paint little pictures him-
self—and all his pictures were alike; a red
house with black smoke coming out of the
chimney, green trees, flower-beds in which
each flower was faithfully drawn, and a sky
full of birds.
Lionel was so happy that he went about
humming a little tuneless song. He was
never tempted to tell anyone. He was a
quiet self-contained child with plump
cheeks, very fair skin and satisfied smiling
lips. His eyes were wide and deep and
like his mother’s. He was susceptible to
fear and chills. Only his mother he loved
passionately. For her sake he could be
jealous, passionate and obstinate. He even
obscurely realised that she loved him more
than she did James, and that this must be
a secret between them.
It was a good Christmas. Everyone
had plenty of money to spend. There were
parties and Christmas trees and a panto-
mime. The Quartermaster took the whole
family to the pantomime, engaging nearly
the entire front row of the dress-circle.
His Homeric laughter led the house. Maud’s
children, who scarcely knew their grandpa,
turned from the stage to gape at him, and
little Alice Bardon, alarmed by so much
noise and grandeur, to her eternal discredit
began to cry. Lionel had thought he could
draw pictures of the pantomime for the
screen, so clearly did they seem stamped
on his mind; but as soon as he took his
pencil they all faded away.
But the great treat, the thing they liked
better even than the pantomime, was the
trip into town at night with their Aunt
Fanny to see the illuminations and buy their
mamma’s Christmas box. They did not set
out until it was almost dark—that was part
of the ritual. It was so long after their
tea time that Adela gave them milk and
biscuits in the drawing-room before they
went. Lionel wore his lemon-colored
trousers gathered round his waist and
securely strapped under his patent-leather
shoes, his mulberry-colored zouave jacket
and a black peaked cap; James, a step
higher, was arrayed in long check pants,
blue jacket and blue and white cap; and
Fanny, to please them, had put on her
mauve tarleton with the fifteen flounces
and the fluttering violet ribbons, and her
amethyst necklace.
The brougham was at the door. The smart
carriage and pair was another evidence of
the growing prosperity at the Laburnums.
William had given it to Adela. It was
English-built, of an incredible dark glossi-
ness, and had Adela’s initials enamelled on
the panels of the door. It held comfortably,
facing the horses, one lady in a crinoline
and two small boys, and at need another
lady in a crinoline could sit with her back
to the horses. It was quite a large carriage.
The pair of horses were so well matched
that only the children could tell Brownie
from Gipsy. The stables were quite crowded
' in these days. Star was grown old and
had been replaced in use, but not in affec-
tion, by ann+ber riding horse. William gave
Star to James.
It was nut quite night. The summer twi-
light was purple and the lights glowed a
rich yellow. You thought you could see a
long way, but even while you were looking
at them the most solid objects melted into
nothing. The brougham turned the corner
into Parramatta-road and went slowly down
the hill towards the city, whose lights already
glowed in the sky. There was enchantment
in the air. The carriage lamps gathered
strength. The children’s faces at the win-
dows looked white and mysterious. Be-
tween them frothed and billowed the pale
mass of Fanny’s dress.
The carriage was left at a livery stable
and the trio mingled on foot with the
crowds in the street. The boys so rarely
went out at night that everything appeared
different. This seemed a strange city out of
a fairy tale. Years after when they looked
back to the Christmases of their childhood
they found they had all run together into
one lump and that the beauty and mystery
of Christmas was concentrated into two
hours of wandering in Sydney by night. There
was enchantment in the memory, but never
again did James and Lionel touch the reality.
The streets were crowded. These late ’fifties
were rich, ornate years. There was plenty
of money, plenty of work, plenty of hope.
Life went with a fine flourish. The days
were spacious, and they had need to be to
hold the crinolines and the mustachios and
the bric-a-brac that crowded them. There
was plenty of color and stir and noise in
the streets. Red coats of soldiers mingled
with the blues, maroons and silvers of the
civilian bucks. The embroidered waist-
coats and flowing ties of the men were
scarcely less brilliant and diverse than the
organdies, tarletons and muslins of the
flounced and ruched crinolines that glided
past them. The air in the narrow streets
was heavy with the smell of smoking flares,
humanity, food and dust; it resounded*with
the clamor of shopkeepers crying their wares
and children blowing their Christmas trum-
pets upon a background of laughter, con-
versation and footsteps. In its upper
reaches sound merged into vision and on
the edge of the subconscious smell merged
into sound. The senses were perfectly
blended and the blend was rich.
James was for ever straining on ahead,
hardly waiting to look at one thing in the
fear of missing another; but Lionel fell in
love With each shop window and had to be
forcibly dragged away from it. There were
windows full of toys so that it seemed as
if nobody could have bought anything at
all yet, and windows dabbed over with
cotton wool to represent a snowstorm and
glittering within with the tinsel and blue
lights of a spurious northern winter; there
were Christmas trees covered with tinsel
stars and colored balls surmounted by bland
German angels.
Presently they came to the shop where
they meant to buy their mamma’s Christmas
present. They looked at needle-cases, and
quill pens dyed all the colors of the rain-
bow, and little pictures in plush frames, and
illuminated texts; but nothing was exactly
right until their eyes simultaneously lit
upon a most intriguing object lying upon
the counter, and an inner voice told each
of them that this was the very thing their
mamma had been pining for all her life. Its
mundane use was as a paperweight and it
was of clear glass in the shape of a large
egg, standing on a little marble square.
Inside the egg, though how she got there
neither could imagine, was a little lady in
a scarlet pelisse, walking in the snow. When
you shook the egg the snow fluttered about
her like a real snowstorm. Their hands
met on this delightful object. There was
a deadlock.
“Why not give it to her between you?”
Fanny suggested at her wits’ end. The idea
was abhorrent to each of them. Then Lionel
suddenly withdrew his hand and his claims.
“You can have it,” he said magnani-
mously. “I’ve got another present for
mamma —a bi'g surprise.”
“What is it?”
“I won’t tell you,” Lionel smiled his little
satisfied smile, pushing out his lips.
Lionel was a baby and it was not likely
that his surprise was very wonderful; never-
theless James’s heart was suddenly filled
with jealous anger and his pleasure in the
paperweight quite gone.
The next morning the cloud still rested
on James and he felt prickly and defensive.
Mamma wanted to know what he’d had to
eat last night—as if a fellow were all
stomach! Lionel seized the occasion to be
conspicuously cheerful. There were no
lessons.
As he wandered about in the garden in
gloomy mood James caught a glimpse of
Lionel disappearing in the direction of the
old potting-shed. There was something
stealthy in the younger boy’s movements
that betrayed his errand. James knew as
if by inspiration that the secret was in
the shed. He raced after Lionel and reached
it only a minute behind him.
“So that’s it!” cried James. “So that’s
your surprise. It’s only a silly old clothes-
horse,” and began to laugh loudly, in-
sultingly.
Without a word, head down, his fair skin
flushing darkly, Lionel rushed at James and
caught him in the middle of his laughter.
Winded and surprised, James fell back and
tried to clutch the windmill arms that
whirled about him.
For a moment he pinioned Lionel, felt his
body trembling and heard his passionate,
sobbing breaths. Then Lionel broke free
and rushed away from him. James followed,
alarmed.
Adela looked at him over the head of
the sobbing child in her arms. She saw
his sullen, guilty face and she felt the
terrible distress quivering in the slight body
she held—the body still so young and .so
intimately hers. For a moment James was
not her son, he was simply someone who
had hurt Lionel. She swept him with a
(Continued on page 58.)
“NOBBY’S.”
A Commission has been inquiring into the Northern (Newcastle)
coal trade. In a story, entitled “Nobby’s,” to be printed next week,
J. H. M. Abbott gives a gripping picture of the beginnings of the
coalfield—and those beginnings were connected with convict life
at its very worst. If you want to realise the blood and sweat in
which our great coal trade was born, read
"Nobby's.”


One of the most dramatic
scenes ever recorded on
the Screen. From a
“Fox” thriller, featuring
George O’Brien.
m f
w%
> " ■ V. „
■ UUWrtl
i mm /
mm
m
Kg
mm
Famous people every-
ivhere rely on Cream of
Yeast for rapid relief
from pain and as a
lightning “pick-me-up.”
Never let
U
mean “Out”!
When you’re feeling “down” and “off color,”
take care! Weakened resistance invites real
illness that may, for a time, put you out of the
game.
Take Cream of Yeast and note the lightning
benefit! Headachey feeling gone; step brighter;
a happy smile; a pep that makes you feel like
whistling the latest tune! Just take a couple of
Cream of Yeast tablets now and know the thrill of
having the fight all your own way. Any chemist
or storekeeper sells Cream of Yeast at 1/11, 3/6
and 5/9. Be quite sure you get genuine Cream
of Yeast, the constituents of which are prescribed
by leading medical authorities all over the world.
Famous film-stars and athletes say “Cream of
Yeast gives Iron Nerves.” Just try it!
Cream of Yeast results are Unique :
Cream of Yeast gives safe and rapid relief from Stomach troubles, Headache, Nerve Pains, Colds,
Rheumatism, Depression, Tired, “Worn” Feeling, Sleeplessness, etc. It is excellent for Skin troubles.
Cream of Yeast is guaranteed to contain the best yeast procurable (with undestroyed vitamine-
content), scientifically combined with other valuable medicinal constituents prescribed by the highest
medical authorities, in such proportion that benefit is certain, and harm impossible. Cream of Yeast
is made in specially-constructed rooms, by one of the greatest chemical organisations in the whole
world. More Cream of Yeast is sold in Australia than all other brands combined.
CAUTION:
If you want the most effective medicinal yeast compound sold in Australia, you positively MUST
get Cream of Yeast. Beware of distorted claims. Avoid unscientific yeast concoctions, the
vitamine-content of which may be destroyed. Cream of Yeast definitely has a real vitamine-content which cannot be destroyed.


mm
V
5
L
Y
\
X
<r
Rub it in
eon
COLD-ON-THE-CHEST
NEURALGIA ♦ CATARRH
BRONCHITIS ♦'LUMBAGO
RHEUMATISM ♦ SCIATICA
SORE MUSCLES A JOINTS
ACHES AND STRAINS
t/6 box & 316 family size. All dealers.
THE
GREAT
HERBAL
BALM
ẅ
w
If any illustration in The Bulletin take
your fancy, write to the Manager, who wil
quote you price for tue original.
Legal Notices.
TO STEPHEN BUSH'DY and CHARLES
1 BUSIIBY, formerly of Tasmania, but
later of Bullarook Forest, near Ballarat,
and Melbourne, Victoria, respectively,
brothers of Arthur Bushby, who died at
Crofton, New Zealand, on the sth
November, 1918, and to the children of
the said Stephen Bushby and Charles
Bushby, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under them or any of them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
24th May. 1929, by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the 31st December, 1929, your claims
to the estate of the above-named deceased,
failing which the said estate will be dis-
tributed amongst those entitled thereto dis-
regarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 28th day of
May, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
-TO ANY DAUGHTER OR DAUGHTERS
1 OF ERNEST COHEN SON Oh’
MARK COHEN who died in New
Zealand on 3rd March 1928 (other
than Agnes Alexandria Cohen Neil
Florence Cohen Fay Audrey Cohen and
Norine Jessie Cohen) and any guardian
or parent of any such daughter or
daughters and to all persons claiming
by through or under them or any of
them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on 31st
day of May 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on ox-
before the Ist day of October 1929 your
claims to the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased failing which the said estate will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 6th day of
June, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
FOR
ARCHITECTS,tARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
[ i
24
m m
1 BRITISH
MADE
Perfection!
PITSK. RUBBER
“TELEGRAPH”
BRISBANE
is recognised as the
most progressive and
lively newspaper in the
State of Queensland.
Its very appearance is
lively. The printing is
clean and easy to read.
The headlines are
bright, and the news is
attractively presented,
while the pictures are
clear and distinct.
THREE EDITIONS DAILY
12 Noon 3 p.m. 5 p.m.
“The Telegraph” circulates in
good-class homes and occupies
a unique position as an adver-
tising medium. No advertising
campaign is complete without it
THE TELEGRAPH NEWSPAPER
CO., LTD.,
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
IWJARTIN —MENDES. —If the following
persons, viz., GEORGE MARTIN and
ADA MENDES (formerly Ada Lockhead,
7iee Martin)*, the children of George C.
Martin, . sometime Coroner for Newcastle,
New South Wales, and who is believed to
have died about 30 years ago, will communi-
cate with Messrs. LEWIS & LEWIS, Solici-
tors, 10, 11 & 12 Ely Place, Holborn, Lon-
don, England, they may hear of something to
their advantage.
|gt
On aristocracy
~ jGTANDING alone on a
of excellence,
owing much to inheritance,
English Bone China is the very
aristocracy of table ware. The
world looks to Staffordshire
for the china of gentlefolk. In
what connoisseurs call colour—
rather the very absence of
colour Shelley’s “ Dainty
White ” cups, saucers, plates,
which look white in a snow-
drift, are English Bone China
at its best. ’
Ask
5 see the ceresr
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
Ly Lucie Attweu
t. Hi id a Co wham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
•riti*h madi
•M CASt ©P AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WRITS TO
T«W. MIATM C CO.ITOa
233.CLAftlNCI
SYDNEY
FOR THAT UNEXPECTED VISITOR
rOAP
CAPTAIN
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
MEAT
CLAW
I?REE
BOOK
WEfc IRE
FROM
YOUR
GROCER
COLOURED
*xr^*
Bitlif
li i . i
...
thf of the night
5 j '
Have This Better Light
in Your Home, too
NIGHT after night throughout the year the
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE Lamp brings
300-Candlepower brilliance and helpful
comfort and happiness in more than a million
homes. It’s the cleanest, most economical
lamp you can buy; a cheerful, dependable
helper for every housewife.
MORE LIGHT THAN 20 OLD-STYLE OIL-LAMPS
—and none of the greasy wicks to trim or smoky
chimneys to wash. Gives 12 to 15 hours* brilliant
service per quart of fuel used. It’s a safe lamp—
can’t spill fuel. Inspected, tested and guaranteed.
SAFE—DURABLE—CLEAN,
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO
of Australia,
185 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
718 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
31 BOWER BUILDINGS, CHARLES STREET, ADELAIDE.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD., BOWEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
Poleman
Quick-Lite fcgXFeJXf
■ “The Sunshine of the Night"


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
\
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
him
m
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR -
-17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 7^ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering 8 4 ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 94ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12 ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY..LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
Life at Fault
IN THIS SKETCH S. STEDMAN. HIMSELF A RUSSIAN, NOW LIVING
IN SYDNEY, GIVES ANOTHER VIVID PICTURE OF THE NEW RUSSIA
AND OF THE PEASANT CHARACTER.
SIX years Malanya liad waited patiently
and hopefully for her husband’s return,
remaining faithful and loving. During
that time she had done all the work about
the house and on the land Gavrila had left
her, save the ploughing, which Terenty did
for her. She kept the small holding in per-
fect order for Gavrila when he should come
back. Through the difficult years of war, and
later the revolution, she worked on, caring
nothing for social upheavals or political
changes. Her mind was on the property
which was her husband’s, her heart with
die man she loved. Her days passed in a
frey monotony varied only by the tasks she
performed. She never complained; she
accepted every event as it came, submitting
to troubles and hardships which for cen-
turies had been the moujik’s lot.
After the war Malanya expected Gavrila
to return to the village; but, like thousands
of others, the city held him; politics en-
meshed them and held them captive. He
wrote to his wife explaining that he had
important work to do, and would have to
postpone his return. Thus the years passed,
for Malanya, with only occasional letters
which now and again contained a money-
order.
She was almost reconciled to her fate, and
would have been quite, but for the gossip
of villagers who told unpleasant things about
Gavrila’s life in the big city. The more
these tales were told the more ardently men
paid her attentions whieh she found harder
and harder to resist. Her young body was de-
manding caresses. Her heart clamored loudly
for love.
Then a letter came from Gavrila, in which
he told of his inability to ever return to
the village, and suggested that Malanya get
her freedom.
Malanya wept bitterly when the letter was
read to her. She suddenly felt a great sor-
row for the years that had passed so use-
lessly, and a great longing for something
which was being forcibly taken from her.
For days she went about feeding the fowls,
milking the cow and working in the house,
brooding over her disaster. At times she
was seized with anger, calling her husband
bad names, threatening and vowing to repay
him for the years of suffering; a minute later
her anger would vanish and the image of him
stood before her eyes. Then “Gavrushka,” she
would whisper again, “come back, I need
you.”
It was Terenty who advised her to visit
the city and have a talk with Gavrila. “Let-
i£r.s_ are_ dead-things,” he argued. “They
speak only to the mind. Go and see him
and have a talk to his heart.”
After a few days of preparations, with her
belongings packed in a sugarbag, Malanya
was standing outside the railway ticket-
office waiting her turn.
“Well, Citizeness, what can I do for you?”
she heard herself asked.
“I want a third-class ticket to Golubcliick,”
Malanya answered, trembling slightly with
excitement.
The face of the ticket-clerk suddenly
assumed a severe expression. “Don’t you
know there are no classes in Russia?” he de-
manded. “You can travel either ‘soft’ or
‘hard,’ but don’t talk about classes!”
Feeling relieved, Malanya smiled. “ ‘Hard’
will do me, Batushka,” she answered. “We
are not used to ‘soft.’ ”
With her ticket safely hidden, Malanya
entered a carriage and found a seat between
two peasants. The sugarbag with her few
belongings she held on her knees, not will-
ing to risk putting it on the shelf, for which
she was greatly praised by her neighbor.
Hang on to what you’ve got,” he was say-
ing. “These days people will steal not only
your luggage, but even your thoughts and
your conscience if you don’t keep them well
locked up!”
It was summer. Through the wide-open
window Malanya looked at the changing
scenes. Tall oaks waved their powerful
branches. Birch-trees clad in white ran to
meet her. Now and again the train passed
a village with its little white-washed cot-
tages gleaming in the sunlight, and the fences
running far into the blue distance. Malanya
watched the cottages, speculating about their
inhabitants and wondering who they were,
how they lived and what they felt.' Then
night came, and the carriage was filled with
sleeping forms. The trees outside
fantastic shapes. Like huge black giants they
stood silently watching the passing train.
Beyond the range of light from the carriage
the night held sway. There seemed to be
nothing beyond that narrow strip of light.
Malanya felt depressed. In her life, too,
there was but one little light, and now some-
body threatened to destroy her beacon and
leave her helpless amidst stress and sorrow.
The train stopped at a station. With
others Malanya went out of the carriage,
walked, stiffly to the end of the platform and
stared into the night. Suddenly a dog barked
somewhere, a night-bird called shrilly and
the breeze brought the sweet perfume of jas-
mine. Malanya felt better. There was life
everywhere, and the night was but short.
Soon there would be light.
The whistle of the engine cut through the
darkness, and noisily the train moved on.
Early in the morning Malanya reached the
city and stood surveying the crowded streets
where men and women, pushing each other
like ants, crawled into the open mouths of
huge buildings and were swallowed. Be
wildered by the noise of the traffic and the
bustle, she watched the people rushing past
her, paying her no attention. On and on
they ran, backwards and forwards, as if
driven by some invisible power. Malanya
stood forlornly, so small, so insignificant and
unwelcome. It seemed a hopeless task to
find any man in this place.
1 roducing Gavrila s letter, she showed it
to a passer-by, who directed her to one of
the large buildings on the outskirts of the
town. There she was told to wait till the
whistle blew, when Gavrila could see her.
Malanya wandered about the streets waiting
with trepidation for the lunch-hour. Then
there was a loud whistle, and men began to
appear at the gate. At last Gavrila came.
He stood as one petrified, gazing at his wife.
“Don’t you recognise me, Gavrushka?” she
asked, wiping away a tear.
“Why, of course, I do, Malanya,” he stam-
mered. “Only I did not expect you. I will
see if I can get the rest of the day off,” he
added, and, leaving her, disappeared within
the gate. Some men looked at her, whis-
pered to one another, and laughed..
Gavrila returned and led his wife away.
As they went she told him of the village, and
of the fowls and the cow. She spoke to
him as she used to speak years ago, not
doubting that it all interested him as it did
in the past. He listened, not interrupting,
now and again asking a question in a de-
tached way. Malanya, too, wanted to ask
something, but restrained herself.
They arrived at the gate of a house with
a tidy little garden full of sunflowers. Then
Malanya walked in and looked about, search-
ing for something. In one room she found a
double bed, and in the wardrobe some dresses.
She came into the kitchen where Gavrila
was pumping air into a cooking-stove.
“Gavrushka,” she said softly, her voice
expressing a deep pain and rebuke —“Gav-
rushka !” and then she burst into tears.
He tried to pacify her, and begged her
not to cry. “Have a cup of tea,” he said,
“and I will tell you everything.”
She composed herself, and, holding a lump
of sugar in her mouth, drank.
“You see, Malanya, I am very sorry about
it all,” Gavrila began; “but things have
changed since I left home, and I, too, have
changed.”
“You have a woman!” Malanya uttered
the words, and immediately felt ashamed,
humiliated.
“Yes, I have a woman friend,” Gavrila
admitted. “We have been together for two
years.”
Malanya’s eyes wandered about the kit
chen, a pair of slippers under the dresser
absorbing her attention. She felt a desire
to cry, to demand justice. Gavrila was her
wedded husband, and everything here be-
longed to her.
“I could not go back to the old life,” she
heard him say. “I have work to do for the
people, and I love doing it.”
“But what about me, Gavrushka?” she
asked quietly. “I waited many years for
you, working, suffering, hoping. Don’t I
count at all?”
“The individual counts little in these
days,” he, answered, dryly.
“But I am your wife. You can’t just
leave me like that!” She made a sweep with
her hand, indicating a great hopelessness.
“I am sorry, Malanya,” he said, “but you
would find no happiness either in the city
or with me. Take your freedom and marry
another.”
Suddenly she felt an anger rising within
her.
“I was good enough for you when you were
a common moujik,” she shouted. “Now you
are a barin, you must have a woman with
ointments on her face. No, Gavrila—here I
am going to remain. If you don’t like it
you can take your free-and-easy mistress and
go.”
The blood rushed into the man’s face.
“You must not talk like that,” he said;
“you do not know her.”
He went out, and Malanya watched him
go into the street. Never before did she love
him so much; never did she want him so
intensely. She sat down and wept. She saw
a dead past behind her; and a long, lonely
future stared at her. The years had been
crowded with the thoughts of Gavrila. Now
she would have to dismiss them.
With her heart aching and her mind in
a whirl, she sat in the kitchen, crying.
Gavrila returned- Depositing a few par-
cels on the table, he addressed his wife.
“Malanya, would you like to cook the
tea?”
She grasped at the suggestion. She would
be happy again in doing it.
Old memories were revived by the cooking.
It was like this years ago—Gavrila sitting
near the table watching her at her work....
Yet it was not the same. He no longer loved
her, he was no longer hers. The though t
forced more tears from her eyes.
“Gavrushka,” she appealed to him.
“won’t you come back to me? Don’t you
remember how happy we were? What will
become of me now?”
He walked up and down the kitchen with
unsteady steps, seemingly unable to answer
her question.
A desire to see the other woman seized her.
She wanted to find out why Gavrila pre-
ferred her. Was she beautiful?
Towards evening she heard the click of the
gate, and looked.
“Dunia, this is Malanya,” her husband
was saying, and as in a dream she shook
hands.
“I am glad to see you, Malanya,” a
woman’s pleasant voice reached her ears,
while her eyes were riveted to the slim figure
with pale face, clear blue eyes and short
hair.
“Why does he love her?” Malanya kept
asking herself. “She is so thin and sickly.”
Dunia made Malanya sit at the table while
she hersel'f served the meal. She spoke to
her simply as though they were old friends,
feeling no embarrassment.
A little later Malanya found herself relat-
ing to Dunia the life of the village, speaking
of the fowls and the cow and the garden.
The woman listened attentively, asking
questions.
“I would love to live in the country,”
Dunia said. “I am so tired of the school
and the children I teach.”
“Come with us,” Malanya exclaimed
eagerly. lam sure you would like it.”
Dunia smiled and Malanya turned red
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.065
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1028.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New
UlVJi.il l o VIVAX lO Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
ŵ
SCHUTE,
BELL & C Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
%
91
l
m
ASTHMA
m
BEFBEEFROm*
ASTHMA \
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD,,
Artillery Lane, London, England
For outdoors , use Potter’s Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
Übe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from--
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
That Trip of Yours!
Full particulars and literature of
either Excursion from the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melbourne, Cl.
JOINING either giant liner—
Aorangi, Makura or Niagara
—at Sydney, Australians can
now enjoy three delightful
months at a small excursion cost
on the blue Pacific and in
Honolulu—gem city of Hawaii.
Return fares are only £75 and
£55.
The liner also calls at Auckland,
New Zealand, and at Suva.
As a tempting alternative take
one of the fine fleet of the Union
Company, via Wellington, to
Raratonga and Papeete, at a
return excursion cost of only
£55 and £4O.
CANADIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
BURNS PHILP TOURS.
A VISIT TO JAVA (the Garden of the East).
Native Bazaars, Famous Temples, Tea Gardens.
SPECIALLY CONDUCTED TOUR.
Leaving Sydney 7th August, 1929, S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Seven weeks’ inclusive tour, £129 (All Expenses).
Fare includes First-class Return Steamer Passage and about 14 days’
Motor Tour through JAVA. All Hotels, Sightseeing & Motor Guides, etc.
Book Early. Party Limited.
PACIFIC ISLAND EXCURSIONS
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides .
TRIPS OF 2 TO 5 WEEKS’ DURATION.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
ẁ
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
IRunic .... 12,500 tons, July 10
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ July 22
t Euripides . 15,000 „ Aug. 6
*Nestor .. . 15,000 ~ Sept. 9
fDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 28
. . 18,500 ~ Oct. 26
* First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.) JO i„t
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
Ih conjunction with Sailings via South Africa,
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Conn-II St., Sydnov
’Phone: 86701
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED ISI7
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ẃ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated territory of -New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world*
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengeri
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/•
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALEIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
.... Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIy HUDDART PARK ER LI MITEO
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Huddart Parker!,
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club unci Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
ONLY PICTORIAL DAILY
%
ẅ
w
ŵ


m
X
%
a,
►V
TUI Si
INEXPENSIVE
LUBRICATING
EQUIPMENT PAYS
ENCRA4CUS RRCEITS
w
Alemite offers you an opportunity to elim-
inate wear and tear in the operation of your
farm machinery and equipment. In only a few hours you
can remove all old style grease cups and replace them
with the proper fittings. They are made in all sizes and
angles—even drive fittings to plug the old oil holes.
Every bearing on every machine may be equipped and
lubricated in the same efficient Alemite manner.
The cost of Alemite is small, indeed, indi-
vidual fittings being but a few pence each. And lubri-
cating is simple once you have made the change. Each
bearing receives its proper amount of fresh, clean lubri-
cant. No waste —no unnecessary friction and wear!
Alemite is now standard equipment in 80%
of all farm implements manufactured in the United
States today. Why not let this improved modern lubri-
'ation system earn for you these added profits?
The Alemite (Push Type)
“Barrel-to-Bearing” System
How it works: Alemite provides a method
for positively and easily lubricating all your farm imple-
ments. It is simple, yet insures proper lubrication. No
grit nor dirt can possibly work into Alemite Lubricant.
At no time is it even exposed to the air.
1. The lubricant is first pumped from its original
drum into
2. The handy, portable Alemite Filler Tank, which
holds 20 lbs. of lubricant. From this container, which
can be easily carried about the farm, lubricant is
pumped directly into
3. The Alemite Push Type Compressor. By means
of this gun you can easily develop tremendous pressure
which forces clean lubricant through
4. The Alemite Push Type fitting, into the bearing
—cleaning it as it is lubricated.
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING
CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, (7. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay St.. Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty.. Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited. 122Pirie St., Box G.P.O. 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand;
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield St., Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
Gavrila asked _ a question of the woman ;
then for a long time they talked about some-
thing seemingly interesting; but, though Mai-
anya listened, she could not grasp the mean-
ing of it. And Alalanya felt more than ever
a stranger to these people whose interests
she could not even understand.
After tea the two women washed up while
Gavrila read the newspaper.
“Do you love Gavrila very much?” asked
Dunia simply.
Malanya blushed. It was strange to hear
another speak so plainly.
"I do,” she answered quietly.
Dunia took her hand. “I am sorry things
have happened in. this way,” she said, “but
one must accept facts. Life is now simpler,
Love is something we are no longer ashamed
of. I, too, love Gavrila.”
“But he is my lawful husband,” Alalanya
Put in._ _
Dunia smiled sadly. “You don’t under-
stand,” she said. “The wedding ceremony
is an empty formula. Only mutual love is
binding.. , .
i , inia t claar ’ Alalanya begged, “give me
~ n l y husband. I waited many years for
"mi . rob As l° ve *”
lne girl rose. lam not holding him,”
siie said. . lou can see I am not as pretty
as you are, nor as healthy or as attractive,
its our mutual interests and understanding
that keep us together. Gavrila is no longer
interested in fowls and cows. You are not
interested in politics and discussions. You
have drifted apart, until now you dwell in
different worlds, strangers to each other.”
“But whose fault is it?” asked Malanya.
“Neither his nor yours. It is life’s fault,
and you cannot blame life.”
They were silent, each one engrossed in
thought. The clock on the mantelpiece struck
eight.
“We have a meeting to-niglit, Malanya,”
Gavrila said. “Would you like to come?”
Malanya refused—she said she was too
tired.
At last she was alone. For some time she
stood before a mirror scrutinising her face;
then she passed into the bedroom. She
wanted to cry, to tell somebody of her pain,
Yet she felt no resentment, only a soft pity
for Gavrila, for Dunia, for herself, who all
seemed mere puppets in the hands of life.
The clock beat the seconds regularly, tick-
tock, tiek-tock. Alalanya watched the hand
move round, stealing portions of life,
Almost involuntarily she picked up the
sugar-bag. Outside she looked at the yellow
sunflowers ; then she went into the street,
The crowds pushed and jostled, but Alalanya
walked on faster and faster as though run-
ning away from the little cottage with its
haunting memories. In her thoughts were
the fowls, the cow, and she smelled the sweet
fragrance of jasmine.
The Hands that Rule the World.
IN THIS WELL-TOLD STORY DAY ID WORTH SHOWS WHOSE HANDS
THEY ARE.
FKOM across the jungle of housetops to
the north came the distant wail of a
factory hungering to begin the day’s
work. A raging bellow answered from the
west. Close at hand a monster with a
hoarse, frothy voice announced its need. Then
more and more pf the slavering monsters
joined the matutinal hooting, conveying in
I heir tones dreadful possibilities should they
be denied. For the clocks said seven-thirty,
the hour at which all factories must be fed.
To thousands of slaves their word was law.
Even then, as Sam Webb knew, thousands
were rushing to do their bidding, fearful of
the consequences of neglect. But the bawling
did no more than irritate Sam, who lay on
In’s back in an uncomfortable curve and
stared moodily at the ceiling of his 6ft. x
ill't. 3in. bedroom. To him, beginning to see
clearly for the first time in many years, they
sounded as silly as the countless roosters
who, some three hours earlier, had also
announced to a sleeping world their indi-
vidual and collective importance. As silly as
the staring white faces of the clocks which,
Sam realised, ruled this city and countless
other cities with unyielding hands.
l'or Sam had lain awake the greater part
of the night, hatching a great rebellion, try-
ing to arrive at a decision; and now that the
morning and another day’s work had come
he was still undecided. He turned restlessly
m his bed, and the crazy stretcher with the
sagged spring mattress groaned and squealed
its agony. “What a life 1!" lie muttered.
“(>et up at eight, go to work at nine, knock
ofl at: five, go to bed at ten, get up at eight,
go to work at nine—God! A man would be
better dead.”
From the next room came the clamorous,
self-important rattle of an alarm-clock. Sam
cursed, at first from habit, then fervently, as
{he bottled-up resentment, brewed in lonely
hoarding-house hours, found its freedom. “To
with clocks —and watches, too!” he
added, as his field of vision took in the boy-
proof on the rickety chair at his bedside.
'All day long they’re watching a man, keep-
ing his nose down on the grindstone—never
let him alone. Wherever lie turns there’s
on ® of the mob waving its hands at him to
tell him it s time to get up, or to work,
or to eat, or to do something he don’t want
to do. Fm sick of the city—l’ve had
enough.”
Sam was a country lad who, before the
War, had risen when the magpies sang their
morning hymn; who had laughed at his work
as the kookaburras laugh—with the pleasure
ot being alive. And here he was—a slave,
surrounded by stony walls and stonier-
hearted machinery, while a flat-faced brood
. clocks determined his actions. Sam was
Hpe for revolution.
Why had he ever forsaken the country—
could anyone tell him that? What had the
city to offer that he had almost burst his
boiler to pass as an accountant? Some
Post-war madness, he supposed—all the chaps
Were doing something to make up for the lost
years, and he'd caught the general enthusi-
hsm. And what had he got in return for
his efforts? “Working like a galley-slave to
keep my head above water. And a miserable,
sneaking, flat-faced clock looking sideways
ht me all the time. A man would be better
dead.”
Unaffected by his tirade, the watch on the
chair ticked on with the smugness of the
I‘uhng class, by divine right appointed guard-
ans of the world’s actions. Its two hands
Were held up in a reproving manner to show
»am that eight hours had passed since mid-
Pght, and that it behoved him to hasten if
W were to have breakfast and get to work
nia e. Sam groaned in spirit, but hastened
i° obey. It is one thing to feel almost-
-1 voided to throw up a certain £6 10s. per
v . ( .' e k and quite another thing to act —especi-
ally when one has bowed to the ruling class
Or 10 long years. Besides, he wasn’t cer-
ain that he was in good enough condition
•9 commence country work right away, and
l he were to leave the city he must be
Prepared. “Soft as a pat of butter,” was
Ps unjust criticism of himself as he thumped
bis abdomen and chest muscles. “A man
bSut to be kicked for getting like this.”
j -ibis despondency accompanied Sam upon
Us way to work. Every clock upon the
°ute—and there seemed this morning to be
Ven more than usual of them —told him he’d
Ttter hurry if he didn’t want to be late.
Heavy, self-important clocks —insufferably
‘Jghteous—looked down from exalted posi-
i l ° as an d pointed to the wasted hours that
l 9d passed since midnight.
Jeering, flat-faced clocks, lording it in the
i Vl .™ws of thorouglily-cowed shopkeepers,
their hands to their noses as much as to
uy, ‘You’d better hurry, man-scum, or
"Oil’ll get what for.”
Doddering- ancients, with shaky hands and
weather-stained faces, thought to show a
kindlier spirit by suggesting that perhaps
the hour was not so advanced as their breth-
ren declared. Rut this made Sam even more
exasperated when the military-looking clock
on the next corner-—a fiery old colonel, in-
tolerant of such indulgence-—showed with
unyielding hands that the hour was well past.
Sam's temper was not improved by the Grand
Mogul—the town-hall clock—which, just as
he reached the office, cleared its throat by
running up and down the scale for four bars
and then declared, “Just on time! Just on
time !” in a deep sonorous bass which made
even the air shudder guiltily. And for some
time after the big clock had ceased, little
toadying echoes scampered along the lanes
and alleys between the buildings to proclaim
to all within earshot that the Grand Mogul
had spoken.
. Sam gained some little relief by shaking
Ins fist at the mongrel clock across the way
which yapped nine times in imitation of its
adored master, the Grand Mogul. And he
put more than ordinary vim into the punch
he bestowed on the time clock, which re-
taliated by sneering “Stung” at him in a
nasty voice the whole office could hear.
. I*°or old Sam ! The ruling class, recog-
nising in him a rebellious spirit that must be
chastened, kept a vigilant eye on his move-
ments that morning. To have a few cheques
signed he entered the manager's room, where
the monitor on the wall cautioned him
sourly with “Watch your step ! Watch your
step !” When the manager, following Sam's
bloodshot gaze, looked inquiringly at the
old sneak, it changed its tone to “Tick!
Pock! Tick! Tock!”—as smug as you like
-blit it kept looking at Sam through its
winder-holes in a way that he knew meant
no good.
t When he returned to his desk the cheap
} ankee clock on the shelf clicked its teeth
at him. and then pretended it was onlv a
spring unwinding jerkily. But Sam knew.
During his absence, too, the figures which
he had so laboriously drilled seemed now to
have become affected, for he could not make
them add up to the same total twice in
succession. When he shifted his attention
from one group to another, the members of
the first group would seemingly change
places, and to make sure he would have to
return and add that group again.
Every hour would come the domineering
voice of the Grand Mogul, and although Sam
shut the window—to the astonishment of his
typist, who knew his liking for fresh air -
the hated voice drummed on Sam's ear with
increasing irritation.
Even the typewriter joined the persecu-
tors. "We’re getting him rattled. We won’t
take back slack. Will we? Ding!"
And again the alarm-clock clicked its teeth
in approval.
After four hours of this, Sam, too unhappv
for lunch but hungry for peace, looked
appealingly at his monitor for respite and
was pleased to notice that it was looking-
down its nose as much as to say “You may
go, my lad.” At the same time the Grand
Mogul, after clearing his throat with much
nourish, gave his consent in a monosyllable
giavely and with insufferable dignity.
Sam lost no time in reaching tile door,
where lie handed the time-clock a wicked
punch which made it cry “Wow!” Then he
hastened into the street, already thronged
houses S aVCS Surgmg madl - v t 0 the feeding-
But Sam had no inclination to eat. The
experience of the morning had brought
almost to boiling-point his determination to
throw up his job and leave the city for ever
had° said— 1 WeSt w * lere ’ as his favorite poet
The roving breezes come and go
The reed beds sweep and sway •
The sleepy river murmurs low
And loiters on its way.
It is the land of lots of time..,.
where Time, in fact, was a jnere nobody,
kept down with a firm hand. y
He strolled moodily to the water-front
turning the possibilities in his mind. His
bankbook showed £217 11s. 7d. he cursed
himself for not having saved more. With
T99u a an th e remnants of his last pay—say.
£-20 altogether—he might go west, buy 'a
?hit n? d £ tart tau k-sinking. Or he might get
a bit of share-farming in the wheat country
Anyway, he d be his own master.
And so was brewed the great rebellion
anny 1 oF Time. Sam Webb from the *
The hateful voice of the Grand Mogul
distant but penetrating, sought him out” to
remind him of the treadmill. From force
(Continued on next page.)


FAULTY ELIMINATION -
modern lifel
As life becomes more and more strenuous and artificial,
the demands on health become greater and greater.
Nature rebels against the preserved foods of to-day, our
lack of exercise, the hours we keep. We are far more
liable than our grandparents were to bilious attacks,
headaches, indigestion and other ailments which in
most cases arise from inner sluggishness—in other
words, neglected constipation.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would' do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of
yesterday from the system, safely, naturally and
thoroughly. Yet Eno is so mild you can give it to any
child. Follow this golden rule of family health, proved
for sixty years; a glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”—sparkling
and refreshing—first thing every morning.
ENOS
-FRUIT SALT-
0
prepared only by
g. G. Sno Xtd.,
London Gngland
Sales Agents:
c&he fJCarold
3. 9litchie & Go. £td.
Sydney, ZN.S.HsD,
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
w
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
dark inimical look and drew Lionel away to
the safety of a world where James did not
exist. James stood stock still in the garden
path. A spring, that he had n&t known
was there, wound tighter and tighter in his
chest with a pain that was black and bitter.
The incident, died out. James bit down
his pride. He said: “I’m sorry, and I
think your screen’s beautiful.”
Lionel looked at him with mamma’s eyes.
“It. was my secret,” he said. “But I don’t
think it’s very nice myself now.”
Mamma liked the paperweight. James
thrust it into her hand mumbling something
instead of making the pretty speech he
had learned. She liked the thimble, too,
and the pearls papa gave her; but she liked
the screen so much she nearly wept. Lionel
could not believe she liked it. He kept
saying: “But, Mamma, do you really, truly
like it? Is it nice enough, Mamma?” And
every time she said: “It is beautiful, dar-
ling; it’s just what I wanted. I like it
better than anything because you made it
yourself.”
She had it taken up to her bedroom and
stood it in front of the fireplace. James
wished the house could be burnt down so
that, he would not have to go on seeing it.
Lionel heard mamma say to papa: “But
it would break his little heart.” And pre-
sently when papa had gone he crept into her
room.
“If you don’t want the screen you needn’t
keep it. I won’t mind,” he said.
“Of course I. want it, little goose.”
“Oh,” he said brightening. “I was only
just thinking.”
One evening when the boys were going
to bed, Adela took Lionel away into her
room and kept him there for what James
thought was a very long time. He wondered
jealously what they were doing. Then Fanny
came in and sat on his bed.
“You know that you are going to board-
ing school next year, James,” she began
abruptly.
No one had told him, but he knew.
“There will be a great many other boys
there and you will have to stand on your
own feet. Most of the boys will be older
and stronger and cleverer than you and
some will be weaker. You’ll have to leam
to live with both kinds, James—not to
envy the stronger or scorn the weaker. It
is a matter of generosity. A man who is
not generous is not a decent man, James.
He’s not worth his salt. Will you remem-
ber that?”
James was very uncomfortable; he
squirmed down in his bed till only his
ruffled hair and sombre eyes were visible
above the bedclothes.
“Lionel,” she began again, "is two years
younger than you, and I am afraid we
have kept him a baby because he is not
strong. He is only a child. Don’t you
think you can.afford to be generous to him?
If you can’t live at peace with your brother
how will you get on with all those strange
boys? You are not a child any longer.
What you do and think now matters. If
.you drift into enmity with your brother
now, it may poison both your lives. This
is the last Christmas you will be children
together and we wanted it to be very happy.
Your mamma has done everything she
could to make it happy, but it really rested
with you. Good-night, James.”
She stooped and kissed him—a light kiss
with cool firm lips so different from Adela-’s
soft, kisses—and left him swiftly. They
both had a mingled feeling of shame and relief.
He lay awake for what seemed to him a
very long time. He had not known the
night could be so long. He was not an
imaginative child, but he had come to a
crisis in his life and this was no ordinary
night. The rain beat upon the nursery
windows in savage gusts and a great wind
went ravening past the house as if it rushed
upon some terrible deed. His quarrel with
Lionel had become a fratricidal passion, a
thing as huge and vengeful as the wind.
He prayed that the wind might take him
and carry him away anywhere so long as
it was far from the thoughts with which
he had filled the nursery.
He must, have slept, for he had the sensa-
tion of waking to something worse. The
storm had reached its crisis. There was a
sound like guns. Adela came into the
nursery with a shawl thrown over her long-
white nightgown and her hair hanging in
plaits on either side of her face. The light
of the candle she shaded with her hand
illuminated her face.
“Are you afraid of the storm, James?’-’
“No, mamma.”
She went over to Lionel, but he was
sleeping through it.
“Are you sure yc>u don’t mind it, James?”
“Yes, mamma. Mamma, don’t go.”
She set the candle down on the bureau
and sat upon his bed, holding him close
to her, all bunched up in the bedclothes.
“You need not have been afraid to tell
mamma you were frightened, darling. I am
frightened of this storm.”
“But you left papa and came in here!”
“Yes, to my little boys.”
She rubbed her cheek against his hair.
Together they listened to the wind and the
rain in the pale wash of candlelight. They
were together at last, closer than they had
ever been. The night and the candle and
mamma’s hair hanging down made every-
thing different. He didn’t mind how long
the storm lasted. When the big crashes came
he felt her tremble and he loved her so
much it was like something squeezing his
heart.
James fell asleep with his head on Adela’s
shoulder.
It was the night of the 30th December,
1857—the night the Dunbar was driven upon
the cliffs at the Gap and every soul on
board, save one, perished in the s^a.
(To be continued next week.)
of habit he reached for his watch to verify
the time ; surely it could not be so late !
The instinctive action brought forcibly to
Ins mind the full extent of his servitude.
His temper boiled over. “That’s done it. A
slave! That’s what I am. A crawling,
cringing slave! Not another day!” The
safety valve blew wide open. “Not another
day!” He shook liis fist at the city in
general; he gritted his teeth in the direction
of the Grand Mogul, still clearing his throat.
“Strike me dead if I stay another minute!”
Putting all his hate into his arm, he hurled
his watch far out into the water, and the
plop with which it fell was music. “Not
another minute, so help me!”
He turned on liis heel and walked briskly
in the direction of his hoarding-house. Be-
hind him the Grand Mogul, having cleared
liis throat and just about to warn all office
slaves that they must return to their duties,
seemed to become suddenly aware of his
defection. There was a heavy pause; then
the command, "Stop him! Stop him!” —
of which the slaves seemed unaware, and
to which Sam showed a defiant and upright
back. After which the Grand Mogul be-
came speechless.
But other clocks took up the hue and cry.
The “Colonel” declared rigidly that it was a
quarter past. The ancients were divided;
some of them were plainly asleep, while
the others, caught unawares, seethed to say:
"It’s not much after two o’clock; you
shouldn’t he here, but perhaps if you hurried
back”.... The cheeky clock on the estate-
agent’s shop was particularly offensive,
shoving its face right out into Sam’s way—
both hands held to the figure two, in a way
that clearly meant "Back to your cell, gaol-
bird, or you’ll get into trouble. Look at the
time!”
But Sam was resolute. Had he thought
of it lie would have sung the “Marseillaise.”
A movement to rid the world of clocks would
have found in him a ready martyr. He
crooned to himself a hymn which reminded
him of the last Sunday on the farm before
lie went to the war. Give him the country
every time. So long as he had a hair on
his head he’d never come back to the city, so
help him! Never again would he be a slave
to clocks. Never again!
He whistled cheerfully all the time he was
packing. He even ventured a popular song,
but ceased for lack of the right words.
To his surprised landlady he announced that
his rich uncle had sent for him. He paid
her in full. And then he sat down on the
back-broken stretcher for one last look at
the old familiar room. Never again !
There was a train at 4.50. Another hour.
Ugh!—where he was going they told the hour
by the sun—if thqy wanted to.
He regretted in a way that his suit looked
so good. He would have preferred, some-
how, to have marched triumphantly out of
the city in his oldest and most disreputable
clothes. But that was a trifle, after all.
Now once more he must run the gauntlet
of those bullying flat faces. But this time
he stared them out of countenance, though
the cheeky one looked at liim in a queer
fashion which he did not understand,
He passed several shops—so-called jewel-
lery shops—really nests of the flat-faced
horrors; nests in which he could see innum-
erable offspring of all shapes and sizes lying
in their padded cradles, waiting for the day
when they should be released upon a cower-
ing world. Most of them were asleep. He
would have liked to crush them all before
they woke.
He could not see the station clock, but he
could see the great white face of the crabby
old monster over the entrance, and, below,
the row of witless faces of this clock’s
idiot offspring—unable to help themselves,
their hands were twirled for them by a slave
with a long stick; imbecile children who sat
in a row and jeered at their father’s slaves
as they flowed in and out of the entrances.
As Sam neared the station the bigger hand
of the old taskmaster showed quarter to.
In eight minutes he’d he rid of these
hateful flat faces for ever!
Far off the Grand Mogul was clearing his
throat, pompously and with much flourish,
just as lie did every quarter of an hour,
The old prig!
“Yali!” said Sam, and in fancy spat his
contempt. "You thought you owned me,
didn’t you? Only a few more minutes and
you’ll see!”
Wliat was wrong with the old fool? He’d
cleared his throat four times. Surely....
“Fool!” said the Grand Mogul,
But the station clock showed a quarter
to. ...he looked again. Quarter to four! It
was stopped!
“Fool!” repeated the Grand Mogul,
As lie looked, a' workman, a mere fly at
that height, crawled out upon the cornice
and commenced to tinker with the hands,
"Fool!” declared the Grand Mogul.
Tnen it was five o’clock....
“Fool!” said the Grand Mogul—“ Fool!”
And the witless clocks capered madly.
Being Old.
So you are clean civilian once again!
The fever, glamor, fire of it all gone;
This wispy baldness that your head takes
on
Symbol of fat suburbia on the wane!
Ah, well, you had a share of life; ’tis vain
Hoping to fan for aye the sun that shone
Within, when you went questing, and when
wan
You rested lonely with your crowded slain.
Yes, shake your head, and pat your paunch,
and say
That it was terrible; and try to look
As if you heard them crashing down to-day,
Those crumps and things you’ve read of in
a book!
War, vicious war! Blind strife; blind,
foolish strife!
You shudder —being old and done with life.
N.S.W.
CEON. MANN.


ŵ
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCNOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HULMts * CUIItCH, Brisbane. r>n\|rnnn wcrp u c ly it Gt
N.Z. Olllce—1)3-103 I'eatherston Street. Wellington bUIMiUKU WMI, B. A. W ftl-CA
Victorian Olllee—“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDKB, SMITH & CO., LTI>., Adelaide, S.A.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mai!,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established ISo'/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
Tire actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study, is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others hare found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,538 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which, has been organised
into a body of Puff,chasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
On flawtis«r
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotcli, price 1 Jd.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, 133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere —all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’* takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
tytd tight! Head tight!
StbmckliqktfM tight!
with thoMwfwtake
Pim
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
<z>
y :
“WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
A Satisfied Customer!
68 Charles Street,
Launceston.
“Examinee” Office, Launceston. June nth, 1929.
Dear Sir, —It may interest you to know that within three days I
have received replies to my advertisement from Penguin, Huonville,
Underwood, Sulphur Creek, Moorleah, Latrobe, Sheffield, Hobart,
Winnaleah. I MUST CONGRATULATE YOU ON THE VALUE
YOU GIVE ME FOR OUR ADVERTISEMENTS.
Yours faithfully,
R. C. B. MOORE & CO.
Full information. Copies, Advertising Rates, obtainable from W. R.
ROLPH & SONS PTY. LTD.. 73-75 Paterson Street, Launceston;
V. VV. MARGETTS, 122 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
W. G. DOUGAN, 701 Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
$
'
V)
0
0
0°
6
6r
2
5 e
f
c s ®
L\^ 9
6»P V A 0 ' ,V
..••■ ..•••- «<
..** .** se^e-? 0,


I ?A
c
HUDSON-ESSEX Leadership
The Reward of Merit
PERFORMANCE
ECONOMY
PRICE
FINE QUALITY.
Public acknowledgment of the performance and reliability—the
smartness and value of the Hudson and Essex Super-Sixes is
reflected in their long leadership of the six-cylinder field.
Sales, which outnumber all other sixes, give added proof to this
public recognition.
ẁ
Year after year l Hudson and
Essex have offered in their
Super-Sixes smoothness and
reliability beyond all other
engineering developments.
There has been constant
improvement in performance—
with greater acceleration, higher
speed and continuous reliability.
Modern in every sense of design
and mechanical excellence and
with bodies and fittings in
advance of cars of their price
class, both Hudson and Essex
rightly enjoy the reputation of
being the outstanding values of
motordom.
No motor equals the fame of
the Super-Six. No chassis
excels in reputation all the quali-
ties that count for performance
satisfaction.
These statements have been
proved by sales —confirmed by
owners —and acknowledged by
the motor-world.
Hudson and Essex Super-Sixes
are on display in the showrooms
of all Hudson-Essex distributors
and their dealers. Ask for a
demonstration.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) , . . . . . . £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) .. . , . . 365
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) .. .. . . 399
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) . . , . . . 395
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars) . . 420
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—-122in. Wheelbase.
THE
MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
autos ltd.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Holbart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
